

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— U E. WH IT
R. G-. WATKINS CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
.Sxkftlc £• (t?
Sole
Agents
lor
Asquith Radial Drills.
High-class and powerful High-speed Radial Drilling Machines
for general Engineering purposes.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
'isioyjuauOsjupy
—sjfee—
*
w
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
PIONEEP
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowioi & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
ammm
J
L
U
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
wi "
be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
WRITE FOR
NEW PRICE LIST.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.
PRICES REDUCED !
COVERS about 20 Per Cent., TUBES 25 Per Cent, and over.
279 George St., Sydney; Bat 33 Bolton St., Newcastle.
ADVANCES MADE ON ALL SECURITIES
N !V W^MONT’D^PIETrC?
74CASTLEREACH
EUSTACE BENNETT ceneral manacfp
MONEY ADVANCED UPON ALL SECURITIES AT REASONABLE RATES OF INTEREST.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
E BEER
PABCO
(Asbestos Coated Malthoid).
PABCO is the ideal roofing for the Australian
climate.
When one Knows that there is no more artistic or
cooler roofing in the world, that it is absolutely
impervious to rain, damp or moisture of any Kind, and
withal it is the cosiest and warmest roofing to dwell
under in winter, one wisely decides on PABCO.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY-
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L-
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
jKoffatVirtuely
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET (Opp. Lands Office),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
< 7
No name signifies so much in the sheep=shearing
world as Moffat=Virtue, the machinery proclaimed by
thousands to thoroughly embody the most exacting
requirements of the Australian sheep owner and shearer*
Write for the M.=V. Catalogue.
Also, all Engines, Pumps, Irrigation & Water Supply Plants.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
KELIDON SPA WATER
The efficacy of HELIDON SPA lies in its
solvent power and cleansing properties .
The Bulletin
V01.33.— N0. 1682.]
[Thursday, May 9, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


The Only Standard Work on Factory Organisation and Costs Ever Published.
FACTORY ORGANISATION AND COSTS,
By J. LEE NICHOLSON. Price 30/-, Posted 32/-
Treats on Organisation and Cost Finding, Wage Systems, Analysis of Cost and Accounting, Distributing of
Indirect Expenses, General Intro, to Forms and Systems, Designs and Explanations, Purchase
Requisitions, Raw Material, Oost Records, and many other chapters of great interest.
16 Page Prospectus posted to Any Addins on Request.
Robertson & Co.
George
Prop. Ltd., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HOW TO USE THE POWDER.i
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
The great Antiseptic Powder whieh contains
no acid, and is guaranteed absolutely harmless
to the enamel. In contact with moisture the
powder liberates free, active Oxygen, and it
is the Oxygen which whitens the teeth so won-
derfully, and wards off decay as no other pre-
paration for the teeth can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists In our patent stopper metal
bottles, handy for travel or home, price 1/6,
forwarded post free on receipt of stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
CO., LTD.,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valaable Information
2] regarding the Teeth.
CSC
The Gentlemanly Borgia
The Red Page
This' is the world’s whitewashing day.
No matter how vile a villain, no matter how
despicable a traitor, no matter how inhuman
an emperor, his obloquy will not last for
ever. There is always waiting some writer
who will discard the muck-rake for the white-
wash brush; and the world will mourn one
picturesque rascal the less. Give a bloke
a bad name, and succeeding historians will
blacken it. Then comes the whitewasher’s
tvashing day, and instead of a villain we
find a whited saint. Lately, we have seen
Captain Kidd proved to have been merely a
kindly old salt who nervously disliked having
to ask any gentleman to walk the plank. So
far, no historian has whitewashed Satan,
though Judas Iscariot has his defenders and
Wade his apologists. The latest rehabilita-
tion is that of Cesare Borgia, whose name,
with that of Lucrezia, his equally notorious
sister, has come down to us as a symbol of
infamy.
jt
The Life of Cesare Borgia, by Rafael
Sabatini (Paul, per Sydney Book Club),
presents a vivid picture of his time. It is,
he says, no chronicle of saints, nor is it a
history of devils.
It is a record of certain very human,
strenuous men in a very human, strenuous
age; an age red with blood and pale with
passion at white-heat; an age of steel and
velvet, of vivid color, dazzling light and im-
penetrable shadow; an age-of swift move-
ment, pitiless violence and high endeavor, of
sharp antitheses and amazing contrasts
i literature of the Cinquecento you-
shall behold the ardent, unmoral, naive soul
of this Renaissance that was sprawling in its
lusty, naked infancy, and bellowing hungrily
for the pap of knowledge, and for other
things.
For this was the age when Boccaccio’s
Decameronc was the reading matter for both
sexes. This was the age of the Discovery of
•^■ aa> was an age that had become
unable to discriminate between the merits of
the Saints of the Church and the Harlots of
the Town. Therefore it honored both alike,
extolled the carnal merits of the one in
much the same terms as were employed to
extol the spiritual merits of the other.”' And
in this milieu stood Cesare Borgia, a man of
his time, presented by his historian:—
Not as a villain of melodrama, not as a
monster, ludicrous, grotesque, impossible, but
as a human being, a cold, relentless egoist, it
is true, using men for his own ends, terrible
and even treacherous in his reprisals, swift
as a panther and as cruel when his anger
was aroused, yet with certain elements of
greatness: a splendid soldier, an unrivalled
administrator, a man pre-eminently just, if
merciless in that same justice.
The one man who knew Cesare Borgia
better than did any other contemporary was
Macchiavelli, who was ambassador of a
power hostile to the Borgias, and yet ac-
counted Cesare as the incarnation of the
ideal conqueror and ruler; for he took the
Duke as his model for his famous grammar
ol statecraft, The Prince. It is strange that
the verdict pronounced by Macchiavelli upon
Cesare should have been overlooked by the
historians who regard the Borgias as a nest
of infamies. Sabatini denies that his task
is that of whitewashing: he purposes analys-
ing the grime that lias been superadded by
the malice of contemporaries, and taken by
subsequent scribblers as the basis on which
to rear their unflattering picture.
To do so, Sabatini has to analyse other
grime—the morals, for instance, of the popes
and prelates of the Chureh in that epoch:
the details are picturesque. Cesare was the
son of Cardinal Roderigo y Borgia, who
afterwards became the notorious Pope Alex-
ander YI. Cesare got from Pope Sixtus IY. a
Bull granting him dispension from proving the
legitimacy of his birth. Thus his bastardry
was never a bar to his career, though in
those ages illegitimacy was never a matter
for condemnation. Ilis father, stigmatised
as “the worst Pontiff that ever filled St.
Peter’s Chair,” can be so called, says Sabi-
tini, only if you are ignorant of papal
history.
If we take him out of the background of
history in which he is set, and judge him
singly and individually, we behold a man
who, as a churchman and Christ’s Vicar, fills
us with loathing and horror As he found
the papacy, so he carried it on, as much a
self-seeker, as much a worldly prince, as
much a’ family man and as little a church-
man as any of those who had gone immedi-
ately before him.
And Alexander had some merits; he paid
salaries promptly, he protected Moors and
Jews from the Inquisition; but against these
we must set the facts that he invented the
missionary and the Index Expurgatorius.
Thanks to this strenuous, ambitious father,
Cesare became a cardinal at the age of 19.
Three years later he was almost the richest
churchman in Christendom, and acknow-
ledged the handsomest man of his age.
But the Church hampered his ambition. He
resigned from the Church, and received from
France the Duchy of Valentinois, married
Anne of Brittany, lived with his 17-year-old
wife for four months, and never saw her
again. For Louis called him to help in the
invasion of Milan. Ills child he never saw
at all. And “in the train of King Louis he
set out upon the turbulent meteoric course
that was to sear so deep and indelible a
brand across the scroll of history.”
In Italy the scandal of the petty tyran-
nies of Romagna, ruled by turbulent prince-
lings by rapine and murder, whose state of
secession from the Holy See had arisen
largely out of the nepotism practised by the
last popes, needed wiping out. Alexander
deputed his son to cleanse the Augean stable
—and incidentally found a powerful State
for the Borgian family. At the head of his
army Cesare marched —the first army in
which he had ever marched. He was a born
general, for victory followed victory, and his
resource, his leaping pounce, made him the
greatest conqueror of his too-restricted field.
He was consumed by the desire for power
and worldly greatness, a colossus of egotism,
to whom men and women were pieces to be
handled by him on the chess-board of his
ambition, to be sacrificed ruthlessly where
necessary to his ends, but to be husbanded
and guarded carefully where they could
serve him.... Women play no part whatever
in his history. Not once shall you find a
woman’s influence swaying him. With him,
as with egotists of his type, governed by cold
will and cold intellect, the sentimental side
of the relation of the sexes had no place....
As he craved women, so he took women, but
with an almost contemptuous indiscrimina-
tion.
Accused of abducting a lady, he answered
“that he had not found the ladies of
Romagna so difficult that he should be
driven to such rude and violent measures.”
But just when Cesare saw his dream of
consolidating the states of Central Italy into
a realm of which he would assume the crown,
fulfilled, his father died. His successor
bitterly hated the Borgias, and Cesare’s
chance vanished. The beginning of the cam-
paign of calumny coincided with his arrest
and deportation to a Spanish dungeon, at the
age of 29. Ultimately he escaped from his
prison, and reached the kingdom of Navarre
and the protection of his brother-in-law the
king. He found the country torn by two
factions; and was entrusted by the king with
the duty of restoring civil peace. Here he
met his death, pursuing madly and unat-
tended the flying enemy. It is not known
whether he galloped thus recklessly, confi-
dent that his men followed, or whether his
horse had bolte® with him; but he came upon
the rearguard like a whirlwind, and fought
his way through the foe’s ranks right up to
the main body of the escort. There the
enemy, amazed to see this solitary rider en-
gaging an army, set upon him, unhorsed him,
still fiercely fighting, and slew him.
_ He crashed down in all the glory of his
rich armor, which those brigand-soldiers
already coveted. And thus he died—merci-
fully, maybe happily, for he had no time to
taste the bitterness of death —that awful
draught which he had forced upon so many.
J*
In this remarkable career there is evi-
dence fully admitted of treachery and politi-
cal murder; but in these polite accomplish-
ments Cesare but followed, and maybe, im-
proved upon, the customs of his time. But
what of the poisonings, the famous “white
powder?” Sabatini examines the attested
cases scrupulously, and finds the balance of
evidence in Cesare’s favor. He was no
artist in death: the famous Borgia poison
did not exist. The white powder was a
fable invented to fix upon the Pope tlie death
of Prince Djem, for whom no other theory
than a poison which did its work slowly
would apply. For this prince had parted
from Alexander 28 days before his death.
Just as to-day there is no inorganic toxin
known to science that will either lie fallow
for weeks in the human system, suddenly
become active and slay, or yet kill by slow
degrees involving some weeks in the process,
so none was known in the Borgian or any
other era.... This poison—this white pow-
der —was said to be a secret of the Borgias.
If that is so, by what Borgia was the secret
of its existence ever divulged? Or, if it
never was divulged, how comes it to be
known that a poison so secret, and working
at such distances of time, was ever wielded
by them?
The evidence relative to the death of the
Duke of Gandia, Cesare’s brother, obvi-
ously acquits Cesare. The verdict in the
other cases is at the worst one of not proven;
and the death of Cesare’s father, the Pope,
must by any impartial critic be credited to
the fever that was then raging in Rome, and
had so stricken Cesare that at this crisis of
his fortunes he was unable to provide for
his own safety. And Lucrezia Borgia “fills
a comparatively small place in the actual
history of her house.” *
In the popular imagination, she lives
chiefly as a terrific poisoner, an appalling
artist in venenation. It is remarkable that
this should be the case, for not even the
scandal of her day as much as suggests that
she was connected —directly or even indi-
rectly—with a single case of poisoning. No
doubt that popular conception owes its being
entirely to Victor Hugo’s drama.
Thus are our most cherished ideals shat-
tered. We ought to be thankful that Saba-
tini stayed his hand in time, else we should
have had to acclaim Cesare Borgia as the
first Wowser in history.
“Ironbark” is G. Herbert Gibson. He has
for early publication a book of light verses,
entitled Ironbark Splinters, many of which
have had to be extracted from the horny
hands of the Abo. editor.
Good shilling novels, reprinted by Hodder and
Stoughton, include The Riverman (Stewart Edward
White), The Spoilers and The Barrier (Rex Beach),
and Jim Crow (J. J. Bell).
The Widow in the Bye-street
Following that strange, crude, virile poem,
The Everlasting Meray, John Masefield, a
poet and playwright whose future work
will probably merit attention, occupies
nearly 40 pages of The English Review
with another narrative poem of similar
quality. It is a sordid tragedy he writes
about, a murder done by a youth maddened
by jealousy of a light woman’s lover. The
youth is hanged and his old mother goes mad.
A narrative poem suffers chiefly because so
much of it is narration. You may describe
events poetically, but in scattering your
flowers of poetic diction you clog the action;
or you may omit the poetry, in which case
your story might as w T ell be written in prose.
Masefield does not shirk the issue. When he
has matter-of-fact statements to make, he
makes them in stolid, rimed prose. There is
no poetry? for instance, in the statement that
his hero got a, job working on the railway
line: and Masefield baldly stages that he got
a job.
He got a jot at working on the line,
Tipping the earth down, trolly after truck,
From daylight till the evening, wet or fine,
With arms all red from tv allowing in the
muck.
And spitting, as the trolly tipped, for luck.
And when he has to tell you that the lady
was not particular about her lovers, he cheer-
fully dismounts from his Pegasus:—
Like the straw fires lit on Saint John’s Eve,
She burned and dwindled in her fickle heart;
For if she wept when Harry took his leave,
Her tears were lures to beckon Bob to start.
And if, while loving Bob, a tinker’s cart
Game by, she opened window with a smile
And gave the tinker hints to wait a while.
But Masefield has his own vision.
All the tides triumph when the white moon
fills.
Down in the race the toppling waters shout,
The breakers shake the bases of the hills,
There is a thundering where the streams go
out, »
And the wise shipman l puts his ship about
Seeing the gathering of those waters wan,
But what when love makes high tide in a
man?
And the murder, and the grotesque last
thoughts of the murdered man, are done
with a sombre subtlety :
Em had just brought her in a wired hare,
She stood beside him stroking down the fur.
“Oh, Em, poor thing, look how its eyes do
stare.”
“It isn’t it,” he answered. “It’s a her.”
She stroked the breast and plucked away a
burr,
She kissed the pads, and leapt back with a
shout,
“My God, he’s got the spudder. Em. Look
out.”
Em clenched his fists. Too late. ' He felt
no pain.
Only incredible haste in something swift,
A shock that made s the sky black on his
brain,
Then stillness, while a little cloud went drift.
The weight upon his thigh bones wouldn’t
lift ;
Then poultry in a long procession came.
Grey-legged, doing the goose-step, eyes like
flame.
Grey-legged old cocks and hens sedate in age.
Marching with jerks as though they moved
on springs,
With sidelong hate in round eyes red with
rage,
And shouldered muskets clipped by jealous
wings,
Then an array of horns and stupid things:
Sheep on a hill with harebells, hare for din-
ner.
“Hare.” A slow darkness covered up the
sinner.
And, after grim pictures of the prison and the
execution, we see the old mother with her
memories:—
Oh, how his little face come, with bright
hair,
Dear little face. We made this room so
snug ;
He sit beside me in his little chair,
I give him real tea sometimes in his mug.
He liked the velvet in the patchwork rug.
He used to stroke it, did my pretty son,
He called it Bunny, little Jimmy done.
The thing is well done in a medium that
is awkwardly wrenched and twisted to give
its effect. The story would have been a more
satisfactory thing in prose, and Masefield
could have done it fiercely in splendid prose.
The modern reader shudders from a story in
verse: the modern eye has been so long
trained to run along, line after line, to the
fence of the column, that it feels a sense of
shock at having to break off when the bump
of rime comes and begin at a capital le' ter that
usually comes arbitrarily in the middle of a
sentence. It requires a distinct effort for the
eye to leap this recurring hurdle at the be-
ginning of each line ; and the bump at the
end equally annoys the mental ear. And,
between the hurdle and the bump, the modern
reader is apt to lose the reins of the story.
The convention is overlooked under the spell
of a lyric. It obtrudes itself in a narrative
Sudermann
Apparently Hermann Sudermann has
turned from the drama to the novel. The
Song of Songs was a masterpiece of sordid
realism, the career of a woman, meant for
better things, down the path of the easier
way. The Indian Lily (Lane) is tissue of
lighter material. This collection of lon
short-stories betrays signs of a flagging in
spiration lit but intermittently by his psy
chological insight. And the range of th
book is too narrow. All the stories treat o::
the irregular relations of man and woman
the title story is but a recital of these un
inspiring occurrences, done with cynicism
But "The Purpose” is a story that leaves a
indelible memory. The purpose is th
shrewd, grim, callous determination of
girl to help her lover to success in life. Thi
girl schemes, steals, gets a husband t
father her coming child, determines to mur
der him, finds an easier way by paying
waitress to make love to him, catches th
poor man, gets a divorce, and, a free woman
at last, with the knowledge that her incredi
ble exertions have enabled her lover to se;
himself up in life, waits his arrival withou
a backward thought. She has fulfilled her
purpose: he will be ample reward for all her
struggles. And her beloved comes: —
“A gentleman entered. A strange gentle
man. Wholly strange. Had she met him on
the street she would not have known him
He had grown old —40, 50, a hundred years
Yet his real age could not be over 28!.. .
He had grown fat. He carried a little paunch
about with him, round and comfortable. His
eyes seemed small and receding... .But when
he took her hand and smiled, something
slipped into his face —something affectionate
and quiet, empty and without guile or sus-
picion.”
And his first care is to render an account
of all the moneys that he had received from
her. “The proceeds of the stolen jewels
began the long series. Then followed the
savings in fares, food and drink and the fur-
niture rebates. Next came the presents of
the county-councillor, the profits of the
champagne debauches. She was spared no-
thing, but heard again of sums gained by
petty thefts from the till, small profits made
in the buying of milk and eggs. It was a
long story of suspense and longing, an in-
extricable web of falsification and trickery,
of terror and lying without end. The memory
of no guilt and no torture was spared her.”
And her beloved painstakingly explains to
her how he purposes paying her all back.
For, as he said, he was an honest man. The
end of the story can be guessed.
- «- —
The veil of. obscurity that George Mere-
dith always kept about his origin and family
has been lifted by a relative in The Tort-
nightly. Portsmouth was his birthplace, as
it was of Dickens. The rumor that the nov-
elist’s grandfather was none other than “The
Great Mel,” the tailor who was also a gen-
tleman, in Evan Harrington, is amply con-
firmed. His first name was even the same.
Melchisedec Meredith was a well-known
tailor and naval outfitter in High-street,
Portsmouth, and the probability was that
Nelson and his captains were his customers.
Captain Marryat mentions him in Peter
Simple. And this tailor, as the novelist
tells us in Evan Harrington, was on the
best of terms with the county gentry ; he kept
horses and hunted, he became an officer in
the Portsmouth Yeoman Cavalry, and —pos-
sibly the highest of his distinctions —he be-
came a churchwarden. All very extraordi-
nary in days when a gentleman did not en-
gage in trade. His wife was a handsome
woman, and the beautiful girls of her fine
family all married much above their social
position. His son, Augustus, carried on the
tailoring business; and his only son, the
novelist, was born over the old shop. Mere-
dith has stated that his father was a mud-
dler and a fool, and that his mother, who died
when he was five, was of Irish origin, hand-
some, refined and witty. Meredith drew a
very faithful picture of a cousin, George
Ellis, in boyhood as Crossjay Patterne in
The Egoist. At the age of 15 George left
Portsmouth, and severed all connection with
his relatives. That there was,: a quarrel
seems evident from his treatment of his re-
latives in Evan Harrington. But much of
the family history in that novel was pure in-
vention. as the somewhat shocked relative
proves in this article by tracing the quite
respectable careers of the Children of the
Shears.
Announced from Melbourne that the Com-
monwealth Government will give E. ,T. Brady
£lO per page for 50 pages about the Northern
Territory, to be included in his projected
book, entitled Australia Unlimited. Which
suggests some conundrums: Had Brady for-
gotten the Territory till the Federal Gov-
ernment jogged his memory? Would he have
omitted it if he had not been offered £500?
Has he ever been through the Territory?
Why Brady ? And, finally, does Literature
pay?
The Technical Gazette of N.S.W.. printed
at the Technical College, and issued gratis
(Vol. 2, Part 1,), is an admirable produc-
tion. The article on “The Waratah in Ap-
plied Art” is comprehensive and splendidly
illustrated in color and half-tone. Another
valuable article deals with wattle bark for
the tanning industry.


zure
.
*
m
1
i %4»
m
I (A
mi
m
V
%
Clesreoclob
els'
yaj
///
v//B
P/< C <\ tf///y
Ber/<eJ<?y
a ft**
ai jlj2thqny < . 7iorder nr
Mm.
Rich Fur Sets.
The Berkeley—Handsome Stole, made of finest quality Stone Marten
skins, lined soft Brown Satin from 30gns. to 37gns.
Many other designs in stock.
Hat 84/-
The Clarendon—Dainty Ermine Stole and Muff, made from best selected
Russian skins .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £62 set
Throvvover Ermine Stoles, choice skins, lined soft White Merveil-
leux, from £l7/17/-. Hat 84/-
Tlie Piccadilly—Pearl Grey Fox. Four skin set. May be worn as Throw-
over or Stole. Large open Muff to match. Lined soft Grey Satin.
Only first quality skins used .. 32gns.
Same design in Sable Alaska Fox set. Choice skins .. .. 25gns.
Also to be had in Black Alaska Fox set. Magnificent skins and
brushes. Lined soft Black Merveilleux .. .. .. .. 59gns.
Hat 63/-
Elegant Evening Gowns.
No. 467—Pretty Evening Frock of Ivory Ninon over fine Japanese
Silk, trimmed Gold Beads, fine tucks, Satin Buttons, and Silk
Embroidery Medallions. Waist belt and ends of Ivory Cliar-
meuse. May be liad also in colors, with Satin Buttons to
match 67/6
No. 407 —Pretty Evening Coat of Cashmere, Sailor Collar, and
Revers smartly trimmed Cream Russia and wide Silk Military
Braids, full Magyar Sleeves with wide turn-back Cuffs, finished
Cream Braiding, lined Cream Twill, in Pale Grey. Biscuit
and Cream .. .. 4 7 / 6
Similar style No. 6936, with low Revers, but* without fine
. Braiding 42 /_
No. B4sB—Evening Gown of Fine White Net, prettily arranged
trimmings of White Guipure Insertion, Tucks, 'small Gold
Buttons: the sleeves, waist, band at foot, bow, and ends of
Sky, Cerise, or all White Satin Charmeuse, with sets of small >
Satin Buttons to match
Anthony Horderns’ for
the Winter Fashions.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ WINTER FASHION
r\ FORTFOLIO solves the problem of economi-
cally conforming to the prevailing modes. Write
for a copy, posted free on request; it places the
resources of our Ready-to-Wear Costume and Millinery
Departments at the command of everyone in Australia.
Our enormous selection of the Season’s Novelties
enables us to meet the requirements of every patron,
and to offer the choice of a perfectly-fitting gown that
possesses all the charm of a made-to-order garment at
a price that is far and away the lowest in the land.
,
■j
Is**
a!
&
407
11,
floracKi
011
?s
1 Famou
Low. c
Prices
3
467
B 458
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium,
Bricßiield. Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


The Royal Bank of Australia, Limited
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Forty-EightH Report.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 29th April, 1912.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to Shareholders the annexed Balance-sheet and Statement
of Accounts for the Half-year ending March 30, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £3,171 15s. lid. brought from last Half-year)
amounted to ..
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz:—
To pay a dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum
Transfer to the Deserve Fund (making it £170,000)
And to carry forward the balance
£25,943 6 8
£12,000 0 0
10.000 0 0
£3,943 6 8
£25,943 6 8
The Directors are pleased to report that business during the Half-year has been very satisfactory, the
profits being larger than for any previous period, and they feel justified in recommending an increase in
the dividend, which will, no doubt, meet with the approval of shareholders.
In building up the business of the Bank the assistance of shareholders has been an important factor,
and the Directors trust to receive a continuance of their support, the value of which is fully recognised
by the Board.
By order of the Board.
H. T. WILSON, General Manager.
BALANCE SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
For the Half-year Ending March 30, 1912.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-600,000 shares
of £4 each £2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed —
300,000 shares
of £4 each £1,200,000 0 0
To capital paid
up
To Reserve Fund
To Profit and
Loss Account. .
£300,000 0 0
160,000 0 0
25,943 6 8
£485,943 6 8
1,649 0 0
114,219 5 5
547,756 17 11
1,571,623 15 2
1,051 17 8
To notes in cir-
culation
To bills in circu-
lation
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing
interest .. £78,656 2 7
Bearing interest 469,100 15 4
To Other Deposits—Rebate and In-
terest Accrued —
Not bearing
interest .. £703,707 1 11
Bearing' interest 867,916 13 3
To balances due to other banks..
£2,722,244 2 10
To contingent liabilities, as per
contra .. .. .. .. 667,696 0 0
£3,289,940 2 10
ASSETS.
Or.
By coin, bullion,
Australian notes,
and cash at
bankers .. £565,715 0
By notes and
bills of other
banks
By balances due
from other
banks
By bills and re-
mittances i n
transit and
payable in
London
By Government,
municipal, and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures & funds
By stamps
£7BO 17 8
10,544 12 8
472,958 14 2
43,650 5 0
739 11 6
£1,094,389
By Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises .. .. 55,000
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts.. .. 1,570,155
By bank furniture, fittings, sta-
tionery, etc. .. .. .. 2,700
1 5
0 0
1 5
0 0
£2,722,244 2 10
By liabilities and securities of cus-
tomers and others in respect of
contingent liabilities, as per
contra .. .. .. .. 567,696 0 0
£3,289,940 2 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent, income and land
taxes and other charges .. '
Balance
£11,438 9 1
25,943 6 8
£37,381 15 9
By balance at September 30,1911.. £23,671 15 11
Less dividend de-
cl a red October
30, 1911 . . £10,500 0 0
Transfer to Re-
serve Fund .. 10,000 0 0
20,500 0 0
By balance carried down .. .. 3,171 15 n
By profits for the half-year after de-
ducting interest accrued on de-
posits and rebate on bills current,
less reserves for bad and doubtful
debts 34,209 19 10
£37,381 15 9
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
£160,000 0 0
To balance
£160,000 0 0
Bv balance at September 30, 19X1. .
By transfer from Profit and Loss Ac-
count
£150,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
£160,000 0 0
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE.
Forty-Sixth Annual Report of the Directors to the Shareholders.
It is with pleasure the Directors submit herewith for the information of Sharehold-
ers the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 25th March, 1912, also Statements of Profit
and Loss Account and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The balance to credit'of Profit and Loss is .. .. .. £77,OSS 18 11
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows: —
To Reserve Fund (making it £460,000) .. .. ..£30,000
To Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum .. 25,000
55,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of .. .. .. .. .. .. £22,083 18 11
to be carried forward.
An Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum was paid in November
last.
Since last report a Receiving Agency of the Bank has been opened at Balhannah.
A sum of £5OOO has been withdrawn from “Profit and Loss Account,” and applied
in reduction of “Bank Premises Account.”
It is with great regret we refer to the death on December 6 last of our esteemed
Director (Sir Jenkin Coles), and we place on record our appreciation of his valued ser-
vices to the Bank during the 15 years he occupied a seat at the Board.
Mr. George Brookman was at a Special General Meeting of the Shareholders, held
on January 4 last, elected a Director to fill the vacancy on the Board.
The General Annual Meeting will be held at No. 25 Waymouth Street, Adelaide, on
Wednesday, May 1, 1912, at 12 noon, at which the Shareholders will be called upon to
elect Two Directors in place of A. G. Downer, Esq., and James Harvey, Esq., J.P., who
retire by rotation, but, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Shareholders will also have to elect Two Auditors for the ensuing year, and to
fix the remuneration of the retiring Auditors.
By order of the Board of Directors,
R. S. YOUNG, Assistant Manager.
BALANCE SHEET ON MARCH, 25, 1912,
LIABILITIES.
To Capital paid up £500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 430,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 77,083 18 11
£5,819,747 7 5
ASSETS.
By Specie, Bullion,
and Cash Bal-
ances ..
Australian
Notes..
Government De-
bentures
Municipal De-
bentures
Money at short
call ~.
Balances due
from other
Banks. .
Notes of other
Banks. .
Remittances in
Transitu
£522,976 12
199,181 0
454,761 15
4,415 0
525,000 0
182,119 18
734 0
309,899 5
9
0
2
0
0
4
0
7
£2,199,087 11 10
Bank Premises and Furniture. . 84,505 19 8
Bills Receivable and all other
Advances 3,536,153 15 11
£5,819,747 7 5
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM MARCH 27, 1911, TO MARCH 25, 1912.
To Reserve Fund as
below .. £30,000 0 0
Divided in May,
1911 . . 25,000 0 0
Divided in No-
vember, 1911 25,000 0 0
£Bo,ooo 0 0
Balance .. .. .. f 77,083 18 11
‘ £157,083 18 11
By Balance, March 27, 1911
Net Profit, in-
cluding Recov-
eries, and
after making
provision for
Bad and
Doubtful Debts,
Interest Accru-
e d on Fixed
Deposits and
Rebate on Bills
Discounted, and
Exp enses at
Head Office
and 50 Bran-
ches, includ-
in g Salaries,
Rents, etc. .. £90,658 18
Less Land and
Income Tax,
£7,229/3/6 ;
M n f p Tov
£2,831/10/-"’ 10,060 13
.. £76,485 13 9
8
6
£80,598 5 2
£157,083 18 11
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date
£430,000 0 0
£430,000 0 0
R. S. YOUNG, Assistant Manager.
R. T. MAHNKE, Accountant.
By Balance March, 19X1
Transfer from Profit and Loss,
May, 1911
£400,000 0 0
30,000 0 0
£430,000 0 0
A. GEO. DOWNER,
JAMES HARVEY,
H. C. E. MUECKE,
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE,
GEO. BROOKMAN,
Directors.
We hereby certify that we have compared the above Balance-sheet with the Books and Accounts of The
Bank of Adelaide for the Year ending March 25, 1911, that we have counted the cash and examined the
bills on hand at the Head Office (the assets and liabilities at the Branches other than London being taken
on the certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the London
Branch as cabled by the London Manager), and that it is a correct abstract of the same.
Adelaide, April 17, 1912.
W. L. WARE, F.1.A.5.A., 1
J. S. LLOYD, F.1.A.5.A., f
Auditors.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“J.R.” : The notoriously indigent steamship owners
of Melbourne are panic stricken at the successive
awards made by the Federal Arbitration Court in
their industry. The rise of wages and the cost of
alterations of their ships will, they claim, bring
ruin upon them. According to the S. M. Herald :
“In discussing this aspect of the question, the Mel-
bourne representative of a company said the owners
have been saddled with a new expense which in itself
cannot be minimised. It will have to be distributed,
and this will naturally, in course of time, mean
increased freights or fares, or both.”
Visitors to Amundsen’s ship, the Fram, know
better than this. The first thing the finder of the
South Pole did when he took over the Fram from
Nansen was to remove the steam machinery, and re-
place it with a 180 h.p. Diesel oil engine. This did
away at once with the coal bill and the need for fire-
men. Amundsen began his Antarctic expedition by
keeping the sea for six months without calling at any
port. Again, last year, a 300-ton coaster was launched
on the Tyne. Instead of steam the craft was fitted
with a gas-producer, and six-cylinder gas engine.
To the middle of last February it had carried fol-
lowing cargoes satisfactorily:—
“Tyne to London, 242 tons coke ; London to Llan-
elly, 330 tons scrap iron; Llanelly to London, 330
tons lime; London to Cork, 330 tons hardwood and
cement; Cork to Newhaven, 251 tons oats; Guernsey
to London, 340 tons granite; London to the Tyne,
340 tons chalk; Seaham Harbor to Morlaix, 331 tons
coal; Guernsey to Weymouth, 330 tons granite.”
The consumption of coal in the producer was
25cwt. per 24 hours. That works out at Jib. per
brake horse-power per hour for the suction gas
engine, or less than half the lowest recorded con-
sumption for the best steam engines. There is also
a saving in the wages bill, and in space occupied.
The Vic. Government has leased the business end
of the Thornbury paddock (where the late Bent
was going to run a brick foundry) to the Glen Iris
Brick and Tile Co. It is to pay a rent of £l5O a
year, and supply the Government with bricks at 31s.
per 1000. Also, it has agreed not to have any deal-
ings or arrangement with the “combine.” There is,
however, no stipulation as to what it is to charge
the public for its bricks, or whether it is to supply
any at all. So far the “combine” has been doing
very well of late, with bricks at 38s. per 1000.
Its language should be sultry when and if the new
co. starts selling bricks to the public at (say) 335.
* * * *
The latest traction scheme to be dangled before
Melbourne is the German “Mereedes-Stoll trackless
trolly.” This is an electric tram arrangement with-
out rails, worked by overhead lines. The contrap-
tion has been a success in those European centres
where cheap electric power, produced by water, is
available. But, till Melbourne possesses a power
supply able to sell electric juice at about 20 units
for a penny—the sort of supply that might have
been had at a Federal city on the Snowy, for ex-
ample—no system of electric traction, with or with-
out rails, looks a particularly rosy proposition.
“J. Coy”: The work of the four bricklayers in
Melbourne, who laid 5608 bricks in three hours 44
minutes (almost 3000 per day per man) was good
business, but it was not an Australian record. That
is held by six men, who laid 18,300 bricks at
Erskineville (N.S.W.) railway station, under strict
supervision. This works out at 3050 bricks per
man per eight-hour day. Throughout the duplica-
tion work of the N.S.W. Railway Department, an
average of 1000 bricks per day is maintained by each
layer.
N.S.W, folk should turn out old grandad’s trunk
and his hairy carpet bag in search of old letters and
documents with stamps sticking to them. At a sale
in Caxton Hall, London, a penny stamp of N.S.W.
for the year 1850 brought £l3. That was colored
carmine. A twopenny blue one of the same period
realised £l4. An unused N.S.W. red one for 1854,
original value Is., was run up to £35.
* * * *
“Outis”: Gold being urgently needed for export
purposes, to pay Australia’s London bills between
the last wheat and the next wool season, the banks
in Melbourne have been steadily presenting Federal
notes at the Treasury, and politely asking for sover-
eigns when asked, “How will you have it?” In fact,
the gold export season is now in full flight, and as
it is the first season during which the Treasury has
controlled the paper currency, it will be interesting
to find out later on how the new system works. The
Victorian banks have started to pull in with vigor,
and subdivision sales of suburban lots and country
farms have begun to hibernate. Also, the sale of
squatting properties has dropped like the gentle
Jew from Heaven, and the entire Western District
aristocracy has gone into winter quarters to count
its gains and replace champagne by plain lager.
Money is distinctly tighter in Melbourne, and the
oof bird is no longer seen nesting under the eaves of
the Stock Exchange tower. For the purposes of cir-
culation it is a pity the Melbourne people can’t make
coins of the realm out of mushrooms and barracouta,
the only plentiful things about just now.
# * * *
“Zaccheus”: “Mining at a standstill,” is the
lamentable report made about the Central Aus-
tralian mineral region by MacPherson, F.R.G.S., of
Barclay’s expedition. Lack of railways and water
supply prevents the Northern Territory and the min-
ing district of Central Australia from being opened
up. Yet MacPherson reports that large supplies of
sub-artesian water are being obtained on the stations
lying between Anthony’s Lagoon and the Rankine
River, at a depth of from 350 ft. to 400 ft. Mr. Mac-
Pherson is confident that expert opinion would justify
a heavy expenditure on water conservation and im-
proved communication. The development of the
mineral resources of the interior would then become
a big factor in stimulating the progress of the coun-
try. The serious difficulty is the inadequate water
supply. Precisely ; no water on top, and the biggest
underground fresh-water lake on the globe down
below. Mining men know where to go for gold,
silver and copper in every direction from Arltunga.
Yet a supine Government wastes money on Lake Tor-
rens, when it might add a new province to South
Australia if it helped miners with roads and water.
* * * *
A company is being floated to exploit the re-
cently-discovered mountainous deposits of greenstone
in Maoriland. The required capital is £60,000 in
return for an equal number of shares. Thirty-two
thousand shares are to be issued as fully paid up to
the vendors of the property, which comprises a lease
of 4297 acres, held for a term of 63 years with right
of renewal. Sixteen thousand contributing shares are
on offer to the public, and 12,000 are for the present
held in reserve. Subsequently, these latter will be
despatched for the consideration of the speculator in
Britain and other foreign countries. It is claimed,
on the word of experts, that there are millions of
tons of greenstone on the co.’s leaseholds, and that
no other such deposit is known to exist in .Maoriland
or any other part of the world. The question which
arises here is .just what demand may be expected for
the article. The promoters are convinced that the
building market all over the world will rush it for
both outside and inside work, but with the excep-
tion of a few generalities on the subject, no evidence
is forthcoming in the prospectus to support this
optimism. Nor is there any guarantee attached to
the remark that greenstone jewellery, “at popular
prices,’’ will find a ready market throughout the
world. It is more likely that when the public sees
vast slabs of the stone decorating its shop fronts
and fireplaces and public-house bars, it will be
just as enthusiastic to buy cheap greenstone jewellery
as to acquire blue marble jewellery. To a large ex-
tent greenstone, as a decorative property, is entirely a
matter of taste, and, so far, that taste has received
most of its flavor from the stone’s historical associa-
tion with a more or less romantic brown race.
THE MONEY LENDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bulletin, with awful scorn,
Berates the wretched man who lends.
His nose is like a crumpled horn,
Three balls his bloated vest adorn,
In gesture sly his palm ascends.
He has no virtues and no friends.
The worm has turned. Your vicious hate’s
Unmerited, your sketch untrue.
I’m leaner than a pair of skates,
My nose turns up to Heaven’s gates,
I have no stores of gold to view,
And I’m a money-lender, too!
The gaunt, grey poet calls on me,
The soft-eyed artist sadly hums.
My ear is like a bumble bee.
The tenor looks me up. All three
Want till to-morrow sundry sums.
How true “to-morrow never comes” !
The serio-comic in a fix
Asks half a quid to put things right.
She’ll surely pay me after six.
My interest on loans is nix,
So Smithson s widow wants her mite
To see her over Friday night.
1 envy much the three-ball man
His courage and his common sense.
’Tis wisdom high that makes him plan
For cent, per cent, whene’er he can.
Not viciousness his charge immense,
But just a scheme of self-defence.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


THE “NUMBER ONE” CHICAGO
5K
: j-r~
Hand Horse
Clipping Machine
It is no exaggeration to say that thousands of
“men on the land” have appreciated our
“NUMBER ONE” HAND HORSE CLIPPING
MACHINE.
Wherever a man owns one or more horses, there
should be one of our Horse Clippers.
They not only do their work perfectly, but
their simplicity is such that the veriest tyro can
do the work as well as an expert. .
Write for our Illustrated Circular
With
BALL BEARINGS
40 1-
With
ROLLER BEARINGS
3 51-
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON § CO.,
252 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Victoria: BRISCOE & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
Sole Agents for South and West Australia: CEO. P. HARRIS. SCARFE & CO., LTD., Adelaide and Perth.
£lOOO £lOOO
First Great Prize, value £5OO,
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and £lOO in Cash
for ONE PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full value for the work of art, is pre-
pared to find a purchaser for same at the advertised amount if the winner so
desires, also for the Second and Third Prizes.
Second —value £lOO. Third —value £5O. And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours’ Great Art Union
56th Year Oldest and Most Popular 56th Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all charges. A list of winning
.numbers will be posted to any person sending an addressed envelope to the repre-
sentative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 27th April, or send Postal Note,
P. 0.0., or stamps, with Exchange added, direct to the representative. 231 Flin-
ders Lane, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a chance in this Great Art
Union. 22 for £l, 11 for 10s., or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing,
lm May, 1912. | w~Lest You Forget, BUY TO-DAY.
TIIEO. W. HEIDE, Representative, 231 Flinders Lane, Melb., Vie.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
If so, Why riot purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN S’ CO., P'ty. Ltd., Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
CASTRATION EASY
Our Emaseulator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts,
Hemorrhage Impossible.
making
RAPID SAFE—MERCIFUL!
Has just the proper power, and beinsj made of
best Sheffield Steel will jrive perfect satis-
faction for many years. ASY TO USE.
451-
Post Froe Anywhere .
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List,
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
SHARPE & SHARPE
1 18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale 8t Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials
'Yr
2&C
V:,--
;:.)// (
. -•v'r*\
:■
.
* (
fl rm rf»ffts£A*>iii.v v ::
•* ■*' •’- ’• V
You Cannot Buy a Better Present
“O! tell me a good fountain pen—
Not one that will write now and then.
Of this there's no doubt
That you can’t do without
Onoto —the self-filling pen ”!
_. A k°°klet describing the various models, free on application to
Thos. De La Rue & Co.. Ltd. Bunhill Row. London. B.C.
Onoto Pen
Fills Itself—Cannot Leak —Price from 12/~
IMPORTANT.—For those who require a
larger pen with a very flexible nib, "
has been put on the market a special model
, —the new G. Try this new Gat your
stationers.
ffflricw
ggh
Pre*eimnent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics Is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at aprice within the
reach of all.
00 NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L'O'IH'S
n
%
rs:
„ 11111 •
“"''"in
"i»„,
\ CD
m
mum!
'boj,
m
’•bn.
\ x
rj/
n
r r yv i
rv M
m
m
*"*l2
©
UNCONDITIONAL
SURRENDER
CHEST rHf
DISE/JSES
COUGHS & COLDS
...... \ - - . . '• ■:/ \(. , : - t \
Are Easily Defeated
by
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the ' Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
- ■ —_
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Sjjop.
PujMcs Postage to any Address
* ■ I wt? Af I « in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Atild Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Famous Small-Bore SINGLE SHOT RIFLE IN THE W (111 !
STE V ENS
FAVORITE No. 17.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
imp
, Furnished with Automatic Ejector in 22 calibre.
Carefully bored and rifled by the celebrated Stevens method.
For - 22 Long Itifie, ‘25 Stevens and '32 Long rim fire cartridges. State which
calibre you prefer when ordering.
STEVENS are the " Bull’s Eye ” Rind. Sold by all dealers in the Commonwealth.
For full information, latest catalogues, etc., apply to
ARTHUR H HI! I Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool C O .,
X Box 86, 0.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [2 ’
BUY A PIEPER GUN
—the Gun with the Quality
in the Right Place.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
'
Can be obtained from all STOREKEEPERS, GUNSMITHS and MERCHANTS.
V
mm
s.
s
Royal
Mothers
| use
Ashton & Parsons’
Infants’ Powders
for the
Little Princes and
Princesses
during the time of
teething and for fretfulness
and the many ailments common to infancy
Recommended by H.R.H. The Crown Princess of Roumanfa.
MISS FRANK LIN, c/o Capt. Embury, R.E., Blackdown Corner, near Leamington, writes:
“ I have been asked to write to you by an Austrian Lady, to know if you will send her two boxes,
each containing ioo of your Teeth ng Powders. She says they are the same you have supplied
to the Crown Princess of Roumania, from whom she first heard of them.”
ASHTON & PARSONS
INFANTS' POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless they cool the gums — comfort the child produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep —render teething quite easy —prevent pain and disorder
are pleasant to the taste are mild and gentle in action may be given to the youngest and
most delicate babe and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Supplied by Royal Command to—
H.I.M. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.R.H. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H. I. H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
H.R.H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOHENLOHE
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Ashton ff Parsons’ Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to be harmless
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing 20 Powders, 1/1A; 60 Powders, 2/9; 100 Powders, 4/6.
To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C., ENGLAND
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
RESERVES EXCEED THE PAID-UP CAPITAL.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
17 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
THIS IS THE
No. 2 Model Rifle. cL
The Rifle Everyone is Talking About. '
Its price is 35/-, but its quality is B.S.A. all through, and it has proved
itself just about the finest rifle yet made for range or sporting work up to
200 yards. It has a full-length barrel with B.S.A. perfect rifling, has latest
adjustable sights, marked off to 200 yards, and is beautifully balanced.
Takes down to a convenient length for cyclists, trappers, etc. Now
obtainable from all up-to-date gun dealers.
Write for B.S.A . Rifle Catalogue at once to —
D. Y. RENNIE,
Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd., Australian Bdgs.,
Melbourne.
&
/
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
THE GREATEST MONEY MAKER
Saves 80 per cent, of your
PRESENT AERATED WATERS BILL.
THE “REGAL”
Aerated Water Machine ( M 1 od 2 e i
produces Sodawater of the finest quality at ONE PENNY
PER DOZEN, and delicious Lemonade and Gingerale
at less than THREE PENCE PER DOZEN.
The “Regal” is a triumph of engineering science-
easy to work—no waste of gas—carbonates perfectly—
compact—mounted on one stand.
Write AT ONCE for Descriptive Catalogue.
Sole Manufacturers:
Eckersley & Sons
Corner Bridge 8 Young Sts., Sydney.
And at
Melbourne.
MR. C. G. GURR, Editor and Publisher
of the “ Licensed Victuallers*
Gazette,*’ Adelaide, the well-
known newspaper, writes of
Clements
Tonic.
Mr. C. G. GURR is one of
the foremost scholarly writers
and journalists of South Aus-
tralia, and is held in high
esteem by his townsmen in the
“City of Churches.” He is
one of the active members of
the party to which he belongs,
and visits various parts of the
Commonwealth in their inter-
ests. Here is an extract from
his editorial, published Decem-
ber 23, 1911
L
“Clements Tonic has become a household word in all regulated homes
from Australia to New Zealand.
“Few genuine reliable medicines such as this have attained the solid
reputation for effectiveness in the thorough restoration of health that
Clements Tonic lias achieved.
“Medical men use it with benefit where other specifics fail.”
“ Licensed, Victuallers * Gazette
Pulteney Street, Adelaide, 23/12/’ll.
All Stores and Chemists sell Clements Tonic for Nervous Breakdown,
Loss of Sleep, Constipation, Poor Blood, Windy Indigestion,
Weakness, Biliousness and Sick Headache.


Arc
You
Thin?
Pate?
m
m
m
mm
All run di vn, easily tired, nerv-
ous? And do not know what
to take? Then go direct to
your doctor. Ask his opinion
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It con-
tains no alcohol, no stimulation,
and is a blood purifier, a nerve
tonic, a strong alterative, an aid
to digestion. Ask your doctor
about Ayer’s non-alcoholic Sar-
saparilla as a strong tonic for
the weak.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS
The Choicest Manufactured.
fay
tuM.n'M W>»
Made in England.
Cool and Satisfying.
Fragrant and Pleasing
Cedar Cabinets, con-
t ait ling go Cigars, 22\6
Post Free.
A sample lot of g
Cigars, 2/6 Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD ,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
The’Standavd Remedy wh;ch has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use umce 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
'T'IIE Australian Magazine—THE TONE
1 HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6U.
Bn
Eley Cartridges
ensure—as far
as any cartridge
can ensure
first-rate sport
and gratifying bags.
Among sportsmen and sportswomen
throughout the world, the accuracy
of Eley Cartridges is proverbial.
Make a trial of any or all of these
Eley Achilles
Deep shell, gas-
tight, smokeless
(42-grain) powder.
Eley Pluto’
Grand Prix quality
cartridge, smokeless
(33-grain) powder.
Eley ‘ Zenith Deep-shell, gastight,
specially selected smokeless (33-gr.)powder.
THESE ARE ALL ELEY LOADED.
Sold by Ammunition Dealers & Gunmakers
Be very sure to see the name ‘ELEY’
on the tube or shell of each cartridge.
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON, ENG.
m
SS
Km
IS
3Q
if!
m
m
o
sss
Ml
M
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Good for -
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington's Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OP SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for “BONN INGTON’S”
_
I/O & 2/0*
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken bv the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. , MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
140;
B*.
-*r
A Well-Rounded Bosom
Is the Pride and Joy of All Women.
No woman need remain flat and undeveloped, tliin, and
miserable. Your weight can be increased, and bust developed
to normal. It is done for hundreds of others, and can be as
readily done for you. If your bust lacks development and
firmness, and your arms, neck and shoulders are thin and
scrawny, even though your face is pretty, you invariably take
second place to your more fully-developed, full-bosomed asso-
ciates in your own social set. It will always be so Unless you
correct the imperfections in your figure. Send a 2d. Stamp
for a tree Sample of Dr. Falllere’s Flesh-Food, and our free
book which tells how. Flesh-Food is harmless to use, and the
treatment rapidly and permanently develops a poor figure to
normal. Thousands endorse it. Full particulars free.
FALLIEKfy FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
Dangers of Varicose Veins.
Few people realise until too late, how very dangerous to their exist-
ence Varicose Veins are. If you suffer from these veins, or even have
them, let us send you a free book describing their dangers and more
particularly the VECSEY METHOD of curing them. Hundreds endorse
it, as it is purely a home treatment, and does not require laying up, and
is entirely harmless. No one who has varicose veins or ulcers should delay
an hour in obtaining full information on the subject. We have treated
and cured hundreds, and can probably do the same for you, once we know
your condition
FREE BOOK,
FREE CONSULTATION.
Send 2d. stamp for free book of full particulars, or call for free
consultation. Very few cases are incurable. Write or call to-day.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street.
mm
mm
MR. G. VECSEY.
Sydney.
1410.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. K. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
Smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[i.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
. Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
r Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc-
modeS £3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
APFNTQ warn ted in each district. Write
HULHIO at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and our
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dent. 280. LIVERPOOL*
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES—
*»> VAL. F. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners
that win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will
supply the art. It considers the whole subject from
the time you meet until you two are one. Valuable
chapters about dress, personal appearance and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of
curious love letters & FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits
in prose and poetry that you can find daily use for.
2/6 posted will bring the book, and incidentally, hap-
piness with the one you love. ANGLO-AMERICAN
PUB. CO., Waterloo Ch’mb’s, Geo-st, Sydney, N.S.W.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Way back Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
•nly COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-et., Melbourne, Vic.
FOR SORE BACKS
and Shoulders, Girthgalls, etc., there is
nothing quite so good as
Solomon
Solution
targe Jars 5/- Everywhere. Post Free 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Wowser Circus.
There’s not much joy for torchlight “locals” preach-
ing on the beach,
Who sing and pray through night and day the
sinner’s heart to reach,
But now a fierce elation breaks the sombre barrier
down:
The mammoth Wowser Circus has arrived in Mel-
bourne town.
So pay your one and threepence (as you did the
time before)
For fine old wheezy melodies that devotees may roar ;
Save up a nimble ninepence for a picture testament,
And though perhaps you’ve never sinned, to-night
you must repent,
In the tent.
Cast your enraptured eyeballs up, cast threepence
firmly down:
The mammoth Wowser Circus comes to show in
Melbourne town.
It isn’t much the faithful get of joy, so why should
I
Object to gloomy outbursts of decorous revelry ?
Pull down the blinds and let us pray, but keep the
sunlight out,
The sinners might remain unmoved if sunlight got
about.
Let go the “Glory Song,” inform my mother I’ll
beware,
There are no burdens yonder and I wonder if you’ll
care ?
Creep nearer, kneeling brother! Let me howl into
your pink
Far the curse of Sunday picnics and the evil deeds of
drink.
The Devil’s maze of waltzing and the hell of bathing
mixed —
(Repentance cometh free to all; the price of hymns
is fixed.)
These same old hoary evils have perhaps been used
before —
Our trade will soon get slack unless Old Harry sends
some more.
They’re on “The King’s Own Business,” so the silvery
tenor sings:
But first of all it’s “business,” and after that it’s
“King's.”
\nd so to bring your situation squarely home to you,
He weeps from twelve to one, he also weeps from one
till two,
And if your business presses, and you can’t get out
till late,
He tells the same sad anecdotes in tears from seven
to eight.
For not through all the clustered mass of sin-infested
years
Lived there a Voice with such supply of sad spon-
taneous tears.
They have a human windmill who can move long
arms for weeks;
He’s rather bald, affects a curious accent when he
speaks.
He’s very, very, very bald, yet everything is right;
He’s shorn so that his brow may bathe direct in
Heaven’s light.
He “owns” the hymns he teaches you, and prints
that notice large,
Who violates his copyright is given straight in charge.
Vet if the Nazarene had lived in these commercial
days,
1 don’t opine he’d copyright these twaddle songs of
praise,
And change the numbers in the book of melodies
we roar,
And make us pay again for hymns we’ve paid for
twice before.
But small objections vanish like the windblown
thistledown
In the glory of the Circus that has come to Mel-
bourne town.
They’ve one God-fearing printer, and the Testaments
he sells,
Embellished with a pledge card, are supplied by no
one else;
They sell extremely rapidly; haste, brethren, for
the ’bus:
Who seeks the road to Glory must buy the map
from us.
So seriously understand (for you may die to-night)
The songs of praise are “owned” by us; the maps
are copyright.
Put on your squeaky Sabbath boots, uncompromising
hats,
Greedily sight with chaste delight the circus acro-
bats.
There’s Rudolphe at the organ, who has filled crowned
heads with glee,
He shares the profits from the hymns they sell for
one and three.
There’s Mr. Something Naptha, who explodes in tenor
tones
Until his voice is smothered in the thuds of marrow
bones.
So if the heart is sorrowing, the threepence uncast
down,
C'ome to the Wowser Circus that performs in Mel-
bourne town.
The wage of sin is death, they roar; beware of
overtime!
(But death’s the wage of most things, saith the
writer of this rhyme.)
The sinner’s wage is deadly death. Belltoppers at
the gate—
The Wowsers’ wage is different, they catch it in a
plate.
Throw out the lifeline, brother; Sister Flopton, let
us pray ;
And Auntie Face will lead the Glory chorus for to-
day.
Oh, throw out forty lifelines in the dripping, dismal
sea,
But bait the one with counter lunch that’s thrown
to capture me.
VICTORIA.
F.M.
The Portrait.
Out from the picture looks the little face,
The pointed chin, the haunting haunted eyes:
Slips from the painted hood a trail of gold,
White of a breast that was not always cold,
Red of a mouth that was not always wise,
Line of a throat that has a lift of race....
In the half-light that pale cheek seems to glow,
And a defiant flame to move the eyes;
Because 1, too, am a woman, she believes
1 sift and weigh and judge the garnered sheaves,
Not knowing that 1 turn from truth or lies
To wonder only—why men loved her so !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


Combination Couch and Bed.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in. „
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
« H < < ! » ' ■» * ‘ .11'
"V *'» V V v J? ►
jj- f. •*- *.*■#■■& V 1 •<
'HWAM
" s S=s^
CLOSED AS COUCH,
aaa aianoa sv Nado
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where, an exira
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 JOs.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
SYDNEY.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
4/
m 0
/M
lA*
4^3
70)
yt/ie
A tit
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A. A MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Si
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.'
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
•may- l>e .secured separately by the day from 3s. 6(1. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
The Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
SYSTEM
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
ALBERTS'
PROFESSIONAL,
BOOMERANG
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
“BOOMERANG' GRAND,” large size 6/6, small 3/6
“PROFESSIONAL,” lqrge size 4/-, small size 2/- ;
“ BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
POCKET BOOMERANG,” 1/-, p<?st free.
“ ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds,-2'bells,
price 5/6 ; 80 ids., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds.,4bells, 17/6.
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ” the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the ■“ BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mduth Organs. If your
man has not a “ BOOMERANG ”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out ; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “just as
good,” and get the “ BOOMER-
ANG ’’ from another store.
boJ <y
?A ft
ALBERT &. SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
A NEW PRICE LIST OF
CAMERAS sent GRATIS
TO ANY ADDRESS.
Send for one now. It contains
a List of Prices of all the Best
Cameras made for Daylight
Loading Roll Films or Glass
Plates at prices from 5/= up to £2O.
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T &
m
•5
The
Perdriau Patent
WATERSHED
OILSKIN
It doesn’t require a great deal of shrewdness for one to appreciate the good
points of the “Watershed” Oilskin.
There is no coat on the market to quite equal it in the protection it affords,
the service it assures, the comfort it gives, or the value one secures from its pur-
chase. It is adjustable to any position for riding, driving, motoring or walking.
No matter how heavy the rain may fall, the wearer of it is assured of adequate
protection, even if he were out all day in the severest of storms.
The “ RAINBOW-WATERSHED ”
is for Hard Wear 2 51-
The “ DUGONG-WATERSHED ”
is Lighter, for general use 32|6
The “ PERFECTION-WATERSHED ”
is Extra Light Weight, with Loose Check Lining, 351-
These perfect Coats are obtainable from all progressive storekeepers, or, car-
riage paid, direct from us. If ordering direct, mention height and easy chest
measurement over clothes, to ensure a correct lit.
The “Watershed” Booklet is replete with interesting information about the
“Watershed” Oilskin. Call or write for a free copy.
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
CO. LTD.,
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 Elizabeth St., between Bourke & Collins Sts., Melbourne
A /X A-A A M
AA* A A / fV A a ,
i'ac.c
/k A * A AAA'>
A A A A A aV AAA*.
MAA A A A A A A A>
AAA A A A A AC//'
»AA a A a A A a a a>
AAA/ A /‘a a a Af*
f*A A A ♦ A A A AAI
►AAaA A 1 A a a am
i/AAA Af A A A* 1 !
[AAAA aAa A A f /•’
I^AA AA a/s a //»>
Vi* A.A aa >
§m
km
All over Australia thousands of up-to-date people
are now making their own soda-water at home in a
SPARKLET
SYPHON.
“The Soda Fountain on a Tea-Tray.**
If you are tired of paying out good money for
“made” soda-water, with its lumber of empty
and broken bottles, why not try "the
“SPARKLET” way?
With a “SPARKLET” Syphon you can make
absolutely pure aerated water instantly at a cost of
one penny a pint. It is less trouble than making a
pot of tea—a child can do it.
Ask your Storekeeper. Here are the Prices:—
C=SYPHON, 0 6 each. C=BULBS 2/3 doz.
B-SYPHON, 4/- ~ B=BUL3S 1/0 „
READ & CAMPBELL, LTD.,
Importers, 40
PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. S3.—No. 1682.
THURSDAY, MAY 9. 1912.
Pit [OK Ol).
WAR DECLARED.
BOMBASTES McGOWEN: “ Who dares this pair of boots displace
Must meet Bombastes face to face.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
llod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George-street North, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. f 1 G 0
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy." Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without , stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland.
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at i/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Nexus Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jexvett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
Nexus Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Nexus Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brexver and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
JCong.
Ceylon. — lF. G. Punchiappuliamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tile Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
Ggin. x llfin., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Hostage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throxiphout the Commonwealth, Nexv
Zealand, Fiji, British Nexv Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, Iooz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, IGoz. Id. — otherwise, Boz., Id., and 8-ioz. to
lOoz., 21d.; Iooz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l oz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 9, 1912.
WERRIWA—SOME SIDE ISSUES.
The Federal by-election at Werriwa
(N.S.W.) is being conducted on the lines
which appeal to all party hacks and party
hack newspapers. There are two candidates,
the Liberal machine having put forward one
and the Labor implement the other. The
.fight is on the “clear-cut issue” so beloved
-of the daily paper leader-writer, of whole-
isouled adhesion to Deakin, Cook and Co.
<Deakin, the Liberal Protectionist, and
•Cook, the Tory Foreign-trader, have to be
.-adhered to simultaneously), or whole-souled
/adhesion to Fisher, Hughes and Co. On
one side is the complete policy of Deakin, if
anybody quite knows what that is, and on
the other side is the whole gospel of
Fisher, assuming that that can be clearly
•defined. Any ideas that are not in the bible
H>f Alfred or the encyclopaedia of Andrew
are disqualified, however large these ideas
may be. If anybody stood as the represen-
tative of a big Australian policy, which was
not endorsed by either Alfred or Andrew,
he would be spoken to severely by the press
for “splitting the vote” —that vote which is
the property, not of the nation, but of
Alfred and Andrew, and which must not
T)e recklessly disturbed by the mere com-
miunity. If by some marvellous fluke the man
'with the Australian policy got in, he would
be the lost dog of the House. Neither party
would want him in its caucus. He would
have the run of the front verandah, but
neither the Ministerial room nor the Opposi-
tion room would receive him with open arms.
If he put some merely Australian proposi-
tion—assuming that it was neither a
Deakin-Cook nor a Fishek-Hughes propo-
sition—on the notice paper, his motion would
perhaps be reached before extreme old age fell
upon him. That is to say, it would come on
some time in a thin House, and be promptly
cut short by the food and drink adjournment.
Not only have the two parties got so far as
to divide all the political wisdom of the
country between them, but they have divided
that wisdom into two inseparable heaps, and
they demand that everybody shall believe
with all his soul in the whole of one heap or
the other. There is as little room for the
individual who believes in part of one heap
and part of the other, as there is for the in-
dividual who has a little heap of his own.
» * * *
The idea is almost as grotesque as an at-
tempt to divide the community into foot-
ballers and collectors of old stamps, and to
insist that there must be either a Football
Ministry or an Old Stamp Ministry, and to
ignore or disqualify everybody outside these
limits. It suggests, in a general sort of
way, the case of the men who first fixed up
the modern Bible. For quite a number of
centuries the Bible was in course of con-
struction. Writings regarded as sacred, or
partly sacred, or dubious, or apocryphal, or
more or less bogus, were in abundance. The
chance of new troubles was always hanging
about like a ghost, and the possibility of
some new upheaval was always present. The
ancient Hebrew priests of some time before
Nebuchadnezzar had settled down pleas-
antly to their jobs, and their observances
and their remuneration, when the inrush of
the prophets came to upset the decent order
of their sacrifices, and to harry them out
of the venerable rut. The later priesthood—the
one that came after the prophets—had sur-
vived that shock, and got comfortably into its
stride in the Temple, and grown accustomed
to its regular pay and perquisites, when the
new Gospel and the strenuous doings of the
apostles upset it. So the priesthood of the
Christian Church took no chances. The
Sacred Canon was closed, and all future
prophets, apostles or bearers of new revela-
tions were disqualified in advance. The
Church was allowed to find new interpreta-
tions of old things, but no new things were
admitted. _ In somewhat the same manner
all ideas in the Federal political world that
lie outside Deakin and Fisher are dis-
qualified in advance. Bach party may recog-
nise its direct opponents, but both parties
Combine to pour blither and anathema on
dny Columbus who strikes out a fresh
track.
* * * *
Furthermore, every man of the community
is required not only to belong to the Foot-
ball party or the Old Stamp-collecting party,
and to approve solidly of the heap of doc-
trines which each party has got together,
and never by any chance to think that there
may be good matter, in each heap, and never,
under pain of political excommunication, to
consider that there may be good things out-
side both heaps; the Party system goes even
further. It is held to be the whole public
duty of man to approve of everybody who
gets the party nomination, no matter how
he got it: and to approve of the whole
Cabinet which the party gets together, no
iDatter how absurd some of its elements may
be. Thus, it is impossible for the House
of Representatives to revolt frankly and
openly against the wonderful and hifaluting
King O’Malley, with his grotesque talk
about getting a rooster to manage the Com-
monwealth Bank, without revolting equally
against Fisher and Hughes. And when
Fisher, . whose . party stands for industrial
arbitration, White Australia and no borrow-
ing, associated himself with a Queensland
State party which believes in the General
Strike and heavy borrowing, and which, in
its official organ, held out the hand of
brotherhood and applause to a crowd of
nigger seamen who had no visible merits
save that they had gone on strike and
marched to the Trades Hall, the good Labor-
ite was expected to stick to Fisher just the
same. If he didn’t, the only alternative was
to stick to Joseph Cook. And, in like man-
ner, the Protectionist Liberal was expected,
as a matter of party loyalty, to see no harm
in Alfred Deakin’s combination with
Cook, the Tory. Foreign-trader. At one time
a Ministry, which had put up a very shady
record, was liable to be ejected on a vote of
censure. Now, in a well-organised Legisla-
ture, there are no doubtful members to lend
any excitement to a motion of censure. That
is to say, every member is expected to stand
by his leader under all circumstances. Even
if the said leader had boiled his mother, it
would hardly be held to justify public deser-
tion. The whole duty of a citizen, as re-
cently expressed by Gregory Wape, is to be
either a Liberal who asks no questions, or a
Laborite who doesn’t trouble about d“tails.
* * * *
Yet very often it happens that the policy
of both parties omits tDe things of most im-
portance. The present Federal Liberal party
advocates the abandonment of the very es-
sential straight line to Port Darwin; the
Labor party proposes to build it at some
wholly unspecified date, which is much the
same as abandonment. The Commonwealth
has secured a mandate from the people to
take over and consolidate and pay off the
State debts, and on this matter one party says
as little as the other, and the other says less.
Deakin believes in a form of arbitration
which is limited and amounts to nothing in
particular. Fisher apparently believes in
the General Strike. Neither leader seems
to care very much for Federal railway own-
ership, or the establishment of a uniform
railway gauge, or for making any genuine
haste to develop the Northern Territory.
The Liberals are against a Commonwealth
note issue; the Labor Government believes
in one which is so crudely devised that the
Private Enterprise banks could make the
scheme bankrupt any day, if they screwed up
their courage to present their heap of paper
for payment. The older party believes in
maintaining the absurd old States, with their
unwieldy areas, their unscientific boundaries,
their congestion policy, their ridiculously
long railways, devised to drag all trade to
the State capitals, their two or three
bloated cities, their closed ports, and their
State Frights. The newer one believes also,
but not nuite so strongly. They were alike
in deciding that the capital of Aus-
tralia—-the only city in the world
which is to be the capital of a continent,
and that continent tne only one in all
history which has been under one Govern-
ment and one dag, and occupied by one
people speaking one language—should be a
mean, dry place, as a concession to the
parish pump party in Sydney, which reared
lest its own city might be overshadowed.
And a little while ago the bulk of one party
stood for no effective defence at all, while
the other stood for the mockery of a child
army. As for the mucli-needed tariff re-
form, Cook is hostile, Deakin is affable,
and Fisher is non-committal, while Fisher’s
colleague, Hughes, is much the same as
Cook. There is plenty of room for a voter
to be a good Australian Democrat, and yet
approve of neither of the candidates who
are now arguing the point at Werriwa. In
fact, the more Australian he is, the less he
may admire the two candidates —especially
Conroy.
A feeling begins to grow in some quarters
that it would be a good thing for Australia
to get out of the two-party habit. If the
second ballot, or some effective system of
preferential voting, were adopted, it might
be possible for enough candidates to go to
the poll to fairly represent all shades of
opinion, without risk of the man who repre-
sented the smallest and poorest opinion get-
ting in by accident. But it is much more
important that Ministers should be elected
separately, by secret ballot of the House,
with a three years’ tenure of office, bar such
chances as proved corruption or insanity.
Then it would be competent for the House
to reject any Minister’s proposal, or even
any proposal backed by the entire Cabinet,
without thereby displacing the Cabinet.
There would be an end of the unpleasant
alternative by which a member may feel
called upon to vote for a whole programme,
two-fifths of which he hates, because, if he
doesn’t, he will help to create a new Govern-
ment, three-fifths of whose programme he
detests. Under the policy of Elective Min-
istries there are still two parties, in a gen-
eral way, the one that is in favor of the
clause or amendment before the House, and
the one that is against it. But they are
not always the same parties. The vote on
the fifth clause of the Bill for Giving Every-
thing to Everybody might find Bruce Smith
and King O’Malley sitting together, while
the vote on the sixth clause of the Bill for
Abolishing Defence and Trusting Everybody,
might find them as far apart as they generally
are. The idea is to enable every man to be guided
by his honest convictions —his own convic-
tions, not those of his leader, or his leader’s
Cabinet, or the majority of his cau-
cus, which majority, though it con-
trols the situation, may represent only 24
votes in a House of 90 members. In short,
the idea is to hand the control of affairs
back to the Parliamentary majority. Now-
adays, in a well-organised Legislature, there
are two caucuses. Also, there are two
leaders, who agree on nothing—apart from
big loans and small State Frights mean-
nesses—except on the proposition that it is
the duty of everybody to approve unreservedly
of one of them, and that the person who
doesn’t is a fraud and a rail-sitter. The
present time appears as good as any other
for the rail-sitters to revolt and the frauds
to assert themselves. [James Edmond,
Bulletin Office, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE MERE DEMOLISHER.
The declaration of Tom Mann, the eminent
British roarer, that Parliament must be ex-
tinguished, and that he intends to devote
himself for the future to the destruction of
society as at present constituted, is only in
the natural order of things. All his life
Mann has been a loose denouncer of exist-
ing arrangements, and an advocate of des-
truction, without any capacity for showing
what should be built up to replace the affairs
destroyed. He has followed a line which is
suitable for any person with a brazen front,
a loud voice and a loose vocabulary. The
billet of the hostile critic —the mere puller-
down —is easy enough, provided he can
secure an audience. Any sufficient number
of navvies or Chinamen, or even trained gor-
illas, could tear down St. Peters, or the
wonderful Taj Mahal, or the Temple of
Ephesus, but not one man in 100,000 is cap-
able of devising any one of them. As mere
levellers, Mann and the Huns stand on the
same level, so far as instincts go. But Mann
grows old these days. His record is merely
that of a flaring orator and an unsuccessful
leader of strikes. He has never really
dragged down anything of importance,
mainly because, except in rare instances, the
only demolisher who ever gets a hearing is
the one who is also a builder. And the
soured demolisher, in his declining years,
generally talks about the breakage of bigger
and bigger things, just because he has failed
all his life to break the smaller ones. Nowa-
days the chance of Labor holding the balance
of power in the House of Commons looks
bright. The chance of it securing such an
extension of the franchise as will enable it
to actually secure power looks fairly bright.
The time when it will have to start con-
structing a national policy instead of merely
criticising the policies of its opponents, or
else fall into discredit and drop away again
into the back seat, appears not very far off.
And what use would a Parliament with a
Labor majority, or even a Parliament under
partial Labor control, have for Tom Mann,
the destroyer and dragger-down? Plainly none.
When it was in charge of industrial legis-
lation, a mere strike-leader would only serve
to bring it into disgrace. When it ran or
largely influenced the Government, a man
who had never learned to do anything but
shout against all Governments would be a
nuisance. When it had to justify its posi-
tion by erecting a new constitutional fabric
a mere moral dynamiter of old fabrics would
be in the way.
Now that the veto of the House of Lords
has been destroyed, and the Labor party is
stronger in the Commons than it ever was
before (it only appeared in 1906), and the
country is paying 12| millions a year in old
age pensions (a thing hardly dreamt of be-
fore 1906), and the minimum wage law is
almost in sight, and other reforms are pro-
mised, the Mann type has no fur-
ther use for Parliament. It could tolerate
that institution when it was a fitting mark
for wholesale and unlimited denunciation,
just as a parson can tolerate the Devil or a
teetotal lecturer can put up with drink, be-
cause they are paid to tell the world how
bad these things are. A democratic Parlia-
ment, or a completely reformed devil, or a
world that had left off drink would be ruin
to the stipendiary denouncer. So Mann
and his kind naturally feel more embittered
towards Parliament the more it reforms. But
while Thomas advocates the abolition of
the British Legislature, he doesn’t suggest
what should be put in its place. That is the
weak point in his case, and in the case of all
the members of the howl-and-smash brother-
hood. The mere breaker of thingfe can see
as far as a great victory, a heap of ruins,
and himself delivering an impassioned speech
on top. But after that there is the long,
weary process of rebuilding, and if he can't
rebuild, he is generally hanged by his dis-
gusted followers. They complain that he
promised them paradise, and only gave them
debris.
* * * *
As a rule, the demolisher is saved by his
own failure. He doesn’t manage to break
things to the extent proposed, so he never
gets to the stage at which he is called on- to
reconstruct. Robespierre was one of the'
world’s great exceptions. He was a magnifi-
cent destroyer of old institutions and tradi-
tions and hallucinations, but he was no
semblance of an architect. There is no
reason to believe that he desired any Reign
of Terror, but his success was against him.
He had pulled down almost the last of the
decaying political shacks and structures, and
had done a great deal of violence —perhaps
excusable in the circumstances —in the pro-
cess. He was expected to put up a new edi-
fice, and he hadn’t an idea on the subject.
This honest and bilious scoundrel, being un-
able to dazzle the nation by devising a great
reformed system, began to terrorise his
critics with the guillotine in order to save
himself, for criticism was rough in those
days. Presently he came to a point where
to leave off terrorising meant ruin, because
as soon as France ceased to be afraid of
him it would kill him. And to go on terror-
ising meant ruin, because when anybody
might be the next victim the mere frenzy
of terror was bound to bring about revolt.
And to fly meant ruin, because every State
in Europe would hang Robespierre, the
Smasher, on sight. Robespierre was, in a
wilder age, Tom Mann carried to his legiti-
mate conclusion. That is to say, he was the
demolisher who, by a very rare combination
of circumstances, got a full and complete
chance to demolish, and then didn’t know
what to do next, and went mad, and began
to slay the people who wanted to. know
what was to be done next, and, finally, lost
his head for not knowing what to do next.
The demolisher is useful when he is of the
type of Washington, Simon Bolivar,
Cromwell, Juarez or even Cola di Rienzi
—the man who plans the new building on
coherent lines before he blows up the ancient
edifice. Otherwise he is a calamity—unless
some capable architect takes the job out of
his hands at the right moment.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
About Alleged Bank Manager Fisher.
The allegation, insinuation, hint and innu-
endo of no partisan in politics, or out of it,
is free from the color of dishonesty, but one
may assume that the most reasonable parti-
sanship sails nearest to the truth, whichever
way the wind of public feeling may
happen to blow. A striking illustration
of how far the Melbourne Argus and its
disciples will go in their unreasoning ani-
mosity to Labor politicians, is a letter signed
“R. E. Weigall,” which appeared in a re-
cent issue of the Fat Man organ:— ,
Sir, —There is a prevalent idea that Mr. Fisher,
knowing too well the almost certain results of the
next Federal elections, and shuddering at the pros-
pect of a return to his original occupation, is put-
ting all sorts of difficulties in the way of the ap-
pointment of a governor of his pet bank scheme, in
order that he, imbued with a spirit of true patriot-
ism, may step into the breach and fill the position
himself. Surely this is only wicked rumor! Can
you give me any definite denial?
In publishing this malicious puerility, with-
out comment, the Argus practically en-
dorsed the statement that Weigall’s sug-
gestion was a “prevalent idea.” And, in
thus attempting to communicate the idea to
its fattest-headed readers, and spread the
rumor like an infectious disease, the Argus
was really holding up even the dullest Tory
mind to rather more contempt than it de-
serves. There are limits to rancorous cre-
dulity among the raging opponents of Labor
politics, and this particular insinuation goes
far beyond the limit. Being preposterous, it
is not poisonous. The intention may be
poisonous, but the result is merely an ex-
posure of the crass stupidity of Argus
methods. Hereditary Toryism doesn’t de-
vour this sort of fodder, any more than the
constitutional Democrat swallows the' wild
misrepresentations of a Tom Mann. A
fatuously “self-respecting” citizen may
really believe, in a measure, that trades
unionism is first cousin to anarchy, and pro-
gressive legislation is pushing the country to
the Devil, that Trusts are the crowning
glories of Private Enterprise, and that the
education of the masses undermines' the
sanctity of hearth and home, etc., etc., and
yet he will have brains enough to resent the
suggestion that Prime Minister Fisher is
preparing to seize the management of the
Commonwealth Bank. [Edmund Fisher,
Bulletin Office, SQfljlfCollins-street, Mel-
bourne.]
The Growing Lawlessness of the Affluent
Thackeray’s Becky Sharp considered
that anyone could be law-abiding on £SOOO
a year. As a general thing, the rule holds
good to-day—provided always that the pos-
sessor of great wealth can see no particular
benefit in flouting the law. When he does,
it is becoming more and more his way to
treat it and its minions in as liyhtsomely
contemptuous a fashion as any William
Sikes. Last week’s happenings before the
Sugar Commission afforded a case in point.
This body has been duly appointed in ac-
cordance with the law of the land. Its
status is. in most respects, identical, with
that of the highest Courts of Justice in the
Commonwealth. For eAample, it has the
same right to compel the attendance of the
lieges before it as the High Court and the
State Supreme Courts have. Yet when the
general manager and directors of the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. were summoned
to attend at a sitting of the Commission on
Thursday last they, to all intents and pur-
poses, told that august institution to go to


Sheol —and the section of the community
which arrogates to itself the proud style or
right-thinking citizens appears to endorse
their action; at any rate, this section has
not so far, had a word of protest to lodge
against it. Which is highly significant in
itself. Assume, for the sake of argument,
that plain Bill Smith, rock-chopper, had
behaved to a mere District Court in this
fractious and arrogant and utterly illegal
fashion. It is all Sydney to a shop-worn
oyster that the daily papers would have
sizzled with shocked references to Social-
istic rebels,” “spurners. of law and order/’
“dangerous revolutionaries,” and so on. And
such remarks would have been none too
strong. Respect for the dignity of the Courts
is a first essential of orderly government.
Apart from the fact that the extraordinary
action of the Sugar Co. bosses constitutes
an outrage on the majesty of the law, it is
obvious that such conduct is calculated to
throw the whole administration of justice
into a condition of anarchy. If wealthy
company directors start dictating to one
Court, and declining to answer to its sub-
poenas, ordinary citizens will certainly start
to behave in the same outrageous fashion
towards other Courts. Which would be in-
tolerable. This sinister business of disre-
garding the authority of the law whenever
its processes appear distasteful or menac-
ing is becoming a chronic habit among
those of the well-to-do classes who haven’t
yet assimilated the fact that popular govern-
ment has arrived. Last year, Bruce Smith,
M.P., Lee, M.L.A., and others solemnly
threatened to plunge the Commonwealth
into a gory revolution if the Referenda pro-
posals were carried. Similar threats were
made when the Australian Navy scheme
was first mooted. There were numbers of
stout citizens who mentioned that they
would foment civil war, and shed human
blood freely rather than suffer the British
fleet to be removed from these waters. There
was an occasion a few years, ago when a
Sydney lawyer, one of a family which has
supplied Judges to the State of N.S.W., was
allowed to detail in the Sydney press a
scheme for seizing the Post Office and the
Federal mails by plain violence. Joseph
Carrutiiers started a sort of insurrection,
and began to capture property that was in
charge of the Australian Customs Depart-
ment. In England the same tendency is ap-
parent. Sir Edward Carson recently urged
the Ulster fanatics to arm and drill prepara-
tory to resisting Home Rule; and Viscount
llelmsley, M.P., delivered himself this
way:—
Rather than submit to Home Buie, rather than pay
taxes to a Parliament in Dublin, rather than be under
the heel of those they had always been opposed to,
both politically and religiously, they would take up
arms and resist to the death.
In fact, the modern Tory, of the fruitier
sort, seems to be afflicted with an idea that
his money puts him above the law. Of
course it doesn’t, and the point needs to be
sheeted home to him by any State which
aspires to remain at peace and keep its self-
respect.
The Federal Note Issue.
Labor candidate Bennett, who holds up
the Fisher banner at Werriwa (N.S.W.),
made a good impression at the opening of
the battle, yet he might have done better if
he had known what subjects to avoid. He
made, perhaps, his worst break when he got
on the matter of the Government’s note is-
sue. This is how he is reported
The note issue of the party had been ridiculed, but
now that the notes were on the market there was
not a man who was not prepared to accept them,
backed up as they were by the Government of Aus-
tralia. The banks took the notes, and the demand
was increasing. They were issued under safe con-
ditions, and several of the States had been granted
loans when otherwise they would have gone to private
local investors, or investors abroad. Australian
people were lending money to Australian people. It
would prove of immense benefit to the country.
These were brave words, but the misfortune
is that the demand for Australian Govern-
ment notes is not increasing. It is on the
down grade. At latest advices the Gov-
ernment notes were coming back to be cashed
at a fairly rapid rate, and the gold reserve
was sinking. This is not due to any defect
in the principle of a Federal paper money
monopoly, though it may be owing to bad
management in details. One of the unfor-
tunate features of Brime Minister Fisher’s
character is a sort of feeble obstinacy, and
one of his lamentable habits is that, of tak-
ing advice from his political enemies. In
this matter of the Federal notes, the Cana-
dian system is worth considering. It was
advocated by The Bulletin in an article
upon a Federal Public Works policy on
August 11, 1900, and also on many occa-
sions both before and since that date. In
Canada the banks are required to hold at
least 40 per cent, of their cash reserves in
Federal paper. They can only rush the
Government with a demand for gold in lieu
of paper by showing that their cash reserves
are diminishing. They can only make a
very serious attack on the Government gold
reserve by showing—to their own discredit
and at the risk ot causing a run by their
•depositors—that their cash reserves are get-
ting down near bankruptcy point. Further-
more, the Canadian banks are required to
pay cheques in Government paper up to a
certain point, if required, which means that
they must keep a certain quantity of Do-
minion money over and above the legal 40
per cent. The joint-stock banks of Canada
support the Federal note issue because they
can’t attack it without advertising their own
impecuniosity —possibly their own insol-
vency. For a Canadian bank to cash half
its notes would be equivalent to declaring
that its cash reserves had diminished one-
half ; to cash the whole of them would be
equal to announcing that its stock. of coin
had practically disappeared. In Australia
there is neither a law requiring the Private
Enterprise banks to hold a certain propor-
tion of their reserves in Federal paper, nor
to pay out Federal paper on demand. The
institutions may refuse to buy notes from
the Government. Or they may buy vast
quantities of them, giving gold in exchange,
and carefully hoard them up instead of put-
ting them into circulation. And then, when
Prime Minister Fisher has lent part of
his stock of gold to the State Governments,
and devoted part to the building of the trans-
continental railway, and has only enough
cash on hand to meet one-third or two-fifths
of the note liability, he may be suddenly
confronted with a perfectly legal demand for
far more gold than he can produce.. And
after that his Federal note issue will be
bankrupt, almost at its inception, and be
will be a world’s jest. This sort of thing
isn’t likely to be done while the Labor Gov-
ernment looks strong, because reprisals
might follow. But when it looks weak —-
there will be great temptation to give
the falling Ministry a shove. It can’t
be supposed that the Private Enter-
prise banks feel good towards a party
which proposes to set up a big rival
institution against them. The Fisher Gov-
ernment has placed its credit and solvency
entirely at their disposal, and they can
hardly be expected, given a favorable oppor-
tunity, to neglect their chance on the ground
of pure friendship. [James Edmond, Bul-
letin Office, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
The Visiting Expert.
The blessed and costly imported expert has
arrived, and is now wandering over Sydney,
thinking out schemes for relieving the con-
gestion. His special advantage is presum-
ably his complete ignorance of Sydney, but
he will doubtless get over that, to some ex-
tent, and become almost as fit for this spe-
cial job as any good local engineer. .It
isn’t to be supposed that he will have time
to see half the streets, and he can’t know in
what directions population is spreading
nearly so well as a local man could. But
he will doubtless be able to explain exactly
how the street congestion problem has been
dealt with in more up-to-date capitals, and
there are dozens of good engineers in Syd-
ney, Melbourne and Adelaide who can do
exactly as much, thanks to study and travel.
There are a handful of world-cities which
embody among them everything the world
knows about providing for the traffic of
great, congested populations, and there are
books in which can be learned everything of
the slightest promise that has been sug-
gested but not adopted. Also, these books
embody suggestions of no promise, down to
the work of that genius who proposed that
streets should be so excavated that every-
body would run for 100 yards or so down-
hill, and then climb up some steps and run
down again. He published his scheme with
a wealth of illustration, and then was flab-
bergasted almost to death when it was
pointed out to him that, on the return jour-
ney, everybody would have to climb uphill.
The imported Mr. Hay will doubtless be
able to show that, if the streets of Sydney
were made straighter and wider, there would
be more space in them, and that, if the main
line was carried right through the city, and
across the harbor, a vast amount of railway
congestion would be saved. Also, when there
is high ground on each side of a harbor, a
bridge is a common device, and when the
ground is low a tunnel often comes handy,
while in hilly cities like Naples even tram-
cars take short cuts through tunnels now
and then. He may point out that tube
railways are used in many places-—in fact,
he is likely to explain almost everything that
is already well known. The visiting expert
has this great advantage over the local one
—if his scheme is a complete failure, he
doesn’t need to live alongside the failure, so
he can be a great deal more careless than the
man on the spot. If John Coode had been
a Melbourne engineer, the constant sight of
his Coode Canal would probably have driven
him to drink or into a monastery. John
Coode supplied his suggestion, which was
simply for digging a ditch in the wrong
place, took his huge fee and went back to
Europe, and there his. awful canal was too
far away to damage his reputation as it de-
served to be damaged. It was shown to him
at the time, and it is visible to the naked
eye to-day, that, with very little more dig-
ging and cutting, the distance from the city
to deep water could be reduced one-half, but
he heeded not. Most of the work of expen-
sive visiting experts falls into two classes—
the plans that were never carried out and the
plans that were carried out, and which made
people feel very sorry afterwards. As a
case in point, it was an imported expert
who was partly responsible for the diverse
railway gauges of Australia, and how many
millions that one fool will cost this country
no one knows,
The State as a Foolish Landlord.
“0.K.” from Melbourne :—-
In a summary of business discussed at a recent
Cabinet meting of the Weary and Watt Ministry,
appeared a mild, unobtrusive announcement that “An
application from Mr. H. D. Mclntosh, the well-
known promoter of boxing matches, for the right to
use a portion of Wirths’ Park, on the St. Kilda-
road, for boxing contests, was refused.”
The fact of the application being made, argues
that Mclntosh had some reason for hoping it would
be accepted, and the reason for Mac’s hopefulness is
a matter for inquiry by earnest students of Socialism.
Wirths’ Park is a few acres of ground leased from
the State Lands Department, at the ridiculously low
rental of £4O a week ; but under present conditions
the Department is not the supreme controller it
would need to be if all the land in Melbourne were
lorded by the State. The Department, very possibly,
would have permitted a Stoushing Stadium to be
built, or the existing Hippodrome building to be con-
verted into a Stoushery, on the fine commanding site
in St. Kilda-road, facing the prettiest pleasure grounds
and thoroughfares in the city. The Government in
general, having been previously warned by the press,
threw the proposal out. A year or two ago the Gov-
ernment prohibited the letting of its Exhibition Build-
ing, in the Carlton district, for any more boxing
matches, although the Exhibition trustees of yore had
joyfully accepted John Wren as a tenant for occa-
sional stoush nights. Therefore, the Weary and
Watt combination, after refusing the use of a State
building to a white-fight promoter, could hardly as-
sent to the occupation of a building on State land by
a black-fight promoter. This, apart from the right
of the Melbourne public to have their most ornamen-
tal recreation district protected from an invasion of
all that is ugliest rand rowdiest in sporting life.
Nevertheless, the application was made, and had it
been favored by a majority of the Ministry, as it
seemingly was favored by a minority, the public
would have witnessed a further example of how a
tenant of State land can amass unearned increment
by sub letting the property he leases. The area of
Wirths’ Park is a few acres, and the tenants have
been exploiting their leasehold—annual, or triennial,
or whatever it be—for a few years. One of the
spacious cheap buildings thereon has been let to one
or other picture showman for a long, unbroken period,
and must have proved a much richer investment to
the builders than any purchaser or lessee of private
land within this century could have obtained. And
this palpable loss to the State looks likely to last for
an indefinitely long time. An opportunity for a neat
little experiment in Socialism stares the Weary and
Watt Government in the face. The imperturbable
statue of the late Gracious Queen Victoria is forever
contemplating this chance from the gardened high
ground on the further side of St. Kilda-road.. The
State Tait railway station on just the other side of
Princes’ Bridge reminds the Government continually
of the value of the large tract of land it leases for
£4O a week. Situated just off a main thoroughfare,
in the wealthier suburban half of Melbourne, the
land would be an ideal site for a township of high-
toned shops, with attractive arcades running through
it • but the opportunity remains studiously neglected.
If Weary and Watt had the will to create a large,
easy addition to the State revenue, by such an easy
experiment in simple Socialism, the howl of private
nropputy owners would doubtless paralyse their will.
And in the meantime they submit the Lands Depart-
ment to put State ownership of land in a contempt-
ible light.
$
“Public Service” : N.S.W. Public Service
Board is advertising a new billet as clerk in
the Local Government Office, at a screw of
£250 to £2BO, which is a matter requiring
a little explanation. The advt. sets out: —
(1) That a clerk is needed.
(2) That applicants will be required to submit
themselves to competitive examination.
(3) That candidates must have had at least three
years’ service as a town clerk or shire clerk or as
bookkeeper in a municipal or shire office in N.S.W.
(4) That suitable candidates already permanently
employed in the Public Service will receive first con-
sideration.
This looks very like another attempt to
block the public servant from his statutory
right that all new billets are to be filled
from within the Service whenever possible.
Even in these hurrying days a chap, or even
a cove, has no time to crawl up the ladder
of the Public Service, and simultaneously or
thereabouts, to serve a municipal council
until he has not only become its town clerk
or bookkeeper, but has been three years in
the job. So the lack of the experience quali-
fication throws the public servant on one
side. But there is more proof that the law
of preference is to be evaded. There is a
regulation of the Board whereby the clerical
division of the Service is allowed to qualify
for the higher-grade exam, in Local Govern-
ment subjects. Several men have done so,
and if they are not to be considered eligible
without practical experience, then they have
been induced to waste time and probably
money under false pretences. If they arc
to be considered eligible, and the law of pref-
erence is to be adhered to, those council
clerks and bookkeepers who propose to sub-
mit themselves to a stiff examination are
having their limb pulled. As nobody but
the Board can say who is to be fooled on
this occasion, I hereby invite it to make an
announcement on the subject.
During the hearing in the Arbitration
Court of the tramway employees’ claims as
to wages, hours, etc., one witness
mentioned a beautiful, device said to
be practised by the Melbourne Tram-
way outfit. He was driver, conductor,
groom and sundries on the horse contraption
which drags passengers from the Brunswick
line to the Zoo. He slept on the co.’s prem-
ises free, presumably that he might be on
hand to attend the gallant steeds when
necessary. At one time he was paid 38s.
per week of 54 hours. Presently he rose
to 40s. Later, he reached the dazzling-
affluence of 425. At last a time came when
the Drivers and Carters’ Wages Board
awarded him 50s. for a week of 48 hours,
and then, he says, some humorous develop-
ments set in. A newspaper report read as
follows: —
The house he occupied was owned by the Tramway
Company, and the rent varied from Bs. 3d. to 15s. 4d.
per week. When asked to explain, the witness, who
seemed very confused, said that before the Wages
Board determination he did not pay rent. After the
determination, money for rent was deducted from his
wages.
Mr. Bundle (for the employees’ association): Do
you get extra pay for overtime and holidays?
Witness: I never receive anything in a monetary
way. It is all deducted for rent.
The President: Do you mean to say that the money
which you would have got for overtime and for holi-
days was treated as owing by you for rent?
Witness: Yes.
So that when you would have earned 12s. for over-
time in one week it was deducted for rent? —Yes.
And if you had earned only Bs. 3d., your rent was
treated as’ being Bs. 3d. ? —Yes.
The effect was that you got no overtime payment,
and your rent went up and down, like a jack-in-the-
box ? —Yes.
The Melbourne Tramway Co. is an enor-
mously rich corporation, and the trifle it
is said to have made by bobbing the wit-
ness’s rent up and down wasn’t a drop in
the ocean of its affluence. It looks
like one of those sidelong grabs in
which £IO.OOO worth of scorn is incurred
in the struggle to save 2d. Judicious Fat
knows how to get the maximum of profit
with the minimum of shindy. Injudicious
Fat makes Bs. 3d. amid the laughter of a
whole community, and a party arises in Par-
liament which proposes to resume its con-
cession.
♦
A mixed situation has arisen in N.S.W. gaol
and police circles. There is, first of all, an
obvious aud glaring increase of crime about
the city. Whether there is a great increase
of criminals, or merely a burst of phenom-
enal activity on the part of a few criminals
isn’t known yet. The next obvious feature
is the growing inability of the police to
catch criminals —either the new ones or the
old ones. This is set down to; two causes:
(1) A misguided Government has made
serious attempt to increase the force as.
population increased; in fact, the scarcity
is said to be so bad that the great area of
Mosman (Sydney), with its 20,000 people
and 50 miles of thoroughfares, is often in
charge of one bobby, and he is sometimes
asleep, not being a 24-hour bobby. (2) The
pay is so poor as compared with the present
standard in other occupations that it is only
possible to get an inferior class of recruits.
The next element in the case is Attorney-
General Holman, who points proudly to the
decrease of the gaol population, and sets it
down to the reformative methods in use-
under his management. Holman can’t be
expected to suggest that the gaols are growing
empty because so many people who should be
in them are at large, so he has to declare
that the wave of crime is mostly bogus—a
mere figment of newspaper imagination. Of
course, if there is no real upheaval of unde-
tected crime, the inference is that the pres-
ent police force is good enough and suffici-
ently abundant, and if it is good enough and
abundant at the price, what is the use of
paying more . wages and hiring more con-
stables? It is a tangled sort of business,
but there is a dissatisfied policeman at one
end, and a self-satisfied Attorney-General at
the other, and a harried householder in the
middle. Sydney doesn’t stand alone in this
matter. Melbourne is worse; Adelaide
nearly as bad. The Holy City had a curious
experience of late. For a long time the
spectre of wholesale and retail theft has
haunted its wharves. At last a humble
official died, leaving no known relatives,
and stock had to be taken of his assets. Offi-
cialdom got the shock of its life when it
found it could hardly get into the house for
stolen goods. Apparently, the humble but
capable deceased had made a practice for
years of tottering home unobserved with
about 2cwt. of annexed property on his back..
+
The position at the State Coal town of
Wonthaggi ( Vic.) is that the State mine is
absolutely closed, the miners have largely
left the district, and the tradespeople are
taced by black ruin. The latest move was
a conference between the miners and the
liailway Commissioners, as managers and
nominal owners. Neither side would give way,
but, as a last resort, the miners ottered to
return to work on the Commissioners’ terms
as to wages—2s. 9d. per ton hewed, provided
that a Vvages Hoard was appointed and its
determinations took effect from the date of
re-star ting. This offer the Commissioners
refused. They were absolute and supreme
masters, and would have no Wages Board on
the premises. So a valuable property, on
which hundreds of thousands have been spent,
lies idle; the coal which Melbourne con-
sumers badly want stays where it is, while
they pay nearly double the price for the
Newcastle article; shopkeepers have to shut
up and go insolvent; miners are driven to
look for work in distant parts of the Com-
monwealth —thus is Capital hunted out of
the country, and the marriage tie-
fractured ; and all because the selfish, Pri-
vate-Enterprise-loving Fat Landlords of Vic-
toria’s Uppish House refused to vote the
money necessary for the development of the
State’s proDerty, and insisted on handing
over its management to Railway Commis-
sioners, who didn’t understand the business,
and didn’t want the job in any case. Mean-
while, Weary John, who, if he had the
mind, has the power to bring the whole bias-
tiferous foolishness to an end to-morrow, re-
mains unconscious of the whole matter. His
monthly cheque arrives in due course; liis
appetite is normal, and he sleeps wdl. Our
oath, he sleeps well!
♦- ——
Of all the States of the Commonwealth, Tas-
mania is the one in which Tory adminis-
tration has produced the worst results, is
most discredited, and seemed most deserving
to be thrown into the scrapheap. The vic-
tories won by Labor at the last Federal elec-
tion aroused high hopes that, at last, the old
Dodery party would go. The Tassy As-
sembly is now a fairly democratic body, on
paper, anyhow, every British citizen, aged
21 or more, who can show six months’ resi-
dence, being qualified to vote. And, as
hardly any settlers go to Tasmania, though
many people leave that island, the six
months’ residence condition disqualifies very
few. The Tory party, with all its old sins
on its head, has apparently got back to its
job after all. But, at time of writing, its
majority in the House of Ass. is only two.
When it appoints a Speaker its working ma-
jority will be only one. Any moment,
when two of its members go out to view the
ramifications of a dog, its minority will be
one. The practicable strength of a party
depends, partly on its numbers, and partly
on how often it goes out to see about a dog.
or is absent for other reasons. It has been
estimated on dubious authority that, for
steady voting nurposes, 18 incurable Tories
about equal 15 Liberals, and 15 Liberals
about equal 12 Laborites. If Premier Neil
Lewis could comnel his crowd to nut up as
good a record of attendance as his oppo-
nents do, lie could probably just carry on. As
things stand he doesn’t appear to have any
chance worth mentioning.
Farrar, M.L.C.. one of the new appointees
to the N.S.W. Upper House, has expressed
the opinion that the time is when,
through the improvement of machinery,
four hours will constitute the working day.
There are some who go further and look
forward to a two-hour working day. The
question arises—when a man, through the’ ;
improvement of machinery, is able to earn
as many comforts in two hours as he now
can in, say, six. ought he to reduce his hours
to two and loaf four hours extra, and decide
never to be any more civilised than he is
now? Or should he devote the four hours
saved from the struggle for mere existence
to acquiring new comforts —say to supply-
ing himself with wide streets instead of
Requiem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Clay, of Hornsby (N.S.W.), lias been on a holi-
day trip to England, where he visited the Crema-
torium at Golder’s Green. “I am sure,” Dr. Clay
states, “that anyone witnessing a cremation could
have no other opinion than that it is the most sanitary
and the most sentimental method of disposing of
mortal remains.” — News item.
When my day is done, and Gabriel blows
his bugle-note of Doom;
When my eyes are closed, and my tongue is
stilled, in the house of passing gloom,
Just spread my ashes on the hills where
Earth’s sweet flowerets bloom.
Let the roving breezes scatter them in the
rustling of the leaves,
Or breathe them on the silver web that each
bush spider weaves —
And where, beside a hunch-backed mound, no
damp-kneed mourner grieves.
Don’t let me lie in a grave shroud-wrapt
while a routine priest intones.
I have no desire to let the worms feast on
my weary bones.
I want to float in the scented air where the
laden wild bee drones.
For I have lived in the open bush, and the
great wide fenceless plains ;
In the sheen of the sun, and stars, and moon,
and the damp of the cooling rains—
And I’ll not be locked in the stuffy box that
Custom preordains.
Let the sparks fly forth from the ruddy blaze
for the eyes of men to see ;
Let the sins I sinned unthinkingly be all
forgiven me,
Ere what is left of my life drifts out to im-
mortality.
When all is said, what more could saint or
sinner well desire,
When the flesh is purged of worldly dross by
flames of earthly fire,
Before it floats where the bush birds make
God’s own immortal choir?
The rain-wet trees will droop their heads for
sake of my vanished years;
But the winds will lift them high again, and
the sun will dry their tears —
And I shall be free to rove at will through
the world’s wide hemispheres.
N.S.W.
GILBOONEY.


I EADING Australian
Company transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident#
Live Stock Insurance.
TO RUM A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
To Keep Ahead of Your Opposition by
Using HARRINGTONS’ EXCLUSIVE
STAR PICTURES !
A Complete List of All Exclusive
Films, Hiring- Rates and Synopsis
of the various subjects will be
sent on application to
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Tut LEADING CINEMATOGRAPHIC
* PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNF
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE
WELLINCTON.fi Z.
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.
SHOWMEN ! Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
Lyric s Colonial Theatres
Direction : J. D. WILLIAMS.
World’s Famous PHOTO-PLAY PALACES.
WHERE EVERYBODY GOES.
Continuous Performances: 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
STALLS, 3d. DRESS CIRCLE; 6d.
Entire Change of Programme twice weekly,
MONDAY and THURSDAY.
Startling attractions shown at these 3 -Theatres
every week, at English and American
prices of admission.
We cater specially for Ladies and Children.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attend-
ants.
Patronised by over 65,000 People weekly.
Run under the Continuous-show System, now
all the rage in England and America.
Don’t fail to see the Startling’ Attractions
showing this week at the Lyric, Colonial No. 1,
and Colonial No. 2.
They are sensations of Biographical Art, and
we guarantee them to be the most interesting
productions ever attempted in Photo-play.
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
the purchase of extra loafing instead of extra
comfort requires a lot of thinking over. If
man slept eight hours a day, and worked
two, he would have a lot of time to fill in.
And if the footballer and the cricketer and
the actor also worked only two hours a day
there might be a lack of filling material un-
less the enfranchised citizen went to four pic-
ture shows in an afternoon. Again, there re-
mains the dreary fact that housework lias
never been abbreviated by machinery to the
same extent as other occupations. It consists
of so many thousand small jobs that it would
probably require 10 rooms-full of mechanical
devices to reduce the work of a five-roomed
cottage and a family of four young children
to a four-hour basis. Yet, if mafi gets down
to four hours or two hours work his wife
will probably, sooner or later, demand the
same privilege, and it couldn’t be equitably
refused her. Then the short-hour worker
would require at least three wives, so that
they might toil in relays, and presently,
with three four-hour wives to keep, he would
find himself back on his old eight-hour basis,
and darned glad to get there. He might
even be darned glad to become a 12-hour-a-
--day worker so that he wouldn’t get home
till the three wives were in bed.
♦
Recently a small Japanese soldier walked
into the Public Works Department, Mel-
bourne, and asked politely for a complete set
of plans and maps of Victorian forts and
harbors. These were most courteously
afforded him by the officer in charge. Fur-
ther, the Jap, who called himself Major
Osaka, after a big manufacturing city in
Japan, was invited to inspect the Newport
railway workshops. Perhaps this is merely
a preliminary to entertaining him in Queens-
cliff fort and lending him the Government
launch to inspect the mines laid at the
Heads. If any Australian gunner called
himself Major Ballarat, and asked the
Tokio authorities to give him plans and
maps of their harbors, he would be locked
up in a most charming manner, and told to
commit hari-kari if he wished to get out
soon. The newspapers reported that this
same Jap entertained Prime Minister Fisher
at luncheon at Menzies’ Hotel. Once Spruce
Myth’s brother Walter spent three days
in durance vile at Nagasaki for merely car-
rying a camera through the streets of Moji.
It’s high time for Australians to quit gushing
over tourists and spies. We are an ab-
surdly trusting people.
— 4 ♦
It was full moon over Sydney last
Thursday night, and the lighted ship,
viewed from the Mosman heights,
looked like a silent black and gold
toy on an illimitable silver plain. “A lovely
night, but cold,” murmured the watcher. The
toy was the cruiser Challenger returning
from its unsuccessful search for the missing
dredge Manchester, which started out hope-
fully from Maoriland, last month, just before
the Tasman Sea was swept by one of the
early winter gales. The overdue dredge is
now_ suspected of being down amongst the
globigerina ooze, where the submarine cable
is bedded. If so, it isn’t the first imported
dredge that has been lost with those on
board whilst voyaging to Australia. These
sort of cumbrous things are not built for
battling with mid-ocean gales, and D. Jones,
unlicensed bookmaker, cheerfully offers their
crews long odds about ever reaching port—
especially on the threshold of winter. The
continual bringing out of imported steamers
is a dismal enough process; but at least it
does not entail any specially bad risks. The
importation of dredges does —as many
drowned ghosts could witness. It is just
about plain murder. Still, if the trouble-
some bar harbor must be encouraged, we
must have dredges; and if we can’t get the
job of building them, they must wallow to us
from oversea ports. Of course, the real
trouble is that the wretched things stub-
bornly refuse to wallow in a brilliant and
successful manner. Then the silver moon-
light and the black cruiser give a nice
funereal finish (o the unfortunate incident.
It is alleged on bad authority that the
title of the big concern which weeps (pre-
sumably at enormous expense) over whole
pages of the daily paper, and drains away
in odd columns, is. to be changed to the
Colonial Sugar Repining Co.
Judge Eagleson spoke harshly to a
bookmaker who was convicted of having
stolen a backer’s money at Stawell (Vic.)
races —in reality of welching. Being unable
to pay out on a certain horse he had stuck to
the punter’s £5, and persistently denied hav-
ing made the bet at all. “He had,” said his
Honor, “been convicted of a brazen-faced lar-
ceny. He was following the occupation of a
bookmaker, a calling rapidly becoming a
curse to the country. These men, living on
the proceeds of other people’s industry, pro-
duced nothing themselves; to the country
men of this class were absolutely worthless”
(though they are not the only worthless
class by any means). Then he summarised
his criticism into one jerky paragraph by
handing the defendant “18 months’ hard.”
And all this expensive trial, useless hard
labor, bother, worry and violent language
might have been saved if Victoria had sense
enough to legalise the tote. The machine
doesn’t welch.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sinbad the Sailor.”
Royal “Ben Hur.”
Adelphi .... “ The King’s Romance.”
Palace “ On Our Selection.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Princess , West’s Pictures.
Olympia W est’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Belmore Markets Wirths’ Circus.
Imperial Rink Roller Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s “ The Night-Side of London.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Girl in the Train.”
Royal “Kismet.”
King’s “ His Natural Life.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Athen.®um Hall Alexander Watson.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
♦
Serious people, row on row,
People who only seek a show
Which has a flavor of hymns, you know —-
A dash of the pew and steeple ;
Terrible hats and pitchforked hair,
Duds no person of style could bear,
Each of ’em clamped to a Town Hall
chair—
Very—Serious—People.
“Grandma remembers her first appearance,”
hissed the flapper in the row behind. “She’ll
lose her soul!” chattered the very old lady
in front, plunging fiercely in her seat. Ada
Ward, dressed in black, and with three roses
in her belt, stood on the Sydney Town Hall
stage smiling a sweet, sad, careworn smile
at the full house. Her hands were folded
meekly amidships in the landlady style, and
she had much the same air of the reduced,
person of uncertain age who stands on the
“ON OUR SELECTIONAT," THE PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Virtue and Humor on the job. Uncle (W. Driscoll), Dave (Fred Macdonald), Dad (Bert
Bailey) and Maloney (Edmund Duggan) denounce a villain in the backblecks.
threshold of the old hash-house, welcoming
the new star boarder. Also, a great part of
lier discourse, appropriately enough, was
about rooms-—rooms under the ground and
rooms next the roof, the weary searches
which always preceded their discovery, and
the cup of tea which was never forthcoming
when she got there. Perhaps the resigned
and attentive attitude has become a habit
during the past 10 holy years of cold mut-
ton and weak tea; at any rate, she fell into
it later when declaiming Leah’s curseful
lines, and it simply wrecked the illusion,
The Religious Editor does not know if the
death-bed scene from “East Lynne” was in-
eluded of malice aforethought, because of
one passage between Joyce and thfe returned
Lady Isabel, but it looks suspicious. Con-
sider this: “Joyce: ‘Why, oh! why did
you come back?’ Ada Isabel Ward
(wildly): ‘I suppose I should not! But
how could I help it?’” Ada decidedly should
not have come back (in the fighting sense
she hasn’t), unless she intends to spend the
next 10 years explaining why she could not
help it. After allowing the usual trade dis-
co l un . t °? h er 75-minute narrative, it must be
admitted that no female who started out
from the large hat and sealskin coat division
could be expected to bear for ever the sort of
treatment the Godfearing person hands out
£9 religious freelance who helps him tidy
corner of the vineyard, ihe audience.
~or sensations and revelations, listened
g ree dily to the holy striker when she warmed
a P anc * j d be , r wblte ; tiglitly-clasped
hands. You don t know what it is like to
walk through the snow. (Pause.) “To
stan s, m ,s° <^/ c y. eS u 1 7 r ?<?? s _ waitin f? f° r the
nunis&er. (Sigh.) If I dared to com-
Jy a * n » they told me I had no faith or said,
Bet us pray . That is how the holy man
a ? ts where the ordinary sinner or the Devil
| would light a fire. Still, she got
back on one frosted saint by telling the con-
gregation she was sure God was not in the
*? y building, and asking them to pray for
tbe conversion of their minister who was
standing close beside her. “He took a dis-
like to me,” said Ada pensively. When she
told how the Salvation Army—which worked
her at express speed till she broke down—
started her across the Flyspeck with a bag
of buns, the indignant old lady in front, who
had beep getting very restive, plunged again
in her chair. "Why couldn’t she bear ’er
crossf” she demanded. “Hot cross!” mum-
bled the scribbler. “I want to tell the whole
world that I am not a backslider!” (Hands
and feet.) (Old lady, nodding fiercely: "TV
wheat ’E will gathertoim, hut the charfewill
hum in hunquenchable fire!”) “I have
broken the bond that bound me to a most
UNHAPPY LIFE!” (Brollies and hoots.)
(“You must he ’umble!”) “Poor —crushed
■ —miserable evangelists are the people who
do the work! And what do they receive in
return? Sneers and snubs and starvation
wages!” (Brollies.) (“Vo cross, no
crown!”) “I will NOT be made use of any
longer simply to make MONEY!” (Cheers.)
(“She will ’ave to learn to hear ’er cross as
well as heveryone else! I’m close on heighty,
an’ for 50 years —/”) Then the Voice of the
Past was drowned in another crash of brol-
lies. Soon afterwards the old lady scuttled
away to escape the playacting, and her brave
old relic of a bonnet worried through the
interval crush into the draughty corridor. It
is sometimes an advantage to have religious
scruples.
“By the splendor of God,” this is the scene-
shifter’s night out! Know ye that we write
of this “Ben Hur,” at the theatre that is
called Royal, in the city of Sydney. He hath
chariots and horses, and two mashes, and he
possesseth the limelight man utterly; yet
must he flee like the leper and the meanest
waver of palm leaves, when he who beareth
a palace under one arm and draggeth the
desert behind him is yet afar off. Yea. the
Sceneshifter is mighty, and the players of lutes
and stringed instruments cannot drown his
manifold tramplings, though they rage like
men possessed of devils. For he hath temples
and groves an hundred fold, and the circus is
his, and the galley likewise, and the open sea
knoweth him only as master. All these and
other spectacles must be displayed before the
last train departeth, and the Quay, where tiie
barges set forth for Northern Shores, is given
over to the chariot drivers and the Dago that
shaketh the dust of the city from his door-
mat. Therefore, O people, the play beareth
some resemblance to a picture show that hath
but a short time to live. Assuredly there is
a plot, but it mattereth little, for Esther, the
daughter of Simonides the slave, raileth not
nor stormeth when Iras, the Egyptian
woman, taketh the Ben that belongeth to Her
on the waters by night. Then he that be-
holds knoweth that all is indeed well.
For there is a looking at watches,
and the audience take counsel to-
gether, saying, “Lo! the night groweth no
younger, yet are we kept in the playhouse
when the interest hath all departed, in order
to witness further vanities! Why could not
Esther, the daughter of Simonides, be made
to stake her love upon the chariot racing?
Again, why could she not get stricken upon
Messala the Boastful, and practise the mak-
ing of eyes upon him, thus setting to the pay-
ing out of Ben Hur in the way that is known
to all women? Behold! she glideth peace-
fully upon her way like the bird of wood that
flieth to the cash desk at the young mer-
chant’s bidding, and cometh back on its wire
with the receipted writing in its beak ! Wbat
shall it nrofit a man to look, upon such virtue
if he lose his last tram?”
If the stage depicts it rightly, the world
took itself much too seriously in those days.
The patriarch shook his staff and quavered
about woe in the next world. The brass- and
leather-bound Roman soldier, with the fire-
man’s helmet and the short stabbing sword,
'anked and bellowed about campaigns and
woe in this. And the females who weren’t
some sort of Flossie went about sadly saving
souls and meekly nerforminr the house-
hold jobs. There would not be Si hours in
"Ben Hur” but for the sceneshifter’s wealth
of fine material, of which the most novel is
the gloomy interior of the galley Astrse, with
the chained slaves in tiers at their oars, and
the lielmeted hortator sitting at the table
beating time with his wooden hammers.
* * *. *
Eric Maxon, a handsome manufacturer of
stage love, makes a very satisfactory Ben
Hur. Harcourt Beatty’s rasping voice is
his best asset as the reckless soldier Messala.
Eardley Turner, who is himself carried and
shoved throughout the play, is satisfying
in one of the heaviest parts—that of the
aged and crippled Jew Simonides. J. B.
Atholwood gives yet another of his excellent
old man studies as Balthazar. Arthur
Styan. bearded and blackened like an Asche,
storms and strides in a robust fashion
as the Sheik Ilderim. Winter Hall
—a dignified, aristocratic Arrius—disappears
all too soon. And Leslie Victor is hereby
thanked for some timely light humor as the
cheery sport Drusus. Susie Vaughan, al-
ways reliable, is lovable as the mother of
Hur. Gwen Burroughs presses the loud pedal
a trifle too heavily as Iras, the combustible
Egyptian. And Dorothy Dix, by virtue of
her caressing voice and wonderful eyes,
makes Esther the sort of still-life study any
hero must find irresistible. The trouble is
she is too still, and that Benno finds her irre-
sistible too early in the evening.
“The Kingdom of the Past” will leap into
the present on the Criterion stage as this
paper goes to press. The dead walk out of
their tombs at this crisis in the story of
"The Blue Bird.” Whether they will travel
light in their bones, or will appear with a
complete outfit of wings, halos, harps and
worm tablets (prevention is better than
cure, and when the last, long, damp, footless
enemy calls on us beneath the grass it is best
to have a tablet to give him), writer know-
eth not. The Forest wants the axe. The
oak is too garrulous in this act, and his
brother limbs go far towards modelling their
remarks on the lines of a Green Timber
Debating Society. The Palace of Night could
also bear up cheerfully under a large cut in
its middle, without losing the flavor of its
meaty ends.
Although the J. D. Williams Sydney
theatres did not have any picture early m
the week that called for a tremendous-burst
of enthusiasm, each of the three houses had
at least two draws. “The Prison on the
Cliff,” a reminder of the bad old French
Revolution days, was the most successful ac
the Lyric. Patlie’s European Gazette, as
usual, contained some good topical scenes.
“Messina,” with its ruins still lying about,
was the most interesting at the Colonial 1.
The clearing is going on, and, at the rate the
workmen are toiling is likely to go on for
another 180 years. The “Little Stowaway”
and Pathg’s Australian Gazette were the most
interesting at Colonial 2. This Gazette is a
sort of moving illustrated paper, showing cur-
rent events in the principal Australian cities,
and is far more interesting than the never-
ending “Cowboy” sensations.
* * * *
At 10.45 or thereabouts, “The Sins of
Society” will be led to the scaffold to pay
the final penalty for their rashness. On
Saturday, Royalty, in “The King’s .'Ro-
mance,” will, for the first time, take up its
lodgings at the Adelphi. These King’s ro-
mances are getting so dashed common on the
European continent, that it is time we had
something more realistic than cable notices.
* *
Jack Straw —he who made himself up to
look like nothing human, last Saturday, and
propelled a barrow round the streets of Syd-
ney, with the object of helping to preserve
the N. S. Wales hospitals from insolvency—
is still at the National Amphitheatre. An-
other feature of this establishment is Zomah,
a lady with a disconcerting talent for diag-
nosing, with her eyes bandaged, what music-
hall patrons have concealed about their per-
sons. Also, there is one who is billed on
the programme as “La Venre Australienne,”
and elsewhere as “La Venere Australienne.”
She apnears in a copy of the simple gown
which Venus wore before Paris in the long
ago, and the fashion suits her well. Altoge-
ther a meritorious show.
Nothing having occurred to reduce Her
Majesty’s Theatre (Sydney) to a heap of
ruins, the pantomime continues to go great
guns there. As the writer confidently expects
to have to ring the changes on the above
remark for months to come, he will, for the
nonce, say no more.
* »:« * *
There was only one person inside the Bel-
more Markets on Saturday night who didn’t
enjoy Wirths’ “Wild Australia” buckjumping
show, in conjunction with the circus. That
was a nigger, by name “Springy Bill,” and
he got so far into the bad graces of a grey
buckjumper that it tried very hard to smite
him on the head with its forefeet. A rumor
got about that the nigger’s skull had dam-
aged the horse’s shoes, but so far it has not
been officially confirmed. The same evening
a wild buffalo butted the unlucky nigger in
the middle of the back, and waltzed on
him, but even then the victim wasn’t counted
out. The standing offer of £5O for anyone
who can saddle and bridle Lightning is still
standing, and is likely to be on its feet for a
considerable time. The animal knows too
much.
::: * *
The De Serris group of living statuary is
affording the Sydney Tivolean some graceful
entertainment these nights. All Chadbands
should be rounded up by mounted bushmen
armed with sharp sticks, and driven to wit-
ness the fine turn, which is chastely-white
throughout, and a silent but eloquent sermon
on the superfluity of clothes —the ragged
civilised curse that has ruined so many bright
young married (and single) men. Woe to
the unscrupulous draper who heaps gallons of
expensive clothes under the very eyes of the
unfortunate shopper, and incites her to give
her husband and children sardines instead of
joints, in order that she may reel home in a
bargain-besotted state, her mind inflamed
with prices ! Woe to the woman who puts
an enemy on her back and another on her
head, to steal awnv her brains! Woe to


5 ■<: fes*T< \
a: /•"
a*. -
v>
r *«
£, <<rr
t'vi
VteX :
x
m T *\
m
i,
t !
.
. 'OOA:.h
' -p-l
Schweppes
Schweppes*
Lime Juice
Cordial.
Prepared Solely from MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE.
Purveyors by Special Appointment
to His Majesty the King.
Head Office : 49 PALL MALL, LONDON.
For All
Seasons
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
the t (But this is not the drink sermon
day.) Burnetti, the quick-change musician,
the Casselli Sisters and Tom Dawson are
the other encore earners. Dayman and
Franklin are suffering from the last nights’
trouble.
“THE GIRL IN
THE TRAIN”
AT HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
JACK CANNOT
(Cornelius Scrop)
tells some Junny
stories.
For the first time in Australia a dramatisa-
tion of “On Our Selection” (“Steele’s Rudd’s”
book) was produced, by the Bailey-Duggan-
Grant management, at Sydney Palace, on
Saturday night. It was an entire success,
and one more Australian play can be branded
as a sure money-maker. The dramatists had
some difficulty in piecing together the inci-
dents of life on the selection as “Steele Rudd”
saw it, also they found it necessary to pro-
vide a special murder, for the sake of a con-
certed plot; but the dovetailing has been
done well, and he general result may be
termed good. On the whole, too, the well-
known characters of the book are recognisable
without the aid of glasses, and the scenery is
typical of the bush. The old gag that Aus-
tralian plays worth producing cannot be ob-
tained,. sags at the knees, and, when “On Our
Selection” has been rounded off here and
there, as experience dictates, and some im-
provement made in the cast, the hoary old
remark will start down the track for the
gully where lie the derelict statements con-
cerning the inability of Australians to make
their own boots, blankets, tweeds, jams and
things generally, just as well as a cheap-
labored, half-starved country, white, black,
brown or piebald. There is more humor to
the square inch of “On Our Selection” than
to the square fathom of many allegedly hu-
morous plays which are hauled hitherward,
at more or less expense, from London or
Noo Yark. On Saturday night, an audience
which packed every corner of the house,
rocked with laughter throughout. A large
man, with a red face, leaned his head over
The Bulletin’s seat, and gained, “I
wouldn’t miss this for quids!” That was
the first occasion on which this has
agreed with a large man with a red face.
# * * *
The honors and whatever else is to be
dispensed amongst the players go to Bert
Bailey, as Dad; Ned Macdonald, as
Dave; and Laura Roberts, as Sarah.
Bailey is Dad. It is probably the best
thing he has done, and, if 't is ever improved
upon, The Bulletin will be glad to meet
the imnrover. Macdonald’s conception of
Dave Rudd, and Laura Roberts’s of Sarah
Rudd, also stand very high. But there are
one or tivo others in the cast who could be
considerably improved. Chief amongst them
is Mary Marlowe (the co.’s leading lady),
who plays Kate Rudd. Her dressing of
the part alone is absurd, and her reading of
it throws her right out of the atmosphere of
the piece. The fine character of Mum is
; n the not very oapable hands of Miss Alfreds
Bevin. Anybody who doubts this can go and
judge for himself until further notice.
‘l' •!'
All the concealed audacity of Ibsen’s
method was dragged into notice when Mel-
bourne University Dramatic Club produced
“A Doll’s House,” at the Athenaeum Hall for
one consecutive night. The Ibsenic method
is to present, under false conditions, people
who are true to nature in minor details of
their conduct, whilst covering false action
with a glaze of simple dialogue, the conver-
sation giving a tone of realism to a well-
ordered sequence of events. But even the
cleverest play-making demands practised art
in the play-acting. An amateurish perform-
ance emphasises the falsity of a plot because
the movements of individual characters lack
the air of spontaneity, and their talk has
little persuasive force. So the presentment
of something that could never be is for ever
striking the critic’s sense of impossibility.
What is the plot of “A Doll’s House”?
A sprightly, amiable Nora, egotistical
above the average woman, a resourceful
fibber and hypocrite, has been married
for eight years to an unmitigated prig
of a man, a self-righteous, damnably
uncharitable Wowser in commercial and
domestic creeds—yet his bright-witted little
wife hasn’t found him out. She loves to hear
him call her his “twittering lark,” “skipping
squirrel,” etc., and is pleased to act the
butterfly, whilst he lectures her on her “ex-
travagance,” though his constant considera-
tion of the cost of goods would inevitably
open his eyes to the fact that she is saving
money out of her allowance. Each remains
blind to the obvious for the drama’s sake.
Seven years ago Nora had secretly borrowed
£240 from a moneylender on a note of hand,
to defray the expense of taking dear Torwald
away for the benefit of his health. All those
years she has been paying off the debt with
usurious interest. Torwald is supposed not
to notice that she must be saving raonev. nor
has it occurred to him that the dying father
from whom she is supposed to have got the
£240 was hopelessly insolvent at the time.
The old man must have been very insolvent,
otherwise Nora would have received some-
thing from his estate —but this awkward
suggestion is carefully avoided by the drama-
tist. Anyhow, Nora got nothing from her
dad, living or dead. She merely forged his
worthless acceptance to the note of hand,
and lo! seven years after the transaction
the moneylender holds out a threat of having
her convicted and “disgraced” on the charge
of forging a dead father’s signature to save
her husband’s life. Nora instantly perceives
the absurdity of the threat, and realises that
the publication of the facts would advertise
her as a heroine; nevertheless she allows
herself to be bluffed out of her common-sense
by the fear that her lovely husband would
feel “humiliated” by the discovery of her
self-denying scheme. The idea that such a
Nora —or any other sort of Nora —would
worry herself into a state of insanity on
account'of such a Torwald is not enter-
tainable. Every affectionate, eight-years-
married wife and mother of a family laughs
at the story of “A Doll’s House.”
* * * *
Finally, when Torwald rails at his wife
like the narrow-minded hog of respectability
that he always has been, Nora, is so
astounded that, instead of committing sui-
cide for his sake, as she had intended, she
calls him a Strange Man, and leaves him in
sole charge of their offspring. She doesn’t
“THE NIGHT-SIDE OF LONDON,' AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S."
NELLIE
FERGUS-
SON,
a very
naughty
girl in a
nightie,
lures an
innocent
parson
into her
room.
even wait to hear the children call her
“Mo-o-ther” before she clears out into the
darkness. Then the insufferable Torwald
cries “The miracle of miracles!” which
means that his nature has been sufficiently
converted within five minutes to permit of
himself and his skipping squirrel arriving
in the dim future at “a marriage which shall
be a communion ” The uneasy acting of hi.
R. Mackay in the unthankful part of Tor-
wald made an unholy show of that character.
The audience saw that he was an impossible
egotist for a wife to have played lark-and-
squirrel with all the while that she was
bringing up a young family. Miss Hilda
Bull’s impersonation of Nora, though quite
superficial for the most part, was exceed-
ingly clever and personally charming.
Given a chance to play it until the mere
memorising of the lines had ceased to be a
task, Miss Bull might be as interesting a
Nora as the best of the professionals. One
Mr. Norris was rather impressively n> m-
dramatic as the unconvincing moneylender,
and another Mr. Norris was a very passable
Dr. Rank. But Rank, anyhow, is the most
misplaced egotisf in the piece. Nora speaks
of him as a charming conversationalist and
1 dear friend of the family, whereas he only
carries around the announcement that the
sins of his father have doomed him to an
jwful death. He talks of his doom and his
Jisease as other people talk of the weather,
and just when he has started to rot off this
mortal coil, the lugubrious medical Jeremiah
comes to mingle in the mazy dance with
Nora and her friends. He ought to have put
himself into quarantine before the curtain
rose.
Marshall Hall’s “Stella,” predicted a year
ago by the Melbourne press, came to pass 'at
Her Majesty’s last Saturday afternoon,
“under the direction of the Board of Man-
agement of the Lady Northcote Permanent
Orchestra Trust Fund,” a pretty long direc-
tion for an opera to take. “Stella,” although
only a, small size in grand operas, is a
sturdy, well-knit thing, full of evidence that
Marshal] Hall is a good musical craftsman,
and a fairly ingenious composer. All the
characteristics of successful grand opera are
in his work, except strains of sweetly origi-
nal melody, whereof even the mighty master
Wagner was sometimes guilty. A quintet in
the last scene is the most impressive of sev-
eral special items, but this has no distinctive
charm or touch of novelty. The opera for
the most part suggests a sterilised decoction
of Puccini and Gounod, when it isn’i rera-
.niscent of Wagner in a chaotic mood. It
.ndicates an intention to be humorous when
a parson enters (a parson being about the
funniest thing in life to Marshall Hall), but
it takes itself far too seriously on the trag-
edy side, and makes as much noise over the
decease of one utterly uninteresting young
woman as would serve to express the wreck
of the Titanic.
* * * *
The story of “Stella” might have been
written by a romantic school girl who never
remembers to say her prayers. The tenor is
a young doctor, proud of having plucked a
rich widow’s only cheeild from the under-
taker, and desirous, strange to say, of marry-
ing the trained nurse rather than the widow.
The nurse, it seems, had formerly gone
giddy with a predestined pietist, now a
stodgy domestic character and mayor of the
“township.” The vicar of the parish dis-
covers the bygone impropriety of nurse, with-
out learning the identity of her “betrayer,”
and wishes to denounce her to the local
Purity Society, which is distressing to both
the sinners aforesaid. The doctor prescribes
a bottle of deadly poisonous phvsie to com-
plete the cure of the sick cheeild, and when
he proposes marriage to nurse, she adds
agony of stummick to her distress of mind
by swallowing the medicine. This is very
like a trained nurse, The Bulletin doesn't
think. She dies amidst a prolonged out-
break of orchestra in the arms of the doctor,
who might have saved her with an emetic.
The orchestra on Saturday was often far
too loud for the warbles of It. Hawley, A.
G. Bartlemann and S. Horwood in the male
parts. It was a little kinder to Miss Mur-
doch, as the widow, and was usually out-
sung by Miss Rosina Buckman as Stella.
The prima-donna, indeed, did very well in
spite of her non-suicidal appearance. It
was not Miss Buckman’s fault that her prior
infatuation for the smug pietist, and her
foolish resolve to die on account of the long
lean doctor, placed her outside the pale of
reasonable sympathy. A chorus of Conser-
vatorium pupils appeared as incidental pic-
nickers, and sang a colorless waltz air some-
what indifferently. Perhaps the chorus will
do better next Saturday afternoon, when the
opera, which is neatly staged, will be re-
peated.
* * * *
The Amaranths, four sprightly maids,
whose costumes suggest the giddiness that is
Nice and the naughtiness that is Paris,
skipped on to the Opera House stage on Sat-
urday, and danced, kicked, jumped and som-
ersaulted their way into the collective heart
of so much of Melbourne as was present.
The performers waste no time with unneces-
sary posing, or the usual even more unneces-
sary preliminary song, but get down to busi-
ness with commendable promptitude A
couple more disciples of the strenuous life are
the Keeley Bros., ball-punchers. The climax
of a turn which appeals to the house as one
“sport” is reached when the two mighty
smiters, one lying on his back or the floor,
between them keep six punching balls going at
once. Monie Mine, of the bright personality,
is still singing the saucy songs the boys love
best, while Fanny Powers supplies the de-
mure ditties which occupy second place in
'heir affections. Several other people are as
before.
* * * *
At the King’s, the oppressively British
bellowdrama of “Tommy Atkins” will like a
soldier fall on Friday night, giving place to
“For the Term of His Natural” on Satur-
day. The drama last named can plead ex-
tenuating circumstances. For one thing, it
was the first Australian drama worth men-
tioning; moreover it continues to be the onlv
one in which human fl°sh figures on the bill
of fare, so to sneak. The present scribe has
forgotten for the moment whether Gabbett
used to eat the Moocher raw or roasted.
The Princess’s, seemingly, will turn “The
Night Side of London” to account for an-
other week.
ALEXANDER WATSON,
FROM LONDON,
Shakspearian Scholar,
etc., at present show-
ing at Melbourne
Athenaum.
As for “Kismet,” at Melbourne Iloyal, its
weeks are unnumbered, but this is the fifth
of them, anyhow. The same remarks apply
to “The Girl in the Train,” at Her Maj-
esty’s. Nothing of new note has happened
to the Girl except one or two absences of
Florence Young. The vacancy on those occa-
sions was elegantly filled by Dorothy Brun-
ton, a verv nice girl with a pretty manner of
playing the part.
Those of the modern Australian drama and
its godfather. William Moore, as dwell in
and around Melbourne, are respectfully re-
minded that three new plays and other
things, including coffee and cigarettes, will
be submitted to an enthusiastic assemblage at
the Turn Verein Hall next Wednesday.
* =f= *
The hordes that browsed on the pictorial
produce at West’s, Melbourne, last week, got
a lot of educational matter to uplift their
minds. First, there was “Animal Life in
Seaweed,” a nerve-wracking photo of sub-
marine jim-jams. An item on various head-
dresses showed how female head upholstery
has been sometimes an outrage and often a
farce. Followed a rechauffe" of the Cadou-
dal conspiracy against N. Bonaparte, with
some snapshots of Switzerland sport® scam-
pering along in close attendance. Topical
information was further suplied in Bathe’s
English and Australasian Gazettes, while, of
the two dramas screened, “The Oath of His
Office” gave the necessary leaven of fight and
sensation.
* * * *
Of last week’s offerings at the P’ran Lyric
(Vic.), “Under Burning Skies” stirred the
most emotion. It was a yarn of a profes-
sional beer-lifter, who ultimately embraced
the person he had threatened to slay
with his strong, beer-lifting hand, thus show-
ing that the spirit of Christian forgiveness
is not extinct. A photo play of uncommon
plot was “Alias Billy Sargent,” which, how-
ever, had a tendency to be puzzling in its
most sensational moments. Two scenic Gems
gave some hundreds of yards of the River
Dart (England), and the Bosphorus (Tur-
key).
* s|: * *
Alexander Watson, the monologuist who
delivers potted Shakspearian plays and
Dickens stories, faced his first Australian
audience at the Athemeum Hall (Melb.)
last Saturday, and justified his lonely pres-
ence on the platform for more than two
hours. Without pretending to be a vocal
gymnast and versatile character imperson-
ator, the man in the dress-suit grips the situ-
ation whilst he is doing duty for half a
dozen people in one scene. He has a fine,
strong voice, a quaintly uncommon face that
can smile like a horse on occasion, and a
full knowledge of what is best omitted in the
recitation of a long play. His potted
“Twelfth Night” was a bright entertain-
ment. with only- one short pause in it. Wat-
son doesn’t leave the platform for a drink
during his pause. He just sits down and
notices how the audience is feeling towards
him, and when the moment seems favorable,
he resumes business. He scored heavily with
the kitchen scene of “Twelfth Night,” and
the scenes where Malvolio is fooled by the
letter. Nor did he ever slump in pubfic esti-
mation. His dialogue between Countess
Olivia and the Viola whom she takes to be a
man was as good in its way as the word pic-
tures of Toby Belch pulling Sir Andrew’s
leg. To-night (Thursday) the programme
is “Nicholas Nickleby,” for to-morrow it is
Shakspeare Selections, and for the rest of
the short season vide the advt.
Dear Bulletin, —As your contributor to “Poverty
Point” column still persists in his or her statement
that the snake used in “Kismet” on the first night
was “obviously a stuffed accessory,” I wish, a la
Touchstone, to give him or her the lie direct.
Moreover, I will hand over the total receipts of
“Kismet” for every night on which he or she can
prove the live snake did not appear.—l am, yours
tru ly» Oscar Asche.
[The letter is brief and to the point. The printed
heading reads; “AUSTRALASIAN TOUR, 1912-1913.
Under the direction of J. C. Williamson, Limited,
with which is incorporated Clarke and Meynell,
Jemited. A.B.C. Code, Fifth Edition. Cable Ad-
dress, ‘Stofel, Melbourne/ General Manager (for
Oscar Asche and Lily Brayton), B. A. Meyer.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON. London
Representative, CARL F. LEYEL, 35 Craven-street,
Strand, W.C.” And it seems a great deal of crust
in the way of headline for a very small amount of
meat in the way of contradiction of the snake item. 1
“Myee”: I had never seen Ada Ward act, and I
had never heard her lecture, “Can an Actress be a
Christian?” So I went to the Town Hall on Satur-
day night, and after Mr. Truman finished “The Poet
and Peasaht” on the grand organ, the red rag rolled
up, and I saw a middle-aged, very tall and rather
bony lady, wearing a black frock and much golden-
brown hair, standing on the platform. After making
her bow, she gave us what she called her justification
for leaving the mission-field for the stage. She began
with the story of her life, and, according to it, Ada
was born very young. She was educated in a con-
vent, with a view to being a governess, and the nuns
found her a situation as superintendent, to two little
girls. She didn’t like the work, so she answered an
advertisement for “a tall, handsome lady to play a
small part,” and was engaged at 15s. per week. Later
she got £5, then £l5, and at last £5O per week.
Then she made a disastrous marriage—wedded a roue,
who expected her to keep him. She was very un-
happy, arid was divorced within one year. This
was before she was aged 16 years. (There is no
doubt that Miss Ward made an early start.) Her
second husband died suddenly in South Africa, and
she was a very lonely, unhappy woman. She was
converted at Portsmouth. She went to a Salvation
Army meeting with the lass with whom she lodged,
and prayed for the first time in her life. (This is
rather extraordinary, considering she had just told
us that she had been educated in a convent. In
most convents that I’ve heard of, there is quite a lot
of praying.) Apparently, the life of an evangelist
did not suit Miss Ada Ward, for she complained that
some of the houses of the Salvation people where she
was a guest were far from luxurious, and they usually
gave her the worst accommodation. When it was
not in the basement it was in the garret, and when
she asked for something to eat she was always given
cold meat, which was most repulsive. She was left
out of a garden party on one occasion as a special
mark of disfavor, the hostess ex-
cusing herself on the ground that
she could not invite her because
she had been an actress. Parsons’
wives did not make her acquain-
tance for the same reason. When
she came to Australia to lecture
for the Salvation Army she re-
ceived £l5 per week, which she considered not
enough, as the Army worked her very hard, and made
quite a lot of money. At Ballarat she was given a
cheque of £5O for her mission, and when she asked
for more the committee sent the remainder to the hos-
pital, and took no notice of her written appeal.
Parson Taylor, of the Sydney Lyceum, answered her
application for work, by saying that he had been a
minister for 40 years, and he had never heard of such
ridiculous terms as hers. So she went to Dill
Macky, who was holidaying up the Mountains, and
had left no one to receive her. A daily paper re-
porter helped her to find lodgings, and she deter-
mined to give up mission work and return to her old
happy life on the stage. After that she gave us the
death-bed scene of little Willie, letting down all her
back hair to emphasise her grief; and, later, the
curse-scene from “Leah the Forsaken.” And I left
a little sorry for Ada, who takes herself very seriously
indeed.
(For “Poverty Point ” see page 44.)


A Guinea Rug of Value 1
Our Special Guinea Rugs have earned a splendid reputation for
their excellence of value, smartness and warmth. This Season we
found it impossible to improve the quality of the Wool or the
Work, so we improved the Designs. These have been woven from
the finest and softest Australian Wool, in exact replica of the
most expensive Rugs, in rich, warm colors that are exceptionally
attractive and serviceable. Each rug weighs 51b., and measures
SO x 60 inches, and is a warm, ample Rug for Travelling or Home
Use. In McKenzie, Forbes, 42nd and Murray Tartans, Plain Green, re-
versed with Brown Check, and Brown and Green Grounds, reversed
with Self Checks.
Price
Carriage paid throughout Australasia and the Pacific Isles.
We have a special Color Circular of this Rug that we would like
to send you. Will you forward your name and address? We will
forward it immediately, post free.
David Jones Ltd.
(Opp. G.p.0.)
SYDNEY.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
They enable your Car to do better work.
Vacuum Gargoyl
Mobiloils
are free from Animal or Vegetable Compounds.
They ensure freedom from frictional wear, and
lengthen the life of the car. Ask for Pamphlet.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.,
New Zealand Chambers, George Street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
AND ONE MIGHT QUITE BELIEVE IT.
WQKKxw BAREYRGWE (actor): “Believe me,
sir-r-rah, had I taken to the vaudeville
stage instead of that of the drama my for-
tune might have been made thricefold as a
lifter of heavy weights. Well, never mind.
Let’s sink all bygones !”
“Mayne Stay” : Modern steamers are not
being made heavier in scantling and plating
in proportion to their greatly increased size.
In the ’7o’s of last century, when the Arizona
had the blue ribbon of the Atlantic, it did
the Titanic collision act up to a certain
point, but there wasn’t a rivet started 40ft.
abaft the stem. It made port on its for’ard
bulkhead. Of course, it wasn’t as heavy as
the late steam suicide by a lot, but it was
making within three knots of the same speed.
Builders nowadays have a craze for lightness,
and consequent cheapness, and Lloyd’s rules
allow them too much latitude in that direc-
tion. It is up to the underwriters—who
really command the situation —to demand
greater strength and the abandonment of
dangerous runs like the Northern Atlantic
passage. It is just pure luck that the big
smash on that track has been so long de-
layed, though ice in April is most unusual.
By the same token, if the Australian Govern-
ment doesn’t hurry up with the new lights,
especially on the Queensland coast, some of
our coasters will be trying conclusions with
a stray island, which is harder even than an
iceberg, though it is better to get on to after
the collision, not being so cold to the feet,
and having occasional vegetables on it.
Half the world doesn’t know how the
other half drowns and what fish eat it, and
it is only when an outsize catastrophe like
that of the Titanic hapnens along that »>eonle
begin to realise the toll of the sea. Up-to-
date statistics on the subject are hard to get,
but, according to Haydn’s Bible of Dates,
the number of British merchant vessels to-
tally lost at sea between 1875 and 1907, in-
clusive, was 17,051, and the souls that per-
ished were 48,131, equal to a yearly average
of 533 shins and 1192 people. The worst
year was 1881, when 973 ships were drowned,
taking with them 3165 human beings. And
that represents the havoc in the British Mer-
cantile Marine only. t
A correspondent supplies a new view of
the case:—
The bitterness of Americans re the Titanic horror
is now fullv accounted for. Captain Smith and J. B.
Ismay knew that the ship was bound to sink as soon
as the builders’ representative, Andrews, had com-
pleted a hasty examination of its damages, 20 minutes
after it bumped the iceberg. But they didn’t whis-
per the Yankee millionaires and their influential
compatriots. They only gave the “tip” to the British
toffs aboard, who all got away, seemingly—men and
women—before Ismay gave himself the tip. Poor old
W. T. Stead, perhaps, was left out in the cold. No-
body told him that the vessel had only a short time
to remain afloat. Stead suffered for his constitutional
lack of Himperial Sentiment. But, apparently, it has
all been made up to him, and more. Mrs. Charles
Bright, of Sydney, who runs the Harbinger of Light
(not the Bingy of Light, though the name sounds
rather like it), has received a ghostly message, from
which it appears that the Other Side is far, far better
than the old man ever pictured. The fact that this
message came through the source it did suggests that
Stead’s own personal spook,. Julia, has been dis-
mantled, and possibly boiled down.
Mr * * *
From “Lady Arabella” :
The daily press bounded joyously forth the other
morning with the latest Titanic item. Some of the
papers headed it, “Director’s Chivalry.” It appears
that while the broken monster was sinking like a
cow on the face of the great waters, Mr. Ismay had
twice called for women to fill a lifeboat. He was
short of women, and there wasn’t time to grow any
more. At last something approached in skirts, and
faltered, “I —I am only a stewardess.” Then did
Bruce Ismay rise to the occasion and cast conven-
tions to the wind. In simple, but imperishable
words, he said: “Never mind ; you are a woman. . . .
Get in!” This is a lesson that should not be lost
upon the lower orders. A less educated gentleman
might have explained that a stewardess was a hen
antelope. A stricter and more callous disciplinarian
might have pointed the way to the cattle gangway.
After all, nobody has any right to complain of Ismay.
He may be a good enough democrat for all his wealth,
and perhaps, if he had had time, he would have told
the tottering female not to abase herself, but to rise
to the level of her womanhood, and live to be a
vigorous Suffragette, and break the windows of Buck-
ingham Palace for the honor of her sex. But the
daily papers make me tired. So, for that matter,
does the stewardess.
One of the most “seemly”—to use a Wow-
serious expression—outcomes of the Titanic
hysteria—was the London Chronicle's pro-
posal to raise a memorial to the engineers
of the broken vessel. The engineers, in
these modern cases of marine disaster, are
the fellows who do their good work unseen
by passengers, and don’t live to find it fame.
As soon as the news of the Titanic horror
came to hand it was generally surmised that
“none of the engineers escaped.” And the
general surmise was correct. The rare oc-
casional Guggenheim elects to “die like a
gentleman” in the limelight, whilst the com-
monplace engineer merely dies like a Scotch-
man, which he usually is. If the Chronicle
fund provides a cheap and durable memorial
to the men who stayed below, also a large
balance of cash for the children of the mar-
ried ones, it will establish an excellent pre-
cedent. As for the Titanic Relief Fund, of
£350,000, or thereabouts, it is the product
of hysteria, and quite out of proportion to
the relief fund which eventuates when a few
fishing smacks are lost.
“K. 0.”: Masked burglars and wreck
shocks have been so numerous of late that
the language and “scenes” of the suburban
councils have been crowded out of the papers ;
consequently the superficial observer con-
cludes that the lion-like mayor nowadays
sits down with the plain lamb councillor,
QUITE HOPELESS.
S HE: “So you went to the phrenologist. What did he tell you?"
HE: “Oh, he was an awful fool. He just coughed and smiled, then gave me back my money."
and that all flows as gaily as the torrent of
a marriage bell. Not so. The other even-
ing I listened to a spirited account of how
the mayor of our suburb had, on the previous
night, fought on the footpath with another
maddened gentleman. The murky conflict,
if I remember rightly, was over a question
of sanitarv rates—one of those out-of-the-
way subjects which merely irritate the
average citizen. A curious point about most
municipal affairs is that they cannot be
settled satisfactorily unless one gentleman
tries to throw another gentleman into the
gutter.
Mary Mutton has just given the world an
example of perfect citizenship. at-
tended at the Central Police Court, Svdney,
last week, in consequence of having taken a
male fellow-lodger’s trousers to the pawn-
shop without his consent. Quoth Miss Mut-
ton : “I’m guilty; what’s the fine?” That
was good civics. It showed a sense of social
order. Mary is a shining light, and if her
radiance was. copied by all persons (includ-
ing corporations! half the expense of ad-
ministering the law would disappear. Law
points, appeals, and prosecutions for con-
tempt would vanish. It is hereby moved
that Mary Mutton be put on the directorate
of the Colonial Gas Bank and Mortagage Co.
* * * *
The crew of s.s. Bullara, just flung into
Fremantle after euchreing God Almighty’s
storm and bluffing the eternal sea, have
broken all traditions. If they had been
wicked buccaneers of the novelette type, they
would have shouted ribald blasphemy when
wreck seemed imminent. As eleventh-hour
Christians, they should have sung a hymn.
They did neither. But having to make some
noise for distraction’s sake, they trolled out,
“I wonder who’s kissing her now?” Prob-
ably, if there had been a song, “I wonder
who’ll kiss her after we’ve gone,” that would
have better expressed their feelings. And
Death lifted his hand off them, being too
fine an artist to let the world lose a story
like that.
LOVE'S TRIUMPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mrs. Marvin, who was travelling: on her honeymoon,
says that as her husband placed her in the lifeboat,
he exclaimed, “You go, I will stay.” When the boat
was pushed clear of the Titanic lie threw her a kiss,
and that was the last she saw of him. —An incident of
the Titanic wreck.
Could Bonaparte or Drake or Wellington,
Knight, king or emperor,
Whom History’s red tapers shine upon—
Could they have spoken more?
A simple speech, behind a simple deed,
There in the midst of death ;
Yet one more word, for stricken ears to heed,
Were only wasted breath.
The drums shall crash when war is on the earth ;
New flags shall be unfurl’d;
Old throes shall come to give new orders birth
Across the whole wide world.
Brave eyes shall look across red reeling hells
When foes press on to foes—
But shall there be in all their chronicles
More noble words than those?
•
A kiss blown out across the shrieking sea—
A spindrift-salted kiss;
Yet did they bear, the winds of Arcady,
More magic freight than this?
Its sweets, wave-wafted, and with danger fraught,
Still linger on her lips—
Ah, white-gowned Death in ambuscade, you brought
Not Love’s but Life’s eclipse.
“You go.” That were indeed a hero’s speech,
Beneath those northern skies.
And “I will stay.” Could ever martyr preach
More splendid sacrifice?
Let others boast of mythologic acts
In Carthage and Cathay;
My heroes’ deeds are living, loving facts
To-day—and yesterday.
My heroes’ deeds are simple actions, done <
With eyes unfixed on Fame,
Beneath the prosy twentieth century sun,
Or northern lights aflame.
Ah! Love you live in strongholds of the heart,
To prove, by word and deed,
That you arc still a heritage apart
From twentieth century greed.
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.
“BALD PREFERRED!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A widow, advertising for another mate in the Age
matrimonial columns the other day, specified “Bald
preferred. The balder the better.’’
In the Press, the gossips say,
Hairy men have had their day
With the gentle and the lovely ;
’Tis averred
That the modern widders state
When they want a manly mate,
“Hang the hyacinthine top-knot—
Bald preferred!”
What a darling she must be
Who with loving eye could see
Underneath that glossy cranium
Such a catch!
Who could feel “His heart is true,
Though his locks are scant and few!”
And could say she sought the man and
Not the thatch.
And not only does she sigh
For a hairless lover nigh,
But “The balder he the better!”
Doth she add;
Though his roof be smooth and bare
As a bowl of chinaware,
Not a day will she regret it—
She’ll be glad!
What a tribute doth she give
To the lives that buffers live
Who have parted with the lovelocks
Of their prime;
Let us quote her to the letter,
How she loves ’em always better
When their youthful ardors mellow
Under Time.
And, if she should advertise,
Who would disillusionise
Such a trusting little bosom
Passion-stirred ?
And in case she should succeed,
May she meet, in very deed,
Such a mate as fits her fancy—
Bald Preferred!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Rich Women need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
All Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
What’s “
put
in
the
Soap
comes
out
in
the
clothes.
No. 57.
Guaranteed under
the " Pure Food Act. 1908,"
by Lever Brothers Limited,
Sydney. N.S.W,
No. 57.
V
STANDS ALONE.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
ABSOLUTELY THE FINEST
LAGER BREWED.
FOR DARK LAGER
NACKERBRAU
IS THE BRAND.
A Gentleman's Hat.
An especially smart hat, in style such as will re-
ceive instant favor, suited alike to dry and moist
days of the cooler season of the year.
It is an Alpine Soft Felt Hat, negligee shape, has
turned-over edge to a 2iin. brim, and contrasting
bands 2in. wide.
The colors are various—Light Slate, Light and
Dark Fawn, Mid and Dark Green.
This hat conforms at once to the shape
of the head, and so immediately comfort-
able in wear. We recommend it with
confidence.
Price 13J 6
Posted 9d. extra
Inter-State, 1/3
When ordering, kindly state color and
size required.
Our full Catalogue of Men’s Wear sent
on request.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
PEAPES <a CO. LTD.
Men's
Outfitters,’'
309-311 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
“Jean Sibi” discourses ou Art: —
The Vic. artists, or, at any rate, some of them,
are giving an autumn show at their premises, in
East Melbourne. For the most part, alack, the
Somewhat Ordinary nudges the Extremely Indifferent,
and tries to frown the Utterly Rotten off the walls.
Still, there are instances where three faint cheers are
called for. For example, the pastels of Miss Cumbrae
Stewart are works of skill, likewise similar produc-
tions by Miss Dora Wilson. The Spanish portrait
of Bernard Hall suggests that that exceptional artist
has exhausted his set of shrieky backgrounds, and has
started to paint his heads with milder surroundings.
Max Meldrum’s study of a nipper in a pensive atti-
tude is quite attractive, without any reservations;
while the miniature sketch of J. Ford Paterson sets
one wondering how small must a canvas be before
it ceases to be a picture and becomes a puzzle.
Leslie Wilkie is sullenly reproved for displaying a
composition sketch that leaves the writer nothing to
cavil at; and Leslie’s slender acquaintance, Thomas
Carter, hangs a vision of a church that demonstrates
the Nonconformist strain in the artist’s character.
Miss Ball puts in a little gold frame two or three
white rabbits that were happier in a pie. There
are some very passable effusions from the brushes of
A. Colquhoun, H. N. Anderson, Delafield Cook and
others, and there is a set of Blamire Youngisms that
dominates the show. The items only depict bits of
mountain and tree, but in their delicacy they imply
that Blamire has developed an unsuspected passion
for Hokusai, Yeisen or some other dead Jap. At
any rate, they recall those incomparable Nipponese
prints which impress you like a wonderful somer-
sault, or some great trick at billiards.
OCULAR PROOF.
SHOPWALKER : “It is my painful duly,
madam, to ask if you have three silk
blouses concealed about your person? ”
SUSPECTED SHOPLIFTER : “Now, do I look as
if I had?”
The purchase of the painting by Martino,
the King’s marine painter, for the Common-
wealth Houses of Parliament is a very doubt-
ful bargain. The subject is Sydney Harbor,
at the time of the Federation festivities, but
it is just as like Cowes as it is Sydney Har-
bor. It entirely lacks any artistic or decora-
tive merit, and is on the same level of art as
a colored photograph. Five hundred pounds
is the price to be paid for this canvas, which
would not fetch more than £5O in the open
market. Chevalier Martino is a favorite of
kings, but is little admired among good judges
of painting, and it would be interesting to
learn how the royal favorite obtained the
commission. There seems to have been no
good reason for ignoring Australian artists
in the matter, if it was necessary to have
the picture painted in England, Arthur
Streeton, who knows Sydney Harbor as few
do, and is a true artist, was on the spot.
Again the Australian inventor shows that
the brain crop is good in this country. For
nearly two years the Victorian railway
authorities have been testing an automatic
signal controller, the invention of a Vic-
torian electrical engineer, on what is pro-
bably the most exacting stretch of line in
Australia —from Caulfield to Melbourne, in-
cluding Flinders-street and Spencer-street
yards—and have now decided that the in-
vention meets all requirements. By using
the rails to complete the circuit, the new
idea ensures that an engine, on entering a
section, automatically places the signals be-
fore and behind it at “danger." Of course,
even this device won’t cope with the rare
engine-driver who runs against a signal;
nothing but an automatic strangler will do
that. But it does all that mere mechanism
can do.
* * * *
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Seventy-one years ago, on May 3, 1841, Maoriland
shook off the shackles of N.S.W., and started on a
career of its own. Captain Hobson, after whom the
bay in Port Phillip is named, was the first Governor,
and on him was cast the difficult job of deciding
claims to disputed lands. One of the largest claim-
ants was William Charles Wentworth, who, for the
proverbial “song,” purchased nearly half of the
South Island from five petty chiefs, or professed to
have done so. Governor Gipps sat on Wentworth’s
claim at the start, and the Commissioner of Claims
wiped it completely off the slate. The first “Resi-
dent,” as the officer representing the Government
was called, was a Sydney man, Busby. His name is
still remembered in connection with “Busby’s bore,”
which brought water from Botany swamps to Sydney.
He went to the Bay of Islands in 1833. His house,
of wood, is standing there still, after nearly 80 years
of storm and stress. Parson Marsden preached his
first sermon to the Maoris on Christmas Day, 1814.
If some of the would-
be immigrants who write
to the State departments
for information ever
reach Australia, it will
get a varied selection.
One intending citizen
lately wrote to the Gov-
ernment from a south-
ern American State, say-
ing he was a barber, and
inquiring if there was
any demand for that class
of professional gentleman.
He also said he possessed
original ideas on the set-
ting of traps for dingoes,
and would be happy to
place them at the coun-
try’s service. He fur-
ther understood that Australia had
never rejoiced in the possession of
that blessed thing, a brass band,
and he would just love to bring
one. This is the place where the
A.N.A. has been running band com-
petitions for years. Another, with
equally spacious notions of the
Commonwealth, wished to know
to what depth it was necessary to
sink a shaft to find water in Aus-
tralia. The poor man had evi-
dently been reading about Yass-
berra. Another wanted to know if
we grew cows here. He had heard
that the grass was brown, and
feared we raised a special brand of
animal that knew nothing of grass
of the usual hue. It is this sort of
thing that turns the officers’ hair
grey and makes them wish they
wei-e in the Lands Department or
on the Governor-General’s staff.
“Melb.” : The police of Victoria are mak-
ing an effort to obtain an increase of their
wretched wages, which begin at Gs. 6d. a
day, and rise very gently. The N.S.W.
cops and the Victorian bobbies are two of
the most wretchedly-paid institutions on
this continent, and the two sweating Gov-
ernments are beginning to feel the conse-
quences. The constable was badly paid some
years ago. Now that everything has gone
up except his wages, his billet has become
misei-able. Vic. Chief Commissioner O’Cal-
laghan says he urgently wants 100 more
men, and will soon want 200. If he had 500
more the force would be none too strong.
But when he offers no pensions, very serious
risks, and less pay than an odd-jobber, O’Cal-
laghan can’t even keep up the present
strength of the force. Dwarfs, stunted
louts, drunkards, weeds and occasional
thieves are offering more or less, but the
kind of men required are not to be had at
the price.
Sometimes Gentleman One has luck. The
other day Vic. Judge Moule was considering
the affairs of a Bendigo (Vic.) insolvent,
when he struck something that made him
shudder. According to the evidence of Ed-
ward James Vincent Ni Gan —which is an
amalgamated sort of name, anyhow—solici-
tor, who had prepared insolvent’s schedule,
that person’s liabilities were £142 7s. 9d.
and his assets 10s., and the cause of his in-
solvency was an adverse judgment for
£142 7s. 9d., being damages, etc., for breach
SHE KNEW.
HE: “ Why are you so sure that she will open
it when you've addressed it to her husband?"
SHE: “ I've marked ‘ private' on the envelope."
of promise to marry a lady, who was the sole
creditor. Insolvent had just before filing his
schedule dissolved partnership, and had re-
ceived a pro. note for £l2O as his share of
the partnership, which £l2O was subse-
quently handed to the witness, Ni Gan, fox-
work done. Judge Moule here perceived
something amiss. “It strikes me,” he said,
“as an absolute scandal. The, witness Ni
Gan did a twopenny-halfpenny bit of work,
and got £l2O for it —at a stage when an
order had been obtained against insolvent.. -
I)o you not consider, Mr. Ni Gan, that you
owe the insolvent or the estate something?”
Ni Gan said he didn’t. Judge Moule then
adjourned the case to allow Mr. Ni Gan to
produce his books, which showed only £l9
12s. Bd. worth of work done, for which he
got £l2O. Mr. Moule at this stage became
overwrought with emotion that a legal bro-
ther could so far forget himself; whereupon
Mr. Ni Gan informed him that he would like
to consult counsel, being only a witness in
the case, and so unable to argue. Where-
upon Mr. Moule spoke: “Quite so. I hope
you will consult counsel for your own sake
and the sake of the profession. On the
first blush, these proceedings smack of fraud,
and I am sure you would not be tainted with
anything of that description. I will adjourn
this summons, but it will not be brought up
again unless it is necessary." So the legal
gentleman has a chance to fix things up and
have no more said about the first blush
which struck his Honor so unfavorably. But
it isn’t everybody who gets a chance like
that.
Last Saturday, in Sydney, the unprotected
male was intercepted and held up at a thou-
sand street corners by strange females of
various colors, who showed their tusks at
him and rattled wooden boxes in his face, as
a sign for him to lay something in them. On
the same day, the Daily Telegraph con-
tained a scientific article on fishes, in which
this sentence occurred :
In the season of courtship the male stickleback,
when he has built his nest and is inviting female
sticklebacks to lay an egg or two in it, becomes
bright red on the belly and about the eyes by the
engorgement of the blood-vessels, and presents a very
striking—and to sticklebacks an attractive —appear-
ance, whilst the female remains dull as before.
This, of course, has no direct connection
with the subject of Hospital Saturday ; but
it was a happy thought of the D.T. to print
it on that day. In this case, it was the fe-
males who did the inviting, and became
bright red ; they also “remained dull as be-
fore,” and refused to understand that they
were a nuisance and a poor substitute for
State aid. Premier McGowen and codfish
of his way of thinking might have found
them attractive ; but the plain schnapper with
a job to attend to, and no superfluous time
on his fins, could not stop to admire the dull
female stickleback while she became bright
red. There was too many of her, and, any-
how, her redness was not as brilliant as that
of a fire brigade waggon.
“Lay Brother”: In case The Bulletin
should need an assistant for the Religious
Editor, or something of the sort, I send this
advertisement from the S. M. Herald of
May 2
A CONSECRATED Christian man, with teaching
and preaching ability, seeks Employment in religious
wk., miss., 'evangelistic, colporteur. Consecrated,
Hrld.
Perchance the printers could find an open-
ing for a consecrated devil?
“Vulcan”: Bishop Crossley,
of Auckland (M.L.), has evolved
a good scheme to meet the case
of the citizen whose principles,
real or alleged, forbid him to
learn how to defend his coun-
try. The Bishop’s idea is that
for every day of military train-
ing the possessor of conscienti-
ous scruples loses, he should be
required to do some job (road-
making, tree-felling, working in
the public gardens, or what
not) for the benefit of the citi-
zens who shoulder the duty of
defending him. The stern en-
forcement of this rule might do
a lot to exorcise the anti-mili-
tarist scruples of the conscienti-
ous ones. The famous Jowetf,
of Oxford, handled a position
of this sort with much satisfac-
tion to himself years ago. An
undergraduate, with a distaste
for getting up to attend chapel,
discovered atheistic leanings,
and explained to Jowett that
having no religious beliefs of
any sort, he had conscientious
scruples about entering a place
of worship. “Sir,” said Jowett,
blandly, “either you acquire
some form of religious belief
within 24 hours or you leave
the Universi ty”—and the
Christian religion got a new
convert on the spot.
The masked and armed person is rapidly
becoming an object for sympathy and a col-
lection list. Last week he was chased by an
angry Sydney barmaid whose drinkery he
had dared to invade in his usual futile and
dramatic fashion. Next week, if not taken
under police protection, he will probably be
reported as flying for his life from an infuri-
ated curate whose collection he has coveted.
Poor hunted thing! Why, the female with
the world against her has a better time, if
she knows where to look for it.
•* * * *
Adelaide Register had a 1 visit from an
escaped lunatic-asylum patient in the small
hours of one night last week. He was dressed
in blankets, with some torn strips serving as
sandals, but seemed as rational as the sub-
editor —to whom he had brought in some
specially fine samples of wheat only a few
days before; for he had been confined at
Parkside only three days, and is a well-to-do
farmer. Now there are to be two inquiries;
one as to who got the agriculturist locked
up ; the other as to how an inmate can get
out whenever he feels like it. Apparently
this one (like Mark Twain’s prisoner after
20 years’ languishing in a dungeon) “had a
happy thought. He opened the door” —the
window in this case—“and walked out.”
HOSPITAL SATURDAY IN THE
SOUTH SEAS.
MONKEY: “So ’elp me bob , me missus went
through my breeches Friday night an' took
me last cocoanut."
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
che proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30' to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
BALLADE OF UNMENTIONABLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Albert Edward Holland, a groom, has lost his
trousers. — Thrilling burglary item, in daily yager.
Things have come to a pretty pass!
Crime draws pupils, and Sin recruits!
Women go shattering window-glass,
Workers are fostering strike disputes,
Police are murdered, ’mid cheerful hoots,
Chows loot gold of the mission Wowsers,
And —crowning crime of the lot —the Brutes 1 —
A man named Albert has Lost His Trousers.
Go voice it forth, and with lungs of brass!
The whole world plucks of the Devil’s fruits,
Ruined churches are choked with grass,
Sin stalks gaily in stolen boots?
Honor’s a corpse; and the Virtues mutes:
Our Moral Fabric —I know not how, sirs—
Totters and sways to its deepest roots! !
A man named Albert has Lost Ilis Trousers.
Burglars !• —and ye whom the name pollutes !
Thieves, Snowdroppers and Backyard-browsers!
110, well ye may swagger in ill-gained suits —-
A man named, Albert has Lost Ilis Trousers!!
VICTORIA.
SIR RUPERT GARGOYLE.


Mr. George Reid contributes an article to
the "Financial Times,” dealing with Aus-
tralia's progress during the post 10 s ears -
Another article, .contributed by the respectiie
Agcnts-General, deals with the prosperity and
progress of New South Wales, Victoria,
Queensland and Westralia.
i \]e 3»nd
Rarrdr m&er &>'<* i
V X yo^>
fellows uoould
dry ofc? leave me 'to
' «
jplouo ‘iWe • dt*’ •
. S 1 TO
~The K „ llgh ' < ? ay ’ Vh ° touc '>ort°„L ,r !! erS ,n ,OUr
"-<.p^w'; e ':r77 or
«>ut f„ r bu,Ji <‘s is mos * i,' a " ns <>y
1 'eel SU r e j,.„ I Presenc ® °f a coas /f^ t,oaa ble,
Omes. ’ '* (o “ breach of » h We * Vo «M,
' tbe Peace at
DIVO RCE COURT ■ |
PRESENT SESSION PERFORMANCE PROCEEDING
qc CASES __ I.
-4qe "Time
[J^boUXi'o‘7.
On the motion of the Major (Councillor
H- A. A. Embling), seconded by Councillor
Naylor, the Prahran Council last night ad-
journed for a quarter of an hour, as a mark
of respect to the memory of those who lost
their lives by the foundering of the Titanic,
fAa.y'or' : Owe mor<2 rniriole .gentlemert,
and our' fesfecX "to -f+7e Dead
will have been
mar'ked.
ff|glbooi'rtitc - ("fo
♦-ftaTs . Oof |
people 4es~ HtfaT slab- j
•Sided appear*ance -ftroofM
packed »r 7 Jj
VdcaXte galleries. A
Quite a formidable number of divoyce cases
is set down fjftr hearing at the sittings which
commence to-day. Including one which is to
be heard on the 15th inst., before a judge and
a jury of 12, there are_-S8 already listed, and
more may be added before the month closes.
Cupid : V\Wer<s do
X s £*p »r 7?
'tWe
A passenger whb' has travelled by one
of the country mixed trains drew atten-
tion in yesterday’s v issue of “The Age”
to the fact 'that the Railway De-
portment is' in the habit of running trucks
containing pigs ahead of the compartments
reserved for passengers. This, he said, was
very objectionable. The department freely
admits that it does include trucks of pigs in
mixed trains. \
:
> "Were , “take
Hfre corse
Irtsidle anct
Have
a *
if Sr
*- <s* A?
J* s:
v g f
// /
/ff/A* '
/&*//
AvY//
**i/;/
? o
’>/
-fWe
is -ttoatf" food is
puf” * iifH)
a^arT'-for"
su>«r7e .
sneering
, are yoo ? "
Distressed. Pulpit : O
Miter O'Malley Xm
noT~ laughing
sneering , T'm
<^g
GHOULS AND SUNDRIES.


NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Engagement Rings
Are Usually Only Bought Once,
but Worn for a Lifetime.
10 Selected Diamonds,
set in Platinum and
5 Blue White Dia-
monds, set in Plati-
num Carved Mount
and 18ct. Gold Shank,
£22/10/-
Refinement, Elegance, Superiority can be expressed very palpably in a rins and its
characteristics. See our ring productions in Fine Gold with Platinum Settings
with special Blue-White Diamonds. They are a revelation of perfection. The
prices, too, are low, as we are the actual manufacturers.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
* PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
‘‘Kobbi”: Having now fully recovered
from the shook after reading “Jinton’s” statement
(B. 11/4/’l2) that a peg he had .driven into a bottle-
tree a good many years ago had shifted up a yard,
I take the opportunity to say that, were it not an
undignified way of contradicting a man, I’d call him
a plumber. Bottle-trees spend most of their time
growing the same way as George Reid does. Ten
years ago I cut my name on the trunk of one of
the vegetables at Gracemere (Q.), and when I visited
it the other day, after “Jinton’s” tale burst upon
me, I found the moniker at the original altitude, but
its girth had increased out of all recognition. The
letter D, which, when cut originally, was about 3in.
across, had lengthened to fully 14in., and a similar
thing had happened to a score of other noble names
which had been bestowed upon the same bottle-oh.
“Jinton” need not take my word for it. He can
come up any time he likes and look for himself.
“Tekelo”: Seems that even a parson can
pull the Sydney Telegraph's limb. Saw in the issue
of 22/l/’l2 (a long time back, but it’s just reached
me) some remarks by Rev. J. F. Goldie. To wit:—
The natives of th? New Georgia Group, who were
once the terror of the Solomons, gave no. trouble now.
The object of his (Mr. Goldie’s) mission was to en-
courage men to go in for industrial work. Recruit-
ing vessels took the young men away from the vil-
lages, leaving the old men and women to starve.
New Georgia was a bad place—once. But 10
years before Goldie dumped his mission station at
llubiana Lagoon, a prominent trader was safely
settled there. Indeed, as :in many.. another case in
the Solomons or Church Hill, Sydney, this parson’s
influence extends' about half a mile on each side
of his box office. Don’-t wish to say anything unkind
about the other statement by the reverend gentleman,
that the recruiting vessels take the young men aWav
from the villages and leave the oldest inhabitant and
the women to starve, except that it is far far from
true. The New Georgia native is such a lazy cuss
that planters will not have him on the premises, even
if he were to offer his services, which he doesn’t.
Anyhow, this solicitude for the aged colored brother
and weak naked, sister seems, to have been carefully
saved for Sydney’s delectation. I didn’t hear that
Goldie had mentioned it particularly when obtaining
recruits for his own plantation on Vella Lavella, re-
cently.
“Pick”: When the black wallaby had been
practically wiped, out by fur hunters in New South
Wales, the Government arose with a baleful eye, and
decreed a close Season for the little chap, between
January and July ( each year. Yet any bushman
knows that from June to November Mrs, Wallaby
carries baby Wallaby, more or less grown, in her
pocket, so that during the, open' season for every
doe collected two animals are slain. Don’t know
who is responsible for the fool arrangement, but if
the information reaches me that it was Carruthers or
Wade or McGowen, I’ll receive it with the usual
'"s’vnntion.
SIGNS AND OMENS AND WONDERS.
OFFICIAL: “’ Ere, can't yer see this ’ere sign
over yer ’ead?”
THE OTHER: “Go’way! Go 'way!! I (hie)
don’t b’lieve in shignsh!”
“0.E.J.” writes from La Fundieion, Peru,
South America:—
e are six Australians, up here on top of the
Andes, 14,000 ft. above sea level, and, being amongst
a motley collection of Limejuicers (Hinglishmen),
Oatmealers, Saurkrauters, Ole Olesens, Yanks and a
few more, it is pleasing to note that all are on the
pay roll and have fair to good jobs. There are no
beachcombers in the push. 1 am going to make a
few claims in this par. Claim No. 1: That this
is the highest point on earth (or elsewhere), where
The Bulletin is regularly received. Any “Abo”
or other liar disproving this, and sending ss. in
cash, will be forwarded a loz. packet of genuine
Andes thin air, some of our only-nine-pounds-pres-
sure-short-weight-on-oxygen atmosphere that we have
to breathe up here. After he has sampled it he will
feel sorry that he put our pots on re claim No. 1.
On January 26 we had an Australian reunion. Here
goes for claim No. 2: That this was the highest point
on earth where January 26, 1912, was celebrated and
the Australian flag hoisted. Anyone disproving this
to our dissatisfaction, and sending £1 to relieve
injured feelings, will be forwarded a medal branding
him as an undesirable citizen with Japanese habits.
We (the Australian push) left here in the morning
with one pack animal. We couldn’t And a horse,
so got a Hama, which is the usual beast of burden
in these parts (except the Indian women). I think
there is a sample of him in the Melbourne Zoo, with
a placard in front of his premises, “Beware! This
animal spits.” He has a body like, a donkey, cov-
ered with a woolly doormat, and a camel’s head,
mounted on a neck three sizes too long. He’ll
carry about 901 b. of pack along the slippery edge of
nothing in the Andes, but he is a unionist to the
backbone, for, if you try to put more than the pre-
scribed load On him, he goes on strike at once —just
lies down, and nothing will get him up. We
pounded him across the great Junin Pampa (where
the Peruvians licked the Spaniards in the year
blankteen hundred and dashty nought), and in a
couple of hours reached Old Pasco, where a Mel-
bourne bloke has a small cyanide plant, treating
tailings. Me cooeed for a mile before getting
there, just to make said bloke feel good—you stay-
at-homes don’t know what it means to hear a cooee
10,000 miles from home, and nearly three miles up
in the air, and I always take my hat off to a gum-
tree when 1 see one over this side. He's a paisano
(that means “fellow-countryman” in this coca-de-
nut language we use here). After hoisting the flag
we took the load off the animal with the expectorat-
ing proclivities and proceeded to apply ourselves to
it. We saluted the flag and the Commonwealth,
and the six States individually, and we gave cheers
for the seven capitals and the 14 Houses of Parlia-
ment. When you are far enough away from home you
could even cheer an Upper House. Then we passed the
tinned stuff over to the camp cook. I should have
said that, besides the case of b —er —Apollinaris,
aforesaid load consisted of plum puddings, ''* tinned,
meats, cheese, biscuits and a banjo. While the cook
was practising his honorable profession, and one of.
the Sydney-siders was quoting Banjo Paterson, said
instrument was tuned up, and here comes claim No.
3—that this was the highest Australian celebration
of January 26, at which the well-known Australian
hymns, “What Ho She Bumps” and “Didn’t We Fight
for England in the Future” were rendered. Anv-
one even attempting to disprove this will be reported
to the Education Department of Patagonia as being
hostile to the Tonic Sol-Fa system in State schools.
After dinner the time was beguiled with song and
story, and a vote of thanks was passed to The
Bulletin (called over this side “The Australian
Bible”), as we would be wiped out of existence were
it not for the information we get from it about
home. The American, especially the untravelled one
—who tells you that the U.S. (Gahd’s own Country
—or is it Cohen’s) is the only one the Lord made, is
a hard man to handle. We had a discussion about
hard timbers here lately. They told us of the hard
woods in the U.S. We replied that, when a man
went to cut ironbark in Australia, he put his arms
in splints before beginning, so as he’d be already
bandaged up when the axe flew back and dislocated
him, but they went one better. It wasn’t till a
Bulletin of last September came along, with an
account of a hard wood in Queensland, which re-
sisted all known tools, and was felled by lighting a
fire alongside of it, and melting it down, that we
were allowed the last word. We want to meet the
man who wrote that par. We’ll shout. After tea,
by which time the llama’s load was about done for,
a question arose, which it was decided to submit
to The Bulletin for settlement, namely: How many
stars there are in the Southern Cross. I referred
to the flag we had, but was told that the Common-
wealth star was added extra. A man from Bathurst
said the stars numbered six, at which the cove from
Parramatta promptly raised him one, while one of
the Melbourne blokes offered to bet a million (he
didn’t say what) that there were only four. It was
finally decided to go outside and actually count the
stars. We were still counting when the party broke
up, the score being anywhere from three to 19, so
kindlv inform us through your columns what is the
correct number. Please don’t fail us, as we need
the testimony before we can commence an action for
slander against a mean-minded man here, who has
stated before .witnesses that we all had “a
(llama’s) load on” when we left Old Pasco.
We here advance claim fourth and last: that
we were all pufficklv shober. Anyone at-
tempting to disprove this will be— — but enough.
[The question of the Southern Cross has
been submitted to the paper’s astronomical fisher-
man, who is also botanist and chess editor. He
says the constellation consists of four stars, 19
drinks and a cigar.-—Ed. B.]
“Eddyson”: John Tregowan’s solution of
all difficulties was “Let us pray.” John was a
gifted and vigorous praying man himself, and seized
every opportunity to plump down on his bones, and
let her rip. In the course of any small festive gather-
ing among the miners at Coe, John was liable
to take advantage of a momentary lull to knuckle
do.wp, terying: “Let us pray!” and the Cousin
Jacks of Coe, although of extremely mixed morality,
were good Wesleyans, and couldn’t resist
such an appeal. At marriages, christenings,
burials, raffles and accidents Brother Tre-
gowan never failed to rise up and make his
usual remark. After the long fight between
Best and Vale on the Pipeclay, when Vale
was down and out, it was Tregowan who
pushed into the ring and shouted the cus-
tomary observation. When the water came
in on the tributors in the Dead Shot mine,
Tregowan knelt devotionally in the rising
tide, with the result that three men came
within an ace of being drowned who might
have escaped with ease. Klinger had reason
to suspect that the silver plates in the Dead
Shot battery were being scraped by some
unofficial person, and he put up a plant, con-
sisting of three face-men and himself, one fine
Sunday evening. The shades of night had
only thickened moderately when a man stole
into the battery via the quartz hopper, and
unlocked the pine lid covering the top plates
with a stiff piece of sole leather. Klinger and
his guard fell on the intruder, and put various hard
holts on him. Then light was cast upon the situation.
The prisoner was John Tregowan. John looked sadly
from one to the other, and then —well, from force of
habit' he said, “Let us pray” It was about the best
thing he could do in the circumstances.
Do you travel much? Any headaches? Slip a box
of Stearns’ Headache Cure in your pocket or travel-
ling bag. Simple, easy to take, but effective.*
REAL ANTIQUITY.
TOURIST ( in quest of information): “I believe you have been here a long time!”
Oldest Inhabitant: “ See that there ’ill?”
TOURIST (interested): “ Yes."
OLDEST INHABITANT (impressively): “ Well , sir, that there ’ill was there when first I
come, sir."
“Leo Lear”: In marram grass as a pos-
sible check to drifting sand (B. 29/2/’l2), “Mallara-
poonie” has mentioned about the only thing that
will cause the wandering devastation to drop anchor.
Not many years ago parts of the Victorian seaboard
were threatened with obliteration, and every known
remedy failed until marram was introduced. Tons
of sand piled up over the young roots, but they
hung on like 10,000 bull-dogs, and, to-day, not only
has the drift been completely stopped, but cattle
pasture on the marram and the other grasses which
were enabled to obtain a foothold by its aid.
Marram is sown in rows like fruit trees, and is such
a rapid grower that, in a couple of years, it gener-
ally has its job well in hand.
THE ORIGIN OF THINGS.—THE
POSTER .
The trouble between James and McKewan
was over a collie dog that happened to belong to the
latter. McKewan’s white and yellow tyke had gone
missing, and McKewan was putting it about Clay
Pits that James knew more about the lost animal
than he had the manliness to confess. They met in
Ovens’s store, and a storm of language, relieved by
blows, kicks and a little biting, followed. Then,
while James was pressing the cold bacon-cutter to
his left eye, and McKewan was tying up a damaged
finger with an oatmeal bag, accused continued his
remarks. “Don’t you go and say I killed yer dog,
that’s all.” “I never said you killed me dog,”
snorted McKewan. “You did, you liar!” “I didn’t,
either. But I did say, and Ido say, your daughter
Sarah’s got a new set o’ furs.”
“Tiaki”: There are other things which
can be done with Maoriland flax (Phormium tenax).
The gum from between the leaves is used to stick
anything flimsy together. It also has healing virtues
if applied to cracks, sores, etc. There are several
varieties, some of them (such as the rongotainui)
are variegated, and are much sought after for gar-
dens. A flying dart is also made out of the heavy
blades. The butt is cut off at an acute angle, and
the top of the leaf trimmed a little above where the
leaf divides. This gives it a swallow-tailed or Y-
shape, which balances it in its flight. A small slit
is made down the back of the leaf, and the “tag"
thus started is tied to a whip with a three-feet
handle, made of flax and flax-stick. A
vigorous swish of the whip peels the
strip off the back of the dart, and
sets it flying through the air like
capital leaving the country. I have, standing
on a high bank, sent this weapon over a quar-
ter of a mile. Henare of the last generation
excelled in the grt of flinging, but never re-
garded the dart (ts a weapon of offence. There
is a pretty story told of a brace of lovers,
whose farms wqre separated by a river and a
feud. Juliet’s 'parents had threatened to cut
her off without a cow if she persisted in bestow-
ing her affections on the enemy. They also
threatened to shoot Romeo if he crossed the
boundary. But Love laughs at gunsmiths.
Juliet’s letters were all censored, so, although
only divided by a couple of chains of raging
torrent, she thought herself as lost to her
lover as if she were on the planet Mars. But
one day Juliet saw her Romeo fling a vege-
table message across the flood, and in the
cleft was wedged a note. Juliet wafted her
sentiments back per medium of a similar vege-
table. One day she sent an answer which
read: “I will be there, darling. Never doubt
me,” or some such slush. That night found
the lovers at a ford some miles down the
river, and the local paper had a scoop, headed,
“Daring Elopement.” There is a swing
bridge on that river now, and the flying feet
of Joe and Polly have worn a track to “gran-
dad’s farm,” the old man having given up
the feud as a bad job.
Governor Chelmsford, of N.S.W., is occa-
sionally behind the times. For instance, in his ad-
dress at the opening of the Cooma Show, a few
days ago, he said:—
He had no experience in the rearing or breeding
of sheep, but in the report of the Scottish Commis-
sioners touring the colonies, some time back, he
noticed a paragraph relative to the milk-producing
powers of the ewes, which had been neglected amongst
the small breeders, in their anxiety to improve the
frame and wool, and said, if they gave more atten-
tion to the milk production, they would have better
sheep, as the lambs required the necessary nourish-
ment in their infancy.
If, instead of going back to the days of the Scottish
Commission, his Ex. had kept pace with current pas-
toral news, he would have read the following in the
S. M. Herald of 10/4/’l2: —
The early lambing will be considerably reduced, as
the wethers will be so long without natural feed that
they will not be in a fit state to care for their
young.
The suffragette movement has a. lot to answer for.
BUSH BABES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The children suffered fearful hardships, and worked
from dawn till long after nightfall, retiring to rest
even after their parents. —Speaker at Victorian Bush
Nurses’ meeting, held recently.
Dim lanterns swinging through the dark
That childlike children dread,
A night bird’s call —the hut dog's bark
Show someone still is moving. Hark !
The bush babes go to bed!
Fired voices in the cowvard call,
And fretfully reply;
1 here is the sound of rails let fall,
And, hidden by the Night’s black pall,
The tyrant herd goes by.
Long, long ago the sun went down ;
In fact’ry, shop and mill
Toil ceased, and straight in ev’ry town
Dame Pleasure donned her star-set gown.
But these babes worked on still 1
Now, when the world awaits the light
That signals work again,
Dim lanterns swinging through the night
Show how the children feebly fight
To help a world of men.
N.S.W.
FOE.


Hotel
A ustra/ia
TARIFF:
From 13/- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night'
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, i to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
Connected with Wireless.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PLASMON COCOA
“ A Delicious Beverage of much greater
nutritive value than ordinary jjgcoa."
—British Medical Journal.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Depot: SA 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS.
For all Kidney Troubles, use Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills. One of these pills contains in a concentrated
form all the curative properties of a pint of the finest
gin, together with other important ingredients recog-
nised by the medical profession as being remedial
agents of the highest value for the kidneys and allied
organs. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
•• It Acts Like a Charm.
PIL
RHEU-MANACA
Registered Trade Mark.
This is a scientific, skilfully compounded and
potent remedy, especially designed for use in at-
tacks of either.
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuritis or Lumbago.
Each Pill contains seven different expensive
standarised and potent vegetable remedies. It
has been in use in private practice by a regular
practising physician, with miraculous success, for
many years. First offered as a public remedy on
the Ist dav of February, 1912.
DO NOT DELAY ! USE PIL RHEUMANACA
WITH THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE
DISEASE.
Supplied at 3s. per bottle. Remit by M.O. or
Postal Notes. Send direct to—■
Z. C. RENNIE, Proprietor,
P.O. BOX 1530, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“Sin.” from a Northern camp :
The Abo. who complained in a recent issue of the
mosquito plague at Lightning Ridge ought to con-
gratulate himself that the same tiding does not occur
all the year round. All over the opal country in
Queensland we gougers are sometimes-generally-always
plugued by flies and mosquitoes, more so after a few
good storms have supplied us with water and grass.
Even in the mild nights of winter we find it neces-
sary to use nets. I have never met with mosquitoes
in such numbers in Australia as in the western opal
country (Q.), with the exception of (say) the coun-
try on the Nogoa and McKenzie rivers (and then only
after heavy rainfalls), and along the Einasleigh
River from Carpentaria Downs to Einasleigh. The
worst experience I ever had was about November, 12
months ago, while going down the Mavne to the
Diamantina junction. But for a plentiful supply of
cow dung on the route (main stock) it would have
been all but impossible to live after sunset. The
worst camp was at Diamantina Junction. All the
same, Australia is not the most mosquito-cursed
country in the world. There is Siberia, for instance,
where 1 spent a few months some time ago. They
told me there that the hummers will actually kill
horses, and I believe it without the least compunc-
tion.
“Port Watch”: The Maoriland Marine
Department had a report handed up to it the other
day that made it draw a deep breath and cross its
fingers for luck. It ran thusly:—
Master of steamer Elsie reports that he has found
a rock with 2ft. of water north, 23deg. east from
Clay Point, near French Pass, distance one and a half
miles, lat. and lon. so and so.
Which, being interpreted, means that there is a sub-
marine steeple sticking up within a couple of feet
of the surface of the track used by the steamers that
are constantly churning through the French Pass to
and from Nelson. How the obstacle escaped being
butted into is a plain unvarnished mystery. Pro-
bably Davy Jones was saving it up for a special
occasion.
THE MIRACLE.
"Have you any invisible hairpins? ”
"Oh , yes, Miss, a large stock."
“ Let me see some, will you, please? ”
PLENTY OF VARIETY.
PETER: “ And what was your occupation on earth , my good man?”
NEW ARRIVAL (bravely): “I was chief of a band of robbers
PETER : “Ah! Gas , meat or coal?”
“Wal” : In the remarks on Papuan dogs
and tree houses made by “Mallarapoonie” (B.
4/l/”2) are some errors that need correction. He
spells the name of the village near Port Moresby
wrong, for a start. It is Hanuabada, near Annahau-
bada, the meaning being “a big village” in the
Motu language. But the real name of the place is
not either of these names. The natives know it as
Poreporena. This is only a trifle, for in this
country even the smallest collection of houses has as
many as half a dozen names. He says the houses
are floored with bamboo, when the real thing is nor.
bamboo at all, the majority of the houses being
floored with slabs and some with split palm. The
majority of the platforms or verandahs are made of
plain mangrove poles, and the apologies for bridges
—plain poles—-are also of the same material. Re-
garding the kicking of the dogs—this is a rare thing
amongst natives, for k dog is too valuable. The dog
is one of the principal items in the purchase of a
wife, and any old sort of canine has a value of
pounds sterling. Even mangy curs, if of the female
sex, fetch big prices, and short-legged dogs are not
wholly unnegotiabl'e. I have lived in villages all
over Papua, both on the coast and inland, and rarely
have I seen a dog kicked. The usual thing when a
dog is uncivil or guilty of deceit or procrastination,
is for the owner to lower it over the platform into
tne sea (if on the coast), but it is very rarely
“boosted” off per foot. Regarding the tribes of the
Papuan hinterland, who build their houses in trees,
I have extensively travelled the ranges, and only
found tree-houses used as refuges from enemies. Most
hill villages have a few houses in the tops of the
trees around and in the village, but the people do
not live in them, any more than cockneys do in the
Tower of London, and wherever the Government in-
fluence is strong, there the tree-houses are falling to
pieces from disuse. The dog that can scale a ladder
30ft. high, with rungs some 3ft. or so apart, is a
rare canine. But the decent Papuan doesn’t ask his
dog to ascend a ladder. Every well-conducted house
has a dog’s entrance cut in the side of the wall, and
a leaning-pole or piece of split-palm is there, so that
the pan-cleaner can enter at all hours. In the “salt-
water” villages it is a common sight, when the tide
is full, to see and hear dogs howling on the plat-
forms in front of the houses for their owners to
come off for them per canoe, and rarely do they
howl in vain. This is in the villages that are built
a long way from the shore, and where the dog
would have a long swim if he went on his own.
The dog is a member of the family, and is treated
as well as the children. In parts of Papua I have
seen a pup and a baby absorbing nourishment from
the same breast, and the pup got as much as the
baby did. But, all the same, the native has no
compunction in eating his Towzer if he is short of
tucker.
We have been told by a man who lost three children
by dysentery during the epidemic last year, that he
saved his fourth child by giving it Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy, and says that
he is convinced that had he given the other three this
medicine they would have been saved. Although he
had the best medical advice he lost his three child-
ren. Chamberlain’s Colie, Cholera and Diarrhoea
Remedy is the most successful remedy in use for
bowel complaints in children. It should be kept in
every home, to be used in case of emergency,*
“H.J.E.” : Was introduced to the ant ele-
phant West o’ Darling, where I was out surveying
after heavy rain. My eye was attracted by little
puffs of sand being belched forth from the centre of
what appeared to be miniature craters, and, after
investigation, I came to the conclusion that air had
been imprisoned by the caking over of the earth
cracks during recent rain, and, being heated by
the sun, was finding vent through the loose sand
patches. The old hands of the party laughed at
the theory, and showed me the true cause of the dis-
turbance—the ant elephant, as he is known locally.
He is the “dead ring” of the large animal, with a
tail fore and aft, but I think he is more a beetle
tha!n a pachyderm.
* * * *
“Chloe” : Re the pig (mentioned by
“S.S.S.” in a recent issue of your horrible publica-
tion) and its part in the domestic life of the
Papuans. This animal is more of a fetich in the
Solomons. There it is a deity, a pet and play-
thing, a leading feature in all festivals, and an
article of commerce and diet. I saw a wedding at
Rubiana, and a chief’s funeral at Faisi. In each
instance a pig was, so to speak, the centre of
gravity round which the ceremony revolved. For
the wedding, a platform was erected just on the out-
skirts of the village. To this came a procession
headed by two villagers, leading a pig, decorated
with chains of shells and other native currency.
The hog and the cash formed the bride’s dowry.
The bride followed, wearing fewer clothes than the pig.
She was extremely fat, and particularly hideous, with
shaven head, which was malodorous, and, like her body,
dripping with cocoanut oil. Arrived at the plat-
form, the pig, protesting vigorously, was tethered,
and the bride executed a swift and dexterous leap,
which landed her first on the pig’s back, and thence
on to the stage. She was presently joined by a bashful-
looking groom. The contracting parties embraced
several times, exchanged betel nut chews, expecto-
rated simultaneously, and the ceremony was almost
complete. The final tableau was the mounting of
the bride on the back of her mother-in-law, who
had to stagger back to the village with her 17st.
relative astride her shoulders. The daughter smote
her new mother hard with a stick to promote velocity.
The pig was carried by the bridegroom, who sacri-
ficed it in an uncleanly manner on his threshold.
The old chief who died at Faisi was a celebrity. His
passing was a great event. The corpse was dressed
for his d6but in the next world with magnifi-
cence, and the funeral pyre was erected in front of
the sacred, but ghoulish-looking Head House, filled
with skulls and bones of long-dead warriors. Bound
up in grave clothes and ornaments of caste, he was
placed in a sitting posture on the pile. Three
wives of the first degree and 17 of the second degree
formed the inner circle of mourners, and the three
old women did just raise Cain with their howls. A
comic element was introduced when one of the wives
of the second degree forgot her place, and ventured
to raise her voice unduly, and to step nearer the
corpse. She was immediately seized by one of the
first degree wives and beaten till she declared her
penitence. Then she was allowed to take a very
rear position, and made to sit with covered head
through the rest of the service. She was undoubtedly
a hussy, for she kept slily lifting the head cover
to ogle the young chief, who seemed in no wise loth
to return her amorous glances. But then the new-
flogged lady was young, and not so bad to look upon
as some of her neighbors.
“Vic.” discourses on the unknown beauties
of the country around Melbourne: —
Public Works Minister Edgar has been engaged in
opening up a wide panorama of mountain country for
tourists. Without endorsing any claim that this
will render Maoriland, the Blue Mountains, Cairns,
or even the Buffalo superfluous, it may be admitted
that this new region will deserve a trip. A good
track is being opened up Mount Donna Buang, and
this should help towards the definite settlement of
the Yarra source. The lamented Federal Minister
Batclfelor died through over-exertion in an excursion
to Donna Buang. Edgar has just been at Marys-
ville, 15 miles from Buang. There is an old track
thence nearly to the top of Mount Strickland, 4000 ft.,
or only 80ft. under Buang. The whole distance
between these peaks can be traversed at an altitude
of nearly 4000 ft. Buang is the centre of glorious
views of the Marysville, Alexandra and Woods Point
districts. There is a little Burrinjuck in what is
known as the O’Shanassy water scheme, which is to
help towards supplying Melbourne. A track is being
made along the Acheron Valley, connecting with the
Marysville and Buang line. Beauteous waterfalls are
Cameron Cascade, Stevenson’s and the Keppell.
Good scenery at Valley Beautiful, Talbot Drive and
Tommy’s Bend, facetiously named after Tomniy Bent.
It is remarkable that while the Nile sources are dis-
covered, those of the paltry Yarra are not. Probably
there are no definite sources. The stream is very little
beyond Warburton, and appears to fan out in trick-
lets up Buang way. The late Kernot, C.E., proved
that a high mountain, Acland, was a plain on all the
maps.
“R. E. Monstrance” speaks a piece:—
Concerning the remarks of “Chasuble (B.
18/4/’l2), as to the advantage, or d.sadvantage, of a
community having married, or unmarried, clergy-
men ; also as to their respective efficiencies
and positions in the general scheme of things. First,
“Chasuble” may be surprised to know that a celi-
bate is not necessarily a bachelor.. .A celibate is
one who has no existing wife; she may be dead,
divorced, or separated from him. The earlier and
less-washed Christians used to hold that marriage
was a consequence of the alleged Fall, and, under
the names of hermit and anchorite, they used to
flee to the mountains, or the desert, or some dry
and waterless and soapless region, in order to get
away from the female of the species. But, as Boc-
caccio has informed us, they were not always suc-
cessful; the Eternal Feminine used to find out the
hermit’s abode, and add to his self-imposed term of
solitude the worry of her solicitude! (Gerard, in
that great story, “The Cloister and the Hearth, is a
good case in point.) The original Roman Catholic
view of marriage, as far as its priesthood was con-
cerned, was that, although celibacy was preferable
to matrimony, the presumed Divine law did not
make it necessary for the reception of holy orders,
or forbid either the ordination of married men, or
the marriage of those already in orders. (At this
point, let me direct “Chasuble’s” attention to the
incontrovertible fact —mentioned by John Richard
Green and other reliable historians —that several
European nations, including England, insisted on
their priests getting married, in order to put an end
to a most scandalous state of affairs in connection
with their —ahem ! —flocks.) To deny the historical
truth of the aforesaid R.C. view would be to deny
the accuracy of much R.C. history as to' the lives
and conduct of certain bishops, father confessors and
martyrs—history that the Church cannot afford to
spare without knocking kite-high its strenuous claim
of “Apostolic succession.” A reference or two may
not be inapt. In 310 the Council of Elvira, after
giving earnest consideration to the revolutionary pro-
posal that henceforth priests ought to remain un-
married, decided that the Time was more or less
Ripe. Therefore, the Council commanded priests, as
a beginning, to live apart from their wives. Further!
the Council, with true Wowser zeal, forbade the
priest to have any female in his house —save she
were a sister or a daughter; and those only when
virgins. From 310 to 1073, a series of popes issued
decrees, more or less mild, commanding bishops,
priests and deacons to observe celibacy. The advent
of Hildebrand to the papal throne first marked the
departure which to this day has been less or more
rigidly maintained. Hildebrand decreed that nobody
should be ordained unless he first professed perpetual
celibacy; also, he commanded that no married
priest should be permitted to celebrate the mass.
Hildebrand recognised that true celibacy was likely
to prove a potent engine of ecclesiastical power, for,
after all, the cares of a wife and family do monopo-
lise a large portion of the time which, otherwise,
would be devoted to furthering the objects and inter-
ests of the Church. But, since the days of Hilde-
brand, many a married priest has entered the Church
of Rome; e.g., Cardinal Manning. Why “Chasuble’
should entertain such a poor opinion of married
parsons passes my comprehension. Personally, I
have no time for clergyman of any denomination, as
clergymen; but I have met. every sort, kind and
description of them in my time, and found them a
lot more human and natural than they themselves
would perhaps care to think. As to their married,
or unmarried, condition, there is absolutely no shred
of evidence to support “Chasuble’s” strange theory;
on the contrary, all the evidence is the other way.
Ask the insurance companies—those great, unofficial
appraisers of the physical and mental state of civil-
ised mankind. Your healthy married man, be he
parson or ploughman, has a far better “expectation
of life” than the celibate, willing or enforced. He
is, beyond dispute, a more useful member of the com-
munity, and a more valuable citizen. If celibacy be
the ideal state —if it makes and keeps men stronger,
brighter, keener and braver, why, then, let us all
practise it from this on, and blow the Birthrate!
Also, blow doctors, nurses, schools and babv-linen
shops! And, finally, blow trade, revenue, defence
and a national future!
CIVILISATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bulletin isn’t prepared to admit that civili-
sation depends wholly upon the slender spiral of the
wheat stalk ; but, anyhow, it depends as much upon
that as it does upon a sheep or an ox.
-—From a recent issue.
My eyes are set on a ribbon and frill
And a delicate lace creation,
A pearl of a girl, and a milliner’s bill —
Oho ! for civilisation !
Eleanor, Frances, Mary and Lil!
The dreams that stir, and the looks that thrill —-
Aha ! for civilisation !
The slender spiral stalk of the wheat,
And the bread that fills a nation —
Oh, sing of the thing that is good to eat—
Oho ! for civilisation !
Oh, the rosy garland of sausage meat,
The son of a cow and the flocks that bleat —
Aha ! for civilisation!
The beautiful speeches that Deakin makes,
And the joy of a Wade oration,
The flams, and the shams, and the flagrant fakes—
'Oho ! for civilisation !
Our civ. is known by its lies and aches
As well as the beautiful bread it bakes —
Aha ! for civilisation !
Give me a place where the shade is cool,
And there isn’t a railway station ;
A fig for the rig of the motley fool —
Boohoo ! for civilisation !
With golden bread on the trees to pull,
I’d sit in the lap of the golden rule — ,
Yaha ! for civilisation !
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


A DISTINCTION,’. W ITH A DfEI KKENCK.
W'ife: “Don’t shoot. Jack dear, ft’s only n»o
You thought I was one of those horrid masked
burglars, didn’t you?”
The Operator: “Masked burglar? .No. Pie just come from a masquerade
ball, and forgot to take my mask oil' before 1 paid you this little professional
call.”
Mrs. Caudle: “Caudle! <l<>
/ wake up. I hear somebody
walking about the house. 1
believe it's a burglar!"
Candle (sleepily): "Well, thank
Heaven, it’s led to a change of
anyhow!"
Midnight Visitor: “Where's yer gold watch?"
Awakened .Sleeper: "Wowed if 1 haven't forgotten the
address; hut you'll And the pawn ticket in my vest jtockek.
fake that and welcome if it's any good to you."
Chief Burglar (to his pal) : “Do try and
keep that brat, quiet. 1 never could do any
beadwork with a kid squalling!”
HI Mb SYKES’S WAY WITH CHI MIKE.\.
“Now, I’ll let you play with my dog, hut keep
perfectly quiet, or he may mistake you for u rabbit,
an’ then he’d swaller you whole!”
Man of the house: “My
wife is not very well, and the'
'doctor says site must not be
agitated; would you mind"—
I’olite Burglar: “Certainly
not! I will call at a more
convenient time. 1 will ring
you up on the telephorie, ajod
make an appointment. ’’
5 ■ • i
.Mr. Otvlsoii (who sits up all hours): “Well, what do you want?"
) Burglar (with great presence of mind): “I was afraid you’d aH gone to
[ hod! Fact is, my wife has been taken suddenly bad, an’, as I have run out or
whisky, l came to see if 1 could borrow a little off you. The pub* at e all closed
long ago I"
THE ENTERPRISING BURGLAR.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY
PERFECT PURITY.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY,
FOGGITT, JONES’
PORK BRAWN
vou have not tasted Foggitt* Jones*
Fork Brawn, you haven’t tasted,one
of the finest delicacies made in theiri
«actorie». Might it be suggested thatj
you buy a tin or two and see hovp
'-'tcc it is for luncheon, tea or picnic
Your grocer sells it at a reasonte*
price
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A birthday: Tiie Bulletin’s “Oldest In-
habitant,” who writes about the ghosts of
ancient pubs, and old grey-bearded happen-
ings is 72 to-day (May 9).
Dead in Adelaide. eln«e up to 86, Henry
Kelly, a pioneer of 1840. His people were
among the first in the Mount Barker dis-
trict. and paid 30s. a bushel for seed wheat in
1841; it was down to
half a crown in 1844 !
Smut and blight were
rampant; in fact, on
the Adelaide plain
"n o t h i n g would
grow,” or the Kellys
might have had land
there just as cheap as
at Barker. The de-
ceased helped Ridley
(with tips out of the
encyclopaedia) in the
invention of the reap-
er ; and presently,
paying £l6O for one of
the first machines,
found neighbors eager
to pay £1 an acre to
borrow it. Henry
Kelly once consented
to give a pressman
the secret of his long
life and particularly
good health. “I
neve r d rank or
smoked,” said the
Scotchman, “but
when I was ill I took
a tablespoonful of
whisky. I never
visited a racecourse,
or a theatre. And I
made it a rule never
to work more than 16
hours a day.”
JOE HANAN,
Minister of
Education, M.L.
“Mr. Ocky” helps his old friend over the
Styx:—
Old T. C. Harwood, who died at Geelong a few
days ago, was the most out-and-out Tory I have ever
come across. He was eminently suited to the posi-
tion of Father of the Victorian House of Rich Land-
lords. In his later days he was one of the most
unapproachable of men, and would snap irritably
at most interviewers. As for getting him to listen
to an argument, it was absolutely impossible. He
was obsessed with the idea that any proposal that
came from the Labor party must be ruinous, and that
the squatter and his kind were the people who kept
Victoria’s body and soul together. 1 believe he
would have left off eating if food had been made a
plank of the Labor platform. 1 have often watched
him walking through the streets of Geelong—a veri-
table old S-nag, nothing else, whose every word and
action bespoke the whole-hog Tory. He took a
prominent part in the Canon Nash business, which
stirred the Anglican world somewhat a few years
ago. As solicitor to the Geelong Council he was
a great barracker for the town’s silly old Corpora-
tion Act, which is so undemocratic in its provi-
sions as to be a huge joke. Of course, he was always
up against the suggested abolition of aldermanic and
other fool offices. Finally, Harwood was an after-
dinner speaker. At these times he was wont to voice
his Conservative doctrines at such length that, ere he
had finished, the chairman was engaged in an en-
counter with the secretary for inviting him, and the
pressmen had adjourned to the billiards room for
60-up. The dead M.L.C. invariably claimed that the
House he represented was the salvation of the State.
I believe he honestly thought so.
REXONA.
The Rapid Healing Ointment relieves with re-
markable rapidity Soros, Ulcers, Burns, Cuts
Bruises, Eczema, Chilblains, and all D senses of the
skin. Sold in triangular pots at 1/6 and 3/-.*
J. H. Cann, the new Cornstalk Treasurer,
gets his first portfolio after 21 years of Par-
liamentary life. He was a miner when he
was brought up a shaft to fight ex-Police
Magistrate Wyman Brown for the Broken
Hill seat, and that is the only real fight he
has ever had for it. Beside Cann, only
McGowen and Edden have been Labor mem-
bers for so long. He would certainly have
been in the present Ministry when it was
formed had he not preferred the Speaker-
ship. But he left the chair when it became
necessary to add to the effective vote of the
party last session. Though Cann has never
had any commercial training, he is a keen
business man, and was the party’s chief
financial critic for many years.
Percy Sholto Douglas, otherwise known as
the Marquis of Queensberry, has been under-
going examination in London Court of
Bankruptcy. Liabilities, £2700; “no avail-
able assets.” This was Percy’s third failure.
It was brought about by unsuccessful specu-
lations on the Stock Exchange and losses in
'"•nneetion with the Rubber Corporation of
Brazil. He estimated his cash income at
£lOOO a year. This was insufficient to meet
his household and personal expenses. To
make up the deficiency he borrowed money
from friends and professional money-lenders.
A few months ago Percy renounced his
British citizenship, crossed the Atlantic, and
settled in New York, where he says he “se-
cured a journalistic appointment at 150
dollars a week.”
About a broker who has ceased to broke:
Mclb. Herald prints photo and notice ot' John
Watson, the recently-retired “Father of the Melbourne
Stock Exchange,” whose predecessor, J. S. Butters, is
also alive to tell the tale. John Watson became a
member of the Exchange in 1861, when Butters already
I*~d a seat, but the latter retired long ago, whereas
Watson remained on the .iob until the other week.
There were about 10 members when Father Watson
joined the band, and they did business in a corner
of Stubbs’s auction mart. Goldmining stock was
practically the only thing they dealt in, and the
volume of trade was large enough to give every broker
a pretty fat income. The veteran speaks of the bank
smashing period of nearly 20 years ago as the worst
the Exchange ever knew in his half-century’s experi-
ence of it. His recollections of Melbourne date back 60
years. It is hard to believe that he was born in 1822.
His type of men mostly look older than their age, but
he is much older than he looks. John Watson for
many years of last century occupied the office in the
Old Exchange which now has The Bulletin painted
on its front windows, so this paper feels friendly to-
wards him. Its Melbourne domicile still wears the
good old oilcloth which the honest broker left behind
him, and something of the former tenant’s respecta-
bility clings to the atmosphere of the place.
John Hannah Gordon, chairman of the
Sugar Commission, who bumped against the
potentate of the C.S.R. in Sydney last week,
is the Senior Puisne Judge of S. Aus., and
by temperament and training is more apt at
the use of oil than blasting powder. The
son of a S’Aus. country parson, he studied
law and started practice in a southern town-
ship, and soon his personal popularity and
scintillating speech landed him in Parlia-
ment. For a young man, he did the then
unusual thing of going straight for the Leg.
Council, instead of first waiting to become
toothless in the Assembly. After that, he got
into the habit of representing Governments,
and spent most of his years getting the House
of Fat to agree to things it didn’t much be-
lieve in. Thus he developed a talent
for creeping around obstacles he couldn’t
conveniently knock down. Another sort of
man with another sort of experience would
have removed the recalcitrant potentate first
and adjourned the Commission afterwards,
instead of turning tail and leaving the fatted
rebel jabbering on the premises.
Passed away in Melbourne, F. W. Prell,
known to the public as the pioneer of tall
buildings and fast lifts. It was always sup-
posed Prell had the use of German
money for his building schemes. But he
was the pioneer of a much bigger business
than the skyscraper trade. He was the first
Australian financier to embark on the share-
export industry, and made a fortune by sell-
ing local shares to London. He actually
created the London market for Australian
mining and investment scrip long before most
of the brokers who now conduct the busi-
ness were on the Stock Exchanges. Mel-
bourne gas, Melbourne trams, Broken Hills,
Mt. Lyells and Mt. Morgans were bought
cheap on the spot in the bad times, and sent
to England to be sold and used to settle the
exchange account of Prell’s exceedingly
large mercantile business, for he dealt in
everything on a big scale. The export of
good scrip is a lamentable method of in-
creasing the foreign capitalist’s hold on Aus-
tralia, but it paid Prell, and Prell didn’t
care.
“Lantana”: The recent retirement from
the Italian Cabinet of the Minister
of the Treasury, through hopeless ill-
health, has given a new lease of life
to the old belief that Prime Minister
Giovanni Giolitti has the evil eye. Some
sort of explanation the case is called for,
seeing that, since Giolitti started building
Cabinets, no less than 16 of his colleagues
have been stricken down, if not by death,
then by mental or physical collapse. In his
first Cabinet, four of his colleagues died in
harness: in his second, two died and four
others just missed the ’bus for the sarcopha-
gus ; in his third, one died in a natural sort of
way, one shot himself, and one was pros-
trated with serious illness; in the present
Administration, which was fixed up last
year, one Minister is already dead, one fell
in the Chamber, seized by an apoplectic fit.
and one has got out to save what scrap of
health remains to him. If Giolitti hasn’t
got the evil eye—and seven-tenths of his
counfitymen believe he has—he certainly has
rotten luck. Anyhow, he must be of un-
common stuff to keep a grip on his own seat
nt the head of the table so long, despite
his sinister reputation.
If the captain of the Titanic really
shouted that final order, “Be British,” it
was a respectable addition to the world’s
collection of last words. But it will be a
long time before anyone gets ahead of the
final order given by Makharoff, the Russian
admiral, when he found his fleet a hopeless
ruin: “Be brave, men; this is our last
battle.” Did he compose it himself, or did
some pressman write it out for him, and did
he have it ready on a piece of paper in his
vest pocket?
THE NEW SHOW.
FEZ, Friday.—Seven thousand Jews took refuge in
the Sultan’s garden, and have no shelter except the
empty cages of the Sultan’s menagerie.
VISITING HOURS : 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
THE MODERN ATLAS.
[For The Bulletin.]
Mr. Penman, replying, said he had himself been
referred to as the “pure merino Wowser.” What
would Mr. Johnstone think of that? But if the
term “Wowser” was applied to a man willing to
fight for the right, he was quite satisfied with the
designation. lie intended to do God’s work in the
way he thought God would approve. —News item.
Great Builder of the stars and suns —
Lord of All Life in seas and lands.
Rest now from care! The New Word runs—
Your Job is safe in Penman's hands!
N.s.w. O. C. C.
One of the humorous features of the week
so far as Sydney was concerned, was the
sudden burst into prominence achieved by
old A. J. Riley. He was moved by the action
of Edward Knox and the directors of the
Sugar Co. in blankly refusing to an-
swer to their subpoenas, as by law
directed, to a hearty paean of admira-
tion and approval. In the dim past, A. J.
Riley, in his own small way, was a some-
body. That is to say, about 25 years ago
he was Mayor of Sydney, an M.L.A., and a
successful draper. Now he isn’t even a par-
ticularly brilliant draper. In the circum-
stances, his criticisms of the way in which
a distinguished Supreme Court Judge con-
ducts a Royal Commission are somewhat in-
congruous—aye, we may go further, and
term them dashed audacious.
Among the romantic rovers who struck
Ballarat in the early digging days was
Frank de Bray, who has gone to his last
rush, at 77. He was the son of some kind
of a nobleman at Nantes, France, but he
loved a peasant girl at college, and the old
man cut him off with a franc. Carrying
this humble coin in both hands, he came to
Australia. From the diggings he drifted
into a career as chef of a big hotel in the
golden city, and, later, on a big Western
Victorian station. After nearly a life Lime
of cookery he went back to Ballarat, world
weary, and ended his days in the Benevolent
Asylum. Considering the methods of French
law, the story of the disinheritance doesn’t
hang together any too well, but nossibly the
old nobleman was not a landowner and kept
all his wealth in a bag.
GIVING AWA Y REBECCA.
IKENSTEEN (to masked burglar): “You can
have anything else in de room, but leave
me the votch vich was a present from my
fader .”
A misadventure has befallen Brother
Snowball, M.L.A., the man who know r s more
about the malevolent intentions of the Pope
than any other person in Victoria. Snow-
ball gave a prize, to be competed for by
Brighton bowling teams, and the trophy was
won by a band of Hibernians. The be-
reaved brother has received many, expres-
sions of sympathy.
Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Cooper, a grand-
daughter of Rev. Samuel Marsden, the his-
toric blacksmith-farmer-parson, of the very
early days of N.S.W., died on April 29, at
Ancrum-street, North Sydney, aged 75 years.
She was the eldest daughter of Rev. Henry
H. Bobart, who married one of the daughters
of Samuel Marsden. He was at St. John’s.
Parramatta, and was, for a time, Master of
King’s School.
“L.” : Though all that you say (2/5/’l2)
of the amazing Smith of the IJ.S.A. Senate
is to be received with cheers, yet
A. T. Mahan has dug the knife
deep into Bruce Ismay by his
view of the question. Mahan looks
at it with the mind of a sailor-man
who is trained to go down with
his ship, and tries to pin Ismay
with the skipper’s code. Ismay
was boss owner of the Titanic;
how came he to bolt from it and
leave 1600 people behind? When
Ismay left the vessel, those still
on board laughed at the crowd that
took to the boats, and believed in
the “unsinkable” theory. Ismay is
alleged to have said in effect:
“There was room in the boats.
Others refused it. I took it.” We
know why the others refused. But
—what did Isrnay believe about the Titanic’s
condition and chances when he left?
“A Voice” Che same person who inter-
jects at political meetings) speaks:—
The portentous profundity of David Fell, M.L.A.,
regarding the mysterious secret which he knows
about the Beef Trust, grows somewhat tiresome. First
of all, David said he would tell if he was allowed ;
and, at time of writing, he murmurs that he will
make the Revelation if nobody else can be found to
do so. These are the darksome hints of girls at a
ladies’ seminary, where Gladys could tell something
about Joan if she hadn’t promised Myrtle to say no-
thing about it, lest it should come to the ears of
Gwendoline. If David really knows anything which
in the public interest demands telling, why doesn't
he throw it off his chest and have done with it?
BY WEIGHT.
MY. SMUDCE (artist): "You. paid me five
shillings short for my last cartoon .”
EDITOR OF THE “BITING BUNYIR”: “ Yes, I
know. It was two grains short of the
stipulated weight. And Til have you un-
derstand, Mr. Smudge, that this is not the
first time either. ”
Two people lately dead in Adelaide were
the real thing in veterans. Each had been
a good citizen there for half a century or so.
But before that, the man fought (on the
side of Law-’n’-Grder) in the attempted re-
volution of 1848 in Berlin ; and the woman
worked down overland from Sydney in 183 S
to a new little settlement, reported as prom-
ising, beside the Yarra, in the Port Phillip
district. That place was called Beargrass,
or some such name, and later became Mel-
bourne.
Commandant Jose Maria Gor-
don becomes Chief of the General
Staff in Australia —the late John
Hoad’s place. Before Hoad it be-
longed to Bridges, now Brigadier-
General in charge of the Military
Staff College. The billet is glitter-
ing and well-paid, but it doesn’t
amount to much in point of actual
fact, since the General Staff is
not much more than a name in
Australia. Still, such as it is, the
radiant Jose Maria will fill it ad-
mirably. He is as decoratively
warrior-like in appearance as any
other man in the Commonwealth.
Another Victorian Portia, Miss Gladys
Taylor, has been licensed to graze on the
field of Costs, and has taken an office. She
is a Castlemaine girl, and has a large pan-
orama of alphabet in the wake of her name.
It is alleged that she is the only member of
Melbourne’s unfair sex to start on her own
as a Lady One. Other legal young women,
like Miss Anna Brennan and Miss Nancy
Isaacs, hire out their intelligence to male re-
la ions, while even Miss Jones, the clever
Bendigo girl, who pushed into the profesh as
an articled clerk, still acts as a help to her
legal dad.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy
is the most successful medicine in the world for
bowel complaints, both for adults and children.
Pleasant and safe to take, prompt in its action, and
effectual in results.*
THE GREATEST GIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His facility of speech was indeed a valuable posses-
sion.—Barton on Reid.
Now if the tongue be delicately made
And swing with easy motion to and fro,
So that with verbs and subjects well arrayed
Out of the mouth the easy phrases flow,
Then may its happy owner undismayed
Through this glad planet go.
When our forefathers, an unhandsome crew.
Scrambled among the trees their food to win.
Not the most quick or the most strong could do
Himself the proudest when supplies were thin;
The best banana was the simian’s who
Jabbered beyond his kin.
At times, the heavier bludgeon may have gained
The laurel, and at times the deadlier stab ;
But these were casual victors, and they reigned
Not long before their splendor fell to drab ;
But one refulgent triumph never waned —
The priceless gift of gab.
Oh, let the warrior wave his glittering steel,
And let the smith beat lusty on his forge,
'file Artifex! the Fighter ! —both shall kneel
In the high hall where the true monarchs gorge.
The Tongue alone is sealed with victory’s seal —
And so it was with George.
N.S.W.
L.


<z
VS
(c
v
JS
■^7
e*
&
&
M
n
it
\
i€
*s#
#5
/
&
(C
1
y
6x
s:
#
There s no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia , Ct ;z<? brand than the
‘ Three Castles . ’ ” Thackeray , “ The Virginians .”
THREE CASTLES
CIGARETTES
(Heavy Weights)
The famous brand W. D. <Q. H. O. WILLS.
In PacKets and Flat Tins o/ lO and
Air-Tight Tins o/ 50.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Informatlon apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
“THE EDWARDS” ORE ROASTING FURNACES
ECONOMY IN LABOR, FUEL AND MAINTENANCE.
Write for Catalogue and Prices to—
FRASER 8 CHALMERS, LTD., London; STEARNS-ROGER MFG. CO., Denver, U.S.A.
T. EDWARDS, Ballarat, Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident
Society :
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims. penses. ciation. Funds.
1898.. £2,152,177 £1,223,261 £197,977 £31,468 £699,471
1899.. 2,243,644 1,104,551 223,942 19,461 895,690
1900.. 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1901.. 2,456,389 1,389,051 208,749 23,920 834,669
1902.. 2,509,729 1,355,073 218,394 21,663 914,599
1903.. 2,598,809 1,451,689 229,987 21,832 895,310
1904.. 2,687,155 1,519,890 237,293 37,260 892,712
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701) ...
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000 f s,)t) > y4 ‘
1906.. 2,932,755 1,645.681 259,769 29,818) OQn
Aid to Industrial Department 6,741/ yyu >' 4b
1907.. 3,086,216 1,738,804 272,267 42,475 1,032,670
1908.. 3,184,488 1,781,750 285,804 40,714 1,076,220
1909.. 3,337,426 1,875,516 296,585 30,947 1,134,378
1910.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
1911.. 3,676,105 1,986,708 322,047 22,823 1,344,527
Last year The Bulletin mentioned that the new
premium income of the A.M.P. for 1910 ( £257,610)
was a record. The new premium income for 1911 is
£307,480, so it is much more of a record. In fact,
the figures—barring the amount written off—are the
biggest to date in every department. The increase
in expenses is rather a notable item. The expenses of
1910 were actually less than those of 1909, and only
£5971 more than those of 1908. The sudden ad-
dition of £30,272 to the outgoings under this heading
is, therefore, rather unusual. It is made up as fol-
lows :
Commission.. .. .. ..£11,120
Salaries 3,563
Other charges .. .. .. 903
Taxes 4,843
Special investigation .. .. 1,733
Bonus to employees .. .. 8,110
£30,272
That throws a new light on the case. The small
salary increase and the bonus to employees were
well-earned; in fact, the staff probably deserved
more than it got. Extra taxation, of course, the
society is not responsible for. It was almost wholly
Federal land tax ( £3729), and considering that the
owner of £5OOO worth or less of land is exempt, and
that not a single policy-holder of the A.M.P. has a
£5OOO interest in the comparatively small bit of
property it holds, and that it can’t break up its big
estate unless it pulls down its offices and gives a
brick to each policy-holder, the charge seems like
making war on the co-operative principle. Increased
commission was the natural concomitant of the great
rush of new business. The real test of economy is
the miscellaneous expenses, and the expansion under
this heading ( £903) is infinitesimal.
Expenses show up as follows:
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1902 ..£8 14 0 per cent. 1907 ..£8 16 5 per cent.
1903 .. 817 0 „ 1908 .. 8 19 6
1904 .. 816 7 „ 1909 .. 812 11
1905 .. 815 6 „ 1910 ..871
1906 .. 817 2 „ 1911 .. 815 2
Something might be said in a carping spirit about
the manner in which the accounts are presented.
Thus, there come in succession three purely expense
items—commission, costs of management, and taxes.
Then comes “additional reserve for possible depre-
ciation of securities,” which is writing off; “cost
of special actuarial investigation” and “bonus to
officers and agents”—both expense items, and
then two more writing-off items. This is
a small matter, but a cantankerous publication, which
(thank Heaven!) The Bulletin is not, might feel
tempted to allude to it. In one respect the society
might make a better showing than it does. It writes
off £22,823, but certain foreclosed properties which
it sold realised £24,193 more than the book value,
which amount was lumped in with income. Instead
of the assets being represented as £22,823 over-
valued, they might have been presented as £1370
under-valued.
The process of estimating expenses by their re-
lation to total income is, of course, a very rough
and ready affair. Renewal business costs little;
new business costs a great deal in its first year.
Any office can work cheaply and commit suicide by
doing so little new business that it becomes a perish-
ing institution. A generally accepted method is to
allow 7 p.c. for the cost of renewal business ; 3 p.c.
for annuity business, and let the balance represent
the cost of the struggle for the new ordinary policy.
On that basis these are the figures:—
Renewal New Ex- New Busi-
Premiums. Premiums. penses. ness Cost.
1877.. £353,345 £33,951 £58,905 99‘6 p.c.
1887.. 837,164 103,694 131,591 70’1 ~
1897.. 1,220,405 105,788 179,215 87'4 ~
1907.. 1,791,403 163,348 272,267 85‘6 „
1908.. 1,868,208 166,640 285,804 s 91'9 ~
1909.. 1,944,035 168,972 .296,585 88‘8 ~
1910.. 2,022,470 185,559 291,775 79‘8 „
1911.. 2,100,236 208,529 322,047 82‘3 „
The costs are higher than those of 1910, and lower
than these of 1907, 1908 or 1909. But they are very un-
satisfactory figures, for when the usual fixed sum is
charged against the old business, the cost of the
Federal land tax falls wholly on the new business.
Yet the properties on which that impost falls repre-
sent the accumulations of the old policy-holders.
Leaving this item out of consideration, the increase
is not very material.
The total interest collected during 1911 was
£1,241,816. The rate was much the same as in
recent years:—
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1902 ..£4 9 6 per cent. 1907 ..£4 911 per cent.
1903 .. 4 810 „ 1908 ..4 9 4
1904 .. 4 9 0 ~ 1909 ..4 9 8
1905 .. 4 9 8 ~ 1910 ..4 9 8 „
1906 .. 4 9 7 ~ 1911 ..4 9 8
The A.M.P. makes its valuation annually, and de-
clares its bonus about the middle of each year. This
time the surplus amounts to £1,081,14i, as com-
pared with £1,039,602 for 1910. The improvement
isn’t a large one. It is proposed to reserve £175,000
for contingencies, and when an office has over
£28,000,000 of funds, and the country is on the
very summit of a land boom and a borrowing boom,
and has been enjoying a series of boom harvests, it
can’t be said that the amount looks excessive. It
may be fully sufficient, but as a matter of fact, no-
body is quite sure in boom times as to what is suffi-
cient. The bonus compares with premiums in this
fashion:—
ISHB-1893 (boom years) 40'3 p.c. of premiums
1894-1898' .. .. 34-1 „
1898-1903 .. .. 34-8 „ ~
1903-1906 .. .. 35-7 „
1907 .. .. 36-1 „ „
1908 .. .. 36-4 ~ „
1909 .. .. 36 5 „
1910 .. .. 38 0 „ ~
1911 .. .. 38-1 ~ „
During the year the amount of foreclosed properties
on hand was reduced by more than one-half. That
is not necessarily a good sign. In boom days a big
institution sells its little bit of foreclosed property
at high values, but it also lends money on a great
mass of new properties at high values, and prepares
the way for another big crop of foreclosures. And the
A.M.P. doesn’t seem to be making any special prepara-
tion for the bursting of the present boom. During
1911, a year of very high values, its advances on
mortgage increased by £641,758 (from £10,886,797
to £11,528,555), while its reserve against possible
depreciation of securities actually decreased by
£22,151 (front £58,182 to £36,031). Considering
the immense size of the A.M.P., this reserve is a
very small affair. In fact, it is almost too small to
be worth mentioning.
The A.M.P.’s Industrial department has been doing
rather better. It is still an expensive affair, but
the business is growing. During 1910 the income
increased by £27,715, and the expenses by £Bl5l,
or much less than one-third. During 1911 the income
increased by £35,122 and the expenses by £15,916,
or much more than one-third. So the increase of
business was obtained at very heavy cost. The
strength of every Industrial department lies in the fact
that the unfortunate person who pays the premiums
gets so very little out of it, largely by reason of the
fact that he so often gets tired and lets his policy
drop. Thus, in 1905, the person who paid the pre-
miums collected £124, while the person who looked
after the person who paid the premiums got £19,069.
Last year things were better. But the person who
ran the business collected nearly 12 times as much
as the person who supplied the business, and the
amount added to the funds was less than the cost of
adding the money to the funds. Yet 1911 was the
best year up to date. These are the figures:—
INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT.
Ex- Added I o Added to
Income. Claims. penses. Deficit. Funds.
1905.. £6,123 £124 £19,069 £13,070
1906.. 18,610 669 23,572 5,631
1907.. 34,551 1689 30,663 £2 199
1908.. 54,284 2534 36,018 15 682
1909.. 77,723 2821 43,488 31 414
1910.. 105,438 4189 51,639 49 610
1911.. 140,560 5775 67,555 67,230
They show that Industrial assurance is a costly affair
for the at the best of times.
The Colonial Mutual Life Association an-
nounces its intention to ask the Parliament of Vic-
toria to pass an Act to amend its memorandum of
association in order to remove any doubt that the
society is anything but a purely mutual institution.
When the Colonial Mutual was founded, the Life
Assurance Companies Act was not in existence, and
the society was registered under the trading section
of the Companies Act; but as its constitution made
reference to “shareholders,” a question has arisen
as to whether the Assoc, is a company limited by
shares, or entirely mutual. Eminent horsehairs not
being quite sure on the point, Victoria’s mediocre
politicians will be asked, at the first favorable oppor-
tunity, to make it so clear that even King O’Malley
could understand it. Existing claims will be in no
way affected or prejudiced, and the business, which
has always been, and still is, carried on upon strictly
mutual insurance society lines, will not be interfered
with.
* * * *
The Bank of Australasia:—
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Oct , 1903.. £151,598 12p.c. = £96,000 £25,000 £1,146,951
Ap1.,1904.. 150,934 12 „ „ 96,000 25,000 1,176,885
Oct., 1904.. 140,066 12 „ ~ 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
Apl., 1905.. 136.153 12 „ „ 96,000 10,000 1,237,104
Oct., 1905.. 137,451 12 ~ ~ 96,000 11,000 1.267,555
Apl., 1906.. 137,795 12,, ~ 96,000 12,000 1,297,350
Oct., 1906.. 153,512 14 „ ~112,000 12,000 1,326,862
Apl., 1907.. 227,463 14,, ~112,000 15,000 1,427,325
Oct., 1907.. 188,750 14,, ~112,000 18,000 1,486,075
Apl., 1908.. 212,029 14 „ ~112,000 20,000 1,566,104
0ct.,1908.. 1.87,691 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl., 1909.. 174,111 14 „ „ 112,000 12,000 1,676,906
Oct., 1909.. 177,566 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,727,472
Apl., 1910.. 193,722 16 ~ ~128,000 18,000 1,775,194
Oct., 1910.. 198,531 16 ~ ~128,000 20,000 1,825,725
Apl., 1911.. 198,460 16 ~ ~128,000 20,000 1,876,185
Oct., 1911.. 205,889 17.,, ~136,000 20,000 1,926,074
The Bank of Australasia is a striking evidence of the
advantages of bringing foreign capital into the coun-
try. This institution, financed by British money,
came here early (in 1835) to drag profits out of
Australia for the benefit of -mostly English capitalists.
It began as an institution in 5000 shares, of which
4500 were held in England and 500 “in the colonies,”
so it was mainly English. For the use of its Eng-
lish capital, Australia has never, since the year 1853,
paid less than 5 p.c. per annum, and the great part
of the time it has paid anything between 10 and 20
p.c. Still, there have been worse cases; for the use
of the British capital brought into Australia by the
Union Bank, this country has paid as much as 36
p.c. per annum. About the solidity of the Bank of
Australasia it is quite unnecessary to say anything
The record speaks for itself. There are, however,
some interesting points about the recent figures:—
Oct., 1910. Oer., 1011.
Notes .. .. £564,886 £227,860 Dec. £337,026
Bills, etc. .. 2,823,365 2,753,640 Dec. 69,725
Deposits .. 16,896,476 17,414,474 Inc. 517,998
Liquid assets .. 8,952,670 8,079,678 Dec. 872,992
Advances .. 14,755,338 15,892,891 Inc. 1,137,553
Premises .. 130,443 85,480 Dec. 44,963
The premises account is, of course, a sort of joke.
Away back in 1901 the bank’s buildings and free-
holds in Australia, Maoriland and London, were
valued at £383,176, and then there is every reason
to believe that they were undervalued. Further
back, in 1894, they apneared in the balance-sheet as
worth £444,102, and it is practically certain that
they were undervalued then. When the institution
sets ('own its present much mere extensive and costlv
premises at £85,480, it may be safely assumed that
there is, in this item alone, a hidden reserve of at
least £400,000 —probably £500,000. When the
premises account is wholly wiped off, and the amounts
now devoted to it have to go to reserves, it won’t be
so very long, according to present appearances, be-
fore the reserve fund gets level with that of the Bank
of England. The Bank of Australasia is already
ahead of that boasted institution in two respects: its
dividend is larger, and its reserve is greater than its
capital, whereas the reserve of the Bank of England
is less than one-fourth the capital.
The Australasia’s holding of cash ( £5,178,150) is
greater than it was a year ago, but its total liquid
securities are less, chiefly because of a decline of over
a million in the item, “Loans at call and at short
notice.” Because of this country’s absurdly large
volume of imports, the result of an absurdly ineffi-
cient tariff, and the drain of gold to pay for these
imports, every bank doing business in Australasia
finds it difficult, these days, to keep its pile of liquid
securities from diminishing. But the ’Asia’s position
is remarkably strong, and it will be able for a long
time to view the drain of gold with equanimity. The
size of the earnings calls for some notice:—
Profits in Proportion to Shareholders’ Funds.
Apl., 1907 .. £l5 10 10 p.c. Oct., 1909.. £lO 16 9 p.c.
Oct., 1907.. 12 9 5 ~ Apl., 1910.. 1112 10 ~
Apl., 1908.. 13 410 „ Oct., 1910.. 1115 3 „
Ocr,., 1908 . 11 16 9 „ Ap1.,1911.. 1111 8 „
Apl., 1909 .. 10 15 10 „ Oct., 1911.. 11 16 11 „
Only an institution which had written- down its
assets to bedrock could show such earnings, and yet
escape all suspicion of risky trading. And that is a
suspicion which the ’Asia has always escaped.
The City and Suburban Building Soci-
ety (Brisbane)
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. i 5914 4 p.c. =£4007 £2ll £1696 £12,025
1901.. 4937 4 „ „ 3221 556 1160 13,185
19'>2.. 4778 4 ~ „ 3221 1,417 140 13,325
1903.. 4502 4 ~ ~ 3219 1,192 91 13,416
1904.. 4547 4 „ ~ 3159 1,353 35 13,451
1905.. 4381 4 ~ „ 3185 10,380 4,267
1906.. 4142 4 „ ~ 3190 463 489 4,756
1907.. 4201 4 ~ ~ 3196 594 411 5,167
1908.. 4358 4 ~ „ 3184 718 486 5,653
1909.. 4552 4 „ „ 3173 421 958 6,611
1910.. 5068 4J ~ ~ 3376 1,280 412 7,023
1911.. 5329 4J „ ~ 3801 347 1181 8,204
1912.. 5792 5 „ „ 4023 517 1252 9,456
The profits have been growing of late years. Still, it
may be noticed that they are less than in 1900, that
the writing off is heavier, that the dividend is larger,
that the amount transferred to reserves is smaller,
and that the total nominal reserves are less. The
City and Suburban is a big affair, with £75,749 of
paid up capital and the reserves shown above. It
owes only £83,864 to depositors, so its assets would
have to slump rather more than 50 p.c. before the
deposits could be endangered. This makes the posi-
tion of the depositors very solid indeed —more so
than in the average bank—but it doesn’t help the
society to earn huge profits. Even to earn such pro-
fits as it does, it has to lend out pretty nearly all
its resources. Out of total assets of £172,530 mort-
gages ( £156,012) and freehold ( £7000) represent
£163,012. The rest consists of cash, £1965; sun-
dry debtors, £7l ; fixed deposits (which can’t always
be realised at a moment’s notice), £5052; and Aus-
tralian Bank of Commerce shares and accrued divi-
dend, £2430. The A.B.C. shares are described as
being put in at face value, and they are worth so
much less than face value just now that the reserves
would look more real if they were written down.
Altogether, the institution might find a big run by its
depositors an awkward business.
Years ago the City and Suburban had a bad time,
the same as its neighbors. That was when the old
boom broke. The present boom isn’t likely to break
so disastrously, for the banks aren’t loaded up with
foreign deposits as they were 20 years ago. Yet
there is a boom on hand, and the tremendous bor-
rowings of the Denham Government—also of the
McGowen Government in the State next door —are
feeding it. Some kind of a slump (possibly a mild
one) must come. The City and Suburban Building
Society lent, for the year just closed, £18,363 more
than last year—it was its biggest loan year save one.
The amount owing by borrowers increased by £16,617.
To achieve this result it hustled earnestly for more
deposits, and increased its debt to depositors by
£10,501; also, it reduced its holding of liquid
securities. All this lending had, of course, to be
done on current valuations, which are high valua-
tions, thanks to good seasons, big loans and other in-
fluences, and it can only be hoped that the margin is
wide, for things may happen. In the desire to pro-
vide money for new loans, the society sold its holding
of A.B.C. reconstructed 4 p.c. deposits at a discount,
presumably at about 16s. 3d., that being the recent
rate. That was selling what was practically a 5 p.c.
security—for A.B.C. deposits yield about 5 p.c. on
their market price—and selling a pound for 16s. and
a few coppers. Also, as already mentioned, the pro-
ceeding seriously reduced the stock of liquid securi-
ties. The business may be safe enough, but in the
capital of a bard-borrowing State it is advisable to
have very wide margins.
* * * *
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which was
formed early in 1910 to take over the A.B.C. cafes,
and began with £17,965 of its capital represented
by goodwill, which, of course, is a purely paper
asset:—
Profits. Dividends. Written Off. Deficit.
Apr., 1910.. £17,965
Sept., 1910.. £2347 6 p.c. =£loso £428 17,096
Mar., 1911.. 3384 8 ~ „ 1400 228 15,340
Sept., 1911.. 3861 10 ~ ~ 1750 553 13,782
Mar., 1912.. 3461 10 „ „ 1750 439 12,510
It is a question whether Aerated Bread has not hurried
too much to put up its dividend from 8 to 10 p.c.,
especially as the profits have drifted back to about
the point at which they stood before the dividend was
put up. Among the assets are “Goodwill, £17,950”
(this item has been reduced by only £l5 since the
co. started business), and goodwill simply represents
in this case the habit people have of buying food at
certain shops. The habit (or goodwill) really belongs
to the people rather than to the co. Another £3826
of assets represent leasehold property, which is a
perishing variety of asset. On the other side of the
accounts, £lOOO of the reserves consists of a “general
depreciation account,” and if any part of the depre-
ciation which this is meant to cover has already
occurred, then the reserve isn’t wholly genuine. As-
suming, however, that the £lOOO depreciation reserve
is intact (which may net be the case), and that the
perishable leasehold item is worth the figure set
against it, then the deficit is still £12,510. And
though that is much less than the deficit of a year
ago, still it is a fairly large item for a co. with only
£35,000 paid up capital and with a slightly dimin-
ished profit. It would have been much better if the
co. had kept its dividend at 6 p.c. till the paper
item was wholly obliterated and a real reserve built
up, and had then started to wallow in moderate
luxury. The best feature of the case is the solidity
of the liquid assets. This is the position:—
Assets. ■ • •>
' Sept., Sept.; March,
1910. 1911. 1912.
Cash and Book Debts .. £6056 £10,109 £9128
Liabilities. ,
Sundry creditors, etc. .. 2909 3,433 3891
Surplus .. £3147 £6,676 £5237
Between September, 1911, and March, 1912, the free-
hold property item was increased by £lOO7, and the
leasehold one by about £5OO. But for these circum-
stances the liquid assets would probably have re-
mained at about the figure of six months ago, or
have shown a slight increase.
Burns, Philp and Co., Limited, ship-
owners, South Sea Island traders, merchants, etc.
(paid-up capital, £700,000): —
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901 £49,690 8 p.c. = £22,000 £27,690 £219,036
1902 58,076 8„ „ 22,000 36,076 255,112
1903 60,775 8 „ „ 22,000 38,775 293,887
1904 41,900 8,, ~ 24,000 £12,372 5,528 299,415
1905 44,586 8,, „ 24,000 20,586 320,001
1906 43,276 8„ „ 24,000 -- 19,276 339,277
1907 55,637 10 „ ~ 30,000 20,000 5,637 344,914
1908” 69,787 10 „ ~ 30,000 10,000 29,787 374,701
1909 54,915 10 „ „ 30,000 24,915 399,616
1910 70,167 10 „ „ 30,000 15,000 25,167 424,783
1911.. 79,890 10 ~ ~ 30,000 49.890 474,673
£350,000 of reserves transferred to capita),
making it £700,000 124,673
1912.. 99,704 5 p.c. = 35,000 64,704 189,377
At March, 1911, the balance-sheet set forth that
Burns, Philp and Co. had a subscribed capital of
£350,000, of which £300,000 was paid up. It
transferred - £350,000 of reserves to capital, making
£650,000 paid up. Also, it either called up £50,000,
or the msney fell from Heaven (more probably the
former), for it is now a company of £700,000 capi-
tal, all paid up. Furthermore, it has acquired power
to increase its capital to £2,000,000, for Burns,
Phijp and Co. propose to launch out. There is a
great commercial future ahead of Papua and the
little islands, and this firm intends to be there. As
another step in its career of expansion, it is about to
issue 100,000 shares, raising the capital to £BOO,OOO.
Present shareholders are to be allowed to take these
up pro rata, at par —-that is to say, the present holder
of 700 shares will have a chance to buy 100 new
shares at bedrock price. And in case he should be
short of immediate cash, the co. suggests drawing
£52,500 from the reserve fund (the reserve grows so
fast that that sort of thing can be done with im-
punity), and paying a bonus of Is. 6d. per share.
Thus, the holder of 700 shares will receive £52 10s.
to help him to pay for his £lOO worth of new
shares. Thus will the wind be tempered to the
well-clad lamb.
Some particulars of the assets and liabilities fol-
low :
Liabilities.
1900. 1905. 1910. 1911. 1912.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. 275,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 700,000
Reserves .. 213,346 344,001 479,783 510,674 236,877
Other Debts 222,294 167,334 195,435 203,396 194,990
Assets.
Stock .. 186,881 164,318 180,551 198,037 230,807
Properties.. 144,679 171,000 155,000 140,000 148,000
Shipping .. 72,707 110,600 168,485 191,148 222,930
Book debts 197,233 215,748 245,011 255,430 306,248
Cash and in-
vestments 71,447 74,827 84,340 94,262 104,197
Other assets 37,693 74,842 141,831 141,193 119,685
That list is characteristic of the Islands. The brown
gentleman with whom Burns, Philp and Co. do
business doesn’t trade on white man principles. His
is a land of slow trade, big profits and long credit.
The bad debts are heavy (“bad debts and sundry
losses” stand for over £31,000 during the last finan-
cial year), but on the other hand the margin is very
wide, and if three brown customers pay out of four,
the fourth doesn’t matter so much as he would in a
white man’s country. The amounts owing to the co.
are £286,128, which is fairly suggestive of the land
of long credit. The merchandise on hand —presum-
ably for sale to the brown person—represents
£230,807. The goods bought from the brown per-
son, and now on their way to the European market,
are set down as worth £119,685. All the figures
are big and imposing. It is a trade at which an
amateur would perish financially very early in his
career. But in the hands of experts, like the Burns,
Philp people, it pays splendidly.
* * * *
“An Interested Citizen”: Let me draw .at-
tention to several matters which Mr. Knox, of the
Colonial Sugar Co., has not touched on. The C.S.R.
Co. state they are not growers of cane. But it would
be as well to state when they ceased to grow cane. The
C.S.R. Co. say, in 1909 they imported Java sugar at
£1 Is. per ton below the price paid for Australian
raw sugar, but Mr. Knox does not give specific dates
of purchase of Java to compare with the dates of
purchase of Australian. This is important, because
official figures from Java show that 94 N.T. raws were
sold at £ll ss. to £l3 15s. f.o.b. there, as com-
pared with the official figures of Queensland Government
Sugar Bureau, giving price of raws paid by C.S.R.
Co. as £ll 3s. sdf. f.o.b. Queensland, and these
figures do not agree, especially if sugar was pur-
chased on a six months’ contract in the same manner
that C.S.R. Co. purchased. The basis of purchase
by C.S.R. Co. for Australian raws is at £9 7s. 6d.
per ton f.o.b. Queensland, plus any advances of their
tariff, according to how they wish to operate, and
which could be done after shutting out merchants
from operating on Java—the C.S.R. Co. are on a safe
wicket, and cannot, therefore, lose anything in buy-
ing Queensland. The C.S.R. Co., instead of giving
details of prices of Java sugar for 1906, 1907, 1908,
1909 and 1910, group the prices and make an
average covering this period. Seeing that in
the earlier portion of these years prices were low
and in the latter portion very high, it has enabled the
C.S.R. Co. to furnish such a high price for Aus-
tralian raws. Take, for instance, 1908, which year
they select. They state Australian raw sugar cost
them £l2 10s., against £lO Bs. 4d., at which they
could have bought Java. The official figures from
Java show that in March-April, 94 N.T. was selling
at the price they mention, but these months are after
the Queensland season is over —it finishes in December
—but they could not have bought at such a low price
before or after March-April of that year. The
official figures showing that Java raws were selling
there from May at £l3 upwards f.o.b. Without
exact dates from C.S.R. Co. of the low prices they
mention and the higher rates ruling for Java at other
dates, their statement requires verification. In 1909
Australian raws were purchased by them at £ll 3s.
sd. (from official bureau returns), whilst official Java
returns show 94 N.T. raws were selling there at £l3
15s. f.o.b. and higher. Perhaps C.S.R. Co. could ex-
plain this difference. Mr. Knox’s statements to the
press are an invitation for criticism from the public,
and as the Sugar Commission of Inquiry will no
doubt require personal details from him as to fort-
nightly or monthly prices of Queensland and Java
raw sugar for comparison, these figures are given to
show with such a market as sugar it is most desir-
able to give details of prices instead of lumping
things over a period to make low prices be cov-
ered up by higher market rates. The C.S.R. Co. can
furnish all these particulars, as no doubt such a con-
cern have weekly cable quotations. Mr. Knox, in his
statement and special points, does not refer at all
to Millaquin Refinery, nor make denial of any agree-
ments or contracts, although it is well known the
C.S.R. Co. had on several occasions endeavored to
purchase Millaquin Refinery, hawing previously bought
out the Australasian Sugar Co. of Melbourne,
also Poolman’s Refinery of Melbourne, and later the
newly-erected refinery put up in Sydney also by Pool-
man, which has been closed ever since. It would be
interesting to learn if C.S.R. Co. have had at any
time any agreement or understanding with any re-
fineries in America or British Columbia or China,
with regard to exports from Australia to those places
in competition with C.S.R. Co. If the Queensland
Central Sugar Mills did not accept whatever price
C.S.R. Co. offered, what would become of the sugar?
C.S.R. Co. specially point out in their statement they
are only refiners, but as it is known they sell raw
sugars in competition with merchants, it would be
interesting to know what quantity has been sold by
them each year during the past 10 years.
* * * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney): - Reserves
(not in-
cluding
£500,000
Depre-
Toße- eiation
Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
Sept., 1904.. £105,111 10p.c. = £104,608 £503 £423,416
Mar., 1905.. 155,322 15 „ „ 164,705 414,033
Sept., 1905.. 112,343 10 „ ~ 109,965 2,378 416,411
Mar., 1906.. 112,042 10 „ ~ 110,000 2,042 418,453
Sept., 1906.. 111,679 10 ~ ~ 110,000 1,679 420,132
Mar., 1907.. 110,827 10 ~ ~ 110,000 827 420,959
Sept., 1907.. 118,057 10 ~ ~ 110,000 8,057 429,016
£75,000 of reserves capitalised .. 354,016
Mar., 1908.. 134,782 10p.c.= 124,037 10,745 364,761
Sept., 1908.. 146,493 10 „ ~ 124,885 21,608 386,369
£350,000 of reserves capitalised .. 36,369
Mar., 1909.. 162,632 10p.c. = 142,500 20,132 56,501
Sept., 1909.. 168,881 10 „ „ 142,500 26,381 82,882
Mar., 1910.. 175,599 10 „ „ 142,500 33,090 115,972
Sept., 1910.. 196,714 10,, „ 142,500 54,214 170,186
£150,000 of reserves capitalised .. 20,186
Mar., 1911.. 207,428 10p.c. = 150,000 57,428 77,614
Sept., 1911.. 210,830 11 „ „ 165,000 45,830 123,444
Mar., 1912.. 225,601 12£„ ~ 187,500 38,101 161,545
This company has a name as the champion weeper
of Australia. Six months ago its complaint con-
cerned “heavy rain and floods,” “exceedingly dry
weather,” and the lack of any reason to believe that
“a permanent advance in the value of sugar has been
or will be established.” That (and four or five other
disasters) were very sad indeed, and the co. bowed
with grief, showed the biggest profit to date, and


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
tlie largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; CERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office alb Standard Code-Books maybe
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ’’are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4bd. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
&
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
paid an 11 p.c. dividend and bonus. This, of course,
was really much more than 11 p.c. on the money
actually paid up by shareholders, for even within the
last five years £575,000 of reserves have been trans-
ferred to capital. That is to say, a huge amount of
capital has been provided by the public, and not
by the shareholders, yet the shareholders get dividends
upon it, and the public provides them. That is an
experience the public often has. It first furnishes
capital, and then pays interest on it.
This half-year the co. is specially depressed. It
complains of “unusual weather experiences,” “sharp
drought followed by cyclonic storms,” a short crop,
“disturbed industrial position,” and trouble with the
Fijian Government. Amid its tears it admits that
the profits are nearly £15,000 ahead of the record
figure of the previous half-year; that the dividend and
bonus have sobbed themselves up to 12J p.c.; and
that £38,101 has been added miserably to the re-
serves. The paid-up capital is £3,000,000, and re-
serves, including replacement and depreciation fund,
are £661,546. Of the profits, £120,601 are made in
Australia, and £105,000 in Maoriland and Fiji, so
this white labor country isn’t treating the Colonial
S. R. Co. so very badly. The co. has £619,880 in
cash, and £868,598 in “sundry debtors, bills re-
ceivable, loans, advances, and other investments.”
Thus it doesn’t lack a trifle of small change to go
on with.
The Co-operative Wool and Produce
Co. (Sydney) :
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
Feb., 1899.. 6p.c. = £ll2 £2538 £2,745
Feb., 1900.. £8,788 6 ~ „ 304 4506 3978 6,723
April, 1901.. 320 6 ~ ~ 855 6,188
June, 1902.. 2,689 6 „ ~1409 1280 7,468
June, 1903.. 1,625 6 ~ ~ 1306 319 7,787
June, 1904.. 2,012 6 „ ~1335 677 8,464
June, 1905.. 4,783 6 ~ ~1335 1742 1706 10,170
June, 1906.. 9,526 6 ~ ~1335 3183 5008 15,178
June, 1907.. 10,669 7 „ ~ 1559 4523 4587 19,765
Written off securities, £2615 .. 17,150
June, 1908.. 8,066 7p.c.= 1560 2504 4002 21,152
Written off securities, £2840 .. 18,312
June, 1909.. 9,572 10 p.c. = 2229 2924 4419 22,731
June, 1910.. 16,482 10 „ ~2229 6283 7970 30,701
June, 1911.. 10,779 10 „ ~3973 5311 1495 32,196
Mar., 1912.. 7,555 10 „ ~3000 3669 886 33,082
£4OO written off .. .. .. 32,682
This co. has again altered the date of its balance, so
the present accounts are for nine months only. Con-
sequently, the profits are at the rate of about
£10,073 per annum, which is only a shade less than
the figure for last year. Last year showed a great
decline as compared with 1910, but that was a phe-
nomenal occasion. The earnings for the past
nine months are at the rate of £25 3s. Bd. p.c. p.a.
on the paid-up capital of £40,000, which can’t be
regarded as a depressing figure. The £4OO written
off was taken from a special reserve fund, to pay a
bonus to the retiring assistant manager. The earn-
ings of this company, like that of others in the same
line of business, wander up and down with less regard
than might be expected to the amount of business
done. It is paid by commission, and that depends on
the value of the products it sells. Thus it may make
a big profit on the sale of 50,000 bales of wool this
year, and a smaller one on the sale of 60,000 next
year. Also, it may spread its business and acquire
new clients, and give perfect satisfaction to old
ones, and yet show an occasional grievous slump in
trade, for there are times in Australia when the great
wool king has little use for a selling agent; what he
really wants is a swift, mechanical device for dragging
dead jumbueks out of waterholes. For the term just
finished wool was cheaper than last year, and last
year it was cheaper than the year before, which is
the reason of various things. It is perhaps a sign
of the times that the Co-operative Wool and Produce
Co- is not quite so strong in liquid assets as it was
nine months ago. At June, 1911, cash and sundry
debtors ( £21,604) were £646 ahead of sundry credi-
tors (£20,958). Now liquid assets are £20,970,
and sundry creditors are £23,073. Still this is a
small matter in the case of such an extremely solid
concern.
At the Queen Bee copper mine (N.S.W.)
everything is ready for putting the blast furnace and
reverter into commission. Ore has to be carefully
dressed to bring it up to smelting grade. A week’s
run gave 130 tons, from which 60 tons of 7 p.c. ore
was picked out. The southern ore body would cer-
tainly be better able to stand a smelting campaign
after a course of development, but the Q.B. is anxious
to become revenue producing at a time when the
copper market seems favorable. Practically the same
policy obtained in the early days of the mine, when
large shipments of rich ore were made to avoid calls.
Partly in consequence of forced production, the divi-
dends were wretchedly small in proportion to the
value of copper produced. It is very much to be
doubted whether copper can be produced for £5O per
ton. Wallaroo and Moonta, after a hard try for years
past, has not produced copper at £5O per ton, after
its ore to 9 p.c. ■ # • #
Because the lode formation is sometimes
50ft. wide, the Junction mine, at Broken Hill
(N.S.W.), is estimated to have 527,4.26 tons of silver-
lead ore in, reserve. Such a yarn is meaningless with-
out assay values. The reopening, of old_ workings has
'disclosed some good milling ore, _ which will help
to improve the returns f or some time to come, but
previous reports on the Junction mine make it clear
that the bulk of the reserves are low grade for silver,
lead and zinc. As compared with some of the other
Broken Hill mines, the Junction is comparatively
shallow. Its deepest level is at 775 ft., but much
of the ore is only worth 12 p.c. and 13 p.c., and is
difficult to concentrate, because it is extremely hard
and fine grained. The Junction and Junction North
mines have lower zinc values than other mines on the
Barrier (at lower levels, from 6 to 8 p-c. of zinc),
and so far no process has come to light that doesn’t
leave 3 p.c. zinc in the final residues.
The new estimate of ore reserves in Block
10 mine (Broken Hill), as calculated by manager
O. B. Ward, only emphasises the fact that figures of
that kind are to" some extent unreliable. There are
only 100,000 shares to draw dividends, so a reserve
of 283,000 tons of sulphide ore counts for as much
as three times that quantity of equal grade in the
British, and 3,113,000 tons in the Central (Sulphide
Corporation), which is burdened with 1,100,000
shares. The real trouble is that Block 10 ore is
difficult to treat, and that costs swallow a big pro-
portion of the revenue. Then, if from 2000 to 3000
tons are treated per week, it is quite evident that
development work cannot be neglected for fear of
exhausting the most payable ore bodies, and leaving
the mine unprofitable. Reserves throughout all the
B. H. mines include an enormous quantity of lower-
grade ore than that going through the mills. Block
10 is considered to have made a poor start with its
new mill, but it must be remembered that it has
been treating 12.8 p.c. lead with 12.40 z. silver, and
14.8 p.c. zinc per ton of ore. The recovery has been
low, because the ore was poor and somewhat refrac-
tory. As a general thing, it is much easier to save
12 units from 16 p.c. ore (a recovery of 75 p.c.)
than to save eight units out of 12 p.c. (a recovery of
66 p.c.), though in each case the by-products (tail-
ings and slimes) receive four units of lead. The
nature of the ore is almost as important as its
quality, and garnet and rhodonite ores like those at
Block 10 are the worst. Still, the rhodonite ore is
the richest in silver, and that at Block 10 is of high
grade for zinc. In fact, in the olden days, thousands
of tons of 30 p.c. zinc tailings were sold at a ridicu-
lously low price.
The Heddon-Gbeta Coal Co. (N.S.W.) :
Total Deficit
Charged (apart
to from
Coal Land Develop- Develop-
Sales, etc. Sales. ment. ment).
Mar., 1904.. £9,927 £209 £9,881 £1520
Sept., 1904.. 11,898 278 11,017- 2054
Mar., 1905.. 11,986 12,450 2054
Sept., 1905.. 6,956 13,961 3406
Mar., 1906.. 12,420 14,323 3538
Sept., 1906.. 10,373 14,323 3394
Mar., 1907.. 11,197 14,323 3770
Sept., 1907.. 19,194 14,323 1903
Mar., 1908.. 16,468 —14,63 S
Reserves.
Sept., 1908.. 14,285 15,900 1004
Mar., 1909.. 9,883 15,966 421
Deficit.
Sept., 1909.. 11,035 15,966 799
Mar., 1910.. 5,875 15,966 727
Reserves.
Sept., 1910.. 12,343 15,966 401
Deficit.
Mar., 1911.. 4,205 15,966 1085
Reserves.
Sept., 1911.. 2,493 15,966 211
Mar., 1912.. 773 15,906 155
This co. has had wretched luck. Over three years
ago the pit had to be sealed down, on account of a
heating which took place in the old workings. Since
then, of course, no revenue has come from coal sales.
The receipts ( £773) have come from hiring out the
waggons, etc. Although over £lBO,OOO worth of
coal has been got, the shareholders haven’t got a
penny; the original price paid for the mine was
£25,000, and the co. has put something like
£40,000 into the property, and now owes £7401.
During the half-year the co.’s waggons were sold for
£16,400, and the co. has now decided to commit
suicide, and divide what is left in its purse. Prop-
erty, plant and furniture are valued at £54,003.
But the railway siding, for instance, isn’t a handy
movable, and heavy plant often has little value
except on the spot where it was originally planted.
The mine certainly isn’t worth the £25,000 men-
tioned in the accounts. Sundry debtors amount to
£lBl, and stores on hand —which will probably lose
a good deal of their value at a forced sale —represent
£823. On the other hand, the co. owes £7401
(debentures, £2500; sundry creditors, £1548; and
bank overdraft, £3353). The outlook for the
preference shareholders, who stand for £20,844,
looks very poor. That for the ordinaries ( £42,573)
looks nil.
The Great Peak Silver Mining Co., Yar-
randerie (N.S.W.), has been successfully floated on
the strength of 18in. of silver-bearing galena at the
• bottom of an underlie shaft 450 ft. deep. This field
has been showing much activity of late, the success
of one or two shows stimulating interest in the rest.
It is only suitable for lightly capitalised concerns,
the lode being small, though rich, and remarkably
persistent. It has been proved by one shaft to a
depth of 1300 ft., and still going strong. The capital
of the co. is £lO,OOO, in 20,000 shares of 10s. each,
of which 9000 fully-paid are issued to the vendors,
3000 held in reserve, and the rest contributing. The
area held is 76 acres to the east of the field.
Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.) has had
variable luck, just like the miners had to put up
with in the olden days. The latest report from the
mine manager explains how difficult it is to give
average values from Phillipsen’s reef, which hitherto
has shown the best prospects. A rise, started 60ft.
from the face of the drive, had at first only lOdwt.
stone, but at 20ft. up the face shows a few inches
of lOoz. stone. In extending the drive from 247 ft.
to 267 ft., there has been a big decline in values from
lOoz. per ton to 2oz. per ton. Fairly good but vari-
able prospects have been showing over 172 ft. of
driving (from 195 ft. to 267 ft.), and this reef is
being prepared for stoping. A bulk crushing will, of
course, give a better idea of its values than any num-
ber of assays can do.
* * * *
“Neighbor”: Bluff Colliery (Q.), which
lately held its fourteenth half-yearly meeting, had
nothing very great to talk about. Its half-yearly
output fell 1036 tons short of the previous lap, which
then totalled 8500 tons. The excuses on offer are
the strike, long Christmas holidays, a boiler giving
out, and, incidentally, “orders fluctuated consider-
ably.” The subsidiary co., which sprouted out with
the" intention of testing the Mammoth Coal property,
had rather a disappointing time in getting the stuff
away, though, eventually, the reduced order of 200
tons for the Admiralty test got to the ship’s bunkers.
The first parcel of 56 tons, despatched some two
years ago, gave, it is said, most excellent results.
The co. gets brighter in its director’s report when it
refers to its Blair Athol property (mentioned B.
11/4/’l2). Then it slumps horribly, and says: “New
capital, to the extent of 6000 shares of £1 each,
was approved and offered to the public, but, so far,
with disappointing results.” The accounts show a
working deficit of £220 in the half-year, but this
provides for £686 11s. lid. developmental expendi-
ture, and £62 14s. lid. spent on its new hope at
Blair Athol. * * *
Brilliant Deeps (Charters Towers)
crushed 215 tons for £1046, which is below the
average of the stuff previously crushed from No. 4
levels. That gave about £7 per ton. But the
Deeps has always been a patchy mine, and will pro-
vide a brisk gamble for some time to come. At No.
5 level the crosscut has not succeeded in striking a
good reef, but it passed through formation, and on
further development it seems very likely that the
reef so well proved in No. 4 will be intercepted in
No. 5. Some time since better stone was struck in
the winze from No. 4, but taken as a whole the
winze proves that the reef east of the crosscut is un-
reliable.
* * * *
At Charters Towers, Marshall’s Queen has
connected its underground workings west of the
Queen Central boundary with its own shaft, from
which the stone is now being hauled. It is also in-
tended to crosscut for the reef left by the Bonnie
Dundee on the boundary. The last crushing was
worth under £3 per ton, so Marshall’s requires a
sweetener.... Brilliant Extended returns have been
unremunerative for some time past. Last month
2760 tons were crushed, and 2600 tons cyanided, for
£3911, which, after paying expenses, leaves the co.
£1430 to the bad. This follows on the heels of a
loss of £1444 for the previous month More in-
terest has been taken in Kelly’s Queen Block, because
payable stone is being raised from two reefs, one a
cross reef off the Brilliant (1450 ft.), and the other
a section of the St. George reef, at the 657 ft. level.
An underlie or underlay winze has been started at
the end of the crosscut, with a reef of fair quality
showing in the bottom, which will be the first attempt
by Kelly’s co. to prove the St. George reef in deeper
country. The recent return of £5 per ton was con-
sidered highly payable, and a satisfactory feature was
the high proportion of gold saved in the concentrates.
In olden days the returns averaged about loz. per ton,
but a considerable quantity of mineral and gold was
lost.
* * * *
For April, Mount Elliott (Queensland)
smelted 4704 tons of ore for (approximately) metals
worth £47,455. A gross value slightly over £lO
per ton should make for big profits. The converter
return was: copper, 612 tons; gold, 11350 z. ; silver,
7530 z. The ore smelted gave on the average 13 p.c.
copper, value £9 2s. per ton. Gold and silver are
worth about £1 per ton of ore, and as the furnaces
require between seven and eight tons of Mount
Elliott ore to run out a ton of blister the latter con-
tains on the average between £7 and £8 worth of
precious metals. The ore proved by the bore-hole in
Mount Elliott’s No. 5 level (550 ft.) is now being
developed from the crosscut. The best seam is near
the end of the crosscut, and a drill hole put down
10ft. passed through 13 p.c. stuff. The reports are
vague, and a great deal remains to be proved. This
development is encouraging, but it is needless to say
that the market has raced madly ahead of proved
values; £BOO,OOO is a lot of money against such
limited reserves. Elliott may have made a lucky
purchase in taking Hampden Consols for £53,000,
for the latter will provide some good ore and plenty
of metal-bearing flux. In bargaining for amalga-
tion with the Hampden Co. Elliott is in a stronger
position, because it is no secret that the pvritic fluxing
ore was much desired by both cos. Elliott’s long
purse is standing to it, while Hampden is certainly
not too well supplied with ready cash, and probably
didn’t care to borrow £53,000 to buy the Consols.
* * * *
Stannary Hills Tin (North Queensland)
is in a bad way, and the mill will shortly close down
for lack of profitable ore. A loss of £7065 was
made on the half-year’s work. The Dead Finish,
though it produced some rich ore from the deepest
level, has failed to pull this very much overweighted
concern through its troubles. There is some excuse
for Stannary, for, at the start, it had as many shares
as there are inhabitants in Sydney. Its best hope is
the Dead Finish.
* * * *
Central Red, White and Blue, Bendigo, is
making a gallant effort to again reach the £5 limit.
The co. has been honored with one of the old-time
plans in the Argus. It is a hummer of great hum-
power, and on one call of 3d. has returned 50s. per
share to the little people who planked in sprats for
a gamble. At 403 ft. in the Little Lansell’s, next
door, the south drive of that mine is carrying good
gold to within 60ft. of the Red, White and Blue’s
north boundary. Consequently it is to the north,
once the co. gets going at lower levels, that the
Little 180 formation should be picked up. If a strike
of stone is made there, it will -not be £5 that will
hold shares. To help things along good stone has
been got after 300 ft. of resultless driving at the
318 ft. level. Thus the gods favor those who play the
game. A fortnight ago the manager admitted that
he had been slipped up in his idea of ioz. gold
yields. Now he has slipped up the knowing crowds
who won’t have it that any additional shoots of gold
could be met with north in the 318 ft. level
Chiltern Valley, Rutherglen (Vic.), intends
to sink a new shaft, and altogether to put its house in
order. To do this it will block out all the work
done at the Wallace No. 3 shaft, and sell off every-
thing there, lock, stock and barrel. This is a rever-
sal of John Cock’s policy. That veteran always
wanted a bit of capital to push up and down the
lead from No. 3. But the Board sensibly thinks it
best to get right down to the junction of the Lock-
out and the Chiltern leads. Then a new shaft will be
sunk out of the proceeds of the Wallace shaft plant,
and an effort made to pick up the payable gold from
the Lock-out. This is sound mining. If not suc-
cessful, the last of mining at the big Chiltern Valley
will be seen. There ought to be a rally round the
old claim by the Fat men who, year in and year out,
drew divs., paid no calls, and built up no real cash
reserves. But one need not be sanguine that they
will do much, even though the path of duty is clear
ahead. * * *
Lionel Robinson and party have decided
to let their option on the Gladsome (W.A.) slide.
The show is a good one, but is not considered good
enough for the price put upon it.
* * * *
Lake View and Oroya, Limited, which re-
cently acquired the belongings of the Lake View
Consols and Oroya Exploration, announces that it is
very hopeful of success. Its interest in Yuanmi is
ticketed as the best of its\ window-dressed holdings,
while the Oroya-Black Range, in which it also has
a big share, is reckoned to have got a new lease of
life, which usually means but a brief postponement
of the death struggle. The Mountain Queen and
Queen of the Hills is dolled up in an attractive
way, and the latter is estimated to have £lOO,OOO
profit in sight, and some more up its sleeve. Lake
View and Star, in which a 62 p.c. interest is held,
is adorned with a feather in its cap in recognition
of having recently paid a 5 p.c. div., but its capa-
bility for similar achievements in the future is
labelled an unknown quantity. The Leonesa and
Babylonian are the most prominently displayed
among its foreign goods. Both belong to Nicaragua,
and both are credited with being able to earn profits
amounting to thousands of pounds a month by-and-
bye. Burma mines are also shown, and made to ap-
pear as if they are capable of doing well, a thing
which they have never done before.
The managerial estimate of the Ivanhoe
(W.A.) ore reserves at December 31 was 1,088,421
tons, containing £2,371,750, which is 62,958 tons
and £55,740 less than 8., M. and Co.’s computation.
In view of the slightly leaner appearance of the mine,
compared with what it was like when the previous
half-yearly estimate of ore in sight was made up,
the manager has withdrawn his latter-end-of-1911
statement that the present monthly profit of £lB,OOO
could be maintained during the current year. On his
recommendation the Board has decided to reduce it
right away to £16,000. As £242,000 per annum
is required to pay the present rate of dividend, it is
obvious that this cannot be maintained much longer
either. „
* * * *
Gwalia South (W.A.) has run short of
ore, and not caring to spend money in looking for
more, has decided to sell its property, plant, stores
and residues to the Sons of Gwalia for £5500 cash,
or about one-tenth of what it tried to get from the
same purchaser two years ago. There is about
£l3 000 in hand, and after this and the proceeds of
the sale have been lumped together, and liquidation
exes, deducted, there ought to be sufficient to dis-
tribute ss. per share. The last half-year s report
states that 14,110 tons were treated for a recovery
of £18,514. Expenditure, including £5471 laid
out on mine development and testing options, and
£2005 charged to depreciation, accounted for
£18,270, leaving a surplus of £244. *
Murchison Associated (W.A.), which a
London paper recently referred to as flitting about
like a butterfly from gold to rubber, from rubber to
gold, and then to tin, alleges that it has got another
“development” in its Day Dawn property. It was
decided, on the advice of the Board, at the last
meeting of shareholders, to do a bit more work on
this show, and as every time the co. spots a color
it imagines it has struck a bonanza, the announce-
ment of “another development” was not unexpected.
Few cos. have found .more reefs and lodes, or made
more “rich discoveries” than this one has in its
time, and few have had such a notorious and dis-
astrous career.
Tindals (W.A.) reported “a great im-
provement in values” the day before the meeting was
held in Melbourne to authorise an increase of capi-
tal. Free gold was stated to be visible, and someone
induced the local paper to say that the development
gave shareholders a hope of getting back some of
the money they had sunk in the mine. It was also
added that “as 4dwt. ore had paid expenses, and
enabled the co. to erect an up-to-date plant, the
higher-grade stone alluded to should enable it to do
a lot better.” What the co. may or may not succeed
in doing in the future remains to be seen, but as
regards its sickly past, the treatment of sdwt., not
4dwt. ore, supplemented by calls, has not even kept
it out of debt, let alone paid expenses.
Waihi Gold (M.L.), the one-time Maori
mint, is still going down the financial scale. For the
year ended last December the gross profit fell to
£371,500 from the previous year’s £559,000. De-
velopment expenses are mounting, with decreasing
results. Dividends equal to 11s. per share were paid,
and these, added to income tax, absorbed £311,611,
which contrasts with £441,000 the year before. Bal-
ance carried forward £82,000.
* * * *
“Will the undertaking pay?” The economical
handling and transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke,
merchandise, etc., in or about mines, factories or
warehouses, very often solves the problem. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, as agents for Bleichert
and Co., can give useful information on this subject.
The Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways work-
irg in Australia, or in course of erection, anc. will
soon have at work, near Sydney, one of the largest
■electric “Telpher” plants in existence. Special
electric and other cranes and mono-rail conveyors
can be procured from the same firm.*
* * * *
4-GF+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. — Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+ GF+ Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s, per con, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell's Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
* * » *
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated book on “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things, remarks (p. 1465): “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at
Breckenridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000
have been sold. This machine has revolutionised
ore-dressing, and as such is a phenomenal success.
The original form and forerunner of all modern
shaking tables with longitudinal riffles.. .has been
greatly improved.” And further on (p. 1478) re-
marks : “One feature of the Wilfley table to which
especial attention should be called is its ability to
separate sands from slimes while making the ordi-
nary concentration. This separation is more complete
and thorough than can be made by any classifier,
and should be taken advantage of in designing
mills.” In the last extensive additions made to the
treatment plant at the Golden Horseshoe Mine,
W.A., a large number of Wilfley Table Concentra-
tors were installed. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole
manufacturing rights.* D
Extract from the Financial News, London
(29/7/1910) : “The bonus is one of the best yet de-
clared, and, in the opinion of the actuary, ‘the pro-
spects of distributing satisfactory bonuses in the
future are better now than they ever were before.
The Colonial Mutual has certainly earned its reputa-
tion for financial strength and fair treatment of
policy-holders. ” *
* * * *
A business man is always open to make a saving
if he can do so without sacrificing efficiency, hence if
he has a water supply proposition to meet, PIONEER
WOOD PIPE by its durability and economy is bound
to be approved. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, Sydney.* # #
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street (Basement), Melb. (J. W. Styles, 23 years
Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
and will now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary,
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
The Bolinder Heavy-Duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves, cams,
gears or electric ignition, and run either on crude
or kerosene oils, are represented throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand by Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For marine work
the “Bolinder” engine has many advantages, viz.,
small oil consumption, ease of starting, no compli-
cated arrangement of valves or gears, being direct
reversible, fitted throughout with forced lubrication,
and absolutely no risk from fire and explosions, due
to using oils having a very high flash point. The
British Government and German Navy are large
users of the “Bolinder” Marine Engines.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
«- •* * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*


C#id*Jjrum*<“ h
HEERING®
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
TRUMILK
Means Comfort and Economy to
Thousands of Housewives.
TRUMILK is the Best Pasteurised Cow’s Milk
in Powder Form.
NO PRESERVATIVES,
ALWAYS READV FOR USE,
SAVES 50 PER CENT. OF THE MILK BILL.
Equal for all purposes to the very
best milkman’s milk and specially
adapted for all cooking purposes.
Agents : FOGGITT, JONES & CO.
Manufacturers : TRUFOOD OF AUSTRAL.
ASIA, MELBOURNE.
-Pi-
ROBUR
It’s a pleasure to handle a
first-class article like Robur
tea, even though the profit is
so ridiculously small —you see
there’s hardly ever a complaint
as to quality, quantity or price—
and when there is, well l know
there’s no real foundation for it.
Of course it worries a man
to hear complaints about goods
he’s sold and I’d rather anytime
take less profit and know that my
customers are satisfied than run
the risk of losing a single one
of ’em and as 1 find my
customers like the flavour of
“ROBUR” and say that it
makes more cups to the pound
than any other tea—l take good
care to always have it in stock,
and 1 never refuse anybody
who asks for it.
There’s a race on just now
between the sales of the No. 2
and No. 1 Grade and it seems
to me as many buy the one
grade as the other —1 like the
No. 1. Will you take a pound
to try it?
The Grocer.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 6, 1912.
My Dear Arini. —
The G.-G. Denmans’ garden party to the
Stamp and Swear Department lured about
3000 postal officials with their wives and
youngsters into the sunshine of a perfect
day. Telephone girls of the “engaged” type
trod the sward with the abstracted air
that cuts you off with the front half of your
remark surging through your clenched teeth.
A dreamy-eyed maiden in grey-—the ’phone
girl of one’s fiercest moments —eyed the
scenery with the icy calm that turns a
frigid silence on to the woes of Double xxx
City, when he hurls infuriated language at
her pink lobe through a switchboard.
Some of the lack and Stamp guests didn't
look too happy at the Government House
party. They slunk away together in shy
groups, or “did” the House, painfully con-
scious of the presence of the Law, which
strode about in the majesty of its white-
cotton gloves ready to pounce on any postal
person who might try to whip off the por-
trait of an early Governor under his coat-
tails. The spoons were quite safe. Society
was not present. But (barring the watch-
ful constable) an early Governor might have
been treated as overdue correspondence, and
snatched from his unsorted nail.
•Juvenile letterettes got more mirth out of
the revel, and tore through the atmosphere
in a merry-go-round, or craned their eye-
balls to watch wild animals and strange
ladies fall down out of space. These were
the amazing .Tap fire- and air-works, im-
ported from Nippon or thereabouts.
When the usual Government House out-
door revel gathers a dressy mob on to its
green velvet lawns, the refreshments are
rushed with a shameless hunger, which
hurriedly stokes itself to the collarbones
with food and drink. Society and semi-
demi-Society seem to be in a chronic state
of famine in its southern territory. The
postal officials showed an over-sensitive de-
cency in the matter of food which threat-
ened to boycott the forage department. At
four o’clock, A.D.G. Quilter loomed near the
tables’ hoi’izon ringing a bell to lure the
little letterettes to sort out some cake. The
adult stamps looked as if they’d rather post
themselves in a dead-letter office than pre-
tend they saw the tea crockery until it was
forced under their noses. Governor Chelms-
ford, with his girleens and Miss Bosanquet,
walked through the fray, and the boyish
baronet, Tom Keith followed at heel.
Sydney has acquired a new Mayor. Allen
Taylor has resigned, and Alderman G. T.
Clarke has inherited the dignity and the
war-cry, the rabbit-skin robe, the chain, the
majesty and the remuneration. The new
Mayor is a slim, elderly man, with a bald
cranium and a tame grey moustache. He
turned a meek countenance and unassuming
manner to the Ada Ward survival the other
night. As Father of the City he slid into
the Town Hall without any of the pomp and
circumstance that had grown up round the
Allen Taylor regime.
By the way, Arini, Sydney’s new parent.
Mayor Clarke, is a native of Melbourne, and
an accountant as a regular habit. This
ought to help him as a ready reckoner of
stray smells, loose banana skins, rocky side-
paths and other menaces to public health.
He used to be Town Clerk of St. Kilda, a
pocket borough or something of the kind,
outside Dunedin. Then he cut his munici-
pal teeth on a gold chain as Mayor of South
Dunedin (M.Tj. ) for two years.
The Joseph Ward trio Avill be met at the
Central Station with the glad hand and two
presentation bouquets about the time this
reaches you. Ward’s cosy billet as a mem-
ber of the Imperial Trade Conference keeps
the wolf from the title with about £2OOO a
year and extras.
Summer Hill has recently acquired Dr.
Stopford. who used to be a city councillor
in Auckland’s steady rainfall. He’s a
mighty judge of bullpups in his spare mom-
ents, and cultivates the breed that bites as
an outdoor hobby.
The numerous Osborne clan is keeping
well to the fore in the daily press. Mrs.
Oliver Osborne added a small daughter to the
Cornstalk population last week.
D’Arcy Wentworth Osborne is going
through the Divorce Court.
Henry Hill Osborne was married to the
pretty Marjorie Lord in the full glare of
the Anglican floral faith, in St. James’s
Church, last week. A showery morning shed
a few misty tears on the church roof, but a
scalloped awning hung outside the sacred
premises, and a gleam of belated sunshine
came out of its hiding place to dry white
satin slippers. Johnnydom is said to have
been rampant at the flower-trimmed recep-
tion. Very tight breeches, heavily creased in
the right longitude, frock coats and silk hats
raged round the four fair bridesmaidens- as
the wedding ceremony trickled into the Aus-
tralia Hostel.
Mr. Jim Gordon’s homestead, up Braid-
wood wav, is making vigorous preparations
for the reception of the bride-elect, Miss
Gladys Bowker. The wedding will occur in
August. He is a man of many friends, and
she is one of Sydney’s most charming maid-
ens. The Gordon sheep-run is linked up to
good roads (as roads go), that meander off
to snug homesteads, where sheep ladies dis-
cuss mutton and wool—Berlin, or mere
merino—over egg-shell china.
Builder Frank McLeod is the author of a
new post-and-rail story of travel in distant
parts. It’s called “The Quest of the Up-to-
uate.” The Quester is remarkable for his
Mark Twainish thatch, and doesn’t discour-
age his chronic likeness to the Innocents
Abroad. On his way, Mark Twain McLeod
met a limb of old Guile, who hailed him
thus: “May Allah profit and protect thee.
0 Sahib, and deliver thee from the Evil
One!” And all this, because he (the guide)
remembered being tipped years ago by the
original Twain. The Builder’s “Quest” is
one of the best snacks of travel (copiously
illustra.ed) recently let loose in this settle-
ment. It found everything except the
Bologna sausage. The Quester believes this
sausage to be a myth. The nearest thing
to a sausage that Bologna can offer the
rabid tourist is a mile and a half of tunnel.
Mr. and Mrs. George Vivers left for Van-
couver in the Makura. They propose to cast
an eye over Canadian scenery, and if they
approve of it the scenery will be allowed to
go on, but if it isn’t up to specification, it
will have to amend its ways very suddenly.
Then they snatch a glimpse of Montreal
and other frost-bitten towns with a past, be-
fore hurrying Bullwards. Mrs. George, who
has been rusticating at the King’s Plains’
homestead, up Glen Innes way, for five
months, came to town with a cream and
roses complexion, and carefully buried it
under one of this season’s black veils with a
wriggle in its mesh.
Brigadier-General Gordon has climbed up
to the uneasy perch on which good and
brainy John Hoad fought official friction,
backstairs influence, lies, cabals and other
wild animals that yapped at his heels. Public
opinion gave soldier Bridges the billet long
before Hoad’s weary body went marching
home. But the genial Gordon, with a tactful
twist in his grey matter, is more popular
with the rank and file than autocrat Bridges.
The Gay Gordon was vociferously toasted at
a Paris House dinner the other night.
The Baden-Powell season in this city will
open with a Boy Scouts’ concert of welcome
on May 16. The Town Hall will be the
scene of this bitter revenge on the Man of
War.
Mrs. ,T. M. A. Bonthorne and Miss Bud
Neill, of these shores, swallowed the Easter
bun in Paris. Since then they’ve been stay-
ing in the ancient city by the Thames with
the Charles Marsdens. A motor toot
through the land of Llewellyn and Griffiths
and Evan Ap Owen is included in their
itinerary. Through inability to spell the
Welsh names (these are made by throwing
all the consonants into the air and catch-
ing as many as possible in a belltopper as
they descend) no details about this part of
the expedition will be supplied.
Mr. Edgar Patterson, who handles a
large business concern in Edinburgh and
London, leaves Sydney next week to meet
the Scottish Sabbath in its native lair. Mrs.
Edgar, who is a daughter of Four-in-Hand
Fishburn (a sturdy stripling of 80 or so, and
one of the best whips in the State), lingers
under the parental roof at Ashfield till her
Pat O’Shanter returns.
The Hospice Art Union won't churn out
the winning numbers till June 4. Will coun-
try tickets holders kindly butt into this argu-
ment without further dalay.
The Y.W.C.A. is scratching this city for
£20,000. A new building to fold a larger
number of live lambs is its excuse. The
scratch will last for 20 days. It began with
mixed prayer—Low Church and Methodist.
The Y.W.C.A. represents the tragedy of a
good idea entirely surrounded by wet blan-
kets. Within its narrow limitations —being
heavily trampled on by the Very Good —it
holds out a limp finger of welcome to wan-
dering lady sheep who search for bed and
board at a cheap tariff. But a ferocious
prejudice against being branded “Young
Women’s Christian Association” drives
hordes of baa lambs to bleat in more worldly
hostels.
The new Imperial Roller Rink (foot of
William-street) has its sorrows even as you
and I. The impressive spectacle of broad-
shouldered manager Bendrodt hovering in-
battle array between the Rink ticket office
and the crowd may be seen any afternoon
or evening free of charge. A great hoverer
is he. “We’re going to keep this place clean,
if we keep it empty,” says the stern voung
man from IT.S. “And we’re not going to
let the larrikin inside these doors. Last
night we must have turned away over 300
people of the wrong sort. We’ve got no time
for them, and I tell you it’s a surprise to
me—yes, I come from the U. States—to see
the kind of people who rush roller skating
in this city. If we once let the hoodlums
come along—no—you can’t come here!”
They went away meekly enough ; lie with
a ferocious red sweater curling up under his
ears; she with skirts no shorter or tighter
than those in which Miss Potts Point shows
her limbs, but with obvious differences in
detail. Inside the building there’s a great
maple floor, a lounge room, a smoking grove
trimmed with palms, a buffet, a tea room,
an orchestra, and many other necessities of
life on rollers.
Ada Ward, actress, turned her tired feet
off the rocky track of the parsons and Phari-
sees on Saturday night. The great renun-
ciation of the world, the stage and the pow-
der puff occurred about 10 years ago. Ada
admits that she then made a bargain that
lodged her in attics or damp cellars, worked
her like a ’bus horse, and flung her a reluc-
tant feed-bag when she nearly dropped dead
from the aching void within her. She
looked worn to skin and bone as her tall and
still graceful figure glided across the Town
Hall platform. The curtains that hedged in
her return to the world may have been
brands snatched from the burning of some
ancient mummers’ show. They had a for-
lorn and frowsy air which suggested that
they had had several conversions in their
family story.
Against Ada Ward’s chance of happiness
there seems to be a Gummidge temperament,
built of tense emotion and tragic introspec-
tion. If she were described as a Queen
Gummidge or a Lady Gummidge Macbeth it
would _ fairly express her. She belongs to
the highly-strung, nervous, hyper-sensitive
species of her sex, who would question the
Perfect _ Peace of Paradise, and look for
trouble if the Pearly Gates squeaked on their
hinges. She is by instinct very nearly a
great reformer —therefore she once trembled
on the verge of religious mania. The
Churches found her an implement of worth.
As a money-maker, in the first fervor of her
fanatical enthusiasm. Ada scooped in funds.
She has no sense of humor. This misfortune
caused her tears when her self-respect would
have been saved by riotous laughter at the
Black Coats who exploited her gift of ora-
tory, and threw her a few coppers in return.
She felt cut to the heart that the parsons
never invited her to meet their wives and
daughters. If she had met them she might
have been cut to the bone. A streak of com-
mon-sense, and a solid shred of business ca-
pacity, made. Ada writhe in the trade of sav-
ing souls, at bedrock or remnant-sale prices.
She fell amongst saints, and they took her
in. She has packed up the cheap halo and
taken to the world and the bank account
with immediate success. The Town Hall
overflowed at good admission prices.
American soul-snatcher Charles R. Sco-
ville has reached this town just in time to
convert Bill Sikes and co., now doing a
roaring trade through back windows in lone
suburbs. Scoville specialises in burglars
and barmen. He hasn’t much time to lose,
for the suburban lady, armed with a revol-
ver, is becoming a menace to the industrious
Sikes. Few women would shoot even a
brigand mouse—except in self-defence. But
the damage an agitated female in a kimono
may do to the man she doesn’t mean to hit is
likely to be fatal to anything that stumbles
on her doormat these nights. If sky-nilot
Scoville doesn’t convert the Masked Gang
to better ways, he may at least he in time
to bury the burglar whom the lady shot at
and killed by accident through the bullet
rebounding off her husband.
Sylvia Blackston sent me a Martha Wash-
ington Hotel (New York) postcard the
other day. It shows an able-bodied building
getting its back warmed by a skyscraper.
Martha is troubled about many things. She
has green whiskers of some creeping vine
all over her face, and free baths stowed
away in her waist-line, and she says “Women
Guests Only,” in tones of thunder.
Gerald Kay Souper, who came out with
the first Oscar Asche invasion of this con-
tinent’s cash, is, amongst other hobbies, a
B.A. of Oxford. Souper is an actor of some
tonnage, but he has abandoned the grease
paint to teach dramatic art to the Upper-
Five of this city. Something has to be done
in self-defence by the local society damsel to
stem the rush of gilded suitors to the silk
tights of the ballet. So the local society
damsel will take lessons and go on the stage
herself.
In 1910, this State had a sudden Christ-
mas outbreak of things Australian. The billy
boiled all over glazed post cards, and the
wallaby hopped through scented cardboard
gullies by the hundred. Some of the more
determined samples were edged with tiny
packets of gumtree seeds, accompanied by
directions for planting. Mrs. George Steer,
who used to be Miss Agnes Donald, of Auck-
land (M.L.), writes from her country home
in Bull’s Island: “The Christmas card you
sent in 1910 contained six seeds of the red-
flowering eucalyptus three out of the six
have developed into healthy little trees. At
present they are carefully nursed in pots in
a greenhouse.” If the Christmas card can
successfully transplant young gum seeds to
British soil, it ought to continue its occupa-
tion till further notice, as a cheap advt of
this country’s evergreen timber. But it
shouldn’t be used as a means of disseminat-
ing cactus or rabbits, else we may become
unpopular.
Tradition jumps on woman’s midday meat
as a thing of no account. In the absence-
of her lord, the Mere Petticoat is alleged
to make a. hurried lunch oft a tea-tray
(which portion of the tray she nibbles is a
matter of no concern), to keep her hair
down and her feet up, and soak her brains
in the last novel. This is the crux of the
legend that woman doesn’t know food, as
food, from a Chinese cracker. She only
knows it in the abstract, as a sop to appeal
to the Brute who pays her milliner’s bills.
The Sydney damsel, however, seems to be
tearing herself away from the traybite
snack. A series of girl-lunch parties is
stamping through this town with trim-
mings that wouldn’t disgrace a Mayor’s re-
freshment room. The most gorgeous was
given the other day by good-looking Marjorie
Henderson (Double Bay) to nine young-
sters in or about the teeny age. It ran in-
to seven or eight courses and broke a new
record in toothsome sweets.
The smart woman who can put up enough
cash to run a well-managed tea-room in this
city ought to coin a large profit for her
pains. Tea should be as cash-productive
as rubber. But the average damsel in at-
tendance on the lunch and pekoe procession
is getting either outside her collar, or has
never put her neck into the yoke at all, A
male cynic says: “Women think they’re
treated with contempt by a tea-room minx
with a curled topknot, because they’re
women. Well, they can’t help that worry,
of course, but men who don’t belong to the
Cuffs-and-Compliment Percy tribe have to
brood over being men—not asses —for the.-
same reason. If one happens to be late for
lunch, the farewelling of Percy, Algy and co.
has to occur before the damsel in command
will deign to look my way. Then she’ll sweep
the crumbs and other debris from the de-
parted Algy’s food stack (dropped off the
edge of his smile on to the table) all over
my gravy. Hence the large and increasing
number of men who take to beer and the
counter lunch.”
Hospital Saturday clinked the coin of
charity to the tune of over £BOOO. The van-
ishing calico stall apparently did no damage
by its frequent absence, for the male giver
generally bestows alms on *a smile and a dim-
ple and an active pair of heels, in the pleased
conviction that he is giving to the Lord.
Rag drapery, with wilted flowers dropping
dead on corner posts, is gradually passing
into the dustheap so far as Hospital Satur-
day is concerned. When the movement first
began, wild young bloods from banks and
mercantile officers used to get up matches
and see who could throw a halfpenny into
the lap of the stall at the longest range. As
much as twopenn’orth of refreshment used
to be staked on this gamble. The man who
told me this is now a prosperous accountant,
and he looks back with shame on these orgies
of his youth. On the second Hospital Sat-
urday his halfpenny struck the ear of the
stout matron who sat at the receipt of cus-
tom, and after that the sport faded away,
and the street corner stall lost its usefulness.
The lady, he says, still wears a crumpled ex-
pression on that ear.
“The Blue Bird” aviary hung out its
wooden cages at the corner of George and
Wynyard streets. Wirths’ circus contri-
buted an elephant to the fray. The “Sin-
bad” ladies wore their most distracting
smiles, and the flapper flapped with her ac-
customed spirit in every crevice of the town.
Yours without a copper,
VANDORIAN.


rtyfrtgyhghjghj
RIDE A
MOTOR CYCLE
A Motor Cycle is a great convenience, a great time-
saver, and motor cycling is a most exhilarating, recreative, re-
energizing pastime.
Select a Budge-Whitworth, a Triumph, a B.S.A. or a
three-speed New Hudson for your mount, and you will be per-
fectly satisfied.
Speed, power, efficiency, low fuel consumption and hill-
climbing power are highly developed traits in each model.
The control in each is simple, and the engine can be
governed at all speeds without removing the hands from the
handle-bars and without appreciable conscious effort.
We have 1912 Models of all these machines. Come in
and examine them, and compare their good points.
It simply depends on your requirements which will prove
the best. Free Illustrated, Descriptive Catalogue sent on re-
quest. Will you write for a free copy if you cannot call per-
sonally ?
BENNETT & BARKELL LTD.,
Agents for Triumph, Rudge-Whitworth, B.S.A. and New Hudson
Motor Cycles. Manufacturers of B. & B. Motor Cycles.
130-2 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
“u\
th
. .. •
'
:■■ '#L
i
wZ\
K E
HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-RECAL
JEWELLERS.
6Y APPOINTMENT
GENTLEMAN’S TRAVELLING BAG.
Gentleman’s Solid Leather English-made Leather Travelling Bag, 24in.
long, fitted with 4 Ebony Brushes, 5 Solid Silver Bottles, Mirror,
Strop, Best Quality Razors, Cutlery & Receptacle for Shirts.
£ll.
GOODS SENT ON APPROVAL.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
LONDON OFFICE: 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS.
800,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price Is. each; Post Free Is. Id.
THE CONVICT PUGILIST, GEORGE COCfcCERILL.
Illustrated by Lionel Lindsay. Price Is., Post Free Is. Id.
In all history, sacred or profane, and amongst all the virile nations of the world, the “Fighter’
has always held a prominent place, and his doughty deeds have always had a fascination for the
healthy-minded reader. Since Sir Conan Doyle told of the famous fight in “Rodney Stone,’’ he has
had many imitators but few equals, because the writers themselves did not seem to know enough of
“the Game.” But the author of “The Convict Pugilist” will convince you in a few pages that he
knows the ropes, and writes of the ring as from the inside. The story centres round a young man who
was a pugilist from grim necessity rather than from choice, and his fights for dear life on more than
one occasion make the fistic battles of to-day look like child’s play. There is a pretty romance
running side by side with the sterner affairs which makes the eventual fight for freedom doubly
interesting.
THE DEVIL’S NIGHTCAP,
By LANCELOT BOOTH.
Illustrated by Lionel Lindsay. Price is. Post Free Is. Id.
The guerilla warfare carried on by bushrangers against law and
order is the only kind of war history of which Australia can boast up
to date. There is no doubt, however, that many of the bushrangers
showed such daring, resource and personal gallantry as would have
placed them in the forefront of the fighting line had they served in actual
war. Men like Gardiner and Ben Hall, whose stories are related herein,
furnish us with sufficient evidence of military ability as to bear out the
above contention, and the record of their doings whilst “on the road”
makes exceptionally interesting reading. The mysticism surrounding
“The Devil’s Nightcap,” the den from which this particular gang
directed its campaigns, is reminiscent of Edgar Allan Poe, and the
author is to be congratulated on his powers of description and his
dramatic acumen.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
FACT* IVY 'ANDS. Just Published.
Cheap Edition.
FACT’RYANDS
HOWARD
HYSON
By EDWARD DYSON.
Author of “Benno,” “The Missing Link,” etc., etc.
Profusely Illustrated. Price Is. Post Free Is. id.
Six years ago Edward Dyson electrified Australian readers with
his masterly descriptions of life in some of our large factories, but
on account of the prohibitive price only a few were able to indulge
in the luxury of a copy of “Fact’ry ’Ands.” But now that the
work has become the property of the Bookstall Co., those in search
of something real funny may enjoy themselves to their heart’s con-
tent for the modest sum of a shilling. The original illustrations
have been retained, and fresh ones added, and it is safe to say
that the new edition, in its present attractive form, will enjoy a
new lease of life, and add greatly to the already noted reputation
of this talented writer. The book deals in the happiest vein with the
comical side of factory life, and some of the scenes are excruciatingly
funny. The low comedy love episodes are human to a degree, and
give us that “one touch of sympathy that makes the whole world
kin.”
Lists Sent Post Free to any Address.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney,
AND ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
The Tie of the
Century
•>
(1
IT
V
£§*]!■
BovO
V
n? 2.
0*K
LJ
OMN
P -TIE
JfTT4CtIEII
end of those double*
fold Collar troubles
JUST an invisible but perfect little attachment which
will fit any make or any size of double collar and can-
not get out of place until you remove it. ®|lf you buy
one attachment for each tie there will be no need to make
the knots more than once. ®IYou will treble the life of your
ties and collars. <lLong usuage may result in your ties getting
soiled, but it is impossible to damage the material or spoil
the shape.
Price 6d.
or with Tie complete 1/6, 1/9, 2/-, 2/6, and 3/-.
Sold by all Outfitters


You Always Travel LigHt
WitH Green “Fordite” Fibre
Obtainable only at Farmer’s.
©Ti
Even if your trunks are numerous you always
travel light with Green “Fordite” Fibre Goods.
They are of Australian manufacture, and have prac-
tically all the wear-resisting qualities of leather, at
much less expense. Green “Fordite” Fibre is pro-
curable only at Farmer’s, where you can secure a
smart and exclusive appearance, by having Trunks,
Suit Oases, Attache Cases, Lady’s Hat Box, etc., to
match.
The Suit Case featured is in Green Fibre, the
eight Leather Corners and Leather Handle being in
darker shade of Green.
Prices: 18/
20in.
2Q/-
22in.
22/-
24in.
24/-
Full Travelling Suite in this Fibre, including Regu-
lation Cabin Trunk, Lady’s Hat Box and Suit Case.
Price from £7/10/-
FARMER’S
SYDNEY.
Are you frequently hoarse ? Do you have that
annoying tickling in the throat ? Does your cough
trouble you in the night and do rise mucus in the
morning? Do you want relief? If so, take Cham-
berlain’s Cough Bemedy, and you will be pleased.*
WINTER
Requirements
WE have just opened a very
exclusive assortment of
Evening and Dinner
Gowns, specially selected by our
Lonuoit Duyer, also a Choice
Lot of Evening Cloaks.
The Costume Department is
fully stocked with the latest
models in tailor-made Coats and
Skirts, in all materials. Long
Coats being the vogue, we have
a Magnificent Assortment in all
classes of materials, including
the new Reversible Tweeds,
Blanket Cloths, and Navy
Serges. Golf Coats, in three-
quarter and full lengths, are
shown, also a fine selection of
Skirts to be worn with them.
Shower-proof Gabardine
Coats are stocked in a large
variety of colorings, both
striped and plain.
New Winter Millinery
includes charming French and English
Models, Smart Felt Hats, Toques in
various Furs, including Squirrel and
Ermine.
A Fine Display
of Furs is shown, also beautiful examples
of Squirrel and Coney Seal Coats. Choice
Skins may be selected from our stock, and
made up to Customers’ own requirements.
In Footwear
for Ladies and Gentlemen we stock all
the best makes of English, American and
Australian manufacture.
We Pay Carriage
throughout the Commonwealth on all par-
cels, except articles of a bulky nature,
such as Furnishings, Toys, etc.
Our Fashion Catalogue
is now ready, and will be for-
warded to any address, on receipt
of card.
New Shipments of the latest Designs
and Colorings in Axminster and Brussels
Carpets are now to hand; also Bosphor
Squares in all tones and. designs.
Linoleums in plain and Art Colors;
also Inlaid Linos in a great variety of
patterns.
BALL <a WELCH
Pty. Ltd.,
180=8 Flinders St., Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 6, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
A heap of people hopped and trotted and
bounced at the fc>t. Ivilda Town Hall, on
Thursday night, by way of doing the Neg-
lected Children a good turn. By the time
“Gorsave” twanged out, only a narrow path-
way was available, and Helps Wheatley and
Curwen went ahead to clear the way. State
Governor Fuller was brightened up with a
few orders, and her Ex. wore an inky robe
of panne, which contrasted finely with her
Saxon fairness. The Ward lady was hung
with pearls, and Gaud Mayoress Davey,
dusted with sparks on a pale satin back-
ground, scintillated bravely. A big bunch of
purple orchids was tucked into the wmistline
of Mrs. Deakin’s black attire; whilst her
affable Alfred, sporting a bit of blue ribbon,
looked quite humble beside the magnnificence
of louseph Ward and Best. A few fancy sets
brightened up the congested proceedings.
The Quamby Club, which will presently
blossom into a residential institution in Col-
lins-street, is in sight of the goal, the mem-
bership list having marched to 400. It is
supposed to be purely a girls’ club; but sev-
eral young matrons who cling to the old
associations are allowed to remain. The
Fuller lady is a member, and her name casts
a gentle radiance on the head of the list.
There is to be a tea party towards the head
of the month to celebrate the move.
The Arts and Crafts indulged in an an-
nual meeting last week, and, for the first
time in its history, had no Governor’s wife
along. With the capable Creswell dame in
the chair, the business was got through with-
out disorder. Two important moves were
made, the members deciding to get out of the
remote shipping end of Collins-street and
look for a more central location, also to hold
another exhibition on the household plan
like the one at Cliveden. Miss Chomley has
brought back promises of material aid from
the Carmichael lady and others. Even the
Duchess of Aberdeen is interested, and has
turned her lorgnette languidly on this con-
tinent. Mrs. Aberdeen is one of the prime
movers of the A. and C. scheme in England.
The Glassy Harem season starts on the
IGth. The building, lately dedicated to Kine-
macolor pictures, has already shed its sum-
mer crop of chairs, and is now being floored
with ice. Expert Langley, with the same
staff that supported him last year, will man-
age the fancy-skating and educational de-
partments at the “Glassy.” Each season
brings a new lot of young beginners. The
“Glassy” has a reputation nowadays as a
place where hands are held and hearts are
captured. Moreover, an authoritative dame
gives it a good character as a hunting
ground. Some of the couples who rushed
into matrimony on skates have been living
happily ever afterwards, she says.
Our present stock of Governor folk are
so keen on racing that all sorts of meetings
have a dash of fashion, and butterflies flutter
out on days that they used to coldly ignore.
A recent Caulfield meeting enticed Fuller
and two aides out. Auntie Phipps was the
only lady in the party; but the Gentleman
Helps were sent scurrying after passing
ladies, and escorted them to the pen, which
presently began to put forth hats and blos-
som like a draper’s. window. Lily Brayton
was one of the specially-selected guests. She
sat aloft in a golden fur coat with an old-
gold silk gown sweeping from beneath it and
a golden brown plume in her headgear. A
tall, slight woman (she might have been the
Clarke lady, but I can’t say for certain, as
only the tip of her nose was visible) waded
over the lawn weighted down with ermine.
She had on a whole coat and a stole, carried
a pillow muff and supnorted a big hat of the
same precious stuff; also she had kiltings of
wonderful lace. It. nearly broke up one
small, fresh-complexioned woman who had
been three weeks coaxing hubby to get her a
little 20-guinea collar-scarf of the ivory fur.
Having got it, the first thing she struck was
a female who fairly tottered under a load of
the stuff.
Byron Moore, secretary of the V.R.C., has
lighted accidentally upon a lovely method of
getting even with mosquitoes. Some weeks
ago, when those insects of prey were still
going strong, Byron Moore, being ordered
to “lie up” under medical treatment, went
to bed in the casualty room at Flemington
racecourse, where he could mingle business
with pain, so to speak. His pain was so
considerable at times that he had to ask for
injections of morphia. Whilst he slumbered,
the ’skeeters were busy, and when he woke
up he found whole battalions of the enemy
dead upon the white cloth of a table at his
bedside. His morphia injection had killed
them. The doomed beasts, seemingly, formed
themselves into lines as they felt the end
approaching, and perished in rotation on
their backs. Their attitude was one of bliss-
ful abandonment to the influence of the
anaesthetic. The patient, for his part, felt
none the worse. The mosquitoes must have
just tasted him and then gone away tot
dream.
Last architect Meagher joyfully
stepped out of the gay bachelor ranks. (There
is a long-standing belief that all bachelors
are gay and live in hollow squares or some-
thing), and saluted his new commander, Miss
Millet, a dainty little St. Kilda girl. There
was none of the conventional wedding fuss.
The bridegroom, accompanied by his con-
federate, ran round in his motor and col-
lected the bride and bridesmaid. The woman
of the hour was a vision in smart navy
tailorings with long white elbow gloves, and
a hat which can only be mentioned with
bated ink. Then they fled to a clergyman
who had been asked to have his book open
at the right place. A jolly little four-handed
dinner concluded the function.
A moneyed matron is wheeling round in
an electrified sedan chair —American name
coupe. It is the same shape as the travelling
boxes of Nell Gwynne’s day, which lurched
about on legs supplied by a powdered foot-
man, who occasionally got drunk and dumped
the boxed one down in an alley while he
rolled in the gutter Electricity doesn’t get
drunk so often as the footman used to; but
when it does, it won’t start again on simply
being kicked and abused.
Mrs. Davey deserves to carry off a pre-
sentation halo for the charity money she has
wrung out of Flinders-lane and other hide-
ously wealthy tunnels. Her latest fancy
achievement is the raking-in of £l3OO for the
blind—a sort of fancy side-line which she
hawked round whilst canvassing hard for
the new Melbourne Hospital.
Miss Thomas, who is an active member of
her own sheep and wool firm, bestowed her
hand upon a Mr. Rogers last week. The
bridegroom is almost as high as a mast, and
his bride about comes up to his elbow. They
were married by Canon Sadlier, in old St.
James’s Church, and motored to Daylesford
for the honeymoon. Sister Mrs. Brind came
along from her beloved Ballarat to captain
the ceremony, furl the bride’s hat,'see that
the lines were made fast, and pipe all hands
to breakfast.
Mrs. Alfred Deakin, Mrs. Hood and Mrs.
Alex. Peacock descended on Ballarat the
other day, to farewell the retiring president
of the District Nursing Society. Geelong
and other centres sent their representatives
to the meeting, which appointed Mrs. Isaiah
Pearce to the vacant portfolio or peggy bag.
The retiring president, Mrs. T. T. Holloway,
is a charming woman, whose husband re-
cently wore the mayoral fetters. The citi-
zens flung a purse at her at the end of their
term ; but she divided the contents between
the Society and the Crdche. She also gave a
sundial to the gardens, and Baracchi cere-
moniously wound it up and set it going. The
wives of four local doctors decorated the
meeting. Medicine men Champion, Dane,
Gardiner and Spring all have distractingly
pretty helpmates, two of whom —Mrs. Dane
and Mrs. Gardiner —were Toorak girls of
yore. Music, tea and annual report were all
happily mixed up together.
The Bananaland Cottons have tobogganed
down the map, and bought a place on,
Brown’s River, Tasmania. A. J. Cotton is
the inventor of a motor that climbs hills like
a goat and ploughs through sand without
assistance.
Mr. Lucas, of Dalgety’s, is off on a health
trip round the world', accompanied by his
daughter and a trained nurse. The old
gentleman has been seriously ill, but refused
to be kept in bed by doctor’s orders, and
went about his business with a nurse at his
elbow in case of collapse. Now he testily
admits that business must wait awhile.
A young musical identity who affects much
jewellery, and has a most ladylike air, de-
clares himself to be a woman hater. Yet it
it whispered that he is engaged. Perhaps he
isn’t, though. Sometimes it happens that the
wish is ma to the thought.
Young Clifton, of the Jesslands sheepery
up north, is oiling furiously round Mel-
bourne days in the latest mechanical con-
trivance built for two. The hind part is like
a bath tub on wheels, and the various lady
occupants keenly disappoint the public by
failing to brandish a cake of soap and a
sponge as the heater drags them along.
A squatter who is troubled with a great
deal of money and an ambition to shine or
glare socially, is heavily handicapped by the
behavior of his daughters, who have practi-
cally no social ambitions at all. He lately
mapped out a tour round the places where
the aristocracy grazes in herds, and all blood
is the same color as a summons. The pro-
posed jaunt, however, is now regarded as
shelved, one girl having married offhand an
Inspector-General of Boundary Fences and
Bogged Sheep, while the other is smiling
tenderly on another man who perspires for
his bread. And Dad is sorrowfully aware
that she is likely to take the matrimonial
plunge if he bucks or lashes out with his
feet.
Two Western District squatting families
were united recently—the Macleods and the
Forbeses. The wedding went off safely ; but
when Mr. and Mrs. Macleod were trundling
along in a reserved compartment of the
honeymoon train, an unromantic guard came
along, inspected their tickets, and indignantly
ordered them to change into a second-class
carriage. The amazed bridegroom eventu-
ally soothed the rail and semaphore artist,
and persuaded him that it was either the mis-
take of the best man on the booking clerk.
It is said that the best man has fled to the
hills, and registered a vow not to be taken
alive ; The booking clerk disguises himself
heavily every time a train comes in, and
amazes innocent strangers by hoarsely tell-
ing them that he knows nothing. Most of
the strangers heartily agree with him.
Mrs. Oswald Watt arrived here last week
after a brief visit to Sydney. She has taken
a house for six months. Her little boy is
somewhat delicate, and it is said that "the
doctors fear the effect of an English summer
upon his health. The decorative lady was
almost afflicted with a nervous breakdown
at the news of the Titanic wreck. Lady Duff-
Gordon (she who wrote shch thrilling stories
about the catastrophe for the press) is, in
commercial life the famous “Lucille.” Mrs.
Watt is dressed by “Lucille” from neck-to-
ankle, so to speak, and to her the death of
the great clothes-artist, whether at sea or
elsewhere, would represent the blackest of
tragedies.
Ethel Webb, who has a blinding list of
patrons beginning with the Denman lady,
gave a physical-culture demonstration last
week. A talent for figures runs in the family,
Uncle Prout Webb being that dreaded per-
son, the Commissioner for Taxes. Niece
Ethel deals with the female human variety,
and the eye of man—unless it belongs to a
favored doctor —is not allowed to see how
she subtracts fat and adds muscle. The box
office was offered two guineas for a front seat
by an anxious male; another said he would
plank down half a sovereign to be allowed
to efface himself in the back row. But the
box planner was firm, and no business re-
sulted in either case. The Children’s Hospi-
tal got the proceeds of the show.
The first night of the Chapman-Alexander
mission reminded me of an anthill
in the busy season. The great
building had been scrubbed and sanc-
tified after the bazaar, and where the
sinful tables had done a roaring trade, the
Wussleyans had gathered in their thousands.
Brother Chapman was ill, and unable to
appear; but Brother Alexander turned on
all his electricity, and comported himself
like a cakewalking Svengali till he had the
audience reeling round the intellectual ring.
The pianist’s brow was dewy with his exer-
tions, and the pedals loked bruised when he
removed his hot feet and allowed the hard-
driven instrument to indulge in a little re-
creative silence. The upper skin of the ani-
mal was taken clean off for the full-power
trial and the jumping innards exposed in a
most painful manner. It looked so much
like a racing locomotive that an oiler in dun-
garees climbing about and administering
nourishment would not have looked out of
the picture. Many were “saved” in the
course of the uproar, and at least one hand-
bag was lost. Presumably the enraged
Devil took it.
George Tallis and his wife, who departed
together on Tuesday for a Fogland holiday,
dropped in to have a farewell cup of tea
with the Gaud Mayor and his Gaudess. The
latter was an old school chum of Mrs. Tallis.
lan Penny’s papa has been very ill, and
the Asche mummer is having an anxious
time. The old gentleman had a bad turn
just before the Kismetters left, but made a
good recovery, and seemed to be all right.
Penny belongs to a family of the sort which
has oak-panelled halls filled with armor, and
portraits of ferocious ancestors who fought
tremendously, and flung a defiance in the
teeth of the spelling book. Which possibly
goes to explain some of his prominence in
the cast. But you can’t well ask for change
of a Penny. At best he could only be ex-
changed for an unsensational and less de-
corative Brown.
Julius Superbus Knight, who was lately
reported as playing at Glasgow, has a per-
sistent barracker in the person of a young
widow, who regularly visited him during his
spell of hospital. “Oscar Asche’s color
schemes are nothing to him,” says this ad-
mirer in an emphatic voice. It appears
that Julius had a different color scheme in
his sick room every day; and whether it was
mauve, or pink, or blue, his silken attire
always harmonised. He must have been a
beauteous vision in bed ; it probably cut him
to the heart to get up.
Miss Pure Merino, who is wonderfully
true to type, makes the weary counter-hand
stuff her head under the counter and say
“Bah!” to the remnants and waste paper.
Her usual mode of procedure is to stroll in,
get the counter strewn with things she
doesn’t want, and then keep a girl standing
to attention while she yarns to her shopping
aide about having eight dresses fitted in the
last two days, “and it is so tiring, dear!”
The girl yawns furtively behind her hand
and pats her back hair. “Don’t you loathe
getting clothes?” drones the time-waster.
And her friend moans “God gracious, yes!
Why, it nearly hills me!” Then the counter
maiden reminds herself cynically of how she
is hoarding up her shillings for a new frock
and looting with a holy joy to the fitting-on
thereof.
Melba is looked upon with friendly eyes
by the counter girls in the big shops. She
never wastes time, or puts on airs like the
average rich woman, who trails into a chiff-
onerie, and says languidly to a hardworking
woman: “Would you send out to my motor
for a parcel?” The messenger then hurries
out and discovers amongst the cushions
something the size of a large potato. The
brisk Melba does not mind carrying a real
bundle from her gas engine. She has the
reputation, also, of doing all her domestic
shopping in detail. I don’t know if she per-
sonally carries the basket and collects the
steak; but it is a fact that she dropped into
the seedsmen’s the other morning for three-
and-fourpence worth of hardy annuals for
the thousand-pound garden at Coldstream.
No one has yet been known to get ber O.K.
on an incorrect account. Marianne, too,
likes her for her utter lack of little mean-
nesses, and admires her for her grip of detail.
Struck a fine type of the Aggressive
Eemale the other evening in the homeward
tram. She had on a tailor-made costume
and a truly terrible hat; also she wore her
mouth turned down at the corners, and
looked as if she ruthlessly improved her mind
with sandpapery literature every two hours.
Her manner was abrupt to the verge of rude-
ness, and she was accompanied by. the usual
meek friend whom she was overawing with a
merciless cross-examination as to where she
(the meek friend) lived,, and the quickest
way of getting there. The meek friepd tried
to fix a starting point for the description by
saying “You know the Muchcashes’ place?”
The Aggressive Female took another reef in
her lips, and impatiently shook her head, and
the truly terrible hat which rested thereon.
“No!” she loudly trumpeted. “No, I never
know where these places are. But it doesn’t
matter —I daresay I shall find it without.”
It was plain that she regarded the location
of the Mucbcashes’ place as so much intel-
lectual lumber, and declined to have it in
her magnificently-furnished, double-fronted
mind. 1 think at the very least she must
have, been M.A. But I’m dead sure she
wasn’t Ma—she wasn’t natural enough.
An American idea which has not reached
these parts is the Furs Cool Storage. It is
an important institution in Trustland. As
soon as the winter wanes, in go the pelts to
the summer stores, where they are cleaned
and safely housed, while the baffled moth, de-
prived of his banquet, wrings his hands out-
side and lunches frugally on plain duds. A
few years ago, only the wealthiest Australi-
ennes could afford to burthen themselves with
expensive skins, and small strips were trea-
sured that would be scorned now. In older
days, even the most splendid sealskin coats
never got far below the waist line. But in the
present absurdly prosperous times, greatcoats
that are only fit for Polar expeditions are
seen in plenty on the Block two days after
a scorching north wind. The treasures, if
hung up, are soon attacked by the destroyer
and torpedoed. So they have to be worn as
much as possible. Meanwhile, for lack of a
cool storage, the owners rely on the homely
and smellful mothball in a pillow case.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The winter is upon us—that is to say the social
winter. We are sweltering in furs and cold-proof
frocks, and dances and rumors of dances are in the
heated air. As regards the weather, if Society hadn’t
decided it was winter, one would term it distinctly
mid-summery.
So rapidly is Adelaide Society growing or bloating
that the houses are being found too small to accom-
modate the guests. A hostess was forced recently to
draft her friends into three lots. Her method of
classification hasn’t transpired, and the betting is
pretty even as to whether the Alphabet or Social
Position or Fate and a Hat decided to which par-
ticular revel the chosen were visited.
On June 26 a flower ball will occur. The proceeds
are to be handed to the District Trained Nurses’ So-
ciety. The dame of C. J. Way is president of the
affair. Mrs. Downer has the decorations in hand, and
a vast crowd of Sassiety celebrities are planning
dresses for their several sets.
Another spirited attempt to do good by cadge,
more or less, is that of the Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals. They have taken the
Unley Town Ilall for May 17, and intend, right or
wrong, to present Oscar Wilde’s “Importance of
Being Earnest.” What, after all, are the feelings of
human beings where the sacred necessity of doing a
good turn to dumb animals is concerned? Mrs. J. R.
Anderson, Mrs. O’Leary, Miss Luscombe and Mrs.
Arthur Rymill have the feminine parts in hand, and
the males any Messrs. Gordon Campbell, Fowler,
Makin and Simpson.
Judge Murray has permanently taken to the judical
Bench. He spent a month beforehand fixing up his
private affairs. Fortunate is the man whose private
affairs are big enough to call for a month’s fixing.
The inter-collegiate sports at the Adelaide oval
were the same old sports. The Governor was there,
also Miss Bosanquet, and enough relatives to sink a
galleon. R. N. Twopenny was the hero of the day,
with a broad jump of over 21ft.
The engagement is announced of Miss Gladys Box
to Lieutenant Lewis, R.N. Miss Box lives here, but
is the rightful pride and joy of Melbourne.
Mr. Delprat returned from Europe by the China
on Saturday, and went straight through to the ver-
dant bowers of Broken Hill.
Mr. Kelly, who died at the Semaphore on Saturday,
was one of the pioneers. He came to S. Australia
in 1840, and went to Mount Barker, before the days
of railways, or even of made roads. A trip that now
takes two hours (and on a dilatory train at that)
then occupied a pair of days. Law, politics and agri-
culture filled Mr. Kelly's life, and he was a familiar
figure to all regular show-goers. His 86th birthday
was due on June 1. His daughter, Miss Florence
Kelly, is well known in amateur theatrical circles.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


rtyfrtgyhghjghj
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
HIGH-GRADE APPAREL FOR MEN.
Winter Suggestions.
The New Notion
COAT SWEATERS,
Pure Wool. Plain White and Silver Grey
shades. 12/0
13/0, 15/0, 18/0, 21/-
A* ARM CARDIGAN and
FLEECY VESTS.
Neat designs. All wool. Cosy and com-
fortable.
9/6, 10/0, 12/0, 15/-, 17/0, 21/-
THE “NEGLIGE.”
A comfortable, dressy soft. Felt Hat. Brim
either bound or as illustrated. Conformable
to any shape. Exceptionally light.
Fashionable shades. 10/6, 12/6
WARM SHIRTS.
Soft fronts and cuffs.
Fine quality Flannel.
6/6 each.
Collar to match, 1/- extra.
|° Pyßi^ht.
For Your
Winter Suit
We are now clipping
Patterns from the
New Cloths.
CAN WE SEND YOU
A BUNCH?
PIKE BROTHERS LTD
THE“PIBRO”
Travelling RUG.
Softness of texture,
beauty of finish and de-
sign constitute the pe-
culiar excellence of these
Rugs. 55in. x 78in. Dif-
ferent design either side.
Deep fringe. 21/-
OVERCOATS.
Revealing the New Sea-
son’s Styles, direct from
England. Tailored cor-
rectly, they are the chosen
wear of men who care.
They preserve an air of
“good attire” that is irre-
sistible.
Chesterfields,
30/- to 55/-
Raglan Models,
55/- to 70/-=
D. B. Ulsters,
(As illustrated)„
05/- to 75/-
Please Write for Overcoat
Booklet..
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
FAMOUS ENGLISH and
AMERICAN FOOTWEAR.
THE “VISCOUNT.” Full natural Toe
Tan Willow Calf Lace Boots,
21/-, 25/-, 27/6
DITTO. Black Box Calf Lace Boots,
21/-, 25/-, 27/6
Warm
Winter
Jackets
THE
“NEASDEH"
Camel hair
and all-wool
fleecy mater-
ials, with
corded edges
and pockets
to match.
25/-
30/-
§
as
M MH
The “PESCO w Pure Wool Sweater
Roll Gifllat, Pure,. Heavy WooL- Absolutely
Unshrinkable.. 10/6
©then qualities,
D rices from 6/6 to 151 r
Th« ‘‘Napoleon”’Glove
Tati Kid. Excellent for Winter
Wear. Flannel lined.
4/6 Pair.
‘[PATENT GRIP.” Stout Tan
Dogskin.. Ribbed palms and fingers.
A practical Driving Glove.
8/6 Pair.
OUR LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE SENT, POST FREE, TO ANY ADDRESS.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj


After strenuous outdoor exercise take Stearns’
Wine of Cod Liver Extract—invigorator and energy
producer. It feeds the broken down tissues and
makes you feel like new.*
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
WE ARE BORN t®
•FFER BENEFIT*
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price, lOid.
and 1/6.* -
Just to Advertise !
816
A Sixpenny Bottle of Caldwell’s Ink
and a 12/6 14ct.-Cold Iridium-tipped
Special Pattern Self-filling
Unleakable Fountain Pen, for
8/6
u
If you can’t bu3' locally, send
Postal Note direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.
Yarra Bank Road, STH. MELBOURNE.
HEADACHE AND MIGRIM, two curses of modern
civilised life, are in ninety-nine cases out of a hun-
dred closely connected with functional disturbance ot
the bowels. The simplest and best of all / e^™ s
for the latter trouble is a wineglassful ot HUN-
YADI JANOS” natural aperient water, taken before
breakfast every second or third morning.*
IS HALF HEALTH
GOOD ENOUGH?
Women and Girls Who Find No
Enjoyment in Life.
A Run-down, Bloodless Con-
dition Usually to Blame—How
to Get More Blood.
«.
Too many women and girls spend years of
their lives never really well, but not ill
enough, as they think, to consult a doctor.
Just out of sorts —a bit run down —is the po-
sition of hundreds. The women and girls who
enjoy every minute of life, who are strong
and active, are those whose veins are failed
with plenty of rich, red blood. It’s the
anaemic ones, those who haven’t as much
blood as they need, who fail to get enjoy-
ment out of life. They are pale, weak, lan-
guid, have headaches, backaches, heart palpi-
tation; generally indigestion, and often are
morbid and melancholy. Nothing will cure
anaemia, except an increased blood supply.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are above all things
a blood maker. It’s an absolute scientific
fact that they combine with food and air to
make rich new blood. After a course of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills anaemic sufferers begin
to feel that life is worth living. Below are
the words of one woman who speaks for the
benefit of others : .
“Gradually I got very run down, said
Mrs. E. Gentles, Nile Street, East Orange.
“My strength began to fail me, so that I
couldn’t find interest in anything. The
neighbors all remarked how bad I used to
look. For a week at a stretch my head would
ache all over. I used to put on vinegar-
soaked bandages, but the skin was so hot
and feverish, they’d dry almost directly. I
could not hold my head up or even get my-
self a drink. I couldn’t see clearly for the
specks before me, and at last I had to take
to spectacles. I felt wretched in spirits, and
never enjoyed anything. Some nights I
could not sleep. I would go l icy cold one
moment and the next I would be flushed like
fire. But Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have
been wonderfully serviceable. I took two
at a time. Presently I began to feel brighter
and stronger. My sight improved and my
old energy began to show itself. I cabman-
age all my housework now splendidly, and
feel as brisk as possible.”
The price is 2/9 per box. six boxes 15/o,
and if you are pestered bv the shopman who
wants to sell some substitute of his owm
♦hey will be sent nost free by the Dr. Wil-
liams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
Sydney.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6; Double, 22/6; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or Write.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
231 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Victorian Supreme Court is still light-
ing an uphill scrap to compel Treasurer
William Watt to grant a two-gallon license
to Matthew William Slade, grocer, of \\ on-
tliaggi. Meanwhile, the State coal mine
which supports the place has closed up owing
to the absurd mismanagement of the Rail-
way Commissioners, Wonthaggi is dead, al-
most everybody is gone, and the chances are
that Matthew Slade, if he still remains (pro-
bably he is gone too) wouldn’t give 2d. for
the license of all the dramatists of the time
of Charles 11. So why doesn’t Watt end
the trouble by granting the thing?
If the dredge Manchester, over three
weeks out from Wellington (M.L.) to. Syd-
ney, has come to the untimely end which is
almost certain, it will make the third Aus-
tralian bound dredge lost at sea in recent
years. And each of them was imported be-
cause it was alleged to be a few pounds
cheaper than the locally-built • article —the
fact wasn’t even proved. The Manchester
had a crew of 21 men, and, if they have
been lost, the dredge-importing bill will have
got up to about 100 souls. The habit of
sending dredges on long voyages is so near
to plain murder that a committee should be
appointed to find out the difference.
THE NARROW
AND UNCERTAIN
WAY.
No aspirant to public honors could fairly and
reasonably claim immunity from even the fiercest
press attacks until he had either been defeated or
had retired from the test. —A Melbourne morning
paper on an English sub-judiee case.
THE VICTIM: “ 'Ere! 'Ere! Give a man a
chance! Fair play is wot!"
BETSY: “No use, of" man! Yer can't ave
me up fer manslaughter until I've killed
yer; an' then yer can do yer damdest —if I
ever do it again!"
“W.C.M.”: The Tory politician, Liberal
or Labor, is a mighty whale for logic. Here
we have N.S.W. Premier McG-nven declar-
ing himself against the nationalisation of
hospitals* on the ground that it would dry.
the springs of charity, or words to that ef-
fect. Yet the same thistle-eater wholly dis-
believes in charity in all other matters, hence
his faith in Old Age Pensions Act, Work-
men’s Compensation Act, State Asylums,
Free Education, etc. Don’t know what to
make of McGowen.
Victoria has experimented with two rail-
way motors, the idea being that this sort of
vehicle may do passenger service on country
lines, so that the awful two-knot-per-hour
mixed train may become a “goods” pure and
simple. The motors did 60 miles per hour
without turning a hair. Treasurer Watt
reckoned that the problem of country traffic
was solved, but when the motor gets out
into the country, it is 10 to one that the De-
partment will tie a tree behind it to subdue
its velocity. Sloth—old, blue-mouldy Sloth
—has got into the Department’s bones.
White Australia has tw’o avowed enemies
within its gates—the capitalist who wants
the nigger because he is cheap, and the so-
called "Australasian Socialist Party” which
wants him because he is a brudder. A shin-
ing light of the latter push is H. E. Holland
(lately fined £lOO for refusing to let his son
do his spell of military training). At a gen-
eral whoop-up of the party on May Day, at
which the vials of wrath were poured forth
on Labor parties and Labor Governments,
this person said that “the Socialists” (his
particular brand) "were men without a
fatherland.” It seems a mighty poor reason
why they should want to spoil someone else’s
fatherland.
A surprising item from the S. M. lleuald
re Werriwa election : “Mr Conroy is all over
the electorate preaching the gospel of sound
finance .” It seems strange. Conroy is a
Deakin-Cookite. Deakin was the associate
of Duncan Gillies in the great financial
drunk which caused Victoria to fall down
by the wayside in 1893. Cook was a col-
league of George Reid, the individual who
made his one surplus by reckoning as cash on
hand, at the close of the financial year, money
that had been parted with a fortnight earlier
to pay the interest hill. One would imagine
that Conroy, considering his associations,
wouldn’t know honest public finance if he
met it rolling downhill.
[James Edmond, Bulletin Office, 214 George-
street, Sydney.]
Thus “C.0.M.”: —
An English person has been trying to show that
war does not hurt much. In the late iniquitous dis-
turbance between the Dutchmen of South Africa and
the heroes who laid down their lives for Cohen,
Capital and Chinamen, on the blood-stained veldt, it
took on an average 200,000 bullets to kill one man.
This does not look very deadly, and gives us some
hope that a comparatively small crowd of real marks-
men might keep off a big host of invaders. Unfortu-
nately, we are in no hurry to get the marksmen.
Three things are necessary to the efficiency of a de-
fending army: The men must be able to shoot; they
must have something to shoot with ; and they must
be at the place where the shooting is to be done. At
present it would appear that unless the few marksmen
round about George-street and Collins-street could
contrive to hit the bull at 2500 miles or so there
would be precious little chance of stopping an armed
landing in the North. Some statistical person on this
side of the world ought to get to work and figure out
how many delays it takes to kill a great national
movement.
Seeing that the present N.S.W. Govern-
ment has spent £4,583,599 of loan money in
10 months, or at the rate of £5,500,000 per
annum, the public may like to repall the fact
that it is pledged to spend not one penny ot
loan funds, except on works that will pay
full interest from the start, together with 1
per cent, sinking fund. And if McGowen and
co. go back on this principle they are
as much recreants, backsliders and traitors
to their policy as if they declared for non-
union labor, low wages, long hours, and
Chinese immigration. Exactly what pro-
portion of all the recent loan works is guar-
anteed to pay full interest and sinking fund
from the very beginning?
The Victorian farmers, most of whom vote
the Tory ticket and profess to. look upon
unionism in any form as tyrannical and re-
volting, have formed a Victorian Producers
Association. Branches are being established
in all parts of the State, and demands fol-
low freights, low wages and no duty upon
articles in which Hayseed is interested are
being formulated. The other day a branch
was formed at Bendigo, and the secretary of
the association remarked (Argus 29/4/12) :
Any man who would not join the association, but
remained outside to reap the benefits for which other
men were paying, was what was called in common
parlance—and he made no apology for using the
term —a “scab.” (Applause.)
Note the difference in terms. A farmer who,
having no special desire to keep down wages,
and not being opposed to Protection, declines
to join the association, is a plain, unvar-
nished scab ; but the farm hand who refuses
to become a member of the Rural Workers
Union, but is prepared to grab with both
hands anything in the way of increased
wages which is secured by the union, is a
“loyalist” and a person of sturdy independ-
ence.
At long last it has occurred to the Govern-
ment that it may not pay N.S.W., after , all,
to make a desert of those parts of the State
whic,h, by reason of their remoteness, are
unable to trade with Sydney, rather than
allow them to trade with some other port.
Thus Albury, which has long been allowed
direct railway communication with Mel-
bourne, is a fairly prosperous town and an
asset to the Treasury. Further down the
same river, and much better situated in some
respects, Euston, Wentworth, Balranald,
etc., haven’t paid the cost of axle^gre^se'for
the local policeman. They were too far
from Sydney, and the dog-in-the-manger
policy forbade railway connection with Mel-
bourne. Now it is proposed to allow that
connection, and if the scheme is carried out,
it should be the beginning of better things.
Of course, the idea is far from perfect, lhe
natural port for the south-western corner of
N.S.W. is Adelaide, about 150 miles away,
though some trade might be done with Port-
land, 300 miles away. That south-west
corner, which is commonly regarded as the
dead finish, should be one of the garden
patches of the State, with two of Australia s
biggest rivers traversing it, and the contin-
ent’s third biggest city almost at its door, as
distances go in this country. But it was
always judged by its great distance from
Port Jackson, and that killed it.
State Frighters who would spill their last
drop of ink rather than give the Common-
wealth further powers, have another lump
of cold, hard fact to chew. During a gold-
stealing scare, two or three years ago, Vic-
toria passed an Act making it almost as diffi-
cult to covertly sell an oz. of gold as a flight
of elephants. Unfortunately most of the gold
GHOSTS, OR THE HAUNTED HOUSE.
We Australians refuse to renounce our ancestry.
(Cheers.) When we remember all that we owe to
England, we must also remember all that we owe to,
etc., etc. —The Affable One on St. George’s Day.
Being the sad story of a youthful house-
holder who once wilfully imported and adopted
a family ghost, and by-and-bye found doubt as
to whether he were either willing or able to re-
nounce his pestiferous and discreditable foster
forefather even if he should.
that can be stolen is in the north of Vic.,
so the illicit dealers simply slipped with it
over the border, and got rid of it there. Now,
therefore, another Act has been drafted to
go before the Ma State Parliament, and
when those two Houses have dealt with the
matter at great expense, presumably Tas-
mania and Queensland will be asked to fol-
low suit. And in the end, after 12 Houses
have dealt with six separate Bills, there will
be just enough differences between them to
let the illicit dealer crawl through comfort-
ably.
About the weirdest political jaunt at the
expense. of that patient old animal, the tax-
payer, was perpetrated by N.S.W.’s anti-
Australian Ministry when about half of it
sailed for Jervis Bay in the pilot steamer
Captain Cook. This was in connection with
the State Mites’ scheme to make Australia
the tenant of McGowen, Holman and co. on
the land required bv the nation for defence
purposes. The merits of the demand of the
Commonwealth Government for sovereign
rights could not be affected by a view of tne
topographical peculiarities of the land in
question. Still it was a pleasurable trip.
W. J. Ferguson, who is carrying Gregory
Wade’s banner in the by-election for the
Alexandria seat in N.S.W. Assembly, ren-
dered vacant by the death of ex-Treasurer
Dacey, is the one-time Labor man who once
represented Broken Hill in Ma’s Parliament.
With Sleath and others, he was prosecuted
for the part he took in the great ’9O strike.
When Henry Willis reneged on Gregory
Wade’s party recently in order to take the
Speakership he was held up as a blackleg
to the scorn of all good Liberals, who were
warned never to trust such an unprincipled
person again. But, of course, things are
very different in the case of Ferguson. They
always are different.
The opening speeches of the Labor candi-
date at Werriwa covered a fairly large im-
provement lease of ground, but they unfor-
tunately left one question unanswered. Is a
good Federal Laborite supposed to approve
of the General Strike as a regular weapon
of defence or offence? During the recent
badly-managed unpleasantness in Brisbane,
Senator Pearce was saying things in Mel-
bourne which suggested strong disapproval.
Meanwhile, the Prime Minister and one of
his colleagues were in Queensland on a quite
needless and gratuitous mission, apologising
for the General Strike, whitewashing the
General Strike, and doing their utmost to
help the General Strike leaders into office,
where, as a General Strike Ministry, they
might have done a vast amount to bring the
Federal Labor cause into discredit. Amid
all this confusion, many voters would like to
know if the General Strike is to be on the
Federal Labor programme as a matter of
fact, though Industrial Arbitration is there
as a matter of theory. A great deal may
depend on the definite repudiation of that
ill-managed running-amok. Labor may win
at Werriwa, in any case, for a special and
very solid vote —said to be 400 strong
should come its way from the men who are
employed on certain big Government works
in the electorate. But unless the party can
show a majority apart from that vote, it
won’t be a first-class omen for the general
elections.
[James Edmond, Bulletin Office, 214 George-
street, Sydney.]
“Boswell”: “Red Page” (B. 11/4/’l2), in
a retrospect of the uphill struggle of the
British workers, records how, early in last
century, men received seven years each for
joining a trades union! Ireland’s struggle
for political freedom is dotted over with even
blacker crimes. One instance: When Michael
Dwyer, the Wicklow chieftain, had success-
fully dodged his pur-
suers for many months,
the Government took a
cowardly revenge. Dwy-
er’s father and mother
still lived, as did his
three brothers, none of
whom had ever joined in
his exploits, yet the
father, mother, brothers
and sisters were arrested
one night by the soldiers,
lodged in gaol, tried.
found guilty of being
Dwyer's relatives, and
transported. And our
English writers speak of
“savages” in other coun-
tries !
I> ill so n, Education
Minister in Victoria, re-
cently had an idea which
his colleagues, even though
they are not a very bright
lot, turned down with en-
thusiasm. The State
schools have been for
years falling into a deep-
er abyss of disrepair be-
cause successive Minis-
tries have lacked the
courage to find the re-
quired funds out of taxa-
tion. It occurred to Bill-
son that the easy way
would be to float a loan
of £500,000 or so—a
school repairing loan. It
occurred to his colleagues
that Billson didn’t know
what he was talking
about. So the old schools
continue to fall in.
Broken Hill is in this unique position : It
sends two members to the State Hut and
Qne tQ the p edera l House of Reps., and all
~ Pahinet Ministers
three are now cabinet ilin Si
LOVE AND LAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Praliran court yesterday, a wood worker was
summoned by his wife for maintenance of herself and
two children.... During the hearing, Mr. Phipps,
J.P., took exception to the action of Mr. Chambers,
J.P., in recently ordering the parties to a suit into
the magistrate’s room to try and settle their dif-
ferences. He stigmatised the proceeding as “billing
and cooing business,” and said such a thing must not
occur again, or there would be trouble.
—Melbourne Age.
A court’s no place for billing and cooing!
So call the case
And let us be doing!
Each staunch Jaypee
Will gravely agree
A court’s a place for billing and sueing.
N.S.W.
ELISHA PADDLEFAT, J.P.


§
The BECHSTEW
—The Piano that has
never met an equal.
The BECHSTEIAI is bought and treasured
by people who take a pride in their piano
—is built for those who seek the maximum in piaio construction. The BecHstein owner knows that his instrument will do him honour, no
matter what great musicians visit his home.
In every part of the civilised world you will find the BecHstein in the homes of people who arc in the position to pick and choose —people who arc
n ot restrained by price, from owning the finest piano.
We sell the BecHstein in Upright and Grand Models, and each instrument is guaranteed by us to give perfect satisfaction and long wear.
Our illustration shows the BecHstein Grand, Model 20. This is an excellent drawing-room Piano, as it has in addition to its wonderful
tone, a very handsome case, appearance and finish.
We sell the BecHstein on our easy time payments, so that this high-grade piano is practically within reach of all. Particulars of easy terms and
catalogues free for the asking.
W. H. PALING Sr CO., Limited,
Australia's Premier Musical Warehouse ,
538 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA.
The Latest Addition
to the Phonograph
Family
Edison progressiveness is once again to the fore in the introduction of this new
model or the Edison Phonograph.
Many people have sought an instrument combining many of the features of the
Edison Amberola, yet costing not as much—an edition de luxe of Edison machines of
the regular type.
This is now available in
The “OPERA” Model
EDISON PHONOGRAPH.
The “Opera” Model embodies all that long experience, mechanical skill, and the
best quality of materials could make it.
It has a beautiful Mahogany Cabinet, Maroon finish body, and Mahogany Music
Master Cygnet Horn, with which the usual Horn Crane support is unnecessary, as the
Horn is pivoted in a rigid Arm Casting, allowing it to swing in any direction.
The Cygnet Horn permits the unobstructed passage of sound \tmves, thus greatly
improving the reproducing and tone qualities.
The Edison “Opera” Phonograph will be ex-
tremely popular with those who desire a perfect
Machine at all points, yet who hesitate at the
purchase of an Amberola. Its beauty will appeal
to all people of discernment and artistic tastes —
its sweetness, richness and perfect rendition will
endear it to all music lovers.
The Edison dealer nearest you will gladly demon-
strate and explain the merits of this new model to
you on request. If you do not know the address
of a dealer, write us direct, and we will tell you,
and also send latest lists of Phonographs and
Records.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Hear it at
your Dealer’s
To-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. B„ 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
THE Diva of Humorous
Song has completely
captivated Melbourne by
her delightful Songs at
the Piano.
Margaret
Cooper’s
Song
Successes
k \\
AGATHA GREEK
BOBBY, DEAR.
CATCH ME.
CHEERO.
COME TO TOWN, MISS
BROWN.
DREAMLAND.
FAIRYLAND.
JANIE.
HULLO, TTT-TTJ!
I DON’T SEEM TO WANT
YOU WHEN YOU’RE WITH
ME.
JEST HER WAY.
LET US WALTZ ROUND TO-
GETHER.
LOVE TS MEANT TO MAKE
US GLAD.
MA DUSKY MAID.
MY HEART’S AT YOUR
FEET.
MY LITTLE CHIMNEY
SWEEP.
PETER.
PLUMSTONES.
YOU ALWAYS HAVE TO
PAY A LITTLE MORE
YOU’LL GIT HEAPS O’
LICKINS
VISITORS.
THE MARGARET COOPER LANCERS! 1
CATCH ME TWO-STEP [.
MA DUSKY MAID TWO-STEP J.l
Piano Solo, 2/- each.
Small Orchestra, 1/- each.
Full Orchestra, 2/- each.
May be had of all Music Sellers
throughout Australasia and New Zealand.
CHAPPELL g CO. LIMITED, 235 Flinders Line, Melbourne.


rtyfrtgyhghjghj
K UPPER
LACER
"SHELL"
SPIRIT
IS THE
MOST ECONOMICAL
THEREFORE
IT IS CHEAPEST
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
o H
RESOH, Brewer by Appointment
His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
-RICHARD HOLMES ft CO., PERTH, KALGOORLIE and OOOLOARDIE.
West Australian Agents
Brewery and Offices.:
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
*
Cabled from America that Packy McFar-
land wants to meet Ad. Wolgast for £3OOO, at
1331 b., bringing the fight into light-weight limits.
The tip may be given for the present champion. In
recent Amurkan matches, according to ringside critics,
McFarland’s punch goes when he dwindles below
1381 b.
* # * *
The new style of wrestling is known as
Gotch-as-Gotch-Can.
The New York State Athletic Commis-
sion, which controls boxing in Gotham and through-
out its backblocks, is improving the glove game out
of sight. Fighting is being discouraged and boxing
fostered. Among other reforms now introduced is
the abolition of the kidney punch. The Commission
blew it out on the ground that it required no skill
to land the blow, and that when the appellant is once
in the right position to deliver it the respondent has
no defence against it. The same tribunal has also
turned its attention to referees, and gentlemen who
lose control of the fights they are superintending, and
allow rough tactics, or fail to enforce their threats
of disqualification, are themselves disqualified and
barred from the ring. On more than one occasion re-
cently the Commissioner present has ordered the
combatants out of the ring for rough work, and
given the referee due notice that he would be called
upon tp show cause. So now the gentleman who
makes k orust by putting a head on his brother pug,
and the other gentleman who sees he does it accord-
ing to the book, both walk warily.
When the mail left, the U.S.A. was still
simmering with excitement over the result of the
Attell-Kilbane fight at Los Angeles, on February 22.
Attell held the featherweight championship of
the U.S.A. for 10 long years, every one of which
was stained with the nose-gore of his opponents.
He was considered a marvel of elusiveness and a
fighter of amazing skill. His trouble was that he
lingered too long on the stage, and the younger
generation, in the shape of Johnny Kilbane, of Cleve-
land, Ohio, the town which gave John D. Rockefeller
his first lift in the oil business, came up suddenly
and bumped him out. It was never dreamt that Kil-
bane would be able to box with Attell; but it was
thought that his more youthful body might take all
the punishment Attell could hand him, and thereby
enable the challenger to hand in the wallop of vic-
tory, Expectations proved all wrong. Kilbane out-
boxed and out-paced Attell. Attell, feeling his king-
dom slipping from him, went mad, and resorted to
such a bewildering succession of tricks that he nar-
rowly escaped being disqualified. Kilbane failed to
score his knock-out, but at the end of 20 rounds the
referee handed him the verdict and the champion-
ship. Attell protested that he could not lose his
championship unless knocked out, but the referee
said “Pooh!” and that ended the argument. Kil-
bane had taken his place at the top of the heap.
Timothy Land, of Bondi, did not show to
his lisual advantage against Yankee Keller at Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday night. He had been suffer-
ing from a bad ear, and had, apparently, neglected
his training somewhat. There was an absence of
devil about his work, and his fair round bingey, with
fat domed beef lined, was obviously a brake on
him. I But, all the same, he did most of the forcing,
and although in much better condition the smiling
Terry displayed great diffidence about intruding on
Mr. ’Land. "The stiff-legged one managed to drop
his Yankee friend once, but Keller wiped that oft the
score by sending Land down in his turn. Land s
boiler gave out in the 18th and 19th rounds, and it
looked as though the foreign pug was going to lay
Bondi right out. But he managed to weather the
storm, and reviving somewhat in the 20th, was
beaten on points only. #
“Gil.”: A recent Bulletin reference to
the wildly-erratic horse-tipping of the Sydney news-
papers impels me to remark that to expect the pro-
fessional sporting scribe to pick ’em, is expecting
the wholly impossible. I know. I navigated the
sporting columns of a daily and weekly for three
years. And the manner in which “those in the
know” close up when a newspaper man is within
hearing would put an oyster to shame. But I don’t
blame them. An owner or a stable doesn t bottle
up” a good thing for months, to blather it at the
last hour to a newspaper specialist, who will spread
it on the walls of the universe. Many a time,
though, the sporting scribe learns more than he writes
of. If he happens to be a personal friend of the
“coupers,” he might get the “office'* —for private
use only. If he is a. wise man, he will back the
good thing, and tip something else, for, while he
respects such secrets, the ordinary general informa-
tion, which is necessary to his pages, will be vouch-
safed him. Whereas, if he gave the show away, he
would get no information at all. And then his billet,
like Othello’s one, would be gone. True, there are a
few cute, energetic sporting scribes who, in defiance
of those unwritten laws, obtain inside information.
But it is always wrong. If it were right they
wouldn’t get it.
* * * *
“0.K.”: The good old Gambling Evil, in
its legal and illegal aspects, is a very tiring matter
for consideration. Tatt.’s sweeps are legal in the
place where they are drawn, but the sending of
money to Tatt., or an agent of Tatt., by post, is
illegal everywhere, not excepting Tasmania. A pri-
vate sweep on a horse race is illegal in a legitimate
club, but sweeps of the most loosely-conducted kind
are permitted in connection with public bazaars,
provided that a hospital is understod to be getting
all the profits, or half the profits. Nevertheless, the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments prohibit the in-
troduction of the charity-assisting tote on race-
courses. Inconsistency runs to lunacy in anti-
gambling Acts and pro-gambling permits. On the
“Amusements” page of the Melbourne dailies, of
late, there have been three or more advts. of sweeps.
Tickets, 1/- each, or 11 for 10 “bob,” or 23 for £l.
All the world was invited to send along cash, postal
notes, cheques or stamps (what a temptation to office
boys!), and get a chance of winning a motor, din-
ing-room suite, piano, diamond pendant, or what not.
And the sole excuse for this flagrant outbreak of
Gambling Evil is the fact that the Druids want a
Gala and St. Vincent’s Hospital wants cash. The
charitable end justifies the means. Doesn’t the total-
isator on racecourses have a charitable end, although
the Vie. Government refuses to let the machine get to
work on behalf of St. Vincent’s and the other hospi-
tals? And do the gamblers, who provide the money
that pays all the exes of these “charity” raffles, care
twopence about the cause they are gambling for?
* * * *
There’s something in being a muddied oaf
at the goal after all. Gilbert, who played centre
three-quarter through England with the Kangaroos,
has returned under contract to play for Hull. His
side of the agreement is represented by a first-class
return ticket, a lump sum of £450, a weekly wage
of £4 and a bonus on all matches won. The pro-
blem of what to do with our boys seems in a fair
way to be solved.
* * * *
Saturday last saw the commencement of
the Sydney metropolitan competitions in the Rugby
League, Rugby Union and Soccer branches of hoof-
ball. Attendances were good, and the noise of the
barracking was as that which arose from Pande-
monium when Satan’s work was completed. But, in
such perfect weather, a cat-fight would have drawn
a crowd. The air was like wine off ice—cold, brac-
ing and delicious. The opening of the season was
marred by two bad accidents. A League and a
Union man each fractured a leg owing to over-strenu-
ous play. The form displayed by the players was
distinctly good for the time of the season, but is,
of course, far from what it will be in a few weeks.
Curious how a team loses its combination when out
of. practice for a while. Rig-ht through all the games
were splendid samples of bright individual play, and
the way the public applauds that sort of thing when
it ought to maintain a freezing silence is calculated
to lead young players astray. For an ounce of com-
bination is worth several tons of extra-burnished in-
dividualism. There is not much to say about the
play ; there were no fine concerted attacks to chron-
icle, neither was there much systematic defence to
get enthusiastic over. In the League Division the
premier club, Eastern Suburbs, had a narrow escape
from a defeat by baby Annandale; although Annan-
dale is getting to be a fairly sturdy babe now. It
was only the marvellous kicking powers and general-
ship of Messenger that saved Eastern Suburbs. Mes-
senger is a host in himself, but the rest of the team
and the host combined only just managed to win by
eight points to seven. Newtown gave Western
Suburbs the father of a knock-out, running over the
victims to the tune of 29 to nil. South Sydney also
rampaged somewhat, when it wiped up North Sydney
by 16 to three, and Glebe danced on its old rival
Balmain to the tune of 17 to seven, which was
moderately severe.
In the Union section the startled audience
watched Newtown, the premier club, overthrown
by Western Suburbs (eight to three). West-
ern Suburbs is a much stronger team this season
than last. Glebe rubbed it into Eastern Suburbs,"
kicking up 16 to the nine of the Eastern crowd. St.
George scrambled out on top of South Sydney by six'
to three; University scrunched Balmain by 23 to
nine, and Manly and North Sydney played a draw
with three all.
In the Australian section North Sydney over-
threw the City by 36 points to 31, which
was a trifle to Paddington’s triumph, over South
Sydney by 74 to 39—35 points. East Sydney
scored 66 points to Newtown’s 54, and the Training
College forfeited to Y.M.C.A. This is the second
time this season the Training College has reneged, so,
presumably, it will now drop out of the competition,
and make way fof a team from Eveleigh railway
workshops. At present the Australian competition
shows North Sydney, East Sydney and Paddington
together with eight points each ; Sydney and Y.M.C.A.
together with four each; and Newtown and South
Sydney at zero.
* * •* « *
By the will of Allah, or the grace of Joss
or whoever controls the matter, the second chapter
of Melbourne’s Book of Hoofball was as attractive as
the first, and gained an even larger circulation, so
to speak. ’Wood and the ’Dons collided at Victoria
Park, and a strenuous, closely-contested-game ensued.
’Wood’s cleverness, determination and persistence
were fully developed, but the beautiful “system”-
that allows only one man to go for the ball while
another waits handy, that passes it on with deadly
accuracy, that spares its players while, bustling and
tiring its opponents, that controls the ball’s move-
ments and makes a fool of the fiercest rushing and
bogging-in—was, alas! a minus quantity. What-
little passing there was was done by the ’Don centres
to their half-forwards, and these, from 60yds. out,
repeatedly sent the ball through clear over the de-
fenders’ heads. So they scored 10 goals 10 behmds.
’Wood got more hasty shots, but naturally didn t find
the opening with the same certainty, so its tally was
six goals 17 behinds —which left it 17 points in de-
fault. On the neighboring ’Roy ground the Maroons
accepted the attentions of the Carlton 18, but treated
them disdainfully up to half-time. Thereafter the
Old Blues bogged in with more vim, and finished a
street or so ahead —64 points to ’Roy s 41. Though
a team of mighty ’bailers, South has never yet man-
aged to defeat Richmond on the latter’s ground ; con-
sequently, though notoriously the stronger team, it
went thither on Saturday with dubious feelings. It
had all the best of the play, it got marks and took
shots by the dozen, but when the bell rang the
scorer’s disgusted remark was: South, two goals 23
behinds, to Richmond’s five goals eight behinds;
which left the latter ahead by three points. It seems
almost a pitv the Red and Whites got those two
goals • they look so lonesome amidst all that stack
of behinds. Though the Saints have acquired some
hefty ’bailers to strengthen their young team, they
were outed easily by Geelong: 93 points to 47 ; while
Melbourne, by walloping the Students by four points
on lv—61 to 57 —largely discounted the merit of their
last week’s victory over ’Wood.
The Ass. games provided a few unexpected
shocks, the premiers (’Don) going down to Port
Melbourne bv four points—6l to 57. Like Roy in
the League, Port has been progressing during recent
years, and threatens to arrive this season. Bruns-
wick received P’ran, and prepared for a tough
struggle, which duly eventuated up to half-time (43
points all) ; but in the next term ’Wick simply over-
whelmed the suburb of the placid Mackinnon. it
piled on 49 more points to P’ran’s one, and the game
was over. It ended with ’Wick, 108 points ;P ran,
72. The newly-formed Melbourne Citizens put up a
seemly struggle against ’Town —33 points to Town s
62 ; and North accounted for ’Scray by 95 to 72,
without unduly bustling itself. ’Cote, puffed up
with pride over its defeat of Brunswick, went down
to Brighton assured of an easy victory, and got an-
noyed when it found Brighton of a different mind.
Throughout the discussion the seasidets held their
own, and a bit over, the said “bit” at the finish
being seven points—-59 to ’Cote’s 52. This circum-
stance got on the ’Cote’s barrackers’ nerves, and a
willing argument, mostly conducted with fence pick-
ets, ensued. The other casualties of the afternoon
were a damaged knee at ’Roy and a severe case of
brain concussion at ’Wood ; but these were part of
the rigor of the game, and merely call for rest and
a moderate allowance of medical comforts.
* * * *
S.A. Football League has enthusiastically
declined to give “clearances” to two West Adelaide
men who have left for Carlton (Victoria). Delegates
said that the cash-paving Melbourne clubs are ap-
proaching” most of the best men in Adelaide, and
if thev helped on the exit of these two—who happen
to be'Tasmanians, lately resident in South Aus.—2o
or 30 of the pick of the native-born would claim the
right to be off too.
* * * *
Although the recently returned “Kanga-
roo” team arrived from Britain in a bad way finan-
cially, its record was particularly good. This is the
way it glitters:—
Team. Played. Won. Lost. Drawn.
Maoriland (1907-8) . . 34 18 14 2
Australia (1908-9) . . 45 18 21 6
Australasia (1911-12) 36 29 5 2
Which is reasonably good evidence that the Austra-
lian brand in Northern Union ’ball is improving
rapidly in quality.
* # * *
The Rugby referees, both League and
Union, will have to set a stiff upper lip against the
reckless play that was indulged in on Saturday.
It doesn’t improve the game to watch, while it drives
good men out of it, and rouses public dislike. Three
fractured legs, two broken heads (all of them hos-
pital cases), besides contusions, bruises, cuts and
shifted skin, is too much for one mild afternoon.
# * * *
G. A. Faulkner, who is the pride and joy
of South Africa with the bat, has been getting his
hand in early for the forthcoming triangular tests.
Playing in the trial match, M.C.C. v. Notts, at the
beginning of May, he piled 131 on to the score-
sheet. He will be given an opportunity to try it
on Australian bowlers on May 27 at Manchester, when
the first of the Tests will commence.
• * * *
University and Redfern commenced the
final of the Sydney First Grade Cricket Competition
on Saturday, at Sydney Cricket Ground. Redfern,
the team which hurled North Sydney down from its
pre-eminence, won the toss, and decided to bat, as
the wicket was ideal and the weather perfect. Ac-
cording to the turnstiles 5000 looked on, despite the
fact that from No. 2 Cricket Ground, the Sports
Ground over the way, and the Agricultural Ground
behind the fence, came the deafening howls of the
football barackers at the opening of the competitions.
Foster and Rix took strike from Stack and Massie.
The game opened badly for Redfern, Stack’s very
first ball proving fatal. It was an alluring full toss,
and Foster smote it with all his soul. As it was
skimming along a few inches from the earth, past
mid-on, the fieldsman made a side-on dive for it,
and held on like grim death, while he slid along the
grass from the momentum of his effort. It was a
staggering catch, and made Redfern feel blue. Maid-
ment took the vacant crease, and the same fieldsman
got him after he had saved up seven. Then the
dfibkele commenced. Redfern dropped its bundle on
the spot. Eight men disappeared, leaving only single
figures behind them (and one of them was the sign
of zero). The highest score was Walker’s 18. Makin
made 17, and Mailey, the not out man, carried his
timber for 15. Total, including three by Sundries,
77. It was absolutely awful. When University got
going the batsmen were full of confidence, for the
’Varsity tail went up as that of Redfern went down.
The first two batsmen heaped together 84 between
them, thus eclipsing Redfern’s total score by seven.
Eric Barbour made 54 and Wilcocks 30. F. McElhone
(the baby of the family) biffed 27, and when stumps
were drawn University had lost only four wickets for
144. Of course Redfern is not beaten yet, but it is
certainly a long way behind. The feature of the
afternoon was the bowling of Stack. That destructive
young man took seven Redfern wickets for 48 runs.
The fielding was good on! both sides, but Redfern
hadn’t a bowler like Stack. Mailey, in spite of his
previous mighty doings, was far from formidable.
It was his peaceful day, and he succeeded in taking
only two wickets, at a cost of 63 runs. Of course,
the' spirit of the dream may change entirely next
Saturday when the tragedy is to be played out.
Man has sought many inventions with a
view to being able to quickly turn his ordinary push-
bike into an efficient motor-cycle. Some of the dis-
coveries have been weird contraptions, indeed. All
of them have suffered from inability to connect and
disconnect quickly. Many have weakened the frame
of the bike to a dangerous degree. In the mass they
have proved unreliable and cumbersome when they
were not actually dangerous. Those which approached
the requisite degree of lightness have been, naturally,
the most unreliable, and after a faint flutter they
usually died young. And now another has blown on
to the market, and certainly has points about it pos-
sessed by none of its forerunners. The complete en-
gine set, a J.A.P., is bolted on to a frame-
work which is attached to the back wheel spindle.
The other end of the framework carrying the engine,
is supported by a castor wheel running on the
ground, and the stays of the back wheel provide for
an up and down motion of the castor wheel, to equal-
ise the road shocks. The driving power is com-
municated to the back wheel of the bike by means
of a rubber-covered friction wheel acting on the tyre.
It doesn’t sound too alluring, but the inventor has
ridden a bike propelled by this attachment over 500
miles without a puncture or other mechanical trouble,
and climbed steep, muddy hills without pedal assist-
ance, and he is preferred to take his solemn oath that
he never experienced any slip whatever. This writer
has his doubts as to whether there is any real de-
mand for auxiliary wheels; but if there is, and this
one is what it claims to be, then it should just about
fill the bill. No attachment that is slung into the
frame of the machine can be wholly satisfactory, and
hitherto all of them have been attached to the frame,
usually with disastrous results to the stability of
that noble animal.
A Yankee cyclist named J. "W Jvfs^ould
veloped a wireless telegraph apparatus, wni \
prove invaluable to cycle corps in war V , ' _u
10ft. mast is attached to the back of the te gr
machine, and the electric apparatus is
small platform clamped on to the back of tne _
ing handle. The rubber tyres act as an in
from the earth. Wolff succeeded in keeping .
stant communication with another cyclist so .
miles away. There are some startling possi
about this contrivance. »
Frank Fitts, the promising
swimmer, who threatened to develop into som
like a champion, has abandoned the water, a n
nitely gone in for the mud. He is now farm
Batlow (N.S.W.), the place where they S row
as large as babies, and babies as big as you g
phants. Seen in Sydney recently by some
sports, he discoursed fluently for two hours
size and majesty of the prunes and the exquisi
of the potatoes. # *
J. D. Scott, Petersham’s all-round crick-
eter, and his glory: The highest batting a.verag >
highest bowling average, highest aggregate o .’
and the tallest number of catches in club. criCKer.
Unfortunately, when he was tried for his hu
bowling, in inter-State cricket, he f aded at ' th fr ,-ShV
chological moment, probably through State g »
and was tossed out. But the State
hardly look sideways at him after this season
cord. * , *
N.S.W. lawn tennis champion, A. B.
Jones added the Western Suburbs (Sydney)
pionship to his girdle on Saturday, by “p£ardfwHi
G. W. Wright by 12 games to four. His reward w
probably take the form of a seat in tin: Australasian
team to confront the invaders who will y
here seeking the Davis Cup on the plain
bourne. \ # *
The second round of Sydney lawn tennis
on Saturday emphasised the foolishness of _ the . ..
ciation’s reversion to the inane club system. „
five matches in the “A” grade, Balmoral chewed up
Strathfield I. by eight sets to one ; Sydney demohshed
Strathfield 11. by seven sets to one; Sydney U- ue
molished Chatswood by eight sets to ml V„niU and
did the same office for Camarella by six t° nil, in
Manly slung Western Suburbs into the net by five to
three That is to say, there was only one decently
contested game out of the five— and iftbe As
thinks that is good for the game, the Ass. mule.
Sydney metropolitan district rifle shoot-
ing season ended last Saturday. In the ,
Randwick “A” team repeated its former .- ccess and
again headed the list with an aggregate of 2031
points. But it was not by any means a ninaway
victory, as the Australian Rifles, with 201 ,
Parramatta with 2010, were very close behind The
Second Grade premiership fell to the Watei
Sewerage Board team, with 2063 (
“0” was on its heels with 2046, and Rockdale
with 2041; while the A.M.P. Society squelche
army of opponents in the Third Degree. The J
the shooters turn up Saturday after Saturday is very
commendable, the whole 39 teams b ' m f
on the mounds. These men are worth 100,000 toot
ball barrackers to Australian defence. #
The baseball “field day” at Petersham
(Sydney) on Saturday launched the game ofglon
fled rounders for another term and yielded a gate of
£ 27—which is quite a mountain of boodle for one
of the back-r«w sports to reap in one day. As tne
Baseball Association is fathering homc-and-home
matches with Victoria during the season, it will want
it all and a bit more.
* * *
Sculler Alf Felton has decided not to let
his head grow unduly tight inside bis hat al ? d wib
not disturb Harry Pearce for somej little time t
come However, there is balm in Gilead in die lor
of a sweepstakes match between half a dozen of the
best scullers, which is being Promotcdwitha view
to finding out who really disturb Pearce.
N S.W. Cyclists’ Union has been compelled
SStSssts t srs-srss =»s
etc esev-;
in which it can have the kick-up which follows the
decorated profession. . So the event stands over ti 1
June, by which time it is hoped a hall will he avail
able.’ it was never like this before Federation.
THE TRIUMPHAL CAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jack Johnson has been put to bed in a Pittsburg
hospital by a biff from a motor-car.
Great men from many places came
To knock J. Johnson off the earth,
To grab his title and his name,
And all the bruising game is worth.
Jack met the lot, black, white and brown,
And simply hit them out of town.
Then, full of oof, and blown with pride,
He bought some motors grand and gay,
In which about the earth to glide,
And beat the coppers every day.
A rival car got in its clout,
And Johnson, J., is down and out.
They’ve built a great machine to do
What beat their Yankee thew and bone.
All other cars are looking blue.
The finest advt. ever known
Is scooped. This car has cornered Fame.
The White Hope ought to be its name!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
DRY RETCHING.
“ffiffi. Sill i O nSi T aVko E oS
PILLS.
“I was a sufferer from dry r ® tc r^^ Dg ’ f]
writes Mr. Thomas F. Colman, of Tweed
Hoods N S W., “and went off my food, when
of Croydon, Queensland some
time avo; and on the recommendation ot
some of my personal friends I demded to
give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills _atria
to try and overcome this mnlady. I found
they afforded me immediate relief from dry
retching, by taking two pills before dinner
and three before retiring. I can they
do not vripe, hut act mildly and satisfac-
torily. As a blood medicine I can also cer-
tify to the good effects of a course of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Although I re-
ceived skilled medical treatment to no result,
vour remedy has caused some old sores to
heal rapidly, and, therefore, I speak or
them after using with satisfactory results.
You can publish these lines if you desire.


ARE YOU QUITE SURE YOU
GAN KEEP YOUR END UP?
*§l Jfc
As you stand at this minute are you con-
fident you could tackle a man your own
weight, and come out on top in a fair and
square go?
Be candid with yourself—you may be
challenged at a moment’s notice. Would
the knowledge you’ve gained from actually
defending yourself be in your mind during
the conflict, or would the many openings be
clear to you only after you’d been defeated?
With the crude boxer it is hit or miss.
The scientific boxer wins because of superior
skill and accuracy.
You can be a Scientific Boxer.
I TEACH BOXING
WBY POST
My course consists of over 30 lessons,
each explaining in a thoroughly practical
way an important move in Scientific Box-
ing.
You will learn every serviceable hit, stop,
counter, feint, etc., and will progress just as
rapidly as your enthusiasm desires.
Why don’t you become a Scientific Boxer
• —skilful in attack and defence —ever on the
alert to seize an opening just as it happens?
Write for my Booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in your Home,” which gives full informa-
tion of my methods.
Kindly send 3d. for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
18 CastlereagH Street, Sydney.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
L I EUR.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
QUALITY IS
PARAMOUNT
in the making of Rigney Shoes, which explains
why they are so serviceable, distinctive and
high-grade.
Rigney Shoes cost more by the pair, but
less by the year.
The Boot shown is a Box Calf Bal., Stout
Soles, splendidly finished.
Prices 15/6.18/6. 22/6 g 251-
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Send for a Copy of our Catalogue — FßEE.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
44 The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Stores,"
505 GEORGE ST., dud 179 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Makes you look manly
Before
Jlne*
A Quick Moustache Grower —
“CAPILLARINE” is surprisingly quick in bringing about a full,
strong moustache. It gets right into the hair cells and nourishes
them. It has a successful reputation that covers 30 years.
IT’S NO EXPERIMENT.
PRICE 10/0 JAR, Post Free Anywhere.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER —worn at night—will
make your Moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i Established 30 Years.
&
They Restore
Health & Strength.
Murphy’s Pile Pills do not contain a single harmful
ingredient, and are Nature’s quickest and surest cure for
Piles in all stages and no matter how severe.
They remove the cause and eradicate suffering, tone up
the system, and succeed where all other methods fail.
They are non-aperient.
Get a box of Murphy’s Pile Pills to-dav. ■ Sold every-
where by leading chemists and storekeepers, or may be
obtained .direct from the proprietors. Price, 3/- per box,
free. Sole Proprietors: ANDREW MURPHY,
LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Svdney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
A. M. L. 6 F. CO. Ltd.
(Australian Mercantile, Land 8 Finance Co., Ltd.)
♦. . FOR .♦ ♦
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
StocK and Station Agents,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD,
Manager;
Also at Melbourne (Si Brisbane.
DemonstratorAgentsWanted
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating on ordinary
lamp oil. Operates equally well on Petrol, Paraffin. Alcohol, Benzine, I istillate. Naptha
or Coal Oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for farms, shops, and all
power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and pumping outfits. Sawing out-
fits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse .ears Sizes2-h.p. toioo-h p One
to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. Liberal commissions
paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely finished
demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed FREE
Write for our proposition to agents and users o; power. Bank references given
Detroit Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
DUNLOPJ
for
Strength &
Good
Service.
sso-
jt|<?- :
V
I DUNLOP
MOTOR
TYRES
are in.....
great demand.
CAR OWNERS specify
“ Dunlops ** because they give
the biggest mileage, conse-
quently are the cheapest!
CHAUFFEURS want
“ Dunlops” because they
give the least trouble.
SEND FOR LATEST PRICE LIST.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Perth, Wellington and Christchurch.
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant: —
Apropos the Sydney High School (B. 25/4/’12):
Thomas Rose, who came out free in the Bellqna, was
not the owner of that land. Thomas Rose, of Mount
Gilead, was the owner, and when Governor Mac-
quarie wanted it he swapped him 2000 acres just out-
side Campbelltown on the Sydney-road, adjoining Dr.
Redfern’s grant. Thomas Rose had a public house
on some portion of the land in 1813. This appears
in an alphabetical list, published August 7 in that
year, but the exact location is not in my memory.
He was there in 1820, when the house was called The
Rose and Crown. This house existed in 1831, when
it was kept by E. Sandwell. The Rose and Crown
may have been on the immediate corner of King and
Castlereagh streets, but this I doubt. Cer-
tainly there was no public house on the corner in
1854, but Wykes Norton, a butcher, was there. In
1858 there was a house known as the Criterion, but
it was unoccupied. In 1858 John Hampton was oc-
cupying the Metropolitan Hotel in Pitt-street, the old
home of John Hosking, first Mayor of Sydney. The
pub made way for the City Bank, destroyed in the
fire of 1890. Moore-street was widened, and absorbed
the site of the bank. The old school building in its
early days was used for many purposes. As a place of
religious worship Father Therry celebrated mass there,
and as a courthouse men were sent to the gallows
from there. The place reeks with recollections, good,
bad and indifferent. At one time it was contemplated
to build_ a central railway station there, Eddy being
the projector. On the strength of this supposition
the Imperial Arcade was built. When the Govern-
ment sold the southern end of the block, a big firm
of Pitt-street drapers became the buyers (Hordern
Brothers), and some day a big rag shop will decorate
the site.


-.1
A-'.
4.S
m
immw
■.ur
m
« A
a* •
is
j-
? «t:
M
MM**
■f*;j
What the Universal
Drafting Machine is
doing' for Draftsmen!
A direct saving of 25 to 50 per cent, in time, freedom from mentai
interruption, and freedom from nervous strain are all brought about by
the UNIVERSAL DRAFTING MACHINE.
The continual changing from straight edge to scale, scale to triangle,
triangle to scale, scale to eraser, and so on ; also the continual attention to
proper and accurate alignment, are absolutely dispensed with ; the man
being permitted to put in bis lines as fast as he can think them out. The
old way of drawing two measured lines at right angles takes twelve dis-
tinct operations. THE UNIVERSAL DRAFTING MACHINE with-
out one iota of effort or attention on your part —absorbs this work in
two movements.
Is it enough proof of the efficiency of the Universal Drafting
Machines that the Victorian Railways and leading Australian Mining
and Engineering Companies find them time-saving necessities? We shall
be pleased to supply full particulars.
and Tool Merchants,”
554-00 & 582-88 Collins Street,
Near Spencer Street, MELBOURNE.
THE TIME TO ORDER
IS NOW
IN YOUR INTEREST
we ask you to write us now
re your proposed soda foun-
tain for next summer.
For if you delay ordering
until the rush of the new
season begins you will per-
haps have to wait before a
suitable machine can be
erected.
YOU NEED NOT TAKE
DELIVERY UNTIL YOU
REQUIRE IT.
The man who looks ahead
is wise, but he that gets
ahead of time is wiser still.
We import or manufac-
ture as the case demands,
for in every instance we
supply a plant exactly suit-
able to the requirements of
your business, and at 20 per
cent, less cost , than small
jobbers.
WRITE AT ONCE FOR
PRICES AND PARTICU-
LARS OF OUR EASY
TERMS.
Profit-making outfits fo r
Hotels, Chemists, Refresh-
ment Rooms, from
£.25.
To get the true fruit'flavors use
our highly concentrated True
Fruit Juices.
TRUE FRUIT JUICES, in large or
small parcels.
More Customers at Less Cost.
The Latest American Automatic
Carbonators of Drawn Steel
Sheet Tin-Lined, make
crisp soda-water at id
per gallon without any
attention from operator -
.
We send our experi-
enced man to erect
without extra cost.
*— ——
“QUEEN.”
With horizontal porcelain jars, onyx trimmings, latest improvements.
Made in 6,8, 10, 12, U to 20 tap sizes.
NELSON CARBONATING CO., LTD.,
167 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
The Sawbath.
The Watchman —the diverting little Syd-
ney sheet which battles ferociously with the
unconscious Vatican, week by week —printed
the following a few days ago:—
There are many points of contact between the
Church of Rome and the Socialist party. The latter,
under the name of the “Political Labor Council,” re-
cently continued its sessions right through Sunday
(which thousands of good citizens deeply regret),
and by its disregard for the sacredness of the Lord s
Day, put itself into line with Rome, the most notori-
ous and unashamed violator of the sanctity of the day,
etc., etc.
This spirited attempt to associate Rome and
Labor is fairly good political tactics, but it
is none the less ludicrous. For an Anti-
Papal publication to denounce Rome as a
violator of Sunday is as grotesque as though
a German were to assail an Englishman for
wearing his hat while “God Save the King’
was being played. Sunday is, of course, es-
sentially an institution of the old Church,
like Good Friday, or the New Style, or the
celibacy of the clergy, or the doctrine of
the infallibility of tlie Pope. The Bible
nowhere directs the faithful to shut their
hotels, shops, etc., stop their trams and
trains, get into the loathly garb of under-
takers, and he obtrusively dreary on the
first day of the week. It does enjoin, and
in no uncertain terms, that the Sabbath, or
Seventh Day, the day on which God rested
after Ilis labors, shall be kepf holy; but
that is understood to he Saturday, and on
Saturday the most earnest of local Bible
students is accustomed, illogically enough,
to behave anyhow, and feel no qualms on the
subject. During the first century a.d. all
the available evidence goes to show that the
members of the Christian Church obeyed
the Scriptures by resting absolutely on the
Sabbath. How and when tlie Pagan practice
of Sunday (Dies Solis) worship came to be
introduced is wrapped in insoluble mystery.
It is not wildly improbable that it origin-
ated as a kind of protest against Judaism.
The Hebrew’s exasperating habit of getting
the better of his associates in business was
as prominent a feature of social life in the
days of the Early Fathers as it is in our
time. It is quite conceivable that the idea
of holding the weekly religious ceremony on
the first, instead of on the seventh, day of the
week first germinated in the infuriated
brain of some insolvent Patriarch, hungering
to dissociate his Failh, in an obvious particu-
lar, from that of the Yiddish scoundrel who
had brought financial disaster upon him. It
would have been all the easier to hand the
death-stroke to the practice of observing the
Sabbath, as enjoined in the Bible, since
many Christians had for long been accus-
tomed to meet, not only on the seventh, but
also on the first, day of the week, when they
broke bread in memory of the Ascension,
which was held by some to have occurred on
a Sunday. What we do know definitely is
that it was not till the famous decree of March
321, by Constantine (that wary convert who
was so determined to have it both ways, that
he sought saltation after the Christian and
Pagan methods at one and the same time),
that Sunday began to he generally observed
by the Christians as their day of rest and
prayer. From then onwards the Church of
Borne, by various decretals, imposed the
duty of Sunday worship more and more ve-
hemently upon the world. Things got to
such a pitch ultimately that learned theo-
logians opined it was an offence for people
to wash on Sundays, a view which survives
here in certain quarters, in the form of
heated opposition to Sabbath surf-bathing.
Obviously, the observance of Sunday in some
way or other is the duty of all conscientious
Roman Catholics. But it is no one else’s
business. Why, for example, a band of
mostly Protestant Laborites, who do not pre-
tend for a moment to accept the infalli-
bility of the early fathers or of the Popes,
should be scolded for holding their sessions
on the first day of the week, is a mystery.
In fact, the whole attitude in this matter
of the militant Sabbatarian of the Protestant
persuasion is anomalous, not to say pre-
posterous. He sternly rebukes folks for
golfing, fishing, playing cricket and tennis
and so forth, on a day which there is no
shadow of Divine or Scriptural authority
for keeping sacred; he smugly claims to
order his life in accordance with the teach-
ings of the Bible, and yet disregards every
week of his life, its most clearly-expressed
injunction; and he abides blindly by a cus-
tom which drifted down from the Pagan era
to a Church which he pleasantly alleges to
be synonymous with the Worst Woman in
Babylon. In short, in this matter of the
Sabbath, he comports himself like an unrea-
soning ass or goat.
+.
The Amateur in Politics.
It is the custom of the conservative press of
Australia, these days, whenever a State or
Federal Minister yields up the ghost, to de-
plore helplessly “the strain which public life
puts on amateur politicians.” No remedy
for the evil is ever suggested : the thing is
just deplored, in a manner suggestive of a
perfect lady regretting the sack of Jerusalem
or the destruction of Pompeii, or some such
irreparable tragedy. In the nast few months
the fates of Batchelor, Macdonell and
Dacey have served as texts for lengthy dis-
courses on the futility of expecting untrained
citizens to perform duties calling in a special
degree for the attention of experts. The
position is serious enough. And if Ihe strain
of public life is liable to bear hard on the
present generation of Laborites, it promises
to become absolutely intolerable in the case
of the majority of their opponents, when the
electors give the latter a chance to show their
quality. Consider, for example, the N. S.
Wales Assembly as it stands just now. On
the Labor side are many whom it would he
unjust to term “amateur politicians.” Hol-
man, Beeby, Griffith, Carmichael —to
. cite but a few of the ablest—have practically
spent their lives learning the game of state-
craft. The business of administration should
come comparatively easy to them —and, in-
deed, their superiority in this connection is
nretty generally admitted. The. Wade-
ites are less happily situated. Their leader
only took to politics a few years ago. The
vast majority of his followers are intellectu-
ally hopeless—a tragic collection of illiter-
ate, aspirateless, old mental deadbeats. If
it is brain-strain tbat is decimating the
present Ministry, a perfect holocaust may
be confidently looked for when their adver-
saries reach the Treasury Benches. In the
circumstances, the time is ripe for the pro-
duction of a prophylactic. It is a reason-
able proposition that, if the strain ot public
life has started to kill off the amateurs, the
sooner the professional politician material
ises the better. Why thousands of persons,
who believe unquestioningly in professional
lawyers, dentists, architects and the like,
should sternly compress their lips and
breathe stertorously through their nostrils,
in a manner expressive of scorn, at the first
faint echo of the phrase “professional poli-
tician,” has mystified this paper for years
and years. As a matter of ordinary common
sense, the professional politician should be
encouraged in every possible way. In every
avenue of human endeavor —law, war,
cricket, billiards, medicine —the amateur is
only pre-eminent by a fluke. Of. the political
amateurs in the N. S. Wales Assembly,
about two-thirds would make extremely
heavy weather of the attempt to earn five
sovereigns a week, in any calling which de-
manded mental effort. Of what value are
they to any country? The Tammany-like
Caucus system, under which both sides ar-
range their party nominations, is the standby
of these faithful incompetents. It should
he wiped out in favor of preferential voting.
Amateurs should, in their own interests as
well as in the interests of the State, be dis-
qualified by law from participating in public
life. The citizen who wishes to practise as
a doctor is required, in Australia, Britain
and America, to put in at least five years’
study. And the tendency everywhere is to
increase the term. Germany has already
extended it to six years, and a seventh-year
course is foreshadowed in several European
countries. The body politic stands in just
as urgent need of skilled attention as any
other body, alive or otherwise. It would be
well, therefore, for the State to inaugurate
a school for politicians—an institution where
embryo statesmen might be thoroughly
grounded in political economy, the lessons of
history, the composition and habits of ice-
bergs. and so on. Once such a place was
established, folks would automatically cease
making their country’s laws because they
had grown sick of liod-carrying or had
been failures as bagmen, and the press would
no longer have to mourn the deaths of per-
sons lost to the State through striving, in a
manner of speaking, to perform the labors of
TTercut.es on the physical equipment of
Tiny Town. Of course the pay of legisla-
tors would have to be many times greater
than it is at present, but it would be wuyth
it to the community, just as it is worth the
private citizen’s while to emnloy an expen-
sive specialist in place of a cfyeap quack.
There is at present a dim possibility of the
Victorian State Ministry being given six
months’ hard labor all round, or fined £lOO
apiece, or declared habitual and persistent
criminals, or Something. Treasurer Watt
is vicariouslv endeavoring to escape .the con-
sequences of wilfully defying the law he is
sworn to carry out, and »°w of
the Vic. Master Hairdresseis A. p re .
asking for a mandamus to compe November
mier himselt to do his duty■ arr i ve d at a
the Hairdressers.’ Wagffl Boaid a hourSj etc.,
unanimous decision as to J » findings to
in that trade, t?3 d |V te Sazette in
JOHN WEARY, as Oll'ef beC-, .
the ordinary course. B , ut “ed on were
son, opining that the salanes ag
too high, postponed doing so until tne new
Board—the existing one being on P
of expiring—had a chance to tt e at
figures. Later on lie refused to «
all. Then a. strike ®ue ; Weary
ployers association was iO£me u,
gave it bis cordial blessing, and matters^
upside down and anyhow, e\ Gr Y P
cerned doing seemeth best or^as
best he can. Further, the a _ L
association, assuming that Hie ttes it or
ing is law, whether Weary gazettes it or
nol has summoned 11 bairdressers for
breaching it. and, as the penalties: inn up to
£250 per offence, there is a possibility ot
someone getting hurt. Whether a .
mus will be issued against * _ C
Sleeper, or whether it will naove 1
is issued, there is no telling, but .
be a considerable achievement to make him
do something. If he remains aHeen much
longer he may presently be roused by a ouu
whisper to the effect that he is obtaining Ins
wages by false pretences.
“The Prophet” writes in the fine style of
Amos, the herdsman of Tekoa :
Now, it shall come to pass, that the next great
disaster upon the waters shall be in the cove that
lies by Sydney, which ye know as Circular Quay
I would that ye knew the truth whereof I write, that
ye might denounce the unholy ways of Private En-
terprise there to its undoing; yea, even to its eternal
destruction in the fires of Sosh, which are unquench-
able. At the hour appointed, seven ferry boats will
depart from the jetties simultaneously; and two of
them, being only sharpened at one end, will probably
try to turn where there is grievous lack ot that sub-
stance which is necessary when the cat is swung, to
the great fury of the animal. Also, I suc “ £ a e ‘
asses will enter the cove, and three will be sharp at
the tail and one will not. Also, an Amalekite will
be around in a small boat, and a Ilittite will be
urging a little war vessel through the waters. Like-
wise, brethren, a mail boat will cavort with two tugs
upon the face of the deep. Moreover, dearly beloved
one ferry boat with 700 souls aboard will .be cut
down, as it is written and whereof ye know. Then all
the other boats will swarm to the rescue, and collision
shall follow upon collision, and many hundreds of the
people of Sydney, that lies in the Valley of Parish
Pump will perish on that day. Then will arise the
violent tumults of the public records which are the
press. Hurried meetings of the children of State
Frights, whose captain is McGowen, will bewail and
cry for vengeance on Somebody. And when the
storm has calmed, all things shall be as y c
easionally one will arise to complain that Circular
Quay is overcrowded with the traffic of 1 rivate En-
'terprise. And one shall lie heartily about a bridge
across the waters or a tunnel under them. And one,
with his tongue in his cheek, will cry in the market
place that the Government is going to take over the
ferry services—but this shall not come to pass in
this generation, nay, verilv, in 10 generations. Peace
be upon ye, brethren, and meekness and temperance
—particularly temperance —so that ye may see where
.to jump St the last moment. But not too much tem-
perance, for he who has two whiskies in bis innards
often struggles through the evil day by the aid of
Dutch courage, while he whose innards are a-wasli
with tea fainteth in the press.


fr OME AND FASHIONS GO;
no™ NIL m WALKE * ■ ™ NOT so,
STILL IS GOING STRONG, YOU SEE.
hr
1?
'M
%
//
as£
z
AJ>>w
~ - TZ'TFr/rTjnrs
_ 1
’
i
£T |0
J#
iv
«S 5
rf
sei
5$
<£
r
0
£
:
kZ2
r
<ir
■ y
’>lTA /yn 'E2
'‘‘L ■^N y
O'.
i »
M
II
Ift
V
w.'£&
31
'‘yjy
WHEN YOU DROP YOUR WORK
Johnnie Walker will pick you up. Johnnie Walker —the bottled experience of four generations in the art of
distilling—is obtainable wherever good whisky is sold.
Every
bottle
bears
this
label
GUARANTEED SAME QUALITY
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
i
IN SQUARE BOTTLES
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS, KILMARNOCK.
And at Sydney and Melbourne.
lIS


Make the Liver
Do its Duty
Nine times in ten when the liver is right
the stomach and bowels are right
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS
gently but firmly com-
pel a lazy liver to
do its duty.
Cure Con-
stipation,
Indiges-
tion,
Sick
Headache, and Distress after Eating.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Carters
Title*
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
SIJ
I
i
mm
P
e.
lilt:
vl> FROM
RLE;
m
ROftlOGtH"
8?
*»*»*»»
o
&
MSI
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
J4EWCLUB
SHOT SHELLS
Their popularity began with
our grandfathers, and has grown
like an oak for 30 years. Never
equalled in demand by any shot
shells. To-day, more in demand
than ever before.
If you prefer a smokeless pow-
der shell, get CMC NITRO
CBUB Steel-lined Shells. No
better shells made.
The unequalled dependability
of TJMC Shells under all condi-
tions has won for them a world-
wide popularity. Wherever you
find seasoned sportsmen, there,
too, you find UMC’s in general
use. Try them!
Remington Arms—Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
H. MOLDEN,
Australasian Representative,
P.O. Box 4C9, Melbourne;
1349, Sydney. [2
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Loaded! with
k% k p4r der i
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sßin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
sßin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
EARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed—stout people
look thin —thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessed. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price 1/-, j
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
most
viciou s
S 3
dog or man without;
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
night -watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
dog. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H. L. Hutchinson L~
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
,""
-I
! I i',':
*
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/-.
Do not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
novelties obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general use, also asuperior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Postal Address—BOX 3, HAYMARKET POST OFFICH, SYDNEY. Write for Price Lists, free upon application.
Branch—lll KING STREET, SYDNEY.
LU
ARE HIGH GRADE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS and excel in their superior quality
of Tone and their Handsome Finish. As only thoroughly seasoned material is used
in their manufacture, their durability may be relied on. The Reeds are of Bell Metal
an alloy distinguished for its Brilliancy and Power.
There are several styles ranging in price from 12/- to 30/- One of the most popular
isNo - ir 7- DOMINION ACCORDEON No. 117.
Size 11 £ inches x6J inches. Three sets Reeds,
three acting stops. Ninefold Triple Bellows,
with all corners metal bound, polished ebqn-
ized tops and mouldings. Fitted with Brass
Amplyfying Trumpets on keyboard. Very
powerful tone.
Price, 29/-.
Catalogues post free from G. W. RYAN,
43 Bourke Street, Melbourne; WILLS and
CO., 7 Quadrant, Launceston; OPTICAL and
PHOTO. SUPPLIES CO., Hay Street, Perth;
JACKSON and MACDONALD, Druitt Street,
Sydney.
£
S 3
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
James Thompson (Brisbane) : We have
received some two dozen letters of varying intensity
(yours beginning, “You fat, old, dirty pink liar,” is
about half-way down the scale), complaining because
this paper didn’t wholly admire the policy of declar-
ing war against the whole community because of a
grievance against one private employer. Curiously
enough, barring 3’ours and one other, they are all
anonymous, and you give no address except “Bris-
bane. ”.... Hee Kee: “Fat in the Firing Line” not
up.... Indian: You don’t explain how this gallant
commandant of a hill station induced the non-official
resident’s wife to be his mistress, other than that
“he made her leave her home and rob her husband
prior to her departure.” The statement that the
Judge of the Chief Court decided that the husband
who had dared to object to share his wife with an
official, was “a criminal of the most dangerous type,”
is fairly warm —even for India.... B. (Mackay) : No
use for photographs of cannon alleged to have been
heaved into the raging main by Captain C00k....
A.E.W.: Unsuitable. . . .Nix: Both items at once:—
ALLEGORY.
For ages after this great sphere began
There lived on it a no such thing as man
At length the earth evolved him out of nothingness
And for inheritance gave him somewhat less.
But having started from so low a station
llis mind lias reached its present elevation ;
And though at first that on his earliest birth
The world made man, since then man’s made the
earth.
(Ten minutes interval for reflection.)
DESTROYERS.
There was a tree that grew for many a year
And spread its shade to creatures great and small
One day a careless man with time to spare
Hew down the tree and left no shade at all.
There was a man who lived for many a year
And sought to make a wicked world more just;
But when his deed was nearly done a seer
Changed his mortal frame to finest dust.
. .. .Outcast: Note that the leading actor had “fallen
against his will.” Presume you mean the property
missing will J.11.T. (V.) : Poem received and
burnt. We will keep your secret. Can you trust the
typist? If not, do you think you can buy her silence?
Send word by trusty hand. Three whistles at the old
address... .V.M.L.: The slowness of that town has
got into your ink... .8.M.: Titanic wreck poem sank
immediately after colliding with the Religious Edi-
tor’s eye. .. .K.N.: Dull verses.... Panard: The jury
brought in a verdict of guilty without leaving the
box. (Later.) The condemned poem slept we 11....
W.F.R.: The poem was seized for drink by The Bulle-
tin’s Burst Tragedian. It came back later in a dis-
hevelled condition, bearing certain hieroglyphics,
which the dramatic critic translated as follows:
“Beware William—(say Montrevors) ! Do not try
our patience too far! Remember we have that in our
possession, the mere publication of which —But no!
Wretch as you are, we cannot bring ourselves to do
it! See, it burns! —the paper that would have sent
you to the scaffold . . . Now, go! And remember 1
You must never darken our basket again! (Exit F.)
CURTAIN”... .W.M.N.: Won’t annex the island. .. .
W.R.P.: Very plain rhymes. Can’t you put their
hair in curl-papers or something?. .. .W.J.C.: Skele-
ton-mixing poem has some points, but they are both
varieties—good and bad. . . .L.W.: Hard going. .. .
P.E.N.: The Chinese poet who builds 10,000 verses
on a melon seed must be a relation. .. .J.S. (Q.) :
Have preserved the author’s arrangement as far as
possible:—
It was in the backblox of
North Queensland one very hot
summer’s day
While I was sitting deeply thin-
ging all in a Revery.
two
I thought of how Australia
rose mighty and respectable
like phenix from his ashes
cruel an hot
And of how peter Lalor
liberty to us brought,
three
And then of how this contin-
ent was welded into one one
flag one fate one tariff wall and
likewise to one sun
I see our trade and similar thin-
gs all rise with one acord
like Musherooms in one sing-
le night and lucern
in the Medow.
And then, you say, our constant contributor rose up
with a thirsty look in his eye, and, without a word of
farewell, wandered out of your camp for ever. Now
you know what a real poet looks like, and how his
inspirations blow him about the earth M.F.:
Decent effort, only that the thing has to stop with a
maddening jolt, in order to allow you to draw in
your breath, and remark: “Ah ... I remember!”
You seem to find a pleasant relish in the past, judg-
ing by the way you smack your lips over it. But
your handwriting looks young. Do you know
the past to speak to, or are you just writing
about the past of the future, especially furnished for
the occasion !.... Fid: Had got as far as the lines:
“When Marcie’s baby boy was born, th’ excitement
was intense, The news flew round from mouth to
mouth, o’er each Wamshackle fence,” when the office
Censor intervened, and tore your epic to shreds....
....The Grafter: “Wharf Rats’ Farewell” handed to
The Bulletin’s auburn cat.... Observer: Read as
far as, “Political economy is that science which
treats of wealth and of the natural laws which govern
its production and its distribution,” when the pro-
foundness of the remark overcame us, and we knocked
off for the day... .George Short: Verses commencing,
“Great God! is there no limit to man’s damned am-
bition?” forwarded to the proper quarter... .Wata:
Gne description of a Wowser very old; the other
suspected in consequence... .Architect: Has the full
sympathy of the Editor for Art and Elegance, but it
has been argued or bellowed previously.... F. Wal-
cot: Can’t see anything wrong about it, unless it is
the habit of paying bills.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Will H.: Picture has good points, but the pro-
found mystery of the joke defied the research of the
office bloodhound.... Ron B.: A square blob of ink
and a leg. No, thanks... .Foertel: Two serious
drawbacks about your picture of Sam Langford.
First, it is not the least like him; and second, it is
nearly five months too late. Go to !.... A.M.N.: We
have no use for them.... San Toy: The gags are old.
... .Boree: One joke is old and the other is bad, and
probably old as well. One picture is awful. The
other is likewise awful E. J.: Picture of an ap-
parent lunatic gazing upon an incubator. No use
whatsoever 8.C.M.: Large vague work in dim
pencil. Suggests a ghost.... Leo Me: Enthusiastically
hung in the Chamber of Horrors. .. .W.F.R.: Gag
old; drawing bad enough to be bought by the
National Gallery trustees.
The Victorian Chamber of Commerce
reckons that inter-State trade is “hampered”
by the new ships the inter-State cos. haven’t
got. It might have added that it is top-
hampered by some of the floating skyscrapers
they haven't yet lost.


to-'
m
m
'/A
mm
m
qte
urn
5L'
r
1111110
11
»
lb id
aJu
i
m
(BN
Utumi
Mg
{V*
rm,
==-;S@=sr
7(1 KD
Tinkers of JtiiQh Grade* Pianos
Beale High-Grade Pianos.
We make only High-Grade Pianos.
Our Pianos are manufactured in the largest and most up-to-date factories in the
British Empire.
Our Pianos are made under the personal supervision of an expert who has made,
the manufacture of pianos a life-study.
Our Pianos embody patent methods of construction that ensure durability and
tonal excellence. . '
With expert control we combine, in our factories, the best of skilled workmanship
together with the greatest mechanical efficiency.
By our method of selling direct from factory to user we save you all the usual
agents and middlemen’s profits.
And you have no Customs duty nor other importing charges to pay.
You are thus able to procure from us a better article at a lower puce.
If you cannot call and inspect, write for our Catalogue and Booklet of Factoiy
Views, which will be sent Post Free on application.
IE A L
Q. LT B.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS-
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST, ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
tp a VFT T ERS EVERYWHERE WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
' Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


A. SAUNDERS
50/-
15ct. Gold Spray Brooch, set
Pure White Pearls.
7/6.
Oct. Gold Bar Brooch. Any name
engraved.
12/6.
Oct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Turquoise.
£6/10/-
15ct. Gold, set 11 Diamonds, 1
Pink and 1 Green Tourmaline.
Bct. Gold, set Pearls and Tur-
quoise.
25/-.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting:
Keyless Watch, $ Plate. Full
Jewelled, patent adjusted Bal-
ance, accurate, reliable. Guar-
anteed 1 year’s free repairs.
25/-
25/-
8/6.
Set. Gold Two-liar Floral Brooch,
set red or blue Stones.
*4
£3/5/-
Gold Spray Brooch,
Pure White Pearls.
set
£2.
15ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Tourmaline or Peridot.
35/-
15ct. Gold Spray Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, or Sapphire.
30/-
9ct. Gold Pendant, set
Fine White Pearls and
Amethyst.
WE PAY POSTAGE
ON ALL JEWELLERY.
Solid Silver Double Albert, 6/6,
7/6, 8/6; Gold Filled, 20/-, 25/-
9ct. Gold, £2/15/-, £3, £3/10/-
20/-
(ient’s Nickel Open Face Keyless Fever
Timekeeper, full jewelled, with patent
adjusted Balance, non-Magnetic Time
Spring, dust and waterproof Cases.
Guaranteed free repairs for 1 year.
20/-
20/-
32/6.
9et. Gold Pendant, set
Fine White Pearls and
Turquoise.
12/6.
Oct. Gold Seal Pendant,
Bet Amethyst or Topaz.
8 <>
Solid Gold Earrings,
set Pearls and Bril-
liants.
K
20/-
9ct. Gold Ginks.
15ct. Gold, 40/-
£3.
JBct. Gold, set
Pure, Double-
cut Diamonds.
DAINTY NEW JEWELLERY
We have so many choice, exclusive New Designs
in our Jewellery Catalogue that it would be well
worth your while to see it. May we send you a
copy ? it’s free.
A. SAUNDERS.
50/-
501-
10/-
G o 1 d “Dinna
I'orget” Charm.
7/6.
Golil Cluster
“Heart” Charm,
Stone set.
7/6.
Oct. Gold Cross,
nicely chased.
£2
£2
Fady’s Open Face Key-
less Watch, fancy dial,
perfectly timed and ad-
justed, £2.
Guaranteed 2 years’
free repairs.
%
m
5/6.
Solid Silver Match Box.
50/-
Ooltl Necklace,
set Pearls and
Amethysts.
£B/10/-
15ct. Gold Bracelet, set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£5.
18ct. Gold, set
Diamonds, Ru-
bies or Sap-
phires.
£7/10/-
18ct. Gold Dia-
mond Cluster
Bing.
sa
S 9
CO
-CK
30/-
9ct. Gold Half-
round Bracelet,
nicely chased,
Catch «>nd Safety
Chain.
15ct. Gold Wed
ding King.
18ct. Gold, 30/
18ct. Gold, set
5 Pure, Double-
cut Diamonds.
35/-
15ct. Gold,
Pearl and
quoise.
set
Tur-
18ct. Gold, set
Pure, Double-cut
Diamonds.
50 1-
ffi
50/-
Gent’s Patent 10 years guaran-
teed Gold Cased Hunting Key-
less Waltham Watch, Full Jew-
elled, Compensation Balance.
50/-
Guaranteed 3 years free repairs.
9ct. Gold “Heavy Trace” Muff
Chain.
£s/10/-
We
Personally
Attend to
Orders.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
20/-
15ct. Gold,
set Pure
White Pearls.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
30/-
9ct. Gold Half-
round Plain
Bracelet, Strong
Safety Chain.
20/- .
Set. Gold Two-Bar Brooch, Ame-
thyst Centre.
45/-
15ct. Gold Scroll liroo<*i, set Fine
Opals, Rubies or Sapphires.
10/-
ocf Gold Bird and Spray Brooch,
Pearl-set Bird.
yJ
45/-
15ct. Gold Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls.
50/- /
15ct. Gold Spray Brooch, Pearls
and Turquoise.
Toady’s Solid Silver Open Face
Keyless Watch, Full Jewelled,
perfectly timed and adjusted.
20/-
Guaranteed 1 year’s free repairs.
25/-
Solid Gold Brooch, set Pearls, or
Pearls and Turquoise.
£l2/10/-
15ct. Gold Spray Brooch, Fine,
Pure White double-cut Diamonds
and Sapphires.
25/-
9ct. Gold Two-Bar Brooch, Ame-
thyst Centre.
£l2/10/-
15ct. Gold Brooch, set Diamonds
and Rubies, or Sapphires.
JEWELLER.
UtfCHs Cloctj
A MAKER/
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.813.8i5.ai7. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sralion) SYPNEY.N.S.W.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
SILVERSMITH
c0 HSU LT/Afc i
WtICIANJR


A Remarkable Book on the
Preservation of Health.
Dr. Andrew Wilson, the distinguished
authority on hygienic science and health
questions, is evidently a believer in Thomas
Carlyle’s doctrine that there is no utility in
pointing out misfortunes unless you at the
same time indicate the remedy.
In his remarkable little book, “The Art
of Living,” just issued from the press, Dr.
Wilson not only points out that “our first
duty to ourselves is to check illness at the
outset,” but he fo lows up his admonition
with the more w elcome information how we
are to do it.
He, so to speak, says, “You have the evil
of ill-health to fight. Now, here’s a weapon
to fight it with. Strike for freedom.” For
example, he says: “ Suppose a person has
run down —feels languid, and is easily tired.
If he neglects this warning—for all such
signs and symptoms are Nature’s warnings
to us—the possibility is that he will pass
further afield into the great lone land of
disease. ’ ’
“ Can he do anything to save himself from
such a disastrous result? In the vast
majority of cases he can restore his vigour.”
How ?
“ Probably,” says the doctor, “ he will be
advised to take a tonic. This in the main is
good advice. Unfortunately, the number of
tonics is legion, but if there exists any pre-
paration which can combine in itself the
properties of a tonic and restorative, and
which at the same time can contribute to the
nourishment and building-up of the enfeebled
body, it is evident such an agent must prove
of the utmost value to everybody. I have
found such a tonic and restorative in the
preparation known as feanatogen.”
THE DOCTOR’S OWN REMEDY.
How the distinguished author found this
tonic he tells us in an interesting bit of
autobiography. ‘ ‘ Recovering from an attack
of influenza,” he says, “and suffering from
the severe weakness incidental to that ai 1 inent,
Sanatogen was brought under my notice. I
gave it a fair trial, and the results were all
that could have been desired. In a short
time my appetite improved, the weakness
was conquered, and without the use of any
other medicine I was restored to health.”
Sanatogen, he tells us, “combines two
distinct elements, one tonic and the other
nutritive.” Further, it is no “secret”
remedy, for, as he pertinently observes,
“its composition is well known; otherwise
medical men would not prescribe it.”
What the tonic and nutritive elements of
Sanatogen are, and how they effect so much
good, Dr. Wilson describes in simple, con-
vincing terms. The whole passage is too
long to quote, but one important remark of
the writer may be given—namely, that one
of the principal elements of Sanatogen
“represents the substance which actually
forms a very important, if not the most
important, constituent of our brain and
nervous system.”
How, through regenerating the nervous
system, Sanatogen restores the functions of
the digestive organs, and by renuilding the
tissues compensates the wear and tear oi
latter-day life ; how it does away with the
need of stimulants, and cures the sick by the
natural method of making the body strong
enough to drive out disease—ail this, in the
delightful style of Dr. \\ ilson’s language,
makes engrossing and pleasant, as well as
instructive, reading. This last contribution
of his to the literature of health may certainly
be calculated to carry joyful news to the
ailing and weary.
Sanatogen is. obtainable at all chemists,
and a limited number of specimen copies of
“The Art of Living,” by Dr. Andrew Wilson,
are available for distribution. A copy will
be sent, gratis and f ost free, on receipt of a
postcard, mentioning this paper, addressed
to :
A. WULFING (SL CO.,
O P.O. Box 1960, SYDNEY.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
DR. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“PYROID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants, Melbourne and Sydney.
ALCOCKS
BILLIARD TABLES
_• -■* ■
A* •/?' ; -■ 3* * v . '->■• ’•' t
, ,
. ;; ' 4 ‘ a *]
For over half a century Alcock’s Billiard Tables have been the
recognised standard of perfection in Billiard Tables. Landrum,
Gray and other champion players of world-wide repute are quick
to express their appreciation of these excellent tables, tor they
realise that, for accuracy, precision, speed and pleasurable play
there is no table in the world to equal them. In fact, it is on the
“ALCOCK” Table that both Lindrum and Gray won their way to
the front. . , „
Write for Illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty. Ltd.,
155 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
7 Ring William Street, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
397 George Street, Sydney
114 Edward Street, Brisbane
Lower Cuba Street, Wellington
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’^
GREAT
BOOR OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE -*&
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/6; Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 6/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s
Sweethearts for laves, 5/4; Wrestling Instructor, with 60 Photogtapbic
Illustrations, 1/9; Bag Punching, lOd. ; Road Map of Victoria, 1/1 ; Sign,
Carriage and Decorative Painting, 2/6 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks,
illustrated, 6d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in
Australia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ How' Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “ How Sockery Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, l/l; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 8/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/S; Irish
Hm~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT
Mention The Bulletin.
Jokes and Witty Savings, 9d.; Complete
Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/;
Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
Above prices include postage to an}' address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
IN PARUAHENT.
SESSION, 1912.
A BILL to Alter the Memorandum of Association of
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED and for other purposes.
M OTICE is hereby given, that APPLICATION is
* ’ intended to be made in the present session of
the Parliament of Victoria for leave to BRING IN
A BILL for the FOLLOWING OBJECTS, that is to
say:—
1. That the Memorandum of Association set out in
the schedule hereto be deemed to be, and to have been
from the 4th day of November, 1873, the Memoran-
dum of Association of the said society.
2. That the Articles of Association adopted by the
said society on the 26th day of May, 1874, and on
the 12th day of June, 1907, as amended from time to
time, be read and construed as the Articles of Asso-
ciation of a company having as its Memorandum of
Association the Memorandum of Association in the
schedule hereto.
3. That the policy-holders, who under the said
articles are designated “shareholders,” shall have,
and be deemed to have had, such rights, subject to
such limitations as between themselves and all other
members and policy-holders, as are, or have been, from
time to time expressed in the said articles, but, save
as aforesaid, shall not be deemed to be shareholders
within the meaning of the Companies Acts, and the
word “share,” or “shares,” wherever used in the
said articles, shall be deemed to refer to the interests
of such shareholders, and shall not be deemed to
mean share, or shares, within the meaning of the
Companies Acts. And that, for the purpose and to
the extent herein mentioned, the provisions in the
said articles as existing from time to time, relating
to shareholders and shares shall be deemed to be, and
have been, within the competence of the said society.
4. That the subscribers of the original Memoran-
dum of Association of the society, for which the
Memorandum of Association in the Schedule hereto
is to be substituted, shall be deemed to have been
the directors of the said society from the 4th day of
November, 1873, until the 26th day of May, 1874,
and all acts of such directors, as such, shall be
deemed to be valid and effectual.
THE SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO.
COMPANY LIMITED BY GUARANTEE.
MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION
OF
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY, LIMITED.
1. The name of the company is THE COLONIAL
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
2. The objects for which the company is estab-
lished are:—
The assurance of lives ;
The granting of annuities and endowments ;
And all other cognate business;
And to do all such other things as are incidental or
conducive to the attainment of the above objects.
3. Every member of the company undertakes to
contribute to the assets of the company, in the event
of the same being wound up during the time that he
is a member, or within one year afterwards, for pay-
ment of the debts and liabilities of the company con-
tracted before the time at which he ceases to be a
member, and the costs, charges and expenses of
winding up the same, and for the adjustment of the
rights of the contributories amongst themselves, such
amount as may be required, not exceeding one shil-
ling.
And notice is hereby also given, that printed copies
of the said Bill will be deposited with the Clerk of
the Assembly not later than the 21st day of May,
1912, and that the said Bill will be intituled “An
Act to alter the Memorandum of Association of The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited and
for Other Purposes.”
Dated this 16th day of April, 1912.
JOHN KIDDLE, 66 Market Street, Melbourne.
Parliamentary Agent for the promoters of the said
Bill.
Moule, Hamilton and Kiddle, 65 Market Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the said Society.
SANT/li
MlQ'i,
In
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases -without
inconvenience
m
TO-DAY
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘AJJenburys* Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
4811enburgs Foods
Pamphlet or
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., Jsondon, Bug.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
99
66
In two qualities
( Cream label.
I Gold label.


Turn a New Leaf
The Old Way
El
Loss
The
Way
New
eha
ZD
Profit
Because of
Mistakes
Arguments
Dissatisfied customers
No check on assistants
No credit for good work
Temptation of em-
ployees
Forgetting to charge
goods sold on credit
Resulting from
Accuracy
Harmony
Pleased customers
Enforced records
Shows value of as-
sistants
Removes temptation
Prevents failure to
charge goods sold on
credit
A MODERN NATIONAL CASH REGISTER
TURNS LOSSES INTO PROFITS.
The National Gash Register Company
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED
335 Pitt Street, Sydney
343 Queen Street, Brisbane
281 Murray Street, Perth
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide
Macquarie Street, Hobart
A Biograph that is Simply Perfect!
jwjr
The -
Silent Empire.
Its construction has been carried out in a most per-
fect manner.
It is remarkably steady.
Is the most silent machine on the market, as well as
being flickerless, fireproof and wonderfully dur-
able.
The MALTESE CROSS, which runs in oil bath, is
cut out of solid cast steel.
The bearings are made of a special composition, and-
are noted for their durability.
The film gate is quickly opened and closed, and is
provided with a steel-runner on both sides, rest-
ing on a spring.
It is made so as to prevent any part of the him—
except the extreme edge—from coming in con-
tact with a metal surface.
ft is mechanically perfect.
(<' 11 11 specifications on application.
JERDAN’S,
Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
593 George Street
( Facing
‘ Royal Hotel
>.
Sydney
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Rail
Bearing; Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most, successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast, and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON”
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
CHICAGO
TRUE SUCCESS AT LAST.
Superfluous Hair
Permanently Removed and for Ever Vanished
by Marvellous New Scientific Discovery.
KATHRYN B. FIRMIN, the famous Parisian beauty, has at last perfected a Simple,
Safe and Harmless Home Treatment that will Surely and Permanently
Remove and Destroy all Superfluous Hair without injurious pastes,
powders, electricity or painful apparatus.
The wonderful book in which she tells her own story, giving full particulars
of her discovery, and information how to Permanently Remove Superfluous
Hair, will be given Free to every woman applying for same
within 10 days.
mm
a
m
“A horrible hairy mask ruined my face.
For years 1 was humiliated and ashamed,
with a beard like a man.”
mm
is
m
“Now my superfluous hair has
disappeared, and my face is soft,
smooth. You can accomplish the
manent results without trouble or
ience of any kind.”
co'xpLstely
. fair, and
same per-
inconven-
The task undertaken by this beautiful
Parisian scientist is filling a want among
women which has long been too apparent.
It is the duty of every person to do some
good in this world, and Kathryn B. Firmin
is doing even more than her share. She
is giving the benefit of her knowledge, ex-
periments and personal experience so that
others afflicted as she was may gain and
for ever maintain a hairless face, neck and
arms.
No longer need any woman submit herself
to the painful electric needle or other tor-
turing apparatus; the worthless and injuri-
ous pastes, powders and burning liquids can
all be cast aside, and no woman need resort
to the masculine and disagreeable necessity
of shaving herself with a razor. Before
making the remarkable discovery which per-
manently removed her superfluous hair,
Kathryn B. Firmin suffered untold agony
and numerous disappointments. Her own
face and features were nearly ruined by the
use of the many worthless preparations re-
commended to her, but at last Fortune
smiled —her labor was rewarded, and the
simple method she perfected not only wrought
a seeming miracle in her own case, but has
produced equally astonishing results for thou-
ands of other women throughout the world.
Madame M'LEOD, of Edinburgh, Scotland,
says: “All the superfluous hairs from my
face and neck have completely disappeared.”
Mrs. ik 11. BREARLEY, of Stone Chair,
near Halifax, writes: —-“I must write to say
that I am very well pleased with the results
of the Roman Solvene treatment. I con-
sider the Solvene is all that you represent it
to be.” Mrs. S. BRADLEY, of Dublin,
writes with reference to the Roman Solvepe:
—“I am quite satisfied with the marvellous
results it has produced in my case, for my
superfluous hair has disappeared, and you
will quite understand how pleased I am to
be free from that disfigurement.” Miss F.
BOND, of Forest Hill, writes :—“I am writ-
ing to say how pleased I am with Roman
Solvene. I find it is most successful, and I
am writing to say how pleased I am to think
that my face is free from that ugly superflu-
ous hair.”
Her discovery has been proclaimed as the
most wonderful, simple and efficacious ever
known to medical science. Yet its use does
not require the hand of an expert, and any
woman can at all times remove every super-
fluous hair desired in her own home, by her-
self, on herself, withojut pay, publicity or in-
convenience.
Lack of space makes it impossible to fully
explain this wonderful new discovery, but
Mme. Firmin has written a most interesting
treatise giving all necessary information and
full particulars regarding the exact process
by which she removed her own superfluous
hair. Arrangements have been made for dis-
tributing a limited number of these treatises,
absolutely free, to lady readers of this paper
who write for it at once. Simply send the
special coupon below to-day, with your name
and address, enclosing two penny stamps to
help cover cost of postage, and this complete
information will be sent you without charge,
and places you under no obligation what-
ever.
Special Free Coupon for Readers of Sydney “Bulletin.”
NAME
ADDRESS
This Special Free Coupon entitles the person whose name appears above to full in-
formation in regard to the true means for permanently removing superfluous hair,
und°r plain sealed cover. Cut out this Coupon (or write and mention No. 631 G.)
to-day, and send with your name and address, enclosing two penny stamps to help
cover cost of postage, to IvATHRYN B. FIRMIN (Dept. 631 G.), 85 Gt. Portland
Street, London, W„ England.
The Inky Way.
It would not be easy to say off hand how many
“Who’s Wlios” there are now in the world. The
old original London one has had at least 30 imi-
tations. There is an Australian “Who’s Who,” a
Maoriland one, an American one, a Canadian one, a
South African one, a Catholic one, and goodness
knows how many more. The latest addition to the
lengthy list is a “Who’s Who in the Theatre,” just
issued in London. It is described as a monumental
compilation, the most comprehensive record in the
theatrical world that has yet been seen. It em-
braces actors, actresses, managers, dramatists, com-
posers, critics and scenic artists. It is compiled by
John Parker and published by Isaac Pitman and
Sons.
“S.T.S.”: If W. T. Stead has really gone—-I
wouldn’t trust the old hand not to turn up some-
where and make another newspaper “scoop” out of
himself—this world has lost one of its very best
journalists. I was -in England when he printed
“The Maiden Tribute” in the Pall Mall. It was
a reckless, detailed exposure of a supposed trade in
schoolgirls, and ran on daily for weeks. In the
country, where the paper could not be got,. there was
much guessing, for the other papers maintained what
Stead called a Conspiracy of Silence about what was
really the sensation of the year. They reported
the questions asked in Parliament —-whether Stead
would be prosecuted, whether the dangerous crowd-
ing round the Pall Mall office would be checked,
and so on, but never a word as to what it was all
about. Some people, in their despair, thought it
was a new religion or a wild cat. Stead had to retract
a fraction of what he had screamed, mothers whose
girls he had bought for cash declaring that they had
no idea of what was implied. But he proved to the
hilt more than enough, and a strong Criminal Law
Amendment Act followed. The Review of Reviews
was his idea, too. It is difficult to realise now how
other journalists foamed at the mouth at the notion.
As well stock your shop by going round and stealing
something from every other rival shop, they said.
His more recent dealings with “Julia” and other
spooks are fresh in the memory. I remember get-
ting a prize for this limerick: —-
There is a New Journalist —Stead.
“It cannot,” he thoughtfully said,
“Financially hurt you,
The booming of Virtue.”
But now he booms Bogies instead.
His epitaph has already been written: “He would
have been a supreme Journalist if he had not been
such a fanatic ; and a supreme Fanatic if he had not
been such a journalist.”
* * * *
“Scribe”: With Stead’s torch quenched in the
Atlantic, we muse on journalists. Here are a few
I have studied at first- or second-hand. Stead is diffi-
cult to place. The man who interviewed Czar, Pope
and Sultan cannot be despised. A punctilious pro-
fessional calls him rather smoodgv. Well, no matter.
Pick others in an alphabetic kind of way. Ben-
nett, the first of New York Herald, unbeaten.
Started in a cellar, with a board laid across two
barrels. Cook, backed with Hope’s money, estab-
lished the Saturday Review. Cunningham is the
best working editor the Argus ever had. Began in
Melbourne on the Age. Wrought up all the rungs.
Yet I doubt if future great editors will be reporters.
Delane, of the London Times : Worthy of his fame,
but had no initiative. Feilberg, of Brisbane Courier,
impressed me. Fonblanque, of London Examiner :
Most graceful of ephemerists. Fricker, editor of
Melbourne Australasian, was thoroughly good.
Edited the Argus well while Cunningham was abroad.
Hugh George, of the Argus and Sydney Herald: My
model manager. Yet I doubt if he was quite so good
on the Herald. Surroundings count for much. Gir-
ardin, of Paris: unrivalled founder of numerous suc-
cessful papers. Grdeley, N. Y. Tribune : grand phil-
osopher, but Bennett gave him a start and beat him.
Even the combination of Macaulay and Carlyle could
not write up a daily. See how Dickens sickened at
it. Gullett, of sundry papers: very successful for a
man who began by being rather too booky. I’m in-
formed he even wrote a number of tragedies.
Gracious! Harmsworth and Pearson are of about
the same calibre, Harmsworth the luckier. Hearst:
great, because he overcame the disadvantage of start-
ing with an overflow of cash. Laboucherc: too truly
pious, in being conscientious. Lucy: a valuable con-
tinuation of Shirley Brooks. Pulitzer: very great.
Raymond, virtual founder of N. Y. Times, combined
Bennett with Greeley. Rintoul, founder of London
Spectator: eminent. Russell, of the Scotsman: not
to be confounded with the not quite equal Russell of
Liverpool Post. Schuler, of the Melbourne Age :
only one tiny mistake, the Swinburne verdict. David
Syme: greatest of Australia, if not best. Walter, the
second of London Times: one of the first three in all
journalism. Windsor edited both Argus and Age ;
yet had a sublime contempt for news. S. V. Winter,
Melbourne Herald : brute energy.
* * * *
London Daily Chronicle made a big scoop with
the special and exclusive telegrams of Captain
Amundsen from Hobart, describing his journey to
the South Pole. It blazoned them in big type for
four days, and the bill is said to be con-
siderably in excess of £lOOO. There was
an unprecedented demand for the paper, and
not a copy was procurable after 10 o’clock in the
morning. This Polar business is a gamble. You
hire your explorer at great cost, and if he happens
to find a Pole or two all is well. If the rival ex-
plorer—the one that your loathsome contemporary
has hired, finds the Pole, then you have put your
money on the wrong horse.
THE JOYS OF ANTARCTICA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The great advantage of this place is that one never
gets ill.— Captain Evans ( see daily press).
No snuffles, no sneezing, no “flue,”
That’s the place both for me and for you !
Let us charter a boat,
And start off afloat
To the region all chemists should rue.
Antarctica beckons with charm,
Wrap up ! You will come to no harm.
True, your bones you may smash,
Down a crevice may dash,
On an iceberg, perchance, your small brains you may
splash,
And also, be warned, you may feel rather chill
When your feet and your nose are frostbitten, but
still
Keep cheery ; for hark! you can never be ill.
Not a sneeze, though you shiver,
No fever, no liver,
Ton may suffer and smart, but you cannot be ill.
The joys of Antarctica rise,
Flashing ease on my tear-streaming eyes,
As I hear the glad news
Which my fancy construes
Into dreams that my doctors surprise.
Captain Evans is sure of his ground,
He has wandered and pondered around,
And he vows that Life’s joy
Is without pain’s alloy,
Antarctica makes each man fresh as a boy!
Of hardship and hunger I may get my fill,
Death, accident, danger are all on the bill ;
But when you are told you can never be ill,
To go hungry’s no matter,
Of bad aches do not chatter,
Here’s hey for the place where I cannot get ill!
N.S.W.
ROSE DE BOHEME.


DdLGETY’S
MOTOR-MR-fICHKIES
iM
.
• ■
m
%
-v.
MM
■
m
■
...»
m
■ .
inn iiiiii'iiiiftiiiiiiiiif'7'i
ADMIRATION, approval—even wonderment—inevitably follow experience of
our cars. That is because each car is efficient and luxurious to a point
that ensures popularity.
Our list embraces the admirable Austin (10, 15 and 18/24 h.p.) ; the
popular F.N. (10/14 and 16/24 h.p.); the powerful Silent Knight Daimler (15,
22 and 38 h.p.); and the luxurious Delaunay-Be Neville (17 and 19 h.p.).
Mechanical efficiency, luxurious fittings, and perfect symmetry and
modernity in design are features which are widely appreciated in each of the cars
listed above.
We are also sole agents for The Halley Motor Lorry —simple,
strong and accessible —quite the most practical commercial motor for Australian
conditions.
Full information concernifig any oj these cars will be sent with catalogue, free upon ?equest.
We would like, also, to send you booklets containing testimofiial letters from Australian
Motorists—men whom you probably know, and whose experiences you will be glad to read.
DALGETY &. CO. LTD.. SYDNEY.
Motor Garage, 136-13 S PHILLIP STREET.


Children thrive
and grow Strong
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
There is nothing better for a delicate child than a course
of Angier’s Emulsion. It makes the little ones eat better,
digest better, sleep better and rapidly gain in weight, strength
and colour. Doctors prescribe it for coughs, bronchitis,
whooping cough and all lung affections; also for scrofula,
rickets, malnutrition and for wasting diseases generally.
Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and children all like it.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co,. 7 Barrack St,, Sydney, N.S.W.
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM SHIELDS. Important.
\A7ILL WILLIAM SHIELDS, or anyone
knowing the whereabouts of William
Shields, who left home at Dargalong. near
Murchison (Victoria), about 1579-80, last
heard of by letter from Wyalong Goldfield,
N.S.W., about 1890-91, communicate imme-
diately with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
GOY. LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
p lELD JAMES, formerly of King’s, Norton, Bir-
mingham, England. Before sailing for the anti-
podes, his niece, Eveline (Effie), now Mrs. Pearson,
104 Vicarage Road, Stockport, England, would like
to hear from him or his family. Kindly communicate.
WAVERLEY PENS
POR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
“GOLCRYST”
is
USEFUL
By purifying the blood, GOLCRYST
invigorates the whole system and keeps
one healthy, clearheaded and happy.
GOECRYST consists of Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Eiquorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. Free sample
sent by proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AGENTSW.A., Neale, Con-
stable and Co., Perth; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,”
Adelaide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane ;
N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug
Co., •Sydney. * [2
IN BANANA LAND
Concerning a Party which is in the
Soup.
A brief summary of the case:
Six months ago Toryism was well-nigh dead in the
Northern State. To-day it is stronger in the country
districts than it has been for a long, long time, and
since Labor has had the misfortune to successfully
plant its strike committee in the Assembly, there is
little likelihood of the reactionary cause losing ground
in Parliament. The prime reason of Toryism’s
triumph was, of course, the imbecile general strike.
Over a comparatively trifling dispute, which in
any case was being dealt with by the Federal Arbi-
tration Court, the deplorable Coyne and his friends
rushed the State into an upheaval which brought
much suffering on good unionists and good em-
ployers, and very little discomfort to the people who
were being assailed, while it fairly poured discredit
on the Labor movement all over the Commonwealth.
The strike is a folly of the past, and there is little
to be gained by harping on it. But there are other
features of the position which require to be mentioned
in and out of season, and in the loudest possible
tones, if Conservatism is not to run Queensland for
an indefinite period.
The first feature is the Queensland Labor party it-
self. It has been in existence now for 24 years, and
during that time it has marched from one failure to
another in the most monotonous fashion imaginable.
While South Australia’s efficient and numerous Labor
party has contrived to run on year after year, hold-
ing its members together and gaining the grudging
respect even of its opponents, the Queensland party
has steadily disintegrated. Almost every Par-
liament one or two are forced to become either
Independents or “Liberals,” if they do not choose to
retire from public life. In quite recent times the
Queensland Labor party has got rid of 25 legislators,
which is probably a record in its way. It is only
necessary to note the dominating influence at the
Brisbane Trades Hall, where Coyne and Co. gyrate
like dervishes, and blither at large, to appreciate
the inner meaning of the phenomenon. Any party
whose leaders habitually denounce level-head modera-
tion as “spineless weakness,” and who exalt a knack
of verbal bellowdrama into a supreme talent, is bound
to find that its best men abandon it, leaving behind
them a residue of fools and self-seeking knaves. One
of the reasons why the Queensland Labor party is in
such a remarkably bad way, lies in the fact that it has
achieved an undue proportion of these two classes.
Putting the party personnel aside, the Queensland
Labor platform requires a comprehensive overhaul.
The objective declares for out and out Socialism,
while the platform reads as though it had been de-
vised with the express purpose of making any measure
of Socialistic progress or national development im-
possible. One notorious plank declares for the “aboli-
tion of State-aided immigration.”
If by some unthinkable misfortune this plank were
made effective, it would mean that close on 90 per cent,
of those now who enter the State would be debarred
from so doing. At present Queensland is absorbing
European immigrants at the rate of 9000 per annum,
which is to say about one to every 75 square miles.
The inhabitants of the State at present number one
to the square mile. Do the Laborites of Queensland
consider that population to be sufficient to hold
their country in the event of invasion, and keep it
white? If not, the Anti-Immigration plank should
not be left on the party platform for two minutes.
In the matter of finance, the Laborites are as vague
as N.S.W.’s MeGowenites themselves. The Denham
Government’s truly awful efforts in the borrow-and-
boom line have met with practically no protests from
these alleged enthusiasts in the cause of honest and
economical dealing. In fact, the Queensland Labor-
ites are saddled with the guilt of having supported
the worst of the “Liberal” party’s railway loan pro-
posals—notably the eastern Transcontinental scheme.
If State Labor will not jettison most of its loud,
blood-drinking and utterly futile leaders, and if it re-
fuses to revise its crude and impossible platform,
“Liberalism” is fairly safe for years to come. At
present there is nothing whatever about this party,
with its absurd record of wholesale expulsions, of
windy diatribes, of general strike and miscellaneous
foolishnesses to win the admiration of any sane demo-
crat or other human being.
[John Bede Dal ley, Bulletin Office, 214 George-
street, Sydney.]
The Courier had its usual luck. It
helped Digby Denham all it knew, and it
was just around the Courier’s doorstep that
Digby had his worst luck.
The fall of Y. B. Forrest, at Brisbane,
must have left that ancient and explosive
patriot in a limp state. It is recorded that
when the late Paddy Perkins was thrown
out of the Bananaland Parliament by a
Labor man, the mighty brewer exclaimed:
“Damn it, mahn, it isn’t the baitin’ I’m
worryin’ about; it’s the damned thing that
bait me.” Forrest probably feels that way,
too. His opponent was a porter on the Bris-
bane railway station.
“X.P.D.” : One of the facts elicited by the
Sugar Commission at Bundaberg (Q.) was
that a sugar-growing firm which is among
the largest of its class in the State, has made
a practice of docking weekly wages-men for
time lost by wet weather. By the regula-
tions under which the Federal bounty is paid
no deductions are allowed on this account,
and growers have to declare, in claiming
bounty, that they have adhered to the said
regulations. As the firm in question puts
through an average of over 50,000 tons of
cane a season, the loss of the 4s. a ton bounty
should hit it hard. I presume it will
lose it, by the way, since the chairman of the
Commission said plainly that he considered
bounty had been improperly paid in this
case. There are other cases, also, in which
bounty has been just as improperly paid, but
of this more anon.
The Public House party, which was out to
play “pertickler hell” with every party and
individual, this eleciion, went down with a
smash in Brisbane. It lost three city re-
presentatives—curled darlings of the Li-
censed Victuallers’ Association. None the
less, the Denham crowd will be in no hurry
to handle the Licensing Law centipede
again.
Governor Macgregor, at the re-opening of
St. Andreas’s Lutheran church, attempted
to re-vitalise a dead and foolish legend. He
recounted how, at the Coronation of -King
Edward, he met an old West African chief,
who, on being presented to Queen Victoria,
at some earlier period of his life, had asked
her what was the secret of England’s great-
ness. 4A r hereupon her Majesty had promptly
replied, “The Bible.” Despite the fact that
Macgregor says he got this fact from the
African liar himself, it is quite bogus. After
the yarn had been in circulation for many
years, the Queen’s secretary was writ-
ten to for confirmation, and he re-
plied, on the Queen’s authority, that there
A SUFFICIENT REASON.
“Conte on, Jack ; letsh 'ave 'nother drink."
“Jutsh one more, Jack. Don't be a narksh.”
"Why wontsher, Jack ? ”
"Won't ave [?] aropsh."
“ Wontsh! ”
“ Cause I can't gernep. ”
was nothing in it. The original tale was
to the effect that some Plindu potentate sent
a special mission to England to inquire
about the nation’s greatness, and got the
above answer. The Band of Hope Review
pictured the imaginary scene a good 40
years ago. Then the applicant was a grov-
elling Chinese mandarin, with a capsized
saucer on his head. Tbe Queen, looking
about 19, sat on a gorgeous- throne, and,
with a regal gesture, handed down the book
to the groveller. She wore her crown; her
arms were bare, and her dress was cut very
low. A brilliant Court stood around. Be-
side the throne Albert the Good loomed
about Bft. high. He was in uniform, enor-
mous and benevolent, and carried in his hand
a helmet with a dangling horse-tail at the
top. Probably some missionary read the
legend to the AVest African ip an effort to
persuade him to leave off rum. and the
simple old fraud made himself the hero of
the tale, and related it to a man who ought
to have known better.
AVhat has come over the Queensland min-
ing seats —at one time “Straight Labor”
strongholds? Gympie now returns a “Lib-
eral” ; Charters Towers ditto. Mount Mor-
gan spuds in a Denhamite to the Assemhlv;
the Burke sends in an Independent. The
internal squabbles and expulsions from the
Labor party account for much of the
trouble. :
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, Alay 4, 1912.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Owing to the absence of AYee Macgregor
(who is paying homage to the various shrines
of the Goddess Cow), Arthur Morgan is
doing the heavy and portentous act as Under
Governor, or Make-shift Viceroy, or King’s
Deputy’s Deputy. Dalby and Roma are to
be gladdened with the Macgregor presence
this week, and Beaudesert is promised the
Grand Patronage in the near future.
Beryl Mant, of the dimples and the
wealthy step-brothers (Egley and Duckett
AVhite) is booked to wed Sylvester Shep-
pard early next week. A special effort to
bear up in the circumstances was made on
AVednesday, when Miss May Fitzgerald and
Miss Ida AVithrington provided a square
feed at Eschenhagen’s to about 30 young
people. On Thursday, Mrs. Mant did like-
wise, about 75 of the Very Best People roll-
ing up to give the consoling hand to those
principally concerned.
On May 8, pretty Rita Murphy will take
for better or medium J. A. Fihelly, who
euchred J. J. AValsh for the Paddington seat.
Rita did yeowomen’s work in assisting the
successful candidate before his election, and
has had some hundreds of congratulatory
telegrams to that effect. The two will make
an extremely good-looking addition to our
younger married set in Brisbane.
On Thursday night the nursing staff of
the Brisbane Hospital passed barn-sand-
wiches to a herd of guests scattered under
the illuminations of its abiding place. Matron
Hunter, looking very handsome in black and
white, shook each invited hand. Several
people sang, and there was also music.
Dr. Elizabeth Sweet, of Melbourne, has
landed here, bag and baggage, and installed
herself at the Lainington Hospital as resi-
dent medico. The Lamington has been tabu
with the castor oil profesh lately, but with
the coming of Elizabeth the ban has been re-
moved. Jean AVhite, a doctor of science,
also from Melbourne, is here waging war on
the prickly pear, so that Melbourne is being
heard of in this enlightened State. AVe are
almost inclined to recognise the existence of
Melbourne.
On Friday night, that popular medico,
Dr. Hirschfeld, was given a farewell consu-
lar dinner, he being the accredited represen-
tative of Kaiser Bill in these parts. The
doctor is off to Berlin, by the circuitous way
of Siberia. After various brother consuls had
said amiable things about the departing
member of the union, they took it out of the
moribund turkey. To-day, on the good ship
Otter, Home-Secretary Appel was host at
another farewell gathering to Hirschfeld.
The afternoon was a grey one, but the pic-
nic or at-home or whatever it was, was
almost ruddy. Mrs. Appel wore black, plus
some lovely furs. Daughter Mrs. George
Gray exhibited an imported gown of the new
reversible satin, in shades of black and saxe
blue; and Mrs. Hirschfeld wore her favorite
shade of blue. Ice and skewered anchovy
added to the hilarity of the gathering. In-
digestion took a hand later.
The W.C.T.U. has been holding its annual
agitation here, and earnest females have daily
been instructing the worst woman in Bris-
bane (and others) how to bring up little
AVillie. AA r hat AA T illie’s old man has to say
about it is another story. So far, the ad-
dress of some of him hasn’t been ascertained.
On Tuesday, organist Sampson caused the
Orchestral Society to give the local audience
a bona-fide evidence of their skill. The
orchestra acquitted itself in style, but the
Exhibition Hall should be avoided by all
vocalists. Miss Olive Clare Brown, the
songstress of the evening, has a pleasant
soprano; but in the empty spaces of the
building it lost fulness of tone, and at times
sounded as flat as the wail of a State
Frighter.
To-night E. W. PI. Fowles ladled out
cheer and comfort to his committee in the
recent political campaign, and added buns
and cakes as a necessary makeweight. Air.
Down, his chairman, was decorated with a
clock as a hint that the time is ripe. Songs
and one or two really good recitations were
oases in a vast desert of speeches.
All sorts of stories are afloat about the
recent election. One scrutineer tells a har-
rowing tale of a man, dead these six months,
who appeared and loudly demanded a ballot
paper. He was advised to remain dead
unless he desired to be prosecuted. The
tomb is an uncertain refuge these days.
The wedding of Dr. Eric Molle and Aliss
Jardine was duly celebrated last Tuesday,
and to-day Mabel Ross bound over one
Praeger to keep the peace and bring home
his wages regularly. Last Thursday Miss
Ross was entertained at a motor-boat picnic
by Miss Morley. But it didn’t help her to
escape.
The Races to-day exhibited very few
“best” frocks, coats and skirts and rain-
coats being the order of affairs. Also, our
Very Best dropped cash heavily over the
Thousand, only an enlightened few picking
the winner. Amongst them was Angus
McPalestine.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
If one knocks about without a light in
Bananaland nowanights, he runs a risk of
bumping into a royal commission of some
sort. The Fruit Commission will shortly
meander through the State; the Pearl Fish-
ery business collectors are on deck some-
where, and the Sugar Commission is on the
horizon, too. Royal commissions are all right
in their way, but the job is mostly left un-
finished when the recommendations are made,
and the office cockroach uses them nightly
to promenade upon with his henroach.


mm
m
:
m
: ’
—— -
m
mm
■
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
- : -> , • 1 .
Stft!
' .
v <■ ' • | * ■ ,
,*• :
S': .
I
m
/.£t * s
1ft
gvi k*
i.
\
r, S
'
■ ■
I
■
#
m
£
WMmmg- a m®
?
, •
a11
m
■:
;-:.v
*
yukXmtiLSLl
Piilli
■■*1
said .Bottled by the Cascade Brewery C?
:v '.tv, Tasmania ifi the Commonw
?rm
V.
m
r-gga. s.r;:
mm
■
.
.
«
CASCADE ALE, brewed by the Cascade Brewery Co., of Hobart, is akin to the ale
of old England, for it is rich in those qualities that promote health and strength.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY s C. D’Arcy <5l Co., 474 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Taylor, Fergtisson Co., 127 King Street.
BRISBANE: Burns, PHilp Co. Ltd.


Shipping;.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. * Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION. AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.. 7 Bent St.
MBLBoYmNR Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS k CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D.
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw.. 13,000 Regd. Tons.
OltyiETO ..Twin-Screw .. 12,130
OSTERLEY „ .. 12,129 „
OTRANTO 12,124 „
OTWAY 12,077 „
ORSOVA .. „ „ .. 12,036 „
ORONTES .. „ „ .. 9.023 „
OMRAH .... „ .. 8,282 „
OP4IIR 6,814 „
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi,ace, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, Xcc
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
on Country Lands, for 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS on most liberal terms.
on Otty and Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
™ e sank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp A' Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
•Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Rankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
RANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
> and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Ranking Business.
Bank of |)ew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
THE
Australian Bank of Bommeree
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED .. .. .. £1,198,344
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
MEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man George. J. Sly, Esq., : LL.D.; Chas. 11.
MyleS, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Bautin, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Brandies throughput New South AYalos k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
fe* A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital jrPa’id Up .. ... . . 413,588 14 6
ReservePfin Government Stock) . . 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
] UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
DiitECTdßs : JAS. MILNE, Esq., 'Chairman; JAMES
MIINRO. Esq.:' JOHN CAMERON, Esq.; F.
LOlil), dSsq.; GEO.' EDW. BUNNING, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEA& OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE,
Branch^—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland,
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada. Bouth Africa, Chir.a, the East,
‘Sujddms
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BT
N ord D eutscher L/loyd.
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt. Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles. Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSIERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY k Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE k CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI k CO., Perth and Fremantle;
I HOS. BROWN k SONS, Ltd., Brisbane k Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 11.
SUEUIC, 12,500 tong, to sail about
June 5.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
July 3.
BUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London . . .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 110 0
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on ])ay of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Airents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH DINE
OF
MAGNIFICENT MODERN STEAMSHIPS,
s.s. “COOMA,” s.s. “BOMBALA,” S.S. “PEREGRINE.’
MELBO URNE-QUEENSLAND SERVICE.
These Steamers run to the following itinerary—
Melbourne depart Wednesday
Sydney arrive Friday
byiltiey depart Saturday
Brisbane arrive Monday
Brisbane depart Tuesday
Keppel Bay arrive and depart Wednesday
Mackav arrive and depart Thursday
Townsville arrive Friday
CAIRNS (Passengers and Cargo) tranship to I'.S.S.
MOURTLYAN (1350 tons), 16 knots, which
steamer leaves every Saturday from Townsville
for Cairns and Port Douglas, and passes through
Hinchinbrook Channel on both up and down
SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND WEST AUSTRALIA
SERVICE.
Large Passenger and Cargo Steamers leave Sydney
and Melbourne regularly each month for Adelaide,
Albany and Fremantle, transhipping for other S.A.
and VV.A. Ports.
FOR FARES, TIMETABLES AND ALL
PARTICULARS, APPLY—
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY, LIMITED.
Branches all Ports.
Cruises to the
vSouth 5eas.
Interesting tours to Volcanic and Coral Islands
of the Pacific.
Calm Seas and splendid Scenery; a complete
change, affording unrivalled opportunities of view-
ing the native inhabitants in complete safety in
their semi-barbarous state.
Cruises can be taken, occupying from 22 days
upwards, visiting from two to 120 ports or
Islands.
Saloon Faroe from under ]os. per day upwards.
Send for our Illustrated Pamphlet.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
BURNS, PMLP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTHIVALES.
Established
1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Nonnand MacLaurin, Ivt.,
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
£3,000,000
£2,025.000
£3,000,000
£8,025,000
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binm'e, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq'.'Shmheard"Eciirecliff “LaMW " Fsn*
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St E C
With 335 Branches in all the Australian States, Mew Zealand, Fiji and Papua fNew South Wales’ 1M
Victoria 37, Queensland 48 South Australia 5, Western Australia 11. l P asmania 2, N w Knd 67,’
Fi.li 3, Papua 2, London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United
Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan and the East, Africa Canada the
America, Honolulu, and the West Indies. ’ 1Ca ’ ° anada ’ th e United States, South
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places nTTHfP'r n-n ,• . ,
wnpT°n 6Cted Lett6rS ° f Credit 3nd Circular Notes issued* NEGOTIABLE THE
WORLD. j, RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£1,500,000
Reserve Fund . . .. . . 1,500,000
Reserve Capital . . .. . . 1,500,000
£4,500,000
DIRECTORS:'
George J. Cohen, Esq . . . . Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Ivater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. II! Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. IV. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker. Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dinns.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massif,.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South AVales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£532,984 0 0,
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 159,987 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
£769,471 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World..-;
The Colonial (flutual fjife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Dirf.ctors :
The lion. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary, 1
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
IRE, ACCIDENT. WORKMEN’S COM-
PENSATION. PUBLIC RISK. BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
"THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
Famous Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising: Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving:. If yon want to get more HORSE-
POWER from vour Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expect oraMon. A utTima, Nerrone CoTujhs,
Catarrh, BleejHes«nen« end Opircmion unmedmtelT
relieved by GKIMATJX.T A- Co's INDIAN CiGAfi.
El iXS. End by all Chemists.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports. _
S.S. Kyarra (7000 tons),
May 11 and June 8.
Wireless Telegraphy.
BRISBANE
HACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports Norfh to Cairn*.
S.B. Innamincka, May 11..
S.S. Marloo, May 18.
S.S. Wollowra, May 25.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN!
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALTERED” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND'
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,,
thence by Rail to any part of'
CANADA or UNITED STATES.,
The Best Route to Europe..
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Applications
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific liailway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., IiTK
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.—H. —5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
*T.S.S. WILTSHIRE.
12,600 tons. B. G. HAYWARD, Commander.
Will be despatched from :
BRISBANE .. MAY 24 I MELBOURNE .. JUNE 2
SYDNEY .. MAY 30 I ADELAIDE .. JUNE 5
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised
of two-, four-, and right-berth cabins, situated on
the main deck, amidships, with dining-room on the
upper deck. Well lighted and ventilated cabins and
spacious decks. Third-class passengers supplied with
fresh provisions from Cool Chamber the
voyage. Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric
Light throughout.
*Fitted with Wireless. Carry Saloon passengers only.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares —£4o. .. £l3 135., £l5 155., £l7 17s.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. Ayrshire, leaving Sydney about June 25.
*T.S.S. Shropshire, leaving Sydney about July 23.
For further information see Illustrated Books,
Pamphlets, etc. Apply to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, MeEACHARN & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
11. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,"
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POETS!.
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LEM IT ED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And AH Ports.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE
WRITING (in ink)
by using- your own
Letter Paper,
invoices, &c.,
with this
Book.
'NSC/ 200
PATtNT ZANETIC
COPV.no &oo«^
3®
Yon simply insert
your writing paper in
the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by the
act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the hook). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge to your communication.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which pro-
duces this result free, if stamped addressed envelope
sent, from
S.B, ZANETIC WORKS, Welford Road,
Leicester, England.
One complete NSC/100, Copying 200 full size lOin.
x Bin. let tar#, for 3/9 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
(Mont) Order, not P.O.’s.)
_ WHOLESALE AOENTS WANTED.


EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
maiT.fJiMTOiiiiid
Jshe HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences.
Oval Billiard Table.
Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
m
IN view of your visit
to LONDON, obtain
and retain the Tariff
Booklet of the HOTEL
CECIL.
It is free for the ask-
ing, and presents by _ il-
lustration and description
an excellent idea of the
Hotel’s luxurious interior,
its imposing exterior,
and contains much useful
information concerning
the Metropolis, places of
interest, cab fares, etc.
It is of handy size for the
pocket, and gives the
Cecil’s Fixed Tariff Charges
Whereby you can gauge to a
shilling beforehand the cost
of a brief or prolonged visit.
It will, in fact, enable you
to make a preliminary ac-
quaintance with
London’s Greatest Hotel.
Cablegrams—CECELlA,
LONDON.
* uot
rjREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
...
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and giving-Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
' beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale: DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
■Uhe
Connoisseur’s Cigarette
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
o c
fi ?
*2
l
A
2|<l
CJO
fl
Jhree WiKHtf
vi
|I6AI
VIRGINIA
EfSGARETTES
-ffr
m
V f.
■St
D.PIORRIS
LONDON B.
%:-■■ ■ X
p
E
K
p
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
Possesses a Fragrance of Unique Excellence
Price 51“ per 100, Post Free.
Storekeepers, Tobacconists and Hotelkeepers, send for
our Trade Lists.
i I , I Haymarket,
Mick Simmons Ltd. Sydney.
HIMRODS
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will hnd
in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and
k Starts throughout Australasia.
mm
THE CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
CHALMERS 20-30
Acknowledge
no Competitor.
MODELS.
20-30 2-Seater.
20-30 Pony
Tonneau.
20-30 Touring Car
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
WE GUARANTEE SERVICE.
This time last year the “CHALMERS” CAR was unknown to Australia.
To-day there are 92 running, all sold within 12 months.
Eighty per cent, of these Cars have gone to Country Clients, because the Ca
is now recognised throughout New South Wales as the most suitable Cai or e
Stock and Station Agents, Hotelkeeper and Squatter, and the Run About tor tne
Professional Man. , . , , n__
You ask : Explain how it is the “CHALMERS” is acknowledged as the best Car
for Country Work?—Because they are high-powered, light, yet strongly built, and
cost very little for upkeep. , ,
Refer to anv of our Clients with respect to upkeep, and they will tell you how
they get from 6000 miles to SOOO miles on their tyres, and average 25 miles to
the gallon of petrol. Ask them what their repair bill has been. We know then
anSW Thes?facts justify the “CHALMERS” in being named the Champion Country
Car.
Let us post you a 1912 Catalogue. _ , . , ~ <<c . „
New Shipment of 1912 model “CHALMERS” Cars due this week on the Star
of Australia.”
“EMPIRE” Run-abouts, 20 h.p., four cylinders, three speeds, forward
and reverse. “ QRAMM ” WAGGONS in Stock.
ROY W. SANDFORD.
181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY; 105 EXHIBITION ST.,
MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
oilers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the. scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
VICE-REGAL
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
HAIRDRESSERS,
IGI King Street,
t SYDNEY.
The Misses Isaacs,
Transformations from £3/3/- PufFs. 5/6 set.
Fringes from 6/6.
Tails from 5/6-
4
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
’Phone 2138 Central.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlome Place.
“A.L.” (Motor Car Acetylene Generator)
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
•8 supplied to his Majesty the King, and used by him at th,e Indian, Durbar No
smell, no danger, no fouling, no failure, no adjustments, no rubber parts, a sy -
tem on simple and ingenious lines. One charging of carbide can be used
months. The London ’Bus Company scrapped all their old generators, -and
the “A.L.” Generators after most severe tests; against every other make. Anotner
practical testimo-nv as to its extreme simplicity and reliability has been give! >y
Captain Scott, who has provided himself vfitli a complete outfit of the a.u.
Generators for the lighting of his expedition to the South Pole.
lib. Size, £4 10s. 21b. Size, £6 15s.
Write for pamphlet, giving particulars asid description.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Semd Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller._ Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade, |
i Pitt-street, Sydney. |
[Mention Thk Bull*™.]
Also at Comar of Bourka and
Swaniton Streets,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY SHAVE IS A PERFECT ONE!
-v
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG ®. AITKEN
Yes, when you use the famous PLUM RAZOR you
have a most delightful shave. You never “feel it glid-
ing over your skin ; it lea ves it soft and smooth as
velvet.
We put a good edge on each PLUM before sending
it out, and guarantee to keep it in order for two
years, free of charge.
Price 10(6, Post Free.
TheC.&A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
night; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/6.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in double Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very] handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good ki ads from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Ab bve Post Free.
GEORG F, STREE T, SYDNEY.
ESTAI ’.LTSHED 30 YEARS.
WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGARS
TRIAL
Almost everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar smoking popular in Australia.
My "FREE CIGARS” TRIAL is this:
I’ll send you 100 of any of the following Cigars,
and you can smoke five or six of them. If you
then are not satisfied, send the remainder back,
and I’ll refund your money in full, without any
charge for those you’ve smoked.
IMPERIALS ... 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6 „
DIADEMAS ... 22/6 „
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6 „
INFANTAS ... 17/6 „
LEVUCAS 15/6
Remit amount when ordering, and state
color (strength) you desire.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
Illustrated descriptive booklet will be
mailed free to any address.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
-KNOW THY-i
Waterman's
( Ideal
FouritainPen
“ Know Thyself.” The ancient
Philosopher set us a stupend-
ous task, to be sure. We
give you an easier one. Know
thy Waterman’s Ideal—the
simplest of, simple tasks.
There are only Five Parts in
this Pen—the Gold Nib, the
Spoon-Feed, the Point-Sec-
tion, the Barrel and the Cap.
We illustrate them all. The
purpose of each is obvious.
Now buy a Waterman’s
Ideal—the simplest and most
efficient of Fountain Pens—
and know, by personal ex-
perience, what a boon it is to
the writer.
5 Parts only—put together they
form the perfect Fountain Pen.
12/6 and upwards.
Of Stationers and Jeiveliers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
A
•CAL
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
TAILOR-
MADE
COSTUMES
FOR WINTER.
Our stock of ma- ;
terials is very com-;
prehensive; and
our Tweeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND GO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
ATMOSUTEI
AIR-GAS LIGHT.
is best for farms,
homesteads, churches,
etc. —best, because it’s
absolutely safe; be-
cause it’s clear, bright
and brilliant, and be-,
cause it’s both eco-
nomical and conven-
ient
BRANDT’S AT-
MOSLITE SELF-CON-
TAINED S A F-E T Y
MACHINE is in 10 to
200 lights. Write for
literature now.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
nr HE Australian Magazine— -THE LONK
1 HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6a.


CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
!W~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing 1 it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
ESTABLISH EO . 37C.
FOR
COUGHS.
AVraridg
UjUnglonic
cs
0
FOR
COLDS
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for “ OWBRIDGE’S”
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL. ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Amusements.
Lyric and colonial theatres,
Nos. 1 and 2. George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the
Rage of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre:
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE Gd.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are
the Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LIMITED.
I NTERNATIONAL pictures, colonial
• Theatre Ituilriings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Wm. H. Bell, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial
Theatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tralasia. In fact, we supply more shows with pictures
than any other three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo, play manufacturers, but we repre-
sent all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth ; Courier Buildings, Brisbane;
Wellington, New Zealand; London, England;
Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
M R WALTER BENTLEY
the Distinguished Actor.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
554 George Street, Sydney.
PALACE THEAT HE. SYUN E Y.
Lessee: ALbAN HAMILTON.
BERT BAILEY NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Latest and Greatest Australian Comedy Drama,
in Four Acts,
ON OUR SELECTION.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/6 and If-
Early doors 6d. extra. No booking fee. Plan at Paling’s.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
ZOMAH, in a series of Intensely Interesting and Inex-
plicable Psychic Demonstrations, proving her the World’s
Most Remarkable Woman.
ALF CHESTER, an Apostle of Laughter.
THE TYRRELS and SEYFFER TWINS.
ADA SADLER and MAMIE ELLIS.
PRICES : 2/-, 1/6,1/- and 6d. Reserves, 6d. extra.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
FUNNIEST, BRIGHTEST, BIGGEST AND BEST.
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
Guaranteed to Generate 60 Hearty Laughs a Minute.
COMBINED ENSEMBLE OF 350 PEOPLE.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES : 6/-, 4-, 2/-, 1/. Children in arms not admitted.
rr H E A T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE MOST SUPERB AND
ARTISTIC SPECTACLE AUSTRALIA HAS SEEN.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
General Lew Wallace’s Impressive Religious Romance,
BEN HU 11.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
DELPHI THEATRE 1 ; SYDN E Y.
Direction and Management, George MAfchow, LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE SINS OF SOCIETY.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, MAY 11.
The Thrilling Story of a Prince and Peasant Girl,
THE KING’S ROMANCE,
A Romantic Military Drama of Modern Times.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
“ r.IIHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
1 he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magaaine that caters for a Continent.
W IRTH BROTHER S’
* w GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
BELMORE MARKETS, PITT STREET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NEXT GRAND SIXPENNY POLAR BEAR MATINEE,
SATURDAY NEXT, 2.45.
GREAT AND INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS OF
THE GREATEST PROGRAMME EVER PRESENTED.
SENSATION XFTER SENSATION.
TREMENDOUS EXCITEMENT.
THREE GREAT SHOWS IN ONE—
CIRCUS, MENAGERIE AND
WILD AUSTRALIA.
£5O to Bridle, Saddle and Ride for Two Minutes the
INCOMPARABLE OUTLAW, LIGHTNING.
BUCKJUMPING CONTESTS EVERY NIGHT.
Prizes for Amateur Riders.
FUN IN A STOCKYARD, &c.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Children under
10 Half-price, except to Gallery.
BOX PLAN at PALING’S and HOTEL AUSTRALIA.
-|“ H E LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
J H E CRYSTAL PALACE.
Under the able direction of J. D. WILLIAMS.
WILL BE THE TALK
OF ALL SYDNEY.
WATCH EOLI THE GRAND
OPENING.
FULL PARTICULARS GIVEN LATER.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
(PROPRIETORS).
QLY MPIA AND PRINCESS, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 28. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
• Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: 11. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d., 6d„ Is.
THE IMPERIAL ROLLER RINK,
Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
FEATURING ALL THAT IS BEST
■ in
ROLLER SKATING.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
Rickard s’ tivoli theatre.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HENRIETTE DE SERRIS, in a series of the Most Artistic
Living Picture and Statuary Displays the world has seen.
BURNETTI, Original Quick-Change Character Musician.
THE SISTERS CASSELLI, England's Talented Song
and Dance Artists.
REG WENTWORTH, TOM DAWSON, IRVING SAYLES,
MELROSE & MENZIES, LES WARTON.
'And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s, and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
FOUR AMARANTHS, Aerobatic Dancers.
KEELEY BROS., Ball Punchers.
NIAGARA AND FALLS, Comedy Acrobatic Duo.
Another of the World's Greatest Novelties. The Origi-
nator of all Trick-playing Piano Acts : MR. WILL H. FOX.
A Great and Unique Attraction, MONE MINE.
Song & Story & English Step Dancing, BLAKE &GREMBY
RONALD GEORGE. BURNETT. 0. J. JOHNSON.
And a Great Company of Brilliant Artistes.
Plan at Allan’s. SflF“ PRICES —35., 25., Is.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St„ rrahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. Cd. to 2s. Plans at
Allan's. C. M. Read's and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
Eli MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING.
J C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in the most fascinating of the Musical Comedy
“Girl” Series.
THE GIRL IN THE TRAIN.
PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
ALEXANDER WATSON.
More Dramatic than Charles Clark, More Versatile
than Locke Richardson, More Humorous than
Max O’Rell.
SHAKSPEARE PLATFORM PLAYS
AND
CHARLES HICKEYS ENTERTAINMENTS.
A whole Play or abridged Novel entirely from
Memory, without Note or Prompter.
ATHENAEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, 9th inst NICHOLAS NICKLEBY
FRIDAY, 10th inst SHAKSPEARE SELECTIONS
SATURDAY, 11th inst.. .A NIGHT WITH DICKENS
MONDAY, 13th inst PAOLA AND FRANCISCA
TUESDAY, 14th ingt MACBETH
SYDNEY SEASON BEGINS MAY 25.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
ROYAL,
MELBOURNE.
1" HEATRE
OSCAR ASCHE—LILY BRAYTON.
‘•A TRIUMPH OF TRIUMPHS.”
THE GREAT ORIENTAL DRAMATIC SPECTACLE,
KISMET.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Seats, 7/6.
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
THE LATEST AND MOST ASTONISHING ENGLISH
SUCCESS, WITH EVERY REMARKABLE INCIDENT
TAKEN FROM REAL LIFE.
THE NIGHT SIDE OF LONDON
Prices as Usual. Plan at Pianola.
TIIENAOUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
A SHORT SEASON OF
SHAKSPEARIAN PLATFORM PLAYS
and CHARLES DICKENS ENTERTAINMENTS
By Mr. ALEXANDER WATSON,
The Foremost Sliakspearian Reciter on the English
Platform at the Present Time.
Recitals will be given as follows: —
“NICHOLAS NICKLEBY,” THURSDAY, 9th.
S.HAKSPEARE SELECTIONS, FRIDAY, 10th.
DICKENS and Other Selections, SATURDAY, 11th.
LAST RECITAL, MONDAY, 13th.
PRICES of ADMISSION—3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
Plan of Seats at Pianola Box Office.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND TOUR
M Of
MARGARET COOPER,
THE FAMOUS ENTERTAINER,
in her
DELIGHTFUL SONGS AT THE PIANO.
MARGARET COOPER has just concluded a brilliantly
successful three weeks’ season in Melbourne. Every
performance was packed to the doors.
BROKEN HILL:
Commences MAY 20.
SYDNEY:
Commences JUNE 8, PALACE THEATRE.
NEW ZEALAND TOUR commences WELLINGTON
OPERA HOUSE, JULY 10.
Tour under Sole Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
THE KING’S THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 11.
A Dramatisation of MARCUS CLARKE’S Historical
Australian Story,
FOR THE TEEM OE HIS
NATURAL LIFE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRibES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
ahd EVERY EVENING at 8.
\j]/K S T’S PALACE, MELBO U R N E.
” BEST WEST'S PICTURES, THE „,, ST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MatinSes Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to lie
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
|CE SKATING.
THE ACME OF ENJOYMENT.
Melbourne GLACIARIITM
RE-OPENS
THURSDAY AFTERNOON, MAY 16
jssWell, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Local Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co.* Manchester* Eng.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and reliable remedy
for treating diseases of ALL
mucous membranes, such as
discharges from the nose.throat
stomach and urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself f
Treatise with each bottle
or mailed on request.
The Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio
U.S.A.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
w GOUT V
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by aIT Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
PILES
To those who suffer the agonising tor-
ture of Piles, a really genuine cure
comes as a boon and a blessing.
Such a remedy is
PILE CURE
which brings immediate releif and last-
ing cure.
Blind, Bleeding, Protru-
ding or Itching Piles
I
yield to its firm but soothing influence-
Made in the form of an Ointment it is
Easy to apply.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/-
mm Hill
w
Elliott Bros,, Ltd-, Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia
«tue
a
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
PROTECT YOUR-
SELF AGAINST
DISEASE.
r KEEP
HYCOL
IN THE HOME
Use it to-day
and every day.
It is non-poisonous.
18 times stronger
than Carbolic.
Agents i
JS.S.AV. Agents:
POTTS & CO.,
163 George St., Sydney.
MOST
POWERFUL
SJ
In a Thermos Vacuum Flask hot liquids
remain hot for 24 hours, and cold
liquids keep cold for days—in any
climate. Think of the convenience!
Buy a ‘ Thermos' Vacuum Flask—imitations disappoint.
Thermos Flasks (and Jugs) are sold by Stores,
Ironmongers, Jewellers, Chemists, and others.
Wholesale Agents: H. A. Parker Sr Co., Castlercagh Chambers,
10, Castlercagh St., Sydney.
u


f
i)
/
NEURALGIA
A CASE FOR]
RUN DOWN!
N. A CASE POR/
NXwiNCARNIS/^
ISLEEPLESSNESSI
A CASE FOR I
WINCARNISI
BRAIN FACj
A CASE FOR
WINCARNIS
EXHAUSTION
CASE FOR WINCARnTs]
A AaVAA
M>Tf
Gives New Life to the Invalid
An outstanding feature of " Wincarms "
is its extraordinary power in re-creating
lost vitality and giving new life and
renewed health to those who, after a long
illness, are left in a pitable stale of
wrecked health and shattered nerves
Renewed Strength to the Weak
Every wineglasstul of Wincarms ' equips
the system with a definite amount of re-
newed health and strength that overcomes
weakness and exhaustion, and speedily
gives to the whole body a delicious
feeling of physical fitness that is lasting
Increased Vigour to Brain Workers
When the delicate mechanism ot the
brain becomes disorganised by overwork,
worry, or by the ever-increasing demands
of modem business conditions, ‘Wincarnis’
has an immediate effect in stimulating
the activity of the brain and promoting
additional keennesg and increased vigour
to the whoie mental system 1 VVincarnis '
keeps the brain in "form ” .and ensures
the brain-worker against Brain-fag
A Wealth of Health to Everyone
To everyone whose health is not as it
should be —to those suffering from
Anaemia, Sleeplessness. Weakness,
Brainfag, Lowered Viialiiy, Exhaustion,
Nerve Troubles, or who are merely " run-
down ” Wtncarms offers a wealth of
renewed health and a progressive up-
building ol vitality and vigour that will
make the whole system pulsate with new
life. Over 10,000 doctors recommend
' Wincamis,’ because they knmv its value
Will you try just one bottle i
Wlncarnls is sold by all Wine Merchants, Licensed Chemists and Crocer9.
Australian and New Zealand Depot:
FASSETT & JOHNSON, 5 & 7 Barrack Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis Works, NORWICH, ENG.
A Handful
of Evidence.
The following: letters were sent
to us out of gratitude for the new
life and renewed health these
ladies have actually experienced
by the use of “Wincarnis.”
Condemned to be life-long
Invalid.
Restored to Health by
“ Wincarnis.”
Mrs. SARAH DE VILLE, Burton-
on-Trent, writes: —
Dear Sirs, —A few months ago
X was so dangerously ill that the
doctors said they could do nothing
more for me, and advised me to
make the best I could of life, as I
should never be well again. I was
terribly upset at the prospect of
being a life-long invalid, and when
a friend of mine urged me to try
“Wincarnis,” I applied to you for
one of your free trial bottles. X was
astonished and delighted to find that
from the first glassful your “Wip-
carnis” put new life into me. I perse-
vered with “Wincarnis,” and before
long I was able to get about again.
Instead of remaining a life-long in-
valid, I was now able to carry on
business, and I owe all my renewed
health and strength entirely to your
wonderful “Wincarnis.”
Yours very gratefully,.
SARAH DE VILLE.
So weak, could hardly walk.
“ Wincarnis ” gave new life.
52 Nightingale Road, Dover.
Dear Sirs, —I feel in duty bound
to write arid thank you for the won,
derful benefit I have derived from
your splendid “Wincarnis.” For
months I have been depressed and
nervous, and so weak that I could
hardly walk, and felt I wanted to
be always sitting or lying down.
But your “Wincarnis” has put New
Life iuto. me. I .can now go about
my work with a new vigor, that
makes j my household duties a pleas-
ure, instead of a burden as before.
I, cannot properly express my grati-
tude for the grand health your life-
giving “Wincarnis” has given, me.
It is splendid to feel so strong and
well. I have told all mv neighbors
about your wonderful “Wincarnis.”
and I feel I want to tell the whole
world what a splendid tonic arid re-
storative it is.
Yours very gratefully.
(Mrs.) C. B. BARNATT.
7,
a
No. J£>3!)f> —S ilve r-p lat e d HUT
WATER KETTLE,
60/-
§?*»*•
Solid Silver Wattle Design SERVI-
ETTE RING,
7/6.
No. JB9l3—Silver-plated EGG CUP,
5/6.
Attractive Silverware
There is an elegance about these “Treasure House” articles
which rivals their sterling, enduring service. They are
manufactured, imported and sold direct by Stewart
Dawson’s. These facts account fully for the reasonable
prices at which it is possible to offer them.
No. JBB7B—Silver-plated CANDLESTICK,
9 6.
No. J 9281 Silver-plated
and Glass-lined FLOWER
VASE, s*in. his*.
6/6.
No. J 9284 —Large Size Silver-plated SAUCE BOAT.
Bowl, 7x4, 4in. high,
21/-
No. J7747—Solid Silver
and Enamel GLOVE
MIRROR. Length, 3in.,
10/6.
l/a SIZE'
No. J9lO2 —Silver-plated MATOI-I HOLDER and
ASH TRAY,
9/6.
Solid Silver Flannel Flower Design
SERVIETTE RING,
7/6.
No. JB4C7—Solid Silver SERVIETTE RING,
10/6.
WE ALWAYS
PAY- —
THE POSTAGE.
SievartQiHmnaQ
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WRITE
FOR
catalogue;


ECZEMA ALL OVER
HER BABY’S BODY
Pimples Turned into Sores. Could
Not Get Any Sleep. Would Wake
Up Crying and Scratch Until He
Bled, 2 Pots of CuticuraOintment
with Cuticura Soap Cured Him.
“My little boy who is only eighteen months
old suffered something dreadfully for eight
<KI
>4-
7t?\
\Q> i
0s
H
r>
months from eczema
which was all over
his body. I had two
doctors but they failed
to cure him. It first
came as little pimples
and he was covered
from neck to feet with
them and when he
went to sleep it would
come out thicker than
ever. Then the pimples
turned into sores and he could not get any
sleep at all for as soon as he went to sleep
he got hot and itchy and would then wake
up crying and scratch them until he made
them bleed. I was ordered to bathe him in
warm water with a cupful of bran, I also
used , zinc ointment, lotions, and
rubbed him with sulphur, lard, * — and
boracic acid and many other things, but all
did no good.
“One day I read the Cuticura advertise-
ment and thought I would give it a trial
and am very thankful to be able to say that
Cuticura Ointment cured him. I bathed him
with Cuticura Soap and put the Ointment
on all the spots and after using it twice he
got much relief and slept for hours, and
after using two pots of Cuticura Ointment he
was quite cured, which took about two months
'i.nd he has not had any signs of it since.”
(Signed) Mrs. W. J. Langham, Anson St.,
Orange, N. S. W., Feb. 20, 1911
Although Cuticura Soap and Ointment are
sold throughout the world, a liberal sample
of Cuticura Ointment, with 32-page booklet
on affections of the skin and scalp, will be
sent, post-free, on application to R, Towns
& Co , Dept , 17K, Sydney, N. S. W.
ANTINEURASTHIN
is a means of administering to the brain and nerve
cells their natural food element (Lecithin) in an ab-
solutely pure form. It is not a medicine, and con-
tains neither drug nor chemical—but builds up the
nervous system by the process of natural nutrition.
It affords prompt relief in all forms of nerve
maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia, etc., and gives won-
derful results in cases of mental and physical over-
strain and exhaustion.
Antineurasthin restores the exhausted nervous
system by natural feeding. Drugs and tonics destroy
by stimulating and deadening.
Antineurasthin is prepared in tablet form, pleasant
to the taste, and convenient to carry when travelling.
A FREE TRIAL SUPPLY
will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage, by the Wholesale Agent, H. A. Goddard,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Bris-
bane; or branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82
Pitt Street, Sydney; 9 to 15 Stock Exchange Build-
ings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Build-
ings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Build-
ings, Wellesley Street East, Auckland.
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use pur
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
fflad. Particulars Free.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
LONDON AGENCY,
44 Castlereag'h Street, SIDNEY.
z/ 7 -
k?'H
V,
\
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S. A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely gre.v. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.3.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
.mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of -Alfred Ardleu (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Aerogen Gas Machine Co
Propty., Ltd.,
NOniNAL CAPITAL, £25,000.
Present Issue, £12,500 (already allotted).
DIEECTOES
S. W. PHILIPS,
H. ALAN CURRIE,
F. CLOWES,
F. A. ALCOCK,
E. H. FLACK.
This Company has been formed to develop the Australian business of the
AEROGEN GAS COMPANY, LONDON, for lighting Country Houses, Stores,
Hotels, Billiard Rooms, and also for lighting small towns.
AEROGEN GAS MACHINES are admittedly the leading Petrol-Air-Gas
Machines the world over.
. Nearly three hundred AEROGEN Machines have been installed in Aus-
tralia during the past two years with complete satisfaction to buyers.
AEROGEN Gas can only be obtained from AEROGEN Gas Machines.
SOME BUYERS.
New South Wales Railways and Public Works Departments; Harden Railway Station,
N.S.W.; J. Edwards, N.S.W.; David F. Gibb, N.S.W.; Campbelltown Railway Station,
N.S.W.; Waterfall Hospital, N.S.W.; Nestle & Anglo-Swiss C.M. Co. Fac-
tory, Queensland; Messrs. McDonald Bros., Queensland; Baree School of
Arts, Mt. Morgan, Queensland; Victorian Railway Departments; Sir John Madden,
Vic.; Commonwealth Home Affairs Department, Vic.; Sir Rupert Clarke, Vic.;
Wodonga Railway Station, Vic.; Mr. H. W. Grimwade, Vic.; Mr. Gordon Chirnside,
Vic.; Mr. Ernest Austin, Vic.; D. D. D. Mackinnon, Camperdown, Vic.; M. S. Hawker,
S.A.; Moorna Station, S.A.; Mr. McKenzie Grant, W.A.; D. Rutherford, W.A.; Messrs.
Stanford and Johnson, W.A.; Railway Station, Spencer’s Brook, W.A.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS:
SYDNEY: PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings.
Melbourne: Aerogen Gas Machine Co. Pty., Ltd.
133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : Alcock & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: E. Rich & CO. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON : W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE: Alfred Shaw Ltd.
IT E 3 C" C7*
It ft_ EL.
Colored Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send ns your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at (id.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our tis., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, md to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, auu import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. 126 bond st„ Sydney.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is.the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
iWA
FOWHTPEN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond St., Sydney.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectu ally
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like archarm In
D/ARRH(EA and simple DYSENTERY.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
9 For use during illness and con-
valescence.
fll For weakly and overgrowing
children.
9 As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases of
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
§III«
is soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
ood
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested.
BENGEK’S FOOD LTD., Otter Works, MANCHESTEB,
ENGLAND.
Benget's Food is sold in tins by Druggists , etc. everywhere.
BIOSV
There is nothing like flesh to change the luck of a
theatre. The Aldryeh, although a well-appointed and
up-to-date house, was long the unluckiest in London.
All sorts of entertainments were tried in it, but in
every case the shutters had to be put up after a week
or so. Presumably, there was a dead Chinaman in
the basement, or the builder had broken a mirror and
killed a cat. But “Proud Maisie,” a Scottish his-
torical drama, has turned the tide. Everybody is
nocking to see the handsome Miss Alexandra Car-
lisle in the title r6le and a kilt. The kilt is brief,
an ” i t l lere * s a amount of Alexandra between the
dead finish of the petticoat and the beginnings of the
stockmg In early Reform Bill times Sir Charles
V\ etherell used to burst his braces with rage when-
ever he got up in the British House of Commons to
oppose the measure, and it was said that his only
lucid interval was the one between his waistcoat and
his pants. There are four lucid intervals at the
Aldryeh three between the acts, and the fourth about
the leading lady’s knees.
“Hullo’’: Pinero can dare much, but he can’t at-
tack a chartered privilege without arousing resent-
ment. His “Mind the Paint Girl” was boo-hooed
at its first performance, for Pinero had dared to
pillory the London musical-comedy girl. He painted
her and her world with bitter strokes. He termed
her callous hunt for a titled husband a menace to
society. And London, reverencing the post-card lady
with the teethy smile as it reverencs royalty, hooted
at the dreadful blasphemy of the dramatist.
“Sa Wen”: There are some people in this world
who are absolutely devoid of observation, and “Star,”
who wrote (B. 18/4/’l2) that publicans are losing
trade as a result of the increasing number of picture
theatres in Melbourne, is the dull boy of the family.
In fact, if he will reverse the order of the letters of
his name, he will be supplied with my opinion on his
par. There is not a pubbery in the vicinity of a
flicker show that has not increased its trade since
the show started. Dilapidated old groggeries that
were in imminent danger of paralysis of the pump
have been rejuvenated by the rush of new business,
and shanties that mostly relied upon a few casual
beer eaters have been hurriedly improved in order to
meet with public approval. As for the hardened hotel
habitue being beguiled from his beer by the bio-show
well, this is where I peter out into incoherency.
“8.J.” : When the mail left, a strictly literal trans-
lation of the amazingly frank “Mrs. Warren’s Pro-
tession” was being performed in Paris, at the Theatre
des Arts. It received high praise from the critics, but
the public did not fall over itself in rushing to see
the show. It is stated that many of the Parisians
who did see it appeared to regard it as a sample of
English farce. They didn’t take the oldest of all
professions seriously.
In the U.S., the other day, tuberculosis finished the
existence of. George Michael Fuller, remembered by
Australians as George Fuller Golden, the monologist.
It is 12 years since he was attacked by the disease, so
he made a long campaign of it—something akin
to the Thirty Years’ War. When it was too late, he
took his last half-lung to an airy pinnacle of
the Californian mountains. Fuller Golden was 43
years of age, and, from his fourteenth birthday, had
won three meals a day by putting his tongue to hu-
morous uses. He was only in his twenties when he
had talked his way to the topmost perch in U.S.
vaudeville. In the Bull Fog, where he first hap-
pened about 12 years back, and where he apparently
found more disease than money, he was not a great
success. At one time he was so poorjy off that he
and his wife lived, according to his testimony “on
kippered fish and marmalade and the honey of the
moon, and had little else.” In Yankeeland, how-
ever, he remained perennially popular, and became
renowned as the instigator of the White Rats Actors’
union, the organisation that is getting into training
tor a monumental scrap with the Vaudeville Trust.
During his sickness Golden derived much financial
nourishment from benefits, arranged by the White
Rodents and other persons, while manager George M.
Cohen assisted the invalid to the extent of 10,000
dollars. So his end was Golden enough. In appear-
ance the deceased was tall and draper-like.
A recent yarn of the veteran actor, George Rig-
nold: In the street lately he met one of those gushers
who afflict celebrities, and was stopped. After a long
hand-shaking, which Henry V. bore as best he could,
the gusher broke out: “Well, Mr. Rignold, George,
you re looking wonderfully well. You must be very
old now—hum, hum—l saw you in ’76. My word
vou were grand in ‘The Sign of the Cross’ and ‘The
Fatal Wedding! Do you know, you’re a great
favorite here. Quite well respected, too.” (With a
burst of enthusiasm) : “By God, George, you’ll have
a great funeral!”
“8.J.H.0.”: Joseph Barker, who painted the mag-
nificent Kismet” scenery, has a son in Asche’s
company, Gorden Harker, who heaves up on the land-
scape m the Bazaar scene in the robes of a Chow
mandarin or alderman or something of the sort. R
I. Anson, of the same co., is a son of G. W. Anson,
who was a member of the Brough-Boucicault outfit,
and is well remembered for his Eccles, in “Caste.”
A new book of interest to Australians, just pub-
lished in London, is “The Recollections of a Court
I amter, by H. J. Thaddeus, who was out here for a
time. He painted Pope Leo XIII., Gladstone, and a
crowd of royalties. He tells a queer story. He says
the painter \an Beers “induced Melba to entertain
rns guests at a supper party by mounting a rickety
ladder in a stable and singing through a hole in the
wall which divided the stable from his dining-room.”
In what mad and raving kind of house did the horse
live next to the dining-room ?
The Scotsman’s bagpipes are the haggis of musical
instrumentation. No part of the noisy compound is
of a delicate strain, nor does the feeding ear ever
know what sort of morsel it is going to get next.
“Librarian”: I have just turned up Morton’s old
comedy of “Speed the Plough,” produced in 1798,
with the superb invention of Mrs. Grundy. What a
stroke of genius. In the first scene the wife of
farmer Ashfield starts with her gag of “What will
Mrs. Grundy say?” She is the terror of the village.
Through the five acts a reader keeps on asking
when Mrs. Grundy will appear, but she never does.
The author had created a Frankenstein, but was
afraid he could not do justice to his own monster.
Yet there is no character in fiction, of the old woman
class, so perfect as Mrs. Grundy, the lady who is
limned only by allusion. Sairey Gamp is a great
caricature. Trollope’s wife of Bishop Proudie is only
an imitation of Mrs. Grundy. Everyone who saw or
read the play would fit her into somebody of his or
her acquaintance. She is immortal.
Tenor Caruso is trying to get Puccini to knock to-
gether an opera on the subject of “Kismet.” The
idea of playing Hajj, the discolored eleemosynary of
old Bagdad, appeals to him vastly.
The Combine has secured the Australian rights of
“Bella Donna.” Author Hitchins favored Alice Craw-
ford for the leading lady part in the London pro-
duction, but manager Alexander preferred to match
himself with a more ancient actress, and engaged
Mrs. Pat Campbell. Alice, these days, is tall and
slim as a gum sapling, but the young leading men
of the London stage are mostly weighted with years
and flesh and honors, and they don’t like to act
alongside genuine youth. It is too grievous a satire
on their obese and artificial juvenility. Alice Craw-
ford’s selection to fill the part on this side of the
world would be a good business move. Australians
would like an opportunity to judge for themselves
of the art which was still in its infancy when
Alice, in the train of the late Wilson Barrett, left
to seek fame in the Big Mud.
A curious experiment is about to be tried at the
New Middlesex Variety Palace, Drury Lane, London.
Twice a night the management proposes to play a
four-act drama as an “extended sketch.” That is to
say, the curtain will not be dropped between the acts ;
there will be no intervals filled by the band ; but the
play will be run right through off the reel without
a single break of any sort. Time will thus be saved,
and room made for half a dozen other turns. The
first play to be produced in this hustling, bustling
fashion, is “The Life Guardsman,” by Walter How-
ard, a dramatist who had experiences in Australia
as a rouseabout and sundowner.


Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902). Ltd.
We Supply—
J ARRAU Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Rowland's
Macassar
Oil
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies. Restores it. Closeh
resembles the natural oil in the haii,
which nature provides for its presei vation.
No other article possesses this property.
Without it the hair becomes dry, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect oi
a beautiful face. Good hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND’S,
67. Hatton Garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
t>*
• • •
.* Hr # /'
f, V
-»•«
SjjjH
USD
i
For
Household
Use. — To use it is
the best, most simple,
and most comfortable way of
ironing. Independent of stove and gas,
it can be used anywhere. Non-inflammable
fuel without noxious fumes. No risk from
fire ; healthier and safer than any other iron.
For light work and travelling only,
The “DA LUNETTE, a smaller “ Dalli."
For general household work use the “ Dalli.”
Having a larger ironing surface and greater heating
capacity, every description of ironing can be done
with it.
Of all Storekeepers.
Stocked by ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Sydney; F. LASSEttf.r & CO., LTD., Sydney.
Beware of 700 thless imitations.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
<QVH*tfe
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
F.WOIFF&SOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
* LONDON a
Obtainable from all the Leading Stores.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Establishkd 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO IIEND Secu *ty OT Freehold orLeasehol
■“ B City or Suburban Properties, or o
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Momrasre Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 ner cent, of the loan durimr any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Dirkctors—The Hon. A. \Y. Meeks. M.L.C.. Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputv-Chairman • Beniamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: TheHm. F. e! Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox. E«q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teeee. F.1.A.. F.F.A. FS S.
HEAD OFFICE. S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H, W. APPERLY, Secretary
T C
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
THE ROYAL COMMANDS
for Ashton & Parsons’ Phosferine are a GUARANTEE
to every purchaser of the genuine Phosferine that the
tonic is the very best obtainable, embodies the highest
skill, and being the most potent remedy, benefits
everyone equally with Royalty. The original and only
genuine preparation is
ASHTON & PARSONS’
PHOSFERINE
This world - renowned restorative medicine has for many years been supplied by
Royal Commands to the Crowned Heads and Principal Royalty throughout the world.
Honoured by
Commands from
The British
Royal Family
H.I.M. The
Empress of
Russia
H.JVI. The
King of Greece
KING GEORGE
Praises Burgess’ 23 Hours'
ENDURANCE
M
m
THE ROYAL TELEGRAM
says : “lam commanded to convey to
you the hearty congratulations of the
King upon your determination and
endurance upon the wonderful feat of
swimming the Channel to-day.”—Sept.
7, 1911, Stamfordham.
T. W. Burgess, 30, Dover Road,
Walmer, Deal, writes :—“ Ashton &
Parsons’ Phosferine is indispensable for
feats of physical endurance. It is a nerve
and muscle tonic, and of unfailing
efficacy in preparing me for the special
demand on my energies.”—Sept. 7,1911.
Honoured by
Commands from
H.M. The
of spain
H.M. The Queen
of Roumania
The Imperial
Family of China
MAKE SURE YOUR PURCHASE IS
ASHTON & PARSONS’
PHOSFERINE
Greatest of all Tonics
A PROVEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state ot the nervous system.
THE GENUINE ASHTON AND PARSONS’ PHOSFERINE Is sold by all Chemists, Stores, oto.,
in Bottles, I/- and 2/6. The 2/6 Size contains nearly four times the I/- Size.
1
/VNTISEPTIC THROAT
l
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to
a formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tettrazzini writes: —“I thank you
for the boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excel-
lent and efficacious.”
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Sole Manufacturers —-
EVANS SONS LESCHER 8 WEBB, Ltd., LONDON.
Ask for EVANS’ ” Pastilles, and see you get them.
m
■m
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
m the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable,
xou can t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them —the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on tile side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that von may clearlv understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
a trumpet, and so convevs even the
faintest sounds right to the ' natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the car-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
-pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two vears. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you must register it.
filinging for More! *
m
ya
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
k Over 70 years ’ success. 1


Now Ready.
SIXTH EDITION of the
“SURE CATCH ” Australasian
FISHING TACKLE
Magazine - Catalogue.
A REVELATION IN
TACKLE CATALOGUES.
Seeing is believing.
Send your name and address
for a copy■ NOW.
Gratis and Post Free.
Fishing Tacßle.
—Don’t experiment with inferior brands of Tackle— lT IS COSTLY ; but
ALWAYS use “ SURE CATCH,” THE Fishing Tackle that has stood the test of years, and
is now universally recognised as being THE Tackle of
RELIABILITY, QUALITY and SUPERIORITY.
It is THE brand with the reputation for all that is best in Fishing Tackle, and that
reputation we will maintain—whatever the cost. It is used by the FOREMOST ANGLERS
of the day throughout the whole of Australasia and the Islands THERE’S A REASON.
For a comprehensive description of this renowned Fishing Tackle, see our new edition T ackle
Catalogue, referred to at the beginning of this advertisement.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
“ The Premier Tackle House of Australasia,”
Haymarket, SYDNEY, N.S.W-
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, G-iddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘FEUIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked UNO'S 'FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
%
Aa’
Why you should wear
All=wool unshrink-
able Socks, Stockings,
and Underwear,
Because
they are the most comfortable ;£U-Australasian-wool wear:
they are absolutely unshrinkable: they are English Made.
The ion ' process imparts a soft, silky finish which makes
JfJZZSfb wear superior to all others.
Yet cost no more than ordinary hosiery and
underwear.
“SttAOTil Socks, Stockings, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “Jason ” booklet and name of nearest
Agent, to—
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <§>
Williams’ Carnation
ms
to N
KmWmM
§
■
I*;
with the True Odor of
Your Garden Beauties.
There are Plenty of
CHEAP
IMITATIONS,
both UNSAFE and
UNPLEASANT.
Better Shun Them.
The Price of Williams’ four
Talcum Powders —Carnation,
"Violet, Rose and Karsi —is
ONE SHILLING.
Your Chemist Sells Them.
KARSI is a very delicate
powder of Eastern origin.
You would doubtless like to
try it. A perfect miniature
canister will be sent to any
address, free of charge, by
the J. B. WILLIAMS CO.,
Box 98, G.P.0., Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-,
gravings, new 190 S edition, 2s (id posted. Merrie
England, (id. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys op Like, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures ok a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of. Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book ok Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s !>d posted. Stranglers
ok Paris, Is 6d. History ok the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain , for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory ok Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d,
B
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
BY Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ir-BOOHSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH, 'll
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From.Snowt River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, ls<3d. ' Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is; The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Pup.lic
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
fis.ed posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameiion, and many
oth rs, all at 28 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with' others and
save your cash. Established 25 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SI \ALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE. GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
Write tor rav
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT 15Y RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Nnw Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d uost. Ok. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Bing,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. (id. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Sd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
<.Tas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
]s2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, IfiOO illus., leather
bound, my. price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). " Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete. Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 1 0s 6d posted. Ti if. Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Si >ngs (words and music com-
plete), is fid posted. Tin : Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE J? OB CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Start This Winter Right!
Last Winter how many times did you catch a cold?
How much time did you lose from business through illness ?
How many nights were your children kept awake by coughing ?
Shall this Winter be a repetition of last?
No ! Start the Winter right.
Prepare for trouble before it troubles you.
A bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a safeguard against the ills of
Winter.
In the home where it is always found coughs and colds do not obtrude.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery prevents as well as cures.
A dose taken before exposure to inclement weather fortifies the system.
A dose after exposure prevents the danger of a chill.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the most reliable remedy to cure a cold, a
cough, a chill, and all diseases and ailments caused by the cold of
Winter.
Also, Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the most certain preventive of just
such ills, and is suitable for man, woman and child at any season and
at any place.
So start the Winter right. Don’t wait till you are sent in a hurry for a
bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, but, by having it ready, defeat
the forces of Winter’s host of enemies to mankind before they have
you in their grip.
THE SAFEGUARD OF THE HOME.
D» Sheldon's,,
New Discovery
saio
a MV {Zg£
SHOfIO
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY FOR COUGHS AND COLDS is an
unequalled preparation for the immediate relief of all diseases of the Throat, Bron-
chial Tubes and Lungs, including Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
Quinsey, Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult Respiration and Pains in the Chest.
When used according to directions, it is a sure preventive of Pneumonia and Con-
sumption, Every bottle guaranteed. Price, 1/6 and 3/-; Hospital size, 5/-. If
not obtainable locally, will be sent post free upon receipt of price by the Sheldon
Drug Co., Ltd., 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produce*
buy HORROCKSES’
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitute#
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOW AY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning » Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY’S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Procreatrix.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With the scorn of it all upon her who never its
pride had known,
The She-Thing works in the silence, desolate and
alone;
Knowing it all in Her wisdom and weighing its
worth is vain,
She moulds the Life of the future, careless of boon
or bane.
Calm in Her callous purpose, vassal and vessel She
Of all since Time’s beginning till Time shall no
longer be.
Hers are the things we cherish, Hers are the things
we dread
Who, caring and fearing nothing, leads as Herself
is led.
Youth is pawn to Her planning, Love but a lure to
Her ends,
Beauty She grants for a moment, Joy for a moment
lends:
All of the sweets we image, all that our hearts hold
close,
Are one with the spore of the fungus, one with the
bloom of the rose.
Hers is the impulse stirring leaf and blossom and
bud,
Suns in their orbits spinning, seas at their ebb and
flood,
All she has given being struggles for newer birth,
Seeking a barren plenty, plenty at one with dearth.
The She-Thing works in the silence. Bitter a hate
has She
For the Fate that has so foredoomed her to build
for the Life to be:
All that She gives She has not and blinded with
too much sight,
She shares no sport in the playing, nor takes in the
play delight:
All that She longs for and always is sleep in a
deathful night.
N.S.W.
BERNARD INGLEEY.
Most Superior People.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ mHERE are some new people coming
to-night,” confided the landlady to
Miss Gummer as the latter arrived
home from her day’s work in the Post Office.
“Strabswood their name is—a Most Superior
couple, with two children —boy and girl.
They’re just out from England, and the
children are to go to school directly they
are settled down. She likes the place—says
it’s lovely, and reminds her of her father’s
estate in Sussex. Oh, dear! It’s past five
o’clock, and they are to be here at six! I
must run!” She fluttered out all excite-
ment, and Miss Gummer continued her jour-
ney upstairs. On the landing she ran into
the golden-haired flower-girl arrayed for
dinner.
“Hallo, dear! How cool you look! Heard
the news?”
“No, dear. What is it?”
“Mrs. Tribbens is all excitement about it.
Some new people called Strabswood are
coming to-night. They’re just out from
England—a Most Superior couple.”
“How nice! I love to meet these people
who are just out. They always know the
latest news about the Royal Family.”
The two ladies smiled sweetly at each
other, and passed on to circulate the glad
new upstairs and down. The house was
soon buzzing with it: “Some English people
called Strabswood —arriving to-night—Most
Superior people.”
Mr. Bodger, of the full beard and the
fiery temper, glowed when assailed with the
information by Mrs. Tribbens. “I’m glad
to hear it, ma’am—very glad to hear it!
What this house wants, ma’am, and what it
has wanted for some time, is some Superior
People to give it tone.”
The landlady gave a slight jump. “Tone,
Mr. Bodger !” she echoed. “What do you
mean by ‘tone’?”
Bodger took a firm grip of his beard, and
fixed the landlady with his eye. “I will
mention no names, ma’am, but there are one
-or two whippersnappers in this house who
may learn some manners by watching how
•their betters conduct themselves, ma’am.”
“I’m sure I don’t know who you mean,
Mr. Bodger! But if tone is wanted, then
I’m sure Mr. and Mrs. Strabswood will
■supply it, Mr. Bodger!”
“Well, ma’am, in that case, I shall be glad
to welcome them.” Bodger passed on to his
room leaving the landlady considerably
ruffled.
At 6.30 the boarders trooped down. They
found a small, round table, with red-shaded
candles, placed in a corner remote from the
great feeding board. Plainly the Superior
People did not intend to have their food
cheek-by-jowl with Inferior Creatures. At
least that is how the boarders looked at it,
and the atmosphere of the room was icy
when, all being seated, a trampling sound
suggestive of an approaching procession was
heard. In swept a large, brassy-haired
woman of about 30, in full evening dress.
She wore rimless eyeglasses, carried her chin
in the air, and glanced about as if to say
that never before had she made the experi-
ment of feeding with wild animals. Follow-
ing her came a fat-cheeked boy of about
seven, in an Eton suit. He had large,
greedy eyes and a frightened, sneaky manner.
After the boy, came a 10-year-old miniature
of the mother, in white muslin and hair
bows. Last came Strabswood —a tall man
-of about 35, with a vacuously mournful coun-
tenance, smudged in the centre with a dis-
couraged moustache, and topped with a
cheerlessly high, white forehead. His eyes
were a watery blue, and his long nose ap-
peared to have been severely sunburnt. He
also was in full evening dress.
The performance might have been entitled
“A Model Family of the British Aristocracy
at Meal-time.” The boy, in the most abject
manner, addressed his male parent as “Sir”
At every turn, and fell over himself to pass
things when requested in a sharp, pitiless
voice to do so. To do him justice, he looked
as if he had been thrashed into it. The girl,
however, seemed to delight in her part. She
addressed both parents in turn in an icy,
precise way, and administered snubs with
diabolical ingenuity to her unhappy brother
at regular intervals. The parents now and
then exchanged a few refrigerated observa-
tions over the heads of their hostile juniors.
Mostly, though, they occupied themselves in
•eating and sternly checking their offspring.
It was about pudding-time when the feed-
ing mob became aware of a suppressed com-
motion at the Strabswoods’ table. The
father, his immense face and forehead brick-
red, was leaning across the table towards his
fat-faced son. “Go to your room, sir!” he
hissed. “Go to your room, and write me out
a hundred lines before you go to bed!”
The rebellious boy scrambled sullenly out
of his chair. “Yessir,” he mumbled.
“Never!” stormed his male parent, “never
say that word again in my presence!”
“Orright, sir!” whimpered his son.
“I told you father would be furious!”
chanted the girl, triumphantly. “I told you
not to say ‘bonzer.’ You know very well” —
“Silence, Gladys!” commanded the mother
in her below-freezing-point manner.
“A hundred lines before bed, mind!” thun-
dered the male parent.
“Yessir!”
“You may go then. We will excuse you.”
The condemned wretch slunk from the room.
This exploit seemed to afford Strabswood
great satisfaction. He brooded darkly—pre-
sumably on the difficulty of guarding English
offspring from contamination and keeping
their mother tongue pure in the midst of
savages. The mother and little girl had an
acrimonious squabble in whispers. The
daughter wanted to do something; the
mother would not hear of it. Finally she
clinched the matter by saying very dis-
tinctly : “Once and for all —NO! You know
very well your father would be Furious!”
Father pinched his moustache hard. He
seemed to be trying to give the room the im-
pression that he was always ready to be
furious at short notice.
The troupe made an impressive exit
shortly afterwards, and, retiring upstairs
in good order, shut the door loudly on the
rest of the house.
It was Bodger who had the luck to run
into the gloomily exclusive Strabswood as
he smoked his last cigar on the verandah at
about half-past 11. The newcomer grudg-
ingly muttered, “Ah —good night!”
Bodger introduced himself and boomed
away, firing broadside after broadside of
commonplaces. When he had run out of
ammunition, Strabswood flicked the ash from
his cigar and asked languidly: “What sort
of people are .they here?”
Bodger detailed the inmates of the house,
and classified them carefully.
Strabswood heard him out to the end, and.
then made an inane but non-committal re-
mark He said “Ali-h!” A period of
silence followed.
At last Strabswood took his vacant gaze
off the distant lights of the city and reluc-
tantly presented Bodger with a confidence.
“I don’t mind telling you that my affairs
are passing through a sort of crisis. One of
these days I’ll get you to give me some ad-
vice, if you will be so good.”
“Delighted, sir!” boomed Bodger. “De-
lighted, I’m sure!” He meant it.
Strabswood looked at his watch. “By
Jove! I didn’t know it was so late. I must
be toddling. Well, good-night, Mr.”
“Bodger, sir.”
“Ah—thanks. Good-night, Mr. Bodger.”
“Good -night, sir.”
Bodger was so vain about Strabswood’s
confidence that he bragged about it to every-
body. By next morning, the official descrip-
tion of the Strabswoods ran thus: “Some
English people called Strabswood. A Most
Superior couple. He says his affairs are'
passing through a sort of a crisis. Mr. Bod-
ger is going to advise him about them.”
Before a fortnight had passed, Mrs.
Strabswood, in order to be a trifle less lonely
than Robinson Crusoe, selected Miss Gum-
mer to be her friend and confidant. She it
was who inspected Mrs. Strabswood’s clothes
and jewellery, heard her love confessions and
family history, and, in due course, communi-
cated it all to the rest of the household. The
household gasped as one woman when it
heard that her alliance with Strabswood had
only been entered into to please his father,
who had told her with tears in his eyes that
he feared for his son’s reason if she per-
sisted in refusing him. Her heart was really
the property of an Italian admiral, who, at
that very moment, was venting his rage and
disappointment on the unfortunate Arabs
and Turks outside Tripoli, and destroying
the decayed Turkish navy for all he was
worth. From that day all the womenfolk
skimmed through the war cables to see if the
admiral’s name was mentioned.
A day came when Strabswood cornered
Bodger in the garden, and again intimated,
pinching his moustache meanwhile, that his
affairs were passing through a sort of crisis.
Bodger preened himself importantly. “Is
there anything I can do, sir?” he inquired.
“Well, really, if you’re not otherwise en-
gaged, I should like you to meet me at the
Post Office about two o’clock to-day. Could
you manage it?”
“Certainly, my dear sir—certainly!”
Strabswood nodded gloomily. “Ah —thanks
awfully.” Then he added in a preoccupied
way: “It’s about some investments I want
to get your advice.”
“Delighted to help you, Strabswood, my
boy!”
Strabswood flinched slightly. “Er—
thanks. But you won’t mention it to any-
one in the house, will you?”
“Not a word, sir!”
“You know how people talk, Bodger?”
“They do, my boy—they do!”
“Very well, then. We’ll say two at the
G.P.0.?”
“I’ll be there!”
And he was —with his vast whiskers flut-
tering bravely in the fresh southerly and
his knobby stick tightly clutched in his right
hand. He looked immensely stern and im-
portant, for he had keyed himself up to in-
terview financial captains and show them
that he would not stand any humbug. When
at last Strabswood hove in sight, he bore
down on him like a battleship. “Well, my
boy, and what do we do first?” was his
greeting.
Strabswood, who appeared to be nervous
and shaken about something, stopped in his
tracks and glumly pinched his moustache.
“Let us go and have a drink,” he said.
They thereupon repaired to a near-by
pub, and had one drink each in dead silence.
It was very impressive. When the empty
glasses were replaced on the counter, Strabs-
wood ventured : “Now I think we might step
over to the G.P.O. I want to see if there is
any mail for me.” Bodger solemnly con-
curred, and they stepped across. Strabs-
wood, with a muttered, “Wait a minute!”
ran up the steps and disappeared in the
crowd. Later, he returned gloomily.
(Continued on next page.)


rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Tortured by Wind Round the Heart—Skin Became
Sallow—Awful Complications Made Life a Burden.
Bile Beans are Invaluable in Mature Age
FOR all complications arising from
stomach and liver trouble, Bile
Beans are a sure and effective
remedy. Mr. H. Bannister, of Potts
Street, East Brisbane, Q., says:—
“Severe attacks of dyspepsia and acute bilious
bouts, followed by terrible pains in the head,
made my life a misery. My whole system would
be shaken and strained by fits of retching-. Bile
accumulated until it overflowed and caused me
much unpleasantness. My skin assumed an un-
natural yellow tint, and I always felt drowsy,
especially so after meals. Wind around the
heart, and pains in the chest and shoulders, all
added to my suffering, and, while these bouts
were on, my condition was very bad. After try-
ing a number of medicines, from which no good
resulted, I was persuaded to commence a course
of Bile Beans. I did so, and soon noticed that
the headaches and pains quickly disappeared.
After each dose I felt a corresponding benefit,
until, after a thorough course of Bile Beans, I
was once more enjoying perfect health, and I
have never been troubled with sickness since.
Although I have led a very strenuous life, now,
at 62 years of age, I feel in splendid condition.
/ ;
K 1
■Ju',
6*.
TO
•i/ty
'fit.
jjfr
BANNISTER, completely
ctued by Bile Beans.
“My wife, when at all out of sorts, takes a dose or two of Bile Beans, and
they soon put her right. She has also found them splendid for headaches.”
Every worker should always keep a box of Bile Beans near at hand. A dose or
two, on the slightest sign of any stomach trouble, will speedily put things right.
The Standard Family Medicine.
V.
n
cans
Bile Beans, being
mild in action, are
especially suitable
for children. All
mothers should keep
a box in the home,
for a dose or two in
time may prevent
much suffering and
expense. Bile Beans
are a fine tonic for
the jaded worker,
and the surest speci-
fic for all liver and
stomach troubles. Ob-
tainable of all chem-
ists and stores, 1/li
and 2/9 Der box.
Patrons of the PHOTO PLAY
Why not See the Best
in Moving Pictures?
PATRONISE Exhibitors who ADVERTISE and
SHOW the INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMME.
NO BETTER FILMS MADE.
Our Expert Staff of London Buyers know exactly how to satisfy and
please the -Great Australasian Public.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES are the Largest Independent Buyers
of Motion-Picture Films in the World.
Ask for and do not fail to see the following great Photo-play successes,
available to all Independent Showmen
“The Murder of a Soul” ... Pasquali
“All That Glitters is not Gold” ... ... Cosmo
“ The Rose Rouge ” or “ His Life for a Flower ”
Pasquali
“St. George and the Dragon” ... ... Milano
“ The Talisman ” Cines
“Love and Friendship” ... Nordisk
“Aviator’s Generosity” ... ... ... Nordisk
There is a brilliance about the acting, a realism and magnificence in the
setting, which conspire to lift these pictures high above the usual standard.
Direction: J. D. WILLIAMS. Management: W. H. BELL.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES
controlled 'fjyg Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
CAPITAL, £200,000.
PRINCIPAL OFFICES:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
And throughout Australasia.
“Strange!” he soliloquised. “I can’t make
it out!”
“What’s the matter, my boy?”
“Matter! Why, there’s no mail for me!”
“Were you expecting a letter?”
Strabswood looked at the _ world with a
frozen eye. “Rather! Dash it all, this puts
me in a devil of a hole! I was expecting
some advice, you know!” He looked help-
lessly at the crowds of indifferent strangers
hurrying past.
“Now, if there’s anything / can do, say
the word, my boy!” It cut Bodger to the
heart to see a man want for advice when he
was panting to give it away.
“Let’s walk up the street,” said Strabs-
wood, almost brightly. They started off side
by side. Bodger waited for the confidence
he felt was coming.
“You know, Bodger, my affairs are pass-
ing through a sort of crisis!”
“Yes, my boy : so you’ve told me before.”
“I thought I'd get you to help me, Bod-
ger. I felt pretty sure you would help me
if I asked you !”
“Of course ! So I will, my boy ! What is
it?”
Then Strabswood caught him by the arm
and looked imploringly into his eyes. “Look
here, Bodger—lend me ten pounds like a good
chap! Lend me ten pounds until next
week!”
If Bodger had been given time, he might
have had the strength to refuse. As it was,
he stammered: “Eh? Ten pounds, eh?
Why, certainly, my boy ! Certainly !” With
the hungry eyes of Strabswood watching
his every movement, he groped in his pocket
for his savings-bank book, and led the way
towards the head office of that institution
close by. He had exactly £lO 14s. 7d. to
his credit, so the loan woiud practically addle
his cherished nest-egg. On receiving the two
five-pound notes, he furtively passed them to
the borrower and stowed away the sad
official record of the transaction.
“Now, what about those investments?”
boomed Bodger, as they descended the steps.
“Eh?”
“Those investments of yours—the ones
you wanted me to advise you about?”
“Oh, yes, of course ! I don’t think we’ll
tackle them to-day, Bodger—that is, if you
don’t mind. It’s too much of a fag, don’t
you think? Besides, just before I met you,
I heard that my broker is away. Let it go
till next week.”
Bodger grasped his beard and looked
keenly at Strabswood. His financial cares
seemed to have dropped from him. The rash
lender started to brood.
“Let’s go and have a drink,” suggested
the borrower.
“No, thanks! I don’t care for another
drink so soon.”
Strabswood whistled softly through his
teeth. “Which way are you going, Bod-
ger?”
Bodger looked him up and down. Which
way was he going! Had the fellow forgotten
he had brought him into town especially?
“Where are you?” he retorted.
Strabswood looked faintly surprised at the
query. “Me? Oh, I want to run up and
see a chaii at the club. That’s a bit out of
your way, isn’t it?”
Bodger, bursting with rage, managed to
intimate that he had a pressing engagement
elsewhere. Almost immediately he was alone
on the kerb, and Strabswood was far up the
street walking briskly.
An almost weeping Bodger got home about
a quarter to six, and was taken aside by
Mrs. Tribbens. “Mr. Bodger, do you hap-
pen to know anything about Mr. and Mrs.
Strabswood? I’d be so thankful if you could
tell me anything about them?”
“I hope it’s nothing about money, ma’am?”
The landlady sighed. “Well, it was about
money, Mr. Bodeer; but he promised me this
morning he’d let me have the amount owing
by this evening, and he’s been as good as his
word, for she brought it home with her from
town only half an hour ago. Two five-pound
notes she gave me, and I’ve got to give her
£2 change. So that’s all right!”
Bodger grasped his beard firmly.
“But there’s something else, Mr. Bodger,”
continued the old lady in a whisper. “I
heard to-day that he beats her!”
“Beats her, ma’am!”
“Yes, Mr. Bodger. I don’t know what to
do about it.”
“But I do, ma’am! I do! You leave it
to me, ma’am! If he starts that sort of
blackguardism here, I’ll give him a flogging
he won’t forget!” And Bodger stamped on
up to his room leaving a grateful but appre-
hensive landlady behind him.
Tea time came round as usual. The
boarders flowed down to the big dining-room
and took their places. The Strabswoods
made their usual state entry, and com-
menced the usual performance. All was
well —until the undercurrent of conversa-
tion was interrupted by the sound of a chair
violently pushed back, and these startling
words spoken in a deep contralto voice: “You
liar! You either borrowed it or pawned the
bracelet again !”
The boarders swung round to discover
Mrs. Strabswood on her feet looking scorn-
fully down at her husband. Her complexion
was slightly lopsided, and she appeared to
be laboring under some strong emotion. The
offspring were proceeding voraciously with
their meal.
Stx-abswood, horribly white and calm,
spoke hoarsely: “Go to your room! You
are not yourself! Go—to —your —room!”
“You are a liar,” repeated her voice in a
loud, deliberate tone.
Beads of perspiration broke out on Strabs-
wood’s high, white forehead. “Did you hear
what I said, Marion? GO —TO —YOUR —-
ROOM !”
“Bah!” snapped his wife, and flounced
towards the door. Suddenly she changed
her mind, and swept back at her enraged
husband. “If you borrowed it from that
awful old man, I’ll go Home by the next
boat! Do you hear? Home by the next
boat! I would rather that you stole than
borrow from the lower classes!” She flung
out of the room and slammed the door.
Strabswood sat and tore at his moustache.
Then he leaped out of his chair and went
forth with a crash.
The room rose as he vanished with an
impressive trampling. It was as if an or-
chestra had struck up “God Save the King.”
Something almost as doleful and infinitely
more terrifying smote the air about lOsec.
later. It was an alarming medley of hoarse
shouts, shrill screams, and dull, heavy
thump®.
“Oh, he’s beating her!” sobbed Miss
Gummer. “Save her! Quickly !”
“Save her!” wailed the women.
Lempson struggled out of his chair and
made towards the door. So did Ferguson
and Moses. But the impetuous Bodger led
the charge upstairs. Arrived there, he
dashed at the locked door and pounded on it
with his fists and feet. “Stop it!” he
roared. “Stop it, you coward, and come out
and be flogged !”
The row ceased immediately.
“He’s stunned her!” breathed Lempson
nervously.
“Open the door!” bellowed Bodger.
The door flew open. The Strabswoods —-
haughtily silent and flushed with righteous
indignation—stood on the threshold. “What
the devil do you all want?” snapped Strabs-
wood at last, when the amazed group had
finished looking them up and down. "What
do you mean by shouting and pounding on
my door?” The wife backed him up with an
indignant look at the dumbfounded rescuers.
“Well, God bless my soul!” began Bod-
ger. Lempson and the other boarders
started to edge downstairs again.
“Never mind about that! What do you
mean by kicking up this fuss?”
“Who is that old man?” demanded Mrs.
Strabswood. “How dare he come shouting
at the door?”
This speech rallied Bodger. “Now, ma’am,
look here ! We heard”
“What impertinence! How dare you ad-
dress me!”
“Hold hard, ma’am! When people start
to scream and shout”
Strabswood almost yelled. “One moment!
What people were screaming and shout-
ing?”
“Why—why, damme, you were beating
your wife !”
Strabswood looked him coldly in the eye.
“You are mistaken!” he said.
“Utterly mistaken!” chattered the wife.
“Why you must have been mad to think
such a thing!”
Bodger looked round for moral support,
found himself deserted, and lost his temper
altogether. “Look you !” he bellowed in
Strabswood’s face. “I don’t know what sort
of humbug this is, but I’ll have you both
pitched out of this house, and I’ll get that
ten pounds you borrowed to-day if I have to
flog you to gaol for it! Do you understand
that?”
“No!” howled Strabswood. “But I know
that you are an insolent and interfering old
liar! Take that!” “That” was a wild
swing which landed somewhere in Bodger’s
whiskers and upset him. Calling in a deep,
rich voice for the police, he scrambled to his
feet, and surged towards the wife-beater
with outstretched arms, his obvious purpose
being to ward him off until help arrived.
Strabswood, who was throwing his white,
clenched fists blindly through the atmosphere,
collided with the advancing mass and was
enveloped in a close embrace. Bodger, at
the top of his voice, demanded the support of
the lawfully constituted authorities.
The women downstairs screamed, and
Strabswood tried unavailingly to free him-
self. “Let me go!” he panted, as they
waltzed heavily together. “Let me go, or
I’ll bite your ear!”
“You cannibal!” shouted Bodger. “Help!
He’s going to bite me!”
They revolved laboriously five times, and
would not break despite the frenzied efforts
of Mrs. Strabswood, whose hair and man-
ners appeared to have come down together.
“He won’t let me go—-the coward!”
shrieked Strabswood for the information of
those below. Then to Bodger he hissed
tauntingly: “Flog me now, you old bounder !
Why don’t you flog me?....D —n you! Let
me go! Fight fair, can’t you!”
“He’s going to bite me !” bellowed Bodger
almost tearfully. “Help, for God’s sake!”
They revolved again twice. Then Strabs-
wood extracted a howl of pain from his cap-
tor by stamping suddenly on his foot. Bur
although Bodger moved his feet out of tb«
way, his grip did not relax. “By God!’’
sobbed the wife-beater, “I’ll bite you if you
don’t let me go!”
“Let him go, you beast!” screamed the
Strabswood female, clawing at them with
crooked fingers.
“Get him off me, can’t you !” snorted her
lawful thrasher. “Kick the old bully’s shins
or something! Get a hatpin!”
Bodger roared again as she dived into her
room for the desired weapon. With a quick*
movement, he unwound his arms and strove
by shoving to rid himself of his opponent,
but Strabswood flung his arms round Bod-
ger’s waist, and strove to detain him for the
death-stroke. Bodger thereupon grasped the
slack of Strabswood’s pants with both
hands, and, with a tremendous effort, hoisted
him off his feet. The struggle at this stage
looked more like a burlesque of an acrobatic
act than a fight to a finish. Both combatants
were hoarsely commanding the other to let
go on pain of death.
“I could dash—your—brains—out—if
—l—wanted —to !” gasped Bodger.
“Try it!” sobbed Strabswood, and em-
braced Bodger’s legs so tightly that Bodger
almost died of suffocation and the exertion
of holding him up. “Will- —you —let —go —
my—pants ?”
Bodger, reduced to utter exhaustion, did
so suddenly, and Strabswood fell heavily on
the floor. With a cry of rage and pain, he
released his grip of Bodger’s legs and lay
flat. Bodger pitched heavily forward and
fell across him just in time to receive two
vicious thrusts in the calf of the right leg
from Mrs. Strabswood. Howling for help,
he rolled rapidly across the landing, and
slithered down a short flight of stairs on his
chest and whiskers.
“The dog!” proclaimed Mrs. Strabswood
in a high key.
Strabswood scrambled up and stood pant-
ing and glaring at his dazed adversary, who
was on his hands and knees with his back
towards him. Suddenly mustering his cour-
age, he ran down the few steps, kicked
Bodger twice, and then fled upstairs for his
life, while Bodger, flogger of scoundrels and
protector of the fair, fell downstairs for his.
The rest was uproar.
The Most Superior People left early next
morning. Mrs. Tribbens, who was the only
person to see them off, hovered about expect-
ing every minute to hear the crash and roar
of another encounter. But both fighters con-
trived to side-sten the threatened engage-
ment like champions. It is doubtful if
Mclntosh himself could have brought them
together.
Bodger never got his money back; and
the address of the Italian Admiral
who nearly married Mrs. Strabswood has
been mislaid.
KODAK.


W estinghouse
Oil Engine
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
x It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 —The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
The Only Rational Method of BOILER TREATMENT.
NOT a
Boiler
Fluid.
APEXIOR
A Great Success
in
Water Tube Boilers.
Interesting Pamphlet.
{Registered).
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
1
BEWARE THE DABBLER 1
u, -
iiiven tor the apparently simple matter of removing your furniture
you con employ the expert.
... Entrust your orders to Sanders, Sutton and Whitehead, and the work
will be completed without fuss or annoyance.
Sanders, Sutton & Whitehead Ltd.,
REMOVAL AND STORAGE EXPERTS,
Head Office: 43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Depots: Dulwich Hill, Chatswood, Mosmati, Waverley, Burwood, Kograrah, Parramatta and Manly.
’Phones: City 1290, Central 476, 2028 and 4012.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
Guaranteed 2 Years.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
ENGINE
is our 2-h.p.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and Jong terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES.
Get prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense sale,
and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
AH complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deppsit.
Long Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
K.,49 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 339 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST STORIES written
appear in The Lone Hand
Price sixpence.
in Australia
each month.
Books worth reading. The
guide to the new fiction appears in
issue of The Lone Hand.
new
each
. ! ..
OFT IN THE STILLY NIGHT
Oz
a)
C^^or-
S 3
(or
BEECHAMS PILLS
HAVE PUT ME RIGHT.
BUSINESS MEM and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. fred. McWILLIAm. Manager.
■
THE HENDRYX PATENT AGITATOR.
rtyfrtgyhrtyfrtgyhghjghjghjghj
Australian Representatives:
THE LAST WORD
in
Cyanide
Treatment
Plants.
Reduces time of treat-
ment to absolute mini-
mum.
Tests on various ores
have shown that with
this plant the same ex-
traction can be obtained
in one hour as is possi-
ble in 24 hours with
other types of plant.
Sands and Slimes may
be treated together
with excellent results.
Write us for quota-
tion and particulars.
LTD.,
163 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Local Agents:
ADELAIDE: Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE: Diamond Lubricating & Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: Dean & Coilin, 335 Queen Street.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
•Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
. Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Mines, Towns, Factories and
House Lighting.
%
Electric Generating Sets, Steam, Oil and Petrol Engines,
Petrol Gas Lighting Plants, Storage Batteries, and all
Accessories for Complete Installations.
Full particulars and estimates from
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
[2
| Fireproof Btiildings of
Fibro-Cement (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwelling's, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. Yon only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding- and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
• iron, or lath and plasier.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog" L to sole importers-
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
66
TANGYE
-
BENZINE ENGINE.
Kerosene Oil 8 Benzine Engines,
Suction Gas Plants,
Steam Engines, Pumping Plants.
DALQETY & CO. LTD., Agents,
Sydney, Melbourne Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville,
Adelaide and Fremantle.
THE
HE
MACHINES
ico.no
“Clayton &
Shuttleworth ”
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINE.
Portable Steam 8 Traction Engines
Steam Road Rollers,
Thrashers, Centrifugal Pumps.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Agents,
Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville Fremantle.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
WE carry Stocks of Modern Machine Tools, and give Estimates
for the Complete Equipment of Garage or Repair Shop.
mm
Milwaukee Universal ** Constant Speed
Drive ” Milling Machines.
Dempster Moore &. Coy.’s Latest Type
Hollow Spindle Lathes.
American Tool Works Double Back Geared
and Geared Head Lathes.
Universal Grinders.
Milling Cutters.
High Speed Twist Drills
Hangers.
Shafting.
Plummer Blocks.
Bright Bolts & Nuts
Oils, Packings,
Leather Belting,
Steel Split Pulleys.
■*-
fm
*S,‘. :. : .
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels,
Tb« “PE LAITTE”
AIR-6AS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest Illuminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S. W. Government and by the Kailway
Commissioners of N.S.W. and Victoria. Thousands
already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking- and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large
Machines supplied. Ordinary gas piping used for dis-
tributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
Street, Sydney.
YES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, DEPTH
St. George’s Terrace, ttlVill,
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
5?
BELSI
Galvanised
Corrugated
Iron.
K
3®
top
•shearing
«JSi , iS&aissr 15 *■" "•"* 85 «■»»>«— *■> »-»
The luster is the ideal machine from every standpoint. It is a
marvel of workmanship to the last detail, is practically vibrationlesf
°T smooth-running, and of great durability and unquestioned
reliability, combined with minimum cost of upkeep. questioned
Parts are standardised and interchangeable with the Wolselev
Write for Catalogue. You 11 readily convince yourself of the luster
rtyfrtgyhghjghj
I
Lii
WELL-BORING PLANTS
TRACTION and NON-TRACTION.
For Artesian Water Wells, Mineral Prospecting, Oil & Gas Wells.
NOTE. No. 5 Machine drilled 564 feet and made 4 moves in 24 hours.
DOWNIE DEEP WELL PUMPS.
Designed especially for Lifting Large Amounts of Water from Great Depth.
N. GUTHRIDGE
No. 5 for 1000 Feet.
’ \
No. 25 OIL RIG for 2500 Foot.
I T'
Sydney 8 Melbourne
