

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR S WHISKY
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
a i ing and Contractors’
Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY,
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
2r M
Sole
Agents
lor
Asquith Radial Drills.
High-class and powerful High-speed Radial Drilling Machines
for general Engineering purposes. v
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
4§6 Collins Street, Melbourne.
B.A. Agent: C. 0. OELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
TTOTt /sv
■fcJL -«&■ ■»• «
*#ri
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guauantkkd.
J. C. Ludowioi & Son, LdS
117 YORK ST/iEET, SYDNEY.
sd
" Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
fd
ď
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSENS
L-
đ
will
'/t V
be
forwarded, Post
Address, on application to
.. "*c: : .Vl.
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney
ny
d
. PRICES REDUCED!
KS about 20 Per Cent., TUBES 25 Per Cent, and over.
WRITE FOR
NEW PRICE LIST.
THE SILVERTOWN ROBBER CO., 279 George St., Sydney; Bat 33 Bolton St., Newcastle.
ADVANCES
N . W. MONT'DE
7V«f CASTLCREACH*SJ 74^YDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT csnerau manacfp
MONEY ADVANCED UPON ALL SECURITIES AT REASONABLE RATES OF INTEREST.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
t
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
MALTHOID
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
MALTHOID will resist the heaviest downpour ol
winter rains, and defy water penetration under any
and all circumstances.
It is the one roof that gives no trouble.
Once properly laid, MALTHOID endures
practically for ever.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT-COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
Call
For
WHISKY
OHM
BLACK
SQUARE
BOTTLE.
ď
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 Bent St. (op. Lands Office) Sydney, N. S. W
fats rfeu)
m
i&es
HELIDON SPA WATER
A French savant says that the great value of a mineral water l'es
in what it deports rather than in what it imports into the system*
The Bulletin
Vo). 33.— N0. 1683.]
[Thursday, May 16, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TO AUSTRALIANS^
We have just published a fine series of pictures, illustrating the dramatic incidents in the EXPLORA-
TION OF AUSTRALIA, reproduced from Paintings by J. MACFARLANE, from description supplied bv
C. R- Long, M.A.
This fine series of SIX REMBRANDT PHOTOGRAVURES are designed to foster a spirit of
patriotism and desire to know the early history of our land.
The size of each picture is 26 x 17 inches, printed on card 32 x 24 inches.
Price £1 Is. the Set, or 4s. each unframed.
Special quotations for framed Sets.
SEND FOR PROSPECTUS, GIVING FULL DESCRIPTION, TITLES, ETC.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROPTY., LTD., Booksellers, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S " EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
9 9
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC and
PROPHYLACTIC.
SUITABLE FOR OLD and YOUNG.
The Medical Press and Circular
says: “These Jujubes should be of
special service to Lecturers, Public
Singers and Speakers, and, indeed,
to all who are called upon to use
their voices frequently for prolonged
periods.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers,
9/1
wmmmmmnawmh
nosqqh
<&&
§STn
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., Lin
YORK STREET, SYDNEY. Post Free on Receipt of Stamps.
The Red Page
Democratic Sonnets
By William Michael Rossetti.
FENIANS, 1867
An Irish patriot we have called a felon:
No matter; there were always things and
names.
Let's dub a thimblerig the king of games;
Melon termed pumpkin still will taste of
melon.
An Irish felon-patriot is a man
Who loves his country splotched with alien
shames,
And dares a halter. And, if history blames
His frenzy, let us try the manlier plan
To win him back. With kindnessf Hardly
that —
Bare justice: for Oppression’s dastard heel
Stamped Ireland’s brow, and made our name
accurst.
Murder and confiscation set their seal
Of age-long outrage on her. Bell the catj
Strain not the intolerant sinews till they
burst.
POLAND , 1863.
Plague-spot of Europe, Poland! Till the
curse
Of triple-throated bandit-tyranny
Be expiated irreversibly
On those who inherit from the murderers
Of a ivhole nation’s right, and till the hearse
Be laden by a people once more free
With that oppression’s dead putridity,
And Poland’s air again to pure to nurse
Her natural chainless brood of valiant men —
Till this thing be achieved, the plague from
here
Shall not be swept. Year may succeed to
year
In treacherous quiet; then again the pest
Breaks forth to slay its myriads—one in ten
A despot’s toll, and patriot sotils the rest.
SOCIALISM, 18J t 8.
Behold the Polar lights of Socialism,
Not yet.jg,-daw nstrealc but a flickering sky.
A rapture glimmers in the credulous eye
Of darkened Labor. From the shifting prism
The green of hope plays on the murky abysm
At Fournier’s mandate: this is passing by,
When Communist heart-red flashes, or a dye
Of gold attests some new Icarian schism.
The unsuffering thousands laugh or sneer or
rage:
The suffering millions still look hard and
yearn.
Sages, sneer not. Though these things now
be dreams,
They are the dreams of some millennial age,
An age when love of man to man shall burn
A world-wide light, no more a glimpse of
gleams.
From “Democratic Sonnets”
(Alston Rivers).
Verlaine
Lepelletier was sparing of details of the
later years of Verlaine, and these are now
supplied by F. A. Cazals and G. Le Rouge
in Les derniers jours de Paul Verlaine (Mer-
cure de France, fr. 3.50). To such ardent
admirers no incident affecting the poet, alive
or dead, seems unimportant: they record how
M. Ituri ate an orange in the death chamber,
and threw the peel under the bed, how
Ca tulle Mendbs, a pall-bearer, read a news-
paper as he followed the coffin; how Coppee,
growing tired, dropped his cord and took
refuge in a cab, where he perused that
famous speech in which he arranged his
meeting with Verlaine in Heaven. This in-
sistence on detail makes the earlier part of
the book painful reading. The poet’s life
during tfiis period was pitiable; a victim to
absinthe, harried by his two middle-aged
mistresses, tortured by eight mortal diseases,
he would limp from cafe to hospital, there to
gain some relief from his intolerable pain,
some breath of his former inspiration. Les
invectives and Chair, fruit of these dolorous
years, are but poor compensation for so
much squalor and misery.
His hospitals are given a separate chap-
ter, as are his mistresses from whom they
afforded him a refuge. Of the mistresses,
one plundered him openly ; the other, Eugenie
Krantz, of whom we hear more, exploited
him skilfully while living, and multiplied
his relics after his death: by her means the
ancestral portrait from the Gainsborough
factory looks down on the last pen used by
Verlaine, in scores of American homes.
Pleasanter chapters follow On his cafe life,
his lighter hours and his friends. Among
the latter, the publisher Vanier is included
with apologies. Verlaine’s dealings with him
were peculiar. When all appeals for an ad-
vance failed, when even the allegation that
he, Paul Verlaine, was forced to dine at “La
Huche” (a twopenny horse-flesh dispensing
restaurant, to which the customer brought
his own bread), left the publisher unmoved ;
Verlaine would seize a few copies of his own
works from a pile near the door, and with
a majestic look at him would hobble off to
the nearest second-hand bookseller.
Cazals supplies many portraits, and there
are a few sketches by the poet, and facsimiles
of his letters and verses. An appendix con-
tains Vield-Griffin’s reply to Rene Doumic
and Cd.
V.V.V.
Delightful par, from a, French paper, evi-
dently going the rounds of the French press,
calling attention to the “Red Page’s” demand
for a sonnet in Australian :' —
LA LAWGUE AUSTRALIENNE.
Le Sidney Bulletin offre un prix de 1.250 francs
pour le meilleur sonnet Ccrit en australir*, un genre
d’Anglais qui n’est compris qu’en Australie. II existe
d’ailleurs un dictionnaire anglo-australien du pro-
fesseur Morris.
La nouvelle langue est compose d’anglais pur,
d’argot et d’aborigene, quelque chose dans le genre
du “pidgin,” l’-anglais que l’on parle en Extreme-
Orient et qui est A la langue-mfire ce que le “sabir”
est au francais.
The Convicts and a Woman
Marcus Clarke has not said the last word
about the convicts. William Hay, author of a
novel of worth, Herridge of Reality Swamp,
paints for us, in Captain Quadring (Unwin),
another picture, not so realistic, but relieved
by lighter touches, and, in his lesser manner,
almost equally convincing. The story is a
complicated one, its theme the hate of two
dour English brothers, engendered by their
mutual jealousy over an English girl, and
given free play in the rough life of our con-
vict days. Captain Quadring, the quarry
master of the convicts, is the name of a mys-
terious man, whose identity the reader
guesses too soon for the author’s purpose.
The character drawing is satisfactory where
the author has to deal with the crudeness of
the scoundrels in authority over the convicts
at The Last Post; but the analysis of the
two brothers and that of the herojne is
scarcely subtle, though painstakingly done.
There is action in plenty—mutinies of the
convicts, murders, adventures, heroisms ; and
the book ends in a fusillade of musketry. It
it, however, in his descriptions that William
Hay excels.
Up in the Quadring Gallery, leaning
against a great boulder well outward from
the cliff-side and its horde of dust-swathed
workers, stood Meadstone, the new quarry-
master. He stood alone on the edge of the
narrow gallery as one might stand sole actor
upon a stage, while the amphitheatre of hills
about _ and above him was massed, tier
on tier, with a grim audience of cav-
ernous-faced men in black and yellow, with
the chains of their ankles triced to their
waists with string; and hats of blackened
straw.... Cold, ruthless, swift, bitter and
sad to the soul, utterly unfeeling, terribly
wide-awake, dreadfully self-contained, the
black blot of him, with its folded arms and
mask-like face, had a look more foreign, more
antagonistic to the landscape and the morn-
ing, than the rude clutter of dust and con-
victs on the rock-fade above it. It was as if
the spiritless and black-browed flurry of the
chained prisoners had more of kindness in it,
more of natural warmth, than the Satanic
self-sufficing and icy readiness of the master.
All a little too highly pitched, a trifle too
shrill. That is Hay’s chief sin. But he has
for excuse the almost forgotten age he is
dealing with. But in his lighter moods,
especially in his treatment of old Eagle-
hawk, the convict who was the undertaker
for the quarries, and who threatened the
old overseer “that he’d nail a 'rat in his
coffin with him,” Hay writes more convinc-
ingly. His picture, for instance, of what it
meant to these convicts, dreadfully isolated
from life, when they caught sight on the
road beneath of that almost forgotten thing,
a woman, is touched with a nice humor.
Eaglehawk is digging a grave while a fel-
low convict discusses woman: —
“Never buried a female, I take it?” I said
laughing.
“No,” he said, gruffing into his pick. “I’ve
never buried a female. I’ve forgotten how
they look—long hair, haven’t they?”
“Yes,” I answered, “long hair done up in
plaits mostly—and kittenish, curious ways.
You never know where you are with them.”
“Soft-looking, aren’t they?” he asked, in a
queer, hoarse voice. “Kind of comforting?”
“I don’t know,” I answered. “Not this
kind, I don’t think.”
Looking ashamed, he straightened himself
very slowly and peeped over the side.
“I heard Taylor say the other day,” he
said very excited, “that we was all right up
here if only because we was free of them
women.”
“He’s had some bother with them —curse
him.”
“Bother with them?”
“Ah, some bad woman or other —they’re a
wild lot.”
“If I was in his place, I’d take one—l
wouldn’t care—l’d take one and tame it.”
“Ah, they’re not so easy tamed.”
“I wouldn’t long as I got one.
They talk a lot, I think. Well, she could
talk—l wouldn’t mind. She could swear at
me —I wouldn’t mind. It would be company
to hear her squeak away. I’d make a pet
of her.”....
“If ever I have the luck to bury one,” said
Eaglehawk, ‘Til be gentle with her. I’ll put
gumleaves over her pore face, and a bit of a
flower in her little hand. And the earth’ll
come in around her so gentle, she won’t
know there’s anything to be sorry for.”
Of a sudden Eaglehawk’s hand went to his
eyes, and he began laughing and crying to
himself.
“Christ!” he whispered out, pointing
downward with a shaking finger, “there’s
one! God. alive! There’s one! Look at
that! If it ain’t a little gal down there —
talking with Taylor!”
I looked down. , I couldn’t believe my
eyes. There, down on the flat road, stood a
woman in a poke bonnet and grey cloak. I
could tell she was a woman by the hair she
had: sheaves of it hanging about her tired
face. She stood there on our grim road,
lonely and spirited. It seemed a desecration
—me looking at her. I tell you—l had to
rest my eyes.
“Listen to her — listen to her,” whispered
Eaglehawk, from his grave. “She’s talking
away. Ah — the pretty little words— and you
do that every day—you do— without a
thought, ye spendthrift. Ah— tinkle —tinkle
—I hear ye. I’m nothing— but I hear ye.”
As if to heat better, he dropped his ear
level with the ground with a lost listening
smile upon his face.
Bergson [?] t Time Flies
Every now and again some individual arises
to tell us Why We Are, and What We Are,
and How We Know Why We Are, and How
We Are What We Know, and What We
Would Be If We Weren’t, and What, Pre-
cisely, Areness Is, also Wereness, and Why
We Aren’t What We Mightn’t Have Been
If We Weren’t, and other simple and en-
trancing facts. Such an individual is called
a philosopher ; and the new words he in-
vents to explain what can’t be explained get
into dictionaries and worry us, and his philo-
sophy gets diluted into text-books and worries
undergraduates. And just at this stage an-
other individual arises, or leaps, or explodes,
and demolishes his predecessor’s conclusions
and invents more words to explain the verb
“to be.” And he is also called a philosopher,
and the world goes on doing things, and
leaves him in some dusty university drearily
explaining the Awful and Perplexingly In-
explicable Whyness of the What, or vice
versa.
&
The latest of these blokes is Henri Berg-
son, Professor at the College of France, and
the author of Time and Freewill, Matter and
Memory and Creative Evolution —which
seem a considerable and varied swag for any
one sundowner on the road of existence to
carry. Also, he is the author of that clever
analysis of Laughter recently reviewed on
this page. But, according to H. Wildon
Carr, the author of an admirable exposition
of Bergson’s philosophy in Henri Bergson:
The Philosophy of Change, in the useful
series of “The People’s Books” (Jack, sold
out here for the wonderful price of Bd.),
Bergson’s philosophy is v not a system. It
doesn’t explain the universe, because, accord-
ing to Bergson, there is no universe to ex-
plain. The universe is not complete and
final —a mechanism to be understood if only
we had the intelligence to understand it —
but a possibility of the future. “The uni-
verse is itself becoming.”
It seems as if a great movement were in
progress, sweeping us along in its course.
To exist is to be alive, to be. borne along in
the living stream, as it were on the breast
of a wave. The actual present now in which
all existence is gathered up is this movement
accomplishing itself. The past is gathered
into it, exists in it, is carried along in it, as
it presses forward into the future, which is
continually and without intermission becom-
ing actual. This reality is life. The solid
things which seem to abide and endure, which
seem to resist this flowing, which seem more
real than the flowing, are periods, cuts
across the flowing, views that our mind takes
of the living reality, of which it is a part,
in which it lives and moves.
Thus the movement is more real than the
thing that moves; for life itself is nothing
but movement and change. Life is a flowing,
a change that is a continuous undivided
movement. A thing that lives is a thing that
endures, not by remaining the same, but by
changing unceasingly. So Bergson asserts
that time is the only real thing, the stuff of
which things are made. But this revolution-
ary conclusion cannot be reached by the
human intellect, for the human intellect is
not built for that purpose. The intellect is
an organ that, like the eye, limits the
amount of light it admits, and thus sex-ves
our purposes.
The intellect is cinematographical. Each
view represents a fixed position, and when
the views are arranged side by side on the
film, and passed across the screen in rapid
succession, they present to us a moving pic-
ture. The views as they lie before us on the
ribbon, as we look at them in passing from
one to the next, do not give us this picture;
to have the picture we must restore the move-
ment. The fixed things that seem to us to
lie side by side of one another at every
moment in space are views that the intellect
takes. .... These views are the physical ob-
jects that science deals with, and the
method of science' is cinematographical;
change for it is nothing but the succession of
fixed states. But a movement is indivisible,
a change is indivisible; the divisions that we
make in it, the immobilities that seem to
compose it, are not divisions, but views of it.
Nothing is immobile. Immobility is purely
an appearance.
J*
What then is space? What is matter —
actual things like bricks, Bibles, hydro-
gen and kerosene tins ? What is this
dead matter, and how does it come
to exist? “Reality is a flowing.”. This
does not mean that everything moves,
changes and becomes; science and com-
mon experience tells us that. It means
that movement, change, becoming is every-
thing that there is, there is nothing else.
There are no things that move and change
and become; everything is movement, is
change, is becoming. Inert matter filling
space, space that underlies matter as a pure
immobility, do not exist. Movement exists,
immobility does not. Time is the stuff out
of which matter is • formed. Inert matter,
immobility, is purely an appearance. It is
moving, but at a different rate to our move-
ment. We are merely overtaking a slower
train: to us it appears to be standing still or
going backwards.
It appears, then, that the person in
the universe is Father Time; and an im-
portant fact, unnoticed by Bergson, comes to
light. Since time is continually flowing, con-
tinually becoming, it must be evident that
“the time is not yet ripe.” And it won’t
ever be ripe!
Philosophy should be taken in small doses.
This is the first dose of Bergson. The second
is prescribed for next week.
A Book of Horrors
Nothing so painful, so sincere, so con-
vincing, and so damnatory of the conditions
it exposes, could be conceived oi as matter
for a writer as the novel of Reginald
Wright Kauffman, entitled Daughters of
Ishmael (Swift). Kauffman is one of the
few American novelists who rank on a level
approaching that of the best English authors;
his subject is the so-called “white slave traf-
fic” ; and his treatment of so horrible a phase
of modern de-civilisation is artistic and com-
mendably devoid of sensationalism or the
pandering to evil tastes. John Masefield, a
name of weight in English literature, states
in a preface that the conditions herein se-
lected and described constitute the frame-
work of “only an average case.” He rightly
commends Kauffman for keeping to the facts
and avoiding romance and sentiment —temp-
tations that for a mere muck-raking journal-
ist would have been hard to resist. And he in-
sists that this story is not necessarily Ameri-
can. With a few changes—so wide-spread
and, indeed, so inevitable is the evil —he as-
serts that the book would apply to pretty
nearly every big city in the world —certainly
to London. The novel will not have failed
if it has succeeded in making clear the eco-
nomic facts that prostitution is a trade, and
that the employee is not so much making a
living for herself as earning a dividend or
making a living for some man or woman in
the background. Masefield states that the
story of the girl in Daughters of Ishmael is
far from being impossible in England; and
he supplements Kauffman’s exposures by
parallels in that country. “Things of this
sort, like all things harshly affecting human
life, ought to be known Perhaps after
the publication of Mr. Kauffman’s book, with
our better knowledge, our sympathies will be
more wise and the solutions we propound
more human.”
The story is merely that of one young girl
who is caught in the mechanism of this dread-
ful system, and, after making several vain
efforts to escape from her conditions, is
driven back, and ever downwards, to her
degraded and pitiable end. No; not end;
for Kauffman is too fine a craftsman to salve
the reader’s conscience by the blessed relief
of death. “You see, the life’s got you, Vio-
let,” the brothel-keeper, surveying the human
ruin before her, callously says, turning her
from the door; “you’re all in.” So she is
left on the street, certain of death, but, so
low has she fallen, sure of no greater de-
gradation on her brief way.
And the story is not merely an indictment
of this one phase of civilisation: it is a con-
demnation of a whole series of interlocked
conditions depending on this dreadful traffic
in human souls. The picture of those under-
worlds, some too dreadful for Kauff-
man to state explicitly, covered by
the shadows of the skyscrapers of New
York, is an indictment of the whole of Ameri-
can civilisation. The poverty of the worker,
the poor wages paid in shops, in domestic
service, in factories, and the unceasing temp-
tation, almost organised, So ever-present it
is, create the conditions that this book so
impersonally exposes. So ruthless is the
pressure of this fate on the young girl that
the story has something of the inevitability
of a Greek play. And as Kauffman states:
“Throughout this narrative there is no inci-
dent that is not a daily commonplace in the
life of the underworld of every large city.
If proof were needed, the newspapers have,
during the last twelvemonth, proved as much.
I have Written only what I have myself
seen and myself heard, and I set it down for
none but those who may profit by it.”
Th« full report of the special grand jury
appointed to investigate the “white slave
traffic” in New York, January, 1910—a plain
statement of the material that Kauffman has
made such good use of—as appended. A
novel for the adult —the right kind of adult.
4
From ,T. H. Maiden comes Part 14 of his
Critical Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus,
with four plates.
The latest R.P.A, sixpenny reprint is Ray
Lankester’s Kingdom of Man, a revised edi-
tion with 56 illustrations. Over two million
copies of the reprints in this useful series
have been sold.
That excellent adventure story, The
Recipe for Rubber, by Ralph Stock, appears
in the N.S.W. Bookstall shilling series, with
the Norman Lindsay illustrations, and a
typical N.L. picture cover.


nee
ASHION and ECONOMY Combine in
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
OF
No. 110 F —Velvet Hat, lined Silk,
trimmed Velvet and Galon, 15/6.
No. 926F — Black Musquash
Hat, 12/11.
Postage Must be Added to
the Prices Quoted.
/3F
No. 73F— Velvet Hat, trimmed
Velvet fold, Button and Quills,
12/6.
No. 928F —Black Musquash
Hat, 15/0.
No. 97F— Silk Hat, Velvet Crown,
lined Velvet, Velvet Buckle, 12/G.
No. 1325 — Very Smart
Tailor-made Skirt
of light-weight Tweed
Suiting, Grey, with faint
Saxe, Fawn or Green
stripe, 19/6.
i h
V, R
L29Q
No. RB— Black Cashmere Princess Costume,
trimmed Applique and Black Merveilleux Silk 45/-
Or any other color to measure 49/6
No. 1290— Coat and Skirt of Stylish Diagonal Tweed,
semi-fitting Panel Back, large self revers, plain Panel
Skirt, in Amethyst, Brown, Lark Green, Navy 29/6
Similar style, No. 1289, in light Grey Tweed Cheviot,
unlined Coat, 42/- Also in Navy Coating Serge No.
4118, revers slashed Black & Emerald Silk Braid 42/-
Patrons who are unable
to personally Inspect the
Magnificent Display of the
Season’s Fatest Creations
shown In the Green Room
at the New Palace Em-
porium, should consult our
Winter -Fashion Book.
Write for a copy of this
interesting publication,
posted free on request.
It faithfully illustrates
the prevailing modes, and
is an authoritative guide
to all that is new In the
World of Dress.
Fairvocu
Low
Pricey
mMimm
mM
■■••• »/,
NS
Imm
w
■1
r.'-;i
i
ImWmlmm
M!
i
.w
mm
»IjrSsi
SIM*
1 -
1748
1732
IST
T 547 S
542
No. 1732—Smart Tweed Coat, i-length, loose back, storm Collar in
Dark Grey, Green, Fawn and Brown .. • • " •• Sk)l
Similar style, but with Empire panel back, same shades.. •• _
N0 HA 5422-Navy' Cloth Coat, Hength, panel back, Revers and^Cuffs,
27/6
39/6
25/-
trimmed
21/-
21/-
trimmed with Silk Braid ..
Or in fine Face Cloth, D.B. Velvet Collar
No HA S478 —Navy Cloth Coat, |-length, semi-fitting back,
Moire and Silk Braid .. • •
No HA 748—Striped Tweed Coat,' Hengtti, Sac'back 'or semi-fitting
Storm Collar, in Mid Grey, Reseda and Bronze Green •• 22/b
Also, Heather-mixed Tweed, with semi-fitting Back, 27/6, and Z™"
plain Collar • • • • • • • * • ’' ' ’ ‘ ’ n-t /
HAT *
No. 478/882F—Silk Hat, lined
Velvet, trimmed Satin Ribbon, 18/6.
923
No. 929— Black Musquash Hat,
25/9.
Consult our Illustrated
Price Lists for anything
you want. Send for copies,
posted free; they place the
immense resources of the
New Palace Emporium at
the command of everyone
in Australia. Be Wise!
Pop your orders in the
post and reap the full
benefit of ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ FAMOUS
LOW PRICES, acknow-
ledged to be the Lowest in
the Land.
507
No. 507— A1l Wool
Panama Skirt, Black
or Navy Panel Back,
trimmed small Panel at
side, 16/6.
11102
El4B
Hi 02 — Coat and Skirt Costume, of striped
Heather mixed Tw-ed, shaped Panel hack, side
pieces on hips, unlined. Well-cut Skirt, with Shaped
Ponel to match. Grev. Grppn, Brown.. 32/0
El4B—Coat and Skirt Costume, of useful
mixed Tweed, fancy strappings on seams, semi-
fitting, Velvet Collar to match, well-cut Panel
Skirt. Dark Greens, Brown, Greys and Heather
mixtures . . • • - • • • • • 25/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace
Bricßneld Hill


THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital.. £1 600 000
Reserve Fund (£500,000 is invested in 24 per cent. Consols, the remain-
der being used in the business of the bank).. .. .. .. .. 1,910 000
Reserve Liability of the Proprietors under the Charter . . .. . . 1,600^000
SEVENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT of ,the DIRECTORS of the BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
With the Accounts for the Half-year to 16th October, 1911.
Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, held on Thursday, 28th March, 1912.
REPORT.
; . The Directors submit to the proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 16th October last, with the Profit
: Account for the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and
colonial rates and Taxes, for all bad and doubtful debts, and for a 10 per cent, bonus to the staff, the
net profit for the half-year amounted to £205,888 7s. lOd.
To this sum must be added £16,185 6s. lOd. brought forward from the previous half-year, making
a total of £222,073. 14s. Bd., out of which the Directors have declared a dividend for the half-year at
the rate of 14 per cent, per annum, or £2 16s. per share, and a bonus at the rate of 3 per cent, per
annum, or 12s. per share, together £3 Bs. per share, free of income tax.
..the^ dividend and bonus will absorb £136,000, and the directors have further appropriated £50,000
*?®- Rese r e F « nd and £20,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises. There will then remain
£16,0/3 14s. Sd. to be carried forward to the next account.
The dividend and. bonus will be payable, in London and in the colonies, on the 29th inst.
The directors retiring by rotation are the Rt. Hon. Lord Aldenham, Charles Gipps Hamilton, Esq.,
a™ Arthur Whitworth, Esq., who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The auditors, Messrs. Welton, Jones and ,Co., also offer themselves for re-election.
Since the date of the last report new branches have been opened at Rotorua, Taumarunui, and Wai-
pukurau, in New Zealand. O G. HAMILTON, Chairman.
4 Threadpeedle Street, London, 18th March, 1912.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from APRIL 10, 1911, to OCTOBER 16, 1911.
Undivided profit, April 10, 1911
Less dividend and bonus, October 6, 1911
Profit for the half-year to October 16,. 1911, 'after deducting rebate
on bills current at balance date ( £7,212 ss. 10d.), and
making provision fQ); all bad and doubtful debts, and for a
10 per cent, bonus to the staff..
Less:
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial—- '
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, in-
cluding the • superintendent’s department and
202 branches and agencies . . . . £106,146 11 2
General 'expenses, including rent, repairs, sta-
tionery, travelling, etc... .. .. 22,233 10 4
London —-
Salaries. . . . . . .. . . . . 9.874 9 9
General expenses .. .. .. .. 1 2,970 12 0
11. Rates and Taxes —
Colonial, £15.524 19s. lid.
6s. Bd.
London, £16,252
£141,225 3
31,777 6
. . £144,185
. 128.000
£378,890 17 8
6 10
0 0
£16,185 6 10
173,002 910 205,888 710
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which, deduct —
For transfer to Reserve Fund
For reduction in cost of bank premises..
Leaving available for dividend
£50,000
..20,000
. £222,073 14 8
0
0 70,000 0 0
. . £152,073 14 8
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 16, 1911.
nr. LIABILITIES.
Circulation. . .... . . £227,860 0 0
Deposits 17,414,474 1 8
Bills payable and other liabilities 6 9
£20,395,974 8 5
Capital . . . . £1,600,000 0 0
Deserve Eund . . £1,910,000 0 0
Profit account, un-
divided balance 152,073 14 8 3,662,073 14 8
£24.058.048 3 1
ASSETS. Cr.
Specie, bullion, Government notes,
and cash balances ..£5,178,149 19 6
Loans at call and at short notice. . 1,072.000 0 0
British Government securities . . 1,068',400 1 1
India and Colonial Governments se-
curities and other investments. . 761,127 12 4
Bills receivable, advances on securi-
ties, and other assets . . . . 15,892,890 18 9
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London .. .. 85,479 11 5
£24.058.048 3 1
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the
transfers from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that in
our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits 1 a true and
p°rice C or'under. b 6 state of tlie bank s ilffairs as-shown by the books. The investments are valued at market
London, 13th March, 1912.
WELTON, JONES, and CO:, Auditors.
The Colonial Bank of Australasia, Limited.
THE THIRTY-EIGHTH REPORT
OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
To be Presented to the Shareholders at the Thirty-eighth Ordinary General Meeting, to be Held at the
Bank, 126 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, at Noon on Tuesday, 30th April, 1912.
R. E P O R. X.
The Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their Thirty-eighth Report, with a Balance-sheet and
Statement of Profit and Loss for the Half-year ended 31st March, 1912, duly audited.
After providing for Expenses of Management, Interest Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills Current,
lax on Note Circulation, Income Tax, Land Taxes, and making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
the Net Profit amounted to £28,863 8 8
Brought forward from 30th September, 1911 1,220 19 0
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz.:—
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Preference • Shares
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares
To Reserve Fund (making it £180,000)
To Officers’ Provident Fund
Balance carried forward
£30,084 7 8
.. £10,641 10 9
4,733 5 6
. . 10,000 0 0
1,000 0 0
3,709 11 5
£30,084 7 8
The Dividend will be Payable at the Head Office on and after the Ist May, and at the Branches on
receipt of advice.
The Thirty-eighth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Head Office of the
Company, 126 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, on Tuesday, the 30th day of April, 1912, at noon.
By Order of the Board.
Melbourne, 16th April, 1912. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET of THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
For the Half-year Ending 31st March, 1912. (Including London Office to 29th February, 1912.)
Dr.
To Capital Paid-up, viz:— £ s. d.
31,184 preference
shares, paid in
cash to £9/15/-
per share ..£304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary
shares, paid in
cash to £l/15/-
per share . . lO 0
£439,280 10 0
To Reserve Fund.. 180,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss 20,084 7 8
039,364 17 8
To notes in. circulation .. .. 27,758 0 0
To bills in circulation .. .. 415,896 16 3
To balances due to other banks .. 633 10 11
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing inter-
est, £80,375/16/5;
bearing interest,
£444,674/0/6 ..£525,049 16 11
To Other Deposits, Rebate and
Interest Accrued —
Not bearing inter-
est, £1,641,005
2/5 ; bearing in-
terest, £1,991,619
3/8 .. .. 3,632,624 6 1
! 4,157,674 3 0
£5,241,327 7 10
To contingent lia-
‘ bilities, as p6r
contra .. £218,809 13 6
Cr.
By coin, bullion
Australian notes,
and cash at
bankers, £ 752,927
5/10; by money
at call and short
notice in London,
£ 175,000 . . £927,927
By British Consols,
£70,668/15/2 at
£77 per cent.,
£54,414/18/9 ; by
Victoria Govern-
ment stock, Metro-
politan Board of
Works and muni-
cipal debentures,
£80,351/4/3 ..
By bills and remit-
tances in transitu
and in London
By notes and bills
of other banks
By balances due
from other banks
By stamps
134,706 3 0
752,547 4 0
3,208 0 0
19,705 17 9
1,518 5 4
By Real Estate, consisting of 7
Bank premises
Other real estate
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provis r on
for bad or doubtful debts
£1,839,732 15 11
201,767 15 1
8,847 10 0
By liabilities of cus-
tomers and others
in respect of con-
tingent liabilities,
as per contra . . £218,809 13
3,190,979 6 10
£5,241,327 7 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (including sala-
ries, rents, repairs, stationery, &c.)
To note, income and land taxes ..
To transfer to Reserve Fund
To balance . .
£35,629 1 8
2,273 1 2
10,000 0 0
20,084 7 8
£67,986 10 6
£1,220 19 0
By balance brought forward
By gross profits for the half-year,
after allowing for interest accrued
on deposits, rebate on bills cur-
rent, and making provision for
bad and doubtful debts .. .. 66,765 11 6
£67,986 10 6
RESERVE FUND' ACCOUNT.
To balance .. .. .. .. £lBO,OOO 0 0
£lBO,OOO 0 0
By balance brought forward
By transfer from profit and loss
..£170,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
£lBO,OOO 0 0
FIFTY-THIRD REPORT OF
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the Fifty-third Report, Witha Statement
of the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank, and the Auditors’ Report.
The Net Profits, for the Half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills, Interest
on Deposits, Land Tax, providing for Contingencies, payment of all
charges, and reducing valuation of Bank Furniture and Fittings,
amounted to .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £15,969 2 0
To which is to be added the amount carried forward from last half-year .. 593 14 10
Giving an available,balance of..
Which the Directors recommend should be distributed as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on all
Shares
„ Interest on Capital prepaid (at the rate of the dividend) - ..
~ Income Tax . . . . .. . . .. . t
~ Contingency Account ...
~ Balance carried forward
£16,562 16 10
13,034 19 10,
386 3 2
734 15 0
1,500 0 0
906 18 10
£16,562 16 10
During the half-year a branch has been opened at Yarraman. By Order of the Board,
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
Aggregate Balance Sheet of the Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited, 31st Mardh, 1912.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
-69,999 £9 Or-
Bills ■ Payable . .
Deposits and other Liabilities
£631,369 16 10
16,195 2 5
1,500,845 17 4
£2,148,410 16 7
ASSETS.
Coin on hand and
Cash at Bankers £385,156
Bullion
. Australian Notes. .
Queensland Gov-
ernment Treasury
Notes
Government Stock
32,010 13
81,971 0
902
76,977
Bank Premises, Furniture, etc. . .
Bills discounted, and all other debts
due to the Bank .. ~
£577,017 2 6
74,296 0 10
1,497,097 13 3
,v
£2,148,410 16 7
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, 31st March, 1912.
cr.
To Salaries, Rent, and
other Expenses at
Head Office and
27 Branches . . £13,835 0 5
„ Interest paid and
accrued on Fixed
Deposits, Rebate
and Exchange Paid 21,599 15 7
£35,434 16 0
~ Balance .. .. • • ■ • 16,562 16 10
£51,997 12 10
By Balance brought forward .. £593 14 10
„ Gross Profit for the half-year .. 51,403 18 0
£51,997 12 10
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance .. .. .. • • £76,500 0 0
£76,500 0 0
By Balance invested in Government
Stock .. .. .. ..£76,500 0 0
£76,500 0 0
Audited and found correct.
Brisbane, 9th April, 1912.
GEO. FRED SCOTT, B.A. (London)
C. A. CLARKE, A.S.A.A. (Eng.) F.C.P.A.
P. L. CARDEW, Chairman.
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
Auditors.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE. HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
The Inky Way.
Black and White, the stodgv old Fog-town weekly
which for so long featured pictures of “His Majestv
the King laying the foundation-stone of the new
Home for Gentlewomen in Impecunious Circum-
f, tan “ s and “Shooting Party at Slaughter House,
the Marquis of Blighter’s country seat,*’ has given
up the ghost after a long and painfully respectable
career. Clement Shorter, founder of the Sphere and
latler, has suppressed the paper with the whisky
fabel name. He says politely that it has been “ab-
sorbed by the Sphere; but, as he further announces
that none of the features of Black and White are
to be continued; the absorption would appear to be
plain obliteration. A member of the staff of the
defunct paper, in tbe course of a monody published
in a paper that is still alive, commends Black and
White for having clung “in its pathetic, gentleman-
!' ke - characteristic way, to tone and respectability
It has stuck,” he says, “in the face of the cult of
the semi-nude, to its old principles. It has turned
its face sternly against ‘the blatant chorus girl and
her imitative sister, who’ finds it a little dull to sit,
ully dressed, in Burke, t It has declined to truckle
to the. prurient-minded, by publishing photographs
taken m Paris of Les Poses Plastiques, of La Belle
rhis and La Belle T’other. And so, to the very
great sorrow of a small body of admirers, it passes
away.
* * » *
“Kobbi”: The country newspaper finds it a tough
proposition to keep good with the local advertiser,
who will withdraw his ad. on the slightest provoca-
tion, or fancied provocation. The difficulty is mainly
got oyer by leaving out the leading article to make
room fqr pars, such as: “The friends of Mr. Han-
nibal Csesay, who are legion', will be delighted to
hear that his son,”, etc., and so on. But the
weirdest attempt to placate advertisers was that
made one time by, the Mount Morgan Chronicle, in
a column by “The Bloke on the Prowl.” It was the
printed doings of an imaginary bloke, who “did” the
round of those pubs which advertised in the paper.
Of course, each proprietor was “Our genial host,”
“The Mount’s foremost citizen,” “Our pro-
gressive townsman,” or some such fluff. Having
bought a pewter of beer, the bloke proceeded to
“chuck it orf his chest,” as he called it, while an
imaginary pal listened, "sipped his beer, and occasion-
ally , remarked, ■ ..Nark it now,” or “Watcher givin’
us?” Sometimes he recited some terrific doggerel on
a local topic, and got in a sly dig at those who
didn’t buy. the-paper. Then he went on to the next
pub, stopping in ’route-to put in a good word for any
shops that advertised in a big way.
i; “Hullo” :,1 rush to make my entry for the prize com-
petition for The Bulletin’s most illegible and
dvclonic contribiifors. I .can produce sworn evidence
that my hand-writing. is' the most horrible ever in-
vented, with- Chinese, Egyptian hieroglyphics, weather
charts, butchers' bills and gas meter readings thrown
in. But my name has not yet been mentioned in the
list, for the easy reason that the editor has never seen
my fist. I doubt if he has ever deciphered my real
signature; but so far he has managed to make out
the address he sends his weekly Is. 4d. to. This talk
about the importance of hand-writing reminds me of
the editor of the Babylonian Babbler, to which an
ancestor of mine used to contribute every week three
barrow-loads of baked bricks —he was fond of baking
letters to the editor, and used to sign himself
“Mother of Nineteen.” The editor used to complain
that my ancestor's bricks were so badly baked that
the only use he found for them was as missiles for
importunate Babylonian autumn poets. Hand-writ-
ing is as out of date and mouldy and moss-grown as
cuneiform inscriptions. I use a typewriter, and
though its spelling is weak, nobody can complain
about its legibility. Handwriting is one of the dead
languages. lam not going to allow my son to
learn to write. I have presented him with a type-
writer and a rubber stamp for his signature on
cheques. Already—he is just two—he plays quite
nicely on the machine, but he nersists in using both
his fists. Yet, even with that handicap, some of his
compositions look quite as nice as a poem by “Belle-
rive,” or a wireless message.
“Leo Lear”: Re early Melbourne newspapers (B.
18/4/’l2). I was rooting out some old family papers,
and recently unearthed a well-preserved, though yel-
low-tinted and spotted publication, headed: —
THE-
MELBOURNE ADVERTISER,
Port Phillip, Australia.
Written for, and Published by, Jno. P. Fawkner.
Monday, January the Bth, iB3B. Melbourne.
No. 2. Price sixpence. Vol. I.
Which heading, in bold handwriting, takes up one-
third of the front page, the remaining space being
occupied by advertisements of J. P. Fawkner and one
W. F. A. Rucker, who also has a full column in the
centre sheet of the publication, and appears to have
been, a person of considerable cwt. to the sq. mile in
the '3o’s. In “Poet’s Corner,” an unsigned contri-
butor—evidently some connection of “Bellerive” or
Kipling, beefs out: —
Oh ! what a pure and sacred thing
Is beauty curtained from the sight
Of the gross world ! Illumining
One only Mansion with her light.
Unseen by man’s disturbing eye
The flower that blooms beneath the sea
Too deep for sunbeams, does not lie
Hid in more chaste obscurity.
The news matter is on the back page, and consists
chiefly of a long, closely-written account of the
murder of Constable Tompkins by a convict named
Cummerford, at a place vaguely described as “be-
tween Port Phillip and Portland Bay.” Tompkins,
who had arrested the convict, apparently put down
his gun in order to light a fire. Result, a shot in
the back, a dead John Hop and an escaped outlaw,
called a “brutal wretch”, by the Advertiser editor.
One more item from the columns of this interesting
relic, in order that I may for once extinguish the
lights of that venerable pub recorder, the “Oldest In-
habitant” :
FIRST ESTABLISHED HOTEL.
In Melbourne Fawkner’s Hotel supplies to the Travel-
ler and Sojourner all the usual requisites of a Board-
ing, House and Hotel of the very best quality, being
mostly laid in from the first Mercantile House in
Cornwall, V.D. Land, in addition to which there
will be found mental recreation of a High order.
There are provided 7 English and 6 Colonial Weekly
Newspapers, Seven British Monthly Magazines, Three
Quarterly British Reviews up to July and August,
1837. A very choice selection of Books, including
Novels, Poetry, Theology, History, Philosophy, Chem-
istry, etc. N.B. —A late encyclopedia. The use of
any of these works will be free to the Lodgers of the
above Hotel.
But even with this varied assortment to wash down
the beer, all Melbourne does not . appear to have
patronised the hotel in a fair way, as this notice also
appears:—
LIBRARY—FAWKNER’S.
Those of the subscribers to the above who took
credit when they favored this Establishment with
their Support, are most respectfully informed . that
it is usual to pay up all Arrears at the beginning of a
New Year.
8 Jan., ’3B. J. p. FAWKNER.
SAIREY GETS ANXIOUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The internal troubles of the party have now been
fully and satisfactorily settled, and it is time that
a forward movement should be made. —Granny Argus,
on Victorian State Liberal party.
We’ve dragged that party’s bones by force
From out its ' coffin'd rest;
An’ me (an’ Betsy Age, o’ course)
We’ve had It washed an’ dressed.
We ve straightened out Its backbone bowed,
We've oiled It with Intrigue:
We’ve draped It in a lovely shroud
IVot’s called the Winimin’s League.
Me’ve decked It out with ribbon’d phrase
From Mister Deakin’s talk ;
But—though we’ve prodded It for days,
The dratted thing won’t walk !
W’y don’t It live? W’y don’t It wake?
IV’y don't It up an’ pipe?
Ho, stir It up, for grashus’ sake—
The Time is more than Ripe!
VICTORIA.
SAIREY EV’RYMORNIN’.


CASTRATION
Our Emasculator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE'S PERFECT EMASCUIATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years. TO USE.
451-
Post Free Anywhere ,
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
sdf
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
d
• y-, * ~»■
PILLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purifying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, l/li and 2/9 per box.
J
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
•I The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the,.,....
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
»• CRACKAJACK Senior "
ď
Built to Beat,the Band
(J The Reeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are Tunsd to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouthy Organs
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds ... 1/-
Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/-
Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents
- ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
đ
Each “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend—
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT CSI SON, 137-9 King' Street, Sydney
k. MOWN >
Get yonr Money’s
Worth.
When you buy a £5
Watch you make sure
that it bears the name
of a responsible maker.
Why, then, are you
not just as particular
when you pay only 6/6?
You need not throw
your money away.
There is more quality
and durability in a
Guaranteed
6/6 Watch
In comparison with its price, than in any other watch in the World. It
stands alone as the CHEAP WATCH OF QUALITY.
CROWN 6/6, ECLIPSE 8/6, JUNIOR 10/6. MIDGET 10/6.
But remember! there’s no two ways about it —Ingersoll must be on
the dial of the watch you buy, if you want to GET YOUR MONEY S
WORTH.
The Jewelled Trenton Watch offers the same security and saving to the buyer in
high-grade watches that the Ingersoll does in the low-priced class. Prices from 30/-
upwards. If you have any difficulty in obtaining an Ingersoll or Trenton Watch, write
us for name of nearest dealer.
Robt. H. Ingersoll & Bro. f 73 L York Street, Sydneye
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics Is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L*o*U‘l‘S
H
n
c
m
w
2
!»0
1
H
I
The Aged and Infirm'
an Aged Person gets a Cold, it is of the utmost
importance that not only is the Best Remedy
taken at once, but that the Remedy is one which does
not cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution
The Quickest, Safest and Best Remedy for
Aged Ladies and Gentlemen —one that can be absolutely
depended upon —is
Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure
The Finest Remedy
in the World
For COUGHS & COLDS


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made!
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. 14i
■^ or Short R.F., ‘22 Long R.F., and *22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2§lb.
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STRVBNS RIFLES—PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [4
JAY
f/a
&
t
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in. all weights and sizes for mem, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETT<* cro., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
THE RUSSIAN ROYAL FAMILY
BENEFIT FROM
SANACINE
NATURES LUNG HEALER
A Court Official writes: “Sanacine was introduced to the Russian
Imperial Family, and they have found great benefit from using it*’"
COLDS
Miss M. A. Birch writes:
** Since taking Sanacine
I am quite free from
COlds in the head and
violent attacks of sneez-
ing. When I feel a cold
coming a dose of Sanacine
relieves me at once.” —
Permarin, St. Mawes,
Falmouth, Eng.
d
COUGHS
Nurse F. M. Harding
writes : “ Sanacine is the
best medicine I ever used
in my life for a COtlflb
or cold ; the moment ]
feel a cold shiver I take
a dose.” Isolation Hos-
pital, Lydiavd Millicent %
Swindon, Eng.
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of thq Tissues that occurs in violent colds;
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. A few doses
taken in the early stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
SANAC
An Invaluable Remedy for
INE
ASTHMA
COLDS
COUGHS
INFLUENZA
CATARRH
HUSKINESS
BRONCHITIS
HOARSENESS
CONGESTION
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
And all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Great Britain: Liquid and Tablets, 1/1% and 219. Sold by all Chemists and Stores in Australia
PROPRIETORS : ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
MOTOR BICYCLE
ď
has won unqualified praise from practical riders
for its all-round efficiency and reliability. Its
other chief features are: —
SILENCE, EASY RUNNING,
EXTREME FLEXIBILITY,
PICKS UP QUICKLY,
POWERFUL ON HILLS,
AND
ABSENCE OF HANDLEBAR
VIBRATION.
The B.S.A. Motor Bicycle is made throughout
at the famous B.S.A. factories in England of
the finest materials, and EVERY PART IS
GUARANTEED INTERCHANGEABLE.
Every buyer of a B.S.A. Motor Cycle is certain
of obtaining a uniform machine, thoroughly
reliable, and made to give hard service under
all conditions. Write for free copy of the
B.S.A. Motor Cycle Catalogue, and address of
nearest agent.
D. Y. RENNIE
<Representing The B.S.A. Co.),
4 AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®, A'ons
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
đ
rojgj
t
CZS
Oltf
Is the most perfect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
The Reverend
John Hosking, D.D.
Minister of the Congregational
Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
says there is no Medicine
to equal
CLEMENTS
TONIC
Here is his letter written from The Manse,
JOl Gore Street, Fitzroy, J/3,J2: —
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
I was completely run down, and suffered by nervous prostration,
being troubled with Insomnia and Severe Headaches.
I had tried various medicines and spent much money with doctors,
but all to no purpose.
One bottle put me right, and was worth its weight in gold. I re-
commend this medicine very strongly. You may use this as you think
(Signed) JOHN HOSIvIYG.
(Congregational Minister, Fitzroy, Melbourne).
'"The medicine that saves and lengthens life, brings back health long despaired of, restores
vigor and mental energv, and suffering men and women recover and enjoy life, surely this is
medicine for the people who are sickly, weak-nerved undermined, "/t
long illness or fever. They should send for it without delay. ALL CHEMISTS AM) STORES
SELL IT THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. GET IT AND GET WELL.
d
ď


đ
Makes
The
Hair
Grow
We are talking about Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. Just note that word
“Ayer’s.” You are perfectly
safe with it. No harm to you or
to your hair. Makes the hair
grow ? It certainly does. Stops
falling hair, too. Remember, it's
“Ayer’s” we are talking about.
Ask your doctor about your hair
and about Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Get his approval. Your own
doctor and “Ayer’s” make a
strong combination. It means
faith, confidence, satisfaction.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mas*., U. 8# A«
M
HTS
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write ua for Invkntors’ Guiof,. Khta hi.ish kp '«7
d
MVIMOniW
CREAM
(In Black
and White)
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kind* of
Glace Kid Boot* & Shoe*-
LUTETIAN
CREAM
(made in light
and
dark coloun)
for all kind* of BROWN
Leather Boot* & Shoe*.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by the Manufacturer* of the cele-
brated " Meltonia.n” Boot Polishes.
E. BROWN & SON, LTD..
LONDON. ENGLAND.
for
There’s Sauce
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity,' adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
As k your S tor cheep ~r for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1586.
cures
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its hi story—the hook is free or write
S- GREEN. 210. Lambeth Koad. London, Eng.
THE Australian Magazine—THE
HAND. The National Monthly. .Price, 6tl.
60NNING TON’S WILL ANSWER YES
&
HOSS
IRISL
•*-?***»
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “BonningTon’s’ of 4° years fame.
BONNINGTON’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations —just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
5K
HCTO^»
NCOS
IRISH
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard— secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, .creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured m a few days
with this treatment P Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. A-, MARKET^TREET^_SYDNEY<_N-^W^
1403. )
*r
FLAT-CHESTED WOMEN!
Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as Natural de-
velopment was concerned, but science has found a way to cor-
rect your dehciency. Even though you have never been full-
bosomed, and although you have been attenuated all your
life if you suffer from no wasting disease your bosom can be
fully developed and your weight increased to normal.
It is the refreshing firmness and delightful fulness of the
feminine form that captivates, and the woman who Is most
perfectly developed is the one who monopolises the endear-
ments of the opposite sex. . _ __ ,
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect, flesh-builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five, pounds a week. Send, 2d.
stamp for a free trial sample and free book.
CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (reaf Equitable Life Buildittg).
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD
VARICOSE
VEINS
FREE BOOK.
Let Us Cure You.
IF YOU have learned to look upon your Varicose Vein
Affliction as incurable, you will have al tcr y°uf point of
view. A few years ago, but temporary relief, and then only
bv recourse to the surgeon’s knife, was all a suffere?. from
this complaint oould expect. Now the knife is obsolete.
THE VECSEY METHOD OF TREATMENT
offers not only permanent relief, but an absolute cure- —even
in the very worst cases —without operations and without
laying up. Essentially a home treatment. Hundreds endorse
it. *
We want you to learn all about our method. Send 2d. stamp
for free book, giving full particulars. Written diagnosis' or
Consultation FREE. Call if convenient.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
1411.
STOP
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. _ To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.
Mr Frank Ford (Blacltall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
. hut after taking your treatment for V, days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 CestlereaghSt., Sydney.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale ia the World.
a
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd.,.Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANK : Webster & Co.,,Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
gold to date.
ARE
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but <ino
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, aifd we will
Bead you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with palling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. -The price
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st.,, Melbourne, Vic.
ď
For
Health,
and
Beauty
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
Cant
How is it ev’ry ancient wreck,
Before he settles under,
Must fall about your friendly n'eck
And tell you, while you wonder:
“I wuz not alwuz what I were,
The prey of passions frisky;
I wunce wuz young and fresh and fair,
And never tasted whisky” ;
And, as you puzzle vainly why
On you his woes he’s dinning,
You’ll hear him lie,
“I wuz” (a sigh)
“More sinned against than sinning!”
And little Floss, who flutters long
About the city’s highways,
Who lives a life of saucy song,
By pref’rence, in the byways —
When wrinkles on her powdered brow
1 Put down a foot intrusive,
And silver threads among the gold
Haul down the flag delusive;
When everything conspires to tell
The maid who once was winning,
“Your day is past!”
She’ll sob at last,
“More sinned against than sinning!"
You meet a man whose god is Self,
Whose past is not the cleanest,
Whose ways of piling pelf on pelf
Would shame the very meanest;
With panting breath and piping voice
He’ll gloss his record over—
“ What wrongs I’ve done were not from
choice,
Nor have I lived in clover;
I battled on, with many a slip,
From such a small beginning:,
And, if I fell, t L ,
I was —ah, well,
More sinned against than sinning.”
If only one could meet a Man
Who’d say, in fashion hearty,
My life has been throughout its span
A Variegated Party ;
My evil with my good I’ve blent
While travelling on. my circuit,
And if the record’s blot-besprent
I don’t intend to shirk it.”'
Such utterance sure were manlier far
Than all this spider-spinning;
If one would say,
“I’ve had my day—-
Both sinned against and sinning!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
“Criminal.”
The single door of Hell is wide,
Who will may enter in ;
The red-hot lid can safely hide
The sinner and his sin.
No devil with a flaming sword
Stands there to block the way;
The path is guarded by a word
That any fool can say.
No exit do the laws permit,
He cannot ’scape the flame
Whom once the Court’s decisions fit
With that unholy name ;
“Convicted criminal,” they write,
And till the world is grey
He wears that stigma day and night
That any fool can say.
The law’s large net at random draws
Mixed .fish with Meshes stout,
And men are mostly damned because
Their fellows find them out;
Good, bad and half-and-half, they win
The prize that law-men pay,
Marked with the branded word of sin
That any fool oan say.
No 'toil of hand and heart and brain
May e’er for wrong atone,
By no steep path may they attain
The fame that was their own ; \
The lucky sinners down the road \ .
Of primrose run all day, \
And prick the luckless with the gpad
Of words a fool can say.
The flight of years, the winds of hope,
Mark not the place they fell,
But never up the fiery slope
They climb from out their hell;
Nor hotter than a flaming sword
Waved wide to block the way,
Is that eternal scorching word
That any fool can say.
And any fool, and every clown
For shame of idle sport
Has right to keep the striver down,
And speak his ill report;
“Convicted criminal,” they shout —
Dull clods and loutish play—
Spreading the meanest word about
That even they can say.
N.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
The Benefactor.
The working man with callous hands,
And figure bent to constant toil,
We fear but seldom understands, t
Else would he still refuse to broil
With Capital, to whom he owes
All that he is, and has, and knows.
What is it builds the church and school?
What makes the kiln that bakes the bread?
What is it turns the noble tool
By which the worker’s hand is sped?
’Tis Capital, in every sense,
The laborer’s true Providence!
’Tis Capital that spreads his roof,
And digs his grave, too, at the end.
Yet mark the worker stand aloof,
And frown upon his noblest friend!
This shameless, graceless attribute
He holds in common with the brute.
The lamb the gentle wolf has ta’en,
Is with such disputation packed;
He, too, will sullenly complain
Of wolf’s extortions, when in fact
Good wolf but takes a living slim—
Just what the fool-lamb owes to him.
VICTORIA.
S.S.


đ
KING ST. - NEWTOWN
OF NEWTOWN
ki c v
CASH STORES LTD.
Four Specials from our Blanket Section.
SPECIAL No. *l.—Australian Super White Blanket, regular guinea quality, beautifully finished,
large double-bed size, weighing 71b., for 19/11
SPECIAL No. 2. —Australian All-Wool Blanket, extra large size; the best grey Blanket manufac-
tured for the price, weight 7}lb 16/11
SPECIAL No. 3.—-Heavy English Whitney Blanket, an exceptional good quality, weighing 741 b.,
for the double-bed size, only 15/11
SPECIAL No. 4.—An extra heavy part wool, part cotton, Brown-grev English-made Blanket, double-
bed size, weighing 71b., for ' 10/6
Two Splendid Offerings from our Shoe Department.
’ SHOE. —-For dress and walking wear, is made of fine patent colt-skin, with tops of
dull velvet, calf inlaid. This Shoe has a flexible, sewed extending sole and a comfortable
Cuban Heel. The giant, fast-colored eyelets, and the wide silk laces add much to the general
attractiveness. This Shoe is modelled on a new toe-shape, this season’s style. A grand fitter ;
sizes 2 to 7. Price ' 14/9
BLACK STORM KING DERBY BOOTS. Made of the finest
selected Box Calf, and will stand the strongest and roughest
of wear, and yet the appearance is fit for a walking- or
dress-wear Boot; with occasional applications of Lucca or
Neatsfoot Oil they will remain soft and will wear indefini-
tely. Sizes, 5 to 10. Price 12/6
ORES
<
y
S
the
-3
CO
a
m
<
o.
Of UB
'V
?VDNt^
Our Motto —
WHAT OTHERS ADVERTISE,
WE SELL FOR LESS.
Please Write for
“ Our Household
Friend.”
IT IS FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
d
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable In tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. extra. Postage Gd. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ď
METAL
FILAMENT
LAMPS
dx
ď
Welsbach
Electric
Lamps
Should be used
By one and
All
Consumers of electricity, they
Halve your current bill.
Write for Price Lists.
đ
Carbon Lamps Stocked.
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.
WELSBACH HOUSE.
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, View
102-4 Vitoria Street, Wellington.
Brisb^*' e » Adelaide and Perth Agencies.
Ladies’ Reliable Watches
At the LOWEST PRICES in Australia-
Our Ladies’
Wato h e 8 are
famous all over
the Common-
wealth for their
ACCURATE
TIME-KEEP I NC
QUALITIES.
&
co
We give a
written guaran-
tee with every
Watch we sell,
and will refund
money In any
case of dis-
satisfaction.
£2/15/-
sdf
SOLID GOLD EXPANDING BANGLE,
latest design, vritfci High-grade Lever
Watch attached. Perfect Timekeeper,
Warranted for 10 years. / _
Others, £5/10K JBS/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Otrr Big Catalogue
illustrates other
Watches at Money
Saving Prices.
Send your Name
and Address for
a Free Copy.
dfsdf
25/-
LADY’S SOLID GOLD /'TKETLESS HORI-
ZONTAL WATCH, engraved! and chased cases.
A good timekeeper. AVanranted for 10, years,
nnd kept in order free* lon two years,
5.2'15 -
With lever , mavement, £4/10/-
LADY’S SOLID SILVER KEYLESS HORI-
ZONTAL WATCH, strong cases, handsomely
chased and engraved ; Jewelled movement,
25/-
Warranted, for 10 years, and kept in order
free two years. A splendid Watch for the
money. _
JOE DAVIS, uc.
The Money Saving Jewellers,
26 Park Street, SYDNEY,
One Door from Pitt Street.
The Unvarying: Charm of
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
* •. i
has won the steadfast adherence of the Con-
noisseur. They are absolutely uniform in
flavor, dJefeaey and subtle attractiveness.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN and VIRGINIAN.
Many grades—neatly and cleanly packed,
Your Tobacconist stocks them.
d
Dalgety & Co. Ltd.,
Wholesale Agents
for Australia.
'
m
ď
CONCENTRATED on. the production of the AUSTIN are some of the
master mands of motor manufacture. Designed and executed under
such control this car could not fail to be what it is the ADMIR
ABLE AUSTIN, By its luxurious comfort —it is a most perfectly sprung
car; by its refinement and symmetry —it is finely proportioned; by i*<* speed,
safety and mechctnical excellence —it is a model of reliability, the AUSTIN
claims and holds the warm support of motorists. Powerful, flexible, and of
wonderful accelc{ration; handsomely finished, completely equipped, and
extremely easy of control. The three-quarter elliptic back spring has a
special principle of attachment, which ELIMINATES SIDE-SWAY, the
most uncomfortable feature of less carefully-constructed cars. I ull range
of models—-Touring, Phaeton and Runabout—ready for immediate delivery.
10, 15, 18124 H.p.
/Fullest informatwn on request. Any demonstration arranged.
ALSO .
DAIMLERj
delaunay-belleville,
HALLEY MOTOR LORRIES.
>; < j.
•GETY & CO. LTD.
Motor Garage s
13* >-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33.—N0. 1683.
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 1912.
Prick fin.
THE NARROW PATH OF THE BORROWING PREMIER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George-street North, . Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. . . . . 0 13 6
Quarterly . . . . . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin," is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, ancl. not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, (1 000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or. Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin xvill return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account Of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at i/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
SfiUTH Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
Nexus Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co,,r Vancouver%,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., IM>, Hastings. Street, ,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A.- — Panama-Pacific Nexus Co,, Market • Street:
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A. ; Childs
Nexus Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal. ; ,“V
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Store's, Port
Said.
Hong Kong.— -Brewer and Co., Redder. Street,/long
Kong.
Ceylon. — lV. G. Punchiappuhamy,
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates , size
tig in. x 11/in., xvill be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies Tiie Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British Nexv Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, 50,?., Id.; and BLoz. to
10oz., Zkd.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, -joz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
ffiuT&ivHeZzm,.
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 1912.
FEDERAL AND STATE FINANCE.
Tiie usual monthly revenue returns were
published a few days ago, and it was noted
with jby and effervescence and even swelled
head that the boom still continues. That
is to say, the revenues still clamber upward,
and if that is a sure sign of prosperity then
all is well. Still there are people who have
doubts. Looking back now it is quite easy
to see that the last great boom was rotten
at the foundations, and tottery about the
base, in 1890 or even earlier, yet the public
revenues kept growing till almost the hour
before the great collapse. In like manner,
certain banks showed the largest profits and
the best re«“wes. iust before thev, closed their
doors in 1893. Later investigation showed
the worm of depreciation bad been eat-
ing at the root of things for years, but no
one had kept an eye on the worm, and the
fruit on the top branches looked good to the
last- There is a sort o f Ind : ar> summer in
public finance, just as there is in the year,
and in the existence of what is sometimes
called a “well-preserved” woman. It is the
gotten period in late autumn, when the sea-
sons seem to stand still, and though nothing
grows younger vet nothing seems to grow
a day older. The best times may be gone
though there is no definite evidence to that
effect; but tb° worst times seem ind' 3 fir>''t‘ j ly
postponed. Then the slump comes, and the
winter arrives, and the w T ell-preserved woman
hurries out at short notice to buy a set of
false teeth and a peck of sham hair.
* * * *
Australia is a country that is loaded with
foreign debt of one kind and another. In
order to pay interest on its public and pri-
vate borrowings, rents to absentee landlords,
and interest to absentee money-lords—these
people who, in the words of the Tory press,
sent capital here to “develop the great nat-
ural resources of the country”—it has to ex-
port each year, in goods or gold, at least
£14,500,000 worth over and above its im-
ports. If it does more than that it is prob-
ably reducing its foreign liabilities, and mak-
ing its position stronger. If it does less it
is laying up trouble. Of late it has been
laying up trouble very fast. In the first
place, the tariff was wholly insufficient to
keep down the influx of cheap labor imports
even before the recent upheaval in Austra-
lian wages, rents and prices, and it
grows less efficient daily, as these
things go up without any correspond-
ing increase of duties. The bulk of the
Federal Labor party shirks the question by
professing indifference. It has, so it says,
sunk the fiscal issue, which is strangely sug-
gestive of the case of a small man who tried
to drown a large octopus by sitting on its
head in deep water. The Federal Minister
of Customs, being an avowed Protectionist,
cant preach the fiscal-sinking doctrine or the
gospel of trying to drown the octopus in deep
water, but. being over-ruled by his fiscal-
sinking colleagues, he adopts a line of his
own. As a New Protectionist he is pre-
pared to increase the tariff as soon as there
is a legal guarantee that the increased duties
will be accompanied by enhanced wages. It
would be a logical position if wages and
duties were alike stationary, but, as it hap-
pens, wages, rents and the like are going up,
while duties are not. So more and more
foreign goods climb over the slender barrier,
and more and more Australian money goes
out to pay for them, and the local cash
supply begins to shorten, and signs of conse-
quent slump increase, and the fiscal issue
refuses to sink. The party which preaches
the doctrine of tariff atheism might just as
well propose to sink the Great Pyramid in
the Cotter River at Yassberra.
* * * *
Some recent records are worth considering
in this connection :
Australian Trade Apart from Gold.
Surplus (to pay
interest on
Imports. Exports. foreign debt).
U>lo .. £58,682,401 £69.855,873 £11,173,472
1911 .. 64,869,243 67,423,395 2,554,152
Ist quarter Shortage.
1912 .. 19,952,645 16,819,442 3,133,103
Or at the rale per annum of
79,810,180 67,277,768 12,532,412
The habit of revelling in imported luxury
grows on Australia. For the first quarter
of the present year the country lias been
buying foreign goods at the rate of over
£79,800,000 per annum, to the great glory
and profit of the low-wage-paying importer,
the foreign sweater, and the cheap yellow
or brown or black alien. That is to say,
while the value of its crops grew less,
and the output of its mines grew
less, its feeble tariff allowed its pur-
chases, and consequently its liabilities, to
increase on a gigantic scale. It is a very
moderate estimate that £14,500,000 a year
has to go abroad merely to pay interest on
public and private foreign liabilities. Prob-
ably the amount has been much more of late,
for the absentee, in these recent days of
boom, has been obtaining extra high rents
and extra large dividends. But assuming
that £14,500,000 is the figure, then in 1910
this country required to send away
£8,326,528 in gold to square its accounts.
In 1911 it required to send away £11,945,848
in . gold. And for the first quarter of this
Aear it required to send awn-" £6,758,103 in
gold, which is at the rate of £27,032,412 an-
nually. Against the known drain of gold for
1910 and 1911, and the certain drain —unless
the importing craze is checked —for 1912, let
there be set the gold yields of the country
for the two past years, and the estimated
yield, based on such returns as are avail-
able, for 1912:
Gold Export Added to
to Square Gold Stock of
Accounts. Yield. Gold.
1910 .. £3,326,528 £11,623,849 £8.297,321
c Taken from
Stock of Gold
1911 .. 11,945,848 10,626,800 1,319,048
1912 .. 27,032,412 9,600,000 17,432,412
The actual gold exports were not exactly on
this basis, for the Australian banks had
heaps of coiq and securities in London when
the trouble began, and a great deal of those
were used up before the visible shovelling of
gold out of this country commenced on a
gigantic scale. But it is on a gigantic scale
now —it is on such a scale that unless things
mend, or are mended, this Commonwealth
will be stricken by panic inside a year, and
by bankruptcy inside two v ea rs.
* - * '* •
No sensible person anticipates bank-
ruptcy, but there are better and worse ways
of avoiding it. Plainly the great mass of
imports must be reduced, and this can be
done in two ways. One device is to shut
down on a great part of them by a heavy
increase of the tariff —such an increase as
will more tlign counterbalance the recent rise
in wages—and thus encourage the com-
munity _ to make things for itself at good
wages, instead of importing cheap labor pro-
ducts and being, in proportion to popula-
tion, the world’s greatest patron of the
sweater, the grinder, the trust and the col-
ored alien. The other method is to let the
imports die down amid general depression,
through sheer want of money to pay for
them, without creating additional local in-
dustries to take their places. The first idea
represents the art of making things, which
is the German or American way. The second
stands for the art of doing without things,
which is the Hottentot or aboriginal way.
The case is not one which industrial laws,
denunciations of trusts, anti-trust legisla-
tion. general cursing of monopolies and mon-
opolists, or all the stump or other oratory on
earth can do anything to mend. A great deal
may be done by a fiscal-sinking party to pro-
mote the better distribution of wealth." But if.
as in the time of the last great slump, most of
the portable wealth has.been pawned to pav
for riotous importations, and the fixed wealth
has consequently depreciated in value almost
out of sight, then devices for the better
distribution of riches have very little value.
The first essential is to have available riches
to distribute.
* * * #
There is no lack of signs which ought to
wake the infatuated fiscal-sinkers to a sense
of the situation. It is already well known
that the wheat harvest is about 23,000.000
bushels less than it was a year previously. The
dismal suggestion of drought—the inevitable,
periodical Australian drought—is in the air,
and next harvest is likely to be worse than
the one just finished. The price of wool
isn’t exactly what it was. The slump in the
gold yield is inevitable. The gold output of
Australia reached its top in 1903 with
£16,294,684, and it has been wearing down
ever since. There was exactly 47 years
between the top of the first great gold boom
in 1856, and the top of the second one in
1903. Unless great haste is made to open
up the mineral regions of the Northern Ter-
ritory by a transcontinental railway, and
another Golden Mile happens to be brought
to light up there, it may easily be 47 years
before the great auriferous glory comes
back. It may even be 470 years, or it may
be a great deal longer. The agriculturist and
the miner are working just as hard as ever,
but the returns are not the same. Coin is
becoming scarcer in Australia, all through
the struggle to pay for absurd masses of im-
ported goods. Higher interest is being
charged because of the scarcity. Far-sighted
people are beginning, as a consequence, to
rush with less fury into new ventures, and
are employing less labor. A few banks,
recognising that they may presently want
money very badly, try to avoid making new
advances on any account. The Fisher Gov-
ernment’s notes are coming back to be cashed
at the Treasury in fairly large quantities.
In one way and another, the past few months
have been full of symptoms.
The N.S.W. State Government has
selected this particular time for a loan boom
of absolutely heroic proportions. This finan-
cial year it is evidently going to get through
more than £5,000,000 of borrowed money.
Next year a loan expenditure of £6,000,000
is talked of. These spasms and sudden out-
breaks produce curious results. A public
works policy absorbing, say, £2,000,000 a
year out of revenue, and further helped by
any revenue surpluses that might be avail-
able. would be a fairly steady thing. A public
works policy based on loans is essentially
unsteady. It rushes up when there is a
reckless financier at the head of affairs.
It demands a huge number of men quite
suddenly. This unexpected demand raises
wages suddenly all round, and increases the
cost of production at short notice, and makes
a general rise in rents and prices. Then,
when local manufacturers are struggling
with an utterly inefficient tariff, the in-
creased cost of local production gives an im-
proved chance to the low-wage-paying im-
porter, and imports expand. As a
natural result more money goes out
to pay for those imports, and when
the speculator at the head of affairs
wants to borrow more millions with which
to carry on his policy, he has to pay higher
interest for them as the result of the money
scarcity. Later, he can’t get his new millions
at all. (It is worth noting, just here, that
the N.S.W. Government, with its £6,000.000-
a-year loan policy on hand, got barely £5OOO
in loan money last month). Then
the stupendous loan - and - public - works
policy slumps. men are discharged
wholesale, wages fall with a crash, there
are misery, hunger, pauperism, soup-kit-
chens, a long depression and a long, slow
process of recovery. But, as a rule, the
boom-and-loan Government gets out of office
just in time, and leaves the crash and the
responsibility and the unfinished railway
station to its successor. It is a way that
boom-and-loan Governments have.
The two principal factors in the nresent
case are a Government which sticks too
closely within the four corners of its pro-
gramme, and another which apparently
doesn’t care twopence for its programme.
The Federal Government isn’t ' pledged to
supply Australia with an efficient tariff, so,
despite the ruinous drain which the present
importing craze makes upon the country’s
resources, it doesn’t supply an efficient
tariff. Apparently its conscience has got it
down and sat upon its chest. The N.S.W.
State Govern,meut, whose methods are
doing more than those of all the other States
to„ upset the financial equilibrium, is pledged
to spend no loan money except on works that
will pay interest on their cost from the begin-
ning, and a sinking fund contribution to
boot. Having got its conscience down and
sat on that unfortunate object, it spends
millions without any regard to the probable
return. Between these two Governments,
and a few subsidiary incapables or spend-
thrifts, and sundry outside circumstances,
the prospects look less bright than they did.
[James Edmond, Bulletin Office, 214 Ceorgc-
street, Sydney.]
WANTED, A TARIFF PARLIAMENT.
One of the furnishings which Australia
badly needs is a second Federal Parliament
of one House —a permanent and wholly
partisan body of nominees. In other words,
it requires a highly-paid Tariff Commission,
with powers little short of those which Par-
liament possesses. As Australia has de-
cided for Protection the members of the
Commission should be Protectionist without
exception. (If the country ever changed its
mind and voted for Freetrade, then it would
naturally retire the old Commissioners with
compensation, and employ a new lot.) This
body should consist of the most capable men
that can be found, and it should devote itself
wholly to the tariff. It should travel about
the country. It should hear complaints and
take evidence, and study the fluctuations of
prices and wages, and read up new condi-
tions here and everywhere else. It should be
accessible to everybody who had plain facts
and plain grievances to lay before it, and if
the complainant was an unlettered man or
woman and slow of speech, it should always
be able to detail a capable and paiient secre-
tary to confer with him or her in private,
and reduce the facts to order. And it should
be accessible to nobody who wanted to enter-
tain it with windy harangues about the doc-
trines of Cobden, or to read it long extracts
from Henry George, for all these things are
apples of Sodom. New trusts, new com-
bines, new dumping schemes, new develop-
ments in machinery, increased impprts. dim-
inished exports, any excessive drain of gold
—all these things would be within the Tariff
Commission’s province. About 40 times each
session it would probably present to the Aus-
tralian Parliament a recommendation that
some duty or duties should be altered, with
a brief statement of its reasons. If
the Act under .which the Commission was
constituted knew its business, Parliament
would allow an interval of perhaps a month
to let the information soak in, and then vote
yea or nay without discussion. Some For-
eign-Trade member might almost burst with
suppressed desire to read to the House 160
pages of the-writings of Henry George, but
he would have to remain ungratified.
* * * *
Experience has shown that Parliament is
utterly unfit to deal with tariff matters in
detail. The business fills up too much time.
There are hundreds —even many hundreds —
of items in a scientific tariff, and it may take
the best part of a year to get it through. It
it debated: endlessly by men with no special
knowledge or fitness, for the construction of
a tariff is as much a specialist’s work as the
construction of a steam engine. It is smoth-
ered in vast speeches dealing with
abstract theories of political economy,
with side references to ancient visions
and buried circumstances, and these
are as much out of place as an im-
passioned oration about engineering de-
livered by the foreman of a plate-laying
gang when the line is in need of swift repair,
and the express train is waiting to get past.
People of the Pumpkin Smith variety hang
up the item about bootlaces while they read
lengthy dissertations re the fiscal policy of
the Republic of Venice, and people of some
other Smith variety are boundless and volu-
ble on even smaller provocation. In the
end the tariff is botched through because
everybody is weary. It is out of date by
the time it gets through, and there is a
general inclination to let it stand, however
bad it may be, for 10 years or so rather
than face another such discussion. Yet amid
all the fuss, there has been no attempt to
call expert evidence, or to make a careful
study of existing circumstances. It is pos-
sible that quite a large section of the debate
oil a proposed duty on modern Australian
bananas will consist of extracts from a half-
century old French work on the growth of
beet sugar, simply because beet anti bananas
both contain • sugar and both words begin
with “b.”
A tariff isn’t the sort of thing that can
remain still. It ought to be altered about
twice a week. It is affected by almost every
change in wages here —and it is seldom
that the morning paper doesn’t tell of two or
three changes—also by many changes else-
where. Its balance is altered by variations
in freights, by the invention of new machin-
ery, by government subsidies, by capitalistic
swindles, and by other circumstances. A
large section of the population learned its
economics at school, and has an idea that
these suffice for a lifetime. Yet it is only
necessary to study such a simpl° volume of
reference as the Statesman’s Year Book
to find that things shift with dazzling
rapidity. New conditions rise like Jonah’s
gourd, and fall like the house built on sand.
The tariff of TO years ago may be as obsolete
as the locomotive of 10 years ago, or the
needle-gun of half' a century back. This is
due to no change of principles, but simply
because circumstances won’t keep still. No
lion just before feeding time is more restless
than circumstances. The policy wtyich
leaves the tariff wholly in the hands of a
large, double-barrelled, over-loaded Legisla-
ture is unscientific in just the same way as
a policy of direct railway management by
Parliament, every extra or special train to
be started only by Act of both Houses. Par-
liaments have a tendency to overload them-
selves with details, and at last they get to a
point at which they must either throw some
of their work overboard or become water-
logged. The tariff is a matter that is espe-
cially fitted to be thrown oyerboard. If it
were properly attended to, it would occupy
the whole time of the Legislature, and that
body has other things to do. Notably, it
has the transcontinental railway to build
and the child army to look after.
[James Edmond, Bulletin Office, 214 George-
Svrlnpv.l
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Surprise of John Murray.
The leisurely person who holds the State
Premier’s billet in Victoria was beguiled a
few days ago to YVesternport. He was a
rather surprised loafer, and said it was as-
tonishing how little had been done with the
place, wnereby he probably meant ihat it was
astonishing how little he had done with it.
In other words, it was astonishing that
Victoria should tolerate a Trender who slept
so much and did so little. Westernport is
only 40 miles from Melbourne. It is a very
large and well-sheltered harbor, and over a
great area it has from 70ft. to 80ft. of water
at low tide right up close to the shore. That
is to say, it has twice the capacity, regarded
as a port for big modern ships, of Melbourne,
and much greater possibilities than Sydney.
Where the 70ft. or 80ft. of low tide water
ends, Westernport shoals to 40ft., which is
still better, than either Melbourne or Sydney.
This harbor Was rejected in the early days
in favor of Melbourne, partly because the
Yarra. was then a good source of drinking
water, and partly because the blind old
pioneers reckoned there would never be any
vessels of more than 400 or 600 tons about
this pqast. and these craft didn’t need deep
water, and to anchor them in 60ft. or 70ft.
was a needless waste of cable, let alone the
risk of losing the anchor. So Westernport, the
most glorious commercial asset of Central
Victoria, and an ideal site for a State-owned
(not Private Enterprise-owned) city, was
abandoned for the shallows and sludge
of Hobson’s Bay. And when larger
ships came, and the great blunder was made
apparent, Melbourne influence had grown so
strong that the tenth-rate harbor was adhered
to, and the second-best harbor in Australia
remained a blank and picturesque waste of
water. All thpse things are matters of his-
tory, and the fact that an easy-going man
like Premier Mtjbkay should adhere to the
line of least resistance, and let them remain
matters of history, is not remarkable. But
when the lingering object who professes to
conduct Victoria’s affairs admitted that he
had never quite realised that almost the best
harbor in Australia was going to seed within
40 miles of Melbourne, and that he had
never before troubled to look at the place, he
held himself m to ridicule as a despairful
individual. When the really big modern
ships begin to come out this way. Western-


port and Portland are the only, harbors Vic-
toria possesses which can contain them. It
must give these places a chance or else see
the big ships pass by.. At present,
thanks to the overwhelming vested in-
terests of Melbourne, the State will
probably continue in the old path, and
when the leviathans come they will avoid
the tenth-rate port on the Yarra as a matter
of necessity. Then, if Melbourne .lealousy
still keeps Portland practically closed, and
Westernport wholly abandoned, they will
land their Victorian cargo at the splendid
port of Hobart, and Melbourne will be served
by a little branch line of steamers. It will
be ouite fitting. A little branch line is good
enough for a g city that doesn’t know any
better. __
A Proposal Which is Not Nearly so
Democratic as it Appears.
Fob the past nine months the McGowen
or Holman Government, or whatever Gov-
ernment it is, has been talking of putting
Federal Government House, Sydney, to some
important public use. At short intervals
one Minister or another has come out with a
bright new plan to make the big building
and its pleasant surroundings of some use
to the community. It has been suggested,
variously, that the place should be turned
into an Art Gallery, a Museum, a National
Portrait Gallery, a Hospital, a Music School,
etc.; that the grounds should be added to the
Botanical Gardens, that a wide road should
be run through them in a sou’-west direction,
and so on. If Minister Griffith liasn t
suggested burning bricks there, and Premier
McGowen has so far refrained from men-
tioning that it would be a superb site tor a
Government-aided Sunday-school, it is due
doubtless to the fact that in the lurious
rush of rival propositions these legislators
have been denied a chance to submit their
pet schemes to popular notice. The State
began by being highly gratified at the pro-
spect of acquiring a ready-made public build-
ing and a large area of park and garden and
water frontage free of cost. Later, bewilder-
ment and questionings and baffled slappmgs
of right-thinking brows supervened; and
later still, suspicion of a pronounced sort
was aroused. It now appears to be as cer-
tain as anything can be in this world ot
doubt and lies and assorted chicanery, that
the N. S. Wales Government’s sturdy pro-
posal was not nearly so democratic as it
looked. The original intention of the
McGowEN-ites was, seemingly, to use the
threat of alienating their property from the
Governor-General as a lever to coerce, not
to say blackmail, the Australian Government
into yielding in the matter of the State
Savings Banks. The bluff failed, just as
other efforts in the same direction have
failed. The upshot was that the State Gov-
ernment found itself with an undertaking to
dispossess the Governor-General on its
hands, and no particular notion as to what
to do with his residence when it had been
handed over and the Commonwealth had
ceased paying the £SOOO per annum requi-
site for its upkeep. Hence the welter of
tentative suggestions a.bove-mentioned. At
latest the grandiose projects of the past have
boiled down to a plain scheme or plot to
oust the Governor-General as a preliminary
to installing the State Governor in his place.
From the point of view of those who hold
that N. S. Wales must be aggrandised at
any price, nothing could be more desirable.
Several members of the British Royal family,
so it is understood, intend to visit the Com-
monwealth in the near future. In the likely
event of the Governor-General being else-
where the glittering job of entertaining the
visitors will devolve exclusively on the State
authorities. The grotesque possibility of
James McGowen emerging from the fray
with a title is not beyond the bounds of
human conjecture. In any case, the change
will mean kudos to Sydney’s anti-Federal
politicians—which is the reason why. it is
being .mooted. That wouldn’t matter in the
least if a vital principle were not involved.
The N. S. Wales Labor party is pledged to
the straight-out abolition of the office of
State Governor. That the Ministry has
taken no steps in this connection is dis-
creditable enough, but the change which is
now foreshadowed would represent the limit
and the dead finish of all. things. It would
certainly mean the infliction of this expen-
sive and absurdly superfluous official on the
Stat; for an indefinite period ; .and it would
hold up to inextinguishable ridicule the only
democratic cause which N.S.W. possesses.
It is an arguable point whether any Gov-
ernor ought to occupy the Macquarie-street
edifice, and it is plainly absurd that such a
huge area of valuable park land should go
with the place anyhow. But if a Governor
is to live there it should be the Governor-
General. All things considered it would be
seemlier if the McGowEN-ites diverted their
energies from the business of seizing this
establishment to that of effectuating the first
plank of the Party platform. If there is
any expelling of Governors to be done by a
Labor Ministry in N. S. Wales the first
push should be administered at Cranbrook.
The Imported Expert Who Suddenly
Thought of City Railways.
The costly expert whom Premier McGowen
imported to advise on the traffic ‘ problem
of Sydney, (which isn’t any real problem,
seeing that scores of cities have met it and
dealt with it in the past) has supplied a
preliminary report. The details are not yet
published, but it is known that he recom-
mends the installation of an underground
city railway system. The question arises:
What else, at the present stage of the
world’s engineering knowledge, could he re-
commend? McGowen surely didn’t expect
him to suggest balloons or bullock-drays.
Everybody who had a knowledge of the
great cities of the world was aware that
subterranean electric railways would be ad-
vised, and if Premier McGowen didn t
know enough to be aware of that very small
and common matter, then he isn’t worth his
salary. The theory which the costly im-
ported expert, puts forward has been put
forward by capable Australian engineers for
the.last'2o years or so, and a'ny one of a
dozen of them would have, supplied the
necessary plans and details if he had been
paid for it. The trouble was that McGowen,
like his predecessors, wouldn’t listen to
them —apparently because they were Aus-
tralian, and he only believed in paying the
outsider. He seems to have thought that,
because his knowledge of simple matters of
city traffic management was limited, that of
other people hereabouts must, be limited
also. Still, the imported man is known to
be a very good expert—which is something.
He is so good that during his brief stay
here he will probably learn at least half as
much about the necessary local circum-
stances as is known to many cheaper men on
the spot.
The Average Punter’s Case Against the
Bookmaker.
Two witnesses who recently appeared be-
fore N.S.W.’s interminable Royal Commis-
sion to inquire into the usefulness or other-
wise of the Tote supplied the gist of the
racing public’s arguments for the machine.
One of them was Sol Green, the opulent
bookmaker who employs a dozen clerks at
his gambling establishment in Melbourne
and whose profitable business enables him to
be also a breeder and, exploiter of racehorses.
He told the Commission that he would be in
favor of the Tote if he were left full liberty
to continue his wagering with owners and
others who back horses for large amounts
at comparatively long prices, months, weeks
or days ahead of the event. The Tote, he
said, would relieve him of what one may
call his retail betting business, consisting
of bothersome and not sensationally lucra-
tive transactions with small clients. But it
would not affect him otherwise. Tote or no
Tote, explained Green in effect, the men
with the big money —owners, workers of
commissions, “professional backers,” and so
on —would always be ready to gamble with
a wealthy bookmaker. And so long as they
are spared to him the man behind the Bag
doesn’t mind much what happens to the
others. point of view of Solomon, is
easily understandable. He makes a paying
job of supplying big men with big bets at
long odds, on the certainty that other whole-
sale customers will buy as. much of their
money as he feels like selling, and on the
probability that some of the heavily backed
steeds will go wrong or be scratched or
stiffened or what not before the day of the
race. The big bettor is suited by the book-
making system because under it he can be
guaranteed a win of £lO,OOO or more in the
event of the good thing coming off. The
bookie’s long odds, furthermore, give the
gambler a chance of hedging freely if the
thing looks very good as the eventful hour
draws nigh. And from start to finish. of
these manoeuvrings it is the public which
pays—pays both in the cash' which keeps
racing going and in the form of bets at ab-
surdly short prices as a result of which
bookmaking and “professional backing”
alike are highly lucrative games. Charles
Britton, the second of the two Royal Com-
mission witnesses above referred to, put the
case for the public in the fewest possible
words when he said that he preferred the
bookmaker because he “gave the owner the
first 'picking.’'’ Apparently the idea thaC the
public is entitled to a picking never even
occurs to bookies like Sol Green or racing
club potentates of the Britton stamp. And
yet the public pays directly for the best of
the racing that Australia gets, inasmuch as
the best racing is admittedly for the biggest
stakes of added money, and the added
money, or about 95 per cent, of it, comes
from the public. One of the chief reasons
why the public is sick of the ring and fairly
yearns for the Tote i 6 that, under existing
conditions, it pays the bookie to give the
owner the “first flicking,” and. likewise pays
the owner to take it. To put it another
way, racegoers are weary of . providing for
the entire upkeep of the Cow, and getting
none of the cream, but, at best,, a miserable
portion of skimmed milk well diluted with
water. The introduction of the Tote need
not scotch the practice of wagering days
and weeks before the race —since the
world’s supply of mugs never wholly peters
out —and so the books and wagerers on a
large scale would be able to make their bit
as of yore. That is to say, the big.' sharks
might eat one another, and whjch
ever was eaten there would be one
undesirable the less. But the Tote would
give that immense section of the public
which asks for fair odds on the course a
chance to get them, and it would divert the
profits arising out of those transactions
from the pockets of a crowd of undesirables
into the banking account of the State.
Coffins at £2,000,000 Apiece.
Tiie Titanic horror has had at least one use-
ful effect —it has caused widespread enthusi-
asm among shipowners for improved life-
saving apparatus. This is business; it will
be many a long year before another passen-
ger vessel, suspected of being ill-equipped
as regards lifeboats and rafts, attracts a big
crowd of travellers. Yet those who think
ihat the mere fact of the ship they patronise
being adequately furnished with boats and
so forth, connotes safety, are undoubtedly
making a ghastly error. The real menace is
the big ship. The Gigantic, which will
shortly take the water, is 118 ft. longer and
2lift, broader of beam than the Titanic. Port
Darwin and Hobart are probably the only
two Australian harbors in active service that
could accommodate this tremendous sea-
brute. (Westernport, in Victoria, has the
usual luck of first-class Australian harbors,
and is wholly unused.) The Gigantic could
not get into Melbourne harbor; it would em-
peril its existence if it tried to turn any-
wdiere in Sydney harbor, and there is no
wharf in the Commonwealth capable of ac-
commodating it. It is designed to carry,
all told, including passengers and crew, 5000
people, and, according to the shipping au-
thorities, the Gigantic only represents the
beginning of the big ship era. The marine
leviathan is no more immune from the ordin-
ary perils of the deep than the well-found
craft of 2000 or 3000 tons. There is a
certain morbid interest in picturing what
wmild hanpen aboard the Gigantic if an inex-
tinguishable fire broke out, or if it struck an
uncharted rock or a sunken derelict, or an
iceberg of similar calibre to that which de-
stroyed the Titanic, now that the fact has
been well advertised that these vast vessels
are as perishable as any others. A fairly
accurate line may be got by imagining that
Sydney’s Central Railway Station was on
fire fore and aft; that 4000 trippers, Tom
Johnson, and 1000 guards, porters and
policemen were cooped up in it, with all
the exits hermetically sealed, and that the
only means of escape was by one train, just
large enough to hold the entire horror-stricken
crowd. Conceive that the authorities were
allowed exactly half an hour before the red-
hot roof collapsed on all hands, to draft the
holders of first- and second-class tickets into
their respective compartments; tobacco-
users into smoking carriages; and nervous
old women into coaches inscribed “ladies
only.” That situation gives some idea of
what the position aboard the Gigantic type
of liner would be in time of stress. The
justification of these vast death-traps is that
they pay. The bigger and. gaudier the
modern ocean-going hotel is; the more tennis
courts, golf links, cricket pitches, football
fields, swimming baths, etc., etc., it sports;
and the more theatrical companies, profes-
sional aviators,- hot-gospellers, performing
dogs and such-like luxuries it provides space
for, the more tourists rush to book berths
aboard it. A ship which can carry in one
trip as many passengers and as much cargo
as any four normal-sized ships, is obviously
saving its owners a vast sum in the way of
officers and seamen’s wages, coal bills, dues
and sundries. But after a certain point the
passengers are liable to become so numerous
as to be uncontrollable in the event of panic.
That there will be a record panic in the next
vast liner which strikes trouble is as sure
as that the lost Titanic will never steam
again. And a ship in trouble at sea with the
nass°ngers. and nerhans many of the cu-w
in a demoralised state, is Hell pure and simple.
The only feasible; remedy seems to be for
the nations interested to declare the out-size
liner illegal, on the ground that it repre-
sents a grave menace to human life. The
dividends of a few big shipping cos. might
suffer by such an enactment, but the world
would be none the poorer for it in any other
respect, and it is bound to save a lot of
lives.
National Security or Cows?
The Law appeared in an unusually imbecile
light last week, when damages were given
against W. E. Haijt, the only aviator that
Australia possesses, for frightening cows by
flying over the land on which they were
grazing. Judge Backhouse, of Sydney,
found that though Hart hadn’t trespassed
on the property, yet that he had
“flown too low.” Apparently “too
low” signifies low enough for an
owner of livestock to argue that his cows
have been perturbed. If the decision is al-
lowed to stand, it practically means that
aviation is doomed so far as the Common-
wealth is concerned. No one will be able to
fly anywhere without the possibility—nay,
the extreme likelihood —of landowners. and
others surging forward with impassioned
cries to the effect (1) that their goats or
grandmothers, or what not, have been de-
moralised, and (2) that the wrong can only be
redressed by the agency of heavy damages.
When railway trains first started to run
in England, the eternal cow question was
raised, but it was met in a more enlightened
spirit than our 20th century Court dis-
played last week. So soon as it was estab-
lished to the popular satisfaction that, as
between cows and trains, the cow only was
likely to be prejudiced, all hands cheerfully
urged Progress (symbolised in this epoch by
the railways) to drive right ahead, and not
consider the troubles of mere unslain meat
for an instant. The motor industry was
harassed by what may be, termed the great
cow problem for a while. It will be a tragedy
indeed if the ancient obstruction cannot be
removed from the path of the aviator. The
very day on wh'ch W E. Hart announced
that in view of Judge Backhouse’s decision
he would be forced (being no millionaire) to
abandon flying, the dailies printed the fol-
lowing cable message:—
The main feature of the naval manoeuvres at Wey-
mouth was the triumph of the naval hydro-aeroplane
S4l.
The Admiralty has decided to increase the number
of these hydroplanes to 25.
It is a platitude to remark that aviation is
going to be one of the chief defence arms of
the nations in the immediate future.. That
being so, the pioneers of the art or science
or sport, or whatever it is, should surely be
encouraged by every means in the commun-
ity’s power. If there were a gluYof bird-men
it wouldn’t matter so much, but there isn’t.
The position boils down- really to the bald
question of whether private property or
national safety is better worth this coun-
try’s attention. Is the Commonwealth the
prime consideration, or Cow? Unless the
verdict is in favor of Cow —which* would
mean, in effect, that Australia is one Vast
lunatic dairy asylum or deranged cowbail —
the seemliest resting-place for last week’s
decision is the rubbish-tip.
The Bulletin struck a quaint develop-
ment at Sydney G.P.O the other day. That
institution sends to each newspaper at regu-
lar intervals a bill headed “Statement show-
ing particulars of bulk postings,” and then
lies in ambush for the money. The youth
w r ho takes it along doesn’t bring back a re-
ceipt in proof of his fidelity, and to enable
the accountant to satisfy the ravening audi-
tor ; the P.O. doesn’t issue receipts. What
it does is to hand the bearer of the money
stamps for £4O 15s. 3d., or whatever the
amount may be and allow him to gum them
on a special form and cancel them in the
official presence. Then the P.O. keeps them
—it receives the money and retains the re-
ceipt. Last week, however, there was a
break-down because Sydney G.P.O. had run
short of stamps. That sort of thing hap-
pens now and then, reasonably enough, at
Bandicoot Ridge or Old Dad Plains, but
when it befalls at the central office of the
biggest city of Australia, it tends to excite
comment. Perhaps this was another of the
matters that went wrong while the P.M.G.
was away in Queensland helping to tie the
Federal car to the misfortunate horse of the
General Strike.
♦
Three State elections have taken place since
the beginning of the General Strike trouble
in Brisbane, and the results are interesting.
Two years ago, Federal Labor was victori-
ous in Queensland, S.A. and Tasmania, and
hopes were high. In S.A. State Labor also
won a victory. Then came the great run-
ning-amok at Brisbane, and the folly of
Prime Minister Fisher in lending his
countenance to that ill-judged proceed-
ing. The S.A. State elections followed,
and the S.A. State Labor Govern-
ment went down. It had, to some extent,
lost its punch over a previous local strike at
Adelaide, and it was doubtless partly owing
to that that the Federal and State Labor
majority turned suddenly into the State
Labor minority. The Queensland State elec-
tion left Labor in a hopeless minority. The
triumphant Federal majority ,of two yesrs
ago was breathed upon by the General Strike
committee, and vanished like Sennacherib’s
army. In Tasmania, a quiet backwash State
far from the madding crowd of Brisbane,
State Labor came within an ace of success.
But even there the Federal Labor victory of
1910 was not repeated. It cannot be said
that the Fisher party compares so badly
with the Fused party on its Federal record
as to make the community, or any single,
member of it, regret the verdict of 1910.
But Coyne and his gang created a scare
that will not readily die out, and Fisher’s
association with the Coyne crowd will take
a great deal of explaining away.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
♦ ;
It may yet be necessary for the community
to be upstanding and tell Prime Minister
Fisher that affability can be overdone.
Here is a case in point: The Australian
Government — Fisher’s Government —has, it
is announced, concluded —some papers put
it “practically concluded” —a contract
whereby one cruiser and two torpedo des-
troyers are to be built at the N.S.W. State
Government’s dock at Cockatoo Island. The
date of starting the work isn’t fixed : it is. to
be arranged by “mutual consent,” which
gives the rather slovenly Cockatoo place an
indefinite time to get ready. When the work
is started 26 months are allowed for com-
pletion. It is a fairly long time. In fact,
Australia may some day find itself at the
bottom of a fatal hole unless it learns to do
jobs of the sort at a much faster pace. And
the price is wholly unfixed. The State of
N.S.W. declines to have the faintest idea
at what price its docks can build ships, but
it is to receive the cost, whatever that may
be, and 8 per cent. over. So the State Gov-
ernment can gratify possible supporters by
the easiest possible treatment, and get ail
the credit for doing it, while the Common-
wealth pays the bill. There are thus three
ways of doing work: (1) Contract work;
(2) day labor work in which the person who
pays the money gets credit for any liberality
that is shown ; (3) day labor work in which
one party pays the money and andther gets
the credit. In this case, the Fisher Gov-
ernment is the party that pays, and it seems
likely to pay through the nose. Public En-
terprise is a great idea, but Public Enter-
prise doesn’t consist in a supreme govern-
ment letting out contracts at an unfixed and
unknown rate to one of its own members.
The Australian Government should do its
own enterprise.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
In upholding Vic. Treasurer Watt’s appeal
against Justice a’Beckett’s mandamus in-
structing him to issue a liquor license to
Matthew Slade, of Wontliaggi, the State
Full Court handed that financial person a
few well-selected insults. He was told, in
so many words, that he was not a privileged
person, as he seemed to imagine, and had no
right to flout or defy the law, and that wil-
ful disobedience of an Act of Parliament
was a misdemeanor or a criminal offence;
further, that if a Minister of the State
assumed a position that amounted to a crim-
inal act, he had no more protection than any
other person who broke the law. It was
his duty to investigate the matter tho-
roughly, to give Slade, the prospective
liquor-dealer, an opportunity to be heard,
and then, if still dubious of Slade’s bonu-
fides, to remit, the matter to a Judge
to be determined. The Full Court did this,
and, having inspected and listened to Slade,
arrived at the conclusion that“was a man
who was more than ordinarily endowed as
a fool.” Also, he seemed to it (the Court)
to be a self-contradictory simpleton, a cat’s-
paw or dummy, and a general fraud. Where-
fore the Court considered he wasn’t fit to
hold a license, and Watt’s appeal would be
allowed, though Watt —wdiich presumably
means the State —would have to pay costs
of both sides up to the time of the Full
Court argument; and his own costs subse-
quently, because the said application should
have been made earlier. Altogether, the
Court didn’t speak nicely to Watt, . The
Victorian Treasurer is a man of some capa-
city, but the whole Ministry at Melbourne
is infected by the slovenliness of its chief,
and by his conviction that it isn’t worth
while troubling much about anything, for
it will be all the same at the Resurrection
—if there is one, and if there Isn’t one it
doesn’t matter.
The Birthright and the Usual Mess.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One hundred and sixty-five vessels, steam and sail,
are now roving the ocean with their bows heading
towards Newcastle (N.S.W.). They are of every
nationality, of all sizes and rigs, and from ports all
over the world. Such a huge fleet of vessels “expected
at Newcastle,” has, perhaps, never before been known,
but it is due to the inflated coal freight rates.
—News item.
The order flashes round the world: XjP
anchor and away !” ,
From ev’ry port that holds a ship they re
setting out to-day;
Their tops’ls show against the sky—their
smoke trails smudge its blue,
And ev’ry strait and channel feels the beat-
ing of a screw;
The freight rates call them oversea unto the
selfsame goal;
And so, along the ocean roads
They race away to get their loads
Of good Australian coal.
Oh! break it out and load them up—Yank,
German, Japanee,
Ship, barque or steamer —it’s all one to trad-
ing folk, you see!
The round earth holds but little more, so
wasteful have we been;
Yet faster still the miners work the narrow
wails between.
Another skip !—another yet! The grumbling
truck wheels roll,
And, climbing up the sloping shaft.
Go off to fill some waiting craft
With our Australian coal.
Hull down upon the skyline see the funeral
plumes they wear —
These ships that come from nothingness and
back into it bear
The hoarded wealth of ages dead no spoiler
can replace !
For what"/ Shall we find answer on the
wide sea’s empty face?
But still the store of treasure wastes as each
ship takes its dole
And straight across the world retires,
Bearing to dying, unseen fires
Our heritage of coal.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


TO RUN A SUCCESSFUL
YOU REQUIRE
To Keep Ahsad of Your Opposition by
Using HARRINGTONS’ EXCLUSIVE
STAR PICTURES !
A Complete List of All Exclusive
Films, Hiring: Rates and Synopsis
of the various subjects will be
sent on application to
m
m
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE
WELLINGTON.NZ.
l
s
■ m
mi
ms
m
A
KAPUNDA J.P. CURED. )
“I have great faith in Chamberlain’s Pain Balm,”
says Mr. S. E. Hancock, J.P., ; Eapunda, S.A. ‘“For
years I suffered with rheumatism in my arms and
shoulders, brought on by a chill. Now an applica-
tion of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm gives me instant re-
lief, and soon remedies it. I recommend Chamber-
lain's Pain Balm to all sufferers from rheumatism.”*
810-SHOWMEN!
T - HERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan's, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
STANDS ALONE.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
ABSOLUTELY THE FINEST
LAGER BREWED.
FOR DARK LAGER
HACKERBRAU
IS THE BRAND.
Last Monday, the S. M. Herald did a
column of gush about the British “expert,”
David Hay, who Avas imported at great
expense by the N.S.W. State Government to
tell the people of Sydney—what every person
of any intelligence knew already—that they
required subterranean electric railways:—
Sydney is to have an Underground. At lease that
is the hope inspired by the visit of Mr. David Hat.
And when Sydney has its Underground, the Sydney-
ite bound for home in a distant suburb, or out upon
a surf-bath at Bondi, or eager in pursuit of Balmain
and all it has to offer—journeying anywhere at all
in and out of the city—will wonder how he suffered
so long the incubus of tramways.
For the Underground will provide him with a
medium of travel as far superior to a tram-car as a
motor-launch is superior to a punt. Sydney has lived
for years under the impression that the tram is the
best possible, if not only the possible, public con-
veyance ....
How the Underground will revolutionise the present
disorder of our crowded city cars, the boggle of our
central streets, the dust and dirt and slowness of
our long suburban tram-rides! And how astonished
Sydney people will be to find in the Underground
a means of journeying such as for safety, cleanliness
and rapidity they have never known !
Surely this is overdoing the exaltation of the
imported David Hay and the alleged ignor-
ance of the people of Sydney! There are
multitudes of folk in that city who knew
about underground railway systems before
David Hay was heai'd of. The great diffi-
culty was that the Herald and importing
papers of its stamp would never enthuse in
columns of great whoop over any improved
methods of city management until some im-
ported person like David Hay came here to
tell them what they ought to have been
aware of 20 years ago. The Herald seems
to be running the Hay craze now as it did
the Johnson craze a few years ago. Only a
very short time since the imported Johnson
was such a wonder in the pages of the
Herald that every railway problem and diffi-
culty was to vanish like smoke as soon as he
arrived. Now he is diminished into a very
ordinary person, but Hay has arrived in his
stead.
“L.”: Will The Bulletin please note this
Sydney daily paper item: —
The Lord Mayor (Aid. G. T. Clarke) declares
himself to be undisturbed by the opinions respecting
his intentions to act carefully before declaring his
policy. The press, he said, was not —(some vague
burble here omitted) —but he was hurrying along
with his inquiries, and, as s6on as these were com-
plete he would make known his intentions.
Other pars, stated that the alderman whose
neck is now eqgirt with the rabbit-skin collar
of Lord Mayoralty was too busy receiving
callers who said, “My-Lord-I-congratulate-
you,” to be able to “formulate a policy” until
the smiles and the soda-water syphons inci-
dental to these felicitatory visits had ceased
to rage in the Town Hall. All this high
hanky-panky and darksome deliberation
makes me wonder why the rabbit-skin is
put round this or that exalted neck. It isn’t
because a man has a policy that he is made
Lord Mayor; but, being made Lord Mayor,
he thinks he ought to get a policy some-
where and somehow; so he gets away into a
tenebrous corner and tries to see a policy by
pressing his thumbs on his eyeballs in the
dark. You can see funny things that way.
A small fund ought to be started, by penny
subscription, to buy up a few policies, new
or partly worn, so that every Lord Mayor
might have one hung on his neck along
with the rabbit-skin. Anyway, is policy in
Sydney dependent on what the Rabbit-skin
Man of the moment may happen to discern
by the method previously described? Surely
there are other persons, who have some voice
in the matter, whatever glistening Catherine-
wheels may be visioned by the alderman who
happens to wear more fur on his nape than
the othei-s do. iEsop, a respectable Dago of
antiquity, once wrote a fable concerning a
small, typhoidal fly which sat on the rub-
ber tyre of a 120-h.p. automobile, and said:
“Let’s cut out a record mile in this joy-
ride,” or words to, that effect. It now ap-
pears that that fly wore bunny-hide round its
anterior annqlation and was a policy-maker.
And the thought of the fly’s cryptic replies
to newspaper reporters still fills me with
feelings of gasping amazement.
Father Ginisty. the French Jesuit who
died at Church Hill, Sydney, last week, was
an ex-soldier, and a participant in the
Franco-Prussian unpleasantness. He had
foregone all form of warfare, save that which
is waged against Beelzebub, for upwards of a
quarter of a century. '
“Hilarion” voices a pretty general senti-
ment :
It’s a pity the Defence Department doesn’t do
something large and decisive to enforce the compul-
sory training which Australia has declared for.
Thanks to the jeers of trousered cigarette-slots with
time on their hands and to the petty sedition of the
“peace” crowd, our youngsters are getting to look
with as casual an eye on their legal obligations as
any Trust’ director. The cadet dodges his, in the
faith that no kick is coming. In fact, the fav-
orite boast between drawbacks of some of him is:
“Djew go right up to the death-knock? Why, /
’aven’t been fer munce I” He so acts because he is
aware that Billo wasn’t fined, after all, and that the
case against Ginger collapsed, while Rusty wasn’t
even stood up in court. Meanwhile, the attendance
average wilts, and the day when Australia will need
some sort of an army draws steadily nearer. Of
course, it’s unreasonable to expect the kid to respect
the Commonwealth when a large section of grown-
ups slings clap-trap sneers at its defence provisions,
and eggs the lads on to silly disobedience ; wherefore
I’d rejoice to see the you-can-take-all-I’ve-got-I’m-for-
peace person hit, good and hard, in the first place.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sinbad the Sailor.”
Royal “Ben Hur.”
Adelphi “ The King’s Romance.”
Palace “ Mrs. McSweene.v.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 &2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Princess ...., West’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Lyckcm Spencer’s Pictures.
Belmore Markets ..... Wirths’ Circus.
Imperial Rink Roller Skating. -
Y.M.C.A. Hall Phyllis Hopwood-Foldi.
Town Hall Baden-Powell (17th and 20th).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Kismet."
Her Majesty’s “ The Girl in the Train.”
Princess’s “ Queen of the Redskins.”
Kino’s “ Sergeant Brue.’.’
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Atiienleum Hall Alexander Watson.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Gla ciarium. .. Ice Skat iig.
“Sinbad,” the nautical show at Her Maj-
esty’s, Sydney, continues to make good finan-
cial weather of it. Anyone who yearns to
acquire an insight into life at sea, legs,
weird animals, the current gags of the day,
and so on, will get all the knowledge that, is
good for him at this show.
** * *
Those who have not yet seen “On Our
Selection” at the Palace have only to-night
and to-morrow night in which to join ihe
procession. If, immediately upon reading
this warning, manifesto or proclamation, a
hound-dog rush is made for the box-plan
office, a seat or two may be booked. If there
are no seats left, then there is nothing fur it
but to emulate the Titanic’s steward when
there was no room for him on the raft—
pray for somebody to peg out, and leave a
vacant place. Dad will take up a new
selection at Newcastle on Saturday night.
“Mrs. McSweeney” takes possession of the
Palace the same night.
“THE BLUE BIRD,” At SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Sugar (Dickson-Kenwin) and Bread (Edward
Rigby) dissecting themselves. for hitman con-
sumption.
“The Blue Bird” is now doing a final
flutter at the Criterion. Before Happiness
—the elusive fowl pursued by Tyltyl and
Mytyl—flaps its wings for flight from Syd-
ney, the management ought to put “The
Kingdom of the Past” in a fire.and burglar-
proof strong-room. From a literary point
of view, this slice of Maeterlinck is a prime
cut from the breast of “The Blue Bird.”
But the dramatic version, as introduced at
the end of the Sydney birding season, is
feeble and commonplace. It smells of the
footlights. Flaunting artificial lilies grow
out of ground in which the hand of. the stage
carpenter is too obvious. “The Kingdom of
the Past” ought to be a poetic fantasy, man-
aged with the skill which makes “The Land
of Memory” and “The Kingdom of the
Future” gems of stage-craft. Gertie Cremer,
the Tyltyl who has hitherto deserved a
small laurel wreath to herself, met her
Waterloo in the lily-grown graveyard. She
was noisy and aggressive, and showed acute
of street-arabitis in her cli”°ky
attitude towards the tombstone silences. The
weakest scene in “The Blue Bird” has al-
ways been the pantojnime version of “The
Forest.” But the Land of Eternal Nod also
deserves a clod to add to its blue mould
and raging pink lilies.
A clean sweep of' constellations has been
made at the National Amphitheatre, pretty
well every member of last week’s cast being
now out of the bill. The lonely exception is
Zomah, the lady who reads minds blindfolded.
Newcomers are George Collins, Mabel and
Malfe, Alf Chester, and Rowe and Mora.
i\< m
“Lightning,” the outlaw at Wirths’ Circus,
is indisposed, and is in the hands of a veter-
inary sui-geon; so all arrangements are post-
poned, and the standing offer of £5O for the
rider of the animal will rest till the vet. has
doctored his patient up. Meanwhile the bal-
ance of the stockyard invites any of the
crowd to ride it and win a fiver. Though the
remainder of the programme is somewhat
lost sight of now that the buckjumping
turn is on, the Bastiens remain, and the 12
Polar bears are still there for anyone who
likes 12 bears.
On Monday night the temperature at
Spencer’s Lyceum dropped to about 15
degrees of frost. Pictures, moving and sta-
tionary, of Dr. Mawson’s Australian Ant-
arctic Expedition were screened, and an
address by Professor David, who went South
with Shackleton, made them doubly interest-
ing. Captain Davis, the master of the
Aurora, Mawson’s boat, and G. R. Waite,
the biologist of the party, also gave short
addresses. The views showed a white, bleak
land where hotels are a hundred blizzards
apart, and there are 20,000 glaciers to one
cigar shop. The penguin, an oily perpen-
dicular fowl that seems to wear a boiled
shirt, lent a note of comedy to the show.
The great mistake of the penguin’s life is
that he takes himself seriously.
“Come ! Come !.. . . know.... tah.... sees-
tar-r....Eh? Ha! Ha!” quoth Harry
Diver, the villain whom the Adelphi keeps
chained up on the premises, and writer quite
agrees with him—everyone has to agree with
the villain. His latest excuse for assassin-
ating most of the company is “The King’s
Romance,” now exploding nightly. The
class of Marlow production .is getting bettex-,
and this paper will not complain if the man-
agement keeps up to the “King’s Romance”
standard. The scene of the play is in
Venantia, a place where they all speak Eng-
lish (with the exception of the villain, who
barks as mentioned above), have Fx-ench
names, and murdef their kings with alarm-
ing frequency. The two principal charac-
ters —Idugh Buckler, as Prince Andreas and
afterwards King of Venantia, and Violet
Paget, as Vera, a peasant girl who marries
the Prince, under the impression that he is
an artist —take their parts well. The same
may be said of Elwyn Harvey and D’Arcy
Kelway. Michael Vacurat (H. Diver) and
Paul Navairre (W. R. Hunter) provide the
blood and bombs for the occasion, and the
former is a blood-and-bomb artist of great
tonnage.
It would have been easier for a usurer to
pass through the eye of a needle or the scent
of a camel than for another small boy to
have squeezed into the King’s Theatre on
Saturday night, when a revised version of
“His Natural Life” was presented, without
apologies to Marcus Clarke. This lago-
drama has a plot which only on rare occa-
sions disappears entirely from view, and
characters which should be more interesting
than they are in the present production. The
story of Rufus Dawes is provided with an
obligato of leg-irons and an intermezzo on
the triangle. The gyves, fetters, handcuffs,
etc., which play a prominent part in the
story are presumably the links which first
chained this country to the Heart of the
Empire. Rufus Dawes, who, when Frere
and the Vickers females are marooned, be-
haves in a manner which may have pro-
vided Barrie with a hint or two for “The
Admirable Crichton,” is played in fairly
good style by Herbert Bentley. Rufus’s
strictly moderate reward . for his skill and
courage takes the form of becoming Sylvia
Vickers’s second hubby, which seeijis an en-
tirely inadequate compensation. Miss
Frances Ross plays Sylvia, and this paper
is forced to mention, more or less apologeti-
cally, that her representation of a damsel,
barely out of the flapper stage, who gushes
bathos concerning “good Mr. Dawes,” does
not strike it as convincing. Walter Baker’s
Rev. Jim-jam North would be more like the
holy wine-bibber were he less like the mum-
mer. Edwin Campbell, weighed down be-
neath a mass of assorted ironmongery, makes
a fairly effective appearance as'Mat Gabbett,
but at no time is his physical condition
suggestive of the bloke who rushes across
the landscape brandishing an axe and seek-
ing whom he may devour. Lawrence Hard-
inge presents a stiff and utterly unconvinc-
ing picture of Frere, making him .look like a
commissionaire with an untidy .moustache ;
and W. H. Ladd is a Major Vickers with a
stilted delivery and noisy habits. Tom Can-
nam, Aubrey Mallalieu and others are al-
lowed to escape uncensured, partly because
of pressure on space and partly because
any evil they may do will live for six nights
only.
Sydney ’Varsity Dramatic Society is going
to throw its luminous grey matter into a
production of “Macaire,” on Saturday night.
St. James’s Hall will be the place. Results
after settling up with St. James (whose bill,
it is to be hoped, will be that of James the
Less) will go to help the purchase of a new
racing eight for the ’Varsity Boaft Club.
Will H. Fox is an artist who isn’t nearly
as exciting as his advertisements.. The Syd-
ney Tivoli programme fairly rhapsodises
about Will, a person in the musical mono-
logue line, and wearing a suit the color of
murderously strong tea. He is stated in
the printed document aforementioned to be
the originator of all trick-»piano-playing
acts: and he goes to the trouble of announc-
ing the same thing in plain American before
he begins to repeat the performance which
has been “a Terrific Success over 10,000
times in the Leading Theatres and Music
Halls of Two Hemispheres.” Now 10,000
times at one performance per day (bar Sun-
days) represents nearly 32 years, yet Will
look an old man. And what about the time
lost in travelling? The other new-
comer, Miss Monie Mine, is the brightest
imported lady the Tivoli has had for some
time. She is gi-aceful, wears artistic frocks
and a catching smile, and purrs her songs in
an insinuating manner. The kicking Casselli
Sisters, quick-change Burnetti and Emer-
son, and Baldwin of the clubs provide the
other second part accompaniments for the
brilliant tableaux of the de Serris co.
“THE GIRL IN
THE TRAIN,”
AT HER
MAJESTY'S,
MEL-
BOURNE.
VICTOR PRINCE
AS LUCAS VAN
I ROMP.
The chariot of “Ben Hur” continues to
gallop furiously in the same place every
evening at Sydney Itoyal, while the back-
cloth representing the masses of cheering
Romans rolls past. The spirited bookmaking
scene outside the circus, where Messala reels
when he discovers that the cheap-looking
Hebrew has booked up his carelessly liberal
bets in talents, supplies 1 a good historical
argument in favor of the tote; also, the way
the stone falls from the. crumbling roof of
the Hur mansion, and makes endless trouble
by maiming the Roman potentate in the
street below, is a warning to every house-
holder to keep his house in order. The care-
fully riotous proceedings in the Grove of
Daphne are less likely to shock the stallite
than the last scenes are to bore him. There
is a reverential drag about the final semi-
sacred spectacles for which the holy picture
effects and Edgar Stillman Kelley’s music
do not compensate.
* % :'f *
Margaret Cooper, at Adelaide Royal, is a
thing of joy, an artist to the finger-tips. Hex-
songs are good, anyway, but she gets the last
ounce out of them, and a bit extra. The
word “ripping” is ordinary in itself; but
trilled, with a six-notes’ run on the piano to
accompany it, it strikes an audience as the
height of witty suggestion. After which, it
has to be recorded that this is a drawing-
room, rather than a regular theatre, show.
The gallery looks on it coldly—with a tend-
ency to barrack the supporting turns. At
the Tivoli are the Athletas, powerful and
graceful, too, with a strong company all
round. The “King’s College Boys,” at the
King’s, have five fine voices, and one at least
magnificent; and the young Andersons are
Australian contortionists whom this country,
would think a lot of if they were starred as
imported. The have been on
the dramatic and gloomy side of late. Bern-
hardt dies to slow music as “Camille.” at
West’s —and what the thousands of children
who flock to these shows make of • the love-
lorn courtesan, Heaven only . knows. The
Eroni family—now Eroni and Sole—have
brought their circus to the Old Exhibition.
It has the goods, and the public flocks in ac-
cordingly ; but this is an out-of-the-way
pitch, and the advertising errs on the side of
modesty. A shy circus is,,as big an anomaly
as a shy auctioneer.
v v
This is the next to last week of “The Girl
in the Train,” at Her Majesty’s (IVJelb.).
Eight more nights and a final matinde will
close the story of the melodious husband who
behaved like an ass in spite of strong temp-
tation to be merely human. The Bulletin
would feel sorry for Karel Van Buren if he
seemed only dimly conscious of the awful
future in store for him when his wife’s jeal-
ousy will have grown old and wrinkled, and
any Gonda of the period can lure him from
his allegiance with an opportune smile. But
the fatuous tenor has no reasoning powers, so
for the present he is doomed to go into con-
vulsions every time Mrs. Van B. taxes him
with an indiscretion that never occurred to
him. Two or three nights last week a new
excuse was offered for his constancy. Miss
Dorothy Brunton, who had previously
figured as understudy to Miss Young N took
the place of Miss Arundale, and filled it
charmingly. Of all the bright voung Aus-
tralian girls that musical comedy has brought
into notice. Dorothy Brunton is the most
fully qualified to get the adulation usually


STECK
One of the World’s
Great PIANOS.
*
THE STECK BOUDOIR GRAND is deservedly a
favorite. To encompass the tonal beauty and
sonority of a Grand Piano in a space scarcely
larger tham'that occupied by an Upright is indeed
an achievement.
Measuring but sft. 7in. in length, it renders a
Grand Piano of the highest character available, even
for rooms of limited size.
The STECK, more than any other piano, possesses
a rich mellowness of tone, a sympathetic singing
quality, which makes it not only the ideal instru-
ment for the great artist in concert, but also the
best piano for the home.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
• PROPY. LTD.,
357 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
252 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
311 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q.N. Bank).
London, Paris, Berlin and New York.
[l9
đ
New Shipments of STECKS monthly
in Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut,
Rosewood, Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE society, limited,
PITT AND KING- STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT’ EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’ Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager!
reserved for imported, artists. Her pretty
appearance, with singing to match, would
make a crude actress acceptable; but she is
already a graceful actress, who plays an emo-
tional part as though she felt it.
The second performance of Marshall Hall s
opera, at Her Majesty’s, neither weakened
nor deepened this paper’s first impression ot
it. The orchestration of “Stella’ is some-
times full and round, and sometimes thin and
angular, and the music as a whole is defici-
ent in color, or sweetness, or whatever term
best expresses the appealing quality in music
which is more than mere tuneful jingle or
saccharine melody. It has no air of distinction.
The waltz strain for tue short-lived, chorus
would not sound brilliant, even if it were
brightly sung, and, as for the story of the
opera, the best editing couldn’t raise it to
the penny novelette standard. Improve-
ments in stage-management, and a smoother
tone in the singing of the long, lank, ser-
viceable tenor (Hawley), were noticeable
features of the second performance, in com-
parison with the first. Miss Rosina Buck-
man, as Stella, was again the mainstay ot
the show, whereas the mezzo (Miss Mur-
doch) was the less effective for singing
louder than before. But because Stella was
plump and passionate she confirmed a gen-
eral suspicion that the poor, shrinking Wow-
ser, whom she accused of betraying her inno-
cence eight years ago. had been as helpless
as a pat of butter in his “victim’s” hands.
Had he not led the damsel astray she would
have dragged him.
** * *
Alexander Watson, who came as a stranger
to Melbourne, is crowding the Athenreum
Hall with admirers of monologue art. Like
Locke Richardson of yore, this untheatrical
platlorm player is equally magnetic and
dramatic. With the minimum. of action, he
realises scenes arid characters in his recita-
tion of the lines, 1 and all his subjects, seem-
ingly, are well chosen. One night last week
he was too sick to appear at all. but the next
night he monologued the Dotlieboys Hall
section of “Nicholas Niekleby” wi,h remark-
able force. The recitation in this case owed
something to Watson’s accommodating coun-
tenance, which he contorted into a picture of
the one-eyed Squeers whenever' that horrible
schoolmaster had the say; but his facial sug-
gestions' of the other characters gave the
audience very little relief from the strain on
its imagination. All the same, its imagina-
tion held good. When Nicholas plucked
Smike from the walloping of Squeers, and
beat the old villain with his own stick, the
applause burst out like steam from a safety
valve. It didn’t wait for the actor to give
an invitation. It broke the bonds of silence
and shook the roof. To-night (Thursday)
Watson undertakes a Shakspeare Society
programme, to-morrow “Macbeth,” and on
Saturday, afternoon he closes the Melbourne
season. He goes to Ballarat and Geelong
before introducing himself to Sydney, on the
24th.
“ KISMET," AT MELBOURNE ROYAL.
BESS IE MAJOR
AS NARJIS,
THE NURSE
(just been insulted).
THE GREAT HIGH
MUK-A-MUK,
THE CALIPH.
At the Melbourne Masonic Hall, next
Tuesday, four young artists are giving a con-
cert. Rita Hope, at the piano, and John
Amadio ’behind his flute, will share the heat
and burden of the instrumental work, except
when Elsy Treweek or F. R. Collier is burst-
ing into song.
* •-!: * *
The victims of Herod, the King of Crime,
will cease their wanderings., at the Princess’s,
on Friday night. “The Night Side of Lon-
don” has nearly completed its term of moral
service, therefore “Queen of the Redskins” is
waiting to be crowned with success. This
drama, new to Australia, is described as a
Feast of Scenic Splendor, and a hungry mul-
titude will eat it on Saturday night.
ifc sjc
The militant applauder had a great even-
ing at Melbourne Olympia on Saturday, when
“The Deserter” and several other items gave
him excuse for making a noise. “The De-
serter” was a pretentious concoction, with
Woman and Red Indian as principal motifs.
It also showed the end of a curious boozer,
who loved his country before his beer. A
well-plotted piece was entitled “The Sun-
beam,” and the comedy of “Chumps” was
not difficult to find. There was, however,
small cause for mirth in “Willie as a Mar-
tyr,” a type of comic play that leaves this
writer a prey to melancholy.
FRANK TA IT, MANAGERI
A circus touch was added to the Opera
House programme on Saturday by Frank J.
Sidney, who is a jumper- of entertaining
trickiness. He clears with ease a chair
placed on top of a table, and, while. on a
bike, indulges in exercise over a skipping
rope manipulated by a couple of confeder-
ates. A lady assistant leans against a table
with a desk bell placed upon her forehead,,
and Frank leaps on to the bell button with
sufficient force to cause the bell to ring, but:
insufficient to inconvenience the lady. He
puts out candles by leaping over them with-
out knocking them down, and performs other
feats of a like nature; in fact, he would pro-
bably be able to leap from Genesis to Num-
bers, lightly touching the Ten Command-
ments in transit, and avoiding Leviticus al-
together. The Amaranths, the four ladies;
with vivacious understandings, are still win-
ning approval ; the effervescent mademoiselle-
with the undisciplined front hair gaining a.
bit more than the others. The ball-punching:
Iveeleys appear to be a couple of good-
natured athletes, but, nevertheless, give one-
the impression that they could, if necessary,
combine destruction with amusement.
Niagara and Falls, and Fanny Powers are
others who lend their moral support to the
programme.
** * *
“Kismet,” at Melbourne Royal, continues
to present its rich spectacular “guff” to an
admiring populace, GlorybetoAllah! All
things are as they were in the beginning.
Oscar Asche slays his enemies. The Caliph
climbs over the garden wall, to plight his
troth to the fair Slice of the Moon, whom he
ultimately puts into his royal meat safe, and
sends to his royal larder. The trumpets
sound and Bagdad bows its unclean head as
before. Also, the Wazir’s wife remains no
better than sfe&should be, and the rotundity
of Bessie Major invariably raises a larf, and
the snake that encircles the silent sorcerer is
not stuffed.
“U.S.”: Domiciled in Melbourne just now, and!
aroused by the Titanic disaster, I have been examin-
ing the deficiency in boats, otherwise means of fire
.escape from public edifices. I declare that five arc
dangerous: St. Francis’s Church, Wesley Church, the
Guildhall (not Town Hall), Athenaeum Hall and
Masonic Hall. Such is just a matter of opinion. Let
the Board of Health give me a certificate, and may
be I will be satisfied. Meanwhile, I say that, Titani-
cally, they have only half the boats. The Bijou
Theatre is all upstairs. Nothing can remedy that.
As bad as the London Criterion, all down in the-
hole, so that you walk from the street into the gal-
lery. At the back is the Globe, and a fire in one
would do for both. The Melbourne King’s Theatre
has space all round, or all square, like the London
Lyceum, in the Strand. Bar vestibules ought to be
abolished at the Royal and Opera House. None at
other places; why there ? Her Majesty’s is a rat-
tling good house to get out of, although modeHed!
on the Vienna Ring Theatre, scene of one of the
most disastrous fires. The Princess’s is good, but not
so good. The Melbourne Corporation is giving double
breadth to the Swanston-street door. Yet two new
doors have been smashed through into Collins-street.
AT POVERTY POINT.
♦
TOO MUCH POWELL.
[For The Bulletin.]
TOWN HALL.
Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
MAY 17 and 20.
THE GREAT EVENT OF THE YEAR.
THE COMING OF THE WORLD-FAMOUS
BRITISHER,
LIEUT.-GENERAL SIR ROBERT
BADEN-POWELL.
BADEN-POWELL.
BADEN-POWELL.
-—Daily paper advt.
To-day two rival Powells grip
This town with blatant showmen laden:—
The gentleman whose first name’s “Pip,”
And he whose .other name is Baden.
N.s.w. GEEBUNG.
“Hullo”: Should not be surprised to see the fashion
for green hair setting in. Why women don’t dye
their hair green, after seeing Gladys Ellam as Water
in “The Blue Bird,” I can no more understand than
I can guess why they dye their hair henna. And
Water is to me the most delightful character in that
literary dream. She gave the impression of H204
every moment she was on the stage. She looked like
a summer rain-shower, a waterfall, the Snowy River,
the stuff you clean your teeth with, the sweep of a
breaker, and a shower-bath all the time; and her
grace and loveliness have converted me to teetotalism.
She is the greatest advocate of the prohibitionists I
have ever discovered. If all the stuff 1 used to put
into my whisky looked like her, all the pubs would
have to be turned into artesian bores.
From Sydney Sun : “John Hicks, an actor, said he
was employed at the Sports Ground to keep people
off the fence.” What with keeping people off the
fences by day and out of theatres by night, the mum-
mer’s life is a strenuous affair, indeed.
“Val. Doy”: Your “Spasmodic Correspondent” (B.
2/5/’12) shows the fitness of his norn-de-pumpkin by
spasms either of forgetfulness or of theatrical ignor-
ance. Leaving out references to his background
lapses, in the middle distances he omits George Rig-
nold’s splendid production of “Julius Csesar” —in
1889 or 1890, I think, with a revival in a later year.
He also forgets Bill Holloway’s excellent production
of “Twelfth Night,” and the fine Viola of Essie
Jenyns—in 1888, or thereabouts. From his list of
best lagos, he drops that of J. Carter Edwardes (?) —-
about the only redeeming feature of Wilson Barrett’s
dreary “Othello” production. As for “Macbeth,”
he says nothing of Rignold’s presentation with
Janet Achurch as his Lady, in 1891 ; or of
the gallant attempt made by Nance O’Neil
early in this century to prevent the Mac-
beth of McKee Rankin from being smothered
in his own suet. As for the statement that Nora
Kerin was our best Rosalind, in my judgment she was
amateurish ; and Janet Waldorf, the American ac-
tress (though given poor notices by the dailies), was
the equal of any seen here in the part during the last
40 years. To corile down into the foreground “S.C.”
also omits Asche’s recent presentation of “The
Taming of the Shrew,” and his “Merchant of Venice.”
His earlier lapses I leave to. Harry Leston, George
Darrell and other dramatic dhcyclopsedias.
Emily Soldene died worth £810. One would
have thought that the wonderful old bonnet would
have fetched that much as a curiosity.
That blithe charmer, Carrie Moore, is billed for
another visit, but ■ this time in less distinguished
company that when she impressed local Presbyterians
and others as Sonia in “The Merry Widow.” She is
to appear at the National Amphitheatre, under the
management of the Brennan-Fuller Arm. At present
she is doing a turn in the M.L. theatres controlled
by the same co.
The most unfortunate recent happening in thea-
trical circles is the falling out of Branscombe and
Bevan, just ventilated in an Adelaide court, at great
length and expense. The very popular open-air
“Dandies” were managed by Bevan for a time, and
he had much to do with the building of the King’s
Theatre. The two men were “Dear Teddie” and
“Dear Freddie” at the time. It is always a mistake
to mix up friendship and business; and a bit of
jewellery to Mrs. Bevan settled the obligation. Then
the work increased, and Bevan kept on doing it, even
proposing to give up his teachership of singing at
the University Conservatorium for the purpose. Pre-
sently Branscombe was saying, “You have £70-odd
that belongs to us,” and Bevan was retorting, “You
•owe me that and hundreds more.” After a long and
much-postponed hearing, the one has won his £70,
but the other gets £270 for services rendered. There
is talk of appealing. It was an obvious case for a
sensible business man’s arbitration; but no foes are
so bitter as old friends, once estranged.
Walter Bentley sticks to his trade, the stage, by
infusing elocution and the art of Macready, Henry
Irving, Lady Macbeth, and other highly respected per-
sons into the youthful aspirant. Bentley was a good
enough actor, and was better than most in parts with
a tartan pattern in their jokes. His Sydney seminary
plunges into its usual monthly performance in St.
James’s Hall this (Thursday) evening.
Following this Australian Drama Night at Mel-
bourne Turn Verein Hall, there is to be a “Smoker”
farewell to journalist “Billy” Moore at Sargent’s
caf6, Elizabeth-street, on Saturday, the 18th. Ber-
nard O’Dowd, Louis Esson and Fred McCubbin are
booked to respond to the toasts of “Literature,”
“Drama” and “Art” on this bohemian occasion, and
Moore’s friends have undertaken to make it gee.
“Melb”: Lily Brayton’s scheme of a “Kismet”
fancy ball shows that beauty and a subtle knack
of advertisement are not incompatible—though for
that matter no one said they were. The revel is
not to occur till May 30, which is just about the
time the big show will be needing a fillip. The tickets
are but 12s. 6d. apiece, and the costumes not a tenth as
costly as you would think. A tremendous committee has
been roped in, including the Mayoress, the Madden
dame, Lily Brayton, and a whole herd of mummers.
The entire “Kismet” company will go in costume,
barring the snake and the Turkish-bath girl.
“Avon”: Melbourne’s accomplished elocutionist
visitor, Alex. Watson, was rather out when he wrote
in one of the papers that Shakspeare only meant his
plays for the stage. Another correspondent picked
him up in a convincing manner. In two of his pro-
logues, Shakspeare mentions that the Globe perform-
ances only lasted two hours. Yet “The Comedy of
Errors” is the only one of his plays that can be
given within that time “Twelfth Night” is a short
play. Watson cut out one-third, and yet it took him
two hours in recitation. Shakspeare’s plays vary
from three hours to four, to enact right through
“Hamlet” thus occupies over four hours. So only
half can have been given at the Globe. Shakspeare
wrote, perhaps, more for the reader than the actor.
Apparently he kept purple-patching up the various
dramas, with literary titbits, such as the Seven
Ages and Romeo’s strangely malapropos description
of the Apothecary’s Shop. Pepys wrote that the
“Midsummer Night’s Dream” was the sorriest stuff he
•ever saw acted. Why? Because it was hacked and
garbled, and the performers did not know half their
parts.
George Castles shipped himself for Berlin the other
day, to join sister Amy, and act as her “representa-
tive” when she appears in opera in Vienna. George,
presumably, has ideas of getting a minor singing job
under the German management. His robust tenor
voice is very good quality, and, if he had taken more
■care of it, might have developed into a mighty fine
organ. For the past two or three years George
Castles has been running a “Merry Widow” co. around
the Commonwealth, in partnership with B. D. O’Con-
nor. If they made money, as is stated, they fairly
earned it. The show was admirable of its makeshift
hind, although the scenery invited ridicule, and the
company was only 20 strong. Edward Wyn played
the principal broad comedy part. O’Connor figured
as the romantic hero. Castles was the strenuous
singer who paired off with the mezzo-soprano. Eva
Moore was a winsome prima donna. Her Sonia in
“The Merry Widow” had much of the charm which
was almost entirely wanting in Carrie Moore’s per-
formance of that sinuous Marsovian lady.
“C. Ockney”: I have just come across a weird tes-
timonial to the blessings of somebody’s ointment
from the lady who has just “gone back to the stage,”
which is another way of saying “gone back on Wow-
serism.” “It first came under my notice at Lord’s
Cricket Ground, London. 1 was attending a match
there. One of the cricketers received a severe blow
with the ball on the shin. For a while the game, had
to be stopped. A lot of people gathered round the
injured man. Of course I had to go too,” etc., etc.
The idea of a match being stopped, at the head-
quarters of the bat and ball game, because a player
had been hit on the shin and an evangelist in embryo
felt inspired to rub ointment o-n the abrasion, what
time the populace flooded the pitch and cheered,
would occur to hardly anyone but a professional
missioniser or an advertising expert.
Some London theatrical runs: Pinero’s “Mind the-
Paint Girl,” which looked very wobbly at starting,,
was, at latest advices, going strongly with 50 not
out; and Shaw's “Fanny’s First Play,” unexpectedly
popular, has passed 400. In musical comedy, “Night-
birds” was at 100, and “The Quaker Girl” at 51)0.
“Leges”: Edward Terry, the quizzical comedian
and burlesque actor, was not only churchwarden of
Barnes (England), but a magistrate of Surrey. Strange
to add, he acted in comedies named “The Church-
warden” and “The Magistrate.” I cannot offha-nd re-
call any other English actor who held either billet,
unless Alleyn, Shakspeare’s friend, was a church-
warden. W. S. Gilbert, dramatist, was once a paid
magistrate. Actors were forced by law to attend
church in Shakspeare’s day, but they didn’t hold holy
offices. Certainly, Shakspeare attended St. Saviour’s,
Southwark. It is -not much changed. Morton King,
of Melbourne, was tragedian, auctioneer, magistrate,
and M.L.A. He used regularly to sit on the District
Bench, for small debts, and was looked upon as a set-
off to the inevitable One Jew —Rapiport, Barnett, or
somebody. Coppin was a magistrate, and Mayor of
Richmond, but wouldn’t go to church, although he
worked in double harness with Rev. Perks, of St.
Stephen’s, at the dispensary.
London music-halls are making a (probably) un-
wise use of their new freedom to put up plays or
anything they like—so long as there are at least six
items on the programme. One stages a whole panto-
mime, with five turns —which might be in it—given
outside of it to comply with the law. Another gives
a “Masque of India,” with long speeches, lasting in
all one solid hour. And patrons are already - begin-
ning to yawn like the crater of Vesuvius. It is not
for this kind of thing that they deserted the “regu-
lar” theatre.
“Chudah”: A theatre has been opened in Jerusa-
lem, Palestine. The notice before me, in a Jewish
newspaper, states that the performances are in
Hebrew, I suppose rather like the Yid shows given
by Weisberg and Finkelstein’s New York company,
in the Melbourne Temperance Hall. The drama was
inaugurated at Jerusalem with a translation of
Moliere’s “L’Avare,” entitled “Harpagon, or the
Miser.” Rather odd for a choice, but it went im-
mensely. The Jew is a philosopher, and laughs at:
the stories about his economy. The Hibernian, who.
is not a philosopher, quarrels with the people who.
show a gorilla under the name of Casey. “The Mer-
chant of Venice” follows “Harpagon” at the Theatre-
Royal, Jerusalem.
“B.J.”: Katherine Grey is filling a music-hall en-
gagement at the Palace Theatre, Chicago. She is ap-
pearing in a one-act snort or yap, entitled “The-
Wages of Sin,” written by McKee Rankin, the embon -
point mummer who used to stand by out here what
time Nance O’Neil died largely all over the stage.
“Harrison O.”: Yet another terror threatens the
music-’allite. Vaude and Verne, of burnt-cork notor-
iety, some time ago perpetrated a ditty called “Lubra,
Won’t yer be mah Gin,” and now Victor Prince and
Jack Cannot have been guilty of an “aboriginal coon
song,” entitled, “I Will Build a Little Gunyah for
You and Me.” So a new stage fashion, as a result of
which Binghi will be shown cavorting amorously in
the limelight in his out-worn hat and State-aided
blanket, is seemingly upon us.
From “Gee,” who is by way of being an artist
himself: Oscar Asche, if I remember aright, mourned
at the bitter hardship of being forced to pay heavy
duties on his scenery for the “Kismet” show ; also, he
murmured something to the effect that the scenes
could not be painted here, or procured here. After
visiting “Kismet,” I am of the opinion that Oscar
wasted his duty-money. We have scenic artists here
—f’rinstance, Coleman and Upward—who could have
done any of the stuff Asche exhibits on their ears,
so to speak. Not that Asche’s scenery isn t good. It
is exquisite in spots. But some of it is second-rate.
Thus, in one scene of a city, a mosque supposed to be
in the background is out of perspective. In color
and in tone it jumps from the distance where it
ought to be, and brings itself forward, and right up
to the buildings in the foreground. I can name some,,
comparatively speaking, inferior local men who.
wouldn’t have perpetrated that sort of error if they
had had the job of painting “Kismet.”
(“ Poverty Point ” continued on page 30.>
A bad danger spot in Sydney’s congested!
railway system is Clyde station, 13 miles,
from the city (note the Devil’s number in,
the distance!). Trucks loaded at Darling;
Harbor, where room is scanty and what
there is in great demand, are rushed, as
soon as the tarpaulins are tied, away to
Clyde, where they are stowed away in in-
terminable sidings till trains can be made
up and engines found to take them to then
destination. An enormous amount of shunt-
ing is done there, and engines with loads ot
trucks are continually crossing and re-cross-
ing the main through lines. Owing to the
press of traffic on the main lines through
the day this crossing, shifting and sorting
out of loads is done mostly at night, when
the last railway drunk has gone home with
his plug hat on his ear. So, if the human
factor in the block and local signals goes
wrong there is always a chance of a through
train crashing into a line of trucks crossing
from left to right, or vice versa. The main
lines should have been carried right round
this shunting yard long ago, and the laying
of the new track is now being attended to.
The work was started months earlier, but is,
apparently, progressing with the velocity
of half a snail; and while it cfuwls thou-
sands of people take risks. If the public
only knew about half the possibilities it' in-
curs running through Clyde shunting yard,
13 miles from Sydney, especially on a Fri-
day, its hair would stand on end.
“O.K.” writes: —
Victoria claims one more seat in the Australian.
Parliament than the re-distribution scheme allows..
Within nine months since the census was taken, Vic-
toria improved its population by 47,243, as against
26,049 added to N.S.W. On those figures N.S.W. is
certainly -not entitled to count as a more progress-
ively populous State than Vic. That is if the elec-
toral rights of the respective States are measured by
their voting possibilities rather than by their voting
actualities. From a national point of view a re-
distribution of seats should be guided by polling
returns. The non-voter has no personal claim to
political representation, anyhow.


8.J.1
A Sensible Everyday Boot
at One Guinea.
For tnorougn protection against cold or wet, and
for everyday use where hard, sol d wear is a neces-
sity, this Guinea Boot has our highest recommenda-
tion. The Shape is extra smart, with neat round
Toes and straight Toecaps. The Uppers are cut from
selected Box Calf, and will not chip or crack, special
care being taken in lasting to see that the lining is
tight and smooth. The Soles are pliable and flexible
• —the leather being treated to give maximum wear
with little weight. Wide Welts to afford protection
to the Uppers, whilst lending distinction to the Bopt.
Considered in every detail, this Boot represents abso-
lutely the- biggest value offering at the price.
Price 21/- Carriage Paid
to every part of Australasia and the Pacific Isles.
DAVID JONES LTD.
(Oap. 0.P.0.), SYDNEY.
wjmmaMgmmmmammm
'
.
mm
3*-
m.
m
V':
Kug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid.”
Free e ample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
«.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Commissioner Russell, of Adelaide Local
Court, can be credited with a new departure
in recovery-of-tenement cases. Adelaide is
full of cases where the owner wants his
house, and the tenant stays on because
nothing else (at a reasonable rate) can be
found. “I can’t yet a home,” said one of
these in court the other day. “People say
they will let me know, and then—when they
find I have six children —they send word that
the place is gone.” Said the magistrate: “It
seems as if there ought to be a sliding scale
in these cases.” And then the scale slid
right enough. The man with six children
was allowed a month to get out, while the
one with a pair of them was ordered to quit
inside a fortnight.
Lawyer Piddington has been hurriedly de-
spatched to London by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment to put Pa Delohery’s pot on before the
Privy Council. Delohery was chairman of
the Public Service Board, at a salary of
£lOOO a year, and having a fair amount of
time to spare after his retirement, on the
ground of old age, he began to figure out
what pension pay was coming his way. His
calculations somewhat alarmed him; in
fact, he reckoned he was out on arrears and
interest to the tune of £4500. The Govern-
ment, however, couldn’t see the matter in
the same light, and, although the Supreme
Court subsequently decided that the claim
was good, a flabbergasted Cabinet decided to
defend the Treasury to the last. Hence the
despatch of a large legal gun to the Heights
of Horsehair.
N.S.W. Judge Murray was in good form
when he sentenced Alfred Smith at Sydney,
a few days ago. Smith was charged with
shooting with intent to murder, and also
with armed burglary. And as Judge Murray
was feeling good, he gave him a life sentence
on one charge and 14 years on the other. But
whether Smith does the life first and then
the 14 years, or does the 14 years and then
starts on the life, Mr. Murray didn’t explain.
It was a pity. There was a fine chance to
clear up a difficult point.
Melbourne is suffering another strike
among women workers. The former one
occurred among the match-factory girls ; now
some city waitresses and boarding-house-
maids have ceased from toil. The cause in
the latter instance seems to be the habit of
some employers of persistently trying to
get round a Wages Board determination if
they can compass the . feat. The Hotel-
keepers and Caterers’ Board recently fixed
the wages of waitresses at 275. 6d.; bar-
maids, 675. 6d„ and barmen at 50s. This
was not so bed as far as it went, but it
didn’t go far enough ; inasmuch as the wage
rates, including board or board and lodging,
should also have been fixed. The Factories
Act prohibits any deductions for such mat-
ters, but it doesn’t prohibit an employer from
providing employees with bed and meals, and
charging a “reasonable” amount therefor.
The trouble is that the employer often has
original views as to the meaning of the word
“reasonable.” Some waitresses who were
previously getting 20s. per week, with meals,
now find themselves charged 10s. a week for
the tucker, which leaves them half a crown
worse off than before. Other employers are
“charging”—in reality “deducting,” because
the employee is compelled to have her meals
on the premises—15s. for “scrap” food and
inferior sleeping space. Some hotelkeepers
SYMBOLICAL
To-morrow is the second Sunday in May—Mother’s
Day in this and other lands.
Men will wear a white flower, preferably a white
carnation, in honor of their mothers. —News item.
"Suffering. Johnson! Is that a prickly pear
you're wearing?”
"Yaas, old boy. Stepmother , you know. ”
again insist on the barmaids paying for full
board, though only partial board is supplied
or required. Barmen are also being charged
as high as 18s. for “accommodation,” though
they frequently miss meals, as when off duty
and on Sundays. The latter class of workers
points to South Australia. There the union
has an agreement with the Hotelkeepers’ As-
sociation, by which every employee over 18
gets not less than 555. per week. Board and
lodging may be provided in S.A., if desired,
but not more than 14s. per week may be
charged for it.
EXIT
COOK.
MISTRESS
(to departing
cook): "Well,
Clara , I suppose
you will want a
character before
you go?
CLARE: “Yes, mum;
and would ye be after signing another name to it , as I don't want it known that I ever
worked for you."
The Health Officer of Collingwood (Vic.)
lately told the A.N.A. some staggering
truths about the local State schools, and
invited it to harass somebody into doing
something. There are three schools under
his official care. At No. 1, the infants’
room, occupied by 200 children, is a disgrace
to the Education Department and the com-
munity, being dirly, unkempt and unattrac-
tive. Owing to the latches being broken,
many of the windows cannot be opened,
while others cannot be shut, and the ven-
tilation is as bad as it can be. The place
is more like a gaol than a bright, cheerful
teaching-house for children No. 2 school
is overcrowded and a disgrace in itself.
Again, in the infants’ room, odcupieu by aio
kiddies, the atmosphere is putrid; the
teachers are pale and hectic looking, and the
infants are pale and anaemic. No. 3is also
overcrowded to an alarming degree. Many
of the children suffer from defective eye-
sight, hearing and teeth, and are afflicted
with liver, kidney and heart troubles. Of
course Collingwood schools are not alone in
being thus overcrowded and neglected. From
Brunswick and Essendon in the north to
Brighton and Cheltenham in the south, the
same shameful state of affairs prevails. In
the neighboring district of Fitzroy the Alfred
Crescent school has provided 36 cases of
diphtheria during the last three months, and
so far the department hasn’t found sufficient
energy to do the necessary clean up. The
school is disgracefully overcrowded, badly
built and ill-ventilated. In the infants’
room the nippers have to squeeze sideways
past the desks to get in and out, and instead
of the of floor space each is supposed
to get they only have 7ft. Another lovely
class room in this educational gaol consists
of a covered passage-way between two main
sections of the building. This den has no
windows, its only ventilation being obtained
by the occasional opening of a door, and
through a broken pane in the upper part
of the said occasional door. It is a lovely
tale of meanness and neglect. The expendi-
ture that past Governments have shuffled
out of has not been new or unexpected ; it
has been just ordinary, everyday, ever-recur-
ring expenditure on maintenance, and the
provision of new schools for new population
—and it has been ignored and dodged, just
as Tory Governments all the world over
dodge expenditure on education. Now Min-
ister Billson talks of floating a loan to catch
no with neglected education expenditure.
“Hullo”: My nephew, “Henry Horsecol-
lar,” pleads in a recent editorial for cities
flat on the top. They are bound to come,
anyhow. The aeroplane will arrive from
Heaven, and it won’t stop in a paddock in an
outlying suburb. It will have to land some-
where where a lift will drop its passenger
direct to his office. Within five years every
building put up will have to have a level
space on the top for the comfort of its
tenants, and it will have to be enacted that
no person’s life / shall be endangered, while
flying home or to his office or for a pint of
beer, by inequalities or spikes. It will be
just as necessary for roofs to maintain a
level as it is now for railway lines. Even
the S. M. Herald’s thicket of little tin
chimneys will have to go.
ANOTHER CASE OF OVERWORE.
Several counterfeit sovereigns, purporting to have
been coined in 1910, have been successfully passed on
business people in Sydney of late.
ISAACSTEIN (to dentist) : "Vat can you do for
me in de vay off a new sedt of teeth ?
Aline oldt Vons vos all used up mit dese
peastly sham sofereigns.”
THE HERALD OF LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(To a brisk accompaniment.)
MATRIMONY.—A Handsome Gent., of High De-
scent (with means), desires to correspond with hand-
some-, educated young lady (with means). No re-
ciprocation to P.O. addresses. — SUßLlMlTY, Herald
Office.
— Advt. in Sydney Morning Herald.
Soloist (brightly):
A handsome gent.
Of high descent,
A marquis or a duke,
Is hard to catch ;
A brilliant match
Is now a brilliant fluke.
Yet here we find,
When quite resigned
To clerks and second-raters,
Amongst the ads.
What makes our lads
Look very small pertaters!
Chorus (emphatically — as one girl): —
VERY SMALL PERTATERSI
Soloist:—
He has some means
But still he leans
To somebody with more.
’Twould be too rash
To scorn the cash
With wolves about the door.
For high descent
Won’t pay the refit,
And bailiffs will not tarry
Though he should be
The Duke of C.
So money he must marry!
-;i
Chorus ( approvingly): —
MONEY HE MUST MARRY!
Soloist (warningly ): —
He will not jump
At any frump !
She must have looks and brains !
For, once a wife,
She’s his for life,
And at his side remains.
Ilis servants all,
In park and hall.
Where he his leisure passes,
Must plainly see
The mistress she
Is of the Upper Classes!
Chorus (deaf eninyly ): —
OF THE UPPER CLASSES!
Soloist (breathlessly): —
So here’s a chance
For you ! Romance
Is feeling very sad!
A Gent, with means
- Forlornly deans
Upon a shilling ad.
The noble girls
Whom single earls
May wed —De Vere, Fitzgerald—-
Are altered, and
The lovesick band
Relies upon the Herald!
Chorus (bellowing) :—
THE “SYDNEY MORNING HERALD” !
(Accompaniment here slows down to suitably deep
tone, and reverent pace.)
GRAND CHORUS.
(Very high and hopeful, suggesting angels giving
good advice free. Brasses and drums emphasising
every syllable. Conductor on feet thrashing the air.)
YOUR REF—-UGE—AND—-YOUR STRENGTH—
SHALL—BE,
WHEN DUKE—DOMS—ARE—IMPERILLED—
( Gasp)
O—HAND—SOME—GENT. !
(Crash!)
OF—HIGH—DESCENT !
(Bash—Bash ! !)
THE—“SYD—NEY—MORN—ING—
HER—ALD” ! ! !
N.S.W.
KODAK.


fill
m®
(2
m
* liH
Y domestic uses.
Half the toil of
household work is
done away with
when Sunlight
V Soap enters j
the home.
NO. 87. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
“PURE FOOD ACT, t 908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. NO. 67.
Hunyadi
Janos
Is the Best
Natural Aperient Water
Bottled at the Springs
Used the World over
I Drink on arising a wineglassful for,
INDIGESTION and
BILIOUSNESS
Something Warmer ■« Shirts
The weather calls for such a change.
Cotton must now be cast aside for wool. And in Ceylon
Flannel Shirts we are showing a new idea in double detachable
collars which is a very welcome innovation. At the point of
the collar we have inserted buttonholes to take a two-button
strap to keep the ends close together under tie, and just to
obviate the necessity for a tie pin. These Ceylon Shirts come in
new Striped designs—patterned in somewhat broader stripes
than formerly, and on fresh ground tones.
Price 7|6 and 9/6
Please state starched collar when ordering, and add 6d. for
postage, or Is. for three shirts.
Catalogues sent Post Free on Request.
DEAPES & CO. LTD.,
*■ “ Men’s Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
t|i *'
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant: —
A memento of old Australia is in possession of the
officers of the Presbyterian Church at Crow’s Nest,
North Sydney. It is part of an oak tree that grew
on the site of the church which was erected in 1906.
The ground was the gift of the late John Hay, who
was in possession under the will of the later or pre-
vious David Berry, heir of the exceedingly previous
Alexander Berry. On the site was a cottage, the
Crow’s Nest, built by Edward Wollstonecroft, one of
the early settlers of these parts. A Sydney morning
paper states that the .cottage was built in 1806—
which is nonsense—and that the tree was planted
about the same time. Alexander Berry made his
first voyage to Sydney in 1808, and settled there in
1810, being then about 30 years of age. Edward
Wollstonecroft, whose sister Alexander Berry mar-
ried, was born in 1787, and died in 1834. He was
interred in the Old Sandhills, but subsequently the
remains were removed to St. Thomas’s, North Sydney.
The ground for the cemetery at North Sydney yvas
given by Alexander Berry, and his wife’s was the first
corpse placed there. Wollstonecroft was a physical
wreck for many years, and his medical man ordered
him to “the bush on the heights of North Shore,”
where the Governor of the time gave him the huge
grant known as the Crow’s Nest estate. The cottage
was built about the year 1823, being the second in
the howling wilderness of North Shore, which was
then almost outside civilisation. When Wollstonecroft
died he left the property to his sister, wife of Alex-
ander Berry, and Berry owned it on the death of his
wife. When Berry died, in the early ’7o’s, he left his
entire estate to liis brother David, who came out to
Sydney in the ’3o’s. David quitted his tenement of
clay in the usual course., and left his property on cer-
tain conditions to John Hay, who had been a draper
in Auckland, and John Hay’s widow now occupies
Crow's Nest house. Here endeth the troubled history
of Crow’s Nest and all its works.
NOT IMMA-
cULATE:
FATHER (making inquiries about,
his daughter's young man):
“He doesn't smoke, he doesn't
drink, he doesn't bet! What
DOES he do? Hasn't he any faults?"
DAUGHTER (eagerly): “ Oh, yes, dad! He
teaches a Sunday-school."
In days gone by Victoria provided penal-
ties for the illegal use of wheelbarrows,
buggies, waggons, hearses and other known
means of conveyance. But the Legislature
hadn’t sense enough to include “all sea,
land, air, spiritual or other vehicles which
may be invented at any time in the future or
revived out of the past.” So, in Victoi'ia,
if you leave your balloon, aeroplane, hydro-
plane, tumbril, submarine, sedan-chair,
motor-car or disembodied spirit (such as
Stead’s Julia) alone for a minute in the
street, some hoodlum careers away with ir,
and has a good’ time driving Polly all
round the suburbs, or doing even worse
things, and leaves your exhausted property
on a waste allotment in the small hours of
the morning. The criminal law offers no re-
dress whatsoever. The civil law decides
that, when the owner of the car or other
vehicle sees the thief rushing by, he may
stop him if he can. and take his name and
address if he is willing to give it, and sue
him for damages if he can get them. Which
is an eminently satisfactory state of affairs
for the owner of the car. In Melbourne,
nowadays, it is believed that the more intel-
ligent class of thieves shift their plunder in
borrowed motor-cars. By dint of furious
driving on the outward journey the plunder
can be deposited anywhere, 40 miles away,
and by dint of driving like the very devil on
the back track, the vehicle can be left before
dawn within a mile of the starting noint.
And then there is nothing to show in which
direction its midnight adventure led it.
Val. J. Crowley (from Berlin) :
This country can show Australia priceless points
in the matter of water-conservation. The, indispen-
sable fluid grows uncomfortably scarce during the
latter end of the summer months, and the canals in
the land of William the Talkative are models of
economy. Every tpwn of the slightest importance
has some kind of canal system, and to-day there are
not less than 100 steamers trading between Dresden
and Hamburg on about as much water as Australia
would use for a fair-sized sheep run. A typical ex-
ample of economy is to be found on the Dortmund-
Ems canal, where there is a fall of some 40ft. be-
tween one point of the cfinal and the river. To save
the waste of water involved in a lock system, the
entire barge or steamer is floated into a large tank
which is then lowered- down to the river level when
the boat goes put, or.hoisted up when it comes in.
Every river is a mass of locks. A most interesting
set of these are to be found higher up the afore-
mentioned canal, where there is a drop of 250 ft. in
three-quarters of a.mile. This is navigated by four
sets of triple chamber locks. The entire distance
is negotiated with the wasting of only 40 per cent,
of the water required for a one-lock chamber, and in
the summer months even this loss is overcome by
pumping the water back. The canal system is so
complete that practically the whole of Kaiser Bill’s
fodder stores travel'by barge, and the fruit and vege-
table supply of Berlin comes the same way. There
are half a dozen rivers in our water-starved continent
that could be made highly reproductive on the above
lines.
“Nance”: One of Mel-
bourne’s unpublished burglar
stories comes from Brighton
way. The young lady of the
house was alone at dusk
when the door opened, a
stealthy footstep fled along
the hall, and a masked face
behind a revolver clamored
in a whisper at the draw-
ing-room portal for her wed-
ding presents or her life.
The bride, however, was
young, and she had been
rr eared on a Queensland sta-
tion. She stood not on the
order of her smiting, but
smote like a whirlwind —
with an aboriginal weapon
that stood against the
wall; and the burglar
spoke a brief howl and
fell. Then the fear
that she had done mur-
der came upon the
young matron, and she
ran for assistance.
When she came back
with the article the
burglar was gone, but
there were great stains
on the carpet, and a
blood-soaked handker-
chief with the name
of Reginald Clar-
ence Percy lay in
a corner. Robbery
with violence has got
down very low when
the Percy tribe takes
to it. If Henry Mor-
gan had been called
Percy he would prob-
ab 1 y have been a
curate and busliranged on the high seas with
, a collection-plate.
* * * *
A gentleman qf leisure, calling himself
George Reid, who has possibly adopted a
> political name for public purposes, in a man-
ner of speaking, but who has evidently. se-
lected’ the wrong namesake, happened into
Fitzroy (Vic.) Court the other morning.
The arresting constable said Reid had be-
stowed himself in a restful position .on a
footpath for about an hour when he (the
policeman) instructed'him (Reidl to move
on. He crossed the street and placed him-
self wearily against another verandah , post,
and was just’ falling into perpendicular
slumber when again he was desired to shift
himself. He traversed the'thoroughfare,once
’’more and slept upright avainst a pillar box,
frnd then a restless and infuriated cop.
dragged ’ him away to a cell. The Court,
learning, that his name was George Reid,
ordered him seven’ days’ perfect calm in a
public building.
Victorian Coroner Cole lately placed a
wrathful finger on a weak spot in the Infant
Life Protection Act. The State wisely
takes charge of and boards out infants whom
their mothers —often single girls—have diffi-
culty in looking after. They are expected
to pay or help pay the 10s. per week al-
lowed the foster-mother, but if the payments
fall four weeks in arrears the infants become
wards of the State, and the State maintains
THE MERE FRAGMENT.
IST FAIR ONE: “Is that Miss Weighty's
brother with her? ”
2ND DITTO : "No, dear. That's only her half-
brother.”
them thenceforth. But—and this is what
the Coroner wants altered —should they
presently depart this life, there is no com-
pulsion on their guardians—the Neglected
Children’s departmental oliicers —to report
their deaths. “For a very long time,” said
l)r. Cole, “there had been no inquests re-
garding these children. I then made in-
quiries, and in the last few weeks there has
been a goodly number.” Just so! The care
bestowed on these boarded-out children may
be all it should be, but it is just as well that
an inquisitive person like a coroner should
try and discover why such a “goodly num-
ber” of them pass out. The vast mortality
among the children of unmarried parents has
always been a subject that shouted at the
top of its voice for investigation.
“Curse o’ Moses” : What a lot of news-
paper space is give up to statements of al-
leged longevity. If there were half as many
on the insurance companies’ books, there
would be big fortunes in the business for
somebody. In one short column of a recent
issue of a Sydney paper there was an ac-
count of a parrot which died in Germany,
aged 107 ; of a man who rode to hounds for
80 years, and died at 101; and of another
who, after hanging on for 104 years, has
just had a glad reunion with his youngest
sister, aged 80. The said glad meeting took
place in the Windsor workhouse. A great
meeting place for the British aged is the
workhouse.
“Port Watch”: Australians would pro-
bably take more interest in the signals re-
cently flown that the steam yacht Vectis was
being withdrawn from service if they recog-
nised under that name the old Rome —-the
“Rolling Rome,” as it was called —which
used to roll them and their rich relations
into and out of Australia. It was launched
somewhere round 80 years ago, and
jogged along under the P. and O. house flag
by the Suez route up to
about 10 years since. It
carted N.SAV.’s detachment
of mounted troops to Egypt
to take a hand in the ruc-
tions there in the early ’Bo’s,
and it will also be remem-
bered by many as having
broken down somewhere be-
tween Fremantle and Col-
ombo, and having several
search parties scouring the
high seas for it, though it
crawled into Colombo only
three days late. Passengers
who travelled on the Rome
will remember with unmixed
feelings the method of coal-
ing employed. There were
no side bunkers with doors
for the coal to be shot into
from lighters alongside. The
coal was filled into baskets,
carried along the decks by
hand, and dashed into the
ship’s tummy through circu-
lar holes, A large percen-
tage remained in the air and
the soup and whiskers of
passengers, and would turn
up for many days in clean
dress shirts and shoes. After
the Rome made its final
smoke trail on the Australian
horizon it blossomed out as a
much-advertised steam-yacht,
and toured Yank globe-
trotters and Brixton grocers round the Nor-
, wegian fjords and other items of the Land
of the Midnight Sun. The waters of the fjords
are usually smooth as silk with all the
creases ironed out, but I’ve heard that the
old Rolling Rome managed to sustain its
early name • even there. A sister ship, the
Carthage., was broken up some seven years
ago, so it has hung on well. Peace to its
ashes —and its coal dust;
IT TUTST.
H E: “ Why don't you wear that, black satin
cosuane?”
S HE: “Oh, that thing was a swindle."
He: “Why, wasn’t it satin?"
SHE: “That’s the trouble; it was, but it
wouldn't stand it."
“G.C.W.” speaks:—
The criminal folly of sending dredges out on the blue
seas has been hideously advertised in England, where
out of 11 of these lumbering craft that were recently
despatched five ended up in the locker of D. Jones.
The Victorian Government provided an example of
the wickedness of the practice, the other day; and
now it looks as though the Ma State were going to
weigh in with another. At the time of writing it
looks a million to one in favor of the Manchester,
which the Sydney Harbor Trust bought in Lyttelton
(M.L.) for ' £16,000, being at the bottom of the
sea. This particular mud-sucker is over 20 years old
having been built in 1890. It was designed, in the
first instance, exclusively for harbor and river work,
which suggests in itself that it is not the ideal con-
veyance for deep-sea cruising. Also, it was out of
date. If it is legal to pay sailors to navigate aged
dredges, which are practically coffin ships, the sooner
the law is amended in favor of making such a prac-
tice a criminal offence, the better for the sanctity
of human life. And that is altogether apart from
the national aspect of the matter, which should
cause a self-respecting country to. take shame of itself
for having to import its ' dredges.
Wild’s Hairdressing ltooms; 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go itf you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Ilours/o'f 'business t 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at ;1 o'clock.*
BY EXAMINATION,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After a long wail about • the unchristian >arid
irreligious spirit of Australian children, the 17th
synod of the Newcastle diocese looked for a remedy.
It was decided to introduce examinations (graded and
elementary) into the Sunday-schools.
He knocks in vain at Heaven’s door,
And will most certainly be damned,
Who o’er the text-book did not pore
Nor by the crammer has been crammed.
In agony the lost souls wail,
But useless is their discontent,
And Hell gapes wide for all who fail
To get their 51 per cent. !
Old Peter’s keys are ■brown with rust,
The gate’s 1 ajar, the road is clear,
But overhead is scrolled;, “All must
Matriculate who enter here f”
All young Australians sunk in vice
: Should seek, before it is too late, ■ , fi
Their passport into Paradise— ,
I’lie Sunday-school certificate. 1 , ,
This blessing and, this curse shall* roll
Upon the children caught and crammed,
“Fifty per cent, will.say'e a soul
But 49 will leave it damned.”
N.s.w.
L.
A BREATHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. While it is to be regretted that Australia is not re-
presented by its best 11, we should in fairness agree
that the bitterness and bickering which occurred in
connection with the choice of the team should be
forgotten, at least while the team is in England.
—Argus (7/5/T2). .
The noise of yells and curses dies,
The sound of squabble is no more,
And every wrangler’s eager eyes
Are fixed upon Australia’s score.
Let bygones bygones now remain—
Until our team comes home again !
Now doth the decent citizen
In meekness turn the other cheek,
And murmur, “Thank you, brother!” when
lie gets another. Let us seek
The paths of peace, avoiding what
Is really best [pro tem .] forgot!
The blade that once with crimson dripped
Is sheathed —the hatchet buried is ;
No more the sportsman is empipped
By this confounded cricket-biz. ;
But, later on, we do expect
That tommy-axe to resurrect!
The rude and ready bunch o' fives ;
Is still; no wild soul gives it lip,
Nor shall —until the time arrives
For proper sports to let ter rip.
Then from the ashes shall arise
Such language as shall rend the skies,
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


"iWe (jori^idenco
.
. branch of lhc
A , ihe Invitation of Mr . D,. a Win ad-
Pcopte’3 Llbfr “ ! ! “ r y Atb*n.* »*» Hall «!>•“ <■"'«-
.nested a electing In lh« Aitu kln «l
illg . do contrasts an open -*?"•**
with lf*e Incetiiigs of nnothc. *|' ,r ' ' Hw |>a ,i,
nte •caucus.- and **H> Of****' C< ,^ W .
trusted the people, anti ba<l no
(Applause.)
CWclCst"
Erlt?7oSi'&stj;i
s|»ose I
him
before
P<gak(Vi : 1 Have*
io conceal <
I ll/e people f
Yoong Australia : Maybe,
Alfred , boT ftae e
donT~ le'u>P^yoo
M.-TC. : fia-s
M more -To
run . LeT~ us> uuWile
iTrne m
anions
iWe
old ii&i .
a n
I
L»yA OliTec
Leaguers :
.* A* Soo rf
3s> starn
uj? uc'll resisP
We
Have
Sr?ou> balls
moral
Sw^oft?
MESSAGE FROM AUSTRALIA.
.Mr. O. R. Snowball, M.L.A., has received
the following cable message from Sir John
Lonsdale, Unionist M.P.. chairman of the
Union Defence League. "Should like ex-
pression Australian loyalists* opinion on
Home Rule Blfl." Mr. Snowball has cabled
the following reply: "Australian loyalists
consider Bill would ruin Ireland and dis-
rupt Empire. Resist firmly. You can
rely on loyal Australian moral and material
support. (Sgd.) O. Iv- SNOWBALL."
Joseph Meredith; an elderly man. was admitted
to ihe Melbourne Hospital yesterday with a maimed
hand. Meredith, who was brought down from
Korumburra. stated that lie had mi fir rod great an-
noyance from a goat, and determined to give the
onmml a shock. He attached a piece effuse to a
dynamite cap. and lit it. intending to throw the
. bomb at the goat. He kept It in his hand too long,
however, with the result that one of his ftngera
was .blown oft, and two others were slightly
damaged.
iVe Waitress.
r W
| eeiT
Our airtriei'S ?
You wisH nae
■to -acTualTy £AT Utein ?
(VcN/cr ! never [ Help! Murder*. f^7ST"
MlssS. Employees' Union.
Caterers' Womens t | lo t the waitresses
stated. it. tt.e c \ < ‘"' n f | , n(S a reasonable rate
dM "<>» object e« - , hev contended that
10. their “ pms clves whether they
they should picas . cstn bUshrocnts «*
obtained them « jn othe r |>l«<*»-
which they «orKe«
A LOOK BOUND.


NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. n
McKenzie’s excelsior baking powder.
RING REFINEMENT
is Essential to Prolonged
Satisfaction in Wear.
Particularly Choice
Diamonds, ser in
Platinum, £2l.
1 Choice Whole Pearl
and Blue White
Diamonds, £l6.
IF a ring is in good taste, it is admired, and so worn for years.
IF of a loud variety, it is cast aside.
Threequarters of a century of ring building has developed in us the appreciation
of those little differences in ring making and setting that go to make a per-
fect ring.
hsvo Aixoiaxs—saaaoM Kivu _
“an sxaaaoa * xvaaivd
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
AMENITIES OF THE CHURCH.
Cousin Jack Local Preacher—South
AUSTRALIA VARIETY (just after the first
hymn): “ Billy , take and stop that there
orgul , will ’ee. Ido want fer to be goin ’
on weth me prayer. ”
ORGANIST: “Go est hoarse What matter
weth ’ee? I must get the wind out av ’er,
thee great chucklehead."
“Dynamo” : Let me add this to the trac-
tion dispute. Was driving a new petrol tractor for
a S.A. cocky, in a south-eastern district, and for the
three months of my stay the following is a list of
the breakages: Front axle, radius rod, steering roller,
bracket and main bearing casting. Finally, the
owner had to send to Adelaide for a new fibre reversing
drum. Before the petrol was fired by the adjacent
language I departed.
“Tiaki”: There are more ways of exhum-
ing kauri gum than by “paddocking,” mentioned by
“Tamumu” (B. 4/4/’l2), which name, by the way,
means “to hum” or “to grumble.” “Hooking ’ is
one method by which the chunks (whether in hundred-
weights or ounces) are obtained. The “hooker” goes
on to the swamp where it is just strong enough to
bear the weight of a man, thrusts his spear into six
or nine feet of mud, and prods rounu in search of
the stuff. When he strikes it he puts down an iron
rod something like a fireman’s “slice,” but with the
point only slightly turned up. With this implement
he hooks up any sized piece of varnish he meets. A
novice can’t tell the grating of rock from gum, let
alone get it to the surface when it is located. By the
way, the swamp is a good preserver. I have seen
branches of kauri —leaves and all —brought out of
the mud as fresh as the day when the shuddering
quake, or whatever it was, hurled them to their
muddy grave, which was probably when Job was
suffering from indisposition in Uz. Have also seen
old Maori instruments of agriculture and assault dug
up. Other methods are tree-climbing and draining.
The Austrians take a contract to drain a swamp for
the gum which is in it, and, in some, cases, excavate
drains deep enough to dock the Titanic. It’s a game
of chance, but the “tararas,” as Henare calls them,
generally add a little more to the “bit” at the post
office. Sometimes they score heavily, but whatever
the method of digging, they generally do it on the
“co-op.” plan mentioned by “Tamumu.” Every
gum-digger is a liar, and has struck more gum than
any other digger alive or dead. Ten thousand tons
per liar is the average amount dug in a lifetime.
**■ * *
“Wal”( from Papua) : A word or two
about the ancient fable that Melanesians, Polynesians,
Micronesians and any ordinary or common brown,
black or copper brethren are not afraid of sharks.
The writer has travelled amongst them, and knows
that they are afraid of sharks, and vyith cause, too.
Many a decent, colored brother has been bustled off
this planet by the conveyancer of the seas. I have
seen colored people that wofild die with fright if
forced to go in swimming jn certain places known as
the haunts of sharks, and I have seen the same people
swimming quite unconcernedly in other places quite
close to the dreaded spots. The colored man says
that sharks have their hunting grounds, and that if
a man knows of these places and does not swim in
them he won’t be scoffed. It seems ridiculous, but
there must be something in the theory, for on cer-
tain islands to swim on one side is plain suicide,
whereas a dip on the other side is absolutely safe.
What has evidently given the semblance of truth to
the yarn that the brown man doesn’t mind sharks is
the fact that the fatalities are rarely, if ever, made
public. If a white man gets eaten, he is given
double-leaded headlines, and the world hears all
about it; but in the case of a colored man, the only
thing that usually happens is that his relatives divide
his pigs and other property among them. The
natives of the Louisiades, who are mighty swimmers
before the Lord, have a habit of tying strips.of bark
over the soles of their feet and palms of their hands
whefl going into the water for any length qf time,
such as fishing with nets or shell-diving. They allege
that this prevents the beast from seeing them, as the
white parts of their bodies are then covered and
won’t flash in the water. The best cure for a shark
that eats people is to entice him to swallow a stick
of gelignite inside a hunk of clamorous, decaying
pork. Don’t forget to light the fuse first.
* * * *
“Move-on” : Is there any handier or more
useful fluff growing on the head of Nature than the
Maoriland flax ? I’ve seen it put to more uses than
the average woman can find for a hairpin. The
leaves sprout any length up to 6ft., and they’re as
strong as an ordinary rope. Tying knots in them
doesn’t seem to weaken them to any extent. Half
a dozen knotted together will
make a tether for any horse. A
dozen would hold an elephant.
You don’t need to carry rope in
the M.L. bush. The flax does to
put a belt and shoulder strap on
Matilda, or to sling a pack on the
saddle, as a guy-rope for the tent,
or a gallows whereby to hang the
tucker in a tree. Wrapped round,
puttee-fashion, the legs are kept
dry when walking through sodden
grass or scrub. The flowers grow
on a woody stem nearly an inch
thick at the butt end. The stick
is hollow, and, with one end
sharpened to drive in the ground,
and the other end split down a
little, makes an efficient candle-
stick. Halted the other day in
some flat flax country with no
timber near, and wanted to boil
the billy. My mate picked three
stout flax flower-stems, lashed the
top ends with a flax leaf, and
erected the tripod. Dead leaves
and stems made a fire, and the
billy was slung by a leaf from the
top of the tripod. When the water
boiled the tea was dropped in, and
the whole thing lifted away from
the fire. The M.L. bushman says
that if you plant him down in
flax country, .with nothing but a
knife, he can build himself any-
thing from a suit of clothes to a
six-roomed house.
“Dux” : The push was quietly soaking in
the Met. when Bert Stirling rushed in with the start-
ling intelligence that Micko was “saved,” and was
standing in the ring with the little pot-walloper
from Foley’s boardinghouse. The push ‘ sunk the
amber swiftly and tumbled into the street, and
round the corner to where the Army was dispensing
blood and fire. The Lieut.-Col. had just induced
Micko to “testify,” and that hero of a hundred
scraps stepped himself out, put on an all-away-for-the-
scaffold glare, and began: “Before I got saved I
uster curse ’n’ swear somethin’ orful” “Speak
up, Micko,” rallied the push. Micko raised his voice,
and repeated: "Before I got saved I uster curse ’n’
swear somethin’ orful” “Speak up, Micko,”
roared the gang. Once more Micko began, this time
in an agonised shout: “Before I got saved I uster
curse j n’ swear somethin’ orful” —- —- “Speak up,
Micko,” came the request at a yell. That settled it.
“Speak up- yer dashed self,” snarled the harassed
Micko ; “an’ go and git (shocking) well dashed, y'
blanks.” With that he stepped over the prostrate
form of the Brigadier-Generaless and joined the mob,
and mooched round to the Met. It took 14 beers to
bring him to a more sociable frame of mind. His
main grievance was that he had “done in his Tom,
which I understood to mean that Foley’s pot-wall-
oper had returned him the engagement ring.
THE LOCAL CURRENCY.
NEW PARSON : "When I lived in town plenty of men iv ere glad to cut wood for sixpence
an hour.”
LOCAL UNEPLOUED: “ Beer’s sixpence ’ere.”
“The Wanderer”: During the last two
seasons the missing snipe mentioned by “Leo
Lear” (B. 4/4/’l2) has been unusually plentiful
about Lakes Hihdmarsh and Albucutya, and the
swamps that lie along the Wimmera (Vic.). This
grallatorial fowl does not possess that unerring hom-
ing instinct that belongs to the stork, the swallow
and the interest on the public debt; but, like the
,quail, is inclined to move only when the exigencies
of the season demand it. It is a fool of a bird, any-
how, and like the' over-trustful magpie goose, seems
destined to complete extinction, unless some ade-
quate protection is given it from birdicides. This
year it has been butchered in thousands, and is in a
fair way to be decimated, like the French army that
hurried out of Moscow to see a man about a dog in
Paris.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: How anybody came to live at
Dandy lion was inexplicable to me. In comparative
youth I made many excursions across its dreary,
drab, flat expanse, in a lumbering, two-horse waggon
that carried traps and ware to the unlined and
unscheduled spaces. Dandylion was a wind-swept
plain, the color of an elderly Quaker, with sundry
decrepit fences- straddling across it, and a few
bleached, luny-looking houses dropped down here
and there over four square miles. If you are lucky,
these days, you may see a solitary female spiking a
pair of shattered pants on a line, or two or three
morbid sheep biting the dust. But I passed on three
occasions at a time of unparalleled excitement, when
Dandylion was torn with dissension, and stirred to
its depths by untoward events. On the first passing
there were three men on the fence on the left-hand
side, and two men on the fence on the right-hand
side, all separated by long-drawn dreariness. In
another expanse of dun country a man sat in a tree.
These six, disconnected persons were all looking in the
direction of a two-roomed, weatherboard house, with
one blind eye, and a chimney that had spinal curva-
ture. The house had a two-humped roof, and a thin
goat was chewing the panels of the front door, but
there was nothing about it that I could see to account
for its figuring as a centre of intense public interest.
Three months later, passing the same way, I counted
four lone electors perched on various eminences, look-
ing fixedly at the same house and the same goat. The
goat had not yet eaten his way through. Coming
back within a week, I found three disconnected resi-
dents watching the house, one on a tree, two on the
fences. Evidently interest was waning. My party
camped for tea near the man on the right-hand fence.
He was a person of some vivacity, and was trying to
carve a ring out of a scrap of cocoanut. I spoke to
him. “Hello, mate; what’s going on?” “Oh,
nawthin’.” “Why is everybody watching that house?”
“Well, yeh see, that’s Bill Brinsmead’s house.” “Is
it ? What of it ?” “Bill, he went to Sydneyside
more’n two year ago.” “But that doesn’t seem to
matter much, does it?” “Mrs. Bill Brinsmead
livin’ there still.” “If she is—that hardly explains
this ferment.” “It’s like this; no one wants to miss
the fun.” “Oh, is that it?” “Yes. Yeh see, Ned
Herron’s gone to live with Mrs. Brinsmead.” “You
don’t say? Still I can’t see that a social event of
that kind should keep you all up.” The man on the
fence brightened. “P’raps not,” he said, “but Bill
Brinsmead might come back any day!”
“S.S.S.”: Away from the coast and the
rivers of Papua there is no glamor of the tropics—-
nothing but dark, silent and interminable forest
wherein lurks Satan and a fair share of his works.
One of these is scrub itch, due to a microscopic beast
that creeps into the skin. Twelve hours or so later
it sets up an intense irritation that, with many
scratchings, develops into a New Guinea sore. Every
bushman has his own prescription. Some commend
washing the blains in lysol with an aftermath of sul-
phur ointment. Methylated spirit, well rubbed in,
allays the acute itching. A good preventive measure
is to spread a layer of carbolised vaseline over the
skin, with a top dressing of close-woven woollens.
* * * *
“Mallarapoonie” : Two horrible examples
of the blighting effect of landlordism, especially of
the absentee variety, are the small decayed villages
of Clermont and Capella, ’way up on Central Queens-
land’s famous Peak Downs. Years ago, before Ban-
analand grew up and got married, and found it
wanted a lot of land to grow babies on, the pick of
the Peak Downs was jobbed away, in fee simple, and
sometimes under smellful circumstances, to southern
land monopolists. Though they hold great areas of
the Downs in freehold, hardly one lives in the shadow
of the quaint sugar loaf hills to-day. The big estates
are, in the main, just the great sheep runs they were
30 years ago, and there aren’t 10 babies among the
lot. The run-holders mostly live in Melbourne when
they aren’t residing in Sydney or London, and their
broad acres are the haunts only of Jumbuck and his
attendant. Even the boundary-rider is mostly the
transformed shepherd of earlier times, invested with
a moke and a wire-key and a straining-fork as the
insignia of his office; and invariably he is old and
grey and childless, and rheumatic, and comparatively
threadbare. He never had permission to marry, even
if he had the inclination; and, anyway, there is no
room for babies in Fat’s scheme of things on the
Peak Downs. Sheep occupy the foreground, and in
the middle distance are more sheep; while on the re-
mote skyline are further, or additional, or supple-
mentary sheep. Capella could grow cotton if it were
encouraged to do so; but it isn’t, and its case is
hopeless. Its outlook is obscured by Jumbuck, and
its birthright in land has been filched from it. Since
the gold speck and the nimble dwt. gave out at
Clermont, its Old Inhabitant (the young one has in-
variably drifted to other parts) reclines, disheartened,
under his partially-deserted verandah, and watches
the goats devastating the surrounding aspect. And
the occupation of observing goats browse isn’t an
exhilarating one* So low, indeed, has Clermont fallen
from the level of its old estate, that Digby, the pro-
duce merchant, doesn’t even consider it worthy of
separate Parliamentary representation. So the elec-
torate of Clermont has been blown out; and, as a
natural consequence, Clermont’s astonishing represen-
tative, Joe Lesina, is struck in the neck by the
blunt tomahawk of circumstance. . Compulsory re-
sumption and closer settlement of the surrounding
rich, blacltsoil downs is the one panacea for Cler-
mont’s troubles; though recently, it may be said,
it was feeling somewhat cheered by the fine develop-
ments in coal mining at Blair Athol. In fact, on
the strength of periodical reports from Blair Athol,
Clermont occasionally feels inclined to ask itself in
to have a drink.
THE BRATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Victorian Bush Nurses have returned to Mel-
bourne from the dairying districts.... Down in the
rich Western District one of them reports cases of
children of 10 years rising before the dawn, milking
five or six cows before going to school, and returning
to the bails again in the evening... .The staple food
in many of tliesfe 'homes appeared to be cheap pickle,
while the dwellings were hermetically-sealed huts. .. .
A little boy struck his foot with an axe. The
parents managed to stanch the bleeding, but the
cut would not heal. The mother thereupon put
several stitches in the foot. Eyenjjially, the child
had to be taken to the hospital,, miles away,
where the leg was amputated.— Neu)i item.
Here is the song of the wounded foot,
And the gash that will not heal,
Where the spike-surmounted, uddered brute
Is eaten with every meal.
And here is the twitch of each gruesome stitch,
The hurt of the bloody thread,
When the cows are turned in meadows rich,
And the calves are all in bed.
What counts a leg? There are legs to spare;
For they do not milk with feet.
But leave us, oh, God, as this our share,
The fingers that tug the teat.
Oh, take the • sleep from their weary eyes,
And hand them the rope and pail,
When the dawn is cold in the eastern skies,
And the white frost on the bail.
For there’s much to do before the night
Comes down with its sable pall,
And dear to buy is the candle-light
Should the brats not finish all.
There’s a patch to put—-a long-felt need—
Where the roof lets in the rain;
There are cows to milk, and pigs to feed—
And the cows to milk again.
Lucky, indeed, that kids are cheap;
But they might be cheaper still,
If ’tweren’t for those damned folk who peep
: From across the window-sill.
Why, they to think that kids have souls—
Now, what do you think of that!
As if the Master Who all controls
Would care for a milking brat!
Why; they’ll want us,' next, to feed them like
The children are fed in town;
They’ll even ask them to go on strike —
Throwing the milk-pail down!
It’s enough to make a male cow blush
(And a blushless brute is he),
When those darned Nurses of the Bush
Preach Christianity.
Why, they’ll ask us, next, to clothe the brats,
And to wash them once a week;
To purchase them boots and coats and hats,
And to teach them how to speak.
Just as if the cows will mind a bit
If their grammar’s good or bad,
Or whether a pair of trousers fit—
Or whether they go unclad.
N.S.VV.
R. J. CASSIDY.


PLASMON OATS
Scotland s Best —“ Enormously increased
in food value by the addition of Plasmon.”
4 Minutes Boiling only. — Lancet.
PLASMON is used by the ROYAL FAMILY
Australian Depot: S& 7, Barrack Bt.i Sydney*
RELIEVED AFTER MANY YEARS.
“Chamberlain’s Tablets have been the means of re-
lieving me of indigestion,” writes Mr. James Coffey,
ex-stationmaster at Mentone, Vie. “I was for many
years with the Victorian railways, but am now re-
tired. In the rush of work there one is apt to neglect
oneself and fly to all sorts of alleged remedies. In
Chamberlain’s Tablets I have found the best Remedy
I have ever tried.”*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lune'n and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“ it Acts Like a Charm.
PIL
RHEU-MANACA
Registered Trade Mark.
This is a scientific, skilfully compounded arid
potent remedy, especially designed for use in at-
tacks of either.
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuritis or Lumbago.
Each Pill aontains seven different expensive
standarised and potent vegetable remedies. It
has been in use in private practice by a regular
practising physician, with miraculous success, for
many years. First offered as a public remedy on
the Ist dav of February. 1912.
DO NOT DELAY ! USE PIL RHEUMANACA
WITH THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE
DISEASE.
Supplied at 3s. per bottle. Remit by M.O. or
Postal Notes. Send direct to—
Z. C. RENNIE, Proprietor,
P.O. BOX 1530, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“U.S.”: What do you say to a volcano
bursting up the Panama Canal? That region is
mightily volcanic. An eruption is being foretold,
even as Stevenson and Bret Harte foretold the San
Francisco heave. However, doubtless even a volcano
would not permanently spoil the canal. Might do
useful excavating. Seriously, there have been earth-
quaky signs at the Cuelebra cut, on the canal route!
Steam has come out of the earth, which has been
suggestively warm in the workings. Men fear to
tamp in dynamite. Scientists say the phenomena are
only due to oxidisation of pyrites. Whereupon they
are laughed to scorn.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: The man just ahead of me at
the suburban barbery the other afternoon was a
small, work-a-day Irishman, with a tough scrub
round his face, of a texture similar to the frill on a
worn scrap of cocoanut matting. “Dan, I’ll be havin’
it all off,” said the client as he composed himself
in the operating chair. “What, Heggarty—a clean
shave?” said the artist. “Don’t lave a hair t’ me
face,” replied Heggarty. “But. why, man ?” Heg-
garty became confidential. “D’yeh mind that thavin’
mongrool iv Keene’s,” he said. “The bluish wan,
wid sthiff wool to him? Well, ye’ll know he’s the
vindictivest divil iv a dog that iver barked troo a
fince. Wanst he have the derry on yeh, ’tis tin long
beers to a pint iv pump-wather he’ll git aven wid
a bite clane troo yer leg. Goin’ t’ me home lasht
night, bein’ wid drink I had a shmall altercation
wid Keen’s dog, ’n’ in me haste kicked him clane
over the pickets. So ye’ll shave me ez clane ez a
noo shillin’. I wouldn’t be havin’ that dog re-cog -
nise me agin fer a pound.”
“N. or M.”: Maria Island, on the east
coast of Tasmania, has made some picturesque con-
tributions to history since Tasman discovered it in
1642, and named it, so tradition says, after the Dutch
lady of his desires. Perou, the French naturalist,
visited it in 1802, and one of his party lies buried
there under a gum-tree, marked with a lead plate
that no one has yet re-discovered. In 1825 the island
became a convict station, and the land about the old
barn and store-houses is still ridged with the furrows
scored by harnessed prisoners when, there being no
horses on the island, the convict song says: “They
yoked us up like horses to plough Van Diemen’s Land.”
One of the objects of interest on the island is the
grave of a Maori chief, exiled there with several
others after the disturbances near Wellington (M.L.)
in ’46. Governor Latrobe petitioned the Colonial
Office for the release of the homesick savages, but
before the pardon came, one (or more than one, accord-
ing to the Rev. G. Clarke) of them had died. The
Irish exile, Smith O’Brien, was also imprisoned there,
as a result of the scuffle of ’4B. The boat that sym-
pathisers sent from Hobart to his rescue was caught
in the giant kelp that fringes the island, and stove in
by a watchful gaoler, who promptly marched the
half-hearted rescuers to the station. Perou mentions
the aforesaid kelp, some plants of which, he says,
measured 250 ft. to 300 ft. in length. Bernacchi, at
a later date, tried, by a patent process, to manufac-
ture leather from it. Indeed, it would be hard to
say what the versatile Bernacchi did not attempt
when he had his fling on the island, at the expense
of the co. which was formed for the purpose of estab-
lishing wine- and silk-growing industries and a Port-
land cement manufactory. The place was burrowed
with gold-absorbing mines, built over with expensive
buildings—hotel, coffee-palace, manager’s and work-
men’s cottages, a dovecote that cost £lOO, and an
elaborate brick edifice, presumably intended for
guinea-pigs. The only authenticated grapes found
upon the island vines appeared suddenly at the time
of a Parliamentary visit. The guests were received
with much circumstance and an extravagance of food.
Champagne flowed, Chinese lanterns waved, and the
manager, cutting the largest bunch of grapes (below
the join) presented it with impressment to the Pre-
mier. Shortly after the co. burst with a loud report,
to the great detriment of all concerned. School and
shops were closed; the French rabbits, bred on Rab-
bit Islet for their fur, were shot, and for the last
20 years the place has been almost deserted, except
in the summer, when the scenery and fishing draw
visitors. The rugged eastern cliffs are considered by
scientists to be of extreme antiquity—perhaps three
million years—and consist of packed masses of fos-
sils of the earliest known forms of marine life.
THE ABC OF SCIENTIFIC FARMING.
Capturing passing rain clouds in the dry spell.
“Paroa” : Am prepared to punt a bit that
the Maoriland kiwi will beat any other bird that
walks, swims or flies at escaping from captivity.
Caught an average-sized specimen once and put it
in the pig-sty. Said sty was surrounded by up-
right boarding 4ft. high, and apparently secure, but
next morning the kiwi (remember he is wingless)
had departed. On investigation found a rat-hole
llin. in diameter, with a few feathers sticking to
it. Another time put the prison-breaker in a box
2ft. 6in. high, and secured a sack over the top with
staples. All night I listened to kiwi bumping about
inside that box, till towards dawn, when I fell
asleep. A few hours later I proceeded to the cage,
with hot coffee, or something, for the captive, but
he wasn’t there. Apparently he had repeatedly
leaped up and butted the sack (quite twice his own
height from the ground) until he had ripped a corner
open. Then he spat on the doorstep and went home.
It has been estimated that an average puff of smoke
from a cigarette contains about four thousand millions
of particles of dust. The sense of smell owes its in-
ception to the bombardment of the olfactory nerves
by small particles of the substance causing the per-
fume. Do you see that old piano with the worn ivory
keys? Every time the ivory was touched, no matter
how lightly, tiny dust atoms were dislodged. Phillips
Ormonde & Co., 266 Flinders St., cheerfully answer
enquiries re dust extractor or other patents.*
THE LAST STRAW.
"What did Brown die of?”
"Homoeopathy
"Homoeopathy?”
“Yes, they got him down to one small brandy a day, and then his heart broke."
“T.V.T.”: Melbourne Weekly Times re-
cently printed the statement of a spud walloper at
Gippsland, that he established a potato-digging re-
cord last year at Bungaree, by digging and bagging
87i bags of the tubers in eight hours (which pans out
at almost 11 bags per hour), and that he intended
to go one better at Trafalgar, by puting up 100 bags
in eight hours. Now, deponent has filled spuds from
the mouth of a pit, with a scoop and triangle; and
he can testify to the fact that, when a man has
thus filled 100 bags, the time is decidedly ripe for
him to seek shelter from the relentless rays of the
moon. The best genuine spud-digging performance I
know of was accomplished, some years ago, at Bun-
garee, by Martin McGrath, who dug, bagged, sewed
and assisted to load on a waggon 36 of the old-style
bags (12 to the ton). Later, in a match between
McGrath and Albert Gregg, the scores were: McGrath,
32; Gregg, 31. These men were the champions of
the district, and the man who could beat the two of
them together should have no difficulty in getting a
job.
* * * #
“The Pariah”: How many tourists who
put up at the Hospice on Mount St. Bernard
(Victoria) know the story of its founding? In the
days of the Dargo rush it was a rough hut run by
a retired Flossie. Her previous character negatived
her application for a liquor license, but she carried
on a boarding business, and saved a few lives in
more senses than one. On one occasion a party of
four lost themselves in a snow storm while looking
for the hut. One of them gave out and was left be-
hind. Late that night the others, more dead than
alive, awakened the Flossie of the mountain hash-
tower with their cooees. As soon as she heard
that they had left a mate somewhere back on the
white waste, she insisted on all hands turning out
with her to find the lost sinner. Marvellous to say,
he was located and taken to the hut, where, after an
hour’s treatment, he recovered. Redmond Barry and
suite, while on a walking trip from Omeo
to Bright, put up at the hut. When he
wished to settle up he found he had not
enough cash, so he wrote a cheque and ten-
dered it to his hostess, whose knowledge of the world
for once misled her. “None of your flash guys can
spin me those tales,” she spoke at the discomforted
vice-royalty. “If you’re hard up, say so and go. If
you’re not, pay up and go.” Barry sent her a sub-
stantial present in kind from Beechworth, and filled
Victoria with his laughter. When the Lady of the
Mountain closed her kindly but dissipated career,
people began to cry out for someone to take her
place, and the Government of the day sent up one
Bill Boustead, a shellback. A proper house was
built, and Bill was given £4O a year and a free
license, on condition that he put up all comers. He
was allowed to charge his own tariff—if he could
collect it. Boustead fell into loneliness, and acquired
a wife, and she made Bill and the Hospice. They
are both dead, but the pub up in the skies remains,
and it is a fitting monument to the kindly woman
who founded it.
HEADACHES.
Many suffer severely with headaches, but they will
derive great benefit from a course of Laxo-Tonic
Pills. The well-known laxative and tonic properties
of these pills are of wonderful effect in purifying
the blood, ud toning up the system. Price, 10£d.
and 1/6.*
A Matter for the Socialistic Tiger.
A traveller's complaint:—
Qne of those things which grow more evident day
by day is that unless N. S. Wales is to resign itself
to the needless sacrifice of many thousands of pounds
sterling per annum, the Tiger of Socialism will have
to be encouraged to raven in a fresh direction. To
drop metaphor, the time is more than ripe to remove
the main roads of the Ma State from the hands of the
local bodies or corpses, and hand them over to the
Government. At present the State is paying upwards
of £300,000 per annum to the shires alone, on the
understanding that they shall keep their main roads
in decent order. The unanimity with which they are
neglecting to do anything of the sort is remarkable.
Nowhere in the civilised world is it possible to find
a much more wretched collection of main thorough-
fares than exist in the country parts of N. S. Wales.
There is not a solitary road of any importance on the
outskirts of this, the biggest city in the Common-
wealth, which shows less than 40 or 50 ruts —not so
much ruts as chasms—to the mile. Dispersed casually
between the ruts, often enough, are boulders large
enough to wreck almost anything on four wheels.
The blastiferous folly and shortsightedness of the
thing, from the financial standpoint of those who are
responsible,, is sufficiently obvious. Take, as one
lonely example out of a mqltitude that might be
cited, the ’Sydney-Manly-Newport-road. At the time
of writing the section between the Spit punt and the
top of the hill resembles a tract of country that has
been devastated by an earthquake. And at intervals
the rest of the track, Barranjoeywards, is well-nigh as
bad. Now, Manly and the districts to the north of
it depend for their prosperity largely on such tourist
traffic as they are able to attract. Bicyclists, motor-
ists, folks in cabs,, sulkies, taxis, buggies, etc., are
catered for by various refreshment-rooms, soft drink
foundries, oyster saloons, hotels, picture shows, vaude-
ville entertainments, garages, stores which retail
petrol, bicycle repair shops, and so on. All these
concerns, and likewise all the other local concerns
which trade with them, are losing good money every
day of their lives by reason of the fact that, owing to
the criminal state of one of their chief means of com-
munication with the outside world, thousands of
citizens, with cash to spend, are being choked off the
district. It would pay such centres, many times over,
to keep their roads looking less as though a convul-
sion of Nature had just smitten them —no matter
what the cost. That they are so bat-eyed as not to
be able to realise it is their funeral. Meanwhile,
there are at least three other parties to the business
who are entitled to consideration, viz.: (1) The
State, which is annually disbursing a big sum, for
which it gets no return; (2) the general public,
which has a right to roads that are neither dangerous
to life nor ruinous to the vehicles that use them; and
(3) those shires, or what not, that do their duty, and
yet, by reason of the fact that other shires a mile or
so up the road are cynically neglecting theirs, get no
reward. To cite an instance, it is no benefit to Brook-
vale, as regards attracting tourist or other traffic,
that its own section of road should be good, if the
Spit section, which must be traversed by visitors to
Brookvale, remains rotten. The only remedy is for
the Government to embark on the business of pro-
viding the State with decent roads —and at the ex-
pense, moreover, of those landowners, business people
and others who will most benefit by the change.
Whatever Manly, for example, has contributed to this
end, in the past, it should be called on to disburse, at
a rough estimate, about four times more in the
future; and so with other centres near-in and out-
back alike. A country’s roads are among the signs
and symbols of its progressiveness and civilisation,
and in this respect N. S. Wales can’t afford to remain
permanently in the ruck with Central Africa.
:
“Vigilans,” about a Federal plaything: —
The Australian Government is undoubtedly making
a mess of the development of the Northern Territory.
As Randolph Bedford says: “The policy is as small
as any of its predecessors.” The great question in
the Territory is the development of the mining in-
dustry. The outlying fields are low grade, and can
only be developed by up-to-date machinery and rail-
ways. Except for a paltry grant of £9OOO to mine-
owners (only £3OOO of which has been utilised by
two companies), the Government is doing nothing to
develop the metalliferous areas. The extension of
the railway from Pine Creek to the Katherine River
is the most essential undertaking in the North. The
work would cost something like £lO,OOO per mile, or
£600,000 in all. It would open up great tin-bearing
country, copper fields and extensive auriferous belts,
which are at present practically useless. The Horse-
shoe Creek, Mount Todd, Umbrawarra tinfields, the
Mount Diamond copper fields, and Wolfram Creek
wolfram mines, cannot be developed without rail-
ways
Mixed farming and tropical culture are small affairs
in comparison with mining. The farmer always fol-
lows the miner. You cannot place an agricultural
population in the Territory at present, because there
are no markets for its products. Also, the country
will have to be irrigated before successful agricul-
tural settlement can take place. But fodder plants,
rice and the like, can be grown extensively in the
wet season, which points to the Territory as a stock
country.
The great mistake of the South Australian Govern-
ment was in not buying the Yam Creek works.
These works have all been removed for obvious
reasons. The N. T. Mining and Smelting Company
was a colossal fraud. It was one of the worst man-
aged companies I have ever known. There is no
doubt at all that the Ironblow would pay hand-
somely if worked systematically. The lode is large,
averaging £3 per ton, with rich leaders in places.
Then, again, there is the Zapopan mine at Brock’s
Creek. This is a Government mine, and should be
again exploited. It was practically ruined by the
Chinese, who had it on tribute. One hundred and
seventy thousand pounds was largely wasted at Yam
Creek, and an immense amount at Brock’s Creek.
A question that has always troubled experts is,
“Do the lodes live at a depth?” Geologist H. Y. L.
Brown says Yes, while others say No. Nothing defi-
nite has been proved. The Ironblow, which measured
40ft. wide at 200 ft., is supposed to cut out at 300 ft.,
which is absurd. A drill was put down to strike the
lode at 400 ft. It did not do so, but there is a veil
of mystery hanging over the affair. Some say the
drill passed through a horse, while others aver they
bored at an angle expressly to miss the lode.
Population is needed in the North, and by what
better means can it be procured than by extending
the railway? When the Pine Creek line was being
built there were 10,000 Chinese in the Territory. Ten
thousand white men in the North would mean some-
thing. When the line was being built from Mareeba
to Chillagoe (Queensland), the co. advertised largely
in Australia and Maoriland for men, and how they
did flock in! The same would be the case in the
Far North, or I’ll go out of business as a prophet.
In some parts of Papua the unwritten law
prevents a man being slain and eaten unless he is
previously wounded. The cannibals overcome the
difficulty by suddenly pouncing upon the prospective
lunch, and while one native holds it fast another
bites off its nose. The remainder is then cooked,
sometimes without being clubbed. Different locali-
ties have different methods of preparing the meal.
When Lieut.-Governor Murray was last on his way
through the west, one of his staff inquired of the
headman of a village if the local method was roast-
ing. The native was disgusted. “No, no,” he said
curtly; “boil ’um.” It proved that there was a
degraded, ungentlemanly, no-class village not far off
which roasted its acquaintance, but the boiling vil-
lage never spoke to the roasting one, and regarded it
as a dog.
A LIKELY YARN.
RABBITER'S MATE: “Well, that Englishman
can ring in a tale all right! Why, he told
me that where he comes from they fine men
for catching rabbits! ”


THE CAR THAT WAS BADLY HANDLED.
A magnificent victory for Liberalism has been achieved in Queensland, where.... the election affords convincing proof that the people of Australia, though progressive in
their instincts, are nevertheless firmly grounded in the fundamental principles, etc., etc. —Daily Paver.
THE IMPOSSIBLE ONE: “So wiv all yer likin’ f’r them new-fangled up-t’-date ideas, young man. 1 notices that yo’re still ridin’ in y’r granny’s ole
barrer. An’ wot’s more, yer seem quite content with the progress.”
THE OTHER; “Alas, madam, what else was there available?”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
-S’
r* n
4
Foggitt, Jones 5
Pork Sausages
For breakfast on a cool morning, for
Sunday night’s tea, for picnics, for all
aiions when a quickly prepared,
appetising dish is required, you’ll find
them something special—something
out of the ordinary. Keep a tin or
two in the house for emergencies.
Your grocer sells them.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
THE ENTHUSIAST.
AVIATOR (after the collision) : “ Cripes ! this
machine's a beauty! I never dreamt she
could put up stick speed!”
“N or M ” about a strenuous parishioner:
Died recently at Bieheno, Tasmania’s Grace Darling
(Mrs. Henry Harvey). Though most of her 74 years
were passed on the. isolated spot between the east-
ward sea and the hills, where her husband was sta-
tioned as constable, she saw more adventure than falls
to the lot of the average woman. She is best known by
her rescue of a drowning lad who, with his brother,
had come to grief whilst out fishing. It was rough
weather, and the only two men about the place were
unused to boats, but Mrs. Harvey urged them to pull
out to the capsized craft, and took the steering job her-
self. One boy had by this time disappeared, and the
other when dragged into the boat was apparently
drowned, but Mrs. Harvey resuscitated him after hours
of work. Once, while going through the bush with
her husband, a man was sighted stealing potatoes.
Harvey went off to arrest him, but as he did not re-
turn after some time the wife proceeded to investi-
gate. She found the thief on top of the insensible
constable, arguing the case with a large stone, and,
picking up a stick, she smote him so earnestly as to
put him out of action. Another time, urged, so she
told me, by the fear of a fight in which her husband
might be shot, she brought in a couple of men who
had long been wanted by the police. News came to
her of their whereabouts, and, riding out alone to the
spot, she induced them to give themselves up, point-
ing out the certainty of capture in any case, and
the probability of a lighter sentence by voluntary
surrender. The men, sailors, unused to the bush and
half-starved, reckoned it was a fair thing, and re-
turned with her to the station, where they were duly
locked up. As I knew her she was a gentle-mannered,
capable woman, keeping the post office at Bieheno,
and having little to say about her adventures.
Feel like giving up, worried, despondent, can’t eat.
Try Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract, increase your
appetite, restore your health, restore the lost energy
and be yourself.*
The informative old Sydney Telegraph
has been at it again. Commenting on the
cabled news of the death of Right Rev.
Charles William Stubbs. Bishop of Truro,
it remarked (8/5/’l2) :
The late bishop was a prolific writer, and many well-
known works on Church and social subjects stand to
his credit. Uis “Constitutional History of England.” a
monument of knowledge, patience, and industry, is a
well-known classic.
The “Constitutional History of England” was
not written by this Stubbs, but by William
Stubbs, the famous Professor of Modern
History at Oxford—he who subsequently
became Bishop of Oxford and died a decade
ago. But to the daily paper one Stubbs is
much the same as another.
Clement Wragge, discoursing on weather:
The only factor that can upset this provision is that
our sun may be influenced by a dark or dead sun or
other cosmic body, which we have no positive know-
ledge of. Etheric vibrations through millions of
miles, positive and negative, govern the seasons, and
the altitude and physiographieal features are modify-
ing agencies, and the two hemispheres respond in the
main in opposite ways.
C. Wragge’s worst fault is his habit of re-
stating the obvious in bald, police-report
language like that.
Judge Murray, who has just taken his
seat on the S.A. Supreme Court Bench, is
not only the first S.A. native to be perman-
ently appointed to that office, but he is the
only graduate of Adelaide University who
has received a Judgeship iu the State. Mr.
Mitchell, ex-Judge of the Northern Terri-
tory, is, however, a Bachelor of Laws of
Adelaide. The last University graduate ap-
pointed to the S.A. Supreme Court Bench
was Judge Wearing, who was drowned when
the Gothenburg went down in February,
1875. He got his degree at Cambridge.
Stow, Way, Gwynne, Boucaut, Andrews,
Bundey, Gordon and Homburg all got to the
Bar without seeing the inside of' a Univer-
sity.
Another of dead Richard John Seddon’s
Maoriland Ministers answered the last divi-
sion bell a few days ago. Forty-seven years
ago James McGowan landed in Maoriland,
with 24 years to his credit, and little else
barring a knowledge of the storekeeping pro-
fession. He storekept in a small way at the
Thames, and goaded it on until wealth
stared him in the face. He had all the
Irishman’s fever for butting into the
political scrum, and fought his way
to the Representatives in 1893. Seven
years later Seddon made him Minister
for Mines and Justice, and at this
strangely-compounded job he fought
with great .energy. It was like being
Secretary for Balloons and Commis-
sioner for Sea Bottoms. He was a
docile follower of “King Dick,” as
everybody in the Ministry had to be
if he desired to stay there —and was
no less tame while a member of
louseph Ward’s Cabinet. The last
few years of his life were spent in the
Upper Cave, and at. the age of 71 he
went away to explain a rather varie-
gated career.
Solomon, alias F. Merton, whose
racing colors are pink and blue, and
who didn’t win the Caulfield Cup with
Aurofodina, has once again spoken in
his haste. He sent a brief and hur-
ried wire from Adelaide to old-man
Levien, of the Totalisator Commis-
sion : “Impossible for tote make
greater liars, than at present.” Which
shark has bitten the recent piece out
of Merton, to make him so emphatic?
Dr. Duhig, who has been appointed
Coadjutor to the Archbishop of Bris-
bane (Q.), with the right of succes-
sion, is the youngest Archbishop of his
Church in the world. He was born in
Limerick (Ireland) 41 years ago, and
went to Queensland when 14 years of
age.
Australia’s old acquaintance, Tom Mann,
who recently proposed the abolition of Par-
liament/and general war on society, has been
sentenced by an English court to six months
imprisonment. T. Mann scraped through a
rather tight place in N.S.W., in connection
with the Broken Hill upheaval, but the
courts in his own country were less lenient.
An ancient identity has passed away at
Sydney Botanical Gardens. “Old Cocky”
died on Thursday afternoon in the aviary
which had been his residence for over 60
years. He was a barefaced cockatoo, a
native of North-Western Australia. A very
tar-back Governor presented him to the Gar-
dens, and he was a wise old bird even then,
and often said that he didn’t know what the
younger generation was coming to. Good
cockatoo authorities say his total years num-
bered over 100. His end was rather sudden,
for he rose on Thursday morning, apparently
m jus usual health, and was conversing with
a visitor 15 minutes before the end.
C. R. Wilton writes from Adelaide
Re paragraph (B. 18/4/T2), concerning George
Bean, who recently died in England. Bean was not
the first South Australian born to get into the State
Parliament That honor belonged to ex-Senator
Ofiaffey Baker, who won by a fortnight. Baker was
elected for Barossa on April 7, 1868. Bean was re-
turned for West Torrens on April 21 of the same year.
Baker was then 27 years old. He had returned from
Cambridge, where he did well in the Mathematical
lripos, and he had also been admitted to the English
Bar. Baker was Attorney-General at 29 vears old
being the first native to hold that office. His father
was Premier of S.A. for. 10 days (from August 21 to
bept. 1, 1857) and in his Cabinet were two men who
were afterwards Premiers, one who became a Judge,
and one who was Agent-General. In those days, how-
ever, Ministries, however distinguished, did not live
long in S.A. Torrens, author of the Real Property
Act, who succeeded Baker as Premier, only reigned
from Sept. 1 to Sept. 30, 1857.
Sydney Sun printed the deceased Emily
Soldene’s last letter on Wednesday, May S.
It ended up characteristically with a lovely
dinner menu, and a story about a chorus
girl and a johnnie. The old lady of Bohemia
was consistent to the end.
THE SPREAD OF COMMERCE.
It is understood that Dr. Sun Yat Sen is about to
visit America with a view to developing- trade with
China. — D.T., May 8, 1912.
“Goo ’ day, Colonel. You like cabbagec,
Flenchy bean, welly ni’ tomatoes?
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant speaks
about old settlers, hotels, drink, etc.:—
Mrs. W. B. Walford, who died last week, aged 90
years, was a connecting link with a long past Sydney
generation. The members of her immediate circle
were mainly engaged in the wine and spirit trade.
„,.?.. or of the fortunes of most of them was
William Long, of Tusculum, Macleay-street. Yet
not to wines and spirits alone were the large for-
tunes of this connection due. Early investments in
city .property and unearned increment were largely
in evidence. William Long l commenced business in
the late ’2o's in the Commercial Tavern, George-
street. In the mid-’3o’s he is advertised as a wine
and spirit merchant in Lower George-street, about
where now is the fire station. In 1844 he had his
stores thereabouts, with his private residence in
Druitt-street. Keeping the Australian Hotel in the
30 s and first ’4o’s was John Sparke, who married
the widow of John Symon, “late of Hobart Town.”
William Long was connected by marriage. John
.!f e B un< He (M.L.C.), at one time in partnership
with 1. H. Dangar in Clarence-street, married a
(laughter of John Symon, The Australian Hotel was
the house built in the first decade of last century by
Isaac Nichols, and known as the first Post Office. lii
that house the late AV. E. Sparke, semi-millionaire,
was born. John Sparke moved up, in the first ’4o’s,
to the Royal Hotel. I think he was the first licensee
after the rebuilding of the house, burned down in
1840. He died there in 1853. William Long moved
towards the centre of the city, and in the mid-’OO’s
was in George-street, between the Royal Hotel and
King-street. A fire at Zuccani’s furniture warehouse,
on the S.E. corner of King and George streets, drove
him further south, and he made his final stand
where Griffiths’ tea warehouse now is, then an old-
fashioned building, with the ancient burial-ground
opposite. In 1844, we find Joseph Walford, a mer-
chant, with stores at the Royal Hotel (John Sparke
being the landlord), and his private residence at
Newtown; and William Walford, a clerk, living in
Druitt-street, this gentleman being clerk to Wil-
liam Long. In 1850, William B. Walford, a clerk,
was living at 153 Elizabeth-street South, Long hav-
ing moved to Cleveland Cottage, Castlereagh-street,
and in 1850 to Tusculum House, which was built by
A. B. Sparke, of Tempe, and occupied by Bishop
Broughton. The Bishop was living in the house when
Long became the purchaser. Then his Gaiters re-
moved to another historic house, Goderich, in what is
now Bayswater-road. It was demolished but a few years
ago. The late W. E. Sparke obtained his knowledge
of wines and spirits as a commercial commodity in
the office of his uncle, William Long, and in the
fulness of time W. B. Walford and W. E. Sparke
entered into partnership as wme and spirit merchants
at 478* George-street. The stores were kept up a
yard-way, and had in earlier times been occupied by
Richard Brownlow, who had kept the Canning Tav-
ern in King-street, about where Otis Chambers now
stand. Henry McDermott, one time Mayor of Svd-
igT’ X h( L ch f' en ged. Robert E° we t° a duel, occupied
the stores also. Later on Dan Lgan, of municipal
and Parliamentary fame, occupied them. Walford
and Sparke followed Dan.
ONE MORE INJUSTICE TO MA.
Victoria, according to Mr. Griffith, is trying to
prevent New South Wales getting any of the Ameri-
can farmers now in Australia. According to the
Victorian programme, the whole of the time of the
visitors before their return will be taken up in that
State. — Daily paper.
M A: “The hartful 'uzzy !”
Ralph Wilson Brooks, who died the other
day, was a hero in a small way. Twenty
years ago, while an Albury-Sydney train was
galloping down the decline between Coota-
mundra and Murrumburrah, the brake-gear
of a carriage became detached, and. drag-
ging along the ballast, brought derailment
and eternal smash so near that Death might
be plainly heard sharpening up his scytne.
The enginemen were looking ahead, and
didn’t see the frantic signals of the guard,
who was Brooks. So he crawled round the
front of his whizzing car, hung desperately
to the couplings, °nd stooped the train by-
disconnecting the air-brake tube. Parlia-
ment thanked him, and he retired once more
into the drab life of the obscure toiler.
Two Adelaide-born men have died in far
places. Trevor Ross Reid was in the armed
clatter between Russia and Japan, as a
newspaper correspondent, and then seitled
down in Hankow (China) as an editor.
Arthur Cordon McCrae, born in the Bank of
Australasia, when his father (since widely
known as inspector) was manager in Ade-
laide. seems to have been, beyond a doubt, on
the Titanic. (And the son of E. J. Fulrord,
who succeeded McCrae, senior, as Adelaide
manager, was on the Waratah!) Young
McCrae had been managing a gold mine for
an English company in the extreme back-
blocks of Siberia before he took his ill-fated
holiday, and went down to add to the col-
lection that Clarence saw in his dream.
R. R. P. Hickson, chairman of Sydney
Harbor Trust, who is on long leave prior
to retirement from Ma’s Public Service, has
been appointed Consulting Engineer to the
Fijian Government. They’re tough custom-
ers some of these en-
gineers. Hickson is at
the tail-end of the
’6o’s, and last year
underwent a severe
operation, which, while
it left him unwilling
to resume his old job,
has not incapacitated
him from tackling a
new job in foreign
parts. Another hard
spanner is Henry
Deane, who retired
some time ago after a
hefty career in the
N.S.W. Railway ser-
vice. He is now super-
intending things in
connection with the
Westralian Transcon-
tinental railway line.
IT. A. HUNT ;
Common wealth
Meteorologist.
“Vic.”: Jimmy Lamsey, of Bendigo, oldest
of the Chow doctors of Australia, has just
gone to wear the heavenly pigtail. He was
nicknamed “the Emperor,” and always
figured in the Chinese processions in a sem-
blance of imperial robes. It was in these
garments that lie lay in state after his soul
had gone to the bosom of Confucius, and
such throngs of white and other people came
to look on his mask-like countenance that
they had to be admitted in batches. James:
is to be boned and boiled down, and his:
skeleton will repose in the Chinese republic.
Chinese doctory has many white adherents,
mostly women. So far as is known it hasn’t
moved much for 1000 years. The prescrip-
tions —when the patient can pay—are won-
derful. They include herbs and pounded in-
sects, the shadows of rats, the noise of cats’
feet at midnight, grass from an infant’s
grave, root of bear, spittle of bird, dog’s
breath, boiled bees, the shriek of the man-
drake if such a thing can be procured, wood
ash, whale’s dreams, jalap, tea, gin-sling,
etc. The poor patient is treated with tea-
leaves and mullock.
“Locust”: The Dickens centenary
is being enlivened in the United
States by reminiscences of the row
caused by the novelist’s “American
Notes” and “Martin Chuzzlewit.”
The Dickens tradition seems to sur-
vive more strongly in the United
States than in England, as the late
Alfred Tennyson Dickens found on h.v*
recent visit. A writer in the World’s;
Work reprints the American impres-
sions of Dickens, who was noted for-
extravagant costume, strange pat-
terned waistcoats, huge double watch
chains, massive rings, large shirt
studs, deafening sleeve buttons, a,
scarlet geranium in his buttonhole,,
highly scented handkerchiefs, and-
ye gods! for playing “Home, Sweet-
O AJ-UUiCj kj Wccl
Home with great expression on the accor-
dion.
This habit of getting work is becoming,
quite noticeable amongst Royalty, etc. A.
few days ago the cables rushed in breath-
lessly to. say that the Kaiser was seen going
to do a job with a pick and shovel, and now
George V.’s plenipolentiary in Queensland,
Governor Macgregor, announces his inten-
tion of forming a camp near Sapphire Town
and doing some hard struggles in the pursuit
of gems. It looks as if Royalty is becoming
a mere Bloke.
SKIN DISEASES,
including Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils, Chilblains
Ringworn, Shingles, Ulcers, Old Sores, have their
remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Sold in trian-
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
WHILST IN A SWOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ROBBED OF JEWELLERY.
WHILST IN A SWOON.
Whilst in a swoon in a city hotel on Wednesday
night, a man was robbed of jewellery valued at about
£BO.
The victim of the robbery was returning home when
he entered an hotel for a drink He had partly emp-
tied his glass, when he says he felt faint and fell
into a swoon. Upon awakening, some time after,
he found that he had been relieved of a handbag, con-
taining jewellery valued at about £BO.
Whilst in a swoon, in a city hotel on Wednesday
night, a man was robbed of jewellery, valued at
about £BO. — Sydney Telegraph (10/5/’l2).
. It was whilst in a swoon
In a city hotel
(Blow the tragic bassoon!).
Yes, his fall was a boon
To some blackguard. (Well, well!)
It was whilst in a swoon!
Did the barmaiden croon?
Did she fain? Did she yell?
It was whilst in a swoon !
Ah! the soles of his shoon!
Then they rushed him pell-mell!
(It was whilst in a swoon.)
Like a silent spittoon,
He had nothing to tell
(Blow the tragic bassoon !).
Like a bolting balloon
Fled the thief out of II—1!
(It was whilst in a swoon)
(Play the tragic bassoon).
N.S.W.
CONSTANT SWOONER.


m
r
m
■-r:\
fMMS
ill
r;>:
H
Sfis&i
SB
■ft
M
ars
s<s
iitiSlill
©
fM
jsn
;'?■;■
il'tSS
m
mm
Re
«©r«
iH
H
&*&
ft:
si
%
v&C
SMI®
ypf
m
ii
; ;
ii
m
imm
&
fftftft
TT?,')*
32
ft:
&ff
in®*?
vk&M
m
m
IfeSr
fg
■ft
itilti
•■ ,; : S
'&»3
«S
% |p^
&**S2
rgay&g
*****
The winter days creep on apace,
The Fashions change ! The human race,
Like other races, needs must face
The winter’s chilly blasts.
And tho’, of course, we meet with those
Who know not where to buy their clothes,
The wise man understands, and goes
To Gowing Brothers, where he knows
He’ll get the suit that LASTS.
And where one wise man goes to-day
To-morrow others wend their way,
And each one in his turn will say
Unto his wife - and others —
“When buying clothes I buy the BEST—
My Winter Suit—my Fancy Vest—
My Overcoat, and all the rest —
I like to know that I am dressed
Throughout by Gowing Brothers.”
u
OVERCOAT TIME.”
We are fully stocked. Send chest measurement and height with your order.
single Breasted, in Cheviots, Cravenettes and Blue Meltons, 215., 225. 6d., 255., 30s„ 355., 40s„
455., 505., 555, 605., > Motor Overcoats, 555., 605., 655. and 70s.
Double Breasted, in Cheviots, 455., 505., st>s., ous. muu ,
WE PAY CARRIAGE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
GOWING BROS.,
486, 488, 490 and 496 George Street; and 3. 5, 7.9, 11, 13, 15 &17 Royal Arcade, Sydney


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
ES.SHffSS 1 - 32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
(I
SISKOL" ROCKDKILLS.
‘‘SISKOL" HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL" COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD., ? B \Z%'S?., s ly£?y bourn °
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Fire Insur-
a. .„ SociET* (now Ltd.), of Sydney:
Bonus
to Added Total
Policy- t,o lie-
Mar., Profits. Dividends, holders. Funds, serves.
1899.. £17.530 24 p.c.= £6,055 414055 £7,420 £110,099
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 103,599
1900.. 17,213 18| p.c. = 7,087 4087 6,039 109,638
1901.. 19,963 183 „ „ 7,036 4036 8,891 118,529
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 106,029
1902.. 17,952 16s p.c. = 8,224 4224 5,504 111,533
1903.. 17,184 16* „ „ 8,248 4248 4,6'8 116,221
1904.. 23,313 16j „ „ 8,290 4290 10,733 126,954
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 114,454
1905.. 21,447 14J P-C. = 9,312 4312 7.823 122,277
1906.. 20,403 14J „ ~ 9,262 4262 6,879 129,156
1907.. 21,562 14J .. .. 9.237 4238 8,087 137,243
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 124,743
1908.. 21,230 14 p.o.= 10,430 4430 6,370 131,113
1909.. 18,277 14 „ „ 10,553 -4553 3,171 134,284
1910.. 22,337 14f „ „ 10,983 4984 6,370 140,654
£15,000 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 125,654
1911.. 24,005 13J p.c. = 12,040 5140 6,825 132,479
1912.. 22,640 14 „ „ 12,588 5388 4,664 137,143
This society is now fat, fair and forty. ft was started
in Sydney in 1872 with a capital' of £6250. Its
present capital is £90,000, and apparently all of the
flesh it has put on in its two score years has been of
its own earning and making. Naturally enough pro-
moters _of similar concerns nowadays point to it as
Sydney’s most outstanding reason for increasing the
birth-rate of Australian insurance cos. Not that
this company ever was Australian until a few months
ago. It formerly stuck tight to N.S.W. ; now, how-
ever, it has branched out in Victoria. It owed much
of its good start to the adoption of a profit-sharing
policy, and to this day it pays its shareholders nomin-
ally only an 8 p.c. dividend. The balance of profit
is halved, and shareholders and policy-holders get an
equal slice. 'The management isn’t a hog for big
risks. It has a big suburban connection, and there
probably isn’t any class of business so gilt-edged as
that. So while its expense rate is pretty high (for
these are mostly small policies), the loss rate is ex-
ceptionally‘'low. This and a few other things are
shown next: —
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895 ..£29,416 £6,717 £12,828 22'8 p.c. 43-6 p.c.
1900 .. *33,888 8,131 13,765 24-0 „ 40'7 „
1905 .. 36,088 7,149 15,009 19’8 ~ 41-6 „
1908 .. 37,462 7,710 16,818 20'6 „ 44 9 „
1909 .. ,38,824 11,223 18,170 2S'9 „ 46'8 „
1910 .. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23'6 ~ 44'8 „
1911 .. 43,459 11,039 17,760 25’4 „ 409 „
1912 .. 44,821 12,322 19,312 27'5 „ 43’1 „
This doesn’t indicate a rush of new business violent
enough to cause trouble with the traffic constables;
presumably, the office is too busy declining doubtful
risks to permit of much increase on the total. This,
• of course, tends to make profits sure, but puts the
brake down hard on aggregate figures. And while
things are thus kept fairly safe for the shareholders,
they are unquestionably armor-plated so far as policy-
Vholders are concerned. An English office is reckoned
strong if it has in capital and reserves twice the
amount of the year’s premiums—that is if it could
pay twice the expected amount of claims, expenses
and all other outgoings for a year. This Australian
company could meet those payments five times over,
and still have a shot or two in the locker. Its in-
vestments are not set out in much detail. City free-
hold property and mortgages represent £159,167 and
fixed deposits and money at call stand for £76,945.
This city property and the mortgages are probably a
sound lot; still there is always a doubt whether it
is wise for a fire insurance office to thus lock up so
large a proportion of its funds, especially in the
small area which holds most of its own fire risks.
The interest return on the average funds last year
was £4 Is. 2d. p.c., and the income from that source
was enough to pay 104 p.c. on the profusely irrigated
capital. That means that only £3098 of the profit
from the insurance business was pouched by the share-
holders, all the rest was left in the mill to make it
more certain than ever that the policy-holder will have
his claim met when he calls round after his fire. Mean-
time it must be a comfort to him to know that he can
call in and look at the till if he wants to.
* » * *
Nicholson and Co., Ltd., which took over
-,an old-established, but not well-organised music busi-
ness in Sydney about 44 years ago, and has since
beep living the strenuous life: —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
' Mar.,[1909.. £3489 10 p.c. = £3OOl £3BO £lOB £5,720
Mar., 1910.. 6463 10 „ „ 3446 201 2816 8,536
5ept.,1910.. 4424 10 ~ „ 2486 386 1552 10,088
Premiums on new shares, £2450 .. .. 12,538
Mar., 1911.. 6655 10 p.c. = 2876 1612 2167 14,705
Preptiums on new shares, £2960 .. .. 17,665
: Sept,, 1911.. 8151 10 p.c. = 3968 4183 21,848
Premipins on new shares, £4016 .. .. 25,864
. Mar., 1912.. 7241 10 p.c. = 5596 956 689 26,553
When this,, company began business the men who had
; taken .it in hand had to be content to ask for a very
i modest,, capital. They were, however, very soon able
; ta show- that there were big profits in this line, hence
they have since felt justified in making frequent calls
on the shareholders and others to supply stronger
backing for the business. As at March, 1910, the
authorised capital was only £50,000, of which
£36,113 was issued, now the authorised capital is
£150,000, of which £132,485 has been paid up.
During the last six months there have been two new
issues. One, in October, consisted of 20,080 shares.
This brought in a premium of £4016, or 4s. per
share. A second issue occurred in January; 40,000
shares were then offered to shareholders at par. For-
mal applications were received for 31,353; applica-
tions for the other 8647 were, the directors now say,
“received later than the prescribed date.” There
seems to have been a fairly strong suspicion in a
good many quarters that the management was making
the pace too hot. Hence, perhaps, the tardy request
for the newest lot of shares, though they were offered
for 4s. less than the consignment put on the market
only two or three months before.
Though shareholders have been tapped so freely, the
debts amount to £58,265, including £37,859 of an
overdraft, as against a total of £43,072 twelve months
ago when the capital was £74,000. Thus from the
shareholders and the public the company has got
£80,648 in the 12 months, made up as follows:
March, ’ll. March, ’l2. Inc.
Share capital .. .. £74,000 £132,485 £58,485
Premium capital .. 6,976 6,976
Liabilities .. .. 43,078 58,265 15,187
Of itself the time-payment piano business calls for a
big capital, but in addition to that, the company has
been launching out into freehold and into new
branches which, of course, have called for increased
stock. The following shows the rush of principal
items:—
Mar., Mar.. Mar.,
1910. 1911. 1912.
Freehold 22 16,761 17,218
Stock 23,721 34,617 65,489
T.-P. sales and other book
debts 45,989 80,850 132,055
In the past 12 months time-payment outstandings
have increased from 4175,225 to £122,487. The
goods represented by this money have, no doubt, gone
mostly to people who have no large bank balances ;
the customers have bought on long credit because
they couldn't buy for cash. Nevertheless, in good
times the instalments are paid so well that the busi-
ness is remarkably safe, and an overhaul of the ac-
counts made a few months ago failed to track down
losses, straight out or by forfeitures, exceeding £2OO
in any one half-year, though it is inevitable that the
figures will be less satisfactory in less prosperous
times. There is some further risk in the possible
over-valuation of stock, though there is no reason to
suspect anything of the sort at present. In addition
to the profits shown above, the published accounts
disclose £3OO which has gone in bonus payments,
and is, therefore, excluded from the table. The
amount written off in the half-year has been spent
mainly in preliminary expenses ih eoitneetion with
the opening of new branches; a further £6lO not
shown in the table, has been written off for general
depreciation.
The Western Australian Bank :
Net To lte- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1904.. £24,846 174 p.c. =£10,93S £13,908 £327,28S
Mar., 1905.. 21,233 17£ „ ~ 10,938 10,295 337,583
Sept., 1905.. 21,309 20 ~ ~ 12,500 8,869 340,452
Premiums on 2500 new shares 25,000 371,452
Mir., 1906.. 20,556 20 p.c. = 12,500 8,056 379,50 S
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 „ ~ 15,000 9,059 388,567
Mur., 1907.. 24,758 20 „ ~ 15,000 9,758 398,325
Sept., 1907.. 27,993 20 ~ ~ 15,000 12,993 411,318
Premiums on 2500 new shares 31,560 442,878
Mar., 1908.. 23,508 20 p.e.= 17,006 6,562 449,440
Premiums on new shares .. 11,372 460,812
Sept., 1908.. 21,457 20 p.c. == 17,500 3,957 404,769
Mar., 1909.. 25,238 20 „ ~ 17,500 7,738 472,507
Sept., 1909.. 27,429 20 „ „ 17,500 9,929 482,436
Premiums on new shares .. 27,024 509,460
Mar., 1910.. 27,945 20 p.c.= 19,189 8,756 518,216
Premiums on new shares .. 12,976 531,192
Sept., 1910.. 27,206 20 p.c.= 20,000 7,206 538,398
Mar., 1911.. 29,066 20 „ „ 20,000 9,066 547,464
Premiums on new shares .. 71,820 619,284
Sept, 1911.. 28,110 20 p.c. = 23,939 4,171 623,455
Premiums on new shares .. 18,180 641,635
Mar., 1912.. 35,349 20 p.c.= 25,000 10,349 651,984
Twenty years ago, when Westralia was still the Cin-
derella of the Sisterhood, this bank had a capital of
orlly £60,000, though already it was 50 years old.
But already the bustling t othersider had come in and
scratched up gold; and presently even the ’Groper
discovered that a strip, anyhow, of his sandy State
had a good regular rainfall, and ought to be growing
something more than a noxious weed and an occa-
sional sheep. To-day the capital is £250,000, and so
profitable has the business been, and so large have
the share premiums consequently beep, that total
reserves, derived very largely from these premiums,
amount to no less than £651,984. The last lot
of shares, sent out during the past 12 months, con-
sisted of a parcel of 5000, £lO paid. Those taken
by shareholders were issued at £lB premium. The
fractions put up for tender averaged £32 7s. lid. It
seems a big price, but if the assets are worth 20s. in
the £, then the £lO share is represented actually
by £36 Is. 7d. On account of so very large a pro-
portion of the capital having been issued at a
heavy premium, the actual return on shareholders’ in-
vested capital is much less than the 20 p.c. which is
the nominal rate of dividend. Those whose shares
have cost them £25 all round get, for instance, an
average return of only 8 p.c.
The past half-year’s profits have been exceptionally
good; notwithstanding the larger amount called for
to pay the dividend it is five years since there was so
considerable a lay-by of surplus profits. Westralia
was afflicted last summer with one of its droughts, but
the management of this bank appears to have gone
cannily. All along the directors have expressed
doubts about the wisdom of pushing wheat growing
out too far. Nevertheless, probably on account of
this drought, the bank has had to give its clients a
good deal more backing; advances have increased
151 p.c. in the 12 months. The bank deserves well
if it held off in prosperous times in order to corfie
in to help its clients through a pinch. Any fool of
a bank can be liberal in a boom. The following
shows this improvement of advances and other
items: —
Liabilities.
Mar.,’ll. Mar., ’l2.
Notes in circulation £146.661 £21,442 Dec. £125,219
Bills, etc 149,804 248,510 Inc. 98,706
Free deposits .. 1,467,481 1,386,134 Dec. 81,347
Deposits at interest 1,509,725 1,521,935 Inc. 12,210
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 1,577,062 1,263,690 Dec. 313,372
Advances .. .. 2,390,072 2,761,315 Inc. 371,243
Premises .. .. 74,000 80,000 Inc. 6,0u0
In spite of a decrease in current-account balances and
some other items, the liquid assets, notwithstanding
the big growth of advances, still represeht a very
substantial 394 p.c. of the liabilities. The real value
of the assets cannot, of Cpurse, Be : told from a
balance-sheet, but one would judge that the directors
of this show are a fairly prudent lot,. from the fact
that their premises account Islands only at £BO,OOO.
Westralian bank premises' are' not, as a rule, palaces,
yet £BO,OOO is a modest valuation for the kennels of
a concern with a presentable head office and ,65
branches.
* *'/;'* *
The Maoriland Government Life In-
surance Department :
Added
Claims Provided to In-
and Sur- Ex- against De- surance
Dec., Revenue, renders. penses. preoiation. Fund.
1899.. £421,569 £211,383 £59,639 £14,400 £136,147
1900.. 423.700 219,993 61,431 142,276
1901.. 460,753 256.100 59,194 , 1 145,459
1992.. 451,348 271,268 59,895 22,783 97,402
19 13.. 463,380 269,413 64,723 129 244
1904.. 480,716 266.704 60,490 153,522
1905.. 490,924 263.14 S 63,829 6,953 156,914
1906.. 507,070 270,220 67,828 169,022
1907.. 526,712 304,230 66,670 155,812
1908.. 534,410 328,763 68,403 20,000 117,274
1909.. 546,566 333,990 72,120 140,456
1910.. 561,151 340,028 71,534 149,589
1911.. 594,410 344,957 74,213 30,000 145,240
This is the one State concern doing a general life
insurance business in Australasia. It suffers under
the handicap of confining itself entirely to the Do-
minion—a handicap which will no doubt be removed
when a Commonwealth Insurance Department starts
up in Australia, and reciprocal relations are estab-
lished between the two. It goes out and battles for
business on the same footing as the Mutual concerns,
and its expense rate is consequently high. In that
respect it is worse off than its competitors, because
its restricted field has to carry the whole of the stand-
ing charges—management and so on. There is a good
deal of humbug about the life business. Knowing
what importance is attached to big bonuses, some
offices deliberately load their premium rates; that is
to say, they take unnecessary sums from Jimbill’s
right-hand pocket, purely for the purpose of being
able to ostentatiously drop large bonuses into his left-
hand pocket. This State office set out to suppress
this humbug, and drew up premium rates lower than
the average. That, of course, has meant comparatively
small bonuses ; and though it is quite possible for a
policy-holder to get the cheapest insurance from an
office that gives no bonuses at all, it takes a long
while to persuade the public of the fact. Some day,
perhaps, it may learn to compare rates of premium as
well as the bonuses. Also, there are such tricks of
the trade as the persistent loading of lives; obviously
an office which makes a practice of getting from the
policy-holder three or four shillings p.c. above
scheduled rates for his age at entry, can afford to
scatter a dazzling bonus. It is one of the merits of
this State concern that it is practically free from this
sort of profitless window-dressing. Its eagerness to
be solid above all things is shown by the considerable
amount put by against the possible depreciation of
securities; £30,000 is added to the fund for the
past year, bringing it up to £113,663.
Expenses work out as follows:
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1902 .. £l3 5 5 percent. 1907 ..£l2 13 2 per cent.
1903 .. 13 19 4 „ 1908 .. 12 16 0
1904 .. 12 11 8 „ 1909 .. 13 3 10
1905 .. 13 0 0 „ 1910 .. 12 14 11
1906 .. 13 7 6 ~ 1911 .. 12 9 8
Considering the comparatively small volume of new
business, this is not a cheap rate. If we charge the
old or renewal business with 7 p.c. of the premiums
and the single-premium business with 3 p.c., then the
balance of expenses will amount to £50,956, which
is equal to 203 p.c. of the new premium income, a
very stiff charge indeed. If the Maoriland public
were as wise as it ought to be, it could get for £lOO
what it now pays £lO5 or £lO6 to procure. There
is no earthly reason why a sane community should
spend an unnecessary two or three hundred thousand
pounds in chasing itself for its insurance business,
any more than it should spend that amount in chasing
itself for its railway or postal business.
The assets total £4,856,102, of which £2,899,753
is out on mortgage. Thus 59.5 p.c. of the assets
are represented by this second- or third-class brand of
security. On the other hand, the various grades of
public security, from Government stock to Town
Board debentures, represent only a poor little 17.2
p.c. Last year the average earnings of the assurance
and the investment fluctuation funds combined were
£4 11s. 2d. p.c., which looks less opulent than it
might be, considering the big swag of mortgages and
the further lamentable fact that no less than
£791,703 has been lent on polices—about the worst
use that a policy of life insurance can be put to.
Apart from the risk of depreciation, the mana —unent
of mortgages adds considerably to the expense rate,
and it is just about certain that the office would
get *s good a net return if it invested in Dominion
State securities the money it now has scattered on
bricks and mortar.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government Accident
Insurance Department :
Carried to To
Reserve General Total
Gross Gross for Unex- Re- Re-
Income. Profit, pired Risks, serves. serves.
1901 ..£11,897 £4096 £3780 £316 £4,096
1902 .. 14,171 931 240 691 5,027
1903 .. 24,449 4758 4510 248 9,785
1904 .. 24,188 5418 978 4440 15,203
1905 .. 24,876 6572 80 6492 21,775
1906 .. 21,929 1604 1604 23,379
1907 .. 22,835 4901 4901 28,280
1908 .. 22,6 S 8 4094 4094 32,374
19'9 .. 28,515 8528 2264 6264 40,902
1910 .. 23,907 4704 -- 4764 45,666
1911 .. 23,612 6222 '0222 51,888
This branch of the Maoriland Government Insurance
Department continues to get no for’arder in the
matter of total bus.ness. Its benefits to the com-
munity are not, however, to be judged entirely by
the volume of its business. Its purpose was to
secure originally accident and subsequently Work-
man’s Compensation insurance for the public at the
lowest safe rates possible, and that job is done
whether it secures the insurance itself or through
some. competitor who offers equally liberal terms.
The quest.on begins to arise whether the standard of
premiums is not too high. In 10 years £47,792 has
been added to reserves. The gross income is now
£23,612, so that twice the amount of the year’s
premiums has been accumulated since 1901. It
seems highly probable on these‘figures that the office
could now safely offer rather more liberal
terms for some of its business; and, if it can, that
is what it is there for. The following shows how
the total income has been cut up :■
Claims. Expenses. Reserves.
1902.. £5l 19 3 p.c. £4l 9 4 p.c. £6 11 5 p.c.
1903.. 54 2 3 „ 26 8 6 ~ 19 9 3 „
1904.. 50 1 3 ~ 27 11 3 ~ 22 7 6 „
1915.. 45 310 „ 28 7 9 „ 26 8 5 „
1906.. 62 11 4 „ 30 2 3 ~ 7 6 5 „
1907.. 49 8 8 ~ 29 2 1 „ 21 9 3 „
1908.. 52 11 4 „ 29 710 „ 18. 010 „
1909.. 44 18 0 ~ 25 3 7 „ 29 18 5 „
1910.. 62 7 7 „ 27 14 0 „ 19 18 5 „
1911.. 44 9 1 „ 29 3 11 „ 26 7 0 „
The expense rate is still high, a large amount having
to be spent in choosing business which' ought to
come in of its own accord. Some day an office will
be brave enough to offer a rebate on business that is
passed in over the counter, without having to be
canvassed for.
The department is a whale on mortgaged as the
vehicle for carrying its funds. It has no capital in
the ordinary way, and its reserves are only £51,888,
yet it has no less than £59,035 out on mortgage.
That is to say, most of the money required to pay
admitted claims, the proofs of which had not been
completed on December 31, was out on loan, as well
as all the reserves. As to the policy-holders, the
reserves are so large that, assuming the investments
to be good, the risks appear to be most amply pro-
tected. Yet at the back of that there is the guar-
antee of the Government. The entire taxable
wealth of the Dominion thus assures the full pay-
ment of all i admitted claims, and there isn’t a Pri-
vate Enterprise office in the world which can send
its policy-holders to sleep with such a comfortable
feeling as that.
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Mine Writ- '
Development ten i
Profit. Expenditure. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1905 .. £289 £221 £1856' £4,032
Mar., 1906 .. 577 751 4,206
Loss.
Sept., 1906.. 2 2974 7,182
Profit.
Mar., 1907 .. 441 4274 / 1280 12,295
Loss.
Sept, 1907 .. 17 1010 984 14,306
Profit. J
Mar., 1908 .. 5.377 2447 3021 14.397
Sept, 1908 .. 8,094 1605 6103 14,011
Mar., 1909 .. 8,061 684 6557 13,191
Sept., 1909 .. 8,655 147 3713 8,396
Mar., 1910 .. 538 193 301 8,352
Nominal
Reserves.
Sept, 1910.. 13,716 3666 1,698
Mar., 1911 .. 10,730 3746 8,682
( 10,294 3167 4
Sept., 1911 -! Four years’ divs. on pref. shares, V 5,809
l £lO,OOO J
f 9,346 3167 |
Mar., 1912 -t Four years’ divs. on pref. shares, - 1,988
t £lO,OOO j
Very late in the day this co. found out that you
can’t eat up your mine and have it too. The
old mine alongside the Newcastle foreshores was
practically exhausted before another property was
looked for. Then trouble started between the two
classes of shareholders. Some of the prefs., wanting
to make sure of their money, desired that the assets,
mostly plant, should be sold, and the proceeds cut
up. That was no good to the ordinaries, whose only
hope lay in risking everything in a new venture.
They had their way, and the Neath, at Cessnock, was
purchased. The new property opened up quickly and
well, and, owing to a brisk coal market, the co. was
able to hire out some of its plant, and thus help to
keep the pot boiling. The recovery has been so rapid
—far more rapid than the improvident crowd de-
served —that six months ago the directors were able
to pay off four years’ accumulated pref. dividend.
The dose is repeated now, and at the end of the cur-
rent half-year there will be only three years’ payable.
The mine account is now being virtuously written
down. When the trouble struck the company the
mere hole in the ground was alleged to be worth
£Bl,OOO. This item, including the new collier}’,
stands now at £68,000. This and other movements
are shown hereunder: —
Liabilities.
Mar., ’O4. Mar., ’l2.
Capital.. .. £103,939 £108,248 Inc. £4,309
Debts .. .. 3,162 5,279 Inc. 2,117
Assets.
Mines .. .. Sl.OOO 68,000 Dec. 13,000
Plane .. .. 18,816 33,730 Inc. 14,914
Book debts and
other assets.. 4,553 23,785 Inc. 19,202
Thus, while the co. has got in only £6426 from
shareholders and the public, it has bought and paid
for, and partly developed, a new mine, has put
£14,914 into plant, besides other amounts that have
been written off, has added £19,202 to its liquid
and semi-liquid assets, and up to March 31 had
paid £lO,OOO in dividends —altogether an achieve-
ment which not one in a hundred colliery cos. could
hope to equal. The pref. shares represent £20,000, and
carry 12| p.c. cumulative —a disputed point, but it
was settled by the Equity Court in 1911. This leaves
the balance of profits in excess of £2500 a year
available for the other 90,000 shares. Apart from
the general risks in connection with coal mining,
this one has to face the fact that its new' mine is
comparatively small, and it will have to look out for
other areas before it gets many years older.
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1904 ..£Bl5 6 p.c. =£3ls £5OO £3131
Sept., 1904 ..667 6 ~ „ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905 .. 696 6 ~ „ 315 381 3864
Sept., 1905 .. 1148 6 ~ ~ 315 833 4697
Mar., 1906 .. 1040 8 ~ ~ 420 620 5317
Sept,., 1906 .. 818 8 ~ ~ 420 3'-S 5715
Mar., 1907 .. 714 8 ~ „ 420 294 6009
Sept., 1907 .. 827 8 „ ~ 420 407 6416
Mar., 1908 ..841 8 ~ ~ 420 421 6837
Sept., 1908 .. 863 9 „ „ 472 391 7228
Mar., 1909 .. 666 9 ~ „ 472 194 7422
Sept., 1909 .. 605 9 ~ ~ 472 133 7555
Mar., 1910 ..648 9 ~ ~ 478 170 7725
Sepi., 1910 .. 968 9 ~ „ 472 496 8221
Mar., 1911 .. 950 9 ~ „ 472 478 8699
Sept., 1911 .. 1009 9 ~ „ 472 537 9236
Mar., 1912 .. 1071 9 ~ ~ 472 599 9835
Hitherto this company has had its doormat in front
of hired premises. A few months ago it bought the
old business stand of the Commercial Bank of Tas-
mania, apparently for £5OOO. It has paid £lOOO
on account, the other £4OOO remains at present on
mortgage. Of the balance of its funds £5OOO is
lodged with the Government, to guarantee its clients
that it won’t quit for parts unknown and leave them
lamenting. Another £12,195 is out on mortgage.
Like most Tasmanian concerns, it gives little infor-
mation about itself, and doesn’t mention the total
value df trust estates in hand. Apparently, how-
ever, the funds are quite large enough to fully pro-
tect clients, and in addition there is an uncalled
liability of £4 on the £5 shares. Of this £2 10s.
is a reserve liability, only to be called up for the
protection of clients. There is a wide margin be-
tween the profits earned and the dividend paid; in-
terest earnings, in fact, are now large enough to
provide the dividend without any help from the
trustee business.
The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., 1905.. 8,053 10p.c.= 6,250 3000 11,755
Sept., 1905.. 8,427 5 „ „ 3,185 2000 3,242 14,997
Mar., 1906.. 3,528 5,, ~ 3,554 1000 1 3,07 1
Sept., 1906.. 2.368 5,, ~3 750 - 12,589
Mar., 1907.. 6,666 5 „ „ 3,750 2000 916 13,505
Sept., 19 '7.. 14,916 10 ~ ~ 7,700 7000 416 13,921
Mar., 1908.. 19,782 10 ~ ~ 7,500 ' 6500 5,782 19,703
Sept., 1908.. 16,829 10 ~ „ 7,500 2500 6,829 26,532
Mar., 19' 9.. 9,510 10 ~ ~ 7,500 2000 10 26,542
Sept., 1909.. 9,130 10 „ „ 7,500 1630 26,542
Loss.
Mar., 1910.. 3,073 Nil 23,469
Profits.
Sept., 1910.. 26,263 15p.c. =11,250 4000 11,013 34,482
Mar., 1911.. 12,665 15 „,, 11,250 1,415 35,897
Sept.) 1911.. 12,281 10 „ „ 7,500 4,781 40,678
Mar., 1912.. 8,125 10 ~-,, 7,500 3500 37,803
Among coal-mining companies the way of the trans-
gressor is hard, the transgressor being the concern
which doesn’t somehow contrive to get the support of
people with a pull in the shipping business. This
co. got hold of the right people, or the right people
got hold of it, and it ranks with the most profitable
on the Maitland field. Besides the East Greta free-
hold, and the Stanford-Merthyr leasehold, it owns
the East Greta railway, and has for years run also
the Aberdare line. The mining properties cost little
and have been written down hard out of profits. Of
late years the management has been afflicted with
the habit of lumping the items in its accounts, but
as much as five years ago the two mining properties
had been written down to under £22,000. The
balance of the capital and reserves is represented by
the railway and land, which, apart from rolling-
stock, has probably cost about £75,000, and by a
very complete plant. The following table shows the
principal balance-sheet movements during the past
five years:—
Mar., ’O7. Mar., ’l2.
Total liabilities ..£20,005 £41,646 Inc. £21,641
Assets.
Mines, plant, etc. .. 168,351 212,651 Inc. 44,300
Gash .. 1,714 _ D ec. 1,714
Sundry debtors, etc. 19,194 27,797 Inc. 5,603
rj J u !> though the capital stands now at the same
£150,000 as five years ago, mines, plant and book
debts have increased by nearly £53,000. As the
liabilities have increased by only £21,641, it follows
that the balance has come out of profits. And as
large amounts have been written off, some of them
visibly, the total expenditure out of profits has been
much larger than that. All through those years, the
co. has carried out a very vigorous policy of mines
and railway improvement, and the entire cost of it,
except for £21,641, has come out of earnings. At
the same time regular dividends have been paid as
shown above, and the prospects, so far as the mines
in particular are concerned, are exceptionally bright.
Last half-year the co. could not, with the staff avail-
able, supply the demand, and it wails accordingly.
But that small insect appears to be the only fly on
its horizon—that, and perhaps the fact that the Coal
V end isn t so impregnable as it looked a while ago.
* * * * °
Central Cathcart, Ararat (Vic.), is re-
sponsible for the hottest little boom in alluvials since
Ma Catbcart, next door, thrived so nicely under the
Dodd-Bryant regime. A few kerosene tins of wash
from the Central crosscut, off the No. 2 rise, gave
4oz. of shotty gold. This result seems to confute
critics who made out that no gold would be got on
the side of the lead where it fringes the Cathcart
lease. The way had been paved for the bulk prospect
of the Central by the prospects from the bores put
up from the level under the gutter. Still the patch
was a ray of sunlight to a heavy crowd. Shares
doubled prices, mainly under the influence of the
Heaven-born gamblers who reckoned that because
one truck of wash gave 440 z., every fathom would
ante-up 30oz. This is pure canoodling. Everyone
knows what odd trucks yielded in the old Cathcart
days, but in the general wash-up the average of the
gutter went about 240 z. per fathom. As the talk is


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 6 Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
M.L.C.
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 9 8
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 31st March, 1912 £9,023,826
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
8 10
Trustees,
Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
Charges Low. Absolute Security. Expert Management.
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities
at from 4J per cent.
Write or call for Booklet. A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION GAS
Engines & Plants
highest economy,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
absolute reliability.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney;
McCLEW & GO., Adelaide; MALLOCH BROS.,Perth
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
of Central Cathcart shares touching the half-century
mark should another truck pan out equally' weß, this
bit of mining history is laid on the slab to cool hot
feet. Moreover, it needn t be forgotten that 10
years work on the Cathcart gutter brought only 20s
a share to those who held on to the scrip. The Langi
group, on the big lead, have flags top mast because
of the strike. If, however, New Langi get gold in
its No. 3 bore, there will be a lot more wind
puffed into their folds. #
“Bertie” Langford popped up in Mel-
bourne again the outer day, back London He
brought a power of attorney from the Tassy RaUway
and General Trust, Limited, which is finding the
money for Mount Balfour railway works. Also, he
brought the plan of a new mining campaign m some
unsuspected direction.
There is another whoop from the Broken
Hill South Extended. This is an abandoned prop-
erty, lying south of B. H. South and beyond Block 5
The latter property, after having been unsuccessfully
worked for years, paid one dividend which it is
pretty certain it should not have paid, and then was
passed on to the Zinc Corporation. The South Lx
tended was taken up by the much reconstructed
Broken Hill Consols, a uniformly unsuccessful Eng-
lish concern, which thereupon changed its name.
Recently this co. has been using the diamond drill,
and reports that a drill has “disclosed a lode 21ft.
in width, of high-grade lead and zinc —the
latter very vague. This was at 1150 ft. O n
strength of this bore-hole it is estimated that there
are 250,000 tons “indicated,” and it is alleged that
a cable has been sent to London advising the inline-
diate erection of mill and other plant. English
directors have done a good many Polish things, but
they probably won’t be foolish enough to rush up a
plant on the strength of this orphan bore-hole.
Slime treatment is one of the
metallurgical uiuiupus at Broaen Hill. HorwooU s
de-leading process has made it possible to separate
tne intimate mixture of z.nc and lead sulpmdes, and,
incidentally, to produce a payable concentrate ot botn
metals. The Sulpliide Corporation will receive a
large addition to tnis year's revenue from the sale
of slrine concentrates, and the Broken liiil Prop, has
recently put a slime mill in commission to treat
stuff that was formerly roasted or sintered in heaps
before smelting, with the loss of all the zinc, borne
of the Broken liiil mills turn out a ton of slimes tor
every six tons put tnrough. The British mill return,
for instance, gave 1793 tons of slimes from 8974 tons
of ore, and tne British is now careful to enumerate
slimes among its profitable products. Ihe North
B. 11. mill is also a heavy slimer: assays ot slime tail-
ings last half-year gave 13.4 p.c. lead, S.tioz. of silver
and 16.5 p.c. zinc. The tailings that go to the
Amalgamated Zinc Co. are low grade compared with
the sl.mes. Of course it must not be imagined that
slimes are of the same value as ore of equal grade,
but, as the process becomes perfected, it is possible
that a cleaner separation of the lead from the zinc
will be accomplisned.
* - * * *
Block 10, Broken Hill, on the strength of
new measurements and sampling, is supposed to have
a stoping value of 9.30 z. silver, 12.5 p.c. lead and
13.1 zinc for 283,500 tons in reserve. Considering
the dividends that have been paid while the mine was
practically unproductive, the heavy cost of develop-
ment, and the erection of one of the most up-to-date
milling plants, there is no cause for surprise that
the surplus of liquid assets has shrunk to L 59,176.
The 1816 ft. level is the deepest at Broken Hill, and
its development will be keenly watched. So far
Block 10 deeps have been disappointing. lor a
run of four weeks it treated 6535 tons, assaying
12.40 z. silver, 12.68 p.c. lead, 14.85 p.c. zinc for a
return of 839 tons of concentrates worth 37.50 z. sil-
ver, 64.2 p.c. lead, 6.59 p.c. zinc. A good deal ot
work is being done at the shallow levels. A cross-
cut is being pushed out eastwards at 515 ft., and a
rise from the 415 ft. has holed through to 315 ft., dis-
closing a small block of ore assaying 19.40 z. silver,
24 p.c. lead and 19.5 p.c. zinc.
* * * *
Developments at the South Blocks (Zinc
Corporation B. H.) at No. 7 level hold out a hope
that the lode will make good at the southern end
of the field. The crosscut at No. 7 level (lOoOft )
has cut the hanging wall, disclosing 29ft. of lode
matter and 16ft. of payable ore. It is too early to
know the average value of the lode at No. 7, but the
ore showing in the face of the south drive in No. 6
assays 16 p.c. lead, 2.60 z. silver, 11.4 p.c. zinc.
This drive is in 500 ft.
Broken Hill Junction North closed its
half-year on March 31 with a debt of £ 54,502.
Deposits on slimes purchased from other cos. account
for £35,173 (borrowed from the bank), and new
plant cost £26,469 ; so with £61,642 going out in
less than a year the debt isn’t surprising. The net
profit was in round numbers £ll,OOO from sales
of concentrates, which realised £96,332. Expendi-
ture was abnormally high, for several reasons, the
most important being the change over to a system
of square set timbering and a radical change m con-
centration methods. No doubt the cost of entering
a new business has proved more costly than the
directors anticipated, and this expenditure has to
continue, for it isn’t to be supposed that current
profits from the Junction North mill are going to
finance a big and entirely new undertaking. The
latest move is to issue debentures.
Operations of the diamond drill at Neeld’s
(Wyalong, N.S.W.) have failed to discover any new
ore channels, though the bores have been extended
in all directions at the 850 ft. The results have been
all the same, the cores being of the hardest quality
of blue granite. Developments on this line of reef
have now abundantly proved that the chutes have a
tendency to dip south, and the use of the diamond
drill in the southern portion of the Junction leases
would probably account for the existence of the
mineral ore bodies, worked in the True Blue, Bril-
liant Junction, Neeld’s, and Lucknow mines. At present
the only two properties where development work is
being seriously grappled with are the Junction and
Golden Fleece, at 900 ft. and 700 ft. _ respectively.
At the first named a mineral chute is now being
worked equal in quality to any yet discovered.
Tributors in the Junction, working at 360 ft., treated
15 tons 14cwt. at Cockle Creek for 4oz. 18dwt. gold
to the ton. # *
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) doesn’t publish its
estimated revenue for April, but its ' output ■ (copper,
583 tons; gold. 51470 z. ; silver, 32,7440 z.) would
at current prices, realise over £65,000. Great
Cobar shares (£5 paid up) have had a smart rise,
partly in sympathy with the rise in copper, but also
because gold and silver values show a marked in-
crease. There was nearly 9oz. of gold per ton of
Cobar copper last month, compared with a geneml
average of between 4oz. and soz. of gold during the
first quarter of the year. No doubt the tonnage of
crude ore has increased, for Great Cobar has a con-
centrating plant at the Chesney mine, and it was
the declared purpose of the management to largely
increase the output of ore and metals. Debenture
interest (6 p.c. on £724,600) has been a heavy tax
on profits, but with an output of over 6000 tons of
copper a year, it is evident that a rise of a few
pounds in the average price of the base metal, to-
gether with a greatly increased production of silver
and gold, will make things a great deal more hope-
ful.
The North Mount Boppy (N.S.W.), after
gazing with envious eyes upon its prosperous neigh-
bor, decided that it wasn’t going to come in for any
of the crumbs, and that as the near future promised
starvation, it was time to shift camp. It moved
over to Hargraves, near the scene of the first dis-
covery of gold in Australia, and proceeded to try its
luck afresh. The Blue Spec mine, a small prospect-
ing show, was purchased for £lOOO, and now gives
reasonable promise of better things to come. Two
formations have been discovered. The original, and
now the main, shaft was sunk upon the western body,
which in the shallow workings proved valuable in
width and value, ore up to £4O per ton being oc-
casionally met with. The 100 ft. level opened up well
some distance south from the shaft. The eastern
lode was discovered branching off at 135 ft., and rich
ore occurred at the junction. The 200 ft. level is
being opened up, and a crosscut driven towards the
eastern lode. The old five-head battery has been put
into commission again. Additional leases, totalling
75 acres, have been taken up.
* * * *
The chairman at the annual meeting of the
Mount Boppy Gold Mine (N.S.YV.) almost apologised
for the poor rate of dividend during the year. The
shareholders must be hard to please if 20 p.c. isn't
enough, but since 1902 they have been spoilt by an
average dividend of nearly double that amount. The
more easily treated oxidised ore is being rapidly re-
placed by sulphides, and the old plant is becoming
less suited for their treatment each year. However,
the alterations and additions ought to be finished in
a month or two, when better results are expected.
The cost of the plant, about £13,000, it is estimated,
should be wiped out in one year by the increased
recoveries and reduced costs. The mine continues to
open up with promise of better things at each level.
The No. 7 is being pushed on, and shortly it should
be known if the favorable developments on the No. 6
are to continue. Here the lode proved from 10ft. to
30ft. wide, averaging 16dwt. per ton so far as stop-
ing operations have gone. Ore reserves stand at
230,000 tons —a three years’ supply. No figures as to
value are given, as it is impossible to make any re-
liable estimate with assays varying from foot to
foot. During the year 74,132 tons of ore were
treated, together with 13,388 tons of sulphide re-
sidues re-treated, yielding 26,4040 z. fine gold, equal
to an average of 7dwt. per ton milled. Total re-
ceipts, £111,583; expenditure, £80,917; gross pro-
fit, £30,666.
• * * *
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.) report for the half-
year' ended February is mostly a record of expendi-
ture charged to capital, the chief items on this ac-
count being: Mine, £11,043; plant, £23,608; and
buildings, £13,105. Smelting operations lasted 41
months, and were then suspended, so as not to inter-
fere with the erection of the new plant. This will
have a capacity of 6000 or 7000 tons of ore a month.
The converters are designed to produce 600 to 700
tons copper per month. The old plant was only a
small blast-furnace, run in a more or less experimen-
tal fashion. During the period it smelted 9901 tras
of ore, and produced about 33 p.c. matte, containing
895 tons of copper, 888 oz. gold, and 11,3740 z. silver.
This works out at an extraction of 9 p.c. copper per
ton of ore, which, with the gold and silver contents,
is equal to a shade over £5 18s. per ton. The profit
is given as £16,807, equal to 345. per ton of ore;
but this figure is no indication of future results. The
ore reserves remain much the same as previously,
namely, 239,600 tons, but the copper contents have
increased to 25,165 tons, equal to an average of 10.5
p.c. copper per ton of ore. A9O p.c. extraction
would yield 9.45 p.c. copper, but taking the 9 p.c. of
the 9901 tons smelted as a basis for valuation, the
ore reserves should have an extractable value of over
£1,415,000, with copper at £6O per ton. Assuming
cost of production of copper £4O per ton, expendi-
ture = £1,000,600, so that the profit in sight would
slightly exceed £408,000. The cost is anticipated
to be nearer £33 per ton, and for every £1 re-
duction this profit increases by £25,165. As a
result of the heavy drain upon the co. s resources, m
providing money to equip the mine, the financial posi-
tion is anything but sound, though when things begin
to get into full swing this should soon be remedied.
Bank overdrafts total £31,039; sundry creditors,
£12,438; and an item termed “Deposits at call and
accrued interest ” runs into £38,668. Provision for
plant and machinery that have been ordered piles on
another £14,866, while the debenture stock and ac-
crued interest remain at £60,325. The liabilities
exceed the liquid assets by £65,393. It is interest-
ing to note that the 50,000 shares at par ( £1) have
not yet been issued, though, later on, m calculating
dividends, it is safe to reckon them in the nominal
capital of £300,000. Developments at the Duchess
argue persistence in depth. At the 550 ft. level, the
deipest on the Cloncurry field, the ore is opened up
for 300 ft. in length, and averages 17.7 p.c. copper
over a width of 60in. A winze, 40ft. deeper, proved
bornite of an average value, 36 p.c. copper, and
width 42in. Promising developments also occurred
in a prospecting shaft in the centre of the Hampden
leases. A property, known as the Scalper lease, has
lately been acquired by the co. Amalgamation with
the Elliott is stated to be off. Like the Elliott, tie
Hampden will be a big producer, and profits, while
they last, will be large.
* * *
The extensive district surrounding Chilla-
goe and Mungana (N.Q.) is slowly revealing some
of its wealth in copper and lead. The Mammoth
co.’s copper smelter is at Arbouin (old name Klon-
dyke), some 25 miles from Mungana, and is expected
to be shortly turning out high-grade copper matte
for shipment. The plant is close to the Ohieftam
mine, which, so far as can be proved from the limited
amount of work done, is. considered to be a_good little
show. The main shaft is down 215 ft. verti
cal and the balance on the underlay), and 150 tons
have been raised, valued at 8$ p.c. copper, 6oz. silver
and ldwt. gold. The end of , the
shows a width of 4ft. of ore, and, at 60ft. from the
shaft, assavs run to 20 p.c. Two other mines the
Allan (165 ft) and the Noonday—are also being pros-
pected with encouraging results. The Mungana m nes
have been shipping small quantities of ore to Chilla-
goe. At the Lady Jane the workings above the
490 ft level have been connected with the old work-
imrs at 320 ft. (within the fire area), .improved ven-
tilation and the escape of heated air will, it is hoped,
make it possible to raise more copper and lead ore.
Mount Morgan estimates its April re-
venue at £88,723, which represents the value of
11,9020 z. of fine gold and 644 tons of copper. At the
gold recovery works 7221 tons were treated for
36650 z. (average 10.15dwt.) ; at the copper works
23,491 tons were smelted (silicious ore 545 tons,
Many Peaks ore 8335 tons, and Mount Morgan ore
14,611 tons), for 644 tons of copper and 82370 z.
gold. The total value runs to £73,350, an average
of £3 2s. sd. per ton of ore smelted. What the
costs are cannot be told, but it is certain that when
the annual accounts are made up to May 31 (the end
of the fiscal year) costs will appear in big figures.
For two years, ending May 31, 1911, the expenses
mopped up £1,481,038, which is far ahead of the
total revenue derived from sales of copper. Fortu-
nately, gold values continue high. Last month’s re-
turn of 82370 z., contained in 644 tons of copper,
averages 12.790 z. of gold per ton of base metal,
which is not beaten by many mines in the world.
* S* * *
Vile’s Block, also known as the Nancy
Lee and Golden Gate United (Croydon, Queensland),
declared a sixpenny dividend the other day, absorb-
ing £l2OO, and carrying forward a credit balance of
£lBBO. Croydon is not overburdened with dividends
nowadays. Vile’s Block has paid £13,200 to date,
on a nominal capital of £6OOO. Another eo., the
Golden Gate Consols (96,000 shares at 55., half of
which were paid-ups), returned £74,400 in divi-
dends, but nothing has been hatched since 1906.
* *' t J * * *
Mount Jasper (Tas.) went humming to
the melody of the O’Connors and the Proctors, till
our old friend, the Age, jarred a discord. No halt
was made while the crescendo Mount Stewart move-
ment was in swing, because there never was a min-
ing conductor who wasn’t lulled into languor when-
ever a ruby silver note was struck. Even though the
ending to the Mount Stewart theme was abrupt, no
fault was found by the critics. But when the band
whispered out the hidden movement over Mount Jas-
per, Ananias resented the change. He wanted Mount
Stewart silver lead poco a poco, and no mosso over
Mount Jasper, no matter whether the melody was
caressing or majestic. So he weilt tutti on his own.
This meant that he jumped con fucoco on Mount Jas-
per, and all because a story told by some prospector
of a find of rich chalcopyrite on one of the Jasper
leases hadn’t been told recitativo before the price of
shares moved up. There isn’t much to be said for
this style of going, because if the music is to stop
owing to some irresponsible Johnny yodelling on
some outside block, half the bands in the Heavenly
City would have to find other employment. The writer
doesn’t hit the big drum for Jasper. He holds that
the formation cm the Jasper leases needs a lot
more development before it can be classed as a giant.
He also contends that the prospectors’ stories have
to be sifted before they can be passed on to the
shareholders.
* * *
Recently Mount Lyell (Tas.) directors
and their new young Scotch secretary (Lumsden) hit
up a motor trip to Queenstown. Result, a dividend of
Is 3d. per share. This, considering the story of ruin
pitched by the co. during its row with Hawker and
Little, of the A.M.A., isn’t at all dusty. Copper,
between £6O and £7O, has helped finances along
wonderfully, but is it not rather cruel to tell those
who to-day put a market value of £1,750,000 on the
Lvell enterprises that, since the co. first started at
the blow, it has distributed under £2,750,000? In
that time the best of the ore in the Lyell mine itself,
and the best in the North Lyell, have been available.
Nor was there the same risks cif the shoots m the
North Lyell popping into the Lyell Blocks, as exists
to-day. Still, shares are being sneaked in, so that
the world wonders whether, after all, the Blocks is
as dead as was once imagined.
* * * *
Mount Lyell (Tas.) has paid shareholders
£2,691,574. Compared with this the production ot
copper appears moderate. The returns since 1898
from both cos. have shown an average profit on
blister copper considerably over £2O per ton. lney
could not have declared such a large sum m divi-
dends if such had not been the case. As an in-
stance, the half-year to September 1908 gave a Profit
of £152,157, against an output of 4384 tons ot
copper. The present co. was formed m 1903. and,
by cutting cost to the bone, it made very high pro
from low-grade ore. The conditions were unusually
favorable, for hardly any barren fluxes have been
used for years past, and this low proportion of
barren stuff, coupled with a very low percentage of
coke in the charge, is the secret of Lyell s success.
The North Lyell supplies some 10,000 tons of fairly
good-grade ore per month, and the average of
reserves is optimistically given as 6 p.c. Lyell has
always been on the lookout to increase its area of
copper leases, and it is unofficially stated that the
last to fall into the net is the Lyell Comstock, a
property of 300 acres. # #
Westralia’s gold dividends have now risen
to £22,359,206, of which £181,547 was paid during
the first quarter of this year. #
Golden Pole (W.A.) is still living. Re-
ceipts for the last half-year, made up chiefly of
tributors’ royalties, total £532, and as only £303
was expended, a working profit of £229 is shown.
The charging of £641 to depreciation, however,
converts this surplus into a book loss of £412.
About £l7OO remains in hand. #
Kalgurli (W.A.) is looking better than it
did, and there is some hope of the present output
being maintained for a little longer. Owing, how-
ever, to the- utter unreliability of values in this
mine, it would be dangerous to say how long. Then
the fact of the main ore shoot having completely cut
out at 2000 ft. must also be borne in mind.
* * * *
Shareholders in the small local syndicate
which has managed to make money where the old
North Boulder Co. couldn’t, met in Kalgoorlie the
other day. The statement of accounts showed that
during the first two years of its existence the syndi-
cate paid 10s. per share (£5250) in dividends, and
that during the past 12 months profits had been set
aside for the purchase of a treatment plant. This is
now nearing completion, and, when running, is ex-
pected to lift the monthly output from the property
to £2OOO. ’ # *
Another attempt is about to be made to
treat the antimonial sulphide ores in Gwalia Con-
solidated (W.A.) at a profit. This time the basis of
the process is a preliminary roasting of the ore at
a low temperature, but some doubts are already being
expressed as to whether this way of treatment is
going to turn out any better than the half-dozen
others which experts have extolled from time to
time, and which failed miserably when put to the
test. # • * *
History of Rowan’s (new) Find (W.A.),
and the unreliability of official reports concerning it:
—Opinion No. 1: “The reef is 14ft. wide, and 5000 tons
can be stoped and treated at a profit of £1 per' ton
if £3OOO expenditure is incurred. A little later.
“The stone going through the mill shows gold freely.
Later still: “Developments continue to improve, ana
a much higher extraction is anticipated; assays de-
layed owing to illness of assayer. Still later.
“Crushed 570 tons for £690.” Still later: Treated
900 tons for £lOOO. Working costs absorbed £7BO,
and an additional £260 was spent on development
The 40'0ft. north level now assays £:3, over a width
of sft” The verv latest: “Milled 850 tons for £5BO.
Tailings assay 325. IOJd. per ton.” Putting aside
what is left in the residues, which generally isn t
nearly as much as alleged, and less still when the
cost of getting it is chipped off, the interesting ques-
tion is, Where does the £1 person profit come inf
It was said (B. 4/4/T2) that the Golden
Butterfly (W.A.) might have to go further afield for
battery water than it felt inclined, to admit, and this
assertion now proves to be correct. Instructions have
been given to connect the mine with the co. s water
rights 33 miles distant, at a cost of £2OOO. Funds
in hand are stated to be ample to meet this expense,
and leave a sufficient balance in hand to carry on
until returns are available, but .there is a doubt
about this, and also about the estimated cost of the
connecting pipe line.
* * * *
Lancefield (W.A.) had to be shut down
on account of the moulders strike, but in all pio-
bability it will take something more than the settle-
ment of that trouble to get it going again. Values
are good enough in depth, but with the refractory
ore, costly fuel, indifferent plant and ruinous work-
ing expenditure to bump up against, the co. is in
a critical state. More money, and plenty of it, is
urgently needed for plant and development and f ™'
less this is forthcoming the outlook is hopeless. After
the closing down of the mine, a rush and tumble
scene is said to have been witnessed at the local
railway station, when 100 Dagoes were trying to
slone by the daybreak train. lhe tradespeople to
whom they owed "money followed them to the station,
and endeavored to collect, but in many cases they
had to fight the foreigners before they could obtain
any coin.
* * *
Suspicions are still being cast in the \V est
on the stability of Payne’s find Some of the latest
aspersions are (1) that some of the reefs pinch be-
tween hard granite walls at shallow depths, and that
the rest of them snuff out before getting that far,
and (2) that a very small tonnage of stone will be
obtained from the workings of the already floated
mines there. How the Government ever came to put
a battery there is regarded by some returned pros-
pectors as a mystery.
* * * *
“Will the undertaking pav ?” The economical
handling and transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke,
merchandise, etc., in or about mines, factories oi
warehouses, very often solves the problem. W. and
J Lempriere, of Melbourne, as agents for Bleichert
and Co can give useful information on this subject.
The Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways work-
ii c in Australia, or in course of erection and will
soon have at work, near Sydney, one of the hugest
electric “Telpher” plants in existence. Special
electric and other cranes and mono rail conveyors
can be procured from the same firm.
*
4-GF+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+GF+ Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Win. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
* » *
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s, per ton, will save £7 per year, anu
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates,
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 316 Kent Street, Sydney.*
«■ * * *
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends itself
to mine managers who welcome an effective machine
which is cheaper to maintain and repair than Gyra-
tory and other crushers. This machine is of the
well-known Blake type, but has some additional im-
provements which have justified in practice all the
claims advanced by the patentee. The work of the
crushing is done on the down stroke of the pitman
instead of the up stroke; there is no strain on the
pitman cap ; two large side rods resist the thrust ot
the toggles, and enable the jaws to be regulated
within a large range; the back toggle is so made
as to resist all legitimate strains of crushing, but will
shear under exceptional conditions and save the
machine} The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
of South Melbourne, have installed a great number
of these machines, and hold the sole manufacturing
rights for the Commonwealth.* U
, #• * *
Extract from the Finance Chronicle, London
(1/9/1910). —The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society: “Its moderate premium rates and its
promptness and liberality in the settlement of its
claims have gained for it a favorable and firm foot-
ing throughout the Kingdom. The annual accounts
of the Society have all along shown a steady onward
tendency, and of more recent years a marked activity,
by the extensions of the benefits granted to its
assurers, the introduction of Accident assurance, and
a carefully adapted scheme combining Accident and
Invalidity assurance with Life Assurance under one
policy.”*
* * * *
A business man is always open to make a saving
if he can do so without sacrificing efficiency, hence if
he has a water supply proposition to meet, 11UNEEK.
WOOD PIPE by its durability and economy is bound
to be approved.' The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, Sydney.*
* * *
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Kassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ,
and 9 Queen Street. Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Heavy-Duty Marine oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves, cams,
gears or electric ignition, and run either on crude
or kerosene oils, are represented throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand by Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For marine work
the “Bolinder” engine has many advantages, viz.,
small oil consumption, ease of starting, no compli-
cated arrangement of valves or gears, being direct
reversible, fitted throughout with forced lubrication,
and absolutely no risk from fire and explosions, due
to using oils having a very high flash point. The
British Government and German Navy are large
users of the “Bolinder” Marine Engines.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
,** * *
Ass ayers. Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. SILBERBERG AND Co., 443 Bourke
Street; Melbourne, ‘ for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive. to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated. Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*


Under
Royal
Warrant
d
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
tiarieslfeidsirtfc
Heims
wsasssM
World
QNVUfI
ď
Renowned
STUHR
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins and glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
/s
1
m
ROBUR
It’s all nonsense for anybody
to say that the public don’t
know when tea is good value or
when it isn’t —you’ve only got
to note how Robur has “ caught
on ” to be convinced on that
point—the customers say they
like it because it has a distinct
flavour —but the truth is they
prefer it because it is good value
—to my mind no tea in the
place shows better value for the
money. And that’s why there’s
more of it sold than all the
others put together.
I’ve had a lot of experience
and I’ve tried hundreds of times
to get my customers to take
other teas —and even now, when
a new tea comes along, 1 get
a little of it and push it out
with the hope that some of my
customers will like it and use it
instead of Robur because
theres’s so little profit on Robur
—but they don’t seem to stick
to new brands for long—
they always go back to Robur,
and l don’t blame ’em.
1 reckon the No. 2 Grade, is
a good family tea, but the No. 1
Grade is the tea 1 would buy
if 1 were you.
The Grocer.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 13, 1912.
My Deae Aeini, —
Miss Maude Millard, of Boston (Mass.),
is resting the soles of her American
in this town, before going on to Java, Singa-
pore, India and other colored This
brisk tourist discusses the negro (U.S. vari-
ety ) with a flow' of language that ought to
wring the ghostly withers of Harriet B.
Stowe’s Uncle Tom —he whose Kentucky
cabin is in the land of emancipated ink-
shades. The Trust seems to be a mere
caterpillar on the tyre of progress, com-
pared to the black mountain that is heaving
up in front of Uncle Sam’s car. I gather
this from the Boston lady’s remarks, which
run into three volumes with about two and
a half asterisks, and one full stop. Advo-
cates of a black and tan Australia ought to
be dragged into the conversational search-
light of this breezy apostle of a white race,
when she is going full steam ahead on the
great U.S. tangle. Uncle Tom, with a
swollen head, 14 children and a profound
conviction that work is a vice, hurling “the
Lord will provide” at white trash who try
to poke him up to occasional toil, is alleged
to be the tame specimen of his tribe.
“Of the other kind,” remarks the bustling
Bostonian —“My! but I don’t like to say
how many lynchings have occurred in one
not very large town I know, since I
left home. And I just admit they got
around —those niggers—looking for trouble.
You have the servants’ problem—l’ve been
right up against it at my hotel, but Aus-
tralian women are doing a fine thing to
struggle along without proper help because
they won’t have cheap black labor. It occurs
to me that the hardest load of “white” Aus-
tralia is being shouldered by the women of
this country, but a future generation will
bless their names. That’s not much to get
out of it —another woman’s blessing when
you’ve been dead quite a while —but it’s the
long-distance reward our sex generally handles
in the hereafter, if they take on pioneer work.
Still, you’ve just got to keep this place
white — no sugar or milk, thank you.”
We meditated on the glory of washing up
dishes for posterity till the Boston visitor
lashed out —by request—on the higher
mathematics. These concerned the stacks of
learning she consumed, in company with
3000 or more maidens in their later teens, at
the famous Wellesley College (outside
Boston), where they do Euclid to a turn,
and tread gently on the toes of the elderly
classics.
Seaforth Highlander Stewart Richardson,
who amused himself wiih some success on
the G.-G.’s stall, took his vast feathered
toque out of its mothballs the other day, and
spread his kilts for flight to the other side.
The imported A.D.C. sometimes shows un-
expected symptoms of intelligence. On the
whole, however, British regiments part with
the average specimen of Gentleman Help with
suspicious alacrity. “Only fools need apply
for glittering Australian billets,” snorts
Diogenes Smith. Then he withdrew to his
tub under the gas meter.
Governor Murray, from Papua’s mosquito-
bitten wilds, passed hurriedly out of this
town on Sunday, for the great spaces of Mel-
bourne. He returns here for a brief look
round before packing up his official blue-book
(or whatever an Island Governor’s sealed
orders may be), and reluctantly denies the
report that Mrs. Murray is on her way back
to Australia. As a matter of fact, Govern-
ment Bungalow at Port Moresby isn’t likely
to have a “Missis” till next year, for the
Murray lady is assiduously overlooking her
little girl’s school-books on the other side of
this planet.
Papua’s Tetrarcli drops in a word of
praise about the pluck and endurance of the
handful of white women in his rubber-tyred
kingdom. Port Moresby isn’t exactly a
health resort when the rainfall descends in
cubic miles on the steamy earth, hut the
mere spinster keeps her head in out of the
wet, and plays tennis when the floods retire,
and, generally speaking, dodges the mosquito
most of the time. His sunbaked Ex. has
brought back a new coat of tropic tan on
his countenance. He is just the same genial,
no-frill Murray as of yore, with a special
talent for keeping off the official grass, and
a genius for telling nothing—nothing one
really wants to know —in a most interesting
fashion.
One R. J. Higgins, who is president of the
N.S.W. Shires’ Association, is, presumably,
making an appointment with himself to talk
over his recent appearance in the glare of
the public eye, and to ask himself what he
had best do about his own conduct. Higgins
suddenly emerged from the peaceful obscur-
ity of discussing the earth and the taxation
thereof, and turned himself into a missile of
weight and velocity. In a manner of speak-
ing, he waved himself three times round his
own head, and threw himself at the damsels
who smiled at him behind a Hospital Satur-
day rattle-box. He stamped with both feet
on the street collection as “the greatest blot
on Sydney,” and cleared his chest of such
adjectives as “degrading,” and the like. Now
infuriated woman has been giving him back
answers of considerable volume in the daily
press. The flapper may be rather aggressive
in her pursuit of male cash, for charity, be-
cause she’s young aud indiscreet. Most of
us have suffered from that form of youthful
measles some time or other. Even R. J.
Higgins wasn’t born a shire president. It
came to him gradually.
Granting a determination of flirt and
rattle to the boxes of the junior fry on Hospi-
tal Saturday, one says the worst of a street
collection that this year raked in over £9OOO.
It isn’t all chicken and champagne to stand
at or about a street corner for 10 or 12
hours on end. Ask a policeman. The women
who do it in the cause of charity don’t feel
“degraded.” They feel like Casabianca, if
that youthful sticker of long ago had added
to his experiences 14 rounds with Langford
and a bruised expression of extreme fatigue
in his ankle joints. They also feel like the
Roman sentinel who perished nobly in the
ash-barrel of Pompeii. The haughty-cultural
gentleman ought to run a steam-roller
over his foolish attack on the kindly coin-
collectors. A cheque for the cause would be
a decent form of apology.
Two new species of the tribe Girl have
been discovered by Brother Brooks, who is
an Oddfellow of some size in the Manchester
Unity. They are classified as “Silvertails”
and “Cornbeefs,” and subheadlined as
“pushes.” Oddfellow Brooks, who is against
petticoats in the 1.0.0. councils, and de-
nounces mixed surfing and frills in politics,
discovered the silver-beef specimens when he
dashed through up-country towns. Darwin
is too dead to pick the bones of a lady Silver-
tail, to prove her claim to belong to a higher
social strata than a mere Cornbeef. But
Bro. Brooks won’t have Oddladies of any
pretensions hanging about 1.0.0. premises.
Justine Kong Sing writes to a Sydney
friend from the wilds of London. “I know
you’ll be pleased to hear that my work has
been accepted at the Paris Salon this year.
I sent two miniatures, and one passed the
barrier. The portrait of Mrs. Norman Car-
ter I did in Sydney. The other, of myself,
I did from a mirror Mrs. Coghlan gave
me several sittings, and I’m sending her pic-
ture to the R.A. with several others....
Have not had any time for black-and-white
work yet, but shall soon; then I’ll try The
Bulletin again.” Justine, who is Aus-
tralian-born, has developed an unexpected
bump for verse, and records the acceptance
of same by one of the illustrated magazines.
She vows that the colonies [Justine, with-
draw that word!] are far in advance of
Britain in their laws, and notes the hurried
tramp of emigrants from Bull’s anthill.
The Willsallen estate, like most affluent
properties in probate, presumably used up a
considerable amount of lawyer’s time to un-
ravel. The large Gunnible sheep track ran
into a heavy thud of gold, when Thomas
Willsallen, its owner, took his ticket per
Charon’s ferry, where the ghosts of the dead
Balmain paddle steamers carry passengers
across the Styx. Daughter Agnes, Mrs.
Jack Antill, has been threatening to leave
this country for England for some months.
The country can now prepare for the worst;
the lady and her small daughter depart for
London this week. The Willsallen wealth
is carefully sliced up in assorted lots. The
sons, I fancy, got the fat, but even the lean
will drive the wolf from the door with a
motor-horn.
An extensive invitation to meet Baronet
Ward and the ladies of his household, at
the Burlington Caf6, was strewn with most
of the letters of the official alphabet.
The London press has been thick with the
thanks of Mrs. Robert Stout, of M.L., to the
Day Errants who “rescued” her and another
Suffragette from the rude remarks of male
persons in the street. Mrs. Stout is, or was
a few _ years ago, so deaf that language of
any kind had to be thrown into her ear
trumpet. That was why some people called
her Shout, but it was quite inappropriate,
for she didn’t do it; the other people did.
Perhaps the populace looked as if it was
saying things about window panes, when it
was merely talking about the weather —hence
the rescue.
A male epicure on Beauty amongst the
sheep walks sends an emphatic line from
the woolly groves of Bundarra. The long
wash of his admiration breaks against the
shore of my humble official apartment, two
stairs up, and what the wild waves of his
enthusiasm are saying concerns the recent
Picnic Race Club Ball at Inverell. “Your
Sydney belles would be hard pressed (free
translation, “heavily painted”) to match
the bloom of some of our New England girls.
At the Race Ball (Inverell) the Misses
McGregor (Glen Innes). Hope and Doro-
thea Lamb, from the same district, Freda Rob-
ertson, of Deepwater, Dorothy Mackenzie,
Kitty Campbell, Mary Gibbes (no connec-
tion of the Yip-i-addy Miss G.) from In-
verell, and Elsie Wiseman, from Bundarra.
were in the first flutter. Good figures, good
complexions, and each with a good pair of
dancing feet. These alone were well worth
a drive of 60 miles (the distance I have to
complete) for the sake of a waltz.” I hope
George Washington Merino is not pulling my
shoe lace in the matter of the Inverell beauty
show.
Beatrice Grimshaw’s new novel, “Guinea
Gold,” is said to be ahead of “The Red
Gods” (when they call), and that was a suc-
cess with a large circumference of cash.
Arthur Davis, the “Steele Rudd” of Dad
and Mtim fame, hurried down from his 1500-
acre plot on Darling Downs (Q.) to see
Bert Bailey as Dad at the Palace Theatre.
He looked in here before returning with en-
thusiasm to his black-soil patch un yonder.
The man who handles a plough and pen
with the “Steele Rudd” vigor isn’t likely to
measure his praise when the other fellow
snatches a success. “They’ve made a great
scoop with their dramatic version of ‘On Our
Selection.’ I can appreciate what they’ve
done with Dad and Mum, because I tried to
dress them up for.footlight production myself
a few years ago. But it’s one thing to write
a book, and quite another to turn it into a
Play. My version was a failure —I readily
admit it. A knowledge of stage-craft and a
keen dramatic sense of situations has made
the Palace version better than my highest
expectations. Bert Bailey is Dad —that’s
right. Sarah Rudd, Dave and Billy Bearup
—why, they’ve just stepped off the selection.
I can see the old place from the verandah
of my own homestead. You’re right— most
of the folks in “Our Selection’ were real flesh
and blood. What Dad didn’t say when I
knew him —well —l reckon he would have
said if he’d had time; so I just dropped his
overlooked remarks into the book.”
“Steele Rudd” sees a mighty change for
the worse (from the pedestrian point of
view) in this city’s traffic since he sampled
the art of falling off its crowded tram ser-
vice four years ago. He has struck his roots
deep down in the black soil beyond breezy
Toowoomba, and pities the man whose hoof
rings on the pavement. He labored hard last
week to kill the dragging hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m., and is suspected of stealthily
stealing up to the Central Station to see if
the train service due north was in its right
place. He felt he might want it at any
moment. He is a mixed farmer who is mak-
ing it pay. Also, he is the chief conspirator
who organised a third, or farmers’ party, in
the recent Queensland elections, and he is
on the heels of the middleman in the matter
of grain and produce. “Steele Rudd” says
he 11 write one more book, then he’ll beat the
inkpot into a milk pail for ever more.
Journalist J. S. Ryan was in charge of the
artists and writers’ welcome to “Steele
Rudd” last week. When the welcome be-
came too hilarious, Ryan sat on its head.
Norman Lilley took the chair. Editor Ber-
tram Stevens (Lone Hand) proposed the
health of the guest-in-chief, who replied so
swiftly that another health had to be hurled
at him by Editor Lamond (Worker). Sub-
editor Stewart (Mail) flung in a prop to
support this speech, and Tom Mutch sang
“The Wild Colonial Boy.” I once heard this
anonymous offence drag out its illimitable
boa-constrictor length in a settler’s home
on Great Barrier Island (M.L.). Then it
reached its maximum of 40 verses or there-
abouts, and the morn climbed all over the
heights above Port U'itzroy before the Wild
Colonial Boy sank down exhausted into his
chair and the settler applied a glass of beer
to his parched tongue. I understand it was
cut down to 20 or so verses the other night.
There are really 110 verses, but 70 of them
are obsolele.
“Mother’s Day,” a freak institution of
comparatively recent growth, is alleged to
have been created by Miss Anna Jarvis, of
Philadelphia, U.S. It first appeared here
under the prayer books of the Y.M.C.A.
Naturally a spinster was responsible for this
cult of the white flower. No mother —cer-
tainly none of any real weight in the world—
would dream of such folly. The mothers
who count would blush for their motherhood
if they had to nag at the memory of their
sons on the second Sunday in May, such nag-
ging to break out in the sons’ buttonholes in
white vegetable matter. The bitter irony of
“ Mother’s Day” is the sting in its tail—any
flowers left over from the buttonhole burst
will be sent to orphanages, etc. It is an
unpleasant way of reminding mother that she
isn’t immortal.
When the idle spinster does claw the moral
atmosphere, she has no rival on earth. The
uplifting of the frivolous husband, and the
higher education of the young child, are her
favorite hobbies. The most moving address
I’ve ever heard on “The Best Way to Influ-
ence a Husband” was delivered at a local
woman’s club. The authority was an autumn
spinster more than passing plain. The Old
Man Plain was hardly worth mentioning in
the same category with her. The address
was so moving that various matrons retired
to the hairpin shed off the lecture room, and
swallowed their laughter behind the club
towels.
George Treloar, who goes on tour with
the Bert Bailey co. in a day or two, cut his
theatrical whiskers under the eye of Julius
Knight—the great Marcus Superfluous of
other days. Previous to that, he swallowed
a snack of gold lace as a youthful officer in
some militia corps. Knight thought highly
of Treloar’s prospects as a mummer. If his
brain is as large as his chin, nothing but a
tidal wave will wash the strenuous George
off the trail of a big salary.
The King Edward Home for Lost or
Frayed Dogs will have its kennels officially
opened before this reaches you. Howling-
street (I mean Dowling-street), Moore Park,
is its address. A formidable list of vice-
patrons looms on top of the doggy court
circulars, which are heavily branded with
the Royal coat of arms and legs. Queen
Alexandra is the patron. Hon. sec., P. Mon-
tagu Rothery; hon. treasurer. Airs. Griffin;
and president, Mrs. R. R. S. Mackinnon,
were in charge of the bow-wow party
Aliss Una Alaclardy, formerly a Sydney
’Varsity girl, is included in the London cast
of “Iphigenia,” and she’ll sing and dance
round the melancholy tags bf a Greek chorus.
The charming overture to “The Blue Bird”
has been so fiercely trampled on by the late
stalls that its end has been a stifled Desde-
mona edition of Norman O’Neill’s original
conception. The smothered orchestra is now
putting in its final heat with Society’s shoe
leather. A new Corn Law ought to be
projected on the market by the Early AVorm.
Norman Page has tamed down his wor-
ried expression as Tylette the Cat (in
Alaeterlinck’s fairy play), and now sits
much closer to the sleek self-satisfaction of
the average milk-stealer. The bright young-
ster, Vera Spaull, by the way, as Mytyl,
rushes the looking-glass, and gets her back
done up (after she has wiped an inch or two
of neck on a roller towel) with the aban-
doned vanity of 10 or so, when it firsc begins
to notice its front curls.
lYhen “Sinbad the Sailor” wore a brand-
new wardrobe, and the Rose ballet first
hopped into its pink-and-white petals, etc.,
the result must have been a dazzling dress
show. The ladies who decorate the career
of the Emperor of Sahara are now getting a
wilted expression about their front teeth.
Smiling the same smile for about 15 weeks
and a mile of matinees is conducive to string-
halt in the upper lip. The sequined damsels
in flesh-colored tights are more flesh than
sequin, and there’s a tired droop in some of
the jokes.
In spite of signs of travel, “Sinbad” is
catching the public ear. For youngsters it
is one of the best shows we’ve had for some
time. The situations are obvious —like
Princess Celia Ghiloni Fatima, whose solid
avoirdupois is beautifully clothed in
mandarin drapery, trimmed with peacocks’
eyes, or something unlucky. The jokes are
good, plain, family jokes, that don’t need
opening with a corkscrew. And Mrs. Sin-
bad (Pip Powell) is a blue-pencilled Sunday
version of the wicked dames who kick np
their heels in some pantos. Pip sounds like
the thing that worries a suburban poultry
farmer when his eldest chicken coughs up a
tack. Rut Mrs. Pip Sinbad wouldn’t worry
even a Scotch conscience, for she’s generally
clothed from neck to calf, with only hurried
intervals (staccato) of underdone singlet.
Yours in wintry weather.
VANDORIAN.


ym
Mi?
s m
' .T-. V'
■i.*
m
-as®**®
t£~4
<?
/
m
m
m
:<■>■'
s&
<< M
agile
-/T"'
iaP
Wttflt
I.
•#s®S
v>,
(im,
Loft'S
><Ni
KjJ®
Vvr
id.
y*s
f>K
Wu
>jw%
*%&
e£
ijPy^.
■ußßouSa*
: $m
m
SM
zg
. • ‘V <.-•.
N*i
;^Sc
k&k
y ; -
m
4*?.
rr-
f
'A-,,
m
rx
«B«s
A
*ss
If
sSsj
ij&gi
y»
&S®-
A
m.
gag
m
m
■*£>
m.
M
ess
m! Sum
iH M
3*
,
/
k
i':,fv
y>;
>C'
as
<SK
/’"V!
m
r-i
TAP
m
M
,S
yA
; y
/r-A
w
m
C&&
•/$&
m
AsjF%
steft
&?<
PA
>^v'
-Sfisk
H
v£*V
X??
&
Mr'
*£2P
s?
H
1
#
M
asgs
m
m
f- A ?‘-
Am
>r
A.A
W^m.
a
f A?2L.<?S —•
■szSMdMi^uß...-
J*IW
I^w »W«(WR
Cobra, Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Quite enjoys
A round or two.
When Jack Johnson’
Faint and reeling,
And the crowd’s hats Any more than
Hit the ceiling,
Chunder hits out
Quick and hard,
Crying “ He can’t
Break mv guard
Wild, wet weather
Can break ‘Cobra’s
Guard o’er leather!
Money you will
Never lose
If you’ve “COBRA”
ON YOUR SHOES


đ sdf
In
A Useful Novelty
Men’s Gifts
at Farmer’s.
The Combination Collar Box and Brush Case pictured here is a
most useful gift for a Man, and quickly solves the present-selecting
problem.
It can be had in Tan Hide, or Black Seal Grain Leather, lined
White Satin. The Case is SJin. long, Spin, across widest part, sin.
deep, and contains Mirror, pair of Military Brushes, Comb, and
Receptacle for Collars.
Price 37/6.
For Wedding, Birthday and all kinds of Gifts, Farmer’s Fancy
Section presents a Splendid Selection of the Latest Novelties.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST OF
PRESENTS POST FREE ON REQUEST.
FARMER’S
SYDNEY.
When other remedies fail to cure that headache,
here’s the cure. Stearns’ Headache Cure, headache
gone in a few minutes.*
DUNLOP
HOT-WATER
•BAGS*
last several Winters
...ana...
do not crack or leak!
BUY ONE NOW!
The cost is nothing
compared to the
comfort they give.
If your Chemist or Storekeeper does not
stock “ Dunlop” brand, order direct from
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
“No
more
cold
feet!”
JH C.
d
o
l
' ::
n:
DUNLOP
GOLFBAIIS
ALWAYj GIVE 3ATDrACTION/
GOLFISTS say that the
“ Dunlop ” plays longer
and better than any other
ball procurable.
Obtainable from all J X
PROFESSIONALS and £
SPORTS DEPOTS at....
EACH
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. |
Mol bourne, Syd ney,
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
Wellington, Christchurch
ď
DUNLOP
MOTORTYRB
Are in Great Demand
CAR OWNERS are specifying “Dunlops”
because they give the best mileage.
CHAUFFEURS want " Dunlops” because
they give the least trouble.
Its the Quality of Material and Workman-
ship that does it. Every Motorist should
buy them. Send for latest list !
... •
j DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All' State. »nd N.Z.
đf
DUNLOP
MINING W
ENGINEERING Goods
Stand alone for
Quality and Price.
EVERY CLASS OF RUBBER GOODS
STOCKED OR MADE TO ORDER.
TENDERS AND SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
* * «
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne. Sydney.
Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane. Wellington, Christchurch^
DUNLOP
MOTOR-CYCLE
TYRES
Give the
Best Results
You can ensure a
bigger mileage and
less trouble if you
use them !
SEND FOR PRICE LIST
DUNLOP RUBBER CO„
All States end N.Z.
PI
(as
m
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 13, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Melbourne, seemingly, has lost its trusty
Messenger for good —the good of Adelaide.
Mr. Messenger, wffio was longtime mine host
of the Oriental Hotel in Collins-street, and
whose departure therefrom was mourned as
that of a parent, has been appointed mana-
ger of Gibson’s Grand Central Hotel in the
Holy City, which claims to be the finest
pub on this continent. Melbourne would
have been interested in the Grand Central
for its proprietor’s sake anyhow, for he is
the Gibson identified with the name of Foy
in the drapery trade.
Dr. Gurdon’s daughter Norah, who
is launching out on an artistic career,
has shown some original stuff at
recent V.A.S. shows. Now she and
two other youngsters, tenderfeet in
the Art world, have got together a collection
of “little things of their own,” to winch
Melbourne is invited for a fortnight at Tuck-
ett and Styles’ Art Gallery in Collins-street.
Ruth Sutherland and Dora L. Wilson are
the other two daubsters.
The Best lady has tired of rural life, and is
coming to live in town again, the happy farm
having gone to pieces on the labor iceberg.
It seems that the Best knight imported a
fatherly immigrant at great expense, built
him a cottage, surrounded him with all the
luxuries of the season, and clothed his eight
children. The Immigrant dawdled over some
work, then became seriously ill. The chari-
table lady nursed him through, and then
turned her attention to one of the eight chil-
dren, who had acquired measles and whoop-
ing cough. When everyone was well and
strong again, the grateful importation col-
lected all his goods, marshalled the eight
children, and made several forced marches
into the unknown. The good dame wrung
her pretty hands, and personally attended
to the horse, the cow and the chooks until
her absent knight returned and hung up his
political battleaxe in the hall. Then she
broke the news to him that she had decided
to have done with the foreign varlet, and get
a town castle.
Melbourne girls can watch out for a good
time. Captain Bowwater, who is a brother
of the Vanstittart Bowwater who is Gaud
Mayor of London, is coming out to visit
Uncle Davey, who rules at the Town Hall.
The visitor is to be the centre of the revels
which will mark the opening of the improved
edifice that is still enveloped in scaffolding
and infested by hod-cariers.
The Gaudv Mayoress is taking a deter-
mined stand by the soup tureen, and defying
the aldermen to absorb all the banquets by
themselves. When the new Town Hall
emerges from the builder’s litter, a feast is
to be spread, and the Gaudess is battling for
the inclusion of women at the groaning
board. Some gorgeous raiment will be seen
if she upsets the sacred tradition that on all
ceremonial occasions the male must feed
alone.
Many proposed divorces are side-tracked
for the sake of the children, or else the chil-
dren serve as an excuse for parents who are
too tired to go to court; but one case has
been hurriedly hushed because of the wife’s
papa. Papa happens to be a legal Head
Light, with a Handle to keep polished and
Elections to consider. He doesn’t want any
beastly separation in the family. So the
two have promised bitterly to resume their
domestic happiness, at least while the ser-
vants are about, and a complete but grumpy
reconciliation has taken place. All the
same, the uneasy parents are shivering in
their shoes, for the domestic volcano may
erupt at any minute.
In last week’s “Chatter,” the printer’s
devil, in a regal moment, converted the Coun-
tess of Aberdeen into the Duchess of Aber-
deen. I have informed him that it must not
occur again, as George and Mary will be get-
ting mixed up if they find a strange Duchess
careering round while the Countess stock-
yard musters one short. The devil is now in
his odd moments learning by heart whole
pages of “Whitaker’s Peerage.” At time of
writing, he is half-way through the earls, and
slowly struggling downstairs to the scullery,
where the K.C.M.G. and the K.B. swap kit-
chen gossip while they wash up the dishes.
Toorak is still talking about the Osborne-
Lord wedding cake. It seems that the roof
of the richness represented a station home-
stead surrounded by a host of tiny sugar
animals, which were afterwards distributed
amongst the guests. One of the (sugar)
beasts was a pig.
It is related of a lady recently returned
from England that, after she had been home
a week, she remarked languidly, “By the
way, how are the kids?”
Christina Muir, youngest of the Muir clan
and granddaughter of the late Dr. Adam
Cairns, died recently in England, after mak-
ing a place for herself in the musical world.
She was educated at the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, in East Melbourne —the
high-toned academy frequented by the illus-
trious Melba years ago. When she discov-
ered that she had a good voice, she went
after some good tuition with satisfactory re-
sults. Her handsome, fair-haired sister
married Captain Howard Rowley, of the
British navy, and it was at their home in
Weybridge, Surrey, that she died. Cairns
Memorial Church in East Melbourne lifts
its imposing spire in honor of the dead
singer’s grandfather.
At a recent suburban wedding of much
importance, the bridegroom was embarrassed
by the attentions of an old admirer. She
accompanied the shaky man to the church,
and shadowed him along the aisle almost to
the altar steps. At the champagne finale, she
embraced and kissed the blushing man, leant
into the motor for the last handclasp, and,
when the car started, tore along beside the
gas engine wailing good-byes. It isn’t often
the Man gets such attention. If he did, the
wedding rate would slump.
The Fuller Governor these days is strug-
gling along with a very small supply of
Gentleman Help. Secretary Wilberforce,
who usually whispers to his fix. what to do
and how to do it, was lately seized with a
spavin or something in the left leg, and re-
tired for a rest cure to the top of the Black
Spur. It was the right limb that went
wrong some time ago, consequently he now
views his misunderstandings with apprehen-
sion. Help Awdry, who lately got word of his
father’s death, hastily packed up and steamed
for Middlesex. Three whole months must
elapse before he can resume at the old ad-
dress. In the meantime, Fuller will have to
pilot himself through the sunken reefs of
society. It is a diplomatic axiom that the
peace of Toorak sometimes depends on the
correct passing of a cup of tea.
It is still to be explained why guests at a
picture show lean against the wall to chat-
ter, and thereby conceal the canvases their
host wants to show and sell. The hosting
artist supplies the accompanying band and
bun at considerable expense to attract possi-
ble buyers, and he deserves a clear field.
Latterly these functions have finished up
with a very blue artist, disarranged or dam-
aged pictures, and a few artistic souls growl-
ing together outside the door.
At the top of Tuckett Chambers, Collins-
street, about 150 pictures by the Misses Gur-
don, Sutherland and Dora L. Wilson have
been spread out to catch the eye of those
who possess that, the undue love whereof is
alleged by the more or less authentic Solo-
mon to be the root of all evil. Miss Suther-
land hangs the finest offerings, though she
lias a weakness for painting those bits of the
Yarra that arb infested with ramshackle
abattoirs and boiling-downeries.—our nearest
approach to the boiled-down ' castles of the
Rhine. Pretty Ruth Sutherland’s pastel
portraiture is worth a cheer, and she pre-
sents a fetching work in “The Shady Hat,”
which verandahs a charming face. Miss
Wilson pastels knowingly here and there,
but her crayoned kids look too precocious,
and might be budding apostles of the Higher
Thought. On the other hand, one is smitten
with her pictures of nice young men —the
sort that make efficient M’s.C. for croquet
tournaments. Miss Gurdon covers part of
her wall space with framed views of the
four seasons on mountain and plain, and
also shows two figure subjects which, how-
ever, fail to hold the visitor as he drifts past.
He may heave-to for about five seconds, but
he doesn’t drop anchor and furl his umbrella.
Art is again in full blast at the upper hall
of the Atlienseum. This and next week Con-
stance Jenkins, who won the Travelling Art
Scholarship in 1908, will display the fruits
of her European experience on the walls
which Walter Withers has just relinquished.
The Withers show w 7 as a success. It fetched
the women who talk about pictures aud the
men who buy them. Water colors in the
frame, or out of the portfolio, were in wide
demand at bargain prices, and many of the
oils passed out of the artist’s keeping.
Walter Withers is a painter with poetry in
his composition, the poetry that is not too
profound or rugged. You scan his pictures
without an effort, and remember them. One
of his three largest was a charming study
of gathering gloom—“ The Last Gleam of
Golden Light”—with a bit of a waterhole
in the foreground. The darkness seemed
audaciously blue, and the atmosphere'heavy
laden with paint, but the picture caught the
eye, and held it. Next to “The Last Gleam,”
the artist had hung “The Ragged Edge of
the Bush,” which fairly gripped one. The
smell of eucalyptus came oozing from the
canvas. This, too, had a patch of water in
the foreground. Withers is not so droughty
in his landscape subjects as he used to be,
and the more he dabbles in sea and river the
better he expresses the infinite wetness of
water. “The Steam Ferry” (No. 20) might
have deceived even a fish.
The Victoria League of Victoria is to
burst forth in an Empire Day pageant, on
May 24, in the Princess’s Theatre. The play
itself, “Empire,” was written by Enid Der-
ham, helped, musically, by the baton-waving
Mrs. Ewart. Harry Hill is to do the stage-
managing, and Miss Teague is working
bonds-of-Empire ideas of scarlet and gold
into the dress designs. The affair is being
boosted for all it is worth by the musical
sub-committee of the League. The Very
Best people are to play. Lady Fuller herself
will watch from on high, but Auntie Phipps
is embedded in the cast. Alfred Deakin’s
daughter Yera will also lend her aid ; like-
wise Lesly Madden, the Pinschof daughters
and Mrs. Bank-manager Collins. The
League, headed by Mrs. Secretary Maudsley,
is working hard for the production, which is
guaranteed to be pure Australian —except in
sentiment. The musical rehearsals happen
at the University under the wings and tea-
pots of the professors’ wives.
The latest and most involved plot to cap-
ture the fleeting shilling for the new Mel-
bourne Hospital is the “Kismet” Ball, which
is to bounce at the Town Hall, on
May 30. Lily Brayton, Sybil Arun-
dale and Flo Young, of course, are
taking day shifts at the Gaud Mayor's
headquarters, where they are prepared to in-
struct the home dressmaker in the art of be-
coming a citizeness of Bagdad at small ex-
pense—mostly from 2s. lid. upwards. Candi-
dates are earnestly requested to bring any
spare curtain rings with them. The whole
Oscar Asche tribe will arrive at the func-
tion when theatre hours are ended; after
which the home-made Fatimas will probably
want to escape up the organ pipes. The
question is, will the houri who dives into the
bath be included in the “Kismet” procession,
and will she carry a towel over her shoul-
der?
The Swastika Club, ever yearning after
mind improvement, will, on Thursday next,
entertain Lily Brayton and a few dimmer
stars. The following week, Bernard O’Dowd
is to face the soulful sisterhood, and explain
exactly what is meant by such lines as
“Their petrol-perfumed paths I spread with
torpid tacks of hate.”
The second audience for “Stella” was
more crowded in the d.c. and stalls than the
first gathering of the Marshall Hall clan, but
the boxes had no theatrical folk in.-.ide them.
In fact, they were as empty as the arums in
the orchestra below. At the previous, matinee
Lily Brayton, with Wazir Grimwood in at-
tendance, showed something of her face in
the further box on the grand tier, whilst
Melba sat on the best of terms with her re-
juvenated self in the adjoining pen until she
stood up to bang her hands together before
leaving. This time Lady Fuller had been .
engaged as star patroness, and she preferred
to take the opera from the centre of the
front row of the circle. The white-haired
Miller dame was with her, and Pinschof
acted as escort. It was a great afternoon
for the only Pinschof. He visited her Excel-
lency between the acts, carrying his shiny
belltopper to and fro as though it Were his
insignia of office as representative of the
Lady- Northcote Permanent Orchestra Fund.
The Marshall Hall followers of all sorts and
shapes—-effusive and unobtrusive, combative
or mildly devotional —were there in their
hundreds. Cousins and aunts of the Con-
servatorium chorus girls assembled in dowdy
array, also a number of unaccountable
people who baffled classification and didn’t
seem to know what they had come for. Apart:
from the critics who held briefs for Marshall
Hall and the matinde management, a good
few lights of the. commercial musical world
were dotted about. George Allan looked dis-
tinguished as usual in the front line of the
circle, and ’way back in row K or there-
abouts was Walter Kirby, vastly improved
by a recent hair-cut.
The floral offerings, which are just a
harmless absurdity at an ordinary amateur
performance, amounted to a positive outrage
last Saturday. When the curtain was raised
on the “Stella” co., several baskets and bou-
quets of glowing vegetables, with ribbons
attached, were handed up to one of the /
amateur male mummers, who looked at the
tickets and duly delivered them to Miss
Murdoch, the amateur lady of the co. These
invidious distinctions were culchaw’s tri-
butes to Conservatorium art, apparently.
Rosina Buckman meanwhile stood neglected
in the centre of the stage. Not even a
bunch of violets came her way. Marshall
Hall, in a brief, spasmodic speech, alluded
to the disconcerted Rosina as the star per-
former, but if he had pelted her with flowery
compliments, they wouldn’t have made any
visible difference to the aspect of affairs.
The preliminary heats between the col-
lege eight-oar crews for “head of the river”
brought every schoolboy and girl in Mel-
bourne to the banks of the Yarra, last Fri-
day. Barrackers old and young wore flut-
tering bundles of ribbon, motor-cars streamed
school colors in the wind, and a most un-
happy white bull terrier was harnessed up
with the purple and yellow of Wesley. The
unfortunate animal also wore bracelets on
his legs and bows on his ears. He had no
hat or coat, but I presume he had lost them
during the excitement. A liver-colored Gor-
don setter snarled murderously in the same
foolish rig, and jealously chased happy un-
dressed dogs whose owners had no objection
to them being just dogs, and nothing more.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
_ A large, hot crowd watched the racing at Morphett-
ville on Saturday and Monday. The popularity of
the sport of kings, mugs, etc., acts as a chronic irri-
tant upon Brither Wowser (it was Macaulay, I
believe, who remarked, acutely, that the Puritans
loathed bear-baiting, not because it annoyed the bear,
but because it pleased .the crowd), and the air is full of
assaults, veiled and otherwise, upon the turf and all
associated with it. As one example of the tendency,
the open columns of the dailies are seething with
insulting language re the Hideous Depravity of the
Female Gambler. One frantic pietist drew a har-
rowing p cture, last week, of a free fight beneath the
Tote battlements, and he went on to tell of the des-
pair of the dishevelled she-bettor upon her horse being
beaten, and so to a cheerful discourse anent neglected
homes and unpaid bills, and pther things too numer-
ous and awful to mention, culminating in unlimited
alcohol and the gutter. Seeing that, at the ss. total-
isator, crowding is quite unknown, and that it is
there the vast majority of women record their modest
wagers, the anguish of the newspaper correspondent
is obviously overdone and out of place.
The vice-regal box wore the Club colors, and a
party from Government House. Miss Phipps, affec-
tionately if somewhat familiarly known in the State
of Weary as Auntie Phipps, occupied a chair or
throne there. Lady Bosanquet was in her favorite
blue —a canvas ninon over white. A befeathered hat,
with a sweeping brim, obscured her fair white brow.
Miss Bosanquet’s white coat and skirt, of Saturday,
gave way to a fuchsia-like softness of pink and veil-
ing heliotrope on Monday. Mrs. Rowe clung to blue
on both days. What one may term the persistently
horsey—the MacLachlans, Hawkers, Bowmans and so
on —were there to a man and a woman. Mrs. Tom
Barr Smith gave teas on Saturday and Monday, wear-
ing English-built successes on both occasions—black
taffeta on Saturday, and saxe blue, with a black veil-
ing, on Monday. Mrs. Stephen Ralli, Mrs. Reg
Colley, Mrs. Tolley, the Rvmills, Mrs. O’Leary, Mrs.
D'ck Hawker and Mrs. John Corbin did their respec-
tive dress-architects proud.
Mrs. Culross gave a small dance at South Terrace
on Friday evening. She has taken Dr. Marten’s
house for the winter. The place has nothing that
even faintly resembles a ballroom, so the dancing
transpired in a marquee.
Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Mortlock and Miss Rita
Gwynne, Miss Bickford, Miss Connor and Mr. James
Melrose, with his daughter, all made off by the
Malwa on Thursday.
From Japan comes news of the death of Mr. Trevor
Ross Reid, one of a well-known Adelaide family.
Mrs. Heil, who died at Glenelg a day or so ago,
was a colonist since 1840, when she arrived in the
Lysander. Both her father (the late John Dunn) and
her husband were wheat merchants, and one of her
daughters married Mr. Fowler Stewart, of D. and J.
Fowler.
The Branscombe-Bevan case ended with a £275
victory for Mr. Bevan. The verdict amounted to an
expression of opinion by the jury that people don’t
act as advance agents and general conductors of
theatrical shows for nothing.
Talking of law suits, the Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals faced the lady behind
the blinder on Wednesday. Though defeated, it was
not disgraced. The trouble arose over a broken-down
cab-horse, which the Society’s inspector shot out of
sheer pity. The owner claimed £l9, and got Is.
He would have got nothing, had not the inspector’s
zeal so outrun his discretion that he shot the un-
happy animal without a J.P.’s order, or the freedom
of the city, or whatever was necessary.
Invitations have been issued for an At Home, at
Government House, on Tuesday, May 28, and various
private dances threaten —clear evidences that winter
is upon us. Meanwhile, hot winds rage briskly, and
from the country comes news of a huge bush fire
which has been burning for three or four davs.
Settlers round Blumberg and Forreston have suffered
heavily, and acres of wattle and fencing have been
destroyed.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


ttdKrCLB
pine old cognac
brandy
. .
.'•i
X
c
Rare and
Exquisite
Flavor.
A special process of distil-
lation, aided by the Sun and
Soil of the Charentes —the
finest brandy-grape district of
France —and a ripe experi-
ence of. nearly 200 years com-
bine to produce Martell’s
Brandy.
Whether as a daily bever-
age ; whether as an after-
dinner liqueur, or as potent
medicinal spirit, Martell’s
holds pride of place..
Its rare bouquet—its subtle,
aromatic, delicate flavor —its
generous warmth and noble
"medicinal properties maintain
it “the typical, fine Cognac.”
M artel l’s
The .Standard
of Excellence.
Why Shiver?
Make your home cosy
by using a
Perfection Oil Heater
and White Rose or
Snowflake Kerosene
£
X
rrr
‘Come, be comfy too.”
The
Perfection
Oil Heater
is safe, hygienic and convenient.
It radiates all its heat in the
room, and does not send sixty
per cent, of it up the chimney
like a coal or wood fire. There
are no ashes to clean up, or dirty
fuel to carrry in. It can be moved
about from room to room without
any trouble.
It cannot smoke.
' J . ; -. ,
: i
t • *
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty.Ltd.


sdfsdfdf
Worry is a germ.
See that you don’t catch it. Keep
in good spirits by taking the
good spirit —
Watson's No. 10
Whisky.
It is pure —well matured —rich and
mellow.
l.’s good as well as cheerful!
fhtdortA
1$
u
S 2
J\ist to Advertise !
86
A Sixpenny Bottle of Caldwell’s Ink
and a 12/6 14ct.-Cold Iridium-tipped
Special Pattern Self-filling' Q/IJ
Unleakable Fountain Pen, for w
If you can’t buy locally, send
Postal Note direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD..
Yarra Bank Road, STH. MELBOURNE.
// /itSIC cZ
d
DENYER'S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6; Double, 22/6 ; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. CallorWri.e.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEOKGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
BITTEN BY HIS OWN DOG.
MORAL: Get rid of the dog.
A political policy is the largest amount
of promise and the smallest amount of per-
formance that a leader can get on with.
That often baseless beast called Rumor
alleges that Iceberg Irvine has been trying
on Deakin’s crown, and thinks that if he
puts two Arguses inside it will fit. Deakin
is said to have lost his dash, which may be
the result of years ; also, he is alleged to have
shed a good deal of his affability and put on
the whole garment of bile, but that. looks
like a malicious invention, for it is impos-
sible to imagine Alfred as anything save the
sunny individual he always was. Anyhow,
if bile is what is wrong where does the Ice-
berg come in?
Premier McGowen, of N.S.W., spends so
much time devising means of being nasty to
the Australian Government that he hasn t
a moment to spare for the fulfilment of his
own pledges to abolish the State Governor
and the State Upper House, and to leave off
borrowing except for works that will pay
full interest on the loan money from the be-
ginning, and a sinking fund contribution as
well. Thus, in pursuit of his usual curious
occupations, he recently wrote a lengthy
letter to the Australian Government propos-
ing to take, in part at least, the control of
quarantine matters into his own hands. His
plea was (1) that the immigrants which Ins
own State Government is bringing in are
an unhealthy lot, presumably because Ins
own State Government doesn’t sufficiently
inspect them before they leave England;
and (2) that the Commonwealth methods or
inspection aren’t sufficient to counteract this
unhealthiness.
Chief Justice Madden (Vic.) will be 68
on May 16; Agent-General Newton Moore
(W.A.), 42 on the 17th; Henniker Heaton,
64 on the ISth; Mrs. Melba, 47 on the 19th;
Governor Strickland, 51 on the 24th ; Bishop
Riley, 58 on the 26tli; and G. Gordon
McCrae 79 on the 29th.
A sale (?) of land took place outside
Adelaide a few days ago. The auctioneer,
before putting the property up, referred, in
feeling terms, to the recent S.A. elections,
and stated that much more confidence was
felt among farmers since the Verran Gov-
ernment was defeated. He enlarged upon
the higher prices that were being obtained
and the number of buyers that had come
into the field since Liberalism had proved
victorious. Said the local paper: “As
there were no buyers the land was passed
in.”
South Aus. is looking sideways at the
weather. It is up to the parsons to point
out that the Finger of Providence is on the
side of the Labor party. Butler, of the other
side, used to be called “Dismal Dick” be-
cause of the long face he had to pull as State
Treasurer in lean years at the beginning of
the century. Under Price and Verran there
were steadily moist years and good harvests,
with high wages and practically no poverty
in the State. Now the Liberals have come
back to office, and immediately things dry
up. It has so far been the hottest May for
half a century—B6 in the shade one day. A
motor-car has been driven across the bed of
the Murray at Morgan; and, in a general
way, Anything may happen.
“Frank Croson” on an old friend :
It looks as though Alfred Deakin’s nerves were
going. He has taken to the wild, loose chat of him
who stands in urgent need of a rest cure. Two re-
cent statements by him were: (1) that “in the sub-
division of the State of Victoria he believed that
sinister influences were at work for party purposes” ;
(2) that “the Arbitration Court was no Court, and
the Judge no longer an independent authority.” The
first allegation amounted to a gratuitous libel on the
three Commissioners appointed to set out the boun-
daries of the Weary State’s new electorates. In any
case, the Commissioners —two of whom are State
public servants, and the other a Commonwealth offi-
cial —had not, when Deakin hurled his charge at
them, handed in their report. As regards Higgins,
he was appointed, not by the Laborites, but by a
Deakin Ministry. He has nothing to gain from Labor
nor anything to fear from it. And there has been no-
thing in his blameless career to suggest that he would
be guilty of venality, as a judge, if things were differ-
ent. Alfred has never been quite the same generous
and self-respecting political foe since he, Fused.
Fred Young, the new S.A. Minis-
ter for Lands, heard recently that
“a well-known firm” had been offer-
ing to get from the State a certain
desirable lease at the price of £5O.
Whereupon he remarked, in effect,
that they wanted none of the Lands
.hanky-panky in S. Aus. that lias
disfigured N.S.W.; that his depart-
ment issues leases on a fixed prin-
ciple, and that no firm has any in-
fluence which can make its services
worth more than the very moderate
fees fixed by scale. Having gone
so far, he might as well have named
the “well-known” firm outright.
Otherwise the Man in the Street,
who insists on offering odds that
he can pick it in two shots, may do
an injustice to one of the firms
shot at.
No man knows how useful he may not be
after he is dead. Charles 1., the feckless,
headless monarch who drifted off the stage
263 years ago, is still working. An Act of
his has been dug up to prevent Justice Gor-
don asking old Knox, of Sydney, about the
inner mysteries of the Colonial Sugar Refin-
ing Co.
Item from the S. M. Herald :
Mr. Christin Leder, the Arctic explorer, lecturing
at Montreal on “The People of the North Pole, said
that the Esquimaux were a model people. When it
was determined to rid a tribe of a liar by death, the
sentence was unknown to the culprit till he received
the death blow.
Yet if an Australian democrat crept up be-
hind a Tory politician with an axe the Her-
ald, it is practically certain, wouldn’t call
him “model.” It is a case of the distant
butchery looking green.
DISCOVERING THE OBVIOUS.
The Shipping Federation is apparently strong
enough to prevent outside shipping companies carry-
ing emigrants to Australia, as the outside companies
would find it extremely difficult to secure cargo for
the return journey, and £12 passages would not pay
the expenses of the journey both ways.
Sydney Telegraph.
THE D. T.: "Now, you never thought I would
dig you in the ribs, did you?”
By an old Parliamentarian : —•
Carmichael has resolved to retain the portfolio of
Public Instruction in the N.S.W. Ministry, in which
job he has been a success. Many people in the know
state that Carmichael is the biggest man in the
Ministry on the administrative side; and the only
one of the team who really is capable of handling the
Treasury. Dacey wag clearly overweighted, and his
lamented death was probably caused by over-conscien-
tious attempts to grasp too big a job. Among N.S.W.
Treasurers of the last 30 years, probably only three
were capable of dispensing with the written speech
of the officials—McMillan, Dibbs and Carruthers.
Parkes’s single financial speech was a joke. See was
always in a maze. Lyne confused everyone by too
great attention to detail down to farthings, and he
couldn’t generalise. Dibbs was a master of the busi-
ness. Reid was only a juggler, with his trick of
spending Dibbs’s savings and charging the expenditure
back to Dibbs’s year, thus making Dibbs’s surplus a
deficit, and helping to make his own deficit a sur-
plus. No one except Reid ever got down to that
sort of thing.
“Enraged Democrat” scents an evil: —
Observing that there is stealthily creeping into
politics hereabouts the old English keep-it-in-the-
family idea, I hereby raise the alarm. It appeared
in Maoriland, where, after the death of Richard
John Seddon, that warrior’s constituency was per-
suaded to hand down the job of Parliamentary repre-
sentation to a 22-year old son without a shred of
political experience. Since then several similar cases
have occurred. Only the other day the son of a
deceased Sydney alderman bowed respectfully before
the old man’s constituents, and announced that he
would keep up the best traditions of the family.
The awed parishioners thereupon solemnly elected
him. But the dead finish is Simon Hickey, who is
contesting the Alexandria (Sydney) seat in the As-
sembly on behalf of Labor. Hickey is placarding
that salubrious suburb with a touching appeal to
the electors to be “True to J. R. Dacey.” Simon,
it transpires, being a son-in-law or first cousin twice
removed to the late member. I’m great on senti-
ment, but I think it has its place and its uses. I
move that Simon Hickey be elected by a large maj-
ority, but that he be warned never again to trade
on his relationship to the good old departed Trea-
surer.
NOT UP.
Arrangements are being made by the V ictorian
Statist to draw up an anthropometric standard for
the Australian child. He will take the results of
measurements of 12,000 Victorian State school child-
ren, and from them work out a standard of measure-
ments for an average Australian child. —Daily paper.
E XPERT: "It's no use sending this boy , madam.
He is not up to the standard. And what
is more, he never will be."
The S. M. Herald (4/5/’l2) spoke an-
other unvarnished truth about the hopeless
place which it helped to push on to this
country as a Federal capital: —
Yass-Canberra will probably never be more than a
seat of culture and a purely administrative centre.
Places like Britain and France and Prussia
and Austria and Russia may have great
world-famous capitals that are centres of
wealth and commerce. But a mere little'
town that nobody save officials will care to
live in is good enough for Australia in the
Herald’s estimation.
KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them a
trial. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.*
The results of ill-selected interruption: A
Tory orator wasn’t making too good weatb % r
of it during the Werriwa (N.S.W.) election
campaign, when someone threw at him the
old statement that there was one law for the
rich and another for the poor. Then the
Tory grasped the chance, and asked him
why on earth his Labor Government hadn’t
altered all that. After that the Tory vessel
travelled on a less troubled sea.
“O’Fipp” : When I see or hear references;
to “Liberal ladies” it makes me think of
another use of the term. If
the quite respectable women;
who so describe themselves;
studied anything older than;
the circulating library novel
they would presently change;
their style and title.
The law re signing of
political matter after the
issue of the Werriwa writ,
has some weird results..
Thursday of last week being
a dead day, the signature of
the Sydney Telegraph’s,
man was appended to such
dangerous statements as.
these: “The Minister for De-
fence complains that the-
awkward hours at which the:
trams run will give him
broken sleep”; Senator
Pearce was quite eager tO'
know the result of the senior
cadet competitions”; “the-
Liberal organisation has by
no means relaxed.” These
be weighty matters.
Instead of acting on the recent Royal
Commission’s recommendation, and reducing
the Melbourne Tramway Co.’s fares, as it is
empowered to do by the co.’s Act of Parlia-
ment, the Weary Ministry is at present com-
muning softly with the monopoly, and im-
pressing on it the loveliness of charging 2d.
on all suburban lines —those to P’ran and
St. Kilda are still 3d.—and a penny on the
city sections —at present lid. —also on the
absurd horse tram to Kew, which looks like
a bandbox dragged by a crab. The mon-
opoly, knowing the casualness and general
futility of Premier Weary, merely urges him
in reply to run home and get to bed.
A COMPLAINT OF SILENCE.
[FOR THE BULETIN.]
After the issue of a Federal writ, all press com-
ment on matters connected with the Werriwa elec-
tion must be signed and the author’s address given.
—Legal point.
In bitter silence Werriwa, the lone,
Must go unguided to the solemn poll;
We cannot say a word lest we make known
Our name and habitation, and the whole
Vast tribe of Judah raging round us roll,
Eager as famished hounds about a bone.
The little t slips of paper we have signed
Would rise as ghosts against us in the night,
Spreading an inky chain our souls to bind,
And putting all our quietude to flight;
Yea, the fierce bailiff, working us despite,
Alight grasp for shekels all that he could find.
Our own address, though varying at the whim
Of landlords sore obsessed with dreams of rent.
We mention not to saints or seraphim,
Lest some faint whisper by the breezes sent
To lands where Gentiles read of monish lent
Should goad drear Israel to projects grim.
The splendid person, free of all restraint,
Who feareth not the visage of the dun
May write at will in praise or in complaint
Of that which our Bohemia learns to shun ;
Fields may be fought, and battles lost and won,
But this restriction makes our proud hearts faint.
Wherefore in silence Werriwa, the lone,
Must go unguided to the fearsome poll,
The word unspoken, and the light unshown
That else had thrilled her to her inmost soul;
Ah, how shall men perceive their highest goal
With anonymity’s high torch outblown?
x.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
A STUDY IN RIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Socialists celebrated May Day in the Domain.
A resolution reommended all working boys who
are liable for service to refuse to attend any drill or
parade, and also to refuse to drill if committed to
military custody. —Melbourne paper (6/5/’l2).
Major Asada, who belongs to the central staff of
the Japanese army, and is at present in Australia,
said: “At the age of 21 each young man (in Japan)
has to spend two whole years in barracks. When I
say ‘each,’ I do not riiean all. Some are not physi-
cally fit, and to them, of course, the honor of service
is denied. Then, too, anyone who has been guilty of
an offence against the law is forbidden to enter the
army. For those who are thus dishonored the honor
of being a soldier is not. I have read in many
papers of anti-militarism, but I cannot understand
the idea. We have not the thing in our country.!’
—Melbourne paper (same date).
The heathen in his blindness
Learns how to use a gun ;
He knows not that his manhood
Demands that he should shun
This practice, as degrading;
But, anxious to preserve
A thing he calls his birthright,
He claims the right to serve.
We White Men, more enlightened,
Who never will be slaves!
We’ll vindicate your manhood,
While Mother rules the waves.
To fight for home and women
May suit the heathen skunk,
But we must keep untarnished
Our sacred right to funk!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
RHEUMATISM FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Melbourne Business Man Crippled
with Pain.
Joints of the Hands Swollen and
Knotted. Cured by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills.
For a period of 12 months Mr. Thomas
Grant. 1 William Street, Melbourne, was
afflicted with Itheumatism which nothing
seemed able to cure until he tried Dr. Wil-
liams’ Fink Pills. This remedy brought
speedy relief. The cause of Rheumatism,
impurities in the blood, is carried from joint
to joint. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills build up
the blood and enable it to cast out the Rheu-
matic poisons with the natural secretions of
the body. , .
Mr. Grant, who is 66 years old, and
manages the produce store of Messrs. Todd
Bros., at 357 Victoria Street, Abbottsford,
tells his experience :
“The draughts in the store are very trying
in winter,” he said. “I caught a chill, and
then rheumatism appeared. Both my shoul-
ders became avffected, and the pain spread
right to my finger tips. For about a year
the pain never left me; it nagged and nagged
all the time. I could not put on my coat;
alone. I would go over every day to look
after the business, but it was little actual
work I could do. Every movement of the
arms hurt me. I was just as if crippled. I
was always worse when in bed; I could not
turn from one side to the other. In the
mornings my arms felt so stiff that I could
barely dress, and I could not lace my own
boots. My fingers would swell and go quite
knotted. Some days the pain was so un-
bearable I would put myself in all Sorts of
positions to try and get some ease. Fcould
not raise my arms above my head. I lost
fiesh considerably, and I felt that no one
must come near me to touch me. Perspira-
tion would pour out of me at times, too, with
this complaint, and I was always parched
with thirst. Mr. Stubbs, grocer, of Victoria
Street, advised me to trv Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, and before the second box was half
done I felt a lot better; and the third drove
out every pain. My shoulders and arms be-
came supple again. The pain, too, eased
■gradually. I found I could work about and
lift and grasp things with something of my
old firmness and strength. It was a great
relief for me to feel active again and able to
wake free from pain.”
The shopman smiles up his sleeve when
he g'ets a gullible person to take a substi-
tute. Don’t let the laugh be at your ex-
pense’; take only Dr. Williams’. Of all
dealers 2s. 9d. a box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d., or
from'the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Aus-
tralasia, Ltd., Sydney.


fs
df
s
Ineffable
Charm and
Attractiveness.
ABDULLA Cigarettes.
The reason for the superiority of
“ABDULLAS ” lies in the extreme care,
skill and experience surrounding their
manufacture.
The selection of the leaf—its treatment
and preparation—and every stage up to
the final production of the cigarettes
involve a degree of knowledge and con-
summate skill which achieves always
uniformly high results.
“ABDULLAS” are made for the
many —their price, in view of their fine
quality, is not prohibitive. Whether for
the appreciator of choice Virginians, or of
Turkish, or of Egyptian flavors, the exact
“ABDULLA” is produced.
THE HIGHEST AWARD FOR
CIGARETTES.—The “Gra?id Prix ,”
Festival of Empire Exhibition , London,
has been added to the long list of
“ ABDULLA ” triumphs.
Ask your Tobacconist—he will supply
“ABDULLAS”!
©
J
J
'y*'
Patterson’s
Record Ride
in 18hr$» lOmins,
Using
PrattVS
(Red Label
»• • < x - * It'** TfSJC w ' ■>'***:
mm
Gargoyle Mobiloil B
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
WORTHY
Electrical Volumes.
WE INVITE YOU TO CALL AND SEE THESE BOOKS.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL C?. L™
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS)
476 CEORGE ST. SYDNEY.
SPECIAL FREE OFFER!
Fro.n the British Record Proprietary Ltd.,
23 Geo 'gc Street West, Sydney
To Users of Our “FLAG” BRAND Records.
To every responsible and approved person applying who agrees to use our Records
and purchase from us (for a limited period) at least One Record per week, we will give
One of obr Rondophones entirely Free
1
■ niltllllllimMßh
iiiniHiiHijufyJa
m
THIS HANDSOME WELL-BUILT INSTRU-
MENT is our own exclusive specialty, and
is absolutely up-to-date, and contains every
modern improvement, price £3/10/-.
THE CABINET is a handsome and sub-
stantial construction in SOLID DARK
OAK, in., polished to a fine
piano finish.
Powerful silent STEEL MOTOR fitted
with the latest frictionless bearings, finely
proportioned nickel-plated TAPER TONE
ARM, accurately balanced lOin. Turn-
table, large 16in. Sound Trumpet with
nine leaves, decorated in a charming
combination of softly blended Art Shades.
THE SOUND REPRODUCER is con-
structed in harmony with the latest
developments of the science of acoustics,
and possesses adequate power to per-
form full MILITARY BAND SELECTIONS with all
their original brilliance and realistic effect, and is so
exquisitely sensitive as to produce with perfection the
most delicate passages of orchestration, as well as the
minutest variations of the Solo Artist’s voice. Such
An Opportunity of Acquiring a First-class instrument
has never before been offered in the world's history,
and the above offer is made for the purpose of
Popularising our Records and as a Huge Advertisement.
The RONDOPHONE will last a life time. Warranted 2 yeras.
OUR “ FLAG ” RECORDS are the BEST on the Market, are DOUBLE-SIDED
and FULLY GUARANTEED. NEW SUBJECTS BY EVERY MAIL.
We Control the Largest Stock of Records in the World.
REMEMBER! We make no extra charge for our Records. We have ONE
Price only. Purchasers in the ordinary way of business pay the same as those to
whom we give a Rondophone.
The Rondophone is given away Absolutely Free as stated
FULL PARTICULARS AT OUR ONLY ADDRESS«
The British Record Proprietary Limited
23 George St. West, near Harris St., Sydney*


w
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NONTIONS
When the Australian XI went down by
six wickets to Notts. (England), a periecc cuorus of
“Told You So” burst on the continent, and the
Sydney Telegraph came out with a semi-stinking fish
yelp. Said the King-street organ (10/5/T2): “The
Australian cricketers in England have lost their first
match, and opinion with regard to them is pessi-
mistic, perhaps naturally.” “Perhaps naturally” be
blowed! Also, Rabbits, and likewise Rats! The
crack teams that contained the Players and all their
glory never put up much of a showing against Notts.
When this match started the score stood: Australia,
three; Notts, three; drawn, three. Then Gregory’s
team came along, fresh off the boat, with 10 of the
15 men new to England, and all “complaining of the
cold.” They had only one week of practice on the
hard, fast English wickets. And just before their
long train journey to their first engagement a swagger
banquet was “tendered” them, not with any idea of
aiding retention of any form they had acquired, but
to advertise a certain brand of liquid which needs no
bush. The Board of Control and Marylebone should
agree to bar all banquets until the Tests are over.
The wicket was sticky as the result of rain, with
“improving” times that mostly favored Notts, batting
last. Under the circumstances the team did very
well to put- up 248 for the first knock (all but one
man reaching double figures), and to get Notts out
for 292. It was the lack of staying power after that
stage that broke our men up. In the first innings five
of the six new men made runs, totalling 77 ; in
the second innings five of the new men smacked 87
of the side’s 166 —an early and significant improve-
ment.; McLaren, a new man, captured four for 54
(first innings three for only 22), which exactly
equalled Whitty’s figures for the match. Two new
men, Hazlitt and Matthews, did well. The former
got A. 0. Jones and John Gunn cheaply, before be-
coming expensive, and Matthews hit the sticks for all
his three wickets. And at the finish, the Notts bats-
men had not beaten the Australian fielders. Sun-
dries, assisted by keeper Carkeek’s strangeness to
McLaren and the sticky wicket, won the match for
Notts. Off the bat Australia scored 240 and 161,
total 401. Notts 177 and four wickets for 192,
total 369. The county still wanted 33 batted runs to
pass the record of the Australians; but the willow
wilts as a weapon when good old Sundries gets prop-
erly going. And in this case Sundries whacked up
34. Qr, put it another way; the Australians scored
248 to 202 in the first innings, and were leading by
46. Then the condition of the Austral'ans gave out,
and they collapsed for 166, and let Notts out with
six wickets to spare. But when the same men got to
North Hants, they had pulled themselves together and
they won by an innings and 64 runs. Curiously
enough, the Svdney Telegraph did not rise to re-
mark that “opinion with regard to them is now more
optimistic.” It is easy to see 'that it was only by
keeping a tight grip on itself, and leaving the grog
alone, that the D.T, managed to stick to the cause
of the Board of Control in the recent trouble. Once
more, pessimistic feeling be hanged! We are not
downhearted, especially when we remember the start
of Noble’s glorious campaign.
* * * *
Footballers had a great day in Sydney
on Saturday afternoon. The weather was ideal, and
the gates overflowed, especially those of the Rugby
League, which is just now the money-getter. One
match alone yielded this bloated concern £353, and
it had four first-grade battles raking in the coin. So
what sort of a treasure chest is it accumulating!
But, all the same, it is said that the League Council
is not. having too glorious a time. From the star
goal-kicker to the man who shouts “This way to ther
match!” the League myrmidons are said to be de-
manding more money, and if the Council yields to
one it must yield to all; and if it yields to all there
will be little left for the League. However, this is
by the way—the play is the thing. Eastern Suburbs,
led by the mighty Messenger, fell on Western Suburbs
by 22 points to eight: Annandale downed Balmain
by eight to five; and Glebe pulverised North Sydney
by 11 to two; while the struggle between South Syd-
ney and Newtown saw South on top with 12 points to
six. The result is that Eastern Suburbs, Glebe and
South Sydney are together, all undefeated, and all
possessed of four competition points each. Annandale
and Newtown, having each won and lost a game, are
also together, with three points each. Balmain, North
Sydney and Western Suburbs have been the chopping-
blocks pure and simple, and have lost both games
so far played.
!** * ' *
The chief attraction in the Rugby League
bill of fare at Sydney was the engagement between
South Sydney and Newtown. Three times in succes-
sion the sun had gone down in wrath upon drawn
games between them, and the news that they would
struggle again on Saturday last sent 15,000 excited
people to Sydney Sports Ground. The chances were in
Newtown’s favor, for had it not six of the con-
quering Kangaroos in its team to South Sydney’s
three? And Kangaroos count. They clashed. A
hoarse roar, like that of the ocean suffering from
stomach ache, went up. For a while there was no
score, and they seemed to be so equally matched that
only accident could decide the issue. But as the
moments wallowed on it became apparent that South
Sydney back division was somewhat faster than that
of the Newtown band; and the Southern forwards
were observed to be outpacing those of Newtown.
In most other things they were level, but South had
the advantage of speed. It could keep two miles
further ahead of a swift creditor than its rival.
This was a fatal handicap, and in spite of a gallant
struggle Newtown’s head was sat upon by 12
points to six. It was not a spectacular game, but a
case of hard slogging from start/to finish. One prac-
tice was very much in evidence, and it is a practice
that the League should put down with both feet—
that of the man with the ball jumping over the
player who tackles. It is most dangerous, and it is
beastly unfair. For the man who is being bounded
over can do nothing else but let the- bounder go. To
bring him down means, 99 times out of 100, a serious
accident, ranging from pitch and toss to man-
slaughter. And on the other hand, if the jumper fails
to clear the tackier, it means a kick in the face >01; on
the head, or at tbe least a heavy bump with tbe
knees—and that, it must be admitted by the wildest
jumper of the push, is not playing the game.
The Rugby Union is far from dead, and
despite its misfortunes still has 10 Sydney teams
in the field. Also, on the evidence of the last’ two Sat-
urdays, it has succeeded in drawing either a few of
its old crowds or some fresh ones. Increasing num-
bers of people are going out on Saturday afternoons
to see football played by others. This is good for
the clubs from a gate point of view, but. it is not
altogether a pleasant thing to see. Half the mobs
that howl and cheer should themselves be ; playing
football or something else, and exercising their
bodies and lungs, instead of their lungs only as
they do at present. The form of the Union Rugbyites
showed a considerable improvement, especially that
of the Glebe team, which put up a rattling game
against the stronger and heavier crowd from New-
town, and succeeded in making what looked a hope-
less game on the appearance of the men a draw, with
eight points each. Eastern Suburbs and St. George
aiso made a draw —with 11 points each. The only
serious injury of the afternoon was that inflicted by
North Sydney on Balmain —17 to three. University
scored a decisive win, by 18 to nine, over South Syd-
ney ; and Western Suburbs beat Manly by 11 to three.
So Uni. and Western Suburbs lead the competition,
with four points each. Glebe, North Sydney and St.
George have three each. Eastern Suburbs, Manly and
Newtown show one each, and Balmain and South
Sydney none.
As expected, the Training College dropped
out of the Australian Division s 1 irsc orade Compe-
tition, and its place was taken hurriedly by the Rail
and Tramway United Club. This club was rushed
together during the week, and brought its team in
to battle against the tough, seasoned, brilliant Syd-
ney 18 on Saturday. It astonished the natives by
putting up a fearsome light. Truly, it was beaten,
but only by 61 points to 41; which, under the cir-
cumstances, was astounding. It has to play the two
games forfeited by the Training College, and the fol-
lowers of football are watching its progress with in-
terest. The star match of the Australian afternoon
was the clash between Paddington and North Shore.
It was a stern struggle, but the pace set by Padding-
slick runners overwhelmed the wild hillmen
from the North Shore (55 points to 34). Padding-
ton and East Sydney are the undefeated teams, and
there will be a dandy struggle when they meet. At
present they lead the competition together. The
Soccer division is running two competitions, for the
Rawson and Association Cups, and has 16 teams
raging in and around Sydney—-seven in pursuit of
the Rawson Cup and nine after the Association goblet.
In the riot for the Rawson Cup, Balmain and Glebe
are on top of the heap with four points each, and the
next layer is composed of Sydney, Granville, Canter-
bury and Newtown, with two points each. H.M.S.
Drake is the foundation, with a large, round zero.
Balmain is evidently a stronghold of Soccer, for its
second team shares front place in the Association
struggle with West Sydney, with four points each.
Northern Suburbs, Y.M.C.A. and Garden Island are
the second layer in the heap, with two points each,
and below that all clubs are flying the sign of the
waterfowl.
* * * *
Somebody writes to inquire which is the
more popular form of football in Australia —Rugby or
Austral.an Rules. H’m! let’s see? The Australian
game is played exclusively in Victoria and South
Australia. It is also played in N.S.W. and Queens-
land, and somewhat also in Westralia. Rugby is ab-
solutely confined to Queensland and N. S. Wales. So
the anxious inquirer can sort it out for himself.
Though only three games have been played
of the 20 that constitute Melbourne’s hoofball season,
only one team, in both League and Association, stands
undefeated —Essendon and North respectively. At
the other end of the list ’Wood dwells in unenvied
isolation, with a blob to its name, while the Ass.
teams of P’ran and Melb. City keep each other com-
pany on the zero mark. ’Wood’s encounter with St.
Kilda, on Saturday, caused more speculation than
any other game, owing to the fact that the despised
Saints, beaten by Richmond, and soundly thrashed
by Geelong, simply made hacks of the mighty Mag-
pies, out-pointing them in all departments, and giving
them nd hope from the bounce of the ball till the
bell rang. Then the tally was: Saints, 93 points;
’Wood, 36. Remembering last week s strenuous and
even game against the ’Dons, and their previous wal-
loping by Melbourne, this writer opines that there is
something unaccountable about ’Wood. Besides
playing men who should be rested, that club’s com-
mittee seems to have a superabundant capacity for
rejecting good young players and accepting mediocri-
ties. _ Anyhow, something wants altering somewhere,
especially as the committee will now have to replace
its best half-back, who will play no more this season.
He was removed to Alfred Hospital on Saturday, with
a badly-fractured ankle. The collision between Carl-
ton and Essendon failed to disclose any marked su-
periority on either side; only, as against ’Wood the
week before, the ’Dons’ thorough training and accur-
ate goal shooting won them the match in the last few
minutes—-by 59 points to 50. South had little diffi-
culty in downing Melbourne, by 51 to 22; ’Roy had
matters mostly its own way against Sleepy Hollow,
otherwise Geelong, winning by 56 to 36; and the
Students carried out a forceful, vigorous and closely-
contested argument with Richmond, winning in the
last quarter only—63 points to Richmond’s 48.
The main Ass. disturbance concerned North and
Brunswick, but it didn’t turn out so interesting as
expected, the Northerners holding a good bit more
than their own throughout the episode, and winning
comfortably by 69 points to 43. Essendon met ’Town
and found it had an easy task, which the scorer
finally diagnosed as "Don, 60 points; ’Town, 34.
’Scray, likewise, had a “gift” in Brighton, whose
’bailers toiled hopelessly in the rear throughout, and
scored but 44 points to ’Scray’s 69. Port had the
pleasure of colliding with Melbourne City, and negli-
gently put together 81 points to the Citizens’ 36.
The latter gentlemen can hardly be expected to gain
the premiership this season, but the fact that their
play provides neither goals nor “gate ” brings them
the scornful glance of disfavor. When they played
’Town last week, the “gate,”... after pa.y'ng ground’
expenses, left £1 Is. 9d. over for each club—which
would hardly supply hot sea baths, theatre parties
and other necessaries. The happiest game of the
day was between the newly-amalgamated ’Cote 16
and P’ran. It is early yet to decide whether luck or
play is responsible for ’Cote’s success, but on Satur-
day it put up a vigorous, concerted game, and swept
the shop-keepers steadily before it, even as a north
wind sweeps dust. * ’Cote 55, P’ran 44, was the record
of the disturbance.
* * * *
While the hoofballers were bogging-in on
the hard ground, the college youths, wuo may some
day become champion oarsmen, were skimm.ng over
the Yarra, deciding who was to be head of the river
for the year. The preliminary heats having been
fought out on Friday, Wesley College, Geelong Gram-
mar School and Xavier College met in the final, before
a select assemblage and a cantering throng of
youths. After a determined struggle, Wesley passed
the line a few feet in front of Geelong G.S., with
Xavier a length away, and great was the uproar
thereat. The iads deserved their success, but this was
Wesley’s ninth victory in the last 10 years, and the
deadly monotony of its success gets on the nerves.
“Bury and Preston North End, the two
clubs lowest on the list, have been relegated to the
Second Division.” This brief remark, just cabled
from England, contains the germ of much of the
Football (Soccer) League’s steady success. There’ is
a never-ceasing process of levelling-up. The compe-
tition for the top places among the leaders of the 20
clubs is keen, -naturally, but towards the end of April
the struggle down near the bottom is keener —in fact,
desperate. The two best of the Second League have
to come up. Who is to make way for them ? Going
down means very likely staying down for years—
for the fight to get up again is the keenest of the lot
—with smaller gates for the club and smaller wages
for the players. It is .now that the pallid ghost of
an off-day, perhaps last September, rises up; if that
game hadn’t been muddled away we shouldn’t be in
the soup to-day. Thus, everything done in the whole
season counts, and interest is keen to the end with-
out any spurious “finals.” As it happens, the best
two—Blackburn Rovers and Everton —and the worst
two, above-named, are this year all Lancashire clubs.
The fate of “North End” is particularly striking ; it
has been in its day admittedly the best club in Eng-
land.
The Football Cup (Soccer) in England
seems to have been the same joyous event this year
as ever. Practically every club in the country enters
for it. To save useless slaughter, 32 of the very
best are excused the preliminary rounds, in which
the country is roughly divided into 16 districts, and
the teams in each district settle it among them-
selves, till only two in each are left. Then the
whole 64 go into the hat together, and things happen.
To compare England with Victoria (which is about
fair), Mildura may have to vis.t Warrnambool, and
Bullocky Flat has the fearful joy of bumping up
against Melbourne’s best. Sometimes, incredibly, the
Flat wins. There are teams which make a special
name as “Cup fighters,” holding only a moderate
place on the give-and-take of a long season, but
playing on a special occasion like strong young
devils; and before them the machine-like accuracy
of the all-professional premiers may for once go
down. Once beaten is Out. The issue narrows down
to 32 clubs, to 16, to eight, to four. This year, the
last four in were West Bromwich (Birmingham way),
half-way down the First League’s (20 clubs) pre-
miership list; Barnsley (Yorkshire), not capable of
getting into the First League at all, and a good way
down in the Second ; Manchester, another first-classer,
and Swindon, head of a Southern League. The last
two were put out in the semi-finals; and now the
cable tells that second-class Barnsley has won the
Cup. Trie extraordinary value of a goal in the best
Soccer is shown b.v the final tie be'ng drawn and re-
played. Scores: First time, no goals at all; second
time, 1 to 0 !
N.S.W. Rugby League has quite an ele-
gant programme for the season fixed up. The Ban-
analanders will cross over on June 1, and a strong-
team is due from Maoriland on June 22. Return
visits will be paid to each of these States, as well as
a missionary expedition to Victoria and club excur-
sions to N.S.W. country districts. So, altogether,
Rugby Leaguers will be kept busy this winter.
Secretary Larkin, of the N.S.W. Rugby
League, found himself called upon to play a Roman
part last week. A few players who had been in the
limelight took advantage of the general desire for
increased remuneration' to suggest that they be paid
£1 per match, and if the suggestion wasn’t accept-
able, there was something like a strike ,in the back-
ground. The League acted swiftly, and simply
dropped the names of the recalcitrants right out of
the match list. It is in the happy position of having
more first-class players than it can find proper open-
ings for. At present all is peace.
“ELF.” sends a pessimistic howl >from
Maoriland: “If 1 were a prophet 1 would fix a day in’
the near future on which Tub Bulletin would, slide
out of the press with its red covers enclosing a deli-
cately-worded obituary on Rugby football in Maori-
land. Old reps, are down-hearted, and the season has
just been ushered in quite unattended by any marked
signs of enthusiasm. The matches the writer has
seen so far have been so flat, stale and unexciting
that had Ada Ward been present she would have run
five miles to the nearest Salv’army for exhilaration.
The writing is on the wall, and Northern Union,
hockey and golf clubs are already seizing the king-
dom. Ichabod 1 likewise Gonebung 1 ”
* * * #
As everybody expected, University got
away quite easily with tne Sydney Cricket Prem.er-
ship. Redfern, which had dropped its bundle at the
opening of the match the previous Saturday, never
succeeded in picking it up again. The event' stands
in cricket history as a shock.ng example of blue
funk. Had the Redfern captain stopped play and
served out some striped drinks all round, his crowd
might have pulled itself together. However, to come
to the game: Redfern had been dismissed for 77, and
University, when stumps were drawn, had notched
144 for the loss of four wickets. When the ball
resumed on Saturday last, the University XI lifted
its total to the 269 mark, and left Redfern 192 behind
on the first innings. Redfern’s opening men played
carefully, and sacrificed runs to safety—yet what
the occasion required was a couple of batsmen to run
stark, staring mad, and go utterly baresark, pile up
a big score, send Uni. to the wickets just as the light
was failing, and get about three men out for half a
dozen. But Redfern, as already mentioned, had
dropped its bundle, and, instead of doing things like
this, it fooled away the light, and, when stumps were
drawn, had lost six wickets for 85. So the Premier-
ship was gone by 192 on the first innings.
The “inter-collegiate” sports in Adelaide —
which means only the meeting between the two fash-
ionable schools of Prince Alfred and St. Peter-
ended this year in an easy win for the latter, for
whom Twopenny won Hundred, Steeple, and both
jumps. In the Long, he covered 21ft. Oiin., which
beats the previous school record of Murray (who was
good enough to represent Cambridge). The sensa-
tion of the day came in an Old Boys’ hurdles, which
lan Pender (late of P.A.C.) covered in 15 3-ssec.
The world’s record long stood at 16sec., but has lat-
terly been brought down to 15sec. by Smithson, an
American, in London. This latest performance makes
a bold bid for the Australian record.
* * * *
Adelaide Cup meeting (S.A. Jockey Club)
went in for records this year. The Goodwood Handi-
cap and Cup double was won by J. James’s Musket
Belle (a local mare) and E. D. Clarke’s Eye Glass
—the pair that won last year! The Cup Day
crowd was a local record, 30,000 ; so was (easily)
the sum handled by the totalisator ( £26,000). The
amount invested on the Cup itself, £7170, is sup-
posed to be a record for Australasia. Eye Glass
had previously won (from Merton’s Kuringai) the
weight-for-age Elder Stakes, in which he ran second
to Trafalgar last year. Second in the Cup was
Banffshire, the colt which had just won the S.A.
St. Leger, and the unlucky Kuringai was third. Mer-
ton has owned the third in Caulfield, Melbourne,
Sydney and Adelaide Cups this year. Favorites
gqt home mostly, but the machine returned £l3 15s.
for Musket Belle, and some pretty prices about
sqcond horses—£s 65., £5 155., £7 175., £lO 125.,
and £l7 11s.
* * * *
The exploits of Bonnot and co. have moved
the Parisian police to order eight of the fastest gars
the French makers can produce, for the use of detec-
tives. The extreme mobility of a daring criminal in
a fast car has shaken France up of late, both in
Paris and on the Belgian border, where fast armored
cars are used for smuggling purposes. Also, it has
drawn public and military attention to the amount
of devilish damage to be wrought by a motor corps
in war time.
Both England and the United States have
prohibited the use of exhaust “cut outs” on motor-
cars, and yet allow them free sway on the motor-
bikes. No properly constructed motor-car or motor-
bike needs a cut out in these days of scientific con-
struct'on, silencers and exhaust boxes. To make the
exhaust silent absorbs less than two per cent, of the
power developed by the car; so there is no reason
why the motor-bikist should be allowed to run bare-
sark, reverberating like a 10-Maxim battery in a
narrow gully.
It was bound to come. Jake de Rosier
has at last "uusc hisself’ at Los Angeles Stauium
track (California), lie was scooting at 90 milts an
hour wnen a competitor fell, and Jake went through
him and h.s macmne. His skull, thigh and knee-cap
were ail fractured, and for days the Speed King's life
hung in the balance. But he is now out of danger,
and there is even hope of saving his maimed leg.
A wonderful fool rider is Jake, whose amazing record
of 83 miles 135 yards for the hour has never been
equalled.
A. J. Moorhouse, a well-known English
motor-cyclist, recently won an open 100 miles motor
cycle race on Brooklands track, in lhr. 39m.n. 7sec.,
which is a record for Britain. The world’s best was
put up by the battered and smashed de Hosier, on the
wooden saucer track at Los Angeles, where he came
to grief the other day, when he careered over the
distance in lhr. lomin. 34 2-ssec. Once more, a fool’s
game, my masters!
The early striking of form by Australian
captain Gregory and C. Macartney suggests tnat the
fledglings must be allowed a little time to get used
to English conditions. Gregory’s three innings the
first week panned out for 36, 42 and 150, while
Macartney was close behind with 84, 4 and 127. S.
Emery's work with the ball against North Hants is
also worthy a cheer. In two innings the Redfern
player gathered 12 wickets for 110 runs —which left
mighty little for the other trundlers to build a repu-
tation on. And yet public feeling is said to be “nat-
urally pessimistic.’’
* * * *
The Mclntosh wanted to erect a stoush-
ing palace in Melbourne, but the powers that be
looked sideways at him, and blew out his proposal.
Which was a fool thing to do while boxing is still
allowed in the city. Melbourne hasn’t got a really
decent boxing hall, and the proposal of the Mclntosh
would have supplied one, and made bruising much
more elegant. The result of the refusal was to force
Magnificent Mac to come to arrangements with the
proprietors of inferior establishments. The powers
that be are a queer lot.
Australia, like Mclntosh, is getting some-
what tired of the vagaries of the colored pug. 1’ irst
of all, Langford objected to Reg Baker being re-
feree, and Arthur Scott arbitrated in his stead.
McVea, having dropped his bundle and got walloped
in consequence, now objects to Scott. The result is
that the McVea-Langford scrap, to have taken' place
last Saturday night, did not come off, and is rele-
gated to limbo. McVea talks about forcing Mclntosh
to keep his contract, but when the great promoter re-
turns from Melbourne we shall probably hear the
other side of the story. Next time Mclntosh makes
agreements with colored bruisers he should put in a
clause that his stipendiary referee is to umpire all
fights; and if the colored brethren don't like it, let
’em stay away. We're tired. They have a perfect
right to object under their agreements—but we're
, tired. By the way, we have a suspicion that McVea
is not over-anxious to meet Langford inside the
square ring again.
* * * *
Sydney lacrosse on Saturday produced
some tall scoring, and also some hideous defeats.
The best event was the well-fought match between
Sydney and Stanmore, which ended in favor of Sydney
by two goals to one. The others were plain murder.
Look at the figures: Eastern Suburbs v. Manly, 14
goals to one. Petersham, 20 goals against Mohicans’
four. Iroquois, 11 goals to ’Varsity’s four. Evi-
dently some of the players require; hard ' practice in
the defence division—the branch of t}ie.sport which is
sadly neglected in the desire to compile goals and get
advertisement in the daily papers.
* *,-*/» *
Sydney baseball season burst forth in all
its glory on Saturday, with a boom that promises a
heap of trouble to other brands of winter sport strug-
gling for a “gate” crust. All told, the various
grades put up no less than 42 teams —which shows
the solid growth of the glorified rounders’ game. In
the First Grade, Leichhardt, the premiers, outed
Mosman-North Sydney by nine runs to four. Peter-
sham crept out ahead of Lane Cove by five games to
four; and Waverley biffed Paddington to pieces by
13 runs to three. The ’Varsity-Burwood match was
hung up owing to the students being concerned in the
Sydney cricket premiership final. It seems a deplor-
able business that a place like Sydney, University I.
can produce only one XI for both cricket and baseball.
* * * *
The State Rink Championship is raging,
and on Saturday last the bowlers of Petersham
(Western Metropolis) defeated the brethren of Mos-’
man (North Metropolis) by 28 points to 20. Dis-
trict champions from Newcastle, South Coast and
Western District swooped down on Sydney, and
made savage strife. But the wood-rollers of Port
Jackson-side were too fly for the Pumpkin Beetles,
and easily held their own.
* * * *
Ex-pug Bob Fitzsimmons is amusing his
middle age at New Jersey, U.S., by putting the polish
on a prospective White Hope that he has discovered,
in the person of his own big son. Young Bob is now
17, and is rapidly covering up the paternal tendency,
to boniness in a wondrous overcoat of meat and
muscle. As a matter of fact, the youth is heavier
than his father was in his championship days, and,
with 6ft. of height and the Fitzsimmons courage, he
is expected to make the globe totter when he hits it
in the right place. The new man is expected to lash
out officially at his enemy in 18 months’ time, which
seems rather earlv to begin.
REGULARITY OP THE BOWELS.
THE FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE
AGAINST ILL-HEALTH.
When the bowels are clogged the waste
matter decays and ferments and enters the
Blood, and is carried to all parts of the
body, producing Headaches, Biliousness,
Sleeplessness, Heartburn, Loss of Appetite,
Indigestion, Neuralgia, Rheumatism and
various other ailments disturbing the Heart
and Nervous System; and if continued is
liable to cause inflammation of the Bowels,
Liver and Kidneys.
To maintain a healthy system the bowels
should operate at least once every 24 hours.
This is one of Nature’s wise provisions
which is too often ignored, and the result is
untold suffering. Women and children are
the greatest offenders, but why such should
be the case is a problem to be solved.
“I was a sufferer from Constipation and
Biliousness for some time,” writes Mr. John
H. Jones, of Gobolion-street, Wellington,
N.S.W., “and seeing Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills advertised as an effective remedy
for the relief of constipation, I decided to
give your Pills a trial, and can say they
have proved very effective indeed. I always
keep them in my home, and consequently re-
commend them, as aforesaid. You have my
consent to use this testimony.”


m
I D
A QUALITY LINE
IF IT’S PILES.
If it’s Piles'from which’you suffer, then you should
cake a course of Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills, and get
insiant relief and a sure, speedy, permanent cure.
They expel air impurities from the system, eradicate all
distressing symptoms, and help the other organs of the
body to health.
You owe it to your peace of mind and your health to
try Murphy’s Pile Pills. Sold everywhere by leading
chemists and storekeepers ; or may. be obtained direct from
the proprietors. Price, 3/- per box, post free. Sole
Proprietors: ANDREW MURPHY, LTD.. Dept. 8., 109
Regent Street, Sydney.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
ďf
RISNEY SHOES
V
are made by experienced workmen, from
materials of the highest quality and in the
most distinctive styles.
Rigney Shoes appeal particularly to busi-
ness and professional men, who require
something exclusive in high-grade footwear.
I lie Boot illustrated is an American
Model made from Choice Vici Kid.
Price 23/6.
In Velour Calf, 23/6 and 25/-
Also in Shoes, 19/6, 21/- and 22/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write to-day for a copy of our New Catalogue.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive
High-Grade Shoe Stores,’
305 George Street, and 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Richardson Cushion Frame,
Bearing; Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful links in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks^
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U.S.A.
Anti-Jar Ball-
CHICAGO
MONEY and MOTOR-CARS
are both good to have, but some motor-cars are better than the
money' they cost.
Many are not —but that is another story.
If you invest in shares, von (sometimes) get a return in money.
If you invest in a Chalmers Car you always get a return in belter
health , in pleasure , iti a saving of time , in knowledge , and chiefly ,
increased happiness for yourself and those dear to you.
WHICH DO YOU NEED MOST?
ROY W. SANDFORD Ltd.
181 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
106 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
CHALMERS
EMPIRE.
sdf
ComOßomm
EACH roll of Congo roofing is a yard wide and
72 feet long. It can be cut and trimmed
easily with a knife.
To make a roof with it, simply unroll the roof-
ing and nail it down, cementing the laps firmly
together with the adhesive cement which we supply
free. We supply the nails and tin caps free also.
With each roll goes a ten-year Surety Bond Guar- '
antee. Back of the guarantee stands the Royal
Exchange Assurance of London.
Sample free on request. .
Congo Damp Course is a waterproof,
antiseptic felt to be laid against the foundation walls
on the outside to*protect them against dampness and
vermin. Use it to insure having a dry cellar. The
expense is trifling.
G. C. DELMAR, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australasian Representative for
“Congo.”
00 (bOUBLE‘O')
WM
I
"High
Grade
sd
9
J G.lrmler
LEIPZIG
Emil Henning
STUTTGART
GebrKolski
BERLIN
Carl Hess
I DRESDEN
<9
CATALOGUES OH APPLICATION
J.Hess&C?
199 CLARENCES 7
SYDNEY N SW.
and at BRISBANE.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
"SHELL"
SPIRIT
IS THE
MOST ECONOMICAL
THEREFORE
IT IS CHEAPEST
fsd
Home-
Made
Light
at cheapest cost
known. Install the
ATMOSLITE SAFETY
AIR-GAS MACHINE.
It is self - contained,
makes gas automati-
cally, requires no at-
tention, and will give
you always a brilliant
and equable light at
2d. per hour for 10
lights. Write for
literature.
ißrandt Ltd.
GAS ENGINEERS,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth *l. Melbourne^
TItTHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
▼ t tinent on his back, think of THE
LONE HAND. Its swag is a Continent.


This self-stropping Safety Razor
is an investment—it shaves clean,
lasts a lifetime, and saves con-
stant expense for new blades.
The
takes 12 seconds to strop and is as easy to clean,
There is nothing to take apart, you cannot strop
it wrongly, and it will give you the same smooth
velvet shave every morning of the year.
K SAFETY
KAzO
. Standard Set. .
In handsome velvet-lined
leather-covered case, as illus-
trated. Contains quadruple
silver-plated self-stroppirg
razor, one dozen blad ;s. and
first quality
horsehide
strop, com-
plete . . .
2216
Of all High-class Dealers
. throughout the world.
Illustrated- Description Free.
Auto-Strop Depot:
York Chambers,
Market Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 1003.
f
vEStat
%
u
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges
To do justice to your skill, you should
use good ammunition no less than an
accurate rifle or pistol. The arm is
often blamed when the ammunition is
at fault. To insure your getting cart-
ridges that are uniform in size and
shooting strength, and sure-fire and ac-
curate, ask for Winchester cartridges—
the Red W Brand. These cartridges
are made and loaded in the most com-
plete plant in the world by automatic
machinery and are always just the same.
Sold by Dealers Everywhere
ASK FOR THE
Red Brand
1
r i
C%
“O.K.” : If Galsworthy’s play, “The Pigeon,” be a
recent publication, it suggests that Galsworthy had
previously swallowed “Passers-By,” the comedy which
is a winner for Haddon Chambers. The name char-
acter in “The Pigeon” is a charitable man, who col-
lects strangers from the street and makes them com-
fortable in his studio. His most interesting speci-
men (judging from “Red Page,” 2/5/’l2), is a con-
stitutional vagabond, who prides himself on being
an untameable bird, with an indisposition to work.
A drunken cabman and a reckless girl, are the
Pigeon’s other vis tors at his studio. Well, a sober
cabman, an admirable girl, and an irreclaimable
vagabond are the three passers-by whom Peter
AVaverton, a good-humored dilettante, drags to his
bachelor room and befriends —-in Haddon Chambers’s
comedy. The moral of this storv, as of Galswortliv's,
is t.iat the endeavor to convert a wild bird into a
contented captive is foredoomed to failure. Samuel
Burns, the outcast in “Passers-By,” doesn’t preach his
philosophy of life, but his actions and his one or
two petulant bursts of insubordination are very elo-
<l’le l n *. Jhe good-hearted old cabman supplies the
philosophical discourses, and the girl—well, the girl
and her long-lost Peter are the conventional side of a
sugary domestic melodrama. The “Red Page” notice
sketch of Galsworthy’s “fantasy”’ hints at nothing
which is not interestingly treated in Chambers’s
ingenious play. One of them is presumably plagiar-
ised from the other.
Zara, the dancer who takes the eye of that sound
ju<lg\ f ', Caliph, is one of the most decorative fea-
tures of “Kismet.” Her movements are a series of
undulations, beginning at the head and rippling to the
toes, what time her arms wave in sinuous supplica-
tion to the beat of the ghostly tom-toms hidden in a
stage box. These arms are lier fortune. Thev are
like unto ribbons in the wind. On the word of folk
who have seen the much-boomed Maud Allan in Lon-
don, the girt in “Kismet” is the actual It that
Maud of yore strenuously endeavored to be.
There are various ways of proclaiming vour success.
London St. James’s is playing “Belladonna,” Hichens’s
story of the clever Jewish doctor (George Alexander)
who detects and checkmates the beautiful woman
H rs ', Campbell) who is poisoning her husband
(Charles Maude) slowly, -for love of a buck nigger
(Charles Bryant). The theatre does not scream about
its prosperity. It just announces carelessly that,
after six months or so’s run, the advance-booking is
still so strong that an extra box-office has had to be
opened to allow the public to plank down its half-
sovereigns without being trodden underfoot in the
rush.
“0.K.”: AATiy these references to Lalla Miranda, of
the forthcoming Quinlan Opera Co., as “the young
Australian prime, donna"? Everybody interested in
the doings of Australian singers abroad remembers,
or has been told of, the dark-eyed daughter of David
and Mrs. Miranda, who left her native Melbourne to
get fully equipped for the operatic stage in Europe,
nearly 20 years ago. fame was quite young
when Lalla Miranda, a light and trillsom e soprano,
departed this hemisphere. She preceded her colleague
of the concert platform, Ada Crossley, in the flight to
Europe, and made her first successes in Brussels, at
about the time when Frances Saville (the daughter
of Madame Simonsen) was coming to the front. In
the 90's of last century, A’ictoria had a little bunch
of brilliant songstresses, whose names were good in
Europe, and young Lalla Miranda was one of them.
She made her first appearance at Covent Garden quite
a long time ago, when she was already a seasoned
artist. AVithin recent years her name was revived in
Melbourne recollection by the local triumphs of her
sister Beatrice, who afterwards went to England and
got an engagement as prima donna in a light opera
co. Lalla Miranda is now in her prime, or should
be, as an artist. She is certainly not so old—having
started her professional life when in her, teens —as
most artists of her experience. But to call her “the
young Australian prima donna’' is absurdity.
One of the alleged proofs of perniciousness in pic-
ture shows is the case of two Melbourne nippers, who
make A practice pf escaping from a Ragged Boys’
Home, and are usually re-captured at a flicker, either
inside the building or outside waiting to be “ahouted”
in. But the story of the two slippery kids is hardly
a convincing reason why film influence should be
charged with the demoralisation of the infant mind.
Only the other day a Melbourne paper recorded a
really adventurous escapade of three, lads, who took
a few hours off from the John Murray training-ship,
and were found putting in their time at an ice-cream
barrow. Boyhood had a tendency to play the wag
in the dark ages before Flickers came to pass, and
the lure of the ice-cream barrow, anyhow, is. a rather
old established evil. All the same, the flickergraph
managements in a large way of business are pre-
pared to welcome an Act of Parliament to prohibit
the admission of any small boy who is unattended
by an adult. Kids on their own are more bother
than they are worth at half-price. Their chief am-
bition is to be worth nothing, to which end they
cluster around the door on rainy nights and plead to
be let in gratis out of the wet. So the picture show-
men are waiting for the day when the Law will com-
pel them to bid the film-struck boy go away and
bring his more lucrative aunt for a chaperone.
The latest “infant phenomenon” pianist in Melbourne
is a damsel whose short frock leaves her opai to the sus-
picion of being 15 or thereabouts. Undoubtedly,
Rennie Simmons is talented. She plays exacting
pieces of Mendelssohn, Bach, Brahms, Beethoven, etc.,
from memory, but precocity in music-memorising and
executive skill on the common or household piano
are no guarantee of genius. There have been others
who gave exceptionally clever performances in public
when they were years younger than Rennie Simmons,
but they didn't develop into marvels. Mark Ham-
bourg is in the front rank of the second-class of great
pianists. Nevertheless, that powerful keyboard
puncher was comparatively more brilliant as a boy
than as a man. Percy Grainger, at eight years of
age, promised to become a finer player than he proved
himself a dozen years later. And little Fritz Miiller
(who was Melbourne's phenomenon pianist what time
Amy Castles boomed in short frocks), what of him?
Many are precocious, but few are wonderful —especi-
ally where the medium for musical performance is
essentially mechanical.
“Stargazer” : It moves. I remember very distinctly
clever Janet Achurch’s first performance of “The
Doll’s House” in Melbourne, and the moral confusion
and newspaper turmoil it created. What a welter of
perplexity, anger and dismay the Anti-Ibsenites wal-
lowed in ! How many stormed at Nora 1 With what
splendid derision did they assail the wife and mother
who deserted her home for no reason familiar in the
theatrical code —neither for love of another man, nor
for gain, but merely because her husband had dis-
apoointed the faith she had in him, and revealed a
poltroon where she had expected a hero. The play
was staged again the other evening, and although
much of its significance was not revealed by unen-
dowed amateurs, its motif seemed as simple as that
of “East Lynne.” Nora Ilelmer’s determination to
part with her king, on finding him to be a clown,
drove no critics to distraction, nor did the claim
for woman of sole copyright in her own body, and
the privilege of a separate conscience, inspire any
kind of theological frenzv. We have given women
the suffrage since that first appearance of “The Doll’s
House,” Respectability concedes individuality to
Jane and Annie, even when married. Ibsen’s gospel
becomes commonplace. Even the prim dames were
asking the other evening, with a trace of disappoint-
ment: “But what is there so wicked in it?”
“Snell” : Can anybody tell me why the star man,
when he has to be particularly energetic, always dis-
arranges his shirt neck ? Walter Baker is doing it on
the stage and in 10,000 photographic representations
about Melbourne just now, and the sight reminds me
of the hero’s devotion to this quaint convention. Put
your melodramatic lead in any situation calling for
courage, and he invariably opens proceedings by tear-
ing away his collar-stud and making a reckless sacri-
fice of linen to expose the implacable heave of his
manly chest. Gallant young stage soldiers will pause
to do this before hurling the smoking bomb over the
ramparts, and never yet have 1 seen the self-sacrific-
ing first juvenile dash nobly into the burning pre-
mises before he has liberated his wishbone. Is there
good reason for this apart from the melodramatic
actor’s natural disposition to tear his shirt?
“Melbournian” : Margaret Cooper was a trifle dis-
appointed at not having Tait’s new Collins-street
Auditorium to open in. The Taits expected to have
it ready by now, but the old church was such a
dreadful tug to pull down. Indeed, it symbolised
Old Theology, or Old Tooth, or even Old Harry.
However, it has clean gone, and Taits’ thick brick
walls rattle up. Meanwhile, Taits’ new picture show
place, Flinders-street, is nearly done.
“C. Oekney” : “Ben Hur” is suffering a revival in
London as well as in Sydney. The name part at
Drury Lane is being taken by Arthur AVOntner, who
was in Australia with the Knight-Jeffries combina-
tion six or seven years back. By the way, at least
four members of that band are still here or here-
abouts, viz., Maud Jeffries herself (Mrs. Jimmy
Nott Osborne), E. A. AYarburton (who has lately
arrived with “The Blue Bird”), Eardley Turner
(who is Simonides ’in the firm’s “Ben Hur”), and
Olive Noble (playing in Asche’s “Kismet”).
“Saltbush Bill,” or Wiliam Mills as he is in
domestic circles, lias had a free advt. in London. He
is going to tour through England with the “Wild
Australia” show, and before going he gave an exhi-
bition of whip-work and boomerang-throwing at Buck-
ingham Palace, before the King, the Queer.,
the royal youngsters, and 150 of the royal
flunkeys' Most of Bill’s feats with the stock-
whip have become familiar to London aud-
iences through the performance of Fred Lind-
say, the “Australian Whip Wonder,” but he did
some things blindfolded which Lindsay has not so
far attempted. Bill was rewarded by being allowed
to dine with the “Royal stewards,” and with the
present of a pin bearing the monogram of George
Rex. For this he proudly declared he would not take
£looo—-a sum that no sane individual is likely to
offer.
“H.” : Pinero's “Mind the Paint Girl,” at London
Duke of York’s Theatre, seems to be settling down
into a steady-going success, in spite of the hostile re-
ception it met with the first night. Marie Lohr, our Syd-
ney-born beauty, was obviously scared and unnerved
by the rowdyism—an entirely novel experience for her.
But now, with quiet and well-behaved audiences,
Marie appears to considerable advantage as the musi-
cal-comedy star who marries into the peerage. Dis-
cussion about the piece continues, and opinion is
divided as to whether Pinero’s satire is aimed at the
peerage or the musical comedy people. However,
the latter have fitted the cap on themselves by the
vigor with which they denounce the writer for his
realistic representation of “life behind the scenes.”
“Vulcan”: Re that alleged “Australian” play,
“The Kangaroo,” mentioned in Bulletin (25/4/’l2).
Vachell, the author, doesn’t strike me as the ideal
man to tackle a work dealing with this great
country. In a recent novel he makes the leading
gent., who loves the Governor-General’s daughter
with a love passing all blither, shudder as to what
will befall her, “a daughter of the cool mists,” in
the “sultry, tropical nights of Australia.” How
many sultry, tropical nights does a G.G.’s household
encounter during the potentate’s term here, one
wonders ?
“Mary McC.”: The wicked and unprovoked attack
upon the character of the cat perpetrated by the
author of “The Blue Bird,” moves me to wrath and
a desire for revenge upon the Belgian person who so
utterly fails to appreciate the feline nature. No one
wants to pretend that the cat is early-Victorian in
its morals, but in spite of its house-roof performances
the thing has a soul of its own, and, unlike the dog,
refuses to be a mere slave. The dog, wild and un-
taught, is an unfriendly savage of the mean and
skulking type, capable of any treachery, and cowardly
in the highest degree. Pussy, on the other hand,
will on occasion, in the midst of her wildness, make
a friend of man for his own sake. Cats and some
birds are the only creatures that with any fre-
quency chum up with the human race out of sheer
good-fellowship. The domestic dog is a man-manu-
factured thing. His virtues are mere human echoes,
his vices he probably learned from the Devil. He
is smug, respectable, and full of the instincts of Mrs.
Grundy. The cat is a Bohemian —lazy, pleasure-
loving, given to drink and dissipation, but a thorough
good pal if you treat her as one. The average dog
is even more useless than the average cat, but he
hides it under such a hypocritical show of being
busy that Maeterlinck and a whole lot of other
people have been willing to take him at his own
valuation. The cat is a thief and a liar, but then
she never pretends to be anything else.
“Vulcan”: Shows for the thrifty-minded are spring-
ing up like young lambs all round Sydney’s unfortu-
nately placed railway station. There are about two
dozen picture, vaudeville, and picture-cum-vaudeville
establishments within a step of the vast institution's
front door. Buck.iump and midget shows and such-
like rage periodically in the park to the S.E. ;
bellowdrama keeps the Adelphi in a chronic state of
howl and thrill ; and now Wirths’ circus finds its
pitch in the old fruit markets so much to its liking,
that it recently tendered for a slice of the site at
£2OOO a year, for purposes of “variety theatre, pan-
tomime, circus, and general place of amusement.”
Another tender was for “amusement space” at £55
per week for 10 years, or at £O6 per week for 14
years.
THE SHOWMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ermine-lined robes which are being made for
new Lord Mayor (Alderman G. T. Clarke) are not
yet ready, and at last night’s meeting of the City
Council, the grand entry of the Lord Mayor, preceded
by his orderly to the Council Chamber, lacked its
usual impressiveness by reason of the fact that the
Lord Mayor was in plain dress.
-—S. M. Herald (8/5/’l2).
Dear Bill, I come to Sydney town from Bungawinga
Flat;
I figured out I’d see the sights—you bet your boots
on that!
I. went to the Museum (nearly got the jim-jams
there),
Then says your ’umble to ’imself, “I want to see tlic
Mayor.”
He isn’t like the Mayor we’ve got in Bungawinga
AVest,
Who. oft you’ll meet in shirtsleeves, showin’ gravy on
’is vest;
But they tog ’im like a woman, all in skirts and
chains of gold,
He’s a Solomon in glory, most gorgacious to be’old.
I loafed along the pavements (there’s a pub or two
I know ;
AVhen we hit old Syd. together I can tell you where
to go),
I just kept slowly movin’, which in Sydney is the
law,
And, so strike me blanky lucky, wot a sight my
optics saw !
Be’old ’im struttin’ proudly like a turkey in its
pride,
AVitli a coat all fur and colors, and a stiff-boiled shirt
inside !
I seen he was the sort of chap whose glory can’t be
’id,
And I says, “Lorbloomv, blokey, you’re the Mayor, I
bet a quid!”
’E ’ad a diamond stud or two, likewise a golden
chain,
I never seen ’is like before, an’ never shall again ;
But ’e says, “You crimson blighter!” (Oh, ’is lan-
guage was sublime),
“I spruik for this bum picture-show at ’arf a wheel
a time!”
And, Bill, so ’elp me never! from the things I’d ’eard
and read, ,
I would ’ave took ’im for the Mayor but for the
words ’e said ;
And so in this great city, if you challenged me to-
day,
To tell a spruilcer from a Mayor, I’d be d —d if I
could say.
N.SAV.
L.


FASHIONS COME AND FASHIONS CO;
WITH “JOHNNIE WALKER ” T IS NOT SO
BORN IN 1820 HE
STILL IS GOING STRONG, YOU SEE.
1
1
i
/k
&
I
i
E
'/"S',
'TX
>vc.
1*
/ * ‘tf
1. .<
;
• *5...
W^Z 9 >
s *
DON’T PUT ON “BIAS.
—go straight for Johnnie Walker. It is easy to get close to the “jack,” because Johnnie
obtainable wherever good whisky is sold.
IN SQUARE BOTTLES.
Every
bottle
bears
this
label-
GUARANTEED SAME (QUALITY
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
~/!o7ruZix{.
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD., SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS, KILMARNOCK.
And at Sydney and Melbourne.


Mother’s best friend
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Experience, the mother of wisdom, has
proved that of all the thousands of
remedies for childhood weaknesses and
ailments, there is none to equal
SCOTT’S Emulsion. are ex-
amples of thousands of letters received
from motners:
COUGH BANISHED
“My daughter had a very obstinate
cough; was unable to retain food and
had become weak and thin. After the
first bottle of Scott’s Emulsion she made
splendid progress, and now, thanks to
Scott’s’ she is a fine, healthy child.”
Mrs. Gibson, 16, Mitchell Street, Glebe,
Sydney, N. S. W. 23.6.11.
A NEW CHILD
“ My baby boy was so delicate, I doubted
whether 1 should be able to rear him.
Now, through taking Scott’s Emulsion,
he is a new child, full of life and vigour,
and his health and condition are truly
remarkable.” Mrs. K* M. Bullock, 158,
Dowling Street, Sydney, N.S. W. 4.8.11.
A MOTHER’S REGRET
“My son George was always susceptible
to chest colds. He obtained relief from
the first dose of SCOTT’S Emulsion. I
regret 1 did not try Scott’s Emulsion
years ago; I would have saved a lot cf
suffering and anxiety. ” Mrs. L. Langford,
22, Walter Street, Paddington, Sydney,
N.S.W. 4.8.11.
This Trade Mark is your guarantee
of SCOTT quality, purity
and strength. Imitations
do not bear this
mark.
sdf
sdf
It must
be Scott’s
Emulsion
df
aft,g must
bear this
Trade Mark.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
QREME LA FRANCE.
f FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
sdf
An Exquisite Lotion (or Beau-
tifying and giving Tone and
Brillian-’e to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade.
''Violeoate :
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DUEttDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne
LADIFS* ; Deve,op
LHI/ILO - Your Bust.
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad! Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
d
44 Castlereaf>h Street, SYDNEY,
ď
Carters
■ITTLE •
IVER
PILLS.
Your ILfver
is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired—Out of
Sorts —Have No Appetite.
CAh TEE'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will put you right in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
đ
THE DREAD
OF FOOD
GIVES PLACE TO
GOOD APPETITE
AND GOOD DIGESTION
WHEN YOU TAKE
The dread of food—because of the pains that follow, the dull
weight in vour stomach, the windy pressure round your heart
is a natural consequence of indigestion. lliis all-too-conuncn
complaint consumes your strength, wastes away your tissues
and breaks down your nerves. Thousands of people are worn
out, weary, weak and disheartened by the ravages of indigestion
and its kindred complaints, biliousness and constipation. When
that is your condition, don’t despair, for you can certainly be
cured by Mother Seigei’s Syrup. It has cured more peop eof
stomach and liver troubles, pains after eating, loss of appetite,
headaches, biliousness and constipation than any other medical
preparation that is before the public. Test it yourself !
THE DIGESTIVE TONIC
Mr.,J. Higgins, 18, Atherton Street, Fitzroy, Vic., says:—“l
had headaches, was very costive, and suffered from terrible pains
in.the stomach after eating. I could only take a little of the
lightest nourishment, and even that was frequently rejected. I
lost all my strength, decreased very much in weight, and I had
to give up work.
“ After giving ordinary medicines a fair trial, I had to give
them up. I then began a course of Mother Seigel’s Syrup. After
taking only three bottles of the Syrup I was back to my work
a well man. I was cured, and have kept well ever since.”
MOTHER
SEIDEL'S SYRUP
IT CURES INDIGESTION!
•V. ' ' I '
TAKE IT DAILY , AFTER MEALS.
' "A !
mm
Get an
“ABERDEEN"
BUGGY RUG.
IN YOUR INTEREST we have set up a high j
standard of quality in these rugs and made some- ‘
' thing that suits the Australian requirements.
You can stow one of these rugs in buggy or |
spring cart and not miss the room, it won’t crack
or perish, and it’s always ready if the rain comes. >,
You buy them once, for they are practically inde-
structible.
Ask your storekeeper to show you one.
Just say the “ABERDEEN” Brand.
Our Horse and Cow Rugs are equally good.
Smith, Copeland & Co., Ltd
' 204 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Tol-Johnstoi
Ccir>
\
Arrol-Johnston 15.9-h.p. Colonial
MODEL can lose ANY 25-h.o. caron the road to-day, and
has been re-ordered by H.M. War Office for cross-country work!
S
HIFT ? The new
SYDNEY: Eyes and Crowle, Ltd. ADELAIDE: Murray Aunger, Ltd.
BRISBANE : Howard Cycle & Motor Co. PERTH : Perth Motor House.
HOBART: H. C. Heathorn & Co. MOONEE PONDS, Essendon Motor
Garage.
rsETJ 1 ft WJ'A I i' I frli H 5 &H ttttH i H ii &MU3J
k
K
Will give you a big, full, strong moustache in a very short space or
time. CAPILLARINE has a successful reputation of 30 years’
standing.
Don’t be content with a “cricket team” on either side of your
upper lip. BUY CAPILLARINE to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, Post Free Anywhere.
Ttie'C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER—worn ,at Jiigh.t—will
make your Moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 Post Free.
fDAIft 8 AITKFW 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Vl\/\IU (5 All His Established 30 Years
JTS
J
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
A Bully Reader: Cannot hand gags to
some of our artists to depict, as suggested, but have
great pleasure in handing them to our special fur-
naceman... .C.W.H. (S.A.) : Not in our line, but
might And a place elsewhere... .W. 0.5.: Can't sug-
gest a text-book that would be any particular use
in the circumstances. Hard practice is the only
manual of value.... F.R.J.: Your effort to rhyme
“brute” with “cruet” arouses our deepest sympathy.
Did you ever come across the touching couplet:—
“ 'Tain’t every man can be a poet
No more’ll a sheep can be a go-et?”
. ...E.A.C.: No; but there are so many fooleries in
the world that we haven’t time to investigate them
all. W riting the Lord’s Prayer five times, or even
105 times on a piece of paper the size of a traybit,
is one of them.. . .E.D.S.: Pretty, melodious verse,
but as commonplace as a respectable widow. . . ,A.M.:
Why did you not forward at the time? Too ancient
n0w....A.L.: Stupid gag attached to rotten drawing
by really superior pin. .. . Alex. Campbell: “The
Transformation of Bob” is speeding back to you.
Your style is far, far too heavy and polysyllabic for
our taste.... N.: Somewhat taken with one verse of
your shearing poem by reason of its realism, viz.:—
Blood, wool and oaths profaned the air
—ln spots they shore ’em much too closely—
And caused the boss, who wore a care-
Lined brow, at last to howl morosely:
“Knock off. You’re wastin’ time because
This ain't a blanky abbatwaws.”
. ...E.G.A.: Don’t set much store on the searchlight
idea as a means of preventing collisions with ice-
bergs and such like. To start with, searchlights are
of little practical value at sea when fogs are around,
and where ice is there the mists are mostly gathered
together. Again, the big Atlantic liners do a mile
every three minutes, be the weather good or bad—
often more. A searchlight doesn’t illumine things
far enough ahead to be of value in those circum- ,
stances. .. .Nepenthes: We have done you a good
turn, being sentimental to a degree. In brief, “When
Thou Art Near” has been consigned 'to the ash-barrel.
If we had printed it, and the lady “of form! superb
and Venus mould” had seen it, a pleas-
ing romance would probably have been per-'
manently wrecked Pat: Brightly done, but the
arguments have been’used so often before. .. .L.M. :\
Can’t resolve the mystery of the S. M. Herald house [
advt., which appears regularly and is never answered. >,
Possibly it is a Tory joke, which is notoriously
one of the most; baffling things on record. .-. .W.F.H.:'
No, thanks.. j .Utu: Du 11... .S.C.T.: It isn’t a really;
brilliant lie, and the faded ink of Outback is a/
weariness to the eyes... .D.C.A. (V.) : Charity can’t
cover them.... L.C.: It isn’t what you could ball
crystal clear. It isn’t even as translucent as spark-
ling ale... .John L.: We will worry along without it.
.. . .D. 8.8.: And have we really brought that on our-
selves by neglecting to crush you? Consider yourself
stamped flat.... Manin: Cheerful poetic sprint, but
you get beaten on the basket, so to speak. . . .K.E.8.:
Don’t try to echo the rattle qf those collection-boxes
in verse ... .J.E.: You miss the tram —likewise thfe
’bus, the stage-coach, the sedan chair, the snail and
the lame horse A.M.: Verses heartbreaking..,.
Mascotte: Poems fired. Sorry can’t screw up the
Editor’s thinking brow.... Man of Kent: If it is any
satisfaction to you, we don’t mind admitting that
your humorous poem irritated us. .. .Arthur. G.: All
boomerang rhymes—or they would have been if
stamps had been enclosed... . A.G.R.: You can’t love
Scotland and the heather-clad mountains in'faint, pen-
cil on both sides of the paper. . . .R.A.P.: “Sorpe of
the verses on N- might be suitable now that the
tram line is about, to be opened.” No, no! j Not
even for two tram lines!... .Lord Bradley: l Two
verses of your Titanic poem are ail we have space
for, m’ Lud: — i
This large ship she sailed away f
On t this trying time. , j
She was built by special: orders
And belonged to the White Star line.
So now my lines is ending,
I have ho more to say, j
The'drowned ones is now with God,
And for ever they will stay.
... .T. Jones: The Bulletin’s ‘joke assayed reports
that your parcel panned out 17ioz. dross to the lib.
.... Only Me: Thanks, but not worth reprinting.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
T.E.G.: The joke is a poor one, and it is of the
misfortunate kind that would fit almost any picture
with two passive figures in it. When one person is
making a dull remark to another, the kind, of person
doesn’t matter, and the background may be a ham-
shop, or the Pyramids, or the downfall of Poland, or
the Benevolent Asylum... .Arthur M. W.: The joke
isn’t new, though you may have altered the location.
The picture is new —worse luck. So is the other pic-
ture—worse luck Mills: Very large crumpled pic-
ture done in dim pencil. It would merely reproduce
as a smudge. Anyhow, it doesn’t' absolutely bellow
for reproduction Bill May: Rejected Unanimously:
. ...P.V.W.: Pictures of squashed people are gener-
ally unpleasant. YoUrs is no exception to the rule.
XXX: It looks like it J. Nicholson: We pre-
sume you have the blighted effrontery to try to pass
that old and oft-published joke about the Jew and
the bed as original. , j ,
“F.SrS.” : Victoria is cursed with 50 times
more race meetings than is a fair thing, and if John
Weary doesn’t do something—and do it quickly—the
.whole > blesged. country will turn into one huge sad-
dling paddock. In the Western District, which I
know particularly well, the past three months have
provided one continual round of meetings. There are
more than any amount with the usual dates, but what
with picnic races and “trots,” there is hardly time
nowadays even to go to work. Every village and
hamlet of any importance has its annual meeting, and
if a place has two pubs it runs to two meetings in
the year. Even spots in the bush with no pub at all
run a meeting. If the races were decently conducted,
the case against them would still be a strong one,
but a straightly-run country race meeting is as rare
as a white sparrow. There are white sparrows, just
as there are honest race meetings; but both are so
scarce as to be hardly worth mentioning. Very often,
in a field of a dozen, there is only one genuine trier ;
and cases are not uncommon in which the whole field
has been what is technically alluded to as “stopped” ;
also, what is euphemistically termed “the double-
crook,” is quite usual. In this swindle the owner,
after agreeing to stop his horse, secretly backs it him-
self—naturally getting a decent price—and lets it
win, amidst the curses and confusion of the defrauded.
It can easily be imagined what effect this sort of
thing must have on John Weary’s juvenile subjects,
many of whom are growing up in a constant atmo-
sphere of loafing and swindling. What is badly
needed is a stringent cutting-down of country dates,
and the total abolition of the picnic meeting curse.
When the citizen feels the trusts dragging
at his pocket, he realises at last that the
dreadful intelligence is perfectly correct;
Capital is leaving the country—nothing.
“X.P.D.”: Rev. W. S. Heatheote, rector
of Bundaberg (Q.), whose best supporters
of the plate have left him on account of his
• Socialistic ; views, made a hit at . a regent
meeting. Quoting from the he
read the line: “The time shall come when
the vile person shall no longer he called
liberal.” Tet some people say the Bible
is out of date J


2rse>
<lO
n
0 0
0 0
0 0
%
O
0 0
o
LOIO
0„0
VI
;o_o
3
00
' 0 o
m
0 0
0 o
0-0
00
00
0 0
00
m.
0 0
Vi
00
00
o
00
o 0
i*
m
WSk
5*
*
Si
z
JT»
There’s never a slip
’Twixt the road and the grip
of the
“Semelle” Non-Skid.
If a non-skid tread is to be really effedive, it must be actually a part of the
cover—not an attachment.
That is the principle—dictated by Science and confirmed by experience—upon
which the Michelin “Semelle” is made.
The tread, which forms an integral part of the tyre, is composed of a stout
leather, band.
This band, besides rendering the cover practically puncture-proof, constitutes the
only effective foundation for the hard steel studs which projed through it and grip
the ground.
> r v v ;. . t i
MICHELIN TYRES
can be obtained from all the leading Garages.
(32)
JT* 1 The ‘ALLENBURYS’ Diet is a
JT Or complete and easily digested food.
It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
helping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and whole wheat in a partially
predigested form. -I
Made in a Minute
—add boiling water only—
ALLEN & HANBURYS LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND
and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
d
»
i
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases ■without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
ď
Each Capsule bears tbe name
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works :
Birmingham, England,
đ
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Ser es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ESTABLISHED -aBT*.
FOR
COUGHS.
ees
lii
guiglonic
FOR
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for “ OWBRIDGE’S '
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD,,
HULL, ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
/ Big G\
w Borated Goldenseal X
m Compound \
f A safe and reliable remedy V
'for treating diseases of ALL
mucous membranes, such aa
discharges from t h e nose, throat
stomach and urinary organa.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself f .
/Treatise with each bottle!
\or mailed on request.
.The Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio
U.S.A.
d
ď
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by aIT Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
A Great Sufferer who had used
many “other” Remedies without avail,
writes of her experience with
đ
PILE CURE
Mrs. Harriet Willard, Brown’s Creek,
via.Blayney, N.S. W., says:—“l am very
thankful to let you know that your won-
derful Pile Remedy has cured me.
It has been a blessing to me after all the
years I have suffered, and I cannot
speak too highly of it. Many
people here who know how l suffered.are
surprised at the change: in my condi-
tion.”
Peters' Pile Cure is Easy to
Apply.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 6/-
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
jsaWell, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Local Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co.» Manchester, Eng.
CARBIDE.
For First-Clas?
Results u.-e
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it oan be obtamed
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 61J.


THE HOUSE FOR VALUE!
A. SAUNDERS
d
Solid C
ometer,
25/-
>ak-eased Aneroid Bar-
bevelled glass face, open opal
dial.
ď
8/6.
Niokel Toilet Mirror, richly embossed, with
bevelled glass.
5/6.
Seal Motor Bag, Moirette lin-
ing, strong frame, stitched on
handles.
„ 3/6.
Leather Purse & Card
Case combined, Pure Silver-
mounted.
đ
_ , . 17/6.
(xent S Toilet Roll, containing 2
finest Sheffield Razors, Manicure Scissors,
Corn Knife and Tweezers, complete in
Leather Roll.
8-Day Marblette
hours and halves.
20/-
Striking Clock,
Perfect Movement.
Finished.
strikes
Gilt
We lead in Clocks, Cutlery, Leatherware and Optical Goods.
We stock the largest variety,
really moderate prices.
in the highest quality, at
Try us and see.
12/6.
Hanging Hall Stand,
comprising Nickel-mounted,
Ebonised Wood-back Cloth and
Hat Brush.
2/6.
1-Day Nickel Alarm
dock, perfect Timekeeper.
Superior Movement, 4/6.
12/6.
Nickel Shaving Mirror,
plain one side, magnifying
other.
Table Knives, square Xylonite Handles, finest Sheffield Steel 4/0
Half Dozen. Dessert, 4/3 Half Dozen. ’ 7
Catalogue of
Cutlery,
Clocks and
Leatherware
Free.
20/-
Sronze Figure, on
20/-
Bronze Figure, on
handsome Black Pedes-
tal. Height, 16in.
Mg
m
- ■,
<SSs
n ~ „ £9/9/-
UaJC Cutlery Canteen, containing i doz. Table Knives, i doz. Dessert
Knives, 5-Piece Meat and Game Carvers, finest Sheffield Steel, Xylenite
Handles, \ doz. Table Forks, * doz. Dessert Forks, J doz. Table Spoons,
5 doz. Dessert Spoons.
We Pay
Postage
on all
Goods
but Clocks.
•
207-
Bronze Figure, 01
handsome Black Pedes
tal. Height, 16in.
Powerful S-Draw Brass Telescope, 14in. extended, sin. closed
contained in Tan Leather Case.
5/6.
Shaving Bowl &
Brush, polished Nic-
kel Porcelain China
Bowl.
7/6
Gent’s Xylonite
Concave Military
Hair Brush.
With Shield, 9/6.
m
m
12/ o.
Hair Brush, Real
Ebony, Sterling Silver-
mounted, Best Bristles.
2/d.
Rectangular
Reading Glass, to
suit all sights, 3/6,
4/-
12/6.
Cigar Case, Seal
Leather, Calf Lining,
Silver Mounts and
Shield.
5/-
Th e famous “Gem
Junior” Safety Razor,
containing 7 Blades, with
Stropper, complete in Silk-
lined Leatherette Case.
dsdf
i2/6.
Solid Brass-cased Sight
Compass, Jewelled Bar,
2in. Card Dial.
5/6.
Pocket Book, black Lea-
ther, Silk-lined, Nickel Lock.
Field or Marine Glass,
Black Morocco Leather, cov-
ered Nickel Bands, high mag-
nifying power. Complete with
Case and Sling.
17/6.
Inkstand, 2 Cut Glass Bottles, heavy Nickel
Mounts —>d Handle.
35/-
Dressing Table Set, polished Nickel, bevelled
Glass Mirror, richly embossed Cloth and Hair Brushes,
long white Bristles.
JEWELLER,
ujtfCH &ClOC#.
k MAKER /
d
Bn7Dn SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER?
_807.809,811,81?.815,817. GEORGE ST. [Opposite Railway Station! SYDNEY.W.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
COHSULT/tfe J
\OPTICIAN mt


ď
Only the KODAK can give
you the Pleasures of
KODAK PHOTOGRAPHY.
KODAK Photography is photography
reduced to its simplest terms. No other
Camera can give you the same pleasure
as the Kodak, with the same ease, certainty
and economy.
This is because there is nothing mysterious about it,
or difficult, and every operation can be carried out in daylight. You will find
it a healthful, fascinating and interesting pastime at all times.
For holiday tours, outings and gatherings at home it provides a great deal
of innocent amusement, and at the same time enables you to secure pictorial
records of events that in after years will be a source of delight and pleasant re-
collection to you and yours.
Kodak Cameras range in price from 265.; Brownie Kodak Cameras f rom
ss. No matter what amount you determine to expend on your Camera you can
be quite sure of its reliability and simplicity if you get a Kodak. Call or write
for a copy of the Kodak Camera.
There are KODAKS for all ages,
all tastes and all needs.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 6 Mercer Street.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD SERIES
No. 3 . . . LONDON
LONDON (Aust.) Tailored Clothes are
universally accepted as the realisation
I of the best Tailoring; Ideals. Their
. outstanding; excellence wins for their
Australian Wearers, in every corner
of the globe, the reputation of the World's
Best Dressed Men.
Three Australians ** London” (Aust.) Dressed
are here shown in the Empire's Capital with
St. Paul's looming up in the background.
The Clothes We
Make for You are made with
Scrupulous Care ... Fashioned from Honest
Fabrics, and Made to Fit, to Wear and Hold
their Shape by Conscientious Methods.
The Result is Satisfaction, and, knowing that, we GUARANTEE it.
The London Guarantee is the final word on London Tailoring
Excellence. Briefly, it means that the London-made Suit to
Measure must please and satisfy in every respect—in Workman-
ship, Fabric, Fit and Finish —or you pay us not one penny.
We can show you the most distinctive and attractive of the New
Season's Fabrics. All our many importations are now opened
up, and include every innovation of the World's Best Looms
all the newest weaves in all the newest colors and color effects.
vztdm
Opposite the G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
P 548
y.</>
««§
mm*
m®
■mils
*-^m
■z^y
'§m
mm*
SgSS
»M
ty&kd
xfiW
M
§g%sp^||g§g
£3^s
?3K
g§a§»;
: .SS>S3;
54555
Sg®
m
■-
i«g
S 3
rSS
ssg®
S?=s>4
yZyyztk
»iii
%
sgSts
s*«
We make our Clothes Pictures COME TRUE on Your Back.
Write for Patterns of our 63/- Suits to Order
These are post free on request, and with them we send a
Measurement Form and a Copy of the London Catalogue.
A New OVERCOAT CATALOGUE Just Issued
ALSO FREE ON REQUEST.


CONFIDENTIAL Letters
Retail? Private
when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying
Book is
used.
“NSC f 200
Patcny ZanetiC
COPYING BO
!&
You slip your letter
paper into the
holder, write jour letterin ink, and the copy ismade
as you write. Letter shown no sign o f copying. The
letter is ported and the hook put away. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 qu .rto, can be copied in
NSC/tOO, post free for 3/9 ; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stantned envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road
LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
P lcox" senft Wonpn-Or'ii’rn, npf P O ’*
' A A.WATERMAN4CO. NEW YORK. L '*< : r
■:/ PAT NOV. <7,03.* OCT. 11,04. ;-. ,
VI
r
Turn
This
Button,
Pen
Fills
Itself.
A Self-Filling Fountain
Pen —that is Different.
Users of Fountain Pens
will find the
"MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
Self-Filling
Fountain Pen
especially desirable for com-
mercial or home use. You
simply twist the button at
the end, hold pen in ink,
untwist, and the pen fills
itself. There are no joints,
therefore avoiding' any
danger of soiling the fin-
gers or clothing. Costs
no more than the ordinary
fountain pen. Made in both
plain and fancy holders,
with a variety of nibs.
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
New York.
22 THAMES STREET.
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Ryan, Lewis & Co. Pty. Ltd ,
621 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Sole Agents for
Australasia.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and Safety types.
Dealers will find our en-
tire line a profitable one.
Write for trade prices.
They will interest you.
If It Isn’t an “ A. A.” It
Isn’t a “ MODERN.”
1]
đ
TAILOR-
MADE
COSTUMES
FOR WINTER.
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
our T weeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
T ailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
THE
EDISON “OPERA"
PHONOGRAPH.
The new model .Edison Phonograph will
irresistibly appeal to all lovers of the beauti-
ful. Whilst retaining the*sweetness, richness
arid purity of tone characteristic of ail Edison
machines, it has many new constructional and
artistic features, whicli will render it very
popular with those who desire a perfect
machine at all points, yet who hesitate at the
purchase of an Amberola.
The “Opera” Phonograph has a beautiful
Mahogany Cabinet, Maroon finish body, and
Mahogany Music Master Cygnet Horn, with
which the usual Horn Craile support is un-
necessary, as the Horn is pivoted in a rigid
Arm Casting, allowing it to swing in any
direction.
Any Edison dealer will gladly demonstrate
this new model to you on request. If you do
not know the address of a dealer, write us
direct, and we will tell you, and also send
lists of Phonographs and Records.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale Only), Dept. 8.,
364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
BEE HOWL Vertical Triplex
k Trunk Plunger Pump
with Bored
Guides.
For Heads up
to 300 feet.
;
i*A
S 3
y ;
- -; r L
. T? \r»
i §$ -?*'v }.'.• f I
J "'w ./
Tlie Engraving illustrates our design for Vortical Triplex Tumps of the smaller
sizes, arranged with bored guides and suitable for moderate heads.
All sizes are supplied with machine cut wheel gearing. Plungers and Valves are
supplied to suit the duty to be performed. The pumps are supplied either single
geared with pulleys for belt drive, or with double reduction gearing and extended
bed plate, without or with Motor as shown in Engraving.
We Manufacture all Classes of Horizontal Pumps for all duties.
A Hstralian Representatives:
Haes & Eggers Ltd.
163 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Local Agents— ADELAIDE : Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE: Diamond Lubricating & Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: Dean & Collin, 335 Queen Street.
VICE-REGAL |ggp£, HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs, 161 Ki s4 D s^V, . t '
Transformations from £3/3/- Puffs 5/6 set. Tails from 5/6-
Fringes from 5/6.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION. 'Phone 2138 Central.
d
Schute, Beil & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, PyrmonL
Sell on oniy.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
Invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
H
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
đ
CINEMATOGRAPHERS!
GET
THE KELVIN
Electricity
Generating; Set.
It is reliable —simple—easy to
start —'works perfectly. No trouble
—no bother.
Positively the finest thing of its kind extant.
You can move from place to place, know all the time that you
have -the cheapest possible supply of electricity, and be inde-
pendent of fire or municipal officials.
Is Two-cylinder, slow speed Engine, 50 Amps, 60 Volts,
Dynamo, Shunt, Regulator, Switchboard, Tool Box, etc.
Quite complete and mounted on substantial tfuck with re-
movable sides, lid and top.
WRITE FOR MAKERS SPECIFICATIONS.
JERD AIM’S,
Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 George Street ( Ro ya?Hot e .), Sydney
d
ARE HIGH GRADE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS and excel in their superior quality
of Tone and their Handsome Finish. As only thoroughly seasoned material is used
in their manufacture, their durability may be relied on. The Reeds are of Bell Metal
an alloy distinguished for its Brilliancy and Power.
There are several styles ranging in price from 12/- to 30 /-
One of the most popular
is No. 117.
ď
DOMINION ACCORDEON No. 117.
Size 11 \ inches x6h inches. Three sets Reeds,
three acting stops. Ninefold Triple Ifellows,
with all corners metal bound, poifehed ebpn-
ized tops .and mouldings. .Fittedvwfih Brass
Amplyfying Trumpets on keyboard. Very
powerful tone.
Price, 29/-.
Catalogues post free from G. W. RYAN
43 Bourke Street, Melbourne; WILLS and’
CO., 7 Quadrant, Launceston ; OPTICAL and
PHOTO. SUPPLIES CO., Hay Street, Perth •
JACKSON and MACDONALD, Druitt Street’
Sydney.
The Belfast Ikish News, warning people
in a recent issue against emigrating to Aus-
tralia, spoke these words: —
Vie have just received a postcard from Brisbane,
which contains a versified testimonial to that Colony
as a place of residence. Some lines deserve repro
duction: —
THE BUSHMAN’S FAREWELL.
“Queensland, thou firt a land of pests,
For flies and fleas one never rests;
E’en now mosquitoes round me revel;
In fact, they are the very d 1.
Sandflies and hornets just as bad- —
They nearly drive a .fellow mad
The scorpion and centipede, *
With stinging ants of every breed ;
Fever and ague with the shakes,
Tarantulas and poisonbus shakes;
iguanas, lizards, cockatoos,
Bushrangers, logs and jackeroos,
Bandicoots and swarms of rats,
Bulldog ants and native cats;
Stunted timber, thirsty plans,
l’arched up deserts, scanty rains:
There’s, lmmpies, huts and wooden houses'.
And nigger men who don’t wear trousers ;
There’s llarcoo rot and sandy blight,
There’s dingoes howling all the night,
There’s curlews’ wails and croaking frogs.
There’s savage blacks and natiVe dogs;
There’s scentless flowers and stinging trees,
There’s poisonous grass and darling peas,
Which drive the cattle raving mad.
Make sheep and horses just as bad ;
And then it never rains in reason —
There’s drought one year and floods next season,
Which sweep the squatters' sheep away,
j And then there is the de'il to pay.
To stay in thee, Oh! Land of Mutton!
I would not give a single button.
But bid thee now a long farewell,
Thou scorching, sunburnt lahd of —* !”
This pastoral ballad is simple in its language; but
every line of it is stamped with the seal of sincerity.
The “buslmian’’ who bade farewell to Queensland in
such emphatic terms had been there. Australians
are crotchety—and naturally so —when anyone refers
to their great “sub-continent” in terms of dispraise.
But the pastoral poem from which we have quoted
above was \yritten in Queensland, and put into gen-
eral circulation by Mr. BarncS, a Brisbane printer.
Will some earnest Australian on the spot
find out if there is a Brisbane printer named
Barnes? If there is, will he go round to
Barnes with this specimen of Slinking Fish
in his hand, and ask if Barnes is really re-
sponsible for it?
Though the new Governor ot Pentridge
(Vic.) prison, F. J. Edgar, may disprove
appearances, his record doesn’t promise
much for skilful, scientiiic treatment of de-
generates. Starting in ’75 as telegraph mes-
senger, he worked up to postmaster at the
Itialto, in Collins-street West, then went to
the Stockade as storekeeper. After 14 years
of routine, he rose to be chief clerk. Now
there is only one rung of the ladder to mount
-—the Inspector-Generalship. He suffers
from the disadvantage of looking like Ice-
i berg Irvine, but has the advantage of being
younger brother to Methodist. pastor A. R.
Edgar, and to estate agent W. 11. Edgar, tom-
, porarily Minister for Public Works in the
Weary Cabinet.
“A.”: Brisbane hasn't been fit to
to live in lately. Sand fly, mos-
quito, fruit fly and codlin moth
aren t in it with the political woman cunvas-
ser. Of these there are three distinct types
—the dominant and aggressive, the sweet
and snary, and (worst of all) the weepful
pessimist, who has lost a happy home through
an aggressive, and tyrannical \> ages Board
system, and who threatens you with Hell
upon earth as well as for ever afterwards if'
you don’t vote as her divine inspiration
directs. As a rule, the consummate insol-
ence and lack of breeding of these intrusives
is only equalled by their ignorance of the
Constitution they live under. If the law
doesn’t soon protect us from these pests I’ll
go and live in a lunatic asylum, or family
vauli, unless I can raise enough tp get away
to the peaceful islands of the Pacific,- anil
make my home with cannibals. Three 4if
| these shriekers found out our cook. She
was a good cook and a household treasure
before she listened to the arguments of the
canvassers, who dogged her for weeks prior
to election day. She didn’t vote, but site is
now useless as a copk. because in the middle
ot a most delicate tulinary process she will
suddenly think of a clinching argument that
she ought to have used last month. Then
she will leave the kitchen and rush madly
through the house in search of the canvas-
sers, who disappeared long ago and left no
address. Not finding them, the cook tells us
ror the hundredth time what the canvassers
said, what the cook said, what the cook now
remembers she should have said, and what
the cook will say next time. And then a
horrible smell of burnt meat comes up from
the kitchen.
A Melbourne railway clerk was convicted
lately of embezzling the proceeds of
sundry tickets sold at Wonthaggi, where he
had been employed in the booking office.
His sentence was suspended on certain con-
ditions, one being “that he will abstain from
drink, and not frequent any place where
liquor is sold” during his 12 months’ proba :
;L on- J he , hum P r .of the case lay in the fact
that W onthaggi is a temperance township,
where no place is licensed to sell liquor,
seemingly, the young man had gone astVay-
in that dry land, all the same.
“Mary McC.” about a very faint hope:—
~ T,K 'j' e js a faint and slender hope that the hew
Maori and Ministry may take it into its head to sign
the pledge, and once and for all get off the awful
financial drunk which began in the davs of
increased during the reign of Seddon, and developed
w° i a lla^ calamity during the management of
\\ ard The hope is called George. Laurenson, the
Minister for Labor, who has been brought into the
Cabinet mainly to support it with ideas. Laurenson
is a whole-hearted land reformer; and, in the verv
nature of things, a man who lias first and last spoken
and acted with absolute rectitude on the land ques-
tion, cannot be in favor of the perpetual three-ball
orgies at the public house of Israel Cohen. Now, the
Ministry has no definite majority in Parliament, and
will have to go to the country. If it wants to bring
home the bacon, it will have to have a decent battle-
cry, and what better cry could it have than clean
finance? I’m much mistaken if Laurenson doesn’t
urge it. Beyond all doubt the reason why thousands
of people throughout the. Unsteady Islands supported
Mjissev at the recent elections is to be found in the
-JnCt that the last team of Massey’s color which hgld
the Treasury benches, in all other respects
almost tod awful to be' mentioned by respectable
democrats, d.ixl jiate, loathe and despise' the emblem
of Lombard!.. Probably the later historian would
be unable to say the same of Massey. Still, there was
a chance that he would put the brakes cm, and there
was a dead certainty that louseph would not. /So
the off-chance was solidly backed. But if the in-
formed Liberal party offers the democratic inhabi-
tants some sure relief from the awful weight of)jhe
national debt, Massey’s cake will be just .plain
dough. I reckon that's all it’s worth, anyhow.


đ
Va
v s?
Kl
98
i
I ? SB/
a**#?
. .:•• . .•
■
*
.
: sW&fay*-
»"*' Jjvlt
~1 Hi
'S' f*,- \, ‘ ,
'
•7-
'
&B
’
A
■
r -7., ; '
' s : ; ' • ■ • ••■' .-•• --tv-;-
, y ;-■'■/■•■':•••■ I
.
;.r -SW*f
4 - v ;.~%7 p»■ z..f4 < . 7 xtfi+i\jf'■'
f»-» 7>* ? ' * :
.
ms
I
,
.r.y‘
M"l§p
* .<7s
' v~v*
: '>: ■- / .;• j^v.-';•{';: . -...’
r 5; •
A-•?.'s£
•Jk -
~r
fes
SSssS
• 7 V
S* 5 *
i ' i
>;4ifS
-M 1
' £
„ <:
- .71
ra
&
«/:'■?. 1 r : 7
%
■
m
m
.
•-■
■:
l-Vv
♦ 1912 MODEL ♦


Fight against
Consumption
BY TAKING
ANGIERSgfMULSION
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion is both healing and strengthening It
not only soothes and heals the throat and lungs, but it promotes
appetite, aids digestion and builds up strength. For upwards
of twenty years it has been prescribed by the medical profession
and used in hospitals and sanatoria for consumption. Angier’s
Emulsion is the standard approved remedy for coughs,
bronchitis, consumption and all lung affections.
Send for free Sample ; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMCIAL Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM SHIELDS.
Important.
\\I ILL WILLIAM SHIELDS, or anyone
v ’ knowing the whereabouts of William
Shields, who left home at Dargalong, near
Murchison (Victoria), about 1879-80, last
heard of by letter from Wyalong Goldfield,
N.S.W., about 1890-91, communicate imme-
diately with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COY. LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
NOTICE.
A NYONE who can give information which will lead
to the discovery of the present postal address, if
living, or the date and place (name and State) of
death, if dead, of WILLIAM NEWALL MAXWELL
RORISON, otherwise FRANCIS WILLIAM RORISON,
who was a son of the late Major Rorison, some time
of Caermarthen, and afterwards of Tenby, Wales,
Great Britain, is requested to communicate at once
with Messrs. MILLIGAN AND STOBA, Solicitors,
DUMFRIES, SCOTLAND.
Mr. Rorison, if alive, will be about 82 years of
age. He lived up to 1885 at Glen Innes, New South
Wales; is said to have been at one time a teacher in
the Bathurst district of New South Wales, and to
have been, about 1886, Assistant Council Clerk at
Goorac, Queensland. He is said to have been tried
for bigamy -at Brisbane in 1896.
JAMES ESCREET, last heard of at
Ingham, Queensland, two yonr* ago.
Anyone knowing his whereabouts kindly
communicate with G. ESCREET, Carraiung,
Victoria.
McMULLAN, Deceased.—lf THOMAS
McMU'LLAN, son of Thomas McMul-
lan, late of County Antrim, Ireland, will
communicate w r ith the undersigned, he will
hear something to his advantage. He is at
present believed to be in Queensland.
GILFILLAN & SHERIDAN, Solicitors,
KEMPSEY, N.S.W.
©TAINTON, LINCOLNSHIRE.—FRED
kA F. Come Coledale immediately. Am
dying of consumption. Your wife, L.
DWARD WILLIAM WEATHERLY,
supposed to be somewhere in Australia,
would hear something to his advantage by
writing his brother JOSIAH WEATH-
ERLY, Glacier Creek, Sixty Mile Dist.,
Yukon Territory, Canada*\
.-'Or
CUocaIA
y
OLA
ii\
step
«P
CJi
fc\sKiof\
xDrite'
OP
ys
otc\l
UG
$
A
FA
cm
7r /5
WR/TTE
y f 5
/77f£FOUnTA lh
JVo House in Queensland can show you
such exclusive Fashion Goods as Finney s.
No other House gives you a faithful
illustration of each article , sketched on
the premises from the actual garment.
No finer Catalogue than ours has been
issued in the Commonwealth this season.
Buying at the Lowest Possible Prices
and receiving the utmost in Value is
merely a matter of shopping at Finney’s.
We pay carriage and forward goods
with the utmost despatch.
Now ! May we send you one of our
Catalogues—Post Free ?
FINNEY’S
1 DRAPERS OF QufLLnSL^nD
IN BANANA LAND
The two latest returns in Queensland re-
present Brisbane, where the Labor candidate
won by 32 votes in a poll of 4530; and Mer-
thyr, where the Denhamite man got in by
four votes in a poll of 4234. It was a time
of mighty close finishes.
Re need for elective Ministries. Queens-
land has had five elections in a little over
seven years, and it is fairly safe to say that,
had elective Ministries been in vogue, every
Parliament would have spun out its legiti-
mate term. All this intrigue, upset, tur-
moil and stoppage of public business is due
to the antiquated superstition of party gov-
ernment.
Thus a Queensland paper swelling visibly
with pride:—
If any proof was needed of the suitability of the
land in the Goondiwindi district for closer settle-
ment, it was afforded here yesterday, when the
largest ba'lot ever held in Queensland took place
for two blocks of land resumed from Welltown
station.
And it went on to tell how 783 citizens de-
posited £43,801 11s. in return for the right
to ballot for two blocks of 2600 acres and
3773 acres respectively. It looks more like
evidence of land famine and land monopoly.
Even two allotments in Paradise would
hardly command a legitimate rush of such
dimensions.
No wonder the Queensland Laborites make
no political headway. Since the schism of
1906-07 that party has got rid of 15 Moder-
ates, mostly by expulsion; and the constitu-
encies have restored the balance by defeating
15 of the extreme section, including such old
hands as Maughan, Mitchell, Reinhold, Bur-
rows, M. Reid, McLachlan, Jones, Rylands,
Collins, Allen, Mullen and others. A body
that is bled in this fashion —mainly through
the extremist policy—can have little hope for
the future. The influx of new men is no
Sensation for the loss of the experienced
3rs of the party. As, however, Coyne
is safe, there is nothing left but to intone
the Te Deum.
Candidate Fowles, who opposed David
Bowman, entertained Yalleyites before the
election by giving cinematographed views of
the Brisbane strike, its dispersal, its 31d.
food coupons, etc., and lecturing thereon to
an excited audience. In New York, Roose-
velt’s opponents once took a fake cinemato-
graph picture of Theodore, representing him
as picking up a capsized nigger, bowing low
to him. and offering him a cigar. The whole
scene had, of course, been enacted with a
man made up to resemble Roosevelt.
Fowles’s cinematograph was no fake, but it
didn’t work. Even a small dog that peram-
bulated the streets decked in blue ribbon and
bearing a card “Vote for Fowles !” was pow-
erless to stem the hostile flood that over-
whelmed the showman candidate.
The latest thing in election strategy! The
wife of a certain candidate in a South
Queensland constituency took her Sunday-
school class to the meetings of her husband’s
hated rival. The kiddies cheered most en-
thusiastically when the husband’s name was
mentioned, and occasionally interjected dis-
approval at the hated rival. The hated rival
got in after all.
A MISAPPREHENSION.
SURVEVOR (to party who will persist in standing in front of his level): “I wish to good-
ness you’d get out of the light.”
IRRITATING PERSON : "Wy? Ain’t I goin’ inter the picture?”
Bananaland has 17 itinerant teachers,
costing on an average £5OO each per annum.
One of them, giving evidence before the
S.A. Education. Commission, at present gal-
loping the North, said he found
that 35 per cent, of the parents whom he
visited could neither read nor write-, and
among them were two station owners. So
Bananaland is doing its best to prevent the
blot of to-day being carried forward to the
clean page of to-morrow. Still, the writer
met a sleeper-cutter the other day who can
speak five languages.
A large proportion of the German popula-
tion of Fassifern (S.Q.) voted for Wien-
holt, at, his first election, under the belief,
induced ,by his name, that he was of Deut-
scher descent—a totally mistaken notion.
Daniel Wienholt built the railway from
Warwick to Toowoomba a good many years
ago, and Edward Wienholt—father of the
present legislator—was some years in Par-
liament, and was also part owner of Jon-
daryam. The name sounds as genuinely
German as Potsdam, though the family
hails originally from the Taffy country.
Now that Digby Denham has secured a
mandate from the State to carry the cash-
box under his arm till April, 1915, that Boss
Spendthrift has a chance tofstart early and
put his house in order. Queensland has over
£2,000,000 of old debt to be repaid next
year, and in 1915 Cohen will present his
bill for £11,728,800. This is the biggest
single financial chicken that has yet come
home to roost in any Australian State,
though the £9,884,508, which N.S.W. has to
repay this year is bad enough, and so is the
£4.050,000 which Victoria has falling due
next year. Considering the persistent and
heavy decline in the gold output, the increas-
ing drain on the country’s stock of accumu-
lated gold to pay for the absurdly inflated
imports, the greatly reduced harvests, the
assurance that the drought must, in the
ordinary course of things, be nearly due
again, the rise in the cost of money, the fact
that both Queensland and N.S.W. are bor-
rowing at an unprecedented rate and strip-
ping the money market bare, and the fact
that N.S.W. and Victoria will have rushed
the market with their renewal loans before
Queensland gets there, there is every chance
that the Banana country will get the finan-
cial shock of its life in 1915. It ought to be
a year when the astute politician will be
glad to see his enemy in office.
What Is Due,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Over large areas of Western Queensland drought
conditions are rapidly spreading, but little provision
has been made to meet them. —Brisbane daily.
Paddocks all are full,
Sheep are everywhere,
High the price of wool,
Gone the squatter’s care;
Years of plenty nine,
How they quickly flew!
Trouble—-not a sign—
But —the Drought is due.
Fodder—not a ton,
Country overstocked,
Fleeces take the bun,
Railways often blocked ;
Honey, wine and oil.
Sky that’s smiling blue,
Well rewarded toil—
And the Drought is Due.
Never look ahead,
Eat and drink and sing;
Make your happy bed,
Have your jolly fling;
Dam* the “cycle” yarn.
Hang the prophet crew,
Not a blessed barn!
And the Drought is Due.
Comes a burning wind,
Dries the paddocks up,
Scarce the creek could find
Drinking for a pup;
’Course we’re bound to get
Early floods a few,
Bound to strike the wet—
But—the Drought is Due.
Bring the bottle out,
Give us each a glass;
; Never have a doubt,
Be a careless ass;
Worry, care and fret
Drown we in the brew,
Till we quite forget
That the Drought is Due.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, Mat 11, 1912.
My Dear Thabgomindah,—
Governor Macgregor has gone on strike
against spreading the radiance of his sub-
regality over too much cow show. With
Arthur Morgan he is picnicking en route to
Anakie, and the jaunt is estimated to last a
fortnight.
Died, at his residence, Inglenook, New
Farm, last Thursday, A. J. Callan, M.L.C.,
who came to Queensland in 1860. He was a
director of Mount Morgan and also of the
Queensland National Bank. The earlier part
of his life in this State was spent in squat-
ting, wilh the practice of law as a side line.
Later, he represented Fitzroy in the As-
sembly. Like many' other Irishmen, he kept
open house and a distended purse for his less
lucky countrymen.
South Australia’s Education Commission
has been making inquiry hereabouts as to the
method of imparting to young Queensland
the news that Australia is a suburb of Syd-
ney ; that the Cotter is the only known place
in the world where fish live in burrows; and
a few other educational side-lines. On Fri-
day evening the members of the committee
picked a bone or two at Lennofi’s, with Pub-
lic Instruction Minister Grant, and departed
next morning, looking none the worse.
The Queensland Lawn Tennis Association
held a euchre party at Rowe’s Cafe on Thurs-
day evening, by way of dilating its bank
account. Some 80 of the moderately young
of both sexes pursued the trophies, but Wil-
fred Hall and Mrs. Briscoe left all coiners
behind.
Two of our churches have been on the
spree. The one over which St. Barnabas
bends a sheltering wing borrowed Mrs.
Arthur Morgan’s lawn, and performed a joy-
ous “coin tea” in aid of a new organ. Half
the thrippences in Brisbane rolled up. St.
George’s local Anglican depot ran a bun
scrum at Windsor. Aunt Sallies, the newly-
hedged M.L.A., Macrossan, and other light
and airy propositions helped to reduce the
strain on the intellect.
The members of the Liedertafel are wear-
ing a Cheshire-cattish smile of triumph.
Their concert last Wednesday was a notable
success. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, -graceful and
charming as ever, and Miss Mulcahy, who
has a fine contralto asset hidden beneath her
upper frock, were the soloists;
The Roger Hartigans entertained our youth
and beauty at a dance last night. Amongst
the fair women and brave men was pretty
little Mrs. Arthur Perry, who was Miss Bea-
trice Grigor of your parts.
Barnum Powell, of toy scout fame, Is with
us, and the young pole carriers of the coun-
try are very much in evidence. At Toowong
ride range, to-day, they processed, with a
proud consciousness that the advertising
agent of Mafeking was watching their move-
ments. To-night Barnum lectured to a
packed hall.
Elsie Stanley Hall showed us just how tin-
tame piano should be stroked last Thursday
evening. All the Brisbane musical com-
munity was there, and appreciations in the
form of bouquets were liberally piled on the
lady. One Crisp, a pupil of Bob Kaye, up-
lifted a tuneful tenor.
Olive Godwin, of the “Quaker Girl,” made
her alleged final appearance here last Wednes-
day evening. After three weeks in Syd-
ney, this popular stage lady will depart for
Europe. She has refreshing words to say
about the kindness and lack of _ jealousy
amongst the members of the co. with which
she has been a shining pillar and a burning
corner-stone. Would that sisterly love had
always been thus.
On Thursday afternoon the recently-erected
St. John’s residential college of the Univer-
sity gave a proud At Home on its best veran-
dah. Archbishop Donaldson, with his sister,
Mrs. Lawley, and many of the collegiate and
clerical celebrities attended. Also, there
was Mr. Parnell, whose engagement to Miss
Ulrichs, the only female lecturer, recently
caused a mild stir in college life. Warden
Baker is a cheery cleric, something like
Tommy Burns in appearance, and a man
whose reputation as a good sport preceded
him from overseas. Mrs. Baker is also
cheery, and young and pretty into the bar-
gain. It’s a long handicap for any woman
to get on the dusty track of life.
The teeming myriads of Dalby bestirred
themselves last Saturday, and pressed tokens
of affection on Dr. Stewart, who, with his
wife and daughter Freda, leave by Orient
boat next Wednesday, for Scotland. A local
songstress, Miss Josie Thompson, sails with
them. She intends to have her top-note in-
spected by competent authorities.
Popular Mrs. Lex Craig is wintering here,
and has hostessed several tea parties during
the week. Dr. Petrie, of the Sydney Medical
School, and his wife are also camped on the
spot for a few weeks.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
According to a recent statement, made in
the N.S.W. Assembly, out of 833 locomo-
tives, no fewer than 218 were manufactured
abroad. Queensland sets the Ma State a
good example, for, in the last four years, it
has manufactured 156 loconiotives of its
own, and imported not a , single one.
Queensland may not be able to teach her
grandma to suck eggs, but she Can certainly
show her how to do her own engine build-
ing.


d
A DRINK, A TONIC, AND
A DIGESTIVE COMBINED
Without Alcohol or Qas.
fly ill
Gkand Pbix,
Imperial
Exhibition,
London, 1911.
The Highest
Award possible.
T
GOl V
GOLD
SEAL
British
Analytical
Control.
\ V vu
m
\\V\\V'
tmuiii
il/j
mi
I
Should bo in Every
Home.
No other Drink in the World
has better guarantees for
Purity and Goodness.
ď
GOLD
MEDAL,
Paris
Exhibition,
1909.
N.S.W.
PURE FOOD
ACT,
Ser al No
289 '
Guaranteed
Under
Pure Food
Laws.
Buy a Bottle and Try It
With Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Ginger Beer,
Soda Water, Plain Water (hot or cold),
or with Whisky, Gin, etc.
Obtainable at Hotels and Soft Drink Shops by
the Glass and Bottle; at Stores by the Bottle.
Suits Abstainers and
Non-Abstainers
O.T. is derived from fruits and herbs having nutritive and
beneficial properties. Agreeable to the palate and distinguished for
favorable effects on the constitution, it is a drink that can be taken
in any quantity with the feeling that it is conducive to perfect
health.
It blends perfectly with all other drinks—moderating the
intoxicating effects of alcoholic liquors, the “flatulent effects of
aerated drinks, and acting as a corrective for drinking water. O. T.
is a beverage that appeals to all conditions of men, women and
children in all countries.
Good for Colds 8 Influenza
The stimulating effect of O.T. improves the circulation and pro-
motes the warmth in the body necessary to ward off colds, chills and
influenza. Taken in time, it will counteract the effects of a chill
and drive out a cold that may be coming on. It is invaluable to all
engaged outdoors.
A Substitute for Alcohol
O.T. has “life” and “bite” like spirits, and is the nearest
substitute for alcohol ever produced. After alcoholic excess it
restores vitality, appetite and nerve, while satisfying the craving for
alcoholic stimulants. It is a splendid “pick-me-up/ and has a tonic
effect if you rise with a bad taste in the mouth or a disordered liver.
Most Beneficial for Ladies
O.T. has some similar properties to (fin, and is most beneficial
for ladies when needing'a stimulant. If all ladies really knew the
merits of O.T. no home would be without it.
Relieves Indigestion, Colic
etc.
O.T. is a true digestive, and is the only after-dinner liqueur in
the world without alcohol. It ensures complete digestion, and pre-
vents indigestion, flatulence, and “full feeling” after meals.
The warm flavor of O.T, is derived
from certain fruits, highly
esteemed in Tropical countries for
safeguarding health .
O.T. is an excellent Stomachic, and a valuable aid for Colic
and other Stomach Troubles.
đ
d


Shipping;.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. * Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 13s„ £l6 16s. & £l7 17a.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ous Steamers. Cabines-de luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
on Country Lands, lor 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS on most libera/ terms .
on City and Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
gank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . .. 500,000
Uncalled Gapital .. . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,034,405
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
'fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE)
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE —2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Autjiur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yaiiwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to'the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to dune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,588 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,609 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman: JAMES
MUX HO. Esq.: JOHN CAMERON, Esq.; F.
LORD, Esq. ; GEO. EDW. BUNNING, Esq.
General 1 Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & througfetut
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord D eutscher Iv'loyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne:
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide ;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
TFIOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane &c Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
Ail Steamers lilted with Wireless Telegraphy.
a Third Class only.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line— £llO (First-class each way);
£B2 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS front £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
TIIIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
MAGNIFICENT MODERN STEAMSHIPS,
B.S. “COOMA,” S.S. “BOMBALA,” s.s. ‘ PEREGRINE.’
MELBOURNE-Q.UEENSLAND SERVICE.
These Steamers run to the following itinerary—
Melbourne depart Wednesday
Sydney arrive Friday
Sydney depart Saturday
Brisbane arrive Monday
Brisbane depart Tuesday
Keppel Bay arrive and depart Wednesday
Mackay. .. arrive and depart Thursday
Townsville arrive Friday
CAIRNS (Passengers and Cargo) tranship to T.S.S.
MOURILYAN (1350 tons), 16 knots, which
steamer leaves every Saturday from Townsville
for Cairns and Port Douglas, and passes through
Hinchinbrook Channel on both up and down
trip.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND WEST AUSTRALIA
SERVICE.
Large Passenger and Cargo Steamers leave Sydney
and Melbourne regularly each month for Adelaide,
Albany and Fremantle, transhipping for other S.A.
and W.A. Ports.
FOR FARES, TIMETABLES AND ALL
PARTICULARS, APPLY—
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY, LIMITED.
Branches all Ports.
Cruises to the
vSouth iSeas.
Interesting tours to Volcanic and Coral Islands
of tlie Pacific.
Calm Seas and splendid Scenery; a complete
change, affording unrivalled opportunities of view-
ing the native inhabitants in complete safety in
their semi-barbarous state.
Cruises can be taken, occupying from 22 days
upwards, visiting from two to 120 ports or
Islands.
Saloon Fares from under 10s. per day upwards.
Send for our Illustrated Pamphlet.
ď
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established
1817.
£3,000,000
£2,025.000
£3,000,000
Paid-up Capital - - -
Reserve Fund - - - -
Reserve Liability - - -
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Norinand MacLaurin, Kt.,
£8,025,000
M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq''
The Hon. Sir Charles li. Mackellar, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shepheard Edgecliff Haidley Esq.
w? 1 a o s °^ iC ®r Geor^, St A S /‘? nej CV * „ L ®"«lon Office-29 Thread needle St.,
ll* Fiji and Papua (New South Wales’
America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT Foreign Rills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£1,500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 1,500,000
Reserve Capital .. .. .. 1,500,000
£4,500,000
DIRECTORS:
Georue J. Cohen, Esq . . . . Chairman,
lion. H. E. Kateu, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. lliXson, Esq., & IV. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: Creorgfe Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. It. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: IS Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: E. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . .. £532,984 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 159,987 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
£769,471 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Gannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
file Colonial Mutual pe
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,060.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS
To CAIRNS (Queensland) and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
Special attention is drawn to the opportunity of
enjoying a Holiday during the Winter Season at
places where the climate is mild and the scenery
beautiful. The services are performed by the follow-
ing steamships, fitted with all facilities for the eom-
iorf of Tourists.
TO CAIRNS EVERY TUESDAY—
T.S.S. “ WYREEIViA,” 6500 Tons
T.S.S. “ WYANDRA,” 4500 Tons
and other well-known steamers, the round trip from
Sydney occupying 20 days.
TO LAUTOKA, SUVA AND LEVUKA EVERY
FOUR WEEKS—
T.S.S. “LEVUKA,” 6500 Tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
The round trip occupying three weeks.
For sailing dates, etc., see Daily Papers.
Further particulars on application to —
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverir.a,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
% And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transiiinpinar at; Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
.S.S. Kyarra (7000 tons),
June and July 6.
Wireless Telegraphy.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNS VI RLE
And Ports North to Cairns. -
S.S. Marloo, May 18.
S.S. Wollowra, May 25.
S.b. Grantala, June 1.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUIL.L St CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.—li. = iS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
*T.S.S. WILTSHIRE..
12,600 tons. B. G. HAYWARD, Commander.
Will be despatched from:—
BRISBANE .. MAY 24 | MELBOURNE .. JUNE 2
SYDNEY .. MAY 30 I ADELAIDE .. JUNE 5
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised
of two-, four-, and eight-berth cabins, situated on
the main deck, amidships, with dining-room on the
upper deck. Well lighted and ventilated cabins and
spacious decks. Third-class passengers supplied with
fresh provisions from Cool Chamber throughout the
voyage. Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric
Light throughout.
*Fitted with Wireless. Carry Saloon passengers only.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares £4O. .. £l3 135., £l5 155., £l7 17s.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. Ayrshire, leaving Sydney about June 25.
*T.S.S. Shropshire, leaving Sydney about July 23.
For further information see Illustrated Books,
Pamphlets, etc. Apply to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Svdnev and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHAItN & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
đ
Sotiflh S 2&
... and "...
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
*T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, MAY 21
*T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, JUNE 18
*Fitted with Wireless.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
There is also a service everv 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA, and TAHITI. *TALUNE, May 7 and
June 4.
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation fo the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
271 IRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
- PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
_ 'VT OTICED the recent increase in the bulk of
JAI The Lone Hand? Of course, it is the
advertisers who are primarily to blame. They
-mil rush it. But it enables-the proprietors to
gi ve more reading matter for the same price—
Sixpence.


TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.U
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “Garden of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS
TO
UNITED STATES INLAND POINTS, also GREAT
BRITAIN and EUROPE, and AROUND-THE-WORLD
TOURS IN CONJUNCTION WITH SUEZ AND CAPE
LINES.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
T.S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney May 18.
T.S.S. MANUKA, from Sydney June 15.
Sailings every 28 days.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
FULL PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable
at:
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, SYDNEY.
The “PERFECT
d
ď
Pipe Tobacco
Try it
To-day.
DARK or LIGHT
In Plug £% I
or Cut. I
per lb.
Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the proeess of initial development, Queensland
oilers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
You Cannot Buy a Better Present
“O! tell me a good fountain pen—■
Not one that will write now and thefti
Of this there’s no doubt
That you can’t do without
Onoto —the self-filling pen ” !
A booklet describing the various models, free on application to
Thos. De La Rue & Co.. Ltd. Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
Onoto Pen
Fills Itself —Cannot Leak —Price from 12/~
IMPORTANT.—For those who require a
larger pen with a very flexible nib,
has been put on the market a special model
the new G. Try this new Gat your
> • stationers.
dujpuurd
A SHAVE. THAT’S CLEAN & SMOOTH !■
We Guarantee every “ Plum ” we sell for Two Years.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG (SL AITKEN,
As often as you use the PLUM Razor you get a per-
fectly clean, velvety shave. It is undoubtedly the
finest razor on the market. It manufactured by a
world-famed firm, and is perfect in every detail.
It is well worth your while getting the PLUM
razor originally. , ,
We guarantee to keep it in good order for two
yegrs free of charge. We are practical hairdressers,
and give it a splendid cutting-edge.
PRICE 10/6, Post Free.
The 0. & A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
night ; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/6.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Pos-t Free.
654 GEORGE STREET» SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Hotels. Sc.
> EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
CO
CD
j n
Q sS
CD
Tofye HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modem
Conveniences. Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Table. JOHN BKOSNAN, Proprietor.
Oo
WTJ
1
%
IN view of your visit
to LONDON, obtain
and retain the Tariff
Booklet of the HOTEL
CECIL.
It is free for the ask-
ing, and presents by il-
lustration and description
an excellent idea of the
Hotel’s luxurious interior,
its imposing exterior,
and contains much useful
information concerning
the Metropolis, places of
interest, cab fares, etc.
It is of handy size for the
pocket, and gives the
Cecil’s Fixed Tariff Charges
whereby you can gauge to a
shilling beforehand the cost
of a brief or prolonged visit.
It will, in fact, enable you
to make, a preliminary ac-
quaintance with
London's Greatest Hotel.
Cablegrams —C EC ELIA,
LONDON.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
Our Fine Goods Have Gained tHe Absolute
. ' , . ... ' a ' . <
Confidence Ojf Customers. Stewart Dawson & Company’s methods
of trading go straight to the Buying Public with FIRST COST PRICES, exclude middlemen, and
bring the Buyer into immediate touch with the producers. ■ "
=
No. J 7701 — Solid Silver and Cut Glass Pin.
Box, long, 9/6.
sf9E
SK
Hr
4k
6>S?
£>r
£S-
iffl.
No. J77oo— Solid Silver and Cut Glass Pin
JBox, Sin. long, 7/6.
No. J94Bs— Silver-plated Jewel Box, with
lock and key. Size, sin. x 3 jin. Satin Lined, 30/"
No. J 9495 — Silver-Plated Hairpin
Box. Size, 3§inx2in. Price, 5/0.
No. .19493—S ilve r-pla+ed
Stud BOX. Size, 2jin. x 2in.,
4/-
No. J 9,966— The New Fold-up
veiling; Clock, in Crocodile Leather
Case, 50/-
>-
agsr
msmm
No. J 9497 — Silver-plated Trinket
Box. Size, 3;jin. x 2in., 5/6.
No. J 9501 — Silver-plated
Box, Satin Lined. Size, 5 Jin.
20/-'
Jewel
x 3Jin.,
No.
Box,
J 9458 —Silver-plated
Satin Lined. Size, sin
Price, 18/6.
Jewel
x 3 in.
No. .19496— Silver-plated Hairpin
Box, Size, 3§in. x 2in., 5/6.
No. .19505 —Silver-plated
Box, Satin Lined. Size, 4jin.
17/6.
J ewel
x 2fin.,
WE ALWAYS
PAY POSTAGE,
Mail Orders
Filled Promptly*
©
(AUSTRfIUIfIJ UOOiTeD. -
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Our Fine Illus-
trated Catalogue
makes selection
easy an d
pleasurable.


Amusements.
Lyric and colonial theatres.
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the
Rage of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre:
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are
the Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LIMITED.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Wm. 11. Bell, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial
Theatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tralasia. In fact, we supply more shows with pictures
than any other three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo, play manufacturers, but we repre-
sent all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth; Courier Buildings, Brisbane;
Wellington, New Zealand; London, England;
Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
M R WALTER BENTLEY
the Distinguished Actor.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
554 George Street, Sydney.
PALACE THEA T R E. SYDNEY.;
Lessee: ALLAN HAMILTON.
BERT BAILEY NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
LAST TWO NIGHTS of ON OUR SELECTION.
The Latest and Greatest Australian Comedy Drama,
in Four Acts,
ON OUR SELECTION.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/6 and 1/-
Enrly doors 6d. extra. No booking fee. Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: ALLAN HAMILTON.
Direction : PLAYWRIGHTS, LTD.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 18.
Grand Revival of the Great Australian-Irish Farcica
Musical Comedy,
MRS. McSWEENEY.
MAGGIE MOORE as MRS. McSWEENEY.
PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/‘ and 1/- Box Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction : J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 8.
EVERY EVENING.
MARGARET COOPER,
The famous Entertainer, in her Delightful
Songs-at-the-piano.
Supported by Distinguished English Artists.
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S.
PRICES : 6/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
MABEL & MALFE, Melodists, Fun Makers.
ROWE & MORA, Simla S6ance. A Shriek of Laughter.
ALF CHESTER, in New Songs that Compel Laughter.
GEORGE COLLINS, Comedian.
THE RHODESBURYS, The New English Duo.
BARTON & EMERALD, the Comedy Team.
NEWMAN & HUGHES, Laughter in Cvcling.
INA LARAGY, Exquisite. RUPERT CUTHBERT.
PRICES : 2/-, 1/6,. 1/- and 6d. Reserves, 6d. extra.
|_JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* 1 Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.46.
FUNNIEST, BRIGHTEST, BIGGEST AND BEST.
SIN BAD THE SAILOR.
Keeps one as Busy as the One-eyed Boy at the
Three-ringed Circus.
COMBINED ENSEMBLE OF 350 PEOPLE.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
T HEATRE ROYAL, D N E Y.
1 Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE MOST SUPERB AND
ARTISTIC SPECTACLE AUSTRALIA HAS SEEN.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
General Lew Wallace’s Impressive Religious Romance,
BEN HUB.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
ADELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Geokge Marlow, Ltd
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
GEORGE MARLOW, LTD., offers the Notable and
Powerful Drama,
THE KING’S ROMANCE,
The Thrilling Story of the Love of a Prince for a
Peasant Girl, showing the Splendors of Court Life
and the Homeliness of the Country.
ADELPHI PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
. M. C. A. HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction of NICHOLSON & CO., LTD.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 18,
and continuing on MAY 20, 21 (Afternoon),*22 and 23.
Return Season of
PHYLLIS HOP WOOD-FOLDI,
The Original Pianomonologiste.
PLANS NOW OPEN AT NICHOLSON’S.
PRICES: 3/- (Reserved), 2/- and 1/-
STEINWAY GEORGE S. HOLBURN,
Grand Pianoforte. Manager.
Town hall, Sydney.
Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
FRIDAY, MAY 17.
MONDAY, MAY 20.
THE GREAT EVENT OF THE YEAR:
THE COMING of the WORLD-FAMOUS-BRITISHER,
LIEUT.-GENERAL SIR ROBERT
BAD 15 N - POWELL.
TWO LECTURES ONLY—ENTITLED
SCOUTING IN WAR AND PEACE.
Illustrated by many valuable and interesting
Pictures taken during the Boer War, and in the
backwoods, and in the peaceful camp of the
BOY SCOUTS.
PRICES : Reserved Seats, 5/-; Unreserved, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-
PLANS NOW OPEN AT NICHOLSON’S.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CARE NICHOLSON’S.
GEORGE S. HOLBURN,
Manager for J. & N. Tait.
HEREVER you see a hear with a Conti-
” nent on his hack, think of THE LONE
HAND. Its swag is a Continent.
Amusements.
LEXANDER WATSON RECITALS.
THE TALK OF MELBOURNE.
LAST THREE APPEARANCES.
TO-NIGHT. TO-MORROW and SATURDAY, at 2.30.
BALLARAT ~ 20th, 21st inst.
GEELONG 22nd inst.
SYDNEY . Y.M.C.A. HALL,
Commencing
SATURDAY EVENING, 25th INST.,
With the Dramatic and Humorous Recital of
TWELFTH NIGHT, or
WHAT YOTJ WILL.
MONDAY and TUESDAY, 27th, 28th .. MACBETH.
WEDNESDAY, 29th NICHOLAS NICKLEBY.
45., 35., 2s. Plans at Paling’s.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
\A # irth brother s>
* w GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
BELMORE MARKETS, PITT STREET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NEXT GRAND SIXPENNY POLAR BEAR MATINEE,
SATURDAY NEXT, 2.45.
SENSATION AFTER SENSATION.
TREMENDOUS EXCITEMENT.
THREE GREAT SHOWS IN ONE—
CIRCUS, MENAGERIE AND
WILD AUSTRALIA.
£5 to Ride ROCKY NED for Two Minutes.
£2 to Ride REDWING for Two Minutes.
£2 to Ride BLUE BELL for Two Minutes.
BUCKJUMPING CONTESTS EVERY NIGHT.
Prizes for Amateur Riders.
FUN IN A STOCKYARD, &c.,
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Children under
10 Half-price, except to Gallery.
BOX PLAN at PALING’S and HOTEL AUSTRALIA.
"P H E LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
qpHE CRYSTAL PALACE.
Under the able direction of J. D. WILLIAMS.
WILL BE THE TALK
OF ALL SYDNEY.
WATCH EOR THE GRAND
; OPENING.
FULL PARTICULARS GIVEN LATER.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
(PROPRIETORS).
O LYMPIA AND PR INC ESS, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
4 DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
< 3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
* Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
< EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
9 PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d.. 6d.. Is.
The imperial roller rink,
Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
FEATURING ALL THAT IS BEST
in
ROLLER SKATING.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
1C HARD S’ TIVOEI THEATER li.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HENIUETTE DE SERRIS, in a series of the Most Artistit
Living Picture and Si atuary Displays the world has seen.
WILL H. FOX. Originator of Trick-playing Piano Acts.
MISS MONIE MINE, in Song* Story and Step Dancing.
EMERSON & BALDWIN, Club Juggling Comedians.
BURNETTI, Original Quick-Change Character Musician,
THE SISTERS CASSELLI, Song and Dance Artists.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —35.. 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
I* ERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
FOUR AMARANTHS, Acrobatic Dancers.
KEELEY BROS., Ball Punchers.
NIAGARA AND FALLS, Comedy Acrobatic Duo.
C. J. JOIINSOK, Champion Cakevyalk Dancer of the
World.
Song, Story & English Step Dancing, BLAKE & GRANBY
RONALD GEORGE. BURNETT.
And a Great Company of Brilliant Artistes.
Plan at Allan’s. SWP" PRICES—3s.. 25.. Is.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
j_| ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
LAST SIX NIGHTS OF THE GIRL IN THE TRAIN.
SATURDAY, MAY 25.
A Revival of the Greatest Interest,
THE CINGALEE.
The Golden Glowing East.
PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Amusements.
•y HEATKE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
OSCAR ASCHE —LILY BRAYTON.
“A TRIUMPH OF TRIUMPHS.”
THE GREAT ORIENTAL DRAMATIC SPECTACLE;
KISMET.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Seats, 7/6.
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
SATURDAY, MAY 18.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA of the
Beautiful Red Indian Romantic Play,
QUEEN OE THE REDSKINS
A Feast of Scenic Splendor.
Prices As Usual. Plan at Pianola.
HE KIN (PS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
SATURDAY, MAY 18, to FRIDAY, MAY 24.
SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
MELBOURNE COMIC OPERA CO. in
SEKGEANT BRUE.
By arrangement With J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —35., 2s. and Is.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCERS THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS add SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
lA# E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S; PICT[JRES )THK bbst
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MatinOes Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s, Box Plan at Glen's.
| C E SKATING.
THE ACME OF ENJOYMENT.
Melbourne CfUAC LA I! lUM
RE-OPENS,
THURSDAY AFTERNOON, MAY 16
w
m
sj, » 'V
■ IS
©
• l - r - T 'l ! J- o <|*v |;■ ' -
J Slsrs *' stall O U ~ c K
W fe
. Sb • •<*>.= o3j
inw.mi»i—A>—m
9
&
v - ■•-’
FROM SOUTH AFRICA .
-•
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5/-
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
Advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Thf, Bulletin.]
[3
_ A/O/V
i RU STABLE*
CORSET
Gives
STYLE
and
COMFORT
THE BURGLAR’S
NIGHTMARE.
The average burglar and tough has no fear
of the ordinary revolver, because he knows
that they are very often more dangerous to
the shooter than the man shot at. But an
Automatic Pistol is quite another matter,
its deadly accuracy is so well known that
none are hardy enough to face them. At the
same time they are the safest small arm you
can possibly have about the house. The
prices range from 2q/- upwards. Send for
free booklet to-day, and save further worry,
by being ready for the undesirable visitors^
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGARS
TRIAL
mm
Almost everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar smoking popular in Australia.
My “FREE CIGARS” TRIAL is this:
I’ll send you 100 of any of the following Cigars,
and you can smoke five or six of them. If you
then are not satisfied, send the remainder back,
and I’ll refund your money in full, without any
charge for those you’ve smoked.
IMPERIALS ... 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6 ~
DIADEMAS ... 22/6 „
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6 ..
INFANTAS ... 17/6 „
LEVUCAS 15/6 ~
Remit amount when ordering, and state
color (strength) you desire.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
Illustrated descriptive booklet will be
mailed free to any address.
đ
THE SPOON FEED
THESE LITTLE RESERVOIRS
Ar
|
ARE FEATURES THAT GIVE
Waterman's
(Lieall
Fountain Pen
PRE-EMINENCE IN PENOOM
The Spoon-Feed gives a uniform flow
of ink from the barrel to the point of
the pen. Overflow is impossible;
still, there will always be the correct
supply of ink to feed the pen just as
fast or slow as your writing requires.
Be sure you get a Waterman’s
Ideal—the Pen with the Spoon-Feed.
In 4 Styles—Regular and Self-Filling,
12/6 and upwards; Safety and
Pump-Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, Englar i
CANT
B
SEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
l/tACM POST FREE!
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
'storekeepers* tobacconists
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Diffienlty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMATJLT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold bn all Chemists.


DILLI4KDS
■ «
********
******
□
m
n
wwwkMiaatHiM
i?
r
>■
31
X
3
©
«7/a
THE
Alcock Bijou Billiard Table
is constructed essentially for home use, and affords life-
time enjoyment. Both you and your friends derive
constant pleasure from it, besides giving an added induce-
ment to stay home, which you will find hard to resist.
No need then to go out for your game of Billiards. Think
how much better this is. Alcock's “Bijou” is the recog-
nised “Home” Billiard Table, and is favored so highly
because of its superior construction and' perfect playing
qualities. Write for Illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty. Ltd.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth.
397 George St., Sydney.
114 Edward St., Brisbane.
Lower Cuba St.. Wellington.
d
AaS
All-wool unshrink-
able Socks. Stockings,
and Underwear.
There is no wear so healthy and hygienic as wool —not
a mixture of wool and cotton —but all wool.
If the name is on the socks, stockings, and underwear
you buy you will know that you have ~ Acstralasian - wool wear,
and more —that they are absolutely unshrinkable.
Further, the process makes them as soft and com-
fortable as silk. And are made in England.
Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men's Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason" booklet and name of nearest
Agent to— <l>
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <i>
ď
đ
The favourite n
"SCOTCH WHISKY
everywhere, because of its mature
ripeness, soft refinement, and exquisite
flavour.
ONE OP THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OP
v The D ISTILLERS C* OMPANY I td.
\ Largest Scotch Whisky Capital employed MmA
Distillers in the World, orer £3,000,000.
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
SYDNEY—AngeI Place.
52, William St.
titiitimmiiimiiiimiiiiiuiHimiiHj
n
>
lumuniuniaiiuimiiTßHumiiimi
d
MOSPTOfrFUES
M GERM-CARRIERS
Kill the eggs of these pests by using
HYCOL Disinfectant in your home.
WASH FLOORS—FLUSH GULLEYS.
Non-poisonous. 18 times stronger than carbolic.
ijtc N.S.W. Agents.
AGENTS POTTS & CO.,
lfiS Georze St., Sydney.
“(SOLCRYST” is (iSefdl
Nui
»
O
O
'(•B&r-
Q
For Biliousness, Dyspepsia, Diver Troubles, Constipation, All Blood Disorders,
Excesses in Diet, "GOLCKVST” is a most useful medicine mvnvTTnx
Consisting of EPSOM SALTS, SENNA, SAKSAPABILLA, DANDELION
LIQCOItICE and GINGER, “GOLCRAST” is the finest Blood Purifier known.
everywhere in packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. If unable to obtain locally, write to Kocke,
Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne, for free sample. .. _ . tco ., D » 4r .p
WHOLESALE AGENTSW.A., Neale, Constable and Co., Perth; S.A., Birks-Chemists, Ade-
laide ; 0., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane; N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug Co., Sydney.
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents —
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/6; Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 • Macfadden s
Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4; Wrestling Instructor, with 60 Photographic
Illustrations, 1/9; Bag Punching, lOd. ; Road Map of Victoria, 1/1; Sign,
Carriage and Decorative Painting, 2/6 ; AmateurConjuringßook, easy tricks,
illustrated, 6d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in
Australia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters,ll/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1A ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1A ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 • Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish
Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete
Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/ ;
Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s
Mention The Bulletin. Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
Wm-AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT
Above prices include postage to any address.
cm F l “ 201 Bourke
Stampß or Postal Notes of any State will do.
St., Melbourne.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS,
ď
See the Passing’ Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed—stout people
look thin —thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera,
furnishes all this andi
more. By getting a.
focus on passingpedes-
trians, norses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous,
pictures are wit-
nessed. All grow fat from laughter. It is well andl|
strongly made, and cannot (jet oat of order. Price
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
đ
Will
stop the
most
vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
night - watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch- .
dog. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/=
H. L. Hutchinson L-
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
d
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/*.
Do not miss this chance of obtaining,one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
ď
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
novelties obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-'; post free any-
-where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Postal Address
■BOX 3 H AYM ARKET POST OFFICE, SY DNEY. Write for Price Lists, free upon application.
Branch—lll KING S TREET, SYDNEY.
A.L.” (Motor Car Acetylene Generator)
đ
asra-jus £
*r„,s sisti ''»*|£Ss »** ‘se
the “A.L.” Generators after most .< Bvere tests against every „ iven b v
practical-testimony as to its extre nv simplicity and relia y th “A.L.”
Captain Scott, who has provided himself with a complete outfit of the
Generators for the lighting of his < pcpedition to the South Foie.
lib. Size, £4 1 Ds. 21b. Size, £6 15s.
Write for pamphlet, giving particulars and description.
Fairfax & Roberts, l.td.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.


Scalp, Body, Hands, Limbs Covered
with Scales. Could Not Stand Tor-
ture, Cured byCuticura Remedies.
“About three years ago I was attacked
with a very severe itching and burning all
over my body and finally my skin broke
m
\\
until my body looked like
a piece of raw meat. I did
believe that I could not
stand the torture any
longer, while all the time
I was using the salve and
the wash ordered by my
physician without relief.
When I was advised to go
to a skin specialist I went
with no better results. My
body was covered with
large white scales, with
scales on my hands, arms
and lower limbs. In about one week my
scalp was covered with scales which looked
like dandruff but became worse each day
until at the end of another week the scales
were as large as on a fish. The itch in my
head was unbearable. My hair was coming
out in combfuls until it looked so bad I was
ashamed to go on the street.
“I used tar soap for a shampoo but it
took no effect. At the end of three weeks
the back of my head was completely bald
I was a sight when I decided to try the
Cuticura Ointment for the hair, and when
I saw the wonderful results I decided to try
the Cuticura Soap and Ointment on my body.
After taking six baths in hot water with
plenty of Cuticura Soap, and using three
boxes of Cuticura Ointment and one bottle
of Cuticura Pills, I was cured. My hair has
grown more than an inch in length.
“Before using the Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment I lost all of my finger nails and my
hands were so sore I could not put them in
water. If I had tried them sooner I would
have saved a few hundred dollars.” (Signed)
Mrs. K. Detlefson, 651 Knickerbocker Ave.,
Brooklyn, N. Y., U. S. A., Jan. 24, 1911.
For more than a generation Cuticura Soap
and Ointment have afforded the most suc-
cessful treatment for skin and scalp troubles.
Sold throughout the world. A liberal sample
of Cuticura Ointment, with 32-p. book on
the skin, will be sent free, on application to
R. Towns & Co., Dept. 24K, Sydney.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF
obtained by the use of Dr. Scheuble’s Samol, the
latest discovery for the treatment of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica, Eczema, and kindred complaints.
The following is one of hundreds of unsolicited
testimonials received from people who have received
benefit from the use of this new treatment: —
York Road, Beecroft, Vic., June 7, 1911.
“Dear Sir,—My husband had suffered with sciatica
for over 18 weeks, and had been under Doctor’s
treatment, but got no relief. I was looking at the
paper and saw your advertisement of ‘Samol’ being
good for Sciatica, and I sent and got a tube. The
first application gave relief and sleep, which he had
not had for 18 weeks.
“I have recomended it to four different friends of
mine, and thev all found it a great benefit to them.
“(Signed) (Mrs.) S. A. BOWERMAN.”
Samol is sold in tubes, price Is. 6d., 3s. 9d., and
65., and can be ordered through any chemist or ob-
tained direct from the wholesale agent, H. A. God-
dard, No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street,
Brisbane; or branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82
Pitt' Street, Sydney; 9 to 15 Safe Deposit Build-
ings, (Jueen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Build-
ings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Build-
ings, Wellesley Street East, Auckland.
810 Guaranteed under the Pure Food Act 1908 of
N.S.W. by H. A. Goddard, Sydney.
f
*o*
\£ :
/
wr.
An Interesting*
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be'seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S. A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u. s .a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is eqhallv suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“ mHE Australian thinks in Continents,because
JL he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
Aerogen Gas Machine Co
Propty., Ltd.,
NOHINAL CAPITAL, £25,000.
Present Issue, £12,500 (already allotted).
DIRECTORS:
S. W. PHILIPS,
H. ALAN CURRIE,
F. CLOWES,
F. A. ALCOCK,
E. H. FLACK.
This Company has been formed to develop the Australian business of the
AEROGEN GAS COMPANY, LONDON, for lighting Country Houses, Stores,
Hotels, Billiard Rooms, and also for lighting small towns.
AEROGEN GAS MACHINES are admittedly the leading Petrol-Air-Gas
Machines the world over.
. Nearly three hundred AEROGEN Machines have been installed in Aus-
tralia during the past two years with complete satisfaction to buyers.
AEROGEN Gas can only be obtained from AEROGEN Gas Machines.
SOME BUYERS.
New South Wales Railways and Public Works Departments; Harden Railway Station,
N.S.W.; ,J. Edwards, N.S.W.; David E. Gibb, N.S.W.; Campbelltown Railway Station,
N.S.W.; Waterfall Hospital, N.S.W.; Nestle & Anglo-Swiss C.M. Co. Fac-
tory, Queensland; Messrs. McDonald Bros., Queensland; Baree School of
Arts, Mt. Morgan, Queensland; Victorian Railway Departments; Sir John Madden,
Vic.; Commonwealth Home Affairs Department, Vic.; Sir Rupert Clarke, Vic.;
Wodonga Railway Station, Vic.; Mr. H. W. Grimwade, Vic.; Mr. Gordon Chirnside,
Vic.; Mr. Ernest Austin, Vic.; D. D. D. Maekinnon, Camperdown, Vic.; M. S. Hawker,
S.A.; Moorna Station, S.A.; Mr. McKenzie Grant, W.A.; D. Rutherford, W.A.; Messrs.
Stanford and Johnson, W.A.; Railway Station, Spencer’s Brook, W.A.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS:
SYDNEY : PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings.
Melbourne: Aerogen Gas Machine Co. Pty., Ltd.
133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : Alcock & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: E. Rich & CO. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE: Alfred Shaw Ltd.
CT D C" C" Colored and Artistic
I It IZ. CL Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 0 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at ed.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our (is., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward, jtv continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
sdf
F
R
E
E
arty other Firm. v\'e are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126
BOND ST., SYDNEY.
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness- —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Eountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
m “Swam Safety
Can’t LeaK,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
sdf
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE, 15
Waltham Building, 24 Bond St.
Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/ti, 2/9 & 4/0.
tf/tlcrcdf*
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness. and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like afcharm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
p.oc
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
4M
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
BENGER’S POOD Ltd , Otter Works. MANCHESTER,
ENGLAND.
Eengerfs Food is sold in Tins by Druggists , etc., everywhere .
d
Food
Our First Big Ship.
“Don Q.” fires a broadside: —
Stand clear while I shoot the double-barrelled clod
of anger at the battleship Australia, and the country
which was beguiled by the British Admiralty into
parting up £ 2,000,000-odd for a fighting unit which
was out of date before its keel was laid. The Aus-
tralia belongs to what is known as the Invincible
type of battle cruiser—the first of the Dreadnought
species of armored cruisers, and it is a cold, hard,
iceberg fact that, before even the plans of the Aus-
tralia were prepared, the Admiralty had decided
upon both an improved type of ship and an im-
proved gun. The 12in. gun, with which our first
big defender is armed, was to be superseded by the
13£in. gun. It simply means that Bullstein has
unloaded a lot of surplus, out-of-date goods upon
this long-suffering Commonwealth. Still, if the
Australian Government is prepared to spend the
money, it is not yet too late to put the gun
aboard its ship. It would cost a lot, of course,
because the fittings and mountings for the bigger
weapons would require to be 50 per cent, heavier,
but it would be worth it. I never understood the
folly of the British authorities in building huge
vessels with scanty armaments. For instance, the
Lion, which is Britain’s latest effort in sea butchery,
has a displacement of 26,000 tons, a speed of 31
knots, and an armament of eight 13jin. guns and
some 20 quick-firers. On the other hand, take the
German battle cruiser Moltke. It has a displace-
ment of 22,000 tons, a speed of 29.8 knots, and an
armament of eight 14in. guns, 10 8.2 guns, and 20
quick-firers. There isn’t any doubt that the Ger-
mans carry the punch, particularly in the powerful
secondary batteries they mount in the service. The
llin. German weapon, which was aboard some of
their ships at the Coronation of George Rex, was a
50 calibre weapon, while the Britisli 12in. piece was
45 calibre. The Germans claim that their gun is
superior to Bull’s in the matter of range and speed,
four German shots being possible to three British.
Now it is time somebody hurried forward with in-
formation as to the calibre of the Australia’s guns.
If it is 45, then this nation deserves to be spoken
to with something unbreakable. I suppose it would
be too much to expect that anyone has thought of
the Krtjpp gun which argues with the aeroplane:
but, seeing that the French have solved the ques-
tion of launching torpedoes and bombs from the
aircraft, I thought I’d mention it. Also, I suspect
it would be a sign of incipient insanity to ask if the
Australia is sheathed with the Simpson plate, which
is reckoned 30 per cent, more powerful than
Krupp’s beet. If my worst fears are removed on
these one or two points, I’ll be too overcome to
say another word; if they are fully realised, as I
expect, I’ll be round with the axe in a day or two.
“Iyles Innison” : A commission is a slow
thing that sits on a gradual fence, and
watches the snails whizz by. And the thing,
the fence and the snails seem to be pretty
much the same all the world over. That
being so, The Bulletin, if it wanted to
throw a brick, could have found a, closer
target than the Yankee Titanic Commission.
Considering that the N.S.W. Parliamentary
Totalisator Commission was quite handy, the
shot at Uncle Sam’s tomfoolery looked like a
waste of good aim and valuable brick. As a
sort of set-off to Chairman Smith asking what
icebergs _ were composed of, and why the
California didn’t anchor in water two miles
deep, just consider this small slab of the
Tote Commission’s wisdom :
The Chairman: Do you think totalisator betting
is the fairer system?—-Certainly.
The Chairman: Why do you say that?—For the
simple reason that the public make the odds. At
present the bookmakers do it. And why should
they ?
The Chairman: That is an excellent point. We
have not had that put before us yet.
Now, a chairman who didn’t know that the
people automaticallv make the odds in the
one case, while Ikey Noses does, the job
(often illegitimately) in the other, might
possibly know what icebergs are composed
of, and why a ship doesn’t anchor in water
two miles deep. But the chances are that
he wouldn’t.
“ J.G.” writes
The Victorian trains-—passenger, mixed and goods
—look very like circus processions these days, with
the extraordinary collection of carriages of all shapes,
sizes and colors. The goods trucks are likewise.
There seems to be nothing like a uniform type of
carriage or truck used. And it looks as if
pretty well everybody at the head of the railway de-
partment has a nightmare truck or mad carriage
turned out to suit his own delirium. Even the hose-
pipes of the Westinghouse brakes are being made of
all sizes, instead of keeping them to one type, so that
they can be interchangeable from one vehicle to an-
other. The train crews and stationmasters have
sometimes to try on about half a hundred pieces of
hose-pipe before they can get one to fit. And some-
times trucks and carriages have to be pricked off
from trains because the right size of brake-pipe is
not available at a country station to replace another
pipe that went wrong. And sometimes train crews
take the risk of running with defective air-pipes,
simply because they cannot get hold of the right size
pipe at any of the roadside stopping places. There
may be plenty of spare sections of brake-pipe, but the
right type or the right size for that particular train
is not there. And then the truck or carriage has to
be cut out of the train, and left until the right size
pipe is sent up from Melbourne. Or else the train
has to be brought on with all its air-brake apparatus
out of gear through the one defective pipe. Some
day a. multitude more folk will be killed on the Vic-
torian railways owing to these mad variations, and
I send herewith a list of the people who I hope will
be among the dead. [List suppressed.—Ed. B.].
At a recent meeting, the Victorian Marine
Board started to discuss the regulations
dealing with the boat accommodation on
seagoing ships. Whereupon J. M. Corby,
the representative of the. engineers and stok-
ers, flung coal into the furnace of wrath in
this fashion: —
There is at least one boat vertified to by this Board
which carries 133 persons who would have to be
drowned if a disaster occurred, for there is no life-
boat accommodation for them; and, moreover, at a
certain season that vessel carries 100 extra. This
number is ratified by the Board.
The grisly statement >vas not challenged,
but merely drowned by a shocked chair-
man’s voice saying: “Our own regulations
are bound up with those of the Board of
Trade, and it is no use trying to alter these.
It would mean the alteration of our Marine
Act. The Federal Government is preparing
a Navigation Act, and we can but advise
the Government.” Then there was a
solemn rearrangement of coat-tails, and the
arguments proceeded. And, doubtless, some-
where up or down the badly-lighted coasts
the unnamed boatless craft also proceeded
—in sure and certain hope of a glorious
drowning in the event of anything happen-
ing. The position at latest was that the
Board had formed itself into a committee
to discuss the matter. When it has arrived
at some conclusion it will advise the Fed-
eral Government, which may or may not
come to the same conclusion at a somewhat
slower rate. Meanwhile the passengers and
crew pf the boatless ship may arrive at some
totally different conclusion. It is a way
they have.


Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price.
Double-Barrelled, Breech-load-
ing Guns, engine-turned rib,
left barrel full choke, right
modified, rebounding locks
and pistol grip. Trial ..£5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-barrelled Duck Guns,
large bore, to kill at 100yds.
Trial 850 .5 10 0
Single-Barrelled, Hammer less,
Bfeech-loading Guns, choke
bore, excellent stock. Trial.. 3 10 0 1 17 6
Double-Barrelled Breech load-
ing Guns, with Greener pat-
ent wedge fast cross bolt,
choke bore, walnut stock,
pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial . . ..5 10 0 4 17 6
Special Pigeon Guns, with pat-
ent side clips, file cut rib,
top lever, choke bore, speci-
ally selected walnut stock,
Greener patent wedge fast
cross bolt. Trial . . . . 10 0 0 7 10 0
Mauser Principle ltifles, 22
calibre. Kill at 300yds. Trial 0 15 0 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
All Orders for Guns and Rifles delivered Carriage
Paid to any address in Australasia,
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & importers,
242-244 Bourke St., MELBOURNE
df
sdf
df
DR. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“PYROID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants, Melbourne and Sydney.
HIMRODS
f
5
a
w
R
v GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the bene-
fits he received from HIMROD'S
t ASTHMA POWDER, and every
post brings similar letters to-day.
Famed for 40 Years.
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay
1 Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary
L Cough. I
' Sold in Tins by all l
Chemists and Stores through- I
out Australasia.
22
o
REPEATER
d
We are just as proud of the
REMINGTON .22 Repeaters as
we are of the REMINGTON Big
Game high-power Rifles —for just
as good reasons. There is no
other make of the .22 class built
to as high a standard.
The features that place the
REMINGTON .22 in a class
by itself are the real big
REMINGTON features—
Hammerless and Solid
Breech. You clean the
barrel from the breech.
There is perhaps a greater
difference between the
REMINGTON and other .22
Repeaters than is to be
found between rifles of any
other class.
A real rifle —the REM-
INGTON .22 Repeater
—shoots without ad-
justment. .22 short,
.22 long, or .22 long
Rifle Cartridges.
REMINGTON
ARMS--UNION
METALLIC
CARTRIDGE CO.
H. MOLDEN,
Australasian
Representative,
P.O. Box 450,
Melbourne;
1349. Sydney.
[3
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 184&. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
3 a
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
/.■f rnupmment Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus~
frahan States or Nlw Zeltand PT AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
ut> to °0 per cent! of the loan during anv vear. without notice or payment of any fine.
DiRRCTORs-The Hon. A. VV. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Horn I .E. Winchcoinbe, M.L.C.,
Adrian Knox. Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., 1.1. A., i.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
11. W. APPERLY, Secretaiy
,rjrarajggsg^.|
THE ROYAL COMMANDS
for Ashton & Parsons’ Phosferine are a GUARANTEE
to every purchaser of the genuine Phosferine that the
tonic is the very best obtainable, embodies the highest
skill, and being the most potent remedy, benefits
everyone equally with Royalty. The original and only
genuine preparation is
ASHTON & PARSONS’
PHOSFERINE
This world - renowned restorative medicine has for many years been supplied by
Royal Commands to the Crowned Heads and Principal Royalty throughout the world.
Honoured by
Commands from
The British
Royal Family
H.I.M. The
Empress of
Russia
H.M. The
Kins; of Greece
KING GEORGE
Praises Burgess’ 23 Hours’
ENDURANCE
m
THE ROYAL TELEGRAM
says: “I am commanded to convey to
you the hearty congratulations of the
King upon your determination and
endurance upon the wonderful feat of
swimming the Channel to-day.”—Sept.
7, 1911, Stamfordham.
T. W. Burgess, 30, Dover Road,
Walmer, Deal, writes :—“ Ashton &
Parsons’ Phosferine is indispensable for
feats of physical endurance. It is a nerve
and muscle tonic, and of unfailing
efficacy in preparing me for the special
demand on my energies.”—Sept. 7,191 x.
Honoured by
Commands from
H.M. The
King of spain
H.M. The Queen
of Roumania
The Imperial
Family of China
MAKE SURE YOUR PURCHASE IS
ASHTON & PARSONS’
PHOSFERINE
Greatest of all Tonics
A PROVEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state ot the nervous system.
THE GENUINE ASHTON AND PARSONS’ PHOSFERINE is sold by all Chemists, Stores, etc.,
in Bottles, I/- and 2/6. The 2/6 Size contains nearly four times the I/- Size.
%
ď
ANTISEPTIC THROAT
EVANS
FORMULA OF THE UYERPOOf THROW HOSPITAL
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles act like a charm in
keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition.
Used by Leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madam Tettrazzini writes: —“I thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Ask for Evans’ Pastilles and see you get them.
ARE YOU
D E A F?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing, lint,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
F.ar-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them —the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
hurt the ear. It ‘fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the car-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the iiearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. — Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you mult register it.
fKinging forMore!'
A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
l Over 70 years 7 success. A


h
MASKED and ARMED
Are you prepared for an attack?
The masked and armed burglary outrages
are occurring with such alarming frequency
that many of our citizens are taking the pre-
caution to provide themselves with some
means of self defence.
EVERYBODY should equip themselves
■with, a reliable Weapon, in order that they
may defeat a criminal act.
Have YOU a Revolver?
If not PROCURE ONE AT ONCE!
Wo have scores of handy and effective weapons at prices to suit all.
Bs. 6d. to £5 ss.
From
REVOLVERS.
vSome Special Values.
No. 18— H. & R. Hammerless, 22 or 32 cal.,
3- nickel, 22/-; Blued, 237-
No. 19— H. & R. Hammerless, 22 or 32 cal.,
4- nickel, 23/-; Blued, 247-
No. 20— H. & R. Hammerless, 38 cal., C.F.,
4-inch nickel, 23/-; Blued, 247-
No. 22— Colt’s “Police Positive,” 32 or 38
cal., 4-inch barrel, 807-
No. 23— Colt’s “Police Positive,” 32 cal.,
24-inch barrel, 707-
No. 24— Colt’s “Pocket Positive,” 32 cal.,
34-inch barrel, 757-
No. 25— “ Bulldog,” 320 cal., 8/6.
No. 26—“ Bulldog,” 320 cal., better quality,
10/6.
No. 27—“ Bulldog,” 380 cal., 11/6.
No. 28—“ Bulldog,” 450 cal., 12/6.
No. 30 —Baby Hanimerless, 22 cal., 14/-,
17/6.
No. 35—Smith & Wesson’s, 22 cal.,
barrel, 70/-
No. 39—S. & W. Pattern, Automatic, 320
cal., 15/6.
No. 40 —S. & W. Pattern, Automatic, 380
cal., 16/6.
No. 38—Smith & Wesson New Police Re-
volver, 38 cal., automatic side ejector,
4-inch barrel, £5/2/6.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The Best House for all Sporting Requisites,
HaymarKet, Sydney.
The Famous “Big Four” Tractor has Arrived
Ploughing,
Breaking,
Discing,
Harrowing.
For the
Modern
Farmer.
Vr
f The Big Four \
\jr3 ola
mMM
Wi
*•*«.♦*
%%***%»♦
***♦'**:■%<*
**%***•»*•
:/7
l? i
PttiSl®
X^T^WySS
Seeding,
Threshing,
Hauling,
Shrubbing.
Any Work on
the Farm done
by Horses.
THe Gold Medal Winner of the Winnipeg-Canada Agricultural Contest
for tHe Years 1910 and 1911.
This Tractor is on Exhibition at CITY ROAD, SYDNEY,
ADJOINING CLUTTERBUCK BROS.
NEAR GRACE BROS.
Don’t Fail to See the “Big* Four.”
GAS TRACTION COMPANY, 58 Pitt Street, Sydney
BOOKS YOU CANT GET
BOOK OB NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted,
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiis
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Ui'-to.
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyuook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History'of tiie Hod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for tiie
British, 6d. How to Head Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d.' Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
đ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their-physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEYEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -~ms
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is: Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. - Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.Asy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handy kook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 2o Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, is
posted. Hew Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. 1)r. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Sd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing* Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


avii
CCI DENTS
WILL HAPPEN
Keep Zam-Suk Always Handy.
Not many days pass without some member of the
family getting hurt. Maybe the breadwinner’s work
leaves him peculiarly liable to cuts or lacerations;
the boisterous youngsters are always running in to
mother with bumps and bruises; and housework
abounds with painful knocks, burns, scalds and
sprains.
Prudent is the man who keeps a pot of Zam-
Buk handy in his desk drawer, in his tool chest,
or in his pocket. And far-seeing is the house-
wife who takes care to keep her home supplied
with this pure and effective first-aid. Promptly
dressing an injury with Zam-Buk means
speedy relief from smarting pain. That’s why the
children like it. But it means much more—that your
hurt will heal up quickly and perfectly, without
festering, without gathering, and without harboring
disease germs. That’s why the “ grown-ups ” like it.
Zam-Buk is composed of pure saps and juices, which
soothe pain and allay inflammation by effective anti-
septic and germicidal action. Then Zam-Buk actually
helps to knit the flesh together, or to build new cells
of healthy skin in the place, acting just as Nature does.
Pin your faith to Zam-Buk, the natural healing balm,
and keep a pot always handy for the accidents that
will happen.
A Hotelkeeper’s Praise.
Mr. S. Riley, of the Court House Hotel, Cobar, N.S.W., says:
“Whilst my premises were undergoing a few alterations I did a little
carpentering and bricklaying, and cut, bruised and knocked my hands
about considerably. After my day’s work they used to ache, and it
was with difficulty I could get to sleep. I secured a pot of Zam-Buk,
applied a little to my hands, and they were soon perfectly healed.”
CS*
Hi.
For every class of in-
jury and disease to
which the skin is sub-
ject, Zam-Buk is invalu-
able. Being a perfect
antiseptic, Z a m-B u k
prevents tendency to
putrefaction or blood-
poisoning, and its
soothing and healing
virtues are in constant
need in every home.
vmßuk
1/6
AND
3/6
per Pot,
of all
Chemists
and
Stores.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The “Third’s” Lament.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’M doing toil ’midst grease and oil
scarce one dog-watch at sea,
Some d —d mistake did surely make
an engineer of me!
I know my dad was fairly “had” when so-
called friends drew near
Aua said, with joy: "About your b0y?....
make him an engineer!”
So here I am, a poor, fleeced lamb, victim
to fool-advice,
A training dear I’m buying here; but I
must pay the price!
Stiff price, indeed; but guaranteed, the
article I’ll get.
The chief’s a Scot who knows a lot, and he
is learning yet!
A stubborn fool of the olden school, who
works his juniors hard —
A whisky “soak” who sees no joke beyond
his nose a vard !
A Scotsman dour with visage sour who after
knowledge yearns,
Who flaunts with pride his knowledge wide
of poems by Robbie Burns!
Th t is the chief, and I’d as lief against the
Board blaspheme
As doubt the creed, by word or deed, of this
old lord of steam !
Full stern and strong, he knows no wrong,
and only knows one fear —
The fear o’ God. . . .but by the Blood! he is
an ENGINEER!
Upon a bench, amidst the stench of bilges,
grease and oil,
I sadly sit and think a bit of solid green-
clad soil.
The old tank dives and madly strives to ape
a bucking “moke,”
With heave and throw (the heave / know,
is one that is no joke!).
A big head sea runs threat’ningly. I’m
longing for the land;
But standing by, with anxious eye, the
throttle in his hand,
I see old Mac —his features black with dirt
and oil. and grime,
Whilst pitch and roll disturb his soul and
mark the throttling time!
“What ails ye, lad? Ye’re no that had!
Just loolc aroond the gear!
Ye’ll ha’e to work —ye maun’na shirk- —we
pay no greasers here!
Yon skipper fool’s a stubborn mule — a young
conceited pup!
Who caretli nought, gin he male’s port, for
engines breakin’ up!”
No sympathy is there for me. I curse him
while he speaks
Beneath my breath, and think his death is
what my poor soul seeks!
Heart-sore and wet with oil and sweat, I
learn when ’tis near four
A tough winch job my sleep will rob till
eight bells sounds once more!
The engines shake, the columns quake, the
feed-pump whines and jeers,
And soon you fear the clatt’ring gear will
fall about your ears!
God! How they race! They set a pace
that drives the screw so fast
That Davy Jones, who guards the bones of
sailors, stands aghast!
“Ye’ll gather sense; experience will teach
ye right,” says Mac.
“Ye’ll swing wi’ pride intil your stride —
there’ll be nae turnin’ back!”
It may be so; but this I know: I’d turn
experience down
Just now, to stand upon the land and see
the lights o’ town !
The wind is done. The pleasant sun shines
out like burnished brass.
The ship is still, she’s tossed her fill, the sea
is smooth as glass.
The engines beat a measure sweet to quell
my latent fears :
I’ll make my stride both firm and wide. The
world wants engineers!
For Mac is right—that dour Scotch wight
has bought his knowledge fair.
Though drunk or not his head holds what
both Time and Graft put there.
But calm or rough this question tough I ask
incessantly:
“When God placed here an engineer, why
did He make the sea?”
n.s.w.
WALT. J. SNADDEN.
Joe’s Midnight Romance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OUR bachelor establishment of Elysium
Avas asleep when the President, turn-
ing over to ease the rheumatic pain
in his back, heard a bell ring downstairs.
Half-awakened by the tinkling, he was
thoroughly aroused by the awful snores of
Rice, who had, somehow, got on to his bhck,
and started to drive all the pigs in Padding-
ton to market.
“Caesar's ghost! How that beast does snore.
Say, secretary, shake Rice up, will you?”
Joe, the Hebrew, was secretary of the
Order. He didn’t reply to the call for reasons
which presently appeared. The bell went
again, a long, loud, authoritative clang. _
“The devil!” snorted the President, getting
out of bed and grumbling all the way down
the stairs to answer the telephone.
“Hulloa! hulloa! hulloa! Yes, this is
Elysium, or was till you made it the Other
Place. Eh, what’s that? Run ini Good
Lord ! Yes, old man, we’ll come down and
get you out if we have to pull the . jug down
to do it. Well, I’m darned! Righto, we’ll
get the cow sacked!”
“Now which of us is it that’s run in?”
snorted Morley, the draughtsman, getting
out of bed and lighting the gas. The pad,
pad of the President’s bare feet coming up
the stairs two steps at a time roused even
the somnolent Rice :
“Yes, all right—mine’s a half-an’-half!”
he growled, struggling into a sitting posture.
“Anything wrong?”
“Joe’s run in,” panted the President, who
was fat and very excited.
“Oh, well, they’ll give him a bed there,
and Morris can defend him in the morning
and charge the fee to the housekeeping ex-
penses,” said Rice wearily, as he curled up
in beu again.
“Be hanged for a yarn. We’re going down
to get him home, all of us. Do you have to
put up any coin to bail a Jew out?”
“I dunno. If we have, it’s not worth
while going down unless some of you have
some dust. I’m all but picked elea.n.”
“I’ll ring ’em up and see,” said Morley
making for the door.
‘‘But there’s no beak there to bail him out
now if you do go down,” said. Morris. “You
can’t get bail without a beak.”
“Oh, well, Joe’s got beak enough to bail
out all Sydney,” cackled Rice, inanely.
“Somehow, you’re not up in police business,
Morris. When Tommy Mahon and I got
lumbered one night for bumping two cab-
men who thought we were drunk, the house-
slop took sureties. Gosh, how did those
jehus fall in !”
“Don’t tell the story till I come back,”
said the President, clanking downstairs.
“Don’t make a row and wake the kid!”
said Rice getting half out of bed. “I’ve a
dashed good mind to go down meself. Holy
smoke, listen how he banged that door!”
In half an hour or so the President was
back with Joe, the latter being a perfect
wreck sartorially, and somewhat damaged
about the face. He fell on a cold collation
of sheep’s feet and pickled onions, which he
washed down with long draughts of lager.
Then he helped himself to a cigar from the
box we kept for visitors, leaned back in the
easy chair, and proceeded to tell all about
it.
He had, it seemed, been proceeding home
quietly enough, per boot. The last regular
tram had gone, and by the time the midnight
special was due, Joe would be well on the
way home if he stepped out, so he deter-
mined to make a desperate endeavor to save
the sixpence the vehicle would cost him.
At any rate, he would reduce the charge by
a thrum, and a saving of 50 per cent, on one
deal, Joe explained, appealed to his Asiatic
instincts.
He was plodding along steadily, listening
for the midnight chime, when he heard, a
light step behind him, and a girl with a nice
hat and a dress of pale blue' Japanese silk
that fairly streamed behind her, dashed up
am, seized his arm.
“Oh, please, sir, let me take your arm.
There’s a horrible John Dunn—l mean —er
—a policeman, sir. I hate him, and he’ll
catch me if you don’t let me take your arm,
sir. For pity’s sake”
“Well, keep hold of it, and just step along
as though you’d walked from the Quay with
me,” said Joseph, without stopping, or look-
ing round, for behind there was the loud
stamp of the “John Dunn.”
The girl clung to his arm tremblingly, and
Joe wondered what on earth he could do
against this great mountain of meat and
uniform if it got what he eloquently termed
“rusty.” So the two strode on, never daring
to look round.
For about a block that huge policeman
walked behind them, and then when they
came to a cross street, Joe swung to the
right—anywhere to get off that beast’s beat.
The constable spoke:—
"See here! Are ye aware of the char-
racter av the wumrnan yer with?” he 'in-
quired, tapping Joe on the shoulder.
“I’m not looking for information to-night,
thank you,” said Joe airily.
John Dunn seemed taken back. He
walked a few steps behind them.
“Here, hauld on a moment. Oi’ve some-
thin’ to say. Now I’ve warned yez as plainly
as anny decent mahn could require warnin’,
but as you’re not a dacent mahn, Oi’ll warn
yez agen, plain and straightforward. She’s
a bad egg, a consort of thieves and such
loike. And if you consort wid the loikes,
phwat have ye to say that I shouldn’t put
yez both in under the Vag?”
Joe looked up and blinked at him.in the
gas-light. He felt that the copperman was
bluffing, and the Hebrew instinct which
made the Tribes put up that very consider-
able scrap at Jerusalem in the long ago sud-
denly rose. His beak glowed with anger.
“It’s not true, it’s not true,” the girl was
whispering in his ear. “I’m not too good,
but I’m not as bad as that!”
“I don’t care what vou are. He’ll not get
you locked up this night, anyhow,” said little
Joe savagely. Then lie turned to the trap:
“It seems to me that you are exceeding
your duty in a most gross and outrageous
manner. Of course, you have the physical
power to lock us both up ‘under the Vag,’ as
you call it; but if your case breaks down to-
morrow morning, I shall straightway sue
you for damages for wrongful arrest. In any
case, I shall report this matter.”
“Yez will, will yez? Oh, oh, ’tis afther
reporting me, ye’ll be, will it? Here, come
along now, both av yez, an’ come quiet, too,
or ’twill be worse for ye.”
Then Joe the Jew did things. It was one
thing to be arrested on his own, and quite
another to be run in at midnight along with
a girl in a blue frock, and have that obscene
mountain of bobby-meat make jests about
them in court next day. Joseph threw him-
self headlong at the policeman’s knees. The
sudden shock and the unexpectedness of the
manoeuvre brought the giant down with a
crash. He fell like an Irish tree of size.
Joe called out to the girl:—
“Run while I hold him down. Run and
double.”
All in a flash she had gone. All that Joe
saw as he clung tightly to the policeman’s
legs and tried to push him along the pave-
ment on his nose —a ruse which the police-
man defeated by walking on his hands —was
a flash of lifted skirts, a glimpse of shapely
feet and ankles in neat shoes and openwork
hose—and then she vanished round the in-
evitable curve of a Sydney suburban street.
Then Joe settled down to the serious ques-
tion of what he was to do with his police-
man. He was like the man who had caught
the tiger. It was impossible to hold him
long and sudden death to let him go.
“If I had another pair of hands I’d tie
your legs together,” said Joe, to himself.
“Oi’ll smash ye to pulp for this, you circus
clown, whin Oi get up!” said Robert fer-
vently, mounting the kerb with his hands, as
Joe ran him along wheelbarrow fashion.
Joe ran him harder, and at last _ the police-
man missed his hand-hold, and his chin slid
along the pavement. He roared like a
wounded bull.
With a sudden effort he threw himself
over on his back, upsetting Joe as he did so.
Fortunately the perspiring little Hebrew
clung tenaciously to his victim’s legs, and
as the policeman tried to rise he once more
upset him.
The policeman fell on his back, and get-
ting out his baton tried to smite Joe’s skull
with it. In the struggle Joe once more
got him face downward, and wondered where
he carried his gun. But he dared not let go
the great uniformed legs, and his strength
was ebbing fast. They had got back to the
(Continued on next page.)


Oh! That Back!
Ache! Ache! Ache ! Takes all the life, all the energy
out of you. Makes you miserable. There is danger in it, too.
Neglect the warning of a bad back, you neglect an appeal from
the kidneys. When the back is bad, when it’s lame or weak,
when it aches, when it’s tired, the kidneys are sick, demand
attention. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills relieve quickly the
aches and pains and weakness of a bad back. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cure all kidney ills, cure urinary troubles, too fre-
quent urinary discharges, retention of the urine, and all dangerous
disorders of the kidneys and bladder. If you fail to help the
kidneys in time, Diabetes, Dropsy, Bright’s Disease are sure
to follow. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are endorsed by
friends and neighbors, by people you know.
A SYDNEY WOMAN’S CURE.
Mrs. Chas. Reynolds, 21 Wyndham Street, Alexandria, Sydney, says:—“My back has been
troubling me for a long time. The sharp, shooting pains made my life a misery. I could not
bend my back, and suffered great pain trying to get about to do my work. Even when lying in
bed at night I got no ease. I could not get anything to give me relief, though I used a great
many remedies. However, lat last got a thoroughly good remedy in Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. These wonderful Pills stopped the pain like magic, and I have been quite free of it for
two years now. No one need endure the agony of backache, for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
will certainly cure this ailment.”
Mrs. Reynolds confirms the above three years later:—“l can now add the important fact
that I have been free of backache ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me five years
ago.”
m
LW
0
S.
IN
K \
V
ve
a
m
Tells
&a
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
A t all Chemists and Stores , 2[9
per bottle (six bottles, 15l3),
or from Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street , Sydney.
gutter, and the policeman was right over the
grating of the sewer, which smelt bad and
made him angry. His language was terrible.
He gripped the bars with his fingers and shot
Joe backward and forwards in a bewildering
fashion. Suddenly Joseph found himself
gripped round the neck by another arm; a
knee was planted in the small of his back,
and he was bumped violently on to the road-
way. As he went down he saw a second hel-
met bending over him. The fallen Robert
sprang to his feet, and with a wild whoop
rushed in and smote heavily with his baton
at the prostrate form. Fortunately the
weapon caught the other policeman right on
the top of the cap. He swayed and rolled
over.
“Now thin, ye’ve killed him!” said the
first Robert. “ ’Tis murder ye’ll be thried for
this trip.”
He hurled himself bodily on Joe, and
rolled about on top of him. Joe felt his
great hand on his collar, and then there was
an awful rip, as the policeman tore a great
strip of vest and shirt.
“ 'Tis a desperate character y.e are, roight
enough,” said Robert, seizing his coat and
tearing it up the back. After that, he stag-
gered to his feet, picking up Joe with one
hand, and dropping him heavily on the pave-
ment. Then he handcuffed him, threw him
into the gutter, and proceeded to examine
the corpse.
“ ’Tis only a bit av a crack. He’d get lots
worse than that if he played hurlin’, as ivry
good mahn ought to do,” said the cheerful
scoundrel. “He’s cornin’ round. Now see
here, me mahn. There are circumstances
about this case that make me dishposed to
allow ye to escape. But if it is to be done,
it must be done before me brother officer
comes to. Now, ye’ve had a good lesson—
tis a great desperado ye are, entoirely.
Hive me your hands, there ye are,” and he
unlocked the bracelets. “So now be aff wid
ye 2 Aw, hell, ’tis up altogether the game is!
Now thin, will ye go down quiet-like—’twill
be worse fur ye, I warn ye, to resist further.”
The bewildered Joseph felt the bracelets
close again with a snap; and, looking up,
saw a man in a slightly different uniform
carrying a hunting crop.
The constable arose, and saluted with one
hand while he held Joe tightly with the
other.
“A most desperate char-acter, sorr!
Fought.loike the divil, sorr!”
The inspector looked at the weird picture
-the insensible constable in the road, the
towering giant holding Joe, who was hardly
above his waist, and the quiet, dimly-lit side
street. Then he went to the prostrate con-
stable, who was watching with his eyes open.
Are you shot?” inquired the inspector.
No, sir!”
“Then get up!”
The John Dunn arose groggily and
saluted, staggered to the fence, and col-
lapsed again. A thin streak of blood showed
down the side of his face.
The inspector took charge of Joe, and the
policeman assisted his injured comrade to
the tramline. They all got on board the
all-nighter, and alighted a few steps from
the Paddington police-station.
There the inspector looked incredulously
at Joe. He didn’t look like a fighting man,
and as the first constable charged him with
disorderly conduct, resisting him in the exe-
cution of his duty and assault on Constable
X 55555, the inspector’s stare grew more and
more incredulous. However he said nothing,
but sent the constable back to his beat, and
then went to the room where the wounded
man was having his head dressed. Not hav-
ing- had a chance to consult with his mate re
the necessary fiction, the second constable
told a fair amount of the truth. He didn’t
know what struck him, but he acquitted
Joe of any part in it, and hazarded the
opmton that it was a stone thrown by some
of Joe’s push that had escaped. He did not
know what had led up to the affair, but he
reckoned Joe looked a dangerous person for
his size. Then he was sent home.
It was just about this moment that our
bachelor establishment arrived in force and
partially dressed. The inspector took our
joint and several guarantee in the sum of
i4O that Joe would come up in court next
morning. Then he walked some distance
back with us, and heard Joe’s version. We
asked him to come along to Elvsium and
have much whisky. The invitation was
issued just at the corner where the girl in
blue had disappeared. The inspector seemed
torn by conflicting emotions, but he finally
assured us that he would come in for the
whisky next time he was passing. Then he
departed with long, cat-like strides along the
road that the harried blue girl had taken.
He was as good as his word. In fact, he
called in so often that we almost wished we
hadn’t bailed Joe out.
Still he was a good sort of an officer. I
believe the exit from the force of the fat cop
who attacked Joseph is regarded as a record
for velocity even to this day.
C. A JEFFRIES.
A Misalliance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rpHE beauty of the clear starlit night
| turned the luxury of an after-dinner
cigar into beatitude. You could smell
the exquisite odor stealing over the lip of
the low cliffs as the glowing tips starred the
shadow of grass beneath. The smokers
talked lazily, and with a tone of luxurious-
ness, as if their thoughts were more on the
aromatic flavor of the weeds than in what
the speakers touched on —such trivial
thoughts as will occur to the man who has
battled for his daily bread all day. There
are small chances missed, some little suc-
cesses, a few general rules to be imparted
which might be called points.
The voices were low, but the clear stillness
of the night made every word distinct. As
the cigars burned down they affected the
talkers as good cigars will, and the conversa-
tion flowed on to topics of a higher nature.
Bad cigars have a contrary effect. Bad
cigars (cigars of a poor quality) bring on
the feverishness of dissatisfaction; they in-
duce topics of an obscene nature; they
arouse the baser thoughts. A good cigar
elevates and induces confidences, possibly of
the girl who stirred you most deeply. Good
cigars are responsible for many a delightful
conversation; they make you feel at such
harmonious peace. While a bad cigar makes
you ill, a good one makes you blissfully
dreamy or acutely witty.
And this query came after a dreamy lapse :
“Was you ever married, Stinker?”
“W’y ?”
“No w’y—but was yer?”
“Well, I was once—in a way.”
“Who wuz she?”
“Oh, a lady I met one night sittin’ in
’Yde Park.”
“Wuz she good lookin’?”
“Yes—on’y fer ’er face.”
“Wot wuz wrong with it?”
“Wot wasn’t wrong wif it!’ ’
“S’pose she ’ad a good figger?”
“She mighta ’ad a good figger wunst.”
“Then she must ’a’ ’ad munny?”
“Munny—well, she ’ad all she ’ad saved
by not buyin’ clo’es.”
After an impressive silence, the querist
ejaculated:—
“Bli’me!”—and, after a pause: “’Ow did
yer come ter splice ’er?”
“It wuz ’er tork—it fair dazzled me.”
“Tell me orl erbout it, Stinker.”
The cigars glowed up a few times, and at
length Stinker spoke:—
“I wuz feelin’ the want uv female society
—you knows ’ow yer feels at times—an’ I
passed ’er sittin’ alone on a seat, en I sits
down beside ’er, en I said: ‘lt’s a nice night.’
En she says, ‘Not ’alf bad.’ En w’en we ’ad
been sittin’ wifart sayin’ ennything more,
she says: “ ’Ave yer got the end uv a
cig’rette on yer?’ En I said, ‘Yes,’ en I guv
’er one. I lighted it for ’er; en w’en she
.’ad taken a few puffs she said, ‘lt’s ’ard
lines w’en yer come ter arsk a perfect stran-
ger fer a cig’rette—en a squatter’s daughter.’
En I said: ‘Are you a squatter’s daughter?’
En she said, ‘Yes.’ Then she said, after a
few puffs: ‘En ther worst uv it is, I’m only
waitin’ fer the old man ter peg out to git
ther station—l’m his heir.’ En I said, ‘ls
he old?’ En she said, ‘E might snuff out
any day.’
“She wuz just like all wimmin, Willy. A
man comes at yer fer orl yer worth—right
at wunst, en climbs down w’en he sees ye’re
not takin’ enny. He arks yer fer a sofring,
en is glad orl ther time ter git a thrippenny
piece. Now, a woman is timid at.fust in
arskin’ yer fer ther larst few puffs uv yer
cig’rette, en inside a’ hour she wants yer ter
stand ’er a small bottle of fizz.”
“She never arsked you ter stand ’er a
small bottle?”
“No, but she arsked me if I ’ad ther price
uv a beer.”
“En did yer?”
“No, but I said to ’er: ‘lf yer waits ’ere
’alf a’ hour, I’ll fetch yer ther beer in a
bottle.’ En I went off, en I stopped a feller,
en I said: ‘ ’Ave yer got three-’alfpence on
yer?’ En he said, ‘Wot for?’ En I said-
‘l’m raisin’ ther price uv a beer, en I’ve got
three’apence already.’ En he said: ‘Will
tuppence do?’ en he guv me ther tuppence.
So orl I wanted wuz another penny. I uidn’t
arsk him for threepence, yer see, because ver
never- wants ter let people know y’r got
nuthin’. Y’r knows wot ther Bible says-
‘Unter ther cove wot has will be given,’ en
there wuz never a truer word written. Now
if I ’ad arsked ’im” ’
“Did yer raise ther beer?”
“Well, then I went up ter another bloke,
en I said, ‘l’m raisin’ a subscription, en only
want another copper ter make it up.’ En
e’ said, ‘l’ve a copper, mate. Wots the sub-
scription for ?’ En I said. On y a long beer.’
Inside 10 minutes I wuz back to Gladys wif
ther beer—l didn’t tell yer er name wuz
Gladys, did I?. Then she _ telled _me all
erbout ther station, en she said : ‘Bli’nie, ter
think ’ow little I vallied munny in them
days! I useter git ’andsful en frow it orl
erbout me en not bother erbout pickin’ it up
again. My troubles erbout munny! But
I’ve seen wot munny is worth since then.
My oath!’
“I made it up ter see er again, en bum a
beer or two fer ’er, en w’en I got back terthp
Devonshire-street Simmitry where I lived
then, I couldn’t git ter sleep fer thinkin’
erbout her frowin’ her munny erbout en not
botherin’ ter pick, it up. I never knowed
there wuz people in the world like that till
I see’d ’er. Before mornin I wuz kiddin’
meself I wuz countin’ me sheep, en puttin’
me ewes in one paddock en me lambs in
enother, like uther squatters.
“I bummed fer ’er fer a few days, en then
I said: ‘lt wouldn’t be a bad line if we wuz
ter get spliced,’ en she said, Why ? En I
said, ‘Oh, nuthin’, on’y I wuz thinkin’, that’s
orl.’ But she kem at me till I said : ‘Well,
if we wuz spliced, we could, borrey a baby en
go round singin’ “W’ere is Me Wanderin’
Boy To-night ?”—en that lovely song uv ther
poor wuman wif ther little nippers as wuz
lost in ther snow. En I reckoned that we’d
do snyde—that is singin’ our worst so people
ud be sorry fer us, but want us to git out uv
sight quick en lively.’ ”
“En did she take it on?
“She said: ‘No, Stinker, I wouldn t marry
yer if yer used 50-pun notes fer Prince Al-
berts.’ After that I arsked ’er 500 times in
free days. Well, one night I got two quids—
gold uns, en ther way I got ’em is not ter be
mentioned. Next mornin’ I started ter fill
’er up wif beer. W’en I put four inter ’er
I said: ‘Will yer marry me?’ en she said
‘No.’ En every beer after that I said, ‘Will
yer marry me now?’ en she kep’ sayin’ ‘No’
till I ’ad filled ’er wif 15, en then I freat-
ened ter knock off standin’ ’er beers if she
wouldn’t marry me. So we went down to the
Registry Orfice en got tied up.”
There was a long silence here. The cigar
burnt out and was thrown away,
“Yer never knows wimmin,” he resumed.
“W”en we got out into ther street Gladys
set her back firmly en deliberately ergam
ther wall en began to yell like blazes. Tork
erbout screechin’—she brought people runnin
round ther corners ter see wot wuz wrong,
en w ’ en they se’ed ’er, they stood well oft'
en waited ter see wot would appen.
Every time I went ter take er arm, she
shook me off en yelled arder. Then a pohce-
man, who seemed ter know er, comes erlong.
‘Wot’s wrong, Gladys?’ he said. En she left
off yellin’, en looked at him wif sorrowful
eyes en burst out sobbin’. ‘Ter think, she
sa ys at last, ‘that I’ve sunk so low as to
marry Stinker Williams. Oh, Eavens! En
then I went ter take ’er arm ergain en lead
’er off, en she flew at me like a wild cat.
W’en she’d sot enough uv me ’air ter stuff a
pincushion, en a pound er more uv me skin,
I’d ’ad enough, en made off.”
“ ’Ave yer ever se’ed ’er since?”
“Oh, yes; I often see ’er pufforming er
toilet in Cook Park, but we never speaks,
ROBERT BROTHERS.


The
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
d
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the foHowing claims upon your attention :
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE. STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents; Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
The Only Rational Method of BOILER TREATMENT .
Boiler
Fluid.
i
eX
RtCISIf.^EO
A Great Success
in Water Tube
Boilers.
Write for Interesting Pamphlet.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd., 16I s »m St "
Husbands the Responsibility of House-Moving
is too heavy for your wife’s slender shoulders during your office hours.
Ring up Sanders, Sutton and Whitehead—leave the worry of it to them.
The numbers of house removals entrusted to them speaks for their relia-
bility.
’Phone Nos. : City 129.0, Central 476, 2028 and 4012.
Sanders, Sutton & Whitehead Ltd.,
REMOVAL AND STORAGE EXPERTS,
Head Office: 43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Depots: Dulwich Hill, Chatswood, Mosman, Waverley, Burwood, Kograrah, Parramatta and Manly.
:5Ss
Guaranteed 2 Years.
mm
OIL
ENGINE
Otto Four Cycle Type.
This is our 2-h.p.
Hand Portable Engine
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don tbe misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES.
Get prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense sale,
and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
sdfdsf
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, 1.0. b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deposit,
Long Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and ail other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
K,:4? YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 339 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
Books worth reading. The
guide to the new fiction appears in
issue of The Lone Hand.
new
each
£ooK Well After Yourself
If you consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps health wards the moment
you find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
your vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about yourself, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them. Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great number of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
TaHe
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the Itver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all. times you can confidently rely upon
Bttdtatn’s pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price ///J (56 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer's Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECLRITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum.
FRi:D. .McWILLIAM. Manager.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Sate and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
sdfdfdfsd
f
dfdfsdf
d
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing: Compound.
BOXES
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
huuiiliation. that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. , I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coining forth after
several applications, and within si:* weeks my head
was covered by a firm, 'yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Union
Marine
Engines
SIMPLE.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
178 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RELIABILITY UNEXCELLED.
MINIMUM COST' OF UPKEEP. We install with our own staff, and guarantee every engine.
Apply DEPARTMENT “ B ” for Catalogues.
OVER
800
WORKING
IN
AUSTRALASIA.
EFFECTIVE.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
maciT ltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Electric Storage Batteries
for All Purposes.
Traction, Town, House and Train Lighting Cells.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY, LONGEST LIFE.
Supplied to the Governments of Queensland, New South Wales,
New Zealand and Westralia.
107 BATTERIES INSTALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
Manufactured by the D.P. Battery Co., Limited, Balcewell,
England.
Sole Australian Agent—
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. „
DICK’S PATENT
ď
THE ORIGINAL. AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADk.
tfSSg
5 OR
EH3/
MARK—
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
đ
VENTILATING
AND
EXHAUST
rm
LARGE STOCKS
CARRIED.
Belt Driven, 12" to 54"
Electric, 12" to 24"
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt St., Sydney
1 - - _ .
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Cij &Ci
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED-
Governing D
sdf
-
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
d
ď
m
BH
đ
WALKER, HORROCKS LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
AUSTIN
OIL ENGINES.
self-startinq
and STOPPING.
▼^PREMIER
ACCUMULATORS.
Sole
ents:
wa:
307-11 KENT STRI
454 FLINDERS STREI
INEY.
MELBO
d
Think of a 20" Drill driving a If" High-speed Twist Drill in *6O Carbon
Steel at a Feed of *Ol3 /7 !
J
A 20' Barnes All Geared Drill,
representing the result oi years’ experience, has accomplished this work.
There are no Cone or Inherent Belts to shift or slip and give trouble.
It has 8 GEARED SPEED CHANGES and 8 GEARED POWER FEEDS, and all changes of Feeds and Speeds,
including the Back Gears, are made instantly while the machine is running.
Indispensable to the Progressive Shop. Write to Agents for full details.
■ ■ ■
§m
■I
engineers and Machine Merchants,
60 Clarence
BUCYRUS Steam Shovels
The Ninety-Five (95) G Shovel excavated and loaded 32,000yd5. of
Material in Six Consecutive Days, working Ten Hours a Day.
Note: 35 Bucyrus Shovels are at work on the Panama Canal.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
S'*'
mm
MINING MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOU
