

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
R. a. WATKINS «§£> CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors 5 Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BUSINESS MEN WHO TRAVEL
will find that our Hoed Office and Branches will readily assist them when they need
financial aid promptly and without tedious delay, on businesB*Hlte conditions. Our
low rotes of Interest and very helpful terms appeal to discriminate business men.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO. Limited
Head Office, 74 Castlereagh Street 74. Sydney,
186 Castlereagti Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S. W.
215 '217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
50 William Street, Perth, W.A.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
1
A
c
IP
mn,.
sobazit.
— m» —
PI O N EE ”0
LEATHER BELTING *>■
Guarantied
J. C. Ludowici & Son f Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
mnm,.
Take it back.
I must have
HUT
Fine-Apple Brand
t
E 1331
mn.n
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the moat
dainty Desserts with
CEEEaZQ
Ik
.,
Address, on application to
Any
IM
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
With PALMER CORD TYRE.S
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SI EVER TOWN. RUBBER CO., 279 George Street. Sydney.
mn
.
nbkjhk
ķjh
jhkjhk
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY
'
„■ .. ; vy,/,, j' *• i
WHITE MALTHOID.
ASBESTOS COATED.
The greatest heat-of the Summer Sun has little or no
effect on a WHITE MALTHQIIMRgbco) Roof.
White Malthoid is the one roofing that must appeal
strongly to all sensible people who desire to live under
comfortable conditions during the Summer months.
Allow us to send you fuller particulars.
Correspondence invited.
THE; PARAFFINE PAINT CO., OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S ..Vi o*
JltoffatVirtue ftd
MACHINERY MERCHANTS. .
7 Bent St. (op. Lands Office) Sydney, N.S.Vf
v-' 7bltgc£'
jhkjh
.so
&C&
kjhk
The efficacy of HELIDON SPA lies in its STARKEY & CO., LTD.,
solvent power and cleansing properties. agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 33.— N0. 1701.]
[Thursday, September 19, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HUMOROUS
•Viv.v ' .... ’’'
GEO. ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP., LTD.,
Booksellers, 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WHY THE AUG S. by C. Johnson'. An analysis of national humor from earlv
times o dnte, wi h many aimtsina examples. Price©/* posted 6/3. •>
EXCUSE ME! by Riip rt H'lirbe*. An exhilar .liner comedy mid delightful siory of matrimonial embarrass.
mem*. Numerous 1 11 11 «tro«-ions. Price 3/6, posted 3/Q.
HE COMES UP SMILING, by Chas. Sherman. The lively romance of a man you can’t keeD
down. 3/©, posted 3 /t). J ' u R<;e P
HU VDRED GOOD SXORIEV, a splendid and enterrainirpjr collection. 1/3 posted 1/A
TOASTS AND MAXIMS, smart, witty and clever. 1/3. posted 1/4,. ' > P os e< /4-
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
Throat and the
Prevention of
Consumption.
A. The Larynx
or Organ of
Voice.
B. The Trachea
or Windpipe.
C. The Bron-
chial Tubes
of Dissected
Lunsr.
D. The Lobe of
/V
%
CAUTION. —The large sale for
“Eumenthol JUJUBES” has led to a
number of imitations being manufac-
tured under the name of menthol and
other jujubes. It is important, there-
fore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. \ou
may be asked to buy other jujubes,
and be told they are ‘‘just as good” as
Iludson’s Eumpnthol Jujubes. This
proves that these imitations and sub-
stitutes have no reputation of their
own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hud-
son's Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tins 1/6.
"Bellerive”
The Red Page
“BELLERIVE."
It is time that mere justice should be done
to the most popular poet in Australia. Read-
ers of the “Answers to Correspondents” col-
umn in The Bulletin will not need to be
told his name. For among the many poems
selected, as worthy of quotation in that
critical column those of “Bellerive” are the
most startlingly arresting; by sheer genius
-—and. remember, not 01 dinary genius, but
the highly specialised variety of genius that
a poet must possess in order to gain entrance
into this jealously guarded column—“Belle-
rive” is the Poet Laureate of the Perpetually
Rejected. So remarkable are his poems that
more than one legend has grown up about
his identity. One school of critics holds that
this pen-name conceals the identity of the
Editor of The Bulxetin, who furtively
writes poems in his spare time, and takes
advantage of his official position thus to
gratify his yearnings to appear in print, and
at the same time avoid the adulation of a
delighted public. Another school contends
that poems of such diversified range and
varied appeal could not be written bv any
one living poet, and suggests that “Belle-
rive” is the registered trade name of a syn-
dicate of the leading poets of Australasia.
Both legends are false: “Bellerive” is Joseph
Tischler, an esteemed resident of Melbourne.
The most striking aspect of this modern
genius is his stern realism. For ornaments
of rime or metre his Muse has no time. His
poems are chunks of bleeding flesh, pieces of
palpitant, red-blooded actuality. So over-
powering is this sense of reality that for a
long time this critic supposed that these
poems were written with a chopper on the
bloody block of a busy butcher’s shop. As
will be seen from the noet’s own autobio-
graphy, this theory must be reluctantly dis-
missed ; the fact only makes the miracle the
greater. Yet this simplicity is, to the critic,
merely the art which conceals the elaborate-
ness of his art. “Bellerive” dops not cut
casual slices from Life; he selects from
crowding Life, just that fact; just that
plirage, that yyill, as by a lightning flash,
illuminate his meaning. , Compare, for in-
stance, his “Tragedy' in a Train” :
While a train sped on through
The woodland gloom
An elderly tourist met
An appalling Doom
While locked in apartment
With a miscreant bold
He was brutally strangled
And robbed of his gold
Then the desperado opened
The window pane
And made a daring escape
Prom a speeding train
with Wordsworth’s poem on “George and
Sarah Green”:—
Who weeps for strangers? Many wept
For George and Sarah Green;
Wept for that pair's unhappy fate,
Whose grave may here be seen. .
By night, upon these stormy fells,
Did wife and husband roam ;
Six little ones at home had left,
And could not find that home.
For any dwelling-place of man
As vainly did they seek.
He perish’d ; and a voice was heard—
The widow’s lonely shriek.
Not many steps, and 6be was left
A bodv without life—
A few short steps were the chain that bound
The husband to the wife....
Or that poem by Wordsworth, too long for
quotation, ertitled, “Influence of Natural Ob-
jects in Calling Forth and Strengthening the
Imagination in Boyhood and Early Youth,
Written in Germany,” or that “To a Snade
of a Friend (an Agriculturist), composed
while we were laboring together in his
Pleasure Ground.” or even “On Seeing a
Needlecase in the Form of a FTarn. the Work
of E.M.5..” or the opening stanza of “The
Idiot Boy”:
The clock is on the stroke of twelve
And Johnnie is not yet in sight,
The moon’s in Heaven, as Betty sees,
But Betty is not quite at ease.
And Susan has a dreadful night
and the stark strength of “Bellerive,” his
impatience of poetical affectation, his instant
pounce on the one apt word, will be imme-
diately apparent. Note, in “Bellerive’s”
poem how compactly, with what miracles of
instinctive selection -and rejection, he paints
his imperishable picture. It looks on the
surface as if this sort of thin? would be easy
to do. Yet how many of “Bellerive’s” imi-
tators —there is in the “Answers to Corres-
pondents” column already a “Bellerivean”
school —utterly fail to approach their master
in his. chosen line. The train tragedy is
given in 12 heart-beats. The metre chosen
does not-suggest an express speeding through
the country. No; the choice of such short
lines suggests a leisurely train pulling up at
every station for drinks, and watching medi-
tatively the wheat of the season before last
trickle down in tiny trucks to some distant
congested port. The explanation is that “Belle-
rive” meant to paint an Australian train.
Note, too, the fact that the victim was an
elderly tourist. Like the Greek dramatists,
“Bellerive” does not wish to wring from
our hearts the last drop of our pity; he
wishes us not to mar with human emotion
a work of art. So. he . makes his victim an
elderly tourist. It would have been easy to
make us weep over the murder of a curly-
haired cadet on his way to his compulsory
drill, or of-a flapper cut off in the midst of
her first tentative flap. But “Bellerive” will
-not thus rend our hearts. Here is an
elderly man, whose death was bound soon to
come, and a tourist, moreover, whose end
we instinctively feel, would be a thankfui
relief. Thus we may read on with stead.}
nerves. And, further to reassure us, there
is the statement that his poor tourist was
. A in apartment with a miscreant
bold. Any tourist who does a thing like
that deserves his fate; for him there could
be no more poetically appropriate death
than strangling. The murderer' robbed him :
even that statement does not harry our
souls; for there is the implication in the ref-
erence to gold” that this was merely capital
leaving the country, and for such a proce-
dure the daily papers have inspired us with
\°of r or, Many a poet, even those of
the Bellerivean” school, would have left us
contemplating the bloa+ed and empurpled
corpse in the corner of the carriage. “Belle-
rive has a surer instinct. He hurries us-away
to watch the desperado—surely not all bad?—
a window-pane and leaping to free-
dom—the ‘will to live” triumphantly assert-
ing itself. Compared with this brilliant nar-
rative, the poems of Wordsworth seems washy
and weak. Not that, in all respects, “Belle-
rive is a greater poet than Wordsworth;
there are a few isolated poems by Keats and
Whitman, too. that stand higher than any-
t,?t. “Bellerive” has hitherto done:
but Bellerive is young yet.
J*
One other superb example of the artistic
compression of “Bellerive” must be quoted:
AN APPALLING SECRET.
I’ll leave you a penniless pauper exclaimed a
Father to his son
If you intend to marry Polly Hill
I’ll drive down to my lawyer this very afternoon
And have an alteration in my Will
Don’t be rash dear father replied the artful son
And quietly to the coach house he did steal
Where he approached his father’s jinker with
Murder in his heart
And tampered with the nut on the left Wheel
When the veteran in his anger drove speedily
Down the road
The wheel came off and he was thrown out on his
Head
Which weaved a pall of sorrow o’er the village
Neighborhood
The noted squire was numbered with the dead
The son came in possession of his ill-fated father’s
Wealth
And settled in a far-off foreign clime
Where Ire was stricken down by fever and on his
Dying bed
He revealed the appalling secret of his Crime.
Here is a complete five-act drama in a
three-inch film. Love, vengeance, murder,
evil . triumphant, and then the dying con-
fession—all indicated with the swift strokes
of a surgeon’s knife. The mere choosing of
the name, “Polly Hill,” gives us an instant
vision of that qharming girl. And his
fathers jinker—a beautiful word. No one
but a poet of “Bellerive’s” originality and
daring would have embalmed that word in
the dainty amber of his poetry. Note, too,
the emphasis laid upon the jinker's left
wheel. Wordsworth would have put in a
footnote to explain that the father would sit
on the left side, and the’ net, or nut, result
would be a more accurate fall on his head.
Bellerive merely mentions the left nut.
The father, too, is not all bad. Shelley
would have made him a villain ; but “Belle-
nve” has a truly Shakespearian conception
of humanity: he knows that there is good
jn the most abandoned of fathers; so, in
Bellerive’s” jewelled phrase, the wheel, or
his head, or something—“Bellerive,” like
Browning, is occasionally obscure—“weaved
U p , a U sorl ' ow o’er the village neighbor-
hood. But there must be a Nemesis, and—
another touch of genius—Nemesis does not
come till too late for any practical good,
l'.nough if it gives the poet the necessary
artistic climax, leaving us to dwell in sym-
pathetic pity upon the plight of widowed
1 oily.
Space will not permit further exhaustive
analysis of his arresting work; but speci-
iqens may usually be found any week in the
Answers” Poets’ Horner. The celebrated
dictum that a genius does not progress—
that the first work from his hand is as per-
fect as the last—receives additional confir-
mation in “Bellerive.” The two beautiful
poems above ouoted appeared during this
year: they are as perfect as that with which
he dawned upon the awe-struck editor some
years ago.
We shall now leave the poet to tell his
own life-story—a human document of im-
mense value, which we suggest should form
the preface to “Bellerive’s” volume of col-
lected poems:—
I first saw the light in Dunedin, New
Zealand. And rank among the middle mem-
bers of a large and respected family. My
parents having located in vie. when I was
an infant, I remembered nothing of My
native land. I was sent to a State school at
an early age, and although slow at learning,
I evinced poetic signs, and would often visit
the melbourne Cemetery to witness a
pathetic burial, And read the inscriptions
on the various Headstone’s.
Having Learned no trade,, and my father
Being a poor struggling man, I realised as
time rolled on, the want of education and
gaunt poverty, would shadow my hopes of
drifting towards the glorious temple of fame,
yet in spite of my lack of Poetic knowledge,
I made frequent attempts to compose dra-
matic sketches etc.
I’d sit up all hours of the night, during
which I’d conjure up in imagination, stir-
ring and tragic incidents, I recognised I
Possessed a literary gift of some kind. Which
alas, like a neglected horse required well
grooming. After having worked' in a jam
factory for a period, I became a Wanderer,
and carried the bluey throughout the back-
blocks of vie,, during which I undertook
various odd jobs which enabled me to eke
out an existence. Bush hardships and wan-
derings gave Me a good insight to the habits
and style of teemster’s country yokels and
eccentric tramps.
But having read in the bulletin and
other journals, stray verses by the Renowned
Henry Lawson, Paterson, And Lindsay
Gordon, I recognised t’would be folly and
waste of time on my part to follow on the
same trail as such clever writer’s of know-
ledge and Bush experience, and my ambition
was to try and break new literary ground.
After an absence of close on two years, I
returned to. my melbourne Home. And
started dealing at auction sales. Being a
novice at the art of business, I had the mis-
fortune to squander away the few pounds
I had managed to save In random specula-
tions. I was left Penniless, and made pre-
parations to shoulder the bluey again for the
wallaby Track, when I undertook employ-
ment woodchopping, which enabled me to
keep the wolf from the door, being an Expert
accordion player, I became popular with the
Larrikin class, and to feed the pen, I at-
tended their rowdy picnics and parties. I
studied their sayings and style, was an eye
witness to. their Arguments and Brawls,
and reconciled Em in trouble, under the
veil of rorty Disguise, I became acquainted
with the Inhabitants of the city slums, and
had the honour bestowed upon me to mingle
in their society. Pressed by hard times I
became a strolling minstrel in partnership
with a musical bellringer, and performed on
st. corners and in bar-rooms etc.
at last of roughish experience and
ociates, I grew meditative, and yearned
a better life, a feeling of depression'
etimes clouded my spirits, I had a strong
power against evil temptation, and
ned what ere I could under the veil of
uise, and withheld the honor of my
.‘ills name, in reference to my Poetic
orations, they radicated from Life events,
my own imagination,
fter a long struggle, I raised my Fare
lobart Tas, where I managed to earn a
lg during the summer-selling shell neck-
among the pas'sengers aboard the London
ts. Shadowy Mount Wellington, the
cades, Fern tree bower, and picturesque
dy Bay dotted with quaint homesteads
ved a sort of charm over me. And dur-
iny residence in the health Bracing city,
enned a few local samples during my
spare time.
ON THE HOBART WHARF WHEN A LONDON
BOAT COMES IN.
Hard at toil are the local wharf men,
There's an heavy traffic, and a rattling Din,
Clerk are busy with pencil and pen,
On the Hobart wharf when a London boat is in,
Stand clear there the mumpers shout,
As cargo’s hauled up, and stowed below,
Along the dock consignments are wheeled about,
And fruit-sellers aboard dodge to and fro,
Cargo’s of Tin, and fruit by galore,
Are stowed in the hold for a long watery trip,
Shrill winds blow, and the breakers roar,
When out on the deep cleaves the gigantic sljip.
At the close of the shell season I went
:o Launceston, where to my sorrow and
Dismay I was left stranded and Homeless—
half starved and tattered I wandered the
streets, jeered at by men women and chil-
dren, and shadoWed by the police, whom
seemed to regard a poor stranded half
starved human Being as a wild beast at
large. They gave me twenty four hours to
Quit the city, and to evade em, I crept away
to the outskirts of the town. And during
my piteous experience to spent one night
out in the bitter cold on the Banks of the
Tamar river, without as Much as a bag to
cover my limbs.
As God's my witness, towards the close of
the second week of my sufferings, a Melb.
showman took pathetic cpmpassipn on Ale,
and shipped me Back to vie., or maybe I’d
perished From want and exposure like an
houseless Dog. I arrived home the shadow
of my former self, but due to,rest and nour-
ishments, I recovered sufficiently to under-
take a situation woodchopping And ven-
tured to send in samples to your journal,
every man as an history of his own, but for
a man not yet in the pfirne of life mine as
been a very hard one.
Satisfied a rolling stone gathers no moss,
as my dear Mother used to say, I resolved
to settle down to any honest occupation to
eke sout a living, for I yearned For peace of
mind to try and improve My Art, when the
summer set in, and the wood trade grew
slack, I opened a fancy Goods stall on a
small scale, which I still follower a living.
Tis a poor living, but rough trials and Hard-
ships etc, as taught me the bitter 'esson —
That half a loaf is better than none.
Yours truly, Joe TisciiLEit.
♦
Dulcie Deamer, discovered by Ttte Lone
Hand, has had a novel enthusiastically
accepted within a month of her arrival in
Yankland, by Dillingham. It is entitled
The Suttee of Safa, and ought to be ready
for this page’s critical axe by the end of
this year.
ikvid JFlennessey, .who - won > the -second
prize (£400) in Hodder and Stoughton’s
novel competition, is said to be “a well-
known Australian author and journalist.”
His list of published works, some published
by himself in Sydney, include: A Lost
Identity, An Australian Bush Track, Wyn-
num, and The Dis-honorable —the last two
£ said to have reached a sale of
00,000 copies. Since Hennessey was organ-
ising secretary in Sydney for the Inaugura-
tion of the Commonwealth he has spent his
time in travelling and in miscellaneous jour-
nalistic work in London. His ; prize novel
is titled The Outlaw. As usual, the pub-
lishers term it “the best bushranging novel
since Robbery Under Arms.” We shall see.
Pygmies and Papuans, by A. F. R
Wollaston (Smith, Elder, per Lockley Li-
brary), has interest as a faithfully written
account of an exploring party that seemed
to have had the monopoly of mismanagement
and bad luck. This expedition, arranged by
the British Ornithologists’ Union, had for its
destination the Snow Mountains of Dutch
New Guinea ; but, owing to lack of prelim-
inary exploration, the party.found themselves
attacking the mountains through 40 miles of
almost impassable jungle, their coolies,
no good, their transport arrangements quite
primitive, their food supplies absurd—part
of their stores, for a tropical country, had
been purchased from Captain Scott’s Ant-
arctic Expedition. For contact with savage
peoples they seemed to have been singularly
badly equipped, and they seemed to have
muddled most of the things they undertook.
The ( result was that they never reached
within coo-ee of the Snow Mountains, though
they were in New Guinea for over a. year.
Almost by accident, however,, they discovered
a race of pygmies, of an average height of
4ft. 9in. But, owing to the fact that the ex-
plorers could not learn the language of the
pygmies, the author has given us practically
no knowledge of this strange race, except a
series of good photographs of the males. The
women of the tribe they never even caught
sight of. The expedition managed to map a
large tract of unknown country, and secured
a collection of birds. ‘But, for a graphic un-
derstanding of the difficulties of exploration
in New Guinea, after allowing for the in-
competence of this set of explorers, Pygmies
and Papuans can be recommended.
The Federal Land Tax Acts, by P. R.
Cotes and William Benjamin. (Arbuckle,
vvaddell and Fawckner, Melb., 205.), ana-
lyses the existing law, and gives such prac-
tical suggestions and directions as will
enable soil-holders correctly to value their
land, and prepare and check the various re-
turns required under the Acts. The Federal
Commissioner, G. A. McKay, and Federal
Secretary, R. Ewing, have supplied all infor-
mation and assistance desired by the authors.
Private Enterprise gets a load off its chest
in The State Railway Muddle in Australia,
by Edwin A. Pratt ( Murray). Here every-
thing that the Australian press has said
about the mismanagement of Australian rail-
ways is eagerly reprinted; and the moral
frenziedly drawn is that under Private Enter-
rise Mr. Johnson, a former member of the staff
of the Great Northern Railway in England,
would not have been annoyed by a Labor
politician ; also that there would have been no
centralisation, no failure to remove the
wheat, no difference of gauge and practi-
cally no fares to pay. The State Railways
are held up to scorn, contempt, brickbats and
spurn—and, in fact, the State Railways have
a really good case for libel.
The rewards of literature and art'by Eng-
land make stimulating reading. The pen-
sions granted this year from the Civil List
amount to the vast sum of £l2OO. A classi-
cal scholar named Bernard Pyne Grenfell,
who has published three works on Papyri,
gets off with £lOO of this; F. T. Bullen gets
another £100; Cecil Sharp—not even men-
tioned. in the Literary Year Book —gets
the third £100; and less sums are devoted to
equally unknown blokes. The widows of the
knighted artist Quiller Orchardson, and of
the knighted war correspondent, W. H. Rus-
sell, each get £BO. Also, Arthur Hughes, ‘in
recognition of his merits as a painter,” take r
£lOO. The smallness of the remuneration 'is
equalled only by the obscurity of the recipi
ents of this official charity.


Jk
nee
No. 7V —White Treadle Sewing Machine,
With VIBRATING SHUTTLE. Figured Oak
or Walnut Woodwork and Bentwood Cover,
Drop Leaf; 1 Centre and 2 Side Drawers,
Nickel-plated Fly Wheel. Complete, with the
King Steel Set of Attachments. Packing for
the Country, 2/6 extra.
Price £5 ss.
Z-*r
O'?
No. 24Y—White Treadle Sewing Machine,
With VIBRATING SHUTTLE MOVEMENT,
Oak or Walnut Woodwork, Drop Head, with
Automatic Lift; Cabinet Front. 2 Drawers,
and Nickel-plated Fly-wheel. Complete with
King Steel Set of Attachments.
Price £5 12s. Gd.
The WHITE embraces all that stands
for Efficiency in Sewing: Machines, such
as Ball Bearings, Finch Tension, and
Tension Beleaser, as well as the White
Tension Indicator, an improvement
found on no other machine.
mm
30
No. 30R —White Grand Mission Rotary
Is a three-quarter Cabinet, made up in the
popular Mission style, richly finished in
quarter-sawed Golden Oak, an attractive, yet
unique design.
Finished with Nickel-plated Hand Wheel.
Automatic Lift, symmetrically built Wooden
Frames to replace the Iron Legs, 3 Self-lock-
ing Drawers each side of Table, and at the
bottom two large, roomy receptacles, where
Books. Music, etc., may be stored. Fitted
with Ball Bearings, and supplied with the
latest style Steel Attachments. Packing for
the Country, 2/6 extra.
Price lOs.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
for tHe World-Renowned
WHITE Sewing Machines
BUY THE WHITE SEWING MACHINE—
To turn out more and better sewing with less labor;
For its light-running, easy-sewing qualities;
For its fine mechanical adjustment;
For its beauty of construction and durability.
For its incomparable labor-saving devices, which are
exclusively WHITE—for example, its tension indi-
cator, etc.; for its attachments and improved features,
which enable unfinished work to be removed and
replaced at will.
few-
. : VC' <
Nn. 255 V.
The white drop head
AUTOMATIC LIFT is the
latest improvement in SEW-
ING MACHINES, and is a White
feature.
No. 25V.
White
Treadle
Sewing
Machine
With Vibrating
Shuttle, Oak or
Walnut Woodwork,
Cabinet Front,
Drop Head, and
Automatic Lift,
Nickel-plated Fly
Wheel, Four Draw-
ers, Complete, with
King Steel Set of
Attachments.
Packing for the
Country, 2/6 extra.
Price £6
Duplicate
Parts
of
the
World-
Renowned
Light-
Running
Silent
WHITE
SEWING
MACHINES
Always
Available
at the
New
Palace
Emporium.
No 22V —White Treadle Sewing Machine,
With VIBRATING SHUTTLE MOVEMENT.
The Machine is enclosed in a HANDSOME
OAK or WALNUT CABINET, as shown in
the Sketch. WHEN OPENED FOR USE, the
leaf turns over and ENLARGES THE TABLE,
at the same time the head of the Machine
comes automatically into position, the door
swings back and forms a strong support.
Complete with the King Steel Set of Attach-
ments.
Price £7 7s. 6d.
Consult our
Illustrated
Departmental
Price Lists
for Anything
you want.
Write for
Copies,
Posted Free
on request,
and Reap
the Full
Benefit
of our
Unique
System of
Spot Cash
Trading.
0000
oo
No. 2V —White Treadle Sewing Machine,
With VIBRATING SHUTTLE. Figured Oak
or "Walnut Woodwork, Bentwood Cover and
Centre Drawer. Nickel-plated Fly-wheel.
Complete with the King Steel Set of Attach-
ments. Packing for the Country, 2/6 extra.
Price £4 12s. 6d.
m"
ll»ll
MPI
no
£-7
000
ooq
oo.®
©Q
o©
6Q
oO
©O©
65
©©
No. 27V—White Treadle Sewing Machine.
With VIBRATING SHUTTLE MOVEMENT,
Oak or Walnut Woodwork, Cabinet Front,
Drop Head, with Automatic Lift; 6 Drawers;
Nickel-plated Fly Wheel. Complete, with the
King Steel Set of Attachments. Packing for
the Country, 2/6 extra.
Price £G 15s.
There is no better Machine made than
the World-renowned WHITE, which
combines Simplicity, Quality and
Economy with Faithful Construction
and Elegant Finish.
All White Machines have Ball Bearings.
V
KB
No. 29R —White Sewing Machine
Is a handsomely-constructed three-quarter
Drop Cabinet, enclosing a WHITE SEWINO
MACHINE, with Vibrating Shuttle Movement,
ready for use: fitted with Ball Bearings, Auto-
matic Lift. Nickel-plated Head-wheel, with
5 Drawers on one side and 2 Receptacles on
the other, all enclosed. A very choice design..
Furnished with a complete Set of the Latest
Style Steel Attachments. Packing for the
Country, 2/6 extra.
Price £8 lOs.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Rifle and Pistol Cartridges
To do justice to your skill, you should
use good ammunition no less than an
accurate rifle or pistol. The arm is
often blamed when the ammunition is
at fault. To insure your getting cart-
ridges that are uniform in size and
shooting strength, and sure-fire and ac-
curate, ask for Winchester cartridges—
the Red W Brand. These cartridges
are made and loaded in the most com-
plete plant in the world by automatic
machinery and are always just the same.
Sold by Dealers Everywhere
ASK FOR THE
Red W Brand
n
n\
HOW SORE THROATS ARE CAUGHT
1(' , ,
And How to Cure and Prevent Them.
IN the days of our grandparents,
there was a general idea that sore
throats were due to draughts and
wet or cold weather.
People who had a genius for catch-
ing sore throats (as so many of us
have to-day !) always took great care
to muffle up their throats, to avoid
draughts, and to wear a respirator
during cold, wet, or foggy weather.
Yet they still went on catching sore
throat!
Nowadays, we realise that sore
throat is an infectious ailment which
has very little to do with the weather.
Cold, damp weather may be one of
the causes of sore throat, but only
because it lowers our vitality, and
makes us susceptible to the microbes
of sore throat —that is all.
These microbes or germs are the
true active causes of sore throat, as
they are of those dread infectious
diseases diphtheria, consumption
of the lungs, measles, and scarlet
fever.
The Germs of Sore Throat.
These germs are only too plentiful,
especially at this time of the year.
We meet them every day, every
hour, in every public telephone, in
every public conveyance, in every
crowded, stuffy place where we may
breathe the germ-laden breath of
sufferers from sore throats, convales-
cents, and people sickening for some
infectious disease.
At last, however, science has given
us a safeguard against these risks.
There has now been produced a
germ-killing thrd&t tablet which
cleanses the mouth and throat from
disease germs as easily and as rapidly
as dirt is removed from the skin. It
is called Wulfing’s Formamint, and
can be tested by anyone without ex-
pense. (See note at the end of this
article.) No one susceptible to sore
throat who has not already tried
Formamint should delay to do so ;
for Wulfing’s Formamint is a trust-
worthy cure for that complaint, as
well as a preventive of infectious
diseases.
To understand the value of this
discovery, we must remember that
all germs including the most
deadly ones, like
the Diphtheria
B ac i lli—are
living particles
of vegetable life,
ext remely
minute, but visi-
ble under high
powers of the
microscope. For
their proper de-
velopment, these
seeds or germs
must find a
“suitable soil.”
This they have
in the soft lining
of the mouth and
throat, which
gives them the
warmt h and
moisture they
need.
In such a re-
ceptive soil,
germs will flou-
rish like the pro-
verbial green bay
tree, until they
multiply into
whole colonies.
jhkjh
The above picture shows how the germs which
cause sore throat and tonsillitis are destroyed by
means of the germ-killing throat tablet described in
this article. The round plate, coated with a sub-
stance on which disease germs quickly develop, was
inoculated with the germs of sore throat, which
immediately began to grow. The right half of the
plate was then treated with saliva from a person
who had sucked three tablets of Formamint—the
germ-killing throat tablet. The result was that all
the germs on it were destroyed, while those on the
left hand (not treated with Formamint) grew
luxuriantly. Exactly the same thing happens in
the mouth of people who suck Formamint Tablets—
the germs are quickly killed and sore throat is
easily cured and prevented.
In the case of an ordinary.sore throat,
they merely produce symptoms of
pain and discomfort, which quickly
disappear when a few Formamint
Tablets are sucked.
If, however, the germs are of a
more harmful kind, they produce
certain poisons which get in to the
blood and set up diseases like
diphtheria, scarlet fever, or
measles.
This is where the value of Forma-
mint lies as a diseas z-preventive, for
Formamint is the most effectual
method known to Science of killing
these germs in the mouth and throat
before they become dangerous.
It should be clearly understood,
however, that
Formamint is not
a cure for such
diseases as diph-
theria, when
once they have
established
themselves in
the system.
But there is
no doubt what-
ever that, if
taken in time,
Formamint will
certainly pre-
vent diphtheria
and kindred
germ - diseases,
even though one
has actually
been in close
contact with the
patient. For this
reason, doctors,
nurses and sani-
tary inspectors
always take
Formamint Tab-
lets when they
have a case of in-
fectious disease.
Many distinguished persons have
publicly testified to the value of
Formamint. To take only a few
examples :
Remarkable Letters from Prominent
> People.
Lord Glantawe writes : “ I have
been using Formamint for sore throat
with most satisfactory results. ’ ’
Madame Adelina Patti writes : “ I
have taken Formamint Tablets for
some time past, and have found them
very beneficial to the throat.”
Mr. C. C. Hutchinson, K.C.,
writes : ‘ ‘ Through the great benefit
I have derived from Formamint
Tablets, I have recommended them
for sore throat to hundreds of other
people.”
It is this personal recommendation
which has done so much to spread
Formamint’s fame far and wide, and
none are more enthusiastic about it
than doctors, and scientists them-
selves. Among the latter several
have made exhaustive laboratory
experiments with Formamint, one of
the most recent of which is depicted
in the centre of this article.
It should be noted that there is no
duplicate or substitute for Forma-
mint, because Wulfing’s Formamint
marks the discovery of a new
chemical compound, which is manu-
factured by a patented process and
can only be produced by the firm of
Messrs A. Wuifing & Co. The
real thing is sold by all Chemists,
in bottles containing 50 tablets. To
prevent substitution, the purchaser
should specify Wulfing’s Formamint.
(Note. —Any reader of this article who has not yet
ied Formamint, and would like to do so, is requested
, write to the makers, Messrs. A. Wuifing & Co., 17
ond Street, Sydney, N.S.W., who will be pleased to
end a free sample and an interesting handbo .
iindly mention The Bulletin when writing, and
nclose two penny stamps towards postage.}
The Inky Way.
“Vulcan”: London Sporting Times, familiarly
known as the Pink ’Un, has just been mopped up
by the usual syndicate, after being sole-owned and
edited by J. Corlett for 39 years. The blithesome
sheet, grandfather and father and uncle of the myriad
latter-day sporting rag, was, according to Corlett
himself, floated on a modest capital of £5. Even
this amount was never fully called up, as the receipts
beat the expenditure from the jump. Corlett’s well-
worn editorial perch will be filled by the hyphenated
W. E. de Wend-Fenton, whose Vedas won the Thou-
sand Guineas in 1905 ; but Corlett will continue to
contribute a signed weekly article, in an endeavor
to put up a 50-vears’ unbroken connection with the
paper.
* * * *
Dear B: Herewith my entry for your Utterly Rotten
English Competition. The awful sentence appeared
in the S. M. Herald (2/9/’l2) :
“We are disadvantaged in respect of occasion for
national recollectedness in that we have so few
memories that are able to stimulate us nationally.”
I propose to call and collect the first prize money
early next week.—Yours, D.
“Londoner”: The one and only Sporting Times, or
Pink ’Un, has lost practically the whole of its staff,
as the result of the appointment of a new editor.
Young de Wend Fenton, who, upon the retirement
of John Corlett, was. shoved into the chair, over the
heads of veterans of 20 years standing and more, has
been almost unknown to journalism hitherto. He was an
owner of racehorses in a small way (Vedas was the
best he ever had), and a more or less competent
flat-race rider. Also, he has been a man about town
of some prominence for the past 10 years. Further-
more, he got into trouble with the racing authorities
in connection with a match he rode against Lord
Someone-or-other, a couple of years ago. Fenton was
said to have ridden even worse than usual, and
to have done it on purpose. But what other
qualifications he possesses as editor of a big
sporting weekly are so far wrapt in mystery. The
resignations of “The Dwarf of Blood” (Colonel Newn-
ham Davis), “Pitcher” (Arthur Binstead) and
“Rooty”—all well-known Pink ’Un identities —have
been announced in the course of the last three weeks.
The greatest of these three —in fact, the supplier of
all the Attic salt the wilting old paper ever boasted —
is “Pitcher.” Within his own narrow confines he is
a genius. The future historian of the raffish life of
London, as lived in the latter part of last century and
the beginning of this, between (say) the Criterion bar
and Romano’s, will get his most illuminating matter
from “Gal’s Gossip” and kindred publications.
“Pitcher” draws with the surest and most sympa-
thetic of hands such characters as barmaids, ladies
of easy virtue, racecourse “legs,” pub-loafers, inebri-
ates and cadgers—all, be it understood, of purely
London extraction. He knows nothing and cares less
of that portion of the world which lies outside Lon-
don and its illegitimate relative, Brighton. He has
one other literary speciality, viz., Cockney Jews.
His “Hou-ndsditeh Day by Day” is a classic presenta-
tion of the London Yid. Newnham Davis was the
cosmopolitan of the staff. He visited foreign towns
and cities with unflagging zeal, mostly in quest of
food. He always reminded me of a character in one
of Henry James’s novels, who, while on his honey-
moon in Europe, decided as to what towns he would
visit, and how long he would stay there, according
as the, beer was good or. indifferent. Newnham-
Davis’s weighty pronouncements on food were ac-
cepted reverentially by British gourmets, and he
was, for that reason, an asset to the paper. His
dramatic criticisms were affable, but futile. By
the way, talking of comic paper changes, E. J. Reed,
the most genuinely humorous artist London Punch
has had since Phil May, is off the staff, never to
return. He got into a row of sorts with the inevit-
able female or females, and Punch, as a sound family
jester should, turned him firmly down.. He is now
working for papers like the Sphere, his well-known
signature being attached to most of his efforts upside
down.
Dear Bulletin, —There must be something in
Spiritualism after all—especially press Spiritualism.
Sydney Sun recently printed several screeds, by or
from Stead- —though, myself, I thought the style a
trifle unsteady. Confirmation strong as, etc., now
comes from that very respectable journal, the S. M.
Herald, which evidently got this from the late
Emily Soldene: —
“Mr. W. A. Holman, the Attorney-General, was
one of the first to enter the Chamber. ‘There he
goes,’ said a voice from the house-top. In his hand
the Attorney-General carried a roll of papers. “Niel-
sen,’ said one. But what it was that iff. Holman
carried in his hand remained a mystery.
“Mr Holman was bright and early.' The first bell
had only just rung. Unlike one who, like a snail,
creeps unwillingly to school, he entered betimes.
Mr. Beeby, Mr. Trefle and Mr. Edden came in next,
just as the second bell was rung. Then came the
Premier. The House filled up. Every man was there
- —except Mr. Nielsen, and he was far away.
“There was a hush. The door behind the Speaker’s
chair was opened. A messenger clad in gorgeous
raiment, green and gold, appeared on the threshold,
and stood at attention. In came the Speak*- in his
sombre robes.”
I was disappointed to find Emily omitting a menu.
or a tag of jingle, but Paradise has clearly not
affected her staccato, agitato, another-bottle-dear-boy
style.—Yours, etc., Ghost.
'*■* -**
The deceased H. R. Nicholls, the long-time editor
of the Hobart Mercury, was a genial soul, with a
coating of seriousness and severity, so thin in places
as to be quite transparent. For half his lifetime
he sat in the far-off corner of a big room in the
Mercury office, with his nose close to the grind
paper, for he was very short-sighted. Only once a
day did he meddle with the sub., bluff old Ings,
who had a savage manner and the best of natures.
That was about 10.45 p.m. At that hour o’ the
clock the editor would stalk in with the challenge,
“Are ye ready?” The savage-looking- sub. would
throw down his pen and mutter something between
a double growl and a suppressed yelp, and the pair
would vanish down the ricketty old stairs. A few
minutes later would find them in John Davern’s All
Nations’ Hotel. One day Ings was found dead at
the foot of the ricketty old stairs, and the genial
programme of a generation had come to an end.
The Mercury is now publishing as a serial,
Nicholls’s diary on board the 350-ton barque that
brought him to Australia in ’53, when he was 23
years of age. It throws a bright glare on the un-
pleasant things that were liable to happen to a
passenger in those bad old days. Nicholls went first
to Ballarat. He and Ings were both Old Englishmen
to the core. Nicholls’s eldest son was a member of
the Tasmanian Assembly for years before he became
a Judge of the Supreme Court. He used to speechify
in a brief, definite way, with his hands thrust down
deep into his trousers pockets. Another son went
to the press and then turned farmer. When both
the Mercury proprietors were members of Parlia-
ment (one in the Upper and one in the Lower
House), Nicholls had a job in which he had to be
careful—and he was.
Re the old Success, which is now being exploited
as a show ship in America. It was in one of its
cells that Owen Suffolk, the “prison poet of Aus-
tralia,” wrote his autobiography—“ Days of Crime
and Years of Suffering”—which ran as a serial
through the Australasian for a year. The pro-
prietors of the Melbourne Argus gave him £lOO for
the manuscript. It was in the Poet’s Corner of the
Argus that Suffolk’s verses appeared from time to
time. He served several- sentences for bushranging
and mail robbery between Geelong and Ballarat. In
spite of his criminal record he was employed for,
some time as a Victorian detective. He was* origin-
ally a London post-office clerk, and was transported
for seven years for opening a money letter. Chief
Justice William a’Beckett, who was a literary man,
had a high opinion of his abilities. J. F.
Hogan wrote an article about him in the Gentle-
man’s Magazine (London), and gave some specimens
of his verse.


Issued this Nineteenth day of August, 1912.
PROSPECTUS OF
THE GOLDEN MILE HILL END LIMITED
To be Incorporated under the Companies Acts of New South Wales.
CAPITAL—£SO,OOO in 500,000 Shares of 2s.
Shares will be issued: Is. on application and Is. on allotment.
DIRECTORS:
J. G. PURVES, Gentleman, Glebe.
H. MONTGOMERIE HAMILTON, Barrister-
at-Law, Sydney.
JOHN C. GIBSONE, Gentleman, Kelso.
J. BROWNING, Barrister-at-Law, Sydney.
A. J. MARSHALL, Agent, Sydney.
NICHOLS, Gentleman, Sydney.
C. SLADE, Agent, Bathurst.
SECRETARY:
CLIVE A. COOPER, Gibbs Chambers. 7 Moore Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
H. B. JAMIESON, 10 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Public Issue: 300,000 Shares.
Purchase Price: 200,000 Full j Paid-Up Shares. Working Capital: £30,000.
M.
BANKERS :
AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LIMITED. HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY.
SOLICITORS:
McDONEL & MOFFITT, George and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
BROKERS:
HENRIQUES & CO., 98 Pitt Street, Sydney.
B BAGLEY 408 Collins Street, Mel- WOOD & McNAIR, Bendigo,
bourne CORRIE & CO., 375 Queen Street, Brisbane.
B. HAMER, Stock Exchange, Adelaide.
1 The Golden Cully Tambaroora
I i Sluicing Coy Limited
’■W W fw- . Cap.ljl i'S,ooo_
THE GOLDEN MILE HfLL END L» j
Proposed Capital JE.50.000 ,
Kowle/J R«r ; HawVm* Hill '. s.
Hawhma Hill [ Reward
Gold Miiiii»§ Co N.l i Cold Mining Co N.l J
Capif») 1 10.000 ’ C3p»fal £20,000 |
' The
Amalgamated Hill tnd
Ca pi fal Jl 60,000
Ro»»
Appfr.
The
-L
asr~
PT EC
Tamba
LE
£t*
01**
O'-
-raxa/T!
#a»r/v
eef»
Hill
General trend * ,ht
nav»»
jn<J
Ct
Heady's
■tta
Reef
ZZQA-C*
U.U
wkfll i
sow
East
U
53
Coy* l
Cold
Mini
: Cl
PLAN
of' tlve
HILL END COLDFIELD
fw »onv v
GArtEY CREEK TO GOLDEN CtilXY
Ground
South of »Hm
unoccupied
township
fAfikL.GAfif Ar
powpN—
t-and
END
E NO
HILL
Distance of Tut-on Rive
84 chains doe
TE
*TWCS
HIGH
c
©
-<T-
C. A. Cooper
Min.tn,g Agent
7 Moore S l
Sydney
U QUARTZ S
c
@)
, h R*** rve
XI
To Balhwrsl
The Golden Mile Hill End Limited is being formed to acquire from the: Golden M:ile H
End Syndicate, N.L., a Gold Mining property, covering, as its name suggests, almost a mi e
along the famous Hawkins Hill, North and South line of reefs tiaversin ß the Hill En
° ol< Xhe e total area is 56 acres, comprising Gold Leasee portions 237 (8 Numbers
253 (8 acres), 187 (3 acres), 272 (6 acres), 273 (5 acres), and Gold Lease Application Numhe
172 16 acres) 173 (4 acres), 178 (6 acres), 179 (6 acres). ,
This property has the greatest length along the line of reefs ever acqui e T
Comnanv P at Hill End Its length exceeds that of the other three Companies operating there
«"£Kt *£■ W Limited, HnwUn. HU. Bn.-rd ' OM Minin* Com-
panv NL Kowley’s Reef, Hawkins Hill Gold Mining Company, N.L., all put together, ana
recently applications were made for additional leases to secure area west of th;l
North and Sotith reefs, so as to include the centre country, as advised in report on the
PTO totte muit n almost impossible to obtain an .tea large
SS“pTT Si Ctt '’£? jK’&JSS?
OUt Tb« S« 9 0t M SfHm P |nTFleW is held baoit b, what is known asthe Robert Emmett
East and West orossoonrse. When the level being art™.- WJk* Hawkins
CP ”?Se^r«^S= e S^^rh^S^t a witb;g^ S «| down w «o
water level, about 200 feet. The Hawkins Hill iide imnn I a new lease of life to all
tion, they can submit this valuable property *0 the public for w^ now that a
Sd, very likely some o thmg g Uke the previous boom-
time-prices would be asked for their holdings by ®va q£ the work was beaten by
• million pounds’ worth of
Went. Reef, situated
have been-the first reef worked m Austra n. _ ■ tke d i SCO very of gold in the
surface by a digger named James c ® m “® on » dl !jj^ r “id it to Mr. Sargent, a Solicitor at
alluvial at Ophir Creek by Hargreaves. The disc • „ ranted i n Australia for permis-
Bathurst, who obtained from the Government the r g S yie ided 1000 ounces, and
sion to work for gold in matrix. The first ton treated W barge aban(loned .
about £60,000 worth of gold was taken from su bro u"ht to Australia, but, before it
Sargent sent to England for the first battery t a b tterv nev er reached the ground,
arrived, the mine was considered worked out, andxne dull j
In the ’early seventies it was again worked, and To/.. per ton.
The last crushing, when beaten by water. Specimen Gully, the Southern end of
A few years later very rich ® ol * rekaMine. The Northern end of the property
the Golden Mile Property, known as the Eureka Mine.
extends as far as Golden G_ully. „ and Eureka Reefs, the Golden Gully reefs
Some years after the discovery of Sarge Foster were the prospectors; Com-
were opened, October, 1859. David Jo ‘ . . o- ke q e i d a nd gave them the Reward
missioner Cox and Captain Brown despatehe areasand then marked off over 50
claims, 40 feet each along ie o^ l^ e f ° v \ Tn These claims were worked down to 250 feet,
claims along the line of reef 20 feet per claim J h ese claims Northe rn end of the
at which depth the water becomes too heavy tor norse powe .
property has never had steam power on 1 . ___ south of the Golden Mile property
Travelling along the line of reefs go yards South of c(mntry descends a
MisSLSSTS“iSSt ?hlt% h fee P p°rkin°g richer gold will be met with in The Golden
Mile than has so far been found in the shallow eve . remains untouched in The
In fact the level of the first ;make of gold m W.ns_ Hm proyes a secon d
Golden Mile. And if the Present prospect] n | h ° p ld " M i le by sinking still deeper. Mr.
make of gold, this also will be <**«£“* -nd Gold Field say’s “It is sufficient to say that
W. H. Cundy, in his report on the Hdi End G( richest gold fields in Australia,”
for the amount of work done it has easi y producing all its great wealth from such
also, “It seems unaccountable that this fie > P ; f the t mme nse available area
shallow depths as 400 feet, should remain idle so long, m view
unprospected below that depth.” -p. i n the earlv seventies are well known,
The rich returns from The Hl “ ®” d gHerald!” June 23, 1872, reported
and the figures ran into millwns. T e y < 0301 b.,\eight 4ft. 9in., and width 2ft. 2in.,
“Beyer’s and Holtermann. Weight o » f 10 tons quartz. Mint returns of the big
value «12,000. 2cwt. of gold has been obtained “* f , lB the biggest specimen ot
- »»» —•- ~ “' oo °
"fiSSS." ■'The SSiSiLTSTtS indif-
extraordinary success of the beldia so rich that the plates had to be cleaned every
ferent. A crushing from Krohman:n ■ { pyri tes saved by blankets,
hour. 16 tons 12cwt. were crushed for 56200 z.
contained lOOOoz.” . o dw t.. value £93,616 11s. 9d.”
June 23.— “ Crushed 436 tons 9cwt. *°* 0 2 / ® ‘seconds.’ The crushing of ‘firsts’ will go
Dec. 25.—“ Obtained over 4600 z. tern JO p tans weeks . The ric h crushing
close on 10,0000 z., and the two crusbin f b , t f the Company, £BO,OOO, to be paid. ;
ever taken from the Held came from’this
mine, ft consisted of only 2 tons, and J l^. lded e^ ) ,°^ ork o 6 gc tons, yielded 7108 oz.”
" ushes from aifter “ t Hawl!lM Hi
'“The'StowSSfemaU. being held nnder the old aystemJO feet per claim. One of the
1 claims, Brown's, produced 2 tons of so property was under the old block
The bulk of the gold produced from the < SoWen Mue y
claim system, at first 20 feet per claim, obtained a report on the property by
Early this fear The Golden from bis report:-
Dr. C. A. Mulholland, of Sydney, ine iouowms . i,, o,ma
o _
‘This extended examination wffivs" Reefhoth above and below ground, that
had formed from a careful f a Xt Jass of bTdded ore deposits known as ‘Saddle Reefs.’
the Hill End reefs belo ?S tha ! learnt from my interim report, was to confirm
The result of that examination, as have competent obg ervers before me have arrived
afih°e Pi same' opffiiSn Havins determined with sufficient certainty the geological character
nf +hp rppfs the economic bearing of this determination in estimating the prolmWe
continuity and value of the ore deposits is thereby enhanced, and the possibilities of «ie field
rendered far more promising.” “I do not think there is a better gold Acid nera _
Wales for the legitimate expenditure of capital in exploration, and for a probabl
tive Return for such expenditure than the Hill End Gold Field, and more particularly on the
Northern portion of the field. Slice off 300 feet of the Golden Mile hill and you will then
meet with the Hawkins Hill series of veins, and have an overlying series in addition.
Mining in the past at the Hill End field has been done without the knowledge that the
reefs were “saddle” formations, and the Golden Mile Syndicate, before staiting deep-sin i f
operations determined to have the question settled as to the formation of the reefs,
secured the services of Mr. W. H. Cundy, of Bendigo, Mining and Geological Surveyor.
The particular objects of his inspection were: First, to express an opinion on the
oxistei.ee or otherwise, of the anticlinal and synclinal foldings of the rocks; second whether
the nuartz was deposited on these foldings, and form “saddle” and inverted saddle _reefs,
third, the conditions under which the past work on the field has been “ iim&’oi
the advisability, or otherwise, of extending operations on the field, and the probabilities o
fm(l The o fonojdnK S are 3 extracts o from Mr. Cundy’s report After a careful "'to
s,; as ssfssz 5-jrta 1 fflsnaw .« J
to be heavj, .and presents no • „ leases is standing at a uniform level, and
EoL«Tmn.ett woSs wm®when completed, in ill probability drain the northern part of
the field down to over 300 feet. manciple of the saddle reef is affirmed, it is
“General Remarks.— Admitting that P fl c .P regard to the future operations of the
necessary to see how it can praet c< y PP under somewhat restricted conditions
field. On looking at the work of the field, carried out unaer so been done in
in regard to size and tenure of claims it will ““ * Hill End is, however, the crudest
the crudest manner, like that on ma y narrow east and west belt has been worked
example of any field that I know o . ‘ +wo be its the country has never been
and slavishly adhered to. Sy whdlaZ whip or whim, with the shafts
"i, sunk onttonXlaT a" depth of 400 feet is practically the limit of all work on
“* ®Con’c'.n..on.-The Hill End Gold Field is Ml of interest to anyone connorted wtthonarta
mining, but more particularly to ‘ thig fleld and Bendigo, and in instances the
esting comparisons can be made rimibt that the field has been neglected, and this
similarity is remarkable. Thor<> can b. no JonM “"‘nation of tie rooks and reefs was not
neglect may have arisen from the fact t noint of view. However. I am glad to
properly understood and appreem e revi ‘ vab ‘and Ido not know of any other field with
say there of a s p ee y equip with machinery and carry out the
S™rp“unVwo“ will require a lot of eapifal, but auy outlay in this respect is
0n property by Dr SSTS W TS.
in Metallurgy, Mining and Assaying surveyor, also plans of the property, can be
ohttdned°from n jtm°'offlce'of SSS “ey'being buiky for Incins.on the
’"T'Son as the property is 1 by g. •"-“-£s* SSSSAS? m,
Ttobert Emmett crosscourse, by ' the s mining operations in several parts of their
End, Ltd., will be in a position defeated bv water difficulties: there are three well-
property where previous owne for these higher level operations, and good results
timbered vertical shafts in good order for these mgne . g to BO down , and
from this work can beexpectcd. B * assured that saddle formations exist there are
explore the property at a depth, and feeing a. sinking: for this work it is the
experience in “saddle” reef country. regulations required by the Stock Exchange,
The Company will conform to thevarious regiu Melbourne and Adelaide,
and apply for registration on the Stock proceed to registration, so that at an
The Golden Mile Hill End Li t d without delay commence mining operations.
e *%£e wholTof jfcSribrt i Ciipltai of the Company, lean flotation expenses, will be
available for the working of the Company lf of the prop osed Company is one dated
The only agreement entered into h bet Ween The Golden Mile Hill End Syndicate No
the seventeenth day . Asbley Cooper, as trustee for and on behalf of the
Liability, of the °ne part, and tb / acquigition of tbe Company’s property.
P *Early Application is necessary to secure shares. CLIVE A COOPER, Secretary,
" 7 Moore Street, Sydney.
19th August, 1912. I H
~ FORM OF APFT/fCATIOX FOR SHARES.
"“• s “ ,e ® «-*- - mi ~ <»«. f Z
cAPTpo f mci^;^ud}he t & e JfAt V m i A dTto l mv’tZ d bi^Z b VlT
of the Company’s Prospectus WMotted tome, and to vay 'the balance of 1/
~ t a o\? 9 7Jr*:l l Z a holder of the said shares
allotment, and l authorise y . _ ffte Application Money of 1/
I enclose & ’
applied for by me.
Name (m full) ••••••••••;•••
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss.)
Address (in full)
per share> on
per share for the shdres
Profession or Business.
Signature
Dated this
.1012,
day of


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Atild Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Famous Small-Bore SINGLE SHOT RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEV ENS
FAVORITE No. 17.
kjh
Furnished with Automatic Ejector in 22 calibre.
Carefully bored and rifled by the celebrated Stevens method.
For -22 Fong Rifle, - 25 Stevens and '32 Long rim fire cartridges. State which
calibre you prefer when ordering.
STEVENS arc the “ Bull’s Eye” Rind. Sold by all dealers in the Commonwealth.
For full information, latest catalogues, etc., apply to
A DTHI TD H HI I I Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
■'* l\ I■' tJ HlLLij Box Q.p.0., Ade aide, South Australia. [2
kjhkjh
mt
Is the most perrect Preservative tor the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON. CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
IMPORTANT TO SAWMILLERS,
BUILDERS and WOODWORKERS
We have much pleasure in announcing that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS in N.S.W. for
The “American”
Woodworking Machinery Co.
whose specialities include
Planers, Moulders,
Surfacers, Shapers,
Mortising, Tenoning,
Boring, Sharpening
Machines, Band, Jig
and Pendulum Saws,
Sanders, Saw Benches,
etc.
FULL STOCKS*
CASH OR TERMS*
.
R
x=-
Disston’s Goods a Speciality with BJs.
BAND, CIRCULAR and VERTICAL-SAWS. All Sizes.
CUTTER KNIVES, FILES and FILING ROOM OUTFITS.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES and PRICES.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
B.S.A.
MOTOR CYCLES
Are winning all the World over!
INE of the greatest British Motor Cycling events were recently
won by riders of the B.S.A. Motor Cycles.
X In the London t > Edinburgh and back ride, one B.S.A
competed against 104 starters on oth r makes, of whom only
thirty-two finished, the B.S.A. gaining the Gold Medal. In the Birm-
ingham to Lands End ride, riders or the B.S.A. machines secured
two Gold Medals.
In the Ulster Quarterly Trials another B.S.A. won the Gold Medal.
In the .VJ.C.U. (Ireland> Hill Climb, B.S.A. riders won first and
Fastest Time in both Private and Open classes. At same meeting
B.xA.’s won the Five Miles Scratch and the Fifty Miles Handicap.
Belfast and District Hill Climb, one B.S.A. entered and won.
In Japan, the first Motor <~ycle Trial ever held has just been
won on a B.S.A.
In New Zealand BS.A.’s won First, Second, and Third places
in the Sou hland Petrol onsumption Test against all other makes.
B.S.A. also won Championship running 216 miles to the gallon
In Victoria a B S.A. recently broke the 24-hours’ Australian
Road Kecord.
In N S. W. a B.S.A. stands equal, first in the first two rounds of the
L.M.C. Hill Climb just held. These and other successes prove that the
B.S.A. 1912 Models are the fastest and most reliable Machines made,
and every intending motor cyclist should call on the nearest B.S.A.
Agent, or send for fully Illustrated Catalogue.
New Models on view at each of the Australian Agencies :
VICTORIA : MILLEDGE BROS., Post
Office Place, Melbourne
NEW SOUTH WALES: BURNETT &
BARKELL Ltd., Castlereagh St., Sydney
SOU rH AUS i R ALIA : J. N. TAYLOR
& CO., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND : CANADA CYCLE
& MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane
TASMANIA : H. H. SMITH, Lonsdale
St., Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA : MORTLOCK
BROS., Queen Street, Perth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADiE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FkANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORDERN <2l SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
£rf>o7yt f\'
' %'!t, a t%n/idryj%.
vAubuyA,
fyctzsz/
EASILY PROVED .
To try
«
King George IV
WhisKy
once is all that is needed to ensure its con-
tinuance —that is a certainty. Connoisseurs
proclaim it “pure, exhilarating and beneficial.”
It is the Whisky of Whiskies.
ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
THE
D
i ISTILLERS
Largest Scotch Whisky
Distillers in the World.
OMPANY,
Capital employed,
over .£3,000,000.
L TO
EDINBURGH.
SCOTLAND.
Sydney—Angel Place; Melbourne— 52, William Street.
Underwear
Made in
England
trade
kjhk
MARK
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light ir
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only : >
I. & R. MORLEY ana UFO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK' MERINO UNDERWEAR f ;
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Bali
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of tlie largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue,
tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Riehardeen Ballbearing Skate go., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
‘RICHARDSON’
jhkjh
CHICAGO


Desperate
Coughs
Dangerous coughs. Extremely
perilous coughs. Coughs that
rasp and tear the throat and
lungs. Coughs that shake the
whole body. You need a regular
medicine, a doctor’s medicine, for
such a cough. You need
i'
SOLD If FOB 75 YEARS
It gives just the aid to nature
necessary to control the cough
and heal the inflamed membranes.
Ask your doctor all about this
\ medicine. Sold in three sizes. 1
. To hasten recovery, keep your ■
bowds in good condition. Use
► Ayer’s Pills, if necessary, in order .
to have daily movements. These
r pills are sugar-coated, all vegeta- i
ble. They keep the liver active.
Dose, only one pill.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO.,
\ Dowell, Mass., U. 8. A.
&
PATENTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us-for Inventors’ Guide.
Kstabi.isiim) 1877
Health follows the
regular use of
Montserrat
I Lime Juice S
Sauce
&
ss
It makes
„you enjoy
your food.
Of all Storekeepers*
The'Standard Remedy wh.cn has outlived the (Jenturbo.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1586.
cures
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its hi story—the book is free—or write
S‘ GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, En u.
“SUNOL”
The “Perfect”
kjh
Pipe Tobacco
AWARDED 4 GOLD MEDALS.
DARK or LIGHT
In Plug;
or Gut.
kjh
per lb.
Post Fres.
Try it To-day,
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
' Me?ition this paper when ordering.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
n
B Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOEDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total’y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. MARKET STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
k,mn
developing
S€CR€TS.
WE are here to tell your beautiful-faced
women that faces do not attract so
readily as does figure, and we will
gladly tell any woman who writes us the
secret of how many hostesses and actresses
develop their busts and fill out the hollows
of their cheeks.
The hollow-necked, scrawny-armed and
flat-chested woman is always at a great disad-
vantage, socially, with her full-bosomed, wcll-
developed associates. She who is most fully
developed always monopolises the endearments
of the opposite sex, and is a source of envy
to her ill-developed sisters.
If you are,flat and hollow-chested, without
bosom, and suffer from attenuation, we will
tell you free of charge how you may develop
your figure to pleasing proportions. Thou-
sands of women in similar health have ac-
cepted. and followed this advice, and are
to-day, as the' result, radiant in the enjoyment
of good health, a pleasing, fully-developed
figure, and a plump, well-rounded bosom.
Attenuated women who have for years suffered
the ravages of indigestion, constipation, bili-
ousness, internal functional disorders, and
various other troubles, are numbered in this
category.
If your bust lacks development, and you
are scraggly and attenuated, we will advise
vou free and gladly, as to how you may im-
prove your figure and beautify your bust.
i
%
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
SAMPLE OF
“ FLESH-FOOD.”
When you look into
the mirror, and your
hollow cheeks, thin
neck and scrawny
arms mock even you,
what effect do you suppose
they have on those with whom
you mix socially?....A
woman’s chief charm is a well-
rounded figure and full bosom.
With these, thin arms and
hollow cheeks are a rarity.
We suggest that all lady
readers who see this article
will do well to investigate the
truth of these assertions. Send
two penny stamps and we will
post vou full particulars and
a FREE SAMPLE OF TREAT-
MENT. Write to-dav. Results
guaranteed. Call if convenient.
Falliere Flesh-Food Co.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
[lBlO
,nm
66
soOS. si
09
kjh
SocKs and
Stockings.
The AIl-Australasian-Wool Hosiery with the
softness of silk. And unshrinkable, too !
If only you knew the soft silky fleeciness of you
would not be satisfied until you wore them. They are a
revelation in footwear. All-wool, rendered absolutely un-
shrinkable by the process, which retains the natural
softness of the fleece. They never shrink —never become
too small to wear like ordinary hosiery does. Made to fit
snugly and dyed with fast sanitary dyes. cost no
more than the other kind, so why not .
"(laMrrii Stockings. Sock
* in all prices,
wear. Of Men’s Outfitters
Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children,
made Jerseys for children are splendid
W Drapers, and Stores If your dealer does
he can oinain it from his wholesale house.
not stock
In case of difficulty write for "Jason” booklet and name of nearest agent to
Aa2r
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
k
Tobacco
jhk
Rills!
MOST MEN would
i cure themselves of
l the Tobacco Habit if
> they knew they could
' do so easily aud also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. . . . It takes but
ten minutes for To-
-3 baeco to change the
bents of the heart.
1 To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco iti any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, " The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR CSb CO.,
Dept. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Bri-coe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. &Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, e/o Sydney Agents.
56 tons 7cwt.
The Weight of the quarter-
million Way back Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
lESCKIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FRJEE.
THE WINSLOW CO..
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following-
Usual Price. Sale'-Price.
Double-Barrelled, Breech-load-
ing Guns, engine-turned rib,
left barrel full choke, right
modified, rebounding locks
and pistol grip. Trial .. £5 2 6
Single-barrelled Duck Guns,
large bore, to kill at 100yds.
Trial .. .. ..850
Single-Barrelled, Hammerless,
Breech-loading Guns, choke
bore, excellent stock. Trial.. 3 10 0
Double-Barrelled Breech load-
ing Guns, with Greener pat-
ent wedge fast cross bolt,
choke bore, walnut stock,
pistol grip, patent cartridge ~ , ,
ejector. Trial . . • • 5 10 0
Special Pigeon Guns, with pat-
ent side clips, file cut rib,
top lever, choke bore, speci-
' ally selected walnut stock,
Greener patent wedge fast. :
cross bolt. Trial . . . . TO 0 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, .22
calibre. Kill at 300yds. Trial 0 15 0
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
All Orders for Guns and Rifles delivered Carriage
Paid to any address in Australasia.
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers,
242-244 Bourko St., MELBOURNE
THE Australian Magazine—THE EON K
HAND. The National Monthly, Price, 6U.
£3 12 6
5 10 0
1 17 6
i 17 6
7 10 0
0 15
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Two-Pound Martyr.
In the Collingwood Court yesterday, the Rev.
Alfred Madsen, minister of the Methodist Church,
was summoned under the Defence regulations for not
having registered’ his son as a cadet.
(Lung argument.)
The Magistrate: “Well, you are fined £2.”
(More long argument.)
—News item.
When martyrs majestic, whom Fear could
not fright,
Were used to illumine the circus at night,
For slighting the gods and refusing to shave,
They were stupidly foolish, but certainly
brace!
Absurd were the creeds of those cranks of
old days,
And unhygienic were some of their ways!
Yet, however mistaken, however unclean,
More genuine martyrs have never been seen !
When the torch was applied to their oil-
besmeared hair,
They smiled, or they shouted a passionate
prayer—
When the tigers and lions came forth from
their den,
Those martyrs stood firm, and just perished
like men!
There was no one to cheer them, and no
one to cry:
That these towsled believers knew well how
to die.
And the Antioch Herald, or Ephesus
Screech,
Never gave them a line for their last, dying
speech !
And the Roman Gazette, or the Pompeii
Age, -
Never printed tlieir names on the backest
back page—
All the editor said, in a haphazard way,
Was : Some eighty-nine martyrs were eaten
to-day!
Bey presto! Some eighteen odd centuries
pass,
And over those martyrs wave acres of grass !
And those peoples have perished right out
of the land;
Still the martyrs persist, but it’s quite a
new brand!
The martyr to-day takes his stand on the
stage
Where the limelight ray falls, and the foun-
tain-pens rage !
And he talks to the Law —which is Blog-
gins, J.P.—
Like an uncle from Holland, or, maybe,
Fiji!
And the papers next day print the whole of
his speech,
And say, in a leader: this ease ought to
teach
The Government caution—for Freedom's
not dead
As long as we’ve Martyrs at two pounds a
head!
N.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.
There is a Day.
There is a day—
A day* of tears,
Hidden away
Among the years.
Far off or near
No one may say ;
Blue skies or drear,
Sunlit or gray.
But in the womb
Of days unborn,
Waits there, in gloom,
'One day forlorn,
When men shall lift
And bear away,
As an earth gift,
A piece- of clay....
So the days flit
To this time mark,
And beyond it
The - dark—the dark.
The tree will sway,
The leaf will fall,
And the long day
Close over all.
All things will pass—
All we have been,
Only the grass
Will gather green.
Sunshine or snow,
No man may say,
I do hut know
There is a day.
QUEENSLAND.
FRANCIS KENNA.
Mermen and Dreams.
The night is soft, the moon is high.
The sea is white with ships;
The horses of the tide go by
With foam upon tlieir lips ; „
But, far beneath, the stars are sung
By mermen of the main,
Who watch their yellow lanterns strung
Above the sapphire plain.
They covet all the dancelights shed
Upon their sea-roof blue,
And soar to grasp them, rinple-sped
Like dusky arrows through.
They reach the air, their eyes upturn
With hands to grasping curled :
And lo; past hope and holding, burn
The stars beyond the w0r1d....
We read the fable plain as print:
And yet, nor warned nor wise,
Our lure the little lights that tint
The wantonness of eyes,
Seek dreams —as mermen still beseech
The stars above them cold
With singing that can never r»ach
And hands that •cannot: hold.-
VICTORIA.
ANTON DENNING.


fiattai
m
m
if /I
m
m
VJOI3
■■
m
f ,¥,*019
■
V. 1020
■
j» j
fIK
is ;•
V <
■
V. 1022
VlOl8 —SMART HAT, in small shape, of
Tape! Straw, trimmed large white ostrich
mount. A charming style 50/-
VlOl9 —-TAGEL MODEL, in black, turned
smartly off face, straight on one side, raised
on the other, draped soft white silk, large
white osprey mount at side 37/G
VIO2O—BEAUTIFUL MODEL in Duchess
Tagel, blocked, ornamented; with ostrich
feather, mount of two-tone bronze and canary
shade, or all white, if desired 90/-
VIO21 —A NEW MODEL “in Sunshine Girl”
style, hand-made of mole-grey satin plaits,
lined pale blue, trimmed wreath, small mixed
flowers set off with bunch of cherries. A
delightful model 25/"
VIO22—BRETON HAT of soft straw, trimmed
wreath of large crushed roses, in any shade,
l7/6
SPRING MILLINERY for
All Seasons and Occasions.
WE BEG TO ANNOUNCE OUR
Special Show
o/
Dainty Spring'
Millinery
ON VIEW AT
Marcus Clark# Co.
jmb Limited
Central Square,
George Street, SYDNEY.
TO DISCRIMINATING SMOKERS.
The Famous POT POORRI
For Pipe Smokers —POT POURRI TOBACCO
The Finest Biend of Tobacco
Produced in the World:
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; lib. Tins, 8/-
Posbage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
For Cigarette Smokers—POT POURRI CIGARETTES
TURKISH —50 for 4/6, postage 4d. extra; 100 for 9/=, postage 6d. extra.
VIRGINIA—IOO for 4/9, postage 6d. extra ; 1000 for 45/=, postage 1/6 extra.
Send for my Illustrated Catalogue, post free.
A A. MARKS, 376 George Street, SYDNEY.
sway
-■v,
a
s>
o.
K
£1
£
f*3:
“fi?
O
&
m
5S§
3«
=*
S'
SfiSK
-,-
#*§
iszm
*»*
Vit
KS
m
&
505
OO yoc/ KNOW WHY
WUNDERLICH METAL CEILINGS are Specified by
Architects, Engineers and Builders?
Because
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings and Wall Linings are highly
artistic, they till every requirement of utility, practica-
bility, economy and permanency.
They have established new and higher standards of build-
ing comfort, safety and investment value.
Experience
Those who have used our Manufactures for several years
say they are all that could be desired.
Our Customers are our best Advertisement. Get their
opinion, and see the WUNDERLICH ART METAL CEIL-
INGS in their Homes
Buy one Ceiling and more will follow.
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
HOBART, LAUNCESTON and WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HALLEY Motor Lorries
.
■HP
SSi
sa
m
mmsM
■
Any Class of Body Fitted to
the Ha r ley Motor Lorry.
CHEAPER —QUICKER—MORE RELIABLE.
Halley Lorries cost less to run, per mile, than horse teams. This claim is based
upon the most careful calculations. These show a good margin in favor of the Halley.
In the most important matter of speed the Halley shows a superiority of quite
four times the speed of horse teams. This brings the markets nearer, and often
means the gaining of the best prices. The Halley, moreover, does riot tire. It
performs its work at the end of a long trip with an undiminished efficiency impossible
to flesh and blood traction.
The Halley in backing up to a siding uses the same full power as in advancing.
Only the “polers” of a horse team back—with ruinous results and delays. The Halley
is not impeded by rough or hilly roads.
The Halley is SIMPLE, ACCESSIBLE and FREE FROM BREAKDOWNS.
It holds Special Award and Gold and Silver Medals for these very features.
To Carry from 15cwt. to 6 Tons.
Any Type of Body Fitted.
Let us send you, post free, Full Information of this fine Lorry. Any trial will be
readily arranged on request.
DALGETY ®. CO. Ltd.
MOTOR OARAGE:
180-138 PHILLIP STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE: George St.
MELBOURNE: BourKe St,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. S3.—No.-1701.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1912.
Pbiob On.
THE ARRIVAL OF THE THREE LANDLORDS.
Last week there was p ublished a weird story of three gentlemen (names not given) whom someone says he met in Hunter-street, Sydney,
They were shocked at the proposed eviction of the Governor-General from Sydney Government House, and offered to pay the rent to the end of
Denman's term. It the offer was accepted the least his Ex. could do would be to invite his three landlords to all social functions, and receive l
mem with special distinction, as shown above.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONE'S: Business, 1384 Central,
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly . , . • • • 013 6
Quarterly . . . . • • 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
M onager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (ivith regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there ; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’’ col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it ivill be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
.applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
.agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 4/6 Per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Neivs Co., Market Street.
San Francisco: C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.) Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego.
Cal.- Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co.’, Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
— 29th Street, San Francisco; G. A. Hussey, Worlds
Fair Newspaper Agency, San Francisco.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6§ in. x 14in., and gelatine transparencies, will be
forwarded on application. Larger metal plates can
be supplied if desired.
Postage Hates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. ld.- i -otherwise, Boz., Id., and 84oz. to
lOoz., 2hd.; lOoz. to 12ozj, 3d.; elsewhere, 40z., Id.,
and Id. each additional 2oz.
SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1912.
THE BOY AND THE HAT AND SOME
SUNDRIES.
A small recent disturbance in the hat trade
drew attention once more to the question of
apprentices—not that the question really re-
quires to have much attention drawn to it,
for, like the Mabv Ann problem, it is
always with us more or less. The appren-
tice difficulty is a survival of older and worse
times, like the fear of the dark, and the be-
lief in a material hell, and the habit of
looking under the bed for ghosts. Or else it
is a modern importation from countries which
live under different circumstances, and was
brought to a wholly unsuitable environment,
lust as a black tail-coat might be _ taken to
the tropics, and worn there at midsummer
noon, when the sun is overhead and the
shadow of the tail is under the wearer s
feet There was a time, in England, when
child-labor was a serious menace. It was
not so very long ago, and there are still
people with a remaining tooth of their own
a niece* who can recall it in a sort of fashion.
The birth-rate was large, aqd so was
the death-rate. Education could hardly be
said to have .commenced, though there were
a few scanty premises, run by semi-literate
persons, where flogging was done, and ie-
spect for the established order of things
strenuously inculcated. Compulsory school-
ing looked a far greater outrage on the
liberty of the subject then than compulsory
military training does now. Droves ol
children were harried to work in city in-
aus tries at tne age of live, and as a large
family was an asset, the most heartless
parents believed in having the largest
families. The offspring, in tact, were hired
out like so many niggers for the support
and comfort and beer of their progenitors.
There are still traces of this ancient iniquity
in the land from which our fathers liapmlv
escaped. Thus, some 30,000 children under
the age of 14, are employed in the textile
factories of England, and the custom still
survives in certain regions of calling several
children of a family by the same name, in
the hope that John, aged 11, may be suc-
cessfully driven into a factory disguised
under the birth certificate of his brotner or
cousin John, aged 13. The town kid of
England may still, in certain circumstances,
be legally sent to work at the age of 12, and
the agricultural kid at 11. So Bull, junior,
doesn’t suffer from lack of encouragement to
toil. # #
Out of these barbarous conditions a habit
arose of regarding the boy as a devastating
and innumerable person, who was always
lying in wait to snatch the job out of
the old man’s mouth. Yet families are
smaller than they were, and the old man
lives longer, and consequently, in proportion
to the number of adults, the infant is less
numerous. Then the Australian education
system and industrial inspection methods
mostly keep children out of the factory or
workshop until they reach the age of 14,
though in the unskilled and unlettered
slavery of Cow they seem to begin work at
babyhood or thereabouts. This strikes nine
years off the working life in cities, as com-
pared with old English methods, and almost
obliterates the boy as a competitor in skilled
industries. It reduces the possibilities of
child labor in trades by fully GO per cent. —
in fact, it does more than that, for when the
boy of to-day begins to compete, he has
almost left off being a boy, and is advancing
to the stage of being a youth or hobbledehoy,
or possibly a lout. Xnen an increasing num-
ber of the rising generation pursue their
education for years after the fixed school
age; and with the greater affluence of the
people more and more of the girl population
is relieved from the need to hustle for the
daily crust. A great change has happened
during the lifetime of the present middle-
aged population, and the English theories of
40 years ago have no bearing on the position
in Australia.
Nevertheless, the idea survives that the
current boy is innumerable —a sort of Ilun
or Vandal. In every skilled trade there is
a tendency towards the strict limitation of
apprentices, just as if the possible apprentice
was going about in armies after the fashion
of the rabbit. He is scarce enough in all
truth, but still the limitation idea is so rigid
that a good many of him seem likely to be
left out of the better paid employments.
Thus, in the compositors’ trade it was re-
cently proposed that there Should be one
apprentice to six journeymen ; that he should
be bound for seven years; and that he
should, for the first five years, be a mere
slushy or messenger or rouseabout. It was
a simple matter of arithmetic to demon-
strate that under the proposed system the
journeyman compositor must keep on com-
positing for 42 years after he finished his
apprenticeship, merely to prevent the race
of Australian craftsmen dying out, while no
provision whatever was made for the ip-
crease of population and the corresponding
inci-ease of the demand for local newspapers,
books, magazines, pamphlets, posters, quack
medicine leaflets and the like. That is to
say, the printing business must slowly die
out, unless full-blown compositors were im-
ported, and allowed to take up the vacant
billets, while the Australian boy was mostly
put under a ban, and chased into the wilder-
ness, of driven to be a tram conductor.
* * * *
The strict limitation of apprentices may
not signify so very much in the newspaper
line, for already the world is growing very
bald and bare of trees, and very scarce of
rain, and very liable to devastating hurri-
canes, through the cutting down of the grand
old forests to make paper on which to print
yellow journals, or mad publications that see
Popes in their sleep. The hat-making trade,-
in which there was a recent wild fuss, is a
different matter. Also, it is strictly typical.
Melbourne is the centre of this industry, and
in Victoria the limitation in the number of
apprentices is so rigid that any increase in
the locally-trained hat-making population is
practically impossible. Such expansion as
there is in this well-paid and highly-skilled
industry comes by immigration, and the ex-
pansion doesn’t half keep pace with the
demand. The employers, who are doing well
within their limitations, accept the situation
philosophically. If they can’t get sufficient
workmen to enlarge their businesses as they
might be enlarged—well, their local rivals
are in the same situation. If the local
supply gets further and further behind the
demand, more and more cheap-labor foreign
hats must be imported, and the imports in this
line, as in almost every other which repre-
sents skilled industry, are increasing enor-
mously. If innumerable hats are imported,
like innumerable other things, gold must be
sent away to pay for them. But the boss
hat-makers don’t have to find it. And if the
outflow of gold vastly exceeds the production,
as it does at present, and local money sup-
plies become very short in consequence, the
natural inference is that the usual thing
will ensue. Money for public works will
be unattainable, and the works will stop, and
workers will be discharged, and the
man who wants to borrow a trifle with
which to build a cottage for himself will
have to pay high interest, and the value
of the cottage itself will slump, and people
who wanted to start new industries will post-
pone the idea until coin is cheaper and more
abundant, and there will be a general fall
in values, and building societies will begin
to reconsti-uct, or reconswindle, the workers’
savings. All these things will be contributed
to, in a small way, by the lack of apprentices
in the hat-making trade, but the handful of
boss hatters will nrob«bly pull through a
great deal better than most people. ,
* * * *
■ The hat Trade is only fine of many. It is
quoted as an example because it is as handy
an example as any other. In almost every
skilled handicraft which has to compete
with the importer—not such as daily papers,
gas, boot repairs, washing clothes, cookery,
domestic service and the like, which are
necessarily local—there is room just now
for one apprentice to every two journeymen,
if the supply of apprentices could be found.
The imports show that fact clearly. They
speak eloquently of the lack of local sup-
plies. There is also room for the importa-
tion of skilled adult artisans, and then for a
great increase in the tariff, to assure employ-
ment for all parties concerned. Unluckily,
the importation of foreign goods, the product
of the skilled foreign artisan’s work, is not
seriously objected to by the Labor party. The
importation of the skilled artisan is objected
to more or less. And the training of the local
skilled artisan in sufficient numbers seems
to be objected to like perdition. There isn’t
enough of the local human raw material to
supply the needs of highly expert industry,
but the policy of the unions is, in many cases,
to shut out a great part of the material avail-
able. The Australian boy may, to any extent,
become a tram-conductor, ’bus-driver, groom,
message-boy, cow-slave, railway porter, farm
hand, stoker, scavenger, theatrical ticket-
taker, plank-boy on a ferry boat, sand-
shoveller on a railway job. generally useless
on a station, loafer, odd-jobber, swagman,
pick-anu-snoveller—there are very few objec-
tions to him becoming even a wharf-laborer
or a preacher. All these are occupations
which require little skill, and in most of
them the remuneration is humble. But in
the better-paid and more specialised employ-
ments, the tendency is to restrict Young Aus-
tralia severely, in order to make room for
imported goods, and in a less degree for the
imported artisan. And when the country
grows hard up through the excessive outflow
of money to pay for the imported goods, it is
the unskilled or odd-job Australian who suf-
fers first. Considering the respective rates
of wages, it might perhaps be better to
grow the local hatter and import the mck-
and-shoveller or tram-conductor. But some-
how the suspicion that the Australian boy
is an enemy, who must be restricted lest he
should climb all over the old man, and suffo-
cate him, is so deeply rooted that its removal
is a question of time.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Savings Bank Amalgamation
Scheme.
The Upper House of N.S.W. has thrown out
the Bill for the amalgamation of the two
Savings Banks. And thereat Minister Car-
michael is angry, and hints, in effect,_ that
the House of Lifelong Nominees has signed
its death-warrant, if it hasn’t actually
knocked out its brains against the wall.
Considering that the McGowen Government
represents a party which has long been
pledged to the abolition of the Nominee
Chamber, one might really have expected the
doom of that dreary and useless, institution to
be fixed long ago, but the Ministry has been
strangely sluggish in this matter. It is also
pledged to the abolition of the State Gov-
ernor, but, instead of attending to this mat-
ter, it has devoted its energies rather to
chasing the Federal Governor, against whom
its programme makes no complaint, off the
Cornstalk premises. And it is sworn to a
method of finance by which borrowing is to
be reduced, and up loan money expended at
all, except on works which will yield full
interest on their cost and sinking fund. The
absolutely brazen fashion in. which it has
turned its coat in that matter has seldom
been equalled in the annals of political apos-
tasy. In fact, the career of the McGowen
Ministry has mostly been a record of politi-
cal apostacy. Now, at long last, Minister
Carmichael threatens that the Cabinet
will proceed to live up to its creed in one
respect—not because the abolition of the
Nominee Chamber is part of its programme,
but because that Uppish House has inter-
fered with a very dubious scheme. The
amalgamation of the savings banks is not
so much a feature of Labor policy as an
item in the crusade of the State Labor
Government against the much more patriotic
and consistent Federal Labor Government.
Also, it seems to be largely a vote-catching
device. This is the Minister’s own account
of the purpose in view
The B:il would have enabled any man who owned
a bit of land to have obtained a building loan at
low interest, and to have repaid that loan by small
weeklv of monthly instalments. Any person who
wished to buy property, or discharge a mortgage, or
improve his house, could have done the same, bor-
rowing money, to be repaid in instalments extending
over 20 or 30 years. That was an important bank-
ing function that had been overlooked in the original
Act, and it was one of the principal means which
the,Government had in view for housing the people
and’ meeting the present house difficulty. Yet the
matter was never even considered by the Council.
Now the masses who put their little surplus
in the Savings Bank get wretchedly low in-
terest —less even than the Government has
to pay these days on its public borrowings.
They put up with that, in the expectation
of getting the very highest security. The
proposition that their money should be used
so that any man who owned a bit of land
could get a loan, necessarily calculated on
the present boom values, at a low rate of
interest, means offering them low interest,
combined with low security. This is not
the time to lend other people’s money for a
song to any man who owns a bit of land.
That is an act of charity, not of business,
and there are limits to the amount of charity
which should be done with other people’s
resources. Presumably, the person who got
the loan on the present boom value of any
sort of a bit of land, at perhaps 40 per cent,
below the current value of money (for the
current value of money is pretty high)
would be pleased; and the depositors might
not be seriously displeased, because they
might not notice the point; and if heavy
losses were made —well, the bill could always
stand over for a while. Therefore, the busi-
ness might pay in the sense that it would
buy popularity. But it isn’t the sort of
gamble that a Government should do with
the savings of the vast mass of workers who
trust to it for a fair deal.
State Riglitism Encounters Some
XJhexpected Assailants.
■ln most cases, when a State Government
holds a pistol to the head of the Common-
wealth —or, in plain police court terms, at-
tempts blackmail—Liberalism is both pleased
and edified. A case in point occurred last
week when the Sydney Telegraph heartily
applauded the McGowen Government’s an-
nouncement that unless the Commonwealth
guaranteed the Jervis Bay railway against
loss, the same would not be built. “That,”
said the Telegraph exultantly (13/9/T2),
“was an entirely proper position to take up."
But there are occasions when a State Gov-
ernment’s efforts to bail up the Common-
wealth in a financial matiner of speaking do
not meet with the approval of the Liberal
party. A form of political astigmatism sets
in. The vast majority of Liberals become
incapable of recognising consistency and
State Riglitism when those allegedly admir-
able virtues are before their very eyes. The
attitude of the McGowen party towards
Federal Government House and the re-
sultant sentiments of Liberalism in regard to
the McGowEN-ites afford a striking example
of the above tendency. The McGowen Min-
istry threatened to dispossess the Governor-
General of his Sydney residence some months
ago for precisely the same reasons as it
threatened, last week, to drop the Jervis
Bay railway project: vis., (1) to demon-
strate its inherent and immemorial right .to
flout the Australian Parliament; (2-f 4o
squeeze money out of the Federal treasury.
As regards principle, there was not g ? scin-
tilla of difference between the two perform-
ances. If in the opinion of State Friglit-
ism, as voiced by the Telegraph; it was an
entirely proper position for the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment to take up that the Commonwealth
should find large sums of money for the up-
keep of a railway which will benefit N. S.
Wales alone, there is no logical reason why
the State Fright section of Liberalism
should object to the same Government asking
£7OOO of the Commonwealth for the use of
Federal Government House. Both demands
amounted to blackmail, pure and simple, and
an offence of that sort smells just as rank,
if not more so, where it threatens to inter-
fere with the defence of Australia, as it do<>s
when it incommodes an Excellency. The
tragedy, from the point of view of those
earnest and well-meaning State Right En-
thusiasts, the McGowEiN-ites, is that in this
Government House matter their nat-
ural allies, the S. M. Herald, Tele-
graph, Evening News, etc., have gone
right back on them. For about the first
time in history, fully 90 per cent, of State
Righters are annoyed at the spectacle of the
Commonwealth being defied. And yet the
intentions of those whom Liberalism has
harshly termed “The Evictionists” are
good, if there is any virtuewhatever
in the cantankerous old Geebung creed.
Joseph Carruthers, a very Hannibal of
State Rightism, is one of the few who has
grasped, the full strength of the position. He
put it in the plainest, baldest terms in the
Legislative Council on last Thursday night,
as follows: —
He had always held that Federal Government
House should be used for the State Governor.
When Lord Chelmsford is safely installed
at Federal Government House, by the admin-
istration which is pledged absolutely to the
abolition of State Governors ; and when good
Mr. McGowen has been made-a K.C.M.G. ;
and when the Australian Government has
been forced to retire in disorder and humilia-
tion over this particular dispute—then will
the misguided folk who are at present curs-
ing the State Ministry for a set of loathly
disloyalists, repent them of their
and publicly recognise in McGowen and co.
such fearless upholders of the State 'Right
creed as N. S. Wales has not seen since the
great Wire-Netting Steal.
— : - i ■’ -
A Humorous Meeting.
During Melbourne Show week,the Aus-
tralian Women’s National, or Fashionable,
League held its annual conference,' and con-
tributed materially to the gaiety of the State.
The reports of the proceedings were', nbt
headed “Wit and Huinor,” possibly because
there was not much wit, and all of the
humor was; of the unconscious variety ; but,
all the same, they provided a welcome a inter-
lude in a wet and depressing period. The
good ladies were particularly wrathful with
democratic speakers and organisers, or, as
they called them, “agitators.” Am “organ-
iser,” it appears, is a worker for the A. W.
League; while a worker for the A.W.Uk. or
any other Labor association, is an “agita-
tor.” Here are a few choice extracts jifrom
the “debate” :
Mrs. Mackay (Bendigo) advocated it being: made a
punishable offence for agitators to make inflamma-
tory speeches, or publish articles likely to arouse
class hatred, or to incite workers to strike.
Mrs. Humble (Geelong) said that agitators were
a menace to the country, and \should be penalised.
Mrs. Walsh (Reedy Creek) said that the Rural
Workers were being led away by , agitators, whose
proper place in this State was prison.
Mrs. Moss (Armadale) said that, if .it were only
possible, she would like to see the agitator swept
out of Australia. \h
Then the annual report was goad, and
showed that the league had itself a swarm of
highlv-paid agitators or incendiaries, who
pervaded the State day and night. The
breathless anxiety of these dear old ladies
to gaol or hang those who are politically
opposed to them is a cheerful aspect of the
case. Incidentally, it supports the theory of
the scientist who reckons that woman is still,
emotionally, a child of seven. This amazing
league has become so Tory ' that even the
Argus has hard work to keep tip with it.
In fact, it hais drifted away from being a
league, and has become partly a circus and
partly a comic opera.
The Three Stomachs of Hunter-street.
Last week a Sydney citizen (if the Sydney
Telegraph is to be believed) was stopped
bv three unspecified persons in Hunter-street
and offered £3OOO for the purpose of buy-
ing the Governor-General a home in JN. fc.
Wales,” and so preventing a deadly wrong
being inflicted on the Crown and Em-
pire. The same citizen was also ottered on
the same day (unless the S. M. Herald is
a retailer of untruths) £7OOO. However, the
Herald’s unspecified three didn t want to
buy a home for Lord Denman; their aim
was but to pay the rent of Federal Govern-
ment House on his behalf, during his re-
maining two years of office. A few days pre-
viously, William McMillan, who, outside
the drapery trade, is one of the most un-
balanced and tactless and foolish and alto-,
gether deplorable characters in the public
life of N. S. Wales, 'Suggested the advisa-
bility of someone taking the bell-tdPPer or
plug-hat around, and collecting enopgh small
change from “Loyalists” to keep Lord Den-
man here, and save the snow
the world that there are still Rmht-Thinkers
in the Ma State, and so forth and so on.


Such signs and portents as the above make
apparent the hideous possibility tha.t various
misguided friends of vice-regality will, unless
they are spoken to in a firm tone of voice,
and by one who, figuratively speaking, carries
a brick in one hand and an axe in another,
actually embark on the attempt to raise a
charity dole for presentation to the Govern-
nor-General. Now, in the first place, the Gov-
ernor-General is not hard up. His official
salary amounts to £IO,OOO per annum, and
he is understood to have at least another
£IO,OOO wherewith to keep the wolf
off the doorstep. He does not need
financial help from the noisy self-
advertisers who are using the Govern-
ment House row as a means to push them-
selves before the populace. And if he did,
there is nothing surer, on past form, than
that he would lie disappointed. The same
people got the bathetical old Dreadnought
agitation going. After the expenditure of
months of work, and oceans of patriotic
oratory, and yards of daily paper exhorta-
tions, the populace was prevailed on to
weigh in with about a thirtieth of the sum
requisite to pay for the bare hull of a
Dreadnought. Also, three affluent old gen-
tlemen (not the anonymous three who
offered the £3OOO or the £7OOO last week)
provided among them about a sixtieth of the
cost of one of these vessels. On that basis, the
best the Governor-General could look for
towards the £7OOO needed to pay the two
years r,ent of Sydney Government House,
would be two or three hundred pounds.
More probably he would be grandiloquently
handed some such sum as £3 4s. 6Jd.
The fact is the people are sick of
collections for allegedly patriotic objects.
And more than anything, they are sick of
the futile sensationalists who associate them-
selves with such ventures.
About the Joys of Guerilla Warfare.
The Bulletin receives from “the Anti-
Compulsory Military Training League” the
usual hunk of wild literarure (price Id., and
dressed in a blood-red cover) with the head-
ing, “Child Conscription. Our Country’s
Shame.” And in a sense Australia’s child
army is a public shame, for the compulsory
military training scheme should have roped
in, to begin with, the youth of 18 or 19,
rather than his younger brother. But that
is hardly the point which the Anti-Compul-
sory Military Training League wishes to
elaborate. What it is solid upon is the
quaint old theory that training is practically
unnecessary, and that any patriotic crowd
of citizens may rush to the front armed with
guns (if they can get them), and fire-irons,
and chair-legs, and tumultuously defend
their native land to a finish. Wherefore
there are in the brochure dabs of literature
like this:—
How much cadet training, or anything like it, did
those heroic citizens possess who successfully de-
fended their native land of Holland from the hosts
that Phillep [this is the League’s own spell-
ing] 11. seht against it when his Empire was
the mightiest in the world, and his soldiers the
best-trained men in an age of great generals and
monster military development? Or, to come down
to our own times: how much preparation of the
sort dear to our area officers’ souls had that handful
of brave (if misguided) Boer youths, men and grey-
beards received who for nearly three years with-
stood the combined might of Britain and the Do-
minions? Those Boers had not as boys been
schooled in scientific slaughter; but they had stout
hearts and tough bodies, and in following their life
avocations and in other ways had acquired great con-
trol of the rifle and that best of all discipline—the
control of one’s self. If war comes to Australia it
will probably be, after the first few weeks, a war of
the guerilla kind that the Boers waged before the
eyes of an astonished world. It will be a war of
gigantic size, and waged over colossal areas under
•novel conditions, entirely in favor of the Australian,
if he has stamina and resource. In such warfare
bushcraft, iron constitution and resourcefulness will
count as determining factors; those wretched drill-
ground technicalities—to teach which we herd up
Our boys in droves on the Saturday afternoons and in
their evenings, larrikin and decent lad cheek by
jowl—will not weigh as dust in the balance.
Truly it is not an inspiriting prospect that
these Peace Society folk hold out. For 15
years or so the Hollanders, whom they quote
as shining examples for Australia to follow,
submitted to the Inquisition because they
knew that an untrained citizen army was of
bo account in real war. Then they were
goaded into revolt, and they lost batties per-
sistently, and -saw their towns sacked and
their country harried for about a dozen years
more. They had luck in the end. for the
English destroyed Spain’s command of the
sea, and France and Germany hindered the
sending of Spanish reinforcements by land,
and military aids which came in now and
then from France, Germany and England
kept afloat the tottering cause of the men
who hadn’t learned to be soldiers. In fact,
but for these aids, the tottering cause would
hardly have been started. But though the
Spanish population was very limited, and
Spain was loaded with complications all
over the world, and the Spanish armies
were small (at the battle of Turnhout,
where at last the Hollanders beat
their enemies in the open field,
they only mustered 4500 men), it was
fully 30 years before the Dutch . soldiers
could face them successfully “on their own,”
and then it was only because Maurice of
Nassau had driven the Hollanders into the
ranks and trained them there with a high-
handed insolence of compulsion that even
Kaiser William would hardly excel nowa-
days. In the end, after hawking their
country round Europe and offering it to
even the unspeakable Henry 111. (the man
who wore a turban and occasionally dressed
in women’s clothes) in return for his pro-
tection, and after a whole generation of con-
flict and misery, the Netherlanders bought
the independence of half their country by
abandoning the other half t~ the enemy,
wherefore Belgium remains a separate in-
stitution even to this day. As for the case
of the Boers, their end was surrender; but
they had special luck in several ways: (1)
They were far from being wholly untrained ;
(2) their cities and wealth and population
and resources weren’t mainly on the coast
as ours are; (3) they were fighting an
enemy who, for lack of compulsory military
service, couldn’t put into the field against
them more than a quarter of the men Japan
can raise ; and (4) they surrendered at last
to a. civilised opponent —not a heathen with
mediaeval ideas about torture. The anti-
militarists who supply the penny pamphlet
with the blood-red cover are, in fact, wholly
depressing. According to their ideas Aus-
tralia must collapse for all purposes of regu-
lar defence in the first few weeks of war,
and depend thereafter on a variety of guer-
rilla camnaign. That is to say, it is to
abandon Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Ade-
laide and the other coastal cities, with their
manufactures, commerce, banks, treasuries,
Government offices, etc., and leave the culti-
vated coastal lands, and camp like Bingiii
under gum trees in the interior, and there
put up a long, purposeless, hungry scrap to
which, barring outside aid, there can be no
end save failure. Even universal military
training of the hardest sort might be prefer
able to that kind of business.
Greater Sydney: A New Figjure in
Liberalism’s Gallery of Bogus Horrors.
Under the sensational heading, “Labor’s
Plan for Taking Sydney,” the Telegraph
recently spoke, with the voice of Liberalism,
in denunciation of a Greater Sydney, and of
all those things which are the logical outcome
thereof._ It is admittedly the province of
Liberalism, otherwise Toryism, to obstruct,
but it is questionable whether, in battling
against the one scheme that promises to wipe
out the N.S.W. capital’s most serious dis-
abilities, the Telegraph isn’t overdoing the
traditional policy of the party which it rep-
resents. That paper has three objections to
a unified system of civic government, viz. :—-
(1.) Many of the suburban areas would strongly
object to being absorbed.
(2.) The corporation would become a unionists’
paradise.
(3.) The ferries, gas, electric light (and power,
presumably), and hydraulic power would all be
owned by Greater Sydney, and as the council is also
expected to control “all public both above and
below ground,” it looks as though the idea was to
municipalise the trams.
The first two arguments may be dismissed as
too bliglitedly futile for serious discussion.
As regards the third, the citizens of Sydney
may well inquire of themselves: (1) If the
services that are now run by Private Enter-
prise would be any worse or more expensively
run under municipal control, after the system
that prevails in Glasgow, Berlin, etc; (2) if
those urgently-needed services which are at
present non-existent are likely to be provided
by any other body than a Greater Sydney
Council; and (3) if there is any probability
of blue ruin supervening as a result of muni-
cipalised trams and all the rest. As a matter
of fact, a Greater Sydney and the various
enterprises that will follow in its wake
simply represent a natural, not to say in-
evitable, process £>f development. A genera-
tion ago a number of Sydney residents were
more or less satisfied with the omnibuses of
the period—dreadful conveyances which, at
inordinate cost to their patrons, both in
cash and time, did the work that the trams
now undertake. The ’buses passed, despite
the scandalised cries of the old-time Liberals
or Tories, or whatever they called themselves
in those days. Their offence was that they
had become effete and out of date, and incap-
able of coping with the demands made upon
them. The street-level trams have reached
the point that the ’buses reached earlier.
They have done their dash, so to speak, and,
though not obsolete, they are insufficient.
Sydney needs underground railways and a
North Shore bridge, as desperately as any
city ever needed anything. Is any conceiv-
able State Government, no matter how
largely it talks, going to make a serious at-
tempt to provide those articles? This paper
opines not —a thing it has been doing for as
long as it can remember. In accordance with
the criminally idiotic old party game, it will
be the business of the Opposition to point
out, immediately upon the Government of the
day or moment making so much as a pretence
at getting busy on any such costly scheme as
a bridge or a tube, that the backblocks are'
being Wronged. That will be enough for
the Government. Unless the precedents of
generations past count for nothing, it will
drop the scheme like a death-adder. It fol-
lows that, if Sidney wants these services, it
will have to provide them itself, as most of
the other great cities of the world have done.
To hear the apprehensive shrieks of the mili-
tant Liberal on this topic, it might be imag-
ined that an enterprise such as a muni-
cipally-owned underground tram or railway
system would spell insolvency. In point of
fact, there is a fortune in it, as Private
Enterprise would quickly demonstrate if
given the opportunity. And the same applies,
more or less, to the other services which
would be handled by a central civic parlia-
ment under a Greater Sydney scheme. The
idea is not that Labor or Socialism or Anar-
chy or any other vague, predatory tiger
should take Sydney in its sinful paws and
rob it. The plain, unsensational proposition
of the Greater Sydneyites is that Sydney
shall pull itself together, as a number of
other cities have done in the past 20 years,
and do for itself those things which it badly
needs, and which no one else is in the least
likely to do for it. The Tory view seemingly
is that Sydney, in this matter, stands in the
position of a man who is in danger of being
robbed by strange malefactor’s of a valuable
suit of clothes: the rational view is that
Sydney symbolises a citizen who is medita-
ting the purchase of a new suit, and not a
minute before it is required.
Concerning a Bill Which is Being
Blocked.
As the Sydney Telegraph put it last Fri-
day :
It was eminently characteristic of the Government
that it should take the chance to dislocate the order
of its business last night, and again throw aside the
Navigation Bill.
If the Telegraph had gone further, and
mentioned some of the reasons why the
Navigation Bill is being held up at every
turn, it would have been more to the point.
One of them is that representatives of the
various European companies, which don’t
want to see the Coastal Trade clauses passed,
as well as a number of foreign-trade advo-
cates from Papua and Thursday Island, are
on their way to Melbourne to explain where
it is calculated to do most good, how fatal
the White Australia policy is going to be to
their interests. They have divers “pulls”
in and about the Australian Legislature, and
the same are being worked for all they are
worth. At present these influences are em-
ployed to delay the passage of the Bill; later,
they will undoubtedly be brought into play
with the object of emasculating it. A con-
sideration of the Subsidy Agreement, recently
arrived at between the Netherlands Govern-
ment and the Dutch Company trading be-
tween Java and Australia provides a whole
sermon in itself on the national unwisdom
of granting the exemptions which the foreign
cos. are battling for. The vital necessity of
fostering an Australian mercantile marine
will be admitted by all but anti-defenceites,
whole-hog-Freetraders and similar freaks.
But the whole policy of the Netherlands and
the rest of the overseas countries, which are
in the running for Australia’s valu-
able coastal trade, is to prevent
the establishment of a powerful local
mercantile marine. Thus, as regards
the Subsidy Agreement above referred
to, the Dutch Governor-General, in a
supporting memorandum, warmly recom-
mends the advantage of fostering the trade
between Java and Australia under the
Dutch flag. Even though losses should oc-
cur in the initial stages of the service, he
urges Government support, in the form of a
subsidy. And paragraph 11. in the Royal
Message to the Dutch States-General runs as
follows: —
As indemnification for any possible loss sustained
by the, Royal Steam Packet Company of Amsterdam
in the Java-Australia service, they shall receive from
the Government of the Dutch Indies, as subsidy, the
half of any shortage in the travelling accounts of
this service, under the conditions that the subsidy to
be paid shall not surpass the amount of 150,000
guilders (i.e., £12,500).
Now it is indisputable that the clauses of
the Navigation Bill which no parliamen-
tarian is going to have the hide to try and
eliminate (namely, those which provide for
improved conditions for white Australian
sailors and other employees), must largely
increase the cost of maintaining and running
purely coastal steamers of Australian origin.
It is likewise obvious that, if it pays the
Netherlands to subsidise their nigger-manned
ships to slay the budding mercantile marine
of Australia, it will equally pay Germany
and divers other foreign nations to do the
same. In which case, assuming that the
local shipping companies are forced to em-
ploy white labor, while their rivals (in addi-
tion to making big profits in their deep-sea
trade, and drawing subsidies from their Gov-
ernments which no one can prove, are con-
trary to the spirit of the Navigation Bill),
are exempted from any such obligation, the
burial service may be read over them,
the said local shipping companies, without
delay. They are doomed. Their only sal-
vation —which is to say the only salvation of
the service that is to give Australia its
future naval defenders —is adequate Protec-
tion. And one most mild and reasonable
method of protecting the local companies
is to see that their foreign competitors are
at least not given any trade, advantage over
them. Other nations, notably Japan and
the United States, go a good deal further,
and discriminate severely against the for-
eigner. Australian nationalists do not ask
as yet for such stringent measures. But
they do expect the people who have the fate
of the Navigation Bill in their keeping to
rend the .underground engineers who are
working for the foreigner and against the
Commonwealth- in this matter, and to do it
without a moment’s unnecessary delay.
The People Who Forget.
Dear Bulletin, —The blessings of Free-
trade are finely exemplified by a table com-
piled by professional accountants of Welling-
ton (M.L.), from the books of a very old firm,
which has dealt in food and other things,
wholesale and retail, almost since the begin-
ning of things thereabouts. . .The recent
Commission on the Cost of Living has fur-
nished a report in which it is shown that
prices have increased less in Maoriland than
in any other country about which reliable
information is available, yet, at the same
time, having an idea that El Dorado is still
ahead, and that the green distant hill may
be reached some time, it actually suggests
a reduction in Customs duties, so as to reduce
prices by getting more in line with Free-
trade England, where prices are higher. Now,
to return to the original point, a compara-
tive price-list, showing the ruling rates from
1879 to 1912, has been published, and the
public is rubbing its ear, and wondering how
its father ever contrived to pay his way
at all. Here are a few of the items
1879. 1912.
Pearl barley .. .. £1 8 0 £1 0 6
Cocoa •• •• ..040 032
Flour . . • • . . 13 10 0 9 6 8
Rice .. •• ..166 0 15 6
Oatmeal • • . . 22 0 0 14 0 0
Kerosene • • ..0 2 0 0 0 llj
Sago . . .. ..0 0 3£ 0 0 2-|
Su'ntr .. *■ ..220 100
Matches • • ..0 6 0 0 3 10
In 1879 Maoriland had practically a Free-
trade policy, although a few duties were
levied for revenue purposes. In 1912 its in-
dustries are fairly well protected. In 1879
its rates of wages were lamentably low, agri-
cultural laborers receiving as little as 6s. to
10s. a week in some districts, while navvies
worked on the new railways at 6s. per day.
The argument against Protection, which is
based on such figures, has a fantastic aspect,
for, unless it can be shown that 6s. will buy
more dear food than 10s. will buy of cheap
food, there is no sort of way in which it can
be dragged in at all. Certainly the people of
Maoriland are spending a lot more money
than they did in 1879, but that is another
matter. In 1879 many people lived in
houses which they wouldn’t put pigs in to-
day, and went without pianos and pictures
and carpets and linoleum and phonographs
and baths and bicycles and theatres and all
manner of things which even the poor now
regard as necessary. In 1879 the worker
clothed himself in moleskins, which were
white on Sundays and a smoky-grey or yel-
low-brown throughout the rest of the week ;
to-day his son wears good, locally-made
tweed to work in, and gets a capable tailor
to turn him out in a fit condition to meet
his Sunday girl. The summing-up of the
whole matter would seem to be that, under
Freetrade, people learned the heroic virtue
of doing without most things, and that under
Protection they don’t. The trouble is that,
the folk who experienced the full miseries of
Freetrade are mostly dead or senile. It is
suggestive, in a way, of the history of Poland.
When the Russians took most of the country
and broke the power of the nobles who had
flogged and starved and branded and bought
and sold their fellow countrymen, the masses
wept for joy. And two generations later they
were fighting to restore the old order of
things, because they had quite forgotten what
the old order of things was like.—-Yours,, etc.,.
Rimu.
The weakest point in the railway signal-
ling system in Victoria lies in the connec-
tion between the signal and the driver of the
train. For 50 years the best brains of the
railway world have been devising systems
and methods to make it humanly impossible to
give a wrong signal, and to ensure by auto-
matic action that the train the signals are
intended to control shall really be controlled.
Victoria has certainly adopted some sort of
a block signal system—it seems to be a
cheap and nasty one, speaking generally,
and its automatic action ends when it en-
sures the impossibility of getting a sema-
phore to say “clear line” unless the line is
clear. Admitting, for the sake of argument,
that the signalling system is infallible, and
that it is impossible for a sane signalman,
owing to automatic checks, to give “clear
line” when the line is not clear, the security
ends at that. The connection between the
semaphore arm on its post and the move-
ments of the engine that semaphore is sup-
posed to control, is the eye of the engine-
driver. If he mistakes his signal—thinks;
it is “down” when it is “up,” and drives om
serenely to smash into another train —there’
is no automatic contrivance to warn him,
let alone stop him. And one railway officer-
had the hide to tell the coroner or the tram-
conductor or someone that no human contriv-
ance could be devised to take the place of'
the intelligence of the engine-driver. Every
railway man knows that for a flagrant case-
of bosh. All sorts of checks exist. In some'
places, as at Sydney Central, the safeguard!
is a set of check points which would derail!
any engine which was charging into a plat-
form already occupied by a train. Another'
contrivance sounds a loud clanging alarm om
the engine if it enters an occupied section.';;
and yet another shuts off steam and apple's
the automatic brake. Victoria’s railway-
service can have any or all of these safety
checks if it likes to pay for them ; but any-
thing of the sort is totally opposed to the
spirit of the Victorian service. One beauti-
fully candid officer admitted that when the
Show traffic is heavy and carriages are
wanted in a hurry, the Victorian block sys-
tem (such as it is) is suspended, and the
trains are run quickly on a system of flag
signals by porters. It must be a very anti-
quated system of block signalling that is not
quicker than a system of hand flags; and.
anyhow, the hand-flag system is a brutal
sacrifice of safety. It is hard to say what
should be done to men who take such risks,
with other people’s lives.
+
“Ruru” : Observe the excuse of the boss?
scissors-man of Life, for having lamented'
over the alleged increase of Australian popu-
lation by only 113,000 in 10 years:—
[Yes; it was a blunder, and a bad one. The only-
excuse—a poor one —is that it was a borrowed blun-
der. It was taken —without being detected—from arr
English journal.— Life.]
The excuse is a bad one, and a damned bad
one at that. The Australian journalist who
goes to England for his facts about his own
country, doesn’t deserve to have a country,
or a journal to edit, or a paste-pot, or any
old thing except scorn, contempt and de-
rision. The foreign-trading person of the
press, like his brother in the rag trade,
naturally imports shoddy, but he has no right
to offer for sale as sound goods junks of'
sweated information with large holes. ini
them. The Life man, by his own showing,,
was so utterly ignorant of, and so utterly;
contemptuous of, the land which makes the
mistake of supporting him, that he didn’t
take the trouble to know the simplest matter
about its progress. When an English bung-
ler hashed up his figures so badly that he
took one year’s increase of Australian popu-
lation for ten years’ increase, and preached
a pathetic sermon on that text about the
failure of Australia, the Life man was
apparently unable to see the glaring char-
acter of the mistake. If somebody had writ-
ten that Queen Victoria was beheaded at
Parramatta, he would probably have noted
the discrepancy, that being an English mat-
ter, but a mere Australian matter was dif-
ferent. And he lacked the simple journalis-
tic instinct, which should make any press-
man worth his salt, rush to his library to
verify an astounding yarn like that before
printing it. Altogether Life makes a very
poor showing in this matter.
“Mallet” : The leopard does not change
his spots, nor has John Weary, of Vic-
toria, . become any less somnolent as the
result of leaving one Ministerial job ror an-
other. His tired, irresolute ways are par-
ticularly trying to citizens with the deputa-
tion habit. The other day a body or gang
of these persons waited on him to ask, on i
behalf of the employers, that drivers in the
aerated waters industry be shifted fronj
under the Drivers’ Wages Board and at-
tached to the Aersted Waters Board. Mur-
ray said wearily that it would be done, or
thereabouts. The drivers sent a counter
deputation to protest, whereon Murray
agreed that their cause was just, and said
it would be done, more or less. Later on, a
petition, signed by 75 per cent, of the men
concerned, was presented to him, repeating
their request to be left under the Drivers’!
Sacrilege!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. William McMillan said he could only voice
the opinion of all present by saying he was delighted
that the Lord Mayor, as our chief citizen, had em-
phatically declared against what he might call a
piece of sacrilege... .It was a movement of protest
against the sacrilege of doing anything with that
home of Imperialism. .. .That spot on the shores of
Sydney Harbor was sacred ground.—S. M. Herald
report of an obscure meeting (or bleating ) of sym-
pathisers with a tenant in a cocked hat, who has not
paid any rent , and is to be evicted.
Bishop McMillan was jumping wild;
His mitre shook and his crozier, too;
The sanctuary had been defiled,
And things were looking extremely blue.
To laboring devils the deed was due;
They’d asked his Ex. for the palace rent,
And dared to threaten the tenant, who
Refused to come to a settlement.
Bishop McMillan chose words of scorn.
And launched a dreadful, double-width
curse :
Ne’er had such animals base been born ;
“Disloyal” he called them —that and
worse.
He stuffed them into Oblivion’s hearse.
And d—d them heartily until spent,
Because they yearned in a flabby purse
To stow a dole of vice-regal rent.
Bishop McMillan was wild and hot —
Too wild and heated to argue. Oh!
Wliat would he mumble if he were not
Paid for a bundle of calico?
Knightly drapers may blither and blow
But scurvy creditors ask their fee.
Out of the sanctified shack they go,
And bus-i-ness is disloyalty!
N.S.W.
CHIFFON.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . . and . . .
"MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
Estab. 1768
r,ri
Estab. 1742 u
Where will 3 pence buy more
good, wholesome entertainment than at our nhoto-play
theatres?
Think it over!
That’s all to-day.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
Board, and Murray said it would be done
if he didn’t lose track of it. Then the em-
ployers came along with a renewal of their
demand, and Murray, who had said it
would be done all round, actually did it.
The enraged and defrauded union is angry,
and unless Murray retracts a strike may
ensue. The drivers have been particularly
ill-treated. It took nine years hard battling
to get a Wages Board, and then it took an-
other two years to get a working determina-
tion, and since that has been in force the
evasions of the Act by the employers, and
the reluctance of the Factories Department
to enforce it, have been glaringly evident.
This is not the first encroachment, but r>art
of an organised effort of the employers, aided
by the Department, to smash one particular
union. First, the pastrycooks’ drivers were
filched from the Drivers’ Board, and then
the quarrymen were ripped off, and if it goes
much further there will be no Drivers’
Union left. A good deal of the opposition
seems to come from H. M. Murphy, Chief
Inspector, who has an old feud with this
body. Murpiiy runs things while Murray
is asleep,_ and anyone who knows how often
Murray is asleep, can understand how much
Murphy runs things.
-*
The poor old Northern Territory can appar-
ently get everything it wants except the
one thing it really does want, which is a
line of railway to connect it with the nearest
big city, and thus break up its isolation and
aid its defencelessness. The railway can’t
be made without the Fisher Government
losing votes, because of the row and clamor
over rival routes, and the loss of votes can’t
be thought of. But the north is to have an
Inspector of Education to look after the
handful of local kids, and 60 deer are to be
sent up to eat the crops of the settlers. Why
on earth anybody should imagine that deer
are among the crying needs of the north it
is impossible to guess. Later on, the Terri-
tory will probably be offered an Established
Church, some old cannon, a new religion, a
library, a prophet, a pyramid, a rhinoceros
and an agricultural show. And then the
Fisher Government will wonder why it
doesn’t get ahead faster.
♦
The Commission that is investigating the
matter of the want of life-saving facilities on
Port Phillip Bay steamers hasn’t got very far
yet, but it has already got a good idea of the
splendid casualness of the Marine Board —
the plank that has so far “controlled” these
vessels. The said plank’s regulations were
copied from the British Board of Trade rules
in ’92, and haven’t been altered since, and
even then they weren’t improved. Thus, in
’B6, the then new Ozone was licensed for
1191 passengers, and had to carry four boats
and some rafts, but, under the new regula-
tions, the conditions were worse than before
—yet for 20 years the dreadful Marine
Board, with a sublime faith in its British
brother, and a supreme disregard of altered
conditions, let the matter rip. Another
floating trap, the Courier, licensed for 1144
passengers, is ordered to carry no less than
two lifeboats, each capable of holding 15
persons, and two rafts, each fitted to hump
14; but in the winter season it is allowed
to leave the rafts behind —it being presum-
ably considered that the 1114 passengers
and the 40 of crew who couldn’t squeeze into
the two small boats, would be so invigorated
by the chilly water that they would find
little difficulty in swimming 20 or 30 miles
to shore. As to overcrowding, it is like
rough play at football —officially non-exist-
ent unless the umpire reports it. But a few
weeks ago—in midwinter —the ancient
Edina, licensed to carry 579 passengers, and
with boat accommodation for just 30, actu-
ally took on board 700. The plank received
complaints about it from the public, but no
report from the police, so officially it was
unaware of any overcrowding. The only
unofficial circumstance the plank ever seems
to be aware of is the two guineas handed
each member every time it sits or lolls or
lounges.
“Ivohutuknokawau”: Justice has a genial
and happy-go-lucky way of achieving its
ends in parts of Maoriland. At Stratford a
man was sentenced to a fortnight’s impri-
sonment on a judgment summons, and a
local policeman received the warrant to
execute. He saw the condemned person in
the evening, and arranged over a piece of
hop-flavored foam that they should travel
together by the early train to New Ply-
mouth, where the defendant would be duly
jugged. The prisoner kept his appointment,
but the constable slept in and missed the
train. The former regarded it as a point of
honor to go on to his destination, but on de-
manding entrance at the gaol he was denied
admission until he could produce his lawful
policeman. There' was nothing for it but to
go back to Stratford and collect the over-
slept constable who held the warrant and
the authority. The prisoner is now natur-
ally asking that the time spent in looking
for some one to run him in should be de-
ducted from his sentence, but in this matter
he isn’t getting much forrarder.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Chocolate Soldier.”
Criterion “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.’
Koval “ Passers-13y.”
Adklpiii .. “ Queen of the Redskins.”
Palace “ What Women Suffer.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyrig Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Crystal Palace... . . Continuous Pictures, etc.
Glaciarium | ... ~ .
Olympia / West 8 Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Imperial Rink .. Holler Skating.
Town Hall Kirliby Bunn Concerts.
Y.M.C.A. Hall Margaret Cooper.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Quaker Girl.”
Princess’s “ The Wearing of the Green.”
King’s “ On Our Selection.”
Royal “ Ben Hur.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
“Yes,” said Sydney’s Oldest Inhabitant
proudly, “my memory is as good as ever. I
clearly remember the first night of ‘Get-
Itich-Quick-Wallingford,’ at the Criterion.
I forget for the moment who kept the pub.
opposite in those far-back days. I’ll look it
up, if you’ll wait a minute.” But, while his
hoary head was buried in a trunk of yellow
newspaper cuttings, the scribe fled to book
two seats for himself and girl.
* * * *
“The Girl from AVayback,” now at the
Palace, will hurry home to the bush after
the performance on Friday night. On
Saturday evening, the public will be invited
to come along and weep bitterly over “What
Women Suffer.” The Religious Editor does
not know how the management is going to
crowd it all into one evening. Possibly it
will be arranged by deleting all that they
only think they suffer.
“THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIER ,” AT
HER MAJESTY'S, SYDNEY.
Massakroff the hairy one (Victor Prince), and
Popoff the amorous (W. S. Percy).
_ “The Chocolate Soldier,” which was re-
vived on Saturday night at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, gives Miss Florence Young an
opportunity of demonstrating that her voice
has lost none of its pristine clearness and
volume. Also, the role of the Swiss enables
W. Talleur Andrews to display some
sprightly acting and to exploit a pleasant
and bizarre personality. Miss Arundale
makes a cheery and tuneful Mascha, Reg-
inald Roberts is a sufficiently pompous Alex-
ius. and W. S. Percy presents a particularly
Percyesque Popoff. The main defects in
Miss Celia Ghiloni’s rendering of the part
of Aurelia are matters of voice and face.
Both are years too young. The opera
suffers, as a production, from the bland way
in which practically all hands omit to pro-
vide anything resembling local color. The
players are almost aggressively British or
Cockney or Australian, as the case may be.
They do not suggest a crowd of affluent
Continentals nearly so much as they do a
collection of talented music-hall artists. The
staging is excellent and the fine chorus does
its duty in the comprehensive way that is its:
wont.
* * * *
As the Singer of Empire put it, in a
hurst of splendid inspiration on one occasion :
Not once alone, but time and' oft, in our brief vau-
deville story,
Smart turns have led the way to much financial
glory.
If Bludyard Crippling wasn’t guilty of those
precise words there is not the slightest
doubt that, had he the privilege of watching
the work of the Do Re Mi Trio, of Lawrence
Barclay, of Percy Dalton and of Redgrave
and Paul, and of subsequently examining the
coffers of the National Amphitheatre, he
would endorse them (the words) with en-
thusiasm. He would have to, or stand the
charge of being a perverter of the truth —a
thing no Imperial Bard ever is or was.
$ $
The Crystal Palace is presenting “The
Coiners” as its star piece, at the time of
writing. Also, it is depicting the “fall of a
chimney stack at Mascot” and “the dyna-
miting of the historic bridge over Argyll
Cut.”
The flickergrapii version of Scott’s Lady
of the Lake,” now being unrolled at the
Lyceum, is the feature of this year’s films.
The scenery, in the Highlands of Scotland,
is in itself worth a film. Another good work
on view during the first part of the week
was “The Rapids of Ivavitch,” a very
charming color effect. On Thursday night
Spencer’s will begin screening its “Funniest
Man” competition, and will continue to be
as funny as it knows how until further
notice.
* * * *
In case any misunderstanding should
arise, “The Queen of the Redskins” is not a
new variety of tomato or red cabbage or
pork sausage, but merely the title of the
new Iroquois or Mohawk or Flathead drama
which is to explode at the Adelphi on Satur-
day night. The Blackfeet are said to be the
real Choctaw goods, some being imported
direct from the wilds of Melbourne, while
others have been scalp-hunting for a while
past in the mountainous parts of upper Pitt-
street. On account of this incursion of
Hurons, the Buckler-Paget co. will be
forced to make its final exit after to-morrow
night s performance of “Her Forbidden
Marriage.”
** * *
“Now I do hope I’m standing in the centre
m -Xv dra . pes ThM is what La Freya, at
tlie livoli, seems to be thinking, as she
smiles and postures on her pedestal behind
the gauze curtain on which her husband-
assistant projects with a dissolving-view
lantern her costumes and backgrounds. It
is a smart and ingenious act; but the effect
is fiat and unreal; also, the colors are rather
muddy; the focus occasionally not quite ac-
curate, and the outlines of La Freya’s fine
figure can be discerned through the garments
ot colored light. The humorous acrobatic
work of the Rallis and Wilson Trio is di-
verting, and the lady partner’s voice is
rather agreeable, though no one seems to be
clear as to what she is singing. Mr. Borneo
Gardiner, whistler, is a tall, serious young
man who drifts on, piping sweetly under a
top hat. He thoughtfully lays the head en-
cumbrance on a small table, and, taking the
usual chair, trills on without a break, mean-
while casting sad glances of longing over the
attentive audience. Minnie Kaufmann, of
the bicycles and the elegant figure, juggler
Chinko, Fanny Powers and Fred Bluett
supply the notable turns of the second part.
‘ Passers-by” does that which its name im-
plies this week, the life-story of the gover-
ness, who, after being utterly lost was found
again, not having appealed to the great
heart of Sydney. On Saturday night and
thereafter, till further notice, Miss Hilda
Spong will trail phthisically about the
lheatre Royal stage as Camille. Her
Armand will be Harcourt Beatty.
From an Adelaide critic :
Miss Rose Lowcay, a pupil of James Ashton,' who
has had the advantage of three years in Europe, under
various masters, has a one-woman show in the Society
of Arts rooms, lent her for the purpose. She goes in
for landscape solely—not a figure in the whole 126
pictures. Strange to say, for a pupil of Ashton’s,
who has since lived and worked at St. Ives, she
avoids seascape, but when she does venture on tum-
bled white waves, she recalls the style of the junior
Ashton—Will. She can do well with architecture.
Since her return she . has made some studies of gum-
trees, in the Heysen manner. But mostly shevrevels
m grey skies, with perhaps a warm flash of sunlight
stealing through trees. The trees are everywhere,
chiefly ivied trunks of Cornwall. The great Sargent
has smiled on one of her low-toned paintings, and
called it—or her—a “little Corot.” It is high praise
to go on with. The bloodstain that signifies purchase
is being freely gummed on the frames.
Adelaide Literary Theatre hardly struck
a winner with George Moore’s 20-year-old
play, “The Strike at Arlingford.” The
idea is all right. Lady Anne is a colliery
proprietor. A half-English Count, with a
reputation for defeating strikers, helps her
with advice when her miners want a 20 per-
cent. advance, and she is. thinking of marry-
ing him. The new professional strike-leader
turns out to be a man with whom she, as a
schoolgirl, had been deeply sentimental, and
she deliberately sets herself to win him back,
though he is engaged to a young woman who
hates all capitalists and stands for No Sur-
render. These, and a casual reporter, are
all the important characters. Even the
other girl has very little to do, and the play
consists of long conversations between Anne
and the two men in turn. Towards the end
the author seems to have got careless. The'
born Leader of Men is not at all the sort
of person to commit suicide because he is,
for the moment, discredited; nor would a
girl who really loved him say (in effect) to
his threat of self-destruction, “Oh well, I
suppose you’d better. Good-bye!” It is the
author’s fault that there is not one indi-
vidual with whom an audience can feel any
sympathy, and that the last act makes for
yawns. Miss Stella Earle —with a large
and seductive smile —was an effective Lady
Anne, and Wilfrid Neill, always “safe,*’
made the cynical Count a real person.
Arthur Smith, though good in the leading
part, would have been better if less statu-
esque.
Show week in Adelaide is a good week for
showmen of all kinds. Wirth’s circus, right
alongside the Cow Festival, has raked in
admirers all the time. The American cow-
boys _ are not wildly exciting; in fact, the
Bastiens and other turns not relying on
horse seem the most attractive part of the
whole. Notable among these i’s HillaVy
Long, who, always standing on his head,
does showy trapeze work, and even bumps
his way downstairs. The Royal has relied
on “When London Sleeps” and “Tommy
Atkins”; Cyril Mackay and Miss Eugenie
Duggan in the lead. The Tivoli has Nella
Webb, mischievously attractive, the bound-
ing Alginas, the tenor Marini, and the
Stavordale quintette. At the King’s are a
lot of new people, headed by the flying Bartz
family, Billy Watson and the Waldrons.
Other shows are legion, besides the Cow-
Show’s own evening concerts f Edward
Reeves reciting his favorite “Deeds that
Won,” Miss Zoe Reid repeating for the
Lyric her charming “Prunella” play, and
even the University Conservatorium (proba-
bly by mere coincidence) coming in with an
orchestral concert. As for the picture
houses, they all add to their regular drama-
tic programmes frequent pictures, of the
Show crowds. In this respect, the little
I avilion scores through being handiest to
the Show grounds and open all day.
* * *
St. John Hankin’s “The Cassilis Engage-
ment” was presented at Melbourne Her
Majesty’s on Saturday afternoon by some
of the Very Best people, in aid of the
Women’s Hospital. The comedy is interest-
ing without being brilliant. Geoffrey Ca»-
silis, whose mater is something in the
county, becomes engaged to Ethel Borridge,
whose pa is nothing in the city. The plot
deals with the efforts of Mrs. Cassilis to
break off the engagement without un-
pleasantness, and at the same time retain
her son’s affection. It weakens through
Mrs. Borridge being represented as the
lowest type of Cockney vulgarian. It is in-
conceivable that even such a complete ass
as Geoffrey Cassilis would enter into
arrangements which would result in sad-
dling him with such a ma-in-law. Further-
more, Mrs. Cassilis is made too Machiavel-
lian. At no time does she display
est displeasure with her proposed daughter-
in-law or that girl’s impossible parent, lest
she should thus arouse feelings of sympathy
or chivalry, or something in the breasts of
her futile son. Even when the young person
sings an outrageous serio-chronic ditty and
displays the maximum of stocking before a
party of “county” people, including the
rector and his missus, Mrs. Cassilis main-
tains an attitude of imperturbable good-
nature. It is doubtful if any woman of
her type would so subordinate her emotions
to her intellect. The engagement is finally
ended by the young—ah—lady herself, who
is bored to death by “county” sassiety. Miss
Dorothy Grimston returned to the boards to
play Mrs. Cassilis, and provided an imper-
sonation which it would have been difficult
to better. Another first-rate piece ?of work
was furnished by Osborne O’Hara, whose
picture of a well-bred “nut,” Major War-
rington, was a thing of joy. Miss Dorothy
Whiting played Ethel Borridge in a manner
that called for nothing but praise. Mrs.
Borridge, in the hands of Miss, Lesley
Madden, was too much like a pantomime
dame.” Captain Curwen (one of Fuller’s
gentleman helps) was passable as tile ex-
tremely fatuous hero ; Miss Vair Dodds, as
Lady Marchmont, displayed many of the
vices of that sorowful person, the “trained
elocutionist”; and Miss Nan O’Hara’s Lady
Mabel Venning (this notice is beginning to
look like a page of Debrett) was so divinely
fair that this paper forgives her for a cer-
tain lack of ease on the stage.
Melbourne’s affection for “The Quaker
Girl” is on the wane, which is not discred-
itable to either, seeing that the attachment
has already lasted 10 weeks. If Prudence
stayed at Her Majesty’s Theatre much
longer people would begin to talk; and every-
body knows how Quakeresses and actresses
hate being talked about. The indications
are that the lady will shortly end her visit
in deference to Mrs. Grundy, and her place
will be taken by “Florodora,” with Grace
Palotta in her old part of Lady Holyrood,
and Albert Wright as Tweedlepunch.
“A Girl’s Temptation,” attracted only a
moderate audience. to the Princess’s on Sat-
urday night. This weird creation arising
from a heat-oppressed brain has lost none Of
its power to amaze the unsophisticated and


STECK
One of the World’s
Great PIANOS.
THE STECK BOUDOIR GRAND is deservedly a
favorite. To encompass the tonal beauty and
sonority of a Grand Piano in a space scarcely
larger than that occupied by an Upright is indeed
an achievement.
Measuring but sft. 7in. in length, it renders a
Grand Piano of the highest character available, even
for rooms o| limited size.
The STECK, more than any other uiano. possesses
a rich mellowness of tone, a sympathetic singing
quality, which makes it not only the ideal instru-
ment for the great artist in concert, but also the
best piano 'for the home.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD,
357 QEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
252 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
436=438 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE
London, Paris, Berlin and New York.
E 2
K
m
ds
SQL
I
New Shipments of STECKS monthly
in. Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut,
Rosewood, Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony.
[2
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS. SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
' Phone No. 23G Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
bore the critical. The cast is a stronger
one that when the Marlowdrama originally
unwound the vast convolutions of lts p
in Melbourne. Miss Elwyn Harvey still plays
the mill maiden who yields to temptation in
the first act, and is delivered from evil with
her blushing dishonor thick upon her in the
last. The aristocratic lady who could not
have loved the hero so unscrupulously loved
she not honor less, is this time in the hands
of Miss Ada Guildford, who shows more of
the cold-blooded repose that stamps the
caste of the stage Vere de Villainess than
did her predecessor. The millionheir hero
is played by Kenneth Brampton, and ote-
wart Garner takes Harry Diver s old place
as the villain who went a-wooing ot the
heroine by locking himself in her bedroom
and proceeding to undress, a ceremony which
is curtailed at an interesting juncture by
“BEN HUE,” AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Eric Mazon as
Ben Hur, the
galley slave , grows
tired , and shows
signs of Blue
Blood in his veins.
the arrival of the hero. For the rest, this
paper is prepared to forgive the other per-
formers their trespasses, since the power
and the glory of “A Girl’s Temptation will
give place on Saturday night to “The Wear-
ino, of the Green.” This is boomed as an
Irish melodydrama, and Allen Doone will
represent the Voice That Breathed Oer
Erin.
A roar or approval greeted Will Whit-
burn when he made his re-appearance at the
Opera House on Saturday, after a pro-
longed absence. His comic songs and quaint
patter saved the “first part” from utter
damnation, and, later, he “starred” in one
of his own farces, “Dissection.” William s
remark that “life has its pleasures as well
as amusements” was most comforting to
this writer, whose sorrowful job it is to
spend his nights at shows advertised under
the heading “Amusements.” D’Arc’s Marion-
ettes, who perform on a miniature stage,
have also arrived, and, with vocal assist-
ance from behind the scenes, provide imita-
tions of sundry performers, including Harry
Eauder, Vesta Victoria and Samuel Mayo,
the singing undertaker who was lately at
the Opera House.
* * *
“On Our Selection,” which started an in-
nings at the King’s (Melbourne) last Satur-
day, is assured of fine weather and a sound
wicket wherever it plays. Its happy sug-
gestions of reality, and the humor of its
character drawings are not to be denied.
One sniffs the pastoral odor of the unseen
cow that trespasses on Dad’s lucerne patch.
Dad and Kate and half a dozen others are
true to their Australian types. The inci-
dent of Dave’s lonely dance rehearsal in the
is simply convincing—not wildly farci-
cal! One’s faith in Dave extends to the
object of his affections, notwithstanding the
artificiality of Lily’s eyebrows, and young
Sarah Rudd gives an air of ”obability even
to Billy Bearup, her unfortunate admirer.
Nothing in the new Australian play is stagey
and conventional except the plot, and the
plot doesn’t matter much. There are no
wicked people in “Our Selection.” The
worst are only treated as though they were
wicked. Carey, the harmful necessary mort-
gagee, suffers from surrounding circum-
stances. Everybody’s dislike being thrust
upon Carey, senior, he naturally does what
he can to deserve it. During the latter part
of the play he is the sorrowing parent of a
murdered son, yet the district treats him as
an interfering beast for trying to place the
murderer. As for Carey, junior, the only
thing stated to his discredit—apart from
his frankly dishonorable intentions re Mary
Rudd, is the allegation that he lured a
married lady from her allegiance to Cranky
Jifh. But it is clear that he acted as_ a
hero and a benefactor m eloping with a dis-
tressed female. The awful unbarbered
aspect of Jim the Avenger, and his mania
for seeing snakes without the assistance of
whisky, indicate hereditary rats in the
garret. Therefore it is reasonably assumed
that his wife of yore gave Carey, junior, the
glad eye and the naughty smile, and practi-
cally implored the young man to divert her
thoughts from her lawful lord. Carey is one
of the most-to-be-pitied villains of melo-
drama.
* * * *
The play having been constructed accord-
ing to the mummer lights of Bailey and
Duggan, the situations are as cheaply effec-
tive.„as the antique gags wherewith the dia-
logue is pimpled. The entertainment has the
novelty of growing dull for a tune in the
third act, where dramas ordinarily do their
darnedest to be exciting. In three other
acts the moments fly on broad comedy wings.
The staging is careful —so careful that the
management could afford a lapse, into further
embellishment. An unnatural tinted shanty
of flawless, even speckless, character, which
is billed as “Dave’s Dilapidated Domicile,
might as well be rebuilt to suit the descrip-
tion. Also, a few supernumerary settlers in-
troduced into the Barn dance, would give
more weight and color to the joyous finale.
The public rejoicing over Dad’s election to
Parliament are limited to. the family. No
outside voters have been invited.
* * * *
Bert Bailey’s Dad establishes him as an
Australian character actor. The make-up,
the ripe elderly tone of voice, and the rugged
force of his personality —these are notable
factors in a successful show. The Dave ot
Arthur Bertram is another capital creation
that holds together whilst Laura Rob-
erts, as Sarah, seems to be making the very
best of a part which comes easy to her. Guy
Hastings is a manly, unaffected lover to Miss
Marlowe’s womanly and unaffected Mary.
George Treloar, who shows artistic restraint
as the orthodox villain, achieves a positive
triumph of melodrama in springing forward
to receive a knock-out, and Miss Adeson, J.
I*. Lennon and Driscoll call for honorable
mention, as compared with two or three
other people. Fred Macdonald, as Joe, over-
acts in a part where moderation is specially
needed, and Edmund Duggan can consider
himself reproved for kicking his fellow crea-
tures in the rear. The crudest possible way
of raising a laugh is to kick anybody for
kicking’s sake, and when the kicker is an
utterly superfluous character in the play, this
method of asserting its importance seems
cruder than usual.
* * * *
Public indifference, or some such beast,
froze “The World, the Flesh and the Devil”
out of Melbourne Bijou early in its unprom-
ising career, with the result that the Cos-
grove co. last week invited inspection of
“The Magnificent Liar,” a farce of the most
tragic order. This writer went to the Bijou
to laugh, but remained for other purposes.
Derrick Mostyn is a most uninteresting liar.
For crudity the play would be hard to beat.
It opens with an English swell retailing
amorous reminiscences to his valet, and is
full of explanations, asides and conversa-
tions between servants, who attempt thus
to explain the unaccountable actions of their
employers to a fatigued house. The most
unblameworthy member of a hard-working
cast is Harry McDona. who frivols divert-
ingly as a valet pretending to be his blue-
blooded boss. Cosgrove, as the boss who
acts as valet to his valet, is laboriously
sprightly. Miss Helen Vivian, who plays a
Yankee widow, shows some glimmering of
histrionic talent, but her stage manner lacks
elegance even as her voice lacks sweetness.
The distressing incoherence of “The Magnifi-
cent Liar” is added to by the fact that an
attempt is made to get along with one
scene for the three acts, although this was
probably not intended by the author.
“BEN HURT AT MEL-
BOURNE ROYAL.
Starlight delivers a
love letter.
That severe chap ,
Arrius (the Tribune).
This is put in small type in order to get
the depressing matter over as soon as pos-
sible
The Bagged Boys’ Home was the charitable excuse
put forward by Melbourne’s Arion Operatic Society
for its latest 'outbreak. Edward German’s “Merne
England” (not previously produced in Melbourne)
was the piece chosen, and the King’s Theatre the
venue. What the programme speaks of as “the new
romantic opera,” is really 10 years old, having been
put on at the Savoy (London) in 1902. Acknowledged
as an effort in the Gilbert and Sullivan style, it falls
short of the best work of the partnership, since Basil
Hood, although a light and playful jingler, is not
quite a Gilbert. “Merrie England” is, m many
respects, an admirable piece for amateurs, but some-
times it is played by, the wrong crowd of amateurs.
The angular principals mostly insisted on muttering
their lines to the front stalls; and the chorus,
although it contained some decent voices, was lack-
ing in all the other qualities which should have gone
to justify its existence. Miss Violet Somerset acted
passably'as Jill-All-Alone,, and so used a fairly good
voice that the words of her songs were at no time
Tiidible She was a dark secret. The other laay
principals were successful in conveying the I f n P r{ ®®®°"
Pv, at they suffered from chronic discontent, and a
rush of low spirits to the head As Queen Liz Mis»
Elva Rogers spoke and sang with commendable clear
ness, bift seemed to suffer great pain throughout
George Tutton’s Walter Raleigh spent a good deal of
his time in providing a finished imitation of a B y
Skite engaged in flag signalling ; but he at least, was
not afraid of his lines being overheard by people in
[he dress-circle; and, anyhow, one can forgive much
to the discoverer of tobacco. Stanley Horwood made
a tolerably melodious and intolerably stilted Essex,
and John' Courtenay refused resolutely to take the
audience into his confidence, and spent his time m
carrying on a whispered and inward conversation
with the conductor of the large and not unacceptable
orchestra.
By “Jean Sibi” :
william H. Gill, a collector of unconsidered an-
tique goods, shows a set of interesting pictures in
the Centre Way, Collins-street, Melbourne. The sweet-
est thing on the walls is “Hazy Morning on the Maas
Holland?” a Moffatt Lindner water-color, as delicate
and inconclusive as a dream. A T ] obl ® ™ 1 ° f
rural peace is Ernest Waterflow s Mill St earn
Dorsetshire” ; and a pretty canvas, with points about
it is “Marsh Lands in Sussex, by Thomas Lloyd.
Our own active genius, Arthur Streeton, is repre-
sented by “Windsor from the Park and The Royal
Barge ” two water-colors of harmonious tones and
full of a definite, Streetonesque charm. Helleu, the
dry-point man, is represented by a head study ot a
countess —an exquisite, brainless head in a brainless
bat; while the assured art of Watt Milne is more
flaunted than shown in 10 canvases of Scottish sea
and mist. Donovan Adams has a couple of respect-
able cattle subjects; and Herbert J. Daly confronts
vou with 30 efforts, the colors of which seem to
blither to high Heaven. Probably, if his works were
translated into noise they would drown the bal.
Army band.
* * * *
Among the pictures published at Mel-
bourne Majestic on Saturday was The
Looking Blass,” a quaint tale of a female
who tries her tricks of homicide on a youth-
ful rival, and is horror-stricken at the rude
remarks which she reads on a mysterious
mirror. The villainess of the piece is alto-
gether too massive and too ornate. With
her facade of chest and gaudy raiment, she
looks like a cross between a prima donna
and a wedding cake. An exciting United
States item keeps the eye at anchor on
scenes of disorder in a corpse-strewn gulch.
The usual strips of colored film show the
growth of sweet peas and the doings at
Cowes Regatta.
** * *
“Fra Diavolo,” a photo-play in three
yells, was lately traversing the napery at
Melbourne Olympia. The aged concoction,
founded on Auber’s opera and dogged by
Auber’s unmasterly music, is a pleasure to
the multitude, though both the hero and the
villain are rather crude actors, and one of
the principal ladies ought to be slapped for
her utter inability to look her part. Stev-
enson’s “Treasure Island,” boiled down to a
flickergram, is a much worthier production.
Two good reels of scenery are “The Rapids
of Kavitch” and “Buffalo Race in Sumatra’’;
and a comedy stiffened with bellowdrama is
“A Dash Through the Clouds.” This is a
shriek anent a girl who aeroplaned to the
rescue of her devoted bloque.
The Melbourne Royal curtain will rise_ at
7.45 p.m. every evening until further notice,
and the manifestly faked chariot race,. which
results in the victory of. Ben Ilur, will con-
tinue for the same period to sound like a
boot factory in full blast. “Ben Ilur.” as
was previously remarked in this publica-
tion, is rich in spectacular effects, though
not a supreme bosliter or bobby-dazzler. But
the chariot race is not so much a spectacle
as a deafening din in which the quickness
of the noise deceives the eye. Quite a lot of
people are almost persuaded that Ben’s pair
of steeds in the treadmill race are the same
fiery four that figure in the poster pictures
by day and the stage tableau by night.
“Ami” : Have just been reading a capable lecture
by Titheradge on the principles of his craft. Tither-
adge is a brainy person, but vast intelligence is not
usually, the mark of the star actor. All agree that
Brooke’s mental outfit was of the slightest. Sullivan*
was a high-grader, but far below men who have
usually been regarded as stock, such as Titheradge
and Hoskins. Actors with strong mental endow-
ments whom I have met are Williamson, Brough,
Dot Boucicault and Atholwood, but beyond these i
cannot go far. Jefferson, mentioned by Titheradge in
his lecture, shows abundant perception in his auto-
biography. I think Titheradge has too much respect
for°the London stage. To keep in touch with it a
plaver should not be, away more than five years.
Titheradge was away 15, and when summoned back
to act Tanqueray found that he had much to un-
learn. Still, I'doubt whether he had to unlearn
anything that was good. He had become too demon-
strative, and London always underacts. Titheradge
defends the system of bringing out- whole com-
panies to Australia on the ground that the atmo-
sphere of the play is preserved. There s something
in the idea, as you may readily judge by studying
the work of the support in Asche’s “Merry Wives.
“L.S.” : A young woman is lecturing around Vic-
toria (and. possibly other parts of Australia, but I
only met her in Victoria) on Scotchbyterian mission
work in Korea, and she has one pet anecdote which
gives the show away. I heard it the other night.
She told how a native woman, who kept a hash
house and wine shop, was attracted to church through
her love of hymn-singing, Ifnd eventually was
“saved.” She was saved so much that, after con-
siderable pressure, she took her courage in both
hands, and, trusting in the Lord, gave up the sinful
wine shop, and depended on the hash house to keep
herself and her lazy Korean husband. But the Lord
didn’t stick to her, neither it seems did her mission-
ary friends, for business became so bad that her man
kicked her out and took to wife a lady who had no
prejudices about selling wine. She next tried to earn
a crust with a second-hand sewing machine, but
sweating rates took the heart out of her, though she
attended church regularly and struggled hard. In
the end, through sheer want, she ‘ took up with an-
other man, “and is now,” adds the lecturess, patheti-
cally “living in sin ; and, of course, we have been
compelled to strike off her name as one of our church
members Poor little woman! She was so cheerful
and lighthearted even in her poverty; and we still
have hopes that she will give up her sinful life and
return to us.” The smug hypocrisy of it all! These
missionaries first deprive a “cheerful and light-
hearted” young woman of her livelihood, and when,
through her devotion to their teachings, she has to
starve or “live in sin,” and chooses the latter course,
she is promptly thrown out of the church that has
ruined her life. And the church hopes that she will
yet return.
AT POVERTY POINT
“Mr. Ocky”: Titheradge’s characterisation (as a
member of the present Plimmer-Denniston Company)
of the part of the venerable Abbe, reminds me that
20 years ago—in September, 1892 —he was a great
success in the same part with the Brough-Boucicault
company. They put the piece on continuously for six
weeks to crowded audiences at the Melbourne Bijou.
In the same season he was Trimble in Pinero s
comedy, “The Times,” amongst those with him being
Cecil Ward, Dion Boucicault and Mrs.. and Robert
Brough. A' little before this he was immense as
Benedick in “Much Ado About Nothing.” Miss
Spong was Ursula. These were bright patches in a
year notable for general depression. Melbourne just
then could only properly support the Bijou and the
Princess's, whilst Sydney maintained Her Majesty s
and the Garrick. For a fortnight the Victorian city
had no theatre whatever open. Mrs. Bernard-Beere
and her company were here in that year. They
opened with “As in a Looking-glass,” which shocked;:
many people; and there was a howl of indignation
when they later on presented “Fedora,” in such a
way that'the prompter was heard almost as well as
the characters. In the middle of the last act the
curtain fell. It was whilst these players were at
the Sydney Royal that the place was destroyed by
fire As the Prince of Wales’, it had been burnt to
the ground in 1860, was re-opened three years later,
and in 1872 it blazed again. To return to ’92. At
the Princess’s, Melbourne, Miss Hilda Spong was the
heroine in “The Lost Paradise,” described as a
realistic drama, setting out some of the phases of the
struggle between capital and labor.” At that time
she was with George Rignold, who made a big stir
as Wilfred Denver in “The Silver King. The Royal
Comic Opera Co. produced “La Cigale, in which
Florence Young was the Duchess and J. C. William-
son the humorous Vanderkoopen. Maggie Moore,
Walter Bentley, G. W. Anson, J. F. Sheridan, Bland
Holt, Alfred Dampier, Martyn Hagan and 11. Shine
were among the little army of players doing their
best in this distressing year. The State-subsidised
Victorian Orchestra had gone smash in 1891.
“Vagabond”: The smartness the picture shows have
lately been displaying in getting the Melbourne rail-
way smash and the Arnst-Barry boat race on the
screens, reminds me of another piece of smartness
in which a Maoriland show scooped the pool. It was
after the King’s funeral, and this show advertised
the films to be on exhibition a full week before any
of its rivals. It was in one of the smaller towns, and
the local rag had an inspired and inspiring account
of the dash of the films across Europe and Asia, and
how the steamer picked them up and travelled like
Sheol with a banner of flame trailing from the fun-
nel, and the hull racking itself to pieces with the
velocity. I went to the show, and saw a good him
of the crowds waiting in the streets with woe in
their faces and hats in their hands, the bodies ot
different troops filing past, the Life Guards, and Lan-
cers and Bluejackets, and all the rest. There was a
long murmur of sympathy from that Maoriland
audience as the gun-carriage, bearing the coffin, hove
in view, and crawled slowly down the screen It
passed, and then, immediately after it, WALKED
KING EDWARD HIMSELF. Very few in the crowd
seemed to spot this extraordinary ghost walk, and I
might have missed it myself if I hadn’t been inter-
ested in reading the cabled newspaper accounts of
the King’s charger being led behind the coffin and
corpse, and a Highlander parading the King’s favorite
dog along on a string. And as that appears to be
about the only point of difference between a Kings
and a Queen’s funeral, and there is now a stock of
both in the picture show pigeon-holes, there is no
reason why we shouldn’t have the next King’s funeral
shown here at the same time as it is taking place in
London —or even before.
Johnson’s trains went very near to giving the up-
set to the first Sydney Tivoli matinee under the
Mclntosh management. Somewhere in the Wayback
region, where men curse the Land Tax, a goods tram,
ambling along at the Johnson pace for freight trans-
port, got in the way of the Melbourne express, and
held it up for two hours on Saturday morning. On
board that train were the plump French lady, who
modestly hides her curves in front of a magic lan-
tern, and the two young men who have got several
joints in every limb. They managed to get to their
matinee, but bad to miss a meal to do it. Only a
few weeks ago the Johnson trains delayed the start
of “The House of Temperley” at the Royal by nearly
half an hour. One of these days Johnson will hold
up a whole theatrical company as if it were mere
sheep or eggs or butter ; and as there won’t be time
to build a theatre at Moss Vale, the show will be
busted. Then the imported genius whom Commis-
sioner Harper admires, so tremendously, will earn
Sydney’s final curse. Sydney stands a lot, but it
won’t stand losing its Saturday night, show .
Racing folk would describe Mdlle. La Freya, the
Eve who dresses in collodion and colored lights at
Sydney Tivoli, as not quite ready. The shapely lady
complains that the Australian climate is too healthy,
and that vigorous exercise in this country only serves
to make the roundness rounder.
(Continued on page 36.)
THE COMIC BELIEF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night within my humble cot
I dreamt a dream of woes ;
I found myself in some strange spot
Where angels sat in rows.
I gazed upon cloud-cushioned stalls ;
The dust blew from my eyes ;
/ sat within the hallowed walls
Of the theatre, Paradise!
Upstage, a melodrama grim
That reeked of blood and strife,
Was played, to strain of harp and hymn—
The drama, “Human Life.”
The scenes passed by in lurid guise,
Replete with pain and woe;
The dewy tears from angel-eyes
Streamed down their robes of snow.
When lo ! the sobs of Heaven’s lords
Swift changed to gasps of joy ;
A strange shape bounded on the boards
And yelled out “Sin, ahoy!”
Blue glasses graced its gimlet eyes,
Funereal bands, its hat;
It roved the stage of Paradise
Denouncing This and That.
The angels’ mirth, above the chants,
Uprose in merry din ;
They jeered its walk, its baggy pants,
The whiskers on its chin!
I turned me to my neighbor white
(A fat archangel he) ;
“Who is this mummer here to-night
That rouseth you to glee?”
“Oh, ’im!” replied the angel, much
Oblivious of grammar ;
“ ’E’s wot I call the lively touch
Of this ’ere dreary drammer !
“We Hangels builds our bloomin’ play
Upon the proper plan;
’E’s wot you calls a Wowser, eh?
Well, ’E’s our Funny Man!”
VICTOIUA.
HAPPY HAROLD.


THE “D.J. SPECIAL”
TUNIC SHIRT— 4/6-
For 4/6 the D.J. Special Tunic Shirt is honestly
the best quality obtainable among moderately-priced
shirts. It is a serviceable Summer Shirt of Zephyr
or French Cambric. These materials are specially
imported, from the best manufacturers, in a wide
range of designs, including White Grounds, with
Black, Blue, Heliotrope, Grey and Pink Stripes.
Also in Darker Grounds of Grey, Green, Blue and
Fawn in assorted colored stripes. Besides the strength
and good quality of the materials, the “D.J.
Special” also depends for its remarkable durability
upon the splendid workmanship that goes into it.
It is the product of our own workers, and may be
had in sizes 14 to 17 inches neck measure, with soft
centre pleat, stiff bound cuffs, and stiff neck
band 4/6
Or 3 for 13/3
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE on all goods ex-
cept Furniture, Floor Covering, Kitchen and Hard-
ware, to any part of Australasia or the Pacific Isles.
jhk
jhk
DAVID JONES LTD.
OPP. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
lief
Kug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid
Free Sample sen* on Receipt of
Xwopenny Stamp.
Ivugelmanns Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 37- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUQELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE: Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Ricardo”: Our National Statistician
Ivnibbs has been considering the Abundant
Parent. In 1908 a mother in her 23rd year
of marriage had her 2Gth child. In the
same year a wife of 17 years bondage had
her 16th child. Another fertile or super-
numerous ancestor had her 17th child in the
21st year of her matrimony; another her
17th in the 24th year. Four mammas had
their 17th babe in the 26tli married year,
and one was blessed with her 18th in her
28th year. Also, a lady, 26 years married
and with 22 children, did a loud hurrah
THE PLAINT OF YOUNG MR.
ISAACSON.
"Vat is der use for me io make
proposals ? You
turn up your
nose at every-
ding I say.”
with twins, and made 24. That stalwart
woman, Madge Robertson (Mrs. Kendal),
was the 24th child of her parents. John
Wesley was the 15th of the same two.
There is a legend that the House of Guelph,
to which Queen Victoria belonged, was
originally Whelp, and that the family
started through a German lady having 10 or
28 or 37 children (I forget the exact num-
ber) at a birth.
Tliis fuss over Schaefer’s alleged discovery
of the cell that is the real and only dyed-in-
the-wool “origin of life” is calculated to make
one feel tired instead of rejuvenated. It is
quite a meaningless business after all, and
is merely another way of saying that some
learned fool thinks he has blundered on to
the lowest form of life. It doesn’t mean that
Man, as his Maker was said by grandmams
to have done, can take the cold, inorganic
matter, mould it to what shape He will, and
breath into it the breath of existence. It
doesn’t mean that the scientist can devise
even a new bug. He may produce a new bug
blindly, but he certainly can’t new-bug to
plan and specification. And, even if be
could, it doesn’t look as though he would be
any nearer the real secret of life —what it is
all for. So why get excited over a trifle
like discovering the lowest rung in the
ladder of life —the first step in the process
by which the Unknown Chemist at the back
of it all, or Whatever or Whoever He may
be, moves in a mysterious way his wonders
and blunders and thunders to perform?
Old Soldier writes
Curious that, in the midst of all the outcry about
the Panama Canal Bill, that has passed the U.S.
Congress, no one has yet suggested that the Canal
may never be opened. It is true that the function is
supposed to be fixed for about 18 months hence, but
who knows if it will ever come off ? An item of
cable news, circulated the other day, implies an in-
definite postponement:—
“An enormous fall of earth has occurred in the
Culebra Cut of the Panama Canal. A million tons
of gravel fell in, endangering the lives of the work-
men. The Young Men’s Christian Association build-
ing is slowly sliding into the canal.”
The second item suggests possibilities. Evidently
the million tons did not cover the whole of the slide,
since land which was considered so firm that per-
manent y.M.C.A. buildings were put on it was
gradually wandering downhill into the great, blithered
ditch. The Culebra Cut is to form, when (if ever)
it is finished, the highest part of the canal. It is an
entirely new thing to cut a canal through a main
dividing mountain range, even if it is only a baby
range. Ships will have to climb up a staircase of locks
to the Culebra Cut from one ocean, and down by
another staircase to the other ocean. If there is
orange-peel on the stairs, and the ship slips on its
trip, or if the ship slides over the banisters, or if
the walls alongside the staircase fall on the ship,
or if the stairs give way under it, and it drops into
the cellar, then things will indeed happen. Sup-
pose the top lock gives way, and a 10,000-ton vessel,
riding on the summit of a tidal wave, with a crest
of foam like all the beer that ever was, tries to take
the isthmus in two leaps and reach the ocean at the
rate of 100 miles a minute. It will be decorated
with shrieks and curses. Behind it will be the dry
canal and the earthquake and the land slide. In
front of it will be Niagara and futurity. It will
be the great episode or upside-down of history. Vit
to return to details: That landslip means that the
canal will certainly not be opened in 18 months, or
thereabouts, as proposed. The Culebra Cut is the
least advanced part of the work, and, apart from
the possibilitv of other accidents, presents the most
serious difficulties. There is one thing very certain,
that the cost of the work, when it is completed, will
be something enormous, far in excess of that of the
Suez Canal, and the cost of maintenance will be
heavy in proportion. If the return from tolls is
expected to cover interest on the cost of construction,
and pay for maintenance and administration, there
will certainly be no margin out of which to subsidise
U.S. shipping, either by means of a direct payment,
or by remitting the tolls due from U.S. ships using
the canal. To do that would make it necessary
either to impose prohibitive tolls on foreign ships,
or to run the ditch at a dead loss. Whether the
U.S. taxpayer, who is usually a bucolic person, with-
out the least interest in the sea, would stand that
sort of thing verv long, is a question. It is one
thing to be able to swank about having the biggest
and most costly ship-canal in the world, and quite
another to run it for all time at a dead loss. There
is one thing that will greatly affect the probable
bill for up-keep. Panama is in the Andean earth-
quake zone, and the work will probably be destroyed
every now and then. There is nothing more off-hand
than a Central American earthquake. It would
swallow a beadle or a J.P.
G. W. F. Paul, who describes himself as
a “medical man practising in N.S.W.” but
temporarily sojourning in London, has writ-
ten half a column in the
London Daily Chronicle
to show how much better
they manage things in the
Ma metropolis. The London
motor-buses have windows
that cannot be opened, and
some of the railway carriage
windows he tried were also
fixtures. Also, he has dis-
covered that “the London
landlady an d hotelkeeper
jealously guard their bath-
rooms as something too
sacred to be used more than
once a week.” Furthermore,
at Margate and other sea-
side resorts, he found the
beaches monopolised by bath-
ing machine proprietors, who
were permitted to charge the
public 6d. for a dip in the
ocean. Dr. Paul concludes
that as regards “pure air
and free cleanliness” Londoners are leagues
behind Sydneyites.
* * * *
Sydney’s Freeman’s Journal (5/9/T2)
prints an agreeable variation of the old ver-
miform adage:—-
The wants of wife and children, of course, leave the
mining toiler, who virtually carries his life in his
hands, no choice; but as the saying goes, “the
woman will turn.”
Of course, the paper will blame the comp,
but, really, it ought to shout for him.
PRO PATRIA.
ETHEL MAUD (witheringly): “Oh , you!
Wasn't your brother fined £5 for dodgin'
his drill?”
KATHLEEN BRIDGET (scornfully): “Yes, 'e
WAS — an' mum paid it out of our new
baby. So there!”
Consider the calmness of the present-day
Melbourne burglar—and then sav what hope
O’Callaghan’s heated minions have of coping
with him. Early in the morning of Show
Saturday, two of him stepped out smartly
to Toorak-road, South Yarra. They may
have carried revolvers, though of that there
is no evidence, but other tool or weapon
they didn’t possess. Yet, before day broke,
they had rifled a jeweller’s safe of £5OO
worth of valuables, and fled away scathless.
First, they entered a wood-dealer’s premises
and annexed a pony and light cart, in which
they drove easily to a furniture shop. Here
they commandeered and bestowed in the cart
two heavy double mattresses. From a
handy blacksmith’s they took a crowbar and
a piece of quartering, and from the South
Yarra Brick Company’s office a packet of
gelignite, some detonators and three' coils
of fuse. Then they began actual business.
The bars of a jeweller’s back window were
forced aside with the crowbar, the mat-
tresses were placed over the safe to deaden
the sound, and the gelignite was exploded
in the keyhole, the fuse allowing the pair
to retire some distance while the perform-
ance took place. The door of the safe was
blown out, and much damage was done to
the shop; also, the neighborhood was
aroused by what some people imagined was
the bursting of a motor tyre. The enter-
prising artists next bestowed the safe-full
of jewellery in the cart, and drove off to a
quiet street, where they overhauled the
stock, and threw into the garden of a repre-
sentative citizen the more Daltry of the
gauds—metal watches and the like. The
prad, being presumably dismissed without a
character at a handy corner, walked into his
owner’s yard late that morning—and that
is the end of the matter.
“Condot”: There
is a Yellow Peril
connected with
Melbourne’s Wat-
tle Day. For two
days before it hap-
pened along, the
gold was stripped
fr o m scores of
miles of landscape
around the city.
Places like Sand-
ringham. Chelten-
ham, Heidelberg.
Eltham. Lilydale
and Healesville—
all beautiful holi-
day resorts —were
ruthlessly plun-
dered. It was not
done by the Col-
lingwood toughs
or the Footscray
Heart and Arrow
push, but mostly
by well - groomed,
prosperous motor-
ists. The charity
committee which
was running Wat-
tle Day had asked
those w h o helped
to use discretion,
if they had it
about them, and to
take only small
sprays from the
trees. But a lust
of loot seized the
helpers, and, where
a tree was young
and beautiful, the
whole trunk was
taken in the name
of that charity
which covers a
multitude of van-
dalisms. There
was a special
excursion train to Hurst’s Bridge, and now
if you want a bit of wattle there you have
to search for it with a microscope. The
committee has kindled a fire which it can t
extinguish, and if Wattle Day is to happen
annually, there will be no blossom within 20
miles of Melbourne in three years. Some
deeply ignorant persons have written to the
papers to say that the pruning does the trees
good. It may be so, but taking the trunk
is not pruning; and, besides, blossom time is
not the pruning season. If anyone of these
apologists owns an orchard, he can have
it cheaply pruned when it’s in blossom by
running a charity excursion to it. By all
means let Grace Palotta and others continue
to sell their kisses to members of the Stock
Exchange at half a sov. to a guinea a time;
but leave us our wattle.
The West Melbourne railway smash hap-
pened on the Wednesday evening of Show
week, and by the following Wednesday
there had been lodged 360 separate and
distinct claims for compensation foir (in-
juries. As the Department figures that there
were some 200 persons on the two trains,
and couldn’t possibly have been more than
240, it is viewing the list with the blatant
eye of suspicion, and persons who are sus-
pected of having been elsewhere are invited
to give a detailed account of their move-
ments. The trouble, of course, is that only
persons living or having business out Coburg
way would be in the Coburg train at that
hour. Some 80 of these are accounted for.
which leaves about 240 allegedly injured in
the Show train, and the blessed contraption
didn’t carry near that number. Doubtless
these superfluous unfortunates suffered from
shock —the shock of hearing of another rail-
way disaster. But the railway bosses don’t
' pay for that sort of thing. They badly
want to collect damages from the public for
the shock of hearing of their own disaster.
ANO THER DAGO VICEORY.
THE BOTTLE-OH : “Is that the way yer kill
the Turk?”
MARIO (the patriot): “ Ah , ye-ees, I much
prefer to keel been this way in my own
back yard.”
THE HOMELESS VICEROY AND THE THREE
GENTLEMEN IN HUNTER-STREET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. A. Maearthur, lion, secretary of the citizens’ com-
mittee, formed to fight against the State Government’s
proposal to evict Lord Denman from Federal Govern-
ment House, was walking up Hunter-street when he
met three gentlemen.... They offered to pay the rent
of Government House during the balance of Lord
Denman’s term. —News item.
Three gentlemen in Hunter-street
Were strolling when they chanced to meet
A person down upon his luck ;
From house and home he’d got the chuck ;
And he was off upon the track
And swore that he would not come back.
Three gentlemen in Hunter-street
Said: “This won’t do. It is not meet.
There is a humpy that’s to let,
And it for you we’ll gladly get.
’Twill cost us something, it is true,
But maybe it will pay us, too.
“When us three gents, in Hunter-street
You chance upon your way to meet,
You must be humble, touch your hat.
We can depend on you for that?
And when you have a supper hot
You’ll notify us, will you not ? ’
These gentlemen in Hunter-street
Were very fond of things to eat;
But proudly, with a flashing eye,
The poor sundowner made reply,
“Your charity must be refused,
For we have not been introduced.”
N.S.W.
HULLO.
THE OLD MAN AND THE STORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Wind, like a lunatic ghost, goes shaking the
windows and doors,
And under, the rafters it booms like a battle-
fleet’s guns ;
It rattles and whimpers and rushes—it sighs and it
snores;
It taps with a leaf on file window, then, terrified,
runs.
D—n the Wind.
The Wind tugs and strains at my house—my obstinate
house on the hill;
It runs with crows’ feet across water and strides
over trees;
Good servant it may be for those who have white
sails to fill;
But here by the fire I curse it, and rub my inani-
mate knees.
D—n the Wind!
x.s.w.
E.O.F.


Half the
Trouble
Mrs. L. Whitney, of Enmore, Sydney,
writes :—-
“ Washing isn’t half the
troyble it used to be now I
use Sunlight Soap. I don’t
have to boil the clothes at
all, yet they look whiter and
newer than if I boiled them
for hours with the old-
fashioned kind of soap.”
‘‘And what is more, Sun-
light Soap doesn’t crinkle
and chap my hands.”
GOOD
Sunlight
LAUNDRY SOAP
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
che proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 : Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
wrrmuT oinos
rIAKtS
FINGER-
199
All
CflIH
mi
FREE
mm
91105
is
THE CREPE SHIRT FOR
TROPICAL WEAR—S/6.
Soft and cool —wearable and washable —well made and
striking in appearance—the Feapes’ Crepe Shirt
appeals to all men for Summer wear.
This season we introduce many new and attractive
stripe and self-color effects in these carefully-made
CiApe Shirts.
We make them up in two ways:—
No. I—Soft1 —Soft fronts, stiff cuffs, white linen neck-
band • 5/6
No. 2—All soft fronts, double cuffs and itnjproved soft
collar with button loop—an improvement which does
away with the necessity of using a safety pin.. 5/6
Please state size of collar and chest measurement
when ordering.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
Men’s
Outfitters
309-11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Wottleyav” : My missus got up early one
morning while most other missuses were
busy frying rashers for the old man, or
taking soup spots off his coat with benzine,
and waylaid a tramp steamer on the Yarra
to choose a cook before the immigrants
landed, The picked one seemed all right,
though dressed in deep mourning and look-
ing sad and soulful. The first night the
chops were red raw and the potatoes boiled
in their skins for three minutes with the aid
of the sand-glass my eggs are cooked with.
Susan was challenged, and honestly ad-
mitted that 'in the Cold Country she had
been, not a cook, but a coffin-trimmer! So
her a job to d 6 light sewing, and I’m
LjffiiQg on tinned asparagus and crayfish till
(he 1900 cooks arrive who are expected by
{three steamers this week.
FELLOW SUFFERERS.
Hats are not: being worn in Paris this summer.
Parasols are being used. — Daily news.
THE MILLINER: "Fashion says ‘no hats.’
Then, alas! I will be ruined.”
THE PARSON : “ Madam, is it not worse for
me? No hats to show off will mean no
congregation.” (Both weep.)
One Stefansson, an explorer of sorts, has
struck an obscure corner adjacent to Green-
land, and reports the discovery of a fair-
haired and blue-eyed tribe about 1000 strong.
They have no literature, no money, no pros-
pects, no commerce and no architecture or
tramcars, and they struggle along as best
they can with the Eskimo language, but their
Scandinavian origin is obvious. It is almost
1000 years since the first Scandinavian
settlements were established in Greenland.
Towns were built, and bishops were ap-
pointed, and even some ramshackle cathe-
drals were put up. The early Bruce
Smithjof started out so early as. that to
demonstrate that the cold countries were
the ones for the white man to flourish in,
and that the genial latitudes should be left
to niggers. But the white man never flour-
ished in the new colony of Bruce Smithjof.
The settlement was always a parasite on the
motherland, and even depended on the Gov-
ernment ships that were sent across periodi-
cally for its communication with the outer
world. It made no headway. Then the Ma
Land got into dreadful trouble, and had to
leave its dependency to shift for itself. Green-
land was handed the inestimable blessing
of freedom, and told to root up its own
dinner. For one or two or three centuries the
helping hand of Ma wasn’t extended to its
robust children who flourished in the bracing
air of the north. Then it struck someone
that the dependency hadn’t sent a postcard
lately, and an expedition went across (this
was about the time of Elizabeth of Eng-
land), carrying books, and jam, and ox-
tongue, and a gramophone, and a quantity of
new boots, and a picture show, and an egg-
whisk, and the latest newspapers, and some
rum. Also, it took a dentist lest the colony’s
back tooth might be giving trouble. And lo!
the white race had vanished and a colored
(yellow) people were in possession. The
towns were gone, the bishops were gone, the
cathedrals were as if they had never been,
and all was vanity and blubber and icebergs
and whale oil. If the present find represents
a lost remnant of the old effort to cultivate
the white man in cold climates it ought to
be carefully preserved. These 1000 fair-
haired folk should lie taught English, and
civilisation, and baths; and be brought to
the Northern Territory, and settled on the
Roper River near Borroloola, and shown the
beautiful local alligator. Poor devils! The
world owes them some compensation.
* » ■* *
A few months ago, the little collier Der-
went, wandering in Sydney Harbor, hit the
Milson’s Point ferry Kaikai in mid-channel.
There was a chorus
of screams and the
lights of the ferry .dis-
appeared. For one
awful moment the
spectators of the
night collision thought
that the long-dreaded
Harbor tragedy had
happened, a n d
that the ferry had
gone down like a crate
of fowls. But, after
all, it turned out to be
merely a narrow
escap e—one of the
rail-shattering bumps
to which careless Syd-
ney has become ac-
customed. One night
last week the same old
Derwent had a mid-
stream scuffle with
the Kaikai’s sister
boat Kulgoa ; but once
more Providence hap-
pened to be on duty,
and there were no
headlines dr funerals.
The luck holds won-
derfully well Every
yefir the harbor be-
come more and more
like a crowded ball-
room floor —a floor
which is every now
and then crossed by
iron giants, and where
Chance is the M.C.,
and Fate is the fid-
dler, and Death, very
hungry for tips, looks
after the cloakroom.
Meanwhile, in the dis-
fance,-voices are heard continuing the here-
ditary argument about the North Shore
bridge.
* * * *
Insolvency Commissioner Russell, in Ade-
laide, has been drawing attention to the reck-
less credit given by city storekepers to new
and unknown customers. A bankrupt who
came to his court and beamed upon him had
10 children, a long spell of illness and a
rush of bad times. Plis schedule showed
that he had accounts with seven drapers,
seven bakers, six butchers and 16 grocers,
besides handsome debits for photographic
enlargements. 'T'here were five infuriated
landlords and 58 creditors altogether. The
country storekeeper, who knows his “mark,”
often does really good work in nursing an
out-of-luck: household till good times come
round again; but his brother in the city is
generally fooling with the unknown when he
does the Samaritan act to a new customer.
An inquiry was held the other day in
Sydney re the turtle turning performance of
the steamer Pearl in the Clarence River.
The Pearl was a wooden publication, and in
the course of its devious navigation of the
Clarence it was run so close to a wharf that
the captain could heave a bunch of papers
and letters ashore. Without stopping it was
swerved at full speed across the stream,
and, still without stopping, it listed gently
over, lay down to it, rolled upside down and
sank with all its four hoofs in the air. It
carried about five tons of cargo, and of this
two tons were stowed on the awning deck.
The Pearl was a full bloated liner, licensed
to carry 54 passengers, though fortunately
there were only four on board on the upside
AMBIGUOUS.
SHE: “I suppose I have changed very much
since you saw me last.'”
HER : “Any change in you could not fail to
be for the better."
down trip. The Court of Inquiry found that
the trouble was caused by too much cargo
having been stacked on deck,, and that the
ark was so top heavy that the slight list
caused by putting the helm over was enough
to capsize it. The cargo was found to be
improperly stowed. At the same time * the
master’s certificate was not jumped on be-
cause he had followed a practice which was
recognised by the authorities. If this is so
then it would seem to be about time that the
authorities were taken outside and kicked
hard, and then hanged sometimes and oc-
casionally drowned. Only one man went
under in the capsize, but what might have
happened if the full complement of 54 pas-
sengers had been making the trip!
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Several applications were made the other day to
bring portions of the earliest. Sydney grants under
the Real Property Act. One is ,on Surry Hills, a
part of 105, granted to Joseph Foveaux. Another
a part of grant to William Chippendale on the estate
known by his name. Another, part of the grant to
Dr. Balmain, 550 acres in the suburb named after
the sawbones, \Vho was a very early surgeon, his
Sydney house being a little north of the old Sydney
Hospital, which was on the road, to Dawes Point.
Governor Hunter, in the year 1800, gave this grant to
Balmain, but so little did he think of it, that he
passed it on to his friend, Dr. Gilchrist, Professor
of Hindustanee at Calcutta, for 10s. Dr. Balmain
left New South Wales early last century, but his
name has remained. Another application is as to
a part of the Newington Estate, granted to John
Blaxland. The old homestead was sold to the
Methodists, and became Newington College. When
the Methodies took their college to Missenden-road.
the Government resumed Newington as a home for
venerable females, who had, before that, found shelter
in Hyde Park Barracks. Another is a little bit in
the city of Sydney, 131 perches, on Brickfield Hill,
granted a hundred years,ago to James Wilshire, on
which he built a tannery and Hellmongery. Yet
another little bit, at Newtown, is part of a grant
of 240 acres to Governor Bligh. And yet another
application concerns something under two acres in the
municipality of Smithfield and Fairfield, part of
12,300 acres granted to Samuel Marsden, John
Palmer and John Harris (in trust). The Union
Steamship Company wants to register 28i perches at
the corner of George and Grosvenor streets, part of
2 acres 2 roods and 13 perches granted to John
Jamieson. On it the large building, erected in
1833, by Samuel Lyons, auctioneer, etc., whose son,
Sam iunior, is just dead, midway between 80 and
90 years of age. John Jamieson, when “open house”
was telling upon his purse, opened up Jamieson-street
in 1831, and sold the estate in lots. An interesting
application is that concerning 71 perches in Fowler-
street, a small street running from Kent-street to Sus-
sex-street. It is part of nearly one acre granted to John
Dunmore Lang. The old doctor said that he was
obliged to sell it and other properties, to pav debts
incurred in connection with the erection of the Aus-
tralian College buildings in Jamieson-street. But how
they did throw grants about in those old days!
“N. or M.” : The Ralph Bay canal (Tas.),
which so far is only a line of pegs and an
engineer’s report, might do a lot to bring the
isolated East Coast into closer touch with
Hobart, and help the agricultural person who
grubs for a living in the soil of that region
to get his produce to market. The intended
cutting is to be from Ralph Bay eastward,
across half a mile of samphire flat, part of
which lies under water at the high spring
tides, to Frederick Henry Bay, where Tas-
man is popularly supposed to have anchored,
but didn’t. In the early days boats were over-
landed along the route of the proposed channel,
to avoid the long detour
through Storm Bay, and
the bones of the old
tramway may still be
traced on which the
craft were once run
across. The vessels used
their own sails for trac-
tion, when the wind was
fair, and were pulled by
cheap c o n v i ct-power
when it was otherwise.
The canal is to cost any-
thing from £lO,OOO to
£28,000, and in view of
the expenditure on simi-
lar works elsewhere, even
the larger amount does
not look excessive. A
glance at the map of the
Apple Island would seem
to suggest that, if the
little State were not so
frightfully hard up, an-
other very short piece of
cutting at Dunalley
might enable shipping
to run right through
from Marion Bay to
Hobart, and, by avoid-
ing the circuit of Tas-
man Peninsula, save
something like 50 miles
on every trip. Fifty
miles ought to be a big
matter in these days,
when people are sup-
posed to be in a hurry,
but Tassy is a land in
which time is one of the
cheapest articles on the
market; and the chances
are that the progressive
works, which a parish
council elsewhere would
be ready to undertake
out of its own revenues.
must wait until substantial land re-
form has made it possible for the State
Treasurer to spend a public half-crown with-
out passing the whole previous night in fast-
ing and prayer.
SALVATION’S SHEET-ANCHOR.
[For The Bulletin.] '
The following cablegram from New York appears
in the Express : “Four thousand delegates to the
International Bible Students’ Conference at Wash-
ington to-dav voted unanimously that liell-fire does
not exist.”. .It is a truth of faith that Hell does
exist.— Religious paper.
As once a peer, with sad, despairing sigh,
Prayed: “ Leave us still our old nobility!”
There now goes up the Wowsers’ bitter yell—
“ Lord, turn old Time, and give us back our Hell!”
n.s.w. O.C.C.
PRESTIGE.
FITZ-SHERBERT:
"Haw! So
you intend
taking a trip
to the old
country ?”
PUBLICAN : “Yes.”
FITZ-SHERBERT : “I say, old chap , if you don't
mind trusting me with another pint Pit
give you letters of introduction to some of
the first families in England.”
THE WARNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“So far I have eight sons and four daughters
alive,” wrote a Sydney matron, who said she was 39
years of age, “and I now want a little help. If 1
don’t get some assistance, no more increasing the
population for me. —Melbourne Herald (11/9/ 12).
I’m getting on for forty, and me fambly numbers
twelve,
And rents are rising at an awful rate,
The cost o’ living likewise, so accordingly I ups
And puts it to the Legislature straight,
That unless affairs are altered, in a monetary sense,
/ cease to do me dooty by the State.
For twenty years and upwards, like the patriot I am,
I’ve grafted for*my suff’ring country’s good;
And did I bill the Commonwealth for immigrants
supplied,
As lots of money-grubbing persons would ?
Not so. And yet I’ve given to the land which gave
me birth
What neither Reid nor Percy Hunter could.
The unenfranchised woman was a brainless sort of
type
(I mention it with sorrow and with shame),
She did her birth-rate boosting in a free and careless
way,
As though ’twas not a business, but a game.
Purblinded by convention she omitted to demand
A cash consideration for the same.
Her more enlightened sister takes a different point of
view.
In hall and hut, by sea and stream and dyke,
In cities and in hamlets she is working up a row
Whereof the world has never seen the like.
Ah Fear will stalk, and Curses fly, and —briefly—
Things will Hum
The day the Mothers’ Union goes on strike.
N.S.W.
D. B. J.


fo -Hie- 'A**** .f-e+(.« n d.+s>-e
IS ~ta be
Will "become
HCCCS
V rvs«- "Se
W«*r<A '*'*
|ondo« 4
1)o *'*''© on
V l^^sc^e-
V*e'tofo
|
/viVtonav!
5^%f e of l ° w ' s
*' - kr, ,
yHz W IN \ A" £
who >l2x4 co*v>e To /Sir —s
S:to»'i&v -farm“•./" * a= *’"2^y 3
vWjo sJargßS 4 *=*’
ffo/'tfjcy Wl nev'crsecn &
•■— in -iftei»- lives Vef'ore. CM* 1 )
y o« +sld me -ft milKltT'i <®w. 1 ’* rf "
dW me if ?c&r> TajK he>- mIS ' r /
s \\\\ /
'lke. Ve^T/AtL& ou^£ -
Tfre o°f
n 4
She AAVsVoroWK ( V|t ) \
V Cooncil v/liicli V .
\ \
ifctf \
\h**> decided *h> naye-
\x
\ dur itio'ttje of-
r n'&'jor. e ws iteW^
oP CoOr>fci(
)?=*;■ Hfe wrdviO
( ) side of Cw^oav^
y *1 m '^ Ke^c^K
y It- Cttstom
r 'to is. U -To
Su',ii<ie. lno»iec^e2Sr
h*Jt b "b”L
Why you drive,
one &k»»y rnoKe, -Alfred f
Je^Kin'.-" He galled -foo
AROUND MELBOURNE.


NIPPED IN THE BUD,
A Cold, Cough, or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
NABOB BOOT PASTE,!
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS <& WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
Marvellous Value
in Diamonds.
An illustrate n of this appears herewith.
WHY?
Choice Diamond,,
■piat.inum and loot.
£5/5/-
set in
Gold,
3 Choice Diamonds, set in
15ct. Gold, £6/6/-
We undertook some time ago an Agency that Calls for an enormous output, and we have to live
up to it —and so, to increase our already large output, we are offering Diamond Jewellery at
merely a commission on actual cost. ... ,
We are thus giving the public the benefit of our Knowledge in buying, and selling to them much
cheaper than in London. ...
We think the experiment will pay us—through the increase of Sales, and, above all, through the
securing of fiew customers.
CAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
* PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Goldfielder” : Re the term, objurgation
or title of “cow.” During the Golden Age of Cool-
gardie, someone organised a concert in Bailey-street,
which drew a large audience. All went moderately
well, until a rather faded female, with sharp shoul-
ders, came out and commenced a song, which was all
about dead roses and a dying summer. Her voice
rasped like a circular-saw, and, by the time the
first verse had been cut off, the whole place was
shaking with laughter. As her teeth bit into verse
two, the storm broke, and strong men flung them-
selves about in their chairs. Then arose the perfect
gent., very red in the face and spluttering with in-
dignation. “I say, you blokes, fair play now! Give
the cow a show !” The cow eventually got it, and
thanked him in a speech from the platform. It all
depends how you say it.
EACH FOR HIMSELF.
NEWCHUM : “ And, so you think we'll have a
drought?”
SWAGGIE: “Putty well sure of it! There
ain't a place to lubricate till we get to the
next township, an that’s 18 miles orf."
“Inchiqum” : I reckon I own the most ex-
citing farm in Australia. It is in S. Aus., near
Mount Gambier. The land seems to be the roof of a
gigantic cave. Near Mundalla, which is near me, a
huge red gum fell clean through the ceiling recently,
leaving only the top branches showing through the
roof. Doubters can call at Mundana any day, and be
led to the submerged tree by the village uipso, for
two (2) beers, or even less. It’s nothing, when
ploughing, for the sturdy yeoman to see one of his
horses suddenly sink through the earth up to its
stifle. If at any time you read of the total disap-
pearance of a tall, handsome, gentlemanly-looking
farmer, eight horses and plough, you will know
where to find the remains. Simply guide the search
party to the nearest large hole, and lower away.
“G.F.P.”; “Lawyer Bill” talks about the
value of the beef-wood tree as a guide through the
Northern Territory bush, when you happen to have
left your compass at the last pub. All gum trees are
useful in the same way. The bark is darker on the
north side, and, in the case of rough-barked trees,
the difference is very marked. Brother Binghi taught
me this years ago, and I have never found myself
at fault in the bush through trusting to it as a
guide.
* * * *
Re “S.’s” par. on brands (B. 22/S/T2) :
There is more clotted rot written and talked on this
subject by city folk than on any other in the bright
lexicon of the cow-yard—barring possibly the conser-
vation of fodder. A beast is branded primarily as
a means of identification. TEstheticism does not
enter into the question, nor are the feelings of the
marked animal considered. The whole aim of the
wielder of the iron is that the sign he paints shall
be large enough to be easily made out, and shall be
placed on a spot where it can be seen from behind,
what time its bearer is bolting for the scrub. A 2in.
brand on the shoulder or neck might be right enough
for dairy cows, whose marks may at any time be
clipped and examined with a magnifying glass. But
for station purposes it would be as useless as an egg
in Hell. As for the original registered brand being
sufficient, a man who was in the habit of buying
cattle would need a card index to enable him to
identify his property. To the breeder, who is the
man chiefly concerned, the advantages of a plain brand
far outweigh any damage to the hide, as no buyer
would give him 2d. per head more for a mob of
stores on acebunt of the situation of the signboard.
The statement that English and Japanee hides are
not branded merely proves that the art of stock-
lifting is not so far advanced in those countries as
it is here—a proposition which, in view of the
chronic indigence of the former race, and the
flaming dishonesty of the latter, I am loth to accept.
Still, the extra density of the population may ac-
count for it. A man who stole a mob of cattle in
London would have his work cut out. Even the job
Of dodging tram-cars would be a serious considera-
tion.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: In his geological discourse
on Western Victoria (B. 18/7/’l2), “Mallarapoonie”
mentions a fine sheet of water called Lake Condah.
Well, the old lake is passing the way of all fish, and
will soon be counted with the bookmaker, Adam and
the lost will, as curiosities of the past. This lake,
that was formed long before the most intellectual
orang. had given up cracking nuts, had a weak lock
on its back gate. Only a 'few chains of rocky bar-
riers prevented it emptying itself down Darlot’s
Creek to the sea. Then the days arrived in which
earth-hungry Victorians tramped over a mostly
empty State, in search of a block on which to house
the best girl. Some of the wanderers chanced on
the barriers, and demanded that the lake should
be drained and the floor cut up for settlement. As
the job provided work for sundry electors, and dis-
turbed the vested interests -of none, the Government ac-
quiesced ; and one of Australia’s few permanent sheets
of water —one that should have been made a reserve
for all time—passes out without a groan. It never
seems to have entered the skulls of the powers that
there was any other land in Western Victoria where-
on a bloke might establish his best girl and be happy
ever after. Or if it did enter the skulls afore-
mentioned, it certainly never came out again. In
consequence, hundreds of valuable insect-eating birds
will be deprived of a home, and in the future the
spud will flourish while the water subsideth, as the
Koran puts it.
* * * *
“Silas Snell” : I slept peacefully by Emu
Creek, while Mirams, my boss, and peripatetic hawker
of odds and ends, sat reading. A yell disturbed me.
In the garish moonlight I saw Mirams leaping agi-
tatedly towards the stream. “She’s gone in!” he
cried. “Help! Help!” I followed. Mirams was
half frantic. “She went in there!” He pointed to
the deep, black water below,
and dived. He came up and
yelled scandalous adjectives
at me. Shamed, I joined
him reluctantly in the
deep waters. We dived till
we were exhausted, then
Mirams explained that he
had seen a woman come to
the rock. She had stood
for a while, looking down
into the creek, then, utter-
ing a heart-broken cry, she
threw herself into the
water. We dived again, and
prospected every foot of the
waterhole, but we found no
woman. Mirams insisted he
was not in error, and threw
the saddle on Darkie. He
was going for the police at
Brahla. When he had van-
ished, I returned to bunk.
But my blankets were wet.
The boss’s blankets were
wet. Some damp black-
guard—probably the owner
of the woman's apparel and
the heart-broken cry—had
been at them on the-“way
to the centre locker under-
neath—the locker that was
Mirams’s till and strong
box. The vanishment
amounted to £47. Now I dive
for drowning females with
all my money and jewellery
in my pockets, and the entire stock of family plate
and heirlooms under my arm.
* * * *
“Pick”: What a cannibalistic horror the
fresh-water eel is to be sure! Verily it is the Solo-
mon Islander of the wilds and the gohanna of the
damp spaces of the earth. It will eat anything; from
its own brother to the cattle that die and rot in
the marshes. It is the deadliest enemy that the
wild-duck , family has to cope with. A brood of
ducklings which endeavors to cross an eel-inhabited
lagoon mostly leaves about half its members behind,
dead or dying. Some of the little downy fellows
are dragged down to reappear no more, others
struggle ashore with one Or both legs amputated. I
have seen a full-grown teal disembowelled by the
rasp-mouthed murderer, and the sportsman’s game is
frequently snapped below, by him, long before Ponto
can swim in to retrieve it. The eel, in fact, is a
far worse nark than his reptile counterpart ashore.
“Wal”: The white woman who decks her-
self out in black, and generally makes herself miser-
able when her husband departs for a better world, is
not very different from her Papuan sister. In the
„ , . , . ■ , ~ ,
Mekee district, the widow, immediately after her
husband is buried, is shut up m her house, and is
never allowed to leave it or to look upon the sun
or earth again until she takes unto herself another
husband. In the case of an old or unattractive
, . . , . ... . ,
-oman, it is simply imprisonment for life, for rarely
does any man wish to marry an ugly woman, or one
who is not young enough to work in his garden,
The custom is being badly knocked by the White
Man’s Government, but, strangely enough, the women
themselves are the greatest obstacle. They think it
a most proper thing to thus “show respect” to the
departed.
SOFT WORDS.
LADY: “You are the worst looking tramp I ever saw."
SOAPY SAM : " Madam, it is the precincts of uncommon luvliness wot makes me look so
’orribte."
LADY : “Jane, give this poor man something to eat."
“Picard”: The man who says, with
“Tamurnu” (B. 25/7/’l2) that gum-digging is a
game for those born tired is a plain catastrophe of
prevarication. Work! Why, the mere thought of
the time when I tried to gather gum makes me wish
I had never been bom at all 1 The gurnfields are
hereby given their certificate, and it is signed,
“MUD.”
*** . *
“Brass Button”: The Maoriland Marine
Department acts according to its lights; but it has
a good deal of trouble, apparently, to know just
where its lights should be. For a long time back a
new illuminant for the east coast of the North
Island has been flickering in the dim distance, and
the waters of conflict have surged round the rival
merits of Flat Point and Castle Point as the most
suitable home for it. A few months ago the Mer-
chant Service Guild, at the special request of the
Department, collected the opinions of master mar-
iners, and reported that 43 declared for Flat Point
and eight for Castle Point. Before that the Auck-
land Shipmasters’ Ass. gave a similar verdict for
Flat Point. Auckland shipmasters were in favor
of it by six to one. Wellington masters sailed in
with 48 votes for Flat Point and five for Castle
Point. ’Then the captain of the Hinemoa (which is
some sort of Government boat) gave his opinion
that Castle Point was his pick, as it was clear of
dangerous rocks, and vessels could stand in and look
at the light without danger, and could find shelter
there from sou’-west gales. Flat Point, on the other
hand, had nasty uncomfortable rocks sticking up for
miles to north and south of it. Somewhat dazed
by this reasoning, the hostile shipmasters replied
that it seemed a good reason for putting a light
there if the seascape was full of rocks that a ship
might run on, and that they thought such a light, was
intended to warn mariners to get off the grass, and
not as an invitation to come in and use the lamp to
light their pipes at. But in spite of this the Hon.
Millar approved the Castle Point site, and in the
teeth of a, gale of protest the job was started. But
now the new Minister seems \i> think that, after all,
the men who are going to depend on the light may
know something about it, and he has decided to in-
quire before going further. Anyone but a Minister
or a Marine Department might suppose that there
had already been inquiries enough.
“Gouger”: TTave found -ut the best use
for the white ant of Northern Australia. Get an
ant-bed about four feet high, dig around and into the
base . tOI L- a eou Pl e °f inches, then push like the very
devil. The cone of hard clay will topple over. Take
a sharp pjck and eareful]y chip out th P e P jnside pf the
cone, until only a shell about three inches in thick-
ness remains. Place the hollow cone on the ground,
knock off the apex, break a little door through the
b vtt, whereim to place the Are, get the thing alight,
ana there s the best oven in the back country. By
making . a horizontal slit about half-way up, a pieee
0 f galvanised iron can be inserted, and on this the
walking apparatus of the kangaroo, jumbuck or other
animal can be baked to a turn. With spuds on the
outside of the cone, and a billy on the top, you can
soon produce a feed which even G. Reid might not
if he had come a long way and had gone
without most of his meals the previous week.
“Mallarapoonie” writes of a pleasant
memory:—
A first impression stands for a lot; especially if it
is a good one, a pleasing one, and one in which a
person finds nothing but satisfaction in looking back
upon. These were the phases of my first impression
of Port Darwin years ago.
We had cleared the Vernon Islands in the early
dawn, and were lazing over the long, low, sunlit
swells that swung in from the Indian* Ocean. Melville
Island, like a long, blue smudge in the warm haze,
lay on our right. On our left the mainland, advanc-
ing and receding in cape and bay, could be discerned
under the slanting sun. A red sandstone headland,
like a smear of blood, caught the sunlight and stood
out in bold relief, lending a daub of color to the
scheme of white and blue—blue of land and sky and
sea, and white where the Tsinan trampled down the
wavelets with her bow, and left them, annihilated, in
her wake behind.
A blur of steamer smoke on the Timor Sea; a
vessel clearing the reefs off Bathurst Island; and in
an hour the Chingtu bound for Sydney from Hong
Kong, came abreast; and the Point Charles light-
house, 12 miles away, like a Heaven-pointing finger
of snowy white, stood out against the south-west haze
to point the way. By mere coincidence, their des-
tinations and their aims lying almost the width of the
world apart, these sister-vessels came abreast for one
short hour; and the soirit of virile life was there on
the warm, wide, lonely sea. A hail came over the
waters from the bridge of the southern-bound, and a
moment later her funnel began to belch the wreaths
that tell of coal being newly stoked. An engineer
trotted along our deck making to the bridge for
orders. In a moment he returned, diving down the
hatchway of the boiler-hold. For 10 miles, her sister
ship but half a length ahead, the two 4000-ton vessels
fought it out, funnel to funnel, bow to bow. And
the leeward sky was filled with trailing smoke, and
white steam snarled at the outlets of the blow-off
valves, and all the quiet sea astern was thrashed into
snowy foam. We ran in through the heads breast
and breast, and drew Tongside the jetty in driving
sheets of rain, for a summer storm had broken on the
land.
That night, when the wind veered quickly, the
Tsinan broke her moorings, fouling her sister ship,
tearing away a chain of handrails, two boats and
davits, and wrenching up some deck-plates before we
snubbed her, with light-hearted casualism, to her
berth again. All of which, viewed in the warm, wet
darkness, with the lights of the town along the cliff
above shining through the sparkling mist of rain, was
calculated to give one the impression that Darwin
was a place where they took life lightly; where
blood in the veins ran warm and free; and where
men cared nothing, so long as they knew the joy of
being alive.
THE PETROL SHEARERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On Sunday, a large, travel-stained motor-car,
loaded with shearers and their swags and billycans,
and driven by a stalwart, bronzed and coatless
chauffeur, passed through Aberdeen on the northward
journey to one of the big shearing sheds.
—Western N.S.W. newspaper item.
No more shall Bill and Jim and doe tramp down the
Lachlan side,
Nor out across the One Tree Plain their famished
horses ride.
No more shall water count for much, nor shall the
scanty “scran”
That marked the difference between a miser and a
man.
But overland to West o’ West, and further out than
that,
A motor-car shall take them —Lor! likewise Jehosha-
phat!
The runs that were a three months’ tramp a fort-
night’s riding hard
Shall hurtle by until they seem no wider than a
yard!
The poet nevermore shall write of where the hobbles
clink,
Nor yet of tanks and billabongs where weary horses-
drink.
For all that will be left to him of which to sing and
tell
Will be a speeding dust-cloud and a most prodigious
smell 1
And Doolan, of the Half-way pub, the cobwebs in it?
bar,
Shall spit across the road, and curse each swiftly-
passing car.
And when he’s sworn the last red oath, and cursed
away his breath,
He’ll sadly sit beside a keg—and drink himself to
death 1
. jef ■ ■
If Whitely King could only see! If Bourke’s dead
pioneers
Could only waken from their sleep and gaze across
the years!
And Stump, and William Cann and eo., who soon
shall pass away
With ’Tilda and the nosebag—let us hear what
you’ve to say!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


STOPPED HOURS OF MISERY.
“The excruciating pains of rheumatism have
caused me many hours of misery,” says Mrs. Jane
Pierce, 1340 Sturt Street, Ballarat, Vic. “It seemed
as though 1 would never get relief, then I started to
use Chamberlain’s Pain Balm. The first bottle
showed the merits of the Balm. Now I apply hot
fomentations, and have the Balm well rubbed in
at the first appearance of pain, and it wards off
what used to be days of misery for me.”*
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL’S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
WET FEET
often result in a heavy cold, neglect of which means
Pneumonia or Consumption. A positive preventive
of these ills is Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
Coughs and Colds. Small dose. Pleasant to take.
Every bottle guaranteed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Hunyadi
Janos
Is the Best
Natural Aperient Water
Bottled at the Springs
Used the World over
Drink on arising a wineglassful for/
INDIGESTION and '
BILIOUSNESS
Tired out—Just can’t do your housework. Take
a dose of Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract. There
is increased vitality and energy with every dose.*
jh
kjh
FOGGITT, JOKES
SHAM PATE
y la m naligiitfui p»ap*»al*a"
u«m aI hi* hail auaMtV,
■ch Im *•»«• a qMarw
nd will maka auita •
pprtumc landwickaa
nd Putter ♦©» lunch O* '
ia< •* u*ly,
laa it ia^t'»
“Occy”: Mahomed, general storekeeper,
newsagent, baker, etc., took his Black Australian
pen in hand, and wrote thus to the Immigration De-
partment : “I much surprised you not send the
white man and boy I hast for, Let me know by
Whire when they come as I cannot wate, I want a
good Bright man, Good Scholler k Sobor to de-
liver ordors, Don’t send me a Booze that Drinks, i
would not keep him. I want a good Nimble strong
fellor & honist that look after my Wellfair and one
my Costomans will be able to ounderstand strate
away.”
* * * *
“Mallarapoonie”: I agree with “Iyles I”
(B. 13/6/’l2) that the black'tracker takes a lot of
beating. Still, he has his limitations, and I have
seen him repeatedly blown out at his own, profession
by shrewd white men of the bush. Perhaps the best
human blood-hound, beagle, or follower-up of trails
extant in Australia to-day is old “Ned,” a Queens-
land-bred aboriginal who, for many years, was in
the service of the Cahill Bros., cattlemen, of the
Victoria River (N.T.). This nigger had perpetrated
some amazing feats of perspicacity, but he was
probably at his best on the occasion of a man-hunt
across the watershed of the Stirling, years agone.
A war-party of Geels, from the desert country near
the Westralian border, had crossed the divide and
descended with spears and slaughter upon the cattle
that were in Black Gin Valley. A white stockman
early discovered the signs of the depredation; and
Ned, the human sleuth-hound, was sooled upon the
trail, with a well-armed party to lend him moral
support. Taking up his task at a place where a beast
had been killed among the ranges,; Ned tracked those
natives with consummate patience: and amazing skill,
over ridge and gully, until well into the afternoon
of the third day, when the trail disappeared in a
great morass. A whole day was lost ill riding round
the swamp, searching, for the egress of the feet.
Everybody was completely baffled. Ned. himself,, sat
or an abandoned ant-heap, wrapped in silent ■m'fedtta-
tion, and gating out over the immense expanse off ,
swamp, when Hall, a member of the party, remarked
that the blighters might be- drowned. Ned looked up
with an expression meant to convey that such inane
remarks made him tired. “Blag-pfella,” he said,
“can’t drown.” Then knowledge dawned in the
black’s brain, and Ned began to suspect' things. To
the surprise of all he began riding back along the
trail to where it had passed by a grove of ti-trees.
This clump he examined with grunts of satisfaction,
pointing out where branches had been broken off.
Returning to the margin of the swamp, Ned, now
anticipating the kind of imprint that would be left,
picked up the tracks at their point of issue with
astounding cleverness, and again set off to follow
the faintest of all imaginable trails. He explained
how, in passing, the natives had plucked branches
from the clump of ti-tree, entered the swamp, and
waded across; how, laying the boughs on the margin
of the shore, they had stepped out on them, and,
where the ground was soft, had continued walking
on them, for nearly a mile; and, finally, how the
native who was in the rear always picked up the
last branch with his big toe, handing it to himself
from behind, and passing it along to be used again
in front, Presently, Ned mounted the crest of a
rocky ridge. Before him lay a wilderness of jumbled
stone, a rocky plain, trackless, naked, and harboring
no sign of living thing. At the edge of the great
stone-track he found some broken ti-tree branches
lightly cast aside. Ned sat down and rested his
tired eyes. Those terribly shrewd blackfellows had
outwitted him.
LIMITATIONS OF DEATH.
NERVOUS LADY: "Porter! How often do you
kill a passenger on this line? ”
PORTER: "Once, mum!"
“Adelaide” : Is “Sir Octopus” a humorist,
or a plain Rougemont, with his tale of toads running
to waste in South Aus. ? “With one turn of the
spade you invariably get two or three or four”;
“suburban Adelaide presents the appearance of per-
forated zinc these frosty mornings, when the toads
have just got home from the clubs”—and so on. Well,
I live in suburban Adelaide, and I handle a spade a
good deal, and I literally haven't seen a toad (or frog,
either) for some years! Gan only imagine that “Sir
O.” had just got home from a club himself, and mis-
took shell-snails for the other thing.
IT WOULDN'T LOOK WELL.
KURRAJONG JACK (to camp visitor who has come, some distance): "I'm sorry I can't ask
yer in; but, yer see, my missus ain't at home."
“McNorth”: One thing that strikes the
newcomer forcibly on Cape York (Q.) is the strange
laugh of the local jackass. This particular member
of the second storey cackling brotherhood does not
laugh like his Southern relatives, but emits a series
of yelps and barks like the ground floor dog. Large
numbers of him often perch close' together and start
a corroboree, which is soon swelled by Binghi’s de-
graded pack. Then the gins rush out and shrilly
call upon the mongrels to - desist, and 'a deafened
white man or so promises uproariously to blow the
whole bunch to blazes. At last . the foolish furore
dies away in dog yelps and bird chuckles, and the
desecrated bush resumes its solemn brooding, until
the next feathered reprobate repeats to the brethren
the story he overheard tile commercials telling as
the coach went up the hill.
*** * .
“Wal”: Many and various, dear brethren,
are the calls to worship' used by the Chadbands of
Papua to entice the, “pore benighted heathen” to
come into the fold, and put his copra money into
the collection-plate. Anything that will make a row
is welcomed. The more horrible the sound the
better. An old cow-bell is
a favorite., instrument, but
emancipated dinner - bells,
that have had an honorable
career op the island steam-
ers, are more generally used.
Such ear-destroying tortures
as cracked gongs, battered
kerosene tins, leaky frying-
pans, tin whistles and sec-
ond-hand bully tins with a
stone in ’em, are freely used.
On the coast the tired
native teachers often use an
old canoe as a tom-tom, and
this makeshift is freely
thumped by the plump wife
whenever a service is to be
held, or a fowl caught for
the visiting missionary’s
dinner. Even this list is
occasionally added to. At a
village, near Maopa, the
gospel-call is. an old empty
shell from the fort at Thurs-
day Island, the relic of some
visiting Governor’s salute,
now descended to being the
voice of a dirty, sneaking-
Cook Islander. In another
village the parasite, I should
say teacher, is the delighted
owner of an old side-drum,
which he hammers at any
old time, to the great dis-
pleasure of travelling tra-
ders, recruiters and Govern-
ment officials, who are trying to sleep through a
quiet Sunday in the rest-house.
* * * *
“Searchlight” : The twelve apostles may or
may not be filled with the devotional spirit which
has been attributed to them, but I never meet a bunch
of the birds without being reminded of the Tower of
Babel at the time the strike took place. The al-
leged apostles are really more akin to auctioneers,
and they usually form up in parties of 10, instead
of the reputed 12. As sport-spoilers they beat the
worst Stiggins who ever looked askance at love’s
young dream or at Blewrewin’s premature whisky. Try
to get near a wood-duck on a tank, and the noisy
crowd of winged nuisances will set up a Biblical
controversy that will warn the duck that Babylon is
tottering to its fall, and she will gather up her lug-
gage and flee into Egypt, like Lot taking his carpet-
bag from Sodom.
“Silas Snell” : It was a bush wedding in
a corrugated iron chapel, - built. high on props ip -a,
small, decaying, mining centre along the Goulburp.
Six rough, wooden steps led up to the chapel door,
and under the chapel were collected those guests
who could not get inside. A rough, shock-headed,
big-footed youth • was perched in each of the open
chapel windows, and there werfe three small boys on
the roof. One had a captive ring-tailed ’possum
with a cord to its hind leg. Another was beating
on the iron with a stick. Within the chapel was
packed a tribe of the farm-laboring type. The bride
and groom stood in position, and while the Methody
minister cleared his throat the congregation threw
rough banter, green quandongs and Bathurst burrs
at the contracting parties. The bride was about 18,
a large, ungainly maid, all elbows and shoulder-
blades. The groom might have been 20. He was
mostly feet and misfit garments. He was sullen,
and yapped bitter retorts at derisive friends over
his left shoulder. The ceremony had just begun to
move, when a great commotion broke out at the
door, and presently a breathless young man fought
his way to the front. “I’m agin’ it!” he bellowed.
“See, Billy, I’m dead agin’ it. Whatcher mean be
hookin’ a feller’s girl ?” He laid hands on the
giggling bride, and pulled her away. “They ain’t
goin’ to be no weddin’. Mary’s mine,” he
said. The bridegroom protested, the parson
protested, the congregation laughed and threw
more burrs at Bill. Its sympathies were with
Joe, and Joe hung on to the bride. After five
minutes fervent expostulation on the part of the
clergyman, Joe relented so far as to snort: “Well,
let him toss me for ’er, see. Let hjm toss me for
’er if he’s a man.” Joe searched wildly for copper
money in his clothes. “Let him toss me for ’er!”
he repeated furiously. “Won’t,” retorted Billy,
sullenly. “Won’t, won’t, won’t!” “Ah, go on,
Billy, be a sport,” said the winsome bride. “Won’t!”
snorted Billy. “This is my weddin’.” Joe was
utterly disgusted. He started towing Mary towards
the door. “Then there ain’t goin’ to be no weddin’,”
said he. “Fair play’s bonny play. I’m willin’ t’
toss you for ’er. If you won’t, it’s off.” Mary
hung back in the harness and dug her hoofs in the
floor. The congregation, shocked at the prospect of
losing the wedding breakfast of corned beef and
beer, intervened, and assisted the parson to tear
the bride from her captor, and restore her to her
place. Billy stood up to it once more, and the
cremony was completed. Then Mary looked com-
passionately at Joseph. “Never mind, Joey,” she
said; “you next.” Joe stayed to the wedding break-
fast. He drank five bottles of beer. “I’ll teach the
cow t’ marry my girl,” he said as he started on the
sixth bottle.
“The Hermit”: Don’t know how long it
takes an acquired habit to become an inherited in-
stinct, but' some birds in Australia and Maori land
fall into evil ways as readily as niggers take to rum
or the sons of Wowsers to sin. The kea, in the
higher regions of the Unsteady Islands, early devel-
oped a taste for the kidney fat of sheep, which taste
has giva.i it wider fame than its actual devastations
deserved. Here, in South Australia, magpies and
thrushes are taking on new habits, with the idea
of assisting the orchardist against the codlin moth.
Apple trees are generally bandaged with strips of
hessian, wound two or three times round the butts
of the trees. Recently imported thrushes have been
seen to pull these off, fly away with them to the
top of a tree, and there devour, at their leisure, all
the grubs of the apple-destroyer. Fruit-growers are
now considering the possibility of teaching the birds
ito put back the bandages they have removed.
* * * *
“Boswell”: Recently I saw the “Govern-
ment stroke,” or something of the same species. It
was at a little finicking deviation of a few chains,
on a railway line in the south of Digby Denham's
State. A decent-looking length - of hardwood required
chipping at one corner. Two men stood over it,
pointing in an interested way, and discussing pro-
cedure generally. Ah, they must have the adze.
The implement, hungry for work, lay about six feet
away. One went to fetch it, creeping up to it on
the defensive, as though it were a gohanna. He
looked round. So did his mate, and pointed to the
gully below. The man with designs on the adze
slouched across to a chap wheeling a barrow, about
30 yards away. Another confab ensued. Then he of
the barrow produced matches, one box, and handed
them to the visitor. A few puffs of smoke followed,
and then he took further interest in the adze. He
picked it up, looked all round it, and ran his thumb
gingerly over the edge. It required sharpening. The
barrow man chipped in, and down went the adze,
while the 30 paces were again negotiated to restore
the borrowed matches, which had found their way into
his hip pocket. Again the adze was overtaken, the
thumb again applied, and a steady retreat made on
the tool house for a whetstone. Slowly, slowly, the
stone was brought against the steely edge, and rubbed
backwards and forwards. The thumb again. Ah!
it's all right now. lie starts for the job again, but
on the way picks up a little square junk of cedar.
Calls his mate over, and they earnestly discuss the
knots and grain .of the wood. Two other chaps,
further along, have been struggling with a sleeper,
but have taken increasing interest in the adze. They
gradually assume the attitude of two expectant birds,
then drop their sleeper, cross over and give their
evidence about the piece of cedar. The barrow man
can contain his curiosity no longer. ■ He has been
shifting a small quantity of debris. His track lies
across good, solid earth, but he must have a sawn
plank to run his barrow on. He procures same, and,
at the Starting point generally misses the end of it
two or three times-before getting a go on. He now
saunters across and joins in the cedar disquisition.
All five point and gesticulate earnestly about it.
One takes the adze from its possessor without a
struggle* and holds it at arm’s length, with the
blade facing his forehead. Yes, the set is good, and
the edge clean. Then another looks all round. He
says something, as gallery reporters say (inaudible),
and five pipes suddenly find five hip pockets. One
gets to his barrow, two to their sleeper, and two to
the plank. One turns it on edge, the other chips
off three little flakes. A man saunters up from the
gully, and points out the destination of that plank.
He appeared much like the genus ganger.
DRY.
"Is it dry where you come from?"
“ Droy, is it! Whoy, th' very bir-r-rds thim-
silves floy backwards to kape th ’ dust out
av their eyes !!”
“B. de D.”: Tassy has lost one of its two
monopolies, viz., its Devil. Only Tattersall’s is now
left it. Perhaps a more accurate way of putting it
would be to say that as regards its alleged monopoly
of Devil, the island never had it. A Tas. Devil has
just been found in Victoria and sent to the Melb.
Zoo. Now people are uprising on all sides, who
claim that there are lots of the brutes about Werribee
Gorge and other places—in fact, they say they have
disfigured the landscape in those regions for years.
The specimen in the Zoo was found at Tooborac, 60
miles from Melbourne. It is as big as a
bulldog, provided the bulldog isn’t bigger, and
the owner of a vast head and lethal-looking
teeth. Its suit or hide is black, and it completes
the parsonical aspect of its get-up by wearing
a white collar, or choker, round its throat. It hides
in hollow logs, and comes forth, Wowser-like, in search
of its prey by night. When disturbed, it growls in
a manner suggestive of a person who has been sum-
moned for alimony.
THE DAY THROUGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the golden morning
The lit east skies,
Rich with radiant promise,
Love, are like your eyes.
In the glowing mid-day
The noon’s broad charms,
Folding all the round earth,
Love, are like your arms.
Yet, the quiet evening
Yields a nearer bliss— ,
Dew and calm and sweetness,
Love, are like your kiss.
Dawn and noon and twilight,
The world asleep, awake,
Sure were ma.de, beloved,
For love’s own sake.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


The work of conversion might
he pushed on in the good ©id
national manner.
Fireworks would be of great value in attracting
the sinner to repentance.
An»y cult
M procuring roiu.
The Pagan kite could be turned
to holy uses.
“ Lun away, lillie whi’ gai, me converted.”
But even the Chow convert uses the same
©id language when he finds that his customer
lias skipped by the light of the moon.
SALVATION AND THE CHOW.
The new General of the Sal'Army says that China is a field which awaits religious exploitation.


THE LATEST AND THE BEST
liemedy for Chest Complaints is Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs and Colds. It is effective when
all else fails. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY
THE ROYAL ROAD
TO HEALTH
15 FOUND BY
CLEMENTS
TONIC
The Rev. .T. llosking. D.D.. Minis-
ter of the Congregational Mission
Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne, writes: —
“/ suffered from Nervous Pros-
tration. Insomnia and Nervous
Headache s. 0n e bottle of
Clements Tonic put me right, and
was worth its weight in gold!”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS 8 STORES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Australia has been blessed with three particular
Joseph Cooks, and, sad to say, all three have been
members of the pious brotherhood. A Joseph Cook
who painted the c.t.y red, told lurid stories, and
raged round in a motor-car, accompanied by high-
flyers, should be about due. When the Joseph Cook
who died the other day, in the fragrance of a well-
spent life, came to Sydney, he was, apparently, the
only one of the name. Later on, another of the
designation blew in—a mere bird of passage, who
toured the pulpits, and anticipated Chapzander to the
best of his agility and opportunity. The Joseph
Cook who lately passed out, at the age of 87, was a
citizen of 63 years’ standing, and a type-snatcher by
trade. He was a freeman of the' City of London,
and his father was the proprietor of a large com-
mercial academy. Joseph arrived in Sydney in 1849,
with letters of introduction to Bishop Broughton, at
whose request he undertook the head mastership of
St. James’s school. 11l health compelled him to
abandon the kid-whacking pursuit, and he com-
menced business as a printer, publ'sher and book-
binder, at 219 George-street, which was on the corner
of Mort’s Passage. He was stationary till 1885,
when he removed to Kent-street, between Bathurst
and Liverpool streets, where he remained till 1895.
Then the honored name of Joseph Cook disappeared
from the list of printers. He lived a long while
and saw a lot of history. At the age of 13 he was
patted on the head by the Duke of Wellington, or the
Archduke Charles, or Kutusoff, or Nimrod, or Don
John of Austr a, or Alexius Comnenus, or Hannibal,
or Oliver Cromwell, or Raganath Rao or somebody,
and received that warrior’s blessing. He saw mass
meetings in connection with the repeal of the Corn
Laws in England, and in N.S.W. he saw mass meet-
ings in opposition to the landing of convicts, at
which old timers like Robert Campbell, Robert Lowe,
Henry Parkes and others kicked up much dust and
did their country some service. Mr, Cook’s remains
were buried at St. Stephen’s, Newtown. He was
twice married, and leaves a wife and five sons and
daughters to carry on the family name. As already men-
tioned, this was the first Joseph Cook. The tem-
porary evangelist was the second, but he was a mere
intermediary. And the third was the b'lious local
preacher who now J. Cooks in Federal politics.
MARY ANN IN MAORILAND.
“Nemo”: The case of James Stewart But-
ters (of Melbourne) deceased, affords an-
other example of the impermanence of
human glory. For years past he had been
living in retirement and obscurity in a small
pub between Sandringham and Blackwell.
Yet, when the stock-and-sharebroking firm
of Baillie and Butters operated in Collins-
street, Butters filled Melbourne. At a
Christmas pantomime, at the Royal, the
historical funny man, H. R. Harwood, sang
a comic song in which he told what he
wasn’t: —
I’m not (the truth I utters)
The Right Worshipful Butters,
Or his elegant Town Clerk at £9OO a year.
The town clerk was E. G. Fitzgibbon, whose
statue, in barrister’s wig and gown now
stands on St. Ivilda-road. There had been,
just then, a great row about Fitz’s remunera-
tion being raised from £750 to £9OO. I was
on the Age staff those days, and the office
was a modest sort of place in Elizabeth-
street with a pub handy next door. Every
night Butters came up, strolled into the
sub’s room, and wrote the stock and share
report for next day’s paper. He had a
kindly feeling for ink-blotters, and once,
when mayor, gave a vast alcoholic banquet
at Scott’s to all pressmen within reach. The
Butters of recent days was a less bulky and
majestic figure than the old-time personage.
Time had deposed him, and Collins-street
knew him only as the tenacious survivor of
a bygone age.
“Penman” writes :
News is to hand from Westralia of the death of
Sam Whittaker, a particularly well-known and emi-
nently able reporter. Only a few weeks ago a press
dinner was given to him in Melbourne. He began
working for nothing on a Melbourne evening paper,
the Express, one of the numerous ephemeral rivals
to the Herald, of the same type as the
Mail, Echo, World and Standard. Sam so
shook up the Herald men on the police
rounds that he was transferred to that paper
at a magnificent 15s. a week. Soon after that he
went country papering at Echuca. His next notable
show was on the Hobart Mercury. Then he joined
the Argus, and shone as best man next to Chief Wat-
terston, whom he reverenced as a deity, and the
assignment book was his Bible. His work over the
Creswick mining disaster, the wreck of the Cheviot
and the Little River railway accident, is preserved in
the office’s chronicles of glory. The staff was then
rather too exclusively shorthand, and a man was all
right if he could do minutely a Parliamentary turn.
Whittaker whipped all his contemporaries in what
the Americans term making a story of a big thing.
He was strangely eloquential and bookish in speech,
but he was a bloodhound for news when the news was
worth having, and he knew how to use it when he
got it. Left newspaper work, but went back to the
Standard as staff head, and remained till that paper
perished. Besides being a landed proprietor in
Westralia, he had some Government employ there.
His journalism seems to have ended way back. The
suicide of his wife some months ago broke him up,
and he decided at last that life wasn’t worth living
any longer, and cut it short with a gun.
Born in Adelaide, 1842, died at Narrogin
(W.A.), 1912, William Graham, a man who,
in a quiet way, did good work for his coun-
try. He was in the Adelaide railway station
telegraph office when it was the only one in
tlie State, and later he was appointed (by
the Imperial Gov-
ernment) postmas-
ter at “Eyre’s
Sandpatch,” near
Eucla. In that un-
known but neces-
sary outpost of
civilisation he kept
his end up for 25
years ! Incidentally,
he raised a family
of 10. After he
reached the age of
60 he lived on the
land in Westralia.
and he died on the
land, and now he is under the land.
Dead in England, J. G. Iveulemans, who
did the pictures—hand colored in the first
edition —for Buller’s “Birds of Maoriland.”
Buffer’s personal contribution to the orni-
thological lore of the Islands was not of
great value. Potts, Hutton and others had
a far more intimate knowledge of the fowls
of bush and seashore. But Buffer wanted a
knighthood and other ornamental trappings
to wear with the cash he had derived from
interminable Maori
law-suits, and Keule-
mans, with his stipen-
diary art, helped him
to his desire. The big
book on indigenous
feathers owes most to
its illustrations, for
the dead artist could
evolve a bird out of a
scrap of fossil, and if
it wasn’t quite the
right bird who was
there to say him nay?
Rotterdam was his
birthplace, and Rotterdam was 69 years
younger than it is now when he was born.
“Vulcan” : I hear it in the strictest pub-
licity, and on unreliable authority, that
Mrs. Attorney-General Holman goes to the
Gold Country to try the effects of the local
climate on Agent-Generalesses’ complexions.
Mrs. Jack Johnson, the white wife of the
enormous colored bruiser, has committed
suicide at Chicago, assigning utter loneli-
ness as the reason. The explanation was
probably true. The white woman who mar-
ries a black man is a thing apart. She isn’t
black, and she has given up being white. In
all the wide world she hasn’t a pal except
the other white woman who has married the
other nigger. That person is very rare, and
very hard to meet, and she may be naturally
uncongenial when she is met. And even if
she is naturally congenial the event must be
like the foregathering of two voluntary
lepers.
“H.”: How these Jews
hate one another. Curious
examples of spite in the
General Booth family. Bal-
lington Booth had a son
named William among other
things. He took legal steps
in America to have this
“William” cut out of the
name because it reminded
him of the hated progenitor,
and I believe the change was
effected. General Booth's
will distributes the money
among six of his seven tuil-
dren. Ballington, the un-
forgivable rebel, is
left out. The six
who share are
Cathe rine, Eva,
Lucy, Mari o n,
Bramwell and Her-
bert. So Catherine
and Herbert, de-
spite their seces-
sion, are forgiven
to some extent.
Herbert Booth, as
Australian Commander, built the
Melbourne Training Home and the
printing office. He put his name
on the memorial stones. By Gen-
eral Booth’s order the present
Commander, Day, had Herbert’s
name scraped off those stones. In
Century XXI. the Army may be
under the command of General
Napoleon Mahomet Smith, who
will scrape General Booth’s name
off the stones. Turn to Leviticus
xxiii, 42: “Ye shall dwell in Booths
seven days. All that are Israelites
born shall dwell in Booths.” And
Nehemiah viii, 17 : “And all the con-
gregation of them that were come
again out of the captivity n ade
Booths, and sat under the Booths.”
And Job xxvii, IS: “He buildeth
his house as a Moth, and as a Booth that
the keeper maketh.” Is this prophetic, in a
weatherboardy and ramshackle way?
“Bloggs”: Dr. Fred Watson, whom the
Australian Government has anpointed editor
of “The Historical Records of Australia,” is
.a son of one N. S. Wales M.L.C. and the son-
in-law of another. To put it another way, he
need not work unless he wants to. He is a
specialist in the X-rays treatment, and an
enthusiast on the subject of Australia’s early
history. He had charge of the Mitchell
IN THE AUSTRA-
LIAN PARLIA-
MENT.
G. FAIRBAIRN
(Vic.) is bored .
Library for a while, and was recommended
by the Public Library trustees for the job
of Librarian. However, Minister Car-
michael handed the billet to another. Wat-
son is the author of the “History of Sydney
Hospital” from 1811 to 1911; and is said
to know as much about the early days of
N. S. Wales as any other three men in Aus-
tralia. His new duties will be to collect
and preserve for the unborn Australians,
whom we are, at present, engaged in run-
ning into debt, the national records of this
great land. Eight volumes of these records
have already been completed. Dr. Watson
estimates that 16 volumes more will be re-
quired to bring the records up to date. He
is to be paid £l5O per volume.
“Chasuble,” who is The Bulletin’s tame
Retired Bishop, writes about the lhte W.
H. Judkins: —
Presumably his front names were William Henry
. (he could hardly be Wallenstein Hannibal), but no-
body seemed to know him save as “W.H.” He was
born at Coghill’s Creek, Victoria. His father was a
State school teacher, and W.H. began in that line.
He joined the Creswick Grammar School staff
(in which capacity he attended to the _ im-
mature soul and mind of Norman Lindsay),'con-
tributed to the Creswick Advertiser, and became a
Wesleyan local preacher. Afterwards he was ad-
mitted as a probationer, but did not fully bloom as
a minister till he went to Maoriland. There he
preached till his health, always shaky, sagged away.
Afterwards he Was a prominent temperance lecturer.
Returning to Melbourne, he was for a few months
on the staff of Edgar's Central Mission. A son of
Stead, the owner of the Spook Julia, visited Vic-
toria, and transferred the editorship of the Review
of Reviews to Judkins. He was. Melbourne’s strong-
est platform orator, and made one think of Robes-
pierre, with the fiery intensity of a brick-kiln, though
he never possessed Robespierre’s clothes. He made
little noise in speaking, and here he resembled the
fierce concentration of Iliginbotham in politics. He
was wildly inaccurate, and saw drunks and public
houses and racehorses in his sleep. But he was
sincere. Judkins’s preaching was entirely different
from his platforming. In the pulpit he was mellifluous,
poetic and rhetorical, with a wealth of imagery.
Good writer of a plain cast, with hardly any rhetoric.
The fun was in his name. Imagine how Dickens
would have exulted if he had seen on an obscure
London signboard: “Judkins, Greengrocer. Carpets
Beat and Dinners Punctually Attended.” Judkins
lost a kidney in his later years, just as other careless
people lose a purse or a set of parents. He would
probably have recovered if he had rested, but he
didn’t, and cancer set in. Judkins might not be a
specially picturesque figure, but amid the sufferings
of his last days he was a hero. Peace to his scanty
remains, for he was a slender scrap of a man, and
there was never enough of him to swear by.
“Setab”: B. R. Wise, in the August Lone
Hand, accuses Jamieson, who
was head of the firm of Prince,
Ogg and Co., and the original
“Calico Jimmy,” of being dead.
He isn’t. He lives, and at
Peakhurst, if, indeed, one can
be said to live at a place like
Peakhurst.
THE SUNKEN FISCAL ISSUE.
Joyce Brothers, who own cotton mills at East
Ipswich, have endeavored to induce the Australian
Government to afford them sufficient tariff protection
to carry on successfully the cotton industry in
Queensland. The Government turned a deaf ear to
their proposals, and the firm decided to close down
the mills. Forty employees received no'tice.
H-Daily paper.
During the last year manufacturers in 126 indus-
tries asked for increased import forties. It was de-
cided to give no increased Protection to any Aus-
tralian industry during the present session.
-—Daily paper.
Tudor: “Tariff be blowed; my chief concern
is the workers . ”
Manufacturer :• “Why not give a little
attention to the out o' workers l"
Dr. Chappie, lately of Wellington, Maori-
land, has been speaking the praises of the
trained nurses of his native land in the cold
ear of the British Parliament. This enthu-
siast was an Otago boy, son of John Cole
Chappie, a farmer who, 20 years ago, con-
tributed more signed matter to the press
than any half-dozen regular journalists. Dr.
Chappie secured his medical degree, fixed
himself in the windy metropolis, and divided
his attention between- healing the sick and
successful speculation. In between times he
denounced drink with a terrible voice. He
tried for Parliament at a by-election, and
secured the Tuapeka seat, once held by Vin-
cent Pyke and Scobie Mackenzie. At the
general election, which followed six months
later, he was bumped violently out, and in
disgust he went to Scotland, and was elected
in the Liberal interest for Sterlingshire.
Chappie says that the Maoriland nurse is
something extra in the way of a ministering
Gamp. She may be, but her salary isn’t
commensurate.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant writes
a belated sort of send-off: —
Amongst the gone-over late last month was Wil-
liam. Stutt, who was connected with Victorian poli-
tics nearly half a century ago. He was an Ulster
man, and was horn somewhere in the County
of Fermanagh, 85 years ago. lie was brought
up to his father’s trade of miller, but at 18
entered the Irish Constabulary at Armagh, and
bobbied until he was 21. Then, with his family, he
emigrated to Canada, arriving at Toronto in 1842,
where he became connected with paper mills. In
1853 he arrived at Melbourne, where he found no
paper mills, so he tried gold-digging, but dug little
gold. In Geelong he engaged in the produce busi-
ness, having drays carrying victual for man and
beast, to Ballarat. He made money, and bought at
£7 an acre a farm at Indented Head, the spot
whereon John Batman first settled. Next he gave up
the farm and became agent for Captain Cole’s line
of steamers at St. Leonards. This writer knew Mr.
Stutt first when he became the licensee of the City
Buffet in 1862. While pubbing on this site he was
elected member for South Grant (1807). Graham
Berry was among the defeated candidates. (Berry
had broken away from the McCulloch Ministry be-
cause it borrowed money from the London Chartered
Bank to pay the public creditors during the Darling
deadlock.) At the next election Stutt was also re-
turned, having Peter Lalor as colleague. In 1871 he
was defeated, and threw up poli tics, for which he had
no aptitude. The City Buffet became the head-
quarters of a certain dry section of country mem-
bers, but in the ’7o's Mr. Stutt removed to the big
house on the N.E. corner of Bourke and Russell
streets, known as The Australia Felix, which he re-
christened “Stutt’s.” The dry country members fol-
lowed him to the new address. Stutt died in the
full and blessed possession of a free railway pass, he
having been in the House in days when there was no
payment—only perquisites.
NO CHANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We cannot look for any comprehensive change in
the matter of borrowing during the present session.
—Maoriland paper.
We cannot look for comprehensive change,
The game must needs be played from year to year
Just as old Vogel played it in the dear,
Dead lopg ago, when Cohen’s doors were strange
And faltering statecraft went with footstep slow,
A matter of some- thousands to arrange,
All careless how the habit yet might grow.
Atkinson tried to run the ship of State
Mostly on nothing. Loth was he to tax
The holder of fat acres, but- his axe
Smote down the hungry person at the gate,
Till Ballance came, with strong, Clean hands to set
For one brief moment all things fairly straight,
And bring the people in out of the wet.
Seddon began the old, fool game anew.
Year by swift year a stream of cash outpoured,
And as his larger reputation soared
The debtor burden of the country grew.
It was a smiling Cohen in his day
Who gathered in the numerous lOU,
And sped the spendthrift country on her way.
Ward grasped the reins, and, with untiring zeal
Followed along the easy primrose road,
Heedless of wrath to come he swelled the load
Until the public ass began to feel,
Scornful of smaller deeds and cheaper fears,
He drove on debt ward with a flying wheel,
Raising his twenty millions in four years.
It was a splendid time, replete with cash,
Things hummed, and everybody tried to smile,
Abe Cohen parted in the same old style,
While cheques were melted with a steady splash.
’Twas passing pleasant, but it scarce could last,
And some there were who talked about a smash
Worse than the gentle earthquakes of the past.
Now Massey rules, but comprehensive change
Can scarce be looked for at this time of day.
There really seems no other game to play,
And nothing anybody can arrange,
Save that financiers with their utmost skill,
By wily methods devious and strange,
Should borrow more to pay the interest bill.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


S3
A
V
r'
m
A
6s
r>
I
man
:.‘-S
',/■ ,' -■ ;
iti-y*
V
NJ
1
A
!5§£s
“ Hello ! Is that your Gowing Suit ? How much ? ”
“ Only Th ree Guineas, and they send all over Australia carriage free ! You drop them a
postcard, and they’ll send you patterns and self-measurement form, also geneial
catalogue containing 120 pages of Men’s and Boys Wear.
GO
I N G BROS.,
486, 488 & 490 George Street; and 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney,
ALL ORDERS CARRIAGE PAID.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO . PROP. LTD .
465 Collins St., Melbourne•
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. Government still struggles
along with its Gas Bill. As was the ease with its
wonderful Income Tax measure, it gives the impres-
sion that it started in haste without due considera-
tion of its plans, and didn’t quite know what its
device was loaded with. The original idea, as it ap-
plied to the Sydney Gas Co., was that a 4 p.c. divi-
dend should be allowed on the nominal paid-up capi-
tal, provided gas was sold at 3s. 9d. per 1000 ft. ;
5 p.c. if gas was sold at 3s. fd. ; 6 p.c. at 3s. Id. ;
7 p.c. at 2s. 9d. ; 8 p.c. at 2s. 5d.; 9 p.c. at 2s. Id. ;
and so on till the co. could be authorised to pay 15
p.c. if it sold gas at Id. per 1000 ft. ; and 16 p.c.
if it gave the gas away and also made the con-
sumer a present of 3d. A great deal was said to the
effect that the Bill ran on the same lines as the
British law. But it was really much more drastic as
a mere matters of figures, and when allowance is
made for the high wages that the gas concern pays
iff Australia as compared with English rates, it
looked, as compared with English conditions, like
wholesale destruction. Already there is a demand
for higher wages in the gas trade, which would make
it still more difficult to greatly reduce the price of
gas, yet if the price of gas isn’t greatly lowered, gas
shares will pay very little better than Government
securities. All this was pointed out so often that
the Government began to compromise. It compro-
mised until at last it was arranged that, with gas
at 3s. 3d. per 1000 ft., the Sydney Co. might pay a 10
p.c. dividend; whereas, under the original pronosa.l,
the figure would have been about 5J p.c. That is
how things stand at time of writing.
Meanwhile, another curious point has arisen. The
Bill provides that dividends are to be reckoned on
nominal paid-up capital only. Now, nominal paid-
up capital is a chancy animal. In one co. it may
be simply the amount which the shareholders put
up, and in that case a nominal (say) 6 p.c. dividend
is really 6 p.c. Another company may have paid up
half its nominal capital by capitalising reserves, and
a nominal 6 p.c. may be really 12 p.c. A third
may have issued shares at a large premium and car-
ried the premium to reserves, and a nominal 6 p.c.
may be only 5 p.c., or 4 p.c. on the money which
the shareholders actually supplied. These discrepan-
cies would be avoided if the legal standard dividend,
whatever it might be, was calculated on the paid
capital and the present reserves. But that wasn’t
done. Out of this muddle or discrepancy a compli-
cated set of circumstances was evolved. It became
the immediate interest of every N.S.W. gas co. to
transfer its reserves to capital, either by using them
to pay up the amount uncalled on existing shares, or
by issuing new shares, making a present of them to
the old shareholders, and paying for them out of the
reserves. If, for example, 4 p.c. was fixed as the,
maximum dividend, with gas at 3s. 9d. per 1000 ft.,
a co. with £ 50,000 capital and £ 50,000 reserve
funds, which sold gas at 3s. 9d., could only give its
shareholders £2OOO a year in dividends. But if
that co. hurriedly turned itself into a concern with
£lOO,OOO capital, and no reserve funds, it could
give its shareholders £4OOO a year, and they would
be getting 8 p.c. on the money they actually put
up. The companies that are working under the
simple Companies Act can do this sort of transforma-
tion with ease and rapidity. They can do it with
such velocity that they hope to arrive in time to
collect the increased dividend. The City of New-
castle Gas Co. is hastily arranging to double its
capital out of reserves, which will turn a nominal 5
p.c. dividend into a real 10 p.c., or a nominal 10
p.c. into a real 20 p.c. The North Shore Gas Co.
(Sydney) proposes to present its shareholders with
105,000 new shares, paid up to 15s. each, and to pay
the 15s. out of reserves, so that nearly £BO,OOO of
money, which wouldn’t otherwise carry dividends,
may become dividend-earning. Other companies ;are
hurrying into the same line of business. But the
wretched Sydney Gas Co. can’t do this sort of thing-.
It works under a lumbering, but dignified, special
Act of Parliament of its own —a megatherium sort
of thing which requires acres of clear space to turn
round in. The co. stuck to its special Act as a
matter of pride and distinction, and now the thing
has turned and bitten it. It can’t transfer its re-
serves to capital, and thus put itself on a good
wicket without another special Act of Parliament,
and it hasn’t a ghost of a chance to get that new
Act in time unless the Upper House reiects the Gas
Bill. If the measure goes straight through as it
stands, it seems likely that, where it provides the
Sydney Gas Co. with a 10 p.c. dividend, it will pro-
vide some of that concern's lighter-heeled contempor-
aries with a great deal more, purely by reason of
their activity in transferring reserves to capital
while their mammoth relative was bogged in its
special and dignified legislative enactment, and was
trying .vainly to turn round. Probably something
will be done at the eleventh hour to put this matter
straight, but it is regrettable such a simple business
should require doing at the eleventh hour.
The Victoria General Insurance and
Guarantee Co. (Melbourne) :
Added to
June, Profits. Dividends. Re erves. Reserves.
1901 .. £4741 20 p.c. = £4OOO £741 £11,979
1902 .. 4301 20 „ ~ 4000 301 12,280
1903 .. 3957 20 ~ „ 4000 12,237
1904 .. 3736 '2O ~,, 4000 11,973
1905 .. 3334 15 ~ „ 3000 334 12.307
1906 .. 3534 15 ~,, 3000 534 12,841
1907 .. 3845 15 ~ ~ 3000 845 13,686
1908 .. 4216 20 ~ ~ 4000 216 13,902
1909 .. 3340 15 ~ „ 3000 340 14,242
1910 .. 2799 10 ~ ~ 2000 799 15,041
Reinsurance fund disclosed .. 2161 17.202
1911 .. 3971 15 p.c. = 3000 971 18,173
1912 .. 2685 10 „„ 20'0 685 18,^58
This institution ought to take a new name, and call
itself the Lost Opportunity. It is 24 years old,
being one of the concerns formed out of the old
Victoria Life and General Co., when that aged and
honorable affair re-constructed itself, and split up,
and decided to let its old-established life business
die a natural death. There was absolutely no need
to let the Victoria Life business die a natural death ;
the success of the Citizens’ Co. of Sydney has shown
that there is still abundant room in Australia for a
proprietary life assurance co. if there are live men
at the head of it. Apparently, there were placid,
easy-going men at the head of the Victoria Life, and
they decided to abandon the field to the mutual
offices, and perish gradually so far as one branch
of their industry was concerned. And when they
formed their fire and guarantee and miscellaneous
business into two separate companies, the same rich
sluggishness seemed to haunt them. The Victoria
General, starting with the prestige of the old Vic-
toria behind it, had better prospects than the
Colonial Mutual Fire, but having a lingering com-
plaint in its feet it lagged behind, and now the
Colonial Mutual Fire does just about 24 times the
business. The Victoria General is getting its re-
ward. It could hardly avoid making profits con-
sidering the prestige with which it started, but its
dividend is only half what it was. Also, the above
table covers 12 years’ work, and in all the 12 years
the present year's profits are the lowest. Some other
signs of decadence are shown in the following
table: —
Pre- Ex- Expanse Loss
niiums. penses. Losses. Rate. Rale.
1900.. £11,324 £2861 £6387 25'4 p.c. 56 4 p c.
1905.. 6,443 2973 1429 31'5 „ 469 ~
1908 . 8,971 2783 3331 31T „ 37'1 „
1909.. 8,648 2843 3805 329 „ 44'0 ~
1910.. 7,324 2007 3814 27’3 „ 52'0 „
1911.. 8,127 1920 3521 26"6 ~ 43‘3 ~
1912.. 8,125 1920 4523 23'6 ~ 55'7 ~
The tendency of the premium income is down-
ward. The tendency of tbe loss. rate at present
is upward. Perhaps the prestige with which the co.
started is wearing out, and it is getting a poorer
class of business.
Incidentally, something else seems to be wearing
out, as witness the following table: —
Declared Income
from In-
visible Reserves, terest and Rents.
1901 .. ..£11,979 £1122
1902 . . . . 12,280 1285
1903 .. .. 12,237 1239
1904 .. .. 11,973 1225
1905 .. .. 12,307 1293
1906 .. .. 12,841 1343
1907 .. .. 13,686 1219
1908 .. .. 13,902 1359
1909 .. .. 14,242 1341
1910 . . . . 15,041 1296
1911 .. .. 18,173 1287
1912 .., .. 18,858 1002
The reserves are apparently increasing, but the in-
come derived from them apparently isn't. Possibly
tile nature of the investments; is responsible, in 1908,
the assets were set down at £41,341, out of which
“real estate at book values” stood for £9684. In
1912 the assets represented £41,147, which was an
actual reduction ; yet “real estate at book values”
stood for £21,211, which was an enormous increase.
It can hardly be supposed that a company with a
fading premium income required so much extra pre-
mises to do its business in, so the explanation must
apparently lie in some other direction. The point of
real importance is that there is one item among the
assets which is set down at “book values” (other
things are put in “at cost”); and book values are
any values that are put in a book. They may be
above real values or below. This “book values”
item stood, in 1908, for less than one-fourth of the
assets, whereas now it stands for more than one-
half. And with the increase of this “book values”
item the revenue from investments has diminished.
The Victoria General has four directors—three
Millers and a Hyland. It has had the same four for
eight years. The three Millers used to hang out at
the same address, but they have varied things a
little, for now only two hang out at the same ad-
dress. They are all described as “Gentleman.” It
looks like a pleasant family party. Perhaps if the
co. could get three hustlers and an insomnia patient
on its directorate it might do better. It is an affair
which started with large pretensions—nominal capi-
tal is £1,000,000, of which £20,000 is paid up and
£980,000 isn’t —but it never quite lived up to these
pretensions. There is no visible reason why it
shouldn’t be one of the biggest offices of its kind in
Australasia, and perhaps it might be if it were less
mild and gentlemanly. And, considering the lament-
able amount of money which goes out of this country
to pay premiums to English insurance companies, it
seems a pity that so good an opportunity of keeping
some of these premiums in the country should be
missed.
* * * *
The Adelaide Steamship Co: —
N et To Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
19 d ..£47,041 5 p.c. = £25,359 £21,682 £21,682
1902 .. 91,329 10 „ „ 50,718 40,611 62,u93
June,
19 )3 .. 94,978 9J „ „ 50,718 44,260 106,553
1904 .. 86,104 10 ~ „ 50,718 35,386 141,939
1905 .. 86,998 10 „ ~ 5", 718 36,280 178,219
19)6 .. 76,307 10 ~ ~ 5 »,718 25,589 203,808
1907 . . 83,890 10 ~ ~ 50,718 33,172 236,980
1908 .. 82,850 10 „ ~ 50,718 32,132 269,112
£202,870 transferred to capital 66,242
1909 ..- 84,112 10 p.c. = 62,129 21,983 88,225
1910 . 85.462 10 „ ~ 71,004 14,458 102,683
1911 .. 67,221 10 „ „ 71,004 98,900
1912 .. 51,852 8 „ ~ 56,804 93,948
The net profits are the lowest shown for a long
while, and the dividend has been reduced for the
first time since 1903. Yet a bite has been taken out
of the reserves, which is the second consecutive
annual bite. The cause of the trouble is twofold—-
the decline in the earnings and the misfortunes
which are eating into the insurance account. The
co. has three reserves —-insurance account ( „ 10,000) ;
repairs and renewals account ( £80,000), and a
scrap of undivided profit ( £3948). The insurance
account i£ a good reserve so long as steamers are
not lost or damaged. The repairs and renewals ac-
count is a good reserve, assuming that it is wholly
a provision for depreciation that may happen in the
future, and not in part an alio vance for depri ciation
that has happened already. The scrap of undivided
profit is, presumably, good at all times and under all
circumstances. In iffoB the insurance account stood
at £144,000, and the repairs and renewals account
at £121,000 (total £265,000). But when £202,870
was transferred to capital, these figures became
greatly reduced. The later conditions have been
variable. Since June, 1910, the repairs and renewal
fund has increased by £ffB46 (from £70,154 to
£80,000), while the insurance account has dimin-
ished by £20.866 (from £30,866 to £10,000). It
is 11 years since it was down so low.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. has had only moder-
ate luck of late years. Some recent records in the
annual reports read as follows: —
May, 1902: “Your directors regret to renort tbe
total loss of the s.s. Franklin at Port Malcolm
(W.A.) through striking an 'uncharted rock....
Accidents of a less serious nature occurred....”
June, 1903: “Your directors have to report the
loss of the s.s. Karaweera, in July of last year,
through stranding in the Fitzroy River.... The Min-
taro grounded in Moreton 8ay.... Other minor ac-
cidents occurred.”
June, 1904: “The Bullarra.... struck an unchar-
ted rock. .. .and s stained considerable damage....
Several minor accidents....”
June, 19.05: “The Croydon struck a reef... .and
was abandoned... .the Albany was wrecked on the
coast of N.S W ”
June, 1907: “The Willyama was totally wrecked.
. .. .Minor accidents. ...”
June, 1909: “The launches White Heather and
Claude were run into and sunk..,.”
June, 1911: “Your directors have to report with
deep regret the loss of the Yongala. .. .The small
steamer Kepler was sunk at her moorings at Hope-
toun during a gale. . . .and the Colac stranded near
Derby.... Both vessels are total wrecks. The Flin-
ders caught fire. ...”
June, 1912: “Your directors regret to record the
total loss of the Itoombana. .. . ”
The eo. fishes for its dividend in many troubled
and badlv charted waters, and trouble is, natur-
ally, a thing that can’t be avoided. Still, it is doing
splendidly so far as the capital originally put up is
concerned. In 1900 the old co. had £237.935 of
formal reserves and a respectable profit and loss bal-
ance. It reconstructed and transferred almost all
its reserves to capital. It transferred, as already-
mentioned, another £202,870 of reserves to capital
in 1908. So the 8 p.c. dividend on nominal capital
is something very large on the capital actually put up
by the shareholders. It may be a question, how-
ever, now that the glory has somewhat departed or
suspended, whether the dividend isn't too lavish, and
whether the co. isn’t trading too closely up to its
means. In this matter the following figures are
worth consideration :
1907. 1912.
Liabilities (unused tickets and
sundry creditors) .. .. £54,240 £331,214
Liquid assets (freights, wharf-
age, cash, bills, debts, agents’
ba.ances) . . . . . . 173,282 104,795
Surplus assets .. .. ..£119,042
Surplus liabilities . . . . £226,419
Between 1907 and 1912 the book value of fleet,
plant, freehold, wharves and “shares in other com-
panies,” rose from £599,761 to £998,164, an in-
crease of £398,403, and as liquid assets may be
said to have gone to the bad by £345,461, one thing
about balances the other. But though the position
may be sound enough at bottom —-that depends
largely on whether the amounts written off for de-
preciation have, or have not, been sufficient —the
£331,214 of floating liabilities looks like a mighty
burden. Also, the facts that, for two years in suc-
cession, the profits have been distinctly on the down
grade ; that they are now less than in any year since
1901 ; and that twice running the reserve funds have
been drawn upon, suggest that this is a time for
caution. A 5 p.c. dividend would probably have
been a fa r thing in the circumstances. Even that
would be an abundant return on the amount which
the shareholders actually put up, and a little econ-
omy would help to shift the mass of liabilities. The
boom lacks a good deal of its old robustness, and
the co. with a mass of liabilities pi ay have cause in
a very few years to feel sorry for itself.
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co.(Syd-
ney) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £5,516 6p.c. = £6oho £28,245
June, 1904.. 7,438 6 ~ ~ 6000 £1,438 29,683
Dec., 1904.. 5,685 { g ” ” ‘gl} 435 30,118
June, 1905.. 6,102{ g ” » 852 30,970
Dec., 1905.. 5,879 '6 ” 6000 30,849
June, 1906.. 5,382 6 ~ ~ 6000 30,231
Dec., 1906.. 9,650 6 „ „ 6000 3,650 33,381
June. 1907.. 9,375 « 6 „ ~ 6000 3,375 37,256
Dec., 1907.. 7,774 6 ~ „ 6000 1,774 39,030
June, 1908.. 9,710 6 „ ~ 6000 3,710 42,740
Dec., 1908.. 8,326 6 ~ „ 6000 2,326 45,(66
June, 1909.. 7,327 6 „„ 6000 1,327 46,31-8
Dec., 1909.. 7,200 6 ~ „ 6i 00 1,200 47,513
June,l9lo.. 7,542 6 ~ ~ 6000 1,542 49,135
Dec., 1910.. 10,984 6 „ ~ 6000 4,984 54,119
June,l9ll.. 13,131 6 „ „ 6000 7,131 61,250
Internal reserves disclosed .. 25,903 87,153
Dec., 1911.. 10,051 6 p.c. = 6000 4,051 91,204
Reserves transferred lo capital, £36,971 54,233
June, 1912.. 10,560 6 p.c. = 8056 2,504 56,737
This company represents in all his glory the bloated
manufacturer—the scoundrel who employs Australian
workmen at white men s wages, and uses, as far as
possible, Australian material —whom the Labor party
watches so earnestly, lest he should rise up and
swallow the earth. (Curiously enough, the low wage
importer, who brings cheap nigger goods into the
country, is hardly watched at all.) Mort’s Dock
has great luck in one way, for it does an immense
business in ships’ repairs, and repairs and postholes
and ferry-trips are almost the only things which
can’t be imported. Nevertheless, it hasn’t rioted in
gigantic profits.' Through the greater part of its
long life it struggled along with a dividend which
the importer would despise, and despite the capital-
isation of part of the reserves, it isn’t doing so well
even now as the majority of the big foreign trading
concerns. It is an exceedingly solid and well-man-
aged affair, but the profits aren’t uproarious. There
should be a huge shipbuilding business attached, but
there isn’t. This country imports its ships.
Some records of 10 years’ progress follow: —
June, 1902. June, 1912.
Property and plant .. £377,797 £400,502
Cash and other assets . . 21,319 79,538
Total assets .. £399,116 £480,040
Less liabilities .. 166,399 153,767
Net assets .. £232,717 £326,273
The co. still owes £123,575 to debenture holders,
and this load is being shifted very gradually. Ten
years ago the amount stood at £150,000. The. in-
terest payable to the debenture folk isn’t enormous,
but it represents a first bite in good: times or bad.
Dividends may be cut down in periods of stress, but
the debenture interest goeth on for ever. Therefore
it will be a good thing when this incubus is re-
moved off the premises.
Tooiieys, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney :
In Reduc-
Net tion of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
July, 1905.. £11,842 4 p.c. =£l 1,000 £842 £59.661
Jan., 1906 . 9,930 4 ~ ~ 11,000 60,731
Reserve fumls(£lB,ooo)wiitien off; capital
wri tt-ii do n frmn £550,' 0o to £400,000
(goodwill reduced to £22,5 (»), leaving . 16,231
July, 1906.. 12,128 5 p.c.= 10,000 2,128 14,103
Jan., 1007.. 11,528 5 ~ „ 10,000 1,528 12,575
July, 19u7.. 13,471 5 „ „ 10,000 3,471 9,1 4
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Jan., 1908.. 19,964 5 „,, 10,000 9,964 860
Julv, 1008.. 13,977 5 ~ ~ 10,000 3,977 4,837*
Jan., 19''9.. 18,796 5 ~ ~ 10,0"0 8,796 13,633
Julv, 1909.. 17,545 5 ~ ~ 10,000 7,545 21,178
Jan., 1910.. 19,91! 5 ~ ~ 10,000 9.911 31.0-9
Julv, 1910.. 20,025 6 „ „ 12.000 8,025 39,114
Jan., 1911.. 22,756 6 ~ ~ 12,000 10,756 49,870
July, 1911.. 20,398 6 ~ „ 12,000 8,398 58,- 68
Jan., 1912.. 26,867 7 ~ ~ 14,000 12,867' 71,135
July, 1912.. 24,086 7 „., 14.000 10,086 81,221
In these days of improved wages, low tariff, gigantic
imports, great gold exports, diminishing gold yield,
scarce money and premonitory slump, quite a number
of institutions record that the profits are not quite
all that they were. Tooheys, which reached a sort
of pinnacle six months ago, is one of them, but it
isn’t a bad specimen by any means. It is on a good
wicket, even though the wicket may be crumbling a
little. This co. has never been quite so gorgeous as
it seemed, inasmuch as it started with a paid-up
capital of £550,000, and, finding, almost immedi-
ately after it was born, that it had over-estimated its
chances, it wrote off £150,000 as lost. Therefore,
on the original capital the dividends were really £4
p.c. (one year) ; £3 12s. 9d. p.c. (four years) ;
£4 7s. 3d. p.c. (14 years) ; and £5 Is. lOd. (one
year). The concern looks solid, but the profits
which the original shareholders made out of it were
not big enough to call for mad applause. There
are Government securities which yield more.
The goodwill item has been wholly written off, or
rather, goodwill stands among the assets for £22,500,
and “reserve against goodwill” stands for exactly the
same amount among the liabilities. It is a super-
fluous sort of way of doing things, and it would he
much more simple to write off both items. The eo.
has no investments whatsoever outside its business,
and the one liquid asset is “Gash, £9853.” As com-
pared with pfevious half-years the most notable
advance has been in working expenses (management,
excise, maintenance, wages, salaries, directors’ and
auditors’ fees). This item has moved as follows:
July, 1910 .. £31,914 I Jan., 1912 .. £42,375
Jan., 1911 .. 36,107 July, 1912 .. 43,588
July, 1911 .. 35,974 |
The gross profits, apart from rents and interest,
dropped from £65,029 at January, 1912, to £62,445
at July, 1912, and as this fall in beer was accom-
panied by a rise in the cost of making and selling
beer, the profits naturally suffered a little.
The only further details of importance are these: —
Jan., July, July,
1907. 1911. 1912.
Liabilities, less cash ..£43,539 £44,596 £57,502
Breweries, hotels, etc... 331,250 347,475 368,237
Stocks 32,721 72,703 86,109
Book debts . . . . 101,993 121,187 134,877
Gross profits on brew-
ings, etc 36,395 52,291 62,446
Rent and interest . . 7,036 8,082 9,229
Management, wages and
charges 29,403 35,974 43,588
Beer is a precarious business; still this co. has evi-
dently been growing stronger until quite recently.
Whether it is still growing stronger is not absolutely
certain. The present is a sort of backwash period,
and the country is awaiting developments.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. (Syd-
ney) was formed about the middle of 1909, to make
and sell certain wood pipes. The deficit to begin
with represented patents and other goodwill items,
plus preliminary exes.:—
Towards
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
July, 1909.. . £7462
Dec., 1909.. £415 Nil 416 7047
Loss.
June, 1910.. 19 Nil 7066
Goodwill items, £36 .. 7102
Profits.
Dec., 1910.. 1830 10p.c = £B9B 932 6170
Goodwill items, £ll .. 6181
June,l9ll.. 2447 lOp.c. = 1085 1362 4819
Goodwill items, £2B .. 4847
Deo., 1911.. 1592 lOp.c. = 1370 222 4625
June, 1912.. 3221 10 ~,,1500 1721 2904
This co. has had an extremely successful half-year.
Its biggest completed undertaking to date is the
newly-opened Narrabeen water-supply, the whole of
which was constructed with the wood-pipes. And
now the co. has in hand another big contract for the
supply of about £40,000 worth of 18-inch wood-
pipes to the N.S.W. Government, for the new Um-
berumberka water scheme (Broken Hill). The great
advantage, and the one that will tell in country
contracts, is the extreme lightness of the goods,
and the consequent facility in transport- They are
made after the style of a barrel, bound 'with wire
according to tiie water-pressure that they have to
meet. The whole thing is then tarred ; the moisture
inside the pipes keeps the white ant away, or
drowns it.
A new branch of the business has been opened
during the half-year in Melbourne, and the plant,
etc., have been working with satisfactory results.
Another pleasing feature of the accounts is the ease
with which the 10 p.c. dividend is earned this year,
for, after the distribution, there is £1721 to put
by towards reducing the deficit. At that rate, the
whole of the shortage should be wiped out entirely
in another 18 months. Provision is made for de-
preciation at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a., on all plant
and buildings, and that amount is deducted from
the profits set out in the table. This shows the prin-
cipal movements during 12 months: —
June, ’ll. Dec., ’ll. June, ’l2.
Liabilities .. .. £l,OlB £2,413 £11,178
Property, plant, etc. 6,160 10,840 12,638
Stock ... .. 3,355 . 7,845 14,948
Liquid assets . . 9,470 7,876 12,382
Goodwill and patents 6,181 5,847 6,625
The co. is in a business which has to be built up,
and, now it has a firm footing, should move along
fast. Fortunately, it has no cheaply-made foreign
goods to compete against, and cannot be choked
like a good many other infant Australian industries,
on account of an unprotecting Protection. Capital
is now £30,194 in £l,shares.
*##..*
The Wellington Woollen Manufac-
turing Co. (M.L.) :
Written To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Off. serves. serves.
1901.. £8,791 8 p.c. = £4281 £2500 £2OlO £19,301
1902.. 10.773 8 „ „ 5137 2500 3136 22,437
Premiums on new shares .. .. 1413 \ 23,550
1903 . 9,065 8 p.c, = 5604 2500 961 24,811
1904.. 9,130 8 ~ ~ 6273 1000 1857 26,608
1905.. 3,950 6 ~ „ 4800 2"00 23,818
1906.. 5,200 5 ~,, 4000 1000 200 24,018
1907.. 6,708 6 ~ ~ 4858 1500 350 24,368
1908.. 11,190 6 ~ „ 5353 2000 3837 28,205
19 9.. 6,277 6 „ ~ 6114 3000 —25.36 S
1910.. 13,653 7 „ „ 7957 5500 196 26,664
1911.. 11,685 7 ~ ~ 8074 3500 111 25,676
1912.. 14,735 7 ~ ~ 8074 5000 1661 27,336
Things are going fairly, well with this big manufac-
turing concern, which pays good wages and upholds
the cause of local industry. That is to say, they are
going fairly well considering that even the strenuous
local democrat and trades’ unionist always seems
to take it for granted that the high-wage and short-
hour manufacturer should consider himself bloated
with wild affluence when he gets a dividend which
the importer of nigger or scab goods would laugh at.
The Wellington Woollen Manufacturing Co. has a
paid-up capital of £122,183. It has a very humble
. reserve of £27,336, and even this wasn't all made
up out of profits. A portion of it was premium capi-
tal. The reserve stands very much where it did eight
years ago, and the dividend is actually smaller than
it was eight years ago. More and more capital has
been put into the business, but the profits haven’t
increased to correspond. They hardly ever do of
late years in the Australasian manufacturing busi-
ness, for wages are always going up, while the same
old tariff hangs by the roots as if it were anchored
or petrified. This co. is a sound affair, but it could
certainly do, even now, with a little more capital.
A year ago (July, 1911), it owed the bank £20,782.
By reducing stocks it has got the liability down to
£11,632. But, apparently, whenever a new heap of
raw material is required, the debt is liable to go up
again. This writer has looked back over the bal-
ance-sheets for 12 years past, and never once in that
time was the co. out of debt to its bank. There is
no reason why the bank should feel uneasy about its
money, for the assets are valued at £189,000. Still,
it is worth noting that the co. is in chronic debt to
its financial institution. A land co. or pawnbrokery
would probably get in new capital gaily, and put the
matter right; but new capital for industrial enter-
prises doesn’t grow on every bush. There is a sort
of feeling that the concern is an unauthorised inter-
loper, which is wickedly interfering with the import-
ing industry.
* * * *
Cassilis, Gippsland, under one Lilburne,
is still a mystery and a hope. No one can say that
it basft’t yielded up a fair quota of gold to inspire
the man in the street with confidence. But it doesn’t
toe the dividend line. At one time a drought and
at another a poor patch. Of late it has been both.
Now. that water s plentiful the hydro-electric scheme
is giving the .power to drive the drills and work the
stamps. Lilburne is shaping well with the handling
of the slimes, a-nd he expects profits from that heap
of possibilities. He toots out a hope also of better
stone in the bottom level by further driving. Re-
serves aren’t big, but they never were at the Cas-
silis. Still, if the old lense can be picked up on its
pitch, and it is of the right grade, there isn’t any
good or valid reason why the wheels should not go
round to better purpose at the Cassilis. No. 1 Llan-
berris, Ballarat East, still lives on the smell of the
tributor. An agitation is on foot to rush the Board
into sinking, but Ballarat is out of fashion with its
own mines nowadays.
* * * *
Victoria does not look cheerful over its
gold yield. The way returns have run for tbe first
eight months of the year is like this:
1910. 1911. 1912.
O Z. Oz. Oz.
January .. . . 52,057 42,611 34,577
February .. .. 43,229 36,724 33,199
March .. . . 64,370 57,289 47,646
April .. . . 30.622 35,901 29,879
May . . . . 49,980 32,252 44,241
June . . . . 56,283 47,077 39,510
July . . . . 41,218 49,429 34,408
August .. 45,040 38,319 50,842


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
Hon. R. J. BLACK
M L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 9 8
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 30th June, 1912 £9,258,750 10 7
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
REGULAR ACCOUNTS. FIXED AND LOW
CHARGES. ABSOLUTE SECURITY.
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities
at from P er cent.
Writeorcall for Booklet. A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager
KYNOCH LTD.
will forward you their interesting
booklet, entitled
“ SHOOTING NOTES and
COMMENTS”,
' (Compiled by
, Eminent Sportsmen)
on application to
90 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE,
or 164 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
'
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Taking the returns they show a decrease of over
60,0000 z. since 1910. It isn't hard to account for
the drop. Rutherglen has only one real worker in
the Great Southern. Ararat has neither of the Cath-
cart mines in full swing. Burnt Creek has never
helped the Duke and Main Leads at Maryborough
until recently. The Extended is shut up at (Val-
halla, and Long Tunnel is only a shadow of its
former self. Ballarat is nearly as dead as a door nail,
and Bendigo is shockingly flat for a Golden City of
many pretensions. The only bright spot seems to be
the bores at the New Langi, both in the main gutter
and the Cathcart lead.
* * * *
There is something about the new crowd
at North Nuggetty Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), that
betokens even the sweet simplicity of a Simple
Simon or a depth of the Tasmanian Devil. The
edict went forth that the mine was to be sampled
though William Gullick is still there to tell the tale
as of yore. They cast upon Chairman Rain to carry
out the sampling and to estimate the ore reserves.
Rain doesn’t lack experience, for he studied under
Hoover Bill and big J. C. King in the 8., M. stable.
Still, in taking on the task, he seems to show more
readiness to shoulder the job than most men to-day.
George Buchanan or ex-Chairman Vince would have
lassooed in an outsider to worry through. If Rain
finds a misfit it will be awkward for him, as chair-
man, to adjust the garment. Of course, he can have
no misgivings if the reserves meas ure up well. If
they don’t, and there is a fall in shares because he
has gone into the mine, he must be prepared to have
the nasty crowd misjudge his work. The Board sets
a good example by telling how much gold is in the
safe for averaging yields—a tale that is rarely un-
folded to others than the select few that sit in the
inner circle of the office or lounge at the bar of the
Exchange.
Ivorweinguboora, Vic., has awakened, and
it now flaunts out the old Spargo Creek mine to re-
mind all and sundry that the Divide reefs still carry
a bit of gold. Moreover, a mile away, a dyke forma-
tion is said by one of the bush prophets to be yield-
ing 73dwt. dirt from a 20ft. formation.
* * * *
The prospectus of the Golden Mile Hill
End, Ltd. (N.S.W.), which appears on another page,
contains particulars of a property which has bc-n
hopefully reported on by Mulholland and Cundy. The
past records of Hill End can be passed by as ancient
but glittering history. The future is only concerned
with the possibilities of deep development, proving
the continuance of those superlatively rich shoots.
On the chances that the saddle-reef theory is correct,
and that the formations, if found, will pay to work,
the co. intends to go in for exploration at depth.
In this it is encouraged by the results at Bendigo.
The numerous claims now amalgamated in the Golden
Mile were on too ridiculously small a scale to do this,
despite their hefty returns. The new co. will have
the greatest length so far acquired by any one com-
pany along the line of reefs, and will also
have chances in the area to the west of these. It is
refreshing to note the absence of cash remuneration
to the vendors, who take 200,000 out of the 500,000
shares. The working capital of £30.000 is none too
large, as developments will be costly. It may be
helped, though, by some crushings from the upper
levels.
* » * *
“Chloride” sends a howl: —“Another min-
ing engineer’s views” on lodide (B. 12/9/ 12) gives
some erroneous ideas of the new lodide Mineral
Hill, Ltd. Not £6OOO in cash, but £3500 in cash
and £6OOO in shares, is to be paid for the balance
of the quarter interest in Block 2; £44,000 cash
and £6OOO in shares is paid for three-fourths of
Block 2, and all of Blocks 3, 8 and 14, and the
“promoter’s cut” includes payment for Block 20 and
another lease. The “sil cious ironstone,” with the
critic’s italics reproduced, is mostly in bouldery in-
trusions in the leady ores, and easily refectable.
Then the critic goes on to say that “most of the
work has been done near the hanging-wall, which is
apparently the richest side.” It is unfortunate that
the lodide lode isn’t small, so that we might get to
footwall values immediately, but the central crosscut
is now out 62ft. towards the footwall, and the face
is high-grade lead without any sign of foot-
wall yet. As more is blocked out and the regulations
of the Institute of Mines and Metallurgy prevent an
engineer talking of ore in sight unless exposed on
four sides, the very careful Fawcett heavily dis-
counts the tonnage probablv on the developments,
and states the reserves at 12,500 tons, worth £8 a
ton. The critic foams at the mouth just about this
point. Not a word, says he, “about the road freight
or the mining and development,” and he goes on to
provide more valueless figures. He puts mining at
15s. a ton, and “then says it is too low to be
realised,” and then he weeps some more, and makes
the value of the ore 345. Well, breaking ore is done
at ss. a ton—two men are breaking four tons a shift
and raising isn’t as much, and freight to Condobolin
is 30s. a ton. It does “take high-class ore to stand
a 42-mile journey by road or over 400 miles by
rail with a stiff smelting charge waiting for it at
the end of the trip” ; but ore shipments are not to
continue, and reduction on the mine is to begin.
Facts are that an ore body 60ft. high to the 90ft.
level, and winzed on 27ft. below it, has been driven
on at the hanging-wall for 260 ft. Crosscuts are out
30ft. and 35ft., and one is out 62ft. without showing
signs of a footwall. The west drive, at 90ft., has
struck rich chloride ore, bulking 2600 z. silver and 5
p.c. lead (with gold content not yet known) for the
last 12ft., and increasing in value as driven on.
And on the evidence of the shaft in Block 9 —1450 ft.
to. the east —lodide will not be a one-mine field. The
new co. has located and pegged limestone four miles
from the mine, and will get its little furnace going
expeditiously and cut out the necessity for carrying
partial dirt instead of lead bullion to the railway.
The mine is all right; it wants now to get hold of
the best silver-lead smelter and administrator at
liberty in Australia, and to tie him to the mine and
give him absolute control.
* * * »
Broken Hill is eager to make the most
of the lead boom. For a run of four weeks the
South mine turned out 4500 tons of concentrates,
while the North co. made a very good second w th
3875 tons. For six months to June 30 the South
produced 18,652 tons of lead, and the North 14,895
tons, so these two concerns produced a total of
33,547 tons, at the rate of 67,094 tons of lead ner
annum. After deducting 10 p.c. for smelting loss,
the total output is 60,000-odd tons a year. It is
doubtful vvhether the B. IT. Proprietarv and Sulphide
Corporation can equal those figures from their own
ore. Including customs ore the B. 11. Prop, pro-
duces over 80,000 tons of lead a year. The big
smelter at Port Pirie having residual products to
work up, recovers far more silver per ton of lead
than any other Broken Hill co. This feature —in-
creased silver recovery from its own ore —is likelv to
become more marked when larger quantities of silver-
lead residues are available from the spelter furnaces.
Slime concentrates, in particular, contain high values
for both lead and silver, associated with 37 p.c. z.nc.
The price of lead advanced over £8 per
ton in 12 months, so the South Broken Hill mine
(N.S.\V.) is handing out larger dividends than ever.
For six months to June 30 the South s concentrates
contained 18,052 tons of lead, which, at £l6 ss. 6d.
(the average), was worth £303,561 ; also 617,1780 z.
of silver, worth £77,147. The net profit ( £ 150,040)
is enormous, compared with the tonnage of lead, for
it is nearly £8 per ton. Yet it would be wrong to
imagine that lead, minus silver and zinc, could be
produced cheaply at Broken Hill. At the South
mine the cost of producing lead concentrates is
£6 2s. 3.8 d. per ton, to which has to be added from
£4 to £5 per ton for smelters’ returning charges,
making total expenses in concentrates amount to
from ('lO to £ll per ton. Now, 70 p.c. lead at
£l5 is worth £lO 10s„ so at that price costs of one
knd and another mop up the whole of the lead
value. On the average there is about £4 worth of
silver (at 2s. 6d. per oz.) per ton of lead, and the
sale of zinc tailings is almost equally important in
relation to profits. The present is glorious, but it
would be unsafe to assume that lead values will
always pay the aggregate costs, for lead is a variable
metal.
* * * *
The Great Cobar (N.S.W.) quarterly re-
turn to June 30 creates an impress on that this con-
cern has at last come through the slough, and is
making substantial profits. During the three months
100 345 tons of ore were smelted for 2058 tons of
blister copper, containing 14,3970 z. gold and
72,1560 z. silver. Gold and silver values are high,
amounting to something like £33 per ton of blister
copper, while the base metal is valued at over £BO
per ton. The offic'al valuation of 2058 tons of
blister is £234,126 (£ll3 15s. per ton). It costs
£7 per ton to refine this metal. The working costs
are also fairly high for the expense of mining treat-
ment, purchase of small quantities of ore, and freight,
lumped together, amounts to £141,198. The gross
profit was 18s. 3d. per ton of ore, which compares
with an average metal-extraction valued at £2 6s. 7d.
Associated Northern (W.A.) has started
to treat ore on its new venture at Ora Banda, but
until the Government water scheme is completed,
which should be in a week or two, only a small
tonnage is being crushed. The management is very
sanguine about the ability of this show to pay divi-
dends, and already the shares are being talked up
locally. The first quarter’s run of the mill should
settle the point one way or the other.
* * * *
Westralia Mount Morgans (W.A.) is to
have its shutters taken down very shortly, and busi-
ness resumed under new control. The show has been
closed up for a year or more, but before it went
bung over £1,300,000 was dug out of its earthly
innards, and about a quarter of a million of this was
paid in dividends. The outlook for any more such
luck certainly does not look promising, but the
unexpected sometimes happens in mining as else-
where.
* * * *
Comet Vale (W.A.) still shines. De-
velopments in the Sand Queen and Gladsome con-
tinue satisfactory, and increases in the monthly gold
production of both are expected shortly. Economy
demands an amalgamation between these two shows,
and in all probability something of the kind will be
effected before long. At the Happy Jack (which was
under opt'on for a while to some eastern States
people), and other leases in the vicinity, prospects
are declared to be first rate.
In view of disappointing returns, Marvel
Loch Co. (W.A.) is being heckled (1) on account
of values not coming up to the assertions, and (2)
for paying a stiff price for a new engine and instal-
ling siich at a heavy cost, when one “.just as good”
could have been obtained on the spot and erected for
less than half the money. As regards the mine
itself. The Bulletin is credibly informed that both
mining and devolopment will be costly in the future,
and. in the face of this and a few other things that
it has heard, it flatly refuses to be put off with the
official assurance that everything is right.
Great Fingall (W.A.) has now 6ft. of
475. ore opened up for a length of 360 ft. north of
the blind shaft at the No. 18 level, and in a winze
S”nk below this depth values average from 20s. to
30s. per ton. When the equipment of the blind shaft
at the No. 13 level is completed, and the raising of
mill supplies from the new shoot is started, the out-
look for future dividends is expected to improve.
* * * *
Another black mark has been put against
the name of Kurnalpi (W.A.). A representative of
an Adelaide option syndicate has reported unfavor-
ably on four leases he was sent to inspect. He
states that instead of being on the supposed right
line, as alleged, they were over half a mile away.
Several other instances of mistaken locality are also
reported, and a number of the ventures, which were
recently formed to try and make money out of the
field, are giving it up.
Burbank’s Main Lode (W.A.) is getting
on. Last month £5lBO was recovered, and after ■
expending £4636, including £9OO on development
and £llOO on new plant, £544 was left. The
management reports that a higher grade of ore than
usual is being treated in order to meet expendi-
ture on extra machinery. So far the co. has paid
£12,174 in dividends, and looks like doing better.
Kalgoorlie is threatened with industrial
war. Negotiations by. the men for some increase
in the present minimum rates of 10s. and 11s. per
shift for surface and underground laborers, have
been frowned on by the Chamber of Mines, and as
the unions are unlikely to renew the agreement,
which expires at the end of this month, trouble will
almost certainly follow unless the bosses cave in.
Arbitration is now in the Legislative melting pot in
W.A. So a strike will probably result unless an
increase is given. A calamity such as this would
just about paralyse the field.
» * * *
Evidently all is not gold that glitters at
Golden Butterfly’s Gregory leases (W.A.). The first
crushing of 1370 tons realised £675, with £440
in the sands and a thin veneer on the plates. It was
predicted (B. 27/6/T2) that, when the mill got
going, the management would probably find that it
had made a few miscalculations, and, judging by the
first return, it looks as if one at any rate has come
to sight. In the beginning the whole position was
considered ‘‘hopeful” by the board, and although not
stated bv the management, it was inferred bv cars
in the daily papers that values would average from
40s. to 50s. per ton. Apparently they are nothing
like that, and with total working costs at £1 or over,
and other expenditure to be provided for, the out-
look is not conducive to cheerfulness. A report is
to hand from Adelaide that the co. hopes to make
£ 1500 profit per month, but if it succeeds in doing
this it must have something up its sleeve that it has
not exhibited yet.
# * * *
Transvaal at Morgans (W.A.), over which
the ill-fated Rowans Find Co. came to grief, is to
be auctioned, lock, stock and barrel, in a , day or
two. As in the ease of the Bullfinch delusion, the
co. was (as stated in B. 18(7/’12_) made the dupe
of unsound valuation, and had a dismal end.
Black Range (W.A.) produced £195,000
before it became a company, anel has yielded
£ 436,995 since. There is no record of what the
original holders made, but, since they parted with
it, 225,590 has been paid in dividends, which,
on the subscribed capital, represents a return of
nearly four times as much as was put up. For tin
past three years the co. has been paying monthly
dividenels of 9d. per share, but. according to what
the chairman said at the recent half-yearly meeting,
a reduction to 6d. is to be made very shortly. At
present prospects are looking a bit decrepit at depth,
but the Board is building on the hope that history
will repeat itself, and that values will improve again
in deeper ground. Ore reserves are officially be-
lieved to be sufficient for three years’ dividends.
Morning Star (W.A.) showed a loss of
£3OlB for the last financial vear, after ear-marking
£4125 for depreciation and development. This back-
ward state of affairs is put down to heavy cost of re-
newing and making additions to the co.’s treatment
plants and equipments on iis properties at Mag.iet and
Boogardie, and an excess expenditure of a few thou-
sand since is attributed to the same cause. Profits
are expected to begin this month. Ore reserves
are estimated at 20,950 tons of 445. 6d. ore at
Magnet, and 5000 tons of 455. stuff at Boogardie.
There are also 10,000 tons of mixed residues and
1200 tons of accumulated slimes at the latter place,
the respective gross value of which is estimated at
20s. and 17s. per ton.
* * » *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) has tapped No.
3 lode 10ft. east of the shaft, at 2480 ft., and the
crosscut is expected to hole through in a few days.
This will enable development at this dent' 1 to be
pushed ahead sooner than was expected, and will assist
in keeping the mine well before the public for the
time being. Its real value, however, is another
matter. Judged from the probable dividend stand-
point, the outlook, as already emphasised in these
columns, does not appear nearly so good as local and
other optimists blow about.
* * * *
Tindal’s (W.A.) is not as fortunate as it
expected. A month or two ago chairman Dawson
went west, and induced the Mines Department to
promise £lOOO subsidy on the £ for £ basis. He
then returned, cheered with the idea that the De-
partment was going to accept the mine, which repre-
sents a hole in the ground, and some hitherto un-
profitable ore below, as security for the proposed
loan. It, however, had no intention of doing any
such thing, and a demand for a lien on the
machinery has started Dawson and his co-directors
thinking whether it is worth while going on with
the borrowing business. It is odds on that, if they
do, the Department will own the plant in the end,
and have the mine on its hands to boot.
Mulline, on the North Coolgardie field
(W.A.), has been temporarily galvanised into ac-
tivity by a crushing of 24300 z. from 500 tons taken
out of the Young Australia. . This is a patchy show,
which has been doing business on and off for some
years. It has been abandoned once or twice, and
once or twice sanguine people have found it lying
about loose, and have taken it up and made money.
The neighboring Lady Gladys, once the property of
Gard and Greenway, has also produced a lot of gold
in its time, but latterly it seems to have fallen by
the way. At least, nothing is heard about it
nowadays, and when the local paper is silent there
is' generally something up.
The Mines Development vote in the West
for year ended June 30 totalled £3290, while
£12,621 was expended on erection of State batteries,
and £10,004 on the purchase of prospectors’ tail-
ings.
* * * *
Mount Morgan had a good smelting last
month (August), treating 30,690 tons of ore, and
turning out 892 tons of copper and 10,7220 z. gold.
At £6O for copper, the month’s run is worth
£98,639. It is evident that Morgan values gold at
84s. and a fraction, but takes copper just now at
25 p.c. below the current price. Last month the
gold in copper averaged i "5O 11s. 7d. p r r lon. That
is a glossy return, no doubt, but, as a matter of fact,
far more gold has been produced in copper than
the dividends amount to, so costs have been mopping
up not onlv all the copper value, but a good deal
of the gold as well. No one imagined in the early
days that the Leviathan would smelt 10,000 tons of
copper per annum, and that nearly all the gold would
be bidden in the base metal. Still it is miner
country, and there are carbonite stains in abundance
with'n a mile of the mountain. Down the river
there is an old copper mine, worked vears before
some astute mining men bought Sandy Gordon’s
selection 1640 acres).
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold (Charters Tow-
ers) having paid 2s. 6d. per share in d ; v dent's this
year, stands fairly well with the local share market,
for there are 150,000 shares, and a few excuanges
have been made at from 9s. to 10s. per share. The
fortnightly crushing was 739 tons for. £2215. The
feature of the development is the extension of No. 5
west level, which is following a large reef, a portion
of which carries mineral, and is medum crushing
stuff. If it had been rich a trial would have assured
everyone of the fact. Some 400 ft. deeper the cross-
cut, near Mills United boundary, is in a big forma-
tion, carrying numerous auartz veins.
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers (Q.),
crushed 470 tons for £2937, average £6 ss. per
ton. A good enough return, but some speculators
expected £B. The reef is ,in places 4ft. wide. The
mine should easily turn out 1200 tons per month ;
but in spite of the good average secured during the
progress of No. 4 level, it would be very optimistic
to value 20,000 tons at £7 per ton. With a large
body of stone mineralised only in places, £5 per
ton would be good. At the Towers there have been
manv rich, but narrow, veins, that gave a pre-
carious living, but the most profitable reefs have
produced a big tonnage, worth from £4 to £5 per
ton. East Mexican, for instance, started with an
average of over £7 per ton, but is back again below
£3. Mills' United and the Freehold are now striv-
ing to maintain an average of £3 per ton, which,
with careful management, will give £1 per ton
profit.
* * * *
During August the Great Fitzroy (Q.)
smelted 2905 tons of crude ore, averaging 2.87 p.c.
copper and 2.Bldwt. gold ; with 951 tons of concen-
trates, worth 10.66 p.c. and 6.57dwt. gold. The re-
turn was 160 tons of blister, containing 158.98 tons
copper, 9990 z, gold, and 31980 z. silver. The mill
did good work, treating 6142 tons for 1179 tons of
concentrates, assaying 10.82 p.c. copper and 6.46dwt.
gold. This may be a technical success, but the
working costs total £15,036. Taking copper at
£BO 14s. Bd., the revenue was £17,482, or just
£2446 more than the working costs. Construction
of new plant cost £1520, so the run was almost
unremunerative.
* * * *
The Etheridge (Q.) co.’s mill treated
1681 tons for a return of 13580 z. gold, 16430 z.
silver, and 10 tons copper. With so much mine de-
velopment in hand, it is hardly to be expected that
profits will be made for some time to come. Most of
the ore is coming from the Havelock mine, where
the stopes vary a great deal in size and quality.
The vein is often only a few inches wide, so the
costs are certain to be heavy. With erratic shoots,
containing a mixture of metals, it is difficult to
estimate values, and with a narrow vein in hard
country, it is almost as difficult to estimate costs.
The directors’ report of the Wallaroo and
Moonta (S.A.) is remarkable because of three things.
The first is that, after a silence of many years, the
subject of ore reserves has at last been broached.
The second is the melancholy message that the
Moonta mine is now apparently on its last legs.
And the third is the courageous attempt to convince
shareholders that they have been aware of the fact
ever since the trouble started. The past refusal to
publish ore reserves looks like a stubborn effort not
to let inquisitive, prying people know that affairs
weren’t shaping' as they might. The announcement
l. that the Moon a has only 40,000 tons
of 2 to 4 p.c. copper ore that will pay to treat,
, „.v- q..c- aun . asked, “Whether closing the
underground operations must not be regarded as an
early possibility, contingent' always on the price of
copper and on any discoveries that may be made in
the meantime.” Copper is not likely to boom much
higher ; at any rate, not for a lengthy period, and
the chances of discoveries being ipade don’t seem
to be rosy, as the mine officials won’t risk their
reputation’ and their jobs by recommending expendi-
ture for prospecting. As for the Wallaroo mine, the
directors haven't any doubt about the future, pro-
vided the lodes maintain their productiveness at
greater depths. Which is very kind of them, and re-
assuring, but no reserves are mentioned. Another
condition, however, is that copper must remain over
£6O per ton. This latter is the only valuable in-
formation offered, as a sidelight on the costs. On
the surface there still remain large heaps of tailings
and slimes. From those at Moonta it is estimated
that about 3000 tons of copper may be extracted dur-
ing the next five years, the cementation yielding an
annual profit of £15,000 with copper at £6O, or
£21,000 with copper at £7O. At Wallaroo cemen-
tation has been a failure, but the flotation process has
arrived to keep the pot boiling merrily. There are
200,000 tons of jig tailings and mundic waiting to
be treated, enough to supply 1000 tons of copper a
year, at an estimated profit of £2O per ton with cop-
per at £6O, for three years. The necessary fine-
grinding machinery is expected to be completed ai
the end of this year. After that the co. may have
a further chance with the oxidised slime heaps, as
well as the large stack of low-grade vanner tailings.
No accounts are submitted. A 2s. dividend has been
declared, but the report hints at a reduction of the
rate in the not distant future.
* * * *
The great advance made in the construction of In-
ternal Combustion F.ngines has now been further
demonstrated by the fact of Petrol, Benzine, Kero-
sene and heavy Oil Locomotives being brought into
daily and successful commercial use. The machines
are thoroughly reliable, and are cheaper in very
many instances than steam or electric locomotives.
Messrs. Ironside, Son and Dyckerhoff, of London,
have supplied a great number of their famous ‘‘New
Century” locomotives nearly all over the world, and
their machines are even working continuously and
safely in “gassy” coal mines. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne, will be pleased to supply further par-
ticulars. *
4-CF4- MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS.— AsI: the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
-f-GF-j- Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed ; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
WATER LEVELS. —Many painful accidents have
occurred through fracture of water gauge glasses on
steam boilers, and various devices to prevent injury
to boiler attendants have been adopted. These,
however, are more or less objectionable, because
the clear view of the water-level is thereby ob-
scured. At last a practically unbreakable Gauge
Glass has been invented, namely, “BISHOP’S ADA-
MANT,” which will resist considerable pressure as
well as high and varying temperature. To be ob-
tained from Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., Engineers’ Factors,
315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
A simple and continuous Vacuum Slimes Filter is
the “Wilfley.” It consists of a revolving drum,
which is partly submerged in the material to be
filtered. The drum, covered with filter-cloth, has a
vacuum pipe passing through it, by means of which
liquid and air are withdrawn by a vacuum pump.
The filtered slime is removed by a simplet apparatus,
placed at or below the level of the pulp. Directly
the cake is removed the filter-cloth is re-immersed,
ready to receive a fresh cake. The residual liquid
in the slime cake is removed by distributing water
over the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owing to
the fact that the filter is circular in form, the worts
is being done continuously during the whole revolu-
tion of the drum. The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd.,
of Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights oi
this machine.* [4
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Societv is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa, it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE commends itself to every
mining engineer by reason of its immunity from
corrosion or rust, the ease with which it can be
moved from place to place, and its general economy.
The Australian. Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain
(N.S.W.), and Footscray (Vic.), are the makers.*
A Great Combination. Every manufacturer and
user of power is nterested in a scheme that will
save him money. We illustrate on page 43 the last
word in Economisers —the Contraflo System. This,
esperially when used in conjunction with a “Wolf”
Superheated Steam Engine, gives astounding economi-
cal results that will pay you to investigate.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
co Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney;
and 9 Queen Street. Melbourne.* [2
* */ * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders anil dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
* * * *■
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Com,ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assaykrs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Sii.berbkru and Co., 443 Bourke
Street. Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh : Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector's balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan's crucibles : chemicals : etc.*
Patents.—Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mecli. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*-


Under
Royal
Warrant-
CHAMPAGNE
Ctoteffeife
To H.M.
George V
World
BRAND
jhk
Renowned
STUHR’
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins and glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
BUCHANAN’S
Black (a White
fi
A GRAND SPIRIT
“Black & White” is indeed a “grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, September 16, 1912.
My Dear Arini, —
The ghost of a panier fluttered over the
delicate bridal plumage of Miss Constance
'Drummond on her wedding day. The whole
- gown was almost fine enough to be drawn
through a bangle. It was a mere shimmer
of white satin and lace with a foam of
transparency in the shape of the panier
already noted. When the slender bride got
in front of a heavy westerly catspaw she
blew up the steps of the Dockyard Chapel
(Garden Island) with a pair of agitated
pink cheeks, and her beautiful drapery
wisped round her feet. After her —at the
rate of 50 .miles or so an hour —blew her
juvenile brides maidens, two little King-
Halls and small Molly Street. This gay
triplet made conscientious efforts to fail
upon the bridal train and hang it at its
proper angle before it met the public gaze.
The groom, Flag-Captain Bruen, II.N.
(the Drake is his special armor-plated out-
fit), had bounded up to the prayerful eyrie
some time before. He had, so far as one
could judge from a remote pew, a narrow
escape of being tied up to the wrong lady,
or married to a post or a buttress, by a
large quorum of clergy. His Anglican Grace
and Gaiters of Sydney and two naval sky-
pilots, among them got off the mark early.
It was a flying start. “Dearly beloved, we
are gathered together.... to join together
this man and woman....” Then something
sudden happened at the altar rails, and His
Gaiters switched on the brake till the bride
hurried up the aisle on the arm of her
brother, Captain Drummond, R.N., of the
sea-ironmongery Cambrian.
Garden Island, with a determined wind
storm whistling through the long wash of
its back hair, wasn’t airy enough for the
salt water congregation, in its best Sunday
kit. So the chapel windows were pushed
open and a complete cyclone arranged with
the help of electric fans. Arum lilies stag-
gered on their stems and bowed across the
msle. Decorations stood out perpendicu-
larly like the pigtail of a Chinese reformer
fleeing for his life against the gale. Stacks of
flowers reeled with the staggery movement
of the young calf —that animal that looks at
you from above his brown nose and then
jumps. Everything light and moveable fri-
volied like a young kitten on the mountains
till the last Amen” sent the bridal pair to
sign the scroll of Fate.
The Admiralty lady held a large dress
parade in her cool and shady rooms after
the windy voyage across the harbor. Wise
women saved their best hats by dropping
out of dust-proof motors at the portal of
Admiralty House, and joined the more or less
wind-whipped throng in that beautiful state
ot mind which makes a perfectly-groomed
fashion-plate feel two heavens higher than
; an ordinary dusty female. The tall Denman
lady and the long lily-stem figure of Lady
able t Nevill Were shadowed by the indispens-
Mustard color, in fierce shades suggestive
ot angry blisters, was very prevalent at the
Bruen-Drummond legal knot. The George
Simpson dame, however, looked her best in
black that appeared to be laid on in tiers
with a final lower terrace of cream guipure!
Tier eyes were dressed in pale green glasses
dust pans to catch the flying debris of wild
weather, I suppose. Lady Chelmsford sel-
dom wanders far from soft orchid tints of
mauve, and she was pale amethyst from head
to foot. Mrs. Tom Watson, a fine, upstand-
i^L/ oung matron, wore a saucy hat and a
B « S° w m The Very Rich Miss
fwn fl 0U a - sul)cri) diamond or
cnn a fllcl i e -n bl V e points at the peeping
2?“ v and a frilly lacy and quite frivoloul
frock of extensive price. The Cullen pair,
Fedp r9 c l om f?. r f a . ble -]° o J. in ? legal dame Mrs.
federal Chief Justice Griffith and her
lengthy knight, the Colonial Sugar Knoxes
the Hrench Consul Chayet, and scores of
persons who count themselves top-ladies at
ran’* fight 7 ere aniong those who also
ran. The presents were numerous and use-
SL/ 3111 * 6 ! a , n , ew ldea -’ Two sunshades of
great good looks, a silver salver from the
Drake s quarter-deck contingent with the
names of the givers autographed in a circle
a serious soft leather travelling cushion, a
clock that was built to keep the time (with
o fancy kick-shaws). and other quite ser-
viceabJe goods, were wedged in amongst a
stack of inevitable table plate.
~ M r - r ?, avies OVoolhihra Point) has bought
the Arthur Allen s honeymoon bower ? at
H aC a ing G H lB likely t 0 dr op, with a
Jm’d th ud, its frequent advt., of beiim
kindly lent,” etc. Captain Bruen and his
bude aie probably the last pair of turtle-
doves to bill and coo in the watery nest for
some time to come. 0
A Suva correspondent, who is chiefly illeg-
ible, is understood to say (in letters like rIL
Slade* 1 J raB ? h °PP er ’ S , l<Wl that Miss Leila
Slade, of this whereabouts, is engaged to a
cocoanut. don named Frank Jepson (The
writing is so bad that it may really be a
statement to the effect that a man named
Jobson tripped over a root and became insol-
ifT’ Th r ,.v,! f d,?- ia ? tbebest I can with
1 The right kind of Australian girl is
said to be rather rushed by plantation dukes
when she puts on her frilliest frocks and
winters m tropic isles. But the Suva lady
tells, in plump hieroglyphics, a plain tale of
one nice maiden (Leila Slade), one man
(Jepson is the name I can get nearest to in
the grasshopper patch), and many coacoanut
palms. He is said to be loved by all the girls
down in his coral-reefed isle, and hated by
myriads of small wild cattle (bugs, beetles,
aphis, or whatever they be), which he chases
out of their free bed-and-board selections in
banana and other sun-kissed foliage. Miss
Slade just tripped over to Suva from Sydney
with the W. Holdships, to camp in the wig-
wam of the Bishop of Polysneezia or some-
thing of the kind, and—“well —there you
are”—as kindly old Soldene used to say about
13 times in every 12 mouthfuls of printer’s
matter.
That high-class wedding frame, St.
George’s Church, Hanover Square (the pre-
sumptive property of heroines of Family
Herald stories, and chorus ladies who marry
peers), linked up an Australian bride and
groom a few weeks ago. He was Maynard
Zouch, third son of a well-known Throsby
of this State. The original Throsby was an
early “colonial” surgeon, who got one of the
rich grants of land at Moss Yale, peculiar to
the era of free labor—it was free because
the laborers weren’t —and other troubled
memories. Throsby Park, by the way, was
once chosen as a desirable country perch for
N.S.W. Governors. Only one, the Earl of
Belmore, who had a vast reputation as one
of the meanest men of his day, ever occupied
it. Belmore cultivated cabbages for the
Sydney market, and made money at the
game. The bride, Elsie Dccima, now Mrs.
Maynard Throsby, is one of the Goulburn
Andrew Gibson family, another pioneer batch
that got a large chunk of Australian soil
before the squattocracy seriously squatted
on this map.
Mrs. Maxwell Allan’s oak and crushed-
strawberry flat was packed to the edge of
its automatic lift the other afternoon. The
very best spring millinery had assembled to
farewell Mrs. Yorrick Smith and her sister,
Miss Milton King, who leave for India’s
torrid strand on Saturday, with extensive
luggage. They’ll bump it down in Calcutta
or thereabouts. Yorrick Smith’s regiment
plays polo somewhere in those parts. The
fair and beauteous Leila Baumann also said
good bye at this tea-shake. Her Saratoga is
packed for the same colored clime and her
bunk booked by the Mooltan. This craft
will carry off a good many trippers and some
stayers for the land of Chutney Sing. The
new bride, Mrs. Nigel Parbury (she’s the
recently-married Miss Harriot, of North
Sydney) and her groom depart on Saturday
by the P. and O. packet. He is another Aus-
tralian who soldiers in India.
There’s been a healthy holiday spurt of
M.L. pressmen to this port for some weeks.
S. J. Furness, of the Malborotjgh Express,
Blenheim, is the last to stamp through our
wild motor horns and untamed taxi-cars.
Business man James Buttle, who hangs
out a solid sign in Auckland, is at present
inspecting our crowded water front.
Mr. and Mrs. Dick Cameron, of Auckland,
get back to their native earthquakes this
week. He was the first manager of the
Auckland Savings Bank, but resigned in
order to look for better health.
-The Calico Knight’s brisk dame, Mrs.
McMillan, held the chair at a recent gather-
ing in the Stanger-Leathe’s domicile. An
acquaintance, who was bidden to the frayed
arguments on women’s jam and fruit-grow-
ing, sub-edited “Women’s Rural Industries,”
met there a vast crowd of 12 or more per-
sons. Even the lure of cheaper herbage for
« jj inner tables of the deserving poor (such
fodder to be grown by women trained for
the purpose of tearing down the price of un-
tinned asparagus, etc.), didn’t drag the apa-
thetic house-mother from her daily argument
with Ah Sin, the cabbage miscreant with
the clothes-line at the back of his head. If
this infant society can keep off the grass of
various other women’s amalgamated bodies
and feet, it may feel its way to a useful
niche in the female horizon. Australia can
grow anything if it tries hard enough. Why
not plant out a healthy young experimental
farm of women hayseeds?
Having seen the Eton boy in his native
paddock, but almost forgotten his spats, I
notice with enthusiasm a recent illustration
in liie Sphere. This picture ought to be a
solemn warning to socially ambitious par-
ents who forward, as per invoice, Master
Sheepshanks of Mutton Fat Station, Aus-
tralia, to be Eton-branded for life. It
shows half a dozen young dudes at
Lord s watching the Eton and I-lar-
row match. Top hats, semi-swallow
tail morning coats, white waistcoats,
crook-handled canes, inexpressibles that are
beautifully pressed, gloves, buttonholes, spats,
and large, round smiles resembling oranges
or tunnels (all of the same pattern) form
the outward livery of these dukes in
the making. Young Mutton who re-
turns to his native Australia is generally*
done for. and hovers between the ducal
bsh and the sheep-farmer flesh, being nothing
in particular—not even good wallaby-tail
soup—for the rest of his days.
Mr. H. C. L. Anderson, the other day, dis-
coursed upon the steep postal prices that
bhakspeare s England paid for its country
n n .f he P rivile Se of living in the days
when the Armada spoilt a game of
bowls, ran up to 265. Sd. per letter from
London to the chalk hills of Dover. The
local Shakspearian Society, of which the
veteran pressman, Henry Gullett. is godpa
meets every month to jump on Bacon. In
the intervals, while it gets a rub down and
tans its heated brow, some member fishes for
tacts that overwhelm the modernist with
gratitude for having been born too late for
Shakspeare s England. (N.B.—How did
fUnt- sometimes undetected criminal, the
Anonymous Letter-writer, contrive to spill
vitriol at 265. Sd. per sheet?)
Pink and white and peach blossom flut-
tered round the Town Hall pillars the other
night, when St. Vincent’s Hospital ball was
in possession of the floor. The vice-regal
dais had a firm backvard fence or lattice,
that flaunted its delicate orchard blooms be-
hind the Distinguished Person’s cranium,
and tickled the pale blue lapels of the Heins
in Waiting. Lady Denman was the social
Mecca, and devout pilgrims set forth hope-
fully across the great desert of Axminster,
which covered the social bones of so many
previous caravans, that they might attain
to the feet of the pillar of their social faith,
and shake it by the hand in a social sort of
way—but looking back I find the figures of
speech have become mixed, and the word
“social” is growing altogether too numerous.
The gallery yawned till 8.30 p.m. or later,
waiting for its snack of tableaux and more
or less musical items. Leah Myers tripped
in first to take the tired feeling off the even-
ing’s entertainment. A2O horse-power cor-
net duet, loud enough to shake the Seven
Sleepers out of their 77 snores, in the cave
near Ephesus, followed the attractive tab-
leaux, “Children of Charles 1.,” with Blue
Birdies Vera Spaull and Gertie Cremer as
the decorative monarch’s curled and collared
darlings. For the rest, if some of the musi-
cal blightems had closed up before they
opened, the really good tableaux needn’t
have dragged like lame snails across the
night.
Mrs. Tom Hughes trotted out one of the
most fetching frocks that swished through
St. \ incent’s ball. It was the new half-and-
half style, with a slash of filmy white lace
where it wasn’t all and a handsome
streak of rose velvet where it wasn’t magpie.
Grey showed a meek front on the person of
hon. sec. Mrs. Barlow. The Toohey dame
always looks the high class article, and her
palatial black velvet robe the other night
would have made the ordinary duchess (had
she lurked in its backwash) squirm with
envy, and seize her strawberry leaves and
bang them tighter on her ducal brow. When
a duchess does trip this way, she seems to be
quite a homely, _ plain-spoken person, given
to sprigged muslins and Low Church millin-
ery. We prefer the local nobility, because
it looks so much more picturesque. The
Barttelot lady likes to trail a fluff of tulle
or some other filmy draper’s cloud round
her white neck, and she floated her usual
airy flier over her black and white robe, at
St. Vincent’s annual leap for cash.
The robust Rolleston dame and other sub-
stantial pillars of the cause, perched firmly
behind the vice-regal ear. Hoverers darted
up to the dais to skim past the mild little
Mayoress Clarke, while Papa Mayor (who
has a mighty tough municipal bone to gnaw
.lust at present) ruminated over his white
kid finger tips as if they were compound
fractions or similar crimes.
Private theatricals in Victoria Barracks
gymnasium the other evening were so much
above. the average—the average generally
wobbling from bad to indifferent —that the
show could be repeated without damaging
the health of the spectators. The wisdom of
the footless reptile incited the authorities
to charge 3s. for seats —so many persons
stay away at ss. a head when their dear
iriends take to the boards for a charity
show. The gymnasium was “sold out.” The
only standing room was in a door, with a
gale of wind dashing past the sentry in
charge. Here the pretty youngster, Miss
Bennett (the “Modesty” who looked her
part so well in “Everywoman”), appeared
to be either selling things for the Cause (to
the door) or making up small change argu-
ments with two young men. They were so
busy gazing into the liquid orbs of “Mod-
esty that they only bartered sweets by
accident when they were lured away from
the portal and the girl and the sentry. The
proceeds go towards subsidising a cot for
gunners’ sick kiddies in Alexandra Hospital.
Robertson’s “School,” given by the Vic-
toria Barracks enthusiasts, seems to limp
here and there in its humor. Like the whis-
kers of Little Billee in “Trilbv,” some of it
is behind the times. It was built for a period
when the flapper (don’t the German students
call her Backfisch?) was really young at 15,
lb, or so. The juvenile bevy of good looks—
Yal Osborne (a fascinating “Bella,” as-
toundmgly articulate for an amateur).
Phyllis McArthur, Esther Harris, Peggy
McDonald, Janet Merewether, Susie Camp-
bell and Constance Rhodes —bloomed pro-
fusely in the school grounds. Their roomy
flounced skirts waggled like juvenile bal-
loons as School Marm Sutcliffe (Mrs. ,T. S
Lyster) steered them through the use of the
globes and the correct distance to the moon.
Mrs. Clarke, the Nadini Tighe of the pro-
duction, was too forward a minx for the
bread-and-butter era of “School,” but she
shared the good looks of Tillv, Milly etc
Norman Miles, R.A.F.A. (Beau Farintosh),'
gave the same amazing kind of articulate per-
formance as the rest of the company.
Douglas Harris, R.A.F.A., is a pretty youth,
and he played Jack Poyntz as a ladylike beau
peering at Beauty through a small pane of
glass. Gunner Newland served up the billet
of footman with zeal and discretion. Band-
master McCarthy waved a capable baton over
the Artillery Band.
If Victoria Barracks reneats its good
attempt at stage craft, I hope it will firmly
revoke its bad attemnt to break the arms and
legs of the audience, not to mention its back,
neck and ear, as it stumbles to its seats.
The.“Gvm.” is buried in the darkness behind
a grim fortress of stone barracks. A feeble
glimmer of remote light, with about the same
candle-power illumination as the tail of the
new comet, is no use to travellers who, at the
last attempt, fell into sudden drains, crawled
up hillocks of turf, and slithered off the edge
of very hard stone steps.
The actors’ matinee the other afternoon
dragged over £4OO from a willing public.
Walter Bentley is hon. sec. of this move-
ment, which hopes to put something away
in its stocking, for the sometimes ill and
generally improvident mummer. The pro-
gramme included everything, from the pipes
of Pan to the illimitable ear-to-ear smile
of Sybil Arundale. Jack Cannot sold acid
drops done up like hairpins in tasty bundles.
W. S. Percy (as scene-shifter) scattered
the scenery over the elderly call-boy in the
mock rehearsal. The Juliet of Violet Paget
was a lovely vision much talked at by Romeo
Hugh Buckler.
Victor Champion is guilty of the attrac-
tive music for “The Forest of Pan,” a new
one-act musical-dramlet with words by Vic-
tor Prince. Pan, a robust, hairy satyr of
pre-historic woods, drank a deep draught of
grape-juice that wafted the sour breath of
very young wine across the front stalls
while he egged on a thin, leggy lady (long
logged in a hollow tree) to dance for the
kiss of a mortal shenherd. Then the human
maiden (Dorothy Brunton) waltzed away
with the prize, and mechanical canaries
trilled like mouth-organs in the adjacent
wing. Reginald Roberts gave an incidental
exhibition of jiu-jitsu with Florence Young,
in a thin extract from “Cavalleria Rusti-
cana,” and knocked the lady about till the
stage . must have, been black and blue and
sore in every joint. “Snowy” Baker, who
was stalled near the orchestra, glued his
eyes on to this streak of artistic emotion,
and remarked in a breathless whisper, “He’d
like to have them un in his rooms to see
them do that turn again.” Florence Young
falls like a champion Jap. boxer on her
hands. “Cavalleria Rusticana” is supposed
to be merely opera, but it was so much more
like a Stadium scrap that the gallery rocked
with joy.
. Mrs. Ivirkby Lunn has evidently had her
rich round voice carefully groomed in the
same academic stable °s the much greater
Melba, and Agnes Nicholls and Paul Dufault.
Ihe .Lunn style curbs its strength, and gives
nothing away to the noisy god “Loud An-
plause.” This accomplished artist knows her
business, so much better than 90 per cent, of
her audience, that she grows on the public
taste as slowly as the incoming tide laps a
dry beach. It gets there all the same. It
is m at the finish, which is better than doing
a sprint and then coming down with a crash
and a yelp at the first hurdle. A tall. dark,
rather Semitic type, is Mrs. Lunn, with no
stage tricks to catch the froths flapper.
Just a quiet figure garbed in Quaker grey,
with a naming scarlet blossom tucked into her
raven locks. The famous Aria from “Samson
and Delilah” was her first chirp on Satur-
day night. “Softly Awakes My Heart,” ab-
solutely true to tone, was a chapter of
revelations, after its recent stormy and flat
concert career in this settlement.
Fiddler de Ribaupierre, in the Kirkby
Lunn team, is young, and suffers from a
determination of thick black hair to his ears.
It falls into his music, and butts his respect-
able technique with lank, loose locks that
shriek for a fence, or a fringe net, or a six-
penny clip. Why import baritone Andrew
Shanks?. We can do the same article, at
cost, price, by the. gross, in any Aus-
tralian city. Pianist Murdoch is quite
as. good as the average, and plays
with considerable charm. A tendency
to blur brilliant. episodes in Chopin is not
such a deadly sin when the sinner dallies
tenderly with the theme. Laurance Philip,
clever pianist, splashed through some soul-
ful accompaniments, looking like a very thin
semi-colon mounted on wires. Mrs. Arthur
Allen had a party in the southern gallery.
Mrs. Julius Caro and a handsome daughter
or two glided into another front reserve.
The Beebys made a solid phalanx in the giddy
heights, above the body of the hall. I won-
dered if the word “Gee-Gee” was dangling
like a danger signal before the mental horizon
of State Minister Beeby, who was steeped in
his own meditations.
The prevalence of measles in adult circles
in this State, and the measly tone of the
average “How d’you catch ’em,” suggests an
early outbreak of “Measles’ luncheons,” or
“Dinner a la blotch.” There was a time
when small-pox was considered one of the
necessary events of life. People used to
advertise for servants who had had it and
had got the trouble over. And at culchawed
Boston, in what is now the U.S.A., small-
pox parties were advertised as a regular
mild dissipation. Some kindly soul who had
got. the complaint in a miid form would
invite, his or her young friends to come and
have it, and refreshments would be handed
round, also there might even be music.
Small-pox parties cut some ice in days of
old. and the measles’ social should do as
well in its own humbler sphere.
Yours on the wings of the wind,
VANDORIAN.


£jK
■V
>'C •
v
mm
*sBs 1 ’.
L^i
.* .-:
?&'*%}ffifiHMi
i~ C S*'i';'.f ' ') VfC
wm^w
~ tJt e -r
•/(hi
m*.
\h£k
&**
m
/ ~ —•r J
::• - -
mim
w
f.. ■; </l *
% tH'
& ! *
//
r /
7 /AW
m
i f
g'>
|7 // 41%
fMr* Mr.
* 7 ttj
= "ur* ~,rTZ"tftfti
i i l !■} ~ iliw/I-
- umg-n
■
g£B
■
S«S
r/
/.?
~.o-"-'' .y' , 'h:!/m r^
e
<4
Cobra,” ?she. Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Is a champion
Golfer, too.
As the ball flies
On its way,
Clubmen murmur,
“ Splendid play !
Did vou see that?
j
Man alive !
Braid could hardly
Do that drive !
Chunder must have
Played a lot !
That was clears —
A COBRA shot!


FASHIONS AT A GLANCE.
The September Number of Parmer’s “Fashions and Facts” —the Spring and
bummer bashion Issue, pictorially portrays the smartest and most authentic
bummer_ Dress Modes, and will be full of interest to every follower of Fashion.
It also has several of interesting reading matter on topical subjects,
illustratkm t h • Sen *" f ree - Practically everything in wearing apparel finds
Farmer's Pay Carriage
on All Drapery Goods.
. * Fashions and Facts’ also contains the welcome information to country shopncrs
that banners pay carnage throughout Australia on all Drapery Goods, which
include all Fancy and Fashion Goods, Wearing Apparel, etc.
WRITE FOR "FASHIONS AND FACTS,
SENT GRATIS AND POST FREE,
TO ANY OF OUR PATRONS
FARMER'S —SYDNEY.
NOTICE
TO CYCLISTS!
DUNLOP
TYRES
Stand alone for Quality ,
Wear , Comfort and Speed
BEST....
FOR ALL
PURPOSES
* *
BEWARE
0f....
Imitations
“DUNLOPS"ONLY
GENUINE WHEN
COVER AND TUBE
BEAR...
THIS....
TRADE
MARK
jh
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All States &N.Z.
Sh
ft
i +
IH C
S-Mi' i ? 7TMi\ ii m
HAVE
YOU
driven in
a Vehicle
fitted with
m
\
DUNLOP-
KELLY * *
TYRES!
If so, then you have appreciated the
freedom from noise and vibration
associated with our popular Solid
Rubber Tyres, which are now fitted
to thousands of Vehicles.
Do you know that they last for
years on a private conveyance,
double the life of a vehicle, and
can be fitted to new or old wheels
from £5 per pair and upwards?
« * *
Let ua post you i copy of our Illustrated
Catalogue. IT WILL INTEREST YOU.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO,
Melbourne, Sydoey. Adelaide. Perth. Brubaaa.
Christchurch, N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne. September 16, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Toorak, very beautifully attired, attended
in force the other day, at the Scotch kirk.
The Fuller l"dy was in the chair, ana, as
soon as she was firmly seated, the meeting
started to discuss the Lady Northcote Free
Kindergarten. Various expensive suggestions
were made by hats of the first magnitude,
and the presiding ostrich feathers received
them all respectfully. It is splendid to hear
money talked about so lightly. It reminded
me, by contrast, of the inexpensive person
of religious habits who was in some manner
made a member of a motor club. Soon
after he joined, the question of the catering
for the annual dinner came up, and the new-
comer was horrified and rendered moment-
arily speechless when the other members
talked of a guinea and half a guinea per
banqueter. At last, seizing his chance, he
rose and passionately addressed the presi-
dent. “I —I don’t see any reason for this
mad extravagance ! Why, last week, I ran
a church picnic, and it only cost us eighteen-
pence each!” That splendid outburst is re-
corded in the annals of the club.
Mrs. Oswald Watt is off again to see how
London is getting on, and, incidentals, to
look in on father. In her pre-nuptial days,
before the Hartley Williamses moved to Fog-
land, Mrs. Oswald ranked as one of our
nicest girls. Nowadays, she shines princi-
pally as a breathless tripper. The Watt
couple hold most of their talks at so much
word, for they are usually hurrying in
different directions by the fastest available
conveyance.
Phyllis Power left in the hurricane last
week for Fremantle, to meet Mama Grey-
Egerton and sister Amy Clarke, both of
whom are steaming this way in the Morea.
A Society girl, with a truly regal manner
and Titian hair, organised a set for the Girls’
Training Home dance. In order to make
things uniform, she calmly asked the other
females of the set to dye or wig themselves
the same shade as herself. The command
was firmly disobeyed, and they struggled
through after the Elizabethan lady with fair,
brown and black natural locks.
Rhyll Moore, who left here with the repu-
tation of being one of the most gi aceful dap-
pers of the Glaciarium, has assumed the
lengthened skirt and raised hair of the grown
woman. She is to be married this month, in
London, to Mr. Maddocks, of Ceylon. After
that, her young widowed mama will be left
without a chick to chaperone. Grandmother,
•lust departed, willed a snug dot to the young
bride-
Desnite family opposition, the widow of
the late squatter Armytage went off alone to
Germany some months ago, to have an opera-
tion perpetrated on her eyes. Her husband
could not see his way to accompany her,
there being various land sales to attend to in
this part of the world. Her cable reporting
the.success of the German oculist’s treatment
arrived after he lapsed into unconscious-
ness, and he never heard the good news. It
will be a sad little lady who returns from the
other side of the world.
The English press is divided into two dis-
tinct sections, as far as the monarchy is con-
cerned. One discourses admiringly and tear-
as Most Gracious said
when he gazed at the Zoo alligator. The
other sharply criticises the way George and
Mary are bringing up the royal youngsters.
Report says that the Princelet of Wales is
guarded zealously, and that 15-year-old Mary
is dressed like her own grandmother. Cer-
tain it is that young Wales, an extremely
nice-looking lad, might have the worry of lO
kingdoms on his shoulders, by his solemn ex-
pression. It is highly probable that he was
hustled out of Paris by order, because “his
wicked cousin, Alfonso,” had signified his
intention of showing him the sights—or
tights. As for the damsel, she is a curly-
haired, pink-cheeked flapper, to whom no
frocky allurements seem to be permitted.
otiiT hats, with a feather lurching somewhere,
stiffer coats and skirts, and uncompromising
boots, are her perpetual Sunday best. And
she doesn’t look as if she appreciated them a
bit.
The Victoria League of Victoria (Oh, the
weariness of saying the same thing twice!)
held its fourth annual meeting this week at
the Masonic Hall. The floor, having been
polished for and by many recent hops, proved
dangerous to dignity, and Governor Fuller,
his lady, and Auntie Phipps cautiously
adopted a skating gait, in order to safelv
reach the waiting stage. The vice-regal
ladies both wore black, on account of the
Mikados death, and his Ex., in a rambling
speech, reminded the Victoria Twice Leaguers
of what the denarted potentate had done for
his country. The valuable services of dames
Madden, Creswell and E. Miller were re-
tained as usual, which fact seemed to make
uo in some measure for the loss of Mr. E
Fitzgerald and other priceless people. Rad-
cliite. Hawley, who is leaving in December
to join tenor John Coates in London, and
Margaret Murdoch, of Bendigo, supplied the
best of the music. As the day was o" the
cold side, furs abounded. Mrs. Maudsley
and Mrs. Mitchell, both of whom were
in spring attire, shone by comparison. They
probably shone coldly. But who grudges
a shiver or two when the effect is striking V
On Thursday last, several determined-
looking men personages were observed hurry-
ing up the steps of Parliament House. One
excitable onlooker guessed there must be
some sort of crisis on; but another spectator
offered to bet that their desperate purpose
was to have a farewell drink with Andrew
Fisher before he set out for Port Augusta
and the first sod-turning of the Western
transcontinental. As the Fisher Ministry
has not resigned. I am inclined to think the
man who diagnosed it as morning whisky
was right.
After giving imitations of all sorts of
persons in all sorts of parts for the last few
years, Fanny Powers, who has been on the
Rickards circuit for 14 years, is, on Decem-
ber 23, to give an imitation of a bride being
married. The part of the bridegroom is to
be taken by a well-known Adelaide man.
t Freda Bage, who hails from Melbourne
University, is getting along well with the
biologist’s chair at the Brisbane seat of
learning. The owner of the furniture is
away investigating the prickly-pear curse.
Large invitations, decorated with a draw-
ing by A. E. Newbury, are out for the Vic-
torian Artists’ frivol on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 25.
Bertha Merfield is shortly to hold a show
in the upper rooms of the Athenaeum, tier
recent exhibition of Australian landscapes
in London, brought her a heap of printed
praise. She has done some fine panels on
rough canvas for the interior decoration of
some local squatter mansions.
The Lang-Warnock tennis wedding hap-
pens in Geelong at the end of September.
The two champions decided at the last tour-
nament to play in the matrimonial doubles.
The Western District will attend the “cere-
mony at St. Paul’s, Geelong, in great flocks.
Esther Fairbairn, of the red-gold locks,
and Norman Brookes won the tennis tourna-
ment that has been raging on the courts of
the Best People. The finals were bounded
through at Fail lie House, the flatted refuge
of the squatter tribe. Mama Fairbairn gave
a lunch party to celebrate the glorious vic-
tory.
Various dukes and earls threw compli-
ments and gifts at pretty Marie Lohr when
she was wedded, the other day, to a son of the
late Val Princep. One of the Schleswig-
Holstein royalties gave her a breakfast cruet,
or a crown, or something. The bride wore a
Paquin frock of ivory satin and Mechlin lace,
and had only two bridesmaids, a piece of
commendable self-restraint in a day when the
order in the best advertising circles is 14.
The damsel does not intend to leave the
stage, but will appear with Gerald Du
Maurier in “Doormats,” at Wyndham’s, next
month.
A mild bit of excitment, in the shape of a
mysterious masked couple, burst on the
severely orthodox crowd that solemnlv as-
sembled at the Prahran dance in aid of the
local erbehe. Gasps of dismay were heard
when the pair clutched each other and gave
a display of the latest Trots and Hugs. The
lynx-eyed dame of a State M.P. discovered
the identity of the daring pair. He was the
eldest son of a popular medico, and She one
of Toorak’s Younger Set.
A small boy, armed with a pea-riflle, is
supposed to have supplied the shower of bul-
lets which drove some Wednesday golfers to
cover, on the Sandringham links, last week.
Maybe he hated to see grown people, in the
middle of a working week, uselessly whack-
ing small globules a certain distance, and
then striding solemnly after them with the
intention of whacking them further. It is a
nationally ruinous habit to which any
thinker, however small, is entitled to object—
though not with firearms. Many of the young
British army oflicers are alleged to be so
busy performing their golf that they have
no time left to learn the job of defending
the country.
The Theatre Royal people have defied
superstition, and redecoiated the Bourke-
street playhouse in green—a non-aggressive,
mignonette shade, but still the supposedly
fatal color. Agitated mummers still speak
shudderingly of that other daring, but appar-
ently harmless, experiment of years ago —the
painted peacocks and peacock velvet audi-
torium of the Princess's. Possibly, though,
the recent outbreak of bellowdrama is the
overdue curse of this house. I believe that
the Princess’s possesses a ghost—a melan-
choly, out-of-date spectre that leans over the
back of the dress-circle o’ nights, and lets
his Dundreary whiskers tickle the bare heads
and shoulders of paying patrons. This grave-
yarder is the most persistent deadhead of
them all; but the busy ushers don’t mind him
because, though he is always in the way,
they can rush through him without incon-
venience. The renovated Royal is delight-
fully fresh and clean, also soothing to the
eye. The ceilings are white and gold, the
walls covered with posies, and the curtain
a vast wall of green moss with a fringe of
gold knobs. The box bangings are a reseda
shade, that will delight the hearts of the
Titian-haired.
At Her Majesty’s Theatre, one night last
w r eek, when the last patron had fled and the
outer doors had banged to, the newly-
married Phil Finkelstein was loaded with
presents and compliments. The firm of J.
C. Williamson, Ltd., handed over several
pieces of table silver, and the staffs of Her
Majesty's and the Iloyal added a dressing-
case for the bridegroom. Then the Ben
Hurs and Quaker Girls crowded round with
gifts, and the pretty Maoriland bride was
handed a gold bracelet watch.
Plump and pleasing Daisy Belmore, the
lady with the impressive figure and unim-
pressive voice, sends coo-ees from abroad.
She is doing some mumming in New York.
Hubby Waxman and she are flatting, along
with the curly-haired boy-child who used to
do the Bubbles pose in local tram-cars.
Society’s Saturday matinee performance of
“The Cassilis Engagement,” at Her Majesty’s,
won a barrel of money for the Women’s
Hospital, and a case of the best John Mad-
den butter for the performers, while the
Melbourne groundlings (31,000 of them)
were cheering and roaring at the second
football semi-final, and the hunted bag of
leather was soaring wearily through the
beautiful fresh air. The sleekly-fair Gentle-
man Help Curwen induced happy sighs from
the indoor audience as Geoffrey Cassilis, the
beautifully-clothed young catch of the coun-
ty, who is salvaged by Mamma (Dorothy
Grimston) from his rash entanglement with
Ethel Borridge. It was noticeable that the
stage kisses on this occasion were no mere
pecks, but hearty country busses. Gaud
Mayoress Davey, with some assistance from
daughter Mrs. Charlie Beauchamp, held a
tea-party in the lounge at half-time, and lost-
looking society youths manned the Exhibi-
tion-street kerbstone, and listlessly burnt
cigarettes before a curious rabble of tinted
kiddies. There is no romance by day in
Exhibition-street.
“On Our Selection” drew a flock of first-
nighters to the King’s on Saturday night,
and staring “House Full” placards rebuffed
regular unbooked patrons on the threshold
half an hour before curtain rise. Boiled
shirts were frequent in the expectant audi-
ence within doors, and white shoulders and
necks gleamed everywhere like ivory and
flour-sprinkled dough. Pretty Mrs. Howard
chaperoned a Fenner maiden and a brace
of eligible young men. Fair Essie Perrin-
Kcrouse, smartly gowned in black, sat in
the stalls with her husband. The Henry
Cornish couple accompanied them. Miss
Alie Robson and an experienced party of
amateur mummers carefully studied the joy-
ous Australian play ; and Mrs. Bert Bailey
sat in state in the manager’s box, in a fur-
edged Paris glaelt ninon, veiling green and
gold. Mrs. Inman acted as her A.D.C.
Kirkby Lunn has acquired a crowd of
adorers in this city, (if a female star of
anv magnitude ever fails to do this, I am
prepared to spend thousands to solve the
mystery.) The Best People vied for her
smile, and rioted for her handshake, and
their houses were thrown open and the front
doors nailed back. The final matinee con-
cert, last week, drew the smart setters in
packs, and they fawned at her coral-pink-
slippered feet, and leaped for the encores she
graciously flung them like bones. She wore
some frightfully expensive pearls, but re-
frained from casting, them after the encores
for fear the audience might take it amiss.
When she rushed to the Sydney express in
her motor, it is alleged that some of the
Smart Setters rushed after her, and tried to
kiss the receding buffers of the guard’s-van.
Failing in their dreadful purpose, they
looked about them languishingly with
flushed faces and star-bright eyes as if they
wanted to embrace the whole world. A sus-
ceptible luggage porter was so overcome by
the sight of all this emotion going to waste
that he retired to the cloakroom and burst
into tears over a large trunk marked “Un-
claimed.” It appears that he was jilted in
his youth, and never got over it.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Synod festivities, which, for an entire week
marched from revelry to revelry, each wilder and
more joyous than its predecessor, culminated splen-
didly in a garden party at Government House.
Adequately to describe the gay, insouciant fashion in
which the clerics and their wives drank tea, played
tennis, admired the flowers, handed each other food,
smiled, grinned, retailed holy jests, and o.bitwise
lived the gilded, if brief, life, would require the pen
of a literary Tintoretto, or a Disraeli as he was
when he wore green velvet pants and wrote novels
with 10 dikes in each. Furthermore, it would fill
the entire Bulletin. 1 will, therefore, content my-
self with the bald mention in the literary style of
the Mere Brown or Jones school, that Government
House looked its best, that Lady Bosanquet wore
smart taffetas, while her daughters affected light
coats and skirts, and that Mrs. Way and Mrs. Tom
Barr Smith (in admixtures, of blue and black), and
Mrs. Thomas (in a grey coat and skirt) were amongst
those present.
The influx of soul-tenders was followed by a rush
of cow-tenders. To drop the dazzling language of
Antithesis, the Man on the Land is here temporarily,
likewise his Missus. The discriminating city maiden
fairly staggers with pa nod amazement at toe horrors
in the way of hats and “costumes” that our drapery
emporiums are lumbering on to the simple bucolics.
Sartorially speaking, the backblockeress appears to
be looked on as a species of rubbish-tip, on to
which any old bygone garments may be unloaded.
The weather is enough to give you an attack of the
megrims. The city suggests one vast stadium,
wherein dust, wind, rain and cold battle furiously for
mastery, under the direction of a referee suffering
from general paralysis of the insane. However, our
country visitors don’t seem to mind. I fancy they
have a vague idea that it is beneficial to the crops in
our main streets, or something.
Government House has done its duty by the Show
nob.ly. Our Admiral is offering a prize for dairy
cows (he has a special affection for Jerseys), and
A.D.C. Captain Walker has given a cup for a
special jumping contest.
Mrs. Julian Ayers and her sister-in-law, Mrs.
Maxwell Fowler, are in Melbourne for the golf tour-
naments, also Miss N. Law Smith. Dr. Humphrey
Makin, who, with his wife, has been paying his
people here a flying visit, returned to Melbourne on
Wednesday.
Tattersall’s meeting drew a big crowd to Morphett-
ville on Saturday. The dividends were poor, and the
dressing absolutely stony for the most part. Economy
was justified of itself on this occasion. A shower
fell upon just and unjust alike, in the middle of
the Steeplechase, which would have well-nigh
drenched a turtle in its shell. The Hunt Club had
arranged its run so that members could see the last
of the racing, and thov turned up on the course be p ore
the Steeple. Mr. Bob Aidmore had a stroke of bad
luck. Corralite fell over a fence and knocked him-
self about sufficiently to prevent his running in the
Hunt Club Races at the end of the month. Before
this mishap the steed’s winning chances were
regarded as good.
Mrs. Woodhead gave a bridge party at her house
at Gilberton on Monday afternoon. The Woodheads
bought the Rutter-Clarke’s house, and, with it, an
unns"ally fine garden. All ardent br’dge players
should have a garden. It is pleasant to sit in it,
when not playing bridge, and meditate upon the
money one is thereby saving.
B Aiders. busy near the North Adelaide Railway
Station t’other day, happened upon a strange find,
namely, three solid rooms built into the hill. They
were in good order, quite hidden, and had no doors.
I'rom whicli tilings we are sorrowfully led to deduce
that our ancestors fell so low at times as to conduct
illicit stills.
The Warilda, which arrived from Glasgow on Mon-
day, carried a woman doctor. This is about the first
ship to come to the Commonwealth with an officially
installed female medico.
The illness of Judge Gordon, which has led to his
resignation of the Chairmanship of the Sugar Com-
mission, has caused sorrow to pro- and anti-Trusters
alike. His heart has gone wrong, likewise his kid-
neys, and the severe attack of pneumonia which
smote him recentlv, did his constitution no material
good. He has leave of absence from the local court
till t’’n rmi! t'm veer and will put it in doing a
rest cure at Kangaroo Island.
If Mary Anne is proud and haughty to a degree,
so also is John William. Madame Suburbia, descend-
ing from her motor recently, requested the man at
the wheel to “go and call for Mrs. Blank and bring
her back here.” John William firmly refused. Said
he: “I’ll drive your friends when you’re in the car
with them —but I won’t drive them alone.”
Adelaide had a more or less abiding interest in old
John Henry, of Tasmania, who died last week. He
sat in the Federal Convention here. Moreover,
he d'd inestimable service for the cause of Federation.
During the last great debate on the Money
clauses,_ when there was danger of the smaller States
combining against the larger ones, in the cause of
equal powers for all, it was Henry’s personal charm
and magnetism and persuasiveness that saved the
day. He, and he alone, won over his fellow-islanders,
Elliot Lewis and Brown, and prevented N. S. “Wales
and Victoria from seceshing, and the Convention from
being broken up. He was a notable sportsman,
other things—-one of those baresark yachting
enthusiasts who delight to brave the perils of the
raging deep, and who are happiest when countering
the assaults of tornadoes and such-like disturbances.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


1
“ Incomparable! ”
WHEN the occasion calls for the honoring
of some warm-hearted toast, honor it in
“ Thorne’s ! ” It is the Whisky that
stimulates good-fellowship.
For 80 years the splendid purity, ripe
mellowness, perfect ageing and blending, added
to the inimitable “Thorne” Flavor, have won
for this fine Glenlivet spirit the approbation and
advocacy of the connoisseur.
GEENEIVET—the traditional home of fine
Scotch Whisky-possesses no more representa-
tive product than Thorne’s Old Highland Malt
Whisky.
kjh
m
V
Z,** — Supplied
* TO THE •
House of Commons
' h
IHal
9
ji • jk‘ 1
>.
M
R.Thorne & Sons. Limited.
• Greehock • Distillery- f-
Lion House . Tower Hill , LON DON, E.C.
ESTABLISHED I
Trade
Mark
1651. A
A
v’
%
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLED
ilffi
S2.TS


ASK FOR
« • «
FRANZ JOSEF
LAGER BEER.
TRY ...
HACKERBRAU
DARK LAGER.
COULDN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
“I was a long sufferer from severe colds on the
chest, in fact was never free from them until I tried
Chamberlain’s Cough llemedy,” says Edward P.
Craig, 467 Nicholson Street, North Carlton, Vic.
“In my opinion there is no more valuable remedy
known, and I recommend it to everyone with colds
or chest complaint.”*
Are you in an office all day? Smoking too? You
probably have frequent headaches, but they needn’t
last long—Stearns’ Headache Cure gives quick re-
lief.*
Veterinarylnstruments.
k
Very latest
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, etc. '
WRITE FOR LIST.
DENYER BROTHERS
281 George Street (opp.
Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also'at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Late one recent evening, through the grace
of the N.S.W. Labor Government, a Bill was
introduced in the Assembly to restore Rich-
ard Denis Meagher, Labor member, to his
old position as a solicitor, from which first
the Supreme Court and then (after the
Supreme Court had relented) the High Court
shut him out. The name of the man in the
chair was Richard Denis Meagher, Deputy-
Speaker. The always cantankerous Lons-
dale grew quite nasty, as per usual, over the
proposed reinstatement of Richard Denis
Meagher by Act of Parliament, and Deputy-
Speaker Richard Denis Meagher made him
sit down. Finally, Richard Denis Meagher
hastily put the motion for the first reading
of the Bill of the reinstatement of Richard
Denis Meagher, and it was carried by 33
votes to 12. Then Richard Denis Meagher
left the chair, and the House adjourned.
FUSED POLITICIANS , AND WHERE THE IMPORTER COMES IN.
“The Ejected” writes :
Instead of being worried night after night with
troubles of the Wood and Fitzparrot type, why
doesn’t the N.S.W. Assembly deal with habitual
offenders in the English way, and suspend them for
the balance of the session ? In the Commons re-
cently, McCallum Scott, Liberal member for Glas-
gow, took offence at something the Speaker said, and
roared. Also, he danced and shot off his mouth, and
tore passion to tatters. After being called to order
four times, he still refused to be tidy, so Prime
Minister Asquith moved, “That Mr. McCallum Scott
be suspended.” Carried unanimously. McC. is placed
on the retired list till next session. And all he can
do is to be a stranger in the gallery. It is a busi-
ness-like proposition. Parliaments are too large, and
I think half the members should be suspended three-
quarters of the time.
“Croson” : 1 observe that a Lord Denman,
whose name 1 seem to have heard somewhere
before, is to turn the first sod of the trans-
continental railway with an electro-plated
shovel. He will also be presented with a
small gold shovel, with a fiddle-back handle.
Both articles will be preserved as mementoes.
Just so! And when the last sod of that
much more important trans-Australian line,
from Pine Creek to Oodnadatta, comes to be
turned, it will probably be done by a Marquis
Yoshiwara, or some such, with the business
end of a sword, while a horde of brown and
yellow riflemen crowd into the hastily-con-
structed armored trucks, and start on the
road to the South. Those “mementoes” will
interest them.
The land-grabber is at it again! In Show
week the Closer Settlement Estates United
Ass. foregathered in Melbourne, and decided
to approach Watt and co., with a view to
the abolishment of two restrictive conditions :
continuous residence and disallowance of the
transfer of land to any but practically land-
less men. As the whole policy of Closer
Settlement depends
on the rigid en-
forcement of those
two conditions, it
will be interesting
to see what Watt
has to say on the
subject. Also, it
will be touching to
watch the attitudes
of certain acquisi-
tive landlords.
THE TOP OF THE TREE— “ UP
THE TO LET
Skill still meets with something like its fitting reward
in the British labor market. The consequence is. ..there
is a strong incentive to the worker to make himself
a thoroughly proficient tradesman, and the process
is one of levelling up.—ARGUS, on English v. Aus-
tralian workers.
THE EMPLOYER OF SKILLED LABOR : “It's
t' be ’oped 'e is an efficient climber, ’cause
once 'e’s zip 'ere 'e's mine!”
At 30th June last the Commonwealth had
79,071 old age pensioners on its list —an in-
crease of 3509 for the year. During the year
12,004 new pensions were granted—-1608 to
persons aged 65; 1180 to persons aged 60;
and 1044 to persons aged 66. All the other
figures are under 1000. One alleged cen-
tenarian (male) got his pension; also, one
male of 97; two of 96, and two of 94. The
oldest woman applicant was on the 93 mark.
Apparently men live longer than women, or
are harder up in their old age, or lie more
about their extraordinary ages. There are
10,763 invalid pensioners. The total bill for
the year was £2,216,734. Tasmania occupies
its usual unenviable position on the list. It
has 243 pensioners to every 10,000 people,
which suggests that it is essentially the
State of the aged, the young folks having a
tendency to clear out. N.S.W. is next worst
with 206. Victoria has 202 (these three
States are over the average) ; S.A., 190;
Queensland, 184; Westralia, 123. The
average is 197. So the pension system
washes a good deal of money down to the
S.E. corner of the map.
The Japanee isn’t Europeanised—not
quite yet. Thus on the day of the late
emperor’s burial, General Nogi, a hero of
the Jap-Russ war, killed himself, and Mrs.
Nogi did likewise, as a delicate compliment
to the deceased monarch, and all Nippon
waved its paper fan in applause. The gen-
eral cut his throat, and the lady drove a
sword most untidily into her stomach. Just
before the event, the general wrote a letter
of apology to Prince Arthur of Connaught.
Doubtless it was signed : “I have the distin-
guished honor to remain, your obedient
corpse, Nogi.”
The attempt to run a cotton factory at
Ipswich (Queensland) has done a perish by
reason of the unwise old tariff. British
cotton goods come into Australia free, while
other imported cottons pay 5 per cent. Thus
the Briton gets, and joyously accepts, 5 per
cent. Protection in this country, though he
says it is against his principles. The vast
inequality of wages killed the chances of the
Ipswich cotton business. Britain employs
in its textile factories over 1,600,000 people,
nearly two-thirds of whom are females, and
nearly 300,000, both of the males and
females, are comparative children, ranging
in age from 12 to 18. The average wage of
English cotton weavers, at the date of the
latest figures in the new Encyclopaedia
Britannica, were 13s. 3d. per week, which
clearly explains the hopelessness of the posi-
tion under Freetrade and at the Australian
standard of a white man’s remuneration.
“Eryander”: About The Bulletin’s glit-
tering pauper (5/9/T2). The old-time tem-
porary warrior—leaving the loot-
ing out of account —sometimes en-
joyed a goodly stipend. The third
Edward’s “Rolls of Calais” records
a scale of pay during active service
in France which should make the
modern swashie kick himself for
not having been born half a dozen
centuries ago. The arelier’s re-
muneration, rendered into modern
money, was ss. a day, the man-at-
arms received 155., the esquire £l,
the knight £2, and the baron £4.
And, as usual, the guerdon was in
inverse ratio to the risk. The
boiler-plated baron generally man-
aged to keep a whole skin, but the
armorless archer furnished the bulk of the
knocked-out in the slaughterous smokeless
lights of those days.
The first sod of the transcontinental rail-
way has been turned at Port Augusta. It is
the wrong transcontinental railway—the one
to the west, not the one to the great Federal
possession up North —but it is the only line
the Fisher Government can tackle without
losing votes. And it is a terrible thing to
lose votes.
“Leges”': Speaker Willis, of N.S.W.,
caused me to muse, I don’t exactly know
why, on Judge Willis, the first one of the
Melbourne Supreme Court, appointed in
1841, and suspended in 1843. He exagger-
ated a quality rather visible in Chief Jus-
tices Stawell and Higinbotham. This is a
habit of forming an idea on the rights and
wrongs of a case, and wrenching the law to
meet that idea. Lilley, of Queensland, had
it. Perhaps the most fruitful cause of de-
cisions being quashed. Law is Juggernaut.
Willis had £l5OO a year in Melbourne. Good
reputation, except for temper, as a London
equity lawyer. Acted as Judge in Guiana
and Canada, but got out of both billets
through his eccentricities. Thus he was
shunted to Sydney, and Sydney joyfully
shunted him upon Melbourne. He was like
boiling water on an antheap. There were
three newspapers, Fawkner’s Patriot, Ar-
den’s Gazette and Cavenagh’s Herald. The
Patriot stuck up for Willis, but in after
years it was found he had lent £l2OO to the
concern. Fawkner got £550, and the editor
had the rest. Arden and Cavenagh went for
Willis without gloves. He had them up be-
fore him sundry times. Their in-
quiry was: “Has the tipstaff been round?”
Willis was a regular porcupine. Quarrelled
with almost everybody. All the barristers,
Croke, Brewster, Pohlman, Williams and
Redmond Barry, came under his displeasure.
The last three became Judges. He drove
Simpson off the bench—the most respected
magistrate. He even attacked Superintend-
ent Lonsdale and the N.S.W. Government.
One of his fads was getting the Rev. Thom-
son, of the Church of England, to offer up
prayer at: the opening of the Criminal Ses-
sions. Yet, throughout all, I can perceive
that he was actuated by a passion for jus-
tice to the poor man. He wanted to slash
down everv vestige of red-tapery, and ladle
out equity according to his conscience. A
memorial of confidence was presented to
him, signed by 300 people. Nevertheless an
overwhelming number of signatories ap-
pealed to Governor Gipps for his removal.
This ensued, under the form of indefinite
suspension. Next came Judges .Teffcott and
Therry for brief periods, and a’Beckett be-
came first Chief. Meanwhile, Willis ap-
pealed to the Privy Council, and the clatter
hung on three years. The first part of the
decision allowed his appeal, and voted him
£4BOO as compensation, on the ground of
not being allowed an opportunity for de-
fence. However, the second part revoked
Ins appointment. The whole job cost the
N.S.W Government £5700, a serious matter
in those days. Willis made numerous at-
tempts in England to get further employ-
ment, but his reputation was altogether too
explosive. He lived till 1877, and died in a
bad temper, yet full of the best intentions.
Adelaide’s Municipal Tramways declined
the other day to forward a return as to its
legal expenses. And in this the Govern-
ment upheld the tramways. By way of pro-
test, McGillivray, M.L.A., weighed in with
the following: “The Ministerial supporters
are stiff-necked in their attitude, and sit
bphynx-like, having been blindfolded by the
Government as if they were dumb-driven
animals led by the nose by a domineering
Tramway Trust.”
OTHER PEOPLES POLITICS.
The Belgrade correspondent of the Daily Tele-
graph states that the king of Bulgaria attended a
war conference of generals yesterday, at which it
was agreed that the present was a most propitious
moment to declare war against Turkey.
BULGARIA : “‘ There is a tide in the affairs
of men, which taken at the flood," etc.
And it's about high water.”
In a letter to the S. M. Herald Henry
Lucy tells how, 20 years ago, he went to
Japan and was presented to the Mikado,
“whose dead body Japan is to-day mourn-
ing,” as Henry Amelia awkwardly puts it.
This is how the potentate looked at one of
his own birthday reviews, as Henry Gwen-
doline describes him :
Arriving on the review-ground, the Mikado, step-
ping out of his brougham, mounted a little bay
pony garlanded with yellow reins, and followed by
his staff and military attaches of the foreign Min-
istries, rode slowly down the ranks of soldiery, stand-
ing stiffly at attention. At that time he was 31
years of age, tall, but not graceful in figure. He
had the sallow complexion and coal-black hair
peculiar to his people. Except for something of
sensuality about the thick lips and heavy jaws, his
face presented about as much expression as is hab-
itual in a brick wall. His seat on horseback was
curiously similar to the fashion many years after
introduced on English racecourses by an American
jockey. Holding a yellow rein in each hand, he,
with elbows squared,, leaned over the pony’s -neck as
if he were about to get off in that direction without
assistance. Thus he sat whilst the pony walked
around, and thus he remained, blankly staring
straight ahead as the troops marched past.
And now, alas! the poor blank person is
dead.
IN THE SHADOW OF COHEN.
BOY : “I dunno! But it seems to me that this
shadow ain't natural. ”
Apropos the Sydney Government House
deadlock. Hercules Robinson, when Governor
of N.S.W., wrote to English friends—who
inconsiderately published the information —
that he resided at Government House, which
was “built at the mouth of the main sewer
of the city.”
ALP’S SILVER TONGUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The two members were listening attentively. As a
matter of fact, they seemed to be fascinated by Mr.
Deakin’s eloquence. Eloquent he certainly was; but
as he had disclaimed at the outset any strong views
for or against the Navigation Bill, his graceful
periods did not carry the argument far forward.
—Parliamentary news item.
Alfred’s silver tongue is chiming!
(Tinkle-tinkle /)
There it goes !
Rings on her fingers and bells on her toes!
The lady who cantered to Banbury Cross
To musical politics was a great loss.
The trill of alarm clocks—the tint: of the till,
We hear them all now going gaily together !
The subject just now is the mariner’s Bill
Which aims at more safety regardless of weather.
And Alfred about it is playing a jingle!
A musical-box sort of melody flows —-
Sweet, meaningless chiming that makes the ear
tingle.
No note of the storm through his minuet blows;
There’s waving of kerchiefs and pointing of toes,
But never a hint of the merciless sea,
Or the thunder of surf on a coast hard a-lee,
Or the coast glims that flicker and twinkle.
It’s musical platitudes all the dashed time,
For Alf with his silver tongue’s playing a chime.
(Tink-tinkle! Tink-tinkle t Tink-tinkle!)
Alfred loves his sweet tongue-music'
( Tinkle-tinkle /)
Oh ! how sweet!
Steamers are punching through darkness and sleet!
And anything’s likely to happen while he
Is playing his sweet little word-symphony!
The engine-room bells sounding deep in the hulls
Are slowing her down while they’re sounding and
groping;
The great albatross and the hovering gulls
Away in the murk for some bodies are hoping.
But Alfred the Graceful the measure is killing
With fairy-like strokes of his musical tongue;
The party alarm clock, he keeps at his trilling
While sailors are tossing dark billows among
And saying the Government ought to be hung.
As down in a deep ocean wrinkle
The ship goes again,
They hear Alfred’s sweet strain—
(Tink-tinkle !
Tink-tinkle !
link tinkle ! /)
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


yte French
Grand Prix
The Greatest Event
in 1912
;o
v t
>4>.
ul.v- •..
AO* ' .
fe
‘;V:W ■ .
' * *V.
dK
<v
Mm
C-K
%
3.c
zTN.
‘\'-A
■£#*s(
'•ovofj-r. v ■ -o-^.
- ->,5
~ -'r '
O»f 4 . .*i
Won on
The World’s Greatest
Lubricant
Gargoyle" Mobiloil
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
mm
HORSEMEN!
Fere are two items of Wear that you atro
ltUly reed —1 he “Squatter” Hat and the
“Stcckiran” Beet—Beth so extremely
good that after one trial you simply Won’t
be without them.
The “Squatter”
9/6
A Hat that is splendidly suited for
Riding and Ordinary Wear-Made
in Fine Fur-Felt—with 3-in. Brim
---Will stand any amount of Rough
Wear—Always looks Smart—is
beautifully Light and Cool—Best
Australian, 9 6 (postfree), Wood-
row's, 13,6 (postfree).
l
mpSHHpsHRH
I
■
The “Stockman” —14/6
Made in Fine Strong Calf, fully matured to that suppleness
which spells Comfort for every joint—Thoroughly water-
proof—with Elastic Sides and Doutle Tags—easy to slip on
and off—“ Certain wear wita Every Fair.” 14/6 (post fre.)
Lincoln,
Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd,
FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
jhk
MAIL ORDER OUTFITTERS
George Barr McCutcheon’s
-Boob
HAVE been the talk of the world’s literary centres for many years, but their prohibi-
tive prices have made them luxuries to be indulged in sparingly. Now, however, our
Australian readers have a unique opportunity of sampling some of them, _as the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., have arranged with the American publishers to bring out
CHEAP EDITIONS at SIXPENCE PER COPY.
Post Free, 7d. each. The first four books in this series published are: —-
“Tntxton King,” “The Daughter of Anderson Crow,”
“The Man from Brodney’s,” “The Rose in the Ring.”
These books, which have been reprinted in Sydney, have all the freshness of new type
first editions, and will constitute a record in local publishing, being the cheapest
productions of standard authors ever known beyond England or America.
“The Butterfly Man,”
By GEORGE BARR
McCUTCHEON.
and
"The Alternative.”
Price l/>,
Post Free 1/1.
Here we have two books for the price of one, and both are equally good. “The
Butterfly Man,” indeed, ranks amongst one of the cleverest things of its kind, and
enhanced this author’s reputation materially.
Essentially a book for young men, sisters, and mothers, this work draws such a
pen picture of a selfish society butterfly that most people will at once exclaim, “Just
like young So-and-so.” . . . . „
The young man’s awakening is swift, severe and uncompromising; Ins downfall
complete, and the conclusion of the story just as everyone hoped for.
“The Alternative” is a delightful story in McCutcheon’s best style, and must be
read to be appreciated.
“What’s-His-Name ?”
Price 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
By GEORGE BARR
McCUTCHEON.
By arrangement with the American publishers, Dodd, Mead & Co., of New York,
the N S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., are able to put this famous author’s expensive book on
the Australian market at the low price of one shilling, and those who are not conver-
sant with the great American’s work should lose no time in reading ‘ What s-His-
Name?”
This is a charming story of a man who was always known as “What’s-llis-Name?
You know. Nellie Duluth’s husband.” . .
Nellie was a favorite actress, whose profession permitted her no time to attend to
her home, with the results related in the book. An exceptionally interesting story,
with a surprising finish of great power.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
AND ALL
BOOKSELLERS.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
Throws Moving Pictures in any
place, at any time, with the
light that it makes itself.
The light is produced from electricity generated in the small magneto (Fig.
1G) as the handle that projects the picture is turned. Thus the machine is abso-
lutely independent of any outside means of lighting, and can be used as successfully
in the camp or country house as in the city house. The light is a small electric
bulb, and the magneto cannot get out of control in any circumstances.
1
13
m
PATHE FILMS WILL
NOT BURN and the
PATHEHOME is the only
C i n e m ato=
graph which
will not in=
crease the
cost of fire
insurance on
your home.
No.
I—Handle.
3—Delivery Spool.
B—Gate (the Lamp-
house is on the
Gate).
12 —Receiving Spool.
13 & 15—Lamphouse
14 —Lens.
16—Magneto.
The Pathehome gives the same result as the old cinematograph, but with-
out any risk, and is no more like it in principle than a modern runabout is like a
mail coach. The showman’s cinematograph and smaller copies of it in the lianas
of the unskilled are dangerous. There is no danger with the Pathehome. con-
sider this and the pleasure that you and vour family can get out of it, no matter
where you live, and write for full particulars now. Do it at once, using tms
coupon.
FILL IN THIS COUPON and Post At Once.
PA THE FRERES, 1/8 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Please send me free catalogue of the Pathehome Cinematograph.
Name * • •
Address
Dept. C.
Get to know more of this
wonderful machine. Get our
catalogue posted free. It will
interest and delight you.
Write now.
Pathe Freres,
48 Queen St., Melbourne
and All Over the World.


810-SHOWMEN !
THERE'S onlv one BEST Biogranh. , We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
SPLENDID EFFICACY.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
RELIEVE HABITUAL CONSTIPA-
TION. WAGGA MAN’S PRAISE.
“For 10 years I have been subject to
habitual constipation,” writes Mr. James
Miller, Edward Street, Wagga, N.S.W. “This
obstinate complaint caused me a good deal
of worry, until I commenced using Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I wish to tes-
tify that I cons.uer there are no Pills equal
in efficacy to your great remedy for the
satisfactory relief of constipation. They are
superior, in my estimation, to all others. I
cannot afford to be without them, and con-
sequently have a good word to say for them
to all sufferers from constipation. I know
many gentlemen in Wagga using Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills who speak in accord with
my views. You may use these lines for
publication.”
No remedy ever placed before the public
has been more successful than Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills in relieving this com-
plaint. Thousands of people can testify to
their splendid efficacy in all complaints
arising from imperfect digestion, which, after
all, is the cause of constipation.
« a
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Laffer & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives
E. RESCH’S LIMITED, Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“Sic transit gloria mundi!” said the cap-
tain of the Glebe Rugby League team as he left the
Sydney Agricultural Ground on Saturday, and one
of his forwards looked up and remarked sepul-
chrally: “An’, by cripes, yer oughter be sick, Do,
with the rotten back machine you’ve got. ’ “\ou
go an’ get bathed!” snarled one of the backs. “The
machine wuz orlright, but the forwards was stale as
Hell—that’s what killed our pig.” Anyhow, Glebe s
pig was dead. On the last day of the Premiership
competition it met South Sydney at Wentworth
Park, and managed to win by 19 points to 16,
thereby relegating South Sydney to fourth place in
the competition. When the sudden death struggle
for the City Cup commenced, Eastern Suburbs, which
had won the Championship of the season, met this
South Sydney team which had finished fourth, and
was stamped flat by 21 points to 10. When the
eight teams had met, the only two who survived were
South Sydney and Glebe. Glebe had been runner-up
in the Premiership competition, and the heathen
heart reckoned that South's remarkable “run of
luck” must soon come to an end. They met on
Saturday, and South Sydney triumphed. It was a
clean sweep. South Sydney 30 points—Glebe five!
Think of it, gentlemen! How are the mighty put
down from their seat? Simply because the blokes
who run South Sydney club have the common sense
to infuse a little new blood and replace men who
have gone stale by others who are fresh. That’s all
that it amounts to. And verily the City Cup is the
reward. Glebe was utterly stale and worn-out—run
down, in fact. It was never a crowd that could
think very hard, but it might have realised that the
team which, immediately the competition was de-
cided, arose and smote the victors had something
about it worth seeing into; and a little investiga-
tion would have revealed what it was, so that Glebe
might have done likewise. It didn't, and the result
was a pitiable exhibition in which Glebe with a
favoring wind could score only two points to South's
three. When South got the wind behind it the carn-
age commenced. Glebe only flashed out once, and
the result was a try, which lifted the score to five.
South Sydney has certainly put up a remarkable
performance by stepping from fourth place in the
competition to defeat both champion and runner-up
within three weeks. No wonder the forward who
didn’t understand Latin made the remark quoted
above.
* * * *
When Balmain Soccer team arrived on the
ground on Saturday to meet Sydney for the Gar-
diner Cup, it brought the historic utensil with it.
and deposited it on the field of battle under a trusty
guard. Also, when the match was over, it took the
utensil home again, Sydney failing to accomplish the
unexpected. The Gardiner Cup dates back to 1888,
the Centennial year of the Ma State, and since then,
including the present year, Balmain has held it six
times. This year it must have felt its grip on it
getting very slippery indeed, for Sydney put up a
desperate battle, and fortune seemed disinclined to
definitely favor either party. Time had nearly run
out when Balmain scored a most sensational goal off
a forward’s head, and thus won the game, the Cup
and the championship of the State ; which is a fairly
big thing to win with one kick. Sydney made desper-
ate attempts to equalise the score, but the time was
not only out of joint, but also out of existence.
* # * *
With the exception of the final stages of
the Rawson and Association Cups by the Soccerites,
Sydney football is dead for the season. The chief
features of the winter have been the revival of the
Rugby Union (chiefly owing, it would appear, to the
League being' so gorged with members that it could
swallow no more), and the vast improvement in the
quality of the play in the Australian game. Now
that the Australian League has got two grounds
of its own to which it can charge for .admission, the
governing body has some money with which to foster
the game; and has evidently made excellent use of
it. Soccer football has also gained in importance,
and if the present movement continues, should soon
be second to no other form of the game. It is grow-
ing rapidly, and there are possibilities of trips
abroad to make it alluring, and international matches
to rake in big gate money. The quality of the play
lias improved in every branch ; and what is also very
pleasing to record, there has been an amazing de-
crease of rough play. Even umpires have become
sacred animals, who roost on pedestals instead of
dodging out of the grounds with a revolver in each
hand, surrounded bv police and sympathisers.
* * * *
The Australian Rulers played their semi-
final on Saturday for the Rawson Cup and Norwood
Shield, and the contestants were Y.M.C.A. and Pad-
dington. The simple life of Muscular Christianity
may have accounted for the superiority of its con-
dition, as compared to that of the sybarites of
Paddington, or it may not. Certainly, the condition
was better, and so was the score —by 25 points, 62
to 37 ; and the outstanding effect was to hurl Pad-
dington into outer darkness, while the Good Young
Men march on to do battle for the crown of glory.
They kick against Svdney for it next Saturday.
* * ' * *
In Melbourne, on Saturday, rain storms
threatened the crowds that proposed to visit the
hoofball finals, and robbed the management of a few
hundreds. Still, the collision of South and Essen-
don attracted 34,160 persons to the Metropolitan
Cricket Ground, and put £1261 2s. 6d. into the
League’s coffers —nearly £3OO less than last week.
All through the first half driving showers swept the
ground. The packed asphalt became a ring of
ribbed mushrooms, and the players were sloppy, be-
draggled and dispirited entities. Of skilful play
there was necessarily little —it was a case of kicking
a greasy, sodden flapjack sort of thing as hard and
as often as one might, and as near as one could get
in the right direction. At the interval the ’Dons
led by 10 points—29 to 19. When things resumed
the rain had ceased, and it was felt that if South
was going to play a winning game, now—with the
wind behind it —was its chance. The Red-and-Whites
grasped the position, and, though ’Don suddenly
snatched another goal, the former put in a sustained
attack, that gave them three goals and the lead for
the first time in the game—3B to ’Don’s 35. It was
but a flash, however; the Southern men scored no
more that quarter, and added but four points in the
last, while the “Same Old” speedily recovered its
lead and kept going until, at bell-ring, it had got
54 points to South’s 42. Of the two eighteens the
losers had the better system, especially forward, but
it wasn’t a day for “System.” It was the day for
the men who could best adapt their play to the con-
ditions. This coming Saturday ’Don meets Carlton,
and the winners will play a deciding game with
South. The encounters should be memorable, pro-
- vided the weather is good: but we seem to have
struck the commencement of a summer similar to
the last English one, or else the “disastrous effects
of Socialistic legislation” have driven the sunshine
out of Victoria, along with Capital and other right-
thinking circumstances. Anyhow, the weather is
rotten, and you can't bet on it two days running.
Out on the bleak North Melbourne ground,
where the only shelter was a picket-fence and
some lines of barbed wire, about 20,000 damp, and
mostly cantankerous persons, “parted” £267—£l
less than last week. Brunswick was doing its last
dash, and failing valiantly. North and ’Wick had
fought two draws, and general opinion was that
’Wick, with superior lasting capacity, would about
win this time; but North, going off with a burst,
piled up 36 points to ’Wick’s two in the first term,
which tremendous lead the Brickies could never re-
cover. They bogged in something extra; they
marked and passed and kicked for all they were
worth through the blinding rain ; but at half-time
North was still 26 points to the good. The latter
came again in the third quarter, and at lemon-time
had gained 83 points to ’Wick’s 42. They added no
more, the last term being all ’Wick’s, but though
the Brickies monopolised the play and the scoring,
they found the seven-goal lead too much. When tbe
bell closed the disturbance, the tale was—’Wick, 68
points ; North, 83. Here ended the third chapter of
the first lesson. The concluding ones will be read
by North, Essendon and ’Seray, with North likely to
have the larger say.
At its weekly meeting the Ass. was informed
that the unparalleled experience of North and
Brunswick in playing two semi-final draws was also
an exceedingly unprofitable one for them, inasmuch as
the “gates ’ were pooled among the 10 constituting
clubs when the season had closed, and the £7 7s.
allowed each of the four clubs was not enough to
pay for boot studs. ’Wick, in fact, was so abso-
lutely “stony” that it couldn’t pay its trainers, and
North was almost as “dead,” The Ass. handed the
two clubs £36 each. The League, though it doesn’t err
on the side of extravagance, gives each of the four
clubs £25 per week until it is outed —which allows
about £ 1 a week each for players and trainers. Of
course, the clubs ought to have nest eggs laid by for
emergencies, but the average ’bailer is such an
acquisitive beast that no club can grab enough of its
takings to form a reserve fund.
Maoriland Rugby Unions have been driven
mad by the arrival of a League team, and las. week
the Union men at Napier tore the stand to ribbons, so
that the League barrackers should not rest their feet
therein. But the League got hammers and nails and
language and axes and timber and an embittered
frame of mind, and, b.y banging all night, had a
new structure ready for the match. They take
everyth ng—love-making, politics, religion and foot-
ball —very seriously in Maoriland.
* * * »
“George Street”: A safe sort of aero-
plane, which runs on the ground, has been doing a
journey from Lyons to Paris, at a speed of 40 miles
an hour. The thing is driven by a propeller, which
performs at the rate of 2100 revolutions a minute,
and causes the car to run so lightly that it doesn't
even leave a track in the dust behind it. The axis
of the propeller is inclined at a slight angle, which
gives the required lift to the framework while urging
it forward. Seems to be a .beautiful and safe thing
to ride in, but looks as if it would whisk off the
heads of bystanders in fine style if driven on a zig-
zag course through a crowd of people.
* * * *
If the teams entered for the tug-o’-war
carnival at the Sydney Stadium are as good at haul-
ing as they are at howling there will be some mighty
fine pulling. Meetings of the captains are as com-
mon as speeches by Brother Wade. The result of the
talk is that objection to the Parramatta Pigmies
(the Heckenberg family) has been withdrawn, and
that hefty crowd will haul for the big £4OO prize
just as tile rest of them will. The Melntivoli had
previously said he could not see why the Hecken-
bergs should be barred,. and they won’t be.
* * * *
The Melbourne daily press, which so con-
sistently misrepresents public opinion anent politics
and other matters, puts up the same sorry perform-
ance in regard to sport. For months the' Melbourne
dailies have been shrieking, not to say bawling, that
followers of cricket in Melbourne are utterly dis-
gusted with the Board of Control and consumed with
admiration for the “Sorry Six,” while their venera-
tion for Mr. Frank Laver (whom the Six wanted for
manager regardless of the wishes of the rest of the
team) amounts to almost idolatry. Then came,
last week, the election of office bearers for the East
Melbourne Cricket Club —and something went wrong
with the works. The upholders of anarchy in the
cricket world organised a campaign against the Board
of Control, ran candidates, and issued a “ticket.”
The result was the defeat, of every one of its men
and the obliteration of its ticket. The aforementioned
Mr. Layer, who for years has been a commtteeman
and shining light of the club, was bumped out on
his ear, while the much-abused Peter M’Alister was
returned with flying colors; and a motion expressing
confidence in the Board of Control was carried bv a
huge majority. The Prahran Cricket Club held its
annual meeting the same night with almost s milar
results. Has the daily press anv influence at all in
either Melbourne or Sydney? If it has, ’tis hard to
trace.
That annual meeting of the East Mel-
bourne Cricket Club seems to have been a veritable
debacle. Laver, as before mentioned, was a promin-
ent official, and the election was to be a battle rov'al
which would settle once and for all which held the
most influence, the Board of Control or the M.C.C.
The meeting was the stormiest ever held since the
formation of the club. Laver called McAlister “a
liar,” and a member told Laver “you always were a
waster.” The Rev. Canon Hughes, the president of
the club, was in the chair —and was kept busy.
Laver, given every latitude by the president, made no
less than seven speeches, and repeated the old state-
ments made by him, which were immed ately contra-
dicted by Bean, as at the V.C.A. meeting, when that
body supported the actions of the Board by 20 votes
to two. Bean was armed with documentary evidence,
and produced (for the first time) statements from
the purser and chief steward of the Orient liner, re-
futing Laver’s charges of neglect against McFlhone,
.in connect'on with the passages of the XI. Concern-
ing the finance of the 1909 tour, Laver said : “Clem
Hill challenged McElhone to prove anything was
wrong.” Bean replied: “The Board's auditor refused
to certify to the accuracy of the balance-sheet, as a
large number of vouchers were missing, many were
incomplete, and there was not documentary evidence
that the plavers had received their shares.” McAlis-
ter swore, “on h’s solemn oath,” that he never as
treasurer received a voucher, although he frequently
demanded them, until the team returned to Melbourne
and said he honestly believed Laver never had any
books. It was hereabouts that Laver shouted “liar.”
McAlister then produced and held -aloft for inspection
a letter from Laver to himself, containing his players’
statement, and enclosing the balance of money due,
four months after the termination of tbp tour.
Laver cla : med to have created the Board of Control,
on the grounds that he discussed the suhiect with Mr.
Bam McMichael. It was an airv statement, just as
though hv discussing the moon with Boh Smith
proves that the discusser created it. Reference to
the records failed to discover that Mr. Laver ever
attended anv meeting held in connection w’th the
creaHon of tup "RnorA. In fhp pud AfoU-ster was
elected Club delegate to the V.C.A., and to Club
office. Laver was contemptuously rejected, polling
only 87 votes, to 181 received by the top committee-
man. It wasn’t only a defeat; it was a chuck.
Useless for English cricket cranks to
keep on protesting that the game has lost none of
its old attraction for the public sixpence. The r cent
match at the Oval —Australia v. Surrey and Middlesex
(the two Cockney counties) —told ns own tale to a
cloudless sky. London had not experienced any
cricket worth looking at for many days. Every
match thereabouts, or elsewhere, had been spoilt by
rain, or abandoned on account of a deluge. Hire at
last was an event which promised excitement. And
what did the cable say of the third session? “The
match was continued to-day in delightful weather,
although the attendance was again small. The
wicket was in good order.” The literary style of
cricket cable-expanders is shockingly bad in most
cases, and in this case the reader is invited to sup-
pose that the match was continued in spite of dis-
couraging gate receipts, whilst the weather forgave
the attendance for being small, and behaved delight-
fully under strong provocation. But the marrow of
the sentence is the fact that a good match, good
wicket and glorious sunshine, coming after a long
spell of depressing weather, couldn’t succeed in
making cricket popular, even at the Oval.
A solemn irreverence for dull professional
cricket is manifested by even the press in England.
Poor old Paunch was quite funnv in its ponderous
way when Warner's team returned home last April.
Its comic antique report of a dinner party, given to
the men who had been omitted from the Test
matches, referred to Iremonger as a hero who had
voyaged to Australia and back for sheer love of
travel, and spoke of Vine as one who should always
be twelfth man in everv Eleven. When the company
had drunk Vine’s health to slow music, the chairman
read a letter from J. W. H. T. Douglas, who wrote:
“Nothing but the necessity of getting back to Eng-
land in 1913 prevented me from going in first with
Vine every time. The only fault I found with Vine’s
play was that ho wanted more initials.” Which is
clearly intended to express Paunch’s poor opinion
of slow cricketers and their long-winded admirers.
“Dend Hpnd”: Tbp members of Sydney
Cricket Ground, or “dead-head push.” have a griev-
ance: in fact, several of them. They are charged
£2 2s. a vear, and if they should drop out for any
one year thev have to stump up £ 5 ss. before they
can regain their footing. Since the ashes blew back
to England they have had practically nothing to look
at. Owing to a scrap between League and Union,
the one football game can't be played on the ground
and the other won’t. The big inter-State football
matches are placed at the Agricultural and the
’Varsity oval. The tennis championships have also
departed, and even the braw Hielander and bare-
legged Caledonian, stern and riled, perform on New
Year’s Day on the “Agri.” In fact, the wretched
“member” is paying out good gold every year for the
next thing to nothing. Considering that it was the
steady income from the dead-heads’ subscriptions
that built up the S.C.G.. and that the place depends
on them to a certain extent to keep it going to-dav,
the said D.H.’s feel they are hardly used, and they
are not backward about mentioning it, either.
It is a pleasure to be able to announce
that, in spite oi uie numerosity of nis injuries, Aus-
tralia's plucky and clever aviator, Mr. liart, is out
of danger, lie is now able to suave himself, and on
Monday last wrote a legible and coherent letter to
h s mother, in Parramatta. A curious feature of his
trouble is that he has no recollection of the smash,
and at time of writing is under the impression that
he got ruined in a motor-car accident. This man,
who has soared over IUUOit. above me earth, regards
motor-cars as most dangerous cattle, and has always
had the idea that, if he got broken up, it would be
out of his father s vehicle, and not his aeroplane.
And now that he is smasued, that idea explains to
him why he is in hospital, and he is anxious to learn
particulars. Of course, if the family has any influ-
ence with him, he w.ll never fly again. His mother
is particularly hostile to the idea —which is very
natural. On the other hand, aviation seems to be
like drink, opium, and girls with long nos.s —a taste
that, once acquired, is impossible to get rid of. So
the chances are that, if Hart is at all able-bodiyd,
he will soon be soaring again in the blue. In the
event of his not being able to do so, the business
will be carried on b.y D. lv. Sandford (son of that
sterling pioneer of the iron industry, Sandford, long
time of Lithgow). who is Hart’s partner and constant
companion in aviation, and is also a rattling good,
engineer. Whether Sandford will fly himself, or
import an expert, is impossible to say. One of the,
explanations of Hart’s fall —and the falling of many
other monoplane flyers—is that in the monoplane the
propeller is fixed in- front and its whirling has a
mesmeric effect on the aviator, and causes him to tem-
porarily lose active consciousness. The fact that Hart
remembers nothing of us frightful fall .suggisis that
there is some truth in .the theory. The writer saw
the monoplane a week before the smash, when Hart
and Sandford had lovingly put the last touches on it;
and it was a glorious machine. Everything that
could be desired had been provided for, and there
seemed to be 2UO per cent, more control oyer this
huge dragon fly than any of the other machines he
had safely flown. The arrangement for warning the
wings when turning was most excellent. Soinehow,
writer inclines to the belief there is a lot in that
mesmeric theory. As viewed from the ground, Hart
lost his head: and no one who knows the aviator
will believe' that he really lost it for one fraction of
a second. He doesn’t know what fear is.
* * * *
With a glorious breeze behind them, 99
cyclists left Goulburn on Saturday morning for Ash-
field (Svdnev) and raced over the annual Dunlop
Race. At least two of the men who took part in it
will not readily forget it, Upham, the winner, and
Tuckweli, the runner-up. Upham had 40 minutes
start, Tuckweli 48, and this pair and two others got
bunched and blew along together. But 50 miles
from Sydney all save Upham punctured. He tore
along, making speed while his splendid isolation
lasted. But he had come to the end of the favoring
breeze, and thenceforward it was dead in his face.
That crop of punctures took the heart out of all
save Tuckweli, who repaired quickly, and went in
pursuit. At Liverpool, 22 miles from Sydney, he
learned that Upham was only 90sec. ahead. He
sprinted for his life —and the first prize—-and over
took Upham two miles further on. Thence they
scurried along together, till within sight of home
Tuckweli went to'the front —by 6in. It was all he
could get, and it wasn’t enough to come and go on ;
for Upham made a tremendous effort, and right on
the line passed his man and won by 6in., after a
ride of 130 miles. The (astest time went to A. C.
Walcott, of Parramatta, who bolted over the distance
from the 25min. mark, in 6hr. 37inin. 17see. A
mighty good performance. Kirkham, of Yictoria,
scratch man, made wonderful time while he was
timing, streaking over 57 miles in 2hr.' 20min.
Then he collided with another rider and had to re-
tire. The racing was excellent, and said to be very
clean ; and some of the wheelers are alleged to have
made 40 miles an hour down some of the grades.
All the times were fast, and it couldn’t be altoge’her
due to the wind, which, if it helped for 80 miles,
retarded for 50. Probably the fact that the road
was, barring the Razorback section, in better order
than usual, had something to do with it. The
Razorback was as usual —which is as Sheol.
The lacrosse upheaval between Sydney
and Petersnam, for the premiershij), on Saturday, re-
sulted in a slashing game. Petersham, which was
champion in 1909, ’lO and ’ll, fell, and Sydney
seized it by the back of the neck and hit the ground
with it by six goals to five. It was a Vigorous time,
and the referee, with great tact, succeeded in keeping
both teams iust below high violence mark. Peter-
sham, however, has the right of a challenge round,
and will probably exercise it. The curtain-raiser was
provided by Kyneton (Vic.) and N.S.W., and the
reward of the v sitors for travelling a long journey,
and going up and down and about the Ma State, was
to be jumped on by 13 goals to two. Widen is not
calculated to encourage Watt’s men to come again.
TattersalPs Club blow-out at Randwick
was a revelation of most of the prads that are ex-
pected to bring weal to pencillers and woe to punters
in the coming Derby meetings. The solid perform-
ance of the assembly was Duke Foote’s appropriation
of the Chelmsford Stakes (w.f.a.), in which, carrying
a portmanteau of 9st. 41b., he showed as clean a pair
of heels to the 22 flounclerers behind him as they
ever saw in all their 22 naturals, and won with suffi-
cient margin to allow him to collect the added £7OO
and spend it before they arrived home. The Duke
is in the Epsom (Bst.), Metropolitan (7st. 101 b),
Caulfield Cup (7st. 111 b.), and Melbourne Cup (7st.
71b.), and the fright of Patrick Galilee at the an'mal s
success under the big weight has pushed him to the
head of the big quotations in the illicit betting lists
on the Metrop. and Melb. Cup.
* * * *
Among the starters in the various races
at Tatt.’s Meeting were 21 prads which are among
the first acceptors in the A.J.C. Derby. Tartania,
winner of the Novice Handicap, with 7st. 91b., and
Perdita, second in the Chelmsford Stakes, with 7st,
41b., both put up good performances; but the other
19 merely added confusion to the brain of the punter,
and failed to earn anything towards the cost of keep-
ing the nose-bag full. *
Fred Merton, he who of old ran Merton’s
Reward Gold Mine in Westralia, has a monopoly of
the Welter Handicap at Tatt.’s meet ng, and the vic-
tory of Hartfell on Saturday was his fourth successive
apnrooriation of the event. The beast carried much
public money, as well as his owner’s, and was a
bright gleam in a dusty atmosphere.
Sullivan, of Newtown (Sydney), came to
grief when he bumped Yankee Zanders, at the Mclnt
tosh Stadium last Saturday. He was hard enough,
and plucky enough, but in the matter of profess onal
skill wasn’t in the same street as the United Stater.
It was a spectacular show, with plenty of red in it;
Zanders showed a lack of appreciation of his oppor-
tunities, and frequently neglected to follow up with
the ruthless savagery of the real fighter. He is evi-
dently at heart a boxer. As Sullivan had no poss'ble
hope, and bled so freely, the Lawnorder representa-
tive on the spot called a halt; and this time Mr,
Scott delivered a verdict which met with popular
approval.
*** . *
The latest Mclntosh importation is Bat- 1
tier” Grover Hayes an Irish-American lightweight
with a record behind him. He started scrapping in 1905;
when he had 26 mills. The following year he had 29. By
this time he was getting recognised as formidable!
apparently, for, in 'O7, onlv 18 men could be found
to face him. In 1908 the number dropped to 13, and
in ’O9 to nine. In 1910 he found 14, in 1911 the
number jumped to 21, and in ’l2 it went back to
nine. In his 139 fights he has lost but five decisions;
so it is quite evident that it is up to Austral’a to
get busv and produce someone to °lve him the time
Of his life. A man with a record like that is worth
walloping.
“Bosun” : The Titanic wreck is still bear-
ing fruit. The British Board of Trade has
now made radical alterations in the life sav l
ing regulations as from Jan. 1, 1913. These
are :
(1) All British ships are to carry lifeboats suffi-
cient to float everyone on board.
(2) Boats are to be carried according to the
length of the ship, instead of according to tonnage.
(3) Collapsible boats are abolished. (They col-
lapse at the wrong time).
(4) Watertight bulkheads are not to give exemp-
tion from boat carrying, because watertight bulk-
heads aren’t watertight.
And the trouble will happen just the same.
What is aimed at is an unsinkable ship,
bossed by an infallible but badly-paid cap-
tain, and carrying a crowd of immortal pas-
sengers. And the thing can’t be arranged.
•“Regis” : A case recently decided at Cowra
(N.S.W.) raises some hilarious queries. A
contractor had erected a building without
submitting plans to, and obtaining the ap-
proval of. the local council. That august
body sought reparation for the insult in
court. Defendant’s counsel contended that
the ordinance in question rendered liable the
owner and not the actual builder, the word-
ing being, “Any person who proposes to
erect,” etc. After deep and earnest con-
sideration on the part of the Bench, the fine
point was upheld. So, apparently, the man
who actually erects a shanty does not at any
time “propose” to do so. He just does it
spontaneously, as he might have a fit, the
owner behind him being an irresistible power
like the Devil, of which he is quite oblivious.


The
MARSHALL
for Women SHOE
G[ The name "Marshall” on every pair of shoes you
wear shows plainly the innateness of feminine
beauty to select footwear, elegant style and grace-
ful solidity.
(| No shoe was ever made better —few shoes as
good—their honesty has won for them favor in
all lands.
q A guarantee with every pair.
Write for New Style Book
MARSHALL SHOE CO. LTD.
Richmond, Vic.
4
X
J
\m
&
m
A
GOOD
GHT CAP
WATSONS N'lO
E
You Need Health Exercises.
jh
Scientific Exercise is just as necessary for the correct
nourishment of your body as food.
You cannot fret the full benefit of the food you eat unless
your stomach is able to thoroughly assimilate it.
Now, the digestive tract is muscular, but the habits of your
everyday life do NOT exercise those muscles. Consequently,
thev gradually become more flabby and less able to perform
their work. ' And when your digestion is impaired your
whole system is thrown out of gear.
You become impatient, irritable, and look upon the dark
side of everything. Unless you secure prompt relief you
will become a chronic sufferer. Medicine merely postpones
the effect. Scientific Exercise removes the CAUSE —secures
permanent relief promptly.
THE BAKER POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH EXER-
CISES go right to the spot. Each movement has a direct
motive, and each is part of a combined series of exercises
that will develop all the internal muscles of your body—
the muscles which you are likely to overlook just because you
can’t see them.
Your unseen muscles are the most important in your
frame. Remember, the Heart, Lungs, Stomach, Intestines
are muscular... And they are the organs which_ govern
your life. Now you realise how vitally necessary it is for
you to keep them tuned up, ready to ward off any undue
strain, ready to repel sickness. Always at your service to
ensure you good health.
You ought to get full particulars and fees, as given in
my interesting folder, “Physical Instruction by Post.”
Write for it now while it’s fresh in your mind.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
70 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
jnrvs'ars
Straightaway
from die very ,K ”
wonderfully undonn quality
M
|t guaranteed by the fact
that it it gathered from ona
tource only. So whea
you ath for motor tptrrt,
be ture to *or “ SHELL.
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(Victor trumper & dodge ltd.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Caned and Rubber Spliced Handles,
S/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL " Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Victor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS —Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTopsandSteel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Guards. Wicket-keeping Caunt-
lets, Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
kjh
THE Australian Magazine—THE
HAND. Tlie National Monthly.
EON K
Price, 6d.
rp HE Best Stories written by Australian
X Wriiers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
0
(DOUBLE
k
PILES CEASE
to torture and cause suffering and misery when Andrew Murphv s
Pile Pills are taken regularly for a few weeks. In casts considered
hopeless, and in many where the sufferers have been almost helpless,
these Pills have banished the Piles and restored good health once
again.
Murphy’s Pile Pills correct all disorders of the system, purify the
blood, and eliminate all irritation. They are non-aperient, and
equally effective in either incipient or severe cases of internal or
external Piles.
Murphy’s Pile Pills are sold everywhere by leading storekeepers and
chemists, or may be obtained direct from the Proprietors. Price,
3s. per box, post free. Sole Proprietors: ANDREW MURPHY,
LTD., Dept. B„ 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
The RIGNEY Shoes
In style, finish and material the Rigney Shoes
reveal a degree of superiority so distinctive that
even amongst the most expensive made-to-order
shoes they hold their own.
Remember our guarantee —if the upper of a Rigney
Shoe breaks through before the first sole is worn
through, we will replace with a new pair.
The Shoe illustrated is a very fine Patent Kid
Lace Boot, for walking or dress wear —the latest
style.
Prices 27(6 and 301-
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Send for a Copy of our Catalogue
—FREE!
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George Street, and 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney.


jhk
For First-Class
Results use
best
PF“‘PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 02
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Atr nts for Aus'ralia.
CKcilVI E LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
jh
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and ffivifijr Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become li- id or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most, delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/» Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, I, dies’Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale: DUERDIN AND SAINSUUIIY. Melbourne.
PTWE OLD COGM/qC
BRf
MARTELL’S has
been pre-eminent
for Two Centuries
as a triumph of brandy
distillation. It is a perfect
stimulant. Being rich in
the higher ethers it
possesses potent medicinal
virtues. And it is equally
good as a pleasing and
palatable beverage or as
a refined au d delicate
liqueur.
kjh
k
jhk
jhk
The Slump.
The outflow of gold is beginning to tell on
the business and resources of Australia. It
is an influence which has worked in a circle,
something after the fashion of a snake with
its tail in its mouth. First of all, there was
the tariff, which was never quite adequate,
and which the increase in wages has, during
recent years, rendered quite inadequate.
Next, like the second stage of “The House
that Jack Built,” came the great increase
in wages which made the tariff inadequate.
Some 16 years ago Premier George Turner,
of Victoria, took strenuous, not to say vio-
lent, measures to put up the remuneration
in the worst-paid local industries, but he
didn’t indulge in the silly delusion of cer-
tain Laborites that the highest wage worker
here could compete with the lowest wage
worker elsewhere without a sufficient tariff
handicap. Turner was a plain, brown and
rather untidy solicitor, but lie was neither
a fool nor a fanatic. With the recent rise
in wages which made the stationary tariff
so inadequate, came, naturally, a stupendous
increase in the mass of cheap-labor, and long-
hour-labor, and nigger-labor, and “scab”-
labor, and leper-labor imports. Following
on them came the great outrush of gold to
pay for these objectionable goods. Promptly
there followed the local cash scarcity, caused
by the departure of cash. Bankers sat down
hard on their diminishing gold reserves, lest
there should be a panic, and a clamor by the
scared depositors. The men who wanted
loans wherewith to finance the industries
which paid high wages to the people who
had sunk the fiscal issue—the people who
said that the low tariff and the huge im-
ports and the great outflow of gold didn’t
matter—-couldn’t get the loans. The reason
was simple enough, for the money wasn’t
here because it had gone away to pay for
cheap or nigger or “scab” goods which
climbed over the inadequate tariff. So the
slump began, and the value of securities
commenced to tumble. It was only within
the last month or so that the movement
became very apparent. Thus, for the week
ended July 13, 1912, 37 securities quoted on
the Sydney Stock Exchange went up and 20
went down. The increases, when one added
up the rise of Id. a share on this security,
and 9s. 6d. per share on that, and 3s. 3d. on
the other, amounted to £2 Bs. 9d. The falls
stood for £1 2s. So things were still on the
up grade. For the week ended July 20 there
were 37 rises (£2 15s. 3d.) and 22 falls
(£1 17s. llid.) Things were still improv-
ing, but not so fast. But after that the in-
creases in value became less numerous, and
the slumps became more frennent. For the
week that ended last Saturday nine stocks
rose in value to the aggregate extent of
Is. 9d. per share, and 42 dropped to the
aggregate value of £2 19s. Old. per share.
The decline in share values increases in an
amazing fashion, and quite a lot of these
securities are held in small parcels by con-
sistent Laborites who see their little capital
fading visibly under the fiscal-sinking device.
The value of the suburban cottage and allot-
ment must decline along with other things.
The value of the securities in which the
workman’s savings bank deposits are in-
vested is going down, in the general decline.
The individual who employs the local toiler
at fair wages and reasonable hours is met
with a flat refusal when he tries to borrow
from his bank on good collateral in order
that he may enlarge his business, and em-
ploy more people at fair wages and reason-
able hours. Now and then this
matter is put before the slovenly, easy-
going Fishek Government, and it replies,
in a dull, emotionless fashion, that it
“doesn’t propose to interfere with the tariff.”
There the matter ends. If it attempted to
explain why it doesn’t propose to interfere
with the tariff, complications might set in.
So it simply announces that it won’t in-
terfere.
♦
“Y.Z.”: The virtuous attitudes assumed
by publican Blewrewin', of Melbourne, in
his efforts to induce the Holy Brigade to
back up his effort to have the free lunch
interdicted by Act of Parliament are divert-
ing. At a recent meeting of Master Caterers
the Social Reform Bureau was in attend-
ance, and Cold Tea and Milk Shake were
ably represented. Blewrewin arose shedding
tears the size of bottles and told the sanc-
tified how free lunch was driving the boys of
this nation headlong to beer: —
They went to the bar to get a counter lunch with
a glass of ginger ale or lemonade, and by easy stages
got on to a “shandygaff,” and then to beer.
Then the moral reformers broke into a
chorus of snuffle, and promised “united
action” to bury the pernicious ham sandwich
a hundred fathoms deep and outlaw the
sausage and mash, and Blewrewin went home
with two yards of tongue in his cheek. Blew-
rewin wants counter grub abolished because
the institution has grown and grown till it
is eating up the beer profits, which is just
what Cold Tea wants if he only knew it.
Yet Holy Joseph and Saintly Susan are
going to clamor for the wiping out of practi-
cally the only teetotal refreshments in the
pub. The reformers are rolling Blewrewin’s
barrel, just as they carried Bookie’s bag in
connection with the Tote, and they are at
the service of any push of publicans and
sinners which is wily enough to pull a sanc-
timonious leg and divert the skimpy calf
from the straight and narrow way.
“Kodak” : A cheery butcher of Sydney,
whose dog had bitten a boy on both legs, told
the Paddington Court, last week, that his
animal was “the quietest in the world—
sometimes it would not bite a flea.” Some of
the saintly dossers of antiquity had the same
failing; but they did it from holy motives.
The dog who doesn’t bite his fleas (mostly
he belongs to a ramshackle household where
fleas are too plentiful altogether to make
enemies of) refraihs through pure laziness.
I once knew a quiet naturalist who hated
that sort of dog. Whenever he saw one lying
in an untidy heap in the sun, he would go
to immense trouble to get it an angry bull-
dog ant or a wflng-clipped hornet —anything,
in fact, that would wake up the whole dog
establishment from snout to tail and induce
a rush of business with one jab or pinch of
its portable torturing appliance. Dogs he
attended to generally woke up with an
anguished yelp of horror, as if they had been
suddenly attacked by the Spanish Inquisi-
tion. _ My friend used to place his tonics
beautifully, and no dog ever got rid of its
red-hot lodger at the first frenzied investiga-
tion. Usually they leapt up and did a be-
wildering mile or two before they discov-
ered that the horror was on board. Then
the patient would sit down anywhere with a
thump and rotate feverishly on his base,
meanwhile emitting short yelps and snapping
madly at his own tail as though it were a
lifelong friend who had betrayed him. No
dog he treated every backslid. He was a
great reformer wasted. Time after time I
pointed out deserving cases amongst our
human acquaintances, but he always declined
to treat them. I don't know why.
A wigless and gownless N.S.W. Judge last
week explained to a more or less shocked
Bar that he appeared in that legally un-
dressed condition because an over-zealous
officer of the court had rushed his horsehair
hat and bed jacket to another department.
He felt his nakedness all the more because
he had once refused to recognise a barrister
who appeared, or tried to appear, before
him in a coat which was not black. That
much done, he blushingly resumed business
with nothing between his pate and the sky
but the roof, and nothing on his back but
his clothes. It is sad to think of an able-
bodied man hurrying along with a handful
of hair and another handful of rag, while
another able-minded man apologises for the
absence of the grotesque superfluities to some
more able-minded men correctly attired with
their archaic encumbrances. The Law is a
dreadful sham ; it even makes a laborious ass
of itself with the hair of a nobler and faster
animal. If only the horse-sense went with
the horsehair it wouldn’t matter so much.
From “Dungaree” : —Re the Comboyne
wreck. Port Kembla, where it occurred,
ranks as the third port on the coast of
N.S.W. It is frequented by oversea, inter-
state and coasting vessels. The Govern-
ment has spent and is still spending thou-
sands on it. It is also the only port of
refuge between Sydney and Jervis Bay.
Yet it boasts not one single warning light
nor mark. It is impossible for the seafarer
to discern the breakwater that the Com-
boyne struck on account of the glare of the
electrolytic co.’s lights at the back thereof,
and even if a vessel escapes the many
islands outside, the master has to grope his
way in as best he can. As for running for
shelter there on a dirty night, a man would
need the eyes of a sewer rat to safely accom-
plish the feat, unless his luck was that of
Ancient Henry himself. The Bulletin
wrote recently of the advisability of “scrap-
ping” the Port of Newcastle. Unless the
Navigation Department does something to
render Port Kembla safer it might as well
be “scrapped,” too. Already the foreign un-
derwriters are fighting shy of covering ves-
sels that trade to it.
Geelong (Yic.) has produced a genius in
paper money. He hadn’t a bank account,
but he had a cheque book. He went to Gee-
long to get married, and imported the bride
from Sale, in Gippsland. He staged at a
boarding-house for a week, and paid the
landlady with a valueless cheque. He got
married, and in the vestry, when the knot
was securely tied, he gave the parson a draft
on the bank, which was received coldly by
the paying teller. Then he bought shirts
and pyjamas and things for himself, and gave
the draper a cheque that was of no earthly
use. Next he bought things for the new
home, and the furniture man will now insult
you if you ask him if the money was all
right. But this is where the genius came
in: The fellow got his bride and all his
w r edding things for “stumer” cheques, and
in every case he made the cheque for a
pound or two more than the correct figure,
and got the change in cash. He even got a
cash discount on his new wife.
A plucky attempt was made, at the recenl
Anglican Synod in xVdelaide, to drag that
church’s pet local skeleton out of its cupboard.
Canon Wise, of Goodwood, is an earnest
and strenuous preacher; but, like a good
many of that type, he has a fancy for wear-
ing strange clothes, and taking up certain
positions, and putting up prayers for the
dead. These things are, to conservative
members of the Anglican Church, just what
a green flag is to an Orangeman, or a red
one to the cow’s male child. So the Bishop
of Adelaide does not “visit” the Goodwood
church, and even tells aspiring clerical stu-
dents who come from it that they must re-
hiove themselves from its influence. (Which
seems a pity, for the Wise environment is
just that which produces young clergymen,
,and there is a notorious shortage of them in
Australia.) What a speaker in Synod asked
was that the Bishop should get off the fence
and do something. Wise must be either:
(1) Right; in which case he should not be
harassed. Or (2) Wrong; in which case he
should be scragged by the thunders of the
Church, and his doings consigned to the
worm that dieth not, and his strange clothes
cast into outer darkness, where there is
weeping and wailing and gnashing of
garments. . But logic was 'the last thing
Synod wanted to hear, and an enormous
vote for the “previous question” stifled dis-
cussion and hastily hustled the skeleton back
into its cupboard.


FASHIONS COME & FASHIONS GO;
WITH *;JOHNNIE WALKER” ’TISNOTSO,
BORN IN IS2C HE
STILL IS GOING STRONG YOU SEE.
/'
r-rm
Hi
rrra
V
X
\
/
\
-r
\
=/sv3^
<■
\
*mi
&
V
t -u
i
l-'l
BP
V
[P
A*
■*s.
N
f
.WrS=-
a/
S§§
rTO
\
£1
%
\\V
; '<v
i
V
\
25§i
I
S
sr
%
3£z
?
-is
<y
YOU NEED NOT BE AFRAID OF THE “WET”
when “Johnnie Walker” is within reach. Johnnie Walker has protected Ihe public throughout four “reigns,”
and the label on every bottle —“guaranteed same quality throughout the world” —continues to protect you
as it has done since 1820.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS. KILMARNOCK. & AT SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
122


Throat & Chest
trouble relieved by
GENUINE
EMULSION
Day after day, week after!
week, year after year, let-
ters arrive telling how
To Youth and Age
SCOTT’S brings
strength.
And these letters, from all parts
of the world, provide indisputable
evidence of the health-giving value
of SCOTT’S Emulsion. Thus
Miss Frances J. Kelly
wrote this letter.
“ Scott’s Emulsion I cannot praise
too highly. I suffered with my throat
and chest, also I had a cough I could
not get rid of. A fter the first buttle op
Scott’s Emulsion my throat and chest
were greatly relieved. I wish I had
tried Scott’s before, instead of wasting
money on other t reparations.”
Miss Frances J. Kelly, 160,
Dow ing Street, Darling!lurst,
30.5.11.
One trial of Scott’s Emulsion will
convince you. That is if you really
get genuine SCOTT’S EMULSION
as known by this Trade Mark. j
! g K
This is not on ly a Trade Ma rk.
It is a guarantee of SCOTT
purity, genuineness and
strength; put on the package
so that you may know you
really have got genuine
SCOTT’S EMULSION
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
HOW “ANTINEURASTHIN”
REMEDIES NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
It is, in the first place, essentially a food —not a
drug stimulant.
It is a food that feeds the whole of the nervous
system with those elements the lack of which in the
structural tissues constitutes the neurasthenic con-
dition.
It is so easily assimilated that in one hour it is
fully absorbed, thus creating quickly a renewed
mental and physical vigor. This is not mere stimu-
lation, but is really the sensation produced by the
actual assimilation and storage of those refined ele-
ments necessary to nerve comfort and vigor. This
is not—as in the case of tonics and stimulants —a
mere transient whipping up, but an actual addition
to the nerve structure and nerve strength of the in-
dividual. A FREE trial
together with pamphlet dealing with Nervous Com-
plaints, and containing analysis of Antineurasthin,
will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage, by the Wholesale Agent, H. A. GODDARD,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane;
or branches: 194 Vickery's Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland.
SERIAL No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by 11. A. GODDARD,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No. 810.
CobberMoulh Organs
CO&BJE/P vv- s /
4 . 9 —i ia 'r~i"cs e— ' r-rr-» — r~q
I a r-~3
No. 1. —The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case 3/“
No. 2. —The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case ... 2/“
No. 3. —The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case 1/6
No. 4. —The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1/-
Sold by all Stores.
The Trade supplied by
JACKSON & MACDONALD
Australian Agents, Druitt St., Sydney
A. 15- Beal, East St., Rockhampton, and
367-9 Queen St., Brisbane;
Wills & Co., 7 Quadrant, Rnunceston;
G. W. Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne;
Optical & Photo Supplies Co.,
Hav St.. Perth.
y Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—when
the blood is thin and impure,
■when the nerves are weak and
unsettled, when the food does
not digest well—Ayer’s Sar-
\ saparilla.
MR. MICAWDER ON FOUNTAIN PENS.
(Loquitur)
“On the one hand, we have leakiness, bToftlness, scratchiness.
Result—Misery ! On the other, cleanliness, swiftness, lightness
Result—Happiness by using the Onoto.”
[The above was drawn by a famous artist after using the Onoto, the safety
fountain pen that fills itself in a flash. lie paid 12/- for the pen, and charged
us six guineas for the sketch. Readers will be glad to know that the Onoto is
made in England by British labour ]
Booklet about it free from the makers, Thos De La Rue & Co., Ltd.,
168 Bunhill Row, London, EC., or the Australasian representative, Norman
Baker. 50 York Street, Sydney.
The Onoto can be obtained from all leading stationers and stores at 12/-
and upwards for larger sizes.
ABERDEEN
<* eg d) tarpaulins
m
m
STRING AND WEAR-RESISTING.
Because of their perfect manufacture and dependable
materials, they are the choice of even “the haruest
man to please.’’ Moderate Prices.
ALWAYS GET “ABERDEEN ” (Regd.) BRAND CANVAS GOODS.
SMITH, COPELAND & CO. LTD.
AGENCIES
204-6 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
VICTORIA—J. Bartram & Son, King- Street, Melbourne; QUEENSLAND—H. I. H. Ross, Edward
Street, Brisbane; SOUTH AUSTRALIA—C. Whit ng, Currie Street. Adelaide; TASMANIA—
Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, Hobart; WEST AUSTRALIA—A. Ba harry, Perth.
The Australian
Arrol-Johnston
Specially Designed.
AN Australian pup, from the famous breed of
“15-9” Arrol-Jonnstons that won the team
award in the \9\\ International Lig:ht Car
Race, and obtained record orders from H.M* War
Office for cross-country work*
a
Australian agents Sydney : Eyes & Crowie;
ADELAIDE : Murray Aunger, Ltd.; BRISBANE : Howard Cycle
& Motor Co.; PERTH : Perth Motor House ; HOBART: H. C.
Heathorn & Co.; MELBOURNE: Essendon Motor Garage, Moonee
Ponds.
Get A Half-Guinea “PLUM!”
+o.
As practical Hairdressers we know there’s no razor
will give better all-round satisfaction than a
“PLUM.” We put the edge on every Plum before
it goes to the buyer, and guarantee to keep it in
order for two years free of charge.
We Use “ PLUM ” in Our Own Saloon.
The Plum Razor,
10/6
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Send for our Free
Illustrated Price
List.
Single Razor, Black Handle. 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG (Si. AITKEN,
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
Nailer: Tlie day-labor principle, like many
another good idea, wants to be saved from some of
its friends. When it is claimed that all the day-
labor works are done for much less than the “esti-
mate,” of course any smart person can say that if
the “estimate” is three times as large as it should
be, and the work only costs twice as much as it
should do, there is bound to be a saving. In the
same way, if you were half as short as your mind
you might not be a quarter as long as your body....
A Thinker: One Easter-time, a number of years ago,
The Bulletin dealt with that subject in a leading
article, entitled “How Pilate, the Dago, Washed His
Hands.”... .E.W.: “Evolution” doesn’t evolve worth
a bar of soap.... Bongaree: No, they are not poetry,
though very nicely typed. .. . 5.0.5.: Parodies are
easy business, and yours isn’t too bright even of its
kind.... Hope: The verses are fairly well built, but
you say nothing in them which has not been said
better at least 12,756,489 times before. No, they
have no market value... .R.N.C.: Refuse absolutely
to print your vile and slovenly scrawl.... G.G.: No
joy in it. . . .Theg: Verse poor, paragraphs empty. . ..
B.B.: “Deo Monente” has some good lines. What is
it driving at, anyhow? Do you mean to state, infer
or imply that God and Nature are howling aloud for
a more thoroughgoing Wowserism than we've already
got?....Sir Octopus: Sorry, but the pretty wattle
scroll round the border doesn't make bad verses good.
... ..P.J.P (Invercargill): Glad to know that Maori-
land “wants a shock badly.” It will get it one of
these days, if everything goes as you seem to wish.
....Bert Albu: Nothing will induce us to publish
what you term “A Musical Waltz’’ in our Christmas
or any other number. So far as such things are con-
cerned you can safely write the entire staff down as
fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils. . . .M. Burke:
Our reward for publishing your interesting item re
the lad.v who has blighted the life of your young relat-
ive would be a term in gaol on a charge of criminal
libel. Our gaol editor, being away on his annual
vacation, we accordingly put your effort where it
would do least damage. ... Freak: A murrain on your
aspiration that “an abler pen than yours” may deal
with “The Modern Method of Purchase.” What the
weary and astigmatic sub editor yearns for, first and
foremost, is a more legible pen than yours; also a
pen which refuses to use faint blue ink, and which
does not perpetrate its spidery markings on tissue
paper. ...R. A. (and others): Please note that the
“Signed Article” discussion has been turned out to
grass. It has been worked to a shadow, of late, and
needs a period of rest and recuperation. .. .Observer:
The Arcus's awful list of the ghastly goods (right
down to the half-bottle of vaseline and the one glass
pint measure) carried by the hospital train
which fled to gather up the dead and the battered
is interesting in a gruesome sort of way. .. .
La to lea: Got no use for a wisp of golden hair from
some fair angel’s head. .. . 11. T.: Not an idea amidst
that eruption of words.... Ho P.: Bit rough for use.
No name or address on M5....G.F.: Only a para-
graph in that lizard-juice story.... Helen P.: Stumb-
ling and low-spirited... .Jack A.: Well, it's good to
know that someone has leisure to scribble such
things. .. .R.N.C.: Bitter enough, but rather tiresome.
. ...W.Y. (W.A.): Unsuitable. ... Norseman: Honest
attempt, but it gets nowhere. .. .M.F.C.: Part of
your descriptive poem :
FAREWELL TO NEVERGEE.
- Nevergee’s a spot upon the map
Out West among the Mallee and red dust
A pub, a store, a church, a miner’s hut
And people who have long began to rust
There’s not a man in all the bloomin’ town
Who tries to send the bloomin’ place along
Yet, if there were, the rest would hound him down
And claim with him there was sure was something
wrong.
They're years and years behind the times, ’tis true
They don't know what it is to be alive
It’s beer and beer as fast as they can chew
And dance all night with heat at one one five.
The phonograph is heard the whole day long
You hear its tinpot sound at break of dawn
At night again you hear it going strong
And to your dreams the bloomin’ noise is born.
We have altered the name to Nevergee in case some
maddened citizen should challenge us to mortal
combat. .. .E.P.: When the comp, errs he errs splen-
didly. ... .R.J.8.: You have written a humorous
article about yOur voyage to Australia, and you
think you could arrange for a few views of the prin-
cipal places of interest. Would we like to have a
look at the article? We would not. We would
rather have a look at the poor, old, harassed Devil.
. ...A.Y.X.: You have failed to make anything of it.
. ...J.M.T.: The MS. is delightfully neat and the
theme is good, but the treatment is grievous....
Swagman: Cheerfully descriptive. Will make a para-
graph of it. . . .J.H.R. (M.L.) : Regret travel sketch
not suitable for us. Try one of the local weeklies
or dailies.... Spieler: Try some of it here:—
An old man walked down Bond-street
His clothes were tattered and torn
And the way in which he was going
Proved his limbs were weary and worn.
He went very slowly onward
Amid the bustling throng
And his footsteps were growing weaker
As his frail legs struggled on.
You could see by a glance at his features
And his fine but still handsome face
That in his veins was the blue blood
Of a fine and Noble Race.
He went on a little bit further
And then stopped at a window pane
In front of which hung three brass balls
And a big, strong brass chain.
He went into the counter
And produced a wedding-ring very much worn
And he looked at it so fondly
Before he put the ring in pawn.
The shop assistant hardened by
Many weary years
Was angry with himself when he found
His eves were dim with tears.
The old man wept and fondled it
And his lips moved in silent prayer
And the assistant’s voice was husky as he said
I'll give as much as I can spare.
The old man raised his eyes above
And said may the Lord bless thee.
The assistant said I’m sorry sir
The best I can give is three.
The old man’s face went whiter
And said I'd hoped I’d get five
For it has to buy food for a fortnight sir
To keep my poor wife alive.
And hereabouts we catch the old man by the slack of
his garments and heave him out into the dust and
sunerheated wind.... Alex. H. (V.): Cut items out,
mark date and page on which they appeared, and for-
ward to Accountant, Bulletin office. .. .M.M.: Urn!
Better try it on the other publication....Horis: You
are an apt student of the Bellerive school:—
FATE.
The escaped maniac rushed to his home once more
and hacked with an axe at the barricaded door
Gore, Gore he cried, I must have gore
and in a moment his poor wife lay dead on the floor
A kind neighbor saw the ghastly deed
and called out, Help, help, this woman seems in
great need.
In the dull morning’s light, two processions left the
street
One was headed by the policeman on the beat;
The other was headed by an inferior hearse
And the mourning carriages were filled with bishops
and worse.
The maniac was taken back to the padded cell
Where he gave full many a harrowing yell.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
S.W.: Now did you ever see anything dimly resem-
bling your effort “inserted in our paper” ?... .C.
Saunders: The idea doesn’t appeal to us, nor does
the perspective, nor anything else....N. Mcß.: There
is some cheer in the things hanging on the clothes-
line. Otherwise, the, drawing stabs us in our most
contemptuous part, and the gag is vile. ... A.W.: No
points, artistic or otherwise, about the person who
lost his job through being pardoned.


i
WfHifMkk
m
a
i
i
E
i
i
22
Two Points
about the
“ Semelle”
The Original Non-Skid
(42)
I. The non-skid tread is an actual part of the an attachment. •
11. The tread is composed of a stout leather band, through which specially-
. hardened steel studs project.
;■«, ASK OUR AGENT TO SHOW YOU ONE.
M I CHE LIN TYRES
Can be obtained from all the leading Garages.
WHEN ORDERING
(Bom
ALE
Insist on
FOSTER'S
‘Bugle
Brand’
The ORIGINAL Bottlers
of Bass' Ale.
STILL THE FOREMOST.
n&Mty/ON
Tl » “RINGER”
> DOMINION
; ACCORDEON
* For the Dance, the
i Picnic, and the Camp,
I the “Rinser” Model
IS THE ONE
The bras* trumpets of the “Ringer"
are a feature found in no other, and
they help to give it that wonderful tone
that has made it such a favorite
The “Ringer’’ as illustrated 23/-
„ with Steel Reeds 28/-
„ larger model 29/-
~ larger model Steel Reeds _
in wood case with lock 45/-
Ask for our illustrated catalogue of Dom-
inion Accordeons, and name of nearest
agent.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
L. DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY.
41
«n» #s -w.|,ii so. at,
.4. -'4.- '/• V«.*- tw. .Wkwl
.... •* '* ,K • «M. .41. H<-
BEWARE
OF
DROPPERS
weakened by holes or cut-out slots ;
THEY SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
“Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
WEDQE-CLIPB AND LOOPS MAY BE USED ON THE SAME DROPPER.
CHEAPEST DROPPER ON THE MARKET.
If you cannot obtain prices from, your own Merchant, write to —
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD.,
Leicester & Queensberry Streets, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
WHO WILL GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals,.
Works s Birmingham,
n^land.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
“GOLCRYST"
IS
USEFUL
By purifying the blood, GOBCRYST
invigorates the whole system and keeps
one healthy, clearheaded and happy.
GOLCRYST consists of Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Packets, 3d., fid. and 1/-. Pree sample
sent by proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :—W.A., Neale, Con-
stable and Co., Perth; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,”
Adelaide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane;
N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug
Co., Sydney. [2
jh
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), ltd.
Wb Sopply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.


12/6
Lady’s Black Open-face Key-
less Watch, jewelled, strong
works, dust-proof cases, accur-
ate, reliable, 1 f &; higher
grade, 15/-
12/6
17/6.
9ct. Gold Medal, set
with rubjr or sapphire.
£B/10/-
18ct. Gold Brooch, set diamonds
and tourmalines.
10/-
9et. Gold Bird and Spray Brooch,
pearl-set Bird.
kjh
£lO.
15ct. Gold
Necklace, set
diamonds.
£lO.
Set also pink
or green
tourmalines.
/
GEORGE. 5\ SVONtY
M
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Keyless Lever
Timekeeper, full jewelled, non-magnetic
time spring, patent adjusted balance,
dust and water proof cases, accurate, re-
liable, 20/- Guaranteed one year's free
repairs.
20'-
20]-
THE GREAT JEWELLERY HOUSE.
A. SAUNDERS
Where the Variety is larger, the Selection more exclusive, the Quality higher,
and the Prices lower than any other Firm in all Australasia.
Write for our Free Jewellery Catalog—and see.
20/-
9et. Gold Pendant,
set fine pearls and
amethyst.
8/0.
Solid Gold Ear-
rings, set pearls
and brilliants
, 18ct. Gold,
pure double -
diamonds.
17/6.
15ct. Gold, set
pure white
pearls.
heart Ring,
pure double -
diamonds.
£5/10/-
18ct. Gold, set
diamonds and
.rubies.
20/-
9ct. Gold Brooch, set pearl*
and amethysts.
15ct. Gold Brooch, set pearls and
tourmalines or peridots.
12/6.
Pet. Gold Seal Pendant,
«et amethyst or topaz.
Solid Gold Ear-
rings, set pearls
and color
stones.
PA. SAUNDERS^
HAPPY
WEDDING RINGS.
Bet. Gold, 5/6
Oct. Gold, 7/0
Act. Gold 10/-
HAND
MADE
OF THE
PUREST
GOLD
ISct. Gold, 15/«
■/OS ‘PI°O - PB^
16ct. Gold, 25/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
18ct. Gold, 40/-
y;e pay
POSTAGE
TO ANY
ADDRESS
Eft
15ct. Gold 40/-
18ct. Gold, 60/-
IBct. Gold, 20/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
18ct. Gold, 40 /■
•07-817 GEORGE STREET.
W SYDNEY. A
£2
Lady’s Gold Open-faced Key-
less Watch, fancy dial, per-
fectly timed and adjusted,
£2.
Extra jewelled,
£2/10/£3. Guaranteed
two years free repairs.
£2
50/-
15ct. Gold Spray Brooch, set pure
white pearls.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, amethyst
centre. 15ct Gold, £2.
£7/10/-
IBct. Gold Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring.
£3.
18ct. Gold, set
pure double - cut
diamonds.
£4/10/-
18ct. Gold, set
diamonds and
ruby.
21/-
15ct. Gold, set green tourmalins
or rubies*
k
£ll/10/.
15ct. Gold
Necklace, set
diamonds.
£ll/10/-
Set also pink
or green
tourmalines.
Oct. Gold Links; 15ct.
Gold, 40/Initials
engraved free.
£B/10/-
15ct. Gold Brace-
let, set diamonds
and rubies or
sapphires.
18ct. Gold, set 4
diamonds and red
or blue stones.
We Pay
Postage
18ct. Gold, set 5
pure double - cut
diamonds.
£4/4/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Watch Brace-
let, jewelled, strong, reliable works. Extra jewelled
Lever Movement, £6/10/-, £7.
1401, Gold-
filled Muff
Chain,
25/-
9ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
9ct. Gold Half-
round Plain Brace-
let, strong safety-
chain attached.
£6/10/-
Gent.’s Solid Gold Hunting' Keyless Elgin
Lever Watch, Chronometer Balance, full
jewelled, dust and water proof cases, ac-
curate, reliable, £O/ 10/-. Solid Gold
Waltham Watch, £7/10/-, £B/10/-.
Guaranteed four to five years free repairs.
£6/10/-
SYDNEY’S
n
m
LEADING
wmmm
□
□
A
AUH
RO7. 009. All. 613. 613. ©IT, CEOPO& ST (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY N.S^W.
MITH
SI
LVE
T
O
ffitt
a
m
E.R
M
CL
iiiji


Missing Friends.
BROWN.— Information is required as cc
George Kenny Brown, who formerlj
lived at the Crescent. Clontarf, Dublin, Ire-
land ; was afterwards in the Cape Mounted
Police, and later in Australia. Reply to
ARTHUR GEORGE JOYCE, Solicitor, 121
Stephens Green, W. Dublin, Ireland.
"TIMOTHY O’DRISCOLL. Last addresses: 50
* Howard Street, North Melbourne; and Olympic
Hotel, Bendigo. Present address or proof of death
important.
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO., LTD.,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
I AMES SWANTON WAUGH INGLIS, Railway
Porter, May, 1890, at Balaclava. Present address
or proof of death important.
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO., LTD.,
85 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
IF JDfIN GRIFFEN, formerly of Dune-
din, New Zealand, and more recently be-
lieved to have been at Eongi'each and Jun-
dah, Queensland, will communicate with the
Public Trustee, New Zealand, he will learn
of something to his advantage.
Any person having information concern-
ing the said John Griffen is kindly requested
to communicate same to the Public Trustee,
Wellington.
WILLIAM TAYLOR.
] NFORMATION is required Concerning WILLIAM
1 TAYLOR, son of the late John and Ann Taylor,
of West Oxford, Canterbury, New Zealand, who
left West Oxford aforesaid about 30 years ago, and
who is supposed to have gone first to the North
Island of N.Z. and then to Australia. Anyone having
any knowledge of the whereabouts of the said
WILLIAM TAYLOR is requested to communicate
with
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, N.Z.
Business Announcements.
Tailor-Made Costumes
New Patterns Just
Opened for
SPRING
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive? and
our Tweeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
jhk
THE PIPE OF THE WORLD
WINNER OF ALL FIRST
PRIZES UP-TO-DATE.
Pipes
GBD)
Pipes
No. 914.
TO BE BOUGHT FROM
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
INSIST ON
OETTINO
(GBD)
y
OUR
PIPES
DEFY ALL
IMITATORS
THERE ARE
TWO THINOS
THEY CAN’T
PRODUCE
(1) OOR QUALITY
(2) ODR SHAPE.
WE CAN PROVE ALL WE ADVERTISE.
7.
t
5 m
A NEW
AND CLEVER
INVENTION.
Folds flat for
pocket; extend*
to 4in by 4in.
Field. .Opera.
Reading. *nd
Magnifying
Olanei, a Ino
Mirror Tele*
scope and Com*
pass, all com*
kbioed Only Ift
f posted to any ad-
' dress. One of tho
best and most use*
ful combination*
ever produced
The Unidtl Co.» 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
§sBfe
m
per 100
Imperials - 45/-?
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diadetnas v - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
jLevucas - -15/6
Bemit amount -with
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Be-
turned in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli*
cation. Omy address
34 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Treasury,
Melbourne, 9th September, 1912.
The Commonwealth Bank Act 1911,
Section 12.
APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTY GOVERNOR 0F THE
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
APPLICATIONS, addressed to the Secre-
tary to the Treasury, Melbourne, will
be received up to the Ist of October, IJI-,
inclusive, from persons qualified for appoint-
ment to the position of Deputy Governor of
the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. Ihe
successful applicant will hold office during
good behavior for a period of seven (7)
years, with a commencing salary at the rate
of One thousand five hundred pounds
(£1500) per annum, and will be eligible for,
re-appointment.
ANDREW FISHER,
Treasurer.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 11th September, 1912.
Tenders for Construction of Feed
Troughs for Remount Section, A.A.S.
Corps, Paddington.
TENDERS will be received until noon on
MONDAY, the 30th SEPTEMBER,
1912, for the Construction of Forty Feed
Troughs for REMOUNT SECTION, A.A.S.
CORPS, PA D DINGTON (Old Rifle
Range.
Plan and specification may be seen at the
Office of the Works Director for New South
Wales, Customs House (4t:h Floor), Sydney,
to whom tenders endorsed as above should
be addressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. „
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 13th September, 1912.
Tenders for Repairs to Boat Slip at S.M.
Depot, Chowder Bay.
TENDERS will be received until noon
on MONDAY, the 30th SEPTEM-
BER, 1912, for Repairs to Boat Slip at Sub-
marine Mining Depot, Chowder Bay, Port
Jackson.
Specifications may be seen at the Office of
the Works Director for New South Wales,
Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney, to
whom tenders endorsed as above should be
addressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, September 6, 1912.
OFFERS will be received until noon on
MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1912, from
persons willing to Sell Land suitable for the
storage of line material, etc., in the vicinity
of NEWCASTLE or HAMILTON, New
South Wales, having a -frontage of about
100 ft. and a depth of 150 ft., and being so
situated as to permit of a Railway Siding
being easily arranged for.
Offers to be accompanied by plan and full
particulars of the Site offered, and to be ad-
dressed to the Works Director for New
South Wales, Customs House, Sydney.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, September 6, 1912.
OFFERS will be received until noon on
MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1912, from
persons willing to Sell Land at YERONG
CREEK, New South Wales, to be centrally
situated and generally suitable for Postal
purposes, having a frontage of not less than
100 ft., and a depth of approximately 150 ft.
Offers, the lowest or any of which, will
not necessarily be accepted, should be. ad-
dressed to thqi Commonwealth Works Direc-
tor, Customs House, Sydney.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
J\JORTHERN TERRITORY.
APPLICATIONS, which will be received by the
undersigned until the 24th SEPTEMBER, are in-
vited from persons qualified for appointment to the
undermentioned positions in connection with the
survey of the proposed extension of the railway from
Pine Creek to the Katherine River.
Each applicant must state his age, and whether
married or single. Copies of testimonials should be
forwarded. If the originals are required they will be
asked for:—
2 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS, skilled in railway
survey, £450 per annum. 2 Field Assistants,
expert in the use of the theodilite and level;
salary £275 per annum. 2 Foremen, to
supervise work of chainmen; 15/- per diem;
applicants must have had previous railway
survey experience. 2 Railway Survey
Draughtsmen, accustomed to plotting frbm
field and level books, 15/- per diem; appli-
cants must submit samples of work. 8 Chain-
men ; wages at the rate of 1/5 per hour —44
J hours per week; applicants must be used to
axe work. 2 Cooks, 7 0/- per week of 7 days;
applicants must be able to bake bread.
ATLEE HUNT, Secretary,
Department of External Affairs,
Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
The Umaco Cigarette Roller
Obtainable only from
makes three in one minute,
large or small, hard or soft.
You can make 100 just as you
'like them, with just the to-
bacco you prefer, at the cost
of 50 machine-made. "Roller
takes no more room than, a
pencil in your nocket. Price
SEVEN PENCE, posted any-
where, with full directions.
Two for One Shilling.
The Union Co M 299 Elizabeth St., Melb
ARE YOU A SUFFERER FROM
GOUT
or
Rheumatism?
Professor Berscham's Gout and Rheumatic
Cachets in boxes of i doz. as. 6d.. 2 doz., 4s.
Incomparable, Alleviating and Harmless.
A trial box will efficacy. Posted to any
address in the Commonwealth
Box No. 1. , Melbourne, Vic.
jh
kjh
p -
“ The Thoroughbreds of
the Cigarette World.”
“ Abdullas ” are in many grades—
all neatly and cleanly packed.
Turkish, Egyptian and Virginian.
Ask your Tobacconist —he has them.
NEW EDISON RECORDS
ARE NOW ON SALE
The October issue of Edison Records is notable mainly by reason of the numbers
contributed by the world-famous contralto, Eleonora de Cisneros, whose recent successes
in Australia are too fresh in our memories to need recapitulation here.
Her voice is admittedly one of the richest and most beautifully sympathetic on the
operatic stage to-day, and in the Edison Records, made by this peerless aitiste, full jus
tice has been done to her vocal merits.
Hear the Edison de Cisneros Records, as well as your choice of the other splendid
items, at the nearest Edison Store to-day. If you are not aware of the location of an
Edison Store, write us direct and we will tell you, and also send latest lists of Records
and Phonographs.
Amberol Concert Records by Cisneros
(FOUR=MINUTE)
28017—Ben Bolt Eleonora de Cisneros
28023 —Home, Sweet Home Eleonofa de Cisneros
28031—(a) The Rosary; (6) Life Eleonora de Cisneros
28040—0, Wert Thou in the Cauld Blast Eleonora de Cisneros
Amberol Records for October
(FOUR=MINUTE)
833 —Billy (I Alwavs Dream of Bill)
Anna Chandler
953 — Waldmere March . .New York Military Band
954 — R Um Turn Tiddle .... Billy Murray & Chorus
955 — Maybe That Is Why I’m Lonely
Anna Chandler
956 By the Light of the Jungle Moon
Van Brunt and Mixed Chorus
958 —An Easy Job On the Farm. .Golden & Hughes
960 Hornpipe Medley (Violin Solo)
Charles D’Almaine
961 — In a Little While ..Campbell & Gillette
962 Moonlight Bay Premier Quartette
963 — Mollie Darling .... Will Oakland & Chorus
'964—The Harbor of Love Medley (Waltz)
National Promenade Band
965 —Love’s Sentence . . Ada Jones & Billy Murray
967—Dancing on the House-top (Bells Solo)
Charles Daab
968 — The Song of Triumplw-Easter Anthem »>. j
Edison Mixed Quartette
969 — Ye Merry Birds that Sweetly Sing
Elizabeth Spencer
970 Angel’s Serenade. .Venetian Instrumental Trio
971 Your Smile Elsie .Baker
973 —I Will Magnify Thee, O God
Kimball and Miller
12416—The Wanderer’s Goal (Overture)
National Military Band
12419—Mamie May Jack Charman
12420 —The Gift Violet Oppenshaw
12421—1 Don’t Care Billy Williams
12423 —Queen of My Heart (from “Dorothy”)
Peter Dawson
12424 —Memories of Mother William McEwan
12425 —Sons of the Brave (March)
Nati.onal Military Band
Standard Records for October
(TWO-MINUTE)
10546—Florentiner March Sousa’s Band
10547 —Way Down East Where I Belong
Byron G. Harlan
14118 —The Chocolate Major •
14121—1 Saw Peter Henry Home ...
14124—1 Wish I Were a Ladies’ Man.
Jack Charman
. Florrie Forde
.Billy Williams
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


Stewart Dawson Silverware
is distinguished by rare and exclusive design and
r skilful and faithful workmanship. Being the
actual manufacturers, we sell direct to you at
FIRST 'COST PRICES.
No. G 4069.—
Quality
Silver - plated
Jam-Spoon,
No. GO2OO. —Very Pretty uuna Fruit Dish, in Best
Quality Silver-plated Stand,
47/6.
No. E 9417. —
Silver - plated
One-Cup Tea
Infuser,
3/6.
No. JSI9S. —Best Quality Silver-
plated Dinner Gong,
No. J69l7.—Solid
Silver Vase, New
Pattern.
No. J2639.—Silver-plated Sugar
Basin,
No. 89896. —Very Handsome Silver-plated Thistle
Toast Rack,
30/-
No. 347. —Silver-plated
Gong, with Striker,
No. H 1298.— Silver-
plated 4-Cup Egg
Frame and Spoon,
WE PAY THE
POSTAGE ON ALL
GOODS.
WRITE FOR
ILLUSTRATED
ART CATALOGUE.
No. G 2534. —The new Triple Expanding
Biscuit Box, Best Silver-plate,
£B/10/-
1
No. J 794- —Best Silver-plated Sauce Boat,
9/6.
«Si
No. J 6912. —Silver-plated and Saw-pierced
Cake Stand. Size —-31 in. high, 6jin.
Diameter. Price,
No. 0496.—8e5t Quality Silver-plated Hot
Water Kettle and Stand,
50/-
stewart Dawson & Co.
(Australia) LIMITED,
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
m
r#
l
Easy on your
pocket—easy
on your face.
j&m
Easy on your
pocket-BECAUSE"
whatever the price of a razor,
you are at constant expense for
new blades unless you use an
Auto Strop, the. only self-siro|>-
ping Safety Razor made
Easy on your
face BECAUSE
you can stro’p the blade
to such keenness that the
touch of the Razor when
drawn across your face
feels like a delicate caress..
k S AzoR
Auto Strop Razor witn rust-proof
blades and horsehlde strop in case.
Price in Australia, 22/6. price in New
Zealand, 25/-. Sole Depot for Aus-
tralasia: Partridge—Abercromby Ltd.,
York Chambers,. Market St., Sydney,
m
Musical people who mock at the crude sentimen-
tality of the old music-hall type of ballad, are ab-
surdly tolerant to the stupidity of such drawing-
room ditties as “The Caterpillar and the Rose.” The
words of this popular descriptive song are enough to
make a gardener roar with, indignation. They
describe the caterpillar as an amorous insect that
worms its way into the heart of a fragrant, blooming
rose, and kills it. Therefore, the tender flower is
exhorted by the ballad to “close its petals” against
the intruder, and reject its offer of marriage. Cater-
pillars have no connection with roses in blossom.
They attack the green, scentless bud, and cause it
to wither off the stalk. The early rosebud’s petals
are folded as tight as a ball of string what time the
worm is eating a way into its heart, and the ballads
imagery is all balderdash.
“Ganesha”: Saw a sad sight on Sunday in Little
Lon. (Melbourne). The Salvation Army announced
that it was marching on, and a lassie shook a tam-
bourine. A fat man banged a big drum. Another
lassie waved her hands in the air, and the trio
chased itself in an enthusiastic circle, while the
chorus stood round and shouted encouragement.
Fearful and wonderful was this performance; but
what was the result? A mild Hindu, in a pink
turban, passed casually by, and the only audience
was a very weary Chow, leaning against a lamp-
post, who watched the Bacchic revels with an im-
passive countenance. And at the most thrilling
part he yawned—he actually yawned. O Army,
where is ‘tliy victory? 0 General, where is thy
sting?
“Dogberry”: Stood on the site lately of the old
London Theatre, Launceston, wherefrom George
Coppin took the dramatic company which played his
first season in Melbourne. That was about ’42, I
believe, and the trip across Bass Strait was made in
a small schooner called the Swan. Rogers, whom
Ooppin picked up in Hobart, was with the Thespian
pioneers, as were also Mr. and Mrs. Young. The
London Theatre did service in Launceston for a long
time. It was a bandbox of a place, with a pub,
which was known as the London Tavern, attached,
The structure was demolished nearly 40 years ago,
and the local post-office now stands where many a
busker fretted his short hour. Not far away is the
site of the old Theatre Royal, on the stage of which
G. V. Brooke, Jefferson, Henry Niel Warner and
other luminaries of half a century ago were wont to
appear. Launceston has now two theatres, both de-
voted to the interests of the flicker which profiteth.
“0.K.” : Australian acting of modern, blithering Brit-
ish beilowdrama strikes me as being foreign to the full-
blooded foolishness under discussion. Years ago,
when the Australianised members of a stock co. were
mostly natives of Britain, or born of imported
parents, and dramas were less wildly unreasonable,
the performers seemed to make their mummery fit
the crime. But the co. of nowadays that can
put Australian color into Australian beilowdrama
is obviously out of sympathy with the ab-
surdities of imported stuff. The claptrap speeches
are half-heartedly spoken, the manner of doing im-
possible things in an impossible wav is not the right
manner, the drivelsome comic relief is dull and de-
pressing where it should be brisk. Y.es, there is
a manner of British balderdash beilowdrama, and the
Australian actor is not born to it, any more than the
Bull Land mannerists are born to deal with such
foreign subjects as “The Squatter’s Daughter.” One
is less bored by the banal tv of imported Cockney
plays, written for profoundly ignorant audiences,
than by the acting of them.
H. B. Irving was to have appeared, on Seotpmber
12, at Drury Lane Theatre, as Nobody in “Every-
woman.” Nobody should be a good elocutionist
before everything, as Eardley Turner showed when
he played the part Mre. H.B. is one of the worst
eloeutors on earth. Still, Arthur Collins, the respon-
sible party, is a shrewd cuss, and doubtless knows
some traces of his own business. This will be
11. B. Irving’s first appearance on the boards of Old
Drury. His father ,last stalked -or stilted there as
Dante.
London has now an “Actors’ Church Union' for
Protestant performers, and a “Catholic-Stage Guild.-
for players who prefer allegiance to -the Pope.
the morals of the entertainers of Buliopolis must be
regarded (theoretically) as all right. The Actors
Church Union has been holding its 12th annual con-
ference under the presidency of the Bishop Of Win-
Chester. Among the information imparted were
these interesting facts: “There are thousands of m® n
and women leading sober, steady, moral lives in the
rank of both the theatrical and the variety pro-
fessions.” Also, there is n'ow “less fondness ’for
beer and billiards, and mote f6r gold and good
works”—an alliterative sentence that smacks of the
midnight oil. One of the speakers was an Irish
clergyman named Robinson, who declared that the
clerical and the theatrical professions had much in
common. No two professions were more widely mis-
understood. The world had q,ueer ideas about actors,
an( j s till queerer ideas about parsons. So the actors
and the parsons ought to be capital friends, tolerant
0 f each other’s failings and sympathetic with each
other’s difficulties. When an actor feels thirsty, and
there is a difficulty about getting the needful refresh-
merit from the pubs, his best policy is to make a bee-
line for the nearest parsonage, and ask* it Mr.
O Robinson is in.
“Badnib”: The continuous picture show has other
uses than that of a mere combined educator and
producer of thrills. I discovered one of them the
other day, contemporaneously with the bumping up
against a pungent odor of stale alcohol. It was a
sleeping drunk who, presently awakening, spoke as
follows: “Why, I often goes inter ’r bloomin’ con-
, tinous t’r ’ave ’r snooze when I feel ’r bit dizzy,
It’s better than failin’ asleep in th’ park, an’ gettin
disturbed be th’ bloomin’ park-ranger. All y’r got
t’r do is t’r get r’ seat next th’ wall so as people
won’t kick y’r shins gettin’ in an’ out, an’ y r a?
right as two pints. Wot with th’ moosie an th’
darkness, y’r soon drops orf Slept in one th’ other
afternoon f r five ours. As fr th pickshers, I
bother r bout em at all. entertainments are
likewise enthusiastically patronised by lovers, more
especially during the bleak months of winter. Ab-
sorbed in loves young dream, they don t get the
hang of one picture in 40. . ,
“Screen”: One of the finest hiograph picture"
shown here is the “Rose of Thebes,” by the Cineo
Company, of Rome. King Rameses was played for
the film by Novelli, the leading actor in Italy.
Novelli has a big repute, not only in his own land,
but as far afield as Paris, and his versatility is the
wonder of Dago Land. His favorite parts differ
from one another as Tivoli ankles from blank verse.
One is Louis XI. Another is Edmund Kean in the
elder Dumas’ peculiar draipa, called “Genius and
Disorder,” a play in which Kean wrenches away an
actress, Miss Bolton, from , the fangs of George IV.
A third part in which he has won much fame is,
curiously enough, Middlewick, the butterman, m
Byron’s “Our Boys,” which still flourishes in a
green old age -in Italy. Other lights of the Italian
stage are Zacconi and Garavalgia. The principal
actress, since the retirement of Duse, is Lepanto.
Zacconi is the performer of subtle things, and goes
strongly in Ibsen.
Henry Arthur Jones’s “Masqueraders,” given long
ago by the Brough and Boucicault co. in Australia,
with Geraldine Olliffe in the leading part, is having
a new and debased lease of life in the suburban
theatres of London. The play has been cut down
to three acts, and is shoved forward as a melodrama,
with posters “ £3OOO for a Kiss” and so on.
The ‘ circusi has lost its long-time popularity in Eng-
land during recent yedrs, but it still flourishes on the
Continent-of Europe. Some of its features—the edu-
catecl horse, dog, cat and monkey, the theological
flea, the hurdle-racing worm and the elephant that
preaches through its nose—have been annexed by the
variety theatres, and that may account for the disap-
pearance of the big canvas rotundas, the spangles and
the sawdijst. An optimistic' person named Cochran
is going s to “revive the joys of the circus” at
Earl’s Court, London—a huge enclosure, where
Buffalo Bill once gave his Wild West show. Cochran
has been ’scouring the circuses of Europe for attrac-
tions, and is reported to have a champion collection,
including a troupe of “human aeroplanes who are the
last word in the art of trapeze flying.” Also, “an
extraordinary .kangaroo,” but in what respect our
national animal is extra is not stated.


As small
as your
notebook;
tells the
story better.
k
jhk
Always with
you; never
in the way.
©
7\
The VEST POCKET KODAK
is a Wonderful Example of
What Can Be Done in the Saving of Bulk and Weight.
Lhe Vest Pocket Kodak is absolutely ideal in every respect —small enough to slip easily into the
waistcoat pocket, quite free of projections when closed, and is fitted with an ingenious arrangement
for determining the exposure to secure successful results, thus rendering the camera practically
“fool-proof.”
The V.P.K. is always ready for immediate use, can be loaded and unloaded in daylight, and as the
developing and printing of films can also be carried out in daylight, no dark-room is necessary at all.
Altogether a desirable instrument to possess, both for the beginner, and the more advanced worker
who wants a handy pocket camera for photographic note-taking, notes which may subsequently form
the basis of large pictures.
The Smallest
KODAK Made
The Vest Pocket Kodak Camera is fitted with a carefully
selected Lens, Kodak Ball-bearing Shutter, Brilliant
.Reversible. Finder, and Auto-time Scale. Loads in day-
light with Kodak Film for eight exposures. Price, 35/-,
of all Kodak dealers. Postage, 6d. extra. Spools, 1/3.
Descriptive Booklet free—write for one.
price:
351-
C3 JD Hl (Australasia) L> TT D
Incorporating' Baker (El Rouse Prop. Ltd.
KODAK.
N.C. Film.
#
Kodak N.C. Film is easily first for
securing perfect results. It was the
first in the field, and is still first. It
renders every detail true to nature;
tonal shadings as they should be, with
correct color values. Non-curling, non-
halation, and faultless.
Experiment with no experiments.. In-
sist upon getting Kodak N.C. Film.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON and AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Consider the “London”
Guarantee ... it is the
strongest possible proof of
the London’s Confidence in
London - Tailored Clothes.
THINK for a moment of all that it means
to you. It eliminates all possibility
VS JJ of disappointment; it warrants
Quality of Fabric ; it ensures Perfect
Workmanship; it makes certain Accurate Fit.
It definitely contracts that you get all these things in a Tailored-
to-Your-Order Suit. . . . MUS T get them or we alone are the losers.
63 1-
the Suit.
Perfectly Tailored to Measure.
Let us send you patterns of our exceptionally fine range of New
Season's Fabrics. Included are Pure Wool Indigo-dyed Twills
(guaranteed fadeless). Fancy Worsteds, Heather Mixtures,
English, Scotch and Blarney Tweeds, all of finest quality and
of newest pattern and shade.
Opposite the G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
PS4BS
m
VK
mm
mm
mm.
:mm;
s-O-
Jk>
Z,X
-«»
mm
imy-
'*M
msm*
Mr
zss
Nv
SUM
izv
m
Wsm
m.
S ZSSS.
mmm
WMmmß;
XXX
smm
sy
mmmmm
ssmmm>ymsss-,
■ms
JL.
i'-X
Ss§
SSSS
~s^
S'*
S£k,
Our Illustration shows three London-dressed Australians in London.
GUARANTEE.
Wo guarantee every
Garment we tailor to fit
and please the wearer in
all respects, or refund money in full.
Our Blues and Blacks in Twills, Coatings and
Serges we guarantee FOR TWELVE MONTHS against
fading, or money refunded.
In wear we Insure the Suit in that we undertake
to repair and re-press it at any time Free of Charge.
London Stores Ltd. 1


London Beauty-Parlors Deserted.
SOCIETY WOMEN CURE SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
BY SELF-TREATMENT.
ELECTROLYSIS OUTFIT FOR COLONIAL LADIES
ON SPECIAL tERMS. RETURNABLE WHEN
DONE WITH.
JFJje, JSnglish Society woman, tormented with the
of hair, treats herself, or her
ra*id f treats her, in her own home, using the safe and
spile process of home electrolysis, which the well-
known Madame Tensfeldt has now made available
for self-use by her new simplified apparatus, The pro-
cess is perfectly simple and quite permanent in its
effects. It can be carried out at home by any lady.
There is 'no danger, no shock, no smarting, no scar.
It. attacks the superfluous hair at the root —the only
place where there is any use in attacking it. Depila-
tories, which burn off the visible hair, are just as
dangerous to woman’s ultimate appearance as the
razor. They leave the root untouched; and as all
Hair, of any sort, is tapering in shape, becoming
thicker as it grows, whether cut off or not, they,
of course, turn a fine hair into a coarse one when it
reappears, as it must. The Tensfeldt apparatus doe’s
not sever the hair at all. It dissolves and kills the
root, so that each hair drops out intact, root and
all. That hair never grows again. The root is
dead. The skin remains natural and unharmed; Not
a trace of the disfigurement is left. The cure is
complete, final.
Madame Tensfeldt’s book on the permanent eradi-
cation of superfluous hair may be had from herself,
and for the benefit of residents in the colonies she
offers to send a copy free. Without waiting for the
book, however, ladies are strongly recommended to
send at once for the apparatus, which has full
directions with it, and is guaranteed. The price is
£5 ss. for the apparatus, provided it is returned
by parcel post within six months. Her address is
120 a Princes Street, Edinburgh, Scotland.*
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you pet the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton." 1
p For Chronic \
Indigestion
TAKE
h
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion lubricates and soothes the mucous
membrane of the stomach and intestines, arrests fermentation,
and promotes normal healthy action of the bowels. It is a
splendid tonic to appetite and digestion and it builds up health
and strength. Doctors prescribe it for chronic indigestion,
nervous dyspepsia, stomach and intestinal catarrh, etc. It has
cured many obscure and obstinate digestive troubles.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL. Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W
(
IN BANANA LAND
“Platman”: Queensland Government is
making a tremendous effort to hold the Sav-
ings Bank business. I was surprised to-day
to find that a depositor can draw £lO from
the State affair without giving notice. A
few weeks ago he could only get £2, and a
ALDERMAN Me MASTER, one of
Brisbane's landmarks.
few months earlier he couldn’t get a red
cent without waiting for it. Also, the
amount on which interest will be paid has
been raised from £200 to £500. Fisher’s
Commonwealth Bank has undoubtedly caused
the change, and for the first time the Den-
ham Ministry begins to worry itself a trifle
over public convenience.
“Kobbi”: Gave the final “Right away”
lately at Rockhampton (Q.), railway guard
Henry Perrier. He joined the service in ’73,
and stuck to his van for 39 years continu-
ously, only letting go last July. Retired life
soon killed him.
Vincent Bernard Joseph Lesina is heard
of again. He represented Clermont for
about a dozen years, and always remained
young and always remained at boil-
ing point. He was long the stormy
petrel, and the banner-bearer, and the big
drum, and the bagpipes, and the tearer down
of idols of the Labor party. But at last
relations became strained between the party
and its tempestuous follower, and Lesina
went out. The Queensland Labor organisa-
tion has expelled as many members as all the
other Australian Labor parties put together,
and Vincent Bernard Joseph walked the
well-trodden plank. Now he is organising
for the liquor trade in Maoriland, with £7OO
a year, and travelling expenses, and (pre-
sumably) his drinks, if he wants them.
Alas for the fallibility of human prophe-
sies ! One of the S.Q. planters who is just
now most emphatic in declaring that Tudor’s
new rates of payment for labor in the cane-
field will be the ruin of the sugar industry,
also declared a dozen years ago that if the
Kanaka were abolished, “grass would grow
in the streets of Bundaberg.” And there is
no grazing in the streets of Bundaberg!
Barcaldine had a curious case, the other
day, when John Schneider was asked to say
why he should not forfeit his grazing home-
stead by reason of having failed to live on
the premises. But the evidence showed that
he couldn’t get on the premises—that it was
a piece of land hemmed in on all sides, with
not so much as a surveyed bandicoot track
leading into it. When he made an effort to
trespass and get at the desired premises to
sleep on it, the owners of the land “shoo’ed”
him off with hands and vehemence. Then
Schneider, having asked the Government
for a track, went back and waited for one
to arrow. But it didn’t even sprout. In fact,
the only live result has been the land court
case—and even the Lands Department itself
wishes that hadn’t grown.
“Kobbi”: Urged on thereto by scientists,
a big part of Bananaland’s population is
hard at work pouring oil on its un-
troubled but mosquito-infested waters. The
Government has pointed out that mosouitoes
carry malaria and other uncomfortable ail-
ments, and they can be defeated if the
watery spots where they breed are rendered
uninhabitable. Tanks, among other places, are
accordingly being dosed with oil, which re-
vives the old query: “Does oil mix with
water sufficiently to distaste or confound or
blither the drinking liquid?” A native-born
scientist assured me solemnly that it didn’t
and “couldn’t possibly do so,” quoting the
lighter-than-water theory. Whereupon, I
gave him an example from an 800-gallon
tank three-quarters full, on which I had
placed an egg-cupful of oil. I never saw a
man converted more suddenly from an erron-
eous point of view. It is this habit that a
speck of oil has of polluting vast quantities
of water that is going to be the mosquito’s
great buckler in the coming war of extermin-
tion. It is like the crumb of toast which
makes an acre of bed uninhabitable.
“Pilgrim” writes:—
i Re Stewart Grahame’s recent statement in “Why
: Socialism Failed,” that the big squabble in New
Australia arose over some three pilgrims going to a
native village for liquor, one of the Paraguay men
writes to the Courier that the statement is wholly
incorrect. He says the trouble was that a certain
New Australian borrowed some cania (native spirit)
from a neighbour for the purpose of doctoring a sick
mate. Lane posted up an expulsion notice concern-
ing these two men and the mate, but the colony im-
mediately “sprang to arms,” took a ballot on the
matter, and defeated pane by three to one. Lane
retired in disorder to Villa Rica, and although a
posse of Paraguayan police were at his disposal the
expulsion was not enforced. According to this au-
tboritv enforcement would have meant bloodshed, for
the “majority of the members were well armed with
Winchesters and revolvers.” As the leader also used
to carry a brace of revolvers in his belt,- it appears
that the Paraguay pilgrims intended to have brother-
hood at all costs, even if they. had to shoot one an-
other to get it. “Be my brother lest I slay thee”
would have been an admirable motto. Lane, however,
deserves much credit for having returned to all those
desirpus of leaving their tools of trade and a fair sum
of money, to none of which they were entitled under
the conditions of the Association... .The shooting-
iron seems to have been sadly in evidence in the
Paraguayan Paradise, and the pilgrims apparently
believed that Communism must be firmly rooted in a
basis of gunpowder. Melancholy to reflect that they
had just left Australia to escape police, legal force,
bludgeons, firearms and all the other coercive para-
phernalia of a brutal Government.
“Iv” writes from Cairns, on behalf of the
sugar-cocky in the North: —
Will you please take up some blue-metal to throw
on behalf of the white person who has been trying
to grow cane at the top end of Queensland. All that you
recentlv said in “The Case for the Manufacturer”
(B. 8/8/T2), applies equally to him. The wages he
has to pay, which are now generally regarded as
pretty fair, represent two-thirds of the total cost of
production of the crop, and every blessed thing he
has to buy, from the collars on his plough horses to
the benzine he uses in his engine, cost more than
they did a year or two back. Yet the price he re-
ceives for his cane remains about the same. Right
at our back door lies Java, with the biggest possi-
bilities of nigger production and the lowest wages
in the world. With the present alleged Protection to
the Australiaan grower (equivalent to £5 per ton,
while the U.S.A. has £9 per ton and no labor legis-
lation, and other cane-growing countries have higher
protection and lower wages), how can we keep the
game up much longer?
Our production is actually decreasing, though the
White Australia policy started on a very cheap
foundation, laid by the previous labors of Tommy
Tanna, who had brought large areas into cultivation.
All the old cane fields have been recently running
out, and new portions of virgin jungle have had to
be tackled. For the first time in the history of the
world, white men have been producing sugar, and
doing all the work, ?from the clearing of the original
bush to placing the finished article on the grocer’s
counter. Yet, why should white men continue to do
this if it doesn’t pav them? With the present Pro-
tection there is nothing in it.
Manv hands have already been sacked, and that
at a time which should be the busiest in the year.
The growers for the big O.S.R. Co.’s mill at Hamble-
don have given the co. formal notice that they can
no longer carry on. When they get their present
crop off, they intend to continue growing cane on a
small scale bv the labor of their own families, but
they state roundly that they cannot pay out wages.
All the plant, mills, machinery, tram-lines, etc., of
the C.S.R. Cos. (valued at abopt £100,000) will be
scrap-iron and ruin within three or four years if
somebody does not pay the sugar-cocky a bit more.
From its nature, of course, the industry can’t expire
Suddenly. So 1913 won’t show any alarming falling
off, but there will be a slump in 1914, and, if some-
thing doesn’t happen, 1915 will be a time for talk-
ing about wreaths and funeral arrangements.
The Right to Shirk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
iVe must concede the Right to Work as a not un-
reasonable claim. — Brisbane daily.
Let agitators blow their trump,
And hawk their nostrums round,
And tell the world the Right to Work
Is doctrine sane and sound ; ,
We would not for a moment’s space
Their aspirations burke,
Provided they don’t meddle with
Our Ancient Right to Shirk.
It is our Magna Charta hoar
From heroes handed down.
Who all despised the horny palm
And hated hands of brown ;
The cream of ev’ry mighty land—
The Tartar, Russian, Turk —
Insist on this, whate’er they miss,
Their Ancient Right to Shirk.
Let Art decline and Culture go,
And Democrats impugn
The tawdry lordly frippery
That gilds the titled loon ;
Let Change involve this mighty realm
In Ruin’s dismal murk,
But leave untouched that corner stone —’
Our Ancient Right to Shirk.
’Tis graven in the heart of Pelf,
And carven in his brain—
To hold it is his highest boon,
To lose his deepest bane ;
It is the core of Privilege,
The Soul of Prize and Perk,
This power to say Good-bye to Toil
And claim the Right to Shirk.
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 14, 1912.
JMy Dear Tiiargomindah,—
With the assistance of numerous handker-
chiefs and enormous quantities of ammoni-
ated quinine, our city is just beginning to
feel as if it might pull through. Functions
have been as scarce this week as black opals
in a banana crop, and the voices of all our
Very Best have been drowned in the vast,
tumultuous, heart-rending sneeze, whose deep
crescendo beat itself beneath the unheeding
sky. Influenza is rife, and there is no good
in anything.
Our treasured Macgregor, with his spouse
and the trusty Foxton aide, showed the
discretion which is the better part of politics,
or horse-racing, or something, and hurriedly
left for Blackall last Tuesday, lie returns
next week, if all goes well, in time to attend
an At Home at the United Service Institu-
tion.
Major Sandford and his cheerful and
much appreciated wfife left us this week.
They are going back to Melbourne,' where the
warrior person has been given his old com-
mand. Early next month Captain and Miss
Wynter follow their example, the Captain
having been appointed to the headquarters
staff in the place by the Yarra.
On Tuesday afternoon Mr. and Mrs. Philip
Frankel shook innumerable paws, and dis-
pensed multitudinous cups of tea at Eschen-
liagen’s. The lady looked her loveliest in
dove-grey crepe de Chine, and husband Philip
disported himself in a radiant smile and a
claw-hammer coat.
In spite of the prevailing epidemic, two
persons found the necessqry courage to assert
their intention of matrimony, and two others
actually crossed into the place that is fenced
on one side by the golden barriers of bliss
and hedged on the other by the prickly thorns
of the Divorce Court. The engaged persons
are Jessie Nelson, second daughter of the
late Hugh Nelson, and R. E. Thwaites, who
drives knowledge and noble ambition into the
young mind at the local Grammar School.
The persons who were linked with a hoop
of gold and a stern ecclesiastical warning
were Gerald Phillips, of Sandgate, and Doris
Pardoe, of South Brisbane. The bride was
clad in an uncommonly pretty robe of satin
and lace, and had the support of two demure
bridesmaids, one in pink, and the other in
lilac. The numerous family to which the
bridegroom belongs supplied both the best
man and the groomsman.
The Old Girls of the Brisbane Grammar
School gave their usual yearly spree, in the
shape of a euchre party and dance, last
night. Much glad raggerv was in evidence,
and Mrs. Budge Webb looked particularly
happy in a garment which glimmered its
satisfactory blue amid the many-colored
silken radiance.
Mrs. Leonard Turner and her pretty
daughter Jean return frbm Fogland at the
end of the month. Shortly afterwards Jean
is to marry a sprig or scion or chip or some-
thing of British Aristocracy. Said sprig or chip
or scion or strip of bark is at present up-
holding the prestige of his country in Russia.
The tea-fights of the week include one at
which Mrs. Ross Munro was the hostess,
another presided over by Mrs. George Perry,
and one at which Miss Beryl Holmes opened
the sluice-gates of refreshment and passed
round the slender sandwich of cheer.
THE GIFT OF THE GODS.
"Wot's the matter with you now?”
“Nothing ' the matter.”
“Then wo did yer give me that nasty look
for?"
“I didn't give you that nasty look. You
always 'ad it.”
HARDACEE,
M.L.A.,
Queensland.
The Ross Munro girleen is having the
time of her glad young life in London. The
A. G. and his Robinson lady, with whom
she is staying, gave a dance in her honor
before the close of the season. So far the
maiden has shown no fierce desire to rush
back to the shelter of the family roof.
Ah — 1 tishew !
Yours hopelessly,
Australia Jane.
A lecturer at the Brisbane Museum
asserted the other day that 25 per cent, of
the people of that city are afflicted ysnth
filaria (hookworm), a nigger disease very-
prevalent in the southern United States.
Singularly enough, a member of the
Licensed Victuallers’ Association arose
about the same time and dashed down the
assertion that 25 per cent, of the population
makes its midday meal of counter-lunch.
That makes 50 per cent., unless the hook-
worm people and the counter-lunch neople
are the same lot. If it was added that 25
per cent, of the people attended football
matches, and 25 per cent, voted the Labor
ticket then the whole population would be
accounted for. as it is, flalf of them seem
to be missing.
A Bananalander, resident near a South-
Western railway line, reckons that he lias
found an antidote for prickly pear in the
Angora goat which lives, fattens and flour-
ishes on the leaf of that pincushiony curse.
The only drawback is that, when,the pear
is fruiting, the silly Angora is apt to stuff
himself with pears and perish.
In the Palace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Like a jet statue at the palace, gate
The eunuch sleeps as though his sleep
were death ;
The scarlet canopy stirs to no breath
Where the great Sultan slumbers in
his state.
Even the doves have hushed their
endless croon,
And the grey garden only knows the
m00n....
By dreamy deeps where wearied foun-
tains rest
In the mosaicked circle of the bath,
The moon has dared the blackness of
the path
To drive her silver fleet across its
breast
Some Siddha portions slumber every-
where—
Then suddenly the brush of naked feet,
The scent of jasmine garlands....
snowy.... sweet....
The sound cf tinkling anklets on the
stair !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


m
P^3
t
■a
3
U
<R
n
€
cri-
»«lL
'**A
II
s
*<
i?sc
STHm
o£>
1
Lf
taar-
err
C
w .
N
e
KS
■‘•X.-S*
: 1
|C
■B.T
».• V.
■=-4;
.. - v O-
J'TXST,
&*
T ; •
s? ;
m
c
:
\
.
IT
IBS
;:
THE CITY HOME OF THE
COUNTRY VISITOR.
Comfortable in the extreme, and convenient to the prin-
cipal Sights of the Metropolis, the “Hotel Arcadia” is
exceptionally suited to the requirements of the country
visitor.
Fronting both Pitt and Castlereagh streets, “The
Arcadia” lies midway between King and Market streets.
The General Post Office is but a stonethrow distant,
whilst the leading Theatres—Her Majesty’s, Criterion,
Theatre Eoyal, Palace and the Tivoli—are close at hand.
Circular Quay—the gate of our Harbor—Avith its delight-
ful bays and pleasuie jaunts, may be reached by cab or
tram in a few minutes, and the Gardens, the Museum,
National Art Gallery, and other resorts, are all within
easy riding distance.
The “Hotel Arcadia” is most sumptuously furnished in
modern style —every detail tending to-increase the com-
fort and pleasure of the sojourn in the city .being care-
fully attended to. Seven floors in all —the upper floors
being used mainly for Bedrooms, of which there are 150.
Drawing and Eeception Eooms, furnished in palatial
manner, occupy the 3rd Floor, whilst a Ladies’ Writing
Eoom, Gentlemen’s Smoking Eoom, and an up-to-date
Billiard Eoom, with six first-class tables, add to the
Visitor’s comfort,. The Bar is fully supplied with
brands that are not only of highest quality, but true to
label. Electric Light throughout, and hot water avail-
able at all hours. Perfect Cuisine, under control of a
skilled Chef.
TARIFF SCALE:
Dohble Rooms, with full board, two persons, £5 per week.
Single Rooms, with full board, one person. . . £2/10/-
Inclusive Terms, by the Day 87-
Double Rooms, apartments only,
From 42/6 to 52/6 per week.
Double Rooms, apartments only, 6/6 and 7/6 per night.
Single Rooms, apartments only,
From 22/6 to 25/- per week.
Single Rooms, apartments only. 8/6 per night.
PRICE OF MEALS:
Breakfast, 1/6. Lunch, 27-
Dinner, 3/-


Shipping:.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
AS.S. WAKOOL, via SUEZ CANAL.
Wireless installed. * Twin Screw.
; SALOON 1 ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
MelroCrne Agents: JOHN SANDEKSON k CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
- Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-iuxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
• Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
itfELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers 8 Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
■r ' Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
Bank of Rortb Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
. Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE : 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Qank of Reu) Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares .. . ... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up .. .. . . .. 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
■ Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES
DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Hanking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,0.00,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, 1912) .. £1,194,898
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir AVilliam P. Manning, Ivt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under V
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO ~0 0
Capital Paid Up . . • • .. 413.590 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 118,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— AA. A'. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS,g-
-12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
vears ar.d over, at the rate of 44 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches— London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars applv to —
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE k CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI k CO., Perth and Fremantle ;
TITOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane k Townsville.
New Zealand Insurance
‘o.,
'Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, Ji.inr. Managers.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE .
All Steamers fitted with Wireless. *Third-class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London . . From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£llo (Fifst-class each way);
£B2 (Second-class Orient).
Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable with Holt’s
Blue Funnel. Line.
Third-class Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with P. arid O. Branch Line.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, kr.., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
S.S. COOMA,
S.S. BOMB ALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows:
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACK AY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYAN (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous Hichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trips.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD.,
Offices at all Ports.
An bland Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing •
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line, -4
occupying three weeks to three months, and
costing £5 to £25.
jh
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
*2*
DIRECTORS:
£3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
£8,085,000
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Ksq.
Hie Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, JSsq. : Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq;
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in ail the Australian estates, NeW Zealand, Fiji and Rhpua (New South Wgles, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 6, Western Australia 11, /.Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . £1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq . . . • Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: IS Z3ircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the'State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. •• •• ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock). 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. — ;
Gen Man Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual bite
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably. distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon.
The Hon.
Directors :
C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Service
To Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
By the Up-to-date Steamships
“ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
“ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
“ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
“WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
And other well-known Steamers, fitted with all
conveniences for the comfort of passengers.
Tickets interchangeable with other Inter-State
Companies.
Also First-Class Return Tickets to Melbourne, Ade-
laide and Brisbane available for, return journey by
Rail under certain conditions.
For Dates of Sailing see Daily Papers.
Further information on application to —
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HODDART PARKER LIMITER,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Austral.an, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
S.S. Warilda (7713 tons),
Wireless Telegraphy,
Saturday, September
28, carrying Ist, 2nd
and 3rd Class Passen-
gers.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSV/TJjE
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Grantala (Wireless
Telegraphy), Sept. 21
S.S. Innamiticka, Sept. 28.
S.S. Marloo, Oet, 5.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE.
To VANCOU VER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FJ.II, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
AROUND THE PACIFIC TOURS,
returning from San Francisco via
Rarotonga, Papeete and Wellington.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STRAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON.
*T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE .
12,300 Tons. W. CHICKEN, Commander.
Will he despatched from :
SYDNEY SEPTEMBER 25th
MELBOURNE .. .. SEPTEMBER 28th
ADELAIDE OCTOBER 3rd
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
apd (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
2-Berth. 4-Berth.
Fares .. .. £4O. £l6 to £lB.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed bv —
T.S.S. ESSEX, leaving Sydney, Oct. 4.
*T.S.S. DORSET, leaving Sydney Oct. 15.
*Fitted with Wireless.
For further particulars apply to—
BIRT & CO., LIMITED, Svdnev.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN k CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne and Newcastle.
TURNBULL, MARTIN k CO., Brisbane.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.. Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
kjh
South Sea
... and ...
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
*T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, OCTOBER 8.
*T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, NOVEM. 6.
♦Fitted with Wireless.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Eight throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney, every 28
day# to FIJI (Eautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), *R.M.S. AORANGI, October 5. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.
t.s.s. MOANA, arriving .Sydney, November 12.
There is also a service everv 28 davs from Auck-
land to-EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RVIATEA and TAHITI. *Talune, October 22.
(Maheno, from Sydney, October 16, connects.)
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation. PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
IF YOU LIKE DETECTIVE STORIES
you should not miss .reading “The
Drawn Blind,” appearing in The Lone
Hand each month.


TEN DAYS TO LONDON
, FROM SAN. FRANCISCO.
Sydney to San Francisco in 19 Days.
Via Pago Pago (Samoa) and Honolulu. Saves 3000
miles ocean travel. Includes': South Sea Islands,
Yo?emite Valley, Rocky Mountains, Grand. Canyon,
■i- . Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS.
ROUND WORLD TICKETS issued to return by
all Suez , and Cape Lines. Round Pacific Tickets,
Covering China, Japan, America, and Islands, at
Low Rates. For Rates of Passage and Freight apply
OCEANIC STEAM SHIP CO.,
44 Pitt St., Sydney. Tel., 2282 City.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Pearl of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS to ALL UNITED STATES
POINTS, also to EUROPE, and AROUND-THE-
WORLD TOURS in conjunction with all lines.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
AROUND THE PACIFIC TOURS, returning from
VANCOUVER, via Honolulu, Suva and Auckland.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, October 5.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, November 2.
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.;
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
EORGE HOTEL
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
K
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 10j-
( Black, White,
* Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
'Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tim Bullhtin.] [5
WANTED KNOWN.
FREE
Clairvoyance s Psychometry
If worried, troubled or in doubt, write to me at
once. Rub ink on thumbs and press on paper ; give
year ' and date of birth ; send specimen of , hand-
writing ; remit Postal Note 2/8, to cover cost of
treatise, postage, etc., as it will be a bulky package.
1 will give you a reading of your life free, to adver-
tise my success.
Address — PAUL, PERRIERS,
Custom House Chambers, 440 Flinders St., Melbourne.
AVRITE TO-DAY.
k
INSTALL
At most it e
Lighting .
It’s non - explosive,
non-poisonous, odorless
and non - condensing.
It’s, therefore, both
hygienic and safe. Is
ecr'-'omical, too.
The Atmoslite patent
equipment is a ! “made-
good" machine. It’s
essentially worth while
to investigate. Write
for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth . Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GHIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Concha,
Catarrh, Bleeplessnewand Oppression immedintely
relieved by GIUMXM.T <t Co’s INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTES. Bo:d.hi all Chemists.
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
| COPAIBA.
the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours. I
Each Capsule tears the same SW"
m]
tr,,
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
DEPOSITS received from One Shilling upwards. Interest at the rate
of Three Per Cent, per annum allowed on all Deposits up to £3OO.
Agencies now open at local Post Offices
throughout practically the whole of Victoria.
Melbourne, 15th July, 1912.
MELBOURNE AGENCY : 317 COLLINS STREET.
DENISON MILLER , Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting: Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
! T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney. N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
jhk
Each "BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend —
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with' patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
; tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT (£L SON, 137-9 King' Street, Sydney
jh
ComoßO£™£
EACH roll of Congo roofing is a yard wide and
7a feet long. It can be cut and trimmed
easily with a knife.
To make a roof with it, simply unroll the roof-
ing and nail it down, cementing the laps firmly
together with the adhesive cement which we supply
free. We supply the nails and tin caps free also.
With each roll goes a ten-year Surety Bond Guar-
antee. Back of the guarantee stands the Royal
Exchange Assurance of London.
Sample free on request.
Congro Damp Course is a waterproof,
antiseptic felt to be laid against the foundation walls
on the outside to protect them against dampness and
vermin. Use it to insure having a dry cellar. The
expense is trifling.
Australian' Agents: —Noyes Bros. Sydney), Ltd.,
Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Melbourne), Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne; Brabant & Co., Brisbane ; Walter Reid
& Co., Ltd., Rockhampton; Elder Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Adelaide; Millars’ Karri & JarrahCo., Ltd.,
Perth ;
William Hart & Sons, Launceston; T. A. Tabart, Jnr., Hobart.
"A. L.”
(Allen —
Liversidge)
Acetylene Generator
As supplied to His Majesty the King, and used by him at the Indian Durbar.
No smell, no danger, no fouling, no failure, no adjustments, no rubber parts.
A SYSTEM ON SIMPLE AND INGENIOUS LINES.
ONE CHARGING OF CARBIDE CAN BE USED FOR MONTHS.
The London ’Bus Company scrapped all their old Generators and installed the “A.L.”
Generators, after most severe tests against every other make.
Another practical testimony as to its extreme simplicity and reliability has been given by
Captain Scott, who has provided himself with a complete outfit of the “A.L.” Generators, for the
lighting of his expedition to the South Pole.
lib. Size, in Brass, £4/10/- 21b. Size, in Brass. £6/157-
Write for' Pamphlet, giving particulars and description.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
23 (SL 2 5 Hunter St.
SYDNEY.
k R.A.W.
I nvest i n a
Silent Empire.
AS its name implies, the Silent Em-
pire runs so freely and smoothly
that there is absolutely no noise
from it —and the amazing steadiness of
the projected pictures is due to the
Maltese Cross attachment fitted to this
high-grade, yet economical, Biograph.
The operator may have perfect confidence
in it, because it is fireproof—simple and
easy to manipulate—strong and rigid—
reliable and durable. Write for further
particulars.
J e r d a n’s
Sole Agents for Australia,
“ Leading Cinematograph Specialists,”
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENCY—
ALEXANDER GUNN & SONS,
236 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
©I
■OM
»»%
■ ■
:
I ?
mm
■
sails
-
M IS a
'■ : ' ' ,
MIIM
nm%
tfiHEGAR
BiiE«aiaa
l| Hfl If
M| ■
lllillj
f ■..' sh@ii m
*
■
:
:■
MSM
fS :=., : V. W*
'
’
A
■7
PTNEGAR
>JJALT
ESTABLISHED -3 874.
FOR
COUGHS .
nirfjridae’s
UjungMc
FOR
COLDS .
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for " OWBRIDGE’S”
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL, ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
* Als
gout v
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and c,ured by>
BLAIR'S Pills, the one Medicine’
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by aif Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
unclaimed money&PKOPERTY.
OOUGAL’S R BHSTr.R to N ext-OF-KJN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES Ac., *c„ price
3/-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal A Cd.
Claims investigated and carried through
QOUCAL& CO., 151 STRAND. LONDON, ENCLAND-
shprI over 60 Years )
w
"Pv^'mn^PnS' 118 latest London walnut stain,
PYItOID. Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” tx>m-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
°” e ™"V on , an £ thl- ee separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
RGYPTIAN-HENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/ $d 2/6
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants. Melbourne and Sydney.


Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The Union Manufacturing Com-
pany guarantee to return fchre'TdVl-'umount paid if'
Wright’s Rheumatic /llßemedy, fit hef Canadian
cure, does Jiol I cure yp ur
lumbaFtx or yßdprey /Or course,'' this
coiYld /nr*7ha6'Hnne if/ these \yere many failures,
matter have been only
thrdeinstances in fyte'years in which the refund
was claimed hfyou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
I Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
they issue with the remedy. The price is only
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often.
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S SYDNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
SIMPLY ELECTRICAL.
A UNIQUE AND TRIUMPHAL SUCCESS.
EVERY . EVENING AT 7.50.
ALL STAR PERFORMANCE
of-
TF[l5 CHOCOLATE SOLDI Ell
PLANS AT PALING’S.
THEa T U K It"<) YA L, S,YDN E Y.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.'
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF PASSERS-BY.
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 21.
Revival of the Famous Plav,
CAMILLE.
HILDA SPONG as CAMILLE.
HARCOURT BEATTY as ARM AND.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
PAIAC E TIIEAT It E. S Y dlv EY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
The Booming- Success of the Great Australian Plav,
THE GIRL FROM WAYBACK.'
Acknowledged on all sides as ONE OF THE BEST.
Interpreted by
PHILIP LYTTON’S SELECTED COMPANY, headed by
the Popular Dramatic and Beauty Actress, MISS MADGE
HOPE, as THE WINSOME GIRL from WAYBACK.
SATURDAY NIGHT, the Big English Acting Success,
WHAT WOMEN SUFFER.
Nation a l amph i th eat it it. sydnky.
Managing Director : BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
DO RE MI TRIO. LAWRENCE BARCLAY. PERCY
DALTON. ROY REDGRAVE AND MAB PAUL.
HUXHAM’S NINE SERENADERS.
OPENING NEXT SATURDAY:
BEAUMONT COLLINS COMPANY. ROMANOFF.
HAMLIN AND MACK. ODELL AND HART. TED
HERBERT. LES CONEY.
AI) 15 I, 1* II I THISAT It E, SYDN 15 Y.
Direction and Management, Gicorge Marlow, Ltd.
Last Two Nights of HER FORBIDDEN MARRIAGE.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 21.
GEORGE MARLOW will present, for the First Time in
Sydney, the Picturesque American Indian Drama,
entitled :
QUEEN OF THIS REDSKTNS
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. RESERVED SEATS, 4/-
T II E I, Y C 15 U M, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
ow n hall,' Sydney!
Direction : J. & N. TAIT.
THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 19.
THIRD CONCERT of MADAME
KIRKBY LUNN,
The Greatest Dramatic Contralto of our time.
Supported bv
MR. WILLIAM MURDOCH, Pianist.
MR. ANDREW SHANKS, Baritone.
M. DE RIBAUPIERRE, Violinist.
FOURTH CONCERT:
THURSDAY AFTERNOON, SEPTEMBER 19.
FIFTH CONCERT: SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21.
FINAL EVENING CONCERT:
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24.
BOX PLANS AND TICKETS AT NICHOLSON’S.
HE IMPERIAL ROLLER RINK,
Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
FEATURING ALL THAT IS BEST
HOLLER SKATING.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
Amusements.
QLACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICT l RES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
I)E GROEN S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
Y - M - c. a. Ball, Sydney.
■ Direction: J. &N. TAIT.
FAREWELL SEASON of
The Renowned Diva of Humorous Song,
MARGARET COOPER,
Supported by HER COMPLETE COMPANY.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21.
MATINEE: WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s. Day Sales, Searl’s-
Grand tug of war carnival.
IN THE NEW ROOFED STADIUM.
£lOOO IN PRIZES. £lOOO IN PRIZES.
TWO WEEKS. TWO WEEKS.
FIFTY TEAMS. FIFTY TEAMS.
SEPT. 28 to OCT. 12. SEPT. 28 to OCT. 12.
International Competition. All-comers’ Championship.
Special Service Oodtest. Amateur Challenge Shield.
Scratch Pull Championship of Australasia. Challenge
Match Series.
Promoters—H. D. McINTOSH & F. MUSGROVE.
M
R.
EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
FIVE COMPANIES OF
DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING.
Cremorne Gardens, Brisbane. School of Arts, North
Sydney. Mechanics’ Institute, Ballarat. N.Z. —Town
Hall, Wellington ; Burns Hall, Dunedin.
To open shortly: Exhibition Gardens, Adelaide ;
“Olympia,” Perth; and
“Arcadia” (Old. Royal Yacht Club), St. Kilda.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEA T R E.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LA FREYA, in a series of Original and Artistic Visions.
RALLIS & WILSON TRIO, Corned v Acrobats & Vocalists.
BORNEO GARDINER, the Wonderful Whistler.
MISS MINNIE KAUFMANN, Lady Trick Cyclist.
CHINIiO, the Wonderful Juggler.
WALKER & STURM, Racquet Spinners & Comiques.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE. MKLIIOURNB.
General Manager : MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
D’ARC’S MARIONETTES.
REES TRIO, Equilibrists and Musicians.
MOZZETTO, the Great Juggler.
ALEC HURLEY, Coster Impersonator.
WILL WHITBURN, Australia’s Quaintest Comedian.
AUBREY MALLALIEU & CO. in “ His Wife’s Lover."
Plan at Allan’s. »F*PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
■p HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
STUPENDOUS PRODUCTION
of the POWERFUL AND IMPRESSIVE DRAMA,
BEN HUH.
Dramatisation of General Lew Wallace’s Great Romance.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/- Gallery,. 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Andkrson.
Sub-Lessees : Directors op Bert Bailey Co.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY DRAMATIC COMBINATION
in
ON OUR SELECTION.
Adapted from the Famous Story of STEELE RUDD.
POPULAR PRICES. £ PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 21.
ALLEN DOONE AND COMPANY
I in
The Great Patriotic and Musical Play,
THE WEARING OF THE GREEN.
Prices 3/-, 2/-, •I'/'- Plan at Pianola Co.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE RETURN OE MUSICAL COMEDY.
A STRONG CAST OF FAVORITES.
Reappearance of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
TH E QUAKER GTR L.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
Amusements.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Praliran, Vie.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack'’ Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to ’2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Head’s and the Lyric Theatre CafG.
Melbourne repertory theatre.
Direction : GREGAN McMAHON.
At the ATHENAEUM HALL (COLLINS ST).
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26: Galsworthy’s fantasy,
THE PIGEON, and Gertrude Robins’ comedietta,
MAKESHIFTS.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 : Ibsen’s JOHN GABRIEL
BORKMAN.
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1:-Hankin’s THE RETURN OF
THE PRODIGAL.
BOX PLAN at the Pianola Co. and Booklovers’ Library
now open. No seats guaranteed unless reserved.
Direction amalgamated pictures
ltd.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace,
THE MAJKSTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, Opposite Princes Bridge Station-
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock.
PRICES : 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Q L Y M P I A.
OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A, MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
%A/E S T’S PALACE, MELBO U R N E.
the best WEST’S PICTURES,™*, best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MatinGes Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthv of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the
positions of three Stipendiary Stew-
ards at the rate of £7OO per annum each,
the Chairman to receive at the rate of £lOO
per annum in addition, subject to the Rules
and By-laws of the Club.
Applications, stating Qualifications, ad-
dressed to the Secretary, will be received till
Noon of Thursday, 17th October, at t-he
Y.R.C. Office, 493 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
11. BYRON MOORE,
Secretary, V.R.C.
Business Notices.
HAVE YOU A BAD LEG
with Wounds that discharge or otherwise,
perhaps surrounded ' with inflammation ; and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression V
If so, under the skin you have poison which
defies all the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, or there
may be wounds; the disease, if allowed to
continue, will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hos-
pitals, and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not, for I can- cure you. I do not say per-
haps, but I will. Because others have failed
is no reason I should. Send to the Drug
Stores for a box of
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS
which has never failed to cure the worst
cases of Bad Legs, Ulcerated Joints, Poisoned
Hands, Injured Knees, Bites, Carbuncles,
etc. Prepared by ALBERT, Albert House,
73 Farringdon Street, London, England.
What
You Want is Lessons An Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have somethinsr to
say worth hearing do not take the slightest trouble to leurn how to make it
properly heard.”— William Ewart Gladstone
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
of World-Wide Fame
The Stage a Speciality.
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Pees can be ascertained on
application at the College or by letter.
kjh
554 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LECTURES ON BRITISH COMMERCE,
including Finance, Insurance, Business, and Industry.
By the Rt. Hon. F. HUTH JACKSON, G. ARMITAGE-
SMITH, M.A., D.Lit., ROBERT BRUCE, C.B.,‘etc. Preface by the Hon. W. PEMBER REEVES.
Demy Bvo, 295 p.p. English price, 7/6 net.
GOLD MINE ACCOUNTS AND COSTING.
A Practical Manual for Officials, Accountants,
Bookkeepers, etc. By G. W. TAIT. Demy
Bvo, 93 pp.
price, 5/- net.
Of all principal Sydney bookseliers.
London * St R ISAAC PITMAN fa SONS, Ltd , 1 Amen Corner, B.C. [2
Haven’t you often wished for a full moustache, such as other men
find it so easy tt> grow; yet YOU find it so difficult?
Why not try
CAPILLARINE?
We guarantee a full moustache of handsome appearance in a few
months if you start using it now.
PRICE 10/6 JAR. Post Free anywhere.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER shapes the moustache;
.... worn at night. N0...1, 2/6 ; No. 2, 3/6 ;-No. 3, 5/6. POST FREE.
0. Aitkon 664 George Street, Sydney.
211 g c* /Vlliven, Established 30 Years.
k
“F.C.”: I observe that tenders are being
called fob 10 miles of cast-iron pipes, and
for the construction of a 375,000,000-gallon
dam, for the supply of -Yassberra—-the only
city on earth which is the metropolis of a
whole continent. Good old Dryberra. Bris-
bane gets 60 per cent, of its water supply
from the . river, but it also has Enog-
gera (1,000,000,000 gallons), Gold Creek
(406,000,000 gallons) and some sundries.
Yet Brisbane isn’t a first-class city. The
storage reservoirs at Adelaide represent over
10 times the capacity of the proposed puddle
at Dryberra. And the Mundaring reservoir,
on which Perth can fall back when neces-
sary, holds 4,650.000,000, or about 12 times
as much as the Dryberra proposition.
“Paracelsus” writes: —
The Medical Gazette of August 17 states that
another case of leprosy has been discovered at Mac-
lean, Clarence River (N.S.W.). The patient is a
Kanaka, about 45 years of age, has lived in the dis-
trict 25 years, and was employed in the canefields
up till the time that black labor was abolished. Two
lepers were discovered at Maclean a few years ago,
bpth Kanakas. The present natient has lived until
recently in the same house that the other patients
occupied, and from which they were removed to a
leper hospital. They had a white woman as house-
keeper, and she, good sou], perhaps with an eye to
the future well-being of the State, tried to poison
one of her boarders. For this she was given a life
sentence, so disaster seems to have persistently fol-
lowed this sweet little coterie. The fact that a
Kanaka can develop leprosy by living in a house
many years before occupied by other lepers, is
rather disquieting to residents of the one-time Black
North.
“H. 0,” writes: —
The shrink of protest that has been raised against
the proposed payment of the maternity bonus to the
mothers of illegitimate as well as legitimate children,
is characteristic of snuffledom in one of its most
illogical a sheets. A deputation from the Council
of the Churches in Melbourne waited recently on Prime
Minister Fisher. It urged that “that sort of woman”
(the words are those of a reverend deputation] st)
was not deserving of the bonus. If she and her child
(“that sort of child”) were forced to suffer through
want of a few pounds, it would be no more than
they (including the child) both deserved. It was also
urged that the nrospeet, of obtaining £5 would be
a direct incentive to “sin,” though it would be
equallv logical to argue that the existence of con-
sumptive sanatoria is an inducement to citizens
to contract tuberculosis: or to urge the abolition of
hospitals, on the ground that, because a person who
breaks his leg may obtain free treatment at such an
institute, he naturally breaks his leg of set purpose.
The idea of granting the bonus to the nnwedded
mother has also met with stern disapproval from a
couple of female bodies in Melbourne. When I have the
time and the money I am going to get a list of the mem-
bers of these female bodies, and hire a genealogist to
dig into' their records at the births, marriages and
deaths emporium. Thus I notice that, in 1910, there
were in the Commonwealth 28,211 families in which
the first child was born in honorable wedlock. Yet,
in 10,021 cases, the dates made it practically certain
that the child was the result of “sin” committed
before marr'age, and another 3314 cases were very
doubtful. The contempt of the woman who did
marry in time for the woman who didn’t, is tremen-
dous. But the former is so numerous that I know
I will find her represented on almost any catmittee
assembled almost anywhere for uncharitable pur-
poses.
An old Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) identity
died last week at Wilberforce, and was
buried in the churchyard of St. John, Wil-
berforce, where many rude riverside fore-
fathers have been laid. This was Henry
William, youngest son of the late John
Teale, of Windsor, aged 84 years. He was
the sole survivor of the overlanding party
from Adelaide in 1850. His mother, who
died in March, 1854, was said to be the
second white Australian by birth, and the
first who grew to maturity. She was the
eldest daughter of Henry Kable and Susan-
nah Holmes, who, a few days after landing
from the First Fleet, were married by Par-
son Johnson. The parson mentions the fact
in a letter to Under-Secretary Nepean, dated
July 12, 1788. Two other daughters were
born to Henry Kable—Susannah, who
married Dr. Mileham, and lived to a great
age (she drew a pension as a colonial sur-
geon’s widow for 60 years and over), and
Eunice, who married an official named Fitz.
The old man died in 1546 aged 84 years.
They grow Methuselahs along the “Oxberry.”
O. C. Cabot writes: —
The case of that old press-warrior, Edward Ellis,
concerning whom you had a par. (B. 12/9/’12),) is,
indeed, a hard one. In what walk, or run, of life
would a man of Ellis’s brains and energy and industry
find himself stranded, save on the press? Ellis’s record
is a verv long and creditable one, and lots of folk
ovye their start in life to this old journalist. He
founded a dozen papers in his time —and most of
them turned up trumps, but never for the old chap
himself! Sydney Referee and Perth (W.A.) Sun-
day Times are two shining lights in Edward Ellis’s
gallerv, and though the Sydney Evening Globe, and
the W,A. Mining Journal (the best purely mining
and financial paper Australia has had) are dead,
those who know something about the game hold that
their founder would have been running them to this
day, but for ignorant or prejudiced interference.
The Daily Post episode was before my time, but
Ellis has often spoken of the treatment he received
from the N.S.W. Labor crowd in those days. W. A
Holman, I believe, was the chairman of directors, anc
other pow-affiuent Laborites were prominently con-
nected'with the paper. Ellis says he was induced
to give up his £l2 or £l4 a week job to join the
Post at (nominally) a considerably bigger screw.
He never got the screw ! The Labor party owes it
to this dav. Five months’ pay. I believe —say
£250, at least! More than that, Ellis carried the
comps, (or most of them) on his back ; paid all sorts
of pressing accounts, and out-of-pocket expenses
which he needn’t have paid—just for the sake of
keeping the Post upright; and, one way and another,
was “let in” for some hundreds —apart from salary.
It is certainly “up to” some of the old Labor people
to right this.
“K.C.” : The N. S. Wales Assembly argued
for hours lately on the question of
whether or no the general taxpayer should
be called on to pay bob for bob on all games
of billiards played at backblocks Schools of
Arts. This was the real issue though, nomin-
ally. the discussion hinged on the good old
f for £ State subsidy arrangement, where-
under Schools of Arts are kept luxurious, or
out of the Insolvency Court, as the case may
be. The Government talks of subsidising
these institutions, in future, on an educa-
tional instead of a billiards basis, and there
is no doubt it has reason. (A case was
quoted of a School of Arts which derives a
large revenue from billiards, and spends £3
per annum on books.) All the. legislators
with doubtful seats —-both anti-Socialistic
and otherwise —were fiercely against the in-
novation. I comprehend their point of view,
and yet it does not appeal to me. Why when,
the local champion plays 100 up at the
School of Arts. I should be called upon to
assist in paying the place a bob, whereas if
the game was plaved at the pub next door
I would not be asked to assist the funds of.
the (mb, is to me a mystery. As a matter
of fact, I would prefer to subsidise the pub.
I hereby rise to suggest that all games of
billiards, devil's pool and snooker be subsi-
dised by the Treasury, irrespective of where
played, and that to lessen the cost of admin-
istration, the losers be .allowed to apply
direct to the Treasury for refunds.
An amazing amount of reticence has char-
acterised the coroner’s inquiry into Victoria’s
latest railway horror, but a few facts have
been suffered to leak out that require explan-
ation. It is officially stated that both trains
were “on time” —which apparently means
that the trains were timed to meet just
where they did, or as near as could be
arranged. It is also officially stated that
the interlocking system would absolutely pre-
vent the Coburg train from going on the
cross-over as long as the road was “made”
for the Show train. Yet the signals were
stated to be “clear” for the- latter, and the
interlocking gear was found in good working
order afterwards. Railway employees have
repeatedly protested against this cross-over,
and a similar death-trap at Flinders-street
station, as dangerous; yet both are still
there, and are used hourly. The disastrous-
ness of the smash was in some measure due
to the starvation policy of Tait. Tait, dur-
ing his regime, constructed one new suburban
train and named it; but he made no effective
attempt to provide for future increased
traffic, or even to adequately replace out-
of-date and exhausted rolling stock. Conse-
quently, some of the carriages on the Show
train and more on the Coburg train were of
the four- and six-wheeled “dog-box” pattern.
These vehicles, of which some 200 still trapse
up and down the State’s lines, are between
30 and 40 years old, and were none too
strong when new. They are feebler still
now, and when the colliding engines were
forced back on the carriages the dog-boxes
crumpled up like eggshells. The Depart-
ment explains that it is replacing these relics
and “scrapping” them as fast as. possible.
Doubtless it is. A few were “scrapped” at
Sunshine and some more at Richmond, but
this method of getting rid of worn-out stock
is not recommended by competent engineers
or expert carriage-knackers. It may pass
with people whose methods are slack and
whose railway casualty rate is high, but this
country is not partial to it. It is too ex-
travagant a waste of badly-needed popula-
tion.


AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
MACHINES
Produce an Absolutely
Perfect Light.
MHb- -w.?;
WmmlM £ 'J&* .*
:
JLv_i!i~r <'*l j i.
HH’l
tom inn
ii
DIB
aa
■
lisw»s«sffi
MiSM
WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons.
TWO OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
Dear Sirs, —
(Juirindi, N.S.W.,
November 12, 1910.
Regarding the Aerogen Gas Plant you lately installed for us, we are very well
pleased with it, and can, with confidence, recommend it. The lighting is good and the
working of the machine easy to understand.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) RONALD BROS.
“Mt. Elephant,” Derrinallum,
Dear Sirs,- September 15, 1910.
I am in receipt of your letter of 15th inst., re Aerogen Safety Gas, and have waited
until I could give the plant a thorough test before giving my opinion of the machine as a
means of lighting country houses.
I have no hesitation in saying that the installation has been an unqualified success, and
complies with every requirement one would look for in a plant of this kind.
The light is clear, steady and brilliant.
For cooking purposes the stove has been a great success, and equal to the best gas
stove. It will be of great value during the summer months.
ACBns'triu cacc-tw ~ o Yours faithfully, (St?d.) H. ALAN CURRIE.
OG SAFETY GAS can be used For HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The A EROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS
CALL OR WRITE
MACHINE
FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
CO. PTY.,
LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd. BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd. TOWNSVILLE: Alfred Shaw Ltd.
PERTH: ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd. ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd. NEW CALEDONIA: A. Barrau.
BRITISH NE»V GUINEA: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd. PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns. Philp & Co. Ltd.
for More / '
yy
|L^fJ
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years 9 success. j
The flany Points of SUPERIORITY
orEckersley’s “REGAL” Aerated
jhk
Water Machine
over ALL OTHERS create a demand
for it by all sensible
HOTELKEEPERS.
Catalogues from
EGKERSLEY & SONS
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE,
The Only Manufacturers of GOOD
Soda Water Machines and Fountains.
Queensland Agents:
ELLIOT DONALDSON & DOUGLASS, Brisbane.
EVREWST
NERVE AND BRAIN
TABLETS
Create new Nerve Force, Pure Blood,
Healthy and Normal Action of all the
Vital Functions.
Evren Nerve and Brain
Tablets
are especially beneficial in restoring to
perfect Health and Vigor those who
are weak and debilitated from either
Disease, Worry or Over-
work.
They gently tone up the system, and
are suitable alike for both sexes,
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price 2/- per Box.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
4 CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” r l h
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
€
WSmm
rm>
m- : ' v" s -'- v '
«K
-'i&
.
I
If
€■
.
HgHBMHOB
.
ISgl ■ ■
.
wrnm
SAVE 15 to 25% of FUEL
and reduce wear and tear on your Steam Plant
by installing a—
WADHAM ECONOMISER
Contra-Flow Circulation System.
THE “WADHAM” works on the Contra-flow Circulation system,
increasing the efficiency 25 to 50 per cent, over the ordinary
parallel-flow type. It is the most up-to-date and successful
Economiser on the Market. Retains every valuable point of the ordin-
ary Standard Economiser, and in addition possesses a simple arrange-
ment of parts (patented) which give it the following important ad-
vantages :
I.—Largely increased efficiency over the ordinary Economiser in util-
ising heat from the Waste Gases.
2.—Fewer pipes required for the same output, and consequent reduced
first cost.
3.—A Perfect blowing-out arrangement for removing sludge, thus
maintaining a higher efficiency and saving cost of scaling and
“Wadham” is the only Economiser which works
efficiently with dirty water.
4.——Safety from explosions, owing to more perfect access of all sections
to the safety valve.
s.—Less sweating and deterioration—consequently longer life.
6.—Cheaper to erect and ship. Smaller space required.
CAN BE ADAPTED TO EXISTING INSTALLATIONS.
Write for Particulars to REFERENCE TO USERS.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES—
HAES & EGGERS Ltd.,
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.


Scratched Until Blood Flowed from
Sores. Worse in Bed. Used
Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
Improvement from the First.
Now Completely Cured.
“A terrible rash broke out all over my
arms and legs. The spots came out about
the size of the points of pins and I suffered
issa
very much particularly after
I went to bed. I was re-
luctantly forced to scratch
my arms and legs until the
blood flowed, from the sores.
I took all sorts of medicine
but without avail and I also
consulted a doctor. He sent
me two boxes of ointment
ahd told me to rub the oint-
ment well into the parts
affected before going to bed.
I did as directed but instead
of getting relief I only got worse.
“The rash was always increasing but it
only affected my arms and legs. I used to
feel worse after getting warm in bed, so much
so that I dreaded going to bed at all. Never
shall I forget the pain I endured all along.
I would scratch the very flesh off as well as
the skin. I wrote to a friend about it and he
sent me a box of ointment, but it did no good.
I read about the Cuticura Remedies in the
paper and I decided to give them a trial at
any cost. I got two cakes of Cuticura Soap
and one box of Cuticura Ointment and began
using them as directed. From the first there
was an improvement and in about three
months’ time I was completely cured and am
now able to sleep quite soundly.” (Signed)
J. E. Staunton, Carnacon, Ballyglass, Co.
Mayo, Ireland, April 15, 1911.
For more than a generation Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment have afforded the
speediest and most economical treatment for
skin and scalp humours, of young and old.
A single set is often sufficient. Cuticura Soap
and Ointment are sold throughout the world,
but to those who have suffered much, lost
hope and are without faith in any treatment,
a liberal sample of Cuticura Ointment with
32-p. booklet on skin troubles will be mailed
free, on application. Address R. Towns &
Co.. Dent. 2f>K, Sydney. N. S. W.
6.
9.
An
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Heard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d
jh
Carters
•ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Your Liver
is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired— Out of
Sorts—Have No Appetite.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will put you right in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
I
I
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Sale and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
kjh
kjh
k
jh
above clearly shows Results irom a Short Course o i ~iy true Halr-drowing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
1 reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe: I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time—yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that be understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. lie wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a 'rmnntitv of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. 1
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks mjy head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, 1 have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—-I am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post , a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
•Idlm Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
PTDrr
r nLL
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at Gd,
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. Wy continuing the sale of our cards you
ran earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. Wo take all the,risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post bards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co.,‘ 126 bond st„ Sydney.
kjh
F
R
E
E
Choose a “ Swan."
:•' ■: i a " ■ , v ;<■
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan 5 ’
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
a
The w
Swan Safety'
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE^
Sold by all Stationers
Branches. and Jewellers. >.
15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond St. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/li, 2/9 & 4/6.
Made in England.
kjh
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effe c t u aII y
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
*he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
mm
r<
y
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
•I For use during illness and con-
valescence.
For weakly and overgrowing
children.
fj As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases of
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
ljk
is soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested.
BE is GEB’S FOOD LTD., Otter War**, MAN CHESTEB,
ENGLAND.
Food is sold in tin v by Druggists , etc. everywhere.
BIOgV
l
Food
Business, Robbery, etc.
“D.M.W.” The Dominion (M.L.), an inspired
Muscovite journal. .announced recently that the depots
tor the sale of State coal 'were to be shut up, the
reason bein£ that all the available State coal was re-
quired for the railways. It would have been a deplorable
thing if this had turned out to be correct. In the first
place, the coal from the State mines of Point Eliza-
beth is about the finest thing in the way of house-
hold fuel ever dug from the ground, and for that
very reason is quite sedond-rate’as a means of rais-
ln* steam. It is hard and black, and burns clearly,
with little smoke,. to a fine white ash, and everybody
knows that that is not the sort of burning material
with which a locomotive can be best pushed along
In the second place, Seddon started the ,'State coal
depots to keep 1 down the excessive charges of the
private dealers, and there is no reason to think that
the dealer has been converted, or got a new con-
science, or in any way reformed. Further, to use the
best household coal for Steam purposes is thoroughly
unsound on financial grounds It would pay far
better to buy smoky and dirty, but tremendously
quick-burning, Westport coal for the railways, and
go on selling the produce of the Point Elizabeth
mines to the people who want it to cook their din-
ners and keep them warm. And lastly, what kind of
an idiot would the Government be that, having estab-
lished a profitable business, and having any amount
of room to extend it, deliberately Shut down on its
own success? In a score of places in Maoriland
there are large unexploited deposits of excellent
coal. Known seams in the Baton and AVangapeka dis-
tucts alone some of them without even an owner
to be squared before taking them over—would pro-
bably supply half the railway coal that is wanted
m a-.generation* Scattered 'Over, half .thfi South
Island there are indications of true coal wiiich Would
, warrant boring operations, and great lignite beds
waiting to grill the public chop and heat the wintrv
extremities of the people. .Once launched in the
fuel business the State cannot go back, and the in-
sistent knock of Cohen at the side door ought to
make every penny of legitimate profit a thing to be
earnestly sought after by a despairing Treasurer.
* * * *
; “Montere”: A man called Barakat has just been
lined L2O, at Paeroa, Maoriland, for buying gold
without a license. A few years ago the law of-the
bhaky Islands became euriouslv strict in the matter
of selling, exchanging or otherwise getting rid of
the thing a superabundant craving for which is the
root of all evil. Once jewellers and others bought
largely, and on particular fields were .prepared to give
higher, prices than the banks, 'on account of the
peculiar brilliancy or beauty of local samples' of the
metal, but the'legal restrictions have greatly reduced
such purchases, owing to the minute record which
the buyer is compelled to keep. It saves the gold-
worker a lot of trouble to merely send over to the
bank for sovereigns to boil down, instead of buying
amounts which run into odd dwts. and grs The
seller is also much hampered. He must personally
otter the gold won by his own pick and tin-dish to
the buyer, and not ask Bill Smith, who is going to
town, to sell it for him. He must also say exactly
where he got it and how, and answer any old ques-
tion as - to the state of his religious convictions, the
condition of his teeth, or anything that may be.
thought to make it less likely that he stole the
treasure. The Massey Government could do a good
deal to straighten out this matter. The present law
is really framed to prevent managers of mines and
big dredges from running off conveniently with the
vear s output, but in actual practice it principally
hits the small fossicker and sluieer. The obvious
‘ remedy is—Oh, hang it, I don’t know what the
obvious remedy is, but it is obvious, whatever it is.
“Melb”: It is difficult to keep pace with the 'build-.
mg knackers, There is one Wnelan, for instance
Ihe first notable exercise of his genius, helped by a
host of dusty genii or gnomes, was in knaeking 'the
premises for the Britannia Theatre, Melbourne. Now
he exults in clouds of -dust, knaeking the Leviathan
Drapery, corner of Bourke and Swanston streets.
New owners, new shop, to rival Buckley and Nunn’s
palace, me swell draperies, in the Golden Age, were
the next-door rivals, Moubray and Lush, and Alston
and Brown, Collins-street. You would see Tom
Moubray and Tom Alston hobnobbing quite friendly
like outside one* of their doors. Bourke-street woke
up with the time-honored rivals, Buckley and Nunn
and Robertson and Moffat. In line with them now are
the two establishments of Stephens and Myer. Mark
Foy was the real suburban pioneer of big ideas in
Collingwood. He resolved to destroy the Melbourne
superstition, and went very ■ far, though his wildest
dreams did not extend to the immensity of Foy and
Gibson. Horderns’ has the biggest Australian turn-
over. Foy and Gibson have not been able to concen-
trate, but their whole acreage, in spots as near to-
gether as possible, looks bigger, though -they are not
so heavenward. Smith-street, Collingwood,' is won-
drous also for other richly lucrative business premises,
such as Ackman’s, Paterson’s, Brooks’s, Treadway’s,
and Lye’s. McClellan’s big store, in Chapel-street,
Prahran, is the champion mammoth, incrediblv big,
till .you try to walk over it. Remarkable how Smith-
street, Collingwood, has killed Bruns wick-street.
“Cockaigne”: The Melb. Motor Show reminds me
that horse ’buses are gone from London. The com-
pany sold 25,000 horses and all their ’buses, and
replaced them with 2200 motors. Company carries
300.000,000 passengers annually. What has become
of the ’bus drivers? Those astonishing men would
keep up fluent, entertaining talk while continuallv
driving the ’bus through the eye of a needle, thus
illustrating that, if the task be only difficult it is
done, and if impossible it will be done. Comes along
a grim, ghostly chauffeur, with ho more talk than
the AVax Works.
ROMANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The days of romance in live stock dealing are not
ended. High prices spur to great enterprises, and as
a result of one of these spurts, Mr. Sydney Kidman,,
of Adelaide, has sold, and Mr. Mark Morris, of Mel-
bourne, has purchased, 1000 prime to extra prime
bullocks, travelling to Hergott Springs, at £l5 ss.
per head.—S. M. Herald.
Who said that Old Romance was dead, and Chivalry
was past?—
The very thought of such a thing!—it leaves my
soul aghast. . . '
Who sai.d the Huns had come to rend ? The Vandals
: to ..destroy? , , : , ~
Who said, that Life was endless strife, and Love a
broken toy?
A thousand “primes” at fifteen-five—who said that
Poetry
I Without a doubt was hunted out beyond the things
[ that be ?
Let’s thank each chance, that Old Romance is biding
with us still —
It’s bought and sold, a thousandfold—with YOU to
foot the bill!
I thought 1 heard a voice that said, “We have no
time for kings”—
j It’s very plain the gentleman knows not of Hergott
Springs,
■ Where rules the Emperor of Beeves, each labelled
“Extra Prime,”
Before they string down south to bring a good
month’s wage a time.
Romance! —you never will be dead while fatted oxen
breed
That they may die to satisfy our empty belly’s need ;
To bring on indigestion and a varied list of ills ;
To stretch our belts and grease our pelts'—and sell the
doctors’ pills!
Weave garlands for the fairies! Carve a brand-new
pipe for Pan ;
Let Old Romance cavort and dance from What’s-his-
name to Dan!
Light up the chandeliers and pour Life’s woeless,
wanton wine,
And carve away—but kindly pay the waiter ere you
dine !
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


PI
ease
yourself
ty mailing use of
suck a satisfactory
metkod of cleaning
tke teetk as
$
It is pleasant to know tkat you
kave polisked so nicely tkose teetk
tkat skow.
It is satisfactory to feel tkat
your teetk are all properly cared
for tkorougkly cleansed witli
tkis antiseptic dentifrice.
And it leaves suck a pleasant
feeling of freskness m tke moutk.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
jk;
THE SPOON FEED
THESE LITTLE RESERVOIRS
Jr
ARE FEATURES THAT GIVE
Waterman’s
(Meal)
FountSnPen
PRE-EMINENCE IN PENOOM
The Spoon-Feed gives a uniform flow
of ink from the barrel to the point of
the pen. Oveiflow is impossible;
still, there will always be the correct'
supply of ink to feed the. pen just as
fast or slow as your writing requires.
Be sure you get a Waterman’s
Ideal—the Pen with the Spoon-Feed.
In 4 Styles —Regular and Self-Filling,
12/6 and upwards; Safety and
Pump-Filling, 15/-and upwards.
Of Stationers &,Jeuiellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, Englar i
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
rc
.22
CARTRIDGES
STVTiI
OSES?
The straight-shooting, hard-
hitting, sure-firing .22’s.
The reason why UMO .22 Cart-
ridges are the best, is that they
are made with precisely the same
care the same tested materials*
and undergo the same rigid safe-
guards as the heavier calibre,
big game shooting UJMC ammu-
nition. :
CMC .22’s are also made with
the hollow point bullets, which
increase their shocking and kill-
ing power over the old solid
bullet.
Try Our New “Lesmok” ,22’s.
t’jdC .22 short, .22 long,
.22 long rifle Lesmok,
Smokeless and Black
Powder —as you wish.
Remington Arms—
Union Metallic Cart-
ridge Co.
■ H, Molden, Australasian
Representative, P.O. Box
45 9, Melbourne; 1.3 49,
Sydney, 11
lk;
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
TT A C TVrnUJPV mn T PTVrn On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
IVIUIV Xi I -L V City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand DBF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortsratre Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying;
un to 20 cer cent, of the loan' during; any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C.. Chairman; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : The
Hon. James Burns, M.8.C.; The Hpn. R J. Black, M.L.O. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.t Adrian
Knox. Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ' H. W. APPERLY, .Secretary,
Experiments on
Human Beings
have proved the
body - building
power of Bovril
to be from 10 to
20 times the
amount taken.
ljkl
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/- Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
BOOKS FOR HOME
BUILDERS AND
CARPENTERS
• Artistic
Homes, 250 Perspective
Views anil Floor Plans,
280 pages (Bin. x llin.),
5/4; Artistic Bungalows,
208 Views, 5/4; Cement
Houses: How to Build,
5/4 ; Garages: How to
Build, 5/4'; Cement: How
to Use It, 5/4 ; Practical
Carpentry,, 2 vols., 600
pages, 400 illustrations,
10/6 ; Steel Square and Its
Uses, 2 vols., 600 pages,
10/6; Hand-saws and
Their Uses;. 2/8; How to
Mix Paints; 2/8.
i*-ANb ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple! Simply Marvellous
9
1
I
Ah
fL
Multiplying:and Van-
ishing- Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing.. .at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T wo - from- Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post free, Bd.
The Above Two Thicks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any > address.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
hi
m
nr
:?sSS::;
:fejs
“The World-Wide Whiskey”
★ ★★IRISH
WHfSICJEy
Exquisitely mellow, delicate in flavour, light and
digestive, with a popularity of over 60 years.
' f \'X ‘ i . ■
E. & X Burke, Ltd. (Paid-up Capital £1,100,000. Established 1849),
are by far the largest Shippers of Bottled Whiskey from Dublin.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
w
PRIZES VALUE £3500
.. in the ..
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £250. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. Johnston, Raglan,
Victoria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7,
To any person forwarding stapiped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
CASTRATION
Our Emasculator combines the best American
Ideas with ReliableiEngllsh Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for. Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
■ Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID—SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just th" prober power, and being made o(
• best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis*
faction for many years. S2BI6r~EASY TO USI.
45/*
, Post Free Anywhere,
Satisfaction or Money Back.
io
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
SHARPE & SHARPE
IS 3S JSGK STREET, SYDNEY,
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will' be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
There is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it fully and explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not seen, j
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off!
them—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds.
What a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain !
Being made of the purest and softest, Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
pillow. I* or the same reason, a blow on the side of
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why these
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration of one as it lies
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magni-
ip
fier is shaped
like a trumpet,
and so con-
veys even the
faintest sounds
right to the
natural ear-
drum. Being
of the softest
rubber, it can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci-
sion and com-
fort. The di-
vision that
runs across the
mouth is to al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape
of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has
been chosen
after years of
experience a s
, . ~ \W the best adapt-
ed to carry the faintest sound right down to the
natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times gets thickened, or loses its tightness, and
shouting does not act properly on it. It only-
makes a confused and tiring noise. But the
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best
spot for perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-nerve
completely, or were bom deaf, we cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could do that, in spite
of some of the absurd claims made to-day. But,if
you can hear the faintest sound, do not despair.:
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have-Tetters to show you from deaf people in
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night, and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor's single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time for Bs.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address.
NOTE. —Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you rnvxl register it.
HIMRODS
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —‘you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
;
RiAR
PIPES
ALL shapes
(/ EACH
POST FREE *
Quality not
Better m a
Guinea Pipe,
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
•ftrwrtKKFT. SYDNEY. N.3.W.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
kl
H&I
&
ZAN£T!C c OTk 0
remain Private when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Book is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the
copy is made as you write (in ink).
“Letter shows no sign of Copying'
The letter is posted and the book
cutaway. 400 Octavo (Bin. bys)
letters or 200 Quarto can be copied
tn N.S.C./200, Host Free for s/9:
or 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto i*
N.S.C./400, Post Free, lor 6/.
Special Small Octavo Book, mak*
tng 200 copies, for P.O. 8/• Post
Free! or dpuble capacity 4/8.
fcanetlc PeBS, Bd> doz., 2/• gross. Zanetie Writihg Paper, size
6*6, 1/-pkt., 10 X 8| 2/, Sample of the Znnetid Ink papef TVhicH
produces tilts result, Free, if stamped envelope sent to :
S. D, ZANETIC, Zanctit Works, Welierd Road, LEICESTER, England*


mm
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about ; of 16-gauge, about 6£lb. ;
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d.
;kl
Stevens' “Little Krag,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger
guard, V-sight, length over all, 36in. ; weight about 3£)b.
Postage—l/6N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
18s. 6d.
CONS U RIFLES OF RENOWN
©
M
iliAmWl
The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7Jlb.
i CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s.
SEND FOR OUR
Illustrated SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO LISTS,
FREE!
;
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all,_ 37£in., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9N.S.YV. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HA YMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S. W.
Branches:
CITY, SUBURBS, and HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE.
[4
The “WIENEKE”
Saddle Mr
This is the Saddle for HORSE-
BREAKERS and others handling young
horses, and ROUGH-RIDERS. Note
the following points: Long flaps, solid
points to panel, high extra-strong knee
pads, rough out-flaps. These details
all mean that you get just what you
want—A MAXIMUM OF GRIP WITH
COMFORT. The girth points come
below the flap and prevent the girth
buckle hurting the rider’s legs.
Made on EXTRA STRONG tree,
heavily plated all through, forged
stirrup bars, folded leather girth,
bevelled and numbered leathers, 4-bar
solid nickel stirrups.
Complete FREIGHT PAID to Any Port
in Australia or Railway
Station in N.S.W.
£6
kl;
Surcingle given in
FREE if you send us
Six Names of your
Friends who ride.
Write TO-DAY for our New
Illustrated Book,
“ EVERYTHING FOR
THE HORSE.”
POST FREE from
EDWARD BUTLER & SONS LIMITED
The Sydney Saddlers, 257 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
1
Cf
LN
BILIOUS SUBJECTS
II are generally victims of Constipation, that root evil of so many
11 terrible afflictions ; but they are “ bilious subjects” no longer when \
I they adopt the famous Cockle’s Antibilious Pills as the standing 1
I household remedy, now in the
Second Century of World-Wide Renown.
Cockle’s Pills, which doctors of six generations have taught the world
to use and esteem, have no harsh, coercive action on the sluggish orgacz ;
they gently stimulate, soothingly strengthen and encourage, the natural
organic functions, at the same time thoroughly cleansing the system and
purifying the vital fluid. There is nothing to equal Cockle’s Pills fox
this perfect cleansing, reinvigorating, purifying combination of results
It is marvellous.
pgii.il
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
iNViGORATtNG
oyfCelMcuL
The Accordeon with
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/*
The Mellow Tone
Vs just perfection for Song Accompaniments. Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ.like Tone of these Instruments is attained
ty the use of Bali Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6. Post Free.
I THE PICNIC MODEL
. 2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 15/-, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
< Sets Bell Metm Reeds. Price 3Qf, Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITe TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also At BENDIGO GEELONG & ADELAIDE
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 err
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, 1 s posted. Dr. Lamar-
tike’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare hook by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana,. Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria >Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s; 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book Of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris,' ls 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d*
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, i/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions tiiat occur to the minds of young-and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~m§
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
la 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handyiiook, Is 3d.
Complete Hook keeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How MoDougall Topped the Score, &
Other. Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Vfrui.K Powers .of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 1 'ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
• ♦
Write for my k
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere lor the Asking.
REMIT IH STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Hilkord’s Mid-
wife's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
'(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Oiibvassk’S Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leathejr
uound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and A
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloti.
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), is fid posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine,
posted. Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE tfO-DAY.


IYER
fev"/.y
Suffered for Years from Frightful
Retching and Bilious Attacks.
“CVEN from childhood I was a great sufferer from liver
G trouble,” says Hrs. C. Calcraft, of 131 Carrington
Road, Waverley, Sydney. “ From time to time I was sub=
ject to bilious attacks of a very severe nature, which would
prostrate me for days together. Fearful bouts of retching
severely strained my system and made me very weak. . I
lost all appetite, and was altogether miserable. My skin
became sallow and my blood in a very poor condition, and
1 became completely run down. Many times had I read of
grand cures by Bile Beans, and eventually decided to try
this medicine. A short time after commencing with Bile
Beans I experienced a wonderful change in my health.
I was freed from bilious attacks, and my appetite improved
day by day. By continuing with Bile Beans my blood was
purified, my liver put in order, and health and energy
restored to me. Bile Beans completely cured me, and
now 1 feel brighter and better than I ever did.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE
Bile Beans have a world-wide reputation as a prompt remedy for
Biliousness, Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Debility, liver
Troubles, Ansemia, Dizziness, Belching ‘ Wind, Nausea, Jaundice,
Heartburn, Flatulency, Colic, Vomiting, Bad Blood, Offensive Breath
Pimnles, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed Sleep, and all Common Family
Ailments. By strengthening and restoring to perfect working order the
internal organs, Bile Beans fortify the system against illness, purify the
blood, make the eye bright and the skin clear,
and ensure that perfect comfort and well-being
which is a synonym of good health. Of all
Chemists and Stores, at 1/14 per box, or 2/9
family size (containing
three times 1/14 box), or
Post 1 ree direct
from THE BILE
BEAN CO., 39
Pitt-st., Sydney ,
suva
v///<jsm / //jm///>*.
m
m
//////
p
r . ••
:////:>
• »*•* •* ♦•*#* * * * *v*!v//
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
Tlie question of to-day*
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you. have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If. on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
A Song of Brave Men.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MAN, is the Sea your master? Sea,
and is man your slave? —
This is the song of brave men who
never know they are brave:
Ceaselessly watching to save you, stranger
from foreign lands,
Soundly asleep in your state room, full sail
for the Goodwin Sands!
Life is a dream, they tell us, but life seems
very real.
When the lifeboat puts out from Uamsgate,
and the luggers put out from Deal!
A gun from the lightship !—a rocket! —a cry
of, “Turn out, me lad!”
“Ship on the Sands!” they’re shouting, and
a rush of the oilskin-clad.
The lifeboat leaping and swooping, in the
wake of the fighting tug,
And the luggers afloat in Hell’s water —O
“tourist,” with cushion and rug!—
Think of the freezing fury, without one min-
ute’s relief,
When they stood all night in the blackness
by the wreck of the Indian Chief!
Lashed to their seats, and crouching, to the
spray that froze as it flew.
Twenty-six hours in mid-winter ! That was
the lifeboat’s crew.
Twice she was swamped, and she righted, in
the rush of the heavy seas,
And her tug was mostly buried; but these
were common things, these.
And the luggers go out whenever there’s a
hope to get them afloat,
And these things thev do for nothing, and
those fishermen say, “Oh ! it’s nowt,!”
tEnemy, Friend or Stranger! In every sea
or land,
And across the lives of most men run
stretches of Goodwin Sand ;
And across the life of a nation, as across the
track of a ship.
Lies the hidden rock, or the iceberg, within
the horizon dip.
And wise men know them, and warn us, with
lightship, or voice, or pen;
But we strike, and the fool survivors sail on
to strike again.)
But this is a song of brave men, wherever
is aught to save,
Christian or Jew or Wowser —and I knew
one who was brave;
British or French or German, Dane or Latin
or Dutch :
“Scandies” that ignorant British reckon with
“Dagoes and such”—
(Where’er, on a wreck titanic, in a scene of
wild despair.
The officers call for assistance, a Swede or a
Norse is there.)
Tale of a wreck titanic, with the last boat
over the side,
And a brave young husband fighting his
clinging, hysterical bride;
He strikes her fair on the temple, while the
decks are scarce afloat,
And he kisses her once on the forehead, and
he drops her into the boat.
So he goes to his death to save her; and
she lives to remember and lie—
Or be true to his love and courage. But
that’s how brave men die.
(I hate the slander: “Be British” —and I
don’t believe it, that’s flat:
No British sailor and captain would stoop
to such cant as that.
What —in the rush of cowards —of the help
from before the mast —
Of the two big Swedes and the Norse, who
stood by the mate to the last? —
In every mining disaster, in a New-World
mining town,
In one of the rescue parties an Olsen or
Hans goes down.)
Men who fought for their village, away on
their country’s edge:
The priest with his cross —and a musket,
and the blacksmith with his sledge ;
The butcher with cleaver and pistols, and
the notary with his pike.
And the clerk with what he laid hands on;
• but all were ready to strike.
And—Tennyson notwithstanding—when the
hour of danger was come,
The shopman has struck full often with his
“cheating yard-wand” home!
This is a song of brave men, ever, the wide
world o’er —
Starved and crippled and murdered by the
land they are fighting for.
Left to freeze in the trenches, sent to drown
by the Cape,
Throttled by army contractors, and strangled
by old. red-tape.
Fighting for “Home” and “Country,” or
“Glory,” or what you choose —
Sacrificed for the Syndicates, and a monarch
“in” with the Jews.
Australia! your trial is coming ! Down with
the party strife ;
Send your cackling, lying women back to the
oid Home Life.
Brush from vour Parliament benches the
legal chaff and dust;
Make Federation perfect, as sooner or later
you must.
Scatter your crowded cities, cut up your
States —and so
Give your brave sons of the future the ghost
of a White Man’s show.
N.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
Cup Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHAT the devil did he bring his
umbrella for?” Joe mumbled the
complaint at me as we trudged
along the Sandringham beach road in the
wake of Arthur, who was plodding ahead
using his sombre rain-rag as a walking-
sti'6k.
c It- was a brilliantly blue Melbourne Cup
day, eminently suitable for white frocks and
flannels, and all the unconventionalities.
We were three two-pounder clerks, out for a
day’s ramble on the long, gay, crowded road.
And here Arthur had come to the frivolity
armed to the teeth with a deacon’s umbrella!
Joe had been furtively working himself into
a passion about it ever since Arthur, a ter-
-rifcly sober-looking figure, in . a black lustre
coat and black felt hat, had stepped from
the picnic train and struggled to us
through the joyous crowd of holiday-makers.
Arthur being the friend of my youth, and a
comparative stranger to Joe, I felt bound to
defend and explain him as well as I could.
So I mumbled back : “I don’t know! It
doesn’t look like rain, does it V I think he
has the umbrella habit. He takes it pretty
well everywhere.”
“But what did he want to bring it here
for?”
“Oh, I don’t know ! Anyhow,, it s not
worth worrying about, Joe. He’ll leave I
it at home next time.”
But Joe was not to be pacified. ‘ Why
couldn’t he leave the damned thing at home
this time?”
I shook my head despairingly.
“Looks so silly! If we were going to a
funeral it would be all right—but to-day!
Joe indicated the revellers about us with a
roll of his head and —temporarily, anyhow —
gave it up in disgust.
Arthur, trudging ahead, as was his wont
when in a thoughtful mood, was evidently
quite unconscious of the effect his gamp had
produced on Joe ; otherwise he would never
have cast loose the lashings and put the out-
rage up. It was one of the most commodi-
ous umbrellas I have ever seen. You would
have noticed it on a streaming wet day in a
big city; but on that day and on that
road it was as conspicuous as a ballet
dancer in a cathedral. Joe was convulsed
with rage when the black canopy of old age
blossomed before him.
“Hey, Arthur!” he shouted. “You don’t
want that thing up, do you?”
Arthur looked inquiringly round the edge
of it. He seemed rather annoyed. “Yes, of
course I do! I put it up on account of the
sun.”
“Oh, all right!” grumbled Joe, and we
trudged on in gloomy silence. Now and then
I noticed Joe’s lips moving, and guessed
that he was addressing himself to the um-
brella, for he kept his eyes fixed on it in a
malevolent stare.
At intervals we would hear the crack of
a whip behind us, and a drag, loaded with
white-clad picnickers would roll softly past
in a cloud of dust, with bits jingling musi-
cally, and laughter and song making glad
the sunny miles. A few minutes after
Arthur had roofed himself in an extra-noisy
band swept by, and a half-tipsy lad on the
back step howled in passing, “Oh, you Wow-
ser !” The drag-load laughed uproariously.
“There you are!” hissed Joe in my ear.
“I knew that rotten gamp would make fools
of us !”
Arthur turned anxiously. “Who was that
larrikin singing out at?”
“At you!” said Joe passionately. “It’s
that umbrella of yours. Put it down,
for God’s sake! You really don’t need it,
you know.”
“Oh, don’t I !” retorted Arthur, and went
resolutely on.
The next hot mile or two was got over
without anything more humiliating than a
few sprightly comments by a group of hat-
less girls, who looked nice enough to be
kinder. Then another drag-load passed us,
and out of it came an apole which struck the
tightly-stretched silk with a muffled, gong-
like note.
Joe broke out again. “There you are!
You might put the thing down !”
“Why?” snapped Arthur.
(“O h — you — hlanky — Wowser /”) Another
drag—evidently a relation of the preceding
one —rolled contemptuously by.
“I’m ' going into the scrub,” said Joe
angrily. “I’m not going to stay out here to
be made a fool of!” He turned and was
making towards the post-and-rail fence when
Arthur remarked severely: “Well, let’s go
on to that bend. There’s some shade there.”
We thereupon headed for the clump of trees
indicated, and were half-way there when we
observed the Girls. The pair of them were
nicely overdressed. They sprawled carelessly
under some bushes next the fence, and the
eyes of one of them flashed hospitably.
“What’s going to win the Cup?” asked the
leader cheekily, as we went to pass on.
Joe stopped dead in his tracks. “Blue
Spec,” he answered promptly.
“What do you think?”
Knowing nothing whatever about it, I
followed Joe’s lead. “Oh, Blue Spec for a
certainty.”
The leader clapped her hands gleefully
and turned to her mate. “Oo! I hope he
does. What a Lark if I win th’ sweep!”
She turned eagerly to Joe. “I’ve got him in
a sweep !”
“Good business!” murmured Joe, using
his eyes skilfully.
“Going far?” demanded the lady lightly
from her roadside throne.
Joe and I had all the time been standing
in the roadside dust where she had arrested
our hot feet. We were conscious of a disap-
proving Presence, with a black wand of
office, close at hand. But we dared not look
at Arthur. We saw the girls were taking
him in as fast as they could, in the inter-
vals of conversation.
“No,” said .Toe wearily, “we’re just
mooching about.”
(Reflective pause, during which we three
travellers shuffled in the dust.)
“Hot, ain’t it?” panted the spokesgirl,
feverishly endeavoring to keep the conversa-
tion going.
“My word!” (Pause.) Then, a sudden
inspiration occurring, ‘‘Got . any room
there?”
“Stacks!” giggled the girl, and wriggled
closer to her silent, wide-eyed mate —a much
prettier girl. Joe promptly took off Ms hat
and sprawled devotedly at her feet, hS if he
had been engaged to her for years. I took
the next tussock. A dumbly-protesting
shadow slowly and doubtfully seated itself
at my elbow. Its umbrella leant against it,
faint with horror.
Joe started to chew carefully-selected
grass stalks, and to flirt mechanically with
the leader of the female expedition, stealing
glances now and then at the shy companion.
The leader was. kept busy parrying Joe’s
thrusts, watching her companion, and fling-
ing an occasional word across to me, and an-
other one at the shrinking Arthur, of whom
she appeared to be rather scared. When
Joe and she had exchanged about a ton of
chaff, I heard her say firmly: “No, I don’t
like you a little bit! No! I wouldn’t have
you for my boy— not for tvorlds! I like the
boy in the straw hat, though, and the quiet
gentleman with the umbrella.” I felt the
Quiet Gentleman with the Umbrella start
uneasily.
(Continued on next page.)


BACKACHE A SIGNAL OF DISTRESS.
A Warning That Must Not Be Ignored.
Pain in the back is the kidneys’ signal of distress. If this
timely warning is ignored, kidney disease silently fastens its
deadly grip—for kidney sickness first shows itself in pains and
disorders in other parts, and the real cause is too often hidden
until fatal Bright’s disease or diabetes has set in. Suspect the
kidneys if you are rheumatic and nervous or have lame back,
painful, too frequent or scanty urination, weak heart, dizzy spells,
headaches, bloating or neuralgia. What you want is a special
kidney medicine —not an experiment, but one that has stood the
test for years. DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
relieve weak, congested kidneys —cure backache —regulate the
urine. They are used and praised all over the civilised world.
Two Lasting Cures.
Mr. Frederick Bradd, Abercorn Street, Bexley,
Sydney, says: “I caught a severe cold, which settled
in my kidneys and caused severe backache. I suffered
intense pain, and could not stoop or move about
freely. I did not know what to do to get ease, for
the remedies I used did me no good. Seeing an adver-
tisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills led me
to try these pills. They did me good right from the
first dose, and in a short time I was cured. I have
no sign of backache now, and attribute my cure solely
to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Four years later, Mrs. Bradd says: “My husband
has been free of backache ever since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured him three years ago.”
Mr. J. Morris, Ross Street, Parramatta, says: “For
about eighteen months I suffered agony from kidney
complaint. I had sharp, shooting pains in my back,
and the kidney secretions contained sediment. I used
so many remedies without success that I despaired of
ever getting better. However. Mr. Spring, of Ross
Street, told me to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
saying they had cured him. I got the pills, and about:
two bottles cured me. It is over two years since, m.v
cure, and as I have been quite well all that time, it is
a thorough cure. I always tell my friends of the cura-
tive properties of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
advise their use.”
i t:vjehj Piictd
! 4
4)
isHmf
<l,l , ( 1
i i
c *
< fto.
'V3
O*-
°«WBI it
m
asse
douts
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and
Stores, 2lp per bottle
(six bottles, ijl 3) > or
from Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney.
“Push off!” said the shameless Joe easily.
“You can’t have him for your boy—he’s mar-
ried.”
The girl hesitated for a minute; then she
squealed and slapped him. “You can’t pull
me leg! Take that!" She leant forward
and addressed herself directly to the haggard
Arthur. “Don’t you let him tell yarns about
you ! I know him!” (This with a winning
smile.)
Arthur, who had politely leant forward in
his best drawing-room manner, bared his
teeth in a sickly grin, and was about to
gracefully retire when she nailed him again
with, “Oo! what a nice umbrella! That’s
the nicest gentleman’s umbrella I’ve seen
to-day!” (She didn’t mean to be sarcastic
either!)
“Yes,” said Arthur dully, fingering the
sombre shield.
“Where did you buy it?” demanded the
lady desperately. She did not manufacture
small talk easily.
Arthur listlessly recited the life history of
his encumbrance. Three of us —Joe, myself
and the silent girl—listlessly heard him out.
The fourth lashed herself into a state bor-
dering on excitement.
“My word! It was lucky you didn’t
leave it in the train that time, wasn’t it?
I lost a good umbrella once, and me brother
—he’s a lot older than me—give me What
For, I can tell yer!”
“Serve you right,” mumbled Joe, spitting
out a well-chewed stalk, and plucking a
fresh one.
“Who’s talkin’ to you —Cheeky!”
They commenced again with fresh enthusi-
asm. Arthur gratefully retired behind my
shoulder.
Shortly afterwards, a shift to the *&elt of
scrub facing the sea was moved by Joe,
seconded with enthusiasm by his voluble
lady acquaintance, and silently submitted to
by the other girl, Arthur and myself. We
arose and transferred ourselves solemnly to
the inner sanctuary of the ti-tree grove,
where we subsided in an irregular line facing
the blue summer sea. Then the interrupted
flirtation was resumed by our princioals,
who at intervals did their best to drag us
spectators into it. But it was an abject
failure every time. Arthur sat with his
arms embracing his knees, and his chin sunk
in his collar beside his massive umbrella,
which he had planted like a battle standard
of respectability in the soft sand. When he
was obliquely addressed as “the Quiet Gen-
tleman there ” he turned an unhappy coun-
tenance, and bared his teeth in a dreadful
imitation of a smile. Immediately attention
had been switched off him, he would resume
his brooding. On two occasions I tried to
engage the quiet girl in conversation, but her
answers were as short as possible, and her
manner icy. So I dropped it, and became once
more a spectator of the dreadfully artificial
love affair, now being conducted by both par-
ties with an air of languid insolence. It was
amazing to see these nerfect strangers insult-
ing each other with personalities, ironically
begging each other’s pardon, flicking and
slapping at every opportunity, and flinging
conversational small change about in a wild
and reckless fashion. The air was full of
such phrases as “You’re pretty smart, I
don't think!”; “Does your mother know
you’re out?”; “So you say!”; “You’re a
character, all right!”; “Wish I could believe
yer!” and so on. And meanwhile the beauti-
ful day was running to waste.
Suddenly the quiet girl sat up and waved
joyfully. “There’s Harry and Bert!” she
cried. “Hey, Bert!”
Up from the beach with lagging feet
slouched two straw-hatted lads, grinning
bashfully. “ ’Ullo !” they said, and came to
a halt before us.
“’Ullo!” said the girls, and turned to
them eagerly. The now-silent Joe chewed
his grass stalk moodily,
Conversation momentarily failed,
“Ow’d yous boys come down?” This from
the second girl, now fiercely alert,
“Be train,” answered the bigger of the
two lads. “We come with Scroggins’ crowd.
They’re along the beach there.”
_ “Alf Toby with ’em ?” snapped the second
girl mischievously. Whereupon this group
of friends was shaken with laughter. Alf
was evidently one of their stock jokes. We
who knew naught of Alf sat stonily silent,
like a trio of Red Indians,
When they had had their laugh out, the
second lad was urged by his mate to tell the
latest joke against Alf. It was a long and
involved and much-interrupted story, which
dragged in the names of many other pushites
unknown to us. It appeared that Alf had
been lured to a dance hall and incited to
dance several times with Ruby. (“Ain’t
she a trick!”) The story-teller had then
accosted Alf, represented to him that he (the
story-teller) was Ruby’s boy, and fiercely
warned him off in these words : “Look ’ere,’
I says, ‘you take a tumble to yerself,’ I
says. (Shrieks of laughter, in which we
did not join.)
Aj) what dld e say t° that?” _
B didn t say nothin’! ’E just ducked
ou $ l an went ome!” (Prolonged shrieks.)
When the girls appeared to have recovered
themselves, Joe stretched himself and re-
marked loudly to me, “Ah, well, I suppose
wed better be getting along?”
We had nowhere to get to—unless it was
away from the friendly group. “Right-o!” I
answered, struggling to my_ feet,
Arthur was already on his, gamp in hand,
Joe’s mash looked round guiltily when she
heard him marshalling us for the retreat,
“Yous blokes goin’?” she inquired, with a
poor affectation of surprise,
“Got to,” replied Joe laconically, brushing
his coat with his hands.
She squandered a half-shy smile over her
sho ulder. “Ah, well,” resignedly, “So long
f or present.”
, nrr „ , T . ~ , ,
w?° e w Ji 5 b moSt casu fJ
£ P patching them you would
*£?*£*? “ ade arrangements to
again the next day. Actually, they
we £? P art “S fo * good—probably for ever
~ We drifted off—a crestfallen trio. Arthur
thankfully wrenched his hat off in a last
farewell, but kept his eyes ahead,
. elevated my straw boater about half_ an
Inc *b an d stole a last look. The flirtatious
one was looking after us with a shamefaced
expression. The two lads looked sullen and
aggressive. The second girl was wearing an
u sly sneer. Some conversational crumbs
were blown towards us through the grove:—
“ ’E’s too cheeky for my taste, any’ow!”
“Aw, ’e ain’t so bad!”
“Lord love er duck! Wot price th’ bloke
with the umbreller!”
As we climbed the fence which bordered
the road, we heard the four of them laughing
consumedly.
Without consulting one another, we turned
with one accord our faces from town, and
tramped gloomily on —three dogged pursuers
of pleasure. There were many miles of the
road still ahead of us, but we named no
terminus, and proceeded like round-the-world
tourists. Arthur, moodier than ever, trav-
elled about four yards ahead of us. He
looked from the back like an enormous black
mushroom with legs. It was the hottest
part of the afternoon, and we envied —at
least I did —the shade of his family canopy.
But, having protested against its use, we
could not decently attempt to walk under it.
At last Joe spoke : “There’s a pub about
a mile from here. We’ll have a drink there
and turn back.”
Nothing more was said, but our pace
quickened a trifle. The sun beat down. The
dust raised by our feet floated in the still
air behind us. The sea below slapped lan-
guidly on the hot sands.
Then, without word of warning, a hatless,
red-faced woman flounced out of the scrub
and flew straight at Arthur with hand out-
stretched. “ ’Ere, you! Len’ me that um-
breller a minut, won’t yer? There’s a lady
in ’ere ’avin’ a fit, an’ we wanter make ’er
comfortable like ! You’ll get it back orright!”
She was gone just as quickly, and with her
the umbrella. Arthur, a trifle bewildered,
stood roofless before us, saying doubtfully,
“I hope she won’t be long!”
Joe mopped his brow wearily. “Let’s sit
down for a bit, anyhow.”
We strewed ourselves under a tree and took
off our hats. Arthur fidgeted uneasily for
awhile. Then he arose, and, muttering some-
thing, went off to look after his property.
Joe and I lay and stared at a land agent’s
board opposite for about 20 minutes.
At the end of that period, Joe said angrily,
“I don’t know how you feel, but I’m damned
thirsty! Where’s Arthur got to, I wonder?”
“Blowed if I know !”
Joe immersed himself in thought for three
minutes. “Oh, damn that umbrella!” He
scrambled to his feet. “Let’s go and see
what the hell he’s doing!”
We found Arthur hovering sympatheti-
cally by a family group which was tightly
bunched round a prostrate, skirted form. All
were in the deep shadow cast by the trees.
The hatless_, red-faced lady was standing by
quite unnoticed. She was in a state of trepi-
dation, and was using Arthur’s umbrella
merely as a support.
Joe took in the situation at a glance, and
went straight up to Arthur. “I say, they
don’t want your umbrella now, do they?”
“I don’t think they used it at all,” faltered
Arthur.
“Well, get it back, for God’s sake, and
come on! I want a drink!”
The red-faced woman, who was absorbed
in watching the fit, yielded it up in a dazed
sort of way. She seemed to have forgotten
that she had ever borrowed it.
We reached the pub at last and got the
drinks. Afterwards we sat long on the
shady verandah and watched the sun go
down. At sunset a cool wind blew on our
foreheads, and Joe had an inspiration.
“We’ll have tea here and go home by train.”
he said.
We took tea sorrowfully, for the con-
sciousness of a misspent day was heavy
upon us. Later, we proceeded in silence to
the lighted station, and packed ourselves
into an overloaded compartment with 12 per-
spiring strangers, for the long and tiresome
journey to town.
At Princes Bridge, Arthur, whose way
was no longer ours, nodded wearily and
flowed away as a black speck on the wide
stream of white-clad picnickers flowing to-
wards the barriers. We saw his black
brolly wave once like a triumphant
standard on the white crest of the home-
ward charge. The next instant it had been
swallowed up.
Joe and I turned away and crossed the
overhead bridge to our platform. “Blow
that brolly of his!” groaned Joe. “It spoilt
the whole day!” A mob of laughing couples
charged past us and sped down a ramp.
Joe stared after them till they fell into
their train. Then he turned to me fiercely.
“Look here, if he hadn’t brought his rotten
gamp along, I believe I would have got a
meet on with that girl!"
KODAK.
Sham.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sham is Familiar to Desire,
That tempts the witless fool aspire
To make believe what is not is—
When manifestly he’s a liar!
To borrow plumes and thus achieve
In consequence of make believe,
The crude Nirvana of all fools,
Amuses, but may not deceive.
The willing dupe of tears and smiles,
Complacently the world beguiles;
The peacock’s feather in its cap
The wearer of the rooster’s riles.
Idolators, half-blind with greed,
Degenerates, obsessed with need
For mock display, fools ape content;
A thin disguise, a vain indeed !
’Tis merely froth and gush and sham,
And none of it is worth a damn!. .. .
Champagne and chicken for the guest.
And for the children —bread and jam !
Who takes his toll of life with zest,
And pays its tribute with a jest,
Attains a more exalted end
Than Make-Believe hath ever guessed.
The consciousness to taste the sweet
Of triumph even in defeat,
The gods, it seems, have given few,
And steeped the rest in self-deceit.
• Who counts attainment best expressed
In sham and show and rotten quest,
While garden-weeds o’errun his brain,
A barren harvest reaps at best.
Fight on, or win or lose, fulfil
Life’s purpose ! —dream on an’ ye will. .
Though victory be sweet indeed.
Defeat may render sweetness still.
N.S.W.
W. M. W.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORSE PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 HORSE-POWER
WESTINGHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
-4n
-•nf
»-o
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest
efficiency, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from Xto
1000 horse=power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane, Q,
New Zealand Agents—Philips & r ike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Simplest and Mo
Reliable.
\tt\d $
For
team. Air and Water.
The Austral
Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
METZ CARS
If you require a Simple, Economical, Keliable and Moderately-Priced
Car, it will repay you to investigate the Metz 22-li.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylinder, Water-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE, WITH FULL EQUIPMENT,
Sole Agents—
Write for Catalogue.
£175 Nett.
BROWN & HELLICAR LTD.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
ti sAcfS®
a
- ,
r. .mi
i .
r
I
F <:
m
1
Write for full particulars to
ECONOMY
TIERING MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor —Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney; N.S.W.
Money-making
MORE WORK
BETTER WORK
IN LESS Til
'
AT LESS COST.
WE'VE GOT THE GOODS* Our Showrooms contain
High-speed Machine Tools.
High-speed Woodworking Machinery.
Waterous Band and Circular Mills.
Clarke Chapman’s Steam Winches.
Anything: & Everything: for Modern Industries.
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. GOODALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
£ooH Well After Yourself
If you consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps healthwards the moment
you find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
your vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about yourself, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them. Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great number of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
TaHe
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all tinges you can confidently rely upon
Beecbatn’; pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price lUh (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PAtACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
E for Empire, the car for great fun,
M for Machine, it’s an excellent one,
P for Popular, the reason we will explain.
I for If you write us to ascertain.
R for Regular equipment we supply,
E for Empire, so why not buy?
ROY W. SANDFORD, Ltd.
181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
105 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Chalmers and Empire Cars.
UNION MARINE ENGINES
Are Now Guaranteed to Run on Kerosene.
This Means a Reduction of 30 Per Cent, on Running Costs.
The “UNION” KEROSENE ENGINE is just as
RELIABLE and EFFICIENT as the Benzine Engine.
PRICES REMAIN AS BEFORE. No Complicated System Involved.
KEROSENE or BENZINE at Your Pleasure.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
178 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
machT ltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Electric Storage Batteries
for All Purposes.
Traction, Town, House and Train Lighting Cells.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY, LONGEST LIFE.
Supplied to the Governments of Queensland, New South Wales,
New Zealand and Westralia.
107 BATTERIES INSTALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
Manufactured by the D.P. Battery Co., Limited, Bakewell,
England.
Sole Australian Agent—
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. „
DICK’S PATENT
belting.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALAU,
TRADk.
sos
ggg^
lass
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT vet produced
Every Beit GUARANTEED. As a irukrd.against infers, ■
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet
Importers: James Hardie & Co,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE
.SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles
«
m
STEAM PIPE INSULATION,
with Newall’s Magnesia Steam Pipe Coverings,
MEANS THE MOST EFFICIENT AND PERMANENT LAGCINC PROCURABLE.
LARGE STOCKS carried of Removable
Coverings, Bends, Flange Boxes, Plastic
Covering, etc.
With l" Covering, the saving of heat
effected over Unlagged Pipe is from
80 to 85% Write for Catalogues.
an bmdnis a aoaiaaiwi r
82 Pftt St., Sydney.
Prell’s Buildings, Melbourne.
228 Elizabeth st., Brisbane.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent * Nelyambo Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming , Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
WARBURTON, FRANRI,
• *
■
'■
-11 KENT STREET,
BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE,
PERFECTA CONDUIT CO., LTD.
SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LTD.
VERITY'S LTD.
ENGINEERING INSTRUMENTS, LTD.
BERRY SKINNER, LTD.
EVERETT, EDGCUMBE, LTD.
NATIONAL TELEWRITER CO
HAGGIE BROS.
SOLE AGENTS:
PREMIER ACCUMULATOR CO.
MEDWAY’S SAFETY LIFT CO.
UNION CABLE CO.
N. F. RAMSAY
WALKER, HORROCKS LTD,
WHIPP & BOURNE
DANIEL ADAMSON & CO.
“KNEW” FILTERS
MONARCH VACUUM CLEANERS
PREMIER VACUUM CLEANERS
BLACKMAN SONS.
&
wm
m
■mm
IMPROVED DESIGNS
Garage Air Compressors.
Simple in construction, accessible and requiring practically no operating attention,
these small COMPRESSORS are Specially Designed for Installation in Motor
Garages, small Pneumatic Tool Plants, Starting Gas Engines, etc.
All running parts are large and have suitable adjustments for wean
Air Cylinders are thoroughly water-jacketed
Dust-proof—Self-oiling—Noiseless.
SINGLE and DUPLEX TYPES IN STOCK. Write for Prices .
H A
g| -
TD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
e
,\\
m
o*s
CHEAP FARMING .m, RENDROCK
The Cheapest Farm Help In the World.
Greatly Reduces Cost of Felling Trees, Grubbing, Ditching, Draining
Swamps, Breaking Hardpan and Subsoil, Digging Holes for Trees.
Safe to Handle . Carried as Ordinary Goods .
No Magazine Required.
Full Particulars and Pamphlets from Sole Manufacturers —
N. (SUTNRIDGE LTD.,
16 Equitable Building, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Store and Works: Camperdown and Leiohhardt.
525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
