

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION
Efc. G*. 'W-A.TES.IBTS «S& GO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
MANY A BUSINESS MAN
brings grey hairs to his head and wrinkles to his face through financial worries. To
such men who need money quickly and under fair and straightforward conditions we
extend our liberal system of financing. We never hesitate—tliere are no unnecessary
delays—every transaction is treated in strictest connuence. lhese. characteristics, to-
gether with promptness, leniency, purely business-like methods, low interest and an easy
repayment system, must appeal to discriminating men.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO. LIMITED
Head
Office
29 Xing St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-17 Swanston St, Melbourne
, Sydr
West, Sydney
Perth, W. A.
£
m-
rn
Williams’s, THE Whisky!
TFT O B A. R.
——»■'
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTINC
Gitaraktkrd
J. C. Ludowioi & Son, Ld,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
—=A
Take it
I must have
PineApplc Brand
hgghfgh
fgh
RESISTING
2 RECIPES
preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
L
HANSEN’S
ĝ gh gh
will be forwarded,:
Address, on
Free to Any
to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
With
THE S
PALMER CORD TYRES
Appointments, Time and Temper are always J^ept.
ILVERTOWN RUBBER
CO., 279
\
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
G e o.r r e Street,
Sydney.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
'• ■ v*; ' X' • V f i>'.
hg gf
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
MALTHOID
lt is impossible to emphasise too strongly the importance
of a sound roof. The disasters that follow in the train of a
poor roof may all be lobviated if MALTHOID ROOFING be
chosen. MALTHOID is absolutely water and storm proof, and
not even a deluge could make it otherwise. The ease with
which MALTHOID is laid appeals strongly to common sense ;
its portability and durability are ateo strong factors in making
MALTHOID an ideal roofirfg for all and every class of structure.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
JfewWav
AIR-COOLED
BENZINE
ENGINE.
Fitted with Bosch High Tension
Magneto. Can be started instantly.
Air-Cooling Guaranteed absolutely
effective. Particularly useful in small
factories. Fanning costs low. Work-
manship an general turnout first-class.
Can be recot..mended. 2%-h.p. to 6-h.p.,
Stationary or Portable.
Write for NEW WAY CATALOGUE.
jMat-Miell ll
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET (Opp. Lands Office),
SYDNEY.
H ELI DON SPA
HELIDON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
STARKEY & CO., LTD.,
AGENTS.
The Bulletin
Vol 33. —N0. 1691.]
[Thursday, July 11, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE AUSTRALIAN BOOK-BUYER.
A Monthly Journal of Book News and Reviews.
With Bright, .Ohatt.v Notes on the Books of the Month ; Anecdotes on Books and Authors
throughout, including many photographs of favorite writers.
Illustrated
ISSUED MONTHLY. SENT POST FREE, 1/6 per annum.
Far ty-page Catalogue of Books, at Greatly Reduced Prices, sent Post Free to Any Address.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S "EUMENTHOL JUJUBES”
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC and
PROPHYLACTIC.
SUITABLE FOR OLD and YOUNG.
The Medical Press and Circular
says: “These Jujubes should be of
special service to Lecturers, Public
Singers and Speakers, and, indeed,
to all who are called upon to use
their voices frequently for prolonged
periods.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers,
UjQ
c^jtTfv
MionHiw
ON
Price I/O.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., Limited,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY. Post Free on Receipt of Stamps.
OSCAR WILDE.
The Red Page
i/e dreamt of Life, a purple pomp of Joy,
Where Love and Youth went naked, un-
ashamed,
An Eden at whose portals no sword
flamed,
And where the sweets of Passion could not
cloy,
Waking he found his dream a shattered toy:
J-afe was a surging throng whom Fate
had maimed;
They jeered and spat because he, too, was
lamed.
Whom E'ortune loves she one day will
destroy.
Hut time restores, and over Death and Shame
\vith certain hand He blazons large his
name.
O Master Craftsman! Shining Lord of
Song,
And subtle worker in strange phantasy,
You snare men's souls with potent wizardry
In Life rejected, Death has made you
strong.
Wilfeid Mailleb, in “The Secret Garden."
Wilde
The man and his tragedy are dead ; time
to estimate his art. Oscar Wilde, a Critical
Study, by Arthur Ransome (Seeker, London,
per Dymock’s Library) does this service
appreciatively, discreetly, sympathetically.
At first, now that Wilde has been 12 years
dead, Ransome planned a Life leaving out
the tragedy; but the locked casket of Wilde’s
works needs, among others, this grey key.
In the case of Wilde, “whose books are the
by-products of a life more important than
they in his eyes,” biographical data are
necessary to the understanding of his work.
The history of Wilde, like the history of the
Roman Empire, is incomplete without the
decline and fall. So we have Wilde as
artist and critic rather than as criminal, but
essentially the man behind his books. “He
made men see him as something of a dandy
among authors, an amateur of letters... .He
talked and wrote only to show that he could
write.”
Oscar Fingal O’Flaliertie Wills Wilde was
born in Dublin in 1854. His father, knighted,
was a celebrated oculist and aurist. He was
educated at Trinity College, Dublin, and at
Oxford, taking a scholarship, and achieving
other academic distinctions. He brought to
London a small income—Wilde was nearly
always a poor man—a determination to con-
quer the town, and a reputation as a talker.
His fantastic dress won him, in three years,
the recognition of Punch. Published a book
of imitative poems in 18S1, which ran to five
editions. Lectured in America, married,
wrote for political papers, and for two years
edited The Woman's World. The course of
conduct that was to lead to his downfall he
began in 1805. The first of the plays that
woq him popularity and an income appeared
in 1892. In 1895, he lost in a prosecution
for criminal libel that he had brought against
the Marquis of Queensbury, and was him-
self arrested on a more serious charge. The
jury disagreed, and he was released on bail,
perhaps in the hope that he would leave the
country. Convicted, he served two years,
and retired to the Continent, dying in Paris
in 1900, a spent force.
Enough of biography. The success of
Wilde’s first book of verse, a book of blithe
borrowings, easily detected by the critics,
was partly due to his reputation for eccen-
tricity, but mostly to the fact that “Wilde,
so far from inventing a new poetry, happened
to summarise in himself the poetry of his
time. He made himself, as it were, a middle-
man between the muses and the public.
People who had read of Rossetti and Swin-
burne, but never read them, were able to
recover their self-respect by purchasing
Wilde.” His reputation as a poet rests, of
course, on such poems as The Harlot's
House, A Symphony in Yellow, The Sphinx,
and The Ballad of Reading Gaol.
Ransome traces Wilde’s adoption of the
aesthetic movement from the Pre-Raphaelite
Brotherhood. He honesjly tried to “live up
to his blue china.” And perhaps the comic
opera, “Patience,” was the most striking
result. A grotesque effect was Wilde’s
American lecturing tour.
“Patience” was played at the Savoy with
great success. Mr. D’Oyly Carte, attempt-
ing to repeat this success in America,
ceived that Americans, being without a
Grosvenor Gallery, missed much of the
humor of the play, and conceived the Nap-
oleonic scheme of sending over a specimen
aesthete to show what “Patience” was laugh-
ing at. This somewhat ignominious position
was, with due diplomacy, offered to Oscar
Wilde, on account of his extravagance in
dress (he wore at this time a velvet beret on
his head, his shirts turned back with lace
over his sleeves, puce velveteen knicker-
bockers with buckles, and black silk stock-
ings), and proudly accepted by him on the
wilful supposition that it was a fitting tri-
bute to his recently published Poems. Wilde
sailed for New York, to say that he was
disappointed in the Atlantic, to tell the
Customs officers that he had nothing to de-
clare except his genius, and to lecture
throughout America on “The English
Renaissance in Art,” and “House Decora-
tion.” Youth and vanity helped to blind
him to the rather humiliating reason for his
lecturing. He wanted the money By this
time I have no doubt that he believed with
perfect faith that the aesthetic movement
was the work and aim of his life.
But Wilde was ready for a new role. II
went to Paris, as a man of fashion, a dandj
but not an aesthete. He even cut his hail
Here he wrote The Duchess of Padua, a du
play, and possibly either wrote or re-wrot
The Sphinx, “a piece of black magic.” Bu
he still lacked an income. He had to retur
to London* and don again his pose as a
aesthete, lecturing on the cult through th
provinces. His marriage was not a success
Two sons were born. He wrote reviews
edited The Woman's World, and wrote hi
stories, The Happy Prince and Other Tale.
A House of Pomegranates, etc. Ransom
stresses Wilde’s wonderful feeling for decor
ative effect as his peculiar contribution t
literature.
This feeling for decoration, that made him
see life itself as. a tapestry of ordered an
beautiful movements caught in gold and dyet
silk, that made him incapable of realisin
that life was not so, until at last it becam
too strong and tore his canvas, was itsei
enough to prevent the picturesque figure o
the dandy from obliterating the artist in th
minds of posterity.
Of The Portrait of Mr. W. H., Ransom
mentions that Wilde re-wrote it at great©
length. When he was arrested, the pub
lishers, who had already announced it as
forthcoming book, returned it to his house
whence it disappeared on the day of the
enforced sale of his effects. It has neve:
been recovered. Of Intentions, this dictum
from Ransome
It is that one of Wilde’s books that mos
nearly represents him. In nothing else tha
he wrote did, he come so near to pouring
into literature the elixir of intellectual vital-
ity that he so royally spilled over his con-
versation.
Interesting is the chapter devoted to
Wilde’s connection with the theatre. “Ap-
plause was necessary to him. He made sure
of it by the modern plays, and had not a
chance of securing it by anything else. And
so there are four social comedies, and only
one Salome.” Of that play Ransome states
that from its production in 1901 in Berlin
it has held the European stage. It has run
for a longer consecutive period in Germany
than any play by any Englishman, not ex-
cepting Shakespeare.
After De Profundis, which is composed
"from a long letter whose complete publica-
tion would be impossible in this generation,
and The Ballad of Reading Gaol, Wilde’s
work was done, and he was impotent of any
sustained effort, whether in life or litera-
ture. He seemed to a Frenchman “dazed
like a man who has had a blow on his head."’
He drank too much, was not actually starv-
ing, dr"'’ted, fell ill, and said that he was
oeyond his means.” “His death was
hurried by his inability to give up the drink-
ing to which he had become accustomed. It
was directly due to meningitis, the legacy
of an attack of tertiary syphilis.”
Ransome’s biography is the best to date.
It will be difficult to better it.
Inquiries about the price and supply of
books noticed on this page should be ad-
dressed to the publisher advertising on this
page.
Readers of O. Henry’s “Cabbages and
Ivings will recall how an American got val-
uabie information past the telegraph officials
ot a Central American republic by sending
a wire in what to the officials was an un-
translatable language, American slang. Re-
cently, The Bookman (New York) men-
tioned a similar proof of the extent to which
the vernacular of American baseball and
football has become unintelligible. An Amer-
ican maintained at a London literary club
that he could translate any message into a
form that would baffle any Englishman pre-
sent, and yet could be correctly interpreted
/by another American. The Englishman, in
another room, wrote down a message pur-
portmg to be from the German capital to
the German Embassy in London. The Amer-
ican thus coded it:—
Full buzzer system in Honus Wagner’s own John
Hancock calling for immediate advance of the ball
over the drink by the forward pass swiped by squab
from coaches’ quarters. Mulberry Strasse has gone
to bat but has whiffed on three pitched balls. Squab
is believed to be travelling through minor league
territory. If she pulls off a Sam White they will be
asking vvaivers on our scouts at the goal posts and
in that dear White Way, and there will be a double-
header scheduled. In this innings we can’t count on
Wops as pinch hitters.
The other American quickly translated it
. Complete set of plans, bearing the Emperor’s own
signature calling for immediate attack on England
by airships, stolen by young woman from the War
Office. Tha German police have tried but accom-
plished nothing. The young woman is thought to be
crossing from Holland or Belgium. If she succeeds
in reaching her destination quickly our ambassadors
in London and Paris will be handed their papers,
and war will be on with two countries. At the pre-
sent time we can expect no help from Italy.
Wonder whether this message could be as
successfully coded in Australian slang?
The 100th thousand issue of Australian
Everyday Cookery, revised and enlarged
(Whitcombe and Tombs, Melb.), is evidence
that despite the rise in prices Australian
people still contrive to eat. There are 930
things to eat herein described, and about the
same number of ways in which, if you feel
spurred to the exertion, you can fold a servi-
ette.
The Published Play
The vogue of the published play is grow-
ing. W. S. Maugham’s Lady Frederick is
familiar to Australian audiences. In its
published form (Heinemann) it is worth
reading for the slickness of the dialogue and
the finished technique of the work. Maugham
suffers from his sudden popularity. His
first play, A Man of Honor, reveals him in a
mood too serious for the box office. It is the
first and the be§t of his plays. His man of
honor marries, from conscientious reasons,
the common barmaid he has seduced. The
experiment doesn’t pay. As Jenny bitterly
remarks: “Oh, I know he’s a man of honor.
I wish he had a little less of it. One doesn’t
want a lot of fine sentiments in married life.
They don’t work.” The inevitable other woman
intervenes; and vulgar little Jenny has it
out with the culprits in a scene that
has more naturalness than in any of
Maugham’s later popular successes. Then
she drowns hei’self. The sentimental man of
honor does nothing that is in accord with
the dramatic conventions. He tries to shoot
himself by the river hank where Jenny flung
herself in, but funks.
“And d’ you know what happened in the
night V I couldn’t go to bed. I felt I could
never sleep again—and then, presently, I
dozed off quite quietly in my chair. And I
slept as comfortably—as if Jenny weren’t
lying in there, cold and dead. And the maid
pities me because she thinks I passed as
sleepless a night as she did.. ..
“Oh, it’s so despicable. And yet it’s too
strong for me,. ..1 can’t help thinking that
I’m free.... I don’t want to die. I want to
live, and I _ want to take life by both hands
and enjoy it. Let’s open the windows, and
let the sunlight in.... Oh, I suppose you’re
shocked and scandalised. I ought to go on
posing. I ought to act the part decently to
the end. You would never have had the
courage to do what I did, and yet, because
I ve failed, you_ think you can look down on
me from the height of your moral elevation.”
His friend remarks: “I was thinking how
far a man may fall when he attempts to
climb the stars.” And then the man of
honor —-
“The only rnpral I can see is that if I’d
acted like a blackguard, and let Jenny go to
the dogs, I should have remained happy and
contented and prosperous. And she, I dare
say,_ wouldn’t have died.. . .It’s because I
tried to do my duty and act like a gentleman
and a man of honor, that all this misery has
come about.”
His friend puts it another way : “One has
to be very strong and very sure of oneself to
go against the ordinary view of things. And
if one isn’t, perhaps it’s better not to run
any risks, but just to walk along the, same
secure old road as the common herd. It’s
not exhilarating, it’s not brave, and it’s
rather dull. But it’s eminently safe.”
And all the while the man of honpr is
expecting the other woman, to whom he had
telegraphed the first thing in the morning
There is a ring at the front door. The maid
announces the coroner’s officer. The curtain
drops.
The one weakness in the play is in the
cheap dialogue that apes smartness —the very
subsequent perfection of which device made
Maugham’s reputation as a popular play-
wright. . You see this easy cleverness to per-
fection in Jack Straw (Heinemann). Here
is the flagrantly conventional plot—a waiter
masquerading as a prince,' and, of course,
turning out to be a prince. The vulgar rich,
the decent, foolish lord, the nice girl, the
exposure, the rehabilitation, the proposal—all
is done with flippant art and by means of
a mechanically polished dialogue. But the
farce plays; there is a laugh in each page.
And the leading character, the delightful,
debonair, cheeky, attractive man—a Shavian
hero, horribly sure of himself, has been de-
liberately built for the idiosyncrasies of the
well-known actor who produced the play.
That way popular success lies. Maugham
has admitted that, after having written one
serious play, and finding it not financially
valuable, he deliberately set himself to pro-
duce the stuff the managers wanted.
marvel is that he manages to produce it so
admirably.
The Secret Woman, by Eden Phillpotts
(Duckworth), was forbidden public pre-
sentation by the silly London censor.
It is a grim story of a man who loved two
women at once, a thing, as the lover says,
“that scores have done.” The tragedy is
pitilessly done; there is drama in its- un-
folding ; and the reader may search meticu-
lously to firm a single passage, a single
phrase that would rouse the ire of a Wow-
ser’s umbrella. What probably annoyed the
censor is that it deals with passion starkly
and with praiseworthy sincerity.
There are three Arnold Bennetts: (1)
The admirable author of sincere books; (2)
the writer of witty textbooks ; (3) the author
of plays and novels candidly built for the pub-
lic’s approval. The Honeymoon was delight-
ful fooling; What the Public Wants was
what the public wanted; and now Mile-
stones, by Bennett and Edward Knoblauch
(Methuen) contains an original idea
(whose?), and much pleasant sentiment and
gentle hui *»r. The idea is to set the three
acts in three long-separated periods, and to
show the same characters at three of the
many milestones of the years of their lives.
Thus in Act I. we see the chief characters
as young people in the year 1860. Costumes
and furniture and manners of the period.
Much reminiscent humor at the fact that
hansom cabriolets have just been introduced,
and that it is considered shocking for a
young lady to ride in one. Also, that public
opinion in 1860 does not consider the time
is ripe to build iron ships. But one of the
characters-decides to build his ships with
iron. In the next act, set in 1885, we find
the same character, who has made a fortune
building iron ships, pooh-poohing the revolu-
tionary idea that ships could be built of
steel. And in the last act, set in 1912, the
old man lives and learns in a charming
Darby and Joan scene. But the changes in-
dicated are more than changes of processes
and environment, Chiefly, Milestones is con-
cerned with the change in the attitude of
the young girl. The young girl in Act I.
amiably gives way when her parents forbid
her to marry the man she loves. The girl
in the second act gives way, tod, but under
protest. In the third act, young girl number
three simply marries her man against the
rather tired opposition of old age. So there
you have the evolution of the modern
woman. All very pretty and genial—but not
the sort of thing that will help the modern
drama to pass another dramatic milestone.
Alfred Sutro has a talent for the theatri-
cally effective. In Five Little Plays (Duck-
worth) his work is finer than in his popular
successes. “The Man in the Stalls” is an
ingenious variant of the eternal trilogy, con-
sistent, yet full of dramatic surprises. Sutro
writes this sort of thing by the aid of his
excellent technique; yet he can write “The
Man on the Kerb,” a grim study of starva-
tion that depends for its effect upon no
theatrical tricks. “A Marriage has been
Arranged,” a dualogue, is a cynical piece of
modernity—a proposal, brutal in its frank-
ness, for a marriage that had, to the know-
ledge of both woman and man, been already
arranged. This little collection is delight-
ful to read. Had we- a repertory theatre
these fresh, ingenious little playlets would be
doubtless as delightful to see.
Slight, clever and a trifle audacious is
Katherine Mansfield’s In a (German Pension
(Swift, per Sydney Book Club). These pic-
tures of the intimate German, done with a
delicate, malicious humor and a quiet candor,
are eminently readable; while her short
stories have the art and the atmosphere of
the Continental writer. If you would under-
stand one side of the German not usually
sufficiently accentuated, his sentimental soul
at the hourly beck of his brutal stomach,
this little diary will cynically enlighten you.
Every tennis player can be cordially re-
commended to On the Court and Off
U'-ietliuen), by the present world’s cham-
pion, Anthony E. Wilding, of M.L. Some
time ago Wilding was prevailed upon to write
an article for The Lone Hand upon modern
lawn tennis. The advice he there gave is
here expanded to a volume, accompanied by
illustrative photographs of strokes and grips,
and many valuable hints as tp play and tac-
tics. The book is written without any pretence
of style, and has needless chapters dealing
with motor-cycling and flying; but his cham-
pionship experiences, his information about
the private tennis courts of England and
the Continent, his expert criticism of Aus-
tralasian, British and French players, are
brightly and engagingly written.
John Masefield, author of The Tragedy of
Nan, The Campden Wonder, and The
Tragedy ’of Pont peg the Great- —striking
dramas, the first of which has been pro-
duced by the Adelaide Literary Theatre —
the interesting novel, The Street of To-day,
Dampier's Voyages, and the two forceful
narrative poems, The Everlasting Mercy and
The Widow in the Bye Street, recently re-
viewed herein, and editor of many collec-
tions of poems, has apparently “arrived,” at
the age of 38, in literary England. He ran
away from home,'found himself stranded in
New York, got a job cleaning the glasses in
a saloon, managed to get back to England,
and. took up journalistic hack work. In
four years, by writing of what he has ob-
served-—the sort of stuff, too, that “the pub-
lic does not want” —he has jumped into a
fame that, as suggested recently on this
page, is likely to broaden.


nee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
Anthony Horderns’ for
WATCHES 8 JEWELLERY
/
p
bssa
M /^S
-
4* T 6
% $
Send tor Illustrated Price List of Jewellery, post free on
request. It will prove a Saver of Sovs.
THE CELEBRATED UNI OPEN-FACE
WATCH, with f-plate, Keyless Lever move-
ment; ten jewels, and compensation balance.
The UNI is specially constructed to stand
hard wear, with a dust-proof case. It is
thoroughly accurate and reliable, and is the
best value for the money south of the Line.
Nickel Case ... ... 12/6
With Oxidised Case 12/6
With Silver Case ... 21/=
THE UNI SOLID SILVER HUNTING
KEYLESS WATCH,. f-plate, compensation
balance; fully jewelled; perfectly timed and
adjusted. Enamelled dial, dust-proof case.
Guaranteed.
PRICE 25/=
THE UNI SIRDAR is a good, strong,
knock-about keyless watch. It has a non-
magnetic, keyless movement; fully jewelled ;
compensating balance. It is a thoroughly
dependable and accurate watch. Guaran-
teed.
Solid Nickel Case ... 16/6
Oxidised ... ... 18/6
Nickel Hunting Case 22/6
Silver Open Face ... 30/=
Silver Hunting Case 37/6
All Watches are timed and adjusted before
being despatched from our establishment.
ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
... ON ...
Anthony Horderns’ UNIVERSAL Bicycle
Built of B.S.A. Parts and Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
FRANCIS BIRTLES, the overland cyclist, always rides Anthony
Horderns' UNIVERSAL BICYCLE on his long-distance
journeys all over Australia. Pioneering a route round the
continent —16,500 miles on the one machine —he demonstrated
that the UNIVERSAL BICYCLE is the best bicycle built.
The Universal
Bicycle,
built by Anthony
Horderns’, of
B.S.A. parts, as
ridden by Birtles,
with Eadie Two-
speed Coaster
Hub, free wheel on
both gears, back-
pedalling a n d
front rim brakes.
Fitted with Dun-
lop Tyres,
£l2jloj-
fh g
ĝh
The Universal
Bicycle,
built of genuine
B.S.A. parts to
order, or stock
models.
With Oceanic
Tyres,
£lO.
W i t h Dunlop
Tyres,
£ll.
With Ba(1 i e
Coaster Hub and
Dunlop Tyres,
£ll 10s.
Ladies’ Models,
20/- extra.
FRANCIS BIRTLESon the UNIVERSAL Bicycle.
Built at ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FACTORY.
Cyclists all over Australia ride the UNIVERSAL Bicycle because it
is a roadster that may be relied upon to give perfect satisfaction.
Write for Bicycle and Sports List—Posted Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
for the World Renowned, Light Running
WHITE SEWING MACHINE
There is no better Machine made than the World Renowned
WHITE, which combines Simplicity, Quality and Economy,
with faithful construction and elegant finish.
• «v«****
BUY THE WHITE:
To turn out more and better sewing with less labor.
For its light-running, easy sewing qualities;
For its fine mechanical adjustment;
For its beauty of construction and durability;
For its incomparable labor-saving devices, which are
exclusively White ; for example, its tension indi-
cator, etc.;
For its attachments and improved features, which en-
able one to remove a piece of unfinished work,
put it back on again in a month or six months,
and get exactly the same results—say a piece of
fine ruffling.
No. 25v.—WHITE TREADLE SEWING MACHINE
(as illustrated), with Vibrating Shuttle Move-
ment, Oak or Walnut Woodwork, Cabinet Front,
Drop Head, with Automatic Lift, 4 Drawers,
Nickel-plated Flywheel. Complete, with the
Steel Set of Attachments. . . £C>
Packing for the Country, 2/6 Extra.
No. 24v.—WHITE TREADLE SEWING MACHINE
(as illustrated), Drop Head, 2 Drawers. Com-
plete, with Ivina- Steel Set of £5/ 12/6
Attachments
No. 27v.—WHITE TREADLE SEWING MACHINE,
Oak or Walnut Woodwork, Drop Head, 6
Drawers, Complete, with the King Steel Set of
Attachments ti /
Packing for the Country, 2/6 Extra. A*yJl
DUPLICATE PARTS OF WHITE MACHINES are
always available at the New Palace Emporium.
Mo
M-
mm
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
.♦. FOR ...
ARDATH Cabinet Cigars
ARUAVH CABIHET
quality u» e,te
Ardath Cabinet Cigars
■are justly popular, for the reason that they
are beautifully mild and aromatic, filled with
a delicious blend of selected tobacco, uniform
in quality, and contain only a minimum of
nicotine.
Ardath Cabinet Cigars
are distinctly in the first rank of medium-
priced cigars. They are made under perfect
conditions, and combine every point of ex-
cellence demanded by the cigar connoisseur.
Ardath Cabinet Cigars, no. 444 and no. 666,
can only be obtained at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are
cigars that will be smoked with appreciation by the most critical. We
recommend these cigars with confidence.
Ardath Cigars
are packed in artistically-prepared cabinets, fitted with a spring catch,
and make an ideal present for any man. Our unique system of spot
cash trading enables us to sell these high-grade cigars at prices which
offer absolutely the best value in the land.
BOX 25 50 100
No. 444 7/6 14(6 28,6
No. 666 10/- 19/6 38/6
Postage.—Box of 25, N.S.W.. 6d: other
States, Bd. extra. Box of 50, N.S.W., 9d.;
other States, 1/2 extra.
Write for Price List of Tobacco, Cigars and Smokers’
Requisites, Posted Free on request.
ARDATH CABINET
QUALITY N« -4-44
HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH &, CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Must Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made!
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. 14 i
fghg
ĝ
For -22 Short R.F., -22 Long R.F., and -22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2flb.
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES—PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
4PTHUR H. HILL.
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Rni S 6. n.P.O. Adelaide. South Australia. r 4
gfh
OTHER MODELS
From 776 to 40/*
The Accordeon with
The Mellow Tone
fs just perfection for Scrng Accompaniments, Oance Music and
Picnics. The Organ.like Tone of these Instruments is attained
toy the use of Beil Metal Reeds* which are hand-fitted and tuned*
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
S Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free. *
THE DANCE KING
I Pnce3o/-^’ost^re^^
THE PICNIC MODEL 1
8 Sets 6,11 Metal Reeds. Pnca 16;-. Post Free. |i
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And AIM At BENDIGO GEELONG A ADELAIDE
ğh g
g hg
ĝhgĝ
The favourite
SCOTCH WHISKY
everywhere, because of its mature
ripeness, soft refinement, and exquisite
flavour.
ONB OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
The D ISTILLERS
Largest Scotch Whisk\
Largest Scotch Whisky
Distillers in the World,
OMPANY
1 Capital
orer .£3,000,000.
,L tA
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
SYDNEY—AneeI Place.
MELBOURNE-52, William St.
h
"VS*
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
Ail the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETIIc. * wO., London, England.
fl.B—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
The Secret of Success!
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
■Si'
During the present seaso
comnletely swept the bo
Road Races, Records, an
of getting a new bicycle
Follow their Example
WARRAMBOOL—MELBOURNE Road Race. 281 Starters
First — A. R. Collins, riding a B.S.A.
Fastest Time —P. O’Shea, riding a B.S.A.
(98 out of the first 100 riders were mounted on B.S.A.’s)
BEVERLEY—PERTH Road Race. 66 Starters.
First —E. M. Gray, riding a B.S.A.
Fastest Time —A. Kaiser, riding a B.S.A.
BURRA—ADELAIDE Road Race. 50 Starters.
First and Fastest Time—W. Grigg, riding a B.S.A.
CYCLE TRADERS’ 100 MILE Road Race. 212 Starters.
First —L. Clark, riding a B.S.A.
Fastest Time —Don Kirkham, riding a B.S.A.
GOULBURN—SYDNEY Road Race. 110 Starters.
First —W. Rennie, riding a B.S.A.
Fastest Time —Don Kirkham, riding a B.S.A.
HOBART—LAUNCESTON Road Race. 45 Starters.
First and Fastest Time—C. J. Keenan, riding a B.S.Ac
CHRISTCHURCH—TIMARU Road Race. 107 Starters.
First —G. W. Prebble, riding a B.S.A.
Fastest Time —P. O’Shea, riding a B.S.A.
Before placing your order get a free copy of the Australasian
edition of the B.S.A. Handbook, and learn to distinguish the
genuine B.S.A. Fittings from inferior imitations. Send your
name and address to-day to
B
A. Fittings
a riders of locally built B.S.A. Bicycles
ard in all the principal Australasian
1 Championships. If you are thinking
the best thing you can do is to
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing \
the B.S A. Co.)
Australian Buildings, Melbourne
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern O. Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace emporium.
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
eK3
eXX^
eKRv,
oO"£>
©K>^s
111 2
eKK\'
8*
ZB
Hliilli I
Each “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend—
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets oi highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
a-nd quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT (Si SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney
ALWAYS
KEEP
CLEMENTS
TONIC
IN YOUR HOUSE
AND YOU WILL KEEP WELL.
It is the certain remedy for
Loss of Sleep, Biliousness,
Sick Headache, indigestion,
Constipation, Weakness,
and Low Spirits .
NOTE: ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
SELL THIS UNEQUALLED MEDICINE.


g
Makes
The
Hair
Grow
We are talking about Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. Just note that word
“Ayer’s.” You are perfectly
safe with it. No harm to you or
to your hair. Makes the hair
grow ? It certainly does. Stops
falling hair, too. Remember, it’s
“Ayer’s ” we are talking about.
Ask your doctor about your hair
and about Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Get his approval. Your own
doctor and “Ayer’s” make a
strong combination. It means
faith, confidence, satisfaction.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Ma**., U. S. A.
PAT END
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Gwidk.
Established 1871
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
jJsk your Storekeeper for U.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
The'Standard Kemedy which has outlived the Centurte*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURES
Austrian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for itb history—the book is free or write
g. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
‘Goldea Key” Cigars
The Cigar of Distinction
for Cultured Connoisseurs.
H
I
G
H
£
S
T
N<jL*ND=»
CSatJALIT
DE-LUX
G
R
A
D
£
FRA3RANT, DELIGHTFUL and COOL.
In Two Strengths— Mild and Medium.
Packed in Heavy Cedar Presenta-
tion Cabinets containing 50 Cigars.
Price 22/6 Post Free.
Try a Sample Lot of 5 Cigars, 2(6
packed in a Cedar Box. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
i Mention this paper when ordering.
r -N jN
L<u
For Children’s Coughs and Colds
There is no better remedy for Children’s
Coughs and Colds than
BONHIHCTOH’S
IRISH MOSS.
It does them as much good
as it does the older folk.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES.
Ask for Bonningtons’s, and insist on getting it. It is dangerous to experiment
when you can get a remedy that has stood the test for over 45 years.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
[2
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipat ny to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. » MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CORRECT YOUR FIGURE.
h
ĥ
YOU CAN WEIGH WHAT YOU SHOULD.
THIN WOMEN
If you are flat-chested, thin,
run down and scraggy—even if
you never had a nicely-rounded
bosom, Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-food
will build you up and develop
your figure. Does your mirror
mock you? Flesh-food will re-
move the faults in your figure
by rounding out and developing
the deficient places. Put up in
Tablet form, it is easy to use
and pleasant to take, and, if
desired, may be taken secretly.
Taken under our directions, it
will work wonders for your ap-
pearance.
In many cases bust measure-
ments have been increased by
over ten inches, and the weight
over five pounds weekly. Other
cases have shown an increase in weight of even
a pound a day. The average bust increase desired
is about six inches, and is readily accomplished.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development
to the thousands of chronically thin women
who have despaired of ever possessing a pre-
sentable figure. .It is a nerve and' tissue food
treatment that adds weight and permanent de-
velopment to attenuated women.
FAT PEOPLE.
Excess fat injures your
health, impedes your move-
ments, and makes you the butt
of your unfeeling normal-
weight friends. People who
have been fat, and are now
reduced to normal, think other
fat people ridiculous.
Not alone does excess fat in-
jure your health and endanger
your existence, it absolutely
destroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Why do
you stay &t? “FATCIRE
positively removes excess fat, and will restore
vour spoiled figure to decent and pleasing pro-
portions, and is always a sure and lasting cure
for obesity and corpulency. A few doses im-
proves your breathing wonderfully, and the
course of treatment will cure you.
It is the only successful, and, at the same
time, harmless, fat-reducer that has ever been
discovered. Its efficacy has been undeniably de-
monstrated in thousands of • successfully treated
cases. It is totally and absolutely non-poison-
ous, and can in no wise work any injury to the
general health; though it often reduces excess
weight by as much as a pound a day
ħg
WE SUPPLY FREE A SAMPLE OF EITHER « FLESH-FOOD" or " FATCURE.”
<?pnd starrm and sav which remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free'book,
“BUST” to Thin neoDle “OBESITY” to fat ones. Be sure to say which sample you want. No
matter where you live ’we can treat you successfully by post. Write or call to-day. Confidential.
THE WATWORTH FALLIERE ASSN., 1103 Ash Sx., Sydney (Aisoa)
STOP
SMOKING!
M OST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco te
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will' post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
---“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
3/ r. Frank Ford (Black all P. 0., Q land)
writes: “I teas a heavy smoker for 6i years,
but after taking your treatment for V, days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 CastlereagS St., Sydney.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd.; Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wavback Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but, ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something .ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPIURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does aw&y altogether
with galling steel- springs and chafing
leather undevstraps. The pad is made of
sott rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURIIY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
8 5 0
5 10 0
Poring the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price.
Double-Barrelled, Breech-load-
ing Guns, engine-turned rib,
left barrel full choke, right
modified, rebounding locks
and pistol grip. Trial ..£5 2 0 £3 12 6
Single-barrelled Duck Guns,
large bore, to kill at 100yds.
Trial
Single-Barrelled, Hafhmerless,
Breech-loading Guns, choke
bore, excellent stock. Trial. .
Double-Barrelled Breech load-
ing Guns, with Greener pat-
ent wedge fast cross bolt,
choke bore, walnut stock,
pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial
Special Pigeon Guns, with pat-
ent side clips, file cut rib,
top lever, choke bore, speci-
ally selected walnut stock,
Greener patent wedge fast
cross bolt. Trial
Mauser Principle Bides, 22
calibre. Kill at 300yds. Trial
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
All Orders for Cuns and Rifles delivered Carriage
Paid to any address in Australasia,
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & importers,
242-244 Bourke St,, MELBOURNE
3 10 0 1 17 6
10 0 4 1.7* 6
10 0 0 7 10 0
0 15 0 0 13 6
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
VARIUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Consideration of Luncheon.
The Million Club.—No luricheon to-day.
—Press Advertisement.
Pleased with my pleasant self I read
The gladsome morning paper—-
The cheerful thing the statesman said,
The cheap lineg of the draper—
Till this thought smote me in a way
To turn iriy joy to sdryow :
If luricheon may not be to-day,
What wight shall face to-morrow?
Once in my dreams I loved to fix
My gaze on landscapes glowing
With endless streets, and countless bricks,
And happy white sails blowing
A million people to this town
To dwell in sweet contentment,
The while they planked the hard cash down,
And learned to know what rent meant.
I peopled all suburban ground,
According to my fancy,
With young pianos yielding sound
To Kate, and Jane, and Nancy;
From Parramatta to the sea,
From Hornsby to Sans Souci,
The ways seemed packed with witchery
Of Susan, May and Lucy.
I saw their portly fathers stand,
Large men with gold in plenty,
When every pound I put in land
Had freely brought me twenty;
I rode about on airy wheels,
Glad in their happy spinning,
And felt , quite certain of my meals
With all those folk for skinning.
But now across my dreams there flies
A thought to dull my ardor,
Amid the brick-built paradise
I see an empty larder ;
A million people thronging here
With men like me to bleed them,
Were joy enough, if we could rear
A million more to feed them.
No luncheon! In that dreadful word
I see the scheme’s disaster;
To fill the city is absurd
Unless the State fill faster.
Throw wide the potts to north and south,
Though some fat folk grow thinner,
And guarantee to every mouth
Its breakfast, lunch and dinner!
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
Wade.
There’s a strange and whirling feeling in the middle
of my head,
There is tumult very wild beneath my hat,
For carefully I’ve studied all the things that Wade
has said,
And I’m hanged if I can tell you what he’s at.
Night after night I hear him in a long and loud
harangue,
Or read him every morning with my egg,
And I come to the conclusion, that, in this uncanny
clang,
He is pulling at the Morning Herald’s leg.
It faithfully reports him, half a column at a time,
Or a column when his frenzy's at its height ;
And it blesses him with leaders, couched in language
so sublime,
That I even read them backwards in delight.
But in searching for the meaning I am always left
at fault;
Wade’s purport is in awful darkness hid,
While I hear a dull voice booming, like an echo from
a vault,
That the Labor party Didn’t and it Did.
But what it did or didn’t I can never hope to learn,
I am baffled by the riddle more and more ;
It is plain that Wade’s in earnest when he does his
daily turn,
But he roars a very enigmatic roar.
I would like to be a Liberal, and join a decent set,
With Wade or Wood or Willis for a pal,
But Wade is so perplexing that I haven’t joined it
yet,
And I fast begin to think I never shall.
QUEENSLAND.
L.F.
Cow.
A placid look is on her face,
Contentment in her lustrous eye,
And in her body strength and grace,
Twin virtues rare, perfected lie.
’Tis meet that Nature should endow
Our friend (now give three cheers!) the Cow.
No fane nor tabernacle rich,
Nor sacrificial altar white
Is raised to deify the witch,
But service meek, ’fore dawn till night,
Is hers by right. None disavow
The prior claims of Madame Cow.
Gaunt slavelings young arise in haste
Ere yet the murk of night is flown,
For sleep is time and labor-waste ;
In rest are seeds of mischief sown.
They dedicate, with silent vow,
The future Man to goddess Cow.
Her image fair is printed red
In outline deep within his brain,
And comes, an apparition dread,
E’en when the whey-fat hog is slain.
Nor suckling shrill nor bloated sow
Obliterate the pictured Cow.
It rises grim, a thing of hate,
Before the haggard eyes that look
Unseeing at the written slate,
And gazes from the printed book,
Till slumber corrugates the brow
With wretched dreams of phantom Cow.
No rest is theirs, no glad surcease,
From week to week 'and year to year;
The Sabbath brings no thought of peace;
The day of rest is restless here.
Mayhap to distant church the Wow-
Ser drives ’tween morn and ev’ning Cow.
Speak not of training nor defence;
Of we savvy nought;.
The public debt may be immense,
And Joseph’s title dearly bought;
The only things that matter now
Are me and (three cheers more!) the COW.
MAORIIiAND.
JAS. COWAN.


THE HUB
218-222 OF NEWTOWN
KING ST. - NEWTOWN
Sydney.
CASH STORES LTD.
Four Specials from our Blanket Section.
SPECIAL No. 1.- Australian Super White Blanket, regular guinea quality, beautifully finished,
large double-bed size, weighing 71b., for 19/11
SPECIAL No. 2. Australian All-Wool Blanket, extra large size; the best grey Blanket manufac-
tured for the price, height 731 b 16/11
SPECIAL No. 3.—Heavy English Whitney Blanket, an exceptional good quality, weighing 741 b.,
for the double-bed size, only ...... . , ......... ... .. •* fg /~\\
SPECIAL No., 4. -An extra heavy part wool, part cotton, Brown-grev English-made Blanket, double-
bed size, weighing 71b., for. 10/6
Two Splendid Offerings from our Shoe Department.
Cuban e Heel Pf Shoe'has
attnrHnwb e fast-colored eyelets, and the wide'silk laces add much to the general
sizes 2to 7 ’ Price Sh ° 6 1S mot e led 011 a new toe -shape, this season’s style. A grand fitter ;
l4/ 9
<
A
&
HE
T
*4
E
m
<
a
nUB
rV
xt
BLACK STORM KING DERBY BOOTS. Made of the finest
selected Box Calf, and will stand the strongest and roughest
of wear, and yet the appearance is fit for a walking- or
dress-wear Boot; with occasional applications of • Lucca or
Neatsfoot Oil they will remain soft and will wear .indefini-
tely. Sizes* sto 10, Price. ...*.- 12/6
Our Motto —
WHAT OTHERS ADVERTISE,
WE SELL FOR LESS.
Please Write for
“ Our Household
Friend.”
IT IS FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
** o/SpttAf’ y
f° y P/r/te
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
-
11
3
T
£*** ' M*‘ ■' ' AI !
/- N . ,CV
*
,
m
WELSBACH Specialties.
MANTLES, BURNERS, GLASSWARE, GAS FITTINGS,
HEATERS, COOKERS, etc.
METALLIC FILAMENT LAMPS, ELECTRIC FITTINGS,
RADIATORS, and all Accessories.
EVERY REQUISITE for Every System of Lighting.
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.
302 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington.
380 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Agencies Everywhere.
Post Free
»K PaBR»T .
Sroifßv sti
X
Our “Guinea” Watch
has a double case of oxidised steel, a high-grade
jewelled movement, and is guaranteed for 15
years and kept in order free 21/-
for two vears.
Price,
Our Golden Guarantee!
You can feel the fullest confidence in ordering
from us by post. If the goods do not please, we
refund your money in full. Goods are sent on the
same day that your order is received by us.
You Don’t Pay
One Farthing
for our splendid POST FREE JEWELLERY, WATCH
AND SILVERWARE CATALOGUE. It is packed
with countless bargains—of which the two Watches
illustrated are good examples.. This fine Catalogue’,
aided by the post, brings our stocks to your very
door.
w
s
L/r %\
&
JOE DAVIS
SYDNEY
7j.
Our “Railway” Lever
open face, heavy nickel or /oxidised case;
dust-proof and water-tight.,. Guaranteed
for 10 years, and kept in order free for
12 Price, 12/0
12|6
Post Free.
JOE DAVIS Ltd.
, The Money Saving Jewellers,
26 Park St., Sydney
One Door from Pitt Street.
WHERE THE LUCKY WEDDING RINGS COME FROM.”
The Unvarying Charm of
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
has won the steadfast adherence of the Con-
noisseur. They are absolutely uniform in.
flavor, delicacy and subtle attractiveness.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN and VIRGINIAN.
Many (trades —neatly and cleanly packed.
Your Tobacconist stocks them.
Daigety & Co. Ltd.
Wholesale Agents
for Australia.
iffi
Men of every rank smoke
ABDULLAS!
DdLGETY'S
MOTOR*C4R , fICEttCIES
m
«>
f
Service, Appearance, Reliability
The intending motor-buyer will find in .our Garage a range of cars of the greatest
Variety of style, size, capacity, hbrse-power—variety of price, finish, nationality.
But he will find a close agreement between all the cars on the important points of
Service, Appearance and Reliability.
F.N. 10/14 : 10/24- AUSTIN IO : 15 : 18/24-
DAIMLER 15 : 20: 25 : 38. CUTTING 30.
DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE IQ: 27.
HALLEY MOTOR LORRIES (to carry from Iscwt. to 6 tons).
The fullest information sent, post free, on request. Any demonstration arranged. ,
DALCETY & CO. LTD.
Motor Garage:
136-138 PHILLIP ST., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33.—N0. 1691.
THURSDAY, JULY 11, 1912.
PltlOK 6l>.
THE ABOLITION OF THE EDITORIAL "WE."
The Labor party has started to advocate signed journalism.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 7384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly 0 16 6
Quarterly . . .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able). Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Ihe Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and Neiv Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd,., Adelaide
—at i/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Soil, Capetown: The Central
News Agency, Durban, Nataland others.
Canada. —Thomson StationeryCo,, Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., iil Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Neivs Co., Market Street.
Sail Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — lE. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
ti'gin. x V/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, Neiv
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, IGo'z, Id. — otherwise, 50.?., Id., and Bioz. to
10oz., Hid.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, .} oz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 11, 1912.
THE FLIGHT OF CAPITAL.
He objected to the absentee provisions of the land
tax. He did not think that large investment com-
panies with offices in Great Britain should be taxed
as absentees. The operations of these provisions
were having a prejudicial effect on Australia, as
many of the big companies were withdrawing their
capital from the Commonwealth. Of late there
had been a serious withdrawal of gold from Aus-
tralia. In one month two steamers took away a
million and a half of gold. It would soon be im-
perative for Parliament to inquire into the reasons
for this withdrawal, and he had no doubt that
IT WOULD BE FOUND THAT IT WAS CAUSED BY BRITISH
INVESTORS TAKING THEIR CAPITAL OUT OF THE COM-
MONWEALTH. —John Quick, M.H.R.
The flight of Capital from Australia has be-
come so obvious that only the most persistent
sort of folk pretend, nowadays, not to be
aware of it. The last date at which any-
thing dimly resembling the present move-
ment was observable was in 1891, when the
historical burst was nearly due. During
the long, slow recovery which followed, and
the spell of mild prosperity which came
after the recovery, and the first stage of the
boom which ensued upon the spell of mild
prosperity, Australia walked more or less
circumspectly, and didn’t drink up its assets
in riotous living. In the later stages of the
boom the old raving disease came by degrees
upon the country. There arose a belief that
the prosperity would last for ever—the same
belief that there has been during every boom,
since David rushed the scrappy Kingdom
of Israel for a moment into tbe position of
the world’s great empire, and Solomon
"blewed” the accumulated treasure on build-
ing a temple, with much golden decoration,
and scattered it on strange women and the
hunt after magic and disembodied spirits.
Wages were pushed up without any regard
for the fact that high wages must, to some
extent, increase the cost of production, and
costly local production means an inrush of
cheap imports unless the tariff is raised to
correspond, and too much cheap import is
liable to mean, in the end, a grievous falling
away in local production. The tariff wasn’t
increased because the Liberal Fusion and
the Labor Fusion are both trying to ignore
the fiscal issue, lest the recrudescence of that
spectre should lose them their jobs or their
prospects. Imports rose gaily, as a natural
consequence of this stale of things, and the
Tory importer prospered amazingly, and
Tory papers alleged for a while that the
"increase of trade” was a good sign. Pub-
lic expenditure—especially loan expenditure
was whooped up, on the ground that Aus-
tralia could afford it in such good times.
And then, quite inevitably, capital began to
leave the country, and great astonishment
ensued, and each brand of politician arose
to declare that the other variety of politician
was responsible.
* * * *
The explanation of the flight of capital
requires no seeking. Capital is simply
money. In the last resource it is gold, be-
cause gold is the sort of money that speaks
all languages. When imports exceed ex-
ports in the case of a country that has great
foreign investments, the fact may not mat-
ter; interest on the foreign investments may
cover the difference. When imports exceed
exports, in the case of a country which has
no foreign debts and no foreign investments,
the difference must be paid in gold—either
the country’s own money, or borrowed
money. When imports exceed exports in the
case of a country which carries an enormous
load of foreign debt, not only the difference
but the interest on the foreign debt have to
ee paid in gold—either the country’s own
gold or the proceeds of new pawnbrokery.
After which exordium the trade situation
may be put into figures.
Australian Trade Apart from Gold.
Surplus (to
Interest on
Imports. Exports. Foreign Debts).
1910 .. £58,682,401 £69,855,873 £11,173,472
1911 .. 64,869,243 67,423,395 2,554,152
Five months of Shortage
1912 .. 31,622,558 24,240,257 7,382,301
or at tbe rate per annum of
1912 .. 75,894,139 58,176,C17 17,717,522
These are not cheerful figures for a nation
that is so heavily loaded with the extraneous
lOU as Australia. For many cheerful early
years most of these States paid no land tax,
no income tax, very little local rates, and
not much in the way of customs or excise.
They avoided the cost of defence, by not
providing for any appreciable defence.
Their joyous attitude was that this was “a
new country,” and that a new country ought
not to be expected to pay its way like an old
one, and that because of its new-
ness there should be 18d. in a shil-
ling and 30s. in a sovereign. So
the early settlers sold the land in a happy
sort of way—the public estate that they got
for nothing by a wonderful dispensation of
Providence —and used the proceeds as
revenue. And they dug out the minerals
joyfully, and cut down the forests with a
light heart. Also, they floated foreign pub-
lic loans in a gladsome and airy spirit, and
encouraged, besides, the influx of foreign pri-
vate capital—some of which cost as much
as 36 per cent, interest —“to develop the
wonderful natural resources of the country.”
It was estimated some little time ago that
Australia had to pay £14,500.000 ner annum
as interest on foreign liabilities of one sort
and another, and as rents and profits to ab-
sentees. In other words, it was estimated
that if Australia floated no more foreign
loans, and exported goods and gold to the
value of £14,500,000 a year in excess of its
imports, it was just paying its way—not
reducing its debt, but keeping the old pawn
ticket afloat, so to speak.
* * * *
It is quite possible that the estimate of
£14,500,000 a year is inadequate. Since it
was made, a good many millions of Aus-
tralian gold, with which the Australian
banks were earning money for their
depositors in London, have been dis-
sipated to pay for imports, and sun-
dry new loans have been floated. On one
day recently the N.S.W. State Government
did a borrow which added at least £70,000
a year to the bill, and there were other wild
doings. Still, assuming that the outgoing
for tbe use of foreign capital is only
£14,500,000 per annum—this is the situa-
tion (the gold yields quoted in some recent
articles on this subject were estimates, but
these are revised and brought up to date) : :
Gold Export Added to
Required to Square Gold Stork of
Accounts. Yield. Gold.
1910.. £3,326,528 £11,558,840 £8,227,312
Taken from
Stock of Gold.
1911.. 11,945,848 10,551,624 1,394,224
Assuming that exports, imports and'gold output
continue at the rate of the first five months.
1912.. 32,217,522 9,600,000 22,617,522
The position, of course, is impossible.
There must be a huge reform of some sore.
If Australia finished the year as it has
begun—if it continued, for the whole of 1912,
the low tariff and high import madness of
the first five months of the year, and didn’t
stave off bankruptcy for the moment by huge
foreign loans —every bank in the Common-
wealth, and almost every other financial insti-
tution, would be insolvent by the end of next
December, through the disappearance of
money. Half the population would be un-
employed, and the other half would be lead-
ing the simple life, and growing its own food,
and making its own clothes, and doing the
aboriginal act generally. Almost all the solid
cash of the country would have vanished to
pay for foreign goods, and the nation would
have made default on its public debt, and
gone back to first principles, which are
mostly aboriginal principles, and consist
chiefly of fried bear and broiled ’possum.
The community has had a sort of.a splash.
The splash began with the gold boom which
is already fading very badly—Australia’s
second great gold boom. The first one was
located in the eastern States —principally
in Victoria. It is quite dead now. The
second was situated in Westralia, It is
dying. There may be a third in the Northern
Territory, blit that is a possibility of the
future. The gold record of Australia may
be condensed in this fashion:—
GOLD OUTPUT.
Beginning of the First Boom.
1851 .. .. £1,319,932
Top of the First Boom.
1852 .. .. £11,807,086
1553 .. .. 12,757,564
1854 .. .. 9,647,141
1855 .. .. 11,931,746
1856 .. .. 12,912,950
1857 .. .. £11,996,205
1858 .. .. 11,491,447
1859 .. .. 10,654,669
1860 .. .. 10,373,280
Bottom of tiie Slump.
883 .. .. £4,580,523
884 .. .. 4,826,810
ISBS .. .. 4,626,069.
1886 .. .. £4,428,339
1887 .. .. 4,665,400
ISBB .. .. 4,737*250
Summit and Fall of thk Second Boom.
1903 .. .. 4-16,294,684
1904 .. .. 15,897,337
1905 .. .. 15,550,910
I'.' 6 .. .. 14,631,745
.90/ .. .. 13,515,109
1908 .. .. 4:13,058,853
1909 . . .. 12,604,509
1910 .. .. 11,553,840
1911 .. .. 10,551,624
1912 (estimate) 9,600,0t>0
it befell, by hazard, that the greatest gold
output in Australia’s history followed close
on the neeis of a period or slow recovery
from the speculation and smash of 181)3 —a
period of hard economy, when people had
learned to make a little go a long way. it
was accompanied by a time of good seasons
and record harvests and high prices. Simul-
raneousiy the i'euerai tariif happened, and
though it is a very poor tariff as set against
the present scale of wages, it was a fair
tariff as compared to the wages current at
the time. Amid all these fortuitous condi-
tions Australia went more or less mad for a
year or two. It began to believe in high
wages and low tariff, dear labor and cheap
imports, short hours and long-hour goods.
It was seized with the idea that it could be,
at once, the greatest advocate of union labor
and fair wages and White Australia, and
the greatest employer, in proportion to popu-
lation, of foreign cheap and sweated and
colored and “scab” labor. Its Liberal tariff
Fusion and its Labor tariff Fusion agreed to
ignore the impossibility of combining high
local pay and an unprecedented competition
with the products of ill-paid outside labor.
The country tried to overlook the inevitable,
and the inevitable refused to be overlooked.
So capital started to quit. It is sheer lying
to say that it is leaving because of the Labor
Government’s tax policy. If the Union
Bank and the Bank of Australasia, and two
of the biggest British Investment concerns
had uprooted themselves bodily and departed
in one act, iliat fact wouldn’t have accounted
for the visible outflow, and not one such
institution has uprooted itself and departed.
The cause of the outflow declares itself every
month in the unprecedented account of im-
ported drapery and ironware that have to
be paid for, the diminished quantity and
value of wheat and wool and meat and base
metals and sundries sent away-in exchange;
in the extra amount of gold exported to make
up the balance, and the diminished produc-
tion of gold to set against that export.
There is nothing in the situation that calls
for inquiry. If it is admitted—and it seems
to be generally admitted—that the British
person who sends us frills and fluff and fen-
ders and boots and coal-scuttles and plug hats
and condensed milk expects to be paid for his
goods, then the trade returns explain every-
thing. The foreign investor may grumble at
Australian taxation—the investor always
grumbles at taxation on principle, and so
does everybody else—but he is less likely to
withdraw his money now than at any time
during the last 10 years. Owing to the out-
flow of good Australian cash to pay for im-
ports interest rates are going up fast, and
there is a good time ahead of him. The
Anglo-Australian banks are no longer sending
away Australian money for investment in
London, as they did in recent years. They
can find more profitable use for it here..
The fading of the boom is obvious enough.
The N.S.W. Government used to get all the
loan money it wanted —and it wanted a lot —
locally, at 3J per cent. It can’t get it now
at 4 per cent., and has been driven, for the
first time in a very long while, to rush to
London for a short-dated loan. The .Maori-
land Government has been borrowing on short
terms in London, at prices which suggest
sheer desperation. The great suburban land
sale boom around Sydney has plainly lost
its grip. The people who, a very few
months ago, used to write to the Sydney
and Melbourne and Adelaide papers about
the impossibility of obtaining house accom-
modation haven’t written of late, and the
subject has been dropped. The N.S.W. pub-
lic has almost lost interest in the proposed
State town of Daceyville, because the need
for it has, to a great extent, disappeared.
The banks are offering higher interest to at-
tract money, because it is scarce, and lenders
are demanding higher interest for their money
because it is growing rare. Some big in-
stitutions have stopped lending altogether
till they see how things turn out. New en-
terprises are becoming fewer, because money
to finance them is harder to get, and the
companies that are being floated just now
are mostly little existing shows which are
being changed from private partnerships to
joint stock affairs as a matter of conveni-
ence. Shares in old-established concerns’no
longer reveal a definite upward tendency.
The unemployed begin to assert themselves.
All these matters are too'conspicuous to. be
explained away, though there may be a tem-
porary conspiracy of silence about them.
In short, the fiscal-sinking party that is
no’tv in Federal office can’t deny that capi-
tal is leaving the country, unless it declares
that its own official statistics are a shameful
and ridiculous lie. It may say, as its absurd
and abusive enemies do, that its legislation
is driving capital away, in which case it
can’t in common decency do anything save
commit suicide. Or it may put up the best
defence it can, by admitting that the fool
tariff., which its Fusion and its oppo-
nents’ Fusion are equally resnonsible, is
allowing capital to leak away. In the latter
case it can either nropound some scheme for
paying wages in Australia with the money
that has already left Australia to liquidate
the bill for imported cheap-labor goods, or it
can face the necessity of reducing imports.
And there are only two visible ways of doing
the latter. One is to engineer a general
reduction of Australian wages, so that the
present tariff will cover the diffevence be-
tween .them and English wages The other
is to raise the tariff. If the Fisher Gov-
ernment knows any third way it is up to
the Fisher Government to expound it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Decentralising Watt.
The }Vatt Government in Victoria proposes
to do <a trifle in the way of decentralisation
by establishing “proper harbors” at Warr-
nambool and Portland,' provided the cost
isn’t too great. But what Portland wants
first isn’t a proper harbor—it has a very
good one already—but a direct line of rail-
way from the North to connect it, in the
least possible number of miles, with the dis-
tricts Providence intended it to serve. Also,
it wants the same' railway rates which pre-
vail on the line to Melbourne. Noradjuha,
for instance, is quite close to Portland,
which lies directly south of it. The way to
get goddp by\ train from Noradjuha to Port-
land is to -send them due north, by a small
branch line, to Natimuk, then east (another
branch line) to Horsham, then north-east
(main line) to Murtqa, then south-east
(main line) for about 60 miles to Ararat;
then south-west (branch line), nearly 100
miles, to Branxholme, and then almost due
south (branch line) another heap of miles
to Portland. And on the branch lines the
charges are especially heavy. The . goods
from almost all the region due north of
Portland have’ to do this sort of circuit to
get to that harbor, so it becomes cheaper to
send them twice or three times the distance
to bloated old Melbourne, on the shallow
inlet which big modern ships can’t enter.
Warrnambool, which lies close alongside
Portland, is treated in exactly the same
fashion. From Noradjuha to Warrnambool
the natural track is also almost due south.
But the course by rail is north to Natimuk,
east to Horsham, north-east to Murtoa,
south-east to Ararat, south-west to Hamil-
ton (by this time the line has completed
two-thirds of a circle, and the goods are due
south of the place they started from), south-
east again to Penshurst (that is to say, that
the goods are now on a back track or parallel
line, and returning almost the way they
came), south to Koroit, and finally south-
east to Warrnambool. The railways have
been built at vast expense in this circular
fashion to prevent Portland and Warrnam-
bool acquiring any trade except the scrap
that grows just beside their own doors—in
short, to protect Melbourne from competi-
tion. And while this curly, whirly mode of
transit is maintained no one is likely to put
an’ 1 faith in Willie Watt’s alleged schemes
of decentralisation.
The Same Old Parson.
The following advt. appeared in the Sydney
dailies not long ago:—
THE TOTALISATOR AND GAMBLING EVIL.
A MEETING of those favorable to the holding of
a BIG PUBLIC DEMONSTRATION to protest to
Parliament at its opening against the introduction
of the Totalisator, or the legalising of any form of
Gambling, will be held in the Lecture Hall, Y.M.C.A.
Pitt-street, at 3 p.m., TO-DAY.
Rev. R. B. S. HAMMOND WILL PRESIDE.
What an epitome it affords of the blind
Toryism which characterises the Kirk in
Australia! The Tote is opposed, not because
it threatens to produce a greater volume of
gambling; the evidence is rather the other
way. Not because it is more immoral than
the bookmaking system; as a matter of fact
its introduccion would automatically sweep
away more cheating, lying, robbing, corrup-
tion, conspiracy and assorted chicanery than
all the Churches among them could beat
Satan for in 20 years. The basic objection
to it is that it is an innovation in one of
those businesses which the parson has made
las own. The Australian parson—starveling
though he is for the most part—is, in about
JO per cent, of cases, as passionate a bar-
racker for the maintenance of the status quo
as any moneyed importer or squatter. He
looks upon vested ihterests as affairs to be
left severely alone, like cathedrals. That is
why, though he is always willing to orate
and demonstrate against the legalising of any
new form of gambling, he rarely lias a word
to say against the gigantic, gambling system
that prevails under the approving eye of the
-*- ,aw at present. Whoever .saw an advt. to
the effect that a prominent clergyman was
to preside over a public meeting of those in
tavor of abolishing (he Rand wick Ring? The
thing is unthinkable. The cleric who made
sqch a stupendous break would immediately
alienate _ a considerable proportion of his
best-paying is to say, worship-
pers. The Ring goes unassailed,' so far as
the ecclesiastics are concerned; largely be-
cause it is an Institution which is patronised
by the highly respectable, and which helps
to make financial successes of racecourses
that are frequented by yice-regalities. Yet
the fact remains that, owing to the Ring,
such resorts as Randwick and Rosehill are
plain gambling hefis. It was absurd of the
Wade Government to waste time extirpating
two-up schools and fan-tan establishments —
paltry haunts whose patrons did business on
a ready-money basis, and considered them-
selves unlucky if they dropped a half-sover-
dgn m the course of two or three hours play
—while ‘encouraging Randwick, where, at
every meeting, thousands of sovereigns are
gambled away. Yet the parsons smugly ac-
cep ed tlm Wade Government as an anti-
gambling Administration. They called no
public meetings to protest against the
legalisation by Liberalism of the bookies’
deadly calling. Far from it. They
have gone , so far as to constitute
themselves so many bookies’ advocates.
They are the, best and most valued
triends of the most - morally and financially
ruinous' brand of gambling that mankind has
evolved. This qiieer state of affairs is not
due to perversity pn the part of the holy
men,-but to the rank Conservatism which is
nie badge of all (heir tribe. Beelzebub
himself would have the -warm support of
most of them if he could only get his crema-
torium going here on a paying basis, and
under the patronage of the Best People.
i ——♦
Concerning a Variety of Farce that
Should Be Discontinued.
For years past one of the most popular
administrative devices in Australia has been
the Royal Commission. Whenever a Govern-
ment has felt the need of hanging up some
work that the public has clamored for; when-
ever it has wanted to dodge the responsi-
bilities which its members are well paid to
grapnle with ; and whenever it has experi-
enced a. wish to be officially informed of
something which the mere victim on the tram


has known for years, it has appointed a
Royal Commission to inquire into and report
on the matter. Royal Commissions have re-
ported, at vast expense to the taxpayers, on
all sorts of questions, from the curse or
otherwise of liquor to child slavery, and from
gambling to the necessity of a North Shore
Bridge. It begins to look, however, as
though the time-honored old pastime
or business or swindle, or whatever it
may be called, were doomed . to a
speedy end. A Food Supply Com-
mission has been sitting in Sydney tor
many weeks. Its members —not to be right
out of harmony with the general trend ot
public opinion—strongly suspicion the exist-
ence of vends and combines in the meat
trade. Obviously it is in the interest of the
public that this point should be established
one way or the other. And so, when T. A.
Field, carcase butcher, of Glebe Island, ap-
peared before the Commission, some perti-
nent questions were addressed to him. The
result was reported in the S. M. Hekald
last week as follows: —
Mr. Bavin : It is stated that you are interested
in the other firms doing business in Glebe Island.
Now, are you interested in the business of Old-
ham ?
Mr. Field : I must refuse to answer any questions
which concern purely my own private business.
Mr. Bavin : We have definite reasons for asking
the questions, and not to pry into your business, and
we only ask questions where it is imperative. Are
you interested in the business of Oldham ?
Mr. Field : I refuse to answer any such questions.
Mr. Bavin : Are you interested in the business of
Ford ?
Mr. Field : I decline to say anything about my
private concerns.
Mr. Bavin : Did you help Ford in any way to
purchase Miller’s business '!
Mr. Field : I refuse to answer.
Mr. Bavin : Are you interested in Elliott’s busi-
ness?
Mr. Field : I refuse to answer.
Mr. Bavin : On what grounds ?
Mr. Field : I refuse to divulge anything about my
private business.
Mr. Bavin : That is not a sufficient reason, so I
must press for an answer.
Mr. Field : I still take up the same position, and
decline. My private business is not a part of this
Commission’s business.
Mr. Bavin: Well, the Commission thinks it is
desirable to know how Sydney gets its meat supply.
I am sorry, but as you have not seen your way to
answer, we find it our duty to put the matter in the
hands of the proper authorities to see whether they
will take proceedings.
The Commission then adjourned.
The other day the Sugar Commission tried
to get some facts in reference to the Aus-
tralian sugar trade but of the Sugar Co. di-
rectors. One of the directors refused, even
as T. A. Field did last week, to say a word;
the rest didn’t trouble to appear before the
Commission at all. Under the law as it
stands, each of these recalcitrant directors
may be fined £5O if the magistrate decides
that they are guilty of the offence charged—
incidentally each of them may be fined 2d. or
less apiece, according as the magistrate feels
in the matter. The case of but one of the
directors has been under review for close on
i wo months now, and it is still going strong.
It may be five years before it reaches any
sort of finality. In the event of T. A. Field
being proceeded against, it may be five years
before anything definite can be done to him
—assuming he is convicted of having defied
the Commission —and even if the worst be-
falls, it won’t worry him to the extent of one
mild imprecation. As this paper has re-
marked before, the whole situation relative
to Royal Commissions is as impractical and
unbusinesslike and generally demented as
Sydney’s Hump and Dead End railway sta-
tion. Royal Commissions, in the present
state of the law, can only elicit those facts
which interested parties appearing before
them are willing to give. That is to say,
they can only elicit facts which are to all
intents and purposes useless. Till the
presidents of these bodies are given the
same powers to commit to prison for con-
tempt which District Court Judges, etc.,
hold, Royal Commissions will continue to be
wildly extravagant farces. As there seems
no likelihood of the Government giving them
the powers that are requisite to make them
effective, the odds are they will shortly be
abandoned as useless. Even the good, easy
Australian public is beginning to kick at
the utter futility, to sav nothing of the
criminal extravagance, of them in their
present form.
Men in Petticoats.
“Saighear” on a millinery matter : —
Apparently all this blither about the kilt being
taken from the Scottish regiments arises from the
popular belief that this furniture is the Scottish
national dress. It is not, and it never was, except
perhaps in the days of Constantine and his pre-
decessors, when Scotland didn’t extent south of
the Forth. It is, or rather used to be,
the dress of the Highland elans; but the
Highlanders do not number one-fourth of the
population of Scotland, and they were for a very
long time the curse of that ancient kingdom. The
old Scotland of the Bruces and the Stewarts, with
Highland enemies on one side and English enemies
on the other, was always fighting for its life, and
always between the hammer and the anvil. Each
mostly-savage clan wore its own tartan, so that
friend or foe was easily recognised; but after the
rebellion of 1745 an Act was passed suppressing the
kilt as an easy way of smashing the clans, and
though the measure was repealed in 1792, the old
dress never came back into favor. At the present
day it is rarely seen in the Highlands.
When the Black Watch was formed in 1739 it
wore the kilt as a matter of course, since it was
raised from the Highlands at a time when the kilt
was the universal dress there. Subsequently, when
other regiments were raised, they were allowed to
wear the old garment even after it had been pro-
hibited as a dress of the people. This was merely
a cunning Sassenach scheme devised to work on the
Highlanders’ sentiment, and thus stimulate recruit-
ing. It succeeded, with the result that at one time
no less than 80 kilted regiments were fighting in
different parts of the world. Now, however, there
are only five—the Black Watch, Gordons, Seaforths,
Camerons and the Argyll and Sutherland High-
landers. The trouble that afflicts Australia seems to
have begun in the ’so’s, when a volunteer regiment
of Scotsmen was raised in London. They applied
for leave to wear the kilt, and as the War Office was
pretty scatter-brained at the time, it told them to
put on any old thing they liked. Still, this regi-
ment had no tartan, the kilt being grey all through.
That foolish precedent, no doubt, led to the Scottish
regiments in “the Colonies” being granted leave to
wear the petticoat whenever they applied for per-
mission.
The much more numerous Lowlander in Scotland
has no time for the kilt, and never wore it at any
period in the history of the nation. True, when-
ever he gets to London or “the Colonies,” he is
occasionally fool enough to masquerade in someone
else’s tartan, and tries to make people believe it is
Scotland’s national dress and his own national outfit.
Naturally, Duncan McTavish, the real but rare
Highlander, has no pleasure in seeing his ancient
clobber worn thus by those who have no right to it,
and in taking this view of the case he is backed up
by Donald McDonald and Alister McNeil, to
say nothing of Cameron and Munro and lan McFar-
lane. All these view the bogus kilted person with
profound contempt.
In the Scottish regiments in Sydney there are pro-
bably not more than a dozen true-born Highlanders ;
hence the utter absurdity of this great fuss about the
removal of a dress which the wearers never cared two-
pence about before they began to put on military
doc and dignitv. Even the men of the regular regi-
ment of Scottish Rifles in Scotland, better known as
the Cameronians, do not wear the kilt; and by the
same token the regiment formerly recruited from the
Highlands, and then known as MacLeod s High-
landers, lost the kilt when it was definitely fixed in
a Lowland district, and was turned into an infantry
regiment, now known as the Highland Light Infantry.
A Paper which Considers that Every-
thing in the City of Sydney is Lovely.
Last week the S. M. Herald was inspired
by some guarded remarks on the civic pro-
blem from James Bryce to discuss the local
municipal question.» A fragment is worth
reprinting, if only for its superb futility :
Indeed, Australia has every reason to be proud of
the record of its municipal institutions. They have
provided a most useful school in which many of our
public men have made their first essays in the fields
of administration before entering upon a wider
sphere. But for their existence many a man of talent
might have been lost to the country. Moreover, quite
apart from their value as a training ground for em-
bryo politicians, our municipalities have rendered
great- services to civi6 life. Generally speaking, they
have been keenly alive to their responsibilities, and
have met them'efficiently In Sydney the Council
is a body whose work benefits not only its own con-
stituents, but an enormous number of others. As
Mr. Bkyce pointed out, in Sydney the municipality
has unrivalled opportunities; incidentally it has
immense difficulties, and the solution of the one will
involve the realisation of the other. The remodelling
and beautification of the city, the provision of open
spaces, the countless ways in which its amenities can
be increased —all these things present a worthy goal
for municipal endeavor, and no doubt Mr. Bryce’s
words will remind our city fathers once again of the
obligations of their position, and spur them to further
effort.
As to whether Australia’s municipalities
have earned their oats, so to speak, as pre-
paratory schools for politicians, the public
may possibly be divided. As regards their
“services to civic life,” intelligent opinion is
solid ; and it is to the effect that such ser-
vices are nil, or next door thereto. The use-
fulness, for example, of the Sydney Council,
as it stands to-day, may best be gauged by
the things it hasn’t done, or hasn’t been
allowed to do, and the consequent deplorable
condition of the city. The gas supply is iu
the hands of a private company. The illum-
inant that is retailed to the citizens is rotten
in quality, in many instances, and extrava-
gant in price. The water supply, the life
blood of every civilised city, is outside the
Council’s control. Sydney has no say in the
running of any of its transport services.
The State Government manages its chaotic
tramway system; private companies exploit
its harbor ferries, and other companies own
its low-comedy ’buses and cabs. A Federal
department looks after its telephones, and
makes a painful hash of the job, too. The
urgent duty of street-cleaning is divided up
among about half a hundred differ-
ent municipalities. Some of them take
no stock whatever in street cleaning,
and let dust, dead dogs, rats, decaying
vegetables and other obscene circumstances
lie round untended for weeks at a time.
Others favor the sanitary devices of the
Early Victorian period. In these quarters
you will occasionally identify small boys
attacking large garbage heaps with house-
maids’ pails and brooms. The old-time, one-
horse watering cart, with rope, or string, at-
tachment, is constantly visible in the chief
streets of the metropolis. The traffic is in a
chronic state of disorganisation. Drivers of
wheeled vehicles steer their conveyances pretty
well anywhere they like; carry two lights
or one or none, as the spirit moves them;
and, in general, behave as though there were
no authorities supervising matters in the
interests of the community’s collective life
and limb. And there are verv few. The
infrequent traffic constable that is to be
seen in the more populous parts of the town,
is independent of the Council. Sydney
wants a North Shore bridge badly; the
Council cannot build it. It is in desDerate
and immediate need of an underground rail-
way system; the Council cannot undertake
the business. For years past the Mayor and
aldermen have wasted precious time sup-
plying visiting notabilities with bad din-
ners, wraneding about the wages _ of
the Council’s employees, “improving”
affluent streets by stealing bits of
the public’s parks and open spaces, and
blithering so vigorously the while as to
convey a vague impression that they were
doing useful work. In this they have been
heartily encouraged by the local daily press.
The Herald supplied a good example of the
latter tendency in its leader of last Thurs-
day. For instance: —
No doubt Mr. Bryce’s words will remind our city-
fathers once again of the obligations of their posi-
tions, and spur them to further effort.
What a perfectly imbecile reflection as
things stand to-day! So long as the Greater
Svdney ideal remains unrealised our city
fathers are as impotent to do for Sydney the
things it really needs, as the Australian Par-
liament (in the existing state of the Con-
stitution) is to pass an effective Navigation
Act.
Packers, llogs, Monopolists and
Sundries.
“0.K.” views the political aspect of things
from the theatre gallery: —
The boom in grand opera at Melbourne revived the
old discussion re the theatre “packer” in all his bear-
ings. The packer had his abusers and excusers, and
during the lull in the conflict of allegation the still
small voice of unbiassed criticism was heard protest-
ing that, although the packer may be all very well
in his way, he never ought to be there at all. Why
isn’t a seat in a theatre gallery a properly defined
space, like a seat in, say, the London tube railway
cars, or a threepenny place at a picture show ? The man-
agement that employs a space-maker, instead of allot-
ting the spaces itself, is the cause of all the trouble.
Thin people have their rights as well as fat. The
lOst. man and slim girl are entitled to sit comfort-
ably together, whereas the huge man and his bulkier
missis are entitled to suffer their size, as they would
suffer the gout. But under the “close-up” system of
seating accommodation, the sins of the fat are visited
upon the lean, and these lean ones, who are of most
worth to the management, get the most discomfort.
Fat, in a measure, protects itself in a squeeze, whilst
thinness is defenceless. There should be some sort
of division between seats in every pit, gallery or
public vehicle. If a Labor Government wants to
urge the consistency of its democratic policy, it
should pass measures to ensure a fair seat in all
sitting' affairs of life to everyone who pays for it—
rich or poor. Theatres licensed to seat , a certain
number of people seat more than their number on
crowded nights, because the packer is energetic.
Tramcars don’t contain the full number they are
licensed to carry, because the apathetic conductor
allows the seated hogs to monopolise space that
should be given to people who are standing on the
footboard. Socialistic legislation is the crying need
of the most amiable citizens everywhere. The hogs
onlv are opposed to it. ...
The hogs are largely feminine. The packer at
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) wrote in his defence:
“The monopolist makes his appearance in the theatre
galleries, as elsewhere, and more often he is a she. The
woman who pays for one scat, and then tries to occupy
two, is quite a frequent nuisance, and moral suasion
is about as effective in shifting her as it would be in
removing a brick house. The people whom the packer
provides seats for regard him as a public benefactor.
Those whom he stacks together regard him as a
monster, and they are the ones who write indignant
letters to the newspapers.”
That is so. It is always women who snort, or get
men to snort on their behalf. The socialistic legis-
lation I speak of is needed mainly by men, for their
protection against the she-monopolist. In the tram-
cars it is the woman who spreads out herself and
her belongings, and resents the idea that she ought
to have some consideration for her fellow-creatures’
rights. Her essential dishonesty has become more
pronounced, perhaps, since she got the suffrage.
Woman in the tram-car ’S mv particular studv. Re-
flecting on her fondness by day for keeping Man on
the footboard, whilst she monopolises spare space,
and for practically pushing him out of his seat “to
oblige a lady” when he is dog-tired, I used to be
astonished at her willingness to stand up in the car
at night, rather than take a seat when it is offered
her. Why did all those theatre-dressed women crowd
into the cars and hang on to the leather straps for
support, when they might get a comfortable seat by
waiting for the next tram? Because, bv so doing,
they can easilv “bilk” the conductor. The crowded,
upstanding ladies never miss a chance to avoid pay-
ing their fares. Whichever way the conductor is
coming, they turn their opera-cloaked backs to him.
And seeing that those dear ladies are in excess of
the number the vehicle is licensed to carry, I secretly
reioice in their awful dishonest v.
But I am forgetting the gallery-packer m mv
wanderings. He is the natural product of the bad
svstem which permits overcrowding in theatres, even
as woman’s dishonesty as regards her fare is the
natural result of overcrowding in trams. The means
to do ill deeds makes ill deeds done. If there were
no packing in theatres or standing in licensed public
vehicles, the community would breathe a purer spirit
of fair plav. Which is what the community requires.
Proper socialistic legislation would safeguard woman
against the temptation to steal space and rob the
tramway treasury. She doesn’t ask for this protec-
tion, but I would like her to get it.
♦
: It, is a queer fact that if you
are in search of blatant larrilcinism, abusive-
ness, violence and threatening language in
politics, you will almost invariably find it
on the Liberal side, whether in the State
or Federal arenas. The wealthier the Lib-
eral, as a general thing, the poorer his man-
ners are. W. H. Wood and Colonel J.
Macartiiur Onslow, of Camden Park, in
the N.S.W. Assembly, are run close in the
matter of gratuitous offensiveness by W. H.
Kelly and Colonel Granville Ryrie, in the
House of Representatives. Ryrie is a large,
meaty man, who is understood to be some-
thing unusual in the pugilistic line. The
S. M. Herald (6/2/’l2) provided an ex-
ample of one of his favorite methods of
controversy:—
Colonel Ryrie (to Mr. Poynton) : You are old
enough to know much better.
Mr. Poynton : !? !
Colonel Ryrie (warmly) : If you were not so old
I would take another stand.
This swashbuckling politician has only been
in the House a few brief months, yet already
he has darkly adumbrated the possibility of
his administering corporal chastisement to
at least two of his opponents —both frail,
elderly men who could not put up a decent
scrap with a 14-year-old schoolboy. IT is
when I observe Kelly breaking all the rules
of the social game as played between decent
Parliamentarians, irrespective of class or
nationality ; and when I hear Onslow bleat-
ing about Labor “blackguards” and “scoun-
drels” ; and when I see Wood rolling, amid
policemen, on the floor of the House; and
when I hear Ryrie threatening to stoush
enfeebled old men —it is when these things
happen, I repeat, that I rejoice that I
acquired such manners as I possess in the
society of. a select coterie of coal-heavers.
♦
Bumble and Dogberry are looking for a fall
at North Sydney. At present the munici-
palities on that side of the harbor are
lighted by gas, kerosene, candles and the un-
certain stars. Whatever motive power is re-
quired is supplied by divers antique devices.
But there is no electricity—and North Syd-
ney wants electricity. The Sydney City
Council owns a magnificent plant. It sup-
plies lighting and power at a cheap rate to
various suburbs south of the harbor, and it
lately offered to do the same for those in
North Sydney. But the Sydney Council
can’t supply electricity without mains, and
when it asked for permission to lay them,
the Bumbledom which rules those munici-
palities told it to go to the Devil, or told the
Devil to go to it, in a way of speaking. At
the same time it was understood that
Bumbledom was negotiating with a private
concern to supply the goods. Now, it isn’t
alleged that the City Council couldn’t supply
as good and cheap a service as any private
co. The only ground of opposition is that
to admit the municipal enterprise would
“give a lift to Greater Sydney,” and North
Shore Bumbledom detests the idea of
Greater Svdney, which would wipe it off the
globe. But what has the North Sydney in-
habitant (who isn’t Bumble) to say on the
subject, even if he only considers it from
the unromantic standpmnt of hard cash?
The only private electrical concern at pre-
sent in action is the Balmain Co. Granted
that it may supply some suburbs at about
as cheap a rate as the City Council, it
should be remembered that it got its con-
tracts in competition with the City Council.
But if the Balmain Co. had a monopoly—
as the other private concern would have in
North Sydney—it would probably sky prices
until consumers would drop dead while try-
ing to reach them. That is the way of
monopolies. England furnishes an example.
During the year ended March, 1912,, lo
boroughs in the Greater London area manu-
factured and supplied electricity at the aver-
age price of Is. 9d. per 10 units, while in 10
other boroughs Brivate Enterprise was bag-
ging and selling the fluid at 2s. 4d. for 10
units. The contrast is considerable enougn
to warrant the prospective North Sydney
consumer pasting it in his collective hat. It
he does, and looks into the headgear at the
proper time, probably Bumbledom will re-
ceive the fall above alluded to. If he doesn t
—if he, too, is out to scotch Greater Syd-
ney, even at the point of his cheque book
then it will be up to Parliament to get
ready its biggest gun against the time when
Private Enterprise sends along its Enabling
Bill.
♦
A deputation of Mallee block holders at
Ouyen (Vic.) interviewed Lands Minister
McKenzie, the other day, and asked him
to alter the law so that they could get a
negotiable lease for their lands in three years
instead of the six which their contracts stip-
ulate for. These settlers nominally buy
their land at £l' per acre, hut as the pay-
ments are spread over 40 years at a very
low rate of interest, and the State advances
up to 66 per cent, of the value of their im-
provements, they, in effect, pay something
like Bs. per acre. The State’s idea is to
settle persons (and families) permanently
on the soil, to which end it stipulates that
the buyers must reside thereon for at least
six years—a very moderate limit, consider-
ing the period over which the payments are
spread. Obviously the settlers didn’t want
their leases in three years for mortgaging
purposes ; the sole idea was to sell to the big
landholder, and then repeat the process ad
lib. Minister McKenzie said “No,” but he
mentioned that the Australian Government
could, if it liked, so arrange matters that
Lands Ministers wouldn’t have to say any-
thing. Just as there would be few thieves
if there were no receivers, so there
would be few speculative land sellers if there
were no speculative buyers. And there
would be no buyers—other than genuine
small settlers —if the Federal land tax were
re-graduated on such a swiftly-increasing
scale that it would be absolutely ruinous
for any individual to buy up these mallee
blocks, or to hold any sizeable area unless he
worked it to somewhere near the limit of its
productive power. To be of full disruptive
value the present land tax should be heavy
enough to accomplish its work in 10 years.
It should always remain in force, but. it
should not be relied on after that to bring
in more than £lOOO a year or so —just as a
protective tariff shouldn’t bring in the huge
customs revenue the present compromise
tariff is doing. Land settlement has no true
relation to revenue : it is a matter of defence,
like the tariff; and until a country is ade-
quately settled, it cannot be adequately
defended.
4
About our most recent Scandal: —
As one of the Sydney dailies put it last week: —
“It is no secret that well-nigh everybody who has
followed the operations of the Totalisator Commission
was looking forward to a renort in favor of the intro-
duction of the betting machine.”
Considering that about 90 per cent, of the evidence
which was given before the Commission was strongly
in favor of the Totalisator, the above is a moderate
presentation of the case. Most of the Anti-Tote argu-
The Other Sort of Speech.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Hughes kept the House for two hours crowded
with friends and foes who, if they. did not appreciate
his arguments, enjoyed his amazing versatility and
volatility.— Sydney Sun, last week.
Mr Hughes was leading the Government. But it
was not the brisk, alert Mr. Hughes of last week.
It was a new Mr. Hughes, semi-somnolent and list-
less. Other Ministers sat beside him, also. the prey
of an overmastering desire to yawn. (List ol ail
the members who yawned.)... .Mr Quick who
was talking about the Commonwealth Bank, evi-
dently found it hard to resist following the example
of the Marquis of Hartington, who, on one occasion,
stopped in the middle of his speech and yawned.
— Sydney Sun, this week.
Who wants to make a speech?
Who wants to crash, and thump, and roar
like breakers on a beach?
Who yearns to mesmerise the House, and
set the country reading?
Who wants to dazzle galleries with brilliant
party leading?. . . .
No answer silence. ... .someone yawns
.... another shifts his feet.
Behold the statesmen! Nothing done, and
everyone dead beat!
Still someone makes a speech!
A weary tongue and ponderous is sticking
like a leech , ,
To some unlikely prey—a bank of wood and
stone and metal;
The flower of sleep is falling now —each eye-
lid, like a petal,
Slips over ev’ry eye, and deeply thoughtful
snores ascending
To this great edifice of gas an air of peace
is lending;
And he who talks to men half-dead, drones
on like any parrot
Who tries, while dozing on his perch, to
nibble up a carrot.
Of what avail the leader’s cry that rings
out, oh! so clearly,
In this still place of mental death? He does
not cheer sincerely.
The watcher sees his furtive yawns —his
sidelong looks of longing
At those around who lounge and sprawl, and
yawning members thronging
Towards the doors that open swing upon
their well-oiled hinges,
And let them seek the open air away from
talk-syringes; . , , ,
The sullen doors swing back —a breath of
fresh air fans the faces ;
Then all is stagnant once again. Outside are
sunlit places
And busy streets, where Life flows fast and
all is sane and healthy; . .
But here is madness and still air. A time-
piece white and stealthy
Makes angles with its moving hands, and
proves by signs Masonic
That graveyards yawn and death draws near.
It is a fiend sardonic.
The two small winding holes look down on
talkers in their stations,
While its untiring Devil-hands work out
Death’s calculations.
The great and weary House of Froth, where
once stood fools orating,
A brooding limbo now becomes, or stale hell
merely waiting
For some new irritant wherewith to sting its
calloused boarders,
And drive across the whisp’ring page the
pencils of recorders. .
Life dances by outside ; in here, Eternity is
lying;
Each hour crawls like a wounded snake, in-
stead of lightly flying.
Yet Something says, “Hear, hear!’ For
what? What is the ghost applauding?
Oh, yes! A dreary spirit’s words dumb
spectres are recording.
It doesn’t matter what he says—his own
voice seems to bore him ;
Soon he will to his coffin hie and pull his
grave clothes o’er him.
The Crack of Doom alone will still the voices
of the spectres
Who speechify whilst waiting for the Devil’s
tax collectors.
Observe the sluggish flow of bosh that laves
the arid beach,
But lately torn by storms of talk —the Other
Sort of Speech !
N.S.W.
KODAK.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
; JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA”
. . . and . . .
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.”
A GRAND DOUBLE.
4
Estab. 1742
At Last
Australia has a palace of delight for the sated
seeker of rest and entertainment
Theatre de_Lnxg offers rest in roomy upholstered chairs- its
appointment and decoration gently urge their beauty on him while
being entertained by scenes of travel, mirth or life from manv’where
All this while breathing God’s pure air.
-~ e Wmter Garqen, a symphony of Color and tastefully luxurious fur-
“f^ ng : grilles, frozen dainties and afternoon tea fit for the
The Arcatles of a Thousand Wonders amuse and entertain those of
thie^uxurS. 111 a multltude of novel ways: Any man can afford
By al! means-vlsit The CfyStai Palate, SvdlU»V.
Direction J - D - WILLIAMS. The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
ments emanated from such witnesses as the Arch-
bishop of Sydney, who admitted to the Commission,
Auth a benignant smile, that he had never made a
net, never been on a racecourse, never seen a Tote
machine, knew nothing of racing, and did not number
one bookie m his list of friends. After which he pro-
ceeded to state blandly that he was opposed to the
rote, lock, stock and barrel. The typical big bettor,
who is naturally delighted at the outcome of the
affair, • admits that the clerical arguments in opposi-
tion to the Tote were mostly idiotic; but opines,
with a slow wink of the dexter (or sinister, as the
case may be) eyelid that the powerful arguments
ot some of the bookies did the trick. With the brief
remark that some of the bookies are powerful in
other than merely controversial directions, this
writer is satisfied to pass sorrowfully on to other
aspects of the case.
For one thing, at least, the tax-paying public has
cause to be grateful, namely, that the dashed old
Commission has at last seen fit to put an end to it-
self. It is many weary months since it began pere-
grinating Australasia at the expense of the inhabi-
tants of IS,. S. Wales, and there was really no reason
why it should have stopped for years. A trip to
r ranee for the purpose of scrutinising the tote at
work at Longchainps, Auteuil and Bois de Coloinbes
respectively, would have been invaluable, also amus-
ing and profitable. In the land of the Hairy Ainu
there is no racing, and consequently neither book-
makers nor Tote machines. The Commission might
have gleaned some useful facts from this far land
(certainly as useful as any they could elicit from a
non-betting Archbishop), and, incidentally, examined
a few Amu concerning the form of gambling thev
would favor in the event of the thoroughbred horse
and its appurtenances being introduced to their evil-
smeHing shores. Pekin, Buda-Pesth and Jerusalem were
ail lelt unexploited for some obscure reason. Further-
more, the problem was left unsolved as to what pro-
portion of Anti-Bookmaker evidence (as above-
mentioned, about 90 per cent, of the evidence taken
by the Commission was Pro-Tote) would have satis-
fied The sainted Bruntnell as to the desirabilitv of
wiping out the man behind the bag.
Take it for all in all, the Totalisator Commission
has been a futile and unsatisfactory affair, and about
the most pleasing tiling in connection with it is that
it is now no more.
T ♦
Five months ago one name
Ihe Bulletin didn’t mention at the time
—was found guilty in Sydney of the
offence of selling as milk a substance
that was JfO per cent, water. This paper
incidentally remarked upon the fact
and Mr. Hobson felt so hurt about
it that he asked for £lOOO. Last
week a jury awarded him one farthing,
and the Court permitted him the pleasure
of paying his own costs, which will probably
amount to £2OO. The Bulletin regrets
that it can’t feel very sorry for Mr. Hobson,
or any other similarly misguided litigant,
it offered him at the outset a chance to ex-
plain that he personally was away at the
time the cow was insulted so outrageously,
and he didn’t choose to avail himself of the
only thing that this paper’s ideas of fairness,
mingled with a certain amount of generosity
would permit it to offer. The fight being
over, The Bulletin gives Hobson what
ever benefit there may be in the explanation
now. In the campaign against bogus
goods something substantial has been
gained. This paper remarked that thev
were such a national curse that the
only proper remedy seemed to be a brief
retirement in a cool cell without any flower-
pots on the window-ledge ; and there appears
to be only a farthing’s worth of difference
between this paper and the jury.
Melbourne Herald last week preached a
bright little sermon on George Reid’s refer-
ence to “the infernal snobbishness (British)
which draws the line between the clerk and
the artisan.” George was merely repeating
the conventional error that snobbery is con-
fined to the “genteel” classes, and has no
place in the composition of “working-man”
society. As a matter of fact, the average
artisan draws snobbish comparisons between
his superior wages and the inferior pay of
the bank clerk. He is snobbish in his envi-
ous over-estimation of professional men—
doctors, lawyers, etc. Snobberv runs
m all shapes, in a turf way of speaking.
George Reid probably has it. ' If a shabbily-
dressed stranger clanped him on the back he
would, no doubt, look round indignantly,
but if he found that the familiarity canie
from a millionaire who wore shabby 'clothes
as a fad. it would almost assuredlv
make a difference. Why, the mainstay of
snobbishness is titular distinction, ‘and
George Reid is a K.C.M.G., anyhow.
Concerning a valuable bit of dirt
“Alston’s Corner,” at the N.E. angle of Collins
and Elizabeth streets, Melbourne, is to be put up for
sale in August. At the first land auction the half-
acre was bought by a carpenter named Ross for
£32, the purchaser entering into a bond to erect
upon it a “substantial building’’ within two years.
The value of the substantial building was fixed at
£3.0. The corner in early clays was known as
“Cashmore’s,” and later on as “Number One.” Bonwick
says the half-acre was once placarded: “This land for
sale at f 2 per foot,” and in 1839 it realised, in
lots, £650. A shop on the corner, built in 1840 and
demolished in 1903, was said to be “the first brick
building erected in Melbourne,” though the state-
ment is doubtful, as Fawkner, Batman and one or
two others had substantial houses in 1839. The little
shop next door, occupied half a century ago by Ed-
ward Arnold, bookseller, was built in 1845, and was
demolished in 1910. A building of six floors and
basement was put up on the corner in 1903, on a 25
years building lease, at £5OO a year ground rent
The property has been in one family for over 70
years, and this is the first time it has been offered
to the public. In 1888 the half-acre was valued at
£493,500. Ross, the original oroorietor, came from
Van Diemen’s Land with John Batman, and two
years ago a son of his was an inmate of the Hotne
of the Little Sisters of the Poor at Northcote, near
Melbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
n,?L MAJBSTY ’ S Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
CansßioH “Nightbirds.”
"Kismet.”
Adklphi “ The Bad Girl of the Family ”
£ ALA ? “The Wearing of the Green!”
livoLi .. Rickards' Vaudeville Co
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
•■•••• Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
PiuncZs A Continuous Pictures.
riiiNCEss West’s Pictures.
rvI l ! ,I>IA West’s Pictures.
••• spencer’s Pictures.
r ™ P ALA CK Continuous Pictures, etc.
Imperial Rink Roller Skating.
Glaciaricjm jce Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
OYAIj , ‘‘The Blue Bird.”
Her Majesty's “ The Quaker Girl.”
Princess’s “ A Woman of No Importance.”
JV NGS a ’* w hen London Sleeps.”
«7 PKR f OUBB Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wests Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Glaciarium Ice Gliding.
I own Ha 11.., Eleonora de Cisneros.
.The. recrudescence of the masked burglar
boom in and around Sydney is probably due
to the season of the “Nightbirds,” at the
Criterion. Who wouldn’t be a masked burg-
lar when he can get all the comforts of home,
plus assorted girl, in the New Age gaol,
with W. S. Percy as his warder?
The Wearing of the Green,” which Allen
Doone and a number of his employees pro-
duced at the Palace (Sydney) on Saturday
evening, might have been a better play if i‘t
had been differently written. Likewise, it
is tarn to admit that it might have been a
different play if it had been better written.
It is impossible to read its title, for instance
without expecting some of the strong blood
ot the 98 tragedies, or even a clod or two
from Vinegar Hill; but, instead of that, the
audience s cake is the same old dough, made
up of the suety father who wishes his son
to marry the adjoining heiress, the gingery
son who refuses to marry anybody but the
impoverished young person who is a clergy-
man s daughter in her spare time, the general
stir-about, the right-side-up at the finish—
and there you are! It would have been
better to have named the piece “The Baring
of the Lean.”. Still, it is a pleasant trifle,
surrounded with the romantic Irish spirit
which is calculated to bring a glow of
joy to even an Orange lodge, and, if for
nothing else, is certainly worth a visit for
the sake of seeing the scene in the Dublin
Hall when Allen Doone sings Boucicault’s
famous song. The acting is of that even
nature which does not call for much criti-
cism unless to provoke hostilities. Both
Allen Doone and Edna Keeley, who play
leads, would be the better for a reduction of
pose in their acting, but that, perhaps, is a
detail. On the whole, if the name of the
play is changed' to “Mavourneen Ahoy,” or
something like that, this writer is prepared
to recommend it. Otherwise, it has his un-
dying hostility in moderation.
"THE MARRIAGES OF
MAYEAJR,” AT SYDNEY
A DELPHI.
Nellie Morlyne as the land-
lady with a chequered career.
Hugh Buckler as
the villain who
was checked.
The Tivoli this week dodges the Sundry
bhow inspector by making three changes at
the Wednesday matinee, when this Bul-
letin is entangled with masses of machin-
ery. Ihe new people are Alec Hurley (coster
impersonator), Niagara and Falls (mixed
comedy acrobatic team), and Frank J. Sid-
ney and his jumning co. On Saturday night
last, the Webb Brothers, whose job is musi-
cal clowning, came along to be cleverly fool-
ish, and give the necessary dash of novelty
to_ the week-end bill. The weekly Tivolean
will probably find the Hans Paxton acro-
batic troupe, juggler Charles Hera and come-
dian Bluett still about the premises when he
drops in to see the new turns.
*
The Stage Society’s production of the
brilliant comedy, “You Can Never Tell,” at
the Concordia Hall, Sydney, was a valiant
attempt at the interpretation of one of the
most difficult of Shaw’s plays. Possibly this
comedy will never be played with a perfect
cast, so exacting are many of the parts. But
as a production, there were fewer ragged
ends and fewer weak strands in this perform-
ance than is usual in the realms of amateur
acting. The main defect —and in the case of
Shaw, where every word is worth hearing,
a radical defect —was the inability, or disin-
clination, of several of the characters to
become audible to any but the front rows of
the audience. This left the brilliance of the
first act to be remembered from the published
play. With some stiffening of professional
talent, the evil should have been avoided, but
even Mr. Wilton Welch mouthed his speeches
inaudibly. Mr. S. R. Innes-Nogd played the
comparatively obvious part of Mr. Cramp-
ton with intelligence, not failing to achieve
the necessary pathos, but Miss E. Gavin
Brown, as his separated wife, failed to con-
vey any. very clear idea of Shaw’s conception
of the bitter, out-of-date suffragette. Possibly,
her weakness was due to the weakness of hex-
voice. As the irrepressible, impossible twins,
whose unending gabble is so difficult to pro-
duce stage, Miss Molly Macarthur
and Mr. Wilton Welch, while admirable in
patches, failed to act together with the
almost automatic identity that Shaw in-
tended. Miss Macarthur was gay and cheeky
enough, but her twin could but indicate
tamtly the mercurial temperament of Philip
Clandon. As the insouciant, blase and buoy-
ant hero, the five-shilling dentist, Valentine,
r - • vay Semper gave the fatal impression
ot being not quite at. ease in his preposterous
love-making: but his professional training
helped him in the more dramatic moments.
3lrs. K. Suttor played the straight part of
Clona with certainty and the requisite
statuesque coldness. Mr. A. C. Stephen, as
.tinch McComas, was admirable in spots,
with relapses into ineffectiveness; and Mr.
. • r*- Orchard, whose voice could be heard,
just failed to give to the part of Bohun the
lull force of the brutal bullying of the pros-
perous Q.C. The star part of William, the
waiter, was played by Mr. Sidney Stirling
in a manner that commended itself to the
audience, but he showed none of the uncon-
scious pathos of the character. Still, it was
a good, clean and consistent performance
within its limits. It seems a pity that this
brilliant example of Bernard Shaw should
be limited to one night’s performance; but
either Sydney playgoers do not know of the
efforts the Stage Society is making to pro-
duce good plays, or they are still in the
kindergarten class, confined to pantomime
and musical comedy. (The class which
patronises ‘The Face at the Window” is of
course, a thing apart. It is never expected
to rise to Shaw, and if it tried to do so the
Shaw schooi would probably feel as uncom-
fortable as a person who was followed bv a
friendly and devoted alligator.)
* * * *
If all Marquises and Earls gave up their
titles on so short notice and with so little
persuasion as the .Marquis of Deerminster
now residing at the Adelphi, with the “Mar-
riages ot Mayfair” co., it would only take
a tew weeks to persuade the whole aris-
tocracy that it shouldn’t be there. Deer-
minster s final renunciation will happen on
1 riday. After that, the vacant baronial halls
wili be occupied by “The Bad Girl of the
.ramify, a moderately wicked young woman
already been in lodgings at the
Adelphi.
The Crystal Palace, ,f. D. Williams’s new-
est Sydney enterprise, is thronged all around
the clock and already it begins to cry aloud
tor sandsoap and steriliser. When thou-
sands of people daily embrace the handles of
the automatic machines and breathe into the
peepholes, it is no wonder that'now, after
tinee weeks, the most popular instruments
can be told by their aroma of mine-led
tobacco, eau-de-Cologne and peanuts. The
movmg-mcture theatre, which is but one
ot the Hi attractions, is the freshest section
or the palace, and its other qualities make it
tlie fast word in this variety of show.
«* * *
Hie Quinlan Grand Opera Co. arrives at
ler Majesty s, Sydney, on Saturday night
next, vice Smbad the Sailor,” whose vessel
is flying the Blue Peter of imminent de-
parture as these lines are penned. The open-
ing work is “The Tales of Hoffmann.” On
Monday Tannhauser.” on Tuesdav “The
f& rl , of „ th £ Holden West,” on Wednesday
iales ot Hoffmann,” and on Thursday “La
Boheme will be presented.
.** * *
National Amphitheatre n”t ron s will have
no further opportunity of being publicly de-
based by Norwood, the hypnotist, after to-
rnglit (Thursday). He is leaving Sydney
not without a touch oT bitterness at the
action of the local police in forbidding him
m- ab °M H> e city streets with his eves
blindfolded. llis plan was to demonstrate
that a skilled hypnotist could safely defy
the most chaotic traffic. The same sort of
show has been given before, but this writer
disremembers where the dead are buried.
Billy Watson, of London, the Waldrons and"
others, will keep the ball of diversion rolling
in the absence of the driver who didn’t
drive.
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA AT HER
MAJESTY’S (MEL-
BOURNE), “AIRS.
BUTTERFLY.”
W. J. Samuell as
Sharpless.
F. The Gregorio
as Pinkerton.
“LOHENGRIN
Frederick of Telramund (Robert Parker).
live years ago the experiment of produc-
ing, tor a chari,y matinee, in any Australian
cuy, but perhaps most of all in Sydney, a
programme solely composed of one-act Aus-
tralian plays would have been impossible.
At the Criterion, on Saturday, a big matinee
audience watched with interest the efforts at
play-wrnmg produced by Mr. Douglas Anee-
lon, tor, the benefit of the Koombana relief
tund. lhe Explanation,” a quite conven-
tional romantic drama, by Miss Ethel
Biancliley, afforded Miss Louise Oarbasse an
opportunity to look very like Nellie Stewart,
and to act with convincing sincerity in a
part that called only for melodrama. The
second act of “Madame Dudevant,” an his-
torical drama by Mr. Humphrey Hall,
founded on the life of Georges Sand, dealt
with the well-known incident of a woman's
love affair with De Musset in Venice, and
t ie aiiival of Dr. Pagello, who was scheduled
in i *5. n f xt on tbe list of that amorous
lady s attachments. The author had made
of history, but the act failed to
impress, simply because it was not dramatic,
or no L treated in dramatic manner. The
acting of Douglas Ancelon and Miss Stella
Site g ! 0od though u was, failed to
make the play anything but tame. But
nart a nf 10 p ‘‘'n not a f . air chance, since the
Th. ±ZT 11( \ was , > n ineffective hands.
Tim morality play, Dr. Death,” by Mr.
Arthur H. Adams, was a success. Admirablv
Mr ’iKlin M T' V n tor Coh ?" as the M an, and
Mi. Austin Loughnan as Death, in the guise
of a fashionable physician, this grim & and
original play proved itself the best of this
author s work to date. “Gertie’s Glad Eye ”
brivhti amblt .\°, lls far^ e bv Mr. Clarence Lee,
brightly written and brilliantly played, in-
troduced to the Australian stage the first
Marv I fhp C< kb? US f Allstraliai ? kid* As Maud
ary, the kid of presumably 11. dressed in
lhe brief skirts of childhood, and with a
careless display of real leg, Miss Lily Mollov


STECK
flew Shipments of STECKS monthly In
Bu -I Walnut, Circassian Walnut, Rosewood,
Mahogany, Waxed Oaw, Ebony, in Art Cases
One of the World’s
Great PIANOS.
The first appearance of the STECK Piano
in public competition was at the Inter-
national Exhibition at Vienna, in 1873,
where it gained the Highest Prize, the
only Gold Medal, above all .competitors.
The STECK tone can be distinguished
from that of all other pianos by reason of
its extraordinary pure, resonant, liquid
qualities. The STECK test for a piano
begins where the test for an ordinary
piano leaves off.
You should call at Pianola Hall, and see
the STECK if you are interested in good
pianos.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 George Street,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
252 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
3lt Queen Street,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q. N. Bank).
London, Paris, Berlin and New York. [23
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PIXT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE
Lowf.st Rates Charged.
’ Phone No. 236 Central.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
15,000 Miles Non-Stop Run
World’s Record.
Siddeley Deasy
Detachable Wire Wheels.
SILENT KNIGHT ENGINE.
jLanchester Cantilever Springs.
(Bosch Dual Ignition.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
Motor Car f/, \f m McKay,
Propty. Ltd. Managing Director.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Sunshine
gave a piece of character acting that was i e
oeived with delight.
At Sydney Royal the ass still wanders
through Osclr Asche’s Bagdad bazaar and
the Caliph continues to pursue Oscar 11 a.j 3
daughter even unto the other *
—which you must call hareem if you
want to be utterly lost. But when the young
man has retrieved the girl, and finds h er a
good as new, there really seems no reason
why he should make love to her as th jug
he were reading the burial service. Doubt-
less it is a terribly depressing thing to be
a Caliph; still Marsinah is lonesome and
lonely,” and this paper adjures liedenc
Worlock to buck up accordingly.
“Passers-By,” at Adelaide Royal, has been
teaching the valuable moral lesson that a
casual infant is a blessing rather than ti e
reverse,, and that nobody except a comic
old-fogey character would dream of blaming
its unmarried parents. This very modern
theme 'is embroidered with delightful old-
fashioned sentiment; and the acting is nne
all round the small cast. There has now
been a sudden change to Marlow and melo-
drama. At the Tivoli, Mozzetto makes a
first Australian appearance. 1 hough most
of his tricks have been seen before, he scores
in having a small assistant, with whom he
can do strong-man feats with one hand while
juggling with the other and "With his eye-
brows. The picture shows are starring the
English Derby. West’s has a lion-drama
and a fine piece of acting by Asta Nielsen,
and Wbndergrapli a remarkable “Raven
picture built upon Edgar Poe’s life and works
combined.
** * *
The final performance of the Quinlan
Opera Co. in Melbourne starts to-night
(Thursday) at seven o’clock, and includes every
member of the co. in one or other of the four
items on the bill. Nothing now remains to
say of their wonderfully successful season at
Her Majesty’s, except that the maximum
price for the first-night “gala” was 155., and
the maximum for the last night gala is
one guinea. Which figures can he left to
speak for themselves. The. production of
“Traviata,” with Lalla Miranda’s much-
improved voice in the name-part, happened
when The Bulletin was going to press.
On Saturday, the sacred candle of musical
comedy will be re-lighted by “The Quaker
Girl,” with Grace Palotta as an addition to
the co. The drop from grand opera to
“Quaker Girl” seems sudden, but the local
appetite for music is sufficiently healthy to
recover from the shock.
;t; * *
At Melbourne Town Hall, recently vacated
by beauteous Jansen and his Phantom
Princess, a series of Cisneros concerts will
start next Saturday (13th), and extend
to the 20tli. In Melbourne, as in Sydney, the
stately mezzo-contralto appears in company
with a. French tenor and a German ’cellist
whose names admit of no serious argument.
But the lady’s own title appears to be more
in doubt than ever, and the management is
earnestly requested to mention which is the
one to swear by—Cliisneero, Chisneeross,
Chinneroh, Sinneroh, Sisnayros, Chinayros,
Sinnayrow, Chinneross, or Cinneeros, or one
of the other pronunciations too numerous
to mention. It quite recalls the old days
of the Dreyfus scandal, when the public grew
excited and sympathised wildly and vari-
ously with Dreefuss, Dreefish, Dreeface, also
Dry-fuss -fish and -face, likewise Draw-fuss,
-fish and -face, to say nothing of Dryfash,
occasionally.
* * *
For three or four days Tiny Town will be
re-established on its former Melbourne site
—the Hippodrome and thereabouts. . Next
week the little people pay a return visit to
Adelaide, and from there they go to Maon-
land. Meanwhile, Beaumont Smith is sol-
emnly assuring Melbourne that Miss. Ilonka
and Mr. Arthur are about to be married, and
that every lady visitor will soon be liable to
recive a piece of wedding cake, and gaze in
ecstasy on the bride’s trousseau.
“The Crisis,” recently running at Mel-
bourne Olympia, is a tale of pioneer effort in
Western Amurka, which left the house happy
with its scenes of warfare, strong drink and
emotion. A nobler yarn Ayas “The Heir
Apparent,” a solemn depiction of lingering
love in one of the realms made popular by
Anthony Hope. “The Sales-Eady,” a Noo
Yark picture, dealt with a bit of polite
wickedness in a fluff emporium; while “Win-
ter in the Upper Engardine” dowered the
screen with snowflakes and other cooling
medicine.
* * *
Several times during the turn of Rich and
Rich, a brace of comedians who transpired
at the Opera House on Saturday, even the
pillars mitigated their habitual gravity
and grinned audibly. The De S.erris people
are presenting a new series of artistic master-
pieces in living clay. A couple of the new
things —“The Last Funeral” and “The Run-
ner” —are more difficult, but no less success-
ful than the old ones. The Stavordales (five
of them) continue to take life and their
banjos seriously, and there are several re-
deeming features in the performance of the
Sprightly Sisters, though brevity is not one
of them.
Eight times a week “The Blue Bird is
still offering its mixed allegories to the
young, who don’t know what they mean, and
the old, who wish they meant more. Mel-
bourne, which inexcusably failed to appre-
ciate “Peter Pan,” finds even less dramatic
interest in Maeterlinck’s pantomime. It has
no moment such as that when Peter pre-
vented the demise of Tinker Bell by induc-
ing bald-headed sinners in the front stalls to
clap their hands to show that they believed
in fairies. It is further robbed of dramatic
force since it is inevitable from the start that
the Man Government will defeat the heter-
ogeneous Opposition, which contains such
mutuallv antagonistic elements as lire and
Water. Milk and Cat. In ‘ The Blue
Bird the proceedings sometimes drop
to the level of a no-confidence motion,
but, on the other hand, they often
rise to the level of poetry that touches the
soul of even the fattest citizen who resents
such impertinence.
“Man’s Enemy,” that powerful sermon on
the advantages of intemperance (for the
hard-drinking hero gets much sympathy and
the best available girl, while the temperate
villain gets the cold shoulder and a cracked
cranium), will be preached at the Kings
for the last time to-morrow night. On Sat-
urday, Melbourne will be invited to enter the'
theatre on tiptoe and consider. “When
London Sleeps,” which will be remembered
as the great wire-walking drama.
H: *• * *
At Melbourne Princess’s, where “A
Woman of No Importance” is expiating her
Sin, epigrams are being churned out in a
somewhat monotonous manner, as though
by a sort of literary sausage machine. For
a man who, when he had nothing to say,
usually strove to say the unusual, it is re-
markable how easily O. Wilde descended to
the commonplace when he had something to
say. When the Unimportant lady takes a
turn for the bellowdramatie, her speech
bristles with platitudes and reeks with the
sentiment of Mrs. Henry Wood. The lady’s
insistence that because of a youthful indis-
cretion she is irretrievably Lost seems, _to
say the least, unnecessary. It is something
of a relief when a Puritan flapper vounteers
to adopt both her and her offspring, and to
pay their passages to a land where sassiety
is purer than the driven snow, and the Blue
Eagle of Happiness builds its nest in the
shelter of the star-spangled banner.
This takes you back almost to the cradle
of Sydney :
RAMSAY. —July 7, 1912, at her late residence, Sum-
mer Hill, Margaret, fifth daughter of the late
David Ramsay, of Dobroyde.
Miss Ramsay’s grandfather was Simeon
Lord, who was just about the richest mer-
chant of this city’s early days—so rich that,
when his daughter Sarah Ann married Ram-
say, the latter got with his bride the 400
acres on which rhe suburb of Haberfield is
now built. There was a mint of money in
the estate, with its fine frontages to the
Parramatta; but the Ramsays hadn’t the
knack of coining the gold.
Some quaint things pass for argument in
Wowser circles. One G. H. Archibald, Sun-
day-school extension lecturer, was recently
inveigled to these parts to teach Australia
seven-and-forty ways of minding its own
business. After viewing Melbourne he turned
up with his stupendous intellect in Ade-
laide,. and unloaded this poignant cry against
the Eight Hours law, and more particularly
the Melbourne Eight Hours monument.
Said he: —
If I were king of the world I would have that
thing down. Fancy a man ceasing work who has to
take his child from school at the age of 13. In
England the young children are taken from school,
too, but there men have to work 16 hours a day to
earn a living. I hope the time is near when yonder
monument will be tumbled down. I would rather
work 16 hours a day than sacrifice my child’s educa-
tion.
An ordinary, unregenerate person wouldn’t
venture quite so far as to say that the Aus-
tralian working man has to take his child
from school at 13. As a solemn ordinary
matter of fact, in Victoria, where stands the
statue that this pietist complains of,
the years of compulsory schooling are from
six to fourteen, and the children may attend
even after they are 14. The law of Victoria
no more demands that a man shall take his
child from school at the age of 13 than that
he shall wallop his child 13 times a year.
As for the statement that the British work-
man toils 16 hours per day—say from five
in the morning till midnight, with three
intervals of an hour each for meals —does
this surprising person expect anybody to
believe it?
The firm of Wood, Coffill and Co., Limited,
of 810-812 George-street, Sydney, is offering
three prizes (25, 10 and five guineas) for
original designs for an Australian calendar.
Considering the large amount of money that
goes out of' Australia to pay for calendars,
and considering how bad some of the calen-
dars are, and how badly _ Australia can
spare the money, the idea is commendable.
The designs will.be exhibited in the gallery
of the Royal Art Society, and the prizes will
be adjudged by three well-known men—
Lister Lister, Julian Ashton and A. C. J.
Wood.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The “Brisbane Muffs” fell in the other week —but
fell very softly—for infringement of the author’s per-
forming right in “Pygmalion and Galatea,” which
harl been played five times on the “never” before the
late W. S. Gilbert got an injunction to restrain, and
started an action for damages. Gilbert’s widow took
up the case where he dropped it, and the Muffs were
allowed to end the proceedings by paying £lO and
costs. The pretentiousness of amateur mummery was
exposed by Judge Chubb when defendants’ counsel
pleaded that “they work, as a rule, for charity, and
in no sense do they make any personal profit out of
the plays they perform.” His Honor replied: “I
understand they pay all expenses out of the profits—
costumes, scenery, etc.- —and then if there is any-
thing over they give it to some charity.” The
Muffs, apparently, produced nothing for the charities
after paying all exes. But they did make a personal
profit by gratifying their vanity as amateur mum-
mers.
Deep down in the locked cellar of his heart every
man knows that he could sing decently if only some-
one would ask him with sufficient insistence. A deep-
rooted human instinct keeps him from bursting into
song unasked, like the lark, the serving-maid and
other rare birds; so he mostly goes mutely through
life with his splendid gift hidden like a prisoner
doing a long sentence. The travelling Yankee evan-
gelist, wise guy that he is, long ago caught on to
this. He lifts people right off their feet and takes
them to the roof by simply getting them to sing.
Thus they draw their own tears and do their own
lifting by the emotion generated by the pleasure of
“discovering” themselves. The evangelist gracefully
takes all the credit. What hydraulic engineer will
say that he does not earn it? (
Mrs. Rosalie Duvalli Hall, widow of Charles Hall,
a scholarly actor of the old school, who was a 1 member
of George Rignold’s co. at Her Majesty’s (Sydney)
in years gone by, died at her home at Darlinghurst
(N.S.W.) lately. She was one of the. Duvalli
sisters, who were amongst the finest burlesque
actresses and ballet dancers Australia had’ seen up
to their time. Mrs. Hall was sister-in-law of the
Mr. Coutts Duvalli, who died in the previous week.
THE LATE JOHN FORD PATTERSON.
The public hears much about the dangers that are
narrowly escaped by fashionable mummers in private
life, also the press agent has an inventive turn of
mind for the shocking accidents that nearly happen
to the star on the stage, but there is little or no talk
concerning the occasional serious mishap which actu-
ally befalls a hero of bellowdrama in his usual course
of risky business. A week or two back Herbert Bent-
ley, a valuable ornament of Anderson’s forces, came
to serious grief whilst performing in “The Bush-
woman” at Melb. King’s. He had to crawl across a
log over a mimic abyss to get away from his burn-
ing domicile —the villain having plotted to roast him
alive. Bentley slipped off that log into the “well
of the theatre. It was a fall of 18ft., and the actor
descended on his head. His pluck supported him
through the final act of the drama, though he was
hardly capable of speaking his lines, and then he
was removed to Melbourne Hospital, where his head
was stitched up in nine places. His injury may be
permanent, Herbert Bentley is remembered as one
of the imported members of a Julius Knight co. He
played Bunny in “Raffles.”
Tom Mann’s daughter Effie was playing and sing-
ing the title role in “The Merry Widow” at the
Pavilon, a London East-End theatre, what time pa
was being tried and sentenced for inciting soldiers
to mutiny. She has been touring the part for some
time with considerable success, and is described as a
“clever and accomplished girl” who is credited with
the unfilial statement, “I detest strikes.”
The march of the flickergraph! Between 50 and
60 Sydney city and suburban picture stands have just
been' officially raised from “temporary structures” to
“public halls.” This means that this number of more
or less open-air shows have roofed themselves in, and
will now come under the Theatres and -Public Halls
Act, instead of under the Paddock Act, or the
Corner Allotment Law.
Harry Lauder, at latest dates, was on the sick
list, and likely to remain there some weeks. The
strain of earning a large salary at three halls a night
has begun to tell on even Lauder, who ought to have
slowed down long ago.
Maoriland newspaper proprietors have come to the
decision that free tickets for their .dramatic critics
are undesirable. This foreshadows a change in the
attitude to be adopted in future to shows and show
people in the Ricketty Isles. In a very large meas-
ure theatrical criticism (so-called) there, has beetl
merely complimentary slops in return for advertise-
ments and job printing. Shows that richly deserved
the most hob-nailed remarks were foisted on the
public as “specially excellent entertainments,” or
burble to that effect. In plain language, the public
was robbed as a result of a conspiracy between the
manager of the show and the manager of the news-
paper. Probably it has dawned upon the proprietors
of the sheets that the public hates to be robbed with
the same old robbery all the time, and the critics are
to be given a freer hand. Presumably they will
begin by blighting “East Lynne” off the face of the
dramatic map.
THE PATRIOTS.
'A Celestial Tragedy in One Act.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tientsin, June 28.
Seventy assassins have left Shanghai, and are pro-
ceeding to Peking, where it is said they intend to
assassinate prominent Cabinet Ministers.
—Joyful cable.
(Scene: Steamer and Wharf at Shanghai. Enter
President and Members of the Assassins’ Club,
70 strong.)
Chief Assassin (solo): —-
Seventy sudden Assassins are we—
Hist! Hot a word! Not a word!
Difficult persons at all times to see —
None of our movements are heard !
Sure with the knife!
Quick with the rope!
Yield up your life!
Farewell to Hope ! ( gestures)
Seventy patriots, eager and willing,
Filled with an ardor sublime;
Bound to accomplish sensational killing—-
Each of us earning a beautiful shilling!
All of us adepts at crime!
Assassins ( Chorus ) :
Seventy experts in all sorts of crime—
Saving the State at a shilling a time!
Chief Assassin: —
Yes! Yes! We are the saviours of the State —
But where’s the Lord Mayor gone ? It’s getting late !
(Enter, hurriedly, Lord Mayor and Corporation of
Shanghai, citizens and band.)
Lord Mayor (bowing) :
Honorable brethren! first I will address you—
Then, before you go aboard, solemnly I’ll bless you !
(Gives usual Lord Mayoral sort of address, lasting
for about one hour.)
Chief Assassin (interrupting) :
We appreciate your words as sweet as honey,
But we have not been paid yet! Where’s our money ?
Lord Mayor :
Most certainly! Now, Mister Town Clerk, please!
Hand out the Honorable Brethren's fees —
Poor China must be saved—and they are willing—
Give everyone an honorable shilling!
Chief Assassin: —
But not for me ! —my terms are half a crown ;
I want the honorable money down!
(Town Clerk hands a half-crown to him. and goes
round with a bag distributing shillings.)
Lord Mayor:—
Great Chief, I have but just this moment heard
The aldermen would like to say a word—
(Chief bows assent.)
Ist Alderman :
Honorable Assassins! Don’t forget TONG, the Min-
ister for Lands. I owe him some money!
2nd Alderman :
Honorable gentlemen! Do, please, deal with WONG,
the Treasurer. He’s the chap who’s taxing the
country so shamefully!
3rd Alderman :
Yes; but jab the Premier first! He was once my
friend, but he had me over a big deal in opium,
and I renounce him!
4th Alderman:—
Revered patriots, be sure you get HONG, the Attor-
ney-General ! He’s been looking for it for years !
Every time he makes a speech he tells us we
ought to be glad and anxious to die for our
country!
Omnes :
Yes! Yesi Don’t forget HONG!
Chorus of Bystanders :
Stick a knife in him for me!
Stick a knife in him for me!
He deserves it much,
So with swift, sure touch
Stick a knife in HONG, I
WONG, • for Me!
TONG, J
Chief Assassin (with some emotion)
Respected Lord Mayor! Much-prized Corporation!
Amid applause we go to save the Nation.
There are some crimes that there is no forgiving,
And theirs is one —to swell the Cost of Living !
Our Country calls —on us it is lelying;
These Ministers shall feel the pain of dying!
Let all who owe them money rest contented,
Let all they’ve swindled think that they—repented—
And thus rejoined their ancestors in Glory...
One last request: Inscribe this noble story,
That through the world our action may be bruited,
And (sobs) think of us when we are executed !. . .
Farewell —a long farewell to this dear shore...
Unmanned !. . .base tears !. . . farewell! can say no
more!
(Everybody sniffs audibly as the heroes embark,
amid strains of et There’ll be a Hot Time in the
Old Town To-night l”)
Five minutes later the ship pulls out, the after-deck
crowded with the Assassins, singing (tenderly) :
Good-bye! Shanghai!
We go to do and die —
We’re seventy strong,
And we all belong
To —Old —Shanghai !
We’re after Yuan-Shih-Kai—
HONG, WONG, and Tang-Shao-Yi—
And they’ll get the knife
You can bet your life!
Good-bye, Shanghai!
(As the steamer rounds the point, the Lord Mayor
waves affectionately back to the Chief Assassin.)
Lord Mayor (much moved), to Bystanders: —
There goes the gallant fellow—how we prize him!
Were Shakspeare living, he’d immortalise him 1
(Exeunt.)
N.S.W.
O.C. CABOT.


fgh
CRIMEAN PYJAMAS Cut
AT OUR WINTER SALE.
filg
M | V
THE USUAL PRICE, 10/6.
At our Winter Sale everything is reduced in price, and
Our 10/6 Crimean Pyjamas are offered for 8/6.
At this price they are really remarkable value—made of
excellent quality Crimean Flannel in various stripe designs
of Blue and White, Green and Pink, Brown and White and
Blue and Green—a Winter weight, soft in finish and healthy
to wear. Our Crimean Pyjamas are dependable workman-
ship throughout, skilfully cut, and made with the best fin-
ishings. In sizes 34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 44 inches, chest
measurement. (As illustration.)
Usual Price, 10/6; SALE PRICE, 8/0
Sent carriage paid to any part of Australasia or the Pacific
Isles.
DAVID JONES Ltd.
. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Opp,
;
Rugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid.”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE INDOOR DOG.
“Did your dog bark at the masked burglar the
other night! ”
“Oh, dear, no! Fido sleeps in the nursery !”
Each vessel of the Australian navy is to
carry a mascot. The destroyer Parramatta
bears a golden kangaroo on the top of its
flagstaff; the Yarra has a kookaburra, and
the Warrego an emu. When the Swan
swims out it will have the bird with the long
neck among its ironmongery, and the Der-
went will have the devil (Tasmanian brand)
aboard. The crow is being saved up for the
'Cotter.
An amazing tale, or lie, of an aeroplane
flight from Ballarat (Vic.) to Fremantle
(W.A.), was submitted to Australia last
week. On June 18 one Antonio Soro, an al-
leged inventor, who is said to have con-
structed and patented a new compressed air
engine for use in aeroplanes, disappeared
from Ballarat, leaving Ins hat and coat on
the shore of Lake Wendouree. He turned
up, dirty but well, on July 2, at the door of
James McLachlan, of North Fremantle. He
claimed that, on June 18, in company with
an alleged Frenchman and aeroplane proprie-
tor, named Mario Marivillo, he started to fly,
in a machine propelled by one of his own
engines, from Ballarat towards Bungaree.
They went wrong, and found themselves at
St. Kilda. In trying to return, they got
adrift in air currents, and flew frantically
round for three days and nights, seeking
where they might rest their ’plane. On
June 29 they "reached a large island
somewhere near Westralia.” This they left
on July 1. They next “struck a fearful
rainstorm, in the middle of which tneir
petrol gave out, and the Frenchman began to
rave like a madman.” Their conveyance
dropped. Soro sprang clear and “swam for
the space of two hours, when he reached a
buoy with a red light.” After resting thereon he
took to the water again, and swam to North
Fremantle, The Frenchman drops definitely
out of the yarn with the aeroplane. The
strange thing about the wild-sounding narra-
tive is that.it, to a ceriain extent, stands
investigation. For example, there is no
record of Soro having been a passenger on
any vessel bound for W.A., and he is un-
doubtedly there, though he was just as surely
in Ballarat on June 17. Also, the police
have proved that he. or someone, crawled
and scrambled from North Fremantle beach
over the sandhills to McLachlan’s. The force
has found no trace of the aeroplane ; but. on
the other hand, a lighted buoy about a mile
from the beach bears signs of haiung been
recently handled. As against the above, (he
fliers (if fliers they were) took 12 whole days
to do the trip. They must have had an
amazing supply of petrol, the world’s mar-
vel in the way of engines, and a superb
’plane, to carry them and the big stock of
provisions they would have required. Further-
more, such urgent details as when they slept,
and how they avoided being frozen to death,
remain unsolved. All the same, there is
one of them in Fremantle, and he didn’t walk
or run. bike or motor, and apparently he
didn’t sail. So if he didn’t fly, what did he
do? It is a nice problem for the long winter
evenings we are having just now.
The war between the Prophet and the
Peanut drifts along, though it has become
very slow and moth-eaten and dusty. Phe
Italian is no more heard of seizing islands
in the Archipelago, or blockading the Dar-
danelles, and it is only once a fortnight or
so that one combatant or the other raises a
dust and gets a line in the papers. Recently,
after a long silence, there was a brief
scuffle, and a short bark, and a curse
in the dark, and something that looked like
a cat streaking out of an ash-bin
on a moonless niglit. Pietro said he
had blotted out 1000 Turks, and in
doing it had only lost one man and two
mules. Abdul, who is a good deal of a liar
himself, denied it frankly, claiming that he
had wiped out 1200 Italians, more or less,
with the loss of three goats and an old pair
of slippers. Later, the glad news came that
Pietro had attacked and put to flight at
Sidi-Said (which is a good name) the enemy
“numbering 6000 strong,” who “fled, leaving
500 dead !” Twenty Italians were killed
and 112 injured. Next day the cablegram-
mer in Rome added that Pietro had “carried
the entrenchments,” killing 200 Turks; he
didn’t trouble to count the wounded or ham-
strung. That was Saturday. When the
world got back to work on the following
Monday, Abdul’s delayed cable was there on
the desk. Abdul said that the Turkish com-
mander-in-chief had sent along full details
of the recent fighting at Lebda and Zanzur.
Sidi-Said wasn’t even mentioned; neither
was Pietro nor what he said he said. The
Ottoman commander stated that 2000
Italians were killed, while the Turks lost
250 men killed and 500 wounded. This
roused Pietro to fury, and the cables grew
quite warm for an hour or two trying to
cope with the rush of Italian victories. One
related how the Italians fleeted to “a spot
60 miles east from Tripoli and made a fresh
landing there” —which sounds strange. Ap-
parently, after pushing 19,000 Turks inland
for 700 yards, the troops fled away to the
coast and re-embarked. Then, all of a sud-
den. the old silence supervened, and the won-
derful doings of Abdul and Pietro, scuffling
on the ancient ashheap of Africa, had a rest.
PIN MONEY.
Many women have been fined for wearing unpro-
tected hatpins.
MERE MAN : “Well, I'm blest! I pay for the
hats, I pay for the hatpins, and now I
pay the hatpin fine."
The Rev. F. C. • Spurr, probably the
noisiest of Melbourne parsons, lecturing
under the auspices of the Race Preservation
Teague the other night, said that the Baby
Bonus proposal was "an insult to the mother-
hood of Australia.” No doubt Spurr’s
church, like most others, has its “Dorcas
Society,” or something such for the assist-
ance of needy mothers. How dare the Rev.
Spurr insult these poor women! Also, how
in thunder dared the original Dorcas Tabi-
tha of Palestine do it ?
The other day a young white
woman, who was charged at
Melbourne City Court with
speaking insultingly to a yellow
alien, explained that she had
been blocked in trying to find
the whereabouts of her yellow
husband. She was but 18, and
had married him last July.
Three months later he departed,
and she didn’t know where he
was —which seems likely enough,
when one considers the multi-
tude of the race, and its simi-
larity, and its impassive way of
saying “No savee” when it
doesn’t want to commit itself.
When is that measure forbid-
ding the mating of white women
with discolored outsiders going
to assume a concrete form?
The Bulletin’s Second-Oldest Soldier
reviews some ancient comrades: —
Bare Island (Botany Bay, Sydney), one time a
fort, has been turned into a “veterans’ retreat,” and
was given a blessing by Governor-General Denman
the other day. Seven aged warriors are browsing
there now, but later there may be 90 or so, if the
other youngsters drifting around the Commonwealth
don’t fall out for good before the cash is forthcoming
to complete the accommodation. They have seen
and done things, these seven. There’s the superin-
tendent, Sam Withers (aged 74) ; a regimental com-
rade of Withers’s, Richard Cowham (84) ; Henry
Elsley (84), Joe Saddler (72), H. R. Errington (70),
who helped to make history in Abyssinia; and Edward
Hanley and Capt. Power.
Hear one of them talk—Edward Hanley (77)
“I was in Calcutta a few days before the Mutiny
broke out. I did duty there till Havelock came, and
I volunteered. I was with him till the day he died.
I remember the man who went out of Lucknow at
night—his name was Kavanagh. He was colored
with burnt cork and his head was shaved, and he
travelled with the natives for 48 miles —travelled
as a priest. He reached General Colin Campbell
and told him how we were. I learned to eat things
in India that I’ve never eaten before or since.
Camel flesh is better than horse.”
Or another—nearer home. Captain Power (74)
was secretary to Native Commissioner Maclean when
the Maori truce was signed:—“There were Major
Drummond Hay, Jimmy Paloon (a half-caste), Wil-
liam Baker, Gaston Charon, John White and two
Maori guides in the party. The others said to us,
‘You’ll never come back; the Maoris won’t take any
notice of a flag of truce.’ However, off we went.
It took us all day to go there and back. We went
down to Waitara, close to Taranaki, in the steam
sloop Victoria, and landed in surf-boats. There used
to be farms there before the war, but when we
landed we went through nothing but Scotch thistles
as high as a man. How did I feel about it ? As
safe as I feel in this house. You see, I knew the
Maoris. Commissioner Maclean was taboo, too.
They’d have had no more thought of killing him than
of killing one of their own daughters. They’re not a
treacherous people.”
A.n interesting squad, that Seven !
It really wasn’t the mis-
placed iceberg that caused
the dreadful loss of life
when the Titanic went
down the other morning ;
it was the appalling pov-
erty of the owners. These
people, the Oceanic Steam
Navigation Co., issued
their accounts the other
day, and th e distressful
document showed that the
year’s profits were a
mere £1,102,755, which,
after providing interest
on debentures, was utterly
incapable of paying more
than 75 per cent, on the
capital. As a mat or of
fact, the unfortunate
shareholders didn’t get even
75 per cent.; the directors
choked them off with 60
per cent., and out 15 per
cent, by—possibly to buy
glasses for the look-out
men and a second-hand
lifeboat or two. Inci-
dentally, it must be great
comfort to the friends of
the drowned to have the
directors’ assurance that
those who were drowned
lost their lives through
pure cussedness. “YVe
would also,” the directors
remark, “take the oppor-
tunity of stating that, as
in the past, nothing shall
be wanting in our efforts
to protect those- who
travel by the steamers
of the White Star line, by having every pre-
caution taken to ensure their safety.” It
was plainly very upsetting to them to have
people aboard who wouldn’t allow themselves
to be saved by the lifeboats that weren’t
there; and they are grateful for the condo-
lences they have received :
It is also fitting that grateful acknowledgment
should be made of the many kind and sympathetic
messages which have been received by your directors,
which they deeply appreciate.
And if the kind and sympathetic messages
don’t heal the wounds, this paper trusts they
will take comfort from the fact that, if they
had been really greedy, they might have sent
their human cargo to sea in a sieve or a
colander.
NOT THE ONLY ONE.
THE PROUD HEART-BREAKER : “That's a nice
little girl. Got an appointment with her
to-night. Wonder if she' ll keep it."
THE OTHER ONE : “Oh, I /kink so. She
kept the one she had with me the other
night!"
One of the unconsciously humorous items
of the week was a letter which the Sydney
Telegraph printed on the subject of the
Governor-General’s housing troubles. The
writer, after talking in accents of scorn and
reproach to the N.S.W. Government, pro-
ceeded to inscribe herself, “A Woman of No
Importance.” The original Woman of No
Importance was a frail female who went
hopelessly wrong in early life, and weighed
in with an illegitimate infant; in short, she
was the last person in the world to pose as
a social arbiter. In its weird inappropri-
ateness the effort suggested an epistle clam-
oring for more Sunday-schools over some such
signature as “Lucrezia Borgia,” or “Bloody
Mary,” or “The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith,”
or “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” or “The
114th Mrs. Secondtank,” or something of
the sort.
THE REST CURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the principle that like cures like, those who
can work but won’t are being put to bed, and kept
there by force. —Evening paper on the present state
uf Denmark.
1 think it would be good to lie
Within a quiet bed,
While some kind person from the sky
Brought down my daily bread,
And let the dreary crowd go by,
Or take their words as read.
The world is pleasant in its way,
So much we may allow
It varies somewhat day by day, •
But makes a fearful row,
Which causes the elect to say,
“I wish I were a cow!”
The splendid work of printer’s ink
’Twere idle to deny,
The noble thoughts some people think
Can lift the spirits high,
And beer is somewhat good to drink
Unless the sages lie.
’Tis good at evening to repair
To some untroubled place,
To feel the touch of Nancy’s hair
And loojc upon her face,
Or taste the lips the star-beams share
And little breezes chase.
’Tis good to fill a quiet pipe
With brown and fragrant weed,
To feel your rising soul grow ripe
With dreams of strife and deed,
Forgetful of the daily tripe
Your eyes are forced to read.
But this dull round of fretful toil,
The endless wheels that turn,
The steaming pots of life that boil,
The midnight lamps that burn,
Make up. a world that seem to spoil
The butter in life’s churn.
Therefore I hold it good to lie
Within, a quiet bed,
While some kind person from the sky
Brings down my daily bread,
And let some other fellow try
To play the game instead.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
MY TOAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here’s to this life below.
Here’s to its warmth and glow.
Here’s to the sun and the red, red roses;
To the star-spread sky when the tired day closes.
Here’s to a friend or foe;
To the best and worst we know.
Here’s to it all, may it be as good in the next place
that we go.
N.S.W.
BILLY B.


m
m
WON’T YOU USE
what is good and pure?
Those comthon soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where
Sunlight Soap has once j
been tffed.
NO. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. NO. 57.
Hunyadf
i Janos i
Is the Best
Natural Aperient Water
Bottled at the Springs
Used the World over
| Drink on arising a wineglassful for I
1 INDIGESTION and *
BILIOUSNESS
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 .Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets; Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
PEAPES
LT9
OUUhM
jmjutjir,
A BOON TO MEN.
THE NEW FOUNTAIN PEN RAZOR!
This extremely useful Safety Razor fits the pocket just as easily as a fountain pep—Rene*' its
name.
It has 12 refills, and extra blades are obtainable at 3/6 per dozen.
On account of a recent large purchase we are able to sell these razors at 15/6 each, post free.
They have all the merits of other Safety Razors, plus the advantage of being handy to carry in
the pocket.
The number of orders received from medical men is a fact that speaks highly for their quality
and utility. Price 15/6 post free.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on Request.
PEAPES ®. CO. LTD
Men’s Outfitters,
300-11 George Street, Sydney
“Chasuble” for the defence:—
Barrister McArthur, who appeared for Archbishop
Clarke in the case of the Archbishop v. John Norton,
of Truth, opened his case in two days ot ora-
tory, most of which consisted of jagging at Canon
Nash. (Norton and the Archbishop had quarrelled
about Nash’s character, the Archbishop assailing it
and Norton defending it.) Nash sat and listened.
Then Barrister Duffy, who appeared tor Norton (or
his business representatives, the defendant being
away), proposed a compromise lest his side should
be struck for heavier damages in the end. Duffy, of
course, had only 'hisj client's interests to consider, and
he presumably, reckoned that, whether his case was
bad or middling, lie hadn’t the necessary evidence.
He wasn’t there to represent Nash. And though the
Archbishop and ’ John Norton had quarrelled over
Nash’s character, the Canon hadn’t a chance to butt
into the case anywhere: He just kept on sitting and
listening. But the Archbishop insisted on getting
into the box and telling his story, which
was a very long story, and chiefly- about
Nash. That clergyman, being neither plaintiff nor
defendant, and not being summoned. as a witness by
either plaintiff or defendant, and having no oppor-
tunity to arise and, address the. Coupt, or throw a
brick, or do anything in particular 1 , still listened.
'Then the representative of the man who had defended
Nash’s character, probably without consulting that
buffeted cleric, arranged a compromise with the
Archbishop, who had assailed Nash’s character. The
assault had also been made without consulting
that battered cleric. Nash still hat and
listened. He had no opportunity 'to . do., any-
thing else. Yet, seeing that the Archbishop, after
a multitude of fuss and a vast deal of rumor, b(KI
let him remain on duty as a clergyman within his
jurisdiction, there should have been a trifle to say
on Nash's side of the case. There seems to be some-
thing rotten about an arrangement whereby the ; real
defendant could only hang around and heat hi?
character discussed by two lawyers whom he. had
probably never met in his life before.
So many Victorian school buildings have
been condemned as insanitary and dangerous
that the Department has got hardened ; so,
when repeated complaints reached it about
the dilapidated shack at Yendon, near Bal-
larat, it merely yawned and asked Public
Works to patch the shanty up with brow»
paper or something. Public Works viewed
the hovel, learned that it was 50 years old,
opined that it was past repair, and said so.
At which information Education fell asleep
some more, but woke with a start on get-
ting a wire from the teacher, stating that
fhe scholars had struck work, and what was
lie to do! The Department told him to keep
open (as though he were a door or a win-
dow), and promised him it would prosecute
the strikers, or tlieir parents, with the ut-
most howl and curse of the law. The strike
is still on, and the Department’s axe is get-
ting a fine edge put on it. As for the hor-
rible old school, it is just as before, or, per-
haps a shade worse.
“Miles” sums up the situation in his pro-
fession, in a series of short barks :
The .outcome of the first year of cadet training is
20,000 'soldiers towards the 120,000 aimed at. The
militia has ceased recruiting. The Quartermaster-
General’s Department has the 20,000 kits ready.
Strenuous work. Some of it had to be done by sew-
ing machine girls, at the depot, Victoria Barracks
(Melb.), but most by contractors in the capital
cities.' Cadets keep their old uniforms ' for camp
and spare wear. Give up cadet rifles and receive
magazine Lee Enfields. These have been imported
from Britain, but our Australian National Small
Arms, factory will supply all future needs. Saddles
largely turned out for the Light Horse,, by the
National Harness Factory, Melbourne. The old
militia will not get new uniforms. So there will be
q. rather patchv look, except in N.S.W., where new
clothes have lately been served out. The uniforming
of the 20,000 new men has cost £86,000. The old.
and new militia will be mixed, as far as possible, in
every corps, according to districts. Government will
build a large number of new galvanised iron drill
halls, besides improving others. If a cadet is re-
turned as non-efficient, he has to put in an extra
year. He will go to the militia with other cadets of
his age, but must spend nine instead of eight years
jin the first line.
OTHER PEOPLES POLITIGS.
An attempt to dortour Ira If the soldiers' pay For
subscriptions to a patriotic loan caused a mutiny at
Mukden. Eventually, however, 1-iO of (.tic mutineers
were captured and executed, — Cubic gmm.
The Lord High Mandarin : bfce patriotic !
Subscribe-—or get it w the nteki '
TRIALS OF AN UNSKILLED HOUSE-
BREAKER.
CHEERFUL VOICE FROM ABOVE : “My word!
you ARE a clumsy burglar, aren't you?
Eve been watching you for the last half-
hour!”
Last Friday night W. A. Holman,
Attorney-General of N. S. Wales, ad-
dressed the members of the Australian Jour-
nalists’ Association, on the subject of signed
newspaper articles. He pointed out that the
innovation wouldn’t harm the newspapers in
a ousiness sense —a remark which the experi-
ence of other countries has resolved into a
truism. He mentioned that the leader-
writer exercises a marked influence for good
or evil on the public mind, and that, there-
fore, it is neither right nor politic that he
should work always behind the embattled
ramparts off anonymity. He instanced the
attitude of a section of the Tory press, in
regard to the Boer war (citing some of the
wild and wicked lies that were retailed to
work the gulled British public up to a fever
heat of exasperation against Kruger and Co.)
as proof of his contention that newspaper
writers will do evil work under existing cir-
cumstances that they would not do for any
money under the signed article system. Turn-
ing to another aspect of the question, he
stated that —
Musical and dramatic experts were not allowed
to write their true observations. and opinions for
the guidance of the public , under the present system,
but had to bow to the wish! of the business head, who
had his eye on the advertising columns.
Which, as every artist knows, is gospel
truth. In brief, he delivered a, powerful in-
dictment against anonymity in 'journalism—
a series of charges which supporters of the
ancient British regime would have" admired
to see torn to pieces and then jumped on.
The Sydney Telegraph gave a lengthy re-
port of Holman’s effort, and at the bottom
printed die following:—
(The address showed that Mr. Holman has a ludi-
crously imperfect knowledge of the functions of a
newspaper and the manner in which it is conducted.
—Ed. D.T.).
Just that and nothing more, Regarded as a
rebuttal of a collection of grave and well-
supported accusations it is about as satis-
factory as the action of the citizen who, on
being discovered with 27 different articles of
stolen property upon his person, essays to
counter a charge of theft with the remark
that his accuser is no gentleman, an habitual
drunkard, and an unashamed wearer of
elastic-sided boots.
Having tried them on
the dog—Victoria con-
senting to be the dog for
this purpose—the Aus-
tralian railways are ap-
parently going to "dip
into McKeen motor
trains. Queensland has
already ordered a sample
lot of the energetic ve-
hicles that don’t need an
engine to go ahead and
baptise them with soot,
and N. S. Wales has got
to the point of “negotia-
tions.”
❖ -*
“Sophister”: The air
reeks with rebellion at
Me 1 bourne University,
where about 1000 stu-
dents attend lec.ures in
paleozoic class-rooms, fre-
quented by paleocrystic
professors and
lecturers. Nothing is
modern. There are 16
professors, many of them
used up, all of them ap-
pointed during good be-
havior. It’s dead easy for
a University professor to
behave himself, so he
lingers on in a state of
arrested development, dis-
pensing State knowledge
from archaic text-books.
The ’Varsity is the most
neglected corner of Mel-
bourne. It lias an ultra-
respectable Senate and
Council, which meets to
look at the bank passbook
and arrange a cadging de-
putation to the Treas-
urer. Neither Parliament
nor the public seems to
care about this apex of
the country’s educational
system. T- private bene-
factions it has received
only £164,899 in 56 years,
though during that time
Victoi’ia has raised close
upon £300,000,000 of
gold and £200,000,000
worth of wool, not to men-
tion odd items of wealth
n.e.i. The professors’
residences in the grounds
are thoroughly comfort-
able, while the class-
rooms are an abomination
of desolation. The lec-
tures are chiefly piffle re-
peated ad nauseam , and
bearing no direct relation
to the exams. There is
no special encouragement
of originality or research.
The very air of the place
is narcotic. And all the
while the classrooms are
overcrowded with eager
students anxious to qual-
ify for their future con-
test with a cold, hard world, greatly inclined
nowadays towards men and women with
technical and scientific training.
A pathetic yarn is current down South of
an English visitor who had only one Aus-
tralian friend, a Customs officer in Mel-
bourne. When the visitor decided to land
in Adelaide, and stay there a hit, the friend
kindly wired to a Customs chum in S. Aus.
to “look after him well.” It was done. They
searched his trunks with special care, sound-
ing them for hidden compartments, and gen-
erally kept him under strict surveillance, (ill
he got tired, and wanted to know what kind
of prohibited immigrant they took him for.
It was only after more telegrams had been
exchanged that it was found he was to be
be looked after as a friend, not as a fraud.
From “J.R,”: The cable told a thrilling
marine yarn a few days ago, to the effect
that, on a British battleship, certain shells,
each weighing half a lon or so, were being
lowered into a magazine when one of them
slipped out of the sling, and dropped 30ft.
Listen to the shriek :
The crew were horrified and rushed from the spot,
but though the fuse-cap of the shell was dinted,
by a miracle, it did not explode. Had it done so
the ship would have been destroyed. Work was sus-
pended in order to enable the crew to recover from
the shock.
The italicised portion was, I take it, the
work of the cable-fixer. As likely as not
there was no fuse in the shell, and, if there
was, the safety appliance attached to all per-
cussion fuses, and only removed at the mo-
ment the shell is put into the breech of the
gun, would have prevented an explosion. If
the cable man had only sat down in a cool
place for a minute, and tied a wet blanket
round his vast and aching brow, it might
have dawned on him that when that ship
goes into battle the first shot that strikes it
will make a bigger shock than that caused by
the fall of one shell a distance of 30ft. And if
the ammunition was kept on full cock, so
to speak, all the time, every ship would blow
itself sky high at the first hit.
Writes The Bulletin’s Tame Solicitor:
North Sydney’s fashionable boarding establishment,
Hillview, Turramurra (from which no scandal ever
emanates), received the limelight of the Equity Court
a little while ago. The original feud between the land-
lord, sodawater Paul, and tenant Dame Murray,
formerly housekeeper to Mrs. Essie Jenyns Woods, of
Newcastle, arose out of one tile in a bathroom.
Paul built the new palatial residence on a rental
returning a trifle over a modest 4 per cent., and so
placed Dame Murray on the high road to independ-
ence. In a moment of generosity he agreed to
give the residence, although occupied, rent free till
certain bathrooms were tiled. One tile remained
out after completion, whilst hot-water connections
were being silvered, so that the eye of the elite should
not be offended by anything so cheap as copper.
Murray claimed free rent the while the last tile
was loose. This staggered Paul, who gave in, but
never looked her way again. A suit for the option
of a year’s renewal in the lease which Paul contested
has been settled by suggestion of the Court; so
Murray holds possession of Hillview whilst also
running Cooinoo. After the term the Montague-
Capulet warfare should be fairly rosy. Humors have
it that extensive building alterations in bpth places
will be the order of the day, and, as they are opposite
each other, those with quick tempers: will be able to
pack up their trunks and make a quick departure across
the road. When the fun begins the engaging of
rooms is likely to be like a Melba rush.
THE LITTLE TOUCH, AND HOW
MUCH IT IS.
H E (pleading his cause): “My father came in.
for some money last week.”
S HE: " Yes, he came in for a fiver, but my
father wouldn't lend it to him.”
In Albert Park, facing tlic South Mel-
bourne cricket ground, a bronze effigy of the
late caterer Skinner is to be erected for the
delectation of local inhabitants in general
and “Skinner’s lambs” in particular. When-
ever a team of South Melbourne champions
takes the field for oofbali ox 1 - cricket, they
will be inspired by the thought that their
old boss is watching the game, and in the
mythology of the distant future it will be
recorded, perhaps, that on certain occasions
the statue winked its other eye. A sporting
refreshment caterer in bronze is a noble addi-
tion to Melbourne’s art treasures. A drink-
ing fountain, which ran beer on every anni-
versary of Skinner’s birth, would have been
a more fitting memorial, but, anyhow, there
is room to spare in Albert Park for the forth-
coming decoration. Sculptor .Tomes White
has designed the full-length figure, and a
firm of architects will supply an ornate ped-
estal in granite. Cost, £6BO.
“Harrison O.” : There is nothing particu-
larly inspiring about the latest purchases
made for the Melbourne Gallery by the Fel-
ton trust. “The Card Players,” by Rran-
gwyn, cost 600 guineas, and is a strong piece
of work; but Sydney made a better bargain
when it got “The Scoffers” for £4OO. “The
Vegetable Market,” by Campbell Noble, an
old but by no means highly-respected repre-
sentative (in an artistic sense) of the Glas-
gow school, is a placid, uninspired piece of
work, for which the Felton trustees paid
300 guineas. A landscape, by A. E. Walton
(also of the Glasgow school), is chiefly re-
markable through being executed in water-
colors by an artist whose moderate reputa-
tion rests on his work in oils. The manner
in which the color is applied (making the
thing look very like an oil painting) will
probably interest students. If it doe's not,
the 150 guineas the painting cost might just
as well have been saved towards the pur-
chase of another alleged Hoppner. The
three new pictures, by the way, were picked
up in Maoriland, which seems a strange
sort of sea in which to hunt for elusive art
fishes.


THE BOG THAT DOGS HIS FOOTSTEPS.
PREMIER FISHER: “Get away, you brute!”


NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. u
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
GOOD
RINGS
Are valuable as Art Productions first, and after-
wards for the perfection of their Gems.
2 Choice Diamonds
and Whole Pearl, set
Choice Black Opal
and 2 Selected
Diamonds, £l6/16/-
We employ Arl Ring Makers, and our Gem Expert selects the diamonds from our
enormous Stock of loose Stones.
We thus save all intermediate profits.
CAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
* PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 & 25 Hunter St., Sydney
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“M’poonie” : Grey-headed Harry Ander-
son used to be the most famous of well-sinkers in
tlie big N.S.W. western country behind Condobolin, in
ihe dry old times of many years ago. He was a
scarred veteran, and the bridge of his nose had been
badly broken. Harry used to tell the story. His
son Jim—a long, loose-jointed, casual sort of earth-
shifter—was his father’s partner in a well-sinking
contract on Yandama times agone. They had almost
completed timbering to the bottom of the shaft one
day, when Harry sent Jim aloft to lower some bat-
tens. Jim was slinging the goods from the windlass
barrel on the trace, when one slid away from him
and speared, end-foremost, down the shaft. The
horrified Jim just howled the first word of warning
that came into his mind. “Look up!” he yelled.
So old Henry looked up just as the luggage looked
down, and there was a collision.
“SOULS” ON THE JETTY.
WOWSER (handing tract): “Are you prepared
to die?”
BRUISER: “No, sonny; are you?”
“Puketapu”: When old Captain John
Nathaniel Salthorse, of the Maoriland schooner Star
of the South, retired from the sea and moored him-
self to a little farm, purchased with the savings of
a life-time, he took most of his old habits with him.
One of them was the keeping of a log, which came
into my possession when the old mariner died. The
week’s entries that interested me most were as fol-
lows :
Monday, March 1, 1899.—Fine wjeather; wind
north by west; glass rising; daughter refused duty
this morning at 11.10 a.m. ; called her aft for pun-
ishment at eight bells.
Tuesday, March 2.—-Weather calm, with falling
glass; made all snug in case of a blow from the
south ; girl still mutinous; firmer discipline must be
maintained aboard this house ; sighted her slobbering
with that d —d lubber Jim (that’s me) ; ordered her
to her berth; clear night, with a fresh breeze get-
ting up.
Wednesday, March 3.—Wind hard set from S.E.,
with rain squalls ; girl making heavy weather; crew
sulky generally.
Thursday, March 4. —No change.
Friday, March 5. —Fog so heavy, couldn’t see the
cows in the offing; girl been very affectionate; can
smell rocks ahead.
Saturday, March 6.—Thick weather; glass very
low, and still falling; girl deserted with Jim ; should
have posted a look-out; matter not reported till the
morning watch ; wind still S,E.
“Tiaki”: When the Maoriland bushman
gets on the high ranges he doesn’t go short of a
drink—that is if he is a bushman. One method is
to cut off about three feet of the aka-totara or aka-
kiore ( Parsonia rosea'), and hold it up to the mouth.
As the air enters at one end of the vine a stream of
cold water trickles off. Another is to hunt up a
dead ponga or tree-fern ( Cythea dealbata). This is
always hollow and filled with the rain of ages. Art
incision is made in the side, and the tree-tank sends
its waters gushing forth like unto the rock which
Moses biffed in the wilderness. A panting, thirsty
bushman, with a pig or theodolite on his back, isn’t
curious about a few beetles or a rat or so which may
have met a watery fate within the vegetable reser-
voir. He takes bis liquor and is thankful. One of
the best drinks is obtained by chopping into the
matai tree ( Podocarpus spicata ). When tapped the
matai sap spouts forth like electric soda-water. The
taste varies according to the nature of the tree. A
cross between lemonade, shandygaff and champagne
is the nearest description I can give of it. Once saw
some “scrubbers” —neweiiums of the runaway sailor
class imitate the practised bushman by assaulting a
miro ( Podocarpus ferruginea) which is a sort of small
dirty step-brother to the matai After hours of labor
they obtained a drink of something akin to turpentine
and vinegar. Said one little Irishman: “The man
phwat’U swallow that muck’ll take boilin’ kirrosin
fer his supper.” Some bushmen bore their matai
and plug it up after each nip.
* * * *
“Myall”: Can animals smell water? (B.
30/5/’12.) My oath. Droving on the Warrego, we
had camped one night on the bank of a small, dry
watercourse, and, although we had forced the cattle
all day, the thirsty beasts were unusually restive. All
of a sudden one old bull rushed, and, before you
could say that capital was being driven out of
the country, the whole mob was tearing across the
plain. Horseflesh and greenhide were powerless to
stop the rush, or wheel the flying beasts, and all we
could do was to follow on and trust to Confucius.
At last the leaders showed signs of slowing up, and
the mob closed in around them. When we came up
a free fight was in progress amongst the beasts, and
their bellowing and trampling, mingled with the
clash of horns, could be heard a mile away. The
centre of the disturbance was a little pool of dirty
water fed by a spring, or it would never have with-
stood the drought. Those bulls raced a distance of
five miles to that water, which was not more than
18 inches deep. The Inquisition never smelled a
heretic at that range—especially a muddy heretic
only 18in. deep.
“Xox” : Ever seen the tide rise at St. Law-
rence (Q.) ? It is an impressive sight. Was stand-
ing, last Good Friday morn, gazing upon the all-but-
dry bed of the creek which passes the township (or
doesn’t, as the case may be), when a resident re-
marked, “It’s a king tide to-day.” Dotted about
the floor of the Cotter-like water-way were boys.
They sought for bait in holes, and occasionally found
it. Suddenly some-
one yelled, “Here she
comes,” and the fish-
ers stampeded for the
banks. A roar, sug-
gestive of 17 Social-
istic tigers disputing
with a herd of rogue
and a wall
of water burst round
the bend and came
tearing madly at us,
its outer edges spread-
ing the while fanwise
over the sands. In
20 minutes or half a
second (I forget
which) the whole of
the creek bottom was
covered, and the fluid
was rising rapidly. In
less than three hours
the erstwhile promen-
ade was running a
banker, and we had
to leave the salt pans
and seek the safety of
the higher ground.
For another two hours
the sea continued to east
itself headlong into the
channel and spread out
over the surrounding
country. Then it
ceased for a few mo-
ments before com-
mencing to bale itself
out, and start the
same wild race back
to the ocean. Before
the creek became
silted up the oldest
inhabitants informed
us the high tides used
to rise 40ft. Now the
size of the tide is not
reckoned by the height it rises, but by the amount of
good land it spreads over and destroys and the
number of crabs it drowns.
“Pick”: Among South Coast (N.S.W.)
aborigines the name “combo” does not bear the
shady significance attached to it by northern Abo.-
writers. It is simply a friendly appellation used in
greeting a strange nigger arrived at camp. It was,
also, the assumed name under which Alf Carter, a
former champion high-jumper and foot-runner, for
years competed in South Coast athletics, and, since
his mighty deeds, the name has been bestowed, in
honor, upon half the black piccaninnies between be-
tween Ulladulla. and Orbost.
* * * *
“Kola”: “Mallaranoonie” (B. 13/6/12)
has got out of his depth re the migration of some of
our birds. He says: “Nor do snipe leave the contin-
ent in any numbers, either. Their breeding-grounds
are mostly among the morasses and wild-rice swamps
of the Lower Daly, etc.” If “Mallarapoonie” has
found the breeding-ground of the snipe he is a
smarter man than Campbell, North or Hall, our
three leading birdologists. No nest or egg of a
snipe (except the scarce Australian painted snipe)
has yet been found in Australia, and no one now
looks for them. The snipe has its egg-farm in Japan
and Siberia, and scores of their nests have been
found on the slopes of Mount Fujiyama, Japan’s
famous smoking mountain. The ibis does not mi-
grate, except from one district to another, and I
never heard anyone say that it does. The snipe
arrives here about August, and leaves in April or the
beginning of May.
“Wanderlust” : Dunno whether it’s a sub-
ject for complaint or hullaballoo elsewhere, but out
West (N.S.W.) the emu has lately been practising a
game that has caused sheepmen to lose whatever
chance they had of a bunk in the Mansions of the
Blessed. Pa and Ma Emu and the Emu Flapper and the
eldest son and the twins and Baby Emu round up a
mob of lambs, and, when the mutton is fairly solid,
rush through it like 10 devils on their way to the
Lost Soul pub before closing time. Considerable
damage has been done in some localities, and threats
of wholesale slaughter of the bird that flies with its
feet are being made.
KING BILLY: “My word! I make it hot for you boys if you don't stop. Don’ t you know
I’m a plurry king!”
“Vagabond”: I’ve just been at a big
tangi oyer the remains of an old Maori chief-
tainess. The ceremony was part Irish wake, part
ordinary church funeral, part dance and gorge. The
wailing as the coffin was carried out was enough to
give a graven image the creeps. The picturesque
note was struck in the beautiful mats worn by some
of the men, and the masses of green leaves twined
in the hair and in some cases all over the bodies of
the women, though the general effect was jarred by
an occasional stiff white collar and a tie showing
DAMPNESS ABOUT.
“I say, milkman — er—is this milk pure?"
“My oath! Abso-bloomin’-lutely! ”
“Oh! — er—looks like rain, doesn't it?”
above the native mat, and by one or two women in
ordinary dresses and picture hats. The most notice-
able feature of the whole show was the quick-change
from weeps to laughs and back again. Some of the
men were standing round the grave one minute with
tears running down their faces, and the next they
were firing off guns and laug'hing and joking amongst
themselves. The women, too, wept at top pressure
in the cemetery, and came back almost convulsed
with merriment. There were two brass bands in the
outfit, and they played sluggish hymn tunes going
and a cheerful quick-step returning. When they got
to the pa the women couldn’t resist the invitation,
so they danced. And after that all was food and
jig and whoop and drink.
“Te Babarantiko”: Much has been said
concerning the South Sea Islander’s cruelty when
killing his pig, and his kindness generally to his
dog. Well, read this. My self-appointed “father”
and “mother” in Kuma reluctantly concluded the
time was ripe to part with the family porker, and
what more natural than to make a “present”—
assured of receiving full value—of him to their
adopted “son.” Since that pig first saw the light he
had slept in Nei Tatu’s bed. He had been washed
and oiled and had his hair combed and parted and
perfumed at least twice daily. His food had been
masticated for him, rolled in balls and popped into
his mouth by the lady’s own fair hands. I offered
my “parents” a bit of the dear departed, but the
old couple declined; and when pressed for a reason
said, “It would be like eating their own child.”
Now, for the dog. The Arorae Islanders love dogs
immoderately. As every epicure knows, dog is most
succulent when cooked in his own jacket and his
own juices. A large fire of dry cocoanut husks, the
uneatable part of the pandanus fruit and the butt
ends of palm branches is set going, and the dog, his
four legs tied together, is thrown into the glowing
mass, alive. But brown brother’s tender heart is
unable to bear the sight of his four-footed friend’s
agony, wherefore he retires from the scene, and does
not return until the fire has burnt out, when the
joint is done to a T.
“Kimu”: “Tamumu” (B. 20/6/’l2) re-
vives the ancient question with regard to the extinc-
tion of the extensive poultry which once ran or
otherwise propelled themselves in Maoriland. Some
years ago a terrific controversy raged and gnashed its
teeth upon the point, and, while the opposing forces,
led respectively by scientific minds like Von Haast
and James Hector, came to no finality on the main
issue, it was shown beyond all reasonable doubt
that the Maori didn’t know anything worth knowing
about the moa. Certainly he had traditions of big
birds, but then he called any big bird a moa.
Whereas it might be a turkey or an eagle. As. to the
yarn about the carrying off of Maori offspring into
the bush by the bird, its small head and slender
neck makes the statement look foolish. Either
Henare’s tale was invented to earn plugs of tobacco
after Richard Owen had proved the existence of the
moa, or it is the tail end of a tradition of Hawaiki,
whence the Maori announces he came to M.L.
Hawaiki, according to Edward Tregear’s well-sus-
tained theory, was India; so when Henare talks about
baby Maori being carried off into the bush, he was
no doubt thinking of the tiger that used to eat
the old folks at home.
PETER’S VISION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I dreamt of Heav’n,” old Peter said.
“Ah me! It was a splendid sight—
Long lines of pipes run over’ead,
An’ casks was scattered left an’ right.
An’ to the pipes was fitted taps
Fer noo arrivals —thirsty chaps.
“On flyin’ in I jus’ sat down
Among the singin’ cherubim ;
I drunk some liquor cool an’ brown,
Then joined ’em in a cheerful hymn.
I let ’em have it clear an’ loud,
Until I nearly bust me shroud.
“But all the band who made the beer
Were glum an’ quiet as could be.
Not one would take a glass. No fear!
I asked the coves who sang with me:
‘Who are them blokes?’ ‘Why,’ sez my mates,
‘They once was temp’rance advocates! ’
“Be turns I’d sing and ’ave a drink ;
But, in th’ middle of a song,
I stopped. It made me mad to think
I’d stayed below on earth so 10ng!....
Ah, lad! ’ow sad to know down ’ere
There’s flies in even angels’ beer !”
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.
The INDEPENDENT WORKERS’ UNION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The success of the new organisation demonstrates
a widespread craving for independence among
workers, a heartfelt desire to be rid of Trades Hall
tyranny.— Argus.
I saw this morning in my dreams
A really perfect working man.
He wore the yellow plush of “Jeames”;
Around him was the Fatted clan.
The Argus gave his back a pat,
And Paunch, the feeble, held his hat.
Round Fat his tendrils seemed to twine;
The Ladies" Leagues, a busy clutch,
With pillows shored his buckled spine;
Employers’ unions lent a crutch;
The Age gave its support, and rings
Of portly owners pulled its strings.
These strings controlled his every pose;
For blinkers odd he could not see;
A ring was woven through his nose.
What other could the creature be—
He was high Heaven’s noblest plan,
The Independent Working Man !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


If seeking information you should not fail to read
the winter number. Many pages are devoted to the
lighting and heating of modern homes in the June
issue of the Scientific Australian. Among other
subjects treated are, “AVhat Australia can do to sup-
plant war by peace,” by Dr. G. Strong; “Founder-
ing with lights burning”; “Accidents are economic
blunders” ; an article showing the folly of allowing
a preventable accident to recur. Publishers, Phillips
Ormonde & Co., 264 Flinders St., Melbourne, or
newsa ents. Annual subscription 2/6 post free.*
DOCTOR’S MEDICINE FAILED.
“I had influenza with congestion of the liver, took
the doctor’s medicine for some weeks and got no
relief,” said Mr. John S. Sweetman, Deep Lead
(Vic.). “Then I tried Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
and got immediate relief from the first dose. By the
time I had finished a large bottle the disagreeable
hacking cough and the pains in the chest disappeared
altogether.”*
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL’S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
IT DAZZLES THE WORLD.
No discovery in medicine has ever created one
quarter of the interest that has been caused by Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds. It
has brought relief in the most hopeless cases, when
all else has failed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Splitting headache, no interest, no meal, and family-
coming home. Take Stearns’ Headache Cure. Im-
mediate relief, brain clear, everything pleasant.*
ħg
FOGGITT,JONES
>HAM PATE
l« m delightful preparation of
genuine Ham of higheat quality. ■
Each tin holds a quarter of a pound,
and will make quite a lot of tasty,
appetizing sandwiches. With bread
and butter for lunch or tea it is very
mce-you bhould order a tin from
your grocer and try it.
“The Shake” : Recovering from my quar-
terly attack of fantods, my mind naturally turns to
tombstones. The time is mellow for a competition,
or art union, or bob in, or selling a horse, or some-
thing concerning the most striking inscription above
the locatable Australasian dead. Here’s my nomina-
tion. At Miller’s Flat (M.L.), away back in the
old days, a party of diggers found the body of a
stranger who had been drowned in an attempt to
cross the Clutha river. They buried the wet brother,
and at the head of the grave put up a stone, upon
which they carved, “Somebody Died.”
“Plugger Bill” Martin tells a Maoriland
pressman how Uncle Sam fries his nigger :• —-
Trains brought throngs from all points of the com-
pass. It was estimated that 100,000 people, a
large proportion of whom were women, gathered
round the place of judgment. The doomed negro
was pulled up on to a platform, so that everyone
could see him. He was then lashed securely to a
large post, which prevented him from moving an
inch. The first act was to burn the murderer’s eyes
out with red-hot irons. His ears, nose and fingers
were next cut off. Underneath the platform were a
barrel of tar, a cask of resin and timber. The
father of the murdered child was induced to apply a
match to the fuel, and a huge flame quickly en-
shrouded the negro’s legs. His yells were frightful.
His bonds gave way and the platform collapsed, caus-
ing him to fall into the burning hell. With extra-
ordinary tenacity of life he crawled out, enveloped
in fire, only to be pushed back with long poles into
the roaring furnace, where he was soon entirely con-
sumed.
A cheerful person is Sam in his hours of ease. Per-
haps, after all, it is best to keep the country white.
In a small way the above item reminds of those
Hindus in Fiji who, being angry at the loss of their
Government job, called round recently on the man
who had got it and fried him in kerosene.
“Eddyson” : Timms was a little old man
when I knew him, gnarled like an ocean gum,
furtive as a hare, with an odd habit of shooting his
head on a .long lean neck, as a lizard does when
suspicious: Timms was a hatter, living in a log hut
in the vicinity of Haunted Stream, Gippsland, and
lonelier than Crusoe. Nobody ever spoke to him,
and he spoke to nobody. The situation was explained
to me. Some 20 years earlier there had been a
mysterious disappearance in the locality, and sus-
picion fell on Timms. There was not a ha’porth of
evidence, but these little, narrow bush communities are
remorseless in their convictions, and this one stuck
to the opinion that Timms killed Baker. Everybody
shunned him, and eventually he shunned everybody.
He cowered away in his hovel, living on the produce
of a herd of goats, supplemented by a little fossicking.
When a stranger came to the creek Timms hid him-
self to avoid being pointed out as the district mur-
derer and the chief exhibit. Tourists worried the life
out of him. Miscreants with cameras drove him into
the hills. Then Timms died. In his hut was found
a scrap of notepaper, on which was written in a
large stiff hand: “I Done It. He’s Hid By the big
Gum Down the Creek.” That started a terrific
hunt for the missing remains. There were scores of
big gums down the creek. The men came from miles
round to assist the police, and the district indulged
itself in the most energetic seven days it had ever
known. About 5000 tons of earth were shifted before
Coolan discovered a gum marked with an old cross.
Enthusiasm centred here, and, after half a day’s
toil, a bag of bones came to light. Then the district
NIPPING IT IN THE BUD.
WAITRESS: "Anything else lean bring you—
sweets?”
SALTBUSH SID: "Here, none o' that, none o'
that. I came here to eat , not to be made love
to."
was satisfied that the mortal remains of Baker had
been unearthed and the guilt of Timms firmly estab-
lished, and it went home to bed. Later, some few
experts examined the bones, and pronounced them to
be fragments of cow, with a small proportion of dog.
Subsequent digging was all in vain—there were no
human scraps under any gum. Timms had had a long
time to wait, but he had at last got one back on
his neighbors.
* * * *
“Gordon G.”: The popular backblocks
lawyer had died, and the Bench felt it was up to it
to make a few feeling remarks. And so, ere the
day’s toll of drunks was dealt with, the more silver-
tongued of the J.’sP. present arose, and held forth
drearily as follows:
Gentlemen, —Our Honored friend ’as passed away
into the regions of eternal and never endin’ light.
I find it very ’ard, indeed, gentlemen, to express my
feelins’ for ’im. ’E was beloved by the pore and
generous to ’em, and ’e was a shinin’ light an’ very
’igh in ’is profession.
A prolonged pause:—
’E ’ad ’is faults an’ so ’ave we.
Another pause, during which the speaker obviously
sought with frantic eagerness for the “just word,”
as the French have it—or failing that, any old word.
It did not come, and ultimately he burst out with
terrific fervor: —
Well, damnitallany’ow—l move a blessed ’arty
vote o’ thanks.
And then the ribald drunks started to get it in the
neck as never before.
THE PASSIVE RESISTER.
REV. DAGBERRY : “ What!
What! William Bloggs!
Hunting on the Sabbath
instead of going to
school!”
WILLAIM (amazed):
"What yer gettin’
at! A din't Sundee
a day of rest! ”
“Gouger”: If the subject is skill in cap-
turing alligators, black brother on the Tully River,
North Queensland, calls for a hearing. In the dry
season, the larger sort of reptile generally picks a
deep water-hole, for his own special abiding place.
Binghi, after locating the brute, entices him out by
a scheme which, for sheer nerve and pluck, is ahead
of anything else I know of. A long
lawyer vine is cut. One end is pound-
ed into fibre and plaited to form a
running noose. Carrying this noose
in his hand, one of the party slips
naked into the water, without any
means of defence, while those on the
bank pay out the line. As the black
steadily approaches, the alligator be-
gins to get uneasy and insolvent, and
retreats backward towards the darkest
cellar of the water-hole. At last his
financial resources are exhausted, and
his tail bumps the bank. He can go
no further. The critical moment has
arrived. A single mistake on the
fisherman’s part, a moment of hesita-
tion, means death. Like a flash the
noose is jerked over the ugly head
and pulled taut by the boys ashore.
In the ensuing commotion, which re-
sembles a water-spout pursuing a
maddened railway train, the swimmer
departs under full steam. The fight
to bring the alligator to the place
where an array of spears and toma-
hawks awaits him is always long and
severe. I have known the job to oc-
cupy three or four hours.
‘ Pick”: A few seasons back a similar
plague of caterpillars to that mentioned by “Leo”
(B. 30/5/’l2) cleaned up the grass lands and fodder
crops of the Tilba-Tilba (N.S.W.) cow-worshippers.
Then the seagulls came. A few of the birds were,
one evening, observed feeding upon the caterpillars,
and the glad tidings were evidently wirelessed to the
whole nation of gulls. Next day they came in
squads, battalions and regiments, and before even-
ing not a caterpillar remained to tell the tale. And
since then I have frequently seen “sports” among the
same farmers shooting seagulls by the dozen to test
the abilities of their shotguns. Some of these fools,
if they had the chance, would shoot Providence to
test a seven-and-sixpenny Belgian pin-fire revolver.
* * * *
“Larrikin”: I know a bit about the ques-
tion of women workers Outback. On the Monaro, about
40 years ago, I saw women and girls toiling in the
branding yard. They used to rope, and help to
throw a colt, and hand the men the brands. Up at
Walla-Walla and Gerogerv, when the German settlers
from S.A. first arrived there, women and girls
ploughed, grubbed, did hay-making, harvesting, every
sort of work except washing. Knew a German and
his frau who took on a wool-pressing contract in
the old screw-press days. They were paid only a
shilling a bale for it, too, with 24 shearers in the
shed. It was marvellous to see that old girl handling
the fleeces! Strong! She was as strong as her
language, and that knocked the two dozen shearers
endways.
About a Matter which is Growing
Tiresome.
“Henri Singemoine” discourses :
Years and years ago a writer clamored in The
Bulletin for a Minister of Puce Socks and Striped
Pyjamas, or something of the sort. The new official
was to be gaudy, irresponsible, Gallic, everything
that the normal politician is not. Since then, differ-
ent people have demanded various sorts of Ministers
each more bizarre than the last. Now “Hello"
weighs in (B. 20/6/’l2) with what strikes me as
the dead limit and finish of imbecility in the form
of an aspiration for a Minister of Gaiety and Razafe.
Like all his kind he begins his thesis with a herd of
fallacies. Frinstance:—
“Sunday with us is still the one day of the week
when you take the family and the wife to visit your
mother-in-law, or kneel reverently in the garden and
watch the tomatoes grow. It is the day sacred to
the slipper and the dressing-jacket. It is the day of
rest for the safety-razor. And the last tram and the
last ferry meander home to their moorings somewhere
about the time the churches come out. ’ ’
In Sydney most trams and all ferries run fairly
late on Sunday night. The citizen who, with a
sizeable harbor, the open sea, a dozen surf-
beaches, and the Lord knows how many square miles
of delightful bush at hand, puts in Sunday visiting
his mother-in-law or watching tomatoes is either a
perverse idiot or a congenital loafer. The same re-
mark applies to him who sanctifies the Sabbath by
donning “the slipper and the dressing-jacket” and
omitting to shave. But it is the Minister’s plat-
form that makes me tired. Perpend:—
“The first job for the Minister of Razzle would be
the demolishing of a hundred shops—there are too
many shops, anyway—and the installation on their
razed foundations of caffis, with green trees in green
tubs, multitudes of little white-covered tables and
chairs on a sanded floor, and a battery of bocks and
long green drinks in long green glasses. There
Sydney could sit and dine and sup and watch the gay
crowds saunter by. At dusk all traffic would, be
stopped in Martin Place and at Circular Quay. The
whole vacant areas would be set out with tiny tables
and pretty waitresses, and the Tourist Department in
Martin Place and the warehouse of Goldsbrough
Mort at the Quay would be turned into brasseries.
And on the steps of the Post Office Australian music-
hall performers would pirouette and warble Australian
poems.”
Unthinking folks—the sort mostly who arrive from
abroad on a hot day and marvel that in our “tropi-
cal land” we don’t affect white ducks and solar
topees—are constantly blithering about the possibili-
ties of street cafes with green tubs, round tables,
etc. Some day a capitalist, impressed by their
glozing yarns, will start an institution of the sort,
and then there will be a fresh job for the Official
Assignee. Sydney has a good climate, but it is not
suitable for street restaurants —even if the City
Council were in the habit of doing its duty by the
streets. The first batch of aesthetes who fore-
gathered among the green tubs for the discussion of
bocks would presently get a wipe over the ear from
a southerly, with an attack of rheumatism or lum-
bago to follow. Or a cloud of germ-infested gutter
dust, borne on the wings of a hot westerly, would
descend on them and their refreshments. Or a free
and independent citizen would spit on one of their
number in mistake for the pavement. Or a clothier’s
tout would close with them and endeavor to sell them
unspeakable suits. Their outing would be full of
incident—all of it unpleasant and some of it horrible.
The brasserie business would not pay. Our people
have no time for it. No one would sit and watch
the gay crowds saunter by—one good reason being
that city crowds in Australia don’t so much saunter
as gallop. I have seen a number of our music-hall
performers in my time. To my mind they are
equally as villainous as their British prototypes. If
I observed one of these frowsy vagabonds pirouetting
and warbling Australian, or other, poems on the
steps of any public building I would take it upon
myself to have him moved on by the police as a
public nuisance.
According to Plank 2 of the Razzle Minister’s
platform, Sydneyites would be encouraged to sit and
sip on the flat roofs of every great building. And
on the fat head of the citizen who was demented
enough to seek his pleasures in this way would im-
mediately descend about -Jib. of assorted smuts. The
roof garden has been tried in this city of high winds
and cheap fuel, and it is a failure.
The Carnival plank is simply futile. We lack the
carnival spirit here, having neither a “leisured class”
nor lazzaroni. I would wager a goodly sum that be-
fore the first of these ghastly entertainments had
been in progress for half an hour “Hello” would be
bolting for home like Old Henry. Of all my ac-
quaintances I do not know one who is capable of
cutting a creditable figure at a Battle of Flowers.
The Australian character is all right, but it is
useless to attempt to graft on to it the picturesque
ways of Southern Europe. Serenades, can-cans, the
hasta manana and dolce far niente business, aperitifs,
cheap books imbibed with intense gradualness, wild
public gaiety and the like are not for us. Our
burghers are wedded to the small black bag habit,
the hurried nip, the sober garb of the Philistine and
a self-respecting reserve which it takes a Mafeking
insanity and oceans of alcohol to banish. To suggest
that we should be weaned from these things is tanta-
mount to urging that the Legislature should attempt
to change the habits of the planets.
p ♦
On the day last week when the S. M. Herall
filled its umbrella with tears over the good
old flight of capital—-“alarmed capital”—
the Financial World drifted in from Lon-
don, with “some facts about Australian
Finance; an interview with Dr. Macicellar,
president of the Bank of N. S. Wales.” The
World seems to have put the usual weary old
question to Mackellar, “Isn’t capital being
driven out of the country by Socialistic legis-
lation?” whereupon the man who was head
of Australia’s biggest home-grown bank for
years past forgot all about the S. M. Herald
and the fact that lie was an M.L.C., and
jumped to this effect:—
Capital leaving the country? Of course there’s
some capital leaving the country. There are so
many people wanting us to take their money that we
can get all we need at Si or 4 per cent., while the
Argentine and Canada have so little offering that they
are paying 6to 7-J per cent. Of course some capital
will go away to look for the high rate of interest;
but you don’t call that a reflection on our credit, do
you? It’s distinctly and emphatically the opposite.
And he might have added that much of the
little that is going is being sent away to pay
for the calico and the brummagem that are
imported because the S. M. Herald’s policy
of ineffective Protection is in force. This
part of it doesn’t necessarily want to go,
but the Herald is kicking it out.
♦ ——
“Pick” : The Backbone of the Country is
at it again. He was warned in N.S.W. and Queens-
land that the hyacinth would block his water-ways
if he didn’t keep them clear of the course. Natur-
ally, being a shiftless cuss, he let the job get ahead
of him, and now he is plaintively howling for the
State to save him. Also, he was solemnly assured
that if he gave the Cape weed half a chance it would
take hold of the paddocks and tear the natural
THE SERVANT PROBLEM.
JANE (to retreating mistress): “I don't have
to work for you; a girl can always go on
the stage, y’ know."
beard off the face of the earth. Down on the South
Coast of N.S.W. the noble farmer did put in a few
seasons in keeping the imported vegetable beast
within bounds ; but then he grew tired and reckoned
he was wasting good time that might more profit-
ably be spent in worshipping Cow. To-day, the
weed is chasing Cow off the meadows, and the milk
cheque isn’t nearly as healthy as it was. So the
Backbone is frantically signalling to the local
bodies for help. In fact, State Socialism is about
the only friend the Backbone has these days.


THE FUSED ATTITUDE.
LAYING A TRAP FOR EITHER FOWL.


Are you losing weight? Muscles weak and flabby?
Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract builds up broken
down tissues and produces sound, healthy flesh in-
creases your weight.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
durability.
NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
hud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
ERNEST KNOCK,
the Wagnerian con-
ductor of the Quintan
orchestra.
lalt, or one_ of the people who supply
-Lalt s ammunition, has invented a new word
tor this Yankee Presidential campaign—
honeyfugler.” Roosevelt, of course, is the
honeyfugler, i.e., a gent, who promises an
unattainable Paradise, stocked with wine and
bees -juice.
A- C. Wright, who was the other day ap-
pointed boss of the Commonwealth’s small-
as move< f among guns most of
his life. He came from Enfield (Eng.) then
moved to Birmingham with his father, who
was a die-sinker. As a youngster he went
into Avery’s, the tool and weighing-machine
makers. Then he crossed the Big Drink, had
seven years in Unc. Sam’s machine shops,
and finally dropped back into gun-making and
torpedo-boat building. When Pratt and
" hitney got the contract for supplying Aus-
tralia with a small-arms factory outfit,
Wright was superintendent of a bulky
factory in Massachusetts. The contrac-
tors offered him the job of putting the
Australian business right through, and the
Commonwealth Government liked the way he
did it so well that he was invited to stay
°*V be keeps plugging out guns for an-
other 12 months he will be 50.
From a recent issue of the Sydney Tele-
UKAPii: —
The Woolley musical scholarship, which was
founded in 1909, to perpetuate the memory of the
late Miss Emmeline Woolley, a Sydney teacher of
note, was won, as the public will probably remem-
ber, by Miss Kathleen Narelle, daughter of Marie
Corelli, the well-known Australian contralto.
“Marie Corelli, the well-known Sydney con-
tralto !” There has been nothing like this
since Hannibal chased Napoleon Columbus
over the plains of Gibraltar.
The German Professor Schachner, of
Jena Universiiy, who died a few months ago*
left £lOOO “for sociological research in Aus-
tralia.” Six years ago Schachner came to
Australia to study Protection and othei 1
species of devil. Finding out for himself
that Melbourne and Sydney were not Aus-
tralia, he went into the back counil'y of
Queensland and took a job in a shearing shed,
and afterwards he did the same in the coal
mines in N. S. Wales. The experience was,
he thought, of such tremendous educational
value that before he died he provided for this
bequest of £lOOO, which he reckoned would
allow a Jena student to take much the same
course every sixth year, his idea being that
thus Kaiser Bill might be able to keep track
ot Australian social devils and their results,
“Y.Z.” : The late John Ford Patterson, of
Melbourne, was, as a rule, a silent and
placid little man, but on the subject of
airt,” ye ken, he was as dogged as the big-
gest human circumstance in the game,
Johnnie had his own irresistible and im-
movable ideas of “airt,” and would talk
them all day and night if you got him going.
He was very forbearing towards many of
the younger realists. I stood beside him
while he. scanned a much-talked-of picture of
an interior in a one-man show. “Yes,” he
“verra deeligent, verra industrious,
Fut I don’t see the union label on the furni-
ture.. Poor boy, he hasna’ painted a peecture
this is an auctioneer’s cataloag.”
Alexander Burnett, just retired from the
job of Mail Superintendent in N.S.W.,
joined the Ma Community’s Telegraph De-
partment in 1862, when there were only five
instruments, eight operators and six tele-
graph messengers in Sydney. In his younger
days he was postmaster in the bushranging
country He wasn’t personally bushranged,
but he had a narrow escape of his life all
the same With Keightley (the hero of
Robbery Under Arms”) and, later, with J.
W. Turner, now Superintendent of Techni-
cal Education, he produced several dramas
at Wellington, and on one occasion bor-
rowed an old pistol from the local police
station. The thing went off, and nearly
shot him, his wife and family, his mother-
in-law, his aged parents, his grandfather, a
number of friends, the domestic servant and
the cat. It didn’t really hit anybody, but it
might have hit all sorts of people. The
weapon had been loaded for bushrangers
eight years previously, which is the reason
why it is dragged into this paragraph.
“Red Tape, jun.,” unwinds:—
Another N.S.W. public servant is causing the Gov-
vernment sleepless nights. The rule of the service
is that those in the clerical division shall have three
weeks leave of absence annually; but this leave
can accumulate to two months if, for departmental
reasons, it cannot be taken in due course. Now, there
are quite a number of men who go on working vear
z . year without holidays. Most of them
do this because they have no cash for holiday expendi-
™[ e i s ?me, because they are afraid to leave their
work, lest their utter uselessness be discovered:
some, for genuine departmental reasons. Hitherto,
it has been recognised in these cases that two
months extra payment should be mado on retire-
ment ; but one enterprising official has calmly applied
tor cash for all leave of absence not obtained during
the past 90 years or thereabouts. And the staggered
Crown is not sure that Premier McGowen won’t
have to raise another loan to meet the bill. The
v r 6 ??' , 1 ?, to be whistled up directly, to spread
the light of its illuminated horsetail on the question.
“M. J.” complains :
Weird are the titular bloomers that are habitually
perpetrated by those Sydney sheets which take most
stock in the heraldic business. F’rinstance, last
week, in the S. M. Herald, Lord Furness was re-
ferred to as _ Sir Christopher Furness,” a title he has
not borne for the
last two years,
whilst Sir Robert
Anderson, erst-
while Assistant-
Commissioner o f
Police, and a.
knig h t of 21
v ears' standing,
had his decoration
torn from him,
and found himself
presented as a
plain, drab Mister.
The same day an-
other sheet termed
the new Governor
of Fiji “Sir Sweet-
Escott,” as who
should say Sir
Fairfax or sn-
Smith. As I look
at it, if a paper is
determined to wal-
low in titles, so
to speak, it is a
sound line to try
and get them
right.
THE MIGHTY
BONNOR,
a deceased Aus-
tralian cricketer
of vast tonnage
in his day.
J. W. Sandford, dead in Adelaide at 66,
was less well known than his late brother
and partner, A.W., because lie kept out of
politics. But he had been President of the
S.A. Chamber of Commerce, and still held
that office when he died, and, in general,
was a good Seotch-Australian from boy-
hood. The two brothers had built Up a big
produce business in Adelaide and Perth.
Both had weak hearts, and found their time-
limit set at about the same age,
ANOTHER INTERFERENCE WITH
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.
A Bill is to be introduced to protect all native
birds and animals other than those known to be
noxious. —Sydney paper.
THE BOY : “More Socialism!”
Artemus Ward was fined 255. at Stawell
(Yic.) t’other day for being drunk and dis-
orderly and damaging the police. To what
base juices!
The familiar figure and memorable Scotch
accent of “Johnny” Forde Patterson will be
sadly missed at the Yic. Artists’ Society’s
annual show, which opens at the Albert-street
galleries on Friday of this week. But the
dead identity will be represented, presum-
ably, on the walls. “Johnny” remained faith-
ful to the society after other of its surviving
old members, who still follow the “airt” in
Melbourne, had dropped their allegiance. He
had sung “We are nae fou” at so many of
the V.A.S. smoke nights that he couidn’t
dissociate himself with its faded annual
exhibition, and he will surely be there in the
spirit next Thursday (press day) and Fri-
day, when the Fuller Governor is due to
make some opening remarks. A hundred
or so of old friends and young artists went
to Melbourne Cemetery the other Monday
afternoon, to see J.F.P. buried. Prime Min-
ister Fisher was conspicuous at the grave
side.
Leaving aside the Maoriland Ministry of
Hall-Jones, which was a temporary carry-on
between the death of Richard Seddon in
1906 and the arrival of louseph Ward from
abroad a couple of months later, the Thomas
Mackenzie Cabinet that was struck down last
week was the shortest-lived in New Jeru-
salem since 1884. In that year there were
four Governments—the Atkinson contraption
(which took office in September of 1883, and
was out of work again 12 months later), the
StoutWogel combination (which lasted 12
days), another collection of Atkinson’s
(which was amputated from the spoils within
seven days), and Stout, Vogel and co. once
more. Probably Maoriland will now see a
run of short-dated combinations. That sort
of thing generally happens after the downfall
of a long-enduring gang. Thus Westralia’s
first Ministry—that of Bigjohn Forrest—
lasted from December, 1890, to February,
1901 (more than 10 years). There have
been 10 Governments since then. The most
strenuous year was 1901, in which the State
was run by (1) Forrest. (2) Throssell, (3)
Leake, (4) Morgans, (5) Leake again.
Premier Willie Watt, of the Irish counten-
ance. has been telling his Melbourne consti-
tuents that he is rudely English in his
speech, and always desires to express himself
“in brief flung words and few,” because it
is_ “the way the English have.” Now, F
V\ att knew the people he claims national
kinship with, he would never use the afore-
said quotation, except in irony. An Eng-
lishman rarely talks pithily and pungently.
I ;, Y Q g a slow thinker, he either hesitates in
trying to. express himself, or goes a long way
round with the objective point in view, or
babbles at random without attempting to
express himself at all. His words are stam-
mered or drawled rather than “flung.” ID
is prosily discursive rather than brief, or if
perchance he is “blunt and nasty,” his re-
marks are almost invariably illogical. Willie
vvatts idea of the typical Anglo-Saxon is
absurdly out-of-date. Carlyle, the Scot, paid
a liberal compliment to the English when he
called them “Of all people on God’s earth
the stupidest in speech and the wisest in
action. If Watt were shut up for a week
with a dozen immigrants from “Mother
.untry, he d pr ;de 0Q his un „ En „
lish diction.
Died last week, at 68, Lancelot Frederick
Iredale, whose father founded a Sydney
business 92 years ago—a business still liv-
ing, though under another name. This
Lancelot Iredale was a son of another Lance-
lot who, in 1820, set up as an ironmonger
in George-street, next door to the “Waterloo”
shop of Cooper and Levey, the former being
tlmfounder of the fortunes of the Dan Cooper
family. Young Iredale was born at Aubhi'n
Cottage, Bourke-sti-eet, Surry Hills, a house
built by the father away in the ’3o’s, and still
standing. The father died when the boy was
but four years old, and the latter, when he
gi-e\v up, went squatting at Gunnedffh, His
sister married Frederick Lassetter, who Was
interested in the Iredale business ■ and in the
’so’s the name of Lassetter went up off the
signboard when the hardware whs shifted
to the other side of the street, and it has
been kept up ever since.
That fine specimen of stinking-fish purveyor,
the Pastoralists’ Review, lately reported
that a banquet was tendered at Quirindi
(N.S.W.) to a Councillor CliFI, who was
leaving fob Argentina. Clift, in responding,
Said
He had d, large amount of money available, but
fcould See nd safe investment in taking up more land
in Australia, where 30 per cent, went to pay taxes
bf varipus kinds, so he was going to South America,
tvherfe land taxation was unknbwri.
Unfortunately the Review wandered or was
pushed into the office of the Buenos Aires
Daily Herald, and that paper coldly re-
marked upon Clift’s “blissful ignorance.”
“There is,” it added, “such a tax in Argen-
tina as contribucion territorial, based on the
estimated value of the holdings, and it is a
just tax.” But when Councillor Clift had
got over the shock of this, it promised him
that he would “have nothing worse to face
than drought—which he is doubtless used
to —and locusts, which he may get to like in
time.” Still there is some doubt as to that
being the extent of the curses ahead of him,
for the Herald was next day reminded by a
correspondent that it had forgotten to tell
Mr. Clift of the tax that Argentina will
collect when he starts to market his stock —
a little tax of two dollars per bullock and
lOd. per sheep before the beasts are even
allowed to travel out of their district. It
looks as though, after all, Clift may yet
wish himself back in the country which, if it
does drive out capital, doesn’t, anyhow,
wait on the drover with a gun in one hand
and a large collection plate in the other.
“Titus Harbottle” writes :
If Asquith and Co. can’t read the writing that is
now going up on the wall they ought to go back to
school. The majority of the present British Foreign-
trade Government in the House of Commons
has fallen rapidly during the last few weeks.
On the Home Rule (second reading) Bill it
was 101; on Welsh Disestablishment it tumbled
to well under 70; and the last week it
fell to a bare 45, on a hostile amendment put by
Bonar Law re the London strike. In the alleged
Liberal ranks are many very heavily-gilt employers,
and they stopped away with great unanimity when it
came to the vote. At Ilkeston, in Derbyshire, the
Unionists did an unusual thing in opposing the re-
election of the Freetrader Colonel Seely, who has
been promoted to Haldane’s job of pretending
to look after Bull’s little army. The cus-
tom has been for the Oppositionists to let this kind
of re-election go by courtesy—particularly when,
AFFABLE
ALFRED.
as in this instance,
not 18 months
have elapsed since
the general elec-
tion—but, as it
happens, they were
justified. Seeley
scraped back, s o
to speak, with a
bare 1200 major-
ity, where in De-
cember, 1910, he
had over 4000!
Most of the by-
elections are
going like this,
and the winter is
coming along
shortly, and then
employment and
business will slack
off, so the outlook
is none too cheer-
f u 1 for Asquith.
Lloyd George’s lat-
est manoeuvre t o
nobble the vote of
Hodge, by talking
of a minimum
wage, indicates
the straits the
Government is in.
What sort of a
wage is it going
to be, with four-
fifths of the “agri-
cultural produc-
er s” of Britain
living abroad and
out of the Govern-
me n t’s jurisdic-
tion?
“H.H.”: What is the easy-going, soft-
hearted, . happy-go-lucky Australian Govern-
ment going to do about “Colonel” Onslow?
That Tory warrior has announced publicly
that he won’t lead Australia’s compulsory
soldiers into action. It might possibly be un-
fortunate, both for them and for Australia
if he did, but that is not the question. The
matter at issue is that Onslow poses as a
despiser of the laws, a contemner of the
army of which he is supposed to be a
part, a soldier who scorns his superiors, and
a warrior in a state of blithering mutiny.
When is the court martial coming off?
lI.H. : When the W.A. Labor Govern-
ment bought a little fleet of tramp steamers
and resolved to take a hand in the Kimberley
cattle trade, it didn t strike a wholly new
idea. At the beginning of the 70’s of last
century the coastal steamship comoanies got
swelled head, and relations between them
and the Queensland Government, re mails
etc., became so cold that when the parties
breathed jointly outside a milk emporium
ice-cream was formed. Then Premier Lilley
boiled over—he was always a big, strong,
boiling sort of man—and decided that
Queensland should have State-owned passen-
ger steamers. Whereupon, the companies
agreed to take a smaller size in craniums.
and matters simmered down.
THE FLIGHT OF CAPITAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During the past week the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has been strenuously on its defence, but the
most significant comment on its failure to “make
good,” as the Americans say, is to be found in a
little paragraph of news we were able to give yester-
day, by which it appears that capital is being driven
out of the country. .. The wonder is that capital has
not taken fright much earlier in the day.
—S. M. Herald.
Lo, Capital, the golden one,
The shy, the pleasant, the elusive!
It rises, it spreads its wings, it will fly away ;
In the midst of a sorrowful people it shall shine no
more!
Behold, the bird beautiful will leave us for ever!
Once it might have eaten out of your hand,
Once it might have called its mates out of the aviary
of Cohen ;
Had ye hearkened unto our word ye had tamed it;
But ye affrighted it with many laws,
Yea, ye put the salt of taxation upon its tail;
And now it is ready for flight, and its roosting-place
shall be desolate.
Kneel ye in sackcloth and ashes before it, and pray
that it may yet remain 1
It maketh a loud flapping of the wings, but its feet
are fast upon the tree of interest;
Its principal part is somewhat fat, and its beak
curveth as the facial extremity of Israel,
But it beateth the air and will presently fly away,
For the person that is a Tory hath said it,
And the S. M. Herald hath repeated it 756,542
times;
Yea, the thing will surely be brought to pass.
Why do the people watch?
And why are their eyes lifted above them?
They watch for the flying of the aeroplane,
Yea, they are come together in their multitudes to
see Capital soar away ;
For the matter hath been largely advertised, and the
wings have been flapping since about 1875.
Yet, assuredly it shall go,
Undoubtedly it shall soar,
Unquestionably it shall rise ;
Lo, the person that is a Tory hath said it,
And his scribes have written it 756,542 times;
Yea, and moreover, they shall yet write it 14,906,729
times,
For its flight is a dreadful thing, and all the people
should know it.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


m
mmm
7
•4J _• '
“ I stand for Australia ! So do Gowing Bros., the Pioneer Distributors of Australian-made
roods, whose ‘ Australian Goods for Australian People policy is so successful that they arehavin &
> build six new storeys. There is nothing better than their ‘ Austral ’ Suits, made of their old
lends Vicars’ Marrickville Tweeds—all wool, pure wool, and nothing but wool. Send for
atterns and self-measurement form, and ask them to let you have a copy of their ‘ Style Book.
Address —
GOWING BROS.,
486, 488 & 490 George Street
(being re-built) ;
and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD
FEED WATER HEATERS & E PUrVrERS° OIL& STEAM^EP^ATOrI;
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
“SISKOL’ROCKDRILLS!
“SISKOL" HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd .
DIERCKS <fe CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Coming down to cash, this is how things
have gone with the N. S. Wales Treasury:—
Crkdit Balancks.
De-
June,’ll. June,’l2. creases.
Revenue account .. £h)1,505 £61,: 103 £340,14:'
Public Works Fund .. 496,767 *26 ',678 236,089
Closer Settlement Fund 514,842 43,982 470,860
Totals ... 11,413,114 £366,023 £1,047,091
In other words, in addition to all the current revenue,
the N.S.W. Government has in 12 months mopped up
£1,047,091 of accumulations. Then, of course,
there is the loan money; of that no less than
£5,831,377 has been spent during the year. Put
the two together, and the dreadful secret will be out
that this Labor Government, which sought office to
suppress extravagance, has spent £6,878,468 more
than its revenue during the past 12 months. “Boom-
ster” used to be one of the most bitter things the
Laborite could say about a man, and especially a
politician. Mcllwraith, in Queensland, and Duncan
Gillies, in Victoria, were held up as worthy objects
for the execration of every sane democrat. But in
sober seriousness neither Mcllwraith nor Dunky
Gillies ever so thoroughly deserved the title of
boomster as this present N.S.W. Government does.
And its offence is all the worse because, partly
through the prosperity of the country and partly
through increased taxation, the revenue has been
far greater than ever it was before. This little list
shows that movement: —
Total Revenue. Per Head.
1904 .. £11,248,328 .. £7 17 10
1905 . . 11,336,918 . . 7 16 1
1906 . . 12,283,082 . . 8 5 6
1907 . . 13,392,435 . . 8 16 7
1908 . . 13,960,763 . . 8 19 9
1909 . . 13,625,071 . . 8 12 6
1910 . . 14,540,073 . . 9 0 11
1911 . . 13,839,139 . . 8 8 9
1912 .. 15,761,907 .. 9 2 2
The revenue per head for 1912 is a close approxima-
tion. The total expenditure for the year thus works
out as follows: —
From revenue ..£15,761,907
From accumulations.. .. .. 1,047,091
From Cohen 5,831’,377
Total expenditure .. .. £22,640,375
The growth of the expenditure on revenue account is
■not, however, of so much concern as the appalling
growth of the other expenditure, especially that on
loan account. The vast outlay under the latter head
means that a state of artificial prosperity is created,
as a result of which abnormal prices are ruling. For
every £lOO spent under these conditions the State
is getting what would be worth no more than £75
under normal conditions. This means that when
normal conditions prevail £75 will have to struggle
to earn interest—and high interest at that—on £lOO.
That will mean the pinching of every producer, every
worker, in the future. The only people who will
really gain are those Fat ones who are finding a
State investment for their money at unusually high
rates of interest, and the non-productive gamblers in
land, etc., who are buying in on one rung of the
ladder and getting out when the boom has climbed
up a few more.
Within the next seven years N. S. Wales has up-
wards of £28,000,000 falling due to Cohen. In
that respect it is in almost as bad a position as
Maoriland. It has no sinking fund properly so-called
either ; it certainly takes a few thousands a year out
of revenue and calls it sinking fund instalment; but
it doesn’t accumulate the money at compound in-
terest, and that is the very essence of a sinking fund.
In the absence of a liquid sinking fund it is thus
placed in this position—it must either borrow or
burst. And, knowing its necessities, Cohen will make
his price accordingly. This present Government isn’t
responsible for the non-existence of a real sinking
fund years ago; but it is responsible for the non-
existence of a real sinking fund to-day. And it is
entirely responsible for making such a furious raid
upon the market on the very eve before the
28,000,000 chickens come home to roost.
* * * *
The Victorian Treasury has not yet com-
pleted its exoenditure returns, but with a revenue
of £9,826,716, it expects to have a surplus of about
£30,000. Nothing in the way of loan figures is avail-
able. Yet without loan figures the others are hardly
worth two weevily biscuits. Any old Treasurer
could fake a surplus if he chose to charge enough up
to loan account—that is, if he passed the bill on to
the baby instead of paying it himself.
Queensland has been going the whole hog. This :
shows how the Northern State’s loan expenditure has
been shaping:—
1905 . . £225,466 1909 . . £1,247,821
1906 .. 297,624 1910 .. 1,486,216
1907 . . 683,570 1911 . . 1,995,301
1908 . . 1,033,676 1912 . . 3,324,248
The money has, of course, been spent 1 in “opening
up the country”—the same old operation on which
£44,750,000 had allegedly been spent before last
year started. Yet, though £79 13s. had been spent
to open up the country for every man, woman and
child in it, the job had either been done so badly,
or the country takes such a vast amount of opening
up, that another £5 Bs. per head had to be poured
into the same sink last year; and apparently still
more must be poured in before the country can hold
any additional people. When will this farce end?
Or, frankly, does the Denham Government believe
that the £48,000,000 already spent has only de-
veloped the country enough to hold 610,000 people?
If it can hold more people with the present devel-
opment, then this seems a proper time to keep out of
the pawnshop. During the next 12 months the State
has about £3,000,000 worth of I O U’s falling due;
and, since it hasn’t any cash in hand wherewith to
buy up those I O U’s, it must borrow £3,000,000,
even though it doesn’t spend a cent on public works,
during the next 12 months. And, in 1915 a beauti-
ful little lot of £11,728,800 will have to be argued
with in one piece. If Denham had to climb Bellen-
den Ker to save his life, it might be a sensible thing
to prepare for it by doing a five-mile sprint; but
that plan would be much more liable to leave a
corpse on the track.
No other State returns of much consequence are
yet available. Both S. Australia and Tasmania re-
port a revenue in excess of the previous- year’s; but
as they don t mention anything about either ordinary
or loan expenditure, the figures are hot worth elbow
room. As for Westralia, that State announces that it
wants an extra week to think the matter over. Pro-
bably it is still pondering whether it ought to again
regard the meals provided at the immigrants’ shelter
as a permanent and reproductive undertaking, to be
charged to Loan Account, as hitherto.
It appears to be generally understood that
the chief business of an Australian Government is to
be a friendly, kind-hearted ass towards all comers,
and a source of concessions. Thus, certain holders
of S.A. interminable 3 p.c. stock have approached
the Treasurer at Adelaide, and explained that they
effected a very bad bargain, and want it altered.
They would like the stock, which is now at a heavy
discount, made repayable in 20 years, so that they
might get their money back in full and charge the
Government a higher rate next time they lend it.
The Government is understood to he looking coldly on
the proposition. When it perpetrates a bad bargain
it has to stick to it, and it feels disinclined to part
with the only good bargain it ever made. Also, it
has more than enough 1 0 U’s falling due, and to
deliberately turn a fixed loan into another I O U
falling, due, is too much to ask. Besides, it would
like to have a precedent for the proposed action, and
none is forthcoming. Certain 3 p.c. deposits of the
B. S. and A. Bank are interminable; but though
they are selling at about 13s. in the £ nobody dreams
of asking Private Enterprise to vary that bargain.
And if J. Bull’s Government were asked to repay at
par its interminable consols, which now stand at
about £76, it would probably inquire if the peti-
tioners were mad. Supposing S.A. could scratch to-
gether a little loose money and start buying its most
depreciated securities in the open market, it might
make a trifle. That is the way Bull reduces his debt
now and then, and when he can buy back at £76
securities that he sold at £lOO, he is the gladdest
old lop Boots in Christendom. But, unfortunately
owing to the clamor for permanent and reproductive
vvorks, these States never have much loose money.
After all, the S.A. interminable 3 per cents, have
only fallen to 80, so their holders, despite the lamen-
tations they make, haven’t struck so bad a snag as
the holders of Bull’s consols or of E. S. and A.
Bank 3 p.c. Private Enterprise debentures.
* * *
' J ’] le Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
(Melbourne) : ’
Dividends.
<■ ,
Pref. Written
Profits. (6 p c.) Old Off Deficit
Sept., 1904.. £13,87-3 £3750 8 p.c. =£sooo £720 £159 728
Mar., 1905.. 14,887 3750 10 ~ „ 6250 701 155 51 2
Sept., 1905.. 15,306 3750 10 ~ ~ 6250 706 150 942
Mar., 1906.. 13.846 3750 10 „ „ 6'50 722 147’siS
Sept., 1906.. 16,012 3750 10,, „ 6250 724 142’ 0
Mar.. 1907.. 15,600 3750 12 , , 7500 962 139 142
Sept,, 1907.. 15,666 3750 12 7500 979 35705
Mar., 1908.. 16,579 3750 12 7500 9*9 3? 865
Sept., 1908.. 17,436 37.50 12 7500 4085 i9<V->64
Mar., 1909.. 15,4-5 3750 12 ” ” 7500 I°S7
\r ept '’ !u?v" }n’ 7 ' 3 3750 12 » » 7500 1568 120,361
Mar., loll).. 17,987 3750 12 ~ ~ 7.4U0 13.38 114 962
S-pt.,1910.. 20,870 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 1403 106 745
Seut’lQw" 2M H 5 ? 12 " ” 7500 1376 98,503
Sept., 1911.. 20,699 3<no 12 „ ~ 7500 1299 9)353
Mar., 1912.. 19,782 3750 12 ” ” 7500 1282 B^o3
This co owns the Herald and the Weekly Times
‘“*'l P. aid *198,000 for the goodwill of those papers •
the S°°dwill of a newspaper means no more than
the habit vanous people have of buying it. Break
that habit and it is a fragile substance—and there
isn t any goodwill left. Evidently the directors
realise that the uncertain item should be replaced as
soon as possible by assets that a pawnbroker would
recognise; hence two fine reserves are being built
trP J or ir. non 0 ™!?; 1 re ?“' ve fund , which now amounts
#m 6 nn oo Ti, the other a contingency fund, now
£47,000. These funds are mostly in liquid form
and there can be nothing better than that. The fol-
lowing shows the position in another way:—
T . .. t Mar., 1905. Mar., 1911. Mar.. 1912.
Liquid assets .. £38,815 £79,155 £B2 788
Liabilities .. 4,016 7,991 8 ’ 607
Surplus .. £34,799 £71J64 £74~181
r A S< T n L y i ears i he P?- has (1) P aid its dividend;
(2) bought and paid £15,073 for a property in
EusseH-street; (3) spent upwards of £5OOO on the
offices in Flmders-street; (4) maintained the plant
and made a small increase in the stock ; and (6)
put by £39,382 in hard cash. Times have been
extra-good, certainly; but the co. could do a lot
worse and still be doing excellently for its share-
holders. Poking further into details, these results
show up;—
Liabilities.
Sepr., Sept,., Mar., Sept., Mar.
„ , 1904. 1910. 1911. 1911. 1912
Sundry creditors £1,271 £8,152 £7,991 £4,377 £8,607
Assets.
Freehold .. 31,243 50,542 50.611 52,517 59445
Machinery .. 25.146 26,660 25,438 24,597 2L749
Br°ck .. .. 9,2'1 14,<531 15.534 14,013 19,772
Liquid assets •. 34,623 70,826 79,155 84,147 82^788
w 6 as , sets > *63,467 is cash and £4750 Board
of Works debentures, while a very moderate £l4 048
represents book debts.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne),
manufacturers of foodstuffs;—
Added Reserves
. to Re- (Noini-
April, Profits. Dividends. series. nail
1901.. £7,124 2A p.c. = £3,648 £3,476 £.34 711
1902.. 15,883 3} „ „ 5,473 10,410 45 121
Loss. ’
1903.. 4,097 Nil _ 4109 ,
1904.. 15.420 Nil _
Profits. / 004
1905.. 10,658 Nil 10.658 36 oco
19'>6.. 12,140 l)p.c.= 1,824 10,316 46578
It ».. 3,643 sioei 55:139
1960.. 2,234 2A „ ~, 3,648
1909.. 9,696 ‘>i „ „ 3,648 6.048 59 773
H- 17’irQ i ’> ” 6.694 66,467
191 L.. 17.169 5£ ~ ~ 8,2u9 8,960 75 497
1912.. 24,454 6 2-3 „ 10,"34 14,420 8*9,847
ibis co. was born in 1888, and most of the infants of
that year had a lot of teething troubles. The paid-
up capital was £132,499; but as that wasn't nearfy
enough to pay for the assets, inclucling goodwill, the '
co. had to lean upon its banker from the outset.
? a ? ltal now is £145,953 ; on the other side of
the balance-sheet the old entry still appears—•
InKn >, PU ™ haSe • at ■ C 0? ? t ’ deluding goodwill,
£148,500 The sundries m that untidy heap in-
cluded freeholds, machinery, horses and rolling stock.
Considerable additions have been made to the heap
from time to time, and an unspecified sum has been
iL i° ff of these additions; but
the old horse that was in the balance-sheet 24 years
ago is there still. The ancient nag probably died
20 years ago, and was replaced by another ; also the
bottom was probably burned out of the original pot
long back, and another vessel had to be got' in. But
th . e . r f, 110.I 10 . of these things in the accounts,
whioh just let you assume that the old nag and the
old pot are still helping to grind out dividends.
he form of the accounts, is bad. The “original
purchase included, as before mentioned, freeholds
machinery, horses, and rolling stock. Since then
other assets of the same kind have been added, so
there‘are noVv two lots of the same thing in the-one
balance-sheet -two lots of rolling-stock, for instance
one of them included in the untidy heap specified
above, the other included with “rolling-stock, horses
packages, etc., >£28,625.” Probably the original un-
d) r heap isn't broken up into its component parts
and the articles put away in their proper shelves
beeausfe the management doesn’t want to leave the
goodwill item standing naked and unashamed; and
if so, this paper can understand the management’s
feelings. Any management ought to be ashamed of
having written nothing off a paper asset like that
for 24 years. Until the balance-sheet is put into
better form, and the exact size of the goodwill is
specified, the whole of the reserves must be under
suspicion. In other words, The Bulletin can’t sav
for certain whether the substantial assets of the co.
are £89,847 in excess of capital, or 89,847 pence
or something between the two. ’
The next comparison shows how the principal
balance-sheet items have moved during the past tew
years:— °
Liabilities.
„ . , 1905. 1908. 1911. 1912.
L 'pilal .. .. £145,953 €145,958 £145,963 £145.953
Overdraft.. .. 46,875 47,242 46,943 70,343’
Alongages, etc. .. 16,512 15,082 12,080 12,080
Other debts .. 11,844 20,612 21,030 39,694
Assets.
Original purchase 148,500 148,500 148,500 148,500
Otoer properties.. 28,756 35,561 39,602 57,214
Hook debts .. 25,470 34,119 36.781 44,421
5, , • •• 54,542 65,996 80,802 113,181
U , lsll •• •• 178 173 308 71
L c‘ioin, are mowing; they now amount to
4-122,117, as against £75,231 in 1905. The busi-
ness _ is, no doubt, expanding, and the consequent,
heavier stock explains the increased debts. The big
lump in profits is doubtless due partly to the in-
creased trade and partly to the high prices which it
is now possible to get for almost everything in Aus-
tralia. To a great extent this co. deals in the
luxuries of the home, and in such a boom-time as
the present luxuries are looked upon almost as neces-
sanes, and bought freely. For this reason this eo.
is affected more than most by the severe fluctuations
m .the country’s prosperity. Also, it is affected
seriously in another way. Last year there was a
bountiful harvest, followed by such a dreary outlook
that the price of wheat gradually crept up from
about 3s. 3d. to about 4s. 4d., and flour followed.
4 resuming that the co. bought its supplies earlv,
this movement meant big profit. But it is not always
that way, as the figures for 1903 and 1904 show.
Ihe co. may therefore he summed up as one whose
real position is not. disclosed by the accounts, chiefly
because of the indefinite goodwill paper asset, and
whose profits for various reasons are specially sub-
ject to violent movements,
Paris House, Ltd., was rushed on to the
market in February, 1911, to acquire one of Sydney’s
swagger eating-houses. It isn’t a big eating-shop, but
you can pay a lot there for a meal. The mana of
the shop before the co. took it over was due to the
quality of the food, which in its turn was due to the
quality of the_ boss cook, who was also the vendor.
Ihe investors in the concern were not deceived about
the vendor-cook’s intentions. All he would undertake
to do was to remain for three months. Nevertheless
the co. was asked to pay, and did pay, £10,500 for
goodwill and a few trifling assets—£lo,soo out of
f tota i ca Pital of £13,000. This practically meant
that the co. paid the best part of £10,500 for the
genius of a cook who was going to cook elsewhere,
in some opposition place probably, in three months,
lo make matters worse, no statement as to previous
profits was_ forthcoming. There was an auditor’s re-
port, certainly ; but it merely put forward estimates,
and carefully side-stepped the thing that should have
been told —the results of previous, trading. How-
ever, in spite of warnings, the public took the shares.
lor the first few months, so the directors allege,
“the co. did remarkably well,” and two utterly absurd
quarterly divs. were paid, absorbing £935 (about 7 i
p.c. for the year). Probably the usual thing was
done and the divs. were paid without an audit, so
that the directors didn’t know for certain how they
stood. Anyway, the man who had made the business
wliat it was left, and took most of the goodwill
with him. Then the management began to see
trouble, and the first 13 months ended on March 31
with a debit balance of £7BO. Thus, £935 having
been paid in divs., the loss was £155. But whether
anything, and if so how much, has been written off
against depreciation is not disclosed. After the co.
started it bought the lease of the neighboring Bal-
four Hotel, and that, of course, means more good-
will-amount unspecified. As to purchase money,
apparently another £lOOO was raised by shares, and
£4OOO is owing on 6 p.c. debentures. As at March
31 the co., besides this £4OOO, owed £4798, and
its stock, book debts and cash totalled £3BOB. In
view of the purchase of the pub license and lease,
the position is very different from that with which
the co. started ; and there is no way of telling what
sort of a proposition the pub is. This much can,
however, be said: just about everything depends on
the management, and on past records (including the
purchase in the first place) there is no excuse for
being enthusiastic about that.
* * * *
Assurance and Thrift Association,
Ltd. —When the Standard Life Office went out of
business W. R. Dovey, the actuary—a man with a
large experience—promoted the Assurance and
Thrift Association in Sydney. Two departments
were projected—one combining life assurance with
house-purchase; the other, known as the Thrift
branch, combining life assurance and sickness bene-
fits. In order to provide the money necessary in the
house-purchase business a capital of £12,500 was
put up, and the holders of the shares were made
liable for another £25,000. The shares, or some of
them, were issued at a total premium of £973,
which was £391 in excess of the brokerage and other
preliminary exes. In the first 15 months to March
31, 1911, the Life and House Purchase branch re-
ceived almost undivided attention. The premiums
for the period were £lO9B, and other income (in-
terest mainly) was £495. After paying all ex-
penses £225 remained over, of which £2OB (3 p.c.)
was paid in dividends. The funds in the other
branch at the end of the term were £23. The
second year, ended March 31, 1912, gave the follow-
ing income in the Life and House Purchase branch—-
Premiums, £4274; other revenue (interest and profit
on investments), £1272. The surplus income for
the year was £1246; add £l7 unappropriated from,
the previous year, and the total surplus was £1263,
out of which a 4 p.c. dividend is to be paid. (The paid
capital is now £15,710, further shares having been
issued during the year.) The other branch makes
poor headway, owing, no doubt, to the keen competi-
tion of the better-known friendly societies ; the total
contributions last year were only £5l. Practically,
therefore, the business so far is confined to combined
life-assurance and house-purchase. The declared ob-
ject of this system of assurance is “to enable as
many as possible to own a home on easy conditions
of payment, with the knowledge that, should death
overtake them before the loan is paid, the property
would at once pass to their widow or other relative
free of debt.” The system has been extensively
practised in Europe, but is experimental in Australia.
It has (he advantage, so far as this society is con-
cerned, of being worked by an actuary with a repu-
tation to lose, and he has the help of a reputable
Board of directors.
Though the “Speedy Home Building Soci-
ety,” of Brisbane, informed The Bulletin recently
that it had been warned off some of its plans, and
had ‘ consequently withdrawn part of its literature,
advts. have since been scattered which ought to have
official attention. The concern even calls itself “the
improved Tattersall’s,” but the improvement is all
on the side of the people who run the brazen gamble.
In return for 50,000 shillings ( £2500), the society
offers total cash prizes of £lOOO. In other words,
it proposes to retain, not Tattersall’s 10 p.c., but no
less than 60 p.c. of the subscriptions. It is an-
nounced that “the operations of the society are
guaranteed to be perfectly legal.” If so, the law
badly wants altering. Even if the State is prepared
to make the best of things, and countenance gam-
bling, there is no reason whv it should allow the
public to be drawn by catch-penny advts. into a game
in which the men who own the table take three-fifths
of the proceeds.
General-manager Del nr fit. of the Broken
Hill Prop., is still busy on the iron and steel project,
and renorted nrogress to the co.’s office in Melbourne
last week. His present inclinations all favor New-
castle, where also the Sulphide Corporation has it in
its mind to do a lot more of its silver-lead smelting
than it has hitherto practised.
Even with a boom price for tin, Vegetable
Creek (N.S.W.) hasn’t been able to do anything for
its shareholders, The old co., domiciled in Ade
laide, wound up on December 31 with a deficit of
i 10,281. A new co. was then formed with its office
in Sydney, and Is. per share was got in on the
130.000 shares. It was reckoned that four calls of
3d. would be soon necessary, but the manager got on
to a good'run of wash, scooped out £ 12,819 worth
of tin, and estimates that he has £46Bo’left But
the mine is private property, and 25 p.c, of the pro
ceeds have had to go to the landlord, who also sucks
up interest on the unpaid balance of purchase money,
Of the £12,819 the owners thus took £3489 (whicli
is more than 25 p.c.) plus £1676 for interest, A
struggling mine hasn't much hope under such a han-
dicap, and with most of the present run of wash
taken out, there are calls ahead before the share-
holders are likely to reach dividends, Still there are
slightly improved prospects now, Possibly because
they reckoned the goose might die under the old
treatment, the owners lately agreed to forego in-
terest on the unpaid balance of purchase money and
also to accept one-fifth instead of one-fourth of the
produce by way of instalments of purchase
* * It
The Caloola Gold Mining Co. is to be
formed to acquire a low-grade deposit eight tniles
from Newbridge (N.S.W.). Capital is £20,000 in
40,000 shares, of which 22,000 are offered to the
public. The vendors’ cut is 16,000 of the invariably
fully-paids, with £5OO cash and £5OO in 12 months
In return for this they give several large open cuts
worked down to the water-level of the lode, whose
large size is undoubted. The doubtful point is its
gold-carrying capacity. There are reports from in-
terested parties who testify to the primitive methods
of treatment in the past, and the highly payable
nature of the property with improved appliances
though they admit that nothing short of a consider’
able amount of development work can be of much
service in sizing up the value of the show.
Though the C.S.A. mine didn’t come half-
way up to the great expectations formed on the
strength of its big capping, it is still able to keep
a small pot boiling. At present it is sending lead
ore to the Cobar smelters; the monthly output of
h'gh-grade stuff is about 233 tons. Only three lead
faces are available, so a large output is out of the
question.
Potter’s zinc process is at last to be
absorbed by the Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay)
people. This practically completes the linking up
of all the zinc-flotation cos. except the Elmore; for
the De Bavay people had already combined with the
Minerals Separation people, lyho own the process in
use by the Zinc Corporation and the Sulphide Cor-
poration. Besides its connection with the zinc flota-
tion business, the co. expects to handle steadily-
increasing royalties from copper producers; already
Wallaroo and Moonta, Great Fitzroy, Chillagoe,
Kyloe and others are using the Minerals Separation
process, and the only serious competitor on the
horizon appears to be the Murex. But what investors
in zinc shares of any sort must glue their eyes to is
this: the current output of zinc “tailings” cannot
maintain the present output of zinc concentrates, that
output being mainly dependent on the accumulations
of 20 years past. Those old dumps are disappearing
very fast, and when they have gone there must
be a tremendous slump in the output and the profits.
*’•*■.**
Tributors are proving that the old Baker’s
Creek mine (N.S.W.) isn’t finished vet. The nar-
row 6in. vein in some of the northern blocks is
giving tribute parties some splendid yields, and there
are hopes that a rich shoot will be met in the ground
now being prospected on the co.’s behalf. The drive
on Smith’s reef at No. 11 level covers a length of
45ft., on a reef averaging 6in. At No. 12 level a
branch, known as No. 3 reef, has been opened 162 ft.,
and to test its value a crushing will shortly be put
through. All that can be said at present is that
gold has been seen in the stone, but it is safest to
let the battery tell its own tale. To help things
along shareholders are asked to pay a sixpenny call,
and the money will be forthcoming all right.
Continuous shrinkage in the Westralian
gold output is emphasised bv the fact that the yield
for the half-year ended June, was 627,845 fine oz.,
valued at £2,682,463, a decrease of 44,5130 z.
(£189,180) on the 1911 figures, and 101,9130 z.
( £433,130) on the 1910 totals. Comparisons are
too odorous to go further back than this.
* * *
Great Boulder’s annual report owns up
to a sick feeling. “Sinking will be resumed when
the results of the exploratory drilling have justified
it,’ and shareholders get the hint that the justifica-
tion will probably, never arrive. The best the
manager can say is that, even if no more ore is
found, the mine as it stands can pay 12s. per share
in divs. But shareholders who expect to get the
profit that is visible in a fading mine are generally
in for a horrible disappointment. The trouble is
that the visible profit goes in searching for other
profit which persists in being invisible.
Beyond the bald statements that an addi-
tional 24 acres have been pegged out, that 7241 ft.
have been driven and sunk, and that development has
lately been slackened on account of the concentration
of labor on the new plant, Bullfinch Proprietary has
little to say regarding the first year of its existence.
The balance-sheet showed a surplus of about £27,000
at December 31, but most of this has probably been
paid away since, then. The co. expects to be again
earning profits in a couple of months or so, but
should funds give out before then Doolette and Rob-
inson will no doubt redeem their promise to take up
portion or the whole of the 23,850 reserve shares at
par.
Oroya Links (W.A.) wound up 1911 witli
a credit balance of £7312, which, with the previous
unappropriated sum of £439, made £7752 to carry
forward. During the year 100,016 tons were treated,
for a return of £118,457, and £BO2l tribute royal-
ties increased the receipts to £126,479. Ore reserves
in the Eclinse portion of the property are now esti-
mated at 99,770 tons, worth 265. 3d. per ton; but
as fully ss. per ton is lost in the residues, and as
costs just about swallow up the rest, this asset must
be looked upon as almost valueless. A lot of good
grade ore has lately been opened up in the Oroya
section of the mine, and this patch, which must re-
present at least 12 months’ supply, is the standby at
present. When this stuff is exhausted there won’t
be much fat left on the co.’s bones. Liquid assets at
December 31 amounted to over £48,000.
Tindals, Bd.” ; and is bare.
Supported by a few chairman has
gone cap m hand to the “Westralian Mines Depart-
ment, and asked for a loatyof' £lOOO on the £ for
£ basis. The idea is to ecftu'p the hitherto unprofit-
able Perseverance lease with new plant and do a bit
of boring elsewhere. In the case of a co. like Tindals,
which has dug out a lot of gold and helped to save
Coolga.rdie from being run in on a commitment order,
there is nothing unreasonable in begging for assist-
ance ; but as a mine wants brains as well as capital,
the Department ought to see to whom the expendi-
ture is entrusted before parting with a penny. Under
the most favorable conditions Tindals may be worked
for many years, though even with the best of man-
agement there is little hope of good profits being
earned.
Gwalia Prop. (W.A.), which has fre-
quently been regarded with a cold eve on this page,
was auctioned “in lots to suit purchasers” the other
day, in the interests of debenture-holders.
*■***
/-iA S /-.£ o M m * n ’ n £ didn’t pay the Birthday
Gift (W.A.), the co. is trying its luck at the
Greenbushes tin field, where it has acquired the
South Cornwall for. £2300, most of which is to
come out of the mine. A crushing has been going
thromrh the State battery, and the manager estimates
the value at approximately 355. per ton. Tin ore is


PERPETDAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
M.L.G.
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 9 8
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 31st March, 1912 £9,023,826 8 10
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
Charges Low. Absolute Security. Expert Management.
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities
at from 4£ per cent.
Write or call for Booklet. A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION GAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane ; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney ;
McCLEW & CO., Adelaide ; MALLOCH BROS.,Perth
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is. naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
iri continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied ,to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, thev can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
* . # * *
4-CF+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. — Ash, the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
-f-’GF-f- Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed ; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Win. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s, per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell's Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bells Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
I . > I *•- I •* ■* *
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends itself
to-hiiiie managers Who welcome an effective machine
which is cheaper to maintain and repair than Gyra-
tory and other crushers. This machine is of the
well-known Blake type, but has some additional im-
provements Which have justified in practice all the
claims advanced by the patentee. The work of the
crushing is done on the down stroke of the pitman
instead of the up stroke; there is no strain on the
pitman cap; two large side rods resist the thrust of
, the toggles, and enable the jaws to be regulated
within a large range; the back toggle is so niade
as to resist all legitimate strains of crushing, but will
shear under exceptional conditions and save the
machine. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
of South Melbourne, have installed a great number
of these machines, and hold the sole manufacturing
rights for the Commonwealth.* [1
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12,
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the direc-
tors ; for in every direction admirable progress has
been achieved.”*
* * * *
For large or small water carrying propositions
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has proved its efficiency. It
is the pipe chosen for the great water supply scheme
at Broken Hill. The Australian- Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain and Footseray, arc the makers.*
Why is it that such people as the Murrumbidgee
Milling Company, Clyde Brick Works, railways, pub-
lic works, etc., are spending thousands of pounds in
installing Wolf Superheated Steam Engines in their
works ? Because -these plants are absolutely the last
word in power economy. Refer to page 39.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney;
and 9 Queen Street. Melbourne.* [2
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Griimvade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
(and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Hinders Lane, Melbourne.*
The Bounder Heavy-Duty Marine oil Engines,
which ate constructed without any- valves, cams,
gears or electric ignition, and run either on crude
or' kerosene oils, are represented throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand by Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For marine work
tlie “Bolinder.” engine has many advantages, viz.,
small oil consumption, ease of starting, no compli-
cated arrangement of valves or gears, being direct
reversible, 1 fitted throughout with forced lubrication,
. and absolutely no risk from fire and explosions, due
to using oils having a very high flash point. The
British Government and German Navy are large
users of the “Bolinder” Marine Engines.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Colli son & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
, Mine Managers. ■ and Prospectors
write to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain ; prospector's balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan's crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
Patents.— Consult W. STGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attprnev (by exam,), Mcch. and Elect, Engineer,. 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. * Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of QuaUjty throughout the Empire.
Monobel.
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatin
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
being raised from the 120 ft. level, which, according
to previous reports, has a width of don.
two sections, divided by a band of mullock,
tin ore is a tricky mineral, and there are no re-
serves yet to count upon. The metal occuis ne
the contact of granite and greenstone, and it it lias
the width it is reported to have, and the value aver-
ages even 1 p.c. tin oxide, or say 205.. pel , to "^ther e
should be a chance of 'working the mine at a profit.
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) makes i p.c. tin oxide return
handsome profits—under exceptionally favorable cir-
cumstances, certainly. #
Sydney University Chib hasn’t yet been
able to pour out an extra case of wine to celebrate
a Sandstone (W.A.) dividend. The old Sandstone
Development Co. was wound up a year or so ago, not
that it had done all the developing that was ne e®®'
sary, but because of its cursed lack of pence, ihe
new co. had a revenue of £10,795 during the past
half-year, which gave a nominal profit oi £ollo ,
but if you knock off £3433 spent on, development
which had very poor results, there isn t much lett,
and most of that little would be absorbed by depre-
ciation of plant. The mine is next door to the
Oroya Black Range Co.’s property, and as that co.
has worked good stone close to the boundary, the
Sandstone is after that make of ore now. As to the
future, “owing to the erratic distribution of values
in the reef, it is impossible to give an estimate of
ore reserves. There appears to be enough payable ore
in sight to keep the mill running for the next five
or six months. During this time a considerable
amount of further prospecting will have to he done.
And the co, has a liquid surplus of about £l5OO to
do it with.
* * * *
The Mount Oxide prospectus was issued
on Saturday. The co. is in 200,000 £l shares,
30,000 of Them in reserve. It seems —though the
prospectus does not disclose it—that Henry, the
owner of the mine, gets 60,000, but agrees to take
£30,000 of it in 0 p.c. debentures. He sold to
some Sydney speculators, who passed the property
on to a syndicate, and the syndicate passes it on to
this co. lor the mine for which Henry has got or
is to get £60,000; the public will pay £lBO,OO0 —
£70,000 in cash, £30,000 in debentures, and
£BO,OOO in shares. This means an extraordinary
amount of watering; still, it doesn’t necessarily
follow that the mine is dear at £lBO,OOO. Mount
Elliott, for instance, is valued by the market at
about £700,000, and Mount Lyell at £1,900',000.
Certainly Oxide doesn’t compare with Eli ott or
Lyell yet. But at a corresponding stage of develop-
ment it is extremely doubtful whether either Elliott
or Lyell looked so promising. Whether the promise
will be fulfilled nobody can tell for certain. The
sulphide .ores have, nowhere .been reached: the ex-
tremely rich ore hitherto worked is all secondary,
and until primary ore has been exposed, a copper
mine cannot be regarded as permanent. All that
can be said at present is that, though many rich
copper prospects at rsurface fail at depth, owing to
the poverty of the primary ore, Oxide’s chances of
being a permanent mine appear to be unusually
good.
Meantime it is undoubted that there is enough rich
surface ore to develop the mine and pay for a
permanent equipment. The policy decided upon is
to put up two reverbs.,, and rush out rough copper
to get the advantage of the present good market.
That market is very enticing,' no doubt; but reverbs,
eat. up a tremendous quantity of firewood, and the
policy can therefore, only he pursued by clearing the
country round the mine of timber, which mav 'be a
pretty serious matter presently. J. H. Fawcett; one
of the most careful mining men in Australia, was
known to be against the reverb, proposals on prin-
ciple ; but, apparently, he has decided that expedi-
ency favors the scheme, and he has taken the iob of
consulting engineer. The present issue cons'sts of
90,000 shares, of which 40,000 are for Australia, and
the whole lot have been underwritten.
* * * *
If copper statistics are worth anything,
the present rise is due to consumption having got
ahead of production. Aron Hirseh and Sohn’s figures
have just been published, and this is what they
show
Production. Consumption
Tons. T'>ns.
1907 .. .. .. 702,044 .. 697, ‘5l
1908 .. .. .. 746. '.85 .. 748 480
1909 834,040 .. 828.739
1910 857,150 .. 933.290
1911 869,370 .. 986,300
But, though such statistics no doubt temporarily
affect prices they can't do so permanently unless
they are correct; and there are grave doubts about
that. The Hirsches themselves add a note to their
tables: “In some cases the imports of manufactures
have been included as consumption, although they
had already appeared in the consumption total cf
the country of origin.” Nevertheless, the statistics
are still worth something if about the same propor-
tion of metal is counted twice oyer each year; but
it is impossible to sav whether this is so or not.
According to the same firm’s reckoning, stocks in
the U.S., England and France and at Rotterdam and
Hamburg were as follows at the underpientippefl
'Dec., 1908 .. .. 103,851 tons
„ 1909 . . . . 167,461- I ' -
1910 .. .. 14.3,777 „ • ■
„ 1911 .. .. 100,695
Whichever way you look at the statistics thpy point
to a strong position and a good market ;' but “when
you turn back a bit, and find that in 1906 1 -the con-
sumption was supposed to greatly exceed . the pro-
duction, in spite of which the price of G.M.B.’s fell
from £llO ss. to £55 17s. 6d. per ton before the
next year was out, you are liable to regard metal
statistics as a rotten reed to trust your widow's
mite to.
* * * *
Great Northern, the Gympie proposition
which young enthusiast Reeve carted south some
years ago, has eaten up the proceeds of the last re-
construction, and another is incubating. The last
shuffle brought in about £4200, which went partly in
compressor machinery and partly in hunting for the
second bed of slate. The top workings on the
Phoenix bed of slates proved a few rich shoots, and
better things have all along been expected from the
second bed ; but whether it can be located in the claim
is a thing not yet proved beyond doubt. Reeve thinks he
has got it in a deep winze, from which 151 tons
gave 320 z. of coarse gold; and the co. is to be
reconstructed in order to get funds to explore this
make. The request is modest, for the shuffle would
only provide. £4OOO. The Government might do a
lot worse than lend a hand with a few Common-
wealth notes in it.
Still another “largest ever” in the Clon-
curry (Q.) district. The outcrop is 16 miles south-
east of Cloneurry and 18 miles from ICaampa; and
the public is asked what it thinks of 24 p.c. copper
and ldwt. 16gr. gold. The show is not so young as
it looks, having- been discovered four years ago, but
modesty kept it back till this present favorable time.
'* * * *
The almost-defunct Mount Molloy.Co.
(Q.) is negotiating with a view to a further 20011. ,
of sinking. The idea is to test the deeper ground
in the hope of picking up some basic ore, without
which the silicious stuff left in the upper workings
is not likely to have its rest disturbed.
Mount Elliott (Q.) smelted 5378 tons
last month for 749 tons copper, 13330 z. gold, and
14140 z. silver. The red metal alone, at £75 per
ton, is worth £56,175. The ore handled was, as
usual, high-grade, averaging over 13 p.c. copper.
Since September, 1910, no less than 82,499 tons of
ore have been smelted, for 10,610 tons copper.
Manager Corbould puts the gross value of metals at
£700,000, which is a very fine return from 82,499
tons of ore, and has enabled Mount Elliott to pay
255. per share and purchase three prospectively good
copper shows. But it is pot suggested that this sort
of thing is permanent; the plan is to develop, and
then more or less use up the reserves in a vigorous
campaign. Hence Mount Elliott makes no secret
that the output of copper will be restricted for a
time. The upper levels require careful timbering,
and the mine undoubtedly deserves prospecting below
No. 5 level.
Mammoth Copper Co. (N. Queensland)
expects to start smelting early in August. Norman
Reid, who was at the Chillagoe works, and more
recently at Zechan (Tas.), has been appointed metal-
lurgist. The Chieftain mine has 1000 tons of ore at
grass, and the mine will probably give a good ac-
count of itself ; one working shows a width of 9ft.
of good ore.
* # * *
The London Cold Hydraulics Co. is 'o be
formed to acquire and work by means of hydraulic
sluices a 20-acre alluvial lease five miles from
Mareeba (Q.). Capital is £7500 in £5 shares;
payment to vendors is 450 fully paids and £lOOO in
cash. There are two reports on the property, one by
a provisional director, and perhaps a vendor. The
wash, free of overburden, is stated to average sft, in
thickness; total, 160,000 cubic yards; containing
OOOOoz. gold, valued at £22,500. Total cost at 6d.
per cubic yard, £4OOO ; add £3OOO for plant, and
there is £15,500 net profit in three years. Why
will these North Queenslanders always rob them-
selves by letting the public in like this to share
their sure and certain profits?
* * # *
For June Mount Morgan smelted 15,203
tons of its own ore and 9391 tons from Many Peaks,
together with 493 tons of silicious ore, apd recovered
754 tons of blister, containing 746 tons copper and
84670 z. gold. The gold averages over lloz. to the
ton of copper, in spite of the fact that the Many
Peaks ore, which constitutes more than one-third of the
total smelted, contains only a few pence worth of gold.
Mount Morgan ore for 12 months averaged 9.93dwt.
and 2.71 p.c. copper. With copper at £75 per ton,
2.7 p.c. of the metal is worth 40s. 6d., while
9.93dwt. of fine gold is of practically equal value.
With regard to . the gold reduction works, the increas-
ing copper contents are making for a change. For
the year the stuff put through averaged 0 91 p.c.
copper and To.96dwt. gold from 93,413 tons. A
scheme is maturing for the treatment of these gold-
copper sulphides, which are rather too low in the
copper metal for direct smelting.
* * *
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, is in
high favor because of good mine developments. Not
the least important is the improvement in the winze
or monkey shaft from No. 2 level, which at a depth
of; 132 ft. is showing 18in. of highly mineralised
stone. When they break through to:the, rise in an-
other few feet the ventilation will be improved, and
a larger output may be expected. Since stoning
commenced over No. 4, the returns have been 168
tons for £1364, and 166 tons for £1603; total, 334
tons for £2967; average, £8 17s. 3d. per ton.
There is every likelihood of blank ground being met
in driving No. 5 ; still, the recent development is a
very favorable one, and has made deep-level prospects
at Charters Towers between 2500 ft. and 3000 ft. much
more hopeful.
Kelly’s Queen Block, Charters Towers, has
crushed 496 tons from the cross reef (1450 ft. level)
for an average of £2 19s. 3d. per ton; in addition,
148 tons from the St. George reef (657 ft. level) were
crushed for £2 14s. 7d. per ton.- These returns are
not nearly so good as previous yields, so the market
turned sick. Still the financial position is fairly
strong, and with a mine so capricious as Kelly’s, it
is-quite possible that the'mill returns ivill improve
again.
Mount Carbine (N.' Queensland') is a con-
centrating proposition in wolfram. The mill re-
cently. put through ' 1331 tons" of ' Ore >foj- ' I'B ' tons
i l2cwt. of wolfram, worth £lBl9. . At present prices -
the returns run from 20s. to 305.. per ton, so . wolfram
(miffing, on a large scale doesn’t necessarily mean a
fortune. The mine is own'ed by John Moffat's
Infinebank Co. ■. * *
’ * * *• j . *
: -“Sandy” Oliver and “Wally” Sfnith, with
ong C. A. Galletly, haye started out to give a legal
, bump to Chairman Vince and his ico-directors pf the
’North Nuggetty, Daylesford (Vic.), Tfiese 'ruled
that Oliver and Galletly were not weighed in pro-
perly when nominated for the Board.- The little
turn-up has killed the Daylesford market for the
moment. :
* * * »
New Langi Logan (Vic.) is starting out
to bore on the western edge of its leases for. the
Catheart gutter. Nor will it be 10-ng before it is
poking up off its maiii level for the mysterious Langi
Logan lead. In all, 160 ft. of what the Yanks call
“drifting” has been done since the last bore went up.
In that distance country . like that, got 14ft.-above
the level has made in the face. Quartz and ironstone
veins cheer the alluvial man's heart, for if he pitches
on to quartz in his under-level he counts on an. en-
richment of the gutter near by. Unkindly' souls
think manager Toole has got into a tangle over the
site of the gutter, but he has oniy acted With sen-
sible caution. No one knows the weight of water
overhead, and so he has felt his way forward as
carefully as a diver in an octopus-infested derelict.
With the reef dipping fast there is every chance that
he will now get the Langi lead. If he finds gold in
the bore, and then, strikes the Catheart lead in the
western part of the lease, • The whole district will
shout for him.
There was hot language at the Long
Tunnel (Vic.) meeting, the hottest of it aimed by
Hartrick, of Walhalla, at H. E. Rowe and the other
directors. It wasn’t altogether what Hartrick said,
but the conviction he carried, that raised Rowe’s
bristles: for the Board has had a shocking attack
of cold feet. A great mine isn’t pinched out in a
day, and there are too many chances in the big
leases held by the Tunnel for the Board to cry
enough. If the directors feel that way, they should
chuck their iob and sell out. Walhalla has much of
its hard stuff in the Tunnel, and ought to have a
voice in the working policy of the co. For a start,
it would ask what is up with the south ground.
Walhulla gold is low-grade, but sdwt. dirt ought to
pay, and there are stacks 'of it left in the old shal-
low ground. If a bit of spare cash had beeii ‘ spent
prospecting south when Cohen’s reef was found to be
Leaving the dyke, there wouldn't be the present need
for Hartrick’s outburst.
**' * *
New Prince of Wales, Bendigo, has
rattled its backers badly. Mysterious messages fore-
casting poor yields and poor ground did the mischief.
With no div. to steady things, the market bulls got
the jumps and went over the rails faster than a
steeplechase favorite. All of which proves that the
New Prince of Wales market rests on a base of clay.
The reef is in shallow ground. At one moment it
is “lousy” with gold, the next as barren of meat
as a priestly table in Lent. That the South Prince
didn't hit even fair dirt was a warning to all and
sundry to quit.
Of Bendigo mines owned by public cos. 13
are paying dividends, and 86 are not. The private
mines, including the Lansells’ six, bring the total
lip to about 110 at work. Twelve “main” lines of
reef are now being worked. The average yield from
the dividend-payers- is over 12dwt. per ton and from
the call-makers close on 6dwt. Shallow ground and
parallel lines account for most of the 84,3450 z. won
during the -last six months. Calls totalled £81,792
and dividends £60,064, so there was no profit, and
the same thing has happened for the past 2i years.
“Consulting engineer’s salary. £525,” and
“Directors’ fees, £.900,” are two of the items in the
Briseis balance-sheet just out. What does such a
co. want with a consulting engineer when it has a
past-master like Lindesay Clark at the helm and
H. W. Lake on the Board? The accounts show that
it has taken £3700 of fees and office expenses to
handle tin and gold worth £BO,OOO. Past two years
compare:—
191,0. 1911.
Briseis sluicing, cub. yards .. 449,<00 351,000
Ringarooma upper drift, cub. yards Nil 67.000
Do. overburden, cub. yards .. 225,000 354,(00
Output, melallio tin, tons .. 452 4X4f
Net proceeds tin .. £77,982 £78,736
Net price tin per ton .. .. £l6l| £1894-5
No. 1 fact is that at last the drifts in the Ringa-
rooma district are being reached. No. 2 fact is that
had it not been for the extra £2B per ton got for
tin sold last year, the payment of two divs. would
hare been very doubtful unless the Board had tapped
the reserve of 50 thou. ! As to the Ringarooma
drifts, this little fact can be packed away by those
who don’t like the Briseis—that on an average of
under Jib- of tin oxide per cub. yard sluiced, a profit
was made over working exes. Costs at the mine fan
to about £29 2s. 9d. per ton of metallic tin, or
£2l 2s. Id. per ton of black tin. These charges are
apart from tbe stripping, of which 1,525,000 cubic
yards done at the Ringarooma to date have averaged
5.99 d. per cubic yard. Lindesay Clark’s big job is
to twist the big Ringarooma into a new channel at
the foot of his old working, so that he can get at
the gutter on its dip into Krushka’s flat. Once that
job is finished, Briseis yields will move-up, for . though
the Ringarooma bores gave 21b., the shafts averaged
double that much. As a side-show the co.. has the
Wallace dredging leases in Vic. These, at the rate
of profit- made in January and February last, ought
to turn the-co. in about £15,000 .profits yearly .for
a bit. That should help up the Sivs. till the, big
work, on the Ringarooma block can be begun.
South Mount Cameron (Tas.) holds a
place in the Melbourne quotation list, though not a
very exalted one. Bought from some wily Chin se
anil floated about the time of the Grayson tin-dredg-
ing boom, the South has at least to its credit that it
came to stay. The drift it handles is shallow and
more ( or less patchy—real Chinaman’s ground. Water
has to be pumped from the Ringarooma River, so a
dry season is the fly in the co.’s butter. ' Now that
the drought has bolted out of Wragge’s hands, the
co. is putting in three shifts daily to sluice out the i
gravels. Better wash is making also ; so with water,
wash, and a big price for tin, the South should fur-
nish another div. or two before summer, reduces the
Ringarooma to a puddle.
* * * *
The New Guinea Ivulamadau (Woodlark
Island) reports a loss of £2624 for the half-year,
exclusive of depreciation ( £1081). The No. 2 shaft
has. been sunk to the No. 5 level, and the lode inter-
sected 75ft. from the shaft. The directors state that
the mine. is now being opened up under the new
manager’s’ own system, and they are confident that
there are better times ahead. In these six mon-.hs
5341 tons of ore were crashed for £5496. The fall-
ing off in the yield is due to much of the ore crushed
coming from the hill, the underground workings
being unable to keep the battery going. Mining
cost 13s. sd. (reduced because of the quarrying),
milling 7s. 7d., cyaniding 3s. 6d. These don’t in-
, elude development, administration and general
charges. Liquid assets are £2452, including stores,
, while the bank debt is £3225, and other liabilities
£922. The callable capital is £7750.
G.D.: Cement isn’t made from any one
particular rock. Thus most English Portland cement
,is.made of chalk and Medway mud. The goods are
produced by heating to a high temperature an inti-
mate mixture of a calcareous (limey) substance and
an argillaceous (clayey) substance. ... C.W.: Don’t
know the Great Papuan Anaconda.
* * * *
Australia is too rich a hunting ground
for .Socialistic legislation to keep even the Beef
Trust out. Chicago has bought £70,000 worth of
land for meat works on the Brisbane River, and is
to spend £300,000 on the works themselves. And
with the Panama Canal completed, there will later
on be more Chicago looking for a little home to
spear the bullock in.
* * * *
Australia’s three best copper returns last
month were:—
Copper, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Oz. Oz.
, Mouiit Elliott .(Q.) .. 749 1333 1,414
Mount Morgan (Q.) . . 746 84XS7
' Great Cobar (N.S.W.) 727 3715 16,386
Great Cobar's gold values are down to soz. per
ton of copper, compared with 7.330 z. for the
previous month, the total falling from 51370 z. to
37150 z., while silver declined from 24,5610 z. to
16,3860 z. The shrinkage is probably due to a re-
duced quantity of concentrates from theChesney
mine. The grand trinity produced a totsll of 2222 tons
copper for June, together with 13,5150 z. gold and
17,7000 z. silver.
The Pacific Phosphate Co,, the very aris-
tocratic and concern which works the
manure heaps of Ocean, Nauru and other Pacific
islands, is still on a 'fine wicket. Last year, it is
moaned, things were not quite so good-as usual; still
a 30 p.c. div. was paid. And as there is a great
amount of watered stock in the co., the div. on the
actually-paid capital is much more than 30 p.c.
Apropos American insurance oflices. When
the great clean-up -took place a few years ago the
Government decided to put an end to the mad rush
after big figures at any cost, by (1) limiting the
amount of new' business any co. could take in one
year to £30,000,000 and (2) fixing a rigid expense
rate. As the years have gone on, various amend-
ments have been made in these laws, the most im-
portant iof which is that a certain amount of new
business in excess of £3.0,000,000 mgy be taken, pro-
vided thp expense rate falls below the standard fixed.
The excess allowed is in proportion to the saving
effected. Already most if not all of the offices have
been able to take advantage of this concession.
, M poonie : About a decade ago, Jimmy
Elliott, tae cantankerous old discoverer of the now
famous Mount Eiliott Copper Mine (<J.), was alleged,
on his own say-so, to have discovered a high-grade
copper mountain somewhere on the Upper Williams
or I‘ullarton River. Since old Jimmy’s death, about
1906, the story has gradually grown and waxed, until
now it js looked upon as the principal legend of the
big Cloncurry district. Not that there was ever
necessarily much truth in the tale. Writer knew
Elliott, and knew him mostly for a sour old hatter,
with a protracted grudge against his fellow-man ; a
person whose distorted mind had almost lost per-
spective of the th.hgs that' really matter in this
world ; verging on that state wherein a man is sup-
posed sometimes to hang his hat on an adjacent
stump and argue points with it. He was just about
as bad a bushman as he was alleged to be, and that
was something considerable; and his failure to re-
trace his steps to a locality where he had once been,
lent authenticity to his story. Whether the great
copper show was an hallucination of a much-warped
mind, or whether it really had some foundation in
fact, no man can tell. Enough to say that Elliott
spent the last three years of his luckless life search-
ing, single-handed, among the unfrequented moun-
tains of the McKinley Range, for the El Dorado that
had so completely captured him, and, likewise, so
indubitably dodged him. The romance of Elliott’s
life was that he had served some bitter years in
gaol for the misdeeds of another man. So shocked
and horrified had he been by the shadow of a hang-
man’s rope that, in the time succeeding his release,
he utterly shunned his fellow man. Living alone,
prepared to up-sticks in the middle of the n ; ght, did
some belated traveller happen on the water-hole where
he was camped, Elliott practised the true hatter’s
life to the end of his days. And now the memory
of him is refreshed again by the alleged discovery,
once more, of that great copper lode of his.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ğh g
To H.M.
George V (
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
QttrfcsHetfsiocK
*EIMS
World
BRAND
ĝh
Renowned
STUHR’
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins and glasses.
Sold by all Higii-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 184«, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 8, 1912.
My Dear Arini, —
Lady Denman sat on the dais in the
Government House ballroom one day last
week. On either side were his Anglican Legs
of Sydney, Miss Whitaker, a delegate from
the Girls’ Friendly Society (England), and
other heavyweight trimmings of the Cause.
A grey afternoon sent a drab light sneaking
through the verandah window-panes. An
odd sparrow or two, tree-arabs from the
outer park beyond the pale of clerical gai-
ters, tapped fiercely on an adjacent slab of
glazed lozenge. His Grace, after a short
prayer, took the floor with a long oration
regarding the Girl (Australian species), her
feathers, independence and general outside
cheekiness, and hoped he wasn’t “go-ing to
be re-portad.” He was evidently nervous
about appearing in the press. Two male per-
sons, armed with shorthand, were suspected
of pricking up their ears for “thrills” at
this moment. But nothing happened.
His Legs detailed his personal habit of
peering into the lonely lives of dressy young
maidens, and handed out a generous helping
of praise to the Australian girl. He found
a kind heart, and a determination to help
poorer sisters, stowed away under the bodice
of the. pert damsel of the trailing plumes.
(Nothing so exciting as “bodice” was men-
tioned, but that’s the gist of the matter.)
As “mem-bahs of the Church,” his Legs
hoped all present would mention the fact
that the G. F. Society’s house in William-
street was now too small. Its lease was up
(a tearful sigh coursed round the yellow-
silk divans, for was not another lease up
and another roof about to be devastated?),
and the G.F.S. wanted more funds to take
on a “largah” boarding-house buisness( baths,
but no latchkeys) as soon as possible. Some
‘membah” present might even die before
‘anothah” two o> three years had passed,
and leave a legacy to the G.F.S., or some
“membah” might mention the urgent need of
funds to a friend who might say: “Heah is
a good object,” and make a bequest to the
G.F.S., or even leave a house to the
“Kaw-sse.” Who knows? “These things,”
propounded his Extremities, “have happened
from a casual mention befoah to-day.” The
“membah’s” friend will, incidentally, have
to die as soon as convenient, for the G.F.S.
wants help. If Baby Methuselah rushes to
make his will in favor of the G.F.S., it will
be very kind of him, but it won’t help much.
Stifled applause from white kid gloves and
a general movement amongst expensive
ostrich-tails as Archbishop Wright’s flow of
tortured English—a mixture of the Oxford
bleat and the Manchester burr—fell dead on
the velvet pile.
Then Miss Whitaker, a cheery, bright-
eyed little woman, rose to address those pre-
sent on the Saved Girl—that is to say, the
Girl who was saved by the G. F. Society
from the dazzling temptation of walking
down the street with a youth who had a
cigarette in his mouth, his hat on his head,
his hands in his pockets, and a curl on his
forehead. Society dames sat up and a gen-
eral air of expectancy fled like a shadow
over the faces of those present.
Chamberlain Nevill, shut out of a purely
feminine meeting (parsons don’t count), is
suspected of placing one ear to the keyhole
as the Great Thrill was introduced by Miss
Whitaker. It was as tame as a young cur-
ate’s worst joke. It concerned a walk down
the main street of a Victorian town by the
light of the gas. Two young girls, with
large bows of ribbon on their hair and dressy
habits on their bodies, passed two young
men, who giggled but did not remove their
hats. The girls with the bows on their heads
and the dressy habits on their shoulders
smiled more or less.
Miss Whitakah and the “Vicah” met
afterwards in a chemist’s shop, though
what they were doing there was not
explained, and discussed the tragedy. In
the presence of the tooth powder, the nux
vomica, the unsold nail brush, the unsale-
able hair-brush and the porous plaster, Miss
Whitaker poured forth her soul to the
“Vicah.” Heedless of the listening eye of
the patent remedy which had removed
corns from all the crowned feet of
Europe, she asked the “Vicah” if he thought
these girls might yet be—ah ! —saved. The
vicah, torn by conflicting emotions in the
presence of a sponge and a large bottle of
hair-restorer, regarded the proposition as not
wholly incredible. They agreed, however,
that there was no time to be lost. Fleeing
jmntly over the doormat that tips up and
rings a bell when trodden on, they leaped
towards their good work. The lady met the
girls. She implored them not to be utterlv
lost —not to go the way of Jezebel, Sapphira,
Lucrezia Borgia, Elizabeth of Russia (who
died trying to lap brandy out of a saucer),
Catherine the Great, the Medici lady, Semi-
ramis, Jane Cakebread and persons of that
sort. They were profoundly moved. Tears
j of a , rolled down their faces
and fell on the floor, and the party had to
move to avoid wet feet. Never again would
they allow young men to giggle with their
hats on—no, never. They reformed, and
became pillars of the Girls’ Friendly Soci-
ety. It was worth coming to Australia, if
only to save those two girls,” said the lec-
turess, her dress almost bursting down the
back with emotion. Dante’s Inferno is
better stuff. The sinners are real sinners,
and I understand they are fried in boiling
oil. A vicar and a chemist’s shop aren’t even
the makings of a good story.
Her Ex., full of hospitable cares, led crest-
fallen Society—unthrilled by the horrors it
had gone to feed on —to the dining-room.
Dear Miss Whitaker, the dear Archbishop
and Mrs. Archbishop, Mrs. Rich, whose hus-
band has just mounted the Judge’s ermine;
dear Mrs. Edmund Barton, who put pussy-
cat paws on the hands of a Social Light in
the middle of her conversation with an un-
social penny dip (presumably to drag her,
the Light, away from the unimportant glim-
mer) ; Mrs. Anthony Hordern; the amiable
little Mrs. Alex. Gordon, smiling over the
circumference of a huge posy of violets;
Chamberlain Nevill, affecting an interest in
the rainfall and the crops, though secretly
consumed with curiosity about the baa lambs
Miss Whitaker had saved behind the ball-
room door; the Cullen lady; Mrs. Senator
Gould; and many others drowned their
disappointment in strong tea.
The Civil Ambulance ball committee has
returned to its original declaration of faith
—guinea tickets. A suggestion that the
guinea should, if necessary, be cleft in
twain, is ingenious, but seems to be search-
ing for trouble. It is urged that 10s. 6d.
should be charged for the doubtful joy of
dancing on the Town Hall floor. Good
dancers have used unprintable and libellous
language about the municipal boards, re-
garded purely as boards. (After a pause
for deep thought I am driven to admit that
boards generally are regarded in this light.)
They will, however, be able to snatch a cup
of coffee at a buffet, or play bridge as part
of the inclusive half-guinea. Then the Civil
Ambulance plot begins to fizz. The second
ticket (another ten and sixpenny burst
added on to the first explosion) will admit
the buyer to a champagne supper in the
sarcophagus or basement below the ballroom.
This is expected to lure the Club ma:- and
the Society matron. Supper tickets will be
sold on the premises. I foresee brutal com-
plications. The Club man who is yearning
to take three or four partners into supper
—at 10s. 6d. a head —may roll up in a glit-
tering phalanx of shiny shirt-front and solid
gold stud. But this species generally feeds
expensively by itself, or in the palaces of
the moneyocracy. The Girl, having her
buffet snack ticket, and seeing the hesitation
of the male star (for whom champagne is
fizzing down below) will have to retire with
the easy grace of Ada in Norman Lindsay’s
recent joke. (Says Benno to his donah
Ada: “This beer’s orlright—yer ought to buy
some!” And Ada presumably flees to pur-
chase her own refreshment.)
The Australasian Pioneers’ Club is going
to open its doors with a joyful creak to two
brothers in a wealthy retail business in this
city. They get in, I fancy, through the Vic-
torian 1839 clause, which admits an ancestry
of that date as old enough to rub noses with
its ghostly memories. In N.S.W. the Pion-
eer gate is barred and double-locked after the
year 1810, or thereabouts.
The Gladstone family is not entirely tied
up to Church and State. It has its lighter
moments. Governor-General Gladstone, as
overlord of the S’African States, departed
from the traditional family attitude of plung-
ing into black gloves on any good excuse, and
temporarily suspended Court mourning for
the Duke of Fife. The Quinlan co. struck
Capetown at this black-edged moment, and
“command” nights would have been nil if
official crape hadn’t been rolled up for a
week or so. One never imagines anyone
named Gladstone as a frivolous person. (You
would as soon expect to find a Nebuchad-
nezzar in the ribbon-and-glove department.)
But his serious chauffeurs and large areas of
rubber tyres were placed at the disposal of
the John Coates-Agnes Nioholls tribe for
their sight-seeing jaunts under the shadow
of Table Mountain.
Another Gentleman Help is booked to re-
turn to his British warpaint. Captain
Shannon has either sold at less than cost
price, or given away, his livery (I don’t
quite know where the trappings go when an
A.D.C. officially expires), and he is about to
leave Governor Islington (M.L.), and prance
about under the gorgeous head-piece of his
regiment, the 16th Lancers.
Colonel Burnett Stuart, recently imported
to the Dominion of Shake, to knock the
M.L. compulsory service into shape, is re-
turning to England and its rains and mud
and smoke and drifting clouds and black
slush—owing to ill-health. It seems a curi-
ous reason —something like being drowned on
account of sickness.
Ex-Minister McNab, formerly of the Ward
Cabinet, is on his way (or ought to be if my
informant doesn’t play with dates) to Sydney
for a holiday. McNab, by the way, loves to
dip into bvarone decades, and when he trips
to this harbor frontage he always goes to
(he Mitchell Library and finds the most
venerable manuscripts, and breathes heavily
in their presence with the air of a devotee.
In his excited moments he has blown the dust
off many an ancient folio.
Have you noticed the prevalence of new
Justices of the Peace? Premier McGowen’s
secretary now signs himself —if he chooses —
Harkness, J.P. The difficulty of not collid-
ing with a J.P. in our crowded streets sug-
gests the idea of a new by-law. Every man
who wears this oddment on his tail-coat
ought to ring a bell when he gets into alter-
cation with a motor-hog. This will warn
the rubbered beast that anything he kills
will be used against him—later on.
On July 13 the State School Teachers’
Association will extend the glad hand to
the much-travelled Jessie Ackermann,
F.R.S.G.S. This tail was given to her some
years ago in Edinburgh, and I understand
she wears it instead of a brooch or other
trinket. The rooms of the Women’s Chatri-
otic Club (Bligh-street) will be the place.
No woman over 30, and under the ermine-
draped rank of a queen, has ever been known
to celebrate her own birthday with much
enthusiasm. The rare luck of having a
birthday only in Leap Year is a superfluous
blessing Fortune showers on the very rich
Lebbeus Hordern, who doesn’t require if
because he is so young that a birthday every
six months wouldn’t do him any harm. Mr.
Hordern climbed up to the serious altitude
of 21 years on his recent return voyage from
Yew-rope to Australia. This doesn’t imply
that he has had five birthdays, for he was
defrauded in the year 1900. And he will
be defrauded again in the year 2100, which
is a poor sort of joke for the calendar to
play on a man who labors under sufficient
disadvantages in any case. Eight years
between birthdays is a long wait.
“Nuts,” A.D.C., was trusted to deliver, safe
and sound and undamaged by motor transit
from Circular Quay, the learned James
Bryce and his homely, pleasant-looking lady.
They hopped out of the car on the steps of
Government House as per previous invoice
—a slim, white-haired man, older than his
portraits in the press, and wearing the alert
air of a highly-trained greyhound, and a
plump, matronly dame.
It was Mr. James Bryce’s niece, Miss
Brvce, one of the beauties of London, who
rode at the head of the 50,000 Suffragettes
in last year’s procession. Seated on a milk
white steed, clothed in shining armor, this
beauteous maiden created a mild sensation as
a fashionable understudy of the dead and
gone Joan of Arc.
The late electrical engineer Yanniman, who
perished by recent airship fatality, was in
this city about six or seven years ago. His
display of panoramic photos of Australasian
scenery in the Royal Art Society’s rooms
was a remarkable amateur effort. At that
time, Yanniman, who was too versatile to
make money out of his profession of live cogs
and wires, had only been dabbling in nega-
tives for 14 months. He told a Maorilander
that he landed in Auckland from the United
States with a wife and three or four pounds..
This was bad enough, but if he had landed
with a pound and three or four wives it
would certainly have been worse. To make
the kettle boil for the wife (you can’t boil
much of a kettle by burning three or four
notes under it) he chased the local scenic
lions with a panoramic lens. From the
crow’s-nest of an American ship, then hug-
ging Auckland’s magnificent harbor, he got
some of these wonderful cloud effects, which
lesser photographers promptly called “fakes.”
“There was no fake about Vanniman,”
says a Maorilander who knew the chameleon
talents of this deceased. “He waited three
weeks to get the sky that less-artistic pro-
fessional camera men believed grew only in
city studios. I met him one morning in the
street. He was full of excitement. ‘Gee
whizz,’ said he tossing a hand up to index
banks of velvety white clouds, ‘that’s the
sky I’ve been waiting to get!’ He jumped
into a cab, still saying things like ‘Gee
whizz!’ and dashed off to the wharves to
get aboard the Yankee craft. I was looking
at the results with an Auckland camera man,
Josiah Martin, when Vanniman came quietly
into the room. ‘I take my hat off to the
Yankee and his camera,’ said Martin, ‘but
I can’t stand the coloring his wife dabs on
to some of them. They’re works of heart,
not art, I think.’ ” Vanniman heard only
the end of the sentence. When Martin left,
he said, ‘ls that the general opinion of my
wife’s coloring?’ ‘Yes,’ said I. He only
shrugged his shoulders and went out, but
I think he guessed that the criticism was
just.”
Hatrick, of the Wanganui steamers and
sundries, was so keen about the Auckland
views by Vanniman that he gave him an
£BO order for photos of the great show river,
where the cliffs are covered with moss, and
the forests lean over the stream to listen
with their large green ears to any passing
scandal, and steamers are liable to be suffo-
cated amid the boundlessness of the fern.
This set the kettle boiling with a joyful
bubble. Mrs. Vanniman had been something
inconsiderable in opera, and the Yankee
himself admitted he “sang some,” and had
once been a small bawl in musical tragedy.
He afterwards built the machine for the
unlucky Wellman expedition to the North
Pole. He started with the flier, which
came a cropper, so he never carried out his
promise to send his Maoriland mate a splin-
ter of the Pole if he ever got near its frozen
timber. The airship in which poor
Malvin Vanniman was dashed to death
seems to have been in a machine of his own
build. He always believed that electric
wings would annihilate space, and he shared
the common fate of pioneer bird-men. But
perhaps he is being allowed to fly his own
machine in Paradise by way of compensa-
tion.
Bare Island, once a fort on the shores of
Botany Bay, where the scent of crushed
bone mingles with the aboriginal fish-indus-
try, has taken to the paths of peace. It has
beaten its sword into a kettle and its cannon
into a dinner fork. The G.-G. opened a per-
manent camp for veterans on its stony plot
of earth, while Archbishop Wright was pray-
ing for the Girls’ Friendly Society at Gov-
ernment House. The report mentions bed
and board for seven vets, out of a possible
90 on the Veteran Association. The Artil-
lery band was in a waggish mood when it
blared, “Where are the Boys of the Old
Brigade?” The Ancients who once sold their
limbs for a shilling a day to King and coun-
try, don’t seem to have made as much out
of the business as the man who sells prime
mutton or wool on his own account.
The fair, alert American Josephine Cohan,
who will play a part briefly described as
“sympathetic,” in “Get-Rich-Quick Wallin-
ford,” is a sister of the remarkable George
M. Cohan, U.S., who is known as a trust
in himself. Cohan started with nothing, and
couldn’t find anyone who was eager to give
him a billet or lend him a thousand dollars.
It occurred to him that he would exploit
himself. He has done this with such daz-
zling results that he now confronts the public
eye at the age of 33 as a millionaire. Cohan
writes his own plays, produces them in his
own theatre —the George M. Cohan Theatre,
Broadway—and plays the leading parts. He
used to write the music as well as the
libretto, but has now taken to comedy in
prose. He seized the title, “Get Rich Quick,”
etc., from some newspaper stories by Chester,
but is otherwise brisk and original in this
piece, which might be sub-headed, “Don’t
Get Any Richer, Cohan.”
Lalla Miranda, of the Quinlan aviary, gets
her ecstacies in clothes from the Paris
dress autocrat Doucet, and is alleged to be
a dream of filmy draperies, with the face of
a Heavenly Twin.
Mrs. Quinlan reluctantly admits that she
is not an Australian. Her mother, Mrs.
Collins, came out to these shores in the
region of Yarra Bend, seven years ago, on a
visit to her brother, Captain Richardson,
R.N., and that’s as near as the bright Irish-
woman can get to being the genuine article.
This confession has been torn from her by
force. All the same, Australians hugged
her to their hearts as a long-lost sister.
’Cellist Liebling, of the Cisneros concert
co., got a thick slice of public applause at
the final matinbe in this town. Amongst
other accomplishments he adds M.A. and
LL.B. to his signature, having swallowed
stiff doses of the law in N’York. His music
grew up in Berlin. The thousand-guinea
Strad. is insured against the machinations
of the Evil One, but Liebling does his own
light porterage on short journeys, and gen-
erally carries the weather-proof case about
his person.
Amongst the most beautifully blacked boots
present at the last Cisneros matinee in these
regions were those worn by accompanist
Harold Whittle. This slim young man, in
the elegant frock coat and sharply pressed
trousers, was surveying the throng from the
portals of the Town Hall, when his boots
attracted the attention of dusty citizens.
They sneaked furtively past that shining
armor with a furtive sense of muddy shoe-
string. Whittle, by the way, deserves a
bouquet for his delightful manner of accom-
panying expensive voices on the concert
piano.
The massive Eleonora Cisneros appeals
with a great appeal to the very young. Flap-
pers and youths in their first swallow-tails,
who adore size and Juno lines, are ardent
worshippers at the silk-shod ankles of the
kindly Eleonora. But her role is not the
ballad of any nationality. Crowds of adoring
followers waited to dog her departure on Fri-
day from the Town Hall to the waiting motor.
Tenor Paul Dufault, last week’s idol (next
week Adonis Allen Hinckley, of the Quinlan
co.,_ will be breaking hearts and causing fair
maids to let down their back hair and pro-
pose to cast themselves into the harbor),
tried to. slip quietly out into the twilight
while Cisneros took the furore of feverish
farewells. But the gods were against
Dufault. Two damsels spied him out, and
passed on the glad tidings. The singer
disappeared in a whirl of this winter’s
choicest millinery. He is said to have reached
Melbourne safely, disguised by having his
hat dragged down over his artistic brow.
A voice hails me from the Fog:—
Myrtle Meggy gave a concert on May 13 at St.
Mark’s Hall. Myrtle was a pupil of the late Sydney
Moss, and came from the blacksoil plains of Moree.
She was the pianist in the last Albani tour of Aus-
tralia, so that lady gave the young Australian a
helping-mouth by singing something of Handel’s;
and big-hearted Ada Crossley also lifted up her voice
and covered Bruneau’s “L’Heureux Vagabond” with
it.
As I close this missive (Monday) a May-
oral reception is shaking hands with the re-
turned singer, Eva Mylott.
In aid of the widows and orphans who
wept over the lost Ivoombana, a matinee
occurred in the Criterion Theatre the other
afternoon. Douglas Ancelon’s elocutionary
seminary put its best foot forward to help
the cause. Miss Stella Chapman was clever
enough to give an improved likeness that
retained the original flavor of the plain
genius, Georges Sands, in one act of a prom-
ising drama called “Madame Dudevaut.”
It was a day of snaps from Australian au-
thors. If the other ends of “Madame Dude-
vaut,” by Humphrey Hall, are as good as the
middle, which we saw, this piece ought to
play well. Even the absurdity of the ama-
teur legs that sagged at the knees in the part
of Dr. Pagello—the lover who pushes Alfred
de Musset off the scene in this play—could
kill its essence of dramatic situation. Alfred
de Musset went to bed in his tan boots
(behind a screen), and woke out of a sick
dream to feebly kick the air, as the faithless
Georges sighed into the oiled locks of
Pagello.
One hopes Arthur H. Adams has pursued
the gentleman who played “Dr. Death” in
his (Adams’s) morality one-act play, with
cross-cut language. The girl and the male
invalid might also be melted into repentant
tears for their efforts to hurry the funeral.
“The Explanation” (politely earmarked as a
romantic one-act play by Miss Ethel Brench-
ley) had the help of very pretty Louise Car-
basse, as a charming heroine. Florence
Young sold sweets and flowers in the pro-
gramme girl suite, and Lily Brayton is
strongly suspected of having been disguised
under a huge hat and ermine neck drape.
Yours, by a cold grey Harbor,
VANDORIAN.


V
< X
a
\h
mm
*r
Sa«S
<W
ar^r*
S*<£
7/
• N
v" 1
7XO
fro
vV-v
%
s'-ff
#s*Of
2*&
aßs=
S4S
..!■:•
>■£*
ss
’ r --X
s.
&
.■'>r, ,J';
fit
rs
3 :
2&rfV
//■
W.i
««
Of
WiUf
Y M&&
m
; O '
'■"i £?> C (./ NS> g ; j 1 |
II
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Takes the ball of
Leather thro’.
Tho’ they rush and
Tackle low,
Chunder wriggles
Past the foe
Till he dashes
O’er the line.
Then the football
Does he shine,
Saying to the
Chaps around,
“‘COBRA’ keeps the
Leather sound I ”


Overcoats Underpriced
• • at . .
Farmer’s Bonus Sale.
And Less lO Per Cent.
Everything required in Men’s Outfitting is to be had at
a saving of 2/- in the £, and many lines are convincingly
reduced in addition. As examples, vve quote these smart,
seasonable and serviceable styles in Men’s Overcoats.
W ater proof Overcoats.
Usually 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-
All Reduced to 21/- each.
And Less the Bonus.
Warm Tweed Overcoats.
Prices 30/- to 55/-
And Less the Bonus.
I SALE CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Ffl Rty€R’S SYDNey.
fgh
CAN'T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; hut Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
810-SHOWMEN!
T HERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
* to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents; Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street
Sydney.
:r
%
Dunlop
Rubber
Heels
for
Comfort
and Wear.
Walk on Soft Rubber
It’s far more comfortable, besides
being cheaper, than on hard
leather heels that rack and jar
the nerves. To get the BEST
RESULTS specify “DUNLOP"
l brand. TRY THEM! j
ALL BOOT SHOPS. /
RUBBER HEELS
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All State*
and N.Z.
1
ttrlT
UiTqb
N\2.
/Thousand
of Golfer*
will now u*e
nothing but
the “ Dunlop ”
—experience
having proved
that they
play better
and last :::
longer than
any other
Ball.
It pays to
use them
besides
improving
your play.
2'6 ea
ALL SPORTS
DEPOTS.
Golf
Balls
THE DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All States and N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 8, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
State Excellency Fuller crawled out of
bed, last Wednesday, and hurried along in
a lame condition to open his common or
hedge Parliament, in the Exhibition of
Draughts. He looked grey and headachy,
and generally bowed down with his foolish
cocked hat and other circus trappings.
\v mist doing the phonograph act, he
struggled over the sounding phrases like a
weary steeplechaser taking the last jumps in
a Grand National. His lady watched him
concernedly from a side seat, where she was
perched with Mrs. Davies and Mrs. Watt.
His - a Sf° u P Helps got away in
a Yellow Peril oil engine immediately after
the half-hour ceremony. A small “broom”
waited for her Ex., who stayed to take tea.
Speaker Davies and his wife pump-handled
the Elect, and passed them into the food
department. Those uninvited to the muffins
helped to fill Queen’s Hall, or drifted aim-
lessly through the endless Alice-in-Wonder-
land corridors. The Council Chamber reeked
of fresh oil and varnish, and some sort of
metal polish. Some curious wanderers found
a huge scarlet volume lying on a table. It
had some golden lettering on its cover—
something which looked like “Paris,” and
suggested full-page engravings. A closer in-
spection showed that the golden legend was
“Pairs.” It was the book of private Parlia-
mentary truces, or two-handed loafs—the
volume which enables one staunch Govern-
ment member to leave off saving the country
for his side by merely getting one staunch
Oppositionist to cease work and enjoy his
salary in peace.
There were two feeding apartments, dec-
orated beautifully with wattle and violets,
and infested by furtive waiters, who steered
skilfully between the hats and bundles of
turs that represented women. Furs, by the
way, are growing daily more expensive; and
the shopkeepers cheerfully prophesy still
higher prices for next winter. “The animals
are being so much protected!” they moan.
Since Paris went crazy over the pelt of our
poor little possum, the price has soared like
a rocket. Soon only the richest will be able
to get themselves up like Stone Age savages.
At the function I write of, one sedate politi-
cal matron, with a nice, placid face, had fur
massed on her hat and a native cat’s yellow
eyes glared vindictively over the brim. It
suggested some demented forest thing on the
roof of a dignified city building.
In the midst of the winter crowd, two
lightly impertinent hats of next spring
swam about; defiantly. The Turner girl sup-
ported one —a Hat, wide pancake of a thing
trimmed with little clumps of flat flowers like
tarts on a baker’s tray.
The Y .R.C. Grand National, on Saturday,
was a good meeting both from a social and
sporting point,'of view. The place was thick
with vice-regals. G.-G. Denman and his lady
were present, they having come to hand that
morning from Sydney. On arrival, they
whirled past their own shut-up domicile and
hurried on to Fuller’s bursting establish-
ment. The massed Governors looked happy
enough in the blue plush pen. I’m afraid the
State I rights will never be encouraged by
seeing_ a stand-up fight between Governors,
and rival Helps hitting one another with
priceless top-liats. Lady Denman looked
smart in short tailorings, with a chirpy little
hat perched over her smiling face. Major
Quilter (a man of many friends) smiled
widely, and seemed very pleased to be back
in these parts. His blue serge suit had a very
decided waist. An aide new to Melbourne
eyes studied his card thoughfully, and showed
promenaders buff snats and orange-colored
socks from the elevated box. Nobody bought
them because they were merely samples.
Lady Fuller, in a fur coat, wore a natty" hat
with birds in it. (I forget, for the moment,
whether they were canaries or vultures.)
The keen south wind brought out all the
furs and put color into cheeks and noses.
Mrs. Nortcfn Grimwade (this has no con-
nection with the previous sentence) wore a
scarlet dress and black furs, whereas hubby
only had the comfort of a frock suit and a
chilly top-hat. (I think top-liats would be
much warmer if they were swathed in red
flannel.) Another Grimwade dame wore a
tilted black velvet hat with a wide brim. One
froeky lady wore the fur coat of the year
before last. (A voice : “Shame !”) Her hair
seemed to be a darker shade, and the grand-
stand, to a woman, bent a virtuous search-
light stare on the suspected locks. Madge
Mclntosh, in a little hat and immense furs,
and Beatrice Day, in a sable coat, partied
with Mrs. Captain Waters, whose com-
plexion stood the severe test of a pale grey
granny bonnet.
Admiral Bridges, who paced the lawn as
it it were a quarte.r-deck, motored his women-
folk home early out of the cold. Dick Nevill
squired the lately-returned Mrs. Oswald
Watt, who has developed a swagger since she
was our own beautiful Miss Williams. The
lady was enveloped in sables that raised a
breeze £ f envy wherever she passed. Mrs.
Geoff Syme wore the very latest thing—a
black chifFon tail coat. A devoted boy
cousinlet carried her seal and fox fur coat.
Mrs. Macedon Oswald Syme was a smart
circumstance of the party in tan-browns and
sables. Parker, the bass-baritone of the
Quinlan co., followed the racing closely with
his blue-eyed wife, who flourished a yard-
long white plume in her hat. Men’s fashions
are again becoming fantastic enough for
derision. A young benedict of the wool world'
was inside a plum-colored suit, and another
young man was surrounded in a knee-length
coat belted round his waist like a Russian
coachman’s tunic. The hat which went with
this costume resembled a box lid.
The vice-regals followed the racing with
the keen interest of punters, and when the
horses were going out for the Grand
National, the Denman pair, under steward
escort, passed from the birdcage on to the
course itself, before returning to the stand.
They stayed to the bitterly-cold end, and
were borne respectfully from the platform
in a State car while ordinary citizens fumed
and stamped and waited for a plain train.
Flemington is a bleak place after the last
race of a long winter’s afternoon.
The Citizens’ Ball, in the Prahran City
Hail, was a tiling of beamy and a joy for
about six hours; also, it was attended by
Important People. Ernest Willis was chair-
man of the committee; Colonel Watson was
vice-chairman; and ex-Mayor Rupert- Nichol-
son treasurer; while Mrs. W. Young and
Mrs. W. Gillespie shared the tiresome job
of secretary. There was so much importance
about the function that young* people were
scared away by the possibility of treading
on someone’s illustrious coins, and thereby
disturbing the concert of Europe. The
programme was dotted with lancers, which
were danced in every ins ance with almost
gavotte dignity, because the dancers for the
most part had lost the first bounding activity
of youth, and were inclined to be short-
winded. In the intervals, the sensible,
settled-down cits, sal along ' the wall in un-
broken rows, and asked one another how the
roses were blooming, and if Mabel was still
at school ? There was no unseemly scurry
for the alluring stairs and the inviting palm
corners which are thronged at every normal
dance. The peregrinations of the merry-
makers for the most part extended no further
than the well-lit supperToom. None but
the bravest glanced to left or right, as they
made their way in the direction of the re-
freshments. Donald McKinnon’s silver locks
were sighted alongside the blue and silver
trappings of Mrs. Donald. Mrs. Secretary
Gillespie looked smart in black. Mrs.
Mayoress Wilks, of Malvern, walked in the
splendor of pink painted roses on piiik ninon.
Mayor Wilks’s sister, Mrs., Dr. Rennie, from
Sydney, was another dancer*; The visitor,
who strongly resembles Melba, has been a
constant offera-haunter this season, and is
the innocent cause of a rumor that Melba
has been quietly watching the Quinlan shows
from an inconspicuous place in the stalls.
The Sfaughfon dame brought along a sweet
country maiden with a pearl snood on her
hair: and an old lady'wore a cosy woollen
shawl over a glittering, red-gold, sequin dress
that looked like Lohengrin’s suit/ of mail.
Mrs. Cyrus Barlow, a blue and silver vision,
chaperoned a ybung son : and Mrs. Nicholson ,
showed a well-groomed hepd above a fine fur
coat. Respectful shovers steered the sedate
guests home at a moderate speed in the early
hours.
From a cable tramcar to the Turn Verein
and the Art Students’ Ball meant stepping
back from about 1881 to' the days of Pharaoh.
In fact, that well known and highly respected
resident of Egypt, when first sighted by me,
was sitting with a dancing girl on the garden
swing, while a furious mummy searched for
an unoccupied sitting-out corner. The stage
was fitted with stone pillars, and the Sphinx
was present; and someone made .Moses or
someone like him very wild by upsetting his
(Moses’s) beer with ..the fallen pillar. It
was a joyous function well carried out, and
I refuse to chronicle it in a cold journalistic
wav as having happened last week. I shall
imagine that it is a memory of long, long
ago, and that these lines were originally
written on papyrus, or scrawled on a brick,
which was lost for centuries through having
been flung at a sacred cat late one moonless
night.
Lace which had been begged and bor-
rowed from various Melbourne owners was
spread for the encouragement of the sex, in'
the Arts and Crafts rooms, last week. Lady.
Creswell came armed with a book on old
lace, from which she intended to read ex-
tracts to a quiet gathering of sister enthu-
siasts ; but she discovered instead a seething
crowd of excited women hopelessly entangled
in the wonderful exhibits. Seeing that they
had no ears to lend just then, the gentle
president thereupon stood on a chair, and.
declared the purpose of the show in a few
brief sentences. Then she jumped down and
mingled with the crush. Melba sent a whole
wall of precious filminess, including her
wonderful Traviata dress, which Worth built
for her out of 22 yards of finest Limerick
and a trifle of silk. Two other Melba ex-
hibits were a big white Spanish scarf, which
hung like a tapestry, and some old Flemish
pillow-lace on a tablecloth. Mrs. William
Smith, who knows more about the stuff than
anyone else in Melbourne, drew attention to
an Indian mission exhibit, which was an
exact imitation of the Spanish or Sicilian
variety. The Indians copy everything with
wonderful patience and skill (I have heard
of an Anglo-Indian woman who used to get
all her dresses made for 2s. lid., or some
such absurd amount, by a sort of turbaned
dosser, who only needed to be supplied with
a fashion book and a sunny spot on the
bungalow verandah. She, of course, is a
staunch Black Labor barracker.) One
missed that keen enthusiast, Mrs. Bevan.
The fluffy doctor always brought back some
fine bit of lace from his interminable trips,
and his wife usually wore some valuable bit
of web on her hair in place of the conven-
tional bonnet. Miss Hoskings showed a scarf
of Honiton applique, that once adorned the
dress of a great lady in England, who, how-
ever, fell upon evil days and horrid nights,
and was forced to sell all her treasures. Un-
fortunately, Miss Chomley, who worked up
the show, was away, being seriously ill with
pleurisy. Glass cases —all carefully locked —
were strewn with scraps hundreds of years
old. The wall exhibits were marked, “Do
Not Touch”; but an aggravated assistant-
secretary declared that only barbed wire
entanglements would make female fingers
respect any such sign.
The Victorian artists have made an an-
nouncemem re the dance that is to be held
on September 25. The Town Hall is to be
elaborately arranged as a background for
olden costumes, and dancers are to have the
various garbs of 3000 English years to
choose from. But’ they must keen within
the prescribed neriod. Woad will hot be
permissible. Meanwhile people are saying
that September 25 is a long way off.
The tennis tournament at Geelong is
partly responsible for a matrimonial engage-
ment. The parties concerned are tennis
Player Lang, from Cobden way, and Con-
stance Warnock, daughter of the manager
or the Bank of New South Wales (Geelong
branch). Constance wielded a skilful racquet
in some of the games.
Mrs. Earle and Mrs. Foukes—two devoted
cousins whose husbands both wear the same
initials—share their big social entertain-
1 1 nei ? t ?T „ Ho , s .t es sing last week, in the Cathe-
dral Hall, they managed to rope in a particu-
larly fine assortment of entertainers, compris-
ing a tenor with the usual silvery voice, and
two accomplished accompanists, who patted
the keyboard until the instrument purred de-
lightedly under their fingers. Miss Binnie.
a girl whom Melba helped with advice years
ago, and who has been sitting at the feet of
Marchesi, sang delightfully; and a younger
sister, who has been trained lpcall.v, did her-
self credit. Mrs. Earless singing niece, bride
1 earl-1 ardy-Baldock, did not arrive in time
for the music and cake feast. Brisbane and
the Bananaland winter cliniate proved too
tempting to be left in a hurry.
Ruth Jackson, the very pretty Western
District squatterette, of Sandford House,
landlord, has accepted the diamond half-
hoop from Jack Downes, the eldest son of the
Downes of this city. Jack r a horse-and-
{i punas enthusiast, and races consistently in
his Western squatter kingdom.
Brown, a large, plump bachelor who looks
alter the interests of various manufacturers
here, has capitulated to Miss Hogg, and the
report of the Brown-llogg wedding will
shortly brighten the social columns of the
careful weeklies.
Dr. Reg Morton, lately married to Miss
Lrespm, has taken over the practice of Dr.
Hourrey, who died suddenly last month. The
new medicine man has hung out his red lamp
in Fitzroy-street,. St. Ivilda, opposite the
house of his departed Diedecesspr.
Hinckley of the Quinlan Opera Co., and
dentist Bill Aitken, of Collins-street, held a
mass meeting and gave 30 American ’Var-
howls when they discovered they were
old college friends. They were at Pennsylvania
Lmyersity together—one for arts and the
fo J surgery—and raged side by side
on the -football field. Hinckley now kicks
goals wi,th his rich and rumbling basso voice.
1 rom my Adelaide correspondent:—
iiun SC S of Mines students held their annual
(Tnp = lilurs( lay evening, at the Brookman Hall.
,Une Miss .Bosanquet, (in black), her mother, father
■ a “ d t a Ucrd ol aides, made up the Government House
Uady Bosanquet wore cream. The Mayor and
a , nd t vunous Pdlars of commerce lent dig-
nity, or whatever you may call it, to the vice-regal
Saim-da P os . t f oned Tattersall’s meeting occurred on
Saturday, m poisonous weather. The Fenners Row
mans Morciocks, Dick Hawkers, Mostyn Evans and
blast and W f ® th °? e who f “ ccd a biting
blast and a slushy lawn in the cause of sport
tl.sf c£i “w.r,S ” | SM»rl,ood of £lO were
S a to U sneak rC H bald i iS T° rldng the calcium-machine,
as an airl m Lfm? C i ltL , S the abolition of the strap
as an aid. to youthful learning, and a ne°-ime nf
cisS St but ai therP k nr ndli h-ff ? ay Work in " certain
cabcs, but there are children I know who reamro n
knout, or something similar, if they are to be tutored
into a bearable demeanor. I may add that T nnno
knew a girl child of about 12 who plainly required
dynamite. Incidentally, Mr. Archibald discourages
Thp C T SS i of A P- ra / e f meetin TS at an early age
The Lady Victoria Buxton Girls’ Club asked Ladv
Bosanquet and others to the Town Hall on Monday
afternoon to hear about the state of its financed
Mrs. Chief Justice-Way, the; Rymills, Mrs. Percwdi
Stow (who is better known to fame as K Lano-loh
Parker) and Mrs. Simpson Newland were' amongst
those- who hearkened to a cheering financial tale ”
afternoon Miss Emma Temple was
bSSIAS <** M “ s
Thq Norman Brookmans, just back from honey
Mttling S d l own a fo n the' e fi off * trip to S - vdno - v before
fnd holsSeeping 6 flne ° M Sports ° f “aid-hunting
' %il i PS o® w ?. s married at Glcnelg
parent M ' SS “ abe *- of "he efoqTent^cleriral
parent, was married to Mr. Putman.
ihe Septuagenarian Act ended last month the
paidic existence of Mr. Thomas Farrell who entered
tears°iS f °After' Ma i°r Warburton, 48
■. f s After H years of service he was mnvod
into the office of the Commissioner of Police and
Y tala"' 1 ls’’ ha, 'T Labor Prison""?
taraia. Ihe heads under whom he has served at
and°''whittelT °and" S c*™*' i nclude Doctors G '°™
Peferswald ail , , I Commissioners Hamilton and
years Mr Rett f P rodrcease 3 him by many
S c f , r * of Railway Department, and
Mr. Stephen King, of the Crown Lands are others
who are added to the retired list. The latter was
one of the members of the Stuart exploration party,
which crossed Australia in 180:1
Tile Rev. Depledge Sykes, of Stow Church, ig re-
signing his post here, and returning to England. He
recently married Miss Dorothy Bakewell.
A bad motor smash, in the hills on Saturday
caused the death of Mrs. A. Bower, of Mount Lofty’
A steep pinch of ill-repaired road and a fault in the
steering-gear of the car are blamed for the accident
—which injured three other passengers and the driver
The uncivilised condition of the Mount Lofty roads
has been a byword among motorists for some time
past. At the same time, there are in the world
275.391 worse roads.
The death of Mr. J. W. Sandford, at Fitzroy, on
Wednesday, came as something of a shock to business
men in Adelaide. He was a comparatively young
man. His elder daughter recently married and went
to South Africa.
The Adelaide Rowing Club Ball was held in the
North Adelaide Institute on Friday evening—amid
the usual decorative surroundings of crossed oars
and the club’s colors, scarlet and black and gold!
Mr. and Mrs. President Van Senden received the" 300
or so guests, including the Governor and Lady Bosan-
quet and their daughters, the Mayor and Mayoress
the Rev. H. Girdlestone and other rowing enthusiasts!
The Mar'ne Board has given notice to the locai
“Royal” Yacht Squadron to get out of Port Adelaide
and remove itself to the Outer Harbor, which is a
desolate sort of place for the headquarters of a
socially-inclined crowd. The immediate result is a
renewed clamor from Glenelg for a safe boat-harbor.
Glenelg is central and lively, and has every advan-
tage, except the trifling one that it is an open road
stead, and in every really big blow the yachts go
ashore and got smashed on the sand. And so much
money has been spent in unsuccessful tinkering with
the sea thereabouts that residents and Marine Board
are alike shy in the matter of finding more money.
Yours affectionately.
JOHANNA.


■ '
|■ |) “ [ .>•
sfgggjisai
r
Bi
.
Iff
, r .' • -'
li.. | : ■■
I ;
*
.
N
f
: 3t
l •
MS
k '
Hi
• V
|
»
'
ss
.
«... -
m
-
'the Laird
JOSEPH SIMPSON. R.B.A
Copyright and property of John Dewar and Sons, Ltd, Distillers to his Majesty the King, H.I.M. the German Emperor , H.M. the King oj Spam, ana id. M fhe^ Km S °S '


ASK FOR
• « I
FRANZ JOSEF
EAGER BEER.
TRY ...
HACKERBRAU
DARK LAGER.
WIFE CURES HUSBAND OF ASTHMA.
“My wife is my doctor, she understands my com-
plaint very well,” says Mr. Alfred Burnett, 67 Wick-
steed Place, Wanganui, N.Z. “When I had an attack
of asthma she gave me a rubbing with Chamberlain’s
Pain Balm, got me to take Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy at the same time, and the relief was won-
derful. I am satisfied that this treatment is the
best I have ever tried, and 1 recommend it to all
sufferers from asthma.”*
NO NEURALGIA NOW
—.— ♦.
This Woman got Relief after Years of
Suffering.
Treatment that Toned up the Nerves
Cured the Complaint.
A woman who suffered with fierce bouts of
Neuralgia for years found that after she
toned up her nerves with Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, that the complaint disappeared.
She has not since had an attack. Neural-
gia is caused by a run-down condition
of the nerves, and it has been cured by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills because they are a
blood-making, nerve-toning medicine. Miss
Amelia Bourne, of Hargrave Street, Castle-
maine, Victoria, the lady in question, gave
the following statement to a reporter:—
“Neuralgia came on some years ago, my
nerves being very run down. The attacks grew
worse, and I began to suffer most acutely:
hardly a day would pass without the neu-
ralgia taking me in both sides of the face.
I had to apply a hot flannel to get a little
ease. The face was tender to the touch and
inflamed. The attacks would often last* all
day, and I would be fit for nothing. An
attack would come on if I put my hands
in cold water. My appetite fell away and my
nerves got so unstrung I would be startled
and upset at Ihe least thing. I began to
think I would always be a martyr to neu-
ralgia, but reading one day that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills were for the nerves I
gave them a trial; and they were just what
I needed, for by degrees they toned me up
wonderfully. The third box made a great
difference. The shooting pains were not
nearly so severe, and I began to feel better
in every way. I felt stronger and my appe-
tite improved. I kept on, feeling a little
better with every box, till at last every
symptom yielded and the neuralgia has never
troubled me since.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are 2s. 9d. a box,
six boxes 15s. 3d., of all dealers, or from
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Austral-
asia, Ltd., Sydney.*
fgh
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort, itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6 ; Double, 22/6 ; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Beits for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or VVri e.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
2SI GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE TORTURE OF THE TALK-
MACHINES.
“T. Tufthunter” writes :—-
The “lordly coalminer,” as the capitalist press dubs
the hewer of the United Kingdom, who, according
to the same authority, feeds his bull pup on roast
turkey and champagne, appears on the whole to have
a good time of it. From 1902 to 1911, both inclu-
sive, 12,492 of him were killed, and about 50,000
injured What more can he want? Surely none of
the £8,000,000 in royalties which he has produced
for loafers during the same period !
The battle between Labor legislators J. LI.
Catts (the sitting member) and Stuart-Rob-
ertson, a tame specimen from the N.S.W.
Assembly, for the hallmark of the party in
the fight for the Cook (N.S.W.) Federal
seat ended in as stupendous a fall in the wet
for the latter as the recent rains did for
Wragge, the drought merchant. Catts won
the Cook seat in 1905 from a Tory, and
has held it by increasing majorities ever
since. So when Robertson held out his
hand, for the billet, Catts described him as a
political cannibal, and pursued him into the
wilderness.
Affairs are looking up a trifle in Tas-
mania’s apple isle, and Solomon, the Treas-
urer, expects a surplus of £1132, after debit-
ing to loans a lot of works that should be
paid out of revenue. As Appleland has charged
£146,871 of old shortages to loans, likewise
vast sums for defences, State aid to religion,
schools, and a most wonderful collection of
other items, there is plenty for the baby sur-
plus to do in the way of paying off old
swindles. But Tassy isn’t built that way.
The reason why you can’t see Solomon’s
heels for dust is his rush to reduce the in-
come tax—on the strength of £1132, which
is a shade over Id. per inhabitant.
Colonel Ryrie, shouting in the House of
Reps, for more guns:—
A battleship could get right up to the Hawkesbury
Bridge (N.S.W.), and blow it up. If that were done
the whole of Queensland and the northern part of
N.S.W. would be cut off.
Joe Cook: Cut the Commonwealth in two for de-
fence purposes.
Yet both Ryrie and Cook belong to the
crowd that yelps with horror whenever the
straight transcontinental railway up the
middle of Australia is mentioned, and wants
the line to be a semi-coastal contraption
“linked up” with the N.S. W.-Queensland
lines. Apparently the Ryrie-Cook corkscrew
railway crowd wants the Northern Terri-
tory, as well as Queensland and Northern
N.S.W., made liable to be “cut off for de-
fence purposes.”
The present futile No-Confidence debates
in the Reps, and the State Assembly of
Westralia yell again for elective Ministries.
Neither motion has the ghost of a chance
of being carried, and all parties are well
aware of it, but they twaddle and waste
time while the business of the country is
hung up. The expenditure isn’t hung up,
though; the country has to foot the bill just
the same as if useful work was being done.
With elective Ministries holding office for a
fixed term, this extravagant foolishness
would be impossible. Also, when that re-
form eventually arrives, there will be a fair
opportunity to abolish the senseless Address-
in-Reply, with its further waste of time.
No one ever heard of any such Address
accomplishing anything; it is just an out-
break of gas, and a costly gas burst at that.
A painful accident
happened to a party of
State Frighters at the
recent opening of the
Victorian railway from
Ouyen to Murrayville.
The latter is 12 miles
from the Vic.-S.A.
border, and just across
the border in S. Aus.
is the new wheat
township of Pinnaroo.
The Victorians, of
course, thought that
the line should be con-
tinued to Pinaroo; and
the accident happened
when O’Loughlin, the
S.A. Speaker, got up
to “voice the opinion
of the S. Aus. Govern-
ment that not only
should Murrayville be
linked up with Pin-
naroo, but Mou n t
Gambier (S.A.) should
be joined to Portland
(Vic.). These dis-
tricts should be pro-
vided with their nat-
ural outlets, irrespec-
tive. of the States.”
Various Adelaide mer-
chants already d e-
nounce O’Loughlin as
a Menace, and suspect
that he mav be also an
Atheist, which is about
the most dreadful
thing anybody could
be in S. Australia.
Federal Attorney-General Hughes on the
I usion leaders, Deakin and Cook :• —
One seems to be always building mansions in the
skies, and the other is always consigning his oppo-
nents to perdition.
These are the ups and downs of life.
The N.S.W. Pastoralists’ Union’s annual
meeting beamed approval while its Presi-
dent got in the usual growl about the Com-
monwealth Arbitration laws. And it didn’t
appear to detect anything inconsequential
when the secretary took up the running:—
Last season’s shearing operations were, on the
whole, carried through without friction, but a few
cases of breaches of agreement by the men occurred
and necessitated prosecution. In most of these cases
convictions were obtained. Work in connection with
this year s early shearing has proceeded smoothly and
without dispute . and owners whose shearing l has still
to be done have had no difficulty in securing the
requisite labor.
So the verdict is that there was plentv of
labor, no strikes, a general absence of fric-
tion, and when a few men made unjustifiable
trouble the Court fell on them with energy
and tonnage. So what is the grievance?
The S. M. Herald states that three South
African students and two Japanese are this
year attending the Sydney Technical Col-
lege. This is pleasant news in a way, be-
cause it shows that the place is appreciated.
But the Tech, is run at a very considerable
loss, and the idea of supplying education to
foreigners below cost —well, it may be phi-
lanthropy, but it isn’t business.
Mostly the Labor M.P.
has a mortgage on his
seat; but the _ Labor
League branches in one
N.S.W. electorae have
just shown that the gen-
tleman mustn’t take the
mortgage for granted. F.
J. Page has sat for Bot-
any for about six years,
yet the other day the
leagues thereabouts de-
cided to let another man
show if he couldn’t do
better; and since Page
stood out of the Referen-
dum fight last year, and
gave no help to the Aus-
tralian Labor, party, an
improvement in at least
one respect doesn’t seem
difficult.
In last month’s issue of the Scientific
Australian Rev. Chas. Strong talked of
“What Australians can do to supplant War
by Peace,” and talked wrong all the time.
Australia can do nothing more than it is
doing to encourage the European working-
man to earn a quiet living rather than a vio-
lent death. And inasmuch as the perpetua-
tion of Peace hereabouts is only possible by
making careful preparation for War, _ the
dissolution of the precious _ Peace Society,
whereof Strong is a misleading light, would
be a desirable happening.
The Australian Government hasn’t even
yet got rid of that unauthorised and wonder-
fully tenacious alien, Mrs. Hop Poon Gooey.
It has a Bill before the House providing
that if one of its compulsory soldiers refuses
to serve ,and refuses to pay the fine im-
posed for not serving, he mustn’t be put in
prison; the matter must just be allowed to
drop. And it is more than half inclined to
weaken on its rule that all Australian sol-
diers must wear the Australian uniform, and
to permit the obsolete Highland petticoat to
remain after all. A most affable Govern-
ment —one that wouldn’t speak harshly to a
cockroach —is that of A. Fisher.
The programme of the Watt Government
in Victoria comprises Bills to deal with
Water Storage, Developmental Railways,
Country Road Boards, Greater Melbourne
Council, Oulports Improvements, Charities Re-
form and Re-organisation, Compulsory Land
Acquisition for Closer Settlement, Reform
of Melbourne Harbor Trust, Workers’ Acci-
dent Compensation, Optional Municipal
Rating on Unimproved Values, Industrial
Apprenticeship, Mines Act Amendment, Fac-
tories Act ditto (perennial), Sunday Enter-
tainments Prohibition and Statutes Consoli-
dation, besides many minor measures. Some
have been before Parliament already, and
have been talked out. Others have been
thrown out by the House of Rich Landlords.
Several are certain to meet the latter fate,
and some will deserve it. To legalise the
levying of municipal rates on the unimproved
value, but to leave the matter optional, is
mere waste of time. The Watt idea of a
Greater Melbourne Council, as already pro-
pounded, is but to make confusion worse con-
founded ; and the compulsory acquisition of
land for closer settlement is merely another
attempt to sidestep the real reform. But the
Developmental Railways and Country Road
Boards Bills will pass all right. There will
be no word of “hasty and ill-advised legisla-
tion” when they come on for consideration.
Still, the programme is an improvement on
Weary’s; and if Watt accomplishes nothing,
he will at least have attempted something.
BIME-B Y.
CHINA: “By Cly ! You kickem me out this
day. Bime-by me come back makum you
welly sally for you.”
AUSTRALIA: “That all right, John. By-and-
bye Til be a lot bigger and able to kick
HARDER.”
Though the Commonwealth’s progressive
land tax was going to drive the big landlord
off his estate a pauper, he still hangs on so
hard that the Victorian Government has de-
cided on still another Compulsory Purchase
Bill to “further discourage the holding of
large estates.” Bent passed one such measure-;
and John Weary tried to make it stronger;
but the gun won’t bring down any game ex-
cept that which roosts on the lowest
branches. The simple and obvious truth is
that the Commonwealth tax hasn’t been
high enough to make big holdings unprofit-
able ; and if Prime Minister Fisher can’t
see the straight tip in this, his eyesight is so
bad that somebody ought to buy him a dog
and a piece of string and a stick.
CRUSOE’S CANOE DECLINES TO
LAUNCH.
One G. H. Archibald, an English lecturer
on child psychology, lately warned the
S’Australian Public School Teachers’ Con-
ference
It is the nature of the small boy to be combative.
The saddest thing I have encountered in Australia is
the military policy. I am afraid that you are going
to bring war on yourselves as sure as you are a
people.
Seemingly, G.H.A. imagines that the way to
peace is for our small boy to be the only un-
armed small boy on earth.
“H.H.” : Maoriland has now got down to
paying what is practically 4i per cent, for a
loan at such short date that it takes prece-
dence of all previous obligations, and ranks
as a prior lien debenture. If this is prelim-
inary to a breakage, the Dominion will at
least have plenty of company. In the
United States, Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama,
Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas and a num-
ber of other States have refused to pay. Most
of them did it brazenly by Act of Legisla-
ture. Austria, after the Napoleonic wars,
burst on an heroic scale; it wiped off 94 per
cent, of its debt, and gave its lOU for the
other 6 per cent. France repudiated a trifle
of £438,000,000, Russia solemnly declared
itself bankrupt in 1843, and paid a trifle in
the £. Spain repudiated all its debt under
Philip III.; piled up a second one, and repu-
diated that under Ferdinand VI. ; built up
a third debt, and repudiated 70 per cent, of
it; and, later, in 1882, wiped out 60 per
cent, of a fourth debt. Turkey, Portugal and
a lot of South and Central American repub-
lics are, or have been, on the default list.
The debt of Jeff Davis’s Confederacy is
entirely waste paper, and many of the small
and early British debts went the same road.
Also one N.S.W. municipality has repudi-
ated. and one or two more have had the
bailiffs in. So there is lo f s of society for
any happy-go-lucky community which has
outrun the constable.
A SONG OF FISCAL SINKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, no, we never breathe the name
Where once we used to shout it;
Though not forgetful of its fame,
We have to do without it.
We cannot work the living deed
Of statesmen and of thinkers;
However great the people's need,
. We rust as tariff sinkers.
Our jaws are good, our tongues prolong
Tall boasts of large pretention ;
We praise the right, abhor the wrong,
But this we never mention.
The Liberal party has its style,
The Labor cause its fashion;
But fiscal matters raise a smile
Of doubtful, cold compassion.
Our growing industries may thrive,
Or perish undefended.
But parties needs must keep alive,
Though somewhat patched and mended.
We dare not act for truth and right,
Nor plead as once we pleaded,
Lest from our banner in the fight
Some friendly foe seceded.
We still may talk on any themes,
Save this of all forsaken ;
Its tall ghost haunts our waking dreams,
And should the thing awaken,
All, all that we had planned so well
To suit the next election,
Would fail before the people’s yell
For straight-out High Protection.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Australia’s first race
' -f >;• ,\
in the air
was flown and won
at Sydney, 30th June, 1912
Pratt’s Spirit
Carried Hart to Victory
in his bi-plane
against Stone in
his monoplane.
The Speedy Spirit
is Pratt’s.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
iWt. *
:
I MAIL.
■Mb
m
■V. S«W<> I'
' 1» ■>
tbeAtai/ooes
There our Goods go—North, South, East, West —to the furthest
Boundaries of the Commonwealth. —“Our Store at your door” is
with us no mere catch word—We have made it a practical pro-
position in thousands of Australian Homes in the past. —We can
bring its benefits to you —now!
OUR “MAIL-ORDER” CATALOG
“ Wherever the Mail Goes ” —that you’ll like to keep and is worth
paying for—is yours gratis and post free for the asking.—lt
has its message for you no matter in what far-out Corner of the
Continent you are tucked away
WRITE FOR YOUR COPY TO-DAY.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
Pty
Ltd.
244-254 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE
y>
(<!
Theatrical
Caricatures,
By HARRY JULIUS,
II-
witH
ORIGINAL ANECDOTES
by CLAUDE McKAY.
Post Free 1/1.
II-
A most Novel and Amusing Publication
dealing witb the Theatre in Australia.
HARRY JULIUS, whose Theatrical Caricatures appear regularly in the
Sydney Bulletin, has contributed 220 drawings to the bulky volume. His
caricatures of Melba, Irving, Asche, Sousa, Nell Stewart, Lauri, and Bertie
Wright display amusingly all mannerisms, while his sketches of Grand Opera,
Comic Opera, Drama, Melodrama, and Vaudeville have a satirical quality that
always raises a smile. The pictures are worth the shilling alone. Claude McKay,
whose position as press agent in Theatrical Firms in the Commonwealth _ has
enabled him t'o be constantly in touch with all the leading players and visiting
celebrities, has written brightly of the Stage and its humor. His anecdotes ot
Melba, Irving, Hugh Ward, George Musgrove, Nellie Stewart and Paderewski are
gems of humor. The volume is a memorable one, and is the humorous classic ot the
Australian Stage.
Open the Book Anywhere
and you. are sure of a laugh.
OVER 220
CARICATURES OF
POPULAR PLAYERS.
PAGES OF
AMUSING
ANECDOTES.
ONE SHILLING
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.
476 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
Throws Moving Pictures in any
place, at any time, with the
light that it makes itself.
The light is produced from electricity generated in the small magneto (Fig.
16) as the handle that proiects the picture is turned. Thus the machine is abso-
lutely independent of anv outside means of lighting, and can be used as successfully
in the camp or country house as in the city house. The light is a small electric
bulb, and the magneto cannot get out of control in any circumstances.
r
h
13
PATHE FILMS WILL
NOT BURN and the
PATHEHOME is the only
C i n e m ato=
graph which
will not in=
crease the
cost of fire
insurance on
your home.
No.
I—Handle.
3 —Delivery Spool.
B—Gate (the Lamp-
house is on the
Gate).
12—Receiving Spool.
13 & 15—Lamphouse
14 —Lens.
16—Magneto.
The Pathehome gives the same result as the old cinematograph, but with-
out any risk, and is no more like it in principle than a modern runabout is like a
mail coach. The showman’s cinematograph and smaller copies ot it in the hands
of the unskilled are dangerous. There is no danger with the I athehome. Oon-
sider this and the pleasure that you and vour family can get out ot it, no matter
where you live, and write for full particulars now. Do it at once, using this
coupon.
FILL IN THIS COUPON and Post At Once.
PATHE FRERES, J/8 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Please send me free catalogue of the Pathehome Cinematograph.
Name
Address
Dept. C.
Get to know more of this
wonderful machine. Get our
catalogue posted free. It will
interest and delight you.
Write now.
Pathc Freres,
48 Queen St., Melbourne
and All Over the World.


OPERATION AVOIDED.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
SAVED A WELL-KNOWN PADDING-
TON LADY FROM HAVING. TO
•UNDERGO AN OPERATION.
Two years ago,” says Mrs. 11. E. Deacon,
grocer, Campbell and Hopewell streets, Pad-
dington, “through contracting an internal
complaint, I was , advised to undergo an
operation by my doctor, but I did not feel
inclined to consent to its being performed. I
tried Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, as I
thought that they were doing me a lot of
good. They had a tendency at first to
create a feeling of sickness, which, when
over, the benefit of the pills manifested
itself. I think they are a wonderful remedy,
not only for ordinary complaints, but for anv
internal derangement. I w-uld not be with-
out them under any considera ion, and I
hope this may be of use to you in publica-
tion.”
- Missing Friends.
WILLIAM SHIELDS. Important.
U/ILL WILLIAM SHIELDS, or anvone
vv knowing the whereabouts of William
Shields, who left home at Dargalong. near
Murchison (Victoria), about 1 .ST!)-,SO, last
heard of by letter from Wvalong Goldfield.
N.S.W., about 1890-01. communicate imme-
diately with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COY. LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
£2O REWARD for Information Concerning the
Where bouts of CORNELIUS (CON.) BOURKE.
"THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
1 COMPANY,. LIMITED, of No. 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria (the Trustee of a Settle-
ment of C. Bourlce), is desirous of ascertaining the
whereabouts of one Cornelius Bourke (commonly;
known as Con Bourke), formerly licensee of the
Prince of Wales Hotel, Hamilton, Victoria, and who
is supposed to have left Victoria about 22 years ago
and gone to New South Wales or South Australia.
He sometimes went under the name of McDonald;
The above reward will be paid to the first person
supplying the said Company with satisfactory in-
formation concerning the present whereabouts of the
said Cornelius Bourke if living, or if dead, the date
of his death, name of the place where he died,
whether he was married, and if married, whether he
left a widow and children. Information must be
supplied within two months from the date hereof.
Dated the 18th day of June, 1912.
ERNEST W. POWLING, Princes Street, Port Fairy,
Solicitor for the said Company.
Heinrich Carl —described as
O a blacksmith, believed also to have been
a gardener near Ballarat, son of Carl
Schrader, of Melbourne, slater, and a nephew
of Hermann Heinrich Schrader, late of Vin-
race Street, Adelaide, gentleman, deceased.
Please communicate with Executor, Trustee
and Agency Conmanv. Limited, Adelaide.
, Government Notice.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS.
EXHIBITION of FEDERAL CAPITAL DESIGNS,
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
T" HIS Exhibition will be open to the Public, on
* Saturday, • the., 13th instant, from , 2 p.m. to
10 p.m., and will also be open on the 15th, 16th,
17th, 18th and 19th instant, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m..
and 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
By order, *
KING O’MALLEY,
• ■ Minister of for Home Affairs.
im
lU CL
£||J
0.0
3<
SC
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
*, M ' * ’ * I
Lager & PiSsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.,
No Preservatives.
E. R ESCH’S LIMITED, Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor- General.
Brewery and Offices: Ddwling Street, Redferh,* Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The yarn of the fight between Johnson
and Flynn is not cheerful reading. Also, it is
scrappy, and somewhat contradictory. But still the fact
remains that on Thursday last week Lil’ Artha John-
son added Las Vegas to Sydney and Reno on the list
where he keeps track of the graves in which he has
buried the white man’s boxing supremacy. Not that
hope ever beat very high in the most optimistic
breast over the chances of Fireman Flynn ; but still
thousands of people trained from all parts of the
United States to New Mexico, in the cheerful hope
that the fireman might by one lucky wallop transfer
the bacon from the camp of. the black race to that
of the white. And so he .might, had he been allowed
to get in one wallop ; but he wasn’t. According to
the cable, the champion dazzled the crowd with his
speed, and although Flynn was badly ruined, Johnson
was hardly marked. The only matter for surprise
was .that the fight reached the ninth round. But
even then Johnson did not win on a knock-out.
Flynn was making a nasty mess on the floor owing
to dripping blood so fast, and the sight so upset the
police that they stopped, the campaign, and the
referee awarded Johnson the prize on a foul. The
foul seems to have consisted of a determined attempt
on the part of Flynn to uppercut Johnson with his
head. Flynn afterwards explained that he butted
because Johnson held him by the arms out of strik-
ing reach, and then, letting him go suddenly, smote
him ; so he just butted “the black cow” to make the
brute let go before “the cow” was ready to hit. It
must have been a flagrant business, as the cable
mentions that the crowd hooted the white man, and
when a Yankee crowd hpots a white man for injury
to a nigger, then that white man IS over the odds.
Flynn was hopelessly out-matched. From the sixth
round he seems to have failed to land a single blow,
so it was small wonder the police stopped the farce.
The outstanding feature of the scrap is Johnson’s
failure to score a knock-out. It seems to bear out
what has been suspected before, that Johnson is not
the hard hitter he is supposed to be. He doesn’t'
carry the required article in his kit these days.
When he first started he did ; but the last man he
really knocked out was Stanley Ketchell, at Colma,
California, in October, 1909. He is credited with hav-
ing knocked Jeffries ; but, as a matter of fact, he wore
him out. He failed to knock out Tahmmy Burns,
although he did hit him 19 times on the jaw in three
rounds. And now he has failed to knock out Flynn.
So take heart, ye aspiring White Hopes! What is
really the dangerous feature of Johnson’s fighting
is his muscle-lock —-the grip which he gets on his
opponent’s biceps. He thereby prevents him getting
within striking distance,; and then his terrific reach
enables the big black to suddenly let go and hit
his man when and how he likes. Johnson was born
under a lucky star. He came into prominence when
there were no really big fighters to go up against.
At present he is really the best boxer before the public,
and his defensive work is magnificent. A smaller man
than himself has little hope with Johnson unless he
can persuade that tower of ebony to chase him round
the ring for 10 rounds or so, and tire out those thin,
tapering 'shins, and thus give the smaller man a
chance to turn on 'him while he is tired and belt
his ribs. But by far the most dangerous trade trick
of the champion’s is his muscle-lock. *
While this heavy-weight scrap was raging at Las
Vegas, the light-weight championship was being dis-
puted at Los Angeles, California, by Wolgast and
Rivers, and had a curious ending. The battle had
been gory, and savagely contested, and the champion
(Wolgast) was evidently getting the worst of the
deal. Then in the 13th, round they both went down,
and sprawled about helplessly. Neither attempted
to rise, but the referee, counted out Rivers, though
why he chose Rivers is inexplicable, especially as it
was ascertained that Wolgast was insensible. It is
said that he had fainted, and, anyhow, he had to be
carried from the ring. The referee made a neat,
slick disappearance from the ring immediately he an-
nounced his decision ; and it was a good move.
Next moment pandemonium broke loose, and the
10,000 spectators heaved themselves at one another,
and strove to settle the matter on the spot with fists,
sticks a'nd other weighty arguments. Had the referee
stayed he might have had the whole lot on to him,
and that might have been more than one referee
could be reasonably expcted to- bear. Rivers claimed
that he had been fouled, but there was nobody to
take hit protest, and hh had no redress. Probably
the reason the referee chose him as the one to count
out was i*ie fact that Rivers is a foreigner, a Mexi-
can ; and a little thing like that goes a long way in
the United States.
Johnson had hardly finished wiping Flynn’s
blood off his colored elegance when he received a
challenge from Tallin my .Bums, to fight a 10-round
contest with a clean break and no hitting in clinches.
Tahnmiy had also posted a. 200 as a guarantee of
good faith, and made the usual public announcements
in the usual style. As Tahmmy seems fairly spoiling
for trouble, it is up to someone to oblige the liitie
man. The periodic announcement that Burns is
going to fight some one is getting wearisome, in view
of the fact that the blessed fight never happens, or if
it does, always manages to conceal itself from the
press.
Every sport, real or imaginary, can pull
something, if it is only a cork. The way m widen
tug-o-war teams are responding to Makinsplosh’s
invitation to pull a thousand sovereigns out of the
Stadium, shows that this fair young Commonwealth
is full of budding llercuieses. The Australian team
is composed of men hung all over with medals, until
they clank like a Chinese orchestra, and they know
already exactly what they are going to do with the
.£4OO which is hung at the winner’s end of the rope
in the international haulage contract. The Mcln-
stoush isn't so sure about this soft snap. Sailormen
from the seven seas are being raked in, and they
know a heap about coaxing a rope to come their
way, and an extra special large-sized brand of
Forjg Hows and Quing Fangs is promised from the
latest republic. Japs and negroes are also threaten-
ing the supremacy of the “White Hopes.’,’ The
team which annexes the big prize in Sydney gets a
free leg-in and expenses paid to Melbourne, where
the promoters intend to hang up another thousand
at the end of October, a month after the Stadium
tussles.
Tim Land, of Sydney, made a plucky
attempt at Adelaide, last week, to give away about 2st.
to “Era” Waddy, who has a big local reputation.
Naturally, he was not able to do it. Showing .most
of the science, he could have got a decision on points
any time up to the 13th round, but after that the
tonnage told, and he was knocked out in the 16th. ;
* 1 * ■" * - g-- ■•- ‘
Tom Richardson, the-best fast bowler-that
cricket has produced, died a lonely death last week, at
the age of 42.' The athletic talent whereof he was ,
a,, shining exemplar is not Conducive to long vlty.’
At the outset of his cricketing career young Richard-
son, the ex-sailor, was irresistible. His pace 1 was
tremendous, his length was usually accurate, and his
“break-in” from the leg (of right-handed batsmen)
did the trick with deadly precision. The first Aus-
tralian Eleven that met him in England never won
a match twhen Tom was opposed to. them, nor ever
scored a draw in their favor. He was somewhat past
his best when he made, his first trip to Australia,
under Stodflart’s Captaincy, but with the assistance
of Peel he practically won the rubber for England.
His stamina and persistency on hard wickets couldn’t
be over-praised. Next time he came he was running
into flesh,.-and had lost much of his pace and sting,
and for Clem Hill, in particular, his bowling had no
terrors. Playing for Surrev, the tireless Richardson
was, contemporary with Lockwood, almost as good an
express bowler, who could also bat a bit, whereas
Tom was worth nothing as a run-getter. But Lock-
wood went to pieces long before his mate. He came
to Australia with Stoddart's first team, and proved
one pf its numerous disappointments, whilst Tom-was
working like a machine. Richardson and Lockwood,
the Surrey pair, are remembered as the last of the
very notable English fast bowlers—men who, at their
best, ’ did, something more than merely sling- ’em fin,
and were indispensable to a representative eleven.
Victory in last week’s return match with
Yorkshire would have been doubly welcome to the
Australian XI, who have not bagged a strong county,
since the first Surrey engagement in May. In the
interval Lancaster and Surrey have been lost by
narrow margins on unfamiliar apologies for wickets.
'ln the fi rs t Yorkshire struggle, under atrocious con-,
d tions, the big county was outed for 155, but
Australia vanished for 107, and -Yorkshire -closed— at *
seven, for 66, leaving Australia 115 to get. The
Sunlanders lost six for 35 when time was up;
leaving 83 required with Kelleway and Emery not
out. The uncertain Haigh had a good time' with
the ball in that match. The return match started
on, a fairly decent wicket, and Austral a, winning
the tos3 after nine successive failures, promptly
apiassed 299, all but nine being made off the bat.
Macartney banged up 87, Rov 'Minnett proclaimed
himself, in spite of rumors, still capable to the tune
of 49, and Kelleway, Bardsley and Gregory ran into
the 30's. Even Whitty helped himself to 18—he can
bat, 4)ut seldom has to bother. Th : s time Mr. Haigb
had no terrors, and his only victims were Minnett
and Hazlitt, two for 51. Before time on that
n-orruVug dnv clean bn”-Wl Rhodes for li.
Then the Fogland weather washed cricket clean., off
the second da.v, and the third and last dav was of no
real match consequence. The Yorkshiremen hit up l
280 in loose style; Rov Minnett taking 'four for 28.:
Many thngs suggest that it would have been a close'
contest in Australia’s favor had it been played right
out.
The draw with Yorkshire was followed by a win
for Lancashire. In the first match A. IL. Hornby’s
warriors, with 146 and 188, beat Australia’s 177 and
133 by 24 runs. Emery took 0 for 12 and two for
28, and scored 14 and 11. McLaren took one for
12 and three for 22, and manufactured the only Aus-
tralian “pair of specs” on the tour till time of
wr ting. Last week, Emery and McLaren, were
dropped against Lancashire in favor of Smith* and
Minnett. The Liverpool wicket is the vforst
in England at the slightest provocation, •' and
for this match it was known to be an unmitigated
rotter'before a ball was bowled. Such a'p tefi was
hardly suited to McLaren’s fast stuff, but at least
he would have added variety to the bowling and
rested the others; which batsman Smith could not
do. But that wicket might have been specially
made for a sensational perfownance bv Pmer i* be
were in any sort of form, After the Red fern
googlist’s two for 46, in England s brief inn ngs,
he took none for 63 against Essex, and stood out of
the Yorkshire return just prior to Lancashire. But
if he were fit, the Test form should have counted,
not; the form against Essex, and facing Lancashire
on that wicket without him was more than bad
policy—it was a blunder. Austral a was ill equipped
for the conditions: There were six or seven run-
getters in the chosen XI, but on the worst of Eng-
land’s worst wickets there were only two at all
likely to score, Gregory and Bardsley. Thev had
sampled a wet season in 1909, and are mainlv .de-
fensive batsmen. Kelleway can play the seasoned
rock, but he hasn’t been seasoned to bogs. The
lighter methods of Macartney, Jennings. Smith and
Minnett are against them do’ng much on a wicket
Vat is doing a lot. And Emcrv was omitted. To
fill Australia’s billy to overflowing, it onlv wanted
Gregory to lose the t.o = s for tbe 14th time in 18
tries, and with infernal consistency he lost it.
Whereupon Hornby told him to bat. “‘You must
walk into mv parlor,’ said the skipper' who was fiv.”
The Lancashire XT included four past and present
internationals in Tyldeslev, J. Sharp (who made the
onlv English Test century in 1909), R. H. Spooner
and England’s new Test bowler, Harry Dean. Dean,
with good length and a terrific break from leg,
aided uy the crusted mud, and Huddlcstone, fast
and swinging, made the leather bound at all angles
or saoot as they pleased. Kelleway was caught off
Dean for two. Jennings and Macartney added 40.
Little Mac was clean bowled by Huddlcstone for
18. Bardsley saw the Queenslander held off Dean
after batting 68 minutes for 30. 'l'nen tiie two
men for the occasion, Bardsley and Gregory, were
together, and at lunch-time the score was up from
three for 56 to three for 132. The break was fatal
to Bardsley—l.b.w. to Dean for 37. Gregory plodded
on, but Smith, Minnett, Matthews and HazliLt (who
saw the score from 149 to 175 while making six),
ranged from 0 to eight. “Syd” was grabbed by
Huddlcstone off Dean for 58. The last six wickets
added only 48. But the scheme may have been to
give the county a taste of the cut-up wicket before
time. Anyway, the total was 183 —167 off the bat.
Dean bagged six for 78, Huddlestone four for 73.
Lancash’re began badl.v, Spooner losing Makepeace
and Tyldesle.v for blots before he fell to I-lazlitt for
44. Eventually it knocked up 163. Matthews took
three for six, Whitty five for 63, Kelleway one for
25, Ilazlitt one for 32. Matthews was under-used,
Hazlitt over-used, and Emery wanted all the time.
With 20 in the lead, Australia was now on a wicket
that suffered greatly from wear and tear. Jen-
nings and Smith started, the former being caught
off Whitehead for three. Smith tried to stonewall.
Macartney was run out for five. Bardsley and
Smith lifted the figures from eight to 28 at luncheon.
Afterwards Smith (nine in 40 minutes) r.xn himself
out. Bardsley was stopped at" 15. The rest, bar
Matthews, who hit and m ssed for 35 not otic, did
nothing, and the total was 94, including five sun-
dries. Dean downed five for 24, Whitehead three for
62. Lancashire wanted 115 to win, and, before it
started, a good rolling improved the wicket. • Spooner
lashed out at frequent changes of attack. Macartney
bowled Makepeace for 35, Kelleway got Tvldedey
for a single, and Sharp arr'wd to see Spooner
making, the winning hit. Sundries numbered 13. A
win Lancashire by eight wickets.
The Australian Fight for flip Olympic
Games has been distinguishing itself in the Cold
Country. At the "Henley Regatta' the crew' met in
its heat for the Grand Challenge Cup a Canadian
crow, and downed it with a little over a length to
snare, in, a raee of one mile 550yds. This p"t the
Sydney irbwers in+o the semi-final, where thev had to.
eomnete with New College, Oxford University. In
the struggle with the Oxford crew the Australians
went to the front at the jump, and despite repeated
and strenuous spurts by the College, stayed there,
wRh a length to snare. The critics then announced
that there would be a tremendous struggle between
thp Australians and Cm English Leander crew. And
there was. w’th 150 000 people raving on tbe
batiks of the ancient Thames, including King George
and his missus. The day was charming for England;
and Rovelfv looked on f"orp r» white and' gob l State
barge, 200 years old. The English erew made the
pace strong from the start, and crowded on sneed,
so that it burst its collective boiler in the initial
stages of the raee, between the quarter- and half-mile
marks. Then the Australians made the pace, and
went to . the front. The English crew made a suc-
cession of gallant suurts, hut never managed to out
out the three-quarters of a length f bat always yawned
between it and the Australians. The Grand Challenge
Cup is_ considered the be c t rowing raee in the world.
Tt ds, in fact, the aquatie counterpart of the Grand
Erix de Paris, wljich w,<»,s won the other dnv bv an
Australian jockey. ‘And: no\y the Grand Challenge
Cup is. the pronestv of the Sydney Rowing Club, and
the wise, ones of England are looking profoundly
philosophic, and explaining how it all happened.
Thp weekly Teague gamps were snsnended
in Melbourne while G'’msuel*ers and Croweaters dis-
cussed which owned the thick end of the stick, so
to ;soeak. The game was on both sides high-class and
onen. The So"th Australians had more da c h, and
were wonderfully swift in getting rid of the ball,
but their passing was inaccurate and their marking
uncertain. Per contra, the Victorians’ passing was a
thing of beauty and a jov. and their marking was
on .speaking terms with nerfection. The first quarter
showed both sides feeling their wav, hut in the
second the' Vies., by a series' of concerted flashes,
gained., a...lead ,of , five . goals y anfl jUiQugh
the visitors played heftilv and never as though
beaten, the Dark Blues added a goal or two when-
ever the occasion seemed to call for-it-. --Final: Vic-
toria, 14 goals 13 bebinds; S.A„ 10 goals 10 be-
hind*- —a correct measure of their relative strength.
Attendance about 24,000; takings about £3OO.
The chief. Ass. disturbance concerned North and
BrunMvick, in which the former managed to wipe
out sogie of the disgrace of its awful walloping of the
week; before; but the achievement was due less to
North’s play than to ’Wick’s foolishness in taking
pot-shots at the posts instead of passing the ball to
the man in the right position. The Brickies had
most46f the play, yet they only got five goals 13 be-
hindsi to North’s nine goals seven behinds—which
meant 18 points less. Essendon went out to blalt
Willi jmstoym, and put in a comfortless afternoon
:with’’the prospect of defeat ever impending, till a
ideterinined effort in the last quarter gave it the few
points it wanted—-61 to "Town’s 47. This feat
movecl-several players to get “into holts” on leaving
the field, whereat the populace joined in, and a will-
ing, ;general fight ensued. ’Scray collided with
Brighton, and won, but with little to spare—B4
points to 72 —-and P’ran upset ’Cote’s hopes of semi-
final glory by trouncing it decisively—9s to 64.
Also,. Port handed Melb. City its accustomed “dirty
doing”—ll4 to 59.
Hpofballers of Sydney had an ideal time
on Saturday last, when the temperature was just
right, the wind quiescent, the sun bright and the
barrackers in splendid form. What more could
muddied paf desire? The Rugby League opened the
second round of its First Grade Competition, and put
up some stirring games without altering the position
much. Perhaps the most exciting struggle was the
meeting of North and South Sydney. On paper
North Sydney was much weaker, but the departure
of Darmody, Gilbert and Cann (not A. William of
that ilk) had left a big hole in South’s array, and
the successors of these giants were, comparatively,
pigmies. So the battle went against South in a
general sort of way, and then the North men devel-
oped quite a turn for combination, and turned the
demoralisation of South to good account. When the
whistle blew North was on top with 18 tq seven.
The triumph of Eastern Suburbs over Ahnandale was
a foregong conclusion, and the premier team won by
12 to seven—-a mighty small margin, by the way.'
Glebe came down on Balmain at Birchgrove Oval,
and eh Jwed “it up by 10 points to two ; white New-
town made a horrid example of Western Suburbs,
i,kicking, 21 points to Western’s eight. So the posi-
tion is practically as before, South Sydney being
the only front-rank club to slump. Messenger’s
crowd still leads .with. 14*. pqiirts Newtown-has 1-2,
and so has Glebe, while South Sydney drops behind
with 10. Below, that nothing.matters, as there are
only single figures, and. single figures don’t count.
The G. N. Hurdle Race this year was more
than ever a picnic for the lightweights and a sit re
on the system of handicapping which learns nothin-*
from experience. In a field of 26 there were five
starters in the list. divis ; on, 10 in tbe 10st., and 11
weighted at 9st. 101 b. ok under. ' the ‘ four placed
horses were among these under-10 stoners, and if
the winner, Wingarara, had not earned a 71b. penalty
a week previously, he would have remained on the
fist. mark, 'the pace was a cracker from the start,
and tiie time for the three miles beat the record by
lsec. Under those conditions anything carrying more
than lost, hadn’t a hope. Even Merry Monarch,
with lost. 101 b. to hump, couldn’t live with Win-
garara in the last stage of tiie race, though he was
bel.eved by the stable to be the better of the pair
at the weights, tact is, that no private trial is
ever run at Grand National pace over three miles,
with the full complement of jumps included in the
tist. Five years ago, Bribery, carrying lost. 21b.,
did the distance in smin. 53sec., which was much
better time than any other winner in the lOst. anil
upwards division had scored. But what chance would
the same Bribery have had in a race that clipped
6see. oil his time '(
Providence saved Tiie Bulletin selection—Lord
Desmond—from being badly beaten. He was the only
one of 27 acceptors that missed the engagement.
William Anderson and Co. had hardly put their
money on this unlucky gee than he went sore, or
strained a muscle, or something—Lord Desmond’s
second time of going amiss after being backed. He
has nothing of the hardy animal about him.
Next to the b’ig Hurdle race, the most interesting
event last Saturday was the Maiden Steeple, with
its five runners and its alleged dead bird in Tina-
pagee. Because he was a comparatively dark horse
in Godly’s stable, which supplied the winner last
year, Tinapagee had the reputation of comb'nin"-
the agility of the stag with the speed of the railway
locomotive. His performance in the Maiden Steeple
suggested that he is a nervous jumper as vet, and not
a flier anyhow. If he can stay three miles he mav
be worth considering for the G. N. Steeple next
Saturday, but the writer would sooner have his half-
crown on a more practised performer. There is a
doubt about the soundness of Leah Kleschna, who,
fit and well, would have a great show : also there is a
strong s"spicion that the storv of old Bribery having
recovered his long-lost pace is a varn to be told to
the marines. Th's writer fancies Guncap and Nim-
rod, with a leaning towards the former.
Waverley’s overthrow of Leichhardt in
Sydney baseball competition on Saturday was one of
the surprises which are supposed to startle even the
ang-ds. For- 12 successive matches Leichhardt had
wallowed in the basin of victory. It came down
on Waverlev, like the Assyrian on the fold, and met
the same fate. Waverley scrambled out on top bv
eight runs to five.
Let us rejoice. The N.S.W. Cricket Asso-
ciation has not forgotten the services of W. P
in the cause of decent cricket and clean
sport, and he is to be shortly entertained at a ban-
quet.
INVOCATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We ask no poet with wide marble brow,
And searching eyes that see,
Beyond the limits of the Here and Now,
The glorious Things To Be.
We do not wish to hear his stirring ■ songs,
Wombed in a people’s pain ;
To such weak-chested temperament belongs
The loss of brawn for brain.
But send us, Lord, a prophet u:ith a punch,
Who’ll knock Jack Johnson’s teeth into a bunch.
We seek not artists who can limn the seas,
The shimmer of the sun,
The frondage rustled by the perfumed breeze,
The gauzes fairy-spun,
The secrets of the sunset and the rose,
The glitter of the stars, v ,
The splendor of the shadowed stream that flows
Across the moss-green bars.
But send vs, Lord, an artist who can feint,
And under Johnson’s eye a large “mouse” paint.
We clamor not for statesmen who shall plan
A Titan’s cosmic creed;
A god in noble purpose, yet a Man,
To do the grandest deed
That ever fell to mortal’s lot to do.
We do not want him now;
To no false, futile Caesars overdue
Shall we, the’ People, bow— *
Unless he can evolve by special !aw
A pugilist to pound on Johnson’s jaw.
We’ll do without the magic scientists
Who, through a wizard’s glass,
Can measure worlds careering through the mists,
And weigh them as they pass;
Who peer into the Past a million years;
And lift the darkened veil
From off the Future’s deeds and hopes and fears —
Such men we dare not hail,
Unless they can upon the Whites bestow
-4 mighty whacker to lay Johnson low.
N.S.W,
R. J. CASSIDY.


for Women
HUlk 1
kb
f#M?A
m
:■ / r
Q[ The name “Marshall "on every pair of shoes you
wear shows plainly the innateness of feminine
beauty to select footwear, elegant style and grace-
ful solidity.
Q No shoe was ever made better—few shoes as
good—their honesty has won for them favor in
all lands.
q A guarantee with every pair.
Write for New Style Book
MARSHALL SHOE CO. LTD
Richmond, Vic.
N?IO
MAY BE
OBTAINED WITHIN
in ma br«ks!"
s . , * ■> »',
IV; "VVjrVV;
. . ,
, ■
- '/«mK s
: VVVV-V
xv . , r ■
%
■■ .
i
llllii
3EVTE
filliiliiiilliß
V
I£ j
:
*
•s i
if •yr ~—
v’~ %X _ - '
c ' iji
M
.■ , '
-
\
\ 1
■ \U, . : , .I
ft i
il
*
— . !
i
**; -'" X ' : -V«V*A*
\
■
ghg
0
00 (double'O*)
Old Orkney Whisky.
hgh
PILE FACTS
Piles undermine the constitution, lessen vitality, and cause
severe suffering, anxiety and mental unrest.
Do not neglect this complaint if you are troubled with it,
but face the matter resolutely and determine to be rid of it by
beginning at once a course of Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills.
They are an unfailing remedy for all forms of p les, freeing the
system of all impurities, giving instant relief, and effecting a
permanent cure. Being non-aperient, they do not purge, gripe
or sicken, but act as a tonic to the health.
Sold by all up-to-date Chemists and Storekeepers. Price, 3/-
per box, post free. Order d.rect, if not obtainable locally.
Sole Proprietors: ANDREW MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109
Regent Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
m
J
Si -
Bt pny altitude
mi u »by varying
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
/
mmm
QIVEN AWAY.
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O / A the Bunch
" post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feß.ther Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tim Biillktix.] [6
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
fg
"High
Grade
T J.G.lrmler f
LEIPZIG
Emil Henning
STUTTGART
GebrKolski
BERLIN
Carl Hess
I DRESDEN
CATA LOGUES ON APPLICATION
2sg§2s- ———
J.Hess&C?
199 CLARENCES 7
SYDNEY N.S.W.
andaf BRISBANE.«
“A.L.” (Motor. Car Acetylene Generator)
0.. , , >
as supplied to his Majesty the King, and used by him at the Indian Durbar. No
smell, no danger, no fouling,, no failure, no adjustments, no rubber parts. A sys-
tem on simple and ingenious lines. One charging of carbide can be used for
months. The London ’Bus Company scrapped all their old generators, and installed
the “A.L.” Generators after most severe tests against every other make. Another
practical testimony as to its extrenv simplicity and reliability has been given by
Captain Scott, who has provided himself with a complete outfit of the “A.L.”
Generators for the lighting of his expedition to the South Pole.
lib. Size, £4 10s. 21b. Size, £6 15s.
Write for pamphlet, giving particulars and description.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
hgh
RIGHT MADE SHOES
FOR MEN !
The first essential of a satisfactory pair of shoes is COM-
FORT. Combined with' this they must be of good appearance,
made in a first-class manner, and of the best materials.
It is this combination of merits which have made
RIGNEY SHOES
So popular ancl satisfactory.
The Boot shown is a Box Calf Bal., Stout Soles, splen-
didly finished.
Prices 15|6, 18|6, and 25j=
Postage 9d. extra.
Send for a copy of our Catalogue—FßEE.
The Rig'ney Shoe Co.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and 179 a PITT STREET. SYDNEY


NEW IDEAS IN WEDDING
AX
A. SAUNDERS.
GIFTS
wm
r*
ra
rtrUmSf. a
SSS;
217-
Salad Bowl and Servers; Fine Crystal-cut Glass,
Silver-plated, Nickel Silver Mounts.
Very, very beautiful are our latest English Designs in
Wedding Gifts ; very exclusive, high qualitied, and
moderately priced, too. Send your order by mail—we
pay postage—and let us send you our 180-page
Silverplate Catalogue.
WE POST IT FREE.
307-
Fruit Salad Dish and Spoon; Pure Silver-
plated Frame, Out Crystal, Amber-tinted
Glass Dish.
£2.
Toast Rack; Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver, Richly Embossed
7j a.
Two-branch Specimen Tube;
Pure Silver-plated, Burnished,
Gilt-lined.
10/6.
Butter Dish; Solid English
Oak, Silver-plated Nickel
Silver Mounts, China Lining.
£2.
Hot-water Kettle and Stand; Pure Silver-
plated, Rustic Stand, Richly Embossed.
7/6.
Juvenile Single Egg Cup,
Stand and Spoon; Pure
Silver-plated.
6/6.
Jana Dish; Silver-plated
Frame, Fancy Floral China
Dish.
£3.
Cheese Dish; Pure Silver-plated, Richly
Hand-embossed.
50/-
Cake Basket; Pure Silver-plated, on
Nickel Silver, Richly Embossed, Hand-
fluted.
12/6.
Fern Pot; Pure Silver-plated, on White Metal.
Beautifully Embossed.
We Pay Postage.
17/ «.
Sugar Scuttle; Pure Silver-
plated, Hand - engraved But-
terfly Design.
15/6.
Fruit Salad or Preserve Dish; Hand-decorated
Floral China, Silver-plated, Nickel Silver Frame.
4/6.
Serviette Ring; Pure
Silver-plated, Richly
Engraved and
Embossed.
357-
Sugar and Cream Sifter and
Stand, Pure Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, Gilt-lined.
2/- :
Jam Spoon { Pure
Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver,
Hand-engraved.
Liqueur Bottle; Hobnail Cut-glass.,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver
Frame.
£2.
Entree Dish; Pure Silver-plated, on
Nickel Silver, Highly Burnished.
r
1
m
25/-
Waiter; Silver-plated, on Nickel Silver,
Hand-engraved, Fancy Edge, Embossed,
Sin.
Send for Catalogue
257-
Biscuit Barrel; Polished Eng-
lish Oak, Pure Silver-plated
Mounts, Patent Handle, Carved
Feet.
£5.
Coffee Service, Pure Silver-plated, on White Metal, comprising Tea, Coffee, Sugar and
Hand Engraved “Fern” Design, Gilt Lined, with Covers.
Cream,
17/6.
Dinner Cruet; Silver-plated,
Cut Crystal Glass Bottles.
AUNDERS
Sydney’s leading jeweller .
507-617
GEORGE ST.
Opp. RAILWAY STM
SYDNEY
M. S. W


KODAK
on Every Outing'
Add to the pleasure of the trip itself by
taking pictures of the places and people
that interest you —then you will have the
after pleasure that comes from possessing the
pictures themselves.
Anybody can take and finish pictures by
the Kodak system—and do it well. Because
simpler to handle, Kodak films give better
results than glass plates. You need no dark-
room for loading the camera, or for unloading.
Even the developing is done without a dark-room, and print-making is easy
(again no dark-room) with Velox paper. If you don’t care to do your own
developing and printing, Kodak film, being light and unbreakable, may be
readily mailed to your dealer for finishing.
Kodak means photography with the bother left out. It offers the simple,
easy way to good pictures —and it is less expensive than you think.
Catalogue of Kodaks and Brownies (they work like Kodaks) free at
your dealers or by mail.
if
r
smsm
JJj— - JJL-JiOL
■—SflaiM, ■
-—pniwilll I .
Those distinguishing qualities of speed, mechanical
perfection, dependability, proper orthochromacy (giving
the most practical rendering of color values), of absolute
protection by duplex paper from the offsetting of numbers,
and of superior keeping qualities make the Kodak N.-C.
Film not only best, but also essential for your use.
KODAK (Australasia)
Incorporating' Baker CSL Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 6 Mercer Street.
Why Suffer from Sore Throat ?
You need not do so for one hour longer than you
choose, for Science has discovered a rapid cure for
Sore Throat and its allied conditions,like Tonsillitis.
This is Wulfing’s Formamint.
“ I have never had Sore Throat myself since I began
to use Formamint, although I suffered periodically before,”
writes a physician in The Practitioner , one
of thousands of doctors who not only prescribe
Formamint to cure their patients’ Sore Throats, but
also habitually use it themselves for that purpose.
Sore Throat and those infectious diseases of
which it is a symptom, are due to germs which find
an ideal breeding-place in the throat, and, under
certain conditions, multiply with terrible rapidity,
infecting the body with their poison.
Danger of Diphtheria.
Formamint destroys these germs so
rapidly that when a physician mixed a little
Formamint with water and added it to the
germs taken from the throat of a patient
dangerously ill with Diphtheria they were
all killed within ten minutes.
Formamint should always be borne in
mind, not only as a cure, but also as a
p-eventive, when infectious diseases are
prevalent. By killing the germs causing
them, it prevents such diseases as Tonsil-
litis, Mumps, Whooping Cough, Measles,
Scarlet Fever, Consumption and Diphtheria.
For this reason, doctors always use
Formamint to safeguard themselves when
attending infectious diseases.
fgh
PROMINENT USERS OF
FORMAMINT:
The Rt. Hon. Arthur J. Balfour, M P.
Lord Kingsale.
Lord Glantawe.
Sir Clifford Cory, M.P.
Sir George Alexander.
Mr. Ben Davies.
Madame Kirkby Lunn.
The Rt. Hon. Sir John Gorst.
Madame Adelina Patti
(Baroness Cederstrom).
Formamint’s marvellous power of curing and
preventing throat diseases is vividly shown by the
following abstract of a case recently published in
The General Practitioner :
Two children with Diphtheria were taken from
their home to a hospital, where one of them died.
The mother and another child who had occupied
the same room with the patients complained of
Sore Throat. They were in obvious danger of
Diphtheria. Formamint Tablets were given to
them and the other people in the house, and not
one got ill.
Evidence of this kind might be multiplied
almost indefinitely to prove the wonderful power
Formamint has of curing patients of dangerous and
infectious throat diseases and preventing other
people catching them.
A Warning to the Public.
Stimulated by the success of Wulfing’s
Formamint, many preparations claiming to
be as good are being offered to the public.
This claim is false. Wulfing’s-Forma-
mint marks the discovery of a new chemical
compound, which is manufactured by a
patented process and can only be produced
by the firm of Messrs. A. Wulfing & Co.
To obtain the certainty of cure of all
forms of Sore Throat and immunity against
germ diseases, insist on having Wirlfing’s
Formamint and take no substitute for it.
It can be obtained of all Chemists, in
bottles of fifty tablets. Write for free sample
to-day to A. Wulfing & Co., 17 Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., mentioning “The Bulletin/'
and enclosing two penny stamps towards postage.
FORMAMINT : The Germ-killing Throat-tablet.


Whooping Cough
and Bronchitis —
now she’s strong
on
scons
EMULSION
When a mother praises a j
remedy, it is an indication 5
that remedy is good. But
when thousands and thou-
sands of mothers, year after
year, praise SCOTT’S Emul-
sion, it is PROOF that it is
quite unequalled as a remedy
for weakness and children’s
ailments.
Both children grew
strong on Scott’s.
"My daughter was suffering with a
severe attack of whooping-cough, I
gave her Scott’s Emulsion and she is
now stronger and better than she has
ever been before.
My baby was very ill with bronchitis,
and nothing did him good until I gave
him Scott’s Emulsion. The bronchitis
has now disappeared and he is gaining
strength and vigor every day. ”
Edith Nicol, Hill Street, Leichardt,
Sydney, N.S.W. 16.6.11.
Imitations are' not good enough
for you. Therefore, avoid risk of
error and disappointment. Ask for
SCOTT’S EmuJsion and see the J
Trade Mark on the package. . J
fgh
This Trade Mark is made
prominent on the BACK of
every package of genuine
SCOTT’S Ehiulsion. Look
for the mark and KNOW'
you really have got genuine
Scott’s, Emulsion.
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
DR. HARTMANN’S
ANTINEURASTHIN
AND
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells
must be FED, . and not stimulated by medicines in
the form of tonics or sedatives, which give temporary
relief, but cannot effect permanent improvement.
ANTINEURASTHIN is the ONLY known prepara-
tion containing- an effective percentage of Lecithin
in an active organic state, completely assimilable,
and with its valuable principles undiminished in any
way.
A sample of Antineurasthin, together with a valu-
able treatise on Nervous Complaints, will be dis-
patched by return of mail, on receipt of twopence
in stamps, by the Wholesale Distributor for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. GODDARD, No. 3
Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane; or
branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,’
Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland.
SERIAL, No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by H. A. GODDARD,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No 810. ft
Al!cock!s
PJLASTERS
Rheumatism in Shoulder
can be relieved and cured by
them. Also invaluable for
Pains . Stiffness or Sore m
ness of joints or muscles.
Apply wherever there is Pain.
Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion, etc.
Brandretfts Pills
ENTIRELY VEGETABLE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO.,
Birkenhead, ENGLAND.
The Australian
Arrol-Johnston
Specially Designed.
AN Australian pup t from the famous breed of
“ 15-9 ” Arrol-Johnstons that won the team
. award in the 1911 International Ligfht Car
Race, and obtained record orders from H*M* War
Office for cross-country work*
*
Australian agents:-sydney: Eyes & Crowie, Ltd.?
ADELAIDE : Murray Aunger, Ltd.; BRISBANE : Howard Cycle
& Motor Co.; PERTH : Perth Motor House j HOBART: H. C.
Heathorn & Co.; MELBOURNE: Essendon Motor Garage, Moonee
Ponds. A
Any Rug that has the
“ABERDEEN” BRAND
must be a good one—the choice of a Horse
or Cow Rug lies with you—who pays for
it, and since there is such a wide variation
in the quality of canvas goods you should
never fail to exercise that right of choice
which allows you to get a reliable, trust-
worthy brand, the ABERDEEN, at pro-
bably no more cost. Our other goods such
as:—
fgh
fgh
gh
TENTS, TARPAULINS, FLYS, BUGGY RUGS, etc.
ARE EQUALLY GOOD—ASK FOR THEM.
Should your storekeeper or saddler disappoint you, write to us and we will see you are supplied.
Smith, Copeland & Co., Ltd.
204-6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
9Fi
44 Castlereag'H Street, SIDNEY.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” Trade Mark of
Kay’s Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
to Owners of EDISON
GEM PHONOGRAPH
T"IE following reductions in the prices, of “Gem”
Combination Attachments are such as to render
it advisable for those whose machines are not
equipped to remedy the deficiency without delay.
Attachment (complete) . . . . 12/6
With 10 Special Amberol Records . . 20/6
With 10 Special Amberol Records and
New Mainspring . . . , 23/=
This .offer of Special Amberol Records actually
means that you are getting the 10 Records for 8/‘-
—Records which, if they were obtainable at your
deak-rs, would cost 2/- each, or £1 for the lot.
The Records are confined exclusively to this offer and
cannot be secured in any other way.
Call on the Edison dealer nearest you to-day, and
ash for the special folder giving details of this offer,
also list of the Amberol Records which cannot be ob-
tained in any other way, or write us direct for a
free copy.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364=372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
gh
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
48 hours.
m
Each Cansnle bears tbe name
ghg
Turn
This
Button,
Pen
Fills
Itself.
3]
Fountain Pen Users.
You eliminate all pos-
sible danger of soiling the
fingers or clothing in fill-
ing the
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC SAFETY
Fountain Pen.
You simply turn the
button at the end, hold
pen in ink, untwist, and
the pen fills itself. There
are no joints, therefore
the pen cannot leak.
Every pen is put through
a careful inspection be-
fore leaving our factory,
and it must give satisfac-
tion or money refunded.
Made in both plain and
fancy holders with a
variety of nibs.
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman &Co.,
New York.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U S A
Ryan, Lewis & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
svl Little Collins Street,
Me.bourne, Sole Agents for
Australasia.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and Safety types.
Dealers will find" our en-
tire line a profitable one.
Write fvur /trade prices.
They wilffljinterest you.
If it ;ao;“ a.a.” it
isn’t a ‘‘MODERN."
Will Andrade « BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
* Free for the asking-:
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
.Easy Method of Learning French, German, Italian, Spanish. 1-/7
each language; Speeches and Toasts for all occasions, 1/1; Every Mw<
P, 1 ? °,". n Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden's Building of Vital Power;
h{U= M / Cfa r d - den S^ pel ? V - irilit - v of Manhood, 5/4; Macfadden’s Sweet-
Llves > 6/4; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illustrated,
w™ an i M elf ' A D ? fe ?ce, ] / 2 ; Book of Lovt ' Letters, 1/-; How to
i. Mine)'’ Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets,
iwfi /1 lr7’ 1 l} ; Po P ular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing
/i '/ tee " ? ne :, ;U : t Forces. 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues,
lie * m! me Amusements, 1/1; “How Old Mose Counted, the Eggs” and
1/1- Humorous Recitatmns, 1/1; Famous Dramatic Recitations,
IW.o/ny i 0 S e C u 1 ' y -+ a and other Comic Recitations, 1/1;
vwrfL • Cltatl , o P l S ’ V? : 1401 Conundrums and Riddles, 1/1;
i n •° p Ve^ tn loquism, 1/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and Clairvoyance,
T wwv and Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach Animal
I/ 1 > What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1 /I:
edition” 3/6 1 -^New^t'otV^ o^- ° f Na tß re > the only genuine and complete
coition, d/b, New 1912 edition, enlarged, 32 extra ulai.es illnstratine
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New Tricks with Cards 1/-•
Sts Pa i 1 /8 tl - nBr irfsh Pe^ef ng> 3 etc.! 1 1/17 SOOo"Priceless
Writer J for lad 0 p e 8 Witty Sayings, 9d.; Complete Letter
vTJzJrS&x SSs^di-\£ss , s amt “ lnslr,,o “ r '
m-AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT. Mention Thk Bullhtin.
Above prices
CATALOGUES
3] FREE.
include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
201 Bourke St, 9 Melbourne •
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
Tiaki: Your story about the man who rang
the changes on the beer and the whisky is a shame-
less blend of two old chestnuts... .J. Cott: You are
hereby fined 2s. 6d. and £l5O costs, with the alter-
native of 24 hours solitary confinement in the coal-
scuttle. .. .Joseph Parr: It has been said that “no
person named Joseph was ever wholly satisfactory.”
We believe it. Your remarks about “such highly-
educated citizens as shearers, drovers,” and so on
convince us that you are like all the other Josephs’.
. ...I.B.: What we like most about it is the sonor-
ous metre so appropriate to tragedy:—-
She sailed away as gay as gay,
Yet at break of day there she lai
A wasted heap founded by the mighty deep,
The bonny little Kotoku.
What really befel her she lost her propeller,
And with nought to propel her she fared her worst
By grounding on the rocks at Oobden tiphead,
Ihe last trip for the steamer Kotuku.
But what has poor old “worst” done that it hasn’t
got a rhyme? Weren’t cursed, burst and hearsed all
waiting on the doorstep ?... .T.J.0’8.: (1) Didn’t
know that a biography of John Quick had been pub-
lished. (2) Would take a week’s search. Write and
ask him... .S.M.A.S.: “Incongruities” gets no nearer
literature than an auctioneer’s catalogue does
Benzine: Bulletin wants brief pars, of all-Australian
interest from everywhere. Sorry yours are either too
vague or too 10ca1.... Greenhide Bill: Dear Green-
hide, If you’re a bit like your name, give up that
tender, drooping style of verse about dying females
with roses in their hair, and wait till you feel so
good that you want to veil. Then sit down with
your spurs on and dash off something raw, and wild,
and whirling. .. . Sidonia: Verse goes about half the
distance Unknown: No A.T.: A compressed
version:—
NOMENCLATURE OF THE PLAINS.
We all know a mate by a nickname
Away on the stations out west ;
So I’ll write a few you can pick from
Just to see which one strikes you the best.
There s Doughboy Ted from the city,
I think Brolga Bill is dead
Red Mick, Miss May and Miss Kitty,
And also The President Ned.
There’s the Sport and Kelly the Artist
Between them there’s little to choose;
.But one of the best gnd the smartest,
Js known as the famous (Paper advt. suppressed)
There s Jerry the (insult omitted), and The Sailor
.Paddy, the Priest and The Boss
(Insult) Dick, The King and The Whaler
The (Ins Ult) and The Southern Cross.
There s (Aspersion) and Micky the Dancer
The (Indiscretion) and Billy the Swell
there s another is known as The (Affront)
And The Smiler hangs round there as well.
There’s—(Better not chance it) and Clanev
the Dumper, The (Outrage) and (Beer kdvt. sup-
pressed) ■ *
Now take out the one of your fancy
And don't let him bite your ear.
Must admit that the poem now looks like a moth-
eaten blanket, but had to do it....M.W. (W.A.):
“Laggard” may pass. Others weak. .. .Arthur G.K. :
We might have forgiven you if your packet of at-
tempted humor had not been taxed 4d. As matters
stand, you owe us 3d., and we have conceived a
bitter hatred for you. Also, the manuscript is being
J, 6 , n, 0 ransom until stamps are forthcoming....
G.A.M.: Glad to hear you are a constant and ad-
s’ 1 reader. Sorry to say that the Religious
Lditor firmly refuses to return the compliment by
proclaiming himself a constant and admiring reader
of your attempted poetry. His weekly salary Has
been reduced from nine gallons of rum to seven for
incivility, mutiny, superheated language and tearing
his own uniform. . . .Spillpenny: It jumps- a wav in a
likely fashion, but runs off at the first turn and bolts
all over the place. ~ . G.F.B. : The-typed- copy has it
where lovely angles fly” ; but, as it is mostly about
Heaven, we guess you mean “angels.” Speak roughly
to your typist and trample on her hat. Poem sank
with a bubbling groan L.A.R.: In answer to your
query: (I) It isn’t a subject for—rhyming. (2), The
rhyming isn’t as skilful as it might be. (3), The
meaning—if any—is obscured by the. necessity for
using words that rhyme. (4) Another man has done
better work along the lines that you seem to be fol-
lowing. (5) But why give more than four reasons
for rejecting a manuscript?.....C.urrajong: Some
grace, but it ripples pleasantly below acceptance
leve!.... BuHswoo!; May do with a little top-dress-
ing. Ihe curator-has been asked to look at it '
C.A.8.: No value. .. .T.C.: No use for “The Blues”
—any variety of them. .. . Rollo: A long way to a
SFmH, Potnt.-. “Answer” unsuitable.....
H.I.McC. (V.) : Cannot reprint verses already pub-
lished Returning MS....Learner: Typed verses are
musical, but dram is a perilous word to use in a
seriously sentimental way. The other item is leaden
and hopeless. .. .J. A.: “Of course, realising the state
of our once white trousers, it was quite out of the
question to stand up in the train and thus make the
condition of our trousers the more conspicuous.”
Lndoubtedly it was. When your trousers had gone
to press on the cold tea spilt on the cushions by “a
careless juvenile excursionist,” it would have 'been
the wildest folly to have risen and published the fact.
You took the correct course in remaining seated and
barking like two dogs to divert attention Arthur
The Bulletin Reciter”—all booksellers....
b. w.H.. it there is a vestige of humor in your equine
gag, we pledge ourselves, here and now, to eat the
horse. ...Jos: Some fine new phrases (“Defensator
1 earee, cadgery, monged,” etc.) in your par,
and yet it fails.- What in the name of Webster by
the way is the signification of “senister” as applied
to a politician?... .Wainima: Not dirty merely but
damphoolish to boot. We accordingly chucked it
with something approaching enthusiasm The
Pariah: True enough, but too dashed old. The world
yearns for new sidelights on the Yellow Peril contro-
versy.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
< CONTRIBUTORS.
W.W.: Only a person of considerable nerve would
and thlT S that ldea ? f the tw ° litigants and V cow
and the lawyer as original. It has even become-too old
to appear on the fly-blown calendar that hangs up
GF F wo S) l! 1 B e place where is 3d!. P
, •} ■ ■ Why should a schoolmaster ask his i class
what was the exact difference between a bachelor
inusUatefrfoPe? leS A d® T S , trying to lead U P To an
it i And schoolmasters seldom do such
' “Ow long is it since you, with your niiddle-
schoolh?”ndVHownS ’ W6le “ in , the same class at. same
bottled , m H°w many years have you kept the joke
DOttlea up? Also, how many papers has it' been
published m? Mandel: Merely a picture of a cove
Many coves drink... .S.C.: But whv should
a hod-cainer have a certificate of sanity about him’
euriositv ? ame a! f - mad that a sane bod-carrier is a
curiosity? And is your- hero a member df the
Hebrew Hod Carriers’ Association ?... EV K An-
heroine mistook a hansom ' cab ‘ for a
taxi. There isn t much wild humor in that : .
Lermox: You might draw a lot worse if you tried
WfS'i Whether you could draw a tot better
nlcnfv , i e " oUgh Can t sa T- but we know
plenty of people who could even if they didn’t try
half so hard as might be expected Curkpatrick
It is hardly worth following Art any further. Art
Ihantou D6Clined fW ~
The latest Napoleon book deals with the little Cor-
sican s connection with the stage As far as can be
nrrW ted ’«T e ? ri *?? Bed 3 ?4 plays, mostly of the tragic
order. Tartuffe was las favorite comedy. He saw
one representation of “Othello,” with Talma in the
title r6le. Also, he found time to make the acquaint-
ance ot some pretty actresses—the very inti-
mate acquaintance of some of them, ‘notably
Georges. In Ins out-of-elbow days he had offered
marriage to another of them, one Montansier,
have been his mother. Luckily for him
the old fish didn t'bite.


&
\35
m.
°o°,
m
Beware
of
Imitations.
The Original Non-Skid
is the
“Semelle.”
Copies of this type of cover were soon marketed by other firms.
These copies have been tried by many and have been discarded
by many—
Which proves that the imitation is not worthy of the original*
MICH E L I
Can be obtained from
No. 38]
N TYRES
all the Leading Garages.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
hfg
CHICAGO
/
j*»GtRSO4.4_
b CROWN >
M 3
Get yonr Money’s
S. Worth.
When you buy a £5
Watch you make sure
that it bears the name
of a responsible maker.
Why, then, are you
not just as particular
when you pay only 6/6?
You need not throw
your money away.
There is more quality
and durability in a
Guaranteed
6/6 Watch
in comparison with its price, than in any other watch in the World. It
stands alone as the CHEAP WATCH OF QUALITY.
CROWN 6/6, ECLIPSE 8/6, JUNIOR 10/6, MIDGET 10/6.
But remember! there’s no two ways about it —Ingersoll must be on
the dial of the watch you buy, if you want to GET YOUR MONEY'S
WORTH. «►
The Jewelled Trenton Watch offers the same security and saving to the buyer in
high-grade watches that the Ingersoll does in the low-priced class. Prices from 30/-
upwards. If you have any difficulty in obtaining an Ingersoll or Trenton Watch, writa
us for name of nearest dealer.
Robt. H. Ingersoll & Bro. v 73 L York Street, Sydney.
THE REMEDY FOR ALL PEN TROUBLE BUY
Waterm&ris
en
\i hr
THE SIMPLEST AND THE MOST EFFICIENT.
hfgh
gh
fgh
PRIZES VALUE £3500
. . In the. .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction ot the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £250. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. Johnston, Raglan.
Victoria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
R-suits of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
g
Is the Sentinel
of Your Home.
“HYCOL” guards it from disease.
Be sure therefore to keep it ‘on duty * always.
18 TIMES STRONGER THAN CARBOLIC
and it is non-poisonous.
c A
N.S.W. A fronts:
POTTS & CO.,
163 George St.,
Sydney.
THE M°ST POWERFUL
DISINFECTANT-


Eczema on Neck and Hands Over 2
Years. Used Cuticura Remedies
and It Disappeared. Has Used
Cuticura Soap Ever Since, and
Finds It a “Splendid Skin Soap.”
*'l suffered with eczema on my neck and
hands for over two years. At times the
itching was almost unbearable and at night
I was unable to sleep soundly, as formerly.
I have been travelling a great deal and one
occasion, my fellow passenger in the cabin
had a nasty eruption on his face and neck,
and during the trip he must have used the
same towel and soap as I did, because after
I got to Melbourne I began to suffer from an
eruption on my neck and back of hands.
As it did not go away I consulted a doctor
in Street. He told me that it was
eczema that I was suffering from. He pre-
scribed for me, but did not cure me. I next
tried an herbal preparation without any
benefit. I also tried Ointment ana
Pills with the same result.
“I then let it alone for some time but
as it was getting worse I tried owing to
recommendation of a friend Cuticura
Ointment. I used two tins of the Cuticura
Ointment and one bottle of Cuticura Resol-
vent and have not been troubled with it
since. It entirely disappeared. I omitted
to say that I used the Cuticura Soap during
the treatment and have continued to use it
ever since and intend continuing to use it,
as I find it a splendid skin soap. I have
recommended both the Cuticura Soap and
the Cuticura Ointment to my friends and to
lots of people I have met; as I believe that
were the virtues of the Cuticura Remedies
as widely known as they should be, very few
who value a clear and healthy skin would be
without them, especially those who are
obliged to travel.” (Signed) W. G. Harring-
ton, Importer of Electrical Materials, 72
Abercrombie St., Redfern, Sydney, N. S. W.,
Mar. 22, 1911.
Although Cuticura Soap and Ointment are
sold throughout the world, a liberal sample
of Cuticura Ointment, with 32-p. book on
the skin will be sent free, on application to
R. Towns & Co., Dept. 9K, Sydney, N. S. W.
\ i SivA'
kp y. &
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s «j.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Oonnnonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’
proven efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
fgh
Carters
The Wretchedness
of Constipation
Can quickly be overcome by
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable act surely and
gently on the liver. Cure Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, and Indigestion,
They do their duty.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
HOWTO
GROW HA
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIQ STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
fghfgh
fgh
gf
ƒgh
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr-Qrowing Compound,
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later, t
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head-
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world —I am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney:
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packet*, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at > d.
per packet. W hen you have sold the cards, return us our (is., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Geirt.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, ami import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. 126 BO™ ST., SYDNEY.
fgh
F
R
E
E
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
fgh
£ 'Swam Safety”
Can’t LeaK,
Blot, Miss,
O** Scratch J
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE,
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond St. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/li, 2/9 & 4/6.
tihlcrcdf*
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Beet Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like aTcharm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
A
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
•I For use during illness and con-
valescence.
q For weakly and overgrowing
children.
As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases of
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
HI 0
is soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested.
BEN GER'S POOD LTD., Otter Works, MAN"CHESTER,
ENGLAND.
Bt;tiger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc. everywhere.
Biegv
Food
Business, Robbery, etc.
This is the time of year when the pure merinos
and some crossbreds hang round the sheep sales and
boTeths ?! fl , eecu ., and tlle shib-
f th cult \ „ Incidentally, it is announced
that there are some 10 South African sheep buyers in
Sydney. As in the past, they will presumably pur-
best stuff that is going, and take it away
to the land of the late lamented Kruger. There is
nothing to stop them. The suggestion that they will
be stopped is met by sheepbreeders with the cavernous
guffaw of the vacant mind. Yet the fact stands out
tnat South African wool is improving in quantity
and quality, and the London market is asking for it,
which is not the best thing that could happen from
an Australian standpoint. It took this country over
a century to develop the woolly animal, and it seems
an unnecessary piece of philanthropy to throw what
we have learnt, In the tangible shape of the finished
product, at the African’s head. Anyhow, as The
Bulletin has remarked on sundry occasions, there is
no indication of the latter person doing the same
thing with regard to the ostrich or the angora goat
“Hormones”: It seems to me that what Melbourne
wants—at any rate for its main suburban roads —is
not the electric tramway system, which the different
municipalities are going raving mad over just now,
but some contraption like the Adkins-Lewis system
of. continuous transit. It is an improved edition of
the moving platform. It costs half as much to build
as a modern electric tube railway, and its working
expenses are only about one-fifth. The train moves
through a station at the rate of 2J miles an hour, so
that passengers may get on and off easily and safely.
Between stations the speed increases to 24 miles an
hour. The quickening of the cars is gradual, and is
effected by a screw underneath the train. This screw,
though driven at a constant speed by electric motors,
is provided with a thread which is not of constant
pitch. It is very close in the stations and opens out
in the intervening length between the stations.
The ingenious changes in the thread of the
screw regulate the speed of the cars. There
is no vibration, and the strap-hanger has no need to
sit down suddenly on the stout party reading his
evening paper, nor in the lap of the thin spinster
with the bony expression and the pious publication.
This Adkins-Lewis continuous train works with one-
third the power of an ordinary steam or electric
train, and there is nothing like the wear and tear of
rolling-stock and permanent way.
“Quidam”: I am predicting, free of charge, that
some day great manufacturing centres will be plenti-
ful in the artesian water areas of Australia. All
the world over mankind is looking for cheap sources
of heat and power. A fraction of Niagara’s mighty
thump supplies Buffalo, a city of some 450,000
people, with the electric current that makes its
wheels go round, besides producing carbide for the
world’s markets. Some of the best steel products of
the United States, notably the Kelly axe, ascribe
their excellence to the fact that the smelting is done
by natural gas. In England anthracite coal-slack is
turned into producer gas at central stations, and
piped out many miles for iron smelting, etc., the
by-products, such as sulphate of ammonia, some-
times being worth more than the coal from which
they were produced. Waterfalls in Norway, Sweden
Germany and Switzerland are being harnessed to the
car of progress and the ’bus of industry. In Aus-
tralia, the country which is, by comparison with
many others, deficient in natural sources of water
power, vast areas exist where a probably never-ending
supply of horsepower can be obtained by the simple
process of sticking a pipe into the earth and putting
a turbine on top of it. One station in Queensland,
having tired of an oil engine to run its shearing
shed, put a Pelton wheel on top of the bore pipe at
the head station, and thereby obtained 32 horse-power
15 being sufficient to run the shearing machines In
this great underground sea of water at high pressure
Australia possesses an enormous asset, even without
taking into account the valuable by-products for fer-
tilising and other purposes which science will inevit-
ably obtain from the chemicals in the water itself.
In this respect what is now regarded as the worst
bore-water may eventually be most valuable, repeat-
ing the experience of the once worthless alkaline
deserts of America. But this work of the chemists
will come later: the engineers will be the first
people to get busy, teaching us of the power that is
running to waste at every flowing bore on this con-
tinent.
It is proposed to erect a memorial to Dick Turpin
at Brough, in Yorkshire (England), close to the
scene of some of. his most renowned robberies-under-
arms. Dick flourished so long ago that a picturesque
tradition has grown up around him, and he has be-
come the sympathetic hero of several popular plays
A hundred years hence it will no doubt be the same
with Ned Kelly, and a movement to perpetuate his
memory by a statue at Glenrowan will be proposed
by the Governor-General and supported by the Arch-
bishops of Melbourne and Warracknabeal.
“He Kee”: I noticed Blimy and his three friends
outside the course at an up-country meeting. They
were all of the spieler variety and on the lookout
for a means of getting in on the nod. “Goin’ in?”
Blimy asked. I nodded. “Would yer mind takin’
me coat in?” he said; and taking the garment off he
thrust it into my hands. I tried to expostulate, but
he cut me short. “Seeyer inside the ’orse gate,” he
remarked as he hurried away. I waited inside the
gate, and presently Blimy approached with his shirt-
sleeves rolled up and a hammer in his hand. He
addressed the yokel on the gate. “Where’s the fence
they wants mendin’?” “’Owd’ I know?” returned the
official. “Well, wot sorter bloke ’re you 1 D’ye
think I got all day to ’ang aroun’ ’ere?” And he
hurried into the paddock. “What about your
friends ?” I asked as I handed him his coat. “Oh 1
they’ll be in soon,” he said. “We wanted to make
sure that pea was a mug.” I stood close to the gate
as the trio advanced. Little Hogan led, with the
tall punter next and big Harrison in the rear. Hogan
came to the gate briskly, nodded familiarly to the
yokel, and casually remarked, “Jockey,” as he passed
through. The punter and Harrison then bustled up.
“Jockey,” repeated the former. “Orrite,” the mug
replied as he opened the gate. Big Harrison shielded
his mouth with his hand, and bending down confided
into the yokel’s ear, “Horse 1” Then they melted
into the crowd.
THE BARGAIN HUNTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sold his friend for a spasm of lust,
He killed a man for a yard of silk,
For a moment’s whim he betrayed his trust;
His heart was muck, but his smile was milk.
His virtues (soiled) he bought second-hand,
He filched some phrases, rather stale,
From wits that he tracked throughout the land,
He got his wife at a remnant-sale.
He bribed a wench with his soul (’twas meet),
And he sold his honor (the price was fair),
For a mouth as foul as a city street
And a tress of a wanton’s towsled hair.
At a fat bawd’s bidding he robbed a shrine
In a holy place that his feet defiled;
f or a lump of flesh and a flask of wine
He blasted the name of a little child.
A spendthrift he of his fellow’s hope,
For he bought a jade with the heart of his friend;
But the devils are busy to twist a rope
That shall throttle and strangle him, world with
out end.
The greed of a shark and the thirst of a leech—
With bargains damned he has hate for fee;
But the sale’s nigh over, and soon he’ll screech
In the deepest hell through eternity.
maoriland.
FRANK MORTON.


%
*-v
mrn
: - :
aStl
-
T'* . .
~r?
;
HHMM!
-:'i
m
gji
3E
58
idjlf
, 1
»
■4
ssii
H
it
ISSSSP
'im
. ■■
mm.
wm
:S5
ft
IfSts
ISk \
m;- : .
K
*1
II
BBS
Just %lip the Strop
thro Ihe Razor
an
require
ows
a
wm
. V
m
mm
MMSi IS?
I
rr-
T '
an
SAFETY
mwM
Move the Razor
to and fro
glfSI
a stropped blade will give yoi
“ e perfect shave every day. The
ip is the only . Safety Razor that
It is, therefore, the only one
' ety shave every day of the
12 seconds to strop and
:ah—nothing to. adjust
-• ' s .
- mQr
Price in Australia, 22/6
Price in New Zealand, 25/-
Sole Depot for Australasia:
PARTRIDGE ABERCROMBY,
York Chambers, Market Street, SYDNEY.
.22 Caliber Cartridges
INCHtST
The Red w Brand
Winchester Cartridges and Winchester
Rifles are made in the same factory and
tested together. Hence the best results
are always obtained when they are used
with each other. Moreover, the knowl-
edge obtained in the manufacture of
firearms, gives the Winchester Com-
pany an advantage in making cartridges
for all kinds of rifles, as they know
their requirements. Winchester .225,
both black and smokeless, are made
in all sizes of this caliber and will
surely give the best results in your
rifle. The smokeless cartridges are
loaded with Greaseless Bullets, which
do not soil the hands or clothing.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS
f
Australians Abroad Series
No. 6- JAPAN
IN the ranks of the World's
well-groomed none can
hold higher place than
- the Australian, for whom
the “ London ” tailors.
For London tailored to order
clothes are the product of the best
brains and rarest skill of the tailor-
ing craft. They place their
wearers at ease in all places and
amongst ail people.
Our illustration shows three London-
dressed Australians on a sojourn in the
land of the Chrysanthemum—Japan.
This Winter Join the
Ranks of the London-
Dressed —Order a Londonised
Tailored to Your Order Suit.
THERE is no guesswork about London Tailored to Measure Clothes.
Absolute accuracy —guaranteed correctness—is the watchword here.
Every garment we tailor is draughted, cut and needled to your
individual requirements—made to fill your every need and fit your
every body line.
Hall making 1 the Perfection of London-Tailored Clothes is the London
Guarantee —ensuring satisfaction or a full refund of money.
You will find it to the interest of both your pocket and good appear-
ance to sample the worth of the Londonised Suit.
Opposite tHe G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
m
wem
m&r
-4
IB*
■ :■■.:+*
m
m
a®
yj
Jy I 1
m
V,
1
fgh
WRITE FOR PATTERNS OF
651- Suits to Order
These we send post free on request, and with
them a Measurement Form and our Catalogue.


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. * Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION. AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTER INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6. £lB k £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL. £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Meebourse Agents: .1011 N SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Ar>Ei,Aji)E & Eremantj.e Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.'
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous-. Steamers. Cahines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Perth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N, CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Peace. Sydney.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
fgh
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers $ Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
Til* gank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital, .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and; Reserves’ . . 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
J. Mackenzie LEES, (general Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Man,a,g<?r: J,. P. CANNY.
Local director:
ADAH FORSYTH, F.s,q, (Burns, Phi Ip. & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, f.Q.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
LTD, ’
BRANCHES throughout OUl'iUNSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES. '
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |]eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . , 500.000
Reserve Fluid and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain and
on A
land,
Ireland, and other places.
ustralia, New
Fiji, Great
Zea-
15ri-
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
THE.
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under th£ Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911). . £1,193,047
HEAD OEFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, fe.C. ’
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; Georgn J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. II.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South “Wales A’ Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. £800.000 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,588 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All fiew business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunnin°-
Esq. ; lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— IV. V. RALSTON
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years and over, at the rate of 4% per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
Shipping:.
N.D.L.
N„ a D
eutscher
'loyd
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, - Antwerp and
Bremen.
Twin Screw Steamers. (Tons) Commander. iSvdnev.
ZJETEN ..
GNEISENAU ..
SCHARNHORST
SEYDLITZ
ROON ...
jwed'd’y
806fi|L. Franck ..jAusr. 7
8081 ITh. Stollberg ..'Sept. 4
8131 jll. Textor.. ..!Oer. 2
SOOr)!0. Mnndt iOct. 30
8174 G. Wittstein ..iNov. 27
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
Fares to London : 1., £66 ; 11., £3B/10/-; 111., £l5 to £l9
Fares to London: Return—l., £99; 11., £57/15/-;
111., £27, £34/4/-
Return Ticket available for Return via Cape of
Good Hope per Holt’s Clue Funnel Line.
Ist Class, £88; 2nd Class, £66.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from
Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea.:
Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Svdney ;
VAN ROMPAEYV &: Co., Melbourne;
H. MLECIvE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI A CO.. Perth and Fremantle ;
I IIOS. BROWN <fc SONS.. Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DTSCHARGIXG AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE .
Ail Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line —£110 (First-class each way);
£B2 (Second-class Orient).
Saloon Return Tickets to Africa interchangeable
with Holt ? s Blue Funnel Line.
Third-class Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with P. and O. Branch Line.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables. &e., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
S.S. COOMA,
S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows: —
MELBOURNE every' Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday'.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYAN (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous Hichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trips.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fte-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
Winter Tours to
the Pacific Isles.
A CRUISE TO THE SOUTH SEAS at the
present time of the year is both delightful
and full of interest, and a trip in one of the
Burns, Philp Line of Island Steamers will take you
away from the rigors of Winter to the more con-
genial climes of the Tropics.
Send for our illustrated booklet describing Tours
occupying from 21 to 52 days at a cost of from £$
to
fgh
BUIiNS, PHiLP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney-
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
PIBECTORS:
' . . . . £3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
Richard Binnie, Esq.
£8,085,000
The Hpjn. Sir Ifarmand Jit,,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. damps B;feck,
Thomas Buckjand, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maekellar, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, jSsq. ; Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.
oo?lf C^r Gepr^e , St • s^dne y- London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
Y . h '"36 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
lictoria 3r, 4B, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
I*IP t apua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
mid collected, tetters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ...£1,500,000
Reserve Fund . . .. ~' 1,500,000
Reserve Capital .. .. .. 1.500,000
£4,500,000
DTRKCTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq . . . . Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Ivater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. JTixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and ,Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Sou, tar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Ci.ayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tilky, W. H. Piniiey.
London Office: 18 Birch in -Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; lion. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £532,984 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 159,987 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. =^r^=— n~s
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents *md Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident,' Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C,, Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
A.U.S.N.Go. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS
ITo CAIRNS (Queensland) and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
Special attention is drawn to the opportunity of
enjoying a Holiday during the Winter Season at
places where the climate is mild and the scenery
beautiful. The services are performed by the follow-
ing steamships, fitted with all facilities for the com-
fort of Tourists.
TO CAIRNS EVERY TUESDAY—
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA,” 6500 Tons
T.S.S. “ WYANDRA," 4500 Tons
and other well-known steamers, the round trip from
Sydney occupying 20 days.
TO LAUTOKA, SUVA AND LEVUKA EVERY
FOUR WEEKS—
T.S.S. “LEVUKA," 6500 Tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
The round trip occupying three weeks.
For sailing dates, etc., see Daily Papers.
Further particulars on application to—
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
UUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR -MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRTE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhippinsr at Fremantle
to all North Western Port*.
•S. Kyarra (7000 tons)V
August, 3. Wireless
Telegraphy.
BRISBANE
MACK-AY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Olirns.
S.P. Marloo, July 18;.
S.S. Wollowra, July ‘2O
S.S. Grantala, July 27..
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after/*
tile fiist Port of cull with other inter-Stute Companies:;
on all services subject to conditions, which can bit.
ascertained on application at the Company's OHice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUANi
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALIj-UEI) ” ROUTE,.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU.;
thence by Rail to any parb of
CANADA or UNITED STATES
The Best Route to Europe,,
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United Slates
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.S. F.S.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
*T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,600 tons. T. PRISKE, Commander.
Will be despatched from
BRISBANE about July 20 | SYDNEY about July 27
Tht Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class pasengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric ‘light
throughout. The superior third-class accommodation
is comprised of two-berth ( £2O) and four-berth
cabins ( £18), situated on the main deck, amid-
ships.
with Wireless.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. .. £4O. £lB to £2O.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. Somerset, leaving Sydney about August. 20;-i
*T.S.S. Argyllshire, leaving Sydney about Sept. 17.
For further information see Illustrated Books;
Pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
FT. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
fgh
South Sf a
.. . and
EASTERN
PAC' jF !C
ISI
,* jy the Luxurious
Steamers,
*T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, JULY 16.
*T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tr , ns , AUGUST 13.
* Fitted with • wireless.
Specially built for tropic al clinlates . A n Cabins ,
D'mng Sa oon„ and Social llall on deck . Per-
fect Ventilation and Fleet ric Light throughout.
■, le , S rT am r r ? ■ jail from Sydney every 28
y tVinr v 0 * Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCF .LAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney a nd Melbourne at frequent inter-
Sydney to RARC /PONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
in i Aorangi, July 13. Passengers
Un d A I s in Tahiti and return by R.M.S.
Manuka, August d) arriving Sydney, August 20.
lind h tn e FASTF° o? service every. 28 days from Auck-
jßN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
nd TAHITI - *“Talune,” July ’2.
( Mahcno, . from Sydney, June 26, connects.)
cu^ars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation tot' ie various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
, 259 George Street, Sydney.
THF, OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
IGM IRE. ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
J pensation. public risk, bur-
glary & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.,
THE Australian Magazine—THE LOAMS
HAND. The National Monthly. Priee, 6d.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.


TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti), m
Tk “ Garden of the Pacific.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO
UNITED STATES INLAND POINTS, also GKLA l
HRITAIN and EUROPE, and AROUND-THE-WORLD
TOURS IN CONJUNCTION WITH SUE/ AND CAPE
LINES.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, July 13.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, August 10.
S.S. MOANA, from Sydney, Sept. 7.
Sailings every 28 days.'
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
FULL PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable
at:
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, SYDNEY.
Please yourself
by mating use of
suck a satisfactory
method of cleaning
the teeth as
i#
C®3
Powder
It is pleasant to know tkat you
kave polisked so nicely those teetk
tkat skow.
It is satisfactory to feel tkat
your teetk are all properly cared
for —tkorougkly cleansed witk
tkis antiseptic dentifrice.
And it leaves suck a pleasant
feeling of freskness m the moutk.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
ESTABLISHED 187«.
FOR
COUGHS .
(Mridqes
UfunaToni
junqTonie
FOR
COLDS .
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for " OWBRIDGE S’
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL, ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
k EORGE HOTEL,
■ St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
r
S»c HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Table. JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
THE
PROOF of my CIGARS
IS IN THE SMOKING
€3
mut
BUYERS all over Australia and New Zealand, by their
repeat orders, testify to the good smoking qualities,
flavor, and aroma of niy Cigars.
To convince yourself, send me an order for 100 of any
of the following:— l
IMPERIALS 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6
DIADEMAS 22/6
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6 „
INFANTAS 17/6 „
LEVUCAS 15/6 „
Smoke 5 or 6 of them, and, if you are not satisfied,
return the remainder to me, ajid
I WILL BEFUND IN FULL THE AMOUNT PAID.
Bemit amount with order, and I will deliver Cigars,
all charges paid, to any part of Australia. When order-
ing, state whether you like a mild, medium, or full
flavor. Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any
address on application.
My only address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
QREIVIE LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
gh
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau
tifying and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
‘ beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/« Obtain-
anle from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale :
DUERDTN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
fiRIIMILrS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Conghs,
Catarrh, 'Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAUDT & Co’s . INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
r | THE BEST
I appear in
Price sixpence.
“LINSEED <
Colds. Relievs
STORIES written in Australia
The Lone Hand each month
Hfcsi, ■
COMPOUND” for Coughs and
is Asthma and difficult breathing.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSO.N, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
gj
i,Do You Long ror a Full Moustache?
You will look better,
feel better, do better
with a well-grown and
handsome moustache.
CAPILLARINE
is a wonderful moustache grower. It will grow
you a grand moustache in a very short time.
Try it.
Price 10/0 Jar, Post Free Anywhere.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER— worn at night—makes
your moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free.
r'O A rr' P A ITK IT TW 654 George Street, Sydney.
UKAItJ C* /\1 1 rVHvINI , Established 30 Years.
Stewart Dawson Values
are made possible only by reason that the goods are manu-
factured and sold by the firm itself. You benefit by
the result of dealing direct with the producers, at
FIRST COST PRICES.
Fine Diamond
Twin- stone
Ring, £lO 10s.
Smaller Stones,
£5 ss.
D 2 8 5 B—Gent's
Single Diamond
Ring, 755.
Large Selection.
f 'VN.
so.
No. D 3989 —Fine Aqnamar ne and Pearl Set 15ct.
Gold Necklet, £7 10s.
Very Fine Ria-
nv •’■'l Cross-
R in g s,
£l4 10s., £lB
iOs., £2O.
Diamond Half-
Hi oo p Rings,
picked stones, £4
10s., £5 55.,
£0 10s., £7
10s., £8 10s.,
£lO 10s., £l4
10s., to £75.
A641-—Choice D i a-
mond Cluster
Ring;, £7 10s.
, Larger Diamonds,
£lO 10s.
No. J 7531 —18ct. Gold
Turquoise-set
Ring, 30s.
No. CB3O7 —Fine Pearl and Aquamarine Set 9ct.
Gold Necklet, £3 15s.
Three-stone Diamond
Milled Setting
Rings, specially se-
lected, £l3 10s.,
£l4 10s., and £lB
10s.
No. J 8U 4 9 ISct.
Gold Ring, set l
Sapphire and 2 Dia-
monds, 635.
Gold Band Rings,
9ct., 10s. 6d., 155.,
215.; Isct., 255.,
305., 355.; iBct.,
355., 405., 455.
Ladies’ Gold Signet
Rings, 9ct., 15s.
6d. ; l8ct„ 255.
Large Assortment of
Designs.
CB3O7 —Fine Pearl and Aquamarine Set 9ct.
Gold Necklet. £3 15s.
IBct. Wedding
Rings, 215., 255.,
305., 405., 60s.
Lady’s Signet Ring,
9ct. Gold, 15s. 6d.;
18ct. Gold, 275. 6d.
((
Kismet” Souvenirs.
“KISMET” an ancient Arabian word, signifying FATE, has always been looked
upon as a dispeller of evil destiny and a bringer of
Sterling Silver and
Enamel Pendant,
3s.
Good Luck to
tHe Wearer.
Sterling Silver and Enamel
Brooch, 3s.
Sterling Silver and
Enamel Pendant,
2s. 6d.
Sterling Silver Neckchains, assorted designs, from 3s.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
(Australia) LIMITED,
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.


Children thrive
and grow Strong
-
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
There is nothing better for a delicate child than a course
of Angier’s Emulsion. It makes the little ones eat better,
digest better, sleep better and rapidly gain in weight, strength
and colour. Doctors prescribe it for coughs, bronchitis,
whooping cough and all lung affections; also for scrofula,
rickets, malnutrition and for wasting diseases generally.
Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and children all like it.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Cadies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Government Advertisement.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, July 2, 1912.
IvALGOORLIE-PORT AUGUSTA RAILWAY.
SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF PORTLAND
CEMENT.
'T'ENDERS will be received until Noon on TUES-
-1 DAY, the 6th day of AUGUST, 1912, for the
Manufacture and Delivery of Portland Cement, re-
quired for the construction of the Kalgoorlie-Port
Augusta Railway.
Forms of Tender, Specification and Conditions of
Contract can be seen after the 10th day of July, at
the office of the Engineer-jn-Chief, Commonwealth
Railways Construction Branch, corner Market Street
and Flinders Lane, Melbourne; at the office of the
Works Director, Customs House, Sydney; and the
offices of the Commonwealth Public Service Inspectors
at Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart respectively.
The charge for each copy of the Specification will
be £1 Is., which must be paid before the documents
can be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed, “Tender for Portland
Cement for Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta Railway,” be
addressed to—“ The Secretary, Department of Home
Affairs, Melbourne,” and be accompanied by the de-
posit mentioned in the form of tender.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
“QSMfIM” PYJAMAS
7/6 THE SUIT; 3 SUITS FOR 21/-
POST FREE.
The Quality of “OSMAN” Flan-
nelette and FINNEY’S reputation
for dependability is a combination as
solid as the Rock of Gibraltar.
Electrically equipped workrooms,
expert hands, a keen desire to please,
and years of knowing how, have pro-
duced. in these “OSMAN” Pyjamas,
the finest value, in Australia.
WHERE SHALL WE POST YOURS?
Finney’
The Temple of
Men’s Fashions,
Brisbane, Queensland.
The New Loan.
Ihe struggle for money at any price be-
comes acute nowadays. The policy of shov-
ing up wages and costs of production, with-
out any corresponding increase of the tariff,
has enabled Cheap Labor imports to climb
over the tariff barrier as they never did
before, and Australia is being bled in
the matter of gold to pay for them. The
State Governments can no longer raise loans
locally, as they did of late years, for the
mill never grinds with the water that is past,
and the local Treasurer can’t borrow here
the sovereigns that have already gone to
England to pay for frills and .fluff made by
the bony handmaiden who sings the “Song
of the Shirt.’* So if the loan boom is to con-
tinue, it is necessary to go to London for
money, Australia’s money having gone there
to pay for things which, but for the fool
tariff, this country could have made for
itself. And in London this country is get-
ting a cold —or, at least, a mixed reception.
< It hasn’t been a very heavy borrower there
for a good while—in fact, Bull practically
cut off the supply of loans at one time—and
the old man in the tall hat and the top
boots doesn’t seem too enthusiastic over his
ancient friend’s reappearnace. He probably
notices several weak points about the case.
The Australian debt is a lot bigger than it
was when he gave this country the cold
shoulder in the latter part of last century.
There are a fearful batch of old loans falling
viaa non next few years—nearly
£100,000,000 between now and 1922. There
is hardly a semblance of a sinking fund to
meet these, and the more desperate Aus-
tralia s condition is when it applies for a
renewal; —the more absolutely dependent it
is on its Uncle’s forbearance—the better
terms the Uncle will be able to make and the
harder bargain he will be able to drive. So.
although he apparently doesn’t feel too good
about his old dissipated client, he is willing
to lend small sums at an increased rate of
interest for a very short while. Thus, if the
worst happens, his new loans will fall due
for repayment early, and Bull-Cohen may
get back his present lendings, no matter what
happens to the big debts which fall due
later on. And, in any case, he gets a bigger
hold on Ins debtor by making the new loans
so short that they will fall due almost simul-
taneously with a heap of old ones that have
been maturing for the last 30 years or so
Maoriland lately borrowed £5,000,000, repay-
able in four years, and still more lately 'it
borrowed £4,000,000, repayable in two years.
Ihe interest on this second prodigality was
practically 4i per cent. N.S.W. has bor-
rowed a couple of millions, repayable in two
.years. Now Digby Denham’s Government is
alleged to have an idea that it will rush
Bull for £2,500,000 at 4 per cent.,
repayable in five years, or perhaps less. It
all makes up a highly interesting situation.
Australia and Maoriland had, even before
these transactions, such a pile of liabilities
to meet in the next eight or 10 years, and
nothing but Uncle’s forbearance to meet
them with, that there was every chance that
the renewal process would amount to a
most disastrous “squeeze.” Now, in short
order, 13£ millions are added to the heap of
early liabilities, which makes the chance of
a disastrous “squeeze” much worse. Appar-
ently Bull thinks he sees a crisis in view, and'
by lending only at short dates (and conse-
quently on preference securities) he is likely
to make it an extra special and profitable
crisis. If something were done to the lament-
able tariff to stop the outflow of gold this
country might have certain moneys of its
own to help to meet its liabilities with, but
nothing is being attempted in that way.
The Denham Government has just added
Fowles, Hawthorn, Leahy, Stephens and
Whittingham to the House of Fat. All of
them are, of course, of the right color. 1 Haw-
thorn, _ Leahy and Stephens are ex-Ministers
Whittingham is a well-known Central squat-
ter; while Fowles recently gave battle, stren-
uous but vain, to Bowman in the Valley.
The new recruits will not sensibly interrupt
the slumbers of the Ancients..
From the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Died in Brisbane the other day, Alfred Jones,
obituarised as “ one 0 f the founders of Gordon and
Gotch,” aged 75 years. The founder of the firm was
a tall, raw-boned old Scot, named Alexander Gordon,
who in the first ’so’s established himself as a news.,
and advertising agent in the Western Market, Mel-
bourne. He was a general favorite and a verra
careful man of strict integrity. In those days—and
this writer was in the business—we had to go to the
G.P.O. for newspaper parcels. Mr. Gordon was so
careful that he never entrusted the duty to a
messenger, but always went himself. About the
middle of the decade J. S. Gotch joined Gordon, and
the business was then conducted on the top of the
hill, near Temple Court. A little later Gordon re-
tired and returned to Scotland. Jones probably
came in when the firm decided upon some of its
present ramifications.'
It is an open secret that the question of
gently soliciting the Denham Government to
raise the Parliamentary screw to £5OO is
again occupying the minds of Queensland
politicians. Various members of the “Lib-
eral” crowd have already been sounded by
Oppositionists, and signify that they would
like to see the thing done—provided the
Laborites will allow themselves to be saddled
with all the responsibility.
A small, crude sort of shindy happened in
the Queensland Assembly over a statement
to the effect that the £1,000,000 recently bor-
rowed by the State from the Commonwealth
had been used to pay interest in London on
the Queensland debt. The charge was hardly
worth making, and it was hardly worth
while disproving it. In one or two awful
cases a deficit, created through lack of
money to pay interest on the public debt,
has been itself added to the debt, but these
instances are old and rare. They belong to
a period when the art and mystery of boom-
ing were not so well known as they are
to-day. The trouble now is not one of pay-
ing interest out of loans. But the country
is floating huge and reckless loans in order
SAVED.
CONSTABLE : “ Ho, there , sir! What's the trouble?”
BROWN: " I'm (hie) looking for my umbrella!"
CONSTABLE: “ Why , man , you've got it in your and"
B ROWN: “Thanksh , shonstable! If you hadn't told me I'd a gone (hie) gome without it."
that, by expending them on an inflated
policy of public works, it may keep up an
artificial prosperity, which, in its turn,
keeps up an artificial revenue, and out of
that interest is paid with a certain
artificial ease. The charge that the Queens-
land Opposition made was that the
hopeless drunk had fallen down. It was
quite wrong. The fact is merely that the
hopeless drunk would fall down if he didn’t
pay someone with borrowed money to hold
him up. So far, he has managed to borrow
enough to pay for being held up, but if he
expects that sort of luck to last he is a very
sanguine inebriate.
Win. Lennon retires from the deputy
Leadership of the Labor party, and T. J.
Ryan takes his place. Ryan is the only law-
yer in his party, legal talent in Bananaland
mostly tending towards Perks. If the health
of David Bowman does not improve, the
chances are that Ryan will have to bear the
hrunt of the Opposition battle. Lennon, it
is rumored, has expectations of an appoint-
ment in the Commonwealth Bank. He has
had more financial experience than most
men, and was for years Burns Philp’s mana-
ger at Townsville.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 6, 1912.
. My Dear Thargomindah,—
This hamlet is being invaded by large
quantities of the profession which puts a
gold setting to the barmaiden’s smile, and
makes a sunset glory of the mouth of John-
son. On Monday morning a congress will be
opened by George V.’s locum tenens, and
what-we-eat-with will be the subject of
familiarity for a week. The monotony will
be broken occasionally by river picnics, din-
ners and theatre parties. Dr. Johnson, of
the United States, and the lady of whom he
is the permanent and lawful support, are the
guests of the Brisbane dentists. I hear
from my friend Vera Sapphira that he was
presented with a franked passage as a token
of goodwill.
The opening of Parliament on Thursday
was much the same as usual on these dull
occasions. The gallery was full up when
Governor Macgregor commenced to read the
Speech which Digby Denham had prepared
for him. It was also full up when he had
finished. Her Ex. wore black, and some
beautiful white fox furs. Mrs. Barlow was
also in black, and Mrs. Hawthorn wore a
striking gown of black and white. Premieress
Denham was upholstered in black marquis-
ette, with touches of vieux rose. Mrs. Dave
Bowman surveyed the crowd placidly from
the satisfactory surroundings of a grey satin
gown. A number of newly-hatched honor-
ables were in the front stalls wearing daz-
zling shirt-fronts and a pallid air of intelli-
gence.
On Wednesday night P. J. McDermott,
president of the Irish Association, and his
pretty grey-haired wife entertained the
entire association at a reception in the Cen-
tennial Hall. The Macgregor and ladv
Ar hur Morgan and his missus, the Tom
O’Sullivans, T. C. and Mrs. Beirne, Hugh
Macrossan and his wife, the two O’Sheas
and Miss O’Shea, and a host of also-rans
were there. A supper that • would have
coaxed a dyspeptic to his ruin, and a musi-
cal programme whose only shortcoming
was an alleged recitation spiced the pro-
ceedings.
Ambassador James Bryce and Mrs. Bryce
and Admiral and Admiraless King-Hall will
stay at the State Government House during
Show Week.
Quite a number of private dances have
happened this week. On Monday, at the
Barracks, the military men entertained care-
fully-selected batches of girl. On Tuesday
the Swords, at Albion, had a pleasant little
leap or hop or kangaroo or swirl at their
home; and on Wednesday, Wynberg, once
the dwelling of Colonel Finn, and now owned
by the Willcocks clan, opened wide its hos-
pitable doors for a prance in honor of the
pretty Misses McQueen, who are wintering
in Brisbane as Mrs. Willcocks’ guests.
The Assembly Ball on Thursday was a
huge, not to say colossal, success. Pale
green and moss green muslin were used as
decorations, with results that should cheer
the committee on to further triumphs when
the third and last ball bounces in August.
There was a tremendous, not to say gigantic]
crowd, and some soul-enthralling garments!
One pretty girl wore dove-grey satin, open-
ing over a flounced underskirt, and edged
with soft brown fur. Three-parts of the
gowns were draped a la pannier, and the
effect is certainly more pleasing than the
“tube” skirt or single pantaloon.
This afternoon the East Brisbane Bowl-
ing Club allowed the high heel of femininity
to meander round its well-clipped lawns. The
president of the year, E. K. Tully, and his
pretty wife, dispensed a mixture of warm
welcome and hot tea impartially, while the
members gazed on the amazing efforts of
various lady bowlers with a polite though
pained geniality. I don’t think bowls is a
game for women ; in fact, it doesn’t appear
to be a game at all. It’s more of a riot,
like knitting or something.
Mrs. Charlie Clarke entertained several
pals at the Albion Park Croquet Grounds on
Thursday. Among those who smote the
earth (and occasionally the ball) with a
mallet were Mrs. Digby Denham, Mrs. Tom
Woolnough, and other champions.
The Cisneros lady did not visit Brisbane
this week, after all, to the great disgust of
those moneyed ones who had acquired front
seats. However, she may drop in some time
during August. Again she may not. It is
possible that she has heard bad reports of
the place.
The IT. PI. Roes held a fancy-dress ball
on Friday, which was loudly proclaimed,
when the last waltz gave up the ghost, as the
social success of the week. Anybody who
wishes to argue the point is referred to an
Apache Indian fully 24ft. high who was
present.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Peck”: One of the items of the Speech
in the Bananaland Assembly is an Indus-
trial Peace Bill, a product of the late “gen-
eral” strike. As far as general principles
go, it establishes an Arbitration Court simi-
lar to that which N. S. Wales formerly had.
The President is likely to be the Attorney-
General, with a salary of £l5OO. Ostensibly
the Bill sets out to ensure industrial peace,
but _it may be more useful in promoting
Cabinet peace. Blair is ambitious and dis-
affected, and will not remain an ordinary
member under O’Sullivan, while O’Sullivan
is said to be anxious to rid himself of a job
in which he has little interest, and for which
he has small capacity.


■
: ’
:
.
_
i
■I
:: -;
’"
::
gjpjg Mj 1 j I .'V g
■■ V
-
III
m
,: : V
■' ::y :
' ' .
pillliS
;
Illlllllilll
■
.. :■
;r
‘
..
Hi
: ■
i
■«
M h
■
.'.'.I:...
:..y. ■
: . , - :
(III 811111
- <■"- **- <, ■ -I
iliiiili
i I
;
mm
t
m
jgi
a
/•'«S
: " p
Cars of Rare Distinction.
THE intending motor-buyer will find in onr Garage a range of cars
of the greatest variety. Variety of style, size, capacity, horse-
power —variety of price, finish, nationality. But he will find a
close agreement between all the cars on one important point —reliability.
F.N. 10/14, 16/24. AUSTIN 10/15, 18/24. CUTTING 30.
DAIMLER 15, 20, 25, 38. DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE 19, 27.
We have secured the i\gency for CUTTING Cars —fine American cars of rich appearance
and staunch and honest service.
\ HALLEY MOTOR LORRIES 15cwt. to 6 tons).
“ Halleys ” are Simple, Accessible and Free from Breakdown. Any Type of body fitted.
Any trial or demonstration arranged. Fullest information sent post free.
A 1 P* ¥ Tn 136-138 Phillip St., Sydney
UAJLUII/ 1 I CA JL/ 1 mJ* Bourke St., Melbourne.


- • •
«£!
&
own
(Mebiiatfu
mm
£■■.
BRtWEO-FKOM
M ACTED barley
*5 f it; a> ’> •
T ?WE«3Rioct.RV
.... » (-•.?•.< ■•
V
®MWM(©
&
■m
M
m
E
y
dant a Little LrienS
toSfll the, World?
m
f:
Business man,
traveller, clerk,
madam at home,
the boy at school,
journalist, minis-
ter, doctor, law-
yer, all who put
pen to paper aie
better off if I am
their daily com-
panion.
If I am with
you—you are al-
ways ready to
write. So am I.
And I neither
scratch nor splutter, blot the paper or
refuse to write when you want me to.
—I am British made.
—I never leak.
—I fill myself in a flash.
—I clean myself in filling.
I am the perfect fountain pen—the
success of 1907. Everybody who uses
me says everybody else ought to have
me.
12/- (more for a larger size) makes
me your little friend for life. Pay it to
any stationer.
ĥghf
•* Pen Points —a booklet for the ready writer.”
Free on application to the Makers,
T. DE LA RUE & CO., Ltd.,
159 Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
cr the Australasian Representative,
NORMAN BAKER, 50 York Street, Sydney.
gh
DARK or
LIGHT
CUT or PLUG
6/-
per lb.
Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
fgh
DR. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“PYItOID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all AVholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
EGYPTIAN-HENNA,. for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants, Melbourne and Sydney,
VICE-REGAL
gh
HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs,
161 “Key'''
Transformations from £3/3/- Puffs. 5/6 set. Tails from 5/6-
Fringes from 5/6.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
’Phone 2138 Central.
g
hgh
This is the
Silent Empire
THAT the “Silent Empire Biograph” is
a safe investment is proved by the big
and almost unprecedented demand that
has set in for it.
Travelling biomen especially find it a
wonderfully efficient machine, embodying all
those essential features of comnactness —
strength—reliability—and durability—that
make it at once the primest value that has
ever been offered in up-to-date bio"raphs.
It is fitted with the latest Mal’ese Cross,
which renders the pictures flickerless.
AND IT IS SILENT,
LISTS FREE.
JERDAN’S,
Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
R.W.
T NSULATE your foundation against the dampness of the soil by coating
the walls and floors with Congo Damp Course. This dense, waterproof
fabric can be buried in wet ground without the slightest danger of deteriora-
tion. It will keep the walls perfectly dry and will also repel vermin, ants, etc.
Any man can apply it properly. It is made in seven different widths to suit
all sorts of conditions. Sample on request.
G. C. DBLMAR, Sydney, N.S.W., Australasian Representative for
“Congo.”
□
r
Damp Course
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals v
Works a Birmingham, England,
ƒgh
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Bo::.
HERE’S THE RAZOR yob Waijt!
The PLUM Razor is good enough for any man.
Just a good, handy size. Has perfectly tempered
blade. Gives a clean, smooth shave every day in
the week. Cuts tough stubbles just as if they were
“down.” Leaves no soreness to the skin. We guaran-
tee to keep each PLUM in order for two years, free of
charge. Being leading hairdressers we give it a
perfect edge. Price 10/6, Post Free.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
The 0. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
night; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/6.
'V
<6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG (SL AITKEN
654 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY,
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
ghf
Fitted with sound-reflecting- Covers and Bell
Metal Reeds, give absolutely the loudest,
clearest and most musical tone of any Mouth
Organ. The covers are acoustically correct
in shape, and magnify the sound from the
only the ignorant buyer is misled as such
covers reduce the volume and interfere with
the free production of the tone. Only thor-
oughly seasoned material is used in the manu-
facture of Cobber Mouth Organs and their
reeds as the Horn
increases the tone
of a Phonograph.
Many inferior
Mouth Organs are
fitted with fancy
shaped covers, but
CO&BF/?
t*s Ed esa'fca BBnr'?
r?esg-ir-ir?irgE--
durability therefore
can be relied on. We
guarantee to replace
any Cobber Mouth
Organ which is de-
fective in material
or manufacture.
No. 1. —The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case 3/“
No. 2. —The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
No. 3. —The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case 1/6
No. 4. —The Cobter Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancv Cardboard Box 1/"
JACKSON & MACDONALD, Australian Agents, DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY
A. E- BEAL, East St., Rockhampton, and 367-9 Queen St., Brisbane;
WILES & CO., 7 Quadrant, Eaunceston; G. W. RYAN, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne;
OPTICAL & PHOTO SUPPLIES CO., Hay St., Perth.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
Rexophone
m.
gh
THIS HANDSOME STRONGRY-
BUIRT INSTRUMENT is the most
wonderful value ever offered
Model A SOUND BOX, Roud
and Clear. MOTOR, Strong
and Substantial, plays twelve
inch record. Targe FRO WE K
HORN, 16-inch Bell, Nickel-
plated Tapering Tone Arm.
> Polished Walnut Finish Cabi-
net, 11 x 11 x5/4 inches.
fgh
Dover Rexophone
Is remarkable for the VOLUME),
BRILLIANCY and CLEARANCE
of its reproduction. REAL OAK
CABINET, 14% x 14% x 7 in.
Strong, Reliable MOTOR,
plays twelve inch record.
Large FLOWER HORN,
21-inch Bell. Nickel-plated
Tapering Tone Arm with
Swan Neck. REXOPHONE
SOUND BOX, Model B.
fgh
New Kent Rexophone
Is a HI GH-CEASS SOUND RE-
PRODUCING INSTRUMENT
at a Moderate Price.
Polished OAK CABINET, 16 x
16 x 7K in. with hinge
lid. REXOPIIONE
MOTOR, plays two 12 in.
records. J.arge FI.OVVER
HORN, 22 l /2 inch Bell.
Nickel-plated Tapering
Tone Arm with Swan
Neck R EXOHONE
SOUND BOX, Model C, with rubber back.
fh
The Yorfc Rexophone
HANDSOME, STRONG, RELI-
ABLE, WONDERFUL TONE.
Fine OAK CABINET, 16 x 16 x
7% in. with hinged
lid. REXOPHONE
MOTOR 12-inch Turn-
table, plays two 12-in.
records. Largest Size
Tapering Tone Arm
with Swan Neck,
24 inch FLOWER
.HORN. REX’PHONE
SOUND BOX. Model
C, with rubber back.
81
Richmond Rexophone
POWERFUL DOUBLE
SPRING REXOPIIONE
MOTOR, plays four 12-inch
records. 12-in. Turntable.
Handsome DARK OAK
CABINET, 16 x 16 x 854
inches Large FLOWER
HORN, 26-inch Bell.
Largest size Tapering
Tone Arm with Swan
Neck. REXOPHONE
SOUND BOX, Model C,
with rubber back.
fgh
fg
Has the VOLUME and TONE of a
HORN TYPE INSTRUMENT,
with all the advantages of the
Cabinet Type. Fine OAK
CABINET, 15 x 13 x IV2 inches
Double Doors. Strong, Reli-
able MOTOR, plays 12-in. re-
cord. Nickel-plated Tapering
Tone Arm. REXOPHONE
Model A SOUND BOX.
Ask for complete illustrated catalogue. Jack-
son & Macdonald, Druitt St., Sydney; G. W.
Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne; Wills & Co.,
7 Quadrant, Launceston; W. Cornell & Son,
Grenfell St., Adelaide; Phonograph and Type-
-1 'Writer Co., Central Arcade, Perth.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
our Tweeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Air.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
m
fgh
Atmos lit e
Air-Gas
Machine.
complete success,
Simplicity itself, re-
quires practically no
attention, action con-
tinuous and automatic,
gas of even pressure.
Produces light bright
yet soft, always and
instantly ready, eco-
nomic and non-explo-
sive and non-condens-
ing. Write for litera-
ture at once.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St.. Sydney.
Elizatmt' 1 <st.. Melbourne.
‘Coaguline,” “Klinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.


AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINES
Produce an ABSOLUTELY PERFECT LIGHT.
fgh
ĥ
Ideally
Stores,
Suited for Country Houses,
Hotels (SI Billiard Saloons.
ONE OF MANY TESTIMONIALS
(Copy). Yamala,
Frankston, 3rd January, 1911.
Dear Sirs, —
I send you herewith my cheque for the Aerogen Machine which you sup-
plied to me, as per your account enclosed.
The light is perfect and the installation the simplest possible, and most
convenient We find that anyone can manage it with ease and complete
safety, and it has brought a very definite joy to my house here in the complete
banishment of the kerosene lamps. Our servants are content, and the cost
seems likely to be much lessened. With many thanks,
Very truly yours,
(Signed) ' JOHN MADDEN.
Country Residence of Sir John Madden, Chief Justice of Victoria.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : Alcock & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE: Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA: A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
More! A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success.
In HEALTH or SICKNESS
Take regularly the ‘Allenburys’Diet. It is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
and diminishing fatigue. It restores the impaired digestion and gives tone to the whole
system. Prepared from pure, rich milk and whole wheat, combined in a partially
predigested form, the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike for
the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute —add boiling water only.
Allen & Hanburys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
fgh
DIET
THE LONE HAND
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
POWER!
The Most Economical Plant in tl\e World is tlie
WOLF
Patent Superheated Steam
Semi-Portable Locomobile.
RM T olf fM«gd»burg-Si:clai
350
iuiaiuiitai.. l .huii.
CLASS T.H.C. ENGINE ,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES-
HAES & EGGERS LTD
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Local Agents —
ADELAIDE: Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE: Diamond Lubricating and Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 Flinders Lane
BRISBANE: Dean & Collie, 335 Queen Street.
The Coal Consumption on Standard Engine
is 0*789 lb. per B.H.P. per hour.
WOLF’S Standard Locomobiles
are a self-contained complete steam power plant,
including Boiler, fitted with patent, withdrawable Furnace and Tubes, Superheaters,
Engine, Jet or Surface Condenser, Feedwater Heater, Air and Feed Pumps,
all in one unit,
giving the highest economy in fuel and steem.
They occupy a minimum of floor space, requiring only the lightest foundations, and
are easily attended even by unskilled labor.
In regard to
durability, reliability, steady running, adaptability,
WOLF Superheated Steam Locomobiles at least equal the best steam engine or
turbine plants of several 1000H.P. Their superiority in economy is attained by
their faultless construction and in obviating the many losses, including radiation,
etc., which are unavoidable in steam plants having separate boiler and engine.
Over Suction Gas Plants, Oil and Gas Engines, W OLF Locomobiles
possess the following advantages:
Cheaper cost of fuel. —Great reserve of power allowing overloads up to 50
per cent. —Steadiness in running under extreme and sudden variation of
load.—USE ANY KIND OF FUEL, besides coal (woodwaste, logs, peat, tan
bark, sugar cane [bagasse], naphtha, petroleum, inferior coal, lignite, etc.).—
Utilisation of steam for heating or manufacturing purposes. —Easy attend-
ance even by unskilled hands. —Absolute Reliability and Greater Durability.
Greater Simplicity and Continuously Maintained Economy also at Lower
Loads.
In addition to the many Plants already installed throughout
Australia, we are at present Installing the following—
W. Angless, Melbourne one 600 B.H.P.
W. Angless, Melbourne ...two 300 „
Clyde Brick Works, Clyde one 260 „
Murrumbidgee Co-operative Flour Milling Co., Wagga... one 180 „
Fuerth 8 Nall, Sydney ... one 105 „
N.S.W. Railway Workshops one 70 „
Public Works Department, for Lithgow Sewerage Works... two 18 „
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.


“GOLCRYST”
IS
USEFUL
4
By purifying the blood, GOLCRYST
invigorates the whole system and keeps
one healthy, clearheaded and happy.
GOLCRYST consists of Epsom Saits,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. Eree sample
sent by proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AGENTSW.A., Neale, Con-
S A t^ b , le - J and ,? a \„ Perth : s - A -> “Birks-Chemists,”
Adelaide; Q Tayior and Colledge, Brisbane;
N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug
Co., Sydney. [§
THE MARVELLOUS
R Y S T A I. PALAC
Direction: J. D. WILLIAMS.
NOW OPEN.
JOIN THE CROWDS OF DELIGHTED VISITORS
SEE THE SPLENDID THEATRE DE LUXE.
HAVE TEA, AN ICE, OR GRILL IN THE BEAUTIFUL
WINTER GARDEN.
Great Fun in the Arcade of a Thousand Wonders.
Solve, if you can, the Miracle of
“THE SHADOW OF THE CROSS.”
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS CO. Ltd.,
PROPRIETORS.
I NTERNATIONAiT PICTURES. COLONIAL
■ Theatre Riiildings. 610 George St., Sydney.
Wm. H. Bell, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial
Iheatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tialasia. In fact, we supply more shows with pictures
than any other three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photp. play manufacturers, but we repre-
sent aj the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth; Courier Buildings, Brisbane;
Wellington, New Zealand; London, England-
Dewar House, Ilaymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
D AIACE THEA T R E, SYDNEY
Lessee: ALLAN HAMILTON.
Sub-Lessee and Director : ALLEN DOONE.
ALLEN DOONE
and
THE WEARING OF THE GREEN.
EVERY EVENING,
HEAR DOONE’S NEW SONG HITS
, BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES 4/-, 2/6 and 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS
THE WALDRONS, Comedy Team.
BILLY WATSON, Big Success from London.
MARTINETTE <fc GROSSI, Musical Specialists.
NADA MORET, Melodiste and Dramatic Actress.
Combined with
JOHNSON & WELLS, BARNES & WEST, BLANCHE
CARELLI, HARRY SADLER, NELLIE SEARLE.
PRICES : 2/6, 2/-, 1/- and 6d. No Booking Fees.
HK R MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
■ ■ Direction, ,T. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF SINBAD THE SAILOR.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT.
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA SEASON, Opening with
TALES OP HOFFMANN.
PRICES : For the Opening Night—D.C. and R.S., 15/- •
Amphitheatre, 7/6. Other Nights—D.C. and R.S., 10/6.’
Stalls (at door), 7/6; Amphitheatre, to 7.30, 5/- •
thereafter, 3/6. ’ ' ’
T HEAT r e R O Y A E, SYDNEY
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON,
With the London Company, and the Original Production of
KISM K T.
An Arabian Knight, by EDWARD KNOBLAUCH,
PRICES: Dress Circle & Orchestra Stalls (booked) 7/6
(at doors), 6/-; Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, to 7.30 2/-, thereafter 1/’
A I>K I, PHI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
n Direction and Management, Ghorge Marlow Ltd
Last Two Nights of THE MARRIAGES OF MAYFAIR!
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 13.
Revival for a Short Season Only of the Most Successful
Melodrama of the Century
THE BAD GIRL OF THE FAMILY.
Interpreted by
AN ENTIRELY NEW OAST OF CHARACTERS.
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S.
H E
LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
0 YD N E Y
GLACIARIUM.
HEAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Bto 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATE lIIRE-6d.
Children Admission—Morning and Afternoon only, 1/.
Saturday Morning : Admission—Children 6d.
Phone : 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager
WALTER
BENTLEY
M R
the Distinguished Actor.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
554 George Si reel, Sydney.
DICK ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE.
■* General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BROTHERS WEBB, Famous Musical Clowns.
CHARLES HERA, Celebrated Juggler and Equilibrist.
THE HANS PAXTON TROUPE, Five Ground Acrobats.
FRED BLUETT, Australia's Favorite Comedian.
BLAKE & GRAN BY, England’s Comedy Sketcn Artists.
RONALD GEORGE, Talented Instrumentalist.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPE K A HOUSE, II ELISOU It N K.
w General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
THE SPRIGHTLY SISTERS, Entertaining Sketch Artists.
RICH & RICH, the Real Racy Comedians.
MAX LAUBE, the Human Bird.
STAVORDALE QUINTET, Banjo & Harp Specialists.
WALKER & STURM, Racquet Jugglers.
HENRIETTE DE SERItIS, Presenting her Celebrated
Living Art Productions.
Plan at Allan’s. Dg^PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
Q LYMPIA AND PRINCESS, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
1 Hay market, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d., 6d„ Is.
THE IMPERIAL ROLLER RINK,
1 Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
FEATURING ALL THAT IS BEST
in
R OLDER SKATI NG.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
Amusements.
LYltiC XII EAT BIS, Chapel St., Praliran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read's and the Lyric Theatre Caffi.
|_| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 13.
THE RETURN OF MUSICAL COMEDY.
Reappearance of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
THE QUAKER GIRL.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
"J" HEATKE ROYAL,, MELBOURNE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
MAETERLINCK’S WORK OF GENIUS,
THE BLUE BIRD.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, i/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MEL BOURNE.
■Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Sole Direction : ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PLIMMER-DENNISTON CO.
in
A WOMAN OF NO IMPORTANCE.
By OSCAR WILDE.
Prices 5/-, 3/-, I/- Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager: William Andeksox.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 13.
REVIVAL FOR 12 NIGHTS ONLY of
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
EUGENIE DUGGAN as THE GREAT WHITE QUEEN,
CYRIL MACKAY as THE STAR OF THE AIR,
and
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation.
Box Plans at Allan’s. Popular Prices : 35., 2s. <& Is.
Amusements.
M
ELBOURNE REPERTORY THEITRw
Direction : GREGAN McMAHON * '
At the ATHENAEUM HALL, COLLINS STREET
THURSDAY, JULY 18—Arnold Bennett’s WHAT Till'
PUBLIC WANTS.
SATURDAY, JULY 20 Anton Tchekhov’s THE
SEAGULL.
TUESDAY, JULY 23—Louis Esson’s THE TIME T<s
NOT YET RIPE. S
BOX PLAN at PianoiaCompany, Uollins St., on Thursday
July 11. Season Tickets at Reduced Prices now on sale
Fourteenth annual
CARMELITE BALL.
TOWN HALL, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
WEDNESDAY, JULY 17.
TICKETS 5/- EACH. May be obtained from
FRANK WRIGLEY, Hon. Sec.
33 Merton Street, Albert Park.
OE Y M P I A. OLYMPIA.
E Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
U/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST AES I S PIOrURES )THK BEgT
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
|CE GLIDI NG.
Melbourne GLACIAIMUM
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
ICE HOCKEY
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING.
Important Business Announcement
CAPITAL:
£500,000, FULLY PAID UP.
MANAGING DIRECTOR:
L. 11. Cowles.
«■?-
GENERAL OFFICE:
545 Bourke St., Melbourne
BRANCHES:
200 Roma St., Brisbane
37 Broadway Sydney
545 Bourke St., Melbourne
18-20 North Terrace Adelaide
361-365 Murray St., Perth
75 York St., Launceston
LOCAL SALESROOMS AT:
Albury, Dubbo, Junee,
Narromine,
and Tamworth, N.S.W.;
Bendigo & Yarrawonga, Vic.;
Balaklava & Port Lincoln, S.A.
BULK STORES AT:
Francis St., Sydney
Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Adderley St., West Melbourne
Lipson St., Port Adelaide
Josephson St., Fremantle.
->
CABLES:
“Harvester” Melbourne
CODES:
Western Union, Tybo,
A.B.C. and Al.
INLAND TELEGRAMS:
“ International Harvester ”
->
SOLE SELLING AGENTS
IN AUSTRALIA FOR:
“Buffalo Pitts” Steam Engines
“Chattanooga”
Reversible Disc Plows
“Cockshutt” Plows
“Deere” Plows
“Deering”
“International” and
“McCormick”
Farm Machinery, Implements,
Engines and Vehicles
“Oliver” Plows
“Sanders” Disc Plows
Zealandia” Milking Machines
of Special Interest to Farmers
We respectfully announce that we have
purchased, as of July Ist, 1912, all the
assets in Australia owned prior to that date
by International Harvester Company of
America.
Our purchase includes all Real Estate,
Personal Property, Promissory Notes, and
Accounts, and the above Company’s rights
and benefits under all contracts, agreements,
and leases.
We undertake to pay promptly on pres*
entation all just claims against International
Harvester Company of America.
We shall retain all the Agencies Inter-
national Harvester Company of America con-
trolled in Australia, as per margin hereof.
From July Ist we shall carry by far the
largest and most complete stocks of Farm
Machinery, Implements, Engines, Vehicles,
and Extras Parts therefor ever carried by any
House in Australia.
We shall also carry large stocks of extras
for older patterns of machines previously sold
by the International Harvester Company of
America.
Our other facilities for doing business will
be quite in harmony with the enormous stocks
carried.
It will be our constant effort to treat all
with whom we deal in such a highly satis-
factory manner, as will enable us to deserve
their goodwill and future favors.
International Harvester Co. of Australia Pty. Ltd .
(Registered under Victorian Companies Act 1910)
200 Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney.
545-557 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 18-20 North Terrace Adelaide.
361-365 Murray Street, Perth. 75 York Street, Launceston.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart, General Agent for Southern Tasmania.
(368)


Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (19021, Ltd.
We SyppLY—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELHOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
BOVRIL
For
Health
and
Beauty
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. .Sure and Safe.
Sold bv al I Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
A
22
REPEATER "T
We J are just as proud of the
REMINGTON .22 Repeaters as
we are of the REMiNGTON Big
Game high-power Rifles —for just
as good reasons. There is n,o
other make of the .22 class built
to as high a standard.
The features that place the
REMINGTON .22 in a class
by itself are the real big
REMINGTON features—•
Hammerless and Solid
Breech. You clean the
barrel from the breech.
There is perhaps a greater
difference between t h e
REMINGTON and other .22
Repeaters than is to be
found between rifles of any
other class.
A real rifle —the REM-
INGTON .22 Repeater
—shoots without ad-
justment. .22 short,
.22 long, or .22 long
Rifle Cartridges.
REMINGTON
ARMS—UNION
METALLIC
CARTRIDGE CO.
H. MOLDEN,
Australasian
Representative,
P.O. Box 459,
Melbourne;
1349, Sydney.
t 3
LINSEED COMPOUND.” The “Stockport
Remedy” for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’
proven efficacy.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
‘ establish*® 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
C- . __ d cP< (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
?™i?nment DeSres. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT lowest current rates of interest.
Our new Morw Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
un to 20 per ce"nt. of the loan durinpr any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
DiTmvTons—The Hon A W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
D Hon Junes Burns M L C.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. K. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox f’o K C General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. ARPERLY, Secretary.
h
c
•v
w
#
A
5
5H
1
I
1
The Aged and Infirm
an Aged Person gets a Cold, it is of the utmost
importance that not only is the Best Remedy
taken at once, hut that the Remedy is one which does
not cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution.
The Quickest, Safest and Best Remedy for
Aged Ladies and Gentlemen—one that can be absolutely
depended upon —is
Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure
The Finest Remedy
in the World
For COUGHS & COLDS
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
0
Bs the most periect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
CASTRATION
EASY
Our Emasculator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE'S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID—SAFE —MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years. £]■&' 'EASY TO USE.
451-
Post Free Anywhere .
Satisfaction or Money Back.
gh
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
SHARPE & SHARPE
1 18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
There is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it fully and explain just how it acts. f
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an'
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the,
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off
them—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds.
What a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain ! ;
Being made of the purest and softest Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
pillow. For the same reason, a blow on the side ofi
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are *so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why these j
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration of one as it lies:
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magni-
fier is shaped
like a trumpet,
and so con-
veys even the
faintest sounds
right to the
natural ear-
drum. Being
of the softest
rubber, it Can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci-
sion and com-
fort. The di-
vision that
runs across the
mouth is to al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
Ear-Drum, and
to brace it. „
The shape]
of the Wilson-
Ear-Drum has.
been chosen;
after years of
experience as,
,»■ the best adapt-
ed to carry the faintest sound right down to the
natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts;
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times gets thickened, or loses its tightness, and,
shouting does not act properly on it. It only
makes a confused and tiring noise. , But the'
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best-
spot for perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the, hearing-nerve
completely, or were bom deaf, we cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could dh that, in spite
of some of the absurd claims made to-day. But if'
you can hear the faintest sound, ao not despair.
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.!
We have letters to show you from deaf people in:
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night., and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and:
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time for Ss.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the:
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest!
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
re 3
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name...
Address
NOTE. —Send by Money Order . or, Postal
Note. If a Bank 'Note or Sovereign is sent,
you muit register it. -
CONFIP6NTIAL Letters
Reipaio Private -
when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying
Book is
&
*8
3
&
H.
You slip your letter
paper into the _
holder, write your letterin ink, and the copy ismade
as you write. Letter shows no sign of copying. The
letter is ported and the hook put away. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 quarto, can be copied in
NSC/100, post free for 3/9 ; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-.. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road.
LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Please send Money-Orders, not.P.O.’s.
Increase your Reserve of
Vital Energy by taking
EVREN
NERVE and BRAIN
TABLETS
THE TRUE NERVE AND
BRAIN REMEDY.
Highly beneficial in all caseS of Phy-
sical Exhaustion, Female Ailments,
Brain Fag, Persistent Headache,
Anaemia, Sleeplessness, Nervous
Dyspepsia, Loss of Appetite, and
that run-down feeling arising from
Overwork or Worry.
All Chemists and Stores.
Price, 21- per Box.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
Hi
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitrb proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about ; of 16-gauge, about 6jjlb. ;
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d.
gh
Stevens’ “Little Krag,”
22 palibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long 1 , walnut stock, steel scroll trigger
guard, V-sight, length over all, 36in. ; weight about b.
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
18s. 6d,
SEND FOR OUR
Illustrated SPORTS,
FISHING and
T mcco LISTS,
FREE!
©
9
85JS
The “ Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gain barrel full choke, 12-
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7jlb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s.
gh
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavv
i.muhl steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford
St., Sydney; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown. [4
The Most Reliable Safety Razor
at the Cheapest Price tZ Market
It takes the ordinary Gillette Blade, and shaves just
as smoothly and delightfully as any Guinea
article offered. We absolutely guarantee
to refund you your money if in
any way dissatisfied with the
article.
Price
4 16
each.
gh
4/6
EACH.
Don’t Throw Your
Safety Razor Blades Away.
WE ABSOLUTELY SHARPEN THEM to your complete satisfaction
: at 1/4 per dozen, and 2d. for postage.
-i A TRIAL WILL SATISFY YOU BEYOND DOUBT.
The Safety Razor Blade Sharpening Supplies,
177 George Street, Circular Quay, Sydney, N.S.W.
ARE YOU DETERMINED?
to get as much comfort as
possible in your riding ?
Are you determined to get
the best value for your
money? If you are, make
up your mind to deal direct
with the manufacturer, andj
write NOW for our New
Illustrated Book—
Everything for the Horse <b>.
\vNv
The Best for Horsemen ever issued in Australia. Only a Limited Number Printed.
EDWARD BUTLER & SONS LIMITED,
™. 257 Georgre street, Sydney
NATURAL
ENO’
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
9
P
LLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purilying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, 1/lJ and 2/9 per box.
YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en
gravities, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, fid. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar*
tinf/s Sllbnt Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to ls. Moll
~-Flanders, a rare bqok by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nang,, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the!
Horse, Is. Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
i Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu
tionisT, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe,- Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send .for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, . Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d.- All THE’Biilletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, , illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. . Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust.Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook,' os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to-
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d- Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
is
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ir-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH- -®|
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING -CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is. 3d. Man From Snowy River, ,5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own BuiLder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready. Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, is. The Doctor,' cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handyiiook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How Me Dougall Topped tii e Score, &
Other, Verses, Is 3d. The JGay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss. ,
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, jpF" Established 26 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
. ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT. FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT,
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Mileord’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingbrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife's Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
oound, my price, los post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


€
Smarting, Soreness and Painful
Cracks, Soothed and Healed.
What irritation arises from raw,
chapped hands I If the skin is at all
sensitive, some people suffer more
or less in this way all the year
round; but with the damp, cold and
frost of winter, the hands and wrists
become a positive torture. First, the
skin loses its pleasant softness, then there is
a disagreeable roughness and redness, fol-
lowed by cracking and bleeding, particularly
in the region of the knuckles and wrists.
This distressing condition is made worse by
drying the hands or face carelessly after washing
raw, cold day. Neglecting chaps or any cold-
sore J may lead to painful swelling and inflam-
matinn There is a danger of grit and dirt getting
into the cracks of the skin, and setting up positive
torture. , ......
The trouble is utterly beyond the reach of toilet
creams and cheap salves which possess no mediclnad
value whatever, and which are not of the 'eabt use
when the tissues are thus affected. Zam«=ouK is
the scientific Balm which, in addition and roughness, also imparts a new
the inflammation and pain, fil P f ’ Smear Zam-Buk on at night, and wear an^old
and remarkable healthiness *2 * he 4kln s • of Zam-Buk is delightfully soothing,
pair of gloves till morning. The effect of th PP . {rom ord j na ry ointments and lotions
its pure essences, which have set it °” ® pina P d thoroughly permeate the tissues
polluted by animal fats and minerals, instantly soak into B u/Zam-Buk wav. Keep
«* *~ th ' ns and he *“” E *‘ J
raw, cold days.
Co-- ■■
Zam-Buk
is
Soothing,
Healing
and
Antiseptic.
SOOTHING—SMOOTHING— HEALING.
CHILBLAINS BANISHED.
Mr William Bacon, of Verner Street,
Goulburn, N.S.W., says I “During the winter we
experience verv cold, frosty weather, and nurse
the fire verv closely. The inevitable result is
chilblains. I suffer considerably in this respect,
havin'* had chilblains on the feet, hands and ears.
I tried many ointments and salves, hut with scant
success. I applied Zam-Buk. and the first appli-
cation drove out the irritation and soothed the
chilblains.”
CHAPS AND SORB LIPS HEALED.
Mrs. M. Boyd, 147 Toorak Road, South
Yarra, Melbourne, Vic., has suffered from chapped
hands and lips, and writes“ I always keep a pot
of Zam-Buk by me, as I consider ifc invaluable for
the hands during the cold winter weather. I
suffered from chapped hands and lips, but a few
applications of the balm soothed and healed the
smarting chaps very quickly.
&
Nature’s Own Healer.
Zam-Buk Is invaluable for
eczema, piles, raw places,
blood-poison, chapped hands,
cold-sores, bad legs, and
heals cuts, burns, scalds
and bruises. Of all chemists
and stores at Is. 6d. and
3s. 6d. per pot.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question* of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS' SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have n
4 V Uy your sKin and
done your duty ny yo
i If on tHe otHer Hand
complexion. on
-that is, on both hands, and on th
, ,i. e s Kin generally —yon
face, and on the sn K
HAVE used PEARS, yon can feel
happy, for yon will have done the
best that possibly can be d °“* %
the shin’s health and beanty. Th
can be no question abont that.
PEARS has been mahing beanttfnl
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for .he Complexion.
The Striking Duchess.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Duchess of Somerset, in a letter to the press,
ays that “the infamous Insurance Act” does not
fouch the fringe of poverty.- She will passively resist
Garment of the.servant tax. The Duchess further
;,rges employers not to submit to the tax, and adds:
The whole country cannot be imprisoned or fined.”
— Cablegram.
Duchess of Sillyset took great pride
r 1 In her works of charity, large and
small;
She was blessed, she thought, by the country-
As she powdered her nose in the stately
Hall;- .
A blanket or two and a pint ot port
Delivered in state at the tenant s door
With a gracious word of the regal sort
No strawberry coronet could do more.
The workhouse stood in a neighboring vale;
It was packed with tenants who d had
their day; , . „
They groaned their thanks in Sweet (char-
ity’s gaol, , . ,
And dragged off their hats when she passed
They shook their old noddles from side to
When newspapers brimmed with the
world’s unrest,
And told of great masters by men dehed,
Who hated the sight of a ducal crest.
The Duchess of Sillyset lived in ease,
And stifled her conscience with wool and
(With''corsets that reached to her shapely
knees \
She stifled herself till her shape was fine.;
The Hall was no more than a hothouse
great )
No air of the earth through its hallways
blew;
Her Grace also stifled m there in state,
And nothing at all of the real world knew.
The world was a pleasantly ordered place,
With ev’ry man ranked by the Hand ot
F3/t6 ■
At the head of the well-drilled line, his
At the end’, the village inebriate ; _
Blankets and wine for the neighboring poor;
Afternoon tea on the terrace for all,
While the local rich left their motor spoor
On their way to dine in the ducal Hail.
The Duchess of Sillyset simply reeled
When told that her charity scheme was
Then her°Lady Bountiful heart she steeled,
And wrote to the press an epistle long.
“A passive resistor” —’twas thus she sty e
Herself in her corsets from neck to knee.
The village inebriate read and smiled:
“ ’Er Grace is a-goin’ on strike, I see.
N.S.W.
KODAK.
The Metropolis of Papua.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PRECARIOUSLY, on the slope of a
wind-seared peninsula, perches Port
Moresby, the official capital of Papua.
It is composed of slung-together “residences’
of wood with old beef-can roofs, two hotels
(one worse than the other), a large, we
conducted school, one church, several hos-
pitals, banks, stores and departmental offices.
On Thursday Island, which is Por j-^°l es t b Z,!
little cousin, it happens once a month that
Mrs 8., who has spent the morning making
crochet lace with Mrs. C., puts on her best
blue silk blouse and her bright, neit
and formally calls on Mrs. 0. An •
day Mrs. C., who lives next door, dons he
tooue and her waist suffocations, and re
Ss the visit. Port Moresby is not like
this It doesn’t take life seriously. It
dances and swims, and. there is a little tennis
in the cool of the evening down on the bea
court, and the gods are good, and otner
things are not so bad as tbe: L™* s Moresby’s
Two vears ago part of Port Mores oy s
population fled to Konidobu, along a quaint
and lovelv road hewn along the hillsides
overhanging the sea. Company toeetors
are building there, . and the
House flag flutters in a well-bred way to
mention that his Excellency has _ r<® u
from Goari-bari, or some such cannibal spot,
where only he would be game to go. -~ne
London Missionary Society s missionary
found Konidobo. It is cooler and more plea-
haTliehofficial capital, unlike sweet Samarai,
the commercial capital, with gorgeous
crotons and glowing poinsianas, has neit -
trees nor flowers, mostly because it has no
waters save the’sea Yet jusj across the
strait is Fairfax Harbor, with excellent
anchorage and a splendid water supp Y-
Within the last two years the Dutch packets
have begun to put into Moresby monthly.
Now there is talk of the luxury of connec-
tion with the world by wireless. At present
there is not even a cable service,
is because of this farawayness that 1 apua
is so absolutely individualistic-because of
this and its vast inside spaces where men
fight fever and more insidious foes, arid ngtit
alone. In the streets of Port Moresby the
native bucks, clad for the most part m
several strings of beads, strut by in the
acute sunshine. The head-crop of each, 1
a lime-bleached mop, is decorated with
flowers and feathers. When one or him
wants a new wife he puts on an extra dogs -
teeth necklace, and calls in a pourn-pourn
practitioner, who directs him to wear a
wild-ginger root in his hair. For several
centuries this has been the prescription. It
never fails. The kikennies (girls) have got
wise to that ginger-root. For every man
the buck kills he adds a white feather to
his coiffure. , , .
Now passes a line of subdued-looking,
though absolutely unsurprised-at-anything
bush boys from Bamu River, with their polls
shaven, save for one spiral or whirly hair in
the centre, to be signed on at the Resident
Magistrate’s office for plantation work. Each
man wears a new print rami, and clutches
a bright tin plate and spoon, and a cotton
“blanket.” A gang of native convicts, most
of them doing “life” for murder, clink mer-
rily along in leg-irons. They are well nour-
ished and clean, and they laugh together
gaily. Kikennies crowd cheekily about the
stores and streets. They are dainty little
bronzes for the most part, but they wither
in their teens, and in their twenties axe aged
“‘iTaSbada, the big Dative WB f?
P* Om eid of the long
ttr-PPt- Is possessed by Koitapuans, who speak
street is possesseu knows when or
a strange language. one Know
whence they .came. The Jouses^Btan^
are ld lppro t ached 1I1 by l2 slender bamboo steps,
which the natives run like apes. Each
habitation is hung with pig nets and Pourr
nonrri charms, and equipped with Pottery
?ars and bowls. And, most important, they
are prefaced by broad platforms, where the
fordlv men folk and their meagre women
take the air. and receive
In the vicinity are dogs —dreadful dogs co
ered with miscellaneous complaints and
in armies For 40 years Hanuabada
ha S s lain at the London Mission So^ f
gates ! The young of it go to School, and
receive religious instruction. . Yet no one
will willingly employ a missioned natne.
Tho reasons are several and vanea.
Port Moresby is at its best by night-stay
spangled, and misty with pale rose glory.
Below the town burns a sapphire stretch o
water. The Outer Isles jut out m moulds
of iade. A lakato, with strange, crabbed
sails and kikennies dancing at the prow to
appease their ancient gods, glides past the
mission gates. The throb of a tom-tom
thrills up from Hanuabada. And the rest
is mystery and dreams.
S.S.S.
Fishers of Men.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
«r ■ -« HAT Cafd Chantant of Genoa which
r I calls itself the Teatro. Verdi did a
big business on that summer night in
!Vl a y—a big business in Grande Birra (which
is Italian for “long beer”) and gazzosa
limone (which is to say “lemonade that
pops”). The show itself was not demanding
—nor securing—much attention. The
Joanni trio of jougleurs were openly yawned
at . “Y’vonne D’Ambre, Chanteuse, sang in
a big, frank voice of the candid materialism
of love, but waiters interrupted herewith
cries of “Cappuccino” and Croccolato and
“Punch al Ilhum,” and other drinks, and
n °T°he y little underground theatre of white
and gold was fairly full. A military band
having finished its playing for the evening
came to drink its beer, and stacked its brass
instruments on the little stage after filling
the trumpets with lilies and roses and the
offerings of the night. The ugly spectacled
woman who conducted the orchestra publicly
bullied the ’cellist—the only man ot the
musicians—a weak little man with a beard
the color of mustard pickles, and made ap-
parently of raw silk. Only the red-haired
pianiste with the Italian tricolor trailing
over her left shoulder sympathised with
him, smiling a large smile of heavy sympa-
thy and a smile of contempt at the poor,
flat-footed waitress, who passed on the
superciliousness to the thriftiest of the cus
tomers—taking their ha’penny tips with
scornfulness. I was weary of the s *nge, a
was about to leave as Y vonne D Amb ,
Chanteuse,” recommended the usual stutt ot
“l’amour,” rhyming with toujour, when
turning, I saw seated at the next table a
woman of Boccacio holding with a long deli-
cate hand a big red rose to her perfect lips
A big, black-feathered hat on a dark and
dainty head, a brocaded skirt, a ot
black and white, the crimson scarf of a
matador on her shoulders, and about hei
neck, and rising from the scarf as from a
stalk, a face like a flower. The most beauti-
ful woman in the world sits in the fis
market at Venice and scales fish alive, this
woman of Teatro Verdi was one ot the
most beautiful of the others. A a
kindly as well as a beautiful face, eyes that
glanced amusement, sympathy—and but
rarely, invitation; a skin of ivory, with the
blood always near the surface and ready to
make her blush. But she was not quite
interested, and seemed to be waiting, but
Pa When y ’ “Y’vonne D’Ambre, Chanteuse,”
sang of the “L’Amour” that is “toujour, the
woman of Boccacio smiled most, not ten-
derly, not as if with beloved memories, but
unbelievingly —perhaps with bitterness.
“Here,’’ thought I, constructing on the
as is mv wont, histones of the people
S&aSKT “Here is my
Monna, my Giulietta —no, not Giulietta
she is too splendid for any name infiimmu-
tive—my L’Aura! Yes! thats it; that’s the
atmosphere around her head }? orr [, of ,
laurel and the air. Here, then, fortliethird
time of attempt, is my L Aura waiting, not
with impatience as she should, seei“g tba*
she waits for a lover; listening to L'Amour
and “toujour” with some contempt there
fore waiting for an unwelcome lover. He wil
be older than she —he will have harsh black
hair standing up like a wire brush; his com-
plexion will be of cold boiled pork; he will
be slow of movement, and late at table, and
tardy to love; he has a liver. -A- 11 *!
the woman of Boccacio he should be Hr
Brivhteyes—with yellow hair and moustaches
like 8 the saffron, and he should be ruddy as a
sunbeaten Norseman He sho J , haTe f
Boman greaves on his legs, and c oiselet of
bright steel and a winged helm, and he should
be ice to most,'but fire to her tinder. One
of these days, when I can remodel the world,
it shall be so. Meanwhile, she waits for her
i over — or , as he stays so long for her hus
band. Ah ! hard must, be the heart that keeps
the woman of Boccacio waiting. (
Lover, or husband, he had entered. 1 saw
the smile fade as the o f recognition
came to her eyes. I turned and saw the one
for whom she had waited. A fat, blonde
woman —heavy jowled, the neck o >
splay of foot, over-generous as to bast,.every
where redundant to grossness. Her nose
was curlv. her eyes blue and stupid, ner
upper lip long and overhanging, the chin
dwindling away to nothingness, her mouth
edacious—greedy as a pig s—her e *P res ig
pitiless; the cocotte grown old in sin. Dm
woman of Boccacio rose to meet her sne
smiled no more at “L’Amour and toujour ,
her beautiful lipsi beganto sneer, she
walked away witn the fat _ the
“Donne della monde! said the man on tne
other side of the table. A i ncl ! Alas’
“Women of the world! Alas. Alas.
“L’Aura,” the woman of Boccacio, was a
Fi ßeaut°y should be only for the Discrimin-
ating.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


THE KIDNEY
SUFFERER.
Backache from Morning; till Nig;ht—Tired,
Miserable, Sleepless, Nervous, Restless,
Rheumatic, Dizzy, Weak, No Appetite, etc.
The housewife with
kidney trouble finds
every little house-
hold task a burden.
Stooping sends a
sharp pain through
her back; she feels
drowsy and tired
early in the day;
her nerves seem “ on
edge”: the least
thing irritates her.
Her night’s rest is
spoiled by the dull
ache in her back.
No one whose kid-
neys and blood are
clogged with kidney
poisons could be dif-
ferent. And worse
troubles dropsy,
gravel, urinary dis-
orders, stone, rheu-
matism, headache, ir-
regular heart action
—follow. What is
needed is a medicine
that will cure the
kidneys that will
make them strong
n
§PW!
0
rssa
U
>. \
>,*
Wi
HIPWWI
ICtU
Tells
and well. This is what Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
tor—they quickly relieve the tired-out kidneys—give them
new 1 e and energy. Thousands have been cured of serious
kidney disease by this medicine—cured to STAY cured.
Two Sydney People Cured.
“ivr rS ; ? has u Reynold ?! 21 Wyndham Street, Alexandria, Sydney, says:
i 5l b “ k ,S been troubling me for a long time. The sharp, shooting pains
Tvhivto ie? «hmnf e r ry 'u 1 C ° uld r ot £ end m y back ’ and suffered great pain
trying to get about to do my work. Even when lying in bed at night I got
no ease. I could not get anything to give me relief, though 1 used a great
many remedies. However, lat last got a thoroughly good remedy in Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. These wonderful pills stopped the pain like magic,
and I have been quite free of it for two years now. No one need endure
thfs allmenf” aC ’ f ° r Doa ' ns Backache Kidney Pills will certainly cure
imno^fnV R 3 OI S the abo ™ three years later: “I can now add the
eTcr since Do “' 3
for backache in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Off and on for many years
the U hdns d an°a m T a ba< J back ‘ l suffered torture; pains would catch ml across
for flavor n d Hm2 OUI T not e -u FJ b *. ack ? tralgbt 1 was frequently laid un
r? e - la?°n I a ? ° ns u lted doctors \ but their treatment was ineffectual.
I used dozens of remedies, but it was only waste of time and money. I was
advised by a friend to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and sent off for
some. This wonderful remedy cured my aching back. It is grand to be free
curf” C le ’ and lam grateful t 0 loan’s Backache Kidney Pills for my
lat6r Mr ;/P rin ? says : “ The ab ove statement is true every
and I can now add the important fact that I am still well to-day.
them.” Backache Kldney Pllls deserve praise; I will always recommend
Ridr !°y are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
McOldlan Co 1*76 HuSmrt IMW “ reMil>t of » ri “ " J F ™ tOT
I
1
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
PILES—A LASTING CURE BY DOAN’S OINTMENT
fi.'JW ; y . on that Duans Ointment had cured me of itching piles after
fl/ m affllctl ° n - }■ ha -d used many remedies in these 112 years’ trouble,
?° u S hnd C fir <dY S at ° n v ly , lia i F a -P°i of ointment could work such
a f ■<% * k ad Fet SIX uionths go by before I first wrote you, as I wanted to
° ne - To ‘ day 1 have had more lasting proof
nLol® durability of the good this preparation has done me. I have not had
occasion to use the ointment since; it was a permanent cure Manv people
wrote to me about the value of Doan's Ointment, and I advised Em t? give
it a trial, and then let me know the results. In consequence I received many
letters telling me of cures effected by Doan’s Ointment ” ltceivea many
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot.
A Matter of Population.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL in the elder age of gold,
Stark saint and happy sinner
Pursued across the mountains cold
Their breakfast or their dinner;
The chop, the cutlet, or the steak,
Or bacon fried with liver,
They hunted down the wilding brake
With hound, and horn, and quiver.
Sometimes in cheerful hunger free
They caught a crayfish napping,
Or long days beside the sea
Engaged in oyster-trapping;
And it might hap, as Sagas tell,
When Autumn winds were blowing,
Deep in a purple-bosomed dell
They snared some wild beer flowing.
In after ages, somewhat less
With gold of fancy shining,
A shepherd person came to bless
The pleasant hour of dining;
He piped upon the mountains high,
VYhose forest plumes were wavy.
Shrill songs of mutton fit to fry,
And served with sauce and gravy.
His younger brother, with a hoe,
The flat-and valley tickled,
And laughj: young cabbages to grow,
And onions to be pickled;
And when they killed the fatted calf,
‘ Dr murdered lambkins simple,
Men saw the cauliblossom’s laugh,
The dark potato’s dimple.
Then someone who was very wise
Invented cash, and trading,
And bills, and duns, and shops, and lies,
And bets, and bills of lading;
The golden age had passed away,
And, though it seemed a pity,
Some patriot thought of bricks to lay,
And went and built a city.
The hunter’s horn was in his hand,
But not to chase his dinner.
He blew it in the German band,
A sad apd thirsty 1 sinner;
The shepherd left his mountain top,
And brought his young lambs bleating
To hang them in a butcher’s shop
For John and Mary’s eating.
The cabbage-grower dropped his hoe,
_ His head, though furnished sparsely,
Might help his bank account to grow
a trough sales of beans and parsley;
And he who once the crayfish caught,
_ Or snared the oyster sleeping,
Now to a midnight harvest brought
Cash for a Dago’s reaping.
And none there was could win a cent,
' Or sell one pumpkin peeling,
Unless a score of others went
To help him in his dealing;
And always someone took a toll
As rent of other’s labor,
And everybodv owned his soul
By favor of his neighbor.
But some were left in farm and field.
Lost folk with none to herd them.
Who gathered in the country’s yield,
And let the city bleed them :
For every one who labored there,
In times of dearth or plenty.
His lamb or sack of wheat must share
To keep an idle twenty.
And thus the striving people bent
Their backs for wealth’s creation,
Holding an emnt.v continent
As an enlightened nation,
And clinging to a truth as big
As Tory souls that tell it:
It tales one man to arovj a pig
And fifty-five to sell it.
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.
Jack Chandler’s Alibi.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT sundown, Jack Chandler, vagabond
of the Bush, rode leisurely from his
humpy over to White’s selection,
five miles distant along the Corralinga-road.
His sheepdog. Luke accompanied him.
“Just in time for tea,” said old White.
“Well, I intended to have tea in Corra-
linga,” Chandler replied. “But there’s no
hurry.”
Whereupon he dismounted, hitched his
horse to the front fence, and sat down to
tea.
At seven o’clock he mounted again, and
started off towards Corralinga in the gather-
ing darkness ; for it was a moonless night,
and black clouds obscured the stars. But
at every wayside housl he pulled up and
talked. On the road he met Jim Jenkins,
stock overseer on old Bramley’s Glen Dooran
Station, and Tom Pascoe, a Glen Dooran
boundary-rider, and chatted with them for
half an hour. A little before nine o’clock he
reached Weslow’s Half-Way Hotel, had a
couple of drinks, and participated in a game
of cards. At 10 o’clock he was in Corra-
linga, where he adroitly made his presence
conspicuous—unobtrusively, but very surely.
He paraded himself before the local police,
all of whom knew him—both wisely and too
well. At 11 o’clock he had a 10 minutes’
conversation with Sergeant Lloyd. Next, he
quietly took his big bay horse, Ned Kelly,
from the stables of the Farmer’s Arms, bade
good-night to the yardmen, and briskly can-
tered out of town.
Then he did a peculiar thing. Five miles
from Corralinga he dismounted, fastened
down the three top wires of the fence on the
left-hand side of the road with one of his
saddlestraps, took his pocket-handkerchief
and hung it over the strap, jumped his horse
over, put strap and pocket handkerchief in
.his coat pocket, mounted again, leaned over
and pulled his dog up in front of him, and
started off through the bush at a canter
The darkness was almost tangible in its in-
,tensity. Stout stumps, fallen trees, low-
hanging branches, treacherous rabbit bur-
rows and dangerous gullies lay before him.
But he took no account of them. Instinct-
ively his horse threaded his rapid way
through all. And instinctively Chandler now
ducked his head to miss a drooping branch,
and now swayed dexterously in the saddle
to brush a tree trunk with his coat sleeves.
His dog showed no sign of fear. Plainly
this was not its first experience of the kind.
Two hours later, having repeated the
strap and handkerchief operation half a
dozen times, he came to Bramley’s north-
eastern boundary. Here he put his dog
down. The timber was thick —stringy-bark
saplings and stately, sentinel-like ironbarks
silhouetted their tops against the sky, that
was only a little brighter than the landscape
beneath.
From a clump of tall trees on an ad-
joining ridge a small flock of sheep rose
from their slumbers, alarmed at this noc-
turnal disturbance. Chandler whistled
low, and swiftly Luke circled around the
terrified sheep.
In the uncanny darkness, man, horse and
dog worked in amazing harmony. The first
impulse of the sheep was to break through
the scrub, but the impending stampede was
prevented by the dog, which, as swiftly as a
snake, and as noiselessly, headed them off
whenever they attempted to break away.
Soon the flock, numbering perhaps 200
fats, were well under subjection, and being
driven rapidly across the paddock. This
ghostly trinity of forces that came out of
the darkness, and which was not handi-
capped by the darkness, inspired fear. And
fear, in turn, inspired acquiescence to the
gloom-enwrapped designs of the ghostly trin-
ity—that unerringly anticipated their stam-
pedes, and relentlessly cut off every means
of escape.
Chandler, in a low voice, spoke to Luke,
and then rode on ahead. The dog brought
the sheep along behind. A mile away, on the
opposite side of the paddock, Chandler dis-
mounted at a wire fence. He walked up and
down till he discovered a depression in the
ground between two posts. He produced his
strap and handkerchief. But this time it was
not the top wires he fastened down. Instead,
he tied the three bottom wires to the fourth
and fifth. Thus was an opening effected
high enough to permit a sheep to pass
through with comfort. Then from his saddle-
bag he took a light-textured blanket. This
he spread out flat under the upraised wires.
By this time, Luke, working like an
automaton in the darkness, had brought the
flock close by the opening in the fence. He
jammed them into a compact mass by reduc-
ing the orbits of his circlings. Then Chan-
dler rushed in, caught a sheep, and forced it
through the opening. And, one by one, in
rapid succession, the whole flock passed
through.
This much done, Chandler unbuckled the
strap, re-rolled the blanket, and replaced it
in his saddle-bag.
Next, he rode for perhaps a quarter of a
mile. But he was careful not to ride too
close to the fence, for immediately parallel
to it ran a dusty sheep pad, where hoof-
marks would be: easily discernible. Twenty
yards further back, Ijowever, the grass was
high and thick, and would retain no signs of
a passing horseman. It was here that Chan-
dler rode; for very wise had he grown in
the ways and wiles of the Bush. Turning
at right angles, he rode to the fence, again
produced the strap, tied down the top wires,
spread the handkerchief across the depres-
sion, led his horse over, and left him stand-
ing a chain distant from the fence. This
much completed, he broke off a branch from
a sapling, and carefully brushed the earth
where he knew the tell-tale hoof and boot
marks might otherwise show.
Re-mounting, he rode over to the sheep,
which. Luke was assiduously driving along at
a rapid pace. Once, twice —and once and
twice again was the tying-up and tying-down
of the fence wires performed. There was no
unseemly hurry, yet the rapidity of every
action was amazing. There was no hesi-
tancy of thought; no half-heartedness of
action. Brain and body worked coinci-
dentally,_ with neither waste of effort, nor
overlapping of results. And, responsive to
the slightest and unspoken wish of that brain,
horse and dog worked also. It was a triune
of the flesh dominated and impelled by the
brain of the central figure. At four o’clock the
sheep were driven into a paddock belonging
to one Tom McKie, and judiciously mixed
with a flock purportedly the property of that
unworthy gentleman.
Then another peculiar thing happened.
Chandler picked up his dog, swung into the
saddle, and galloped away almost in the
opposite direction to that by which he had
brought the sheep. But when he had gone
two miles, he veered around to his left, and
took a rectangular course, which brought
his horse’s head in the direction of his home.
And an hour and a half later, just as the
first streak of the lighter grey was appearing
in the east, he reined up at his humpy, turned
his horse out, and, after a hasty breakfast,
started to grub the big boxtree nearly oppo-
site his door, and close beside the main road.
. Jim Jenkins passed along a little later-
just as Chandler knew he would. He saw
Chandler hard at work, bade him “Good
morning,” and passed on.
Tom Pascoe, coming along a few minutes
later, also saw him. It was Chandler’s mis-
sion to be seen. He had not fought the Law
without knowing the demands and eccentrici-
Law ; . He knew the value of es-
tablishing an alibi. If the sheep were missed
that day—and by one of those queer pranks
of late they might be—well, he, Jack Chand-
ler, could not possibly have had any hand
in their disappearance.
For did he not have tea at White’s on the
previous evening? Did not the Sullivans,
the Fromes and the Delaneys see him go to
Corralinga. Did he not have two drinks
and a game of cards at the Half-way Hotel
at It) o clock. And was he in Corraiinga at
11 o clock? Did not Sergeant Llovd see
him there, and speak to him? And did not
Jenkins, the overseer, and Pascoe, the boun-
dary-rider. see lnm working just after sun-
rise the next morning? If the sheep were
missed, it would be very obvious he could
have taken no part in the robbery.
Next day, very early, before prying eves
were about, McKie trucked fat wethers'to
the Sydney market. Some of them were his
own.
A week later a cheque for £3BO came back.
Chi^,J t e d n ? 110 a i e „ r ,e s . StiU McK ‘ e “
.„ Ah of which goes to show that an alibi—
if it is the right kind of alibi— is a mighty
handy thing to have about the house.
R. J. CASSIDY.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORSE PATEftiTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 HORSE-POWER
WESTINGHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
fgh
The rocker Joint prevents sliding friction at the Joint, yields highest
efficiency, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from %to
1000 horse-power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghotise Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agrents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane, Q.
new Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES.
Simplest and Most
Reliable.
fgh
Sole Ag-ents, * © AUkj And
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
met: cars
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-Priced
Car R wdl repay you to investigate the Metz 22-h.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylmder, Water-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE, WITH FULL EQUIPMENT,
Sole Agents—
Write for Catalogue.
£175
Nett.
BROWN & HELLICAR LTD.,
_____ 109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
\
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and reliable remedy\
'for treating diseases of ALL® 1
mucous membranes, such a 3
discharges from thenose,throat
stomach and urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself?
with each bottle
or mailed on request,
JTie Evans Chemical Co,
Cincinnati, Ohio
U.S.A.
HIM ROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES instant relief.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia .
ĥg
WM
m
IMPORTANT TO
OIL ENGINE BUYERS.
♦
Before placing your orders elsewhere,
inquire our prices for the MOST
UP-TO-DATE OIL ENGINE yet
seen in Australia, viz. : —
“The Big Chief "
DpSm?*?f r ,udes “ W, Z A RD” MAGNETO, EXTENDED CRANK,
R LAR PULLEY, ALL SIZES (Stationary Type, Iy z to 12 8.H.P.)
©«r Prices are Certain to Tempt You. Discount for Cash. Easy Terms.
CATALOGUES FREE.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
Clarence Street, Sydney.
As A Family Medicine
nothing has yet been put before the public to be compared with Beecham’s
Pills. For over half a century this medicine has been an easy First Favourite
in countless households, and the name and fame of Beecham’s Pills have
spread all over the world. The reason for the enormous popularity of this
remedy is not far to seek. Experience has shown that there is nothing better
for derangements of the stomach and digestive organs generally. Taken in
accordance with directions, Beecham’s Pills give quick relief, stimulate the
organs to healthy action and have a tonic effect upon the whole system.
They are compounded of the best and purest ingredients and there are very
few people who would not feel better for an occasional dose of
Beecbam’s Pills
If you have not tried them and have any doubt as to their real value and
efficacy, get a box and judge for yourself. You will find Beecham’s Pills a
valuable aperient and unequalled in regulating the stomach, bowels, liver,
and kidneys, and restoring the powers of digestion. A periodical dose will
enable you to keep well and “fit,” ready for work or play. By eliminating
impurities from the system, Beecham’s Pills increase the appetite, promote
assimilation of food and establish good health. No household should evdr
be Without a box. Many thousands have proved the worth of Beecham’s Pills
and there is no doubt at all that they
Arc Tbe Favourite Remedy.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS . SPECIAL NOTICE ,
ON and AFTER Ist JULY NEXT, the Business of
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED
will be conducted at
HOUSE,
The Pitt Street Branch of the
sank OF IM.S.W,,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS.
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
Now and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
ti
ĝh
are both good to have, but some motor-cars are better than the
money they cost.
Many are not —but that is another story.
If you invest in shares, you (sometimes) get a return in money.
If you invest in a Chalmers Car you always get a return in better
health , in pleasure, in a saving of time, in knowledge , and chiefly,
increased happiness for yourself and those dear to you.
WHICH PO YOU NEEP tyOST?
ROY W. SANDFORD Ltd.
St., Sydney.
106 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
EMPIRE.
gh
MS
Building for the past 30 years,
and now MOST POPULAR
MAKE ON THE MARKET.
Reputation UNEQUALLED for
SIMPLICITY and
RELIABILITY.
now supplied to run on
>OSENE.
'Phone
2548 Central.
OIL ENGINE CO,
178 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
MACK PARTITIONS
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Writ* for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
METALLIC Engine Packing
The only absolutely ALL METALLIC Engine Packing is manu-
factured by The United States Metallic Packing Co., Ltd., Bradford,
Yorkshire.
ENTIRELY AUTOMATIC AND STEAM SETTING.
Decreases the friction and Improves the Vacuum.
Works for years without attention or adjustment.
Quotations on application to Australian Agency:
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
£
DICK’S PATENT
LYING.
THE ORIGINAL Mm
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADfc.
EH
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against interior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: Hardfe & C®.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE
. SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
IV
m
I
nm
VENTILATING
AND
EXHAUST
gh
LARGE STOCKS
CARRIED.
Belt Driven, 12" to 54"
Electric, 12" to 24"
c
J.
; ' ' A . '' ' T.>,
82 Pitt St
? I M- #
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Flaming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Flaming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
▼
•9
307-11 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 BOURSE STREET, MELBOURNE.
PERFECTA CONDUIT CO., LTD.
SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LTD.
VERITY’S, LTD.
ENGINEERING INSTRUMENTS, LTD.
BERRV SKINNER, LTD.
EVERETT, EDQCUMBE, LTD.
NATIONAL TELEWRITER CO.
HAGGIE BROS.
SOLE AGENTS s
PREMIER ACCUMULATOR CO.
MEDWAY’S SAFETY LIFT CO.
UNION CABLE CO.
N. F. RAMSAY
miiß
■ -
WALKER,
WHIPP &
DANIEL ADAMSON & CO.
“ KNEW” FILTERS
MONARCH VACUUM CLEANERS
PREMIER VACUUM CLEANERS
BLACKMAN SONS.
V-
<
Improved lies
1
ns
w
si
um
s
gh
Adapted for All Services—Single (SI Duplex—for
Boiler Tank
Mine linking', Cyanide WorKs, etc.
The Knowles Centre Packed Outside Plunger Pattern Pump is specially
designed for Mining Purposes. Fully described in Catalogue, which
we shall be glad to post on application. Sole Agents for Australasia—
c
i§
a
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
m
The “ABBOTT” Filter.
xmmmmmmßmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammammmmmmmmammmammsmmmmm
An Australian Production o/ tKe Highest Merit.
Proved by Severest
Bacteriological Tests.
AVOID TYPHOID and
HYDATIDS.
ĥ
Used by Leading
Cordial Manufacturers.
PRICES from I
iriO-
-".THE.. .A S.B 0 TT ’BM
J
J
Sole
Manufacturers:
N. GUTHRIDG
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
