

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION-
JbWO
Mining*
<•
10*7 KZorrt Street, Sydney*
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
tt u > j nuvr'D a t TDnMUAMr v T'j'fi'W nml STWiOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. ana orx-ui'iu
2r .fil? S&
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
Agents
RUSTON’S SUCTION GAS
Engines and Producers.
Their Wood Refuse Producer is designed for burning chips and scrap wood, and is the
very latest invention in Producers.
HOBART.
— zna —
fiadleys Orient jjote!.
'DIONEE'D
* LEATHER BELTING
GUARANTUKD.
</. Cm Ludowici & Son , Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
—A
Take it back.
I must have—
HUTTON’S
He
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB'S NEW DOOR LATCH
THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
32 RECIPES
j
L-
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
fvnsmm
gd
■
...
f
about 20 Per Cent., TUBES 25 Per Cent, and over.
WRITE FOR
NEW PRICE LIST
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George St., Sydney: gat 55 Bolton St., Newcastle.
ADVANCES MADE ON ALL SECURITIES
1M . W. MONT DE Pi E^T lifted
74CASTLEREACh'sT
EUSTACE BENNETT general manacfi?
MONEY ADVANCED UPON ALL SECURITIES AT REASONABLE RATES OF INTEREST.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
DRINK
The finest roofing for all types of buildings is undoubtedly
PABCO. Artistic buildings are rendered more artistic by the
adoption of PABCO ROOFING. The delicate ivory tint of PABCO
harmonises with every building material, and, while cooler than
any other roofing in summer, is delightfully warm and cosy in
winter, besides incorporating all the virtues that make an ideal roof.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
PABCO
(Asbestos Coated Malthoid).
HOPPER WACCONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
gjfgjfg
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L TD
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
jßojfat-Virtue fii
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET (Opp. Lands Office),
SYDNEY.
Simple and Compound, condensing and non»
condensing. Glose regulation. Reliable. Simplest
and most economical high=cfass engines on the market.
In sizes and types to meet all requirements,
portable Engine especially recommended. Send for
Catalogue. Also all engines, pumps, irrigation and
water supply plants.
DAVEY PAXMAN
STEAM ENGINES
Portable, Stationary, Traction.
HELIDON SPA WATER
The Helidon Spa Water Co., in its extensive distribution, has
placed “the rational water cure” within reach of all.
The Bulletin
V01.33.—N0. 1678.]
[Thursday, April 11, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


FOR EVERYONE, Send for These Lists.
NELSON’S LIBRARY.— These books are astonishing value; they are neatly bound in cloth
and printed in good type. Gilt top, illus trated—being cheaper issues of works which
have had a larger sale in the more expensive editions, Is. 3d., posted Is. 4d.
72 Books in the Series. Lists Mailed Free.
HOME UNIVERSITY LIBRARY OF MODERN KNOWLEDGE, Is. 3d., posted Is 4d Neatly
bound in cloth.
Every volume in the Library is absolutely new and specially written, on a subject of living
and permanent interest, by a recognised authority.
1/2 Volumes Now Ready. Lists Mailed Free.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney
iHOW TO USE THE POWDER.i
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
The great Antiseptic Powder which contains
no acid, and is guaranteed absolutely harmless
to the enamel. In contact 'with moisture the
powder liberates free, active Oxygen, and it
is the Oxygen which whitens the teeth so won-
derfully, and wards off decay as no other pre-
paration for the teeth can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal
bottles, handy for travel or home, price 1/6,
forwarded post free on receipt of stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
CO., LTD.,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable information
2] regarding the Teeth.
CSC
4^
The Red Page
THE LARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY L. H. ALLEN.
The air was hazed and charged with blos-
som scent,
A tingling white was in the firmament,
The drowsy noon lay on the yellow sheep
And bronzen oranges that basked in sleep.
The air was wrinkled o’er the heated grass,
.Leaf-shadows flecked the sand in the creek’s
glass—
I caught it in my fingers, and it spread
In golden sparkles like that song o’erhead.
Up went my vision, all afloat
lo catch some light-line on the hidden
throat
That drank the blue and turned it into song,
straight up above me, in the noonrays
strong,
There shot the upward throat; and as I
stood,
The spread wings burst into a shower of
blood; \
Then the sun-drunken spirit was fled. There
leapt
A magic where the bronzen fruitage slept
Ihe flame-strings of the blossom shook their
blaze,
Trembling and song filled all the heavy haze.
The Meaning of Politics
A^V-/ Brown ’ Professor of Law
Adelaide University, tackles a big fob
attemptm| to discover, amid the weiter
Willis and Wood The Underlying Princip
of Modern Legislation (Murray). But fro
the chaos of politics he has not succeeded i
disentangling a definite strain of instincti
purpose; though his investigation is va
clearer SSSSgf 01 ” “ te ” t “ ““‘"bates
He is to be thanked, in the first place
a statement of the basis of anarchism—thf
much-misunderstood gospel whose argumen
are not bombs, but the reality and gravity o:
existing social ills. But, as the author state
the enemy to the existing social order is n
the Anarchist, but the trio of Fat Man, “t
laborer who preaches a class war, and t
elector who will never go to the polls.” T
man who damns labor legislation by oallin
it class legislation has the cordial agreemen
! •. a u thor -, He Quotes Jevons to sho
always been class legislatio
fLlie English statute book is full of class legi
lation. It is the effort of some dominan
body to keep down a lower class, which hac
begun to show inconvenient aspirations ”
J*
As showing from what depths labor ha
the author recalls some interestin
tacts. At the beginning of the last centur
the man who combined with his fellow
laborer for the purpose of securing a ius
wage was guilty of a crime. If he broke' h
contract with his master he was liable 1
be imprisoned and flogged. Nor must w
imagine that we have here to deal with th
dead letter of the law. The records of t!
period supply abundant testimony to th
contrary. In 1834, to take but one examph
sax Dorsetshire laborers, three of whom
were Methodist local preachers, were triec
“utlny and conspiracy,’ on the grounc
that they were members of a trade union
une ot them said in his defence: ‘We haw
injured no man’s reputation, character, per
son, or property; we were meeting togethe
to preserve ourselves, our wives and ou
children from utter degradation and starva
tion. Notwithstanding that they were ad
mitted to be good laborers, and that no
charge was made against their charactei
they were condemned to seven years’ trans
porta tion, and were sent to Botany Bay.”
7 • illustrating the dreadful doctrine o
laissez faire —the doctrine which is still held
by every reactionary in our politics—the
author shows how, under that doctrine, the
factory movement dealt with the new demand
for child labor in England. Pauper chil
were “apprenticed” up to the age of 21
—children of both sexes, and from the age
of five. _ As the supply from this source
proved inadequate, “children jobbers” trav
ersed the country in order to buy children
from parents and sell them at a profit to the
factory owners. Children began working
in factories and coal mines, according to the
report of a commission in 1840, at the age
sometimes of four, often of five, and gener
ally of seven or eight; and 4"n almost every
case they worked as long as adults, or from
16 to 18 hours a day. More than one-sixth
of all the persons employed in factories, and
about one-tliird of thoss employed in coa
mines were under 13 years of age, females
working as early and for the same periods as
males. In many coal mines the children
never saw the light for weeks together in
winter, except _on Sundays and very rare
holidays. Laissez faire would have lefi
them there.
As for the poor, a M.P. could, in 1800
speak thus in Parliament: “It is necessary
that the bulk of the people should be very
poor, in order to render them industrious'
and that the lower ranks should have little
prosperity, in order to excite their industry.’
Mrs. Hannah More, the celebrated pioneer
of elementary education, explained that she
confined the curriculum to the Bible, the
catechism, “and such coarse works as may
fit the children for servants. I allow,” she
added, “of no writing for the poor.”
Among the frequent references to Austra-
lian legislation, Prof. Brown’s opinion of the
referendum calls for quotation: “I believe
that a frequent use of this expedient would
be a calamity. Most of the arguments in
favor of the frequent reference of political
issues to the decision of the electorate derive
their importance from the survival of an
archaic method of conducting elections.
When some system of proportional represen-
tation has been adopted, and the Legislature
is in consequence more adequately represen-
tative, we shall hear less about the referen-
dum.” So, also, he believes that the utility
of the Senate will be increased by some sys-
tem of proportional representation, by mak-
ing it more representative and improving its
personnel. But he does not believe that the
Senate is at present so docile an instrument
in the hands of the Labor party as its
critics assert.
“The errors of the electorate are due, not
to any incurable unfitness of the voters them-
selves to express an opinion worthy of ex-
pression, but to a culpable neglect of which
our educational have been guilty.
We turn our youths into the polling booth,
to exercise a grave and responsible duty,
without having provided them with any
training to help them to discharge that duty
wisely. I believe the time will come when
this policy will be recognised as suicidal... .
We hear much to-day about the training of
the individual for life; but, in a democratic
community, such training cannot ignore the
part the individual is called upon to play as
the arbiter of the national destiny.”
As for Socialism, the author, while advo-
cating a continuous increase in the activi-
ties and responsibilities of the State, especi-
ally in regard to trusts, prefers to consider
each step, on its merits. His analysis of
the baleful influence of the trust will satisfy
the most rabid Socialist. “If the State did
not control the trust, the trust would soon
control the State.”
.As for the future: “While wages have
risen and hours of labor have shortened,
whole classes of the community have failed
to receive any share of these gains, and the
total bulk of poverty has in all probability
increased... .It is becoming increasingly
clear that, as long as the policy of the
Factory Acts is limited to the hours and con-
ditions of labor, and is not applied also to
the rate of wage, some of the gravest evils
that prey upon our national life will never
be overcome.”
&
And, finally: “The problems of modern
industry can only be solved by the action of
the organised community The supreme
problem of the future will be, not how to
thwart the movement towards State control,
but how to direct it in such a way as to
achieve legitimate ends without sacrificing
the individuality of the citizen. He who
clings blindly to the status quo in legisla-'
tion, while economic, political and moral
conditions are rapidly changing, is a menace
to the very social order he affects to defend.
If I were asked to name the worst enemy
of the existing social order, I should point
to the man who opposes any and every pro-
posal for social amelioration.... Such men
are. unassailable by argument; and, by their
attitude of uncompromising opposition to
reform., they are the unconscious instruments
of social catastrophe. By combining with
other forces, they may succeed in delaying
reforms; but the ultimate result of their
effort must be to give a plausibility and an
irresistible power to the demand for revolu-
tionary change in the near future.”
This' is the professorial epitaph on Fat.
♦ "
A valuable work of reference is The Aus-
tralasian Naval and Military Annual (An-
gus and Robertson, Sydney), with which
has. been incorporated that patriotic publi-
cation, The Call. Full details are given of
our embryo defence, though our backward-
ness is strikingly emphasised by the fact
that there are no details mentioned of what
must be our main defence, an aerial fleet.
From this publication can be obtained the
cheerful information that in 1920-1, just
before the Anglo-Jap treaty normally ex-
pires, the Asiatic fleet will consist of 33
“capital” armored ships, of which 27 would
be of Dreadnought or super-Dreadnought
type! And by the end of this year there
will be but six British and Australian ar-
mored vessels in the Pacific. As the Annual
naively remarks: “Much will have to be
done before 1920. if the naval balance of
power in the Pacific is to be even approxi-
mately realised.”
A Voyage with the Mails between Brisbane
and London, is a well got up book whose
illustrations, from an,amateur’s camera, are
admirably selected and beautifully repro-
duced. It can be obtained, it is noted, price
ss. 6d., “from the barber’s shops on board
ship.”
John Butler Cooper’s History of Prahran
(Modern Printing Co., Melb.) is a compre-
hensive and well-written volume, admirably
illustrated. It has been compiled by order
of the Prahran Council.
Conrad’s Reminiscences are admirably
written, by a stylist who fails, of
course, to make emerge from his
book “at last the vision of a per-
sonality” ; but his account of his writing
of his first book, Almayer’s Folly, and his
first contact with the sea is, as the reader
must have confidently expected, of the same
absorbing interest as his novels. The first
seven chapters of his novel he carried round
the world for three years. This book, he
frankly says, was not the outcome of a need
—“the famous need of self-expression which
artists find in their search for motives. The
necessity which impelled me was a hidden,
obscure necessity, a completely masked and
unaccountable phenomenon. Till I began to
write that novel I had written nothing but
letters, and not very many of these. I never
made a note of a fact, of an impression or of
an anecdote in my life. The conception of a
planned book was entirely outside my mental
range when I sat down to write.” He had
never had any ambition of being an author.
“Never had Rubicon been more blindly
forded, without invocation to the gods,
without, fear of men.... The greatest of my
gifts being a consummate capacity for doing
nothing, I cannot even point to boredom as a
rational stimulus for taking up a pen.”
The Lady and the Author
In Some Reminiscences (Nash, per Syd-
ney Book Club), Joseph Conrad tells of a
catastrophe. He was engaged in writing his
novel, A ostromo, when he was interrupted :
“How do you do?”
It was the greeting of the General’s daugh-
ter. I had heard nothing—no rustle, no
footsteps.... I picked myself up quickly, o '
course; in other words, I jumped up fro
my chair stunned and dazed, every ner
quivering with the pain of being uproot
out of one world and flung down into a
other —perfectly civil.
“Oh! How do you do? Won’t you s
down?”
That’s what I said.... Observe ! I didn
howl at her, or start upsetting furniture,
throw myself on the floor and kick, or alio
myself to hint in any other way at the appa
ling magnitude of the disaster. The who
world of Costaguana (the country, you ma
remember, of my seaboard tale), mer,
women, headlands, houses, mountains, tow
campo (there was not a single brick, ston
or grain of sand of its soil I had not placec
in position with my own hands) ; all the hi
tory, geography, politics, finance ; tlieweatho
Charles Gould’s silver-mine, and the splendo
of the magnificent Capataz de Cargadore
whose name, cried out in the night... .dom -
nated even after death the dark gulf con
taining his conquests of treasure and love
all that had come down crashing about m
ears. I felt I could never pick up the piece
■—-and in that very moment I was saying
Won’t you sit down?”
The sea is strong medicine. Behold wha
the quarter-deck training even in a merchan
ship will do! “Won’t you sit down?
Very fair; very fair indeed. She sat down
Her amused glance strayed all over the room
There were pages of MS. on the table an
under the table, a batch of typed copy on
chair, single leaves had fluttered away int
distant corners; there were there livin
pages, pages scored and wounded, dead page
that would be burnt at the end of the day
the litter of a cruel battlefield, of a long
long and desperate fray. Long! I suppos
I went to bed sometimes, and got up tli
same number of times. Yes, I suppose 1
slept, and ate the food put before me, anc
talked connectedly to my household on suit
able occasions. But I had never been awar
of the even flow of daily life, made easy and
noiseless for me by a silent, watchful, tire
less affection.. Indeed, it seemed to me tha :
I had been sitting at that table surroundec
by the litter of a desperate fray for days anc
nights on end. It seemed so, from the im
mense weariness of which that interruption
had made me aware—the awful disenchant
ment of a mind realising suddenly the futil
lty of an enormous task, joined to a bodily
fatigue such as no ordinary amount of fairly
heavy physical labor could ever account for
I have carried bags of wheat on my back
bent almost double under a ship’s deck
beams, from 6 in the morning till 6 in the
evening (with an hour and a half off for
meals), so I ought to know.
And I love letters. I am jealous of their
honor, and concerned for the dignity anc
comeliness of their service. I was," mosi:
likely, the only writer that neat lady hac
ever caught in the exercise of his craft, anc
it distressed me . not to be able to remembei
when it was that I dressed myself last, anc
how. No doubt that would be all right in
essentials. The fortune of the house included
a pair of grey-blue watchful eyes that would
see to that. But I felt somehow as grimy as
a Costaguana lepero after a day’s fighting in
the streets, rumpled all over and dishevelled
down to my very heels. And lam afraid I
blinked stupidly. All this was bad for the
honor of letters and the dignity of their ser-
vice. Seen indistinctly through the dust of
my collapsed universe, the good lady glanced
about the room with a slightly amused seren-
ity. And she was smiling. What on earth
was she smiling at? She remarked casually:
“I am afraid I interrupted you.”
“Not at all.”
She accepted the denial in perfect good
faith. And it was strictly true. Inter-
rupted, indeed! She bad robbed me of at
least 20 lives, each • •>itely more poignant
and real than hei .. because informed
with passion, of convictions, in-
volved in great affairs created out of my
own substance for an anxiously meditated
end.
She remained silent for a while, then said
with a last glance all round at the litter of
the fray:
“And you sit like this here writing your
—your....”
“I—what? Oh, yes! I sit here all day.”
It must be perfectly delightful.”
I suppose that, being no longer very young,
I might have been on the verge of having a
stroke; but she had left her dog in the porch,
and my boy’s dog, patrolling the field in
front, had espied him from afar... .We went
out hastily and separated the gallant ani-
mals. Afterwards I told the lady where she
would find, my wife.... She nodded, and
went off with her dog, leaving me appalled
before the death and devastation she had
lightly made—and with the awfully instruct-
ive sound of the word “delightful” lingering
in my ears.
LE CREPUSCULE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY FRITZ S. BURNELL.
I fear the hour of the twilight.
The air is heavy with wings,
With a whisper of secret voices,
Of strange, unspeakable things.
The leaves of the trees are shaken,
For the souls of the trees are here.
They watch me like crouching shadows
From the still, dark places of fear.
Their faces are writhen and pointed;
Their thin lips cannot rest.
Their crooked fingers are twitching
To tear my heart from my breast,
I cannot hear what they whisper,
But their eyes are a sombre fire,
A hell where are tortured for ever
The tenable ghosts of desire.
They skulk at my side and whisper,
Their eyes stare into my eyes.
The heavy air of the twilight
Is turned to flame with their sighs.
The Modern Novel
H. G. Wells has, in a recent Atlantic
Monthly , his definition of the contemporary
novel. The Weary Giant theory of the novel,
in which the reader is represented as vexed
by his business or sport, and wanting only
to be cheered, consoled and amujsed—he
doesn’t want facts or problems: “He wants
pictures of funny slums and entertaining
paupers and laughable longshoremen and
kindly impulses making life sweet” —this
theory died during the Boer war. “So far
from the Weary Reader being a decently
tired Giant, we realise that he is only an in-
expressibly lax, slovenly and undertrained
Giant; and we are all out with one accord
resolved to exercise his higher ganglia in
every possible way.” The modern novel is a
discursive thing: no critic can condemn a
novel by saying that “it isn’t a novel.” “I
rejoice to see many signs to-day that there is
every encouragement for a return toward a
laxer, more spacious form of novel-wx-iting.
....Nearly all the novels that have, by the
lapse of time, reached an assured position of
recognised greatness, are not only saturated
in the personality of the author, but have in
addition quite unaffected personal outbreaks.
“To-day there is an enormous criticism
going on of the faiths upon which men’s
lives and associations are based, and of every
standard and rule of conduct. And it is in-
evitable that the novel should co-operate in
and reflect the atmosphere and uncertainties
and changing variety of this seething and
creative time... .Take, for example, the
immense cluster of difficulties that arise out
of the increasing complexity of our state. On
every hand we are creating officials; and
compared with only a few years ago, private
life in a dozen fresh directions comes into
contact with officialdom. But we still do
practically nothing to work out the interest-
ing changes that occur in this sort of man or
that, when you withdraw him from the com-
mon crowd of humanity, put his mind, if
not his body, into uniform, and endow him
with powers and functions and rules....
Politicians assume that the sort of official
they need, a combination of god-like virtue
and intelligence with unfailing mechanical
obedience, can be made out of just any
young nephew. And I know of no means of
persuading people that this is rather an un-
justifiable assumption. . .than the novel. Yet
the novel so far has scarcely begun its attack
upon this particular field of human life.”
As for the stage, Wells thinks the drama
excites our sympathies, but is far too ob-
jective a medium to widen them appreciably;
while as for biography: “Think what an
abounding, astonishing, perplexing person
Gladstone must have been in life; and con-
sider Lord Morley’s Life of Gladstone —cold,
dignified, not a life at all indeed, as much
as embalmed remains; the fire gone, the
passions gone, the bowels carefully re-
moved. All biography has something
of that post mortem, coldness and re-
spect ; and as for autobiography—a
man may show his soul in a thousand half-
unconscious ways, but to turn upon one’s
self and explain one’s self is given to no
man.... The novelist is going to be the most
potent of artists, because he is going to pre-
sent conduct, devise beautiful conduct, discuss
conduct, analyse conduct, suggest conduct,
illuminate it through and through... .We
are_ going to write, subject only to our own
limitations, about the whole of human life.
We are going to deal with political questions
and religious questions and social questions.
....We are going to write about it a 11....
We are going to appeal to the young and
hopeful and the curious against the estab-
lished, the dignified, and defensive. Before
we have done, we shall have all life within
the scope of the novel.”
♦
The sevenpenny net novel spreads a nine-
penny net out here. Australian book-sellers
explain that they must live; and there is
no doubt they do. Macmillan’s cheap reprints
include that charming tale, A Kentucky Car-
dinal (James Lane Allen), while Ward, Lock
begin a similar series with The Garden of
Lies (Justus M. Forman). Clear type and
cloth binding make these reprints worth the
7d. plus the Australian 2d.


o«si
Jk
V
EAST
Famoin
Low
Price) e
«or*
K i
wr
ifif
:Ji
310
2039'
... The New ...
Coats and Skirts.
No. 310—Smart Coat and Skirt, of Navy or Black Twill Coating: Serge,
semi-fitting, Collar, Reivers and Panel back, finished Rat-tail
Braiding, lined Polonaise, plain,-well-cut Skirt.. .. .. .. 637-
Hat .. .. 357-
No. 2039—Distinctive Coat and Skirt, of all-wool Cheviot Serge, in Navy
only, unlined, semi-fitting, Collar, Revers, and hips trimmed Russia
and flat Silk Braids, Panel Skirt 37/6
Hat .. 437-
No. 326 —Stylish Coat and Skirt, of Navy Coating Serge, Cuffs and Revers
of Black and White Striped Silk, edged Black Satin, semi-fitting,
Panel hack, Coat lined Polonaise, well-cut Panel Skirt.. .. .. 59/6
Similar style, but plain Collar and Cuffs, No. 2001, 45/-; No. 344 .. 49/6
Hat 307-
No. 2011—Fashionable Coat and Skirt, in fine-Navy Coating Serge, Black
Satin Collar and Revers, piped Navy and White Satin, Coat is
Empire effect, lined Pale Blue Silk, smart Panel Skirt, trimmed
Braid .. .. 77/6
Similar style, C 9, in Black Satin, rounded fronts to Coat ~ .. 89/6
Hat .. .. .. .. 637-
No. 1156—Elegant Coat and Skirt, of soft Fine Serge, Navy only, new
design, with shaped piece from waist to round hips, strapped Black
Satin Collar and Revers, faced Black Satin. Skirt has panel back.. 847-
Hat .. 437-
No. 2006A —The Eatest Coat and Skirt, of fine Suiting Serge, in Navy only,
Revers finely braided, hips trimmed wide Matalasse Braid, new Col-
lar pointed at batik, finished Silk Tassel, lined Sky-striped Satin,
Skirt is panelled back and front, and has deep band at side gores.. 94/6
Hat .. .. .. .. .. 30/-
Anthony Horderns’
fhc Winter Fashions
PATRONS who are unable to personally Inspect
the Magnificent Display of the Season’s Latest
Creations shown in the Green Room at the
New Palace Emporium should consult our Winter
Fashion Book. Write for a copy of this interesting
publication, posted free on request. It faithfully
illustrates the prevailing modes and is an authoritative
guide to all that is new in the World of Dress.
Consult our Illustrated Price Lists for anything you
want. Send for copies, posted free ; they place the
immense resources of the New Palace Emporium at
the command of everyone in Australia.
f
If
<
4
wm
m
. <
-
V "
1
m
! 1 ■■
.
■
i 1
2006 A
1156
20 il
jfnffionyHorderns. '
i jiiiiiiiii l
II
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield. Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Famous Small-Bore SINGLE SHOT RIFLE IN THE WORLD 1
STEVENS
FAVORITE No. 17.
m
fmmm
P 1 m RiWr. fgj
1 urnished with Automatic Ejector in 22 calibre.
Carefully bored and rifled by the celebrated Stevens method.
For -22 Long Rifle, -25 Stevens and -32 Long rim fire cartridges. State which
calibre you prefer when ordering.
STEVENS are the “ Bull’s Eye ” Kind. Sold by all dealers in the Commonwealth.
For full information, latest catalogues, etc., apply to
QIBSIII2S
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Box 86, Q.P.0., Ade ai.le, South Australia. [2
fgj
Why you should wear
99
A.ll=wool unshrink-
able Socks, Stockings,
and Underwear,
Because *
they are the most comfortable a,ll-Australasian-wool wear:
they are absolutely unshrinkable: they are English Made.
The process imparts a soft, silky finish which makes
J2&22* wear superior to all others.
Yet cost no more than ordinary hosiery and
underwear.
Socks, Stockings, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children,
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “ Jason ” booklet and name of nearest
Agent , to—
Aa7 Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. ♦
V
-}\
s
\
Royal
Mothers
use
Ashton & Parsons'
Infants* Powders
for the
Little Princes and
Princesses
during the time of
teething and for fretfulness
and the many ailments common to infancy
Recommended by H.R.H. The Crown Princess of Roumanla.
MISS FRANKLIN, c/o Capt. Embury, R.E., Blackdown Corner, near Leamington, writes:
“ I have been asked to write to you by an Austrian Lady, to know if you will send her two boxes,
each containing ioo of your Teething Powders. She says they are the same you have supplied
to the Crown Princess of Roumania, from whom she first heard of them."
ASHTON & PARSONS'
INFANTS' POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless they cool the gums —comfort the child produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep render teething quite easy prevent pain and disorder
are pleasant to the taste are mild and gentle in action may be given to the youngest and
most delicate babe—and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use.
fgjfg
Supplied by Royal Command to—
H.I.M. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.R.H. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H I-H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
fgjfg
H R.H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOHENLOHB
BV Ashton Parsons’ Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to be harmless
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing so Powders, i/ij; 60 Powders, 2/0; 100 Powders, 4/6.
To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C., ENGLAND
TIUOI HARKS
:f&w
B.S.A
RIFLES
The World’s best, :
THE B.S.A. WAR OFFICE MINIATURE RIFLE
may be correctly described as “a REAL SER ICE RIFLE IN
MINIATURE” and is altogether an ideal weapon for scientit.c ana
accurate rifle practice up to 200 yard*. ...
THE W.O.M. RIFLE is a full-sized weapon of .22 calibre, with
improved bolt action of the Lee Enfield type, military match sights
adjustable to 200 yards and is turned out in the B.S.A. to. s best
finish. It can be supplied with magazine if required, and the B.S.A. no. s
Aperture Sight can also be fitted at a small extra. Fully illustrated
and described in the B.S A. Rifle Catalog, which can be obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE
/Representing that
' B.SJt. Co. LU. '
Australian Buildings, Melbourne
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
fgj
We don't believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised ease, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
„j _ _ ft -f Postage to any Address
■ ■ ICC 3mo ■ • in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
Will Andrade »■ BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest Stock in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
also Supplementary Cata-
logue of FREE-ACTING
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel French, London,
and American Publishers.
Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/6; Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden's Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 ; Macfadden's
Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Wrestling Instructor, with 60 Photographic
Illustrations, 1/9; Bag Punching, lOd. ; Road Map of Victoria, 1/1; Sign,
Carriage and Decorative Painting, 2/6 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks,
illustrated, 6d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in
Australia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/ ; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen" and
othjer Comic Recitations, 1/1 ; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish
%O~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT
Mention The Bulletin.
Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d.; Complete
Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/;
Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
cArALoouts 201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
i
v ' - -A ' ' v '
• *H§l
1
UfflL
m
More Wonderful Cures
CLEMENTS
TONIC
The Great
Standard
Medicine.
A letter from Albert Street, Lithgow,
September 20, 1911, the recent scene ot
so much industrial strife.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
"1 wish to give you a testimonial',
as I have benefited much by taking
Clements Tonic. 1 was recommended
by a friend to try it; but I had tried
so many things that I did not have
any faith in it, but he persuaded me,
and told me if I did not get any
benefit from it he would pay the cost,
as it had cured him of the same thing, Indigestion. 1 went to
two doctors over it, but only got temporary relief.
“I am writing this to benefit anyone who is suffering from Indi-
gestion, as I consider it is a great blessing, and I ONLY TOOK TWO
BOTTLES, two years ago, and have had no sign of it returning since,
and I CAN EAT ANYTHING AND ENJOY THE BEST OF
HEALTH. A good MANY PEOPLE IN LITHGOW AND BYDAL
KNOW HOW I SUFFERED, and now I feel like a new man.
“You can use this for any purpose you like, as I consider Clements
Tonic a great blessing to anyone suffering as I did.
(Signed) IGNATIUS McQUIRK.”
For Nervous Breakdown, Loss of Sleep, Poor Appetite, Neuralgic
Headaches, Low Spirits, Constipation or Indigestion, try it.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL IT.


We Ask
“why i
COUGH?”
m.
vm-
Q. What is good for my cougn?
A. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Q. How long has it been used?
A. Seventy years.
Q. Do doctors endorse it?
A. If not,we would not make it.
Q. Do you publish the formula?
A. Yes. On every bottle.
Q. Any alcohol in it?
A. Not a single drop.
Q. How may I learn more of this?
A. Ask your doctor. He knows.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co,, Lowell, Man,, U,S. A.
THE
IDEAL APERIENT
NsSAyAvWiIiIiI
z^mwrrn'iwppiwvw
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
mm
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in nse since 1606.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
BET
CARTRIDGES
fgjfgj
Eley Cartridges
ensure —as far
as any cartridge
can ensure
first-rate sport
and gratifying bags.
Among sportsmen and sportswomen
throughout the world, the accuracy
of Eley Cartridges is proverbial.
Make a trial of any or all of these:
Elcy ‘Achilles'
Deep shell, gas-
tight, smokeless
(42-grain) powder.
Eley ‘Pluto’
Grand Prix quality
cartridge, smokeless
(33-grain) powder.
Eley ‘ Zenith’— Deep-shell, gastight,
specially selected smokeless (33-gr.) powder.
THESE ARE ALL ELEY LOADED.
Sold by A mmunition Dealers & Gunmakers
Be very sure to see the name ‘ELEY’
on the tube or shell of each cartridge.
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON, ENG.
mmmmm
S
m
m
iSffl
is
m
m
a
HR
m
m,
m
fgjhk
BE SURE YOU GET
BOIMNIIMGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bonnington’s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock Bennington’s; but have you tried my own
mixture ? It is ‘just as good.’”
Allow no one to deceive you. There is no remedy so good as
Irish Moss.
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Trv it the next time you have a cold, and you will be satisfied. [1
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured ih a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE. SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
1405
'3',
Tr
A Well-Rounded Bosom
Is the Pride and Joy of All Women.
No woman need remain flat and undeveloped, thin, and
miserable. Your weight can be increased, and bust developed
to normal. It is done for hundreds of others, and can be as
readily done for you. If your bust lacks development and
firmness, and your arms, neck and shoulders are thin and
scrawny, even though your face is pretty, you invariably take
second place to your more fully-developed, full-bosomed asso-
ciates in your own social set. It will always be so unless you
correct the imperfections in your figure. Send a 2d. Stamp
for a Free Sample of Ur. Falliere’s Flesh-Food, and our free
book which tells how. Flesh-Food is harmless to use, and the
treatment rapidly and permanently develops a poor figure to
normal. Thousands endorse it. Full particulars free.
FALLIKKI FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Asli Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
VARICOSE
VEINS
FREE BOOK.
Let Us Cure You.
IF YOU have learned to look upon your Varicose Vein
Affliction as incurable, you will have to alter your point of
view. A few years ago, but temporary relief, and then only
by recourse to the surgeon’s knife, was all a sufferer from
this complaint could expect. Now the knife is obsolete.
THE VECSEY METHOD OF TREATMENT
offers not only permanent relief, but an absolute cure—even
in the very worst cases —without operations and without
laying up. Essentially a home treatment. Hundreds endorse
it.
We want you to learn all about our method. Send 2d. stamp
for free book, giving full particulars. Written diagnosis or
Consultation FREE. Call if convenient.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
1411.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: — .
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the eure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which 1
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc. ,
H- SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[i-
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
jljhkl
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook's Saddles, etc.
latest
MODELS
£3mlO to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postages
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
u cAH CYCLE COMPANY,
IVIeAU Dept. “480. LIVERPOOL.
AGE. NT for MEAD
VAL. F. COLE, Book Arcade
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES —
, Melbourne.
ALL MODELS.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manner s
that win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopedia will
supply the art. It considers the whole subject from
the time you meet until you two are one. Valuable
chapters about dress, personal appearance and many
other things heretofore secrets. .?*
curious love letters & FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits
in prose and poetry that you can find daily use for.
2/6 posted willbringthe book, hap-
piness with the one you love. ANGLO-AMERICAN
PUB. CO., Waterloo Ch’mb’s, Geo-st, Sydney, N.S.W.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wavback Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Colline-st., Melbourne, Vic.
m
Have You Ever
Blistered a
Horse with
Solomon
Solution
Mr. Alex. Stewart, of Rosebank,
Wychetella, has, and he writes
“Having owned both draught and
light stallions for the past 22 years,
and having used many preparations
for horse ailments, I must say that
SOLOMON SOLUTION Is the BEST BLISTER
I HAVE EVER USED. I have removed a
callous of long standing (shoe boils or
capped elbow) on four different oc-
IT HAS NEVER FAILED.”
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists, Stores
and Saddlers everywhere, or post free
for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne
L.R.W.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Such a Lot.
There’s such a lot o’ things about a feller wants
to see,
Such a lot o’ things to do an’ lots o’ things to be,
There’s such a stack o’ things to pack in little time
that we
Must whirl right in an’ start.
There’s such a lot o’ grapes a-growin’ round we
want to pick,
Such a lot o’ fruit to find, but finders just as thick;
So if you’re there to get a share, get in an’ get it
quick.
First comers serve ’emselves.
There’s such a lot o’ pleasure to be had in that or
this,
Such a lot o’ happiness an’ such a lot o’ bliss;
The only way to make the play an’ not give it a
miss,
Is crowd the early doors.
There’s such a lot o’ places all around we want to
go,
Such a lot and length o’ roads to travel to an’ fro,
We got to put the Burning Foot at work to do it, so
Pack up an’ hit the track.
The road won’t come to meet us, and the sea can’t
climb the hills,
Stoppin’ still won’t bring ’em, so cut out th« stops
an’ stills ;
Forget the tale, the Wearies’ Wail, about the pace
that kills,
An’ lay the leather on.
The forefront o’ the battle bears the brunt o’ all
the fun,
But does the commandeerin’ when any’s to be done;
So if your game is Loot or Fame, get busy with
your gun,
An’ poke right up in front.
In peaceful life it’s just the same—there’s such a
lot in biz;
Such a lot o’ schemes a-boom, a-hustle and a-whiz;
The Golden Rule to Scoop the Pool, an’ beat ’em to
it, is
Start early an’ stop late.
There’s such a lot o’ stormy winds, an’ such a lot
o’ rain ;
Such a lot o’ miserables, such a lot o’ pain;
There’s Heavy Loads an’ Rocky Roads—but Turns
in Every Lane,
So keep a-pluggin’ on.
There’s such a lot o’ sunshine, too, an’ lots o’ clear
blue sky,
Boshter Bits, an’ Lucky Hits an’ Pickin’s in the
Pie,
If they’re not here, they’re somewhat near; you’ll
find ’em by-an’-bye.
Buck up an’ chase along.
N.S.W.
BOYD CABLE.
When I Would Die.
Let me die ’mid the ocean’s thundering roar,
’Midst the wild waves’ whistling rancor,
When the ship breaks up, and will no more
In the harbor’s comfort anchor.
Let me die in the ’midst of the battle’s rage,
’Midst the wail of the bullets flying,
When the swords their thirst for blood assuage,
And Glory illumines the dying.
Let me die in the ’midst of the sandy waste,
With the vultures hovering over,
When the high, fierce sun gives a timely taste
Of Hell to the reckless rover.
Let me die where the earthquake rends the earth,
’Midst the flames and lava flowing.
When the Universe seems in the pangs of birth,
And God’s first light is glowing.
But I would not die in my bed at peace
’Midst kin and women weeping,
When the Tenant Life gives up his lease,
And the Bailiff Death comes creeping.
Victoria.
JOHN B. CASTIEAU.
’Lizer.
Ginger-haired and goggle-eyed,
With a mouth three inches wide,
All the tarts of Pickle Lane
Jeer at ’Lizer ’cause she’s plain.
Though she wear a gossamer,
Not a bloke will walk with her;
Though she swing seductive hips,
None desire to taste her lips.
When at night, unveiled, she sighs
To her mirror, wistful eyes
Search her imaged face for trace,
Of sweet woman’s charm and grace.
“Ain’t I ugly ! —crack ther glass !
’N’ me eyes er green as grass;
Gawd’s a nark, that’s wot He is,
Givin’ me a mug like this 1 ”
But the glass when she’s undraped
Shows a form divinely shaped,
Comely limbs and satin skir.
Sweet, warm flesh —it is a sin?
“Gawd’s a nark!”- —then as she lies
“All me charms is hid!” she sigh?
In her lone white bed, o’erwrought
Tingles with voluptuous thought!
To her pillow, wet with tears,
She confides her hopes and fears:
“I’d be true as death, I would,
To a bloke wot understood!”
Pity ’tis a child of Eve
Made for love should loveless grieve—
Sweet, potential motherhood
Wasting, craving to be wooed!
“Gawd’s a nark!”—or man’s a fool
Fit for woman’s ridicule;
Had her mirror tongue to tell,
Soon would ring the wedding-bell!
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
■*<<<«* «~4
V, v V *<- V.'V )} » |
t. r * *>- *> v •>
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
CLOSED AS COUCH,
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
hed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY
■
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
kJ-M*
%
lOSMidajß
QiCDM!
nn«r
■i\ ii-i
m
liFili
gBfIB
HfllE,
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club anil Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per clay, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
THe Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Orga
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
Albert's
SYSTEM
ROrESSIONAL
if*
IHttte
OOMERANG
“BOOMERANG GRAND,’’ large size 6/6, small 3/6
“ PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-
“ TinmviirT? \ wn ■■ . n*.
. „ , . 2 bells,
price 5/6 ; 80 ids., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/6.
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artist 9
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ taflcin ” the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has not a “ BOOMERANG ”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “just as
good,” and get the “ BOOMER-
ANG,” from another store.
C i
S8
*5) }$
tit
ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
mm
ENSIGN
ROLL FILMS
are used in the Antarctic
Regions and in every Dart
of the world.
If you have a Daylight
Loading Film Camera use
ENSIGN Films, and the best
results are assured. Even
in dull light you will get
good results with ENSIGNS.
I
(JD
1
The Leading Photographic Merchants
in Australasia,
380
• BRANCHES
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ZEALAND,
FE RDRIAU
Macintoshes
kljhk
* ;jh
<
Mail Orders.
If you cannot call to select
your Coat in person, you can
order satisfactorily by Mail.
We guarantee a correct fit,
providing you supply us with
your height and easy chest
measurement over clothes.
Ladies should mention length
of coat desired and bust
measurement. Also, state what
color is preferred. We pay
postage on all macintosh
orders.
Our 1912 Illustrated Winter
Price-list and Samples of
Materials free for the asking.
PERDMAD 1912
Macintoshes for Men
are made to allow greater
grace and freedom be-
cause of ihcteased loose-
ness of skirl-. The Coats
are of Well-extended
length, to protect the legs,
and they have the
fashionable motor cuffs
and comfortable storm
collar. Materials are
proofed with the finest
rubber between the two
surfaces of the cloths.
Obtainable ih either light
or medium weights, in
Cashmere,, Canton and
Tweed Cloths in new
shades of Dark Fawn,
Olive, Dark Grey and
Blue Black. Our
Special Value,
35/-
PERDRIAU Macintoshes
for Ladies
are perfectly tailored in
our own workrooms.
Have wide, flowing skirt,
strap cuffs and smart,
turn-down collar. Made
in very attractive, long-
wearing, rain-resisting,
ligh test-weight rubber-
proofed fabrics, in Bright
or Navy Blue, Fawn,
Olive and Grey, in plain
or striped effects. Our
Special Value, 301-
jh
m jhljh
PERDRIAD ,TOER
CO. LTD.
"The Best House lor all Rubber Goods, ’
270 George Street, Sydney.
Also at 105 Elizabeth Street, between Collins
and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
rN
9
asiaNim
96
;ss
¥
w
HY don’t yon save money by making
your own soda-water at Home ?
Pure, Fresh. and Ready Instantly.
AsK
your Store Keeper for the large
- C ” Size.
6/6.


The Bulletin
Ptegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33.—N0. 1678.
THURSDAY, APRIL 11. 1912.
Paicji fin.
THE TERRITORY’S (?) RAILWAY!
EASTERN STATE REPRESENTATIVE: “It will sweep just round about here, you see; and then ”
THE LONE CHILD O’ THE NORTH: “Jus’so, jus'so, Mister; I haven’t the least doubt your firm ’ud make a pretty job of it. But the trouble is—
it wouldn’t be the straight set of rails I bargained for in the beginning. There’s too much crookedness about ’em ; besides, I really
can’t see in wot way this lot would ever be mine!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George-street North, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . .. f 1 6 0
Half-yearly .. . . . . 0 13 6
Quarterly . . . . .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William. Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid, for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are ■ those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, )Vest Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at fi/f> per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town ; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros;, Nanaimo, B.C.
V.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco: C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. : Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — \V. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice,
Tub Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
figin, x IJ/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz. Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, IGoz. Id. — otherwise. Boz., Id., and Bioig. to
10oz., iifd.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, Jjoz., Id.,
and id, each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 1912.
THE LOST WOMAN.
Siie is not exactly lost in the melodramatic
sense—which is either the repentant and
babv-carrying sense with a long, greenish
cloak and a hood, or else the hardened and
adventurous sense with a low-cut dress and
a multitude of jewellery—but she can’t be
found, which is much the same thing. She
has been advertised for to no purpose. She
has been tendered increased wages, yet she
hasn’t come. She has been offered an extra
night out, yet she hasn’t stayed. She has
been imported in large quantities, and she
vanished almost as soon as she arrived. Even
the effoijtg- that have- been made to render
the kitchen a shade more habitable, with im-
proved drainage and a better system of cock-
roach extermination, have not produced her
in large numbers nor even retarded her
diminution. And the lack of her is some-
thing more than a jest. It threatens to be
a calamity. Many people are giving up the
home life simply because she can’t be dis-
covered, and are taking to the hotel or flat
or hash-tower existence. The flat is not too
good, and the hotel or hash-tower mode of
living is unwholesome and lazy, and leads to
a minimum of baby and a maximum of
bridge and such-like dissipations. It is not
conducive to patriotism; the idea of a child-
less man fighting like the Devil in defence' of
a hotel is unthinkable. And the keeper of
the hash-tower is often as undesirable as the
tenant. She is of the great tribe of Todgers,
and no one ever suspected Mrs. Todgers of
being a large, generous, promising, full-
bosomed mother in Israel.
* * * *
It is customary to discuss the servant girl
problem as if it were really a problem in-
stead of being what it is—a simple
and ordinary matter of arithmetic. It
can be reduced to the plainest figures.
There is only a certain amount of
human female in the World. There is no
reason to suppose that she will ever become
much more numerous as compared with man
than she is now, or to imagine that she will
ever be any more numerous in proportion to
the amount of work to be done. In fact, as
the increase of luxury creates new forms of
work she may easily become scarcer. In any
reasonably affluent community she has al-
ways being scarce. There the average work-
ing woman doesn’t intend, as most men do,
to toil for a wage all her days. She only
expects to fill in the interval between the
end of her school life and the beginning of
her married existence at some stipendiary
job or another. She may return to her job
as a widow, a deserted wife, or the partner
of a convict, lunatic or drunk, and resume
business in the capacity of one who has seen
better days ; but, in a general way, she only
expects to be a regular wage toiler for a few
years. This rule doesn’t necessarily apply
to novelists, actresses, chorus-girls (they
sometimes chorus to a wonderful age),
female doctors, and the like, but it does ap-
ply to the bulk of the workers of the skirted
sex. The girl or woman famine commenced
to be occasionally mentioned when (and
where) the average husband got enough pay
to enable him to support his wife at home.
Where he doesn’t get enough pay for that
purpose, the two go out to work, while some
neighboring harridan neglects the baby for
2d. a week or some such amount, and they
come home from toil at about the same hour,
and kindle a hasty fire, and throw together
a sort of meal in a disreputable pot. In the
countries where this sort of life is still com-
mon, female labor is more abundant than
elsewhere, as well as dirtier and more igno-
rant. But fortunately such circumstances are
rare in Australia. While this country can
afford to lead a civilised existence, the mar-
ried woman must, as a rule, be regarded as
lost to the wage-earning class. And some-
times her unmarried daughter is lost also.
It all depends on the family finances. Thus
the supply of feminine toiler is cut rather
low at the very beginning of things.
* * * *
The factory system started a little over
100 years ago—before that was the era of
the individual home worker —and it has been
growing ever since. Capitalists having quite
overlooked the fact that a woman can’t be
in two places at once, it became the custom
to utilise her as a comparatively cheap ani-
mal in the new line of business. There are
about 700,000 of her in the British textile
factories alone. There are well over 70,000
of her in the factories of the Commonwealth,
and she is increasing fast. She.,accepts less
pay than the male for two chief reasons:
(1) It is a tradition that phe should do so;
and (2) such a large proportion of her is
simply a feather-headed and temporary
young person putting in time until matri-
mony comes her way that she has never
developed a first-class capacity for industrial
organisation. Even the Labor Ministry of
Australia, when it started its Government
clothing factory, adopted the old low-priced
device, and advertised for girls, not men.
There are many drawbacks about this policy
—among others, that the factory life, even
at its best, is not a good one for the future
mothers of Australia. On that point N.S.W.
Commissioner Piddington said many bitter
and perfectly truthful things in his recent
report. The teeming and miscellaneous hive
of industry is a bad school for morals or
cooking or domestic management. It pre-
pares the way for indigestion in after life,
and lays the foundations q£ the tinned-food
habit and the cold boiled-mutton habit, and
the habit of sweeping the dust under the bed.
And it makes the domestic Mary Anne
more rare every day. The completely obvi-
ous reason why she isn’t in the kitchen is
that she is in the factory, or warehouse,
being employed there, for the sake of a scrap
of extra gain, by the husband 'of the dis-
tracted lady who is always wondering
at the insoluble mystery of her ab-
scence from the scullery. Very often,
as already mentioned, the distracted
lady gives up housekeeping in despair. So
the elements of the situation are: (1) An
ill-paid girl doing work that, for the sake of
her future, she had better leave alone; (2)
the same person in later life feeding a hus-
band on ill-cooked or tinned food and drag-
ging up a precarious baby in purely amateur
fashion; and (S' an affluent family living in
an hotel where infants are prohibited while
drinks and billiards are abundant.
* * * *
Of course, the increasing employment of
females in factories isn’t the sole cause of
the disappearance of Mary AnNe. The mul-
tiplication of female doctors, typists, clerks
and shop assistants all tends to eat
up the diminishing supply of working
female. It is the custom to regard
almost any kind of job that is light
epougli to be done by a woman as
woman’s work, and machinery has
lightened so many jobs that “woman’s
work” is increasing many times faster than
available woman. (It may be added that in
the cow districts of Australia any work that
isn’t heavy enough to kill a woman at the
first time of asking is also regarded as
woman’s work.) But the factory remains
one of the chief, if not the chief, agency in
promoting girl famine. Taking New South
Wales as a handy example^—in 1861, 1907
out of every 10,000 girls and women were
workers for wages ; while in 1901 only 1759
were wage-toilers. That meant a serious
diminution in the class out of which Mary
Anne must be procured if she is to be pro-
cured at all. The reliable factory statistics
don’t go so far back, but in 1896, out of
every 10,000 Cornstalk females aged over 15
years, 190 were employed in factories, while
in 1904—only eight years later—the figure
had gone up to 340. During these years the
number of women employed in manufactur-
ing industries increased five times as fast as
the number of women in the State. In 1910
there were 17,395 more feminine employees
in N.S.W. manufactures than in 1896.
With 17,395 prospective kitchen Bridgets
withdrawn from circulation under this head-
ing alone there is no mystery about that
lady’s disappearance from the front of the
gas stove, and her failure to answer the ring
of the man with the corned beef.
It may apparently be assumed that the
average girl won’t go to domestic service
while she can go to something else. It is
lighter work and better paid work than
many other occupations, and as a prepara-
tion for married life —which is the goal of a
girl’s ambition in nine cases, or at least in
many cases, out of ten —it is a thousand
times ahead of clerking, typewriting, shop
assistancy or almost anything else that can
be named. But it suffers from the draw-
back that the domestic lives alongside her
job. In that respect she is like the seaman,
but the seaman has change and excitement.
His work appeals to the roving spirit, to the
man who wants to get away from his
mother-in-law, and to the man who wants
to meet foreign women and drink foreign
drinks. Also he has company in the fore-
castle, while the domestic, in her forecastle,
which is the kitchen, has very little except
when the captain—who is “the missus” in
her case—drops in. Barring the times when
the grocer or dustman calls, her craft is
very much in the position of one where there
is a crew of a single individual for’ard and
a variable number of captains aft. She
sees her commander a great deal oftener than
she wants to, her watch below is often
irregular, and she isn’t expected to have a
reasonable and periodical drunk ashore. It
is a poor tart that never-rejoices, and the
domestic servant doesn’t get the opportuni-
ties either for rejoicing or for being a tart
that often fall to the lot of the factory ’and.
*.* * *
There are various possible remedies for -the
vanishment of the Lost Woman. The coun-
try might, for instance, make a certain period
of domestic service compulsory in the case
of girls, even as military service is compul-
sory in the case of the other sex. The
prospective wife might be apprenticed, like
the prospective carpenter. Parliament
might prohibit the employment of girls in a
large number of industries, and base the
deed upon health considerations, as was done
in England when women were expelled from
the coal mines. It might enact that in all
occupations which women share with men
the sexes should be paid on the same scale,
and then, if the factory-owner or shopkeeper
or publican beguiled Mary Anne away from
her roasting and boiling he wouldn’t do it
from motives of economy, as at present.
This, of course, would involve an increase
in the tariff: otherwise the products of the
ill-paid girl labor of England would swamp
the products of labor that was paid decent
white man’s wages in Australia. Something
might also be done by the cultivation of
the precarious and amateurish lady heir*.
She might be developed into a graduate of a
college of cookery and domestic economy—a
person with a diploma, and the standing of
a trained nurse, and a recognised right to
mash the eldest son of the house if she
could contrive to do so. Possibly some good
might be effected if the kitchen and Mary
Anne’s bedroom were improved, or if Mary
Anne was made an outdoor toiler who
wasn’t quite so much under the all-seeing eve
of the missus. But nothing can be done by
mere promiscuous complaint and lamenta-
tion. And the importation of the Euro-
pean handmaiden is quite useless, for she
simply falls under the same influences which
have obliterated the local one. The Mary
Anne and the megatherium and the Glacial
Period are alike the victims of circumstances.
The environment is killing one as it did the
others. The only sensible proceeding is to
seriously consider the environment in the
hope that it can be renaired.
THE LAVISHNESS OF BULL.
Some observations by “H. Singemoine” :
A curious, and as many hold, ominous change is
discernible of late years in the character of English
society. A generation or two ago well-to-do families
that lived above their means, as a matter of habit,
were the exception; to-day, at any rate in London,
they are almost the rule. The humblest folk, soci-
ally speaking, entertain each other at the Savoy, the
Carlton and similar ruinously-expensive eating-
houses. People run motor-cars on incomes which, a
decade ago, would have been considered insufficient to
support a private cab. Everybody' has a club or two
or three, and spends money there. Men buy their
clothes in Clifford-street who, by all the laws of
economy, should be patronising the ready-made de-
partment of Hope Brothers. Women wear diamonds,
or articles that resemble them, and furs which the
untutored observer is liable to tell himself are
“priceless,” on dress-allowances of a sovereign a
week or thereabouts. How is it all done? What is
the cause of it? And what will be the probable
effect on the nation if it continues ?
As regards the first query the answer is Credit.
London is the home of credit, the Paradise of the
luxury-loving economist who never intends to pay
his debts, or not, at any rate, unless and until the
money shall have been torn from him by brute force
of writs, judgment, ca. sa. and garnishee orders and
similar processes of law. Just as the great London
financiers allow for a considerable number Of specu-
lative losses each year, so the West End traders un-
flinchingly anticipate a tally of bad, not to say rot-
ten, debts every week, the mere thought of which
would make a Continental shopkeeper shudder to
his foundations. The banks get it all back, for the
most part, and so do the traders. The prices they
charge the “good pays” are paralysing. A section
of London’s indigent high-livers perform the feat
more or less honestly. There are young men of posi-
tion who are not worried by tailor’s or boot-maker’s
accounts in consideration of the fact that they lead
a steady stream of affluent Americans, “Colonials,”
Indians and so on, to the establishments which they
patronise. Women do the same. For people of
social influence, howsoever broke they may be, there
is always money or money’s worth to be got in a
thousand queer ways. The millionaire from Hull or
Glasgow or Pittsburg or Sydney is eternally hurling
himself against the doors of historic clubs, battling
for cards for parties, yearning fog, well-knqwn sports-
men to shoot over his moors or coy.erts, and ready
and willing to pay the price of the man or woman
who will get him his heart’s desire. The poof suc-
cessfully tap the rich, by way of loans, in the most
shameless and persistent is where the
tapped have no particular position and the tappers
have. And so a large number of people are enabled
to keep going so briskly that the suburbanite who
views them enviously, reverentially, at a restaurant
or on a racecourse, or reads of their movements in
the Daily Mail, does not credit them with a money-
care in the world.
There is another type of British person with a
passion for the pageantry of life, who is less of a
stayer, so to speak, than the abovementioned. The
lavishness that he sees all round him appears to go
to his head or something. Such a one was the young
man who recently ran up debts to the extent of
£25,000 at Oxford in the course of eight or nine
months, and after his father had paid them went
bankrupt, his liabilities being £85,000 and his
assets nil. The London press reported another fairly
typical case the other day as follows: —
“A young stockbroker, Cyril Holmes Coleman,
22, of Park-place, St. James-street, W., was shown,
at an inquest at Wimbledon on Tuesday, to have shot
himself because of financial worry. The body was
found on Wimbledon Common, near the windmill.
“Mr. Arthur Ellis, solicitor, said that Mr. Cole-
man, whom the witness had known for 15 years, had
an income of between £3OO and £4OO.
“The Coroner: Was he steady ?—He moved in the
society of people far richer than himself.
“Did he try to keep up to their standard? —Yes.
He lived beyond his means. He had the wildest
ideas as to the value of money.”
And lastly there is the man of birth who is pre-
pared to thieve, welsh, pull horses, sharp at cards, or
do any other criminal act rather than drop out of
the running. A novel recently appeared by a writer
whose inner or stable knowledge none of the critics
questioned, which dealt with this type of citizen.
The central figure is put by his highly-placed parent
into a crack cavalry regiment. The youngster has
expensive tastes and no money. Systematically, he
sets about the business of taking everybody down for
as much as possible. He lasts long enough to amass
a small fortune. At length the day arrives when,
as the result of a particularly torrid racing swindle
in India, he is asked to leave the regiment. He
cheerfully complies—the lode being worked out —
whereupon two alternatives are offered him: he may
join another regiment or go on the Viceroy’s staff !
It is not suggested that this type of warrior is a fre-
quent phenomenon, but, at least there are enough of
them to be visible to the naked eye, and it has long
ceased to be the fashion to reprobate them heatedly
when they are observed.
The causes which are responsible for the system
which produces these well-groomed battlers are
numerous and widely-diverse in character. The weekly
sport-and-fashion paper, with its photographs of
So-and-So on the lawn at Sandown, Lord Blank or-
dering his lunch at Oiro-’s at Monte Carlo, the Duke of
Pluto in his car with the latest thing in musical
comedy stars, and so on, has a share in the tendency.
When people read week after week of the luxurious
doings of others, and when the pleasing andk spectacu-
lar deeds are brought home to the imaginations of
the dullest by means of excellent pictures, a desire
is inevitably aroused in them to go and do likewise.
The incursion into London society of the absurdly
rich Jew and the affluent Yankee, types who like to
spend their money in the most public possible fashion,
is another factor. Of course, before the advent of
the African magnates fortunes were squandered in
England on food and drink, horses and ladies, but
they were squandered, comparatively speaking,
quietly. To-day they are hurled round with a howl
and a yell that may be heard for miles, and the dis-
play is something tremendous. Lesser financial
lights hear the uproar and feel it is up to them to
try and emulate it. And the end is mostly
disaster. And then there is the imbecile old
British fetich of primogeniture. Under this un-
just system the unfortunate younger sons and
daughters are trained to luxury during the most im-
pressionable years of their lives. They are brought
up in palaces, amongst the best of servants ; they are
encouraged to hunt, shoot and fish, to appreciate
French cooking, vintage wines and expensive cigars—
and when those luxuries have become necessaries to
them they are suddenly driven forth, as like as not,
and told to support life on the income of a bank
clerk. Their struggles to side-step so intolerable a
lot have a considerable relation to the bizarre econo-
mical position in England to-day.
That “thoughtful people,” as our own imperish-
able Bruce Smith would put it, recognise the ten-
dency and the peril of it from a national point of
view, is very plain. The Queen has started a sort
of crusade of simplicity. Her horrible hats, and the
grim and pre historic headgear which she imposes on
her female offspring supply the keynote of the
movement. The Court has deliberately entered upon
an era of home-made goods, social service, dowdiness
and flamboyant domesticity, and it is taking care
that the nation shall be informed of the fact. When
Edward VII. went to Oxford, as Prince of Wales, he
was entered at “the House.” He lived in a large and
lavishly-furnished mansion of his own, and was the
most splendid and unapproachable “blood” within
the memory of the oldest inhabitant. The present
Heir-Apparent, who goes into residence next term, has
had his name put down at Magdalen, which is a com-
paratively humble college. He is to have no private
dwelling, no , staff of servants, no glory, nothing.
His life will be that of Jones or Brown, or any
other young man with a toilsome business or profes-
sional career before him. In these and in countless
other ways the Court and the more level-headed
people in society are struggling to slay the present
craze for recklessly extravagant living. Itl is under-
standable that they should. The big section of the.
populace, which is in a chronically half-starved state,
is in no temper to watch ill-judged lavishness. _ It
is the sort of thing which, if persisted in, might
well bring the existing social fabric down with a
run. But can the sober ones, with everything to
lose, get an effective strangle-hold on the irrespon-
sibles who are imperilling their order? In the
nature of things the task is a big one, and there are
indications that the canker has spread far and bitten
deep.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Night of Chaos.
Last Thursday night, when the railway sys-
tem in and around Sydney became a broken-
up, broken-down lunatic, and half the trains
got lost, and half of them evaporated, and
half went mad, and half didn’t arrive, and
the rest didn’t start, and the balance were
drunk, and most of them were six weeks late
and becoming a fortnight later every minute
—last Thursday night, when almost eyery-
body at Sydney Central Station got a ticket
for chaos, and paid anything from id.
to 10s., and almost everybody was thrown
out at Parramatta, except the people who
wanted to go there, and they were sent to
Bourke, and when the men who wanted to
reach Menangle was given a hen-coop, and
the man who desired to find out the cloak-
room where his second wife by a previous
marriage had left two hens in a dress basket,
was rushed into a cab and sent at his own
expense to St. Mary’s Cathedral—last
Thursday night, it may be briefly mentioned,
was a great time. It was the date when
Johnson’s railways went to the dogs, and
the 2.10 train started for no place on the
wrong line at 7.15, and the 5.30 train left
for the wrong place yesterday, and all the
parcels in creation went to the mistaken ad-
dress except 99i per cent, of them which
didn’t go at all, and all was blither and old
Zoological Garden at feeding time. On that
wonderful occasion Sydney enjoyed a lesson
in the art of dragging all the trade of a
State, that is 50 per cent, larger than the
German Empire, to one city, and hauling it
through one bottle-neck into one station, and
a dead-end station at that. Sydney, as has
been mentioned before, is almost the only
white man’s city of the slightest importance
where the railway doesn’t run right through
and out at the other side. Therefore the
engine that comes in has to back out again
the way it entered, and when the lines be-
hind it are jammed so that it can’t back out,
it becomes a raving, useless, coal-wasting
lunatic, and a mere blocker-of-the-way. If
the railway ran right through Sydney, and
over or under the harbor, then the suburban
train could run from Parramatta or Home-
bush on one side, to Lindfield or Hornsby on
Tie other, merely stopping long enough at
Sydney to drop one load of passengers and
pick up another. It could do all its shunt-
ing at quiet country places, where there was
lots of room., and thus get out of the way of
the long-distance traffic. In times of stress


the multitude of long-distance trains from
Melbourne, Albury, Bourke, Moree,
Innes, Brisbane, etc., might be divided, some
making their terminus at the present sta-
tion, some going on. to a station about King-
street or Wynyard-square, and some going to
another station at the edge of the harbor.
To effect such a re-arrangement it would be
necessary to pull down the present terminus
that stands on an artificial hill, and put in
its place a plain, ordinary, ground-level
affair. But that is inevitable sooner or later.
The supreme trouble lies in the dead-end t ar-
rangement. If J. C. Williamson ran his
ticket-selling work on the same principle, he
would have his ticket-window at the end of a
long, narrow corridor. The corridor, on the
first night of a new musical comedy, would
be full of people. Each person would shove
the one in front, and remonstrate with the
one behind. The man who had just bought
his ticket would be jammed flat against the
window. The crowd at the rear would blas-
pheme at him for not getting out of the way,
and he would blaspheme at the crowd for
not letting him get out of the wav. As a
result there would be a very great row, and
very lit'le business done. Strangely enough,
the’ N.S.W. Government doesn’t seem to fix
its eye on this obvious evil. Instead of
carrying the railway through Sydney, it
proposes to spend a tankful of money on the
completion and beautification, of its dead-end
railway svstem. Yet even if that building
were made as complete as Paradise, and as
beautiful as the great white throne, it would
never be anything but the same old paralytic
obstruction as of yore.
A Few Hostile Remarks Concerning State-
Aiiei Circus Turns.
sleak after year it is the custom of the des-
criptive writers of the N. S. Wales daily
papers to spread themselves, about Easter
time, in two directions. On the one hand,
they enthuse madly about the superlative use-
fulness of the Moore Park Show, and on the
other they tell, with grief, how the remounts
at the Liverpool camp are green and ill-
trained, and, in about 90 per cent, of cases,
either absurdly light or grotesquely heavy for
their jobs. There is an intimate relationship
between the much-boomed Sydney Show and
the deplorable quality of the Ma State’s
cavalry horses. A contributing cause to the
highly undesirable circumstance, nationally
speaking, that N. S. Wales is fast ceasing to
produce military remounts that are worthy
the name, lies in the fact that the Sydney
Show, like its up-country imitators, is, on
the equine side, practically a glorified circus.
The main object of the people who run it is,
frankly, to draw the crowd. When the tak-
ings soar above those of the previous year,
the managers or promoters nearly burst
with pride. A round 75 per cent, of the
populace, whether urban or bucolic, knows
nothing whatever about the fine points of a
horse. But they can alb appreciate a dash
of more or less unhealthy excitement, which
is the sole excuse for the continued existence
of ]Show. H “hunting events,” and . the still more
profitless high-jumping competitions. Some
effects of the policy deliberately followed by
the Sydney Show authorities, as well as by
the folks who control the country shows, are
that residents of N. S. Wales rarely see in
the 1 ring a genuine horse of the hunter class
(the type, as Governor-General Denman re-
marked. the other day. which is essential for
military remount purposes) : and that the
local farmers have practically dropped breed-
ing this variety of animal. The sort that the
hand of encouragement, well filled with State-
contributed cash, is extended to, is the trick
steed. There are about a dozen of them in
the State that are as well known to Show
frequenters as one of "Anthony Hordern’s
stock advts. They do their little stunts with
the finished ease of the educated dogs in a
vaudeville show. Round and round the rings
of their State they go, reaping fat dividends
for their owners, drawing thousands of shil-
lings to the turnstiles, and doing about as
much good to the vitally important cause of
horse-breeding as so many jackasses. What
is needed, under modern conditions, if Aus-
tralia is to get back to its old reputable posi-
tion as a breeder of sound, upstanding horses
of the light- and heavyweight hunter class is
a speedy wiping-out of the State-aided Show
system, whereby a big premium is put on
the exploitation of ancient crocks, whose only
real merit consists in a knack of hurling
themselves over stiff obstacles. Nowhere else
in the civilised world is this utterly worthless
type of quadruped encouraged. In England,
Ireland, Germany, Austria, Belgium, the test
of a champion hunter is not the animal’s
ability to negotiate tall and tricky fences in
the presence of vast crowds, but its shape,
youth, soundness and manners. In all these
countries a hunter may sweep the board with-
out being asked to jump a fence —which is as
it should be. The moment the A., H. and P.
Shows, big and little, begin to divert to the
exhibitors of 6ound, shapely young horses of
the hunter type, the lavish money-prizes
which now go to the owners of strange jump-
ing freaks of any old type, there should be a
recrudescence of the breeding of decent re-
mounts. There assuredly won’t be till some-
thing of the sort is done, and the A., H. and
P. Societies certainly won’t do anything of
the sort till they are forced to. The State
Government, which supplies these bodies with
their subsidy-money, has the necessary lever
r#ady to its hand, and if there is any defence-
enthusiasm in it. it shouldn’t hesitate to act
with vigor and despatch.
+
The Threatened Maritime Invasion of
Maoriland.
The threatened sale of the Union S.S. Go.
of Maoriland to the P. and O. is about as
black a shadow as has ever loomed up over
the Maoriland horizon. The Union company
holds a very large part of the Ricketty
Islands in its grasp, but the fact that its
close-holding fist is in a sense a national
one has partly condoned the offence of past
Governments in making no effort to provide
a public steamer service to link up the more
important trade routes. A public service of
steamers means, to a people inhabiting a
group of islands, very much what a straight
and direct railway means to the Northern
Territory. Not so long since, lotjsepii Ward
suggested that at some remote period—pro-
bably after the Dominion’s pawn tickets had
been handed in, and the last Prohibitionist
had died of grief—it might be necessary to
have some ships which really belonged to the
people, and were not to be used for their
exploitation. As companies go, the Union
combine is a pretty decent one; and it cer-
tainly spends a lot of cash in wages and
work in the country which provides its
shareholders with a crust. Also, it is Clean
White through and through. The P. and O.
concern is mostly nigger-infested, and en-
tirely foreign-owned ; and Maoriland’s plight
would be bad indeed if it found itself in the
grip of a huge affair which had absolutely
no sympathy with any of the things for
which the shaky place, in spite of all its
faults, really stands. Competition of smaller
companies would be hopeless; and the new
boss would practically own the place where
the breezes blow over lands forgotten of
liquid joy. Tom Mackenzie, the new Pre-
mier, seems to have a chance here to show
what he is made of. If the Maoriland Gov-
ernment ever intends to have its own ship-
ping service connecting its own ports, the
time to act would appear to be now, or as
much earlier as the new Ministry can get to
work.
—— “*7
The Drowned Ship.
On the evidence of time and floating wreck-
age it is now certain that the Koombana
went down off the northern coast of Westra-
lia with all on board. It passed out on the
anniversary of the disappearance of the
Yongala, and in . much the same latitude.
The Koombana suffered from a combination
of misfortunes. The miserable lack of
wireless 5 telegraph stations along the coast
made communication impossible, and though
there is no evidence that communication
would have done the ship any good, there is
a dead certainty that it would have done
no harm. The old-fashioned post and wire
telegraph was broken to pieces by the storm,
but even before the storm there was appar-
ently something wrong with that wretched
and lingering institution.- Anyhow, for days
before the trouble the essential information
re barometrical conditions didn’t get through,
and, for want of it, weather prophecy was
almost a blank, just when it was most
required. “Wireless” might have filled a
gap here also, but there was no wireless.
Without information about barometers the
meteorologist is in the position of a general
who not only doesn’t know where his enemy
is, but who hasn’t been informed by his Gov-
ernment that there is an enemy, or that.
the war has started. So the fact stands
out that the Koombana is gone, like the
Yongala and the Waratah, and that sudden
method of going is altogether too common.
An attempt is made to explain the situa-
tion on the theory that the summer cyclone
which infests tropical Australia at cerlain
seasons is in a class by itself —a sort of sud-
den and separate wild beast which carries
all before it. The theory is probably based
on the way it wrecks small, flimsy, tropical
towns. But when the actual known force
of the wind is considered, the argument
hardly holds good. Certainly the cyclone
was strong enough to swamp a ship that
wasn’t sufficiently stable to stand that kind
of a cyclone—which is a great truth
though it sounds like a truism. It might
be worth while for a Parliamentary Com-
mittee to inquire into the allegedly unstable
imported ships of the Australian coast —the
strong, fine-looking craft which are reputed
to be afflicted with the curse of top-heavi-
ness.' That is the most probable curse of
the modern ship. The craving for deck
space, and for airy deck cabins, creates a.
tendency to build high, and the demand for
speed creates a tendency to build narrow,
and when a thin vessel stands up out of the
water like a wall, the cyclone often does the
rest. If an inquiry were held the wit-
nesses should be mostly hardened travellers
of the bagman species. Owners and officers
could hardly be expected to tell unpleasant
truths m open court, thouvh if the young
officer is caught by himself, and supplied
with a -reasonable amount of drink, he may
make amazing private revelations. But the
sea bagman knows the coastal ships, and he
knows the ones he avoids whenever possible,
and the reasons why he avoids them. There
are certain vessels on the Australian seas
which experts are said to have on the list
of the doomed —not because of old age, but
by reason of the curse of instability. _ They
are an interesting study—the ship with the
amazing habit of fleeing for shelter in wea-
ther through which other vessels plug steadily
along; the one which is reputed to have
once made an insane effort to turn turtle at
a wharf in dead calm water; the one which
won’t keep upright under any circumstances
whatsoever. The stories are mostly vague
and fragmentary, but they are. worth looking
into. Steady investigation might put them
in a more concrete shape—and the com-
munity might then have a better idea as to
which boat will vanish next, and might bet
a trifle on the event.
The Food Taxes of Old England.
A delusion which seems wholly unable to
rest in its grave is that which some Aus-
tralians possess re the alleged cheapness of
living in Bull’s country. It is such a glaringly
impossible delusion that the person who
holds it should be deprived of his vote for
obvious mental incapacity, and passed out
as a danger to the political community, yet
it is a fact to be reckoned with. Even edi-
tors of big importing papers suffer from it,
or say they do, and their lamentable and un-
thinking readers get it also. One recent case
was the howl of a certain “L.M.” in Sydney
E. News —a paper which seems to have
rather bad luck in the matter of securing un-
lettered subscribers. This person felt called
upon to speak severely to the returned Aus-
tralian footballers because of certain state-
ments some of them made about affairs in
England, and in the course of his lofty
rebuke, he said this: —
These kangaroos want to take i-nto consideration
that living, including clothing, is fully 50 per cent,
cheaper in England than Australia.
Consider the amazing logic of it all! Britain
buys from Australia, among many other things,
butter, cheese, bacon, apples, wheat, flour,
beef, mutton, rabbits, hares, wool for cloth-
ing, leather for boots, and a whole heap ot
sundries. It doesn’t get all its supplies here,
but it buys a lot here, for the obvious reason
that our prices are no higher than those of
other suppliers. Yet at the same time, it
buys at current local rates, for this country
isn’t running any Cheap Bull Food Society
or other philanthropic movement. The plain
inference is that Bull pays our prices with
freight and other expenses added. Then he
buys his tea, coffee, cocoa, and such-like
things in the same foreign market that we
patronise. He is charged the same prices as
ourselves, and very often he has to pay
freight over a longer distance. That.is nota-
ably the case in the matter of tea. When
the goods reach England, he is charged 2d.
per lb. customs duty on his coffee; lid. on
his chicory, 2d. per lb. on his cocoa and choco-
late, sd. per lh. on his tea (ours is free),
about fd. per lb. on his raisins and other
dried fruits, up to 365. Bd. per cwt. on his
sugar (we grow ours), as high as ss. 4d. per
lb. on his tobacco (our maximum is 3s. 9d.),
7s. per lb. on his cigars, and so on. He pays
duties on his imported wine (we make our
own), on milk, ginger, tamarinds, spirits
(15s. to 15s. 3d. per gallon), chutney, orange
peel, liquorice and other things. Within
recent years the free breakfast table of
Father Bull has gone overboard beyond re-
demption. His simple rule is either to
tax things that can’t be grown in Eng-
land, so that he may be dead sure that the
duties won’t incidentally encourage any Brit-
ish industry, or supply any Briton with a
job ; or, if he taxes something that can be
produced in England, he levies an equal duty
on the local article, thus again making sure
that he won’t help any Bull industry or find
one of Bull’s children a job. As a matter
of fact, J. Bull’s food taxes are something
heavy these days, but he has no objection to
food taxes so long as they don’t find work
or wages for a single local citizen. That is
the one thing he objects to. Freetrade doesn t
prohibit customs duties so long as they are
so adjusted as to leave the jobless and boot-
less citizen still jobless and bootless. But
England isn’t a cheap country to live in. A
land which imports about 90 per cent, of its
food, which buvs most of its necessaries at
Australian rates, with freight added, and
which taxes a good deal of these necessaries
on arrival, can’t be. It is simply a country
where-people do without things because a low
wage race in a high-priced country has to do
without things. Thus the Englishman eats
about one-third as much meat as the Aus-
tralian, and a little more than half as much
sugar, and economises in other ways. He
cuts his coat according to his cloth, but that
doesn’t imply that the cloth is cheap; it
only implies that the coat is tight about the
coliar and intensely skimp in the tail.
♦
A Cause which, the Churches bhould Espouse.
Dean Marriott, of Bathurst (N. S. Wales),
took occasion to flagellate, the Party Govern-
ment system before he left for England the
other day. If he had his time again, said
the Dean, he would institute a crusade
against Party Government. It is am emin-
ently reasonable attitude for a cleric, or.
indeed, for any other advocate of peace and
goodwill, law and order, civility and good-
feeling. etc., etc., to take up. The Party
system is in the nature of things, hopelessly
inimical to such virtues; The genuine Party
man almost invariably thinks that his op-
ponent is a hog, if not a criminal. There are
cases where he' merely thinks him an imbe-
cile. but they are uncommon. In the neat
of political controversy, citizens, who in the
ordinary relations of life are accounted cour-
teous and pacific folks, are liable to proclaim
their views concerning those of thfcir neigh-
bors who disagree with them touching the
merits of (say) WADE-ism or McGowen-
ism, as the case may be, in clear frank terms.
This practice produces a chronic blaze of
malice, hatred and uncharitableness which
all the verbal hoses of the pulpits are impo-
tent to extinguish. It leaps up with par-
ticular vigor at election-times, and spreads
all over the country. At fixed intervals cer-
tain citizens, regardless of whether they have
lived the lives of anchorites or of criminal
wasters, are forced to endure a fusillade of
public and private abuse and slander. It is
the price of entry into political life. Ordin-
arily speaking, a man who has made what
is known as a mistake in his early days can
get legal redress against anyone who tries to
drag it up against him years afterwards. A
Judge ruled the other day, in N. S. Wales,
that this peace-ensuring rule did not apply
where contests between political parties were
concerned. He laid it down that one party-
enthusiast could publicly taunt another with
his past errors for all time, assuming that
the taunter had sufficient lack of decency
and generosity to want to do so. The pri-
vate lies which politicians and their sup-
porters circulate as a matter of course about
rival politicians and their supporters are
as the sands of the sea-shore for numerous-
ness, and they equal the most complex of
God’g creatures in ingenuity of construc-
tion. The writer knew a man once who was
represented to the Roman Catholics of a cer-
tain town as the Vice-Admiral or Worship-
ful Bandmaster or what not of an Orange
Lodge, to the Methodies as a disguised Car-
dinal, to the Anglicans as a militant Atheist;
and to indifferentists as one who had done
five years’ penal servitude in Lima (Peru)
for burglary with violence. He was none of
these things—only a political candidate. He
never so much as thought of complaining
when he found out what had been going on ;
for one thing, he knew that hearty laughter
would be his meed if he did, so firmly wed-
ded is this sort of thing with the Party sys-
tem of government. The daily proceedings
in Parliament are enough to give any priest
or parson, who takes his job seriously, the
horrors. Nowhere, not even in a suburban
council, are the teachings of the Word in re-
ference to charitableness, and goodwill, and
loving-kindness disregarded with such furi-
ous persistence. The effect on the national
character of this system, which is such a
master-forcing ground for hate and bitter-
ness and assorted untruths, must be as_ dele-
terious as that of good old Der-rink itself.
And it (the system) is utterly unnecessary.
It is not essential to the administration of
the country’s business that Parliament
should be divided sharply into two or three
Caucuses consisting of members blindly
pledged to follow their respective leaders in
everything. On the contrary, the country’s
business would be vastly simplified affid
cheapened and expedited if the out-of-date
old convention were done away with. Why
do not the Churches, as a whole, declare
against the Party system? The State has
nothing to lose, and the cause which Chris-
tianity stands tor has everything to gain by
its abolition.
Justice Higgins earnestly desired to know
something last week, but so far his thirst
for information remains unslaked. The
trouble concerned one Warren Lewis,
whom the Minister for Customs was suing
for penalties. The admitted facts were that
Lewis, when in London last year, bought
two pianos and much furniture; also, he
engaged two new employees to work in his-
Melbourne factory. In order to get his
purchases out without paying duty he per-
suaded the two employees to take separate
lots of it as their own. They did so, and
on arrival both made declarations that it
was second-hand furniture and personal
effects, imported for their own use, though
it was immediately taken to Lewis at his
residence. These documents, as Mr. Hig-
gins said, contained false statements, the
defendant having got the men to pretend the
goods were theirs when they were really
his. He imposed the maximum penalty of
six times the value of the goods—£l2l2 in
all. But what he particularly wanted to
know was “why gross perjury of this kind
was not pursued more thoroughly.” A good
many other people are equally inquisitive.
Supposing, for instance, that this kind of
offender, instead of annexing the duty he
should have paid the State oh the goods,
had similarly “saved” the freight by getting
others to make a false declaration to the
shipping companies or had _ acquired the
goods themselves by some illegal method,
would the Law have folded its hands and
placidly murmured that it couldn’t bother
to pursue the matter thoroughly. By no
means! Long before now, Lewis would
have heard quite a lot upon the subject.
Also, that enterprising person seems to have
imported two employees under contract. Did
he have a permit to do so, or is the Govern-
ment too tired to pursue that matter more
thoroughly also?
The great coal strike in Britain was a record-
breaker in more ways than one. First, it.was
ihe biggest thing of its kind the world has
ever known, barring, perhaps, the Russian
railway strike of 1905, when over 1,000,000
men stopped work and stalled to throw dyna-
mite. And it certainly was a record breaker
in the vastness of its results, and the extent
of the hold-up. Also, it broke the record in
the matter of orderly conduct. Never was
such a peaceful upheaval. A handful, of
suffragettes made more riot than all the
miners, pit-workers, mining employees. and
so forth who ceased coal-digging in Britain
a few weeks ago. This was probably due
to the general feeling that when once vio-
lence started anything was liable to happen.
So the owners made no attempts to work
their mines with non-union labor. They
had learned their lesson in (he South Wales
strike of 1898, when, despite 15,000 troops
on the scene, the miners burned the signal
boxes of the railways, destroyed the ma-
chinery at the mouths of the pits, caused the
flooding of the mines, and generally did
£1,500,000 worth of damage. The struggle
that is just fading to a close probably marks
the real beginning of the end of Freetrade
in Britain. Parliament has affirmed the
principle of a minimum wage, to be fixed
by Boards, and although no penalty has
been provided with which to bit the owner
who refuses to pay the wage, that is certain
to follow. The real trouble will occur wh,en
other industries also demand a minimum
wage. The wretched employer will plead
• that while he is exposed to' the competition
of the world this is simply destruction; and
then the howl that will arise to keep out the
competition of the world will sweep through
the country, concentrate on Westminster,
and chase the ancient Freetrade party to
perdition.
A PSEUDO-MUNICIPAL conference, sitting
casuallv in Melbourne for the purpose of
drafting a Municipal Tramways Trust Bill,
has been notified by Treasurer and Vice-
Premier Watt that Rs work is Love’s
Labor Lost, inasmuch as the Government’s
Greater Melbourne Bill, to be introduced
next session, will fully meet all the municipal
proposals. Doubtless it will; but, so far as
can be ascertained, these latter evince as
much progress as a dead snail. The munici-
pal idea is to have a sort of glorified Board
of Shirks, with members elected by the com-
The Same Old Spectre.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Elections are in the air. The farmer is again
warned that the grim spectre of Socialism is abroad
to throttle the producer.— Brisbane daily.
lle comes, the Wicked Bogie, from the Anar-
chistic den,
His Socialistic phizog has a Nihilistic wen ;
He lifts his siren voice up in a wild, un-
earthly hoot,
And reckons you’re the victim he was sent
on earth to loot.
He has a cursed derry on the merry mar-
riage tie; . .... „
He reckons your religion ,is a case ot all
my eye”;
He wants to make the farmer pay the wages
that he bids,
And says it’s pure Iniquitee to sweat a
cocky’s kids.
He’s always “poking mullock” at the man
behind the plough ;
He’s got the cheek to say the farmers god
is but a Gow ;
He brags he never saved a quid or owned a
bit of ground,
And swears he’d like to tax our land at
threepence in the pound.
He steals around the roost at night—and
then the pullet’s missed ;
He lurks a-down the alley with a bomb
within hi& fist;
He’d like to blow the Wealthy to the Land
o’ Kingdom Gome;
His face is wild and hairy, and his breath
is full of Rum;
They bred him in the office of a daily jour-
nal high,
His sire was Mortal Panic, and his dam a
Flaming Lie;
At ev’ry new election does he burst his old
caboose,
And someone takes his muzzle oft and turns
the critter loose.
The women can’t abide him, for he’d under-
mine “The ’Ome,”
And choke the little children if he caught
them in the gloam ;
He has been known to fine a man —it was
a bitter pill!
For keeping kids a-milking when they ought
to be at drill.
He says the Cocky’s stupid, and he says the
Cocky’s dull,
But you’re the sort of Cocky that he can t
attempt to gull;
And when the poll is on us, won t you do
. the Bogie brown
By ' voting for a Hayseed as 11 keep the
beggar down?
QUEENSLAND.
A. JUDDITE.


T EASING Australian
Company transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident#
Live Stock Insurance.
TO RUNA SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
To Keep Ahead of Your Opposition by
Using HARRINGTONS’ EXCLUSIVE
STAR PICTURES- __!
A Complete List of All Exclusive
films, Hiring’ Rates and Synopsis
Of the various subjects will be
sent on application to
THlr leading cinematographic
X PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE
WELLIfIGTON.NZ.
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.
! Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
Lyric s Colonial Theatres
Direction : J. D. WILLIAMS.
World's Famous PHOTO-PLAY PALACES.
WHERE EVERYBODY GOES.
Continuous Performances: 11 a.ni. to 11 p.m.
STALLS, 3d. DRESS CIRCLE, 6d.
Entire Change of Programme twice 'weekly,'
MONDAY and THURSDAY. . -
Startling attractions shown at these 3 Theatres
every week, at English and American
prices of admission.
We cater specially for Ladies and Children.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attend-
ants.
Patronised by over 65,000 People weekly.
Run under the Continuous-show System, now
all the rage in England and America.
Don’t fail to see the Startling Attractions
showing this week at the Lyric, Colonial-No. 1,
and Colonial No. 2.
They are sensations, of Biographical Art. and
we guarantee them to be the most interesting
productions ever attempted in Photo-play.
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
ponent councils, not the ratepayers or citi-
zens, the said members to be paid what they
think themselves worth —that is, nothing—
but to have a paid chairman elected by them-
selves from among themselves. If the Gov-
ernment’s Bill give effect to these proposals,
Melbourne will presently be disgusted with
itself.' If it wants a repetition on a larger
scale of the Board of Lurks’ extravagance,
its blundering, its amazing capacity foV
being squeezed, its nepotism, and its con-
tempt for public opinion and immunity from
direct control, it will assuredly get it. Also,
the conferring councillors opine that Mel-
bourne City Council should appoint three
delegates out of the whole 11, and that all
responsibility should lie on the manager,
not on the chairman. Does anyone happen
to know of anybody on the look-out for a
nice, easy, clean, well-paid billet on a Board
of Perks?
“There is strange waste in the destruction
of a creature so full of life and beauty as a
tiger.” These are the written words of one
It. C. Yernede, in a book called “An Ignor-
ant in India.” The affectionate attitude
usually adopted by avowed Anti-Soshers
towards the striped pet of Labor has rarely
been more gracefully explained.
The latest version of the Six Ilatters con-
cerns a lady with a streak of Asiatic blood,
who has got to Maoriland via Australia,
and, it is said, can’t get back to her happy
Indian home. It is understood that she is
unable to get back because she must needs
go via Australia, and the bowelless White
Australia policy stands in the way. The
alleged anguish of this lady had been raved
about for quite a while when Atlee Hunt,
Secretary to the Department for External
Affairs, woke up to remark wearily that the
harmless, necessary permit hadn’t even been
applied for, nor had the distressing case
been reported to his office. Apparently this
new hatter business is just as mad as the
other six.
The new bunch of N.S.W. Labor M’s.L.G.
will not overshadow or outshine Mr. Fred
Flowers, the present leader of the party in
the Upper House. Apparently each Minis-
ter nominated one. Probably the nomina-
tions were made in this wise: J. Joyntdn
Smith (Dacey), Ilolden (McGowen), Sin-
clair (Carmichael), Bryant ' (Holman),
Doyle (Edden), McEnerney, Browne and
Hall (Beeby and Holman in combination),
Jarrar (Flowers). It would appear that
the McGowen party intends to destroy the
Upper House after all, for it has sent the
prosiest members of the party in—Sinclair,
for example, who bores successive Labor
Conferences to weariness. Once he catches
the President’s eye in the Upper House, he
will go on until most of the members die of
old age.
.Justifiable howl from 'Melbourne
The examination of C. T. Campbell, a Melbourne
tramway conductor and nominal applicant for the de-
registration of the Australian Tramway Employees’
Association, disclosed that ingenuous person in a
not unexpected light. He is still a member of the
association, but up to the present all his expenses
have been paid by the secretary of the Meibourne
Tramways’ Union —the “company’s union.” He also
expects the same secretary to loot the ultimate bill
of costs, though should he fail to do so, he (Camp-
bell) has been informed that he can rely for assist-
ance on William Wilson, secretary of the Common-
wealth Liberal party, and on the quaint J. W. Packer,
of the Independent Workers’ Union. The latter’s
position, of course, is understandable, he being against
all genuine unions, though it would be interesting to
learn just whence comes the cash he spends so freely.
But what has Affable Alfred got to say about the
Commonwealth Liberal party, of which he is leader,
busting up political funds in an industrial dispute
between two unions ?
George Murray, who has accepted the
seat on the S.A. Bench left vacant by the
death of Judge Homburg, refused a similar
offer last year. He is the first native-born
lawyer to become a Judge in S.A., and the
first graduate of Adelaide University who
has got there. He also holds various Cam-
bridge degrees, having gone to England as
winner of a before-Rhodes “South Australian
scholarship”—now extinct. He is a son of
squatter A- B. Murray, and cousin to the big
sheep breeders of that name. Also, he is a
tall, handsome, wealthy bachelor of 48. Girls
at a distance will please accept this intima-
tion.
The chronically inconsistent Sydney
TelEgrapii again. On 3/4/’l2 it remarked
that: —
When traced to its root, the apathy amongst Op-
position members is found to be largely the fault
of the party they represent. For if the strength of
the party is not represented in Parliamentary divi-
sions, that is only a reflex of what happens at the
ballot-box, from which a large percentage of Liberal
electors are always absent, leaving to others the duty
of returning their candidate.* This apathy, however,
is an'expensive luxury.
Yet on 9/4/’l2 the old, unreliable publica-
-1 ion, accepting it as a fact that Liberalism
in New South Wales, is "better organised
and more enthusiastic than ever before ,”
urged the party to illustrate the fact to all
Australia during the Werriwa by-election.
Now is the “Liberal” party an
weary crowd, that can neither crawl to the
ballot-box nor the Parliamentary Chamber
to record its vote, or is it glowing with zeal
and that devotion to the cause which is a
prelude to victory ? Or is the Telegraph
just a plain William Goat?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COUftfO WEEK.
Hkr Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl.”
Royal “The House of Temperley.”
Criterion..;. “The Blue Bird."
Adklpiii “ The Sins of Societj'.”
Palace “The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Twoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
h yRIC .. Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Belmorb Markets •. Wirths’ Circus.
V.M.C.A. Hall Blascheck.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s “ Married to the Wrong Man.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Girl in the Train.”
Royal “Kismet.”
King's “ After Dark.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Athenleum Margaret Cooper.
Glaciarium Kinemacolor.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia .. Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
♦
The professor of Holy Trinity Church,
Dublin, Rev. Lea, arose a few days ago to
remark that the metropolis of N.S.W. is out
of touch with the Christian capitals of the
world. Well, on Easter Saturday night
the writer wandered round the various the-
atres in the city and beheld thousands of his
fellow citizens illuminated with joy wherever
A irtue and true Christianity triumphed over
Beelzebub in the course of half a dozen
different stage plots. Where the reverse was
the case, the audiences expressed profound
disapproval. The stalls’ girl wept publicly,
the circle dame switched on the ice-cold eye,
the pushite up aloft referred to the heavy
man as the animal which is most frequent in
the dairying districts. At “The Squatter’s
Daughter, in the Palace, Ben Hall would
have been made into cat’s-meat if the gal-
lery could have reached him. If Ned Dug-
gan, his convict ally, had appealed to the
house for thrippence to save his life, not even
“ THE HOUSE
OF TEMPER-
LEY; AT
SYDNEY
ROYAL.
IARIES ATHOL
WOOD AS IAKES
THE BOOKMAKER.
a member ol the fish ring would have pro-
duced the coin. On the other hand, if the
charmingly distressed heroine, Mary Mar-
lowe, had called across the footlights for
help against the villain, the orchestra would
have been trampled to death in the rush of
thorough-paced Christians ready to put in
the boot. Lev. Lea has done Sydney an in-
justice. A visit to “The Squatter’s Daugh-
ter will prove this to him, and the manage-
nient declares its willingness to reserve a
seat for him any night during next week.
A seat for an afternoon performance would
have been offered, but the matinee girl is
still abroad in the land, and where the mat-
inee girl rolls the goo-goo eye is no place
for a deacon.
* * * *'
Maeterlinck, greatly daring, plunged into
h airyland, sprinkled it with extract of
Dreams, and brought forth “The Blue Bird ”
(Incidentally, J. C. Williamson also brought
it forth at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
night.) If Hans Anderson had taken to
drama in his middle* age, he would have
served up, for adult consumption, just such a
poet s fantasy. These men, one long dead,
the other in the zenith of his popularity,
show the same insight into the imaginative
mind of a child. The pursuit of happiness
and the common experience of finding it on
the domestic doorstep bring the two children,
iyltyl and Mytyl, to the climax of a glad
awakening in the home nest. The ease and
a fm^ lK T - of Gei : tie Cremer in the star part
J-yltyl m a triumph of juvenile precocity.
Vera Spaull, as Mytyl, is another astound-
ing infant who plays her part with the guile-
less grace of unspoilt childhood. The first
scene, im the bed-living room of Daddy and
Mummy Tyl, is an exhilarating sample of
modern stage mechanism. The homely room
turns into an All-Souls spree, with Bread,
Sugar, r ire and Water (hissing and hating
each other), the Hours, 12 blithe maidens
who skip out of a clock. Sugar, with barley-
stick fingers and a saccharine voice; Milk
with her broken jug (the next-door cat
again, no doubt) careering round the won-
dering children. Lily Brough, as the Fairy
Beryltine, who is responsible for this extrava-
ganza, is too wooden in her reading of the
part to give the light and jjhade necessary
to Maeterlinck’s fantastic humor. Madge
Mclntosh, as Night, gets away with a large
gasometer of applause before she shakes the
stars out of their beauty sleep for the benefit
of Tyltyl and Mytyl. Ernest Ilendrie enters
into the soul of the dog Tylo. Bread calls
it “the soul of a flunkey.” A bitter gihe with
a tang of truth in it, for a dog is a humble
and door-matty sort of brute, with a cold
nose and a clinging soul. Tylo, in his travels
with his “little god” Tyltyl, wears the rather
bashed remains of a flunkey’s livery to em-
phasise the point. The cat, Tylette (Norman
Page), is mostly black with a white waist-
coat, an uneasy conscience, and Old Tom
whiskers. But Tylette’s face is too fidgety,
and the sleek satisfaction of the average
family roof-howler in its reposeful moments
—the moments when it is full of milk and
mouse and the memory of last night’s ini-
quity—is a mile or two away from the Page
production.
The Land of Memory, the Kingdom of the
Future (peopled with mystic unborn chil-
dren), and the Palace of Night convey, as
far as the exigencies of the stage carpenter
and limelight-man allow, the poetic philo-
sophy of Maeterlinck’s dream-play. The
forest, with its protesting tree souls, gives the
Oak (E. A. Warburton) every opportunity
to explain his objection to the axe. He does
it in a voice trembling with emotion, and
looks like the photo, of Alfred Tennyson
when he crossed the bar. The Chestnut, a
red-haired dandy “who haunts cities,” trims (
tiie forest with a Society manner. Norman
O’Neill's music is too important to be called
incidental to “The Blue Bird.” It’s a full
orchestra and a Concert platform in itself.
** * *
The National Amphitheatre is suffering,
in this Eastertide season, from a rush of
acrobatics to the bill heads. Kara’s balanc-
ing fea.ts excel the finest rail-sitting efforts
of such masters as David Storey, the
anti-Liberal caucus Liberal, and James
McGowen, the hard-borrowing leader of the
party which is pledged to a reduction-of-bor-
rowing policy. High praise this, but it does
not overstate the case. The Siddons supply
the few balancing feats which Kara omits.
Herbert Clifton, of the iwo voices, is still
in evidence, and some humor is supplied by
Irene and Morton.
* * * :Ii
Tiie Bulletin hastens to relieve the
minds of its readers by informing them that
the bins of our much-abused Society consist
mainly of pawning coal, losing someone
else s money at bridge, betting on the horse
that, didn’t win, and getting married. The
foregoing valuable information is gained at
the Adephij where the “Sins of Society” is
beipg staged amid some of the finest scenery
yet seen thereabouts. The story is the
good old one of the young girls 'who are
fleeced at the Bridge Club by older and
moTe experienced birds, and, not being able
to pay, take the advice of a bad ’un, who
gradually gets them into a tangle. But they
escape exactly one minute before the Curtain
falls, owing to the sudden and unexpected
1 e-appearance of the. hero, who was supposed
to have gone down in a shipwreck, but was,
of course, the only one saved. As Lady
Marion, the lady who obtains money by
pawning cCals under the pretence that they
are diamonds, Violet Paget is It, and Elw.vii
llarvey. as Lady Gwen, her sister, who also
gets into trouble and loses other people’s
money, is an It of the same dimensions.
“THE BLUE BIRD,"
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
The latest hero
and villain —
Tylo, the good
dog (Ernest Hendrie),
and Tylette, the bad cat
(Norman page).
The Rose Rouge,” alias “His Life for a
Mower, was the Piaster egg at the Lyric
this week, and the picture is awarded a blue
ribbon. The chief attraction about it is
the Dance des Apaches, which loses none of
its thrill on the screen. In the Also Ran
section Pathe s Gazette” is highly-.com-
mended.. At the Colonial a Selig picture,
I he Little Widow,” is first over the bays,
and at the Colonial 2 “A Blot on the
Scutcheon, adapted from Robert Brown-
ing’s poem, scores the highest number of
points.
* ' * * *
“Gentlemen,” saith the Professor, “we will
now resume our study of theatrical'geometry,
with particular reference to the Theatre
Koyal, Sydney. Before we proceed with the
proposition, I would like you to glance at
Definition 1: A seat (59a) is that which
hath no parts and no magnitude, and if it be
situated at the extreme end of a dress circle
bisected by a straight line of footlights, and
ii a bee-line may not b& made to some point
nearer the centre of the dress circle, then the
critic is a figure standing at an absurd angle,
and it shall be impossible for him to describe
more than a segment of the show. That,
gentlemen, brings us to Proposition 1: To
describe “The House of Temperley” from a
seat at the extreme end of a bisected dress
circle. Let ab be the footlights ; let cbe the
stout, lady in the box opposite. (A stout
lady is. a plain figure contained by corsets —
Definition 14.) Let Dbe the manager’s back.
(A manager is that which hath posi-
tion and magnitude, and which can-
not be contained by anything—though
it sometimes contains spirits, but of
that there is no present evidence —or
seen through, or shifted —Definition 15.) It
is required to describe a House of unknown
shape, which is known to he in a hole in the
first act, but is suspected of being square
or more so in the last, owing to Jack Tem-
perley having demonstrated that he is a com-
plete oblong or brick, and the elimination
by explosions and colored fire of Sir Charles
Temperley, who proves to be at least half an
oblong or brick. The class will perceive that
we have here a problem extremely difficult of
solution. However, let us proceed. Let
Cyril Mackay be Sir Charles Temperley
(e). He is very ruddy and spirited, and is
equal to anything but Arthur Styan, who
makes a burly, sinister Sir John Hawker
(p), and James Atholwood Jakes, the villain-
ous old bookmaker (g). Because (h) Har-
court Beatty (Captain Jack Temperley)
exactly coincides with (1.), Dorothy Dix
(Ethel Morley), and because he and Ethel
together make one complete House, and are
greater than all the other figures put toge-
ther, therefore it is impossible to keep
them apart, or for Hawker and Jakes (f
and g) to continue to show Charles Tem-
perley the extremities of a line —viz., points.
In Act —or Proposition—4, where the upper
circles (Winter Hall, Duke of Broadwater,
and Sir John Hawker) cut each other
severely, a line is drawn, and Hawker (F),
who is thereby proved to be impossible, leaves
with his hat at an acute angle. Hencefor-
ward he and the other circles move along
parallel straight lines—viz., such as are - in
the same plane, and which, being produced
ever so far both ways do not meet —except
for duelling purposes. The straight left of
Jack Temperley (h) having been extended
from H to the angle described by the jaw of
his adversary (j), whilst both are contained
by the square ring (k) on Crawley Downs,
n is thus shown to be equal to Hawker and
Jakes (f and g), from whose pockets is
drawn the cash which is necessary to square
the partially visible House, and get rid of
the obtuse bailiffs, who meet together on the
mat, and are equal to one another, and can-
not contain themselves. Sir Charles, having
realised that on the same House and on the
same side of it there cannot be two oblongs
or bricks like himself (e) and brother Jack
(h.i, he terminates in his own extremity,
and the way is clear to join Jack (ii) and
Ethel (i), and draw the line at the ex-
treme end of a bisected dress circle.”
The above may appear a somewhat vague
estimate of a play which has not hitherto
been accused of mysticism, or vasty depth,
or anything of that sort." .But when a writer
finds himself stowed away in a dress-circle
seat which commands a view of about half
the stage, and frorh which most of the dia-
logue, barring occasional and wholly profit-
less yelps and howls, ; is inaudible, it becomes
necessary that he should resort to desperate
measures if he would hold his job.
Just now there are so many people in Syd-
ney that the most cleverly-concealed show
places are discovered and filled, and .the heart
of the showman made glad by the impatient
applause of a packed house five minutes be-
fore the overture is timed to fdart. That is
how the clever Blascheck-Wrighton pair hap-
pened to be discovered on Easter Saturday
night, in the Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall—a room
in a dark edifice which is situated on the
corner of an obscure side street, past which
the disjointed trams rush like hunted devils,
and these devils drag loads of old iron, and
breathe hard through their noses when the
conductor on the tail end yells explosively
Right!” Blascheck and'his tall, decora-
tive partner would never have any reason ;to
leave the brick jungle of Sydney if they
could find a more central pitch in place of
their present outpost. 1 Anyhow, they are
not likely to get lonesome this season. Bias-
check is at his best when, as the J.P_ about
to try the case of a double husband, he mis-
takes the crime for a witness' or something,
and commands loudly that “Big Amy” be
called into court. Both he and ’ Miss
Wrighton have .amazing rgper oires, and the
changes are rung so quickly that the little
show sparkles along from 8 to 10.20 or so,
before the audience has quite settled down
and arranged its coat tails. They are to lend
wmgs to the week night of Aprii at the same
address. . .
* * *
Tiny Arnold, abbreviated comedienne,
smiled over the footlights at Sydney Tivoli,
last Saturday, and sang and danced to loud
applause. She might not hold the attention
or an audience so long if she were not so
short; but being no bigger thatPshe is, and
considerably smaller than she might have
been 1 if she had not tired early of growing
up, the'heart of the public is touched. Reg.
Wentworth, the programme’s other novelty,
is described by that document as a comedian
and descriptive vocalist. Though he fills no
long-felt want, his presence is agreeable.
Rinaldo, of the fiddle, comedian Poplar, the
ball-punching Keeley Brothers, and the jug-
gling Testros share the rest of the large
print on the bills.
* * s'fi
On Good Friday, at the Old Belmore Mar-
kets, Sydney, Wirth Bros, kindly inflated
several thousand children with buns and
ginger beer, until the bears stood on thei>:


s?£> - -C -t..'
V'S ' ) * 'l l ) >
'3b .«?'/ '
. ©• ! r
W, 1 , 4
r?
ji'ii
3a
L.I
■
</:
IfMOfil
SQOASH
E
Schweppes*
Lime Juice
Cordial.
Prepared Solely from MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE.
Purveyors fay Special Appointment
to His Majesty the King.
Head Office : 49 PALL MALL, LONDON.
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
hind legs and thrust agonised snouts in the
air. Buns are the unnatural birthright of
every captive bear, and the strain of seeing
so many strange infants absorb the cushion-
like food ter*)orarily unnerved the troupe.
It was thoughtless of the management, es-
pecially as the upholstered animals have
been the draw of the congested season.
On Saturday night Tiny Town will con-
clude its Sydney season. It has been an
unusually long season, and its profits have
been such that manager Beaumont Smith
has almost been afraid to look his poor
relations in the face. The show will raid
the country for a time. It opens at Nowra
on April 15.
The shadow of the advancing panto, looms
over the svelte form of “The Quaker Girl.”
It is this paper’s mournful duty to record
that, in a few nights now, the maiden will
have left Her Majesty’s (Sydney). It may
be till she is revived, it may be for ever.
Adelaide Tivoli is giving the first-in-Aus-
tralia turn of Will Fox, an American who
does things with the piano, including play-
ing on a cloth-covered keyboard with gloved
hands and bandaged eyes. Some of his ideas
have been seen here before, but he an-
nounces himself tersely as “the originator of
all comedy trick playing piano acts.” Inci-
dentally, he shows himself a skilful teller of
yarns. Nonie Mine is the strange name of
another new-comer to this land. Hand-
some, and a good dancer, she sings, or speaks,
songs of the “saucy” order with great effect!
“The Chocolate Soldier” has gone, with its
fine, all-round acting, adequate singing, weird
English lyrics written on to the Strauss
music, and obvious Americanisms left in
from its Stay in the U.S.A. It is one of
those rare shows that are enjoyed more the
second time of seeing than the first. All the
seme, there is not much of the Shaw wit left
in, the bedroom search, especially, being a
mere burlesque item. , In the Williamsonian
scheme of tilings, Adelaide this year comes
next after Melbourne for pantomime pur-
poses, and “Sinbad” has accordingly brought
his flying girls and general array of dazzle-
ment to the Royal just in time for Easter
and Oakbank. The King’s has a batch of
clever new people, and the Skating Rink —
there is only one now—has started its winter
programme of fancy-dress and other revelry.
The picture and all other shows slightiy
modified their programmes for Good Friday,
the Royal being the only house to close.
** # *
KISMET
Praises to Allah ! In a Baghdad street,
Where all the odors of Arabia meet,
The Beggar Hajj (best known as Oscar Asche)
Achieves a sudden rise. A bag of cash
By Caleb Porter at his feet is thrown,
And thus the seeds of strange events are sown.
Praises to Allah !
Sheik Caleb is the Beggar’s long-lost foe,
Who stole his missus in the years ago,
And slew his son; but Oscar, all the same,
Picks up the gold and starts to play the game
Of Baghdad grab, which brings him soon to grief.
Still, when arrested for a common thief,
And dragged before a Minister of State —
The Wazir smiles at fate
And turns up trumps. The Wazir has a plan
To kill the Caliph, so he needs a man
To do his bidding in this venture rash.
Well, what man better than Hajj Oscar Asche ?
Praises to Allah !
The nice young Caliph—may his joys increase!
Owns ail the manly virtues in the piece,
Whilst Miss Marsinah, Hajj’s beauteous child,
Ts Lily Brayton, honey-svveet and mild.
And therefore, in a way of speaking, she
Ts bound tile Caliph’s bride-elect to be.
Praises to Allah !
Disguised as the Gardener's Son he wins
Marsinah’s love, and pardons Hajj’s sins,
Which, ere his way to banishment is cleared,
Grow blacker than Mohammed’s sacred beard.
All crimes come easy to Hajj Oscar Asche ;
As lief he’d .cut a throat;as cut a dash:
He stabs the Caliph, but a coat of mail
Defeats his end, and then he’s sent to gaol
Where lies his ancient foe, Sheik Caleb Porter,
Whose time on earth is short. Asche , cuts, it,
shorter.
He breaks his chains and kills Sheik Caleb dead,
And jaunts from prison in the corpse’s stead,
Then to the Wazir’s hamman (or hareem,
Where lovely ladies lie,> and pine, and dream;
And unclad charms in tinted limelight gleam)
The burly Beggar hastens, full of wrath,
And drowns theM r azjr Grimwood in a bath.
; i Praises t 9 ■ Allah !
The evil deeds the Caliph kind forgives :
The dead are buried ; and the Beggar lives
In exile, father of theV beauteous tart
Whose gen&e smile, controls the Caliph’s heart.
Outside, the; mosque they seemingly were wed;
He placed his hand upon her royal head,
Called her his pearl or pearls, his Very Best,
And sent her in a birdcage home to rest.
Praises to Allah !
“Kismet,” the entertainment , with -.which
Oscar Asche opened his season at Melbourne
Royal last Saturday, is largely a panorama
of glorified Asiatic life displayed with an
accompaniment of tom-toms and other ques-
tionable music, the instrumentalists being
hidden in a private box, and the stage being
advanced over the place usually reserved for
the orchestra. The picturesque effects are
certainly the finest and boldest and most
carefully elaborated that Melbourne has seen
thusfar. “Kismet” is a feast of color
schemes —a series of processional movements
■ a long array of individual posings and col-
lective groupings. One’s impressions of
E. FRIEDMAN, MELBOURNE PRIN-
CESS’S MUSICAL CONDUCTOR.
nature get overshadowed by the assertive
presence of Art,* as, for instance, in the case
of the Wazir’s “Sworder,” a shiny brown
person with scanty Egyptian trimmings, who
looks like a life-size chocolate figure moulded
for a confectioner’s window. Sometimes the
slowness of the spectacle becomes rather
tiresome, and always the tonirtom laden
accompaniment is somewhat noisy. These
things are of the East easty, but there is
nothing essentially congenial to Australian
taste in a presentment of Baghdad society
as it never was. The dirt of Asia is left
out. The only references to its indigenous
vermin are in Hajj’s allusions to his fellow
man. Scene painter, dress-designer and stage-
manager have done wonders for the spectacle,
but they have not given much air of realism
to the play, which is spasmodic in its action,
and is delayed by introductions to each act.
The introducers in front of the curtain are
a pair of melodious singers—Penderell Price
and Lilian Birtles, an excellent story-teller
(Hignett), who discourses like Nobody, the
counsel for Everywoman, a silent sorcerer
with a property serpent twined about him,
and Zara a bare-footed dancer. Zara, by the
way, Is a charmingly lissome performer. She
appears in the play as a present from the
Egyptian Government to the Caliph, and
her attempt to distract his thoughts from
political business and make him forget the
other girl is one of the most, poetic incidents
of the night.
Apart from Oscar Asche, as the Beggar,
there is not much scope for acting. Caleb
Porter is well placed and impressive. Grim-
wood, as of yore, is too exuberant in speech,
gesture and facial expression, but forcible
withal. lan Penny’s artificiality in all re-
spects has increased. Some of the other old
members of the eo. are of no consequence in
this production, but the new young man,
Frederic Worlock, makes a capital first ap-
pearance as the Caliph. Miss Brayton’s
part, though not large, gives her a lift in
critical estimation. She is very sweet and
appealing in her studied style, which lends
itself to the character even as her intoned
speeches accord with the orchestral drone.
Moreover; her emotional efforts seem stronger
than they were two years ago. As for Oscar
Asche, it can only be said that he acts his
heavy part in a way which is probably cal-
culated to f make it more popular than it
would be if he took it very seriously. The
character of the Beggar—-the despicable son
of a whining parent whose own father was
a beggar before him—doesn’t hang together,
and Asche’s perfortnance is superficial. He
never gets lost in a maze of endeavor to find
a key to Hajj’s cheerful brutality, or the
reason why the born mendicant becomes so
adventurous and versatile all at once, or
the explanation of how he had ever obtained
the ownership of a wife worth stealing.
* * $ jj;
Bilanderson’s present distraction at the
King’s is the imperishable Boucicault drama,-
‘‘After Dark.” Old Tom, it may be recalled,
is the most amazing character in the play.
At the outset, he is a persistently unsoher
sandwich man, with his hat bashed and his
language in a state of blithering agitation.
Then mysterious inner influences go to work,
and the audience beholds a. gradual regenera-
tive feat. Thomas mislays his rags and his
wavering gait; he improves his accent as he
loses his leer; and in the last act one sees
him in the perfect clobber of an English
gentleman sentencing the villain and his
accomplice to gaol. The villain, Chandos
Bellingham by name, has had a history
crowded with crime and purple anecdotes.
’When the drama opens he is engaged with
an over-dressed Yid in trying to tear a cha-
racter named Medhurst from his missus and
his millions. The discomfiture of the con-
spirators is due to the intervention of Old
lom and Gordon Chumley, the latter an
inconspicuous hero played in the grand man-
ner by one Bentley. Lawrence Hardinge is
the evil Chandos aforesaid ; but Lawrence is
ii j y i y acity or distinction, and his
talk degenerates into a monotonous monody.
Edwin Campbell is more humorously effect-
ive as the Hebrew proprietor of the Elysium
Music Hall, where in Boucicault’s days the
demi-monde did mingle freely with the semi-
anoarelled. Old Tom is a selection from
YY alter Baker’s gallery of convincing pic-
tures, though Walter’s impression of a vivid
drunk is a little bit outre about the legs.
As an apparition called Crumpets, Tom oan-
nam can be recommended, while Aubrey
Mallalieu, as George Medhurst, has a style
a trifle too gentle for gaudy bellojvdrama.
Among the ladies, Miss Frances Ross, as
Lucy, is a credit to her wig-maker, and Miss
\ era Kemee, as Rose Egerton, occasionally
shows a tendency to become an actress.
Scenery and. appointments, are very passable,
though the interior of the Elysium does not
suggest that it is a Heaven of a place.
Y\ here the furniture isn’t tottery it is diffi-
cult to find, and the lone billiard table in the
corner is gone in the knees.
'i* JjC jjc
The most interesting item at YVest’s, Mel-
bourne, last Saturday was “The, Better
YY ay.’ Therein a demoiselle of the German
peasant class is the heroine, and her spirited
wobbling between the dry bun of Virtue and
the caviare of Y 7 ice is an exhibition in femin-
ine frailty that libels her sex. A furtive in-
genuity about “YVith a Kodak” commends
that subject to this paper; and “The Ocean”
demands approval for the gentility of the
quotations, which, so to speak, interrupt the
film and knock it frequently out of its stride.
Next Saturday, so YVest announces, Sarah
Bernhardt will do a stunt as a phantom
Camille, and the audience is requested to
keep its eye upon her noiseless cough.
** * *
“Cooee and the Echo” was the most ap-
plauded runner at the Lyric, Prahran (Vic.),
last week, though it is a rather misguided
story of Binghis and bushrangers, jerky in
its action and tiresome in its length. “Van-
ity Fair,” pictured from the yarn of old
Thackeray, was more effective, the acting
and scene-setting being of a very high grade.
Also good was “A Doubly Desired Orphan,”
and limited approval can be given to “The
Life of Christ,” which was screened to slow
music on Friday night.
* *
The fervent blessings of Marlow’s sup-
porters were showered on “Married to the
YVrong Man,” which began a season of
anguish at Melbourne Princess’s on Satur-
day night. It is a familiar drama: on familiar
lines ; and Ruth, the heroine, is, if possible,
a little more severely trodden upon.than the
average lady of her class. But in the end
she is dragged out of the bog of misfortune,
and receives her great, glad reward, being
married to George Cross. In a Marlow
drama the highest pinnacle of blessedness
consists in being married to George Cross.
Ruth is very fairly enacted by Miss Nellie
Fergusson. The villain is Herbert Deering,
who mysteriously returns from the dead,
and, planning to lay out the hero, Jack
Gladwin, with a bat on the skull, bestows
PHYLLIS
HOPWOOD-
FOLDI,
Pianomono,
logiste (vide
programme)
from London,
on tour in
Australia.
the fatal clout on a harmless old soldier by
mistake. Vivian Edwards plays Herbert
Deering on popular lines, but the portrait is
without any notable artistic touch. The
actor’s work altogether is somewhat hard
and abrupt, and his villainy, so to speak, is
devoid of soul. George Cross is the usual
kind of hero. There is only one kind of
hero in melodrama, and Cross is that kind.
If he were any other kind, the audience
would probably be cross as well as George,
for the people who go to this sort of play
hate to get out of the familiar rut.
* ❖ :I: *
Margaret Cooper differs from many other
entertainers who sing songs at the piano, in
that her soprano voice. is highly cultured,
her playing is exceptionally clever, and her
personality is equally magnetic and win-
some. Appearing for the first time at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum Hall last Monday night
the girl from London walked on the plat-
form as though her crowded audience were
a family, gathering, and she were its old
established favorite. She does- nothing else
but sing to her own piano accompaniment.
On Monday she gave a dozen songs in all,
and at the end of her third number the
dainty humorist was accepted as the
Dolores of drawing-room entertainment.
Other artists have sung some of the same
things in one or two instances. Margaret
Cooper is not more effective than, say, Mil-
dred Wrighton. But in her happiest descrip-
tive renderings of ditties, dreamy or droll,
this delightful Margaret can give points to
all her rivals. She has only two supporters.
H. Scott Leslie supplies character sketches,
anecdotes and patter songs on the same
lines as Joe Blascheck. A pleasing young
baritone balladist named Horace Witley is
the other principal, and a third young man
plays gentle piano accompaniments to his.
brethren.
<. * * * *
‘The Girl in the Train,” which had its;
vogue in Sydney before Christmas, is the
Faster show at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Considered as a ‘‘musical play” in a pair of
c .ts rather than a German perversion of
Gilbert's ‘‘Trial by Jury,” supplemented by
a more or less relevant variety entertain-
ment, this is pardonably thin and pleasantly
tresh. Act I. is all divorce case, and Act
11. is a go-as-you-please that, incidentally,
restores the male respondent to the arms of
Ins wife, Florence Young, the libelled co-fe,
appearing somewhat as the good and buxom
?£ reconciliation. Generally speaking.
Ihe Girl in the Train” is W. S. Percy s
picnic. The opening act is humorous in con-
struction and dialogue, and Percy, as the
judge, gets the brightest things to say and
do. Fxcept that he lays a trifle too much
emphasis on his opportunities, the little
comedian is beyond reproof, which judg-
ment applies without reservation to Jack
Cannot, the train attendant, who occasion-
<illy slips off the witness stand whilst giving
evidence. Both Florence Young, as the
actress co-re, and Sybil Arundale, as the
jealous Mrs. \an Buren, are charming,
though inclined to be hard —like Leo Fall’s,
music. Talleur Andrews, the baritone-tenor
husband, makes a good impression with his;
thetm voice and easy manner. Regin-
ald Roberts plays a barrister who has little
or nothing to warble, and Miss Vivian Tal-
leur executes a pleasing dance at the outsett
ot the second act. This goes on to include
sundry duets and part songs, in addition to
? n . e laborate parody of “Samson and
Beliia. Jhe mixed character of the pro-
ceedings in the home of respondent Van
Buren is fully expressed in- the statement
that the potted parody of a grand opera is
about the most popular item.
** * *
Burnetti, a quick-change character
musician, ambled into Melbourne Opera
House on Saturday. His handling of vari-
ous reed instruments does not call for con-
demnation, and his changes are fairly
rapid ; at the same time there is but little
danger of some of his studies—Chirgwin,,
the white-eyed Kaffir, f’rinstance—being-
mistaken for the originals, although they
might pass for Judas Iscariot, T. Bent or
some other bygone notorieties. The three
buxom Athlctas continue to lift bar-bells';
weighing 2%cwt. or less, and drop them
on the stage in an unnecessarily noisy man-
ner , and the blonde Miss Athleta also carries;
large quantities of man about with ap-
parent ease. The best item on the bill of
tare is still provided by Terry and Lambert,,
the Amurkan sketch artists, but this paper
would again implore the male half of the
partnership, more in boredom than in anger,
to dispense with the bathetic recital anent
the corpse in the baggage car. Other good •
are P by Chas. J. Johnson, a
cuilud pusson, who is a mighty cake-walker
before the gods, and Fanny Powers, whose
freshness and daintiness, always make this
paper regret its misspent youth.
If the N.S.W. Government desires to earn quite
a heap of popularity, and, incidentally, to do a good
deed, it will enact that, whenever the theatre curtain
goes up, the theatre door will be closed, so that late
aruvals must wait till the interval. Thereby it will
do a notable service to the cause of order, and as its
opponents are always crying out for order, it should
thereby cut the ground from beneath their feet,
the unmannerly and evening-dressed late arrival has
been a nuisance for many years. But of late he
(and also she) has become a burden too great to be
borne. The evil culminated, so far as Sydney is con-
cerned, at the first night of “The Blue Bird.” There
the late arrival blotted out the first half-hour of the ;
play. It was the apotheosis of Society Regarded as\
a Hog. The late arrivals were numerous and expensively
clothed. They couldn’t immediately find their seats ;
in the gloom, and the distracted ushers had a natural!
difficulty in reading the numbers of their tickets.
A whole row of them, with the kindly consideration!
pf the wild ass of Persia, and not more than half the •
politeness of a bottle-o, stood between the stalls andi
the orchestra, and argued loudly, and a similar row/
blocked the view of the dress-circle. When they/
weren’t arguing loudly they were conversing;
loudly about their private affairs. After about
half an hour of alarms and incursions this
late fragment of Society—still strictly Regarded
as a Hog—discovered its respective seat in the dark-
ness, and walked over the rest of the audience, and
subsided. But it still talked about its private affairs,
because it had lost most of the first act, and had
little interest in the bit that remained, and it couldn’t
see that anybody else had a right to have any in-
terest. And not one of the noisy gang was heard
to apologise.
The Bulletin’s dramatic critic .in Adelaide
writes: “5.0. A.” seems unjust (B. 7/3/’l2) in at-
tributing the raised prices at Adelaide Royal to anv
Combine whatever. It is the only house in Adelaide
playing drama or opera, and is let impartially by the
lessees (Pollock and Myers) to all managers in turn.
A variation in tariff always has been recognised;
“Five, three and one” for the high-class shows:
“Three, two and qne” for the less elaborate. Natur-
ally, the latter occur mostly in the summer, and the
raised prices referred to were expressly stated to be
those of the winter season —existing long before any
Combine was dreamed of. After which, it may be
admitted that, beginning with last year, the above-
mentioned five shillings has a tendency (in Adelaide,
as already elsewhere) to become six. I understand
that the orchestra and the stage-hands are getting
paid better. Good luck to them! Similarly, the
local price of, a sandwich has lately been raised 33
per cent., and that of a fish-lunch 50 per cent. One
may not like it, but to blame any particular Firm
for it would be absurd. Whether “The Girl in the
Train is equal to “The Cingalee,” or a whiting of
this year to one of the 1902 vintage, is beside the
question.
“S.T.S.”: Saw Edward Terry constantly in the
burlesque days of London Gaiety. He and Royce,
Nellie Barren and Kate Vaughan, were commonly
called “the Four” who filled the house (or, in mana-
ger Hollingshed’s pompous phrase, “kept alight the .
sacred lamp of burlesque”) : but, as a matter of fact,
“the child” —Connie Gilchrist, now Countess of
Orkney—was just as big an attraction. Terry’s
strong point was his curiously affected tone of v/oice
One can see and hear him now—when hidden behind
a piano and told to “’Sh!”—bobbing up periodically
with “I decline to shish.” Once he was making stage
love to Kate Vaughan, who was merely bored. “My
heart is large,” he urged. “So are your feet,” she
retorted, brightly. Ilis reproachful gaze was per-
fect. “It may be ter-rue,” he said at last, “but it
appears to be quite uncalled for.” Terry made a lot
of money with “Sweet Lavender,” and became a
churchwarden.
(Continued on page 32.)


This Smart Fur Alpine
Will suit any face, and, being made of a fine
quality, Kough-surface Fur, it is distinctly at-
tractive in appearance. It' is very dressy, and is
the correct style for Wear this Season. The soft-
ness and pliableness of the Fur makes this Hat
one of the most comfortable Hats it is possible
to find. The Brims are in various widths, and
the Bands are wide, in self-colors.
A
A Rough Fur Alpine Hat that will wear
well, in Green, Grey and Brown
10/6
Better Quality Fur, in Green and Brown,
with bright finish
12/6
A Fine Hat, in Serpent Green and Nut
Brown
15/6
Real Plush Velour, a most serviceable Fur,
in Nut Brown and Green
21/-
In extra-long Beaver, a Bough Fur that
presents a very tonev appearance, in
Green and Nut Brown
25/-
DAVID JONES Ltd.
(Opp« G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
A
They enable your Car to do better work. •
Vacuum Gargoyl
Mobiloils
are free from Animal or Vegetable Compounds.
They ensure freedom from frictional wear, and
lengthen the life of the car. Ask for Pamphlet.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.,
New Zealand Chambers, George Street, Sydney.
Society
PENCOLD'S
WINES
The indictment of “LI. Singemoine”
I wish ,P. G. Hamerton, or some other sociological
expert of his calibre, had explained the mysterious
association which undoubtedly exists between the
Word and pawky fatuity of the most blithering and
platitudinous variety. Bible societies, Y.M.G.A.
meetings, Band of Hope foregatherings—all these ap-
pear to have a deleterious effect on the intellects of
those who frequent them. For example, an. institu-
tion which calls itself the N. S. Wales Auxiliary of
the British and Foreign Bible Society, held its 95th
annual meeting in Sydney last week. Lord Chelms-
ford presided. With the air of one who had just got
on to a bright, new thought, he propounded the fol-
lowing :
“The English version of our Bible will stand as
the noblest example of our English tongue.”
This doddering and grey-whiskered sentiment had
well earned the old-age pension 200 years ago, yet
the Bible-folk cheered it as if it were fresh from the
mint. Then he told them the usual imbecile little
anecdote —'this time about an “old Norwegian grand-
father” ttfho couldn’t understand English. He and
the ancient became “fast friends for ever after” by
reciting to one another the names of all the patri-
archs they could remember. Archbishop Wright fol-
lowed with the vague statement that “the Bible was
an inspired book because it was an inspiring book.”
And Rev. John Ferguson opined that, “If the Bible
were used as much as it should be, we would not
have the sorrow and trouble that are being exper-
ienced in England just now.” This was a large, impres-
sive assertion, but —since the Bible says nothing of
the advisability of a 20th century country abandoning
B’reetrade as a condition precedent to prosperity—
one that was hopelessly wide of the ipark. I have
read and heard many speeches delivered at holy
gatherings such as the above, but I never got the
least fragment of intellectual profit out of them, nor
a vestige of original thought. Granted that the Bible
is all that its warmest admirers claim it to be, it
yet remains one of Life’s great mysteries that the
majority of those who identify themselves with it
most p'ubliclv, are the most futile persons imagin-
able, while normally intelligent folk seem to grow,
now foolish, now turgidly commonplace, under its
spell.
The conquering hoof of the Cow was all
over Sydney last week, owing to the Royal
Agricultural Society’s annual outbreak. As
usual, the heavy artillery of the Church gave
the Queen of the Earth her first advertise-
ment by opening fire and brimstone on the
old, old wrangle of Good Bunday. Then the
Telegraph published a picture of a levelled
forest, and labelled it “Making Way for the
Cow,” and mentioned elsewhere that the
dairy industry was worth £7,000,000 annu-
ally to the Ma State. The public held its
breath with both hands for a few days. Then
the dew-wet morning sheet was opened again
and the portrait of the sacred beast’s hus-
band was discovered looking out at the
reader from an elegant frame. The news had
been jostled into the back yard, so that he
might chew and wave his tail in the straw-
laid dining-room. Next day, the Queen her-
self was shown looking mournfully down her
nose. About the same time, a human valet
was pictured doing up the fringe of her bro-
ther-in-law in the paper’s guest-room. Fin-
ally, President Suttor, at the official lun-
cheon, made a heavy-footed agricultural joke
about George V. and Edward of Wales not
being on all-fours with the Queen, the Bull
Consort and their variegated suite. The ani-
mal which chews like a cheap Yank and bel-
lows at the yatd gate for its human servant
may be a terribly important curse; but it
should not be allowed to trample on the front
garden of the' press and eat the hothouse
blooms of the cable liar.
“The Old Soldier” :
According to the Sydney dailies, the Australian
Government is advertising in London for a tank-
steamer to import oil to fire the Warrego’s boilers.
It is questionable whether in following the British
navy’s practice in having these destroyers driven by
steam generated with oil fuel, Australia is not com-
mitting itself to an out-of-date practice. The
motor-driven ship is already an accomplished fact
in the merchant service of every European country.
When the first motor-warship is put in commission
and tested, all the fleets of the world will be due for
the scrap-heap. As the Engineer of last January
put it
“In the first place, the radius of action for any
given ship would be multiplied by nearly three, as
compared with a coal-burning ship, and nearly double
as compared with an oil-burning ship for a given
displacement. In itself this is an advantage of first-
rate importance. Then the funnels could be done
away with, which would increase the “training-arc”
of the guns. The smokelessness and absence of
flames from the funnels would increase the invisi-
bility of the fleet by day or night, nor would there
be the usual trail of ashes on the sea’s surface to
betray its passage.”
There would be no expenditure of fuel with the
internal combustion motor for getting up steam, or
for banking fires—no stand-by charges, as they are
called. The Admiralty of to-day is the same old in-
stitution that persisted in rigging its steamers with
masts and sails for 20 years after they were obsolete.
It will hang on to steam in the same way till it is
face to face with a motor-driven fleet.
THE CLOVEN BREATH.
"Hope you're enjoyin' y'rself, dear , ’cause I’m
havin’ a lov'ly holiday .”
“Yes, I can smell it — alcoholiday, isn't it?"
The historic building at the corner of
Macquarie and Elizabeth streets, Hobart,
which, in Sir John Franklin’s day, served as
guard-house, and still stands, disguised in
stucco, is to be pulled down to make room
for the Commercial Bank. The oldest in-
habitant, in fact, a herd of him, well re-
members when old Government House sen-
tries paraded up and down what is now a
portion of Franklin Square, and were
changed at the guard-house.
ON THE HONEYMOON.
TENOR (thoughtfully to his newly-
made bride , the leading lady):
“I wonder , darling, which of us will divorce the other?”
St. Kilda, the giddiest of Melbourne’s
suburbs, is adding largely to its facilities for
the gay and festive life. Near the new pic-
ture theatre in Fitzroy-street, the train-
lined approach to the
sea beach, an enter-
prising :builder is fix-
ing up a pile of resi-
dential fiats. Also, the
neighbor hood is
threatened with a
seven-storey edifice of
flats, to be built at a
cost of £45,000 for a
syndicate formed by
A. L. Baird, the man
who created Princes
Court of yore. This
vast structure is to
have billiard rooms
and a tennis court on
its roof-garden. An- •
other picture show is
projected on a site
adjoining Paradise-
by-the-Sea, and J. D.
Williams has pegged
out a claim for his
forthcoming White
City of Amusements
on the beach. Hap-
pily all these things
are far removed from
the peaceful end of
St. Kilda, where the
overcrowded cemetery
is situated, otherwise the sounds of
revelry on summer nights might rouse
the dead and incite them to go in for
mixed bathing.
The lack of suitable hiding places for
bodies is one of the drawbacks from which
most suburbs suffer nowadays. Plumbers,
sewerage workers, builders and others keep
on breaking the crust of the earth with picks,t
and throwing it oyer their shoulders with
long-handled shovels, while land agents go
about like roaring liars seeking for more
vacant allotments to devour. Hence the lot
of the individual with a body on his hands, or
wheelbarrow, is hard and anxious. Coburg,
in the State of Weary, has decided to make it
easier for him by constructing a lake at a
cost of £3OOO. And writ-dodger Watt, whose
Government once promised to fix up the
shocking Victorian main roads, has per-
suaded his fellow-sleepers to grant £7OO to-
wards the cost of the pool where the weighted
remains may rest in comparative peace, while
the pleasure skiffs slide over them, and the
wet, stick-retrieving house-dog shakes him-
self on the bank.
The P. and O. Co., the great employer of
Lascar seamen, had a long run of luck. For
a P. and O. liner to get wrecked was a rarity,
and then two wrecks happened along in
quick sequence, and in both cases the Las-
cars “behaved badly.” The British press
rose on its visible means of support, and
made remarks, and would have been making
them still had not the coal strike blown
along and diverted attention. Now comes
word that the British Sailors and Firemen’s
Union will demand in August—at the point
of a strike presumably—that the Asiatic
must go to the extent of 3000 of him. And
the Union will receive all sorts of help
from many unexpected quarters. The Asiatic
seaman does not provide the raw material
for bluejackets in the navy, and a lot of
people in England are awakening to the
fact. If the P. and O. should have the luck
to strike another spectacular wreck in which
the Lascars played up even wwse than
usual, there would be a hoarse roar from
one end of Britain to the other for the in-
stant abolition of the brown deckhand called
Shem. The P. and O. has never been a
wildly patriotic concern, but it is up to it
to stage that wreck.
A daily paper correspondent, in the course
of a contribution to the eternal wrangle on
the subject of the local Show being- open to
the public on Good Friday, gave publicity to
an historical fact of which the average Good
Wowsing Churchgoer is blissfully ignorant.
Briefly, he mentioned that Sunday, regarded
as the Day of Rest, is, like Good Friday, a
comparatively modern institution —and a
Romish one at that. In the early history of
the Church, the Sabbath Day, which the
Scriptures enjoined should be kept holy, was
the last day of the week — i.e., Saturday. The
Church of Rome enjoined in due course —
and not without bitter protests from the
Christians of the period—that Sunday, the
first day of the week, should be the Day of
Rest, and it has been so ever since. It is
apparent, therefore, that all consistent fol-
lowers of the Scriptures who decline to
admit the infallibility of the Papacy, must,
like the Jews, Seventh Day Adventists, etc.,
forego toil on Saturday or be prepared to be
gnawed for all eternity by the tooth which
dieth not, and so forth. If they insist on
“resting” and wearing cylindrical black hats
and repulsive-looking new clothes on the old
Pagan festival of Sunday, they must also, if
they are logical, act likewise on the R.C.
Church’s other Holy Days, such as .Ash
Wednesday, Holy Saturday, Good Friday,
etc., etc. In fact, the position is that
nothing, barring the fact that your true
Sabbatarian has an infinite capacity for
being illogical, prevents our entire social sys-
tem from being revolutionised.
A SONG OP HOT CROSS BEER
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On Gobd Friday hotels may open at certain hours
for the sale of liquor, to be consumed off the pre-
mises.—N.S. IV. law.
The pub stands silent as a stone
In deserts waste and wide,
Dtra r as the thirst about a bone
Drought-stricken e’er it died,
Remote, unfriended and alone
It fronts the Eastertide.
This sacred day the sleeping bar
Seems blind, and deaf, and dumb ;
But 10, from regions near and far
The dry-lipped legions come,
Like angel-moths about a star
Or echoes round a drum.
The faint feet scrape the pavement stones,
The wear3' watchers pray,
As when the dark in travail moans
Before the birth of day,
And with sad vigil earth atones
For sinful things and gay.
At 1 p.m. these doors may ope,
The doubtful time draws near,
E’en now long patience lends to hope
A rainbow light of cheer,
For soon may manhood rise to cope
With slabs of hot cross beer.
On one small lock all eyes are set,
The sun’s round eye is hot —
Shall some rathe barman slumber yet,
And shall we be forgot?—
Oh, for the gladness long and wet
That is and yet is not!
The little fishes braved the storm,
The angry waves below,
That fasting fairly we might gorm-
andise in hours of woe,
The while disaster cruciform
The baker builds in dough.
J .
Heard melodies are surely sweet,
As someone said before —-
Was it a wind-harp down the street
Or something at the door ?
Surely an angel’s tinkling feet
Are on the entrance floor!
The portals open wide apart,
The stricken silence flies,
As raptured tears unbidden start
And overflow our eyes
To see the bottles ranged with art
Joy over gladness rise.
The solemn triumph of our hope
Has rent the chains of fear,
All radiant visaged we elope
Deep-laden with brown cheer —
Quick 1 Bring a corkscrew that may cope
With wealth of hot cross beer!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


d
G
E
For all
domestic uses.
Half the toil of
household work is
done away with
when Sunlight
Soap enters j
the home, v
NO. 87. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1808,*’
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY. N.S.W. No. 67.
STANDS ALONE.
Franz Josef
Lag'er Beer
ABSOLUTELY THE FINEST
LAGER BREWED.
FOR DARK LAGER
NACKERBRAU
IS THE BRAND.
A Shirt for the
Colder Days!
The style of shirt we illustrate is not by any means a new
idea —rather it is such an established favorite that no apology
is needed for our mentioning it once again. It is in
Ceylon material —made with gauntlet or band cuffs —
both styles with all-soft loose collar. The designs are neat
Dark Grounds, with light-colored stripes of varying width and
shades. Such a shirt style as this is appreciably warm and dis-
tinctive, and will commend itself to careful dressers as the cor-
rect idea for seasonable wear.
Price 7(6
Posted
6d. extra.
Please state when ordering by post size of collar worn.
Catalogue oj Men's Wear ( solely) sent post free on request.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.,
“Men's
Outfitters,"
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i; ihi ffh :
: j
Brief sermon by “0.K.” :
The English suffragettes, having discovered, after
the event, that their window-smashing outbreak was
only a nasty knock for the plate-glass insurance
companies, which include a lot of women share-
holders, are now threatening to abolish hats from
their expensive outfit, in order to “boycott the men
who are in the millinery business.” Tens of thou-
sands of girls, who derive their bread and butter and
tea from the industry that involves the hatpin peril,
don’t seem to count in suffragette reasoning. Nor
have the leaders of this brilliant movement remem-
bered that even the hobble-skirt fashion is denounced
as a cruel injustice to women workers, because it
has killed a number of; petticoat factories. The aboli-
tion ,qf female headgear for outdoor purposes would
throw an, army of poor girls out of work", whilst
throwing multitude's of male Tories into convulsions
of joy. And all because the profits of the millinery
trade are largely scooped by male drapery firms.
Everything else that the suffragettes wear conies
from the same business sources as their blessed hats,
and to be quite consistent the ladies would have to
boycott the drapers by pleading their cause in the
simple Altogether that Trilby posed in. Meanwhile,
mere mankind (exclusive of a few fathers of millinery
girls who charge them for their board) would save a
lot of money if the Sex bared its crowning glory to
the breeze. In fact, if hats were discarded in Britain
until the suffrage was extended to women, no Govern-
ment would ever dare to make the extension. Pro-
bably the matron who presides over the Women’s
Freedom League has already realised the foolishness
of thus talking through her hat.
» • * #
“Quodlibet”: The Federal quarantine su-
perintendent having returned from a useless
though pleasant jaunt round the globe, in
search of facts that lie under his nose, it is
understood that our quarantine laws will
shortly be revised. Therefore the time is as ripe
as it has been for a long while to mention
one or two reasons for adding more bed-
rooms to the Quarantine stations of Austra-
lia. On my boat coming home there were
four consumptives and two lunatics. There
was a third lunatic going the round trip
with a male nurse. The others passed
right in after being hustled past the doctors
at Adelaide and Melbourne. Official figures
show that only 59 persons died of tubercular
diseases in the Commonwealth in 1909 who
had been resident here for more than two
years. These figures must be inaccurate.
Every consumptive who lands in Australia
states he was born in the Commonwealth,
and because he is not put to the proof he is
permitted to land. On many voyages home
from London, by various routes, I have
noticed consumptives and lunatics, generally
shipped by callous relatives to get rid of
them. Coming from Singapore once we had
with us a deaf and dumb colored cretin, aged
14 years. He was brought from Calcutta by
his grandpapa. They left the ship at Bris-
bane, and it is quite likely they are both in
a lunatic asylum in Queensland. The num-
ber of insane is increasing yearly in Austra-
lia, and it is absolutely certain that it is due
f o lax inspection of alien immigrants.
IN THE MIDST OF BEAUTY.
SHE WITH THE OYSTER SEEDS : “The manager
said I was amongst the prettiest girls in
the panto."
THE OTHER : “Well, dear, you know you come
on twice with us in the second act."
TRAPPED.
HUBBY: “It was only 12 o’clock when I came in the front door lad tit fit, anyhow."
WIFE (scathingly): “And it was Two o'clock when you cam: upstairs. En ugh, John
Henry, I guess your condition."
Some amusing letters from English boys
who have emigrated to Maoriland have been
published in the London papers. They all
emphasise the superior quality of food in
Maoriland. One says: “The tucker is Al.”
A second : “I am in as good a situation as
any fellow could wish for. We have very
good food.” A third: “My job is one of the
best. I have a very good boss, and only
eight hours a day. The food we get is sim-
ply lovely.” Another declares that five
months in Maoriland have not seemed as long
as one Saturday night in the London but-
cher’s shop where he lately worked. And he
adds: “As to food, why a man with thou-
sands of pounds cannot have better than I
get here.”
“Monkbarns” writes: —
r lne omesc inbabi-a.u. oi Sydney having just en-
joyed a go in about its arcades, allow me to touch
on Melbourne’s, especially apropos the splendid new
one, of which the shell is nearly done, leading from
opposite the Collins-street block Flinders-lane.
It ought to go right through to Flibders-street, but
that is an apparent impossibility, only to be achieved
by a genius like Cole, the Bookman, who succeeded,
after many years, in driving right through from
Bourke-street to Collins-street. The first Mel-
bourne arcade was the Queen’s, from Little
Bourke-street to Lonsdale-street. Shockingly bad
situation, yet oddly prosperous for fancy stuff
during several years. It was slain by the
Royal Arcade from Bourke-street to Little
Collins-street. Built by Howard Spensley, a some-
what poor barrister, who acquired the property by
marrying rich Miss Staughton. Comparatively poor
husbands do not often prove so valuable. This
arcade has always been first-rate goods. It caused
two failures in arcades, both also from Bourke-street
to Little Collins-street. These were the Victoria
and the Eastern. The Victoria is now all one
drinkery, and the Bijou is over the rear portion.
The Eastern replaced Coppin’s Haymarket Theatre,
which was burnt. Coppiii built three other Melbourne
playhouses—the Olympic, the Pantheon at Cremorne
and the Royal, after its fire.
Archbishop Wright, of Sydney, says “the
Bible is an inspired book, because it is an
inspiring book.” At that rate, whisky is an
inspired drink because it is an inspiring
drink.
* * * *
Those feeble-minded individuals who trust
themselves to Chinese “doctors” are invited
to consider the case of Ah Gip, late of Lilly
Buck-stleet, Melbourne, now of parts un-
known. One fine autumn morning when all
the world was glad, Gip’s horse bolted in
Melbourne, and when the beast was subse-
quently disentangled from a lamppost, Gip’s
leg was found to be broken. He was taken
to Melbourne Hospital, and there was no-
thing to prevent his recovery in the ordinary
course, but he had no faith in the white
man’s surgery, and departed next day, to be
treated by a C-hinkie doctor. At the subse-
quent, and consequent, inquest, the post-
moriemist stated that “the bone of Gip’s leg
was protruding, and there were maggots
about the flesh.” Apparently the wretched
Chow doctor had taken off the splints, and
turned the broken bone loose, so to speak.
As a natural consequence, daisies and other
beautiful vegetations are now growing over
Gip. There was no particular reason why
the coroner shouldn’t have committed the
precious “doctor” for manslaughter, but in
his anxiety to “slate” the hospital authori-
ties for letting Gip leave —though they had
no power to detain him —he overlooked that
phase of the subject.
Some strange, half-baked narratives are
to be found in the leader columns of Sydney
Telegraph. Thus, last Monday, it built
a yarn about surf-bathing, and concerning the
alleged fact that Sydney is the most beauti-
ful city on earth, and, incidentally, it
dragged in poor old Dr. Johnson: —
It is a notable fact, however, that Dr Johnson,
who suggested that “observation with extensive
view” should carry out the above-mentioned wide
survey, was apparently under the impression that the
whole of the habitable world was included in the
region which he delimited as lying between the
eastern coast of Asia and the west coast oiL South
America. He did not Consider it worth while to
carry his extensive survey further west than Peru.
If he had clone so, or rather if he had stepped over
the Peruvian frontier into Chili, and had then pro-
jected himself in imagination due west from Val-
paraiso, he would have come to Sydney, which lies
in the same latitude as the Chilian capital. But
when Dr. Johnson wrote “The Vanity of Human
Wishes” Australia had not been discovered.
Australia was on the world’s map a good
300 years before the advent of Dr. Johnson.
Nearlv 100 years before he transpired,
Torres had explored the Strait which bears
his name, and the Gulf of Carpentaria was
fairly well known soon after that, also nart
of the Northern Territory had been explored
and named Arnheim Land. The Dutch at-
tempted to colonise Westralia before John-
son’s father was born, and. his grandfather
was little more than an infant when Tasman
was fussing round the shores of what is now
Tasmania. In fact, whole fleets had been
about these seas, and a considerable part of
the Australian coast was almost as well
known as the King-street tram-line when
Johnson wrote “The Vanity of Human
Wishes.” And the Sydney Telegraph ap-
parently doesn’t know even a little thing
like that. Australian history seems to be a
sealed book to the eminent importing paper.
Incidentally, it doesn’t seem to know that
Santiago, and not Valparaiso, is the Chilian
capital. It isn’t very creditable to a paper
which gives so much highly-superior advice
to a presumably ignorant community.
The Victorian State Government has pur-
chased from its recent owner the Grange
estate, originally a part of the public
Domain at South Yarra, Melbourne, which
includes the Botanical Gardens. Some weeks
ago, after the Grange hoarding-house was
burnt to a skeleton, an “0.K.” par. in The
Bulletin touched on the mystery surround-
ing the title deeds of this old established
private propputy, and suggested that the
Government should restore it to the Domain
from which it had been sneaked by some
dead and buried authorities. Chief Secre-
tary Watt now promises to do the right
thing, but he talks of “dedicating” the old
Grange corner allotment to the Domain
reserve. The word should be “re-dedicat-
ing.”
FIT TO DRINK.
THIRSTY UNIONIST: “Are you a unionist?"
BARMAN: " Yes!"
THIRSTY UNIONIST: “Was this beer brewed
by unionists? ”
BARMAN: “Yes!"
THIRSTY UNIONIST: “Was the cask union-
made?”
BARMAN: “Yes!”
THIRSTY UNIONTST : “And the mug—what
about the mug?"
BARMAN: “Union, too!"
TRADES UNIONIST: “Good! Here’s luck!"
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
che proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage clone in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
THE BARMAID’S BLUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What is barmaid’s blush?” was the perplex-
ing problem that confronted the Westralian Full
Court the other day. None of the learned Judges
had ever heard of that heart-warming beverage. Mr.
Justice M'Millan was curious as to its composition,
j The learned counsel wrinkled their brows over the
term.
Oh, shades of crayfish and the midnight spud !
| What is this thing that sets the world a-thud ?
| What problem this of which the papers prate,
I Which totally bewilders Six-and-Eight ?
What is this liquid, blurred in legal mist,
This puzzle of the mixicologist ?
This secret, round which mighty minds revolve,
And which no single one of them can solve?
Oh, world of disillusions! Once with awe
I used to view the wisdom of the Law —
And all to find its ermined knowledge rush
In wild confusion from a “barmaid’s blush.”
Oh, world of wisdom turned to ignorance
By reason of a flowery circumstance!
I wonder could you sensibly surmise
The meaning of my “Drinking with the flies.”
I wonder could you fathom the unknown,
Should “.Timmy Woods” get “shikkered” “on his
own.”
I wonder would you know the “collie pup,”
Or guess the secret of a “pick-me-up,”
Or “Doek-an’-Dorris” —that long-lingering pair,
| Who fear to face the fierce, blue-coated air.
And would you ask, did I propose to “shout,”
What my mysterious talk was all about?
Oh, Chipped Potato and the Crimson Cray;
And Bacchus, too, whose feet have turned today!
But, hold! I wonder is it innocence—
Or merely fat-fee’d, winking-eyed pretence?
N.S.W.
MOLLY MICROBE.


Qh >Ce
V -
i n
c^ai
Owñm'Te
clarmnmion
Ow%e't" . 7
■*. £: s Br“
' T*k Orij^
VJ^K. C^e( .
SHL!”
"|\ if 'f We Ao^l>
io S<'t _
"two f'eet's^re.
la°"fo s*/|>eri»vfi*><A
| ■fVoWn in. *
o>\/ 10 * Wi H
foVe £«C, 6^!!
<?r
flic'll
A “BULLETIN” ARTIST IN EGYPT.


NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
ASTONISHMENT!
£B|B
Is our price for one
of the high-grade
II
in a heavy, Solid Gold Hunting' Case,
in Gentlemen’s size. The gold is
English hall-marked, 9ct. alloyed
with copper, so that it never changes
color. . „ , ...
The movement is a f-plate English
Lever, with expansion balance, bre-
quet hair spring, and 15 jewels, and
every latest improvement known to
Horological Science.
It will stand any amount of rough,
hard wear —bush wear —and go with
profound accuracy.
It is the same movement as is given
Cent.’s Solid Cold
Hunting' Case
f-Plate Lever,
with Expansion
Balance, Brequet
I
N-
i=3
%
Hair Spring, and
15 Jewels, £g/g/_
15 Years’
Guarantee.
(in steel cases) by the Railway Commissioners to the
tram guards.
pAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
A PLAIN FIGUEES-CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Simon”: “Stingaree” (B. 14//3/’l2)
asks what are the sweet uses of the crocodile. All
I can tell him is that in at least one “farm” in
the United States alligators, which are much the
same, are cultivated for their skins, which are made
into travelling bags, etc., but, apart from the joy
of knowing that your bag is a real saurian, there is
nothing to recommend the article. As a matter of
fact, there are a dozen tanners in Australia who pro-
duce better “crocodile” leather from bullock hide
at a fraction of the cost. Anyhow, only the covering
of the young croc, and the lady croc, is usable. The
hide of the old bulk ruffian would be a splendid thing
to. build cathedrals with, but then there is very
little demand for cathedrals that smell like him.
“Ivory”: Often when I wasn’t drinking
or committing bigamy or robbing an orphan I have
wondered re the cause, use and origin of the bone-
caves on the King River (N.T.). I call them the
bone-caves because they contain a very varied assort-
ment of human and other bones. Two that I know
of are about 20ft. to 30ft. deep, 10ft. high, and about
20ft. wide, and were evidently formed by natural
causes in the low-lying hills to the east of the river.
Around the cave sides there are countless bones and
skulls, all neatly packed in layers, while on the floor
is a layer of bones about 2ft. high. Above that is a
layer of coarse native matting, then another layer of
bones, and so on until the pile reaches a height, in
one cave, of about 4ft., and, in another, about Bft.
I distinguished human shin bones and skulls,
kangaroo leg bones, crocodile skulls and emu
leg bones. There was also an assortment of
womerahs, nullas and shields lying about on the floor.
I asked some of the oldest inhabitants among the
niggers the whyfor of these caves, but was met with
a blank stare, which I took to mean that these holes
in the earth were not to be discussed in mixed
society.
“J.G.”: Re capers cut by lightning (B.
22/2/’l2). The cocky I was working for in North-
ern Vic. had hit on a plan to keep the tops of the
stacks from blowing away in the frequent gales that
sweep across those open plains. We ran a piece of
No. 8 wire over the stacks ; one end we fastened to
a post sunk in the ground and well stayed; and then
we strained the line tight on the other side of the
big heap. It happened that one of the stacks was
built in line with a wire fence outside the stockyard,
so the wire on this stack was fastened to this fence.
The last sheaf hadn’t long been forked up, when
an old dad of a thunderstorm hit that stockyard, and
the cocky just stood off and remarked that it was a
line idea of his straining up the wires. He hadn’t
quite finished telling himself what a great scheme it
was when a flash of lightning came out of the storm.
It shattered an old winnowing machine that was
standing beside the fence. Then it danced along the
wires, and pulling itself up on the one that went
over the stack, burst the post at the other end.
Exactly what happened between times we never
knew, but in two or three minutes the whole yard
was a furnace of Nebuchadnezzar, and the fire and
the cocky’s language between them dried up every
tank for five miles around.
“Xox”: Didn’t see the six-days’ cycle
race, but .saw something just as good the other day.
An old man kangaroo is much faster than a dingo,
but is not in the same street when it comes to cun-
ning. Now, the ’roo when pursued .nearly always
travels in a circle, which fact the dingo reads up
carefully in the library—consequently he is pre-
pared. This is what I viewed. . Three; dogs were
running down an old fellow in relays. Dog number
one chased the ’roo while numbers two and three
looked on. When number one’s breath per minute
exceeded the speed limit, number two took his
place, and when his engine ran hot, number three
kept the ’roo on the fly. By the time number two
came on for his second gallop, the old man had had
enough steepleehasing, so he propped his back up
against a friendly gum and invited the dogs to come
on, which they did. Whilst one annoyed him and
tried to coax him away from the tree, the other two
waited ready to rush him from the rear the moment
he did so. I cannot say who would have won in the
end, but I was looking for kangaroos to skin, so I
stepped in before the dingoes ruined' the hide. Shot
two of the dogs to see if the gun was sharp.
HIS BURDENS.
“ Give us a thrummer, blokes! I’ve got a wife and ten youngsters at ’ome depending on me!”
“ Gam! Wot are you giving us!”
“ ’Struth! It’s me mother and the kids!”
SIGNS OF RECOVERY .
REV. CALLER: “Well, Mrs. Mangles, and is the good man any better?"
MRS. MANGLES: “Oh, yes, sir. ’E’s nearly all right agen, sir. ’E don't say ’is pray 'is
no more of a night now, sir.”
“Larrikin” : Only saw turkey-droving once.
That was 26 years ago, when I ran into a mob of
prime fats travelling from Tumut to Wagga
(N.S.W.), in charge of a man, his wife, and two
hefty young daughters. The birds were in good
fettle, and the cute way the droving was done fetched
me. Ahead of the procession an old spring cart was
slowly driven by one of the party. At the back of
the cart another member of the family sat and
sprinkled maize at intervals to the herd of 250,
while the rest of the party walked behind the fowls
to see fair play. All hands and the cook marched
at a snail’s velocity, and at sundown camped along-
side a fence, bunch of trees, or anywhere else in the
nature of a roosting place. Sun-up saw them on
the road again, and never a stampede interfered with
the harmony of the expedition until it reached
Wagga, when it rushed the train for Sydney.
STORMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The violence of the “willy-willy” is shown by the
fact that the steamer Bullarra reached Roebourne on
Saturday afternoon, after three days’ steaming through
the storm from Port Hedland, usually a 10 hours’
run. With both anchors down and steam up, the
Bullarra still drifted before the gale. Her barometer
went down to 27.70. Her funnel carried away, and
crashed through the deck. Her rigging is gone, and
40 of the 195 bullocks she carried were lost over-
board.—Daily payer.
There’s honesty in the Channel gale and the storms
of the White Man's world
That give fair warning by dropping glass so sails
may be safely furled ;
Yes, chivalrous foes are the clean, strong winds that
harry them sail and steam,
With the whistling strength of a slow-born rage that
tries ev’ry plank and beam;
The greybfeards pummel them ford and aft, and
shoulder them, roughly too;
But the fight , is. fair with a ready ship, sea room
and a watchful crew;
Honest and true are the White Man’s seas—they
fight like their owners—fair ;
And clean are the duels ’twixt seas and ships, for the
treasure and lives they bear.
The swift typhoon of the tropic sea comes down like
a poniard stroke,
There’s Asian hate in its lightning thrust and lust
in its sable cloak ;
Short shrift it gives to the reef-penned steamer it
catches in sound or strait,
For seldom where there is room for a fight does the
mean assassin wait;
A sudden spring ere there’s time to fly-—a week’s
wind spent in a day,
Masts, funnels and gear all harried down, and a crew
for the sea ghosts grey.
Not here on the edge of the Black Man’s seas is the
storm game played aright,
But to North and West where the brave winds blow
and the sea lords all are White!
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
“Kodak” writes: —
When I realised that the missing bag was not on
the train, I hurried along to the booking office to
shake up the whole system. I found a red-headed
country porter trifling wearily with a heap of greasy
papers. Five people, all worried and all in a hurry,
stood and watched him helplessly. The trifler’s death-
like calm chilled my enthusiasm instantly. I meekly
joined the group of patient watchers. The hot, noisy
train had sped on, and the hole made by it in the
local had closed in. The ticking of the
station clock and the rustling of the papers were the
only sounds. Occasionally one of the waiters shuffled,
liis or her .feet, but no ■ one dared approach the red-
headed oiie until' he' had finished and wearily stuffed
the documents aivav.
■When he was ready, ‘he turned to the first waiter
—a shirttsleeved local—and drawled': “Nothin’ about
that charff yet?” ,
The local dragged the back of his hand across his
glistening brow and groaned, “Gorstrooth! w’en will
it’ be ’ere?”
“I dunno. There ain’t no advice come in yet.”
The local tottered awav • muttering • things : about
Johnson’s department. The telephone Oil the wall
started to ring—not briskly, but slowly and hope-
lessly. It went unattended while he pointed at the
taller of two nervous women visitors, and said with
judicial coldness:‘“Not yet!”', .. , ■
“‘Have you wired?” ventured the lady, tremu-
lohsly. “Have you sent the wire you—?”
.“Yes; but there ain’t no answer yet.”
■ “When might I call again, do you think?”
(While he considered, the telephone put on an un-
expected spurt, and rang as if someone at the other
end was dying of rage.) ■ ■
“Ter-morrer.”
“Is there no chance of getting an answer before
then?” :
“Well, yer might—it’s ’ard ter say. Yer can call
agin iter-night.” .
.“Oh, thank you!” They gushed and withdrew.
‘(The telephone slackened again to a hopeless
tinkle.)
The unmoved Johnsonian looked coldly at the fourth
waiter, and, without speaking, took down a dirty
book. This he flung open, and, turning to the place
rqached by the advancing avalanche of scrawls and
blots, . indicated a place with .the thumb. “Sign
’ere.!’’ he commanded. The fourth waiter did meekly
as he.was commanded. Then he picked up a small,
valueless-looking dase, and staggered thankfully out.
’(The telephone, which had temporarily ceased,
nervously began another selection.)
The porter; disgustedly fell off. his stool and seized
the transmitter. “’Ullo?” he said without emotion.
Then he looked sulkily at the ticking clock while he
listened. “No! ’tain’t ’ere!” He hung up the trans-
mitter with a crash, and nodded at the fifth waiter
—another shirt-sleeved local: “They don’t know
nothin’ erbout it.”
The fifth broke loose and became voluble. “But,
Lor’ blimey! I seen George yesterdee, an’ he tole
me —” .
“Carn’t ’elp it! They don’t know nothin erbout
it!” , ,
(The telephone in the background began again
pleadingly.) „ , .. ..,
“But George tole me ’imself ’e seen it on th
truck!”
“I don't know nothin’ erbout that! All I know i.,
’tain’t ’ere 1”
The disappointed seeker flung out his corned hands
imploringly. “Well, where is it then?”
The porter went so far as to scratch his head.
“I dunno!” he muttered doggedly. “I done me
best!” He turned to me, and No. 5 bundled off,
cursing.
“I’ve lost a bag!” I began feverishly.
He eyed me doubtfully from the door of his den.
“What sorter bag?”
Raising my voice in order to drown the desperate
tinkle of the telephone, 1 minutely described the bag,
and carefully detailed my movements from the
moment I got to the Central Station. He said he’d
wire, and turned away. I pushed my card at him.
He took it reluctantly, and mumbled, “Orright!”
“When shall I call again ?”
“Oh-h!” wearily, “eny time you’re passin’.”
“When are you likely to get a reiily?”
“It’s ’ard ter say. Might be a day or two.”
“If they foupd it on the station would they send
it on by the next train?”
“They might. But all these ’ere dress-barskets is
so much erlike—!”
I saw that he hadn’t absorbed the details of my
story, and told hm the whole thing again. He be-
trayed no interest, but heard me out gloomily. I
suddenly realised that he was impervious to excite-
ment as well as telephone calls, and left him ab-
ruptly in the middle of a sentence. He didn’t call
me back. As I stormed past the window I saw him
wearily pawing over his greasy papers.
An hour later I got a wire from a friend that my
missing bag had been discovered. But I didn’t forget
to harass the red-headed heap of weariness about it.
Twice a day regularly during my holiday l called at
the station, and prodded him out of his trance with
inquiries. I set him wiring up and down the whole
system, and ringing endless doleful peals on the
station telephone—which merely serves to disturb
another boiled owl’s nest like his own further up the
line. Before I left, he had an. almost human look of
desperation in his red-rimmed eyes, which fact en-
courages me to believe that I succeeded at last in
making his life miserable. Sometimes I wonder if he
still has it on his conscience, and whether he worries
over it in his owlish way when the last trains have
gone and everything is still but the station frogs.


Hotel
A ustralia
TARIFF:
From 13 - per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HAUL; Guest, Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert everv
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
Connected with Wireless.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
- Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. w. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
PLASMON
THE GREAT NERVE
AND BRAIN FOOD.
PLASMON COCOA, PLASMON CHOCOLATE.
PLASMON BISCUITS, PLASMON OATS.
Send for C. B. Fry’s Book on Training,
Post Free on application to
Australian Depot: 6A 7 Barrack St, Sydney.
“ It Acts Like a Charm.”
PIL
RHEU-MANAGA
Registered Trade Mark.
This is a scientific, skilfully compounded and
potent remedy, especially designed for use in at-
tacks of either.
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuritis or Lumbago.
Each Pill contains seven different expensive
standarised and potent vegetable remedies. It
has been in use in private practice by a regular
practising physician, with miraculous success, for
many years. First offered as a public remedy on
the Ist dav of February, 1912.
DO NOT DELAY ! USE PIL RHEUMANACA
WITH THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE
DISEASE.
Supplied at 3s. per bottle. Remit by M.O. or
Postal Notes. Send direct to —
Z. C. RENNIE, Proprietor,
P.O. BOX 1530, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“Whilft” : Re whaling pars. (B. 21/3/’l2).
The revival of whaling on the Australian coast ought
to stir up local people with capital to take a hand
in the industry before the energetic and practical
Norwegians run the entire show. Nowadays even
the swift “fin back” is taken, although its yield of
blubber is poor compared with that of the sperm,
right and humpback whale. In the small but fast
steamers which the Norwegians now employ on their
own coast instead of the old-time whale boat, the
fish is struck from the bows of the steamer by a
heavy harpoon (with or without bomb), fired from
the latest thing in bomb guns. During last year’s
season one steamer alone struck and killed seven
whales in one day, leaving them to be towed on
shore to the trying-out station by a larger vessel.
In the olden days the Yankee whalers would, never
tackle a fin-back. He would take out all the lines of
three boats before he could be hauled up and given
the lance, and the lines had often to be cut. So he
was left severely alone, and merely cursed as a use-
less varmint, with no conscience and only a scant
coating of blubber.
A MATTER OF SIZE AND
MEASUREMENT.
CHILD (enviously): “And
when you’re married will
you have a garden
and keep a cow
ELDER SISTER (pro-
foundly): “ No,
my dear. We
thought of it,
but we decided
that as there
are only two
of us a calf
will be enough."
“Taff”: One of the oldest theories
amongst horsey men in Australia is that sharks will
not attack the domestic beast of burden while it
(the prad) is disporting itself in the water. But,
at Townsville (Q.), last week a cart horse, while
doing a homely wallow in Ross Creek, a notori-
ously-shark infested stream, had its side torn out by
a floating solicitor. If the theory is correct, this
shark cannot have heard of it.
“Te Pana”: Mereana was disHr-Wed, and
to show her contempt, spat three times on the door-
step of the courthouse. “E, Tama! What you
korero ’bout t’is? T’ree time befoa, eh, Hori my
tane, full te kai pia, come up my whare, an’ kick
me, many, many time, moren tousand. I givit wmrd
te policemana. He takum Hori te court. I be there
t’is time, eh. Te peak, he get te heavy question for
me. He get plenty korero Hori. Then he say,
‘Hori, you finem te five poun’, kickum missis.’ I
say, ‘Kapai, givit me te moni.’ He say, ‘No, te
Kingi he takit te five poun’. . Now, ehoa, how te
way that? Py corry, Hori never kickum te Kingi.
Hu! he kick me! I tinkum that feller pakeha, te
plurry shark; I dunno.”
“Blubber Hunter”: In B. 21/3/T2, “Huia”
writes about the combustible properties of a dead
cachalot. Half a dozen very dead sperm whales
would be invaluable to the parsons’ dearest friend—
they would keep the fires of Hades going for a
month, and throw in a rancid and fish-like odor for the
further aggravation of the lost. In one of Captain
Mayne Reid’s nautical novels, he describes how at
dusk the crew of a whaleboat, after their craft had
been fluked by a big bull whale in his flurry, got on to
the carcase and made themselves at home. They cut
a hole in the capacious back of the late and greasy
lamented. With an oar and some strips of !he boat’s
sail they then made a flare, feeding the flame with
spermaceti taken from the vast “case” in the
creature’s head. The ship was then out of sight.
The following day brought a furious calm and no
rescue—only sea and whale. The flare was used
again that and the following night, and the third
day these dwellers on the roof were rescued. Mayne
Reid swears to this, and professes to give dates and
other details. Has “Huia” ever heard of a whale
bursting? The occurrence is not uncommon. In
tropic seas the gases generated in the monster after
death soon cause it to swell, and in two or three
days, if the carcase is not “cut in,” the big mammal
explodes with a report like that of a 12in. gun, and
the odor reaches from the Dan to Beersheba of that
part of the Pacific. And if the beast is “cut in,” it
is like releasing an ancient and fish-like whirlwind.
As a side issue, there is a story of a man who
wounded an elephant, and, fleeing for his life, fell
into a small rocky hole. The elephant, flee-
ing for the man’s life, fell dead on top
of the hole. The man couldn’t lift the
elephant, and he couldn’t cut the rock. The elephant
burst in three days, and 40 billion maggots fell on
the man. The rest of the story wasn’t nice, but at
least the man survived. Barring the fact that he
had both feet amputated and became quite mad,
there was, in fact, nothing much wrong with him.
“Maytown”: The story told in The
Bulletin (21/3/T2), of the lady who surprised a
burglar in her bedroom, and told her maid
to ring up the parson, recalls an actual in-
cident that took place at Cooktown (Q.), in the
early days of the
Palmer rush, when
the people of that town
lived upon undiluted
whisky, and used
stout as shaving
water. One of the
old A.S.N. steamers
had arrived on its
way to Normanton,
and the male passen-
gers went on shore to
wallow in the scenery,
etc. Among them was
a rich young English
“Johnnie” of the
most pronounced type,
wearing a big mon-
ocle and sagging on
knock-kneed, spindley
legs. In the small
hours of the morning
he managed to flow
accidentally on board,
silently and unobtrus-
ively drunk, found a
handy cabin, took off
his coat and boots,
and fell softly on the bed. In a few minutes
he was asleep. Unfortunately, the cabin
was the abiding place of a powerfully-built
spinster lady of the age of discretion, who
was then having midnight prayers out of a
bottle with the stewardess. Half an hour
later the Johnnie was yanked into a sitting
position by a shocked and indignant female,
who put a pistol at his head and demanded
an explanation of the outrage ; the friendly
stewardess had meanwhile locked the door
and armed herself with a soda-water bottle.
In vain did the victim protest that it was
all a mistake; nor would their rage be ap-
peased for monetary considerations. They
proposed to hand him over to the captain at
daylight, whereupon he was to be taken on
shore and lynched under horrible circum-
stances by the miners. Then they locked
him in and departed. Bright and early in
the morning, however, they returned, in company
with a burly, greasy ruffian who, the stewardess
said, was the chief of police. (He really was a
Charters Towers pug. of the twopenny variety.) The
frayed remnant of Johnnie was given half a tumbler-
ful of brandy, and 10 minutes to make up his mind
to do the honorable thing by a lady whose bright
career he had blighted. The poor fool agreed at
last; the pug. went off with a fiver; and, after
breakfast, the lady took her captive on shore and
married him. And a rough Melbourne sly-grog seller
he got.
“Jinton”: Revisited a cattle camp the
other day where we used to drive pegs in bottle
trees upon which to hang the saddles. That was a
good many years ago, and the pegs are now a yard
above reach. I know there are some people who
swear that a tree, no matter how fast or high it
grows, won’t take a peg up along with it, so I
hasten to say that perhaps bottle trees are an excep-
tion, or possibly I had shrunk a yard without know-
ing it, or perhaps some gigantic miscreant or tower-
ing impostor had taken out our pegs and put in a
new lot.
“Malachi Aloysius”: Will some Maori-
liar provide me with some information? A man
with a name like Pontoppidan tells me that, in
Maoriland, “if a traveller is refused a feed, the law
allows him to kill - a sheep, providing he hangs the
skin on the fence.” Is this true? And does the
law allow him to extract milk from the bull’s better
half, or commandeer a station hack to carry him
on to the next ranch? I want to know badly, be-
cause I fancy I could work my passage to this bag-
man’s paradise.
DON’T DELAY!
If you suffer from stomach troubles, headache,
constipation, start to-day and take Chamberlain’s
Tablets. No matter how long you have been a
sufferer from these ailments you will be benefited by
a course of Chamberlain’s Tablets. They have cured
hundreds of eases worse than yours, so they will
surely cure you. Start at once, don’t delay longer,
'or each day of delay makes your trouble so much
harder to cure.*
A CASE OF NECESSITY.
OWNER OF LIVERY STABLE: “It. will cost you
5s. extra , as you have knocked it about
a lot.”
CUSTOMER : “I can’t help that. I had to keep
up with the funeral .”
“The White”: Bau-bau is the Papuan’s
pipe. He builds it from three feet of bamboo,
makes a mouthpiece at one end, and a small hole
near the other, into which he inserts his cigarette.
Then the pipe is lighted and passed round, and the
contagious complaint known as “New Guinea mouth”
prospers exceedingly. If the smoker be a pourri-
pourri practitioner he primes himself on the smoke
of wild ginger for three days, after which his astral
body floats out to a ghost village. There he is
told the pourri-pourri for slaying or otherwise
playing it low down on, probably, an inoffensive
brown brother who happened to be seen walking in
the bush a month or so before, or after, a pig died
in an adjacent village. Pourri-pourri is a squalid
science. It doesn’t kill so very many people, but it
is an untidy murderer, and when it isn’t murdering
it is blackmailing, and in between times it is
raising ghosts, or snuffling, or making nightmares,
or tying rags to trees, or swearing, or drinking, or
prevaricating. And it is always dirty and ugly and
cantankerous and arrogant and shambling and greasy
and disagreeable.
THE COVE WHO HUMPS MATILDA.
“Gidyea”; A
' “combo” in Queensland
(or in this district —
the Maranoal is a
white man who fre-
quents a blacks’ camp
for purposes of gamb-
ling, etc. On most
big cattle stations you
will find a blacks’
camp in close prox-
imity, and, on killing
day, five minutes after
the bullock is dressed,
there is not a vestige
of anything left, ex-
cept the hide and the
beast itself. The
blacks, with their
dozens of dogs of
every size and breed,
rush the offal. If any
blackboys are em-
ployed as stockmen, it
is almost an every
night occurrence, as
soon as they are fin-
ished their tea, to get
the usual “two bob’’
to gamble with. Half
of the white stockmen
are nearly as bad,
and, of course, they
generally have a “col-
ored lady” of their
own. I can name in-
stances where white
men have been work-
ing on stations nearly
all their lives, and
never go away for a
trip or a holiday of
any kind, but spend
all their spare time in
the blacks’ camp.
They spend most o f
their money also, i n
gambling, and on the
gins, and, in nine cases
out of 10, the white
man comes out on the
wrong side of the led-
ger, as far as the
gambling is concerned. The blacks in this part are
gradually dying out, and fully 50 per cent, of the
children are half-castes —“creamies,” as the blacks
call them.
* * * *
The honorariums at Woomelang, in the
Victorian Mallee, have been going off pop because
J. Dry Brown’s department hasn’t provided them
with “suitable” premises for the due administration
of —er—justice. It appears that Woomelang’s
court house is a common or greasy woolshed; the
bench is composed of slabs laid on boxes; the Bar
table is a disused pound notice board; witnesses and
spectators sit on bags, sacks, or just the plain floor ;
the press camps on an empty oil-drum, and takes
notes on its knees, and the accused is mostly lum-
bered into a sheep pen. It seems a trifle unusual
and reminiscent of bygone times; but, considering
the Victorian honorarium and his unseemly vagaries,
the place seems good enough in its own quiet way.
THE WILD OAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lay specialists have been occupying St. Paul’s
(Melbourne) Cathedral pulpit on recent Sunday even-
ings. The other night Dr. H. 0. Cowen preached on
the folly of sowing oats. ‘‘The man who sows wild
oats reaps what he sows,” said he. “1 do not know
any lie more deadly than the lie that a man must
sow his wild oats.”
Around the bars the youngsters stand.
They have been ploughed perchance, and glass
Or foaming pewter high in hand
They run their shameful sowing class.
The wild oat’s been, since Ham’s affair,
Man’s fav’rite pot plant everywhere.
Who sows this seed must surely reap
Grog blossoms in a later year,
Eat husks, and in the stubble weep,
With straw entwined among his hair.
That’s why good churchmen in the main
Go very much against the grain.
Hash youth refrain, give proper heed,
Sow not the cereal over-much.
Oh, dreadful tack whereon to feed,
Is porridge that is made from such !
The wild oat crop that youth prepares
Is choked with weeds, especially tares.
Bide home, young man, drink wholesome whey,
Put out the jug, and wind the clocks,
And if your tastes to sowing stray
Plant lilies pale and holyhocks,
That you may die at ninety-five,
And never know you’ve been alive.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
The Right of Free Speech.
On this subject, P. O’M. speaks freely:—
The fancy of the Sydney daily papers, which
enables them to describe the blatant rowdyism of
the crowd behind Wade as a battle for the right of
free speech, is a bright spot in the darkness of Tory
apology. Free speech, carrying with it the right to
call any man a liar to his face, and afterwards smite
him because he resents the pleasantry, is a privi-
lege very dear to the hearts of certain sections of
the community. Long ago a person called Wilkes
battled for the liberty of the press to say anything
it darned well pleased about the performances of the
British Parliament, and at intervals Democrats, of
a variety of brands, labored strenuously to secure
license to make any sort of political remark in
season and out of season. And now, according to
the daily papers, it is folks like Wood and Fitz-
patrick who carry the freeman’s banner in the
fray, and demand the privilege of upsetting or
throwing out of gear, by any sort of curse, war-
dance, or tirade, which may occur to their logical
and self-restraining souls, the alleged business of the
State.
The right of free speeeh is not, and never has been,
a possession of the multitude. Lots of things which
Bill Smith would like to say, he keeps bottled up in
his inmost heart, for fear of the policeman; and the
remarks made by persons filled with alcoholic joy
are a constant source of revenue at the magistrates’
courts. Against all this, the Tory politician is said
to be putting up a scientific scrap. Clearly, he
claims the right for all men to say anything that
they wish to say. A nice point requiring settle-
ment arises as to what constitutes saying a thing.
Can an average noise, with a more or less blas-
phemous sound, such as that emitted by a motor-
car, _ an embittered tom-cat, or a political person
waving a water bottle, be described as speech ?
Speeeh really ought to mean making remarks which
have some coherence and logical sequence; and the
weakness of the Tories’ position would seem to be
their insistence on the right of those who have
nothing to say, to be allowed to make a noise pro-
portionate in intensity and endurance to the thing
they might have said, if only they had known how.
In other words, Toryism is battling for the right
of free noise, as opposed to liberty of speech. Not
that _it can matter much in any case, for State
politics are mostly noise, except when they are anti-
Australian humbug.


THE REBEL.
Victorian Treasurer Watt has refused to take any notice of the Court’s order that he shall proceed immediately to grant a certain two gallon license.
IRATE FEMALE: “Wait till I get you inside. I’ll show you that Justice is not to be trifled with 1
WILLIE: “Pooh! You ain’t Justice—you’re the Law.”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
CHARITY BEGINS AT ’ OME .
The Premier of N,S.W. (Mr. McGowen) cabled
*. 1000 for the assistance of the women and children
who are starving as the result of the English coal
strike, and received the following rcplv: “Many
thanks for generous donation to starving” poor. If
Australia could give any further it would be grate-
fully appreciated. Even if the strike ends imme-
diately there will be 50,000 people on the verge of
starvation for two or three weeks longer.’’
Benevolent Dr. Bill Boyd, who looks after
outside patients at the Melbourne ’Orspital,
was lately visited by a surprisingly small
boy, unattended by the usual grown-up. The
youngster brought a cryptic message, written
on a scrap of sugar bag—“ Bil as a beliak.”
So the doctor, being something of a crypto-
gramatist, treated his outside patient for an
inside pain and sent him off with a pat on
the head.
“The Yid” writes :
We are threatened with a Life of Adam Lindsay
Gordon. The poet’s widow, whp married a Mr.
Peter Lowe, declares that her son William intends to
compile the volume with her assistance. The publi-
cation will contain several poems as yet unprinted.
The Adelaide Advertiser recently printed an inter-
view with Mrs. Lowe, and, incidentally, threw some
sidelights on the poet’s domestic life. Questioned
concerning his verses, the lady said: “Oh, I didn’t
take much notice of his poetry!”
The proverbial gap between the king sit-
ting on his throne and the beggar dossing
on the roadside seems to have been bridged
in a large measure by an itinerant musician,
named Bolton, who wrote to the Duchess of
Fife stating that he was a distressed fourth
cousin of her late husband, and would be
glad if she would drop a contribution in his
hat. Which reminds The Bulletin that
Erskine Scott, now manager of West’s Pic-
tures in Melbourne, being dimly descended
from the Stuarts, is probably a 99th cousin
to Britain’s royal family. But Scott doesn’t
disgrace it by asking for a donation. On
the contrary, he ministers to the family’s
greatness by showing pictures of his distant
reigning relative performing various gor-
geous duties. Moreover, he pays the wages
of a band that plays the Anthem every time
George Vee appears on the screen.
Three South Australian ex-Ministers have
died in such swift succession that one funeral
might almost have done for the lot—Batche-
lor (who was Education Minister in the
Holder Cabinet), John Moule (Works Min-
ister in the Downer Government), and Hom-
burg (who had served with Kingston and
also under Downer and Jenkins Iscariot).
Ex-Premier Yerran has some weird ex-
pressions. He told the S.A. Assembly the
other day that the Liberals were all branded
on the forehead like the Children of Israel,
and he declared that member Bill Blacker’s
oratory was composed of “claptrap, tripe
and tin tacks.” His favorite retort when
anyone found fault with any of his Minis-
terial actions was, “Well, nobody ain’t going
to die.”
Mrs. Peter Lowe (who for five years was
Mrs. Adam Lindsay Gordon) is still feeling
well. She is less than sft. high, but alert
and wiry. In her younger days she was a
splendid horsewoman. "I followed where-
ever Gordon led.” she declared lately, “aud
I always got over safely, but he had many
falls because he could not see.” She was LS
when she married and 2.3 when Gordon died.
She has been Mrs. Lowe for nearly 39
years.
John Weary’s habitual drowsiuess has be-
come a matter for strenuous denial by mem-
bers of the Yic. Ministry. They have not yet
gone so far as to swear that their beloved
Premier is a glutton for toil, but they repre-
sent him as a beautiful piece of machinery
that operates on a strictly silent system.
T’other day _ Treasurer Watt told an up-
country audience: “Because of the legend
about the Premier’s sleep it was thought he
was not working; but he did things without
superfluous noise.” John Murray, in fact,
is never noisier than when he slumbers.
Dr. Angove, whose sudden death, in Lon-
don, has just put a biggish section of Ade-
laide into mourning, was a man of fairly di-
verse interests. At Teatree Gully, where
the north-east road from the city strikes the
hills, he ran a big distillery—with a branch
at Itenmark. He was a skilful sailer of
boats, which latter he built with his own
hands. He was an authority on Australian
birds and their eggs. And he kept abryast
of his profession. In fact, he was putting
m a year at a London hosnital, with that
object, when Death handed him his march-
ing orders.
“Historicus” writes;—
Australia’s old friend, Lord Yarmouth, the skirt-
dancer, is now a much better-greased fat pig as
Marquis of Hertford. He descends from the Sey-
mours, who acted a great part under Edward VI.
John Seymour was the unworthy favorite of Henry
VIH., and managed to get in his girl Jane as Henry’s
, third wife. She was the mother of Edward VI. Her
brother Edward, known as Somerset, was Protector
to him. Another brother, Thomas, was abler, but
unprincipled ambition led him to the butchery. The
Protector was beheaded later, under the influence of
Northumberland, who likewise got beheaded for try-
ing to make his daughter-in-law, Jane Grey, Queen.
I shudder in St. Peter’s Chapel, Tower of London.
In front of the altar are buried in a row, with several
craniums, Anne Boleyn, Somerset, Northumberland,
and Henry’s unlucky Queen, Miss Howard. St. Denis,
of France, was reported to carry his head under his
arm. It was probably the safest place.
“Chasuble”: Henry Varley, the butcher-
evangelist or meat-preacher of Geelong
(Vic.), has thrown up the ghost in Eng-
land. He had a habit of washing his hands
with absent water while expounding, and his
enemies said it was a reminiscence of the
days when he used to stand outside his shop
and roar “Buy! Buy! Buy!” This was
a libel, for no one ever roared or hustled in
Geelong. Varley’s pulpit fame began in-
London, where he praught in Spurgeon’s
tabernacle. _ Also, he held forth considerably
in the United States. He didn’t seem to
belong very definitely to any sect, but he
was supposed to be a Plymouth Rock or
Brahmapootra, or something. Once he had
a spell at adult baptism, and dipped a lot of
peonle in Hegarty’s Baths, at St. Kilda,
Melbourne.
AMUNSDEN
LECTURING
ON THE
SOUTH
POLE.
Young Busteed, the Victorian flier, won
the Avial Cup, presented by the Spanish
Aero Club, for a flight across Madrid and
back, last month. He used a Bristol mono-
plane. The Spanish Government has en-
gaged the Australian youth at a comfort-
able figure, to teach the local armv how to
fly—not from the enemy, but at him.
MISUNDERSTOOD.
THE WOWSER : "Ah, my friend , why don't
you walk the straight and narrow path?"
CITIZEN (who has been trying to): “ Gerrout!
Watcher take er man for, eh—B lon din?"
The once great Hooley of England—the
alleged millionaire and gigantic financier,
who gave a gold communion service to St.
Paul’s Cathedral, and nearly became a
baronet, and tried to own the earth, and
was in a way the lineal successor of Dick-
ens’ Merdle—has fallen on evil days. He is
sentenced to 12 months in gaol, and on top
of that he has become bankrupt again.
Liabilities are £252,173, and assets not one
lonesome copper. There isn’t a single trace
of the green herb of remuneration on all
the boundless waste of Hooley’s estate.
“Reinu” is angry :
I rise in fierce wrath to deny the allegation made
by the Gallery Hand” (B. 4/4/T2), that louseph
Ward has, or ever had, a gift of language. Hour
alter weary hour 1 have listened to his awful
struggles with rhetoric, and, after knowing his voice
for upwards of 20 years, I am bold to assert that
never once did he complete a decently-rounded sen-
tence according to his first intention. His organ of
sound is rather pleasantly modulated, and in this
differs from that of Massey, but Ward had always the
gift of saying in 20 minutes what a plain, blunt
person, like Tom Mackenzie, could make clear in
five. Moreover, Tom has a sense of humor, and this,
not even the wildest enthusiast of the “Gallery
Hand” breed can claim for louseph. Certainly,
“Timi” Carroll can speak when he wants to, but
“Timi” is a very, very tired person. The clear,
effective Maori orator of the crowd is Ngata.
“B. de D.” has a few remarks to offer
There is considerable debate as to the inscription
which will be attached to the square eyesore that is
threatened in Alexandra Avenue, Melbourne, in
memory of William Clarke’s wife, Janet. The City
Council suggests “Janet Lady Clarke,” which is
idiotic. This was no more her proper title than the
Archduchess Clarke or Queen Janet the 40th, and if
Burke or Debrett, or the College of Heralds
learns that anything of the sort has been done, there
will assuredly be grief and passionate protests. Ac-
cording to the rigor of the heraldic game, she was
the Dowager Lady Clarke when she died. But if
her bewildered admirers chalk up the plain legend,
“Janet Clarke,” they will be on the safe side, and
the lady herself won’t mind.
By the Oldest Jhpanese Inhabitant:—
On April 3 there were about three clothes’ lines
of bunting hung out on the Japanese mailboat
Nikko Maru in Sydney Quay, and the reason given
was that it was the anniversary of the birthday of
the 2572-year-old corpse of Jimmu, the first recog-
nised Jap. Emperor. From 660 b.c. to a.d. 500
(1160 3'ears), known as the prehistoric period,
Japan had 24 sovereigns, the first 17 of whom
are said by brown liars to have lived over
100 years each. Jimmu (familiarly known as
Jimm) was the first of these. He came across to
Japan with some Malayian settlers in 667 b.c., but
was not crowned till 660 B.C. The ancient James —
whose name, by the way, was Kamu-Yamato-Iware-
Biko, changed to Jimmu (son of Heaven), 14 cen-
turies after his funeral, perhaps to save time —died
in 585 B.c. at the early age of 137, though some
people, no doubt through jealousy, say he was only
127. The present Emperor, Mutsuhito, is the 121st
of his race.
Apropos the solemn rebuke discharged last
week at the easy-going Liberals of the
N.S.W. Assembly by William McMillan, knight
and floor-walker, some ill-disposed person
has raked up a record of McLinen’s own per-
formances in the Parliamentary attendance
line. In one year, out of 112 divisions he
only voted. 13 times. In the next year, out
of 118 divisions he was there to deserve his
salary six. times. In the next year again, out
of 72 divisions he was on deck nine times,
and so. on. Out of 514 divisions in committee
extending over a. period of three years, he
but 60 times, and was a missing
draper 454 times. Taking the above into
consideration, together with the fact that
McLinen has deliberately chucked the saving
of his bleeding country in favor of the drap-
ery business, his recent outburst smacks of
impudence. In fact, one might go further
and term it dashed hide.
From a Melbournienne :
Miss Mary Marlowe, the Bert Bailey Co.'s new acqui-
sition, is a Victorian—her rightful namt being Shan-
non. She should never have had to work for a living,
for that affluent knight of other days, John O’Shan-
ass3 r , of Melbourne, was one of her grandparents.
The proud financial pile that he had raised melted
under the blighting influence of ill-judged specula-
tion, and, as one result, the stage has gained a hand-
some recruit. Miss Mary’s only relative, on the
O’Shanassy side, is a maiden aunt, who pervades
Clifton Springs, near Geelong.
From South Melbourne :
South Melbourne—or some of it—is subscribing a
handsome sum for a memorial to the late Henry
Skinner. The local cricket club and the football
club which Skinner catered for and bossed, head the
list with £lOO apiece, a brewery is down for £25,
and Jack Wren, although not a South Melbournite
resident these times, is appropriately enrolled as a
£5O admirer of the defunct sport. Between Skinner
and Wren there was a bond of sympathy. Both of
them in their early days added to their modest wage-
earnings by laying the'odds to their fellow-employees..
Wren made a book at the boot factory where he
worked ere he started to achieve notoriety as an
illicit tote proprietor. Skinner booked on a larger
scale whilst he was employed at Buckley and Nunn s
drapery store. His obituary notices accused him of
having been a shopwalker at Buckley’s aforesaid, but,
as a matter of fact, he was a pushing young party
behind one of the departmental counters what time
he supplied his brethren and sistern with a gambling
want. His two capacities became so mixed that if
a woman asked him the price of a piece of tweed, he
had to watch himself to see that he didn’t say “10 to
one to you. Madam.” Skinner’s bookmaking intro-
duced him into the society of publicans and sinners,
and so he came to be licensee of an hotel at South
Melbourne. It happened soon afterwards that a large
refreshment catering business was on the market. The
founder of it had died, and his successor couldn’t
work it successfully. Skinner raised the money to
buy the whole stock-in-trade of the busted caterer.
He knew how to work it. He learned, in later years,
to work a lot of other things, and thus he qualified
himself for a memorial—of a sort. By the way, the
sort of memorial that Skinner ought to have is not
yet decided upon. It is bound to be something of a
sort which his career hardly justified.
Our old friend Tom Mann is now Presi-
dent of the “Industrial Syndicalist Educa-
tion League,” and in that capacity has been
hustling around among the English coal
miners. He thus explains the aims and ob-
jects of his league:—
To carry on among trade unionists and the workers
generally a campaign of education in the principles
of syndicalism—which may be described as revolu-
tionary trade unionism, since its immediate purpose
is to conduct a scientific class war against capitalism
—such war having as its objective or ultimate aim
the capture of the industrial system and its manage-
ment by the workers themselves for the benefit of
the whole community.
Tom adds: —
The State or municipality may be the exploiting
party, instead of an individual company or trust, but
the slavery is still there. We syndicalists object to
be skinned under any form, no matter how polite or
democratic it may be. It is the abolition of the wage
system, of slavery, that we are after; that is what
we mean to get by means of the revolutionary
general strike for the expropriation of the capitalists.
The Australian record of Thomas does not
corroborate his belief in himself as a great
strike leader.
GEORGE UPWARD,
senior, Clerk Assistant
in the Federal Senate.
(A mighty oarsman of
yore.)
Captain Thomson,
of the s.s. Wyan-
dra, dropped re-
cently into posses-
sion of a painting
alleged to be a like-
ness of the long-
vanished Ludwig
Leichhardt. The
oldest inhabitants
were called upon to
diagnose the case.
One Atticus Tooth,
possibly the most
back-dated Methus-
el a h between S.
Melbourne and
Cape York, where
you can smell the
Jap, was one.
Tooth met Leich-
hardt in ’46, and
also saw him start
on his fateful trip.
Another old man,
William Clark,
came to Queensland
in ’49, and saw
some earlier photo-
graphs of the mys-
terious Ludwig.
Both reckon Cap-
tain Th o m s o n’s
property to be gen-
uine. Two others
who were expected
to add a quota of
opinion on the mat-
ter were Mrs. Ap-
pel, wife of
Queensland Home
Secretary Appel,
who knew Leich-
hardt when she was
a little girl, and
William Archer. It
was on Leieh-
hardt’s advice that
the Archer brothers
went to Banana-
land and began to
Krow rich at Grace-
mere, outside Rockhampton, half a centnrv
or more ago.
From that faithful exponent of “Liberal”
opinion, the Sydney Evening News :
The strong point in the Legislative Council’s nosi-
tion is that it is not responsible to the electors It
does not have to kow-tow to this or that stream of
public opinion, and consequently it can look on everv
question with a quality of impartiality that is rip
nied to the member who has to depend for his Dlaee
and pay on the favor of his constituents.
In Turkey the same blessed freedom exists
in a still greater degree. There the Govern-
ment doesn t even need to kow-tow to the
newspapers. If the local Evening News
begins to unduly interfere it simply confis-
cates the paper, flogs the editor, and hangs
the whole Bennett family. Thus people
like Abdul Hamid were able to preserve “a
quality of impartiality” that was simplv
staggering. There was nothing like it in.
all Sydney.
REXONA, THE RAPID HEALER.
Rexona is a reliable remedy for all eruptions and*
irritations of th£ skin, Eczema, Pimples, Sores Chil-
blains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica, Itching or Bleeding
Piles, Cuts, Bums, Bruises, Scalds, Bad Legs, Stings
of Insects, and all kinds of inflammation. ’Rexona,
is sold only in triangular pots at 1/6 and 3/-,*
THE REVOLUTIONARY’S GRIEVANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have not yet received a receipt for Roy’s posi-
tively hideous uniform which I sent back. —Anguished
cry of Harry Holland (Revolutionary Socialist ) to
the Australian Defence Department.
I would not so much mind my Roy
Acquiring: martial ways,
And being trained to look with joy
On things which maim and daze,
If only he might learn War’s art
In clothes which please an artist's heart.
But you may guess the rage which fired
My cultivated breast,
When first I saw the lad attired-
(Or should 1 term it dressed?) —
In vulgar, coarse habiliments.
Suggesting garments made from tents.
No gracious splash of color cheered
That small expanse of dun ;
I gazed upon the outfit weird
The}' had assigned my son,
And reeled, as persons reel who see
Some hideous monstrosity.
I bade my offspring shed his shirt,
His pants and awful lid,
And cast them by like so much dirt—
The which he promptly did,
What time I spurned in wordy floods
The vandal-authors of the goods.
And did the world to cheers give vent?
Not so ! It sneerfullee
Alleged that self-advertisement
Was all that troubled me,
And stood, inert, while I (vile Fate!)
Was fined like some inebriate.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


m
Hi
liii
■
] TOBACCO
The Australian
National Smoke
J
I-" -
V>l£.>
l
L
mm
j
mm
* ' \«.. CK* iy- * 4: U"\
' VMm \ ' -- \
,*P \ l
'<•*** i
f' ,11..- '■ V
’i ;vW 1\ L
: : s : -;,•■• V-*. ./.«
... ffy*--miimi < t ,
m tmir*T
■Am , u
IP
n
.
375?
lili®
>v«v
1
<* m - '
i- ' :
S&SS
SSiSi
MW
&
$
•■•■'.■
SS:SS:SS
i*
■ :
Kb
•ss*;*
SSs
5H5.
Mfeco
■ .
SSS
r I TRAVELLERS by land or sea-
—find the rich full flavour ot
failing source of satisfaction.
CUT (IN TINS) FLAKE OR MIXTURE.
on business or pleasure bent
“HAVELOCK” a never-
ALSO IN PLUG FORM.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
THE EDWARDS” ORE ROASTING FURNACES.
ECONOMY IN LABOR, FUEL AND MAINTENANCE.
Write for Catalogue and Prices to—
FRASER g CHALMERS, LTD., London; STEARNS-ROGER MFG. CO., Denver, U.S.A.;
T. EDWARDS, Ballarat, Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Metropolitan Life
Assurance 00., Ltd. (Sydney) :
Expenses Total Added
Total and Out- to
Aug., Income. Claims. Dividends. goings. Funds.
1901.. £11,023 £1483 £6,551 £8,034 £2989
Taken
from
Funds.
1902.. 12,657 3775 13,633 17,408 4751
Added to
Funds.
1903.. 17,235 2380 13,879 16,259 976
1904.. 18,146' 2765 13,964 16,729 1417
1905.. 18,547 3665 12,412 16,077 2470
Taken
from
Dec., Funds.
1905.. 6,059 2019 4,091 6,110 51
Added to
\ Funds.
1906.. 21,048 5767 12,8Jt 18,568 2480
1907.. 25,714 6848 14,737 21,585 4129
.908.. 29,765 8281 17,144 25,425 4340
1909.. 28,365 7866 18,070 25,936 2429
1910.. 31,278 5388 19,047 24,435 6843
1911.. 35,528 8792 20,548 29,340 6188
According to the published accounts, the total funds
as at December 31, 1911, were £72,749. The amount
is made up in this way:—
Total accumulated funds .. . . . . £35,914
Office property written up (1898).. £10,095
Ditto (1901) 5,500
15,595
Office property written down (1902) 5,500
Net amount added to funds by
writing up property .. 10,095
Sale of accident business and goodwill . . 15,000
Share capital .. .. . . . . . . 11,740
Total funds as per accounts .. .'. £72,749
The property written-up may or may not be worth
the extra value which has been put upon it in the
books; but writing-up is a very doubtful policy to
pursue in any ease. The £15,000 credited to the
sale of a fragment of the business is a more doubt-
ful entry still. This £16,000 wasn’t paid in money;
it was handed over in shares in a new concern, and
there is no proof that those shares would fetch Is.
in the open market. The co. . could increase its
alleged funds by another £lOO,OOO if it liked to
form a co. with the exclusive right to hawk icebergs
on its office premises. It is quite true that the new
co. would probably never pay a dividend, but that
wouldn’t prevent the parent co. entering' in its
accounts —“Investment in public co., £100,000.”
The result of the inflation of the funds is that, on
the average of the amount alleged to have been held,
the interest return last year was only £2 13s Id.
p.c. The average funds last year were alleged to be
£74,375. If these are valued on a 4 p.c. basis they
would be worth no more than £49,375, which points
with a bony but emphatic finger to a probable in-
flation of £25,000, or more than one-third of the
total. Froth on beer is all very well; but one
doesn’t care to find it in a life-insurance balance-
sheet. And one cares still less to find it in the sheet
of a concern which announces in its present report—
“ The policy of the directors is. to aim at quality
rather than quantity.”
The expense rate is excessively high:—
Outgoings (Apart from Claims) Compared with
Income.
1003.. £BO 10 6 per cent. 1908.. £57 11 10 per cent.
1904.. 76 10 1 „ 1909.. 60 8 9 „
1905.. 661811 ~ 1910.. 601710
1906.. 62 6 4 „ 1911.. 57 16 8
1907.. 57 6 2 ~
For the first time the Ordinary business is separated
from the Industrial. The Industrial premium in-
come was £22,391. The expenses in that depart-
ment were £15,335. Thus the expenses absorbed
over 74 p.c. of the entire premium income: of
every Is. paid on these poor little fourpence-a-fort-
night policies, ninepence (or so little under nine-
pence that the difference doesn’t matter) goes in
commissions to the men who hunt for the business
and the other men who hunt for the premiums, and
a third lot of men who keep an eye on the before-
mentioned two lots of men. And consequently only
a minute fraction over 3d. of every Is. paid for in-
surance is available to purchase the thing the insurers
think they are buying. It is all deplorably sad, for
the people who buy Industrial insurance are the least
able to pay money for what they don’t get. The
Ordinary branch premium income was £11,156.
The expenses were £5213. Thus in even this de-
partment the expenses soaked up over 46 p.c. of the
premium income. As time goes on the co. may be
able to do better. But the way of the small insur-
ance co. —the co. that has to fight every inch of the
way-—is hard. One of its troubles is that even in
the Ordinary branch the big policies—which mostly
take the least getting—don’t come its way. Last
year this office’s average Ordinary-policy proposal
was for only £101; and medical fees alone ate up
no less than 13 p.c. of the first year’s premiums
received. In such circumstances cheap insurance is
simply out of the question.
* * * *
The Standard Fire and Marine Insur-
ance Co. (Maoriland) :
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1901.. £11.013 10 p.c. =£7500 -- £3,513 £50,206
1902.. 15,938 10 „ „ 7500 £2OOO 6,438 56,644
1903.. 18,307 10 „ ~ 7500 10,807 67,451
1904.. 12,715 10 ~ ~ 7500 5,215 72,666
1905.. 12,953 10 ~ „ 7500 5,453 78,119
1906.. 11,570 10 ~ ~ 7500 4,070 82,159
1907.. 12,697 10 „ „ 7500 • 5,197 87,386
1908.. 8,180 10 ~ ~ 7500 680 88,066
1909.. 12,573 10 „ „ 7500 5,073 93,139
1910.. 20,610 111,, „ 8312 12,298 105,437
1911.. 18,512 ll|„ „ 8500 10,012 115,449
The co. shows another fine performance—all the
finer because, once again, the directors put by con-
siderably more than half the profits. In 10 years,
on a capital of £75,000, reserves of more than
£lOO,OOO have been accumulated. There are not
many lines of business in which things like that can
be done. Certainly there is a difference between a
fire insurance eo.’s reserves and most other reserves.
Theoretically, no doubt, an insurance co.’s premiums
for any one year are supposed to cover that year’s
nsks pins expenses. But there is the conflagration
hazard—something in the way of a ’Frisco disaster
which may eat up not only that year’s premiums
but the amount laid by in many a previous year as
well. A fire insurance co.’s reserves can’t therefore
be regarded as profits absolutely and finally earned.
:Still, giving all that in, the Standard has done ad-
mirably. And, judged by the increasing turnover,
it will do even better. The following shows the pre-
mium income and a few other things:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66’5 p.c. 30'7 p.c.
1900.. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53'8 „ 27 6 „
1905.. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54"2 „ 33'2 „
1908.. 61,077 39,820 20,083 65’2 ~ 32'9 „
1909.. 67,641 40,275 21,927 59'5 ~ 32'4 „
1910.. 73,370 36,593 23,760 49'9 „ 32‘4 „
1911.. 80,767 42,021 28,526 52’0 ~ 35’3 „
In the 10 years from 1895 to 1905 progress was
slow. Then, however, things took a turn, and the
figures have been climbing ever since. As usual with
a co. which does a good deal of marine business, the
loss rate is on the high side and the expense rate is
on the low ; but it is a bad year when the co. fails
to make an underwriting profit of 10 p.c. of the
premiums. On top of that there is the revenue from
investments. Last year £B2BO fell into the pot
from this source—just enough to pay 11 p.c. on the
co.’s capital, leaving only J p.c. to be drawn from
the insurance profits. The investments include
£98,964 out on mortgage, £45,749 in unspecified
debentures, £20,560 in office premises and other
property, and £6334 on deposit. From the insurance
point of view these are not ideal investments, inas-
much as they can’t conveniently be called in to meet
the sudden demand that is liable to hit a co. which
does this sort of business. Still there is some com-
pensation in an interest return of nearly 4f p.c.
From the policy-holder’s point of view the position
is exceedingly strong. Capital and reserves combined
are equal to 236 p.c. of the year’s premiums.
Wright, Heaton and Co. (Sydney),
carriers and suppliers of station goods:—
Writ- To
Dividends ten Re- Re-
Profits. and Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
July, 1904..£2,911 10 p.c. =£3500 £13,000 £14,274
Jan., 1905.. 5,052 7*„ ~ 2625 £2427 16,701
July, 1905.. 6,254 7i„ ~ 2625 3629 20,330
Jan., 1906.. 6,593 1b „ ~ 2625 3968 24,298
July, 1906.. 6,311 10 ~ ~ 3500 2811 27,109
Jan., 1907.. 6,275 10 „ ~ 3500 2775 29,884
July, 1907.. 7,955 10 „ ~ 3500 4455 34,339
Jan., 1908.. 8,826 10 ~ ~ 3500 5326 8.1,665
July, 1908.. 8,054 10 „ ~ 3500 4,000 554 40,219
Jan., 1909.. 7,167 10 „ ~ 3500 5,000 38,886
July, 1909.. 7,056 10 „ ~ 3500 4,500 37,942
Jan., 1910.. 7,415 10 „ „ 3500 3,000 915 38,857
July, 1910.. 7,252 10 ~ ~ 3500 3,000 752 39,609
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 29,609
Jan., 1911.. 7,450 10 p.c. = 4000 .3,000 450 30,059
July, 1911.. 7,852 10 „ „ 4000 3,000 852 30.911
Jan., 1912.. 10,445 10 ~ „ 4250 6195 37,106
There is some doubt about a figure or two in that
last line. The co. pays quarterly divs., and the one
following the closing of the January accounts was
payable in March. Between the closing of the ac-
counts and the payment of the divs. £lO,OOO of
reserves were transferred to capital-—that is to say,
shareholders got one free share for every eight then
held —and it is not made plain whether these shares
carry the div. or -not. It is pretty certain, though,
that they do. Nothing is now written off properties
and plant, the last £3OOO having, the directors say,
reduced the assets “much below what they would
realise if offered for sale.” In the past four' years
no less than £25,500 has been written off; some
of this was in reduction of the book value of assets,
the balance went to the credit of a contingency fund.
Apparently the contingencies provided for have not
arisen, as the directors now say that “the contingency
account or inner reserve now exceeds a fourth of the
paid-up capital of the co.” The paid capital (before
the present watering) was £BO,OOO. This shows
some other details and movements: —
Liabilities.
Jan.,1902. July, 1911. Jan.,1912
General £'36,470 £49,444 £62,099
Assets.
Cash £12,897 £7,687 £15,604
Premises, plant, etc. .. 15,141 18,106 17,061
Stock 9,408 41,380 42,124
Book debts .. .. 54,513 74,183 81,656
McCulloch Oo 19,072 25,000 25,000
The inner reserve previously referred to is, of course,
not shown: presumably it has been used to write
down assets below their ascertained value. The co.,
originally a carrying concern, now deals largely in
fodder and the sort of merchandise that squatters
call for; and the combination of the two businesses
is highly profitable. This trading department is no
doubt mainly responsible for the increase both of
liabilities and of book debts. Besides the Wright-
Heaton business in N. S. Wales, the co. carries on
the McCulloch Carrying Co.’s business in Victoria;
the profits from the latter branch were £1875 last
half-year. Depending largely upon the state of the
variable back country, the profits are naturally
erratic; but the business shows every sign of being
handled with great care.
The Shamrock Brewing and Malting
Co. (Melbourne) :
Net To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1901 .. £7251 8 p.c. =£3612 £3639 £15,167
1902 .. 6644 8 ~ „ 3612 3032 18.199
1903 .. 4377 8 ~ ~ 3612 765 18,964
1904 .. 5008 8 „ ~ 3612 1396 20,360
1905 .. 4628 8 „ „ 3612 1016 21,376
1906 .. 1452 6 „ ~ 2709 20,119
Dec.,
1907 .. 624 4 „ ~ 1806 18,937
1908 .. 1608 4 ~ ~ 1806 18,739
1909 .. 3904 8 „ „ 3612 292 19,031
1910 .. 7293 10 ~ ~ 4515 2778 21,809
1911 .. 6817 10 ~ ~ 4515 2302 24,111
Besides the reserves shown above the co. has an
“assets realisation account, to provide for deprecia-
tion of assets,” £48,923. On the other side, how-
ever, is the line, “Shares in Carlton and United
Breweries Prop., at face value, £72,500,” and the
greater part of that is goodwill. This C. and
U.B. Prop, is really the Melbourne brewery com-
bine, of which the Shamrock forms part. The Com-
bine took over the Shamrock plant, rolling stock,
etc., and the assets realisation account represents
roughly the difference between the tangible assets
transferred and the nominal value of the Shamrock’s
interest in the combine. Last year the receipts
from the combine were £6514, equal to approxi-
mately 9 p.c. ; and this was equal to nearly 15 p.c.
on the co.’s own capital of £45,152. In addition
to the combine div. the co. gets close-up £lOOO
from rents and investments ; and as that more than
pays management exes., the 10 p.c. div. is easily
paid, and a solid cash reserve is being built up.
This may come in handy presently to write down
the brewery and malt-house, which figure as an
asset worth £39,208, though they are bringing in
hardly anything. But the co. isn’t entitled to take
to drink on that account, because the combine is
making its profits largely by the closing-up of
superfluous beer factories, and thus reducing their
rental value to practically nothing.
The Squatting Investment Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Added to Re-
Dec., Loss. Dividends. Reserves, serves.’
1900.. £27,060 Nil £1,817
Defii-it.
1901.. 11,967 Nil 10,150
■ Profit.
1902.. 3,847 Nil £3847 6,303
Reserves.
1903.. 15,023 2b p.c. = £7,300 7723 1,420
1904.. 22,329 5 „ ~ 14,600 7729 9,149
1905.. 19.605 5 „ ~ 14,600 5005 14,154
1906.. 21,801 5 ~ ~ 14,600 7201 21,355
1907.. 19,561 5 „ ~ 14,600 4961 26,316
Loss.
1908.. 8,816 4£ „ ~ 12,167 5,333
Profit.
1909.. 12.069 3b „ „ 9,733 2336 7,669
1910.. 9,696 3J „ „ 9,733 7,632
1911.. 7,444 3J ~ „ 9,733 5,343
The man who makes money out of squatting is nine
times out of 10 the man who buys in when the other
fellow has to sell out; and the fellow who has to
sell out is in two cases out of three the man who
bought in on the inflated basis, of a few good
seasons. Punting on the “ponies” is hardly a more
uncertain business than this. In 1900 this co. made
a loss of £27,060; in 1904 it made a profit of
£22,329. Again, 1907 showed £19,561 to the
good; the very next year showed £BBl6 to the bad.
Unfortunately it bought in on the basis of a few
good years —when pretty well everybody was saying
that something or other was different from what it
used to be, wherefore there weren’t going to be any
bad times any more. Though it had, to begin with,
a paid capital of under £200,000, it bought Bun-
daleer and Thurulgoona stations, over the Queensland
border, at a cost of about £450,000. That, of
course, meant the usual mortgage; and presently
large quantities of the live stock, representing a big
part of this money, were wiped out by a complica-
tion of diseases, including rabbits and drought. To
relieve the strain on the mortgagee, £lOO,OOO more
capital was got in; and then started the dreadfu
fight with what was left of the mortgage. For a
good many years no dividend was paid at all; am.
at no time was anything big divided. The surplus
profit, when there was any, was used to write dow
the assets, a corresponding hunk of the mortgage
being paid off. To-day, with a capital of £292,005,
the old liabilities have entirely disappeared. Ail
that the co. owed on December 31 was £3095, while
at the same date there was an expected £5943 to
be received for the balance of the year’s clip. 1.
seven years something like £33,000 of debt has beei.
shifted, though all new improvements have been
paid for out of revenue.
The profits shown above are net; and as the
amounts spent on improvements and written off va.
a lot from year to year, it will be as well, to set
out the total sums written off: -
1904 .. ..£5,303 1908 .. ..£6,357
1905 .. .. 4,805 1909 .. .. 17,654
1906 .. .. 11,158 1910 .. .. 14,079
1907 .. .. 12,409 1911 .. .. 9,161
These amounts were not all spent on improvements.
Last year, for instance, while £lO5O was spent, a
total of £9161 was written off —partly to reduce
the “improvements” item, partly to reduce the book
value of the station property. The whole thing,
improvements included (but not stock or plant),
stood, at £257,282 at the end of 1904, as against
£218,960 to-day—a reduction of £38,322 out of
surplus revenue in seven years. Still that surplus
revenue can scarcely be called profit, because xnost
of the holding is leasehold —that is to say, it is a
wasting asset, and should be written down. The
wasting will, however, be very gradual, for the
term is long and the prospect of renewal in this
class of country very good. If, therefore, one could
feel sure that the past seven years had been normal,
one could only conclude that, having now freed
itself of debt, the co. was in for a pretty good time.
But this paper isn’t prepared to take its oath that
the past seven years have been even approximately
normal, especially in the back country of Queens-
land.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society
op Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Dividend
(5 p.c.) Written To Re- De-
Profit. and Bonus. Off. serves, licit.
July, 1905.. £1637 £1441 £215 £176
Reserves.
Jan., 1906.. 2661 1786 440 435 ' 259
July, 1906.. 1884 1864 267 12
Jan., 1907.. 3450 2607 471 3x2 384
July, 1907.. 3483 3000 757 110
Dividends only
(no bonus).
Jan., 1908.. 2493 1209 998 256 396
July, 1908.. 164 Nil Nil 164 560
Loss.
Jan., 1909.. 220 Nil Nil 340
Deficit.
July, 1909.. 3712 Nil Nil . 3372
Profit.
Jan., 1910.. 2034 Nil Nil 2034 1338
July, 1910.. 1694 Nil . 356 1338
Capital forfeited and written off, £4062
Jan., 1911.. 935 Nil 935
Reserves.
Capital forfeited, £1214
July, 1911.. 964 Nil 1207 971
Capital forfeited, £1125
Jan., 1912.. 1345 Nil 1146 199 2295
This co., which tried to push a circus caravan when
its infant strength was only of wheelbarrow capacity,
is trying to go back on its steps. On a then paid
capital of only £40,000 it ran itself into a Flinders-
street freehold store which Cost about £35,000;
and though it borrowed nretty heavily on mortgage
and debentures, it didn’t have the funds necessary
to keep a sufficient stock, and, partly on that ac-
count, it didn’t have a turnover commensurate with
the size of the premises, and the debt upon the
property. Now it proposes to sell the Flinders-street
property and go into smaller but sufficient leasehold
premises ; and at the same time, in order to make a
more general appeal, the directors have an idea that
perhaps they had better change the -name of the
show. To add to its misfortunes the co. spent over
£20,000 on a bakery. It was a very fine bakery—
probably the best in Australasia —but the cost of
serving two customers in Coburg and three in Foots-
cray and five in Hawthorn, all from one central
oven, put a gloomy look upon the accounts. How-
ever, this sanitary bakery is calculated to make a
steadily increasing appeal to people, and whereas
this time last year it had to own up to a loss of
£49 after providing for interest, for the past half-year
it shows a profit of £344. Both the Central and
the Williamstown stores also come out on the right
side; so the prospect is much more encouraging.
The other branches into which the impetuous co.
launched have been got rid of.
“Capital forfeited” figures pretty largely; in fact,
, there wouldn’t otherwise be any reserves at all.
When the circus caravan started to run downhill
with the co., and the co, couldn’t therefore keep the
stock that people expected, many shareholders got
out of the habit of dropping in at the stores. In
other words, though they had more or less under-
taken to co-operate, they left off co-operating. The
co. therefore decided as a desperate remedy to
apply a little persuasion; and a rule was passed
authorising a fine of £1 on shareholders who didn’t
buy £l2 worth of goods p.a. The fine is simply
struck off the capital at the shareholder’s credit.
Hence the forfeitures referred to above. Still the
directors declare that they are cruel only to be kind,
and the directors “desire to assure members that
remissions of past penalties will be gladly made as
far as is consistent with the spirit of the rule.”
Which being so, it looks as though the reserves are
to some extent only provisional. The rule has
apparently reduced the membership in 18 months
from 12,306 to 8749; but if the 3557 who have
gone out didn’t do any trading while they were in,
the loss isn’t anything like so serious as it looks.
The average trade per member at the Sydney Civil
Service Stores is said to be £4O p.a., at the Ade-
laide .Co-op. stores £27, and at Melbourne only
£l4. “A glance at these figures,” the directors
say, “will readily show the difficultv this society
is faced with, and the remedy is entirely in the
hands of members.” It might do the management
some good to remember that these other stores didn’t
put their little bit of capital into bricks and mortar,
but into stock. However, things are improving;
and, anyway, nothing can alter the fact that the
public which runs its own stores as economical! v
as somebody else can run it for them, will save all
the profit that the somebody else would pocket under
the -non-co-operative system.
Wunderlich, Ltd., of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, manufacturers of ceiling and roofing mater-
ials, etc. (the co. began with a disclosed deficit of
£ 1737, representing preliminary expenses):—
Dividends.
■■ -'——i Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Be- nal Re-
Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinarv. serves, serves.
Aug., ’OB.. £7,923 £962 7b p.c. = £4,387 ±2,573 £835
Feb., ’09.. 10,529 962 8 ~ ~ 4,680 4,887 5,722
Premiums on new shares .. 1,376 7,098
Aug.,’o9.. 9,971 962 8 p.c. = 4,901 4,108 11,206
Premiums on new shares .. 1,270 12,476
Feb., TO.. 11,262 962 Bip.e.= 5,210 5,090 17,566
Feb., ’ll.. 22,916 2800 9 ~ ~11,033 9,083 26,649
Feb., T 2.. 30,405 2800 9) „ ~ 11,646 15,959 42,60 s
First the Wunderlich brothers carried on the busi-
ness, and put their uncommon mixture of artistic
temperament and business acumen into it. Then a
proprietary co. took it over, outside capital being
apparently represented by pref.. capital. Next a
public co. arrived, and the original pref. shareholders
got pref. shares in this also —27,500 of them of £1
each. Subsequently 10,000 more were issued at a
premium, and the co.’s employees provident fund was
allotted 2500 at par. This makes 40,000, carrying
7 p.c. cumulative. There is an ordinary issue also of
122,591. After the Sydney business had been well
established the Melbourne connection was strength-
ened by the purchase of Rooke and Co.’s business;
and an Adelaide business was bought in 1910. When
the co. was a semi-private concern it didn't go much
into details in its published accounts, and the extent
of the goodwill item wasn’t clear. During the last
three years or so things have been made plainer, and
goodwill is pow admitted to be £65,702, made up,
it seems, as follows: Wunderlich’s goodwill, £38,500 ;
Robke and Co.’s ditto, £20,000 ; Adelaide and other
purchases, £7202. Hence in the table the reserves
are described as nominal; £42,608 has been accumu-
lated towards wiping out this paper asset, and another
£23,094 will have to be put in the till before the
entire capital will be represented by tangible assets.
At the recent rate of going a couple of years will see
this done—a remarkable six years’ achievement, con-
sidering that the prefs. have got their 7 p.c. and the
ordinaries have averaged 8 I p.c. No doubt the past
few years have been an unusually fine time for this
and every other concern in the building trade; and
probably this co. has benefited more than most. At
all times some building is being done; but in lean
times the building that is done doesn’t usually run
to much in the way of trimmings.
During the past year the co. has done good work
in wiping out debt. Twelve months ago the liabili-
ties totalled £66,193 ; the load has now been light-
ened to £51,162, notwithstanding that another
£lO,OOO has been put into freeholds. The money
has come partly from trading profits, partly from the
reduction of stocks. There is a depreciation reserve.
This isn’t included with the reserves mentioned
above, mainly because the size of the provision
isn’t disclosed. Renewals, it is mentioned, have been
paid for out of revenue, and therefore included, prac-
tically, among working exes.
The three Wunderlich brothers are the sole direc-
tors, though there is a local Board in Melbourne.
The managing or permanent directors are entitled to
5 p.c. of the net profits after the prefs. have got
their 7 p.c. and the ordinaries 6 p.c. ; and there are
additional payments to be made to them on the pro-
fits in excess of £lO,OOO. The past year’s profits ap-
parently involve a payment of about £2050. This
seems to be a further charge for goodwill, combined
with something in the way of profit-sharing. In ad-
dition to these features, which probably are of some
importance to the general investor, the size of the
goodwill must be noted ; and the ordinary shareholder
has to take into account (1) the cumulative pref.
issue, and (2) the fact that the directors take a
small bite as soon as he has had 6 p.c. On the other
hand, the prefs. can’t get more than 7 p.c., and to
pay 7 p.c. on the pref. capital the entire capital need
only average about If p.c. ; all profit beyond that
much belongs to the ordinary shareholders, with the
small reservation mentioned above.
The Emu and Prospect Gravel and
Road Metal Co. (Sydney) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £1095 7 p.c. =£952 £53 £2lBB
June, 1905.. 944 6£ ~ ~ 850 94 2282
Dec., 1905.. 612 Nil 612 2894
June, 1906.. 706 3Jp.c.= 425 £225 56 2950
Dec., 1996.. 1050 3J „,, 425 275 350 3300
June, 1907.. 1375 6J ~ ~ 850 375 150 8450
Dec., 1907.. 2443 6) ~ ~ 850 500 1093 4543
June, 1908.. 3555 6J ~ „ 850 675 2030 6573
Dec., 1908.. 3751 9§ „ ~1275 825 1651 8224
June. 1909.. 3439 121 „ „ 1700 500 1239 9463
£6BOO of Reserves transferred to Capital .. 2663
Dec., 1909.. 3555 121 p.c. = 1700 960 895 3558
June, 1910.. 4057 10“ „ ~ 2040 950 1067 4625
Dec., 1910.. 3834 10 „,, 2040 850 944 5569,
June, 1911.. 3712 10 „,, 2040 800 872 6441
Dec., 1911.. 4457 10 „ ~2040 700 1717 8158
The reserves consist of a contingency fund £B5O, a
reserve for the equalisation of dividends. £3OOO and
unappropriated profit £4308. Depreciation of plant,
tramways, etc., is written off; and, as the quarries
are a wasting asset, the output is debited with a
small amount per ton for the writing-down of this
property. If these allowances are sufficient, as they
appear to be, the reserves are the genuine article.
During the past few years the co. has been in clover.
’This shows six years’ history from one point of view:
• Dec., 1905. Dec., 1911.
Liabilities.. .. .. £7814 £565
Liquid assets .. .. 2986. 10,052
Deficit .. ..£4828
Surplus .. .. £9,487
There is an improvement there of £14,315. From
that, however, £6BOO of new capital has to be de-
ducted, leaving £7515. Thus the past six years’
trading has (1) paid the dividend, (2) provided all
the renewals, replacements and additions to property
and plant, and (3) added £7515 to the net liquid
assets. The additions to property and plant have
been considerable. A quarry at Guildford has been
secured, and over £6500 has been put into the
Prospect quarry property besides over £2500 into
plant, etc., at Emu Plains. Against this must, how-
ever, be placed the depreciation and waste. Still
the result is very good considering that six years
ago the capital (written down) was only £27,200.
(Since then £6BOO has been called up and another
£6BOO of reserves have been transferred to capital.)
But the co. can’t reasonably expect to go on like this.
Sydney has been having a burst of constructional
activity, and on past records the burst will be fol-
lowed by a slump. Even if good seasons and high
prices were to last for ever, N. S. Wales couldn’t go
on borrowing at the rate of about £3 per head per
annum; and it is this furious borrowing that is
creating a goc>d deal of the present spurious prosper-
ity and hang-the-expense frame of mind. A couple
of poor seasons toppled this co.’s profits down to £612
in one six months ; and if poor seasons came again
the community, with less money to spend, wouldn t
knock off eating bread or wearing boots, but it
would promptly knock off buying the stones and
gravel that this co. has to sell.
A microscopic company has issued a pros-
pectus in Melbourne, inviting capital to buy motor-
buses to run from Brunswick and Heidelberg towards
the city. The capital asked for is £20,000, and the
promoters say they will shortly have 40 ’buses run-
ning. That is, if they can buy them at £4OO,
landed in Melbourne. As the London ’Bus Co.’s new
motor-buses cost £lOOO each on the spot,
must be wrong somewhere.
* * * *
The Victorian Railway Commissioners
have ordered 100,000 tons of Newcastle coal as a
stand-by. Thus begins the first bit of wedge-driving
into the State coal mining down Melbourne way.
Already persons like H. E. Rowe are able to dab


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U S.A , GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES: —U.K., 3/- ;
from 2/4; CERMANY, 3/- :
Canada and U.S.A.,
FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 41,d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :■»*%
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
i
m
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
the finger of scorn on everything at Wonthaggi,
from the brickworks on to the piles of slack and
then on to the general costs of the nune. 1 rivate
Enterprise ivants to w r all in not only the bit of black
coal that lies at Wonthaggi, but to put barbed
wire round the brown coal. In this grab he is
helped by the wasters on the Wonthaggi field who
cannot see what's ahead. Throughout the State the
Wonthaggi sore is being watched, and should the
men do a bunk over Broome’s reduction, they won t
have any prodigal calf killed for theni when they
come to sing low. The wage earned is good, the
work not over hard, and the scope for grumbling as
wide as the Powlett itself. Yet miners threaten
the State ownership by arrant selfishness, stupidity
and greed. It is little short of a scandal, after
all, that Dunn, Broome and Mcßride have said about
the Powlett, that coal is not cheaper in Victoria
and that imports are so big. Overhaul ought to
start at the top and work downwards. Then a sort-
ing out of scallywags is wanted to get the staff ot
the temple of Labor into proper trim, so that tbey
may not do more injury to the cause of the public
ownership of coal. #
Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.) is a
consolidation of 23 old mining claims, some of
which made the name of Hawkins Hill famous
nearlv 40 years ago. Phillipson’s north level is at
about 280 ft. vertical, and has been driven a total
of 247 ft. Along the channel for about 140 ft. a
payable vein of stone has been developed. Hawkins
Hill was always patchy, so blanks are sometimes met
with, and, after negotiating one of these, the mana-
ger reports a new make of stone met with at 195 ft.
and continuing up to the present face at 247 ft. This
vein varies in width from a few inches to bulges of
4ft , and values run from lOdwt. to 10oz., with the
richest stone at the end of the level. This develop-
ment looks good enough to average 4oz. when put
through the mill, and should sweeten up the dump-
material and the stone taken from other sections.
One of the latter is also showing improved form, for
during last month a rise from Paxton’s tunnel dis-
closed two veins, in all 15in., value loz. per ton.
Paxton’s tunnel is being extended to cut these veins.
The lower prospecting tunnel, which is much below
any of the old workings, is in 377 ft. A vein of
poor quality was cut at 309 ft., which should be
worth further prospecting.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) has cleaned up
a crushing of 135 tons, for an average of 6oz. 16dwt.
per ton ; total, 9220 z. 16dwt. This follows a return
of 276 tons for 8380 z., or slightly over 3oz. per ton,
reported early in the year. Shareholders cannot
expect to benefit very much out of tribute parcels,
for the profits only keep the pot boiling, so attention
is all the more eagerly directed to the prospecting of
new ground. Driving at No. 17 level on No. 3 reef
shows an average width of 6in. of stone, practically
the same width as disclosed in the level above (No.
16). No. 12 level has developed a vein 9in. wide.
To test the quality of the stone obtained in this
development work, a trial crushing is now going
through the mill. A mine that can crush such rich
stone is worth a lot of prospecting.
* * * *
For five weeks to the end of March the
Junction North Mill. (Broken'Hill) treated 14,339
tons of -mixed material (11,181 tons of crude ore,
with 3158 tons of slimes). This new departure in
mill work is a success to the extent that one ton of
slimes been mixed in a recovery process with 3.54
tons of crude ore, to give an all-round recovery of
between nine and 10 units of lead. Still the Junc-
tion North isn’t at the end of its slimy track, simply
because it has produced 2073 tons of lead concen-
trates (65.7 p.c. lead; 33.40 z. silver). The propor-
tion between 14,339 tons of mixed stuff and 2073
tons of lead concentrates is mighty close to seven to
one. A good recovery of metals, with a larger pro-
portion of slimes in the mixture, is what the manage-
ment is striving for, and, to help this big experi-
ment, it has been proved that slimes from the North
B. Hill dump mix well with those from the British,
thereby economising the use of acid and oil.
*■ * * *
Yerrenderie (N.S.W.) has earned a good
reputation as a silver-lead mining field, because of
the success of some lightly capitalised cos. which,
for some years past, have been sending silver-lead
ore along 40 miles of road to Camden railway station.
New Burragorang is a reconstruction of an
old concern with 60,000 shares of ss. each
(capital £15.000). The Yerrenderie mine next
door had originally a capital of £lO,OOO in £1
shares. The vein of ore was extremely patchy, with
a remarkably flat underlay. Numerous levels were
opened, and some of these have been driven within
a short distance of the New Burragorang’s boundary.
The latter co. is sinking a new shaft, and is down
62ft. There is a valueless vein of low-grade car-
bonate ore, 7in. wide, exposed in the shaft. Some of
the carbonate ore obtained in the early days of the
field carried rich silver, but it should be remembered
the vein of rich stuff is generally very narrow and
patchy.
Mount Elliott (Q.) did good work last
month (March) smelting 4604 tons of ore for 581
tons copper, 1048 oz. gold, and 7170 z. silver.
An average of 12.6 p.c. is rarely enjoyed
for a long period. Its value, at £5O per ton,
is £6 6s. per ton; at £7O per ton, £8 16s. 4d. ;
and at £75 per ton, £9 9s. The professional punter
and the S. M. Herald, taking copper at £7O, esti-
mates the month’s return at £44,842 (gross value),
considerably over £ 9 per ton of ore, and because
blister copper for one or two exceptional months has
been turned out at a cost of £25 per ton, an elastic
conscience takes that figure as the average for the
whole year. A working cost of £25 per ton ot
blister, with an average extraction of 12-) p.c., is just
£3 2s. 6d. per ton of ore. Of course the glossy return
for March is just a reminder of the failure of Elliott
to work on normal lines for five months of the cur-
rent financial year (closing June 30). The uneven
running and loss of time caused by the creep, and
afterwards by strikes, must, of course, help to coun-
terbalance the benefit of a rise in the price of the
base metal. Then shipping freights and returning
charges on blister are rising. So is the cost of de-
veloping and underground mining.
Brilliant Deeps (Charters Towers) main-
tains its .reputation for being rather patchy. lhe
winze, started 20ft. east of the crosscut, penetrated
a few feet of blank ground, but there is a narrow
vein of fairly good stone at a depth of 21ft. A rise,
started 173 ft. west of the crosscut, is up 23it., and
in that short distance the reef has varied in width
from 18in. to 42in. At No. 5 level the crosscut has
been driven 232 ft. without meeting with the reef.
The ground is becoming more favorable, and from
the length of the shoot of stone developed m No. 4,
it is only reasonable to expect a development m NO.
5 at no very distant date. Brilliant. Deeps has 112
tons of stone raised, so another crushing may be ex-
pected before long. The driving of No. 4 level has
been suspended.
* - * * *
Charters Towel's is hopeful about three
mines—Kelly’s Queen Block, Marshall’s Queen and
Bonnie Dundee. All hold on to substantial balances,
which, it is hoped, will be improved by the crush-
ing now going through the mills. Bonnie Dundee,
at the end of the half-year, had a credit of £1276.
There should be a good prospect, No. 5 level below
the 609 ft. formation running into the strong shoot
of stone developed from No. 4, which is also show-
ing strongly in the winze below the level. Still this
formation has only carried patchy makes of good
stone in a narrow reef, and the long interval between
crushings reduces the profit. Kelly’s Queen is making
rather slow progress in driving its levels on the St.
George reef, which, at 94ft. from the shaft, has split
into two sections in a wide formation. A good deal
of prospecting and development work will have to be
done before a fair idea can be formed of the value of
this reef. Certainly some very good returns were
obtained in the olden days, in ground not very
distant from Kelly’s boundary, and it is just pos-
sible that at increased depth the payable shoot may
"pitch in towards Kelly’s.
Shareholders in Mount Oxide Options
(Q.) have been requested by the secretary to send
in scrip certificates, so there may be something in
the wind. Mount Oxide was discovered by Ernest
Henrv, the veteran Cloncurry prospector, 30 years
back." There are undoubtedly some rich shoots of
copper ore in a big formation, but the shipments of
30 p.c. and 40 p.c. ore (635 tons shipped by Henry
last year) don’t represent a big output of metal. There
is no reason to doubt that the mine is “looking ex-
ceptionally good’’ at shallow levels, and in favored
corners where there has been secondary enrichment. A
patch of copper glance and oxidised ore deposited
among veins of calcite may help to account for the
rich assay of 62 p.c. for 2ft. 6in., with ore averaging
33 p.c of unknown width on both walls. The O.K.
mine in N. Queensland —that had such a short and
brilliant career—started life by packing some hun-
dreds of tons of its rich copper outcrop on camels
to the railway, 50 miles away. Mount Molloy also,
in its early history, did a lot of packing. So,
although Mount Oxide is 150 miles from Cloncurry,
with camel transport costing about £7 10s. per ton,
the high prices of copper should bring out much
larger quantities than have hitherto been shipped, if
the mine is good enough. #
In the mining revival at Clermont (Q.)
Western Reefs is one of the places that are being
given a second turn. The show is 30 miles aorta
of Clermont, and 14 miles north-west of Blair Athol
coal centre. The place was abandoned, as were so
many others in the 1900 drought, and has lain with
a vacant stare ever since till the present syndicate
tackled and unwatered the shafts. Twenty-five tons,
taken from a point at 50ft. in the shaft, from a reef
Bin. to Ift. in width, yielded 1460 z. of gold, valued
at £585. „ ,
During March, Mount Morgan produced
£78,313 from 30,496 tons of ore (8233 gold ore,
22,263 copper ore). The average value of the lot,
with copper at £5O, pans out £2 11s. 4sd. per
ton. Practically all the ore contains some copper,
and a considerable quantity of the red metal is now
obtained by leaching and precipitating, the precipi-
tates being sent to the copper smelters. For this
reason no close analysis of copper values can be made
without taking the output of precipitates into cal-
culation. As an instance, the copper produced m
January was 676 tons, but 72 tons of the metal were
contained in precipitates, and 603 tons in the 21,210
tons of copper ore smelted. Last month 607 tons ot
copper were recovered from 22,263 tons smelted.
With copper at £5O, ore of this grade has a money
value of about £56 per ton, and with copper at
£7O, the value rises about 10s. 9d. per ton, or
(gay) 675. (gross value). Shareholders will have to
wait for the annual report (May 31), to know what
the costs are. All that can be said is that for two
and a half years total expenses have mopped up
over £61,000 per month, at which rate last month s
profit would figure at £17,313, with copper at £5O.
On 607 tons of copper, an extra £2O per ton (cop-
ner at £7O) would add £12,140 to the profit, mak-
ing it £29,453. The value produced for the month
(with copper at £7O) would be £90,453, and the
average—from 30,496 tons —would be nearly £3 per
ton of ore. *
* *
Mount Morgan has done nothing of late to
find out how long it may possibly live; neither by
development or diamond drill. It is evidently con-
tent to solve its smelter troubles, and let the future
“cover off,” so to speak. Outside the boundary,
the Mount Morgan Extension Co. still pegs away.
The shaft is now down 1360 ft., which seems to sig-
nify that the co. has abundance of faith and some
dollars. # *
The United North Australian Mines (Wat-
sonville N.Q.), which were resurrected a couple ot
years ago, continue to justify themselves. It was
one of those localities that mining tradition had
woven big yarns about, but which was neglected be-
cause the various shows had “had their eyes picked
out ” Newer methods were reckoned capable ot hand-
ling the low-grade stuff, and the reckoning was right
February’s returns give 91 tons tin back Horn 893
tons of ore, with a corresponding value of £BB2.
The mines have their own mill, and plenty of pure
water is considered the onlv thing needed to make
Watsonville a bright and mighty centre of tin.
The Vulcan (N.Q.), since 1890, treated
128 221 tons for 10,791 tons of tin concentrates,
valued at £503,268. The dividend total is £168,630,
but there were some very lean years between
The Bluff Colliery Co. (107 miles from
Rockhampton) has a lease near Blair Athol Coal and
Timber Co. (240 miles by rail from Rockhampton).
A shaft on this Bluff-Blair Athol property struck
coal at 32ft., and the 43ft. of it is said to be equal
to anything on the field. So now the co s policy,
“when funds are available, ’ is to mix this quick-
burning coal with the more snail-like anthracite ot
the Bluff. The Bluff produced 17,347 tons last year
out of Bananaland’s total of 891,568 tons from 42
collieries. # *
London reports that some guileless people
in that centre have been induced to take options on
the Harbor View and B’lag gold and copper mines at
Phillips River (W.A.). For a year or more both
these properties have been inarticulate, and the pos-
sibilitv of their livening up again is having a cheer-
ing effect on that almost deserted field.
Belated confession by the Great Boulder
Board: “The directors regret that operations have
confirmed that the main lode at 2800 ft. is outside
the company’s boundary, but development and ex-
ploration is being actively continued in every hope
of discoveries being made to ameliorate the position.
The ascertainment of the position at greater depth
will be made at the earliest possible date. Mean-
while it will be a satisfaction to shareholders that the
ore reserves just published have shown the conser-
vative nature' of the estimates that both production
and dividends may be continued as at present, with-
out interruption, for some time. At the various
levels from which the reserves are estimated the lode
consistently maintains its widths and values. The
depreciation in value of the co.’s shares so rapidly
lately is greatly to be regretted, but the Board trusts
to the shareholders to view dispassionately the past
and present history of their great mine, and to
avoid any action dictated by panic.” But (alas!)
what is the use of shareholders in any mine which
gets sick viewing things dispassionately when the
knowing ones (the insiders, their friends and their
friends’ friends, also their friends’ mothers and sisters
and aunts and their first wife’s three uncles) are
selling short and knocking down the market? Sup-
posing that production and dividends are maintained
for four years longer—which looks improbable—and
the present price of shares is paid back in dividends,
what then ? To make the stock worth having as a
mining investment in the interim one would have to
get 12s. a share at the end of four years from now, and
the prospect of that dozen shillings doesn’t look good.
The Board should have told shareholders 12 months
ago that the main lode had left the property, and let
the matter stand at that.
Lionel Robinson and party have taken an
option for £50,000 cash on the Gladstone, at
Comet Vale (W.A.). An effort was made to in-
clude the adjoining Sand Queen in the deal, but the
owners thought the price offered, which was the
same as that asked for the Gladstone, was too low,
and for the present business is “off.” The Glad-
stone’s shoot is reckoned to be 800 ft. long, 4ft.
wide, and worth 635. per long ton. That in the
Sand Queen has so far crushed about £3 per ton,
and in a winze at 240 ft. from the surface it assays
90s. It is some 300 ft. shorter than the Gladstone’s.
The neighboring Happy Jack has been optioned for
£12,000 by the Gwalia South. Unlike the two
previously-mentioned mines, which are quartz-reef-
ing propositions, this show’s gold deposit is pure
schist, with a dash of chromate of lead in it.
Hitherto very little has been heard of hornet
Vale. It is' not far from Menzies, 1 and nice and
handy to the railway, but the whole locality is over-
burdened with sand, which makes prospecting diffi-
cult.
The services of a new management has
been enlisted to try and infuse new life into the
Hidden Secret, at Kalgoorlie (W.A.). Some years
ago a rich pipe of telluride ore was unexpectedly
discovered in this show, and yielded gold and silver
to the value of £40,000. Then it cut out a couple
of hundred feet lower down, and since then share-
holders have got nothing.
* * * *
An official circular issued in London an-
nounces the acquisition of Nigerian tin interests by
the Ida H. (W.A.). For an outlay of £12,500, for
which the directors say there is no opening in Aus-
tralia, the co. is getting a little over half the shares
in a co. which is being floated to work 13,440
acres of tin lands, estimated to contain £406,000.
Twenty thousand of the remaining shares are to be
offered to Ida H. holders at par. On these the
Ida 11. co. guarantees a dividend of 10 p.c. for the
first year, by which time it is anticipated handsome
dividends will be earned.
* * * *
Chaffinch (W.A.) is threatened with
early extinction. This venture is considered to
have had the most notorious career of any of the
broken-winged or dead birds in the Bullfinch aviary,
and some shareholders now want to hand it over
to the liquidator for execution. The directors paid
£lO,OOO in cash and 80,000 fully-paid 10s. shares
to the Kookynie Syndicate for the lease at Bullfinch,
which the co. has since had enough of and aban-
doned. For the past nine months the manager has
been wandering about the West in search of a new
property, but, despite all the glowing accounts that
get into print about rich finds at Yilgarn and else-
where he has so far been unable to discover the
article. The cash in hand is now equivalent to
Is. Id. per share, or thereabouts, but what it would
pan out at if the co. was wound up is another mat-
ter Anyway, if the co. keeps going much longer
there will be nothing left to divide, so shareholders
had better not wait.
* * * *
No report has yet come to hand, but The
Bulletin hears that, during the last half-year, ex-
tensive diamond drilling was carried out in the
Mararoa (W.A.). The portions operated upon were
Nos 4, 5 and 6 levels, and in the opinion of the
manager the boring done proved that no parallel
body of gold-bearing stone existed within a distance
of 500 ft. on either side of the reef now being worked,
while a bore from the bottom of the mam shaft also
drew a blank. Ore reserves are estimated at 66,000
tons, of a recoverable value of 335. 6d., which is
exactly the same as that given out six months ago*
The half-year’s yield of £38,206 brought the mines
total gold production up to £233,522, out of which
£65,000 has been paid in dividends. As the
result of a recent augmentation of £l5OO, the re-
serve fund now stands at £3OOO. In December last
the co.’s godfather, Butter Clarke, retired from the
board, and Fred Bathurst, late of the Argus, and
now Clarke’s general manager in Melbourne, has
since filled the gap. Like other Norseman mines
which have boomed and bloomed and then sank into
oblivion, there doesn’t seem to be much future tor
the Mararoa in deeper ground. It is a pitiful
thing to see good mines like this one go wrong at a
comparatively shallow depth ; but then it is an eveiy-
day occurrence all the world over.
Greenbushes (W.A.) showed a substantial
increase in tin production for 1911, the improve-
ment, compared with the figures for 1910, being a
shade under £12,000. No new lodes worth note
were discovered during the year, hut considerable
work has been done on the South Cornwall, which
contains big bodies of low-grade ore. The State has
let tributes on this property, and these tributors have
sub-let to a Sydney syndicate, which believes it has
got hold of a good concern, and is installing a treat-
ment plant. Claim-holders in other parts of the field
are stated to be doing pretty well.
The prospectus of the Yah Yah Copper and
Silver Mines Co. (N.T.) is floating around, and on
reading it one wonders at the sheer generosity of
the promoters for letting the public m at all. the
co. is to be formed to acquire from the vendors
their leases of 80 acres about 100 miles from _ the
port of Boorooloola and 60 miles f ™m tbe McArthur
River station. Capital to be £125,000 m 125,000
shares of £1 each, of which 3i,000 are to be
issued as fully paid-up to the vendors, 28,000 held
in reserve, and 60,000 offered to the public at 3s.
per share. The 80 acres cover a lode proved for
nearly 400 ft. and over 60ft. wideband quite 40ft.
deep carrying 40 p.c. copper and 15oz. of silver per
toT And this isn’t all, for even the slates in a
shaft abandoned by the owners as barren have been
found to carry 13 to 16 p.c. copper and 6dwt. silver.
To leave a property like this idle is a recUess busi-
ness. Three mining experts left in January to
report on the property. If you don t like their re
port, you get your money back. Two of the experts
are easily recognisable. The third is not so con-
‘spicuous. # *
Hercules (Tas.), for the financial year
ending January 31, raised 22,254 tons of ore. Ship-
ments of lead sulphide ore were started m July, and
an average of 2143 tons per month forwarded to the
Tasmanian Smelting Co. s works at Zeehan. Ore
averaging only 9.52 p.c. lead may appear low-grade,
as compared with Broken Hill concentratcs but assr,-
ciated with the lead there are 18220 z. (3.64dwt.)
gold and some silver, giving a total value of ovei
£3 per ton of ore. During the year 5522 tons of
zinc ore averaged about 40 p.c. of the base metal.
9oz of silver, and 2.64dwt. gold, but it is doubtful
how much of the precious metals can be recovered at
the European smelting works to which all the zinc
ore iT shipped. On January 31 the credit balance
was £23 446, or £935 more than the balance
shown by ’the account books just a year previously,
so the Hercules has only maintained an even keel
with the help of a booming spelter market. It is
the only Australian mine that ships large quantities
of zinc ore direct from the mine.
* , * */ *
South Berry, Creswick. has relapsed into
the call-making groove as easily as did its elders
lower down the lead. A long march has to be
done before the early promise of dividends matures.
Work off No. 1 rise shows that to the west the
ground isn’t worth following. To the east is 30ft. ot
15dwt. gold, then cemented wash (quite valueless), anu
beyond that 80ft. of ounce gold. Off No. 2 rise 500 ft.
ahead, some patchy wash has been got, but too little
work has been done to say how things will develop
there. It is a bit of an eye-opener, however, to
find the management harking back to the old top
level to chase after the despised run of wash to tne
south. Work is here done cheaply under Tom Wil-
liams, but it is a pity he hadn’t a better bit of the
famous old gutter to play with.
“Will the undertaking pav ?” The economical
handling and transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke,
merchandise, etc., in or about mines, factories oi
warehouses, very often solves the problem. \V. ana
J. Lerr.priere, of Melbourne, as agents for Bleicheit
and Co., can give useful information on this subject.
The Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways work-
ii g in Australia, or in course of erection, ant. will
soon have at work, near Sydney, one of the laigest
electric “Telpher” plants in existence. Special
electric and other cranes and mono-rail conveyors
can be procured from the same firm.*
• * * *
-PCF4- MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. — Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+GF+ Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable foi
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 10s, per con, will save £7 per year, anu
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated book on “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things, remarks (p. 1465) : “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at
Breckenridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000
have been sold. This machine has revolutionised
ore-dressing, and as such is a phenomenal success.
The original form and forerunner of all modern
shading tables with longitudinal riffles. . .has been
greatly improved.” And further on (p. 1478) re-
marks: “One feature of the Wilfley table to which
especial attention should be called is its ability to
separate sands from slimes while making the ordi-
nary concentration. This separation is more complete
and thorough than can be made by any classifier,
and should be taken advantage of in designing
mills.” In the last extensive additions made to the
treatment plant at the Golden Horseshoe Mine,
W.A., a large number of Wilfley Table Concentra-
tors were installed. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole
manufacturing rights.*
* * * *
Extract from The Finance Chronicle, London
15/11/1910). —“Colonial Mutual Life Office: We have
been favored with a copy of an exceedingly business-
like prospectus, just issued by this well-managed
Life Assurance Society, setting forth the supenoi
advantages of their Combined Life, Accident and
Sickness policies. On comparing the rates charged
in the tables shown in the prospectus, we find that
at most ages the premiums quoted are exceedingly
moderate; in fact, the rates are in many instances
about the same as the average premiums charged
by most offices for endowment life insurance only.
The Colonial Mutual is well known for its low whole-
life premium rates, but this new combined policy,
covering, as it does, those extra risks at the ex-
ceedingly low rates quoted, only requires to be
known to be largely applied for.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is now recognised by
managers as being the most satisfactory Pipe for
mining duty, by reason of its economy, ease m
handling, and great durability. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, will send
catalogue on application.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street (Basement), Melb. (J. W. Styles, 23 years
Expert Salesman.)* # *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attornevs, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
and will now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary,
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
The Bolinder Heavy-Duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves, cams,
gears or electric ignition, and run either on crude
or kerosene oils, are represented throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand by Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd , 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For marine work
the ’“Bolinder” engine has many advantages, viz.,
small oil consumption, ease of starting, no compli-
cated arrangement of valves or gears, being direct
reversible, fitted throughout with forced lubrication,
and absolutely no risk from fire and explosions, due
to using oils having a very high flash point. The
British Government and German Navy are large
users of the “Bolinder” Marine #
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Oollison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assaykrs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc. *
Patents. —Consult W- SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*


r\P4
Q
*
o
o
CHARLES
El
DSI
CK
H
VINTAGE
1904
PLUS
ULTRA
NE
TRUMILK
Means Comfort and Economy to
Thousands of Housewives.
TRUMILK is the Best Pasteurised Cow’s Milk
in Powder Form.
NO PRESERVATIVES,
ALWAYS READY FOR USE,
SAVES 50 PER CENT. OF THE MILK BILL.
Equal for all purposes to the very
best milkman’s milk and specially
adapted for all cooking purposes.
Agents : FOGGITT, JONES & CO.
Manufacturers : TRUFOOD OF AUSTRAL.
ASIA, MELBOURNE.
We chemists like good tea
as much as we dislike taking
physic—tea’s a mild harmless
drink, that livens one up as
nothing else will—but, mind you,
there are teas and teas, with as
much difference between them
as in chalk and cheese. Of
course pure tea is the best,
and as Robur is the purest
tea 1 know, 1 always go for it.
Many of my friends use the
No. 2 Grade they say it is
good enough for anybody —-
but l must say 1 like the No.il,
Grade myself—l’m a man that
believes in the best of every-
thing for inside.
The Chemist
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 8, 1912.
My Dear Arini, —
There once lived a man who sat down to
write the history of the world on his shirt-
cuff, and only described the mosquito bite on
his arm. He is dead —perhaps he died of a
rush of mosquito to his brain—so he hasn’t
dragged his body round the Easter Show
and tried to put the results into a para-
graph.
The R.A.S. (1912) was a vast, blue-pen-
cilled edition of the Creation without the
Serpent. The world of horns, hides and
hoofs wagged its tail in the grand parade of
beasts. The horse, leaping sods or timber,
emphasised the importance of being in a
hurry with its heels. A great concourse of
Governors and their suites, and a general
assembly of agricultural committee and pas-
toral speeches opened the Show. On Thurs-
day the. G.-G. Denmans turned up again
with their youngsters, and met a small heat
wave in the Show ring, while trotting and
leaping over hurdles engaged the attention
of the Horse. The trotting events were
rapid, and the bay Pegasus that flew round
the ring with greased lightning on his hoofs,
and a pair of wheels and a shimmer of green
silk behind the reins, had apparently trained
for speed against the flight of Time.
Two facts hung over the edge of this year’s
Greater Cow corroboree. One was the per-
sonal hatred of the Australian horse for a
sod wall, which he suspects and approaches
tor the jump with threatening language and
the whites of his eyes. The other was the
feeble exhibition of women’s work. Has the
Cow Committee trampled on the Industrial
I emale section, or is the N.S.W, Woman
going back on her previous good record?
Sydney s Mayor and Mayoress gave a
handsomely-trimmed entertainment in the
lown Hall one night last week. Gauzy
pmk petticoats dangled round the electric
bulbs that usually blaze, without winkers,
upon the crowsfeet of the multitude. Tall
palms grew on islands of bunting round the
gallery legs, and the air was thick with the
National Anthem when the Denmans made
a stately trek across the body of the hall,
lhe body at this moment bore a hurried like-
ness to the pre-deluge exodus to the Ark.
His Ex., very brisk, stepped out with
Sydney s chief municipal dame. Her Ex
robed m cloth of silver, or its next relation’
and illuminated with diamonds, trod the path
of duty with the Mayor in all his glory and
adorned with the hair of dead animals.’ The
vice-regal staff concealed its feelings under a
wooden expression, and was heavily sprinkled
with politicians. Hard on the heels of the
G.-G\ tramped Premier McGowen. Attor-
ney-Gen. Holman loomed in the offing of a
willow-wand figure in a shimmer of gold and
primrose, which same was the long and ele-
gant Viscountess of Massereene and Ferrard
a double-shotted title that hits Society in its
weakest place. General Gordon anchored
beside thm special attraction at supper, and
Chief-Justice Cullen and his gentle dame
were entirely surrounded by the Peerage
and municipal majesty, while the herd
browsed afar off.
i Ro acas f e r f^ ay ’ a f Randwick, was piping
hot. A throb of fierce sunshine palpitated
on the iron roof of the grandstand, and the
muslins of yesterday were dragged out of
their final struggle with the wash-board for
an Indian summer revival. A few new vel-
vet gowns turned their sleek pile to the
blazing sun. Mrs. Alfred Nathan, in
bmck and blue, was one of the forerunners
or the velvet boom. A serge coat and skirt
or two showed a dark patch against a gay
garden of chiffons. Miss Eilis, severely
tailor-built in navy blue, had rushed her head
into one of the new candle-snuffer hats
“Ut.one coat doesn’t make a winter, and the
hard-worked summer rags filled up consider-
able space on the lawn.
A new and wicked shade of greenish-
yellow, like an old bilious attack, or a Borgia
crime, or the countenace of Maximilian
Robespierre, haunted the heads of the care-
ts 8 J eelers for fashion at the Doncaster
Feathers tossed themselves on end, or lav
down in flat wisps on every hat present.
inipL° St f doesri t take to hiding his head
instead ot his tail, he won’t have any tail
fnr th a ca - rry him through another season,
for the not of millinery fluff this Easter
appears to be the takings of several
/f rms - Mrs - Julius Caro and
two daughters were amongst the well-
stnkp«redi fl ° C T Sa f u . rday ’ s tribulation
stakes, when Lochano licked the fav-nte.
Government House is always officially ab-
sent from P and wick on the first day of the
fhe fdT i This L V a concession to
the Lights of Theology. Unofficially, the
presence of Baronet Bartlelot and the grace
GhnJlf d f th ? tall apnearance of
Chamberlain Nevill distinctly hovered be-
tween the saddling paddock and the mem-
bers fenced-in pen. They avoided the
legal perch like the plague, and, officially
speaking, were not within five miles of the
siren song of the bookmaker, on Doncaster
strpw t! he fh rieks . Bn d Satyrs, who Usually
strew the Randwick lawn with fashion
in extremis, at the opening of race week
were absent. The inclemency of that old
sky animal, Sol, who was too fierce for
new wimer finery, was the cause of a tame
dress parade.
George Fuller, M.H.It., and his tall and
handsome lady, report “all’s well,” after a
vigorous stampede through Coronation fes-
tivities and riots. They record signs of
awakening on the part of Bull to the things
that matter in Australia. The Fullers were
hoisting signals of distress after a severe
course of banquet and London crush, when
they were asked to sniff the shamrock in Ire-
land. They accepted with acclamation, be-
lieving the owner of the glad hand to be an
old Melbourne acquaintance, Miss Eugenia
fetone, now Lady Doughty. The name sounded
the same as Doughty, but a knot or some
other impediment in its middle made it quite
another label, and that belonged to the wife
of an official Pooh Bah of great lustre. “When
a to al stranger welcomed us,” said Mrs.
George in retrospect, “it was one of the
greatest surprises in a surprising trip.” Pre-
sumably it was the Dougherty family that
the visitors struck. Names are a nuisance,
especially when you want to go to Tumbar-
umba. and the railway porter shoves you by
mistake into the train for Timbuctoo, on the
ground that the names are somewhat alike.
Mr. and Mrs. George Earp have returned
to this city after s amping up and down the
war-worn face of Europe. Mrs. G. H. has
a musical twinge in her thinking apparatus,
and the rafters of Uig Lodge, where the
Earp latch will click this winter, are likely
to shake with harmony.
The Kenneth Mackays are in town for the
great horse and cow categoi’y. Their wool-
patch, up Gundagai way, is, meanwhile,
catching any scarce raindrops that happen to
be passing over those parts. The waterfall
that recently swirled over Sydney fell
down exhausted - before it reached the
Mackays’ new homestead, and a thirsty land
is asking for another drink.
That irrepressible youngster of 76 (or
thereabouts), wool-magnate Sam McCaughey,
is briskly side-stepping all the social riots of
the vveek. He turns a twinkling glance on
the horse, from under shady verandahs of
woolly white eyebrows—eyebrows wbich
amount to about one sheep each.
Colors are more obvious to the naked eye
than they were in the pastel-stone-hobble
age, about April, 1911. Geranium, a dash-
ing mixture of rose-pink, cerise, half a sun-
set and a bashed rainbow, is the vogue of the
hour. Miss Irene King, one of this city’s
best-looking buds, swathed in a cloud of
fu ra ?r Um drapery, was one of the beauties of
the Mayor’s show the other night.
Miss Gladys Fuller, another tall and
younKSte r> is .iust chipping the So-
ciety Easter egg-shell. She’ll find that it’s
fairly good in spots. Gladys is a daughter
of Fuller, M.H.R., and she is more like a
Liana Gibson girl, without the snarl in the
“P of that haughty damsel, than anything
I ve seen out of a frame.
The Yankee at the Court of King Arthur
leapt into my mind during a recent razzle-
dazzle of the Best-dressed. When the gang
of courtiers, who hang on the heels of Excel-
lencies, parted in the middle for a moment,
Mark lwain seemed to materialise out of
tresh air. I fancy it was by reason of
builder McLeod, who startles creation with
a Mark Twainish thatch and an Innocents’
Abroad expression about his coat-tails.
of Canadian Commissioner Ross
dropped off this planet quite recently, in
Ottawa He was 87, and a member of the
Upper House in that city at the time of his
demise. There seems no good reason why
shou l ldn ’ t be patented, on
ilf red flani pel, as a preservative
the approach of the Spectre who
thp hln yx ' Hnce M.L.C. gets into
the blood in these parts, nothing but a rag-
ing epidemic can move the owner of the
germ a day s march nearer his marble tomb
Rpm o Jnf el tl, r T Setter j S - al ] eged t 0 have Sold
Redleaf, the large, white-faced mansion that
f square-shouldered to the waters of
Oouble Lay and adjacent harbor ripples. The
passing of this luxurious nest, with its ter-
laced garden and high-priced frontage, is
said to have cost the new owner, Mr. Tom
Axson, about £16,000 —there or thereabouts.
W 5 ,W e Hixsons are something tremendous
in the way of finance, the price won’t worry
the purchaser of these exclusive sods.
Miss Marjorie Lord has imported her
£ a h Primage, or some of it, from a fash-
mnable dress menagerie in London. The
wedding presents will scintillate with dia-
monds and other necessaries of life, on
April 00. The fact that the name of the
groom-expectant is Henry Osborne has been
mentioned so often that it has become tripe,
or ancient history, or something of the sort.
The Spencer Bruntons sent glad tidings
of much travel the other day. They had
toured a vast acreage of Italian picture gal-
lery, and were crossing the Alps, like Hanni-
bal, with all then-baggage and cash arnmu-
nition. Vienna, where the Dan-
ube steals past the latest fashions ; Dresden
china, Berlin, armed to the rim of its
learned spectacles, and the finer frills of
laris, are included in the Brunton trek
through foreign languages. They are due
in May at Madresfield Court (the Beau-
champ homestead), where Countess Lettice
an enthusiastic mother, counts the pink toes
of a nursery full of babies.
-Artist Alf Vincent returned with a wallet
stuffed with artistic crumbs, from Egypt’s
gorgeous sand-heap and other ancient strong-
holds of decorative color. He pursued the
Kose Lay golf ball for a time before hurry-
ing back to Melbourne, and looks as if he’d
brought back with him a large consignment
of bottled health. Vincent is solid on the
alluring topic of the Australian Girl. “I’ve
come back with the firm conviction that the
Australian woman more than holds her own,
in beauty, with her sex on the other side.
London Society women look jaded, for the
pace is too fast, and the regular habit of
going to bed at four in the morning is ap-
parently damaging, to the most youthful
charms. Then there’s the other side of
the picture—the Thames Embankment bn
a winter night, and its human derelicts.
I passed along that way going to a
dinner at the Savage Club. I suppose Lon-
doners get used to seeing those gaunt spectres
of despair on the threshold of their daily
meal, but it hits anyone from Australia in a
vital part. I didn’t want any dinner that
evening.”
Gliding down the Nile, sipping Arabic
coffee —they only make three cups at a time
and it’s said to be the Egyptian foretaste of
Paradise —motoring across France, with
Ilyeres and acres of flowers as the starting
point, and rubbing shoulders with Austra-
lian artists in London, Alf Vincent killed
Time before the Man with the S(£vthe had a
chance to strike a blow in self-defence. He
brings back reports and diagnoses re some
exiled Kangaroolanders: “Leist is making a
big place for himself in black-and-white
work, and his success is certain. Bertram
Mackennal is just the same as he used to be
in the old student days, and quite unspoilt
by Fame. John Longstaff is recognised as
right in front as a portrait painter. He
has a very fine studio, specially, built for
him, and he was finishing a delightful study
of a family group when I saw him.”
Miss Emilie Lambert is preening her
feathers for flight to the Land of Grey
Skies. She leaves next week for the muddy
and historic Thames. After a hurried glance
round the old city of Gog and Magog, singer
Emilie crosses the lumpy billows of the Chan-
nel, to sit down under the instruction of
Bouhy. The Great Man has signified his
intention of making hay while a holiday
sun shines on him in Berlin, and he’s offered
to edit Emilie’s voice in the City of the
Kaiser during his mid-summer vacation.
Dorothea Baird’s last matinbe wriggle, as
lolantlie, the blind daughter of King Itenb,
preceded the dismal tinkle and tintinnabula-
tion of' The Bells.” The final appearances
°i , e . Irvin £ companv confirmed most
ot the first impressions of their star-burst in
this town. They are hopelessly entangled
in the halo of the late Henry Irving, and
they 11 sag at the knees, dive off their chairs
into the atmosphere, and strut from wing to
wing till the footlights flicker low, and the
last curtain makes a hurried descent, with
no time for a speech.
Bach’s oratorio, “The Passion,” gave the
hmlharmonic Society plenty of work with
fiddle and voice the other night. Conductor
Bradley waved his hands into a fine frenzy
and tore rags off the air with the tips of his
finger-nails, while the double chorus re-
sponded with a loud alarm, “Not upon the
least, lest there be an Uproar among the
ieople. A gathering of small boy—trained
boy from the Cleveland-street School —in-
serted a wedge of flute-like song into the tail
ot the first double chorus, then subsided into
sdence while tenor W. Higginbotham up-
lifted his dulcet tones in recitative. Basso
Reginald Gooud,. not long back from the
ihames-side region, whereabouts is Peck-
ham Rye and the Isle of Dogs, and other
strangely-named places, was the chief Voice
of the evening. Rosina Buckmann flung her
dramatic soprano across the emotions of a
crowded audience, and a very mild contralto,
Lena Hammond, gave a meek reply when the
indefatigable Finger-Post Bradley pumped
the rhythm with both hands. The Phil. So-
ciety snatched a success in “The Passion.”
Society and its fringe stamped “The Blue
Bird under its large, flat feet on
Saturday night, for the greater part
of the first act. How would Paris treat a
noisy mob that walked and talked itself into
its d.c. and stalls’ seats for nearly half an
hour after the advertised time of raising the
curtain on Maeterlinck’s delightful dream-
drama? Any Continental audience would
have hurled a barricade of hisses at the bar-
barians who blurred the first development of
a play which has been one of the sensations
of the modern stage.
The front row of the Criterion stalls suffered
much on Saturday night. Most of them
were Early Worms, but they had no room
to turn, owing to the deluge of Potts and
other Pointers who drenched Norman
U Neills charming .music with their blatant
twang. The Arthur Allens were amongst
the Always on Time. Mrs. Pritchard Bassett
on the wings of the wind just dodged the
early-rising curtain. Mrs. F. Brennan took
the chill off a front seat as a Firs*- Arrival.
Mrs. Kenna, an habitual first-nighter, made a
swallow-like dart at her stall before the
General Nuisance began to rage round the
orchestra. The musicians were buried under
a great muslin veil, and concealed their
anguish while the talkers talked on the
horizon of their sarcophagus. The Harry
Levy s were mixed up in the Potts’
melee. H. B. Irving stalked, late, through
the gloom, with a Hamlet stride. The ghost
of his father may also have trodden the ram-
parts at his heels for all I know to the con-
trary. Each usher worked like 10 men.
trying to. hustle the late, unmannerly crowd
into its right seat (which ought to have been
the kerbstone), while the Fairv BerHune
(Lily Brough) sent Tyltyl and Mytyl on the
quest for Hanniness—the elusive Blue Bird
of Maeterlinck’s play.
Light—the good-looking Caroline Bavley—
was clothed in white gauze and glitter, with
,an orange drape as an extra when things
were going well. Night (Madge Mclntosh)
guarded all the Sicknesses, including a Cold
in the Head, the Wars, an unruly assort-
ment of blood-red arms, and the Stars, who
twinkled in a firmament of chiffon skirts
in sombre robes of purple with moonlight
trimmings. The remarkable first-night per-
formance of the leading Blue Bird lady,
little Gertie Cremer, as Tyltyl, establishes a
new precedent in infant phen>'^''’ia.
“Australia Jane” writes from Brisbane to
her friend Thargomindah (a sordid editor
says Jane’s letter must go into a corner of
this page for once, owing to considerations
of space, the attempt to invent a telescopic
9 1 '., india-rubber paper having been a
failure) :—•
The local representative of the Amalgamated
society of Useless Governors (Australian branch) has
returned to the city which shelters those fruits of a
decadent democracy—J. Harry Coyne and Digbv
Denham. His Ex. had been to Coolangatta, where
mixed bathing raises the fury of the local Pcckheap
and, the indigenous Uriah Sniff. After Easter Satur-
day s races, the Macgregor will rest for a day or
two, and then visit the military camp at Lytton.
Ills exertions these days are being brightened by the
knowledge that the Vision is in the pink of condition.
When Bulls last mail left the young woman was
sojourning with sister Paget in London.
Mrs. Leonard Turner, who, with daughter Jean,
has been travelling over-seas for some time, returned
last Sunday to Brisbane. Despite its shortcomings,
Jean has decided to east in her lot with the English
aristocracy, and will hale one of it to the altar at no
distant date.
Departed this week for Westralia, Mr. and Mrs.
A. H. Orchard. The New Farm Croquet Club shed
regretful tears into a parting ice-dream, and added
a silver epergne and rose-bowl to the lady’s luggage.
About the same time hubby’s load was being in-
creased by the bowlers of the district, of whom he
was a shining light, with a powerful drive or leg-
break or upper-cut, or something. His batting, I
believe, was splendid, and when he held four aces
the j'ackpot usually went his way.
Last Tuesday Douglas Corrie j'oined the Benedicts’
Union, with the aid of Vera Baynes. The bride was
a shimmer of satin and lace, and wore the veil her
grandmother (the late Mrs. A. It. Jones) first wore a
many years ago. Sister Hilda (in lemon charmeuse
and Pearl Juliet cap) assisted. The bride’s travelling
dress was of biscuit and violet, and its destination
was Southport.
All the world and his wife, or maybe a mere hussy,
have joyfully fled coastwards, and; Sniffkins crieth in
the market place: “Lo, the flesh and the Devil are a
winning double.” ’Tis said, with I know not how
much truth, that there is not a field-glass left in the
town.
Yours, in the city, of the Departed Cow,
VANDORIAN.
The Melbourne Stock Exchange building,
which cost £275,000 in the boom of 1889-90,
has been sold for £lOO,OOO. The A.M.P.
originally had a plaster of £135,000 on the
place, which was a creation of B. J. Fink’s
fertile imagination. The structure is quite
unsuitable for either Stock Exchange dr
office purposes, and it won’t hurt to pull it
down, griffins, stained-glass windows, cubby-
holes and all.
In the five years period 1906 to 1910 the
number of distinct convicted prisoners that
lamented in the cool of Maoriland quods in-
creased from 2966 to 3242. Of these, the
drunkards gathered volume and increased in
red noses from 947 to 1168, exclusive of the-
great beery army which was merely fined or
cautioned or given “the risin’.” One interest-
ing fact upends an old theory deeply rooted
in Maoriland that all crime in that home of
the Pecksniff family is the work of Aus-
tralians. In some newspaper offices this line
is kept standing for regular use : “The [blank
space for crime] is suspected to have been
committed by expert Australian criminals.’’
Statistics just issued show, however, that
the Australian is a comparatively scanty
law-breaker in M.L. In 1910 he was in the
proportion of 858 to .10,000 prisoners, while
England and Wales panned out 2588, Ireland
1200, and Scotland 987.


kglk
What
Others Say
“In 1900 I purchased one
of your bicycles in West
Australia, where in four
years I covered some 12,528
miles. I took it with me
when I went to South Aus-
tralia, and here it did 36
trips from Hahndorf to
Adelaide- —18 miles each
way. I recommend these
machines before any others
I know.”
Mr. A. MOSER,
Hahndorf.
“I have travelled over
all sorts of roads, both
rough and smooth, but the
bike is as good as when it
first came out of the shop.
I recommend B. & B. Cy-
cles to all people who
have to ride on country
roads.”
Mr. HANSLOW,
Cudgebegong.
“It affords me very
much pleasure to advise
you that the Model 3 B. &
B. I purchased on the 16th
April, 1908, has
complete satisfaction, and
is still good for a further
term of hard work.”
Mr. E. C. MILTON,
Cudgee.
cycle:
Supremacy
In “B. & B.” Cycles the summit of supremacy
has been reached.
They are scientifically designed by experts, who
have studied the varied conditions of Australian
roads.
This, combined with the fact that every care is
taken that the construction will be faultless, makes
them absolutely reliable on the roughest highway.
Even if you have to ride through a mass of ruts, you
can do so with perfect confidence that your mount
will stand the strain.
Prices range upwards from £8 10s. Call to-day
and examine the models. If you cannot call, we have
a free copy of our interesting Illustrated Catalogue
for you. Write for it.
BENNETT & BARKELL, LTD.
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
.130*2 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
jhljhl
JEWELLERS
CHRONOGRAPH WATCHES,
SPECIAL SHIPMENT.
\ M /
HARDY BROS/
i V \
Highest Grade English & Swiss Makes.
IN GOLD, SILVER and GUNMETAL CASES.
INSPECTION INVITED
13 Hunter Street, Sydney.
118 Queen Street, Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS.
800,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price Is. each; Post Free Is. Id.
FACTRY ANBS
EDWARD DYSON
Just
Published.
"FACT’RY ’ANDS.”
By EDWARD DYSON (Author of “ Benno,” “The Missing
Link,” etc. PRICE 1/-; POST FREE 1/1.
The people here presented are a choice selection from a large
circle of acquaintances earning honorable if humble subsistence in
jam, pickle, lollie and biscuit factories, in tobacco factories, box
factories, shirt factories, rope works and paper mills, and the
author claims for them at least that they are true types of a pro-
nounced Australian class not previously exploited for the purposes
of the maker of popular fiction. Benno, Goudy, Odgson, huzzy
Ellis, Billy the Boy, and many others capering through this book
spring from germs of reality, and the author has used his originals
as plastic raw material, remoulding them at his own sweet will,
robbing them of semblance, but never quite squeezing vitality out
of them in the process.
This book is bound to be a record seller.
■n aTW UITT T"V ni TTf AW Bein K the Memolrs of Daniel
I\£/lviv 1 V/ M. TT • Kelly (brother of Ned Kelly, leader
of the Kelly Gang). Edited by Ambrose Pratt. With four full-page Illustrations by Percy Spence.
Price Is., Postage Id.
In the whole history of Australian Bushranging no gang was more notorious than that captained
by Ned Kelly. Various accounts of the doings of this gang have appeared, but none bears the hall-
mark of truth so pointedly as these leaves from a dead man’s diary, as edited by Mr. Pratt, who has
presented the story so convincingly that, for tense interest and exciting events, it has few, if any,
eq ia Dan Kelly was the only member of the gang who escaped the clutches of the law, and his account
of the last stand at Glenrowan is a veritable human document.
THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN RANGE.
By AMBROSE PRATT. Illustrated by Lionel Lindsay. Price Is., Post Free Is. Id.
Mr. Ambrose Pratt’s work is so well and favorably known to our Australian readers that there
is no need to enlarge on it. In this new book he very graphically describes the doings of the Ben
liall gang of bushrangers and goes to some trouble to give the true ring of authenticity to his
work. The many st'rring episodes in Ben Hall’s life are depicted with such skill that, while we
are reading actual historical happenings, the whole thing has an air of romance that some might
say was worthy of a better cause. Some hitherto unpublished parts throw a new light on Hall’s
character, and’ show how, in those days, there were many police-made criminals. Decidedly this is
a book worth buying and keeping.
RUNG IN,
A Atirring Tale of the Turf.
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
Author of “A Rogue’s Luck,” ‘‘Gambler’s Gold,” etc.
Price Is., Post Free Is. Id.
That the under-dog is not necessarily the worst dog, and that every dog has his day, is illus-
trated very vividly in “Rung In.” The top dog at the beginning of this story is an unscrupulous
racing man" who rides rough-shod over trusting women and confiding men, until he becomes the
recognised leader of a smart set, noted more for its manners than its morals. Eventually, this phil-
anderer is mysteriously murdered, and the under-dog is suspected, although innocent, and some clever
detective work is brought in, together with a modern Svengali, who hypnotises women for doubtful
purposes, and who meets the fate he deserves.
The book is too full of thrilling incident to make even a summary possible in this short space,
but it is well worth reading and digesting.
Lists Sent Post Free to any Address.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney,
AND ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
The Tie of the
Century
r 'Ztu
IF
4TT4CIIEft
•>
<4
V
end of those double-
fold Collar troubles
JUST an invisible but perfect little attachment which
will fit any make or any size of double collar and can-
not get out of place until you remove it. *llf you buy
one attachment for each tie there will be no need to make
the knots more than once. ®]You will treble the life of your
ties and collars. {JLong usuage may result in your ties getting
soiled, but it is impossible to damage the material or spoil
the shape.
Price Gd.
or with Tie complete 1 /6, 1 /9, 2/-, 2/6, and 3/~.
Sold by all Outfitters


ghljh hj
For Shooting:, Riding, etc.
SOUP LEATHER LECCINCS
at Farmer’s.
A pair of good leggings adds greatly to the comfort and
appearance of all motorists, riders and sportsmen. Farmer’s
pay special attention to this section of Men’s Outfitting, and for
quality, appearance and utility Farmer’s Leggings are second
to none in the Commonwealth.
Those illustrated are in various shades of Brown Pig
Grained Leather, fastening with flexible spring down front of
leg, and finishing with neat strap at top.
Price 15/6 Pair-
others at 12/6, 16/6 and 20/- Pair.
SYDNEY
HIJNYAI)I JANOS is the natural aperient water
par excellence. The average dose is a wineglassful
taken before breakfast. Nature herself has mingled
its chief ingredients, sulphate of magnesia and sul-
phate of soda, in such ideal proportions that this
Water acts promptly, without griping or other dis-
comfort, and may be used for any length of time and
at any period of life.*
•ms* Ocuenvi
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
Winter Shipments
and Attractions „ J £
include a Splendid Range of
ONE-PIECE GOWNS
in Velveteen, Serge, Cloth and
Tweeds. These very attractive
Modes have been specially selected
by our Home Buyer.
Also
The Latest Coats and Skirts and
Tailor Mades —the most exclusive
we have seen. Paris Millinery
Models are shown, also Fur Toaues,
Motor and Theatre Bonnets, Golf
Jerseys and Coats, Rain Coats, etc.,
etc.
In Ladies’ Underclothing.
Special Lines of Viyella, Nun’s
Veiling and Wincey Nightdresses,
Pyrenees Dressing i Jackets, and
Dainty Lingerie, including beautiful
Hand-embroidered Underwear.
Fashionable Furs.
A Magnificent Stock of Made-up
Furs of all descriptions, such as
Black Fox, Mole, Squirrel and
Coney Seal, and a, choice selection
of Skins is available, from which
Customers can choose and have
made up by us to their own designs.
Fancy Neckwear.
Our Lace Department is very ex-
tensive, and includes all Novelties
for Evening Wear, such as Net and
T nca FV-lnw. Ninon owl Crepe de
Chine Scarfs, etc., etc.
In Men’s Wear.
Our well-assorted Stock in this, De-
partment' embraces everything re-
quired. Latest Designs in Wide-
end Ties. Cravats and Mufflers,
smart Fashion Shirts, Pyjamas, and
a line of English Winter Overcoats,
specially selected.
In Footwear
For Ladies and Gentlemen, we
stock all the best makes of English,
American and Australian Manufac-
ture.
Our Fashion Catalogue
is now in the press, and will be
forwarded on receipt of a card.
BALL <a WELCH
Pty. Ltd.,
180=8 Flinders St., Melbourne-
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 8, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
At 3 p.m. last Saturday, Fuller, Chief
State Opener of Bazaars, arrived at a loudly
buzzing Exhibition to operate on the St.
Vincent’s Hospital show. Bands blew him.
through the gates, and more bands wafted
him on to the platform, where his elevated
•spats were displayed to great advantage.
When he had explained at great length the
hospital’s need for £lO,OOO, the massed bat-
talions of women swooped on their prey and!
started, with great earnestness, to bushrange
the meek crowd.
The Barttelots, who left this State in a
huff, because they couldn’t find a suitable
roof, are still on the look out. Rosen-ane,.
which the Norman Brookes pair are to va-
cate in May, is at latest under Consideration.
A cot of their own they must have, providing
only it is handy to the Help’s job.
An event of great moment in Brighton
was the wedding of Alice Mcßryde and Dr.
Leary. Dr. Marshall came out to do the
sentimental carpentering at the little old
Presbyterian Church in New-street, close by
the Mcßryde home. The bride’s handsome
mother was a Miss Menzies before she mar-
ried the mining magnate. The bride bound
her hair in a snood of orange blossom; sister
Mamie and a girl friend carried the gloves
and bouquet; and bachelor medico Gray
supported the very nervous bridegroom.
Major Quilter, the military secretary of
the G.-G., returned to his job by the Orama.
Local poloists cheered heartily when the
word went round that his gigantic form had
been glimpsed in Melbourne, en route to
Sydney, for the Major is, in every sense, a
mighty sportsman.
Mrs. Taylor Smith, the other day, gath-
ered together a party to say good-bye to
sister Mrs. Dan Taylor, who, along with small
daughter Mary, is taking a rest from Toorak
housebossing, and going to England for a
jaunt. She was one of the tribe of Grant
girls, who were all keen sports, and arc
lights in south suburban society.
Polo has temporarily lost a good player in
chemist Russell Grimwade. He goes off to
the International Congress, which meets at
Washington next September to discuss ap-
plied chemistry. Grimwade, who is to repre-
sent Melbourne University, is taking a round-
about route which includes England.
Chief-Inspector Hamilton, of the Educa-
tion Department, lately handed over dainty
daughter Nina to young Morgan, the dentist
son of the retired Registrar-General. A
hundred very pretty girls, and quite as many
dental students, helped to make a merry
wedding party. The ceremony was at eight
o’clock, and a reception and supper at the
Grand kept everybody from home till mid-
night, when the lounge was packed with girls
pelting rose leaves at the departing pair.
The bride was attired for the bombardment'
in an autumn brown travelling rig. The
pair have gone to Sydney, whence they voy-
age to America for an extended wedding
trip.
Mrs. Cox, the year-old bride of the Hamil-
ton family, came over from Adelaide for the
wedding, and looked a charming vision in
grey, while Mrs. Hamilton was in purple
array, and carried purple orchids. Lawyer
Moir brought his handsome daughter decked"
out in peacock blue trappings. Mrs. Toorak
Shelton and Mrs. Lilley, wife of the departed
Stock Exchange identity, each had pretty
girls in the room. Gladys Barber and Katie
White, the two bridesmaids, were ruddy-
haired pictures in apricot satin and Asiatic
trappings.
Quite a flutter at the Vienna on Friday,
when the wife of a well-known Western Dis-
trict squatter came in, towing behind her a
slim figure in white —Lindsay Russell, the
girl authoress, whose novel, “Smouldering
Fires,” has set a lot of people talking, bit-
terly and otherwise. She is a tall, delicate-
looking, blue-eyed girl, with nut-brown hair,
and that forceful something in her face that
turns one’s thoughts instinctively to the
rumors that are circulating. It is said that,
under her dainty toque, she wears her hair
rather short. Rumor credits her with an-
other novel to come, called “Broken Vows,”
but nothing definite is known, as Lindsay
Russell refuses to be interviewed. “There
is really nothing to say,” she protested to a
persistent news gatherer. “I used to write
years ago, and then, for nearly three years,
I gave it up. Yes, I am a Victorian by
birth; saw my first poem and story in print
before I was a dozen years old. I have
written under another pen name for nearly
all' the magazines here, and several English
and American publications. My father is
Anglo-Irish, my mother an Australian, a
descendant of an old Scottish family. Yes.
it is true I have written another book, but
I have not decided on its title. I am going
to England shortly, partly for my health,
and partly to see about publication. As
for ‘Smouldering Fires.’ I can only repeat
its preface, that the characters are drawn
from life, and it is written from conviction.”
Then this unconventional girl with a future
escaped from the newsgatherer and returned
to her fen and cake. .
Willie Baillieu, having a wife and family
to collect abroad, and a deal of money in
hand, shouted a trip to his unmarried sister.
The pair left the other day by the Maloja.
Meanwhile, Merrylands, the family home-
stead, which was recently offered to. the
highest bidder, will shelter an attached sister,
Mrs. Edward Shackell, who has hopes of
.making it live up to its joyous title.
The marriage of Kathleen De Lacy (her
(dad was in the Education Department) and
Mr. Arthur Vail is dated for June. The
bride-to-be is a clever girl, who completed a
■chemistry course ere deciding to take up
■domestic economy. Oscar Asche is a first
■cousin of the little lady, and will help to
strew confetti in her honor and throw the
■old boot of good fortune after her. And
Oscar is a man of repute as an old boot
shot.
Marjorie Dunn, handsome widow Lorimer’s
■only girl, lately came to grips with a revolu-
tionary bath heater, and the liot-water bomb
vanquished her. The unhappy victim of the
■explosion feared disfigurement for life ; but
just as she had made up her mind to bear
it bravely, the skin on her scorched visage
blossomed forth anew and demanded some of
the skin foods and quick lunches which are
advertised at great expense in the morning
papers.
The Hamlyn Whittys, from Mulwala sta-
tion (ofttimes infested by wandering Gov-
ernors), are helping these days to fill up
the Oriental. The lady’s royal disregard
of cost in her shopping raids indicates what
a comfortable existence can be squeezed from
the soil, despite iniquitous taxes.
Josiah Thomas and P.M.G. Frazer, after
seeing their respective wives comfortably
settled for the Easter racket in Sydney, go
up to - the Territory to install the Gilruth
family. Amongst the luggage is a home
cinematograph, the pictures for which are
mosily of the green and coolsome order cal-
culated to suggest the beauties of irrigation.
A wealthy suburban widow, who has re-
sumed her fascinations with marked success,
had her new matrimonial engagement offici-
ally trumpeted from every society paper.
The same week, the mourning column of the
daily paper contained a dejected In Me-
moriam notice of her first husband, “who
rests under a beautiful monument in so-and-
so cemetery.” How sweet to rest under a
beautiful monument!
Education Tate, who has been one of
Amundsen’s Melbourne hosts, takes a special
interest in Antarctic exploration. Ilis
nephew, a youngster named Bage, is with
Mawson’s party down south.
The departure of the fair-haired IJnie
liussell, on a sea trip with mamma, was
widely published; but the fact that she car-
ried an engagement ring in her handbag was
seemingly suppressed. The joyful Chia, win-
ner of her White Australian hand, leaves
Melbourne shortly for his native China, and
his lady love and mother-in-law-elect will
presumably meet him anon at the paternal
mansion in Pekin or elsewhere. Chia’s offi-
cial duties will take him to the United
States at the end of the year, and the mar-
riage may take place about December, in
England—-that is, if the Australian girl does
not change her mind.
The handsome Toohey girls are cutting
various kinds of dashes in various parts of
the globe. Molly, the unmarried one, lives
in Dublin, with a house and a chaperoning
housekeeper. now that sister Pauline has de-
serted her for matrimony in London. An-
other sister, Kathleen Gourlay, has passed
on the family good looks to Melbourne
daughter Doris, who has attained the social
'flapper age.
Mrs. Jim Puiwes has an incentive to study
of Thackeray in the thought that a titular
descendant of the novelist’s famous, or in-
famous, Marquis of Steyne once danced at-
tendance on her. The Earl of Yarmouth
has just succeeded his father as Marquis of
Hertford —the seventh in the blessed Book
of Burke. The fourth Marquis, tradition
says, was the Steyne whom Thackeray
typed as the all-powerful representative of
cultured naughtiness in old nobility. Yar-
mouth, now Hertford, seems to have out-
grown his craze for stage dancing, but he
was a terror to gambol at the time when he
came to Melbourne and played the amateur
showman. He engineered an entertainment
at the old Bijou in aid of the Children’s Hos-
pital and the Actors’ Fund, and figured per-
sonally in three little comedies, two dances,
one or two comic songs, and a whistling
solo.- Some of the people who flocked to see
and hear the Earl of Yarmouth testify rem-
iniscently to his nimbleness of foot and
effeminate gussiness in all respects. Edith
Greig was his partner in “A Pair of Luna-
tics.” Florrie Green, supported by a bevy
of Green pupils, supplied the dancing for
“Creatures of Impulse,” and Sadie Green
(now Mrs. Purves) danced a duet with the
noble Earl. She was the Candle Flame, and
he was the fatuous Moth that fluttered
around her. This, apparently, is the best
remembered of the. Yarmouthian proceed-
ings. He flapped his gauze-draped arms in
a winglike manner, and every now and then
they got singed by the Lady Flame. Finally,
he fluttered so near to Miss Sadie that the
fire proved fatal, and he died in a series of
contortions at her tootsies. It was an awful
come-down for a descendant of the trium-
phant m-ofligate Steyne, but a distinct social
success for Miss Sadie Green. She bore off
a number of floral tributes and the envy of
all the girls in Melbourne.
It was a rather amazing young Suffragette
from Britain, in a white dress, with roses
tucked in her waist line, who took the stage
at the Athenaeum Hall to explain the in-
wardness of the window-smash idea. The ex-
planation lacked force, being roundabout
and apologetic, and studded with polite
curses on the London policeman, who, as
most people know, is a placid animal, almost
as much beloved of women as the pigeon-
chested soldier. All the same, Mrs. Swan
was feminine and effective when she told
why the women in England need the vote,
and described the horrific struggle of 20,000
jam factory strikers for the 6000 loaves of
bread brought them by the. smashing sister-
hood. She asserted that every woman who
helped there wore a Suffragette badge; but
she incidentally admitted that the money
which bought the bread was contributed
largely by other women, who probably didn’t
want a vote, anyhow. “Some of the shop-
owners whose windows we had smashed sent
food and clothes to us,” she proudly re-
marked. This must have been intended to
invite further onslaughts (the cost whereof
falls on the insurance companies), involving
further advertisement for the suffering shops.
When the speaker finished, there was a rush
of girls garbed in white and armed with
collection plates. After the clatter of falling
coin had subsided, Vida Goldstein rose and
rapped out figures and facts, now and then
casting annoyed glances at the clock. “I
could speak for hours on this point alone,”
she remarked several times. Then the audi-
ence felt truly grateful to the timepiece.
Phyllis Hopwood-Foldi smiled sweetly into
the Swastika Club’s best teacups, on Thurs-
day last. The lady of the imposing label has
a very effective appearance, and is said to
have “set London talking.” Melbourne ap-
parently is just holding its head in its hands
and thinking.
Ida Barnard, the massive show girl who
drifted Londonwards from the J. C. Wil-
liamson ranks, has been scintillating round
Melbourne lately and gladdening her eyes by
a sight of mother. Ida wears her hair red
now, and is shortly making off to America.
The first night of the Asche-Brayton sea-
son nearly caused riots in Bourke-street.
The Easter Saturdav holiday crowd mixed
itself up roughly with the beautifully-
dressed first-nighters, and the result was a
disastrous elbow-to-elbow tussle. After
ruffling the garments and feelings of the
theatre-goers, the walking classes then hung
about and guffawed loudly as poor Mrs.
Toorak climbed the d.c. stairs, with a yard
and a half of duchesse satin pulled up to her
knees, and two generous lengths of colored
leg showing. Once safely inside, the
climbers and their escorts found that “Kis-
met” had caused some alterations to be made
to the house where bellowdrama used to
grow wild. The lower boxes were obliter-
ated with black and gold, and a coffined or-
chestra discoursed in muffled tones from
behind a dim lattice. Their usual place of
abode! was draped in black, as if a sonata
had died* A girl in the front stalls, who
was considerably taller than her bodice,
scored through having this sombre back-
ground, her bare shoulders positively gleam-
ing by comparison. A boxful of Asclies had
the place of honor, while the stalls and circle
were visions of well-Dowdered and tinted
flesh and highly-polished The
gallery was. a mass of yearn and
yawn, the inmates . having waited long.
And after all, “Kismet” proved rather
a slow-footed production. A whole
scene is given to the beggar Asche
asleep, and the beggar Asche awake. Three
more scenes are bazaar. Then at last Lily
appears. But even Lily spends valuable
quarters of an hour in speechless embroidery.
For dress the poetry of the harem
skirt —the dresses of her stout attendants
the prose. The play is a blizzard of clothes.
Beggar Asche, grown rich, rushes straight
to the bazaar for duds. The bazaar is
gaudiness and noise, with high-voiced Eastern
urchins, surprisingly like. Melbourne news-
boys, thinly disguised in colored clothes. It
is finely effective for about five minutes, but
grows tedious.
Florrie Young and Roberts, who have come
over for “The Girl in the Train,” spent Sat-
urday afternoon saying good-bye to Mrs.
Slapoffski, and waving handkerchiefs at the
express. Oscar Asche, without his Lily,
watched the last performance of the panto-
mime from a box.
Melba and Marshall Hall shed the illum-
ination of their patronage on the Patten
recital, an exclusive affair which happened
in the Chapter House of St. Paul’s. Mrs.
Patten, who was Miss Alice King, taught
the daughters of the Best People before they
(the daughters) were married, and gave up
trying to fascinate George and Harry with
“Sing, Sweet Bird.” Most of the daughters,
now majestic matrons, came along to the
show, which had the skilled assistance of
’cellist Hattenbach and Jessie Masson.
Mrs. Carlyle Smythe, whose husband is
directing Amundsen on his wordy way, was
Elsa Johannsen before she married Carlyle.
The Pole-finder wanted to claim her as a
countrywoman ; but it apnears that her Jo-
hannsens all came from Bremen.' A Nor-
wegian Johannsen, by the way, did heroic
things in the Nansen expedition which went
a long way towards the North Pole.
Mrs. Gilfillan (who was May Yale) is
posting delicately-sketched invitations to a
view of her work, which will rest in the
upper hall of the Athenaeum from April 15 to
April 27.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Easter, with its buns and gaieties and religious
revels, is here. The train service is undergoing its
annual bout of nervous breakdown. Suburbia is at
the seaside, and the Hayseed family pervades every
street. The rain pours with the damp persistence of
the waters coming down at Lodore. And sportsmen,
fashion-leaders, betting cranks and the like, pray to
all the gods they know that aridity will set in before
Onkaparinga. If I have forgotten any notable detail
m connection with the local conditions, let me be
chidden appropriately. However, I make bold to say
that I have not.
At Saturday’s A.R.C. meeting, the last frocks of
summer were pretty generally worn. Miss Bosanquet
watched the proceedings in a dream—a cream dream
that is to say a dream garniture of cream color.
Mrs. Private Secretary Row was in a dark blue con-
fection. The Governor chose a quiet costume of the
lounge variety, and a perfectly plain, untrimmed hat,
without so much as an ostrich plume on it.- A
lesson this, in the matter of sartorial restraint, to
some of our flamboyant “nuts,” young and old, *,
Miss Jean Sterling came down from Strathalbyn
for the meeting—her last frivol in these parts for
some time, as she leaves for the land of Freetrade
and semi-starvation next week. She is an ardent
horse-woman, and with her sister recently figured,
under a flimsy disguise, in the pages of a local novel.
Lawyer Tom Pope and his wife are back at Sunney-
side, after a tour abroad. It {i.e., Sunneyside, not
the tour) is one of the old homes of this village, and
its garden is the ultimate howl as regards beauty.
Other returned travellers are the MacDiarmids, of
Burnside, who have been sampling the smells and
splendors of the Durbar.
Mrs. James Gorse is over from Westralia. She and
her two small children are staying with her mother,
Mrs. T. S. Barr Smith.
A village squabble of south-eastern origin has burst
the narrow confines of its backblocks’ birth-place,
and overflowed into the Supreme Court. It revolves,
or perhaps I should say whirls, round a philandering
youth, an attractive maid, an interfering parent, and
a vast wad of allegedly anonymous letters. Some of
the swearing that is going on is the sort of thing
a celebrity would like to have his name and fame en-
graved upon, so steely hard is it. . Chief Justice Wav
keeps the case going till all hours of the night, with
a brief interval for “tea” (out of a cup or bottle, as
individual taste directs) ; and the counsel, good
leisurely fellows, are absolutely furious.
One of the Giles clan—Maurice by name—has come
back to us after 14 months in Merrie England.
Questioned as to what fillet of bloodhound tasted like,
he is said to have replied that he left for Australia
before roast beef was struck off the menu and roast
dog was struck on.
One William Priest, late of Glenelg, has compli-
cated things unduly for his executors, by the vagaries
of his will. In it he directs that some of his cash
shall be used to erect a , room into . which books,
Recbabites and the Labor party are to be admitted,
but wherefrom dancing, boxing, billiards and such-
like are to be firmly excluded. He also gives minute
directions as to the building of the room in question,
and one has a mental vision of bored executors going
round with a foot-rule to see that the exact measure-
ments are kept to, and looking through the keyhole
to see that the builders don’t play poker in the lunch
hour.
There died on Tuesday at Mount Gambier, J. T.
Morris, owner and editor of the South Eastern
Star up to a short time before his death, and before
that a member of the House of Assembly. He came
to Australia in ’52, and made straight for the Vic-
torian gold deposits, since when he had been alter-
nately commercial, political and journalistic. He did
no end of good for various public movements in the
S. East.
George Murray, K.C., has been appointed to Judge
Homburg’s vacant seat on the Supreme Court Bench.
He won several scholarships at St. Peter’s College,
and earned his degree at the University here, at
Trinity College, Cambridge, and in London. He is
popular—has a private income, and is a bachelor.-
His sister married cheerful Frank Downer, of hunting
and polo fame.
Yours affectionately,_
JOHANNA.


>
k
\
\
x
X;
v
v
X.
ii
%
l
%
c
/
*
/ /
N
\
'ill
\
\il
44
\ '
V V V
\ \ \
99
\ \
» i »
■\i
\ •
•_i i•• ■\ • \ • -.pi \■■
■\
\
: 1 ; \ \\ \ \ \ \ \ M\\ \


Just to Advertise !
86
A Sixpenny Bottle of Caldwell’s Ink
and a 12/6 14ct.-Cold Iridium-tipped
Special Pattern Self-filling'
Unleakable Fountain Pen, for
8/6
If you can’t buy locally, send
Postal Note direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD..
Yarra Bank Road, STH. MELBOURNE.
TWITCHING
ST. VITUS’ DANCE.
*
This Girl had to leave School for
Six Months*
Muscles and Limbs Always on
the Move. —A Painful Case Cured
by Dr. Williams* Pink Pills.
Little Olive Swainston, of Boulder City,
W.A., after suffering for months with a most
distressing attack of St. Vitus’ Dance, was
cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. She had
medical attention, hut did not improve, and
her parents were becoming alarmed at the
progress of the disease. Her cure, once a
course of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills was
started, was to be expected. They have
cured a great many cases of this complaint,
because it is a nervous disorder, and they
supply the system with the rich new blood
that is necessary to keep the nerves in tone.
Mr. R. Swainston, of 75 Miller Street,
Boulder, a well-known miner, made the fol-
lowing statement in regard to his daughter’s
case:—
“My daughter Olive, who is 11 years old,
had an attack of St. Vitus’ Dance and was
poorly for some months. We noticed her
arms and legs beginning to twitch spasmodi-
cally as if they were on wires. She had to
leave school for six months. Her tongue would
twist, and her eyebrows and shoulders used
to jerk and twist too. She got worse and
worse, and at last she could not fasten her
clothes or button her shoes. It was not safe
to give her a teacup to hold, for 10 to one it
would drop. We gave her all sorts of soups
and nourishing foods, and tried every pos-
sible remedy, even to hot sea-salt baths, but
she did not improve. She could not get a
good night’s sleep, her limbs would move
about so, and my wife had constantly to get
up and straighten the clothes and attend to
her. Her speech became so jumbled one
could hardly make out what she was saying,
and she seemed to be unable to think clearly,
as if her senses were numbed. She could
not\ walk well or easily ; it was as if she were
hopping or jumping. She could not even sit
still. At last my wife, having tried Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills herself for Rheumatism,
started giving her a pill at each meal, and
some color showed in her face; formerly she
was guite white. The twisting began to
wear off, and at last ceased altogether, and
she has become as well and healthy as we
could wish any child to be, and every trace
of the complaint has disappeared.”
Insist on getting Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They are sold by most chemists and store-
keepers, or if not locally obtainable, will be
sent direct by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney, for 2s. 9d.
per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
ĵhljhl
hjl
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6 ; Double, 22/6 ; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or Wri e.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE REMARKABLE ARRANGEMENT OF JOSEPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the fat years it may be possible to make pro-
vision for the lean.— Ancient wisdom in X.S. W. Par-
liamentary report.
Joseph is dead. No more in bovine dreams
He sees the fat cow and the lean consumed,
Nor starts a grand State pawnshop by the streams
Of ancient Nilus. Where the lotus bloomed
The child of Israel hath other care,
And Joseph’s fame by church and pulpit boomed
Wakens old echoes on a newer air.
Fully forty centuries have rolled away
Since that old dreamer saw the lean arise
To eat the fat. The world in dreams to-day
Feels the same vision burn into her eyes,
And Famine’s offspring, whether man or cow,
Breaking its long fast on the ancient wise—
The thing that hath no sweat upon its brow.
For Fat old Joseph smote a mighty blow,
Large and obese as Pharaoh’s self he grew,
lie knew the time to reap, the time to sow ;
In large financial operations, too,
He had the gift his brethren keep to-day;
No doubt some noble dividends he drew,
And taught a grateful people how to pay.
Under his care the fat ate up the lean,
And proved his former prophesy was wrong;
The world was young, the population green,
The Hebrew person’s head was somewhat long.
All, meet it is that we should lift our hat
To him who set the pace and set it strong
That champion of the cause of ancient Fat.
Lean years and years of plenty each and all
Broad Fat hath earmarked as his lawful prey ;
Gaunt hunger on the barns of pride may fall
And eat the heritage of thrift away;
But let them wrangle how they may or will,
Fat shall eat up the lot another day ;
Plenty and dearth alike his maw shall fill.
Since Joseph showed the way it is ordained
All things must ever go the self-same road ;
All we have dreamed, or feared, or lost, or gained
Is merely part of that eternal load
Which goes to feed the person of broad girth—
AVe sweat beneath the everlasting goad
And Fat lolls master of a changeless earth.
Shall Sosh affright him where he takes his ease?
Lo, he hath purchased Sosh itself for gold ;
His are the solid lands, the spreading seas,
The sweltering tropics, and Antarctic cold—
Yea, should we talk of him the livelong night,
The half of his possessions were not told —
.Joseph knew how to fix that iip all right!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
After years of deep thought, it has been de-
cided to put on the new Commonwealth stamp
an outline map of Australia, a kangaroo and
a tuft of grass. It is such an obvious device-
barring the tuft of grass that it must have
been the very first one suggested. Consider-
ing that several Postmasters-General were
supposed to have gone almost mad with worry
over the stamp, something much more un-
usual was looked for.
For a long time the Sheffield (England)
police have been asking for bigger wages,
and now they have got them. Here are the
increased rates which are to be paid to men
who are expected to have a high sense or
duty and responsibility :
SERGEANTS.
On appointment, 38s. per week ; alter three years
service, 40s. ; alter five years, 415.; alter seven
years, 425. ; alter nine years, 435. The deduction lor
superannuation in each case is not to exceed per
Cent CONSTABLES.
On appointment, 275. per week; alter one years
service, 285.; alter three years, 295.; alter five
v ears, 30s. ; alter seven years, 315.; alter nine
years, 325.; alter 11 years, 335. ; alter years
345. ; alter 15 years, 355. Star Class (alter 20
years’ service, and subject to special conditions with
regard to good conduct and efficiency), 365. per week.
Here also the deduction lor superannuation will not
exceed 24 per cent. »
Twenty years’ hard bobbying and the best ot
good conduct rewarded with 6s. a day (or,
really, ss. 2d., seeing that the cop is a Sun-
day worker), less 2\ per cent, (say a deduc-
tion of lid. a week) ! And it has taken years
of agitation to reach that dizzy altitude.
CONCERNING OBESE PEOPLE.
Obesity is a terrible “killjoy.” It not
only robs one of beauty and health, but in-
capacitates one for the full enjoyment ot the
pleasurable affairs of life. 1 he man or
woman of a corpulent habit is distressingly
handicapped, and is much more susceptible
to the attacks of disease than a lean, active
person is. It is futile to attempt to cure
obesity by starving down one’s weight, and
many other methods employed for reducing
weight are both useless and dangerous. The
course all stout persons should adopt is. to
take Marmola Prescription Tablets, which,
as the name denotes, are a condensed and
solid make-up of the celebrated MaTmola
Prescription. Just take one little tablet
after each meal and one at bedtime, and in
a very short while you will feel as though a
heavy burden had slipped from you. You
will probably have lost many pounds in
unhealthy, clogging fat; you will eat and
digest better; and be freer from stomachic
and other troubles than -when you were
loaded with excess-fat. At the rate of reduc-
tion effected, beauty of proportion, normal
weight, and vigorous health will be quickly
recovered. Marmola Prescription Tablets
entail no restrictions or inconveniences
whatsoever. Sold by chemists, price 3s. 6d.,
or sent post free by the Marmola Company,
5 and 7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.*
Note—For those who prefer the liquid prey
paration, chemists are still dispensing the
famous prescription as follows .' One ounce
of fluid Extract of Glycyrrhiza B.P., one
ounce of pure Glycerine B P., one half-
ounce of Marmola, and mix with peppermint
water to make six ounces in all. The dose
is two teacpoonfuls after each meal.
“Floater” writes: —
Please allow me to lodge one last protest
against the building ol the Federal capital. Surely
going to the Cotter and its tributaries to erect the
city is going too lar. In fact, I wouldn’t mind call-
ing it going to ex-streams.
“T. Tufthunter” : The news that the yel-
low boys are drilling in Ulster recalls the
time they drilled with General Cornwallis,
in 1798. This is what Cornwallis thought of
the Orange boys :
They are contemptible in the face of the enemy,
but ferocious and cruel in the extreme when any
poor wretches without arms come into their power.
Murder is their favorite pastime. Numberless mur-
ders were hourly committed. In short, we have been
engaged in a war of plunder and massacre.
He couldn’t have said much more without
exceeding the bounds of common politeness.
This is section 181aa of the Common-
wealth Electoral Act which has just come
into force: —
On and after the date of issue, and before the re-
turn of any writ for the election for a member for
the Senate or for the House of Representatives, or
for the taking of anv Referendum vote, every article,
report, letter, or other matter commenting upon any
candidates or political party, or the issues being
submitted to the electors, printed and published in
any newspaper, circular, pamphlet or “dodger, shalL
be signed bv the author and authors giving Ins or
their true name and address, or names and addresses
at the end of the said article, report, letter or other
matter.
The italics are The Bulletin’s, and now
this paper wants to know whether, as soon
as the writ is issued for the Federal by-
election at Werriwa (N.S.W.), will it be-
come necessary to sign an article comment-
ing on the Freetrade party in England, or
the war party in Italy, or the anti-1 lome
Rule candidate at Ballyshannan, Ireland?
“Any candidate or political party seems
fairly sweeping.
N.S.W. Minister Griffith says that every
public work he has on band is more, or less
hung up for want of labor. That is one ot
the beauties of the borrowing curse. It
public works were paid for out of revenue
at a regular rate of, say, £2,500,000 a year,
the demand for workmen would be steady
and the supply would, probably be steady
also. There could be no sudden and frantic
whooping up of things without a large and
sudden increase of taxes, so there would be
a tendency to wallow along on an even keel.
Under the loan system, everything depends
on the money market and the madness ot
the Government. There may be a demand
for £1,500,000 worth of labor one year, and
then there are low wages and unemployed.
There may be a demand for £5,000,000 an-
other year, and then there is a labor famine.
In either case there is a howl.
Rumor, discoursing persistently through
her hat, talks of the possible purchase by
the British-owned P. and O. Company of the
Union Steamship Co. of Maoriland. If any-
thing of the sort is suggested, the Govern-
ment should fall on it with a crash. In
theory, everybody has a right to sell his pro-
perty to whomsoever he pleases. In prac-
tice, he has only a right to do so provided
he thereby inflicts no injury on the com-
munity, aiid about the worst injury that can
be done to any community is the introduction
of foreign capital, which is the. same thing,
as the introduction of foreign debt. It des-
troys the country’s commercial independence,
which is as bad as destroying its political
independence; and it makes it a commercial
tributary, which is just as degrading as
being a political tributary. In this matter
the English-owned. Union Bank sets an ex-
ample. It strictly limits the number of
shares that may be put on the Australian
register so as to prevent control of the bank
leaving England. Australia _ should go and
do likewise with all its institutions —banks,
shipping companies, insurance concerns,
lands, and the rest.
WITHOUT THE IRON HORSE.
The Government intends to proceed vigorously
with its Northern Territory policy.— Josiah Thomas.
The unhappy feature of Mr. Thomas’s ordinance
is the indication afforded that the Government has
prepared no well-defined scheme for the opening of
the Territory by means of railways and roads.
—Daily paper.
AUSTRALIA: “ Where's. the horse!"
JOSIAH THOMAN : "I'm going to carry on with-
out one for a start,"
Henry Holland, who is some kind of “ad-
vanced” Socialist —so advanced that the
crowd he belongs to regards the Labor men
as bloated capitalists and fatted tyrants—
has been fined £lOO for forbidding his son
to do his military training. The I.W.W.
complains that he was “singled out for per-
secution” because of his opinions, but it is
difficult to see what else the Fisher Govern-
ment could have done. Holland simply
clamored for the advertisement of martyr-
dom. Instead of being a passive opponent,
he wrote letters of bounce and defiance, re-
turned his offspring’s uniform with remarks
about its appearance, demanded a receipt
for the scoffed-at habiliments —in fact, he
held up his ear and told the Government it
hadn’t the courage to hit it. And the
Government, its credit being at stake, hit
Holland’s ear good and hard. If that wasn’t
what he wanted, why did he hold up the
bowl-like organ?
The importer, who is often a dealer in
sweated-labor goods, and non-union and
Chow and nigger goods, gets another pull
over the Australian manufacturer who em-
ploys white labor at white men’s wages. The
High Court has decided that the ordinary
kind of Workmen’s Compensation Act
doesn’t apply to him, because he doesii t
make things —only buys them cheap ai cl
sells them dear. As he doesn t do any real
work his employee isn’t a workman. Doubt-
less the decision is sound law, but that kind
of law simply shrieks for alteration.
THE BIG CLUB AND THE LOW WALL.
The main point at issue from the commencement
of the strike has been the payment of a minimum
wage of 9s. per day, and on this point the manufac-
turers have been convinced that the extra Is., per
diem demanded will not admit of (heir .continuing
in business. They. are at present undersold by Jap-
anese manures by 7s. 6d. per ton, and local labor
conditions prohibit them from offering their wares
at a less figure.— S.A. paper.
Slab from the official report of the recent
Independent Workers’ Cbhgress held at
Melbourne: —
Mr. S. Terry (Tas.) : Unionism is now being car-
ried away by strong Socialistic ideas that 1, as a
man and a father, cannot uphold. I cannot,. there-
fore, identify myself with such a movement. When
I come to consider the trend of old unionism and the
tyranny of it, I cannot help seeing that it cuts itself
entirely adrift from the British people and British
traditions and religion—in fact, away from .God. , 1
feel that the trend of this labor Socialism is away
from that grand old Boole which we have all been
taught to revere, and which our late beloved Queen
Victoria said was the secret of England’s greatness.
The “late beloved Queen Victoria,” not
being a complete ass, never said anything of
the sort. The people who are running the
Independent Workers ought to have warned
Terry on that point. It is a mistake to dig
up these stuffy old platitudes. They give
away the show.
The recent famine price to which imported
bags and sacks were run up has reminded
a few people that Australia once made Us
own sacks. It was a great industry in its
day, just as shipbuilding used to be. But
the cheap nigger of Calcutta
went into the job, and for want
of Protection it perished—-so
far as Australia was concerned.
Now the nigger and the specu-
lator have occasional spasms, in
the course of which they run
prices much above the figure at
which the goods could be locally
manufactured, but any attempt
at rebuilding the lost occupa-
tion under the, present foolish
Freetrade conditions would be
met by a cut down to the lowest
nigger prices. And when the
manufacturers were burs'ed a
second time the ifigure would, as
a matter of coutse, go up again
to make good the temporary
loss. It has been estimated that
the making of the bags and sacks
required for Victoria alone
would, in good average years,
keep 17,500 people employed-
in fact, the possibilities of the
business are enormous. But
the Australian Government
seems to have entirely dropped
Protection nowadays, so this
country is the greatest bag-
importer on ear'h. and the nig-
ger and the trader divide the
profit. Very little of it goesAo
the nigger, which is the reason why his
stomach and his backbone meet, and it is
difficult to tell which is his front and which
is his spine.
Three-quarters of the N.S.W. financial
year were ended on March 30. For the
first quarter (to September 30) the out-
goings were £435,165 more than for the cor-
responding quarter two years ago. For the
second quarter the increase was £428.137.
For the third quarter the rise was £736,927.
So for the nine months the State got through
£1,600,229 more than it did two years ago.
The expenditure is now about £370.000
ahead of revenue, for fast as the revenue
grows the financial madness of the McGowen
Ministry grows faster. And loan expendi-
ture has almost doubled in two years. Truly
N.S.W. is having a great time.
People who have once used Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhosa Remedy always keep a bottle
in the house. It is the most successful remedy in
the world for the cure of pains in the stomach, colic,
diarrhoea and dysentery. This remedy has cured
more pain and suffering than any other medicine ever
manufactured.*
A small band of harmless but misguided
visionaries met in Melbourne about April 1,
and formed what it called a Freetrade and
Land Values League. No one objects to
such simple relaxation, but the leaguers
will get into trouble if they aren’t careful,
having as yet made no application to the
Chief Secretary for an exhumation order.
On April 2 last, when the census was
taken in Maoriland, there were in the Domin-
ion 1,070,910 persons, of which 564,834 were
males, 506,076 were fe-
males, 7060 were half-castes
and 2630 were Chows. Com-
pared with 1906, when the
previous census was taken,
the population of the Un-
stable Isles increased by
119,890. To every hundred
males there were 89 females,
and the number of persons to
the square mile of country
- panned out at nine.
The grovel of the Marys
who presented George the
Fifth’s wife with Coronation
souvenir s —ranging from
merely absurd •to utterly
ridiculous —led to a belated
imitation by the loyal
Georges of the Hempire. One
day last week a pair of lordly
British persons named
George, assisted by George
Reid, of Australia, gave the
King a bediamonded badge of
the Order of the Garter,
which was said to have been
raised by a George subscrip-
tion. The appearance of G.
Reid in this deplorable man-
ner suggests that he was
largely responsible for it.
He has lost every vestige of
his old sense of humor, and
is now almost threatened
with a peerage.
Tke Maoriland Cabinet includes a
couple of farmers or ex-farmers, a barrister,
£. ship-chandler, 'a journalist, a doctor, a
storekeeper, a brewer, and a grain merchant,
.. tb ‘ ’ p „„ fwo Democrats
-Also, tnere are oue or two uemocrats.


Ufye CLAVIOLA-PIANO
I i
V/
m
w
a
At
l6=
/v
:
03
yi
v 'N
A Superb
Combination of a
RONLSCH .r
LIPP Piano
and tbe
Solo
Claviola.
This glorious instrument is playable by band,
or by means of tbe Claviola Music Rolls, thus
mailing piano-playing a delight for all.
By reason of its surpassing excellence of
design, construction and finish, the CLAVIOLA
PIANO appeals to all who desire to possess
THE WORLD'S FINEST PLAYER-PIANO.
You. are cordially invited to call and Hear the
If unable to call, write for Beautiful Art
Claviola.
BooKlet.
W. H. Paling' O. Co. Ltd.,
338 GEORGE ST
SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA and LISMORE.
To JAVA,
“ The Garden of the East,”
by the—
“ROYAL PACKET.’
m
m
m
m
M1,,-
'
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for . . .
Java and Singapore,
via Queensland Ports, Port Moresby, Thursday Island, Dobo and Macassar,
by the Magnificent New Steamers
Van Linschoten and Van Waerwyck.
electric fans and large windows. No port-holes. No inside cabins.
Spacious promenade decks.
Return Tickets Interchangeable with Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
TO EUROPE via JAVA.
By the Fast and Luxurious Mail Steamers of the " Nederland” 8 “ Rotterdam Lloyd ”
Companies. Through Passengers booked from Australia to London at Reduced Rates.
For further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
56 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN SANDERSON & CO., Melbourne; BIRT & CO., LTD., Brisbane-
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide; ’
EARP BROS. & CO., LTD., Newcastle.
STANDARD SUCCESSES
FOR PIANO SOLO
Ea.cH Price 2/- Net, excepting those otherwise marked.
DOBINDA (a stately measure) E. Boggetti
BEECEUSE in A Delbrilck
AMEBICAN APRS. Fantasia. 2/6 net Jules Be Sivrai
A MEBBY PEAL, \alse Joyeuse Jules De Sivrai
A BIVEB SONG. Idyl Jules De Sivrai
HANDEL’S GAVOTTE in B FLAT. 1/6 net. .Jules De Sivrai
HANDEL S GAVOTTE in G. 1/6 net Jules De Sivrai
THE MAGIC BILL ... j uhs De Bivr(U
THEEE DANCES (“Nell Gwyn”) Edward German
WEAEIN O’ THE GEEEN. On Boucicault’s Air W. Kuhe
POPULAR SONGS WITHOUT WORDS—
LOW TIT lAN’S GATES OF THE WEST.. .Boyton Smith
TOSTI’S IT CAME WITH THE MEEEY MAY, LOVE
Boyton Smith
TOSTI’S BID ME GOOD-BYE Boyton Smith
CELLIEE’S QUEEN OF MY HEAET (from “Dorothy”)
Boyton Smith
DE LABA’S THE GAEDEN OF SLEEP .. Boyton Smith
MATTEI S DEAE HEAET Boyton Smith
TOSTI S BEAUTY’S EYES Boyton Smith
TOSTI’S VENETIAN SONG Boyton Smith
DENZA’S A MAY MOBNING Boyton Smith
AYLWAED’S BELOVED, IT IS MOBN. . . .Boyton Smith
GOUNOD’S FLO WEE SONG (from “Faust”) Boyton Smith
GOUNOD’S WHEN ALL WAS YOUNG (from “Faust”)
Boyton Smith.
DEL EIEGO SO, DEY THOSE TEAES .. Boyton Smith
CHAPPELL & CO. LTD.,
235 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
May be had of ALL MUSIC SELLERS.


m hjhjl
K UPPER
LACER
DIABETES.
This highly dangerous disease will in its earlier
stages be remedied by prompt treatment with i •
Pilic Take them m time. 1 nee,
Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
1/6 and 2/6.*
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE
Throughout Australasia Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills are a liouseiiold remedy,
and the antidote for all general ailments. In
thousands of homes the little amber bottl:
DIRECTIONS
ADUCrs.Tworowufl WUJ
CHILDREN. A NAI/ TO A
WHOLE PILL DISSOLVED
M SWEETENED WATER.
Tiktbtfon rttoinf.
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
is the sole medicine
chest, for whatever the
complaint, the bowels must
be kept free, and the pro-
cess by which the blood
is purified must t> e stim-
ulated to throw off the
poisons in the blood,
which is the cause of all
disease, and many a
serious illness may be
prevented by the timely
use of these Pills, check-
ing the disease in its
primary stage. h >r -
Morse’s Indian Kooi
Pills, being vegetable,
do not weaken, sicken,
or gripe, and may be
taken with perfect safe-
ty bv the most delicate
woman or the youngest
child. The old and feeble will also |nd them
a most suitable remedy for ai
strengthening their weakened constitution .
Dr S Morse’s Indian Root Pills a™ a per-
fect Blood Purifier, and a safe and Reliab
Remedy for Biliousness, Constipation, I
digestion, Headachy, SaHow Complex o .
Liver and Kidney Troubles JJf p ]Jf:
Boils and Blotches, and for Female au
m< Nearly One Million Bottles sold annuallj
in Australasia.
"SHELL"
SPIRIT
IS THE
MOST ECONOMICAL
THEREFORE
RESCH’S
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
SELECT STOCK ALE & LA<S€R
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brkwert and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
As everybody expected, Samuel Langford
said, when the time came, he would prefer someone
else than Mr. Baker to adjudicate his third battle
with McVea. He is under the impression that his
particular style of fighting does not appeal to Mr.
Baker, and as this was a mighty momentous fight lor
him, the little sawn-off negro giant lelt lie could
afford to take no chances. When he came to Aus-
tralia he was the bright and morning star of pugil-
ism, the natural heir-apparent to the great Johnson
himself. Only one small speck dimmed the bright-
ness of his six years of glory—his failure to knock
out McVea in Paris. But, as everyone knew, that
was a bad decision, and the referee who said it was
a draw made a ghastly mistake—Langford should
have been given the verdict on points. So thought
Langford. AVhen lie found McVea’s name among his
list of opponents in Australia, he was very pleased.
He would show Australia and the world what a saa
mistake had been made in Paris. But when the dust
cleared away, it was McVea who got thes ver ,
although half the audience and some of the P ress dis-
agreed with the decision. Was ever anything so exasper-
ating? So when Langford faced McVea in the : ring
last Monday night he was walking on the rim of
things. Another defeat, and a long good-night to all
hopes of the world-championship, the glory of it,
and the fortune it brings in music-hall engagements,
and the rest. So it is hardly to be wondered at
in the circumstances, that he said he would P ret
some other referee than Mr. Baker. He lelt n
could afford to take no risks. Every fighter has the
privilege of objecting to any particular referee, and
Langford was quite within his rights m so.
Every great referee has at some time or other
objected to—tho great Eugene Corn himself not ex-
cepted. * *
Langford rose to the crisis gamely, and
toiled at preparation as he had never done before.
His previous fight had taught him that to wage suc-
cessful war witli the elusive McVea he wanted an in
crease in speed. Half the blows he landed in the previous
encounter had been hard enough to knocks-out
had they been dropped on a stationary boxer or one
coming in;' but they had lost their venom because
they fell on a retreating man, and he had as much
chance of knocking out McVea as he had of Punching
a hole through a swinging door. To do it he had to
be close up. So he set to work to increase his speed
of foot and fist. When he entered the ring last Mon-
day night, the general impression round the ring
was that, barring a knock-out, Langford had no hope
of victory.
When they started, onlookers realised immediately
it was a much-improved Langford. He was quickcr
by far than before; and he was as fierce as 2o tiger-
cats tied together by the tails. He roughed and
ripped, and, getting in close, tried to lever McVea s
jaw up with his left glove and srnasViit vithlis
right fist. It was a new device, and filled McVea
with horror. He backed away from it and regarded
Langford much as he would a full-blown octopus.
Mac determined to stand off and box him, and set to
work on that right eye. In the second round the
brow began to show signs of the treatment, and as
the fight went on it got bigger and bigger still. But
after a while Langford evolved a defence. As the
left hook came in, he would take it on the light
glove and send his own left over to McVea s .law,
and then follow up with a shower of fmklen iabs
McVea evaded beautifully, and never showed better
as a boxer than he did during the first five rounds
of Monday’s fight. His defence was splendid, and
it looked as though the Tar Baby was going to wear
himself out in vain endeavor. In th®. clinches
Langford got in some nasty wallops, till the police
intimated that the clean break must ngidl}
adhered to. The turning point of the scrap was
the seventh round. Up till then McVca had out-
boxed his tiger-cat opponent, and when the Police
insisted on the clean break he shot. Y\ H 3 ,.■
came in with a stab with all the weight of his body
behind it, and then clinched. But .in the. seventh
he had been driven back, and, stepping against the
ropes, was sent towards Langford by the rebound, and
hist as he came in Langford’s left came out and
landed like a falling tower right on the .law. Down
went McVea’s tail. He hung on badly rattled and
neither referee nor Langford could make him let go.
The gong came in the nick of time, for another like
that and the fight had ended right there. For the
next three rounds he was badly dazed, and hung on
flagrantly. AVhen he was beginning to revive m the
eleventh' he stopped two more real bad ones, and a
third that did him no good. Then he lost his bundle
altogether; and for the rest of. the time till the
eighteenth was an obviously whipped nigger. He
cuddled conspicuously, and sometimes referee
Arthur Scott pulled him off. and sometimes Lang-
ford got one hand free and wallowed him off. And
vet for a few seconds in each ro;md he would regain
his courage, and with it his skill, and, anticipating
Langford’s terrific charges, deal it out to Langford s
eves, both of which were slowly closing, especially
the right. Once in the fifteenth he caught Langford
a beautv right on the point, that made that wild cat
"lad to hang on and return the cuddle he had been mak-
ing frantic attempts to get away from most of the even-
ing In the last round McVea went in very gamely
and tried for a knock-out, per medium of an uppercut
which missed its mark by the thickness of a shaving.
AVhen the final gong went referee Scott immediately
pointed to Langford. It was the only possible de-
cision.
McVea did not fight half the battle he put up on
Boxing Day; and Langford fought twice as well and
10 times as fiercely. But it was not the superior
fighting power of Langford which lost McVea the
.scrap It was Funk—pure, unmitigated funk. He
never got his tail up again after that moment m the
seventh round, when he felt as if a tank had faben
on his faee, and the parcel he collected m the lltb
completed his demoralisation. McVea forgot he bad
851 b more weight behind his blows. The fact that
he was four inches taller and three inches longer
’in the reach faded from his memory. He is not a
man to fight an uphill battle, and the crowd s wild
veils of encouragement to Langford made his sinking
heart hit the floor. Referee Baker looked on from a
chair in the front row—a spectator for one night
only. Referee Scott in the ring had a strenuous
time. Twice he got in the way of the blizzard of
blows Langford let loose when McVea was holding
him, or, rather, trying to, and one of them must
have hurt sorely, while the number of his narrow
escapes was legion. *
Sydney pugdom is almost as excited over
the Mehegan-Clabby scrap at Sydney Stadium on
Wednesday of last week as it is over the Langford-
McVea trouble of Monday last. The battle was ad-
vertised as being for the welter-weight championship
of Australia, but as Clabby could not make less than
lOst. 7-ilb., even after taking off his shoes, the
welter championship ceased to be an element of the
disturbance. Mehegan weighed 9st. 81b., so he en-
tered the ring against a man practically a stone
heavier than himself, and strong and formidable
enough to put up a drawn battle with the light
heavy-weight Dave Smith. Moreover, he apparently
impressed Smith so much that the light heavy-
weight is not taking any more Mr. Clabby, thank
you. In the face of these circumstances, Mehegan,
just a single pound over the light-vveight limit, was
considered to have no chance. But it turned out one
of the most level fights ever seen in the Stadium.
For 10 rounds it was Mehegan’s, and he piled up the
points in a way that was frightful for the Yankees
present to watch. Then his steam gave out, and he
slowed down. Clabby came along at a great pace—
even faster than a Victorian mixed train —and for
five strenuous rounds piled up his contra account;
and then he, too, suddenly petered out. The pace
was telling on both of them. For four more rounds
they wilted in turns, and it was going to end, as
far as anyone could see, in a draw, or in both parties
fainting. Referee Baker had threatened to disqualify
the first man who ignored the order to step back ;
but one of Baker’s few weaknesses is that he some-
times makes threats and fails to keep them—a thing
a referee should never do. In the last round Clabby
crowded his man on to the ropes, and Mehegan
clinched. “Step back!” fluted the soft, persuasive
voice of the referee. Mehegan couldn’t, unless he
went through the ropes out among the audience, and
that is forbidden. Clabby took no notice, and
Mehegan turned to explain to the referee that, owing
to an unfortunate combination of circumstances, he
couldn’t get out. Just as he was in the middle of
his explanation something happened. Mehegan
thought the planet had burst, or a thunderbolt had
dropped on him. But it was only Clabby s fist. It
was a rattler, and it took all Mehegan knew to avoid
the knock-out. But for the timely howl of the bell
he would certainly have got it. And referee Baker,
having allowed the wallop which reduced Mehegan to
such a condition, was, of course, perfectly in order
in giving Clabby the decision. Whether he was in
order in allowing the blow is another question.
Now here is where the affair assumes an inter-
national aspect. Ray Bronson, the Yankee fighter
who was thoroughly thrashed by Mehegan when he
was in Sydney, is now back in his ain couutree,
claiming 'the welter-weight championship of the
world, which same Clabby declares is stowed away
in his portmanteau. Bronson has fought a number
of battles in defence of his assumed title, and after
a savage and very fast 10 rounds with “Young Erne,
of Philadelphia,” at Indianapolis, on February 22,
was greeted by the Yankee sporting press as logical
welter-weight champion” of the world. So America
evidently thinks that the welter premiership has got
lost, and that Bronson is the Amundsen of the quest.
As Clabby has no possible hope of weighing under
lOst. 21b., demanded in America, there is a question
as to whether Hughie Mehegan isn’t the real cham-
pion. He beat Bronson, and as Clabby is oyer weight
Mehegan’s claim looks good. In Britain, I ranee and
Australia, the welter limit is lOst. 71b., but in
America it is, as before-mentioned, lOst. 21b. n
Clabby can’t make lOst. 71b. he has no rl ffht to the
welter championship anywhere. And even it he wins
it in Britain, France or Australia he lias no hope
of holding it in the United States. ®ut after the
unsatisfactory affair of Wednesday week, he should
certainly endeavor to make the lOst. 71b., and fight
Mehegan for the parts of the world that lie outside
the U.S.A. If he can’t make the Australian weight
he should forfeit to Mehegan, and give the Australian
a chance to engage Bronson. It is time Australia
produced another champion.
The Saturday night combat between
“Porky” Flynn and James Barry did not rouse any
particular enthusiasm. In any match where the clean
break is insisted upon, and all in-fighting is barred,
Barry is at a hopeless disadvantage. He is not a
boxer, and never was. He is a strong, husky fellow,
and is the logical product of the modern Yankee
style of fighting, which is really a roughing match
in clinches, or a wrestling struggle in which a man
strives to hit his opponent, but may not throw him.
Another 10 years of it and the United States wont
have a boxer, and some mediocrity who knows how
to use his feet and keep out of grips will sweep the
blessed Republic from Maine to Louisiana, and from
’Frisco to New York. Thd trouble about Barry s
style of fighting is that it places him at the mercy
of any good boxer who won t allow himself to be
drawn into a clinching scrap. It is neither beautiful
nor useful.
* * * *
The men who undertook the Great Relay
Despatch Ride from Adelaide to Sydney, had vile
weather through South Australia and 1 ictoria. The
cyclists who left Adelaide on Good Friday started in
darkness and rain, but at Mount Gambler they over-
took the travelling rain clouds, and thence to Mel-
bourne the roads, though bad, were dry. the chang-
ing relays landed the despatch at Melbourne on Satui-
day afternoon, at 3.25 p.m., and the waiting couriers
grabbed it and flew for the north. The motor-cyclists,
leaving the Holy City on Saturday, struck even worse
luck, and from Adelaide till past Ballarat, rain, mud,
and falls were their portion. The petrol-driven bike
relay only reached Melbourne at 7.18 on Sunday
morning, having made up but eight hours of the -4
hours’ start given the push-bikers, and being over
three hours behind schedule time. The cars, which
left Adelaide at 11 a.m. Easter Saturday, were, of
course, “right in it,” and to make matters worse,
they took a wrong turning beyond Mount Ganmier,
and lost 90 minutes before they discovered the blun-
der Still, once on the track across Western Victoria,
Wiseman and Bell moved things to some purpose
and reached Ballarat about 8 a.m. on Sunday, with
one tyre used up ami another threatening to go at
any moment. So it was 10.53 before they slithered
down Haymarket Hill to tlv Weary State post office.
They were worn looking wrecks, their machine cov-
ered with mud and not fit to do another 10 miles—
but they were triumphant. Amid amazing difficulties
they had got through. Smith and Lane, accom-
• j v. o,rri Dav and Percy Allen, then seized the
pamrf b y S>d Day d L \ 0 J 2L rds Albury, in fresh,
despatch ana lusneu u 0 f a blinding
clean, taut-loolung c r three hours behind
rain-storm. The and the motor-
schedule time ~ j from pursuit, while the
bikists were praet cally sa e nom p by
push-bikers then far i/ ot the run was that
iy Arm a rav%un" e rand Bowman, who slithered over
5 miles from Adelaide to the Murray River in
the b r “t r t5 U mnes g pJ a hoS n and that agaTnst aTad
Hy
fhe two 3 push-bikers handed over their despatch at
Svdney gVo. to a waiting military potentate in a
motor-car at two minutes past three on Monday morn-
fnf 1 AUhough thThour was so ungodly, a couple of
motor cars were snorting, and about a score of. specta
Cs standing round, as the dust-stained cyclist im-
n e a small bag from his shoulder as he rode in,
SVsmTunting,landed it to the officer m the wa,t
imr car At 9.20, 6hr. 18mm. after the P usn “‘"gM
had delivered their satchel, two dust-smothered
motor-bikists, Mildon and Scott, ro | e a S pat-
nhicp and delivered their satchel. Scott was spa i
tered’ with blood, having come a cropper Bro
wiv Glebe. But it didn’t seem to worry him. His
o-reat anxiety was to know where he could get some-
thing to eat, as neither he nor his mate had victualled
for 15 hours Eight hours 14 minutes after the push
bikers had delivered their satchel the cars tore into
Martin-place, covered with dust and mud.
The handicapping was, from a military standpoint,
a mistake. What is sought for is the knowledge of
which is the most reliable and quickest form of trans
mitting a despatch when all telegraphic communica-
tion to interrupted, and wireless is useless owing to
its lack of secrecy. It would have been better to
have let cars, motor-bikes and pushers loose at the
same time, and given them the option ° f
their own routes with imaginary bodies of an enemy
scattered between the terminal points. As it was, it
works out tlmsly: The push-bikers covered the: 1149
miles in 69hr. 32min.— making an average speed of
16* miles per hour. They were asked to make 16.
They landed their despatch 13 minutes
time. The motor-bikers occupied 51hr. oOmin. on
their run, and arrived shr. 50min. behind schedul
time, having averaged 22 miles per hour instead of
the 25 they were asked. The cars took 4i hr. 46min. ,
or eight hours more than schedule time, having aver-
aged 24 miles per hour instead of the 29 requested
So it works out, in spite of the apparent failure o
motor-bikes and cars, that these machines aie still
superior, as shown in this comparative list:
Push-bikes .. 69hr. 32min., average 16$ miles per hour
Motor-bikes .. 51hr. 50min., average 22 miles per hour
Motor-cars .. 47hr. 46min., average 24 miles per hour
But take it anyhow you like, it demonstrates what a
wonderful machine the push-bike is. It is an
ing thing that the petrol-propelled bike should be
better than the push-bike only by 5$ imles P“ hour
over 1149 miles, and still more astounding that the
vaunted motor-car, capable of putting up its 100
miles on specially prepared tracks, should be only
7$ miles per hour better. So, apparently, on the
question of all-round reliability, the push-bike take
the honors. That cycle corps must come!
The outstanding feature of the opening
day of the A.J.C. Autumn Meeting at Randwick, on
Saturday, was the boil-over in connection with the
Doncaster. When the numbers went up, and it was
found that of the 26 in the book, onl y AurofodiM
had been withdrawn, after running third _ in the
Autumn Stakes, the popular fancy closed instantly
on Lady Medallist, llezekiah with the bag was ap-
parently in a generous, not to say reckless, mood, and
offered sixes against the Lady. Pontano and Popin-
iay were also in demand, and the bagmen for a
while laid eights. Then a cloud came oer the brow
and Lady Medallist shortened suddenly to four to
one against, while Pontano and Popinjay lengthened
to 10 The papers gave the starting price of Loch
ano, the awful outsider as 33 to 50 to one against
As a matter of sober history, at least two mcky
wights backed him at 100’s. gentie-
withdrawals were announced. After that the gentle
men with the bag took no undue risks. The crowded
field did not make for too good a start, and the favorite
was boxed up, bumped, and crowded unmercifully.
Sunlike, Popinjay and Volsloane made the pace.- A
six furlongs Desert Rose came out and flew up among
the leaders* but at the half-mile the favorite emerged
from her captivity, and took fifth place in the flymg
procession. P Just after entering the straight Sunlit
cracked right up, and the backers of the favorite
bpsran to get glimpses of their money. But the mare,
with 9st 71b. up, having been badly bumped in the
ruck was obviously in a bad way. So when Lochano
the awful outsider, came from God knows where, and
challenged her with only 6st. 101 b. on his back, the
favorite could not respond, and was beaten by ha
her own size.
Easter Monday, Sydney Gup day at Rand-
wick narrowly escaped as big a boil-over foi the
same event as Saturday saw for the Boncaster The
nublic had pinned its faith to the well-tried Gunboat
with Bst. up. Incidentally, it splashed its surplu
silver on Saxonite and Malt King; “oat going out
at fours and the other two ' at eights, to take thpir
chance among the six-and-twenty «mged at the bar-
rier Ocean Blue, who ranked with Lady Medallist
at i2’s in the betting, made the pace a long crack,
splitting fiercelv through the atmosphere, and ■ for
quite a S long while looked as though nothing else had
a chance Danaus held to Ocean Blue like a lpech,
and was apparently using the front an ™ a t ™ere
pacemaker or wind-break. The two of thefn
along magnificently to within three furlongs of the
winning fine, and then there was a quickening in
the beating of the hoofs behind, as Saxonite, Jaca
mar Lady Medallist, Aurofodina and a rank out-
sider called Jewelstone, came with an almighty rush
and put up a desperate challenge. Ocean Blue cav
right in. Then Jaeamar and Lady Medallist taded
oift, and Saxonite, increasing his pace, J^v^st*up
side the leaping outsider, who, with only < st *
looted as though he could run right' into North
Queensland. Neck and neck they raced alon„ till,
fj'h t on the line, Lambert, on Saxonite seemed to
lift his struggling steed, and land him over the Jin
half a length from the horse beside him. Jewel
stone finished second beating Aurofodina by a neck
This outsider had made a wonderful race for it and
run through the two miles in a style that means
something will be doing later on. The time 3mm.
29sec. has only been beaten twice in the history of
the race, when Tartan streaked over it “ Bnu £
27sec., and Wakeful covered it in 3mm 28sec. so
ouite evident that Jewelstone, which could only
run' third in the Hawkesbury Handicap a few weeks
ago, is a horse with a future ahead of the immediate
present. *
* * *
The wild humor of the horse-tipping busi-
ness was again made manifest at Randwick (
fey) on Doncaster Day, when the wight who had
money to burn had the advice of nine tipsters in
eicht nailers (the Arrow allowing two of the oatei
fitv to see visions in its columns) as to liow to do
it For the six races the rune prophets made a '
selection of 168, and of these 20 turned out to be
correct as far as winners were concerned. °F
it in another way, and to take the day iace f ’
Hurdles one picked the winner to win and
[wo picked him third on the list. In the Autumn
Stakes they plumped on Irafalgai or Malt King
which was dead easy. Six chose the winner, Trafal-
gar, and what the bag-bearing brotherhood thought
of it can be gathered from the fact that the starting
price was six to four “on.” In the A.J.C., Sires’
Produce Stakes eight of them plumped on Wolowa,
which was quite a creditable piece of work, some-
what discounted in its prophetic quality by the fact
that O’Noses’ price was five to four “on. ’ In the
Doncaster four said Lady Medallist or something
else; two chose Pontano or another, two Bright
Laddie, if the other animal didn’t snatch it; and one
went boldly for Lager (presumably not from force of
habit). Not one of the nine even Loeh-
ano, the winner, for so much as a place. lor the
A.J.C. St. Leger five of them were lucky enough to
point to Jacamar, while three said Wilari, and one
Cisco. Jacamar started at three to one against.
For the Highweight Handicap not one of them men-
tioned Yarrum, the winner, for a place. Of the 16S
selections, 17 were scratched and 101 unplaced.
* * * *
What the people who are anxious to see
the• Totalisator introduced into N.S.W. want to know
is how long that lingering father, Pa Levien, is to he
allowed to fool round the subject, there is a cunous
lack of sincerity about Pa’s methods, and the people
who is anxious to see Christian Moses give way
to the clean and equitable machine are now
openly declaring that Pa is a humbug; and that by
bringing on his attack, which he never pushes home,
he is merely safeguarding the interests of Ikey Mo.
The way the recent Commission pertormecl has
strengthened the view. This blessed body, with la
as chairman, scooted across to Maoriland, and, among
other places where it watched the operations of the
Tote was Rotorua. Now, Rotorua can, under no cir-
cumstances, be described as a racing centre; but it
is a magnificent place to have a good time, and to
lead an Elysian existence with the gilded, well-pre-
preserved matron from the seven corners of the earth
who has drifted half-way round the world
in search of Romance. After leaving Maoriland the
Commission moved along to Tasmania, and thence
to Adelaide; and it now declares in an interim report
that it really cannot say anything definite unless it
goes to Brisbane, where the Tote and the Bag operate
side by side, and has a further good time. This
farce may be an excellent device on the part of the
McGowen Ministry to get rid of certain members
whose votes might prove an awkward obstruction at
division time; but as a means of shedding light on
the question of Totalisator versus Bookmaker, it is a
farce Pa Levien ought to know, by this tune,
when to come in out of the wet. If he doesnT.
this paper makes bold to tell him that the time is
ripe—dead ripe, right now.
Adelaide cricket season ends in the easiest
of nremierships for East Torrens, the team which in-
cludes Whitty, Mayne, Crawford, the Chamberlains,
the Hills (bar Clem), Stirling, and young Murray.
University is a bad second. North Adelaide (last
veaFs premiers) is sixth—but then Gehrs has given
up (lie game The top name on the batting averages
is Crawfonl (81), with Mayne Gowen, Claxton
Down and Campbell following, and all over 50. (But
Moves, a school-boy till Christmas, averaged 96 in
his three knocks for University just at the end of the
season.) Clem Hill played once only; lie made eight
•in'd 42 Rees again took most wickets, but was ex-
pensive Top place goes to Whitty’s 23 for just under
efght apiece; he took seven for nine one damp day
Then come Day, Rote (these have not yet appeared
in big cricket), Crawtord and Stirling. *
A new way of turning a dishonest penny
has been tried in England. Norwich had to meet
Blackburn in a football cup-tie, and liadn t a hope.
It received a letter purporting to home from Robin-
son Blackburn’s goal-keeper. For £5 down and £to
after delivery of the goods, he would see that Noi-
wicli won The club at once used notes of interroga-
tion The real Robinson, when he heard of it, used
note’s of exclamation. So a reply was sent, and the
police arrested the ingenious swindler who called to
get the money.


EVERY REAL MAN KNOWS
HE OUGHT TO LEARN BOXING.
S
..
To learn how to be able to best defend himself
from possible aggression.
Almost every real man is constantly promising
himself that he will learn boxing, but somehow
or other keeps putting it off —keeps denying him*
self a knowledge that will gain him such a repu-
tation as to keep him from being molested by
loud-mouthed bullies.
You now have the opportunity to secure this
life-long asset —to become a Scientific Boxer,
skilful in attack and defence.
I TEACH BOXING
■•'EY POST
And teach it thoroughly. I explain, in detail,
everything worth knowing in Boxing.
The instruction consists of over 30 lessons,
each dealing very fully with an important move.
The course also includes a valuable exercise for
developing the muscles of arms and shoulders; to
make them more elastic and to increase the weight
of your blows.
Letters reach me every mail from pupils who
express the greatest satisfaction at their rapid
progress in the noble art. Here is one: —
“I have not had so much practice at these
two lessons as the rest, but I will have a good
deal by the time I get the next two. The
sparring pose is easy enough, and I will soon
master the upper-cut. I might say I had a
bit of a go at a chap about a week ago with
the gloves, and I was very good on the right
cross. I hjt him time and again with it. He
did not know how to stop it. —W. McL., Warr-
nambool, Vic.”
And YOU can also get these results quite
easily.
Well, now, in justice to yourself, you ought to
get all the facts about my Boxing Course.
I want to send you my booklet, ‘‘Scientific
Boxing in Your Home.” It will tell you all about
my methods.
You ought to write for it. Kindly serFd 3d. to
cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
17b CastlereagH Street, Sydney.
At
the
Club.
m jhl
CIGARETTES.
Clubmen want no better cigarettes than
“Winfred” —the most popular of all
high-class brands. In every civilised
country in the world they are the
recognised pinnacle of quality.
10 for 6“
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO COMPANY, LONDON.
THE MAN WHO WANTS
a perfectly satisfactory shoe will be pleased with
the lasting shape, perfect fit, style and absolute
comfort of Iligney Shoes.
We can fit any known shape of foot.
The Shoe here shown is a Rigney Special—-an exact
reproduction of the up-to-date made-to-order styles;
can be supplied in all leathers—black or tan.
Price 18(6 tO 25/-
POSTAGE 9d.
EXTRA.
Write for a Copy of our Catalogue.
Rigney Shoe Co.,
The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
Si«r
305 GEORGE STREET, and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
hjl
EUR
BENEDICTINE
hjl
jhljh
PILES CURED.
If Piles are only just beginning to trouble you, then you
should take immediate steps to overcome this menace to your
health and peace of mind —take Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills.
If, on the other hand, you have suffered untold agony and
years of misery through such affliction, if you have tried num-
berless so-called remedies and are beginning to despair, then
Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills should be tried, and we feel sure
that they will prove no less effective in your case than they
have in the thousands of others which have been rapidly and
permanently cured through their use.
Sold everywhere by progressive chemists and storekeepers.
Order direct if not obtainable in your locality. Price, 3s. per
box, post free.
Sole Proprietors:
ANDREW MURPHY, LTD., Dept. B, 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
ANDREW MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
A. M. L. g F. CO. Lid.
(Australian Mercantile, Land 8 Finance Co., Ltd.)
... FOR ...
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
Stock and Station Agents,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD
Manager.
Also at Melbourne Brisbane
* ĺ
“PYROID” FOR GREY HAIR
DR. GRIFFITHS “PYROID,” latest London Com-
pound of Walnut Stain and English Oak Nuts, one
solution. Three separate shades—Dark, Mid-Brown
and Light Brown. Captured Australian market;
avoid obsolete preparations. Stocked by every Whole-
sale Druggist in Australia. Retail from all Chemists
and Stores. Also, ARIBIS CELEBRATED EGYP-
TIAN HENNA FOR GREY HAlR—sold everywhere.
The local Court at Port Pirie (S.A.)
found out last week that it was sitting on a
day not fixed by the Act. It wanted to go
ahead, and let the lawyers concerned agree
as men of honor to accept (he result; but
they said: “We are only a convivial gather-
ing. and no more a court than the hotel over
the way.” It next offered to adjourn, but
they would not allow even that. (There
were only laymen on the Bench.) “We
have no power to adjourn,” said the Gents
Two. “We are non est. We never were.”
So the Court simply drifted apart:, in low
spirits.
Every time crowded Sydney makes a
spring into the air, or starts heaping stones
together by way of preparation, Superin-
tendent Webb, of the Fire Brigade, solemnly
warns it that his highest escape ladder only
goes 80ft. towards the stars, and that he
can’t undertake to rescue anyone who climbs
above that level in search of fresh air and
the peace that is only found far from the
madding tramcar. An infuriated man wrote
to the Telegraph the other morning and
denounced the red-painted wooden appliance
in 80ft. bursts of hot language. He asked, with
quite reasonable ferocity, why the city
should be tied down to the heat and noise of
dust-level because the Fire Brigade pos-
sessed a flame-colored foot rule—-not an imper-
ishable and perfect foot rule of Heaven’s own
designing, but a cumbersome and angular
contrivance which slowly upreared itself like
a praying mantis just rescued from drown-
ing in a glass of wine. It was a justifiable
outbreak; but Sydney’s fireproof skyscrapers
will need to be different from the cloud-
scratchers of New York if the old ladder is
to perish unregretted at the woodheap. No-
thing seems to burn quite so freely as a
Yankee fireproof ’scraper.
%
mm
3 ..ITvMOm™
W
ii,, "ft
m
w
**■*- uJ kr *k
1
£
DUNLOP
Golf Balls
- It Pays!
If you play Golf try these high - grade
Balls! Their quality and perfect balance
will improve your play, and their re-
markable durability makes for economy
Stocked in various types in “
“ Studded ” pattern. Protect
seeing l that they are branded
Bramble” or
yourself by
“ DUNLOP."
26
ALL SPORTS DEPOTS.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.
EACH
These World-Farmed Balls can be
obtained from all professionals.


SOLID SILVER MATCH-
BOX, S/6.
Larwr Embossed, 10'6.
A. SAUNDERS
9ct. Gold
Chased Curb
BRACELET,
Strong .Safety
Chain attached,
£3/10/, £4.
&cl Gold CROSS,
Nicelv Chased,
7/C.
Solid Gold
EAR-RINGS,
set Pearls and
Turquoise,
125/.
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Ame-
thysts, HO/-
Oct Gold Circle BROOCH, set
Pearls, Red, Green, or Blue
Stones, 21/.
«==»g 1 1 V TT-.
y; ~ ■■ ara —-«ana - -v
9ct Gold “Link-and-One”
MUFF CHAIN.
20/, 25/, 35/.
Oct Gold, set Pearls and Turquoise,
12/6.
Oct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Ame-
thyst, 25/-
Oot Gold SLEEVE
LINKS, 20/.
Initials Lngraved Free.
XSct Gold, 3-stone
Cross-over RING,
set Pure Double-
cut Diamonds,
£lO
CHARMING
GIFT.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. GOLD PENDANT and
NECKLACE, set Fine Pearls ano
Amethysts,
£3/15/.
15ct. Gold, £5/5. Pearls and
Tourmaline, £5/10/.
Oct Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst, 20/.
9ct Gold LINKS,
12/0
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£ 12/«1C/-
SOLID SILVER SOVE-
REIGN PURSE, 10/-
9ct Gold, 112/10/.
9ot. Gold CROSS,
richly chased, 7 ld-
-15ct. Gold, I*2 'G.
9ct ( id SEAL PEN-
DANT, Amethyst or
Topaz, 10/6-
a
i
DAINTY GIFTS
FOR ALL.
SEND FOE FREE CATALOG.
IT’S FULL OF SUGGESTIONS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Green
Tourmalines or Rubies, SI/.
18ct Uoui, set
5 Pure Double-
cut Diamonds,
£».
18ct Gold, set
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£3/10/.
hl
15ct Gold Circle BTCOOCH, set
with Pearls, 315/6-
9ct Gold “Prince of Wales” NECK-
LET, 10/6, 12/8, 15/6.
Solid Hold
NECKLACE,
Set Pure White
Pearls.
*5 7/10/.
And Diamond-
cut Tourmaline*
or Peridots.
£7/10/.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
JEWELLERY
TO ANY
ADDRESS.
15ct Gold Spray BROOCH, set Fine
White Pearls. £2/5/-
15ct Gold BRACELET, set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £B/10/.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, J-plate,
Pull Jewelled, Patent Ad-
justed Balance, 25/.
Guaranteed 1 Year’s Free
25/-
25/-
BACK COMB, set Parisian
Diamonds.
5/6.
15ct. Gold Brooch, set 11 Dia-
monds, 1 Pink and 1 Green
Tourmaline. ' <* •.
18ct Gold 2-
Heart RING,
set pure double
cut Diamonds,
£l5-
Gold Artist’s
Pallet CHARM,
Stone set, S/t»-
15ct Gold
WEDDING KING,
25/.
18ct UOLD, 30/.
Gent’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watch, Full Jewelled, Non-magnetic,
Timekeeper, with Strong Reliable,
Works. 40/. Guaranteed 2 years’
free repair.
18ct Gold Half-
Hoop, Diamonds
and Pearls,
£l2/10/.
18et Gold, set
3 Pure Double-
cut Diamonds,
£r,.
yet wiu Jiand
KING,
7/6, 10/.
15ct Gold, 20A
Gold and Pearl
BOAT CHARM,
8/fl.
9ct. Gold “Nellie Stewart” Secret Snap BRACELET,
£2/10/.
9ct Gold Fancy-
Basket Pattern
BRACELET,
Strong Safety
Chain attached,
£3/10/.
9ct Gold Bar BROOCH, Bell and
Chain attached. Any name engraved.
7/6.
Lady’s Solid Silver Open-face
Keyless WATCH, Full Jewel-
led, Patent adjusted Balance,
30/.
Guaranteed 1 Year’s Fr:e
Repair.
30/-
30/-
Set Gold, 2-Bar and Heart BROOCH,
net Red or Green Stone or Turquoise,
8/6.
hlyu
ljh
JEWELLER,
v^pfICH &CLOQf
MAKER
WAS
t
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811,813.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Si-arinn' SYDNEY. N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
O ONSULT/#g
lhjl


HEALTH TALKS.
Nervous Disorders :
Their Cause and Cure.
Eight people out of every ten have some
form of nervous weakness. True, they may
not realise it at the m< ment, but they have
it all the same. Sooner or later they suffer
from one or other of the many sympioms
which mark this condition.
Thus, one person may suffer from sleep-
lessness, another from loss of memory, a
third from depression of spirits ; while in
others there may be great fatigue after
slight exertion, utter lassitude, inability to
fix the attention for any length of time on
a given subject, and twitching of different
parts of the body, etc. Others, again,
suffer from so-called “Nervous Dyspepsia.”
The great cause of nervous disorders is,
undoubtedly, a deficiency in the body’s
supply of phosphorus, which is due to its
too rapid use to meet the strain involved in
work, business, or pleasure. A sufficiency
of phosphorus is essential for the health of
the nervous system, the blood, etc. It is
only when we begin to make overdrafls on
the body’s supply of phosphorus that suffer-
ing ensues. This suffering does not cease
until these overdrafts have been made up
by restoring the phosphorus to its original
quantity. Ordinary phosphorus, however,
and the common drugs which contain it are
almost useless for this purpose. The phos-
phorus must be in the form known as
“organic,’ and in “chemical combination,”
as the doctors say, to achieve this result.
The preparation which best answer*
these requirements is Sanatogen.
It is thus described bv Sir Charles
Cameron, C. 8., M.D., Medical Officer of
Health and Public Analyst of Dublin, who
writes Sanatogen is a substance of the
highest nutritive value, containing, as it
does, a large amount of organic phosphorus
-—that is, phosphorus which is offered to the
tissues in exactly the form in which it can
be easily absorbed. It is an excellent
nerve-food.”
Indeed, doctors throughout the world
declare it to be the greatest revitalising
and reinvigorating nerve-food known to
science. It nourishes the tissues in the
most powerful manner, and is therefore the
ideal preparation for all sufferers from
nervous disorders.
■REMARKABLE MEDICAL EVIDENCE
Over 15,000 doctors have already testified
in writing, over their own signatures, to the
value of Sanatogen, and every important
medical journal in the world has printed
laudatory articles on its remarkable power
■of benefiting nervous sufferers. “The
Medical Press and Circular” states:—
“ Modern science has strengthened the
physician’s hand a hundredfold by the in-
troduction of Sanatogen. It is a perfectly
ideal food for feeding the brain cells, and
in all cases acts as a powerful stimulant to
the nervous system. The wonders brought
about by this preparation are no less mani-
fold than amazing. They have been testi-
fied to by leading physicians whose names
are as household words in many countries.”
Sanatogen is used by the best known
people in the world. Indeed, a list of
famous people who use it would fill several
columns of this paper. As an example of
their statements the following letter from
Sir Luke White, M.P., may be quoted. He
writes :—“ My experience of Sanatogen con-
firms the medical opinion. There is no
longer the feeling of fatigue which one pre-
viously experienced, but there follows from
its use a distinct restorative effect.”
A FREE HEALTH-BOOK OFFERED.
Sanatogen is obtainable at all chemists,
and should certainly be tried by eveiyone
who has any of the numerous symptoms of
nervous debility. Full information on this
subject is given in an interesting health-
book called “The Art of Living,” by the
well-known medical author, Dr, Andrew
Wilson. A free copy of this interesting
work will be sent to every applicant who
mentions this paper. Send a postcard to-day
to :
A. WULFING <a CO.,
G x-. 0. Box 1960, SYDNEY.
LET
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap
take its part in your everyday
to j~ to keep the skin In good
condition,, to remove all traces
ot perspiration and to protect
against Infection.
Your local Chemist or Stores
sells It in 3 tablet boxes.
Makers:
•T. C. Calvert &■ CS.. ...... ir__
FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
jhl
m hjlhj
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
tZ /_ The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP„
Cornlro S fB a ourke r anri e s Pitt * t -> SIDNEY; also at
Of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
INCORPORATED ISBB BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative AV»rk of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting- Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a held,of unboun led scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
„ T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog: Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
VICE-REGAL
HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs,
IGI King Street,
SYDNEY.
Transformations from £3/3/- PufFs. 5/6 set. Tails from 5/6-
Fringes from 5/6.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
’Phone 2138 Central.
-
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL, and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
RIFE 19 RAM
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to insral, no expense to operate, any capacity desired for
Coun try Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, irrigation, Town Plan ts, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HVfIRAFII IP PAMC Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
1 ' . niUßlMfJl.ll/ ftMlVfd Satisfacionsriiaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
Jf there is a stream, sprinsr or pond within a mile— Write for Free Plans and Book.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of“ Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L*o*U*l*S
THE “ Silent Empire”
m
THE
810 GRAPH
PERFECT!
*>
The Silent Empire is unquestionably the biograph
for the up-to-date showman. It excels in every way.
It Is absolutely fireproof; has Maltese Cross, which
runs in a special Oil Bath ; has automatic safety cut-
off, which needs no attention whatever. It is remark-
ably silent, flickerless, and steady.
It gives the very best results for a moderate cost.
The All-Steel Sprockets, the Rigid Iron Stand, the
extra-large Asbestos-lined Lamp House, the Durable
Noiseless Gearing—all aid to its special value.
Call and see it. Country showmen should write
Top Maker’s Specifications.
J E R DAN’S,
Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in brackets are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
Principles of
Australian Agriculture.
By W. CATTON GRASBY, F.L.S..
Agricultural Editor of the Western
Mail. Lecturer in Agriculture and
Fruit Growing, Perth Technical
School, etc., etc. Crown Svo. 4s. fid.
The True Temper of Empire.
With Corollary Essays.
By Sir CHARLES BRUCE.
G.C.M.G., Author of “The Broad
Stone of Empire.” Svo. os. net.
(65.).
South Africa: “These essays are full of in-
formation and well worth reading.”
A History of the
British Constitution.
By Rev. ,T. HOWARD B. MASTER-
man. Crown Bvo. 2s. 6d. net. (35.).
A Critical Exposition of
Bergson’s Philosophy.
By ,T. McKELLAR STEWART,
8.A., D.Ph. (Melb.). Extra Crown
Svo. ss. net. (65.).
A Map of the World on
Mercator’s Projection.
Showing Australia as the centre of
the Universe. Size, 50 x 42 inches.
Mounted on Cloth Rollers and Var-
nished, 12s.
NEW TWO SHILLING EDITION OF
The Novels of Maurice Hewlett.
With Frontispieces. In cloth bind-
ing, crown Bvo. 2s. net each. (2s.
6d.).
1. THE FOREST LOVERS )
2. THE QUEEN’S QUAIR /
3. LITTLE NOVELS OF ITALY)
4. RICHARD YEA-AND-NAY /
Ready.
5. THE STOOPING LADY). •,
6. FOND ADVENTURES / Apra
7. NEW CANTERBURY TALES) „
8. THE HALF-WAY HOUSE / Jvlay ’
9. OPEN COUNTRY:
A Comedv with a Sting.
10. REST HARROW:
A Comedy of Resolution.
June.
Macmillan’s Colonial
Library of Copyright
Books.
Paper Covers, 2/6 each.
Cloth Boards, 3/6 each.
NEW VOLUMES.
605 The Man Whom the Trees
Loved.
By ALGERNON BLACKWOOD,
Author of The Centaur, etc.
604 Hieronymus Rides.
(An Historical Romance by a new writer.)
Episodes in the Life of a Knight and
Jester at the Court of Maximilian,
King of the Romans. By ANNA
COLEMAN LADD.
Morning Post: “The episodes related in this
remarkable book keep the reader engrossed
from first page to last, for they are so cleverly
conceived and are told with such an appear-
ance of truth that it is diflicult to realise that
they do not form a record of the career of an
historical character.
603 The Case of Richard Meynell
By Mrs. HUMPHRY WARD.
It reveals once more Mrs. Humphry Ward’s
power of reflecting contemporary life in fic-
tion .... the book is characteristic of the
author at her best.— Morning Post.
594 The Lost Iphigenia.
By AGNES andEGERTON
CASTLE.
Thrilling adventures, cross-currents in the
stream of love and a happy ending—such is the
way of the Castles, not a bad way either.—
World.
The novel is clear cut like a cameo, and it
is developed with a warmth and sincerity that
holds the reader.— Ladies’ Field.
606 The Victories of Olivia,
and other Stories. By EVELYN
SHARP, Author of “The Youngest
Girl in the School,” etc.
607 The Charwoman’s Daughter.
By JAMES STEPHENS.
* * A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s
Colonial Library will be sent on
application.
MACMILLANS CO.LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.


v/n i cu/Ui i
Night after Night Without Sleep..
Felt Like Scratching Herself to
Pieces. Tried Guticura Oint-
ment. Freefrom Ali Itching.
“For several years I have suffered with
eczema on the face, hands and body, and
when it got very bad I would spend night
after night without any sleep, and at times
1 would feel like scratching myself to pieces.
I tried several so-called remedies without
getting the slightest relief. One day I was
telling a friend of mine the pain 1 was suffer--
ing and she told me to try the marvelous
Cuticura Ointment. I did this and I am
very pleased to state that to-day I am finite
free from all such itching that is brought
about by that dreaded eczema.
“I will never be without a pot of Cuticura
Ointment in the house. Any one suffering
from eczema, burns, boils or any other
abrasions of the body could not possibly do
better than keep a pot of Cuticura Ointment
in the house.” (Signed) Mrs. T. J. Hazel-
wood, Islington, So. Australia, Dec. 9, 1910.
Baby’s Face Like Raw Beef
“My baby boy had a large pimple come
on his forehead. It burst and spread all
over his face which soon looked like a piece
of raw beef, all smothered with bad pimples.
It was awful to look at. The poor little
thing used to scratch it and cry terribly.
I took him to a doctor but he only got
worse until I was quite frightened that he
would always be disfigured. Then I got two
tins of Cuticura Ointment, together with
Cuticura Soap, and in two months had quite
cured him. Now of course I use Cuticura
Soap for all my children. (Signed) Mrs.
E. Perry, 99, Waterloo Rd., Aldershot, Eng-
land. May 21. 1910.
Sold throughout the world Send to R.
Towns & Co., Dept. BK, Sydney, N.S.W., for
sample of Cuticura Ointment and book.
&
S'*-
£53
8
glDall*
H
Women of all Nations
Use the DALLI
For Household use. -To use
it is the best, most simple, and
most comfortable way of ironing.
Independent of stove and gas, it can \
be used anywhere. Non-inflammable )
fuel ithout noxious fumes. No risk
fri m fire; healthier and saler than
any other iron.
For lio'-ht work and travelling
only, the “ DALLI NETTE,’
a smaller “Dalli.” For general
household work use the ‘ 1 Dalli.
Of all Storekeepers
Stocked by Anthony Hordern & Sons,
Sydney F. . Lassetter & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney.
Beware of worthless imitations^
FasMonable
Favorite-Perfume
mm?
P^nww*
mwM r
V<l>N;
fJC
FWOIFF&oOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
* LONDON j
Obtainable from all tlfe Leading' Stores.
AEROOEN SAFETY GAS
MACHINES
Produce an Absolutely
Perfect Light. - *!
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels and Billiard Saloons.
The following are some of the users: —
NEW SOUTH WALES RAIL-
WAYS AND PUBLIC
WORKS DEPARTMENTS.
HARDEN RAILWAYSTATION,
N.S.W.
J. EDWARDS, N.S.W.
DAVID F. CIBB, N.S.W.
CAMPBELLTOWN RAILWAY
STATION, N.S.W.
WATERFALL HOSPITAL,
N.S.W.
NESTLE & ANCLO-SWISS
C M. CO. FACTORY, Q.
Messrs. MCDONALD BROS.,
Q’LAND.
BAREE SCHOOL OF ARTS,
MT. MORCAN, Q’LAND.
VICTORIAN RAILWAY DE-
PARTMENTS.
SIR JOHN MADDEN, VIC.
Sg■ ■.
m@mk
■
A
m
COMMONWEALTH HOME
AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT,
VIC.
SIR RUPERT CLARKE, VIC.
WODONCA RAILWAY
STATION, VIC.
MR. H. W. CRIMWADE, VIC.
MR. CORDON OHIRNSIDE,
VIC.
MR. ERNEST AUSTIN, VIC.
D. D. D. MACKINNON,
CAMPERDOWN, VIC.
M. S. HAWKER, S.A.
MOORNA STATION, S.A.
MR. McKENZIE GRANT,
W. A.
D. RUTHERFORD, W.A.
Messrs. STANFORD &
JOHNSON, W.A.
RAILWAY STATION,
SPENCER’S BROOK, W.A.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with
best results.
No OFFENSIVE ODOR. NON=EXPLOSIVE.
Cost —one=quarter that of acetylene, with one=tenth the trouble.
CAN BE USED WITH UPRIGHT OR INVERTED BURNERS.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS
MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
For Further Particulars and Catalogues apply to DISTRIBUTING AGENTS—
SYDNEY : Hannams, Ltd.
MELBOURNE: Philips (Q. PiKe.
ADELAIDE : Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : Alcock & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: E. Rich & CO. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON : >V. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE: Alfred Shaw Ltd.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing o of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at od.
per pacscet. W hen you have sold the cards, return us our os., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. riy continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you aaain, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. \ou
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
ljh
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. V\ e are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not maxe you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. 126 » ST.. SYDNEY.
A
jf
THE SIGN OF THE BEST.
Al.
TARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE.
GTi
1
Come to, the Tarrant,
Come where the Good Cars are.
. \\v^
The Greatest
Motoring Business
in Australia.
Sole Agents in
Victoria for
F.I.A.T.’S,
F.N.’s,
Fords, Rovers,
Sunbeams,
Commers,
Mercedes.
TARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.
104-112 Russell St., Melbourne.
’Phones 3030, 2942, 6280, 5534*
%
510
'' /A
\
£<C
The New Kent Rexophone
ils a High-Class Sound - Reproducing Instrument
... at a Moderate Price . . •
CABINET of fine polished Oak, dark finish, of handsome design, and
strongly built, fitted with hinge lid, providing easy access to motor for oiling
MOTOR, which plays two twelve-inch records, is powerful and silent-running,
gears and pinions of hardened steel and gunmetal. centre shaft turned in one
piece, ensuring true running of turntable, which is essential to good reproduction.
NUMBERED SPEED INDICATOR provides perfect control of the speed of the
motor. LARGE FLOWER HORN, 22 inches across bell, finished in colours, or
oak grained to match cabinet. NICKEL PLATED TAPERING TONE
ARM, with improved swan neck 1912 Model REXOPHONE SOUND
BOX, with rubber Insulation.
PLAYS GRAMOPHONE. ZONOPHONE, OR ANY OTHER DISC RECORD.
USE ONLY REXOPHONE NEEDLES,
3/S PER 1000. SAMPLE TIN 1200) POST FRBE. 94
Write for Illustrated Catalogue and address of nearest Agent, to
0. W. RYAN, 43 Bourke Street, Melbourne ; WILLS & CO., Quadrant, Launceston ,
or JACKSON & MACDONALD, Australian Agents, Druitt Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/li, 2/9 & 4/6.
Made in England.
ljhl
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like aToharm In
DIARRHCEA and simple
DYSENTERY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile rhn'-neter) will be
taken of communications ivsnimCntly stamped.
Name and address must app "■ on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
Mallet: Yes, the Orange business is sheer
imbecility—so much so that we haven’t room for an
article arguing such an obvious proposition
0.P.Q.: Don’t understand a moan of it. Take the
first verse for instance: — '
Bring not your message, faded eye!
Speak not, you lip all drawn and white,
Lest this poor heart will burst it quite,
Lest this poor quiv’ring soul will die.
Why should the poor heart burst the lip all drawn
and white? 11. G.: Bear up. You are only
one of a whole herd of others... .G.M.T.: Glad to
hear from y0u....L.F. (Tas.) : Threat to forward
more of the same stuff as per sample to hand. It
will be the worse for you if you d0....R. H. Frew:
Cannot reprint.... Ivory: As a set-off you must re-
member that when a practised ski-runner gets going
on fairly level snow, he is a mighty fast animal. It
wasn’t an ordinary walking -contest Answers
(Townsville) : We have no faith in them. Better
stick to the local Technical College.... Bevant: Your
advice that settlers should choose land in Central
Queensland, where the rainfall is certain, is duly
noted.... Lillie F.: A column of such stuff as:
“Some folks say he has taken the ‘Swiss Express’
and gone off with ‘The Runaway Girl’ to ‘East
Lynne,’ but ‘The Quaker Girl’ and ‘The Country
Girl’ saw him on the platform, saying good-bye to
‘The Convict,’ ” etc., etc. And you expect payment
for it! Know, Lillie, that we would not print it for
untold alcohol Paq: The impassioned advt. of
Abdul Slush, who wants to know the whereabouts of
his friend, Cheat Singh, leaves us unmoved N.Z.:
Whether “By Night” is meant to be mystic or senti-
mental, or just flabby and wobblesome, we leave to
I you. Anyhow, it is short and dim, and it doesn’t
say anything or get anywhere. ... The Grafter: We
will crowd in one verse: —
Oh, England, England, England,
What are you doing there
In a land that’s teeming
With wealth and millionaries
These poor hard-working miners
AVho toil hard underground
Are only asking for their own
Is your principal unsound.
Mulga Bill: Try again, William. There are
gleams... .R.D.8.J.: Parody to hand. Swear off at
once A. 8.: Merely the outline of a story....
11.5.8.: One verse scrambles in here—-the rear plat-
form of the train —after a furious dash down the
platform:—
In the good old days of yore we felt we knew just
where'we stood
As regards “Landlords’ Employers” and their kind
We would rather change our residence than pay that
which we should
Whilst a grievance of our work we’d surely find
Then as for dues of Tradesmen, hospice, church or
medico
And numerous other items of that sort
Well who would mind subscribing in a very righteous
cause
Providing that enough were left from Sport.
L.F.Y. : The rhyme indicates that you are a
worthy person:—■
The silvery moon upon her throne
' Sheds gleams of soft white light;
Enseated high up in the sky
' She reigns the Queen of Night.
The browmeyed girl with shade-kissed curl
May queenly grace possess ;
But I am proof and hold aloof
From her royal caress.
(Similar remarks about the blue-eyed and “witch-
eyed” girls omitted.)
There is a girl who is my queen
To her belongs my life;
I only crave to be her slave —
For she’s my true-eyed wife.
Guess she will have no objection to your being her
slave. It isn’t the. sort of thing the average wife
resents.., .Uncle Bill: Three verses —and let’s hope
the family won’t spot them: —
A winsome woman’s cheery smile ;
A kiss-curl on her soft white brow;
A ruby lip that speaks no guile—
Are'things I see in fancy now.
But once they were material bliss,
Her smile ahd kiss-curl both I won,
Her ruby lips I used to kiss,
And she’d kiss back —aye, two for one.
Ah! when shall such days come again ?
Perchance no more—l fear me so.
Ah me! my heart is sick with pain
As o’er the wayback track I go.
. ...F.H.: Poor little thing ! The clods fell lightly
upon it. ... Woolooman : Can find no use for your
poem beginning:—
One day at break of dawn
When camped within the bush
A peal of thunder met mv ears.
.. . . J.Y.: It makes no appeal—just shuffles past. .. .
JAY.A.: Nice work for 16, but talent needs maturing.
A.L.: Cart away your cinders! AV.C.E.:
Usual mild blend of "scenery and good wishes. A
soothing and harmless mixture which is being furtively-
bottled in 10,000 homes. .. .D.P.: Some power, but
workmanship is crude. Keep on.... Mia Mia: Yes
worse luck.... Something Mackay : The joke was
meant simply to furnish you with some healthy exer-
cise wondering what on earth the joke might be.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Sketch: You shall not be supplied with our com-
ments on your obscene cheque gag and drawing. For
one thing thev would bring us into conflict with the
laws against blasphemy and language calculated to
provoke a breach of the peace.... Simon Pell: Not a
hope in a hogshead of pictures like that. .. .Franz
R. S.: Your Jew, who looks sad enough to be a
Samaritan, states that the pearls are imitation. So
is the joke.... Trivia: Did you omit the L at the
end of your name? Alt' S.: Nothing in particular
about, your sketch R.C.V.: Percy’s departure will
not occur in this paper. Nor will he remain in this
paper should he decide not to depart. . . .A. Morti-
mer: Mostly blotch Tim B.: All about on a level,
and a very low level at that. In fact it is subter-
ranean... .Irene R.: Suppose we drop the subject of
Art, lest it should lead to ill-feeling and recrimina-
tion. Let us talk about the weather Dave B.:
The friend who told you to send us these pictures
was an enemy in disguise, and the disguise had fallen
off.
Society is more than ever mad to get in
front of a camera and show itself off to
itself and its friends in new poses. The
latest fad is to display the arm first, and
attach the head merely for identification
purposes. The craze succeeds the back-
view photo, just as that succeeded the pic-
ture of the subject leaning its brow on a
mirror.
The latest thing in dances is the “No
Clasp” waltz. After you have danced for a
minute or two with your chosen partner,
you softly drift out of his arms and spin
round the room alone like a run-down top
until you find yourself opposite someone
you like better. As a plan for getting rid
of an undesirable partner the new dance
has charms. But what about the clingsome
girl who refuses to drift out, and. objects to
circling the room on her own. like a der-
vish? Another dance promised is the lan-
kee Tangle,” which seems to require an in-
diarubber lady and a knockabout artist to
perform properly.


mmm
m
m
A*
Hi
S'i
i 1
sfe
ft si
mJ
•W
I
P
iff
nr
'.MI
Htu
lUK
limiiMi—
«a.uw*
iKSB
.'■X«»
if
3*r
fd
e
P
-/(a/t
raac
’m
ianoj
ers
BEALE, HIGH-GRADE PIANOS
Awarded the Grand Prize, and three gold medals, London, 1908.
Used exclusively in the magnificent Strand Palace Hotel, London.
Used daily by the Band of the Coldstream Guards, London.
Endorsed by Herr Wilhelm Ganz, accompanist to Madame Adelina
Patti, and many other leading musicians.
Supplied to the special order of Her Excellency Lady Northcote, at
Federal Government House, Melbourne.
Supplied to State Government House, Sydney.
Supplied to State Government House, Melbourne.
Supplied to nearly sixteen thousand Australians.
And to residents of New Zealand, Fiji, India, New Caledonia, Samoa,
Ceylon, Mauritius, South Africa, China, Great Britain, France
and elsewhere.
Supplied to the Technical College, Sydney.
The only pianos in the world which will permanently withstand
climatic influence.
The only pianos in the world with an indestructible tuning-system.
Purest and sweetest tone in the world, better suited than any other for
accompanying the human voice.
Made entirely in one factory.
Guaranteed for twenty-five years.
Sold direct from factory to family, no middlemen.
We take your old piano in part payment, and allow full value.
BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS.
("The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.**)
Uprights, £45 to 135 Guineas. Horizontal Grands, 150 to 250 Guineas.
Cash or Easy Terms. No Rise in Prices of Beale Pianos owing to Increased Duty, December,‘ 1911.
BEALE
yj
in rN
P
D 9
ABCEIS OF MGH-GIAEE HA
378 GEORGE ST. (3 Doors from G.P.0.), SYDNEY
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
839 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Offices also at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn, Wagga, Lismore and Broken Hill, N.S.W.; Maryborough,
Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Q. ; Kalgoorlie, W.A. cash or easy terms, write for catalogue.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE. Save Middlemen’s Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
—harsh— unnecessary. Try
CARTER’S LITTLE
jhljh
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
the delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure Constipa-
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Headache, _
and Indigestion, as n>illions know.
Small Pill, Small 'Dose, Small Price.
' ' GENUINE muLt bear Signature
Carters
■ITTLE •
IVER
PILLS.
ANTINEIfRASTHIN
i|, a means of administering to the brain and nerve
l cells. their natural food element (Lecithin) in an ab-
sf>lut3y pure form. It it not a medicine, and con-
tains Jieither drug nor chemical —but builds up the
](eryous/ system by the process of natural nutrition.
It jpffords prompt relief in all forms of nerve
maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia, etc.,, and gives won-
derful! results in cases or mental and physical over-
strain! an< i exhaustion. : '
1 Antjneurasthin restores the exhausted nervous
system by natural feeding. Drugs and tonics destroy
by stimulating and deadening.
: Antjneurasthin is prepared in tablet form, pleasant
to the} taste, and convenient to 'carry when travelling.
| A FREE TRIAL SUPPLY
will lj>e sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage, by the Wholesale Agent, H. A. Goddard,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Bris-
bane;} or branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82
Pitt Street, Sydney; 9 tp 15 Stock Exchange Build-
ings, 'Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 EUerShaw’s Build-
ings, JClitf Street, Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Build-
ings, Wellesley Street East.-- Auckland. - .
hjlhj
M
wm
MEN
and .WOMEN
In middle life can avoid
that most disquieting
sign of age—grey hair
—by using
Dr. 8., Allen’s u.s.a. Mexican
Walnut Stain ( Registered)
which Imparts a natural colour, light
brown, dark brown, or black, and does
not Injure the hair, but makes It soft and
glossy. It Is a perfect, cleanly and harm-
less stain, washable and lasting. Being
one liquid It Is most easy to apply. It
has no odour or stickiness, and does not
§oll the pillow.
Solo by All Chemists.
The Initial Cost of a
SWAM
Fountpen
is trifling compared with the life-
long satisfaction it affords. One
can’t use a “Swan” and after-
wards dispense with it.
Sold by all Stationers & Jewellers.
INSIST ON A “SWAN.”
Catalogue free from Makers.
MABIE, TODD' 8 CO. (London),
or JAS. A. BURKE
(Wholesale
only),
15 Waltham Buildings,
24 Bond St., Sydney, N.S.W. [2
ljhl
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
- 68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
plad. Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
jhljh
44 Castlereag'h Street, SYDNEY.
The Queen of Table JVaters
QUARTS, PINTS AND SPLITS.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849-
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
City or Suburban Properties, or oi
Freehold and C.P. (Combined - ). Pastoral a/id Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATtS OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowinsr Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 tier cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F.E. Winchcomoe M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretaiy
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sßin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
eßin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such . a pre*
eminent degree as
Matchless for the Complexion.
The 3£ H.P. Speedwell
ljhl
(MODEL A).
For Solid, Constant Work, over
anv class of country, the 3* SPEED-
WELL is unrivalled. Neck tubes
and top and bottom lugs are made
from a solid forging —Resilient Spring
forks and strong wheels add to the
great durability of this motor cycle—
Brown and Barlow Handle Bar Con-
trol —and patent automatic carburet-
ter.
The 3* SPEEDWELL fulfils every requirement of even the most exacting
motor cyclist. No matter what machine you ride, we would welcome a call ro
you. We have a fund of indisputable facts to place before you.
WE REMAIN OPEN TILL 9 O’CLOCK EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT.
BENNETT & WOOD LTD.
Corner Pitt and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney.
VZOIg
pir>
r ' >
""///////////.
Food
■ fertmubtazL
Benger’s is the most easily
digested of all foods.
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
-G£G
for Infants, Invalids, and the Aged, enjoys the
universal recommendation of Medical men in all
cases of severe or temporary illness, and during
convalescence.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester,
England.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
jhljh
“Rosna” : Pianist Percy Grainger has been having
his golden locks pulled by the critics, for decorating
his composition with instructions in English, instead
of in the traditional Italian —a piece of patriotism
that Freetrade England , naturally couldn’t under-
stand. He has actually: used “words so startling as to
be almost considered slang,” says one paper gloomily.
“Chasuble”: Mrs. Rubira, wife of the esteemed
Bourke-street (Melbourne) restaurateur, successor of
Pie Hosie, has just presented Father Robinson’s
church at Camberwell with a life-size statue of the
Madonna. Amy Castles gave a smaller one, said to
have cost £250, to the same fane. Father Robinson
is emphatically the musical priest. Fine baritone.
I’ve a dim recollection of his singing “Off to Phila-
delphia.” His parishioner (Mrs. Rubira) was Sig-
nora Guidotti, a Spaniard, leading lady of
a visiting Italian opera company. Rubira is
Spanish, like the Parers, Arenas, and the others who
bossed the eateries before the Greeks came with a
challenge. Other Spanish opera singers who settled
in Melbourne were Coy and De Alba.
“Jay Pay”: In The Bulletin (March 14) there is
a reference to the death of Mrs. Annie Yeamans,
stating that the old lady retired four years ago. She
did, but only for a month or so. The glamor claimed
her again, and Mrs. Annie went on at the halls as a
singer and dancer. She stated at the time that she
was going to make a record, and accomplish a.stage
career of 75 years, but Death stopped the antfient’s
turn when the said career was at its 66th lap. To
all appearances it was going strong almost to the
last.
“Gee”: Oh, I’m so tired of the drunk humor, or
alleged humorousness, that one hears at shows. It
seems to me that in this case the time is ripe for a
change. I implore theatrical ducks to take., a pull,
and toss this “Booze” humor out into the great
Never-Never.- D-runk- “Hicls, red .noses,
and 1 fuddled words are done to death. Was at: the
recent Green Room Club matinee, and had a chance
to view a mixed profession under the one roof. The
result was that they jarred on me, even putting me
off my own whisky and soda. Bert Gilbert, (in his.
final appearance) inflicted a long list of “hies, de-
livered in the best fuddled style, the while he ar-
gued, with a cabman in* a loud voice.. I made, out
something about a fare, and a lot of twisted words.
The next man, Fred Poplar from Ricka'rds’s, arrived-
This man arrived very much boozed,. and for five
minutes swayed to- and fro laughing hilariously.
He had with him a tailor’s dummy, and he sang
another boozy sonc. By this time I was tired, fihe
next item was a drama, “Driving a Girl to Destruc-
tion,” with a very, very drunk, lady. After this I
left. In the evening ' I went to the Panto., and
there saw the principal boy come on blithered, and
sing “Folloiv the Tram-line Home.” Then the Old
Man of the Sea in the show got drunk and saw
things, and the Dame sang something about having
■lB drinks for the eighteenth time. Have just been
to “The House of Temperley,” and there saw tons
of drunks. Casting my mind back I remember
the drunk songs I’ve heard and the drunks
I’ve seen in shows, and I’m tired. Why,. I’ve seen
actors in sober plays come on somewhat inky. I’m
tired of twisted, fuddled words, hies, red noses, and
so on. It’s tiresome —not funny. I ask for a
change. One can hear drunks singing anywhere
without paying.
“Monkbarns”: It is difficult to recall any other
nominal Mrs. on the Australian stage but Mrs.
Brough. All Misses. Even Bob Brough’s mother
acted as' Miss Romer. How. different it used to be.
The Sydney and Melbourne boards had scarcely a
Miss in the generation before last. The celebrities
were such as Mrs. Waller, Mrs. Guerin, Mrs. Heir,
Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Cameron, Mrs. Arabin, Mrs.
Knowles, Mrs. Avins, Mrs. Phillips and the like.
Not a Miss in the company brought by Coppin from
Launceston to Melbourne in 1845. The ladies were
Mrs. Coppin, Mrs. Thomson, Mrs. Rogers, Mrs.
Young, Mrs. Watson and Mrs. Hambleton. And
when the Melbourne Royal opened, in 1855, all the
ladies’ parts in “The School for Scandal” were taken
by Mrs. Poole, Mrs. Chester, Mrs. Moore and Mrs.
Thom.
Some recent authoritative statistics of Municipal
London. It contains 1700 professional vocalists,
638 of them sopranos. Contraltos are compara-
tively scarce, less than half the sopranos. The
tenors number 255, the baritones beating them by
a score or so. Professors of the voice, piano, vio-
lin, etc., aggregate the goodly total of 6734. There
are 400 conductors and musical directors. There
are more than a thousand fiddlers, but only 153
devotees of the flute. The choral and musical so-
cieties of London reach the respectable figure of 73.
“J.F.H.”: There has been a discussion in London
as to the last appearance of G. V. Brooke on the
stage. Some say it happened at the City of London
Theatre in Shoreditch; others that he last showed
up in Dublin, as Richard 111. The balance of evi-
dence is in favor of the latter. Edward Terry, one of
the actors who supported Brooke in Dublin, is still
in harness. The placards and playbills were headed
“Last Nights of G. V. Brooke” —ominously true.
A few days later he went down to the bottom of the
Bay of Biscay in the London, bound for Australia.
His last hours in London were devoted to dodging
creditors and writs, and he only just managed to
scramble aboard at Plymouth as the ship was haul-
ing off. Many years ago George Coppin showed me
some fine full-length portraits of Brooke taken at
his residence, Pine Grove, Richmond. The Mel-
bourne Art Gallery ought to hunt them up and get
them.
“G. Ockney”: Conan Doyle doesn’t seem to have
struck lucky with any of his plays up to now —if
we .except the one-act piece, “A Story of Waterloo,”
which Henry Irving produced, making a great hit
as the ancient Corporal Brewster (J. Superbus Knight
essayed the old soldier over here). And, after all,
“Waterloo” was a mere sketch. There is undoubted
stuff in Doyle’s books adapted for the stage, but the
trouble is that Doyle will dramatise his novels him-
self, and the novelist (good as he is) hasn’t caught
the trick of the playwright. A capable collaboration
might save the situation, but Doyle will have none
•of it. In fact, he confessed to an interviewer not
so long ago that he had done with play-writing alto-
gether. He found! the job too costly, having had to
finance all his plays himself, which is a naive admis-
sion, anyway. “The House of Temperley” is, how-
ever, an improvement on “Brigadier Gerard,” which
the aforesaid J. Knight appeared in here some
few years ago. Australia didn’t care over-much for
the “Brigadier” on the stage, though, as a book,
that haughty mounted moke warrior is very readable.
HURRIED HAMLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hamlet” is being played twice nightly m an
English provincial theatre. —News item.
Who says they’re slow in England, or who says that
Shakspeare’s “slow” ?
Who says the British drama's dead ; that good plays
get no show?
Who says that for the classics folks have lost their
appetite—
With “Hamlet” twice a night?
Who says that Britain’s mummers never get suffi-
cient work?
Just half this lightning programme I would bet they’d
like to shirk!
Who says the public taste is low, when audiences
bite
At “Hamlet” twice a night?
Who says that managers go broke because the authors’
fees
Eat all the profits up? There are exceptions, if you
please.
No manager his author e’er a cheque for fees need
write,
With “Hamlet” twice a night!
Who says, with playwright ,H. A. Jones, that Britons
go to see
Only those shows displaying “legs” and eke “tom-
foolery” ?
And who asserts “the play’s th'e thing” ? The bard !
He proves he's right—
In “Hamlet” twice a night.
N.B.W.
EARDLEY TURNER.


One thing never varies
the standard quality of
mm
*nV.
It simply cannot vary—because in order to
ensure the perfect standard of every bottle
of Johnnie Walker, an “ageing” reserve of
three-and-a-half million gallons of pure malt
Scotch whisky—the largest held by any
y;'■ : • S
firm—is perpetually maintained in bond.
IN SQUARE BOTTLES.
The Whisky with the Little Label and
the Big Reputation.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd.,
Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland,
And at Sydney and Melbourne.
p
Born 1820.
.Still going
strong.
1^2
Born 1820.
.Still going
strong.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
Wireless installed.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION. AMIDSHIPS.
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lS&£2O.
CAPETOWN k NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.. 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide k Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegrapl
otis Steamers. Cahines-de-lnxc
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
iv. New and luxuri-
; Staterooms, with
Private Bathrooms,
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lid.,
12 Martin Place, Sidney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO -£2OOO
on Country Lands, for 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS from 4 to 5 per cent.
on City and Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
jjasik of |)orth Quesnsland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY. 1
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of I) bid Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
’Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up ...... . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,034,405'
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1021.
Subscribed Capital 2
Canital Paid Up .. • • • • 413,588 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 o
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F.
LORD; Esq.; GEO. EDW. BUNNING, Esq.
genera” Manaoer-W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE A’ - - - BRISBANE.
Branches-London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland,
Arents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, CanadarSouth Africa, China, the East.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Bt
N ord Deutscher L/loyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt. Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN <fc CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAKY & Co., Melbourne;
LI. MUECKE A COl, Adelaide:
L. RATAZZI S: CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
Shipping'.
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ljhl
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,0u0 tons, to sail about
April 13. .
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 8. .. . .
SUBVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
June 5.
PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto£‘24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne »’. x tu u
New Vork, Boston, Quebec, . n
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RJP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
.-Vil oieauicio
♦Calls Hobart.
a Third Class only. c Omits Capetown.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £46. £l6 Os. to £2O Os
C ape or Durban From £-31 10s. £l3 13s. to £l/ 1< s.
Special Return Tickets available , for outward passage
by Orient Line—£llo (First-class each way);
b £B2 (Second-class Orient). „ „
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, kc.., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
'W
Cruises to the
south (Seas.
Interesting tours to Volcanic and ’Coral Islands
of the I'acitic.
Calm Seas and splendid Scenery; a complete
change, affording unrivalled opportunities of view:
ihg the native inhabitants in complete safety in
their semi-barbarous state.
Cruises can be taken, occupying from 22 days
upwards, visiting from two; to 120 ports or
Islands. *■
Saloon Fares from under 10s. per day upwards.
Send for our Illustrated Pamphlet.
jhl
jhljhl
35KB jhljh
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established
1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
*2* ljhl
?r jhljh
£3,000.000
£2,025.000
£3,000,000
£8,025,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Normand MaeLaurin, Kt.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Auditors: William Harringtoti
Richard Binnie, Esq. .
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. Maclcellar, Rt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Palmer, Esq-. ; Shepheard EdgeclifF Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 335 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 2, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United
Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South
America, 'Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
.. £1,500,000
.. 1,500,000
.. 1,500,000
£4,500,000
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. . • Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector.
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R, Sayers.
Secretary : M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N FlX'"Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£532,984 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 159,987 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
£769,471 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen Alan . Edwd. D. Daw Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Plutual [ife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office: %
*l9 & *2l COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South W t ales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
The METROPOLITAN t^ O JfSiJSS m
INSURANCE COMPANY. LIMITED.
AN AUSTRALIAN OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALIAN INSURERS.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.'
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
"THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
FamousSchcbkr Carburetor
The best Vaporising Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to get more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF 'MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondenee Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED). .
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhippinsr at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports. J
S.S. Kyarra (7000 tons),
April 13 and May 11.
Wireless Telegraphy.
K. : ■ '
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to o»irns.
S.S. Grantala, April 20.
S.S. VVOllowia, April 27
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
To
VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For, full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.— H. —A.
Federal-Houlder*Shire Lines.
STEAM 7 0 LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. DORSET.
11,000 Tons. W. L. PRENTICE, Commander.
Will be despatched from: —
BRISBANE about APRIL 231 MELBOURNE about MAY 7
SYDNEY about APRIL 301 ADELAIDE about MAY 14
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised
of two-, four-, and eight-berth cabins, situated on
the main deck, amidships, with dining-room on the
upper deck. Well lighted and ventilated cabins and
spacious decks. Third-class passengers supplied with
fresh provisions from Cool Chamber throughout the
voyage. Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric
Light throughout. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares —£4o. .. £l3 135., £l5 155., £l7 17s.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed by the
*T.S.S. Wiltshire, leaving Sydney about May 28.
*T.S.S. Shropshire, leaving Sydney about June 25.
*Carrv Saloon passengers only. Fitted'with wireless.
For further information apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEAOHARN & CO.', LTD., Mel-
bourne.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamship*
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITER),
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
MAGNIFICENT MODERN STEAMSHIPS,
s.s. “ COOMA,” s.s. “BOMBALA,” s.s. “ PEREGRINE.’
MELBOURNE-QUEENSLAND SERVICE.
These Steamers run to the following itinerary—
Melbourne. depart Wednesday
Sydney arrive Friday
Svdney depart Saturday
Brisbane arrive Monday
Brisbane depart.......... Tuesday
Keppel Bay arrive and depart Wednesday
Mackav arrive and depart Thursday
Townsville arrive - Friday
CAIRNS (Passengers and Cargo) tranship to I.S.S.
MOURILYAN (1350 tons), 16 knots, which
steamer leaves every Saturday from Townsville
for Cairns and Port Douglas, and passes Through
Hinchinbrook Channel on both up and down
SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND WEST AUSTRALIA
SERVICE.
Large Passenger and Cargo Steamers leave Sydney
and Melbourne regularly each month for Adelaide,
Albany and Fremantle, transhipping for other S.A.
and P FARES, TIMETABLES AND ALL
PARTICULARS, APPLY—
IIOAVARD SMITH COMPANY, LIMITED.
Branches all Ports,
THE Australian Magazine—THE bONIi
1 HAND. The National Monthly. Price, Oil.


Hotels, &c.
'EORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
BRISBANE VISITORS
&/>e HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences.
Oval Billiard Table.
Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
ljhl
i jhljh
IN view of your visit
to LONDON, obtain
and retain the Tariff
Booklet of the HOTEL
CECIL.
It is free for the ask-
ing, and presents by il-
lustration and description
an excellent idea of the
Hotel’s luxurious interior,
its imposing exterior,
and contains much useful
information concerning
the Metropolis, places of
interest, cab fares, etc.
It is of handy size for the
pocket, and gives the
Cecil’s Fixed Tariff Charges
whereby you cdh gauge to a
shilling beforehand the cost
of a brief or prolonged visit.
It will, in fact, enable you
to make a preliminary ac-
quaintance with
l London’s Greatest Hotel. „
Cablegrams—CECELlA,
LONDON.
*
A/
HIMRODS
Y GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Ko3B
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will find
in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
t Sold in Tins by all Chemists and
A Stores throughout Australasia.
ljhljh
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and reliable remedy
for treating diseases of ALL
mucous membranes, such as
discharges from thenose,throat
stomach and urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
JVky not cure your self?
Treatise with each bottle
or mailed on request.
The Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio
U.S.A.
(i q3\
ljhl
TAILOR-MADE
COSTUMES
We have a very
large stock of Serges
and Tweeds, and
particularly stylish
cloths, in a wide
range of the latest
patterns \ and invite
a visit of inspection.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
W HE
” ” n<
HAND.
REVEB you see a bear with a Conti-
jnt oh his back, think of THE LONE
Its swag is a Continent.
Makes you looh manly
Before
1
After
Grow Hair on Your Top Lip r
In business or social life the man with the handsome, manly moustache
is respected more than the clean-shaven man. It's only natural that this
is so.
If YOU are clean-shaven, or have a stubbly moustache, why not grow
a full, strong, fine-looking moustache?
“CAPILLARINE” will do it for you—it never fails. It has thousands
of successes —no failures. Easily applied. Why not 5 try it?
PRICE 10/6 JAR, Post Free Anywhere.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER —worn at night—will
make your Moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 Post Free.
CRAIG § AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
A
V
\ x
THE GREATEST MONEY MAKER.
Saves 80 per cent, of your
PRESENT AERATED WATERS BILL.
THE “REGAL”
Aerated Water Machine
/ 1912 \
'Model'
produces Sodawater of the finest quality at ONE PENNY
PER DOZEN, and delicious Lemonade and Gingerale
at less than THREE PENCE PER DOZEN.
The "Regal” is a triumph of engineering science—
easy to work—no waste of gas—carbonates perfectly—
compact —mounted on one stand.
Write AT ONCE for Descriptive Catalogue.
Sole Manufacturers:
Eckersley & Sons
Corner Bridge 8 Young Sts., Sydney.
And at
Melbourne.
THE “NUMBER ONE” CHICAGO
:£=*SiS*g=
Hand Horse
Clipping Machine
It is no exaggeration to say that thousands of
“men on the land” have appreciated our
“NUMBER ONE” HAND HORSE CLIPPING
MACHINE.
Wherever a man owns one or more horses, there
should be one of our Horse Clippers.
They not only do their work perfectly, but
their simplicity is such that the veriest tyro can
do the work as well as an expert.
Write for our Illustrated Circular.
With
BALL BEARINGS
40 1-
With
ROLLER BEARINGS
3 51-
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND:
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON 8 CO.,
252 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Victoria: BRISCOE & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
Sole Agents for South and West Australia: CEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., LTD., Adelaide and Perth.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all pf the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATESRave held all World's Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S. A.
RICHARDSON
jljh
CHICAGO
A HIGH-GRADE CAR AT A LOW-GRADE PRICE,
Clement-Bayard
A FRENCH ARISTOCRAT.
SWEET RUNNING.
RELIABLE. SIMPLE..
This exclusive French pro-
duct, advanced in every de-
tail of design and construc-
tion, is universally recognised;
*
&
*A
as one of the world's best 7 h.p. 2-cylinder Clement-Bayard, as illustrated, with hood, screen,
high-grade cars. .... 3 lamps and horn, £240.
You will be delighted with its simple elegance, easy riding qualities and wealth of power.
Your first impressions will be strengthened as you learn its progressive improvements.
An extract from a letter from Queensland:' —
“I purchased a 10/15-h.p. Bayard Car with a single-seated body, hood and screen, and
have had excellent service from it, and have had 1200 miles already with no trouble. (I
keep two cars.) In every way lam pleased, and, as it is 84 years since I started motoring
with a six De Dion, and have motored in three continents since, I think I can claim to know
something of cars.”
FAIRFAX (Sb ROBERTA LTD., 23 &. 25 Hunter Street, Sydney,
>»SC/ 200
Patent ZanCTiC
Copying ftOOiy
LETTERS COPIED WHILE
WRITING (in ink)
by using- your own
Letter Paper,
Invoices, &c.,
with this
Book.
mi
You simply insert
your writing paper in
the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by the
act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect, copy
(which remains in the bools). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge to your communication.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which pro-
duces this result free, if stamped addressed envelope
sent, from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford Road,
Leicester, England.
One complete NSC/100, Copying 200 full size lOin.
x Bin. letters, for 3/9 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
(Money Order, not P.O.’s.)
WHOLESALE ACENTS WANTED.
CANT
5
SEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
k l/-EACH POST FREE l
Quality Not Belter
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
STDIVEY.
STT>REK££P£RS4. roBACCOytSTS |
SHOULD SEND TOR OUR TRADE LIST
QKtIVIE LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
jhl
- Mjhlh
J. < l
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifyinjtr and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Aroade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale: DTTERDIN AND SAINSMURV, Melbourne.
fhk
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours |
Each Capsule bears the name
mi fgkh
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
w GOUT V
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold bv all Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immedintely
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
E iTES. So dbv aH Chemists.
hsu <jMuzassoe i>tfi iwoootf)
The Royal Commission
in their final report on Tuberculosis,
recently issued, clearly showed that
the chief danger to child life resulted
from the use of infected cow’s milk.
To quote one extract : “The Evi-
dence we have accumulated goes to
demonstrate that a considerable
amount of the tuberculosis of child-
hood is to be ascribed to infection
transmitted to children in meals
consisting largely of the milk of
the cow.”
When the mother’s milk is not
available, the “Allenburys” Foods
form the best substitute, as they are
practically identical with healthy human milk
in composition, nutritive value and digestibility,
and are absolutely free from all harmful germs.
Milk Pood No. I. From birth to 3 months
Milk Food No. 2. From 3to 6 months
Malted Food'No. 3. From 6 months upwards
The AUenburys’ Rusks. A
valuable aduition to baby’s dietary
wnen ten months old and after These
Busts are specially useful during the
troublesome time of teething. When
eaten raw they mechanically aid the
cutting of teeth.
Menburys
Foods
promote sound sleep, ensure
vigorous health and develop-
ment, and represent the most
successful method of Infant
Feeding ever devised.
OTF* Pamphlet on" lnf ant Feeding and Management” sent free.
Allen § Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng., and Market St., Sydney


fghk
Air-Gas
Light.
Self-contained, self-
a’c ting, simplicity,
safety, economy, free
from duty and middle-
man’s profits, Austra-
-1 i a n Manufacture —-
features of the AT-
MOSLITE PATENT
AIR-GAS MACHINE.
No extra insurance.:
Send at once for lit-
erature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
LIGHTING SYSTEMS.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
hk
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
assess
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION ,
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD./LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
fljh
Missing Friends.
O INNOTT, JAMES. Charlie dead. Write
sister, E. WILSONCROFT, 30 Clare-
mont Avenue, Malvern, Victoria.
r' LAPHAM (HERBERT). ENTITLED TO FUNDS.
Son of William and. Ann Clapham, of Baildon,
Yorks., England. Left England for New Zealand in
1887. Last seen in Christchurch in 1892. Write,
Weatherhead and Knowles, Solicitors, Bradford,
Yorks., England.
EORGE SEYMOUR PETTS, formerly
of South Melbourne, or anyone able to
give information as to his present address, is
requested to communicate with Mrs. M.
GREENALL, Horace St., Malvern, Victoria.
\\7 ILLIAM CHARLES ELLERY and
JOHN ROBERT ELLERY; Sons of
JOHN ELLERY, formerly of Faraday, Vic-
toria, are beneficiaries under the Will of
JAMES JOHNSTON, Deceased, and they
are requested by the Administrator to com-
municate at once with MORRISON and
SAWERS, Solicitors, Tatura, Victoria.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
W~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing- it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Every pen has a point.
Here are eleven points you
ought to remember:
The first is the Onoto fills
itself in a flash from any
ink supply.
The second is it cannot
leak.
The rest are “To get an
Onoto now” —for posses-
sion is nine points, says
the law.
Get an Onoto pen, and know wbat
writing comfort really in.
Your own pen, suited to your hand,
wherever you may happen to he.
Onoiljho
Self-Filling . *
Safety Fountain
Pen
Price 12/- and upwards, at all
Stationers, Stores, Jewellers, &c.
British made by British labour.
Booklet free on application to Thos.
Re La Roe & Co., Ltd., 195 Bunhill
Row, E.C., or the Australasian Repre-
sentative, Norman Baker, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
Important. —For those who require a larger
pen with a very flexible nib, a special m. del
- the new G— has been put on the marker.
It is exceptional value for the money. Try
this new G at your stationer's
Always use ONOTO INK—the best for
fountain and all other pens
tt
THE
WALLABY EMPEROR”
RIDING BOOT.
BLACK
15/6
TAN
16/6
POSTAGE
t ljhl
Manufactured from Cenuine
Queensland Wallaby Skin.
Soft and light. Tough as
wire. Designed for the
\ comfort of all who ride.
WRITE FOR
PRICE LIST.
***;.:■
BRISBANE
IN BANANALAND
One of the luckless outbreaks of Coyn<\
M.L.A., was his statement that in the early
days of the General Strike nobody in Bris-
bane could get even a loaf of bread without
the permission of the strike committee. It
was quite certain that the trading commun-
ity didn’t want to leave off business, for it
resumed just as soon as Denham’s horde of
special constables got on the scene. There-
fore, if the previous stoppage was as com-
plete as alleged, .it could only have been
through fear of violence. A wiser man than
Coyne wouldn’t have tried to adver-
tise himself as a sort of small Ter-
rorist or Baby Robespierre. The state-'
ment that, iff the Government hadn’t inter- 1
fered, no one would have been allowed to eat
save by his and his friends’ permission, is a
direct invitation to the community to main-
tain a Government which will interfere.
For the community wants to eat without
getting a permit. It hates to be hit in the
stomach.
“Nultuseva,” concerning the alleged Cap-
tain Cook cannon found at Mackay
In ISBG, Capt. Mackay, the present postmaster of
Queensland, was harbor-master at Cooktown, and, in
perusing Hawkesworth’s edition of Cook’s voyages,
he observed that the reef marked “Endeavor,” to the
eastward of Cooktown, could not be identical with
that on which the ship Endeavor stranded in 1770,
inasmuch as the disaster took place three hours after
the vessel passed Cape Tribulation, sailing about
N.E. At the suggestion of Governor Musgrave,
Mackay was despatched in a pilot schooner to clear
the matter up, and to search for relics jettisoned
from the Endeavor at the time of stranding. On
arrival at the locality, the investigators found that
the soundings and other data cwrespond with
Cook’s description, but that the articles thrown over-
board had long ago been covered up by coral, and
the only chance of Recovery lay in submarine opera-
tions. It was proved, however, that had the ship
been a cable’s length more to windward (southward)
she would have cleared all obstruction, and passed
through the -Barrier Reef by what is now known as
the Cruizer opening. The Great Barrier Reef
abounds with old guns, anchors and other evidence
of disaster; but, like Cook’s tree at Cooktown, they
were never seen by or known to the famous navii
gator. As a matter of fact, the tree was a sapling
in the memory of local inhabitants, who are not. yet
so old that they have to be wheeled to the nub for
a nightcap.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Mick Woods, ex-Labor M.L.A., is again
to the fore as Denhamite candidate for
Eaeham (N.Q.). Mick’s last speech (ad-
dressed to Speaker Bell, who. was suspend-
ing him) was brief-and pointed: “Old fel-
low,” said Woods, “I put you into the
House; and, old fellow, I’ll put you out
again.” And this to the most dignified man
in the Bananaland Assembly!
Hydraulic Engineer Henderson recently
read a most interesting paper on “Waste” to
the Queensland Royal Society. According
to Henderson, by sending away unscoured
wool.. Queensland, in 1910, lost 6000 tons of
potash. The local wool contains 14 p.c. of
lanoliue, and the State threw away this
product in 1910 to the value of £1,000,000.
In the same year the State produced
7.376,460 gallons of molasses —nearly all
wasted —although the product contained
nearly 8,000,000 gallons of alcohol, and
Bananaland spends £51,000 per annum on
imported petrol. As to the waste .of timber,
it always has been, and is to-day, simply
appalling.
Vote-getting is a precarious business in
the untamed parts of Bananaland when the
drought lion is a-roaring or the tiger of flood
is a-lashing’of his. tail. Thus Murphy, the
independent candidate for Burke, in the Gulf
country, was anxious to do his political turn
ibefore the Burketown voters. Impassable
icreeks' blocked the overland track from Nor-
unanton, so the political straggler went per
lugger to the mouth of the Albert River.
There a party (Murphy, a priest, a drover,
and a half-caste) decided to do the 25-mile
trip up the river per dinghy and hoof the
(ast five miles, and arrive muddy but trium-
phant. But they didn’t get a chance to hoof,
for a double channel misled them, and only
after rowing hard all night, amid salt water,
mangroves and alligators, cfid daylight show
them the error of their way. They rowed
hack to the river’s mouth to the lugger, their
24 hours’ toil giving them nothing beyond
blistered hands, a semi-delirious priest and a
bulging thirst.
CHIEF JUSTICE SAM GRIFFITH
SMILES.
“Politicus”: A recent Bulletin par.
shows that N.S.W;> population has increased
by 20 per cent, in 10 years, while the pawn-
shop habit has multiplied by 44 per cent,
in the same period. In Queensland we can
beat that record hollow. From 1004 to 1907
(Morgan-Ividston regime) the State spent
on an average only half a million of loan
money yearly ! This year it will shovel out
at. least 2-J millions of Cohen’s lendings. So
that within considerably less than 10 years
our loan spendings have risen by some 400
per cent., and, our population by less than
20 per cent. N.S.W. is a slow old shop,
after all.
“Politicus”: Re The Bulletin’s allega-
tion that the N.S.W. Government’s Bur-
saries Bill"is a '‘silly departure from the
principle of secular education.” Queensland
experience proves that such a departure is
not only silly but dangerous. About 12 years
ago the Banana Legislature, on the motion
of Labor member Frank McDonnell, agreed
to allot certain State scholarships to denom-
inational schools. This was done, and the
Wowser then arose demanding Bible teach-
ing in State schools. When informed that
the State was pledged to purely secular in-
struction, the Bible teaching enthusiast re-
plied, quite correctly, that liis fad was no
more ,of a departure.’from the principle of
secular instruction than was the allotment
of bursaries or ’scholarships to non-State
schools —nearly all Roman Catholic. Now
rises the R.G. in turn, and clamors for en-
dowment to denominational schools on the
ground that the State, by sanctioning Bible
teaching in State schools, is really subsidis-
ing Protestant religious instruction —also a
perfectly logical contention. The moment
the State departs from the purely secular
principle there is no logical halting-place
until you arrive again at the old foolish
system of denominational education —with
all the horrors of a sectarian dog fight rag-
ing round every election.
The Backsliders.
What, exactly, is the Queensland Labor
party going to do with the men who broke
away from the Labor platform, and backslid
on their policy and their pledges by foment-
ing the wondrous General Strike? Out of
the 26 Parliamentary Laborites there were
about 20 of these rash individuals. It must
be remembered that “Conciliation and Com-
pulsory Arbitration” is a notable and con-
spicuous plank of the fighting platform of
the organisation. Members who go back on
that are just as much Iscariots to the cause
as if they went back on the White Australia
policy, or on- the principle of one-man-one-
vote —just as much fallers-away as was the
McGowen Ministry of N.S.W. when it aban-
doned the Reduction of Borrowing plank of
its platform, and became the great loan
lunatic of N.S.W. history. The grievous
mistake some of the Labor members make is
that they claim the right to disregard as
much of their own policy as they please.
They claim the right to lie and call it truth,
and to be dishonorable and call it honor.
Tnat sort of tiling is round in every part.y,
but when a party of very high ideals falls
to a great extent into tne hands of wire-
pullers of very low political morality, the
discrepancy becomes conspicuous. Certain
clauses were put into the Labor programme
apparently as a bid for Dubiifc support, and
cynical .Laborites scoff at them, and openly
profess to regard them as a jest, and a
hypocrisy, and a mere deception practised on
a credulous community. Thus one at least
of the McGowen party in N.S.W. scornfully
and openly repudiated the Reduction of Bor-
rowing policy on which be had been elected,
and, instead of being expelled as a sham and
a false brother, he was given a portfolio
when the party came into power. And
afterwards all his colleagues followed in his
footsteps. That particular clause was, it
would seem, merely a bait for the
fool-public, and it was not regarded
as worth while to keep faith with
the fool-public. It was the same with
the Conciliation and Arbitration prin-
ciple in Queensland. The tramway badge
question had been actually sent to the Arbi-
tration Court (where it was ultimately de-
cided in favor of the workers), when a large
section of the local Parliamenary Labor party
“scabbed” on its own theories, and rushed the
country into the miseries of the General
Strike. In its haste to work this act of
treachery some of its members deceived their
supporters by declaring that the matter at
issue had not been sent to the Arbitration
Court. Also, these pledge-breakers heaped
contempt on the Laborites who adhered man-
fully .to their platform—the men who re-
fused to sacrifice, at the bidding of Coyne
and his kind, the arbitration principle for
which they had labored so long. Even now,
after their ignominious failure, the people
who didn’t keep faith put on airs of superi-
ority, and profess to be the only real, true-
blue Laborites, and in that capacity many
of them are standing for Parliament. It is
time that the party did something in the
matter. The Labor theory is one that calls
for the support of every good Australian.
The Labor programme, taken as a whole, -is ,
miles ahead of any other programme now
before the community. The grief is that a
few arrogant placemen claim the right to go
directly contrary to the theory and the pro-
gramme. and profess a sort of Heaven-born
privilege to throw mud at those who decline
to backslide along with them.
♦
Labor bids fair on present appearances to
lose Gympie, Andrew Fisher’s old seat. It
was formerly a double-seated constituency,
returning two members, Rylands and Mul-
cahy. Reduced by redistribution to one
seat, Gympie can now return only one man,
and Rylands has been selected. Mulcahy
now declines to stand down, and, if he runs,
the Tories may win. 1
“Machete”: In reporting the lamented
death of nurse Ellen Combley (B. 28/3/T2),
“Kobbi” did not get the story of the arm
amputation right. He says that the nfis-
sionariess performed the operation without
assistance except what she got from a car-
penter’s saw and a sheath knife. The facts
were that she was helped by Rev. Copeland
King, who, incidentally, is a descendant of
Governor King, and the A.R.M. supplied an
instrument case. The patient, a weed of an
islander, deserves almost as much praise as
his benefactress. He tried to pick up a dyna-
mite “shot,” which his miner master had in-
tended for another purpose, on the Upper
Aik ora river.. From the place where the
accident occurred it is a long three days
journey to Tamata for even a hale man.
The going is infernal, but the patient ar-
rived. on the morning of the fourth day,
smoking a cigarette, and with a loose rag
wrapped round what had once been an arm.
The A.R.M., after fixing a hasty dressing on
brown brother, sent him in a boat to Miss
Combley, who did the rest. The boy was all
right within a month, and' on his way home
with two years’ pay in his loin cloth.'
In Thanksgiving.
[Fok The Bulletin.]
The elections are rapidly approaching.
Eggs are very dear, ranging from Is. Bd. to 2s.
—-Courihr.
They say that Providence has ceased to care
About the puny tricks we mortals do;
That Heav’n has grown quite heedless how we fare,
And smiles above our daily mad shivoo ;
And yet, at times, a happening indicates
That heavenly kindness yet may venture near.
For witness —papers tell at latest dates —
“Elections dawn—but eggs are deadly dear.”
How can the pale, expectant candidate
Express the gratitude that fills his soul ?
To learn that ne’er a yolk upon his pate
Shall haply find an unexpected goal;
To know that, though the turnip may gyrate,
And carrots wreathe around his blushing ear,
The direst pledge of any focman’s hate
Shall touch him not—for eggs are passing dear.
Yet Grace Celestial may not be the source
From which such tender mercies rise and flow,
For doth not Satan fend with all his force
His cunning crew that work us muckle woe?
He loads the legal shark with plenteous spoil,
He weighs the juggling trader down with gear,
And, when his chosen on the hustings toil,
He guards them well —-for eggs are passing dear.
Prate not to me of grateful hymns that rise
From droughty plains when floods assail the land ;
Bid me not hark what anthems meet the skies
When fell invaders fall by patriot hand;
Describe no more in thrilling, raptured phrase
The joys of him whose fount is filled with beer,
Enough to know—on wild election days
The gods are good and eggs are passing dear!
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.


,
:
■
mi
■
la*
. .
■
,
■ ,
.
■
Wlm&Mi
mm
.
■
• .. ■
.-N
m
j J
--V
wm
ji
1
■ i v
m.
m
m
mmm M
#5
a
mm
i «
H •
I
: I
* \j
ms.
X
ml
• w J
s* 0 '
.AWm
m '
KI
l|f
a
a
' IMS
11
■■ms m
-
i IS
mm
um
Mil
p
f
•m
■ :
:
i
:
■
; ■
:
. > |
Bellied by the Cascade Brewery Co.
j
j Tasmania, ift the Commonwealth of
£>*
: ra
i
-
i * ai
mm ■
■ ;. V, . ;
.?!21 ; . ’ a,: h ',:
:
1111
Wili WM IS®5:
I
■
111
...
. ;
ASCADE ALE, brewed by the Cascade Brewery Co., of Hobart, is akin to the ale
of old England, for it is rich in those qualities that promote health and strength.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY s C. D’Arcy (Si Co., 474 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Taylor, Fergusson (SI Co., 127 King' Street.
BRISBANE : Burns, Philp (Si Co. Ltd. '


The Right Volume of
Sound for the Home.
Many sound-reproducing machines are sold altogether on the argument
that they are loud. The volume of sound produced by an
E-discm PHonog'raph,
while perfect in its reproduction and musical in its tone, is not loud, stri-
dent, noisy, or ear-piercing.
It is easy to make a loud Phonograph. It is an art to make a Phono-
graph which gives proper value to each kind of music, and all within the
compass of the ordinary parlor or sitting-room. When you buy an Edison
Phonograph you will appreciate what it is to have an instrument that re-
produces sound properly of the right
volume for your house.
Edison Phonographs and Records are
sold everywhere in Australasia. Write
to us direct for latest lists, and name
and address of the nearest dealer.
7
rj
The EDISON
Phonograph.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364=372 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
MONEY-MAKING PLANTS.
Unanimous Approval has been given our Mineral Water
Machines because they fill the bill so completely and
show a bigger profit to you than beer to a brewer.
K
:
THE BANKER 1912 Model
with AUTOMATIC TURNOVER, SYRUP RACK and Latest Improvements.
Royal Hotel,
Nelson Carbonating Co., Ltd. Brisbane.
I am very pleased I purchased the “Banker” Aerated Water Machine, alter
seeing several other makes.
The test of several months’ hard, solid work, has proved it a strong, genuine
machine, payable of making thousands of dozens of the best aerated waters 1 ever
My Cork Seda is praised by all —it goes off like a cannon and is full of sparkle.
The very great saving effected is evident at the end of hrst month by tne
absence of the Cordial Bill. I can with confidence recommend it, and cordially
invite inspection of the working. (Sgd.) JOHN 1 Khh.
At the Royal Sydney Show we have just exhibited our machines and convinced
dozens of Storekeepers that these plants are absolutely essential to their business.
Many came to look and remained to buy when they saw the simplicity, utility
and profit.— WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
NELSON CARBONATING CO., LTD.,
167 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
' * -
■>; r- , , , .--I>
■S "• *;iV." ‘*'V*
*’, "' : ■ ' *
- ■ • -**
PfiIiSSSW
' ' T' '•<
1 .
151 r v ,/•
Mt- . ■/..
2
'V ; 3
'#
w
■
ii§
%
m
**
/• r:- c
«v ’
m
mtk
*#
M
mu
‘•y-x
mm
m
&
i
m
ati
•
\ i
r XJ
mmmßin
ssasf&s
'"3** -
5 v
10
»
-4
\SS/ . .‘I
9
a.- * ,
fig
. :\s« ■ «• fl
Fine New Diamond
and
Platinum Jewellery
at the Treasure House.
No. i. — Choice Diamond-Set Necklet. Set with Finest
Quality White Diamonds, in Real Platinum, with Fine
Platinum Trace Pattern Chain, £55.
No. 2. — Exquisite Diamond-Set Brooch. Set with
Specially Selected Fine White Diamonds in Real
Platinum, £45.
No. 3. — Beautiful Diamond=Set Necklet. Set with
Finest Quality Brilliant-Cut Diamonds in Real Platinum,
£42.
No. 4. — Handsome Diamond-Set Flexible Bangle.
Set with ii Fine Quality White Diamonds in Real
Platinum and 15-ct. Gold, £75.
No. 5. — Exquisite Diamond-Set Heart Pendant. Set
with Specially-Selected Fine White Diamonds in 15-ct.
Gold, £3O.
No. 6.— Dainty Diamond-Set Earrings. Set with 6
Fine Quality, Brilliant-Cut Diamonds in Real Platinum
and 15-ct. gold, £l7/10/=.
No. 7.— Elegant Diamond and Pearl Earrings. Set
with Fine White Diamonds and Whole White Pearls,
£lO/10/=.
No. 8. — A Unique Diamond-Set Cross-Over Ring.
Set with 9 Fine White Diamonds in Real Platinum
and 18-ct. Gold, £2l.
No. g.—Quaintly-Designed, Diamond=Set Necklet.
Set with Specially-Selected Fine White Diamonds in
Real Platinum, with Fine Trace Pattern Platinum
Chain, £5O.
No. 10. — Very Effective Diamond-Set Ring. Set
with Fine Quality Diamonds in Real Platinum and
18-ct. Gold, £lB/10/=.
STEWART DAWSON 8 CO.
Australia (Limited),
STRAND CORNER,—
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


THE CAR. FOR THE COUNTRY.
CHALMERS 20-30
Acknowledge
no Competitor.
MODELS.
20-30 2-Seator.
20-30 Pony
Tonneau.
20-30 Touring Car
i
WE GUARANTEE SERVICE.
This time last year the “CHALMERS” CAR was unknown to Australia.
To-day there are 92 running, all sold within 12 months.
Eighty per cent, of these Cars have gone to Country Clients, because the Car
is now recognised throughout New South Wales as the most suitable Car for the
Stock and Station Agents, Hotelkeeper and Squatter, and the Run About for the
Professional Man.
You ask : Explain how it is the “CHALMERS” is acknowledged as the best Car
for Country Work? —Because they are high-powered, light, yet strongly built, and
cost very little for upkeep.
Refer to any of our Clients with respect to upkeep, and they will tell you how
they get from 6000 miles to 8000 miles on their tyres, and average 25 miles to
the gallon of petrol. Ask them what their repair bill has been. We know their
answer—Nil!
These facts justify the “CHALMERS” in being named the Champion Country
Car.
Let us post you a 1912 Catalogue.
NeW Shipment of 1912 model “CHALMERS” Cars due this week on the “Star
of Australia.”
“EMPIRE” Run-abouts, 20 h.p., four cylinders, three speeds, forward
and reverse. “ GRAMM ” WAGGONS in Stock.
ROY W. SANDFORD.
Bole Agent for
Australia,
181 ELIZABETH SI., SYDNEY; 105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE.
THE NEW
MODEL
No. 597
wm
BTi
THE NEW FEATURES OF THIS REGISTER.
Nine separate totals in pounds, shilling’s and
pence of different kinds of transactions and of the sales of different
assistants, in addition to grand total of all cash sales.
Amount of each cash sale made by each assistant is
automatically added into a separate total. Every time a sale is made
the amount is added to the total previously shown for that assistant.
Every penny received for cash sales is recorded twice by
this register—on the adding wheels of the assistant making the sale
and on the “ secret ” or grand , total adder, A printed record giving full
particulars is made ait the tame time.
Amount in pounds, shillings and pence received in payment of
accounts is shown on another set of adding wheels. This obviates the
necessity of going through dockets or cash book to find how much money
has been received On account—the total is ready at all times.
Total value of all goods sold on credit is recorded separately. A
glance will show the amount of credit business for the day or to date
from any stated time. This record enables the shopkeeper to see at once
what his total turnover has been. *
Every penny paid out is added to previous total amount of
disbursements.
Think of the advantages of having all these separate totals and of
being able to obtain such valuable information by merely turning a key
and glancing at the Records.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE IMPROVEMENTS.
National Gash Register Go. of Australasia
LTD.
335 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
343 Queen Street, Brisbane. 281 Murray Street, Perth.
60 Bourke Street, Melbourne 117 a Bundle Street, Adelaide.
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
liiiiiiiHiiiiiiHißWiiiiiiifmiinunnumuHuuimmmumtanitnig
bhi 111
mm
iiiniuiitiiiNninit
minx
*
IK
lllillllM
itiiiiiiiiimiminiiuTiuiu luiiuiuTiaiu
hyc°l:jhl
MOSPTOMIIES
HRE GfRMCfIRRiERS
Kill the eggs of these pests by using
HYCOL Disinfectant in your home.
WASH FLOORS—FLUSH GULLEYS'.
Non-poisonous. 18 times stronger than carbolic.
AGENTS-
N.S.W. Agents:
POTTS & CO.,
1(3 George St., Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
SB hjh
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro-
tesqiiely photo-
graphed— stout people
look thin—thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, horses, Wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessed. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, and cannot get out of order, Price 1/-,
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
most
vicio u s
©
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
niffht - watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on begyarsand
tramps than a watch-
dog. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement tor young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H.L. Hutchinson L*i
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ljh
5KĥjKi'o>r^»
jhljh
* jhlljhljh
p!ii<.;ii|iiiiMiii^i'iiiiiiiiiiM!iiiu,;iiiii,i.iiH!*
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Lest Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/-.
I)o not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
jh
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
novelties obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Postal Addrea3—B3X 3, HAYMARKET POST OFFICE, SYDNEY. Write for Price Lists, .free upon application.
Branches—lll KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
£lOO0 IN JE^ S £lOOO
First Great Prize, value £5OO,
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and £lOO in Cash
for ONE PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Note.— The Committee, having paid full value for the work of art, is pre-
pared to find a purchaser for same at the advertised amount if the winner so
desires, also for the Second and Third Prizes.
Second—value £lOO. Third —value £5O. And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours’ Great Art Union
56th Year Oldest and Most Popular 56th Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all charges. A list of winning
numbers will he Dosted to any person sending an addressed envelope to the repre-
sentative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 27th April, or send Postal Note,
P. 0.0., or stamps, with Exchange added, direct to the representative, 231 Flin-
ders Lane, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a chance in this Great Art
Union, 22 for £l, 11 for 10s., or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing,
nth Mar,, m 2. rm-Lest You Forget, BUY TO-DA Y.
THEO. W. HBIDE, Representative, 231 Flinders Lane, Melb., Vic.
PROTECT YOUR BEAUTY!-*!
VIAHIOI
The Most Effective Toilet Cream and Beautifier Known
Protects the Skin, makes it SOFT, SMOOTH and WHITE.
Also Recommended for Use
Before and After Shaving.
FLUOR
Deliciously Foamy, Pure, Fragrant
and Absolutely Greaseless.
All Chemists, 2/- per pot.
Sample Tube 3d. in Stamps.
CREAM
Leaves no trace
on the Skin;
Never Grows
Hair.
ICILMA DEPOT, Dept. D, 139 York Street, Sydney.
CASTRATION EASY
Our Emasculator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years. gj3§?“EASY TO USE.
451-
Post Free Anywhere,
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
ljh
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
THE “ PLOM ” GIVES A DELIGHTFUL SHAVE
& jhl
<o. jh
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG (SL AITKEN*
If you like a razor that cuts through the hardest
stubbles in the same manner as it pleasingly glides
through the lather—without any dragging and pull-
ing—you should make friends with the PLUM Razor.
It is perfectly tempered, and is hard to put out
•f trim.
We guarantee to keep every PLUM in good condi-
tion for two years. Being hairdressers, we know how
to give it that perfect cutting edge you like so much.
TheC. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
night; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/6.
PRICE 10/6, Post Free.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/>. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
654 George street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.


A chip from the Freetrade “fighting plat-
form,” lately knocked together in Melbourne:
Selection of candidates for Parliament by the
people, instead of by parties, cliques and factions,
with their crooked and often corrupt methods.
All the same, when the Freetrade candidates
are forthcoming, it is a million to one they
are the same old gang of importers, patri-
archs and bad eggs.
Amusements.
Lyric and colonial theatres.
Nos. 1 an«l 2. George Street. Sydney.
Direction J. D. Wilmams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a. in. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60 000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the
Rage of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre:
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are
the Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LIMITED.
INTERNATIONAL, PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Wm. 11. Be i,i,, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial
Theatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tralasia. In fact, we supply more shows with pictures
than any other three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo, play manufacturers, but we repre-
sent all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth ; Courier Buildings, Brisbane;
Wellington, New Zealand; London, England ;
Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
; Less, e: ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BERT BAILEY NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
in the Brilliantly-staged Australian Attraction.
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
GLORIOUS SCENES OF THE AUSTRALIAN BUSH.
PRICES : Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 4/-.
Gallerv. 2/-. No hooking fee or early, doors
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
RATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
KARA, the World’s Greatest Equilibrist.
THE SIDDONS, Inimitable balancing and acrobatic feats.
GIALDINI, the Whis ling Caruso.
IRENE AND MORTON, the Vivacious Lady and the
Witty Guy.
HERBERT CLIFTON, ALBERT DURAND, O’DELL
AND HART, TOM LEE, JACK BONNY, and others.
THENVEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
MARGARET COOPER,
THE FAMOUS ENGLISH. ENTERTAINER.
HUMORIST—VOCAL IST—SONGS-AT-THE-PIANO.
LONDONS MOST POPULAR IDOL.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Commences ADELAIDE, MAY 6.
N W SOUTH WALES:
Commences SYDNEY, JUNE 7.
NEW ZEALAND:
Commences WELLINGTON, JULY 11.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, -Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in
THE QUAKER GIRL.
SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES : 6/-, 4-, 2/-, J/. Children in arms not admitted
M C. A. H A L L, S Y D N E Y
• Directions The London Entertainments Syndicate.
General Manager : M. J. BLOOMFIELD.
EVERY EVENING.
THE FAMOUS HUMORIST.
MR. JOSEPH
BLASCH EC K,
Assisted by MISS MILDRED WRIGIITON,
With her charming songs at the piano.
Popular Prices, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Palings.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE HOUSE OF TEMPERLEY.
A NIGHT OF THRILLING EXCITEMENT.
The Stirring Climax is reached with the great
BARE-KNUCLE FIGHT ON CRAWLEY DOWNS-
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
Adelphi theatre, sydnMy.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
Every Evening at 7.45 sharp.
THE FIN IST EVENING TONIC IN SYDNEfY.
GEORGE MARLOW’S NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY.
THE SINS OE SOCIETY;.
The Most WonderfpJrSpectacie, that has ever been seen
’iii any Theatre.
Reserved seats, 4/-. Popular prices. Early doors extra.
JHE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL,
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
(QLYMPIA AND GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE.GROENS VICE-REGAI* ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No extra Fee).
Amusements.
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICT UK ES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d., 6d., Is.
yy IRTH BROS.. SYDNEY.
GREATEST - SHOW 0 N
EARTH.
t BF.LMORE MARKETS, PITT STREET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WEDNESDAY SATURDAY MATINEES ,AT 2.45-
Doors open one hour earlier, giving ample time to
view the Majestic Menagerie of
STRANGE, WEIRD, WILD ANIMALS.
Including the £2OOO POLAR BEAR GROUP.
LIZZIE, THE BLOOD-SWEATING HIPPO., and
DUNLOP THE INDIA RUBBER HOUSE.
PRICES : 4/-, 3/-. 2/-, 1/- Reserved chairs, 5/-
Plan at Palings and Hotel Australia.
THE MAMMOTH ZOO OPEN EVERY
AFTERNOON 3 to 5.
ADMISSION .. .. ADULTS, 1/-; CHILDREN, 6d.
Rickard s’ tivoli theatre.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
TINY, ARNOLD, The Miniature Marie Lloyd.
RINALDO, the Wandering Violinist.
THE KEELEY BROTHERS, Champion Ball Punchers.
ERED POPLAR, KITTY WAGER,
THE TOSSING TESTROS.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Gelieral Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
BURNETTI, Quick-Change Character Musician.
C. J. JOHNSON, The Black Diamond.
TERRY & LAMBERT, Character Impersonators.
HAYMAN & FRANKLIN, Hebrew Impersonators.
HERBERT RULE, Comedian. RAY JONES.
WALKER & STRUM, Racket Jugglers, Comiques.
FANNY POWERS. Australia’s Talented Mimic.
THREE ATHLETAS, Ladv Athletes.
Plan at Allan’s. ii# PRICES —35., 25., Is.
■J* HEAT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
OSCAR ASCHE—LILY BKAYTON.
IN V
THE GREAT ORIENTAL DRAMATIC SPECTACLE,
KISMET.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Sen’s, 7/6.
Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
GREAT EASTER ATTRACTION.
GEORGE MARLOW’S
BRILLIANT DRAMATIC COMBINATION in
MARRIED TO THE WRONG MAN.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Pianola.
Amusements.
YRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
■ EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS 1
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the L3 7 ric Theatre Cafe.-
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
Lessees & Managers — Amalgamated Pictures Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
jhl
Animated Pictures in Actual Natural Colors.
SPECIAL NOTE. —Ivinemacolor films are not hand-
colored films ; they are actual photographs of Nature,
and the colors are imprinted in the pictures at the
time of photographing. PRICES: 3s. to 6d.
|_| JSR MAJESTY’S THEATRE’ MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
J C. WILLIAMSON'S NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in the Enchanting and Fascinating Musical Play,
THE GIRL IN THE TRAIN.
PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
GREAT EASTER DRAMATIC ATTRACTION.
MR. WILLIAM ANDERSON presents
AFT E 11 DA RK.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —-35., 2s. and Is.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M I* I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.3.0,
awl EVERY EVENING at 8.
NOTICE to THEATRICAL M ANAGERS^
COROWA SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL TO LET for
NEXT SHOW WEEK, 26th AUGUST to
31st AUGUST (both dates inclusive), BY TENDER
CONDITIONS.
1. The highest tender to be accepted.
2. The amount tendered to accompany each tender.
3. The amount of the successful tender to become at
once the property of the institution.
4. Tenders to-be opened on May 31, 1912, and ten-
derers notified.
W. H. EDMONDSON, Solicitor,
Honorary Secretary Corowa School of Arts.
BA6Y
w.
i
The QuicK and Easy Way to
Make Channels—
Once get an Earth Scoop on the job, making Irrigation Channels,
Drains and Dams, and you’ll wonder how ever you did without it. No
laborious pick and shovel work. This scoop of ours cuts its way quickly
and cleanly, and enters ploughed or virgin soil readily, and is extremely
light on the horses. The body is pressed cold from a solid plate of
hardened steel, which is the right way. Hot-pressed trays soon show their
weakness, especially at the corners.
This Scoop has steel runners and
detachable handles.
No. Capacity. Weight.
1 7 cubic feet 105 lb.
2 5 cubic.feet 951 b.
3 2 cubic feet 801 b.
Price.
37/6
35/=
32/6
Tubular Steel Barrows
are without rival wherever there is rough usage —easily lasting out three
or four wooden barrows. Trays are pressed from a solid plate of toughest
steel, without seam or rivet—thus they have much greater strength than
riveted trays of equal thickness. ISTote how the tubular handles pass
round in front and protect the wheel when “dumping.” Carrying hot
ashes a specialty.
THe Barrow
for Farms, Mines,
Mills, Gas Companies,
Furnaces, etc. Dupli-
cate parts in stock.
/ hĵhl
X hjljh
ĥj
9*ljh5
n jhĺjh
No. 10. Capacity 400 to 500 lb. earth .. 60/-
No. 44. Capacity 3 cubic feet earth .. 45/-
No. 4. Capacity 3 cubic feet earth 33/-
McPherson’s,
554-66 and 582-88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
BIG BOOK OF
TOOLS SENT
POST FREE IF
YOU WRITE.
Amusements.
U/EST'S PALACE, MELBOCBNE.
” BEST WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF'ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WESTS’PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGARS
TRIAL
Almost everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar smoking popular in Australia.
My “FREE CIGARS” TRIAL is this: 1
I’ll send you 100 of any of the following Cigars,
and you can smoke five or six of them. If you
th<~n are not satisfied, send the lemainder back,;
and I'll refund your money in full, without any '
charge for those you’ve smoked.
color (Strength) you desire.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
Illustrated descriptive booklet will be
, mailed free to any address.
(Celebrate!)'
. -i>... |»UHC
MALT
VHtiGte
BREWED FROM
malted BARLEY
fOWERS^IOGEW
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
fvtACNIVEN * CAMERON iP.
■ GOLDEN WATTLEV
ED'NBURG-H,
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :


A Guaranteed Remedy for all
descriptions of Piles, whether Blind,
Bleeding, Protruding Or -Itching—it
PETERS’ a a
PILE CURE
Price l/i 0 ft £rice l/3
Large box (5 times the quantity), 5/-
t CONSIDER IT WONDERFUL.
Miss E. A. Whitet .dufgrddti; .Write
“HaVing beeh i great stiffr-tef front Piles
I decided to try Peters’ File Cure
tfnd api pleased, to stdte with great ;.uc-
fcess. I consider it woniciful, and
wish f had known of it long before.”
Peters’ Pile Cure Is Easy to
Apply;
bricc 1/3
Large Cox (5 tiiites the quantity) 5/-
Ail Ciiemists and Storekeepers.
Elliott Brdsh Ltd., jyidftey hnd Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
mtk
fcj
i
MORRIS'S
ireeWtches
OSAnrma
6° for
Ram
ffioirteSt dftAD®.
tIS pet 100, Rost Frets.
MICK SIMMONS* sydnpy.
Stdrfekeetjefs a&d 'tobacconists should
Send tor our trade Lists.
MEPHISTO
Copying Pencils
are made by L. & C. Hardtmuth,
which is the strongest guarantee
of pencil excellence that can be
offered. The ‘ * Mephisto ” writes
moothly, yet gives a reallv sharp
impression. Fer manifolding
purposes no other pencil is
nearly so good.
HARDTMUTH’S RUBBER
is the best for all erasive pur-
poses. Artists should use the
Grey, but for offices, &c., the
Pink is recommended.
“KOH-I-NOOR” RUBBER BANDS
Strongest —Most Economical.
From Stationers, &c„ throughout the World.
L. & C. HAT DTMUTH, Ltd.
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
Macassar
I Oil i
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Restores it. Closely
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which nature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this property.
Without it the h >ir becomes dry, tl.in, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect of
a beautiful face. Good heir adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use ft for their
own flair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, an ) ROWLAND’S.
67, Hatton Garden, L«adon. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations!; buy only
Rowland’s-
THE ROYAL COMMANDS
for Ashton & Parsons* Phosferine are a GUARANTEE
to every purchaser of the genuine Phosferine that the
tonic is the very best obtainable* embodies the highest
skilly and being the most potent remedy, benefits
everyone equally with Royalty. The original and only
genuine preparation is
ASHTON & PARSONS’
PHOSFERINE
This world - renowned restorative medicine has for many years been supplied by
Royal Commands to the Crowned Heads and Principal Royalty throughout the world.
Honoured by
Commands from
■:
The British
Roya! Family
H.I.M. The
Empress of
Russia
lI M. The
Kins of Greece
KING GEORGE
Praises Burgess’ 23 Hours’
ENDURANCE
THE ROYAL TELEGRAM
says: “I am comriianded to convey td
you the hearty congratulations of the
King upon your determination and
endurance upon the wonderful feat of
swimming the Channel to-diy.”—Sept.
7, 1911, Stamfordham.
T. W. Burgess, 30, Dover Road,
Walmer, Deal, writes :—“ Ashton &
Parsons’ Phosferine is indispensable for
feats of physical endurance. It is a nerve
and muscle tonic, and of unfaiuiig
efficacy in preparing me for the special
demand on my energies.”—Sept. 7, 1911.
Honoured by
Commands from
H.M. The
Kina of Spain
H.M. The Queen
of Roumania
• The Imperial
Family of China
MAKE SURE YOUR PURCHASE IS
ASHTON & PARSONS’
PHOSFERINE
Greatest of all Tonics
A PROVEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Lxhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state ot the nervous system.
THE GENUINE ASHTON AND PARSONS’ PHOSFERINE is sold by all Chemists. Stores, etc
in Bottle;, I/- and 2/6. The 2/6 Size contains nearly four times the I/- Size.
/VNTISEPTIC THROAT
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to a formula of the
Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a charm in keeping the voice and throat in
perfect condition tor prulonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading Vocalists throughout the world.
Signor Sammarco writes:— ‘‘l have been using your Evans’ Antiseptic Throat
Pastilles for some time past, and 1 can vouch for their surprising efficacy.*’
Madame Luisa Tetrazzini says;— “I ihank you for the boxes of Evans' Pastilles
sent me, which I find excellent and efficacious.*
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
Sole Manufacturers—
EYANS SONS LESCHER & WEBB, Ltd., LONDON
Ask for “ EVANS'" Pastilles, and see you get them.
rTTiyiW
Oi
&
r
Demonstrator Agents Wanted
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating oh ordinary
lamp oil. Operates equally well on Petrol, Paraffin. Alcohol, Benzine, istillate, Naptha:
or Coal Oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for farms, shops, and all "
power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and pumping outfits. Sawing out
fits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse ears. Sizes 2-h.p. to ioo-h.p. One
to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. Liberal commissions
paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely finished
demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed FREE.
Write for our proposition to agents and u ers o power. Bank references given.
Dstroii Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan U S A
ljh
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you wilt
be glad to' lieur of u simple and scientific de-
Vice Which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you lire. There is no mystery
dr seetecy about it | we describe it fully aitd
explain jufit iiOw it acts. ,
You use spectacles aS sight magnifiers, arid
in the saine way you inay use this sourid
magnifier as aii aid to weak hearing. But;
unlike SpeCtadleS,. the Wilsoil COmmon-sense
Eav-Dmihs are itivi&ible aitd Comfortable.
You caii't teil you lire wearing them, No
one else can, eitherj beciiuSe they lire not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them—the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Heitlg made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, tlieV cannot lie felt, even when the
heud rests oh a pilloiv. Rot the same reason,
a blow on the side, of the bead will not hurt
the ear. In fact., they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give- an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
rV
hurt the ear. It fits tlie orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The divisiori
that runs across the mouth is! tfcijillbw tlife re-
moval and insertion of the Eitr-Druifi; arid ttl
lirape it,
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Brum has
been chosen after years of experience as The
best adapt**) to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is no’t
only trying to have people shout at them;
hut it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
tiie ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure von. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the abshrd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever von wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought von may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., hut the pair you
got at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. IVe do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STM? VOVFUTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name.
Address,
\[OTE.~- Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
von nnn! register it.
Kinging for More! *
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
k Over 70 years * success. A


TROljhlDT TACKLE!
We are Australia’s LARGEST Wholesale
and Retail Fishing Tackle Distributors.
Stockists of High-Class Fishing Tackle.
RODS.
The “Perfection” Split Cane Bods, 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops,
steel centre, cork grip, lock joints, agate bridge ana
end rings, etc. Highest quality t</IU/-.
No. 1. Split Cane Rods, 10i and 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, steel
centre, cork grip, lock joints, bridge rings, etc. £5/10/-.
No. 5. Split Cane Bods, 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
lock joints, serrated ferrules, snake rings, etc. £2/la/-.
The M.S. Split Cane Fly Bods, I<H and 11 feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, serrated ferrules, snake rings, etc.
Splendid value
No. 10F. Short, Jointed Split Cane Rods, 10i feet. 5 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, welted ferrules, double brazed. 21/-.
The M.S. Guinea Greenheart Rods, 101 and 11 feet, 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, snake rings, stained olive green,
splendid value 21/-.
No. 11. Split Cane Rods, 101 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, welted ferrules, nickel fittings, good value .. 18/6.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as ISTESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
Creels, Bags, Gaffs, Spinners, Casts, Fly Books and Boxes,
Flies, etc., etc., in endless variety.
REELS.
The M.S. “Perfection” Trout Keels, with tension screw and
contracted drum —a perfect reel —3 inch, *5/-> 3 2 m.
30/- pflph
The “1.X.L.” Trout Reels, made of best jaluminium,. op-
tional check, large drum for quick winding, oscillating
line guard and front brake. An excellent reel.
3 inch, 25/-.; 31 inch, 27/6; 31 inch, 30/- each.
The M.S. Rotary Check Reels, ebonite back, wire drum tor
rapid winding—a high-class reel:
2S inch. 13/6; 22 inch, 15/6; 3 inch, 17/6 each.
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE.
3,
TROUT LINES.
“Kingfisher” Plaited Silk Lines.
Double Tapered, 30 yards, No. 2, 10/-; No. 3, 11/6 each.
Double Tapered, 40 yards, No. 1, 11/6; No. 2, 12/6; No
13/6 each.
“Perfect” Waterproof Plaited Silk Lines.
A good quality level line, made specially for us
No. 40. 25 yards, 2/6; 50 yards, 5/- each.
No. 30. 25 vards. 3/-; 50 yards, 6/- each.
LANDING NETS.
The M.S. “Perfect” Collapsible Trout Net, highly finished.
a splendid net 11/6 each.
The “X.L.” Collapsible Net, telescopic handle, superior
quality, net and belt clip 14/6 each.
SUNDRIES.
No. 1. Cast Books, with parchment pockets 4/- each.
No. 2 Aluminium Cast Boxes, very light .. .. 2/- each.
No. 6. Japanned Eyed Ely Boxes, fitted with steel spring
clips, mounted to xylonite:
51 clips, 4/6; 85 clips, 5/6; 119 clips, 7/- each.
Spinning Head Flies 1/6 and 1/8 each.
Rouke Trout Spinners, a splendid line 9d. each.
The New Pearl Flash, an excellent bait .. 6d. and 9d. each.
Best Trout Flies, from 2/- per dozen
WE ARE RECOGNISED AS THE HOUSE
THAT SELLS THE BEST TACKLE.
Telescopic Gaffs, one and two slide..7/6, 12/6 and 17/6 each.
Best Waterproof Wading Trousers, light make, made ot
superior steamed Cashmere, all sizes in stock:
10, 102, 11, Hi and 12 inch foot 45/- pair.
Heavier Make, all sizes 37/6 pan-
Fishing Brogues, made from good-quality leather, with
canvas uppers, all sizes 22/6 pair.
Red Loop Tapered Gut Casts, something new in casts
which we can recommend 1/6 each.
Hercules Tapered Gut Casts, 3 yards long, 1/3 & 1/9 each.
Look out for our new “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE
CATALOGUE. Send address for a Free Copy.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
"The Best House for ALL ANGLING REQUISITES,”
Head Distributing Depot
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno's ‘ FRUIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION.- Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. BNO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng , by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
THE BESSES O' THE POCKET
1-55* J?- ■'•‘X
K
(SENIOR)
Built to Beat the Band
•I The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
(J The Reeds are made
of Be!l Metal, and
are Tunsd to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth Organs
far- MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds . . . 1/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds . . ... . . 1/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds . . .1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
tt Sole Agents
- ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
Williams’ Carnation
with the True Odor of
Your Garden Beauties.
:
O'";'
■J
!>
ms
TtON
M
o
R
Sa
■
i
IPWI
There are Plenty of
CHEAP
IMITATIONS,
both UNSAFE and
UNPLEASANT.
Better Shun Them.
The Price of Williams’ four
Talcum Powders —Carnation,
Violet, Rose and Karsi —is
ONE SHILLING.
Your Chemist Sells Them.
KARSI is a very delicate
powder of Eastern origin.
You would doubtless like to
try it. A perfect miniature
canister will be sent to any
address, free of charge, by
the J. B. WILLIAMS CO.,
Box 98, G.P.0., Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mbrrib
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
fIoRSE, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d.' Mysteries Court of Queen. Elizabeth, ls6d.
ĺ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
Bt Dr. E. B? FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I*-BOOKSELLER TO THE
COMMONWEALTH. -«|
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for aIL diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Ma'de Easj’, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Madk Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
othi rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IST" Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 -Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (oniy).


REXONA SOAP
FOR THE
HAIR.
No soap has yet been manufactured which leaves the hair so soft
so silky and full of lustre, and at the same time so elastic, as does Uni
SKIN and FACIAL SOAP. This is in part accounted for by the tact tnar
REXONA SOAP contains no mineral matter.
Some medicated soaps take the color out of Ithe and make
that it breaks off in short lengths. Not so with R ENONA Natural oils,
/5
k :§:kkkm
r - '
11
MISS BIL PENROSE (from a photo).
which strengthen the hair,
remove dandruff, and pro-
mote a healthy and luxuri-
ant growth.
REXONA SOAP is as
sweet, wholesome and pure
as the mountain dew. To
use it for the daily bath, or
even to wash the hands and
face with it is to furnish
the skin with an exceed-
ingly thin, but nevertheless
beneficent antiseptic coating.
Wend’s Chambers,
Broken Hill, N.S.W .,
13/9/’ll.
The Manager,
“Rexona” Co.,
15 O’Connell Street,
Sydney .
Dear Sir, —
You may he interested to
know that I have adopted
and recommended Rexona
Medicated Soap to my
clients, and have found it
heals and purifies the skin
when other remedies have
failed. It is soft, sweet and
wholesome, and I never wish
to have better. —Yours faith-
fully,
( Signed ) BID PENROSE,
Ladies’ Hair Specialist.
REXONA SOAP for Health and Beauty
REXONA SKIN and FACIAL SOAP
is the purest of the pure. It can work
nothing but good, and its healing and
soothing work will be noticeable within
one hour of application. It is a refresh-
ing, healing, antiseptic Soap, medicated
on the same principle as the famous
Rexona Ointment. Price, Is. per Tablet.
tettona
MEDICATED SOAP
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produce*
buy HORROCKSES’
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitute#
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
•tc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Blight of Asia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SAT in Sydney, dismally, a candidate
for bed,
When, brandishing a pamphlet, Brown
burst in on me and said:
“You’re out of sorts? You want a change?
You feel the winter’s cold?
Here’s just the medicine you need, a certain
cure, catch hold !”
He flung his booklet on my knees, continuing
to rant:
“Mark, learn and inwardly digest, then
straightaway levant
Where these ‘three nations, wonderful,
unique and more than nice,’
Exist, ’mid joys and junketings, upon their
Isles of Spice.”
I took “Three Wondrous Nations” up, and
read it to the end.
I found the brown man had at least one
very ardent friend.
The fair explorer’s raptures, and the naive
points she put,
Displayed she was a tender soul, perhaps a
tenderfoot.
I said: “Miss Grimshaw’s ecstasies fall
ralher flat on me.
I knew these Islands years before she saw
the Southern Sea.
I knew the Islands, and I know, what you
are hereby told,
Thev are not, and they never were, quite as
they are extolled.
“Their greatest charm, of artlessness in Ar-
cady, is past.
The peoples have been ‘civilised’—and many
are half-caste;
But there are gifts remaining to these
‘lslands of the Blest’
In color for the gloomy brain, and, for the
weary, rest.”
And, as I read, familiar scenes my memory
recalled ;
Old times in Polynesia, calm days that never
palled ;
Bright, friendly aborigines, with nothing
much to do
Except to teach the foreigner how to do
nothing too.
“They make me take your medicine, most
opportune of Browns,
And leave to those who care for them the
bought delights of towns,
To snatch the morrow’s breakfast from a
serpenline lagoon
A-silver in Mahina’s light (Mahina is the
Moon).
“To clamber o’er the main reef when the
ebb-tide leaves it dry,
And stand upon its wall-like edge as dawn
is drawing nigh,
To wait and watch unweariedly, by glamor
fastened, while
The morning sun makes gold the palms that
fringe the Sacred Isle.”
O memories, fond memories, how oft you
lead astray
Us foolish ones who vainly try to bring
back yesterday !
O Time, you old iconoclast, why do you
never give
Again to those who long for it the life they
used to live?
I paid no heed to doubtfulness, I took a
Union boat
(Which surely was the wobbliest of all the
things afloat),
And, after splashing seven days through a
tormenting sea,
We reached the bless&d land at last, at
Suva, in Fiji.
Then, puzzled, I surveyed the wharves, next
hastened to the town;
What were those squads of skinny imps that
pottered up and down?
Disgruntled, nerveless aliens, they, who
made most manifest
My “Color for the gloomy brain” —the
Colored Labor Pest!
No more Sa yandra greeted me, expressing
kind regards,
The Fiji folk I saw were pictured on bright
postal cards:
Where once the Vuni Valu* strode, a stately
form to view,
There slunk the cringing, chaffering and mis-
named “mild” Hindu.
This low-caste, no-caste, outcast from the
Indian bazaar,
Imported, first, to servitude as messenger,
sirkar,
Cook, driver, houseboy, washerman, or cane-
plantation hand,
Tenacious and acquisitive, was capturing
the land!
I did not take my luggage off that rolling
Union ship,
But soon was back on board of her, and
lengthening my trip.
Thought I, “Samoa’s solaces are still re-
served for me,
With all her quaint inhabitants, much as
they used to be.”
I landed in Apia Bay, and hope became de-
spair !
Although it bore another name, the pesti-
lence was there,
As pig-tailed, yellow Chinamen, in wraps of
sombre hue —
Dark garments do not show their dirt, and
dirty work they do.
They slithered down the “Sliding Rock,” re-
nowned in tale and song;
They dotted all the harborside, and thickly
swarmed along
The road, now named the “Tivoli,” that
stretches from the shore
And climbs, through groves of cocoa-palms,
to high Vailima’s door.
I shook Upolu’s lava-dust most briskly from
my shoes.
Celestials spoil my landscape even sooner
than Hindus,
Berthed in the steamer once again, I mut-
tered, “Let me get
To shelter in one little spot the plague has
spared—as yet.”
So here I am in Tonga, in the lone, last
island place
Still (nominally) vested in the hunted Maori
race;
In theory vet native, but in practice—well,
one knows
How small a faith the brown man in the
white one can repose.
O people I have dwelt among, and liked, my
heart is sore
By reason of your future, for I see, athwart
your door,
The Shadow of Calamity, and England holds
its key ;
Her King is Lord of India. How long shall
you be free?
The “boon of British rule” enswathes your
neighbors of Fiji;
Before your eyes they’re drowning in the
Asiatic Sea;
Behold you, now, “protected” by this self-
same flag that waves
Above “indentured laborers” who “never
shall be slaves!”
Tiius must the English euphemise, for ’tis
their nature to.
The Master made them hypocrites, some pur-
pose to pursue;
But may the younger nations grow to see,
with clearer eyes.
How often such “philanthropy” is greed in a
disguise.
Meanwhile I stay in Tonga, in the orbit of
the blight,
Here soon to be descending, with the cer-
tainty of night;
I have no mind to trifle in the old-time
Island way,
I’m trembling for Australia, still so stolidly
at play.
For round the careless Continent the Asian
feelers go.
Till every Island outpost seems to hold a
lurking foe.
Too-trusting Child of England, your mere
faith cannot avail,
In all the winds that blow I think I hear the
Banshee’s wail.
At play, while others hard at drill the “right
of might” profess.
Blind to the lessons of all Time, in bland
defencelessness,
Awaiting the millennium; but ere God’s
Peace shall be
The clash of Armageddon must be heard on
land and sea.
TONGATABTT.
TALAFEKAU.
* Vuni Valu, “Root of War”: King ThakombauV
title of office.
My Golden Age.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE is a golden age in the life ol
every man, and mine happened in
Maoriland, when I lived with seven
others in a bachelor hall known as “The
Retreat.” We called ourselves the Honor-
able Brotherhood of Mokes (Heaven only
knows why), and were stabled in an ideal
mansion built by a mad squatter on Pros-
pect Heights. The .building was of stone,
with mullioned windows above and French
ones below, and both sorts looked out on
Prospect Cliff and over the wilderness of
jagged rock, raging surf and tremendous
breakers that roared sullenly against the
beach of black shingle. In the blue distance
reared the rocky height of Rampart Cape,
butlrcssed with golden sandhills. In the
moonlight we used to lounge along the crest
of the cliff, watching the lunar rainbows that
formed in the iridescent spray, and ex-
postulating with Tapley for hanging his legs
over the edge of the precipice. For the
town was subject to earthquakes, and we
were all fond of Tapley, who was affluent
and generally good for a loan near the end of
the month.
The Retreat had become famous. From
the boarding-houses and residential pubs in
the town below fellows came to have dinner
with us, and to smoke and participate in
the rites and ceremonies of Mokedom on our
lawn. Then they wanted to join the Brother-
hood, but we were a jealous crowd of pagans,
and, like the Jews, made no converts.
The domestic management of The Retreat
was in the hands of Jack Palamountain, an
ancient mariner with one eye, a horrible
temper, and an amazing flow of language.
His agreement contained a clause which gave
him the right to go on a prolonged jag twice
a year. His redeeming characteristics were
a genius for cooking and a passion for
cleanliness that was almost a disease. He
restrained it somewhat after Tapley thumped
him for scrubbing his hand-painted tea set
with sand and soap.
The Mokes were a cheerful crowd. Only
Tony Bloggs, who had a wasting leg, occa-
sionally gave himself up to fits of gentle
melancholy, and wquld settle down to Tap-
ley’s piano, and strum forth dolorous melody
with one finger, while the rest of us rolled
round on the lawn and thanked the gods
we were alive and had The Retreat.
One Sunday night we were, as usual, out
on the cliff, Tapley with his legs dangling
over the edge. The surf was unusually
(Continued on page


EETHING RASHES
SORES.
0
%
:.'X\VVw
"fc
w
Baby
Dickson
m
3SI f\
Zam-Buk heals cuts,
burns, scalds,
scratches, and is un-
equalled for eczema,
piles, ringworm,
bad legs, ulcers, fes-
tering sores, blood
poison, insect bites,
blisters and sore
feet, etc. Sold by all
chemists and stores
at 1/6 & 3/6 per pot-
ZAM-BUK : THE IDEAL BALM FOR
BABY’S TENDER & SENSITIVE SKIN
'Y little boy, aged two years,
had a rash break out on his
face and head, caused by
in
teething,” says Mrs. Harriet Dick-
son, of 299 Wellington Street, Col-
lingwocd, Melbourne. “The disease
first made its appearance in the shape
of little red blotches, which broke into
running sores, some of which dried with
thickened crusts on them. The many
remedies we tried did not do any good, and
for 12 months the little chap suffered very
much. The irritation and pain made him very
fretful and cross. After reading 1 about Zam-Buk I ob-
tained a supply, and after using it for a little while I
was pleased to notice the disease was being beaten.
“ I washed him with Zam-Buk Soap and applied
the balm twice a day, and the sores gradually disap-
peared. Inside a couple of months there was no sign
of a spot or blemish, and his face was beautiful and
clear. Zam-Buk completely cured him in a surpris-
ingly short time, considering the obstinate nature
of the trouble, when all other treatments failed.”
DR.
ANDREW
WILSON,
the well-known medical writer and author of
“ Homely Talks on First Aid,” says:—
“ Whenever a pot of Zam-Buk is handy, this
preparation may be relied upon as an antiseptic
dressing ivhich requires no preparation, and
has the additional advantage of possessing
unique healing properties.
Byulohj
i luilol
€ jhljh
LcQI ljh
Patrons of the Photo-Play.
You Lose—lf You Fail to See
THE RED ROUGE,
n« wwiihii irunrmn———af?"-"— *-msmiicaaiK , t i1 —fn nabs.-.,,amiodb^ 1
or "HIS LIFE FOR A FLOWER.”
THE PRINCIPAL PARTS IN THIS MOTION PICTURE ARE EXECUTED
BY PERFORMERS OF WORLD RENOWN.
“All is Not Gold that Glitters!
A Present-Day Drama, True to Life.
BOTH OF THE ABOVE SUBJECTS ARE BRILLIANT PHOTO. PLAY
ACHIEVEMENTS, PRODUCED AT A STUPENDOUS COST.
DESERVING OF YOUR PATRONAGE—ELEVATING TO THE HIGHEST DEGREE.
Insist and demand that your Exhibitor shows the above and other
High=Class Moving Picture Subjects secured exclusively from
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES
CAPITAL £200,000. WM. H. BELL, General Manager.
controlledQ fea j gr j. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
High-Class Modern Enterprise Amusement Purveyors.
Principal Offices !
SYDNEY Colonial Theatre Building, 610 George Street.
MELBOURNE— Sutton’s Building, 292 Bourke Street.
BRISBANE—Courier Building, Queen Street.
PERTH Trustee Chambers, Barrack Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.— Fowld’s Building, 52 Manners Street.
And throughout Australasia.
r rand that night, and the moonlight so bright
that it would have been possible to read by
it, but for the clouds of smoke fpom Tqpley’s
long cherry pipe, which floated down into
the town and gave the Fire Brigade an un-
easy quarter of an hour. Tony was holding
ins fox terrier in case he might start fight-
ing with my bull pup and the two fall over
the cliff. I had been compelled to get pp
several times and kick the pup for irritable
conduct, and at last the brute actually tried
to bite me. He realised what he had done a
moment after, and, putting the stump of his
tail as far between his legs as possible, went
for the stable at top speed.
“Tapley,” I said, “come off that cliff.
Whenever the bull pup’s temper gives right
out it’s a sign of earthquakes.”
“If only we had a musician among us,”
said Tony irrelevantly. “Kilgour, the chap
they call ‘the Spectre,’ wants to join us, and
I think we ought to admit him.”
There was a dead silence. Kilgour was a
brilliant amateur musician, much sought
after by the society of the place, painfully
respectable, and notorious for dressing most
elaborately on £2 10s. a week. How he did
it was a mystery, and a mystery we didn’t
want to solve by having him in the place,
where he would be certain to ask some of us
to back bills or loan him cash.
“It would be awfully jolly to have a real
good pianist in the Brotherhood of Mokes,”
continued Tony in a pleading voice.
Tony was our pet, and, although he was
19, we regarded him as a sort of baby. lie
was so weak, so fond of the music which he
could never learn to play, and the Brother-
hood laid itself Out to make him have as good
a time as possible; for the seal of death was
on Tony.
“You’d like to have him here, wouldn’t
you, old chap?” said Tapley softly.
“Yes,” said Tony, “he’d cheer me up.
Just think of sitting out here in the moon-
light and Kilgour inside there rolling out
the ‘Anvil Chorus.’ ”
- Tapley shuddered.
“It would be good,” said someone else;
and thereafter the rest of the Mokes ex-
pressed approval in various ways. A great
stillness fell on us; the noise of the surf
ceased, and when we looked round the water
w»s still. We were close to the edge of the
cliff. Tapley sprang to his feet and, picking
Tony up in his arms, ran towards the house.
We followed. When the surf stops suddenly
like that something’s likely to happen.
But nothing did occur. In five minutes
the surf was in full blast again, but we kept
awav from the edge of the cliff, and presently
Jack was called and requested to bring some-
thing long and cool. Only then we found
that Tony was missing.
“He’s gone down town to tell Kilgour he’s
approved—we’ll have the beast here to-mor-
row for'sure.”
* * * *
Up the weed-specked carriage drive came a
Yankee express loaded high with luggage. It
crawled up to the big front door and halted.
"What’s all this?” inquired Harry Bloggs.
“Mr. Ivilgour’s luggage! Will I carry it
upstairs or leave it in the hall?”
“Put it in the hall till we get the extra
wing built!” snorted Tapley.
A few minutes after the last portmanteau
had been deposited inside Kilgour himself ap-
peared. He was a tall man, with a slight
stoop, clean-shaven face and shaggy eyebrows.
His face was hollow and of a dark mahogany
color. In his left band he carried a small
Gladstone bag and his right flicked and
twirled a thin, gold-mounted cane. He put
his glasses on his nose, stared at the assembly
of the Mokes, held out his hand and said
“Haw!”
Seven of us held out our right hands in a
row and said “Haw!” but the effect was
spoilt by Tony hobbling through the hall and
rushing to greet Kilgour with a yell of de-
light. Then Kilgour requested to be shown
the way to the bathroom. He always “show-
ered” before dinner to give him. an appetite.
Kilgour was rather long getting liis shower
and we were wailing for him. Old Jack was
fuming ; he muttered under his breath that
the soup would be all to H—. At last Kil-
gour appeared. We gasped. He wore a loose
jacket of Chinese silk of a pale yellow tint;
pants to match. Under the flowing ends of
his white silk tie we caught glimpses of a
silk shirt of palest rainbow tints. In fact,
he was a sort of glorified cocoon.
*.* * . *
With the coming of this stranger and his
wonderful togs—for he seemed to burst forth
in a different color scheme every night—a
new era commenced at The Retreat. We
began, at the instance of Kilgour, and in def-
erence to the appeals of Tony, to give musi-
cal evenings. Ladies of unimpeachable re-
spectability and considerable social tonnage
came to sip ices, drink wine and flirt on our
lawn in the moonlight, and Kilgour spent his
time betwen bashing melody out of Tapley’s
piano and strolling up and down the lawn
with a girl on each arm. He enjoyed those
nights, and poor little Tony hobbled about
in a state of ecstasy, and imagined he was in
Heaven when the fashionable dames and
spinsters fondled and fussed him.
They came to our evenings and suggested
more of them. They consumed ices by the
bucket. Thejr drank our liquids and mopped
up the light, refreshments, in an amazing
iiyle. The bills mounted and The Retreat
daggered under the weight of them. But
when Kilgour in his silken toggery and color
schemes walked abroad we couldn’t get a
look-in. Even when the brute was at the
piano they flocked round him, some turning-
over his music and inspira-
tion into him at both ears, while those who
couldn’t get - close enough to breathe con-
tented themselves with stroking his back
hair. . .
Being ignored like this in our own home
for one who was only a boarder and not
really one of ourselves was too much. It
was evidently a matter of clothes. We ap-
proached Kilgour and asked him where he
got those garments. He seemed communica-
tive. He took us to his room and spread
them on the bed and hung them round the
walls for our delectation. Of course any-
one could make them, any tailor. But there
was only one place in the city where a fellow
could get the cut that would survive the
washing. Mrs. McGill was the only one
who could do it properly. She would do
anything to obliire him, and if we liked he
would use his influence.
We did like. The Honorable Brotherhood
of Mokes went down in a body, with Tony
under its arm, and was measured unani-
mously. Every month we increased our
stopk. The parties and the musical even-
ings went on. We were caught in the vor-
tpx and went wiih the whirl. The fatal
charm of our newer clothes got in its
>vork, and at last it became bard for Kilgour
tq get )i girl to turn his music.
Then one day Tapley drew up a balance-
sheet, for Jack Palamountain had said either
the bills must be paid, or someone specially
hired to interview creditors. Tapley’s sov-
ereign remedy for all troubles was to draw
up a balance-sheet, and we sent Tony. off to
picnic at Taradale and held a meeting of
the Brotherhood.
It had to be done, It was either that or
give up The Retreat, and for the sake of
the dying Tony we clung to the dear old
place.' That afternoon we raised a loan on
the furniture, and backed bills for one an-
other, and settled down to work off the dead
horse.
The musical parties stopped with a bang.
Kilgour became morose and refused to play
for the edification of Tony. We arose
in wrath and heaved him and his boxes of
drapery through the front gate.
We gave as a reason for the cessation of
our jollity the illness of Tony, who was now
conlined to lounges and sofas. Those fash-
ionable dames and spinsters weren’t so bad
after all: they took it in turns to come round
and play the piano and talk pleasantly to
Tony while he lay on a lounge on. the cliff.
Then in the evenings we propped him up on
the big sofa we had carried into the drawing-
room for the purpose, and arranged for him
to have all the music he craved for. We
gave up going down town and stayed at home
to cheer up our little invalid. When the
girls had gone we used to draw round him
in a ring, and Tony would light up a huge
and wonderful long German pipe we had
bought him among us, and blow small, tiny
puffs of smoke at rare intervals. lie used
to express a wish that Kilgour would come
back again, but one night Nina Williams
broke up that divinity altogether. Tony
had told her how we all ordered silk cos-
tumes through him, and how he kindly
undertook to persuade Mrs. McGill to make
them for us. Nina laughed that low, be-
witching laugh that used to set Tapley’s
blood on fire.
“Didn’t you know, Tony dear, that he was
Mrs. McGill’s nephew? ... That’s part of his
programme. He gets into the best places,
trots out the silken suits she makes him for
advertising purposes, and then, when he
has induced all the other fellows to go in
for a few, he takes his samples and himself
to another establishment.”
Tony gasped, lay back on the pillow and
blew a really large cloud of smoke for him.
“Well, I’m blowed. He got a £lO order
out of me, and about half as much again out
of the other fellows.”
He never spoke of Kilgour again but to
remark that, after all, his playing was not
so extra superlative. He thought the girls
put more soul into the business.
Then he slipped down another inch. He
grew tired of even music. His one desire
was to lie out as near to the edge of the cliff
as possible and watch the great breakers go
foaming up on to the grim black beach. He
liked to have girls around him, but only to
sit beside him and hold his hand. After they
had gone he never roused himself to talk;
just shoved his little fist into someone’s hand,
and didn’t seem to care about anything else.
For months hfT had slept in the open air
on the verandah, and we took it in turns to
sleep there beside him and give him ,any at-
tention he desired through the night. At
first the sight of this irresistible advance of
Death broke us up, but gradually we.grew
accustomed to it, looked it in the face,- and
were not afraid. But from that gaze we
learned that of all the gifts of the gods sud-
den death is the greatest boon.
It was midnight and the surf seemed to
be strangely silent. The absence of its
musical roar woke me up, for a sudden
silence strikes a sleeper like a blow. I felt
that I was at sea, a gentle heaving seemed
to soothe me. Then I woke as a cry from
Tony rang out on the heavy, oppressive still
ness.
“What’s up, old chap—anything wrong?”
“Earthquake!” gasped Tony.
Then the solid earth rocked. From away
towards Tarawera came the roar of rapid
detonations. There was a crack in the
masonry above that scared me more. The
chimneys were falling through the roof, and
if another shock came the walls might col-
lapse. I looked out towards the ocean —it
had rolled back hundreds of yards and
seemed to be boiling. Then I grabbed Tony’s
lounge chair and started to drag him awn<
from the building. Down the stairs came th ■
tramping of the feet of the Mokes as they fled
off the premises. Through the big Frenol
window sprang the giant Tapley; he caw-t
up Tony in his arms, bedclothes and all, a’-,
rushed towards the street gate. Half-way
there a frightful shock hurled us down, and
we lay trembling. The far-off detonations
were drowned in another pandemonium—the
hissing of the incoming tidal wave 300 feet
below us, and the roar of Prospect Cliff going
down solidly into it, the crash of earth and
rock smiting the water, and then the grating
of the ocean against its bed.
Then comparative silence and darkness
that could be felt liell upon us. We
groped our way to a tree and sat down
beneath it. We asked Tony how he felt, but
he did not reply. His wasted hands were
clasped tightly around Tapley’s neck.
“It’s all right now, Tony boy. Let go
and lie back nice and comfortable. Undo
his hands, old fellow—he’s fainted from
shock.”
“No,” I said. “You know what the noise
of the ocean grinding against its bed does?—
well, Tony heard it.”
I unloosened the hands and we struck a
light and found Tony had gone.
We carried him down to the Club Hotel
and took up our quarters there. I doubt if
under any circumstances we would have
gone back to The Retreat, but we couldn’t
if we would. It was a heap of ruins ; the con-
cussion of the falling cliff and the earth-
quake shocks had wrecked it. The Hdnor-
able Brotherhood of the Mokes dissolved
over Tony’s grave, and my golden age came
to an abrupt conclusion.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


ouse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
jhl
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
r— lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2— The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing-with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
5 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
s—No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary,
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
-*m.f ea ' anCl Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Let us Quote YOU
for your
Supplier
Packings
Jointings
Beltings
Oils and Greases
Boiler Fluid
Paints
Steam Valves
Water Valves
Injectors
Engineers' Tools
Twist Drills, Emery Grinders
Feed Pumps
Centrifugal Pumps.
Quality the Best! Prices the Lowest I!
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
ml WILL SAVE MUCH TROUBLE
and°fhnrnniM US v”? 10 *® Our men work systematically, carefully
and thoroughly. No danger of injuring furniture or walls-care characterises every
removal. Let us quote our low prices.
Sanders, Sutton & Whitehead Ltd.,
REMOVAL AND STORAGE EXPERTS,
Head Office: 43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Depots: Dulwich Hill, Chatswood, Mosman, Waverley, Burwood, Kogarah, Parramatta and Manly.
’Phone numbers : City 1290, Central 476, 2028 and 4012.
1
Guaranteed 2 Years.
' ajhj
- -■ hl
OIL
ENGINE
'This is our 2-h.p.
! Hand Portable Engine.
Otto Four Cycle Type.
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
and thi c 7 ours * We have an immense sale,
and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
jhljh
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deposit.
Long Terms,
Write for Catalogues end full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON
»“~ :49 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 339 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
IE BEST STORTES written
appear in The Lone Hand
sixpence.
in Australia
each month.
T>OOKS WORTH READING. The new
f''p Ce t° * ie T ? ew fict i° n appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
fSSf'MI'
1
m
\\
Ml
m
05?
MOW DO YOU DO?
“OH, I DO TAKE
beechams pills:
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. fri-d. McWilliam. Manager.
WOLF’S Patent Superheated
STEAM PLANTS.
' ' 1
dS'ijr ' V".
Class THC Engine 820 B.H.P. Max.
The Most Economical Power Producer Yet Built.
WILL USE ANY KIND OF FUEL WHICH IS BURNABLE.
Guarantee Test just completed fay a prominent Consulting Engineer, carried out
on a plant recently erected in Sydney, gave the Remarkably L>ow
Fuel Consumption of l*l4lb. of COAL (not costly charcoal
or coke) per Brake Horse Power per hour.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Australian Representatives:
HAES 8 EGGERS LTD.,
163 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
ADELAIDE:
MELBOURN
BRISBANE:
Local Agents:
Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
E: Diamond Lubricating & Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 FUnden Lane.
Dean & Collin, 335 Queen Street. "* LaDe *


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack partitions
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
TELEPHONES.
House, Long-Distance and all kinds of Telephone
Equipment in stock—Low Prices .
Dynamos, Motors, Cables and Wires, and every-
thing in Electrical Supplies on hand,
WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
# [5
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cement (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Hails,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plaster.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to sole Importers-
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney-
fifi
TANGYE
benzine engine.
Kerosene Oil 8 Benzine Engines,
Suction Gas Plants,
Steam Engines, Pumping Plants.
DALOETY & CO. LTD., Agents,
Sydney, Melbourne, .Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville,
Adelaide and Fremantle.
HE
MACHINES
oj *tC£TY & co.no
AGENTS
for Wolseley Machines in Australia and New Zealand—
DALGETY«CO. LIL
“Clayton &
Shuttleworth
55
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINE.
Portable Steam 8 Traction Engines
Steam Road Rollers,
Thrashers, Centrifugal Pumps.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Agents,
Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville .Fremantle.
They have never been equalled in design, strength, truth and
efficiency; that is why they have the largest sale. From 6" to 60"
diameter are carried in stock.
. 1 v ■> . «
Specify the “American” when you want Pulleys, and you will
avoid making a shut down. Every Pulley guaranteed. Send
for Price List.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores, Farms and Townships,
Ti,« PE “LAITTE”
AIR-6AS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest Illuminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by- the Railway
Commissioners of N.S.W. and Victoria. Thousands
already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking- and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large
Machim-s supplied. Ordinary gas piping used for dis-
tributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
mm
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFPTH
St. George’s Terrace, riilUm
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Bowman Building's, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
Rabbit Proof Wire Netting
and All Supplies for
the Man on the Land.
MACHg^j
r
MM
7k
T?mgf£* ~7d&e4W**+s_
Sole A6ents .
dangar Gedye 6 C 9 Sydne
CARD CONCENTRATOR.
The only Concentrator with 2-plane adjustable deck.
The Concentrator which has supplanted other makes after every test.
Made in Two Styles : No. 1, for ordinary concentrates; No. 2, fitted with patent slime deck.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS: ====================
■ ■
111
1
t-fav.
263 George Street, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
