

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
R, G. WATKINS & 00. 9
107 Kent street,, Sydney,
—FOB— , . .
Mi t and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. -
sdf
MACHINE TOOLS.
Lathes, Planers, Shapers* Drills, etc.
By England’s Best Makers.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
B.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
ECOBu!kR.T.
TMfX
fiadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowioi & Son, Ld .
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
sdf
" Take it back ♦
I must have-
HUTTON* S
Pine-Apple Brand I
sd
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
unfeet,
tabl e t s
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
r
COVERS about 20 Per Cent., TUBES 25 Per Cent, and over.
WRITE FOR
NEW PRICE LIST.
THE SILVERTOWN ROBBER CO., 279 George St., Sydney; 8 at 53 Bolton St., Newcastle.
ADVANCES MADE ON ALLSECURITIE S
N W? EJTu\hCd
7JjjCASTLERgACH*ST
EUSTACE BENNETT general manacfp
MONEY ADVANCED UPON ALL SECURITIES AT REASONABLE RATES OF INTEREST.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
sdf
sdf
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
MALTHOID is the leading' ready-fto-u.se
roofing on the market. Its g'reat durability
renders it suitable for use in every climate—
neither beat nor cold affect it. It is light and
easy to Handle and lay, and is without doubt
the most economical roofing to buy.
Archite«Sts and Builders specify and use
MALTHOID ROOFING because it is the best.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLAGE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
■
MALTHOID.
Call
For
WHISKY
OHM
BLACK
SQUARE
BOTTLE.
jfioffflt-Virhie C. d .
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET (Opp. Lands Office),
SYDNEY.
VIPTIJP is the favorlte Sheep Shearing
’ ’ ■* Machinery throughout the length
and breadth of the Commonwealth because it represents the highest
standard in efficiency and economy. Get the M.-V. Catalogues.
MOFFAT
Also BLACKSTONE OIL ENGINES,
DAVEY PAXMAN STEAM ENGINES,
NEW WAY BENZINE ENGINES.
WS
sdf
The wonderful efficacy of HEUDON SPA
in its for rCtDid
The Bulletin
V01.33.—N0. 1675.]
[Thursday, March 21, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


FOR EVERYONE,
Send for These Lists.
books are astonishing value; they are neatly bound in cloth,
KSAW,® S°°d type. Gilt top, illustrated—being cheaper issues of works which
have had a larger sale in the more expensive editions, Is. 3d., posted Is. 4d.
72 Books in the Series. Lists Mailed Free.
SOME UNIVERSITY LIBRARY OE MODERN KNOWLEDGE, Is. 3d., posted Is. 4d. Neatly
Douna m cloth.
Every volume in the Library is absolutely new and specially written, on a subject of living
and permanent interest, by a recognised authority.
1/2 Volumes Now Ready. Lists Mailed Free.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
iHOW TO USE IHE POWDER.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s
Eumenthol Tooth Powder should be
used for the Preservation of the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and
Antiseptic virtues that have made Eumen-
thol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically,
owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
eontac t with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the
Teeth so wonderfully,, and wards off decay
as no other preparation for the Teeth
can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists In tins, price 1/6,
forwarded poßt free on receipt of stamps.
HU DSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD..
l9 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
CSC
The Manufacturer and the
University
The Red Page
Robert Kennedy Duncan, Professor of In-
dustrial Research and of Industrial Chem-
istry at an American university, is the most
fertile of the writers who are translating to
the world the meaning of the revolutionary
discoveries and inventions of to-day. The
New Knowledge and The Chemistry of Com-
merce flooded the world of intelligent readers
with the wonderful white mjgic of the great
magician chemists of this age; and though
Some Chemical Problems of To-day (Har-
per) is merely a collection of disparate es-
says, it is a stimulating and not too techni-
cal work.
In “The Prizes of Chemistry,” Duncan
gives an astonishingly varied list of discov-
eries yet urgently waiting to be made which
will certainly afford a fortune to the man
who makes them. The number of things
that this modern world wants and can’t get
and is willing to pay handsomely for is im-
mense. And the number of things that
science does not know practically anything
about, such as leather and glue, indicates
the avenues of investigation that would cer-
tainly prove profitable to any young chemist
seeking a life-work.
In the chapter entitled, “The Whither-
ward of Matter,” the author argues in favor
of the new theory that “the elements of
matter are not eternal, but temporal, that
there exists in every form of matter the
process of its own decay, and this suspicion
is gradually becoming crystallised into be-
lief, into a new philosophy.” The solution
of the problem probably hinges on the
question of the disappearance of the alpha
rays from radioative elements. For, fly-
ing out from through matter, at a certain
distance, at the very culmination of their
powers to affect the detectors —photographic
plate, phosphorescent screen, etc.—they dis-
appear.
The explanation is that below a certain
speed we have no means to detect these par-
ticles, and “were ordinary substances, mat-
ter of every kind, emitting these particles
at any velocity below this very considerable
pace, they would be wholly beyond the power
of present-day apparatus to detect.”
There is therefore a strong presumption
that ordinary matter is continuously emit-
ting these particles, that, in consequence, it
is undergoing degradation, and that we are
m ignorance of it only through the limita-
tions of our apparatus. Finally, it leads
us to think that the only essential differ-
ence between radio substances and ordinary
substances lies in the velocity of the par-
ticles they eject.
And as, through the radio-activity of the
materials of the earth, there is continuall
being evolved an amount of heat far in ex
cess of the earth’s loss of heat by radiation
and to keep its temperature constant, Dun
can begins to suspect “a fatally determined
acceleration of this disintegrating dissolu
tion of matter,” which can only end in th
glorious burst-up prophesied in the Bible.
Jt
Duncan calls attention to a new theory o
the beginning of things, the Planetesima
Hypothesis of Prof. T. C. Chamberlain, o
the Chicago University, which has begun to
take the place of Laplace’s Nebular Hypo
thesis, still taught, we believe, in Australian
schools. This theory, upon which most o: !
us have been brought up, supposes that the
solar system begins with a nebula, which
slowly cooled and contracted, parting
with rings of matter, which ultima
tely, and in order, broke and collected in
to spheres, forming our globe and the other
•planets in turn, each to cool and in the end
bear life. The new theory begins with
collision between two stars—the “partia
impact”. of Prof. Bickerton of Maoriland—
giving rise to a spiral nebula —the commones :
type of nebulae in the sidereal system. The
catastrophe would .fling out large masses o::
fragments, which from collisions as they
revolved would gradually collect aboui;
the larger fragments; and with every in-
crease by accretion the larger lumps would
have a stronger attraction for the smaller
fragments. These platetary nuclei woulc
become planets. But these planets began as
small lumps of cold and solid matter, not
globes of flaming gas. But how did these
chilly planets get warm? Partly by the
pelting action of the colliding fragments
but most by the immense compressive
forces of the earth’s own gravity de-
veloping as it grew ever larger and larger,
until it culminated in an era of vulcanism.
Not that the earth ever became an intensely
heated body. The objections to Laplace’s
theory answered by this new hypothesis
are too many for detailed enumeration here;
but the new theory is hereby commended to
those who lose sleep at nights worrying over
what happened before anything happened
at all.
Duncan points out a remarkable similarity
between the elements contained in living
matter and those contained in sea water —-
in which wet place it is believed life on
this globe began.
Sea-water and air comprise the substance
of man; but there is more than this to it;
there is a relation between sea-water and
living matter in the actual relative propor-
tions of the elements that comprise each.
A comparison between sea-water and the
serum of the mammal shows an astounding
identity in the percentage of sodium, cal-
cium, potassium, though sea-water contains
a greater percentage of magnesium. The
correspondence is remarkable. But chemists
advance proof that when the oceans were
first formed from puddles of condensed water-
vapor, the percentage of magnesium dis-
solved therein was exceedingly small—as it
is in the serum of the mammal to-day.
The conclusion seems almost inevitable
that we have actually in our veins, fixed by
heredity, the water of that early pre-Cam-
brian ocean in which the remote ancestors
of man first assumed a closed circulatory
system. But this is not all. The inorganic
constituents of the solid tissues of our
bodies, the ash of muscle, and such like,
vary widely from the constituents of the
liquid blood-plasma that we have been con-
sidering. One remarkable characteristic of
living tissue is the great preponderance of
its potassium content over its sodium.
Now, there is a great deal of evidence going
to show that in the earliest sea there ex-
isted also this potassium preponderance....
We see, then, that not only did the air and
water at the beginning of things contain in
contiguity the elements of living matter,
but that these elements did actually unite
to form this living matter.
Most fascinating is the chapter dealing
with the trend of chemical invention —a
record of miracles; while the story of the
revolutionising of camphor reads like a
drama.
The most fruitful portion of the book,
however, is a detailed statement of the sys-
tem of industrial fellowships obtaining in
certain universities of the United States—a
system that cries out to be set in motion in
Australia. In America, thanks chiefly to
the efforts of the author, the manufacturing
companies co-operate with the universities in
a scheme for the adequate solution of im-
portant manufacturing problems. The ar-
rangement benefits the manufacturers, the
chemist, and the university. The American
manufacturer —also the Australian manu-
facturer—is inefficient “sometimes, it is safe
to state, to the extent of 50 per cent, of the
value of his product.” He —unlike the Aus-
tralian—is confessedly inefficient, and desires
help. He gets it by founding a fellowship
for the study of the problems bothering him.
Take a few actual examples: Here is one
firm which gave a fellowship on enamel-
lined tanks —£260 per annum, for two years,
with a bonus on results. Six months be-
fore the expiration of this fellowship, the
manufacturers took the two chemists into
the corporation, because they had succeeded
in constructing an enamel which lies beauti-
fully on steel, which is of extraordinary re-
sistivity, and which affords good promise of
being adapted to large-scale application.
Also, they have helped to develop a sub-
stance which is not glass or enamel at all,
and which seems remarkably well adapted
for use as a coating for steel tanks. Another
chemist, holding a fellowship on the chemical
treatment of wood, at ,a salary of £3OO,
within a year had devised and developed a
process for the improvement of the finish
on wood, which, while brilliant and resistant
to all ordinary reagents, is 43 times harder
than varnish. He already has patents pend-
ing—for the firms offering these fellowships
always allow their chemists to profit in .a
fair degree from any of the discoveries made
in their service. Other fellowships include
such diverse subjects as: The chemistry of
bread, the utilisation of the constituents of
buttermilk, the utilities of borax, the preser-
vation of orange juice, and one, of £2400 a
year, with 49 per cent, interest in the re-
sults of the work, on the abatement of the
smoke nuisance. The results from these
inquiries are available to the public three
years after the termination of the fellow-
ship, though patents can be taken out at
any time. The fellows give certain lec-
tures in the university.
The university which does not devote it-
self to research, both pure and applied, is a
dead limb on the tree of our civilisation, for
without research it can neither teach nor
can it be of service.
There must be innumerable problems,
almost peculiar to Australian manufacture
and industry, that the establishment of such
fellowships would incalculably benefit. Can
our manufacturers afford to stay outside
such a profit-making arrangement? And are
our universities somnolent enough not to see
the advantage that would accrue to them by
encouraging the perplexed manufacturer to
come to them for expert help? And how
many young trained chemists, with a desire
for research, have we at present with nothing
to look forward to but a barren professor-
ship?
+
A neat little description of Maoriland is
New Zealand, by Robert Stout and J. Logan
Stout (Cambridge University Press). The
authors state that there are more Baptists
than Jews in God’s Own Pawned Country,
but “there is no Australian colony that has
so great a proportion of people of Scotch
descent.” As there are no Australian
“colonies” left, this is quite likely.
When War Comes to Us
A book containing the fruits of the study
of naval strategy by the world-renowned
author of The Influence of Sea Power On
History cannot help being of remarkable
value —and of a value inestimable to Aus-
tralia, whose situation and naval inferiority
lay us open for the practical application
of the principles first formulated by Cap-
tain A. T. Mahan (now Admiral of the
U.S. Navy), and adopted by the navies of
the world. Naval Strategy (Sampson, Low,
per Sydney Book Club) deserves the closest
study by every patriotic Australian, if we
are to avoid the fatal consequences of popu-
lar panic in the time of danger. It is a
work that can be read by the layman with
ease of comprehension, for the author suc-
ceeds in making the art of warfare, naval
as well as military, a matter of a few broad
principles, astonishing in their simplicity.
It is in the application of these fundamen-
tals that the ability of our naval commander
will be found —or found wanting. Mahan
ranges for his illustrations over the whole
of history, military and naval, from the
Athenian expedition against Syracuse, 415
b.c., to the Russo-Anthropoid war, of which
an intensely interesting analysis is made.
And though the naval defence of Austral-
asia is but mentioned casually, the reader
can deduce from a study of the principles
of naval strategy the parlous position in
which we stand, now and in the immediate
future. For Mahan, being a foreigner, has
no hesitation in stating the facts about the
British Empire, unpleasant as they are, in
the domain that is Mahan’s special and in-
spired study. Thus, he rather despairs of
Gre%t Britain’s ability to hold her premier
navai position against Gennany.
Great Britain has abandoned the isolation
of 20 years ago, stands joined to the Dual
Alliance, and it becomes a Triple Entente.
To the United States this means that Great
Britain... .cannot at present count for as
much as she did in naval questions through-
out the world. Great Britain does indeed
for the moment hold Germany so far in check
that the German Empire also can do no more
than look after its European interests ; but
should a naval disaster befall Great Britain,
leaving Germany master of the naval situa-
tion, the world would see again a predomi-
nant fleet backed by a predominant army,
and that in the hands, not of a State satiated
with colonial possessions, but of one whose
late entry into world conditions leaves her
without any such possessions at all of any
great value.... Although the colonial ambi-
tions of Germany are held in abeyance for
the moment, the wish cannot but exist to ex-
pand her territory by foreign acquisitions, to
establish external bases for the support of
commercial or political interests, to build up
such kindred communities as now help to
constitute the British Empire To-day
central Europe, that is, Austria and Ger-
many, form a substantially united body,
wielding a military power against which, on
the land, no combination in Europe can
stand. The Balance of Power no longer
exists The important point to us is the
growing power, of the German Empire, in
which the efficiency of the State as an or-
ganic body is so greatly superior to that of
Great Britain, and may prove to be to that
of the United States. The two English-
speaking countries have wealth vastly
superio'r, each separately, to that of Ger-
many, much more if acting together. But
in neither is the efficiency of the Government
for handling the resources comparable to that
of Germany; and there is no apparent chance
or recognised inducement for them to work
together, as Germany and Austria now
work in Europe. The consequence is that
Germany may deal with each in succession
much more effectively than either is now
willing to consider; Europe being powerless
to affect the issue so long as Austria stands
by Germany, as she thoroughly understands
that she. has every motive to do. . . .If social
and political conditions in Great Britain
develop as they now promise, the British
Navy will probably decline in relative
strength, so that it will not venture to with-
stand the German on any broad lines of
Policy,, but only in the narrowest sense of
immediate British interests. Even this
condition may. disappear, for it seems as if
the national life of Great Brtain were wan-
ing at the same time that that of Germany
is waxing.
Jt
Wars in which nobody gets hurt, Mahan
explains, do not come within his purview.
Disagreeable things will happen—and they
will probably happen to Australia.
In a military sense, as affecting ultimate
national, safety and victory, it will not
matter if one coast suffer raid, blockade,
bombardment, or capture, if meanwhile the
enemy s fleet is destroyed. With such de-
struction every other loss is retrievable.
So., until our own fleet is able effectively
to dispute the paramountcy of the Pacific,
which is at present a Japanese pond, we
shall have to see Sydney and Melbourne
bombarded, or let off with a huge ransom,
while the British fleet seeks out and de-
feats the enemy—that is, of course, if the
British fleet can afford to let go of its
mother’s apron-strings.
A crushing defeat of the fleet means a dis-
location at once of the whole system of
colonial or other dependencies, quite irre-
spective of the position where the defeat oc-
curs. Such a defeat of the British Navy
by the German in the North Sea would lay
open all English colonies to attack and
render both them and the mother country
unable to combine effort in mutual support.
The fall of any coast position would become
then only a question of time and of the
enemy’s exertions, unless the British navy
should be restored... .On the other hand, so
long as the British fleet can maintain and
assert superiority in the North Sea and
around the British Isles, the entire Im-
perial system stands secure.
This is not to say that a powerful,
although inferior, navy may not by success-
ful _ evasion and subsequent surprise seize
positions in a distant part of the world, and
there, so to say, entrench itself. The ques-
tion then would arise whether the superior
naval State would he willing to endure the
protracted conquest necessary to expel the
intruder.
Suppose the powerful, though inferior,
navy were Japan’s, and we that distant
part of the world, the question for us is
whether' the superior naval state, Britain,
however willing she might be, could come
hither for the purpose of expelling the in-
truder.
Australia, Maoriland, South Africa and
Canada.. . .each feels that, like Minorca and
Malta in their day (which were taken from
Britain by the French respectively in 1756
and 1798) it cannot itself alone cope at sea
with several possible enemies of Great Bri-
tain. ...and while it is probable that entire
subjugation, that is, conquest and perma-
nent tenure, would be too onerous to attempt,
the cession of a particular harhor or district
might he exacted, or other commercial or
naval advantages, as the price of peace....
The British colonies are thus exposed to be
attacked, to the harassment of war, in order
to obtain concessions. Under several pos-
sible contingencies an enemy’s division not
only may reach their shore before a British
pursuit, hut the British may feel it not
wholly expedient to pursue , lest the detach-
ment so weaken the home fleet as to render
doubtful the security of the British Islands
themselves.
The italics in the foregoing passages are
our own. Their emphasis is commended to
any Peace (or Geese) Societies there may
be left in this locality five minutes after the
first shell smashes the central railway sta-
tion and dislocates a few over-crowded
trams.
In emphasising the necessity of a fleet
being concentrated, Mahan fears that na-
tional panic would insist upon our forces
being subdivided.
If the defence of ports, many in number,
be attributed to the navy, experience shows
that the navy will be subdivided among
them to an extent that will paralyse its
efficiency... .Of what use is a navy, if it is
to be thus whittled away? But a popular
outcry will drown the voice of military ex-
perience.
Mahan instances the panic on the eastern
coasts of the United States at the outbreak
of the Spanish war; resulting in keeping a
valuable fleet for defensive instead of offen-
sive work. This panic was voiced by the
national legislature. When war comes to
Australia we shall certainly find Melbourne
and Sydney and all the intermediate surfing
resorts clamoring each for a battleship or
two,,, and the local press will howl for tying
up a cruiser in front of its own doorstep,
while a destroyer will be taken to pieces
and carted up to the Cotter. For, as
Mahan acutely remarks:—-
Panic, unreasonable apprehension, when
war begins, will be found in the same per-
sons who in peace resist reasonable pre-
paration. “It is better,”. said a British Ad-
miral of long ago, “to be frightened now,
while we have time to prepare, than next
summer, when the French fleet enters the
Channel.”... .Every proposal to use a navy
as an instrument of pure passive defence is
found faulty upon particular examination.
And, anyway, there isn’t enough water
in the Cotter to buoy a submarine mine.
Said the man who knows the ways of
women subscribers to a lending library: “A
woman chooses a novel by the first sentence.
Here are some opening words that invari-
ably make the average novel-reader remark
sweetly: ‘Thanks; I’ll iake this one’
“Then, there is no hope for met ”
Her silence was his answer.
“Mother , I am ruined!”
“And I, love you,” he stammered.
“That,” said she, “I do not believe.”


v
Anthony Horderns’ for Ansonia Accuracy.
The Windsor Ansonia,
Black Walnut, Eight-Day
Clock, Silvered Cupids,
Plate-Glass Mirrors, Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong. Height, 21 Jin.;
Dial, sin. 23/-
The Parisian Ansonia, Black
Walnut Eight-Day Clock;
Half-hour Cathedral Gong
Strike. Height. 23in.; Dial,
6in. 18/-.
The King Ansonia, Black
Walnut Eight-Day Clock,
Half-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong. Height, 24in.; Dial,
6in. With Alarm, 20/-;
without Alarm, 18/6.
The Venice Ansoma, Bight-Day Iron Clock,
Half-hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
lO^in.; Width, 16Jin.; Dial, siin. With Visible
Escapement. 35/-
Ansonia Clocks set a standard of Accuracy that place them in
the front rank of popular timekeepers. The assortment of
Marble, Wood, Bronze, Enamelled Iron and Porcelain Clocks
we offer cannot be equalled south of the line.
TOP QUALITY
at BOTTOM
PRICE is the
GOLDEN RULE
at the
NEW PALACE
EMPORIUM.
The
Chopin Bight-Day Marble Clock; Half-hour Strike; Cathedral
Gong; Height, 9Jin.; Width, 15£in.; Dial, Sin. 50/-
CONSULT OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST
for ANYTHING
YOU WANT.
TERMS:
SPOT CASH.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
REIGN SUPREME.
The Berlin Ansonia, Enamelled
Iron, Eight-Day, Half-hour
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
9Jin.; Width, Dial, sin.
24/-.
The Dover Ansonia Enamelled
Iron Eight-Day Clock. Half-
hour Strike; Cathedral Gong;
Height, 10£in.; Width, 9Jin.; Dial,
s*in. 20/-
BUY EVERYTHING
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM
The Arditl Ansonia. Eight-Day
Marble Clock, Half-hour Strike,
Cathedral Gong. Height, 91in.;
Width, ll jin.; Dial, sin. 39/-
PATTERNS AND PRJCE LISTS
POSTED FREE
ON APPLICATION.
The Bright Ansonia, Fancy Gilt
Clock, One-Day Time. Height,
6iin.; Porcelain Dial, 2in. 10/-.
POSTAGE MUST BE ADDED TO
THE PRICES QUOTED ON
THIS PAGE.
Octagon Drop. Rosewood, Gilt
Eight-Dav; Half-hour Strike
Height, 21in.; Dial, lOin. 21/-,
TOP QUALITY
AT
BOTTOM PRICE.
The Brook Ansonia, Fancy
Gilt Clock, One-Day Time
Height, ssin.; 2in. Porcelain
Dial. 10/-.
The P’rate Antonia
Alarm, One-Day. Time
Dial, 4in. 4/3.
The Bee Ansonia, One-
Day, Time Dial, 2in..
4/-.
Consult our Illustrated Price List of Kitchenware and Household
Ironmongery. Write for a Copy, posted free on request; it places
selections from the enormous selection we offer at the command of
everyone in Australia.
The Triumph Ansonia, Black Walnut,
Plate Glass Mirrors, Silver Cupids,
Eight-Day, Half-hour Strike, Cathe-
dral Gong. Height, 24iin.; Dial 6in.
27/-.
The Monarch Ansonia, Black
Walnut, Eight-Day; Half-hour
Strike. Cathedral Gong. Height,
244 in.; Dial, 6in. 27/-.
The Andes Ansonia, Black Walnut,
Eight-Day Clock, Half-Hour Strike.
Height, 22in.; Dial, din.; 11/6.
The Capri Ansonia, Enamelled Iron Eight-Day
Clock; Half-hour Strike. Cathedral Gong.
Height, 12iin.; Width, Isin.; Dial, sin. 38/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, vSydney
The Most Accurate *22 Calibre
REPEATING RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEVENS
VISIBLE LOADING No. 70.
iai
You see the cartridge go in the chamber.
You know when this rifle is loaded.
Will handle indiscriminately, without ad-
justment, fifteen -22 Short; twelve -22
Long, and twelve - 22 Long Rifle R.F.
cartridges.
Your dealer can quote attractive prices.
Weight, 4ilb.
Insist on Stevens.
Write for Rifle and Telescope catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. r'3
8
At
df
d
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strjngthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in ail weights and sizes for mein, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. WORLEY and GEO. BRETIi.c. o. 00., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
sdf
THE RUSSIAN ROYAL FAMILY
BENEFIT FROM
SANACINE
NATURE’S LUNG HEALER
A Court Official writes: “Sanacine was introduced to the Russian
Imperial Family, and they have found great benefit from using it.”
COLDS
Miss M. A. Birch writes: “Since taking
Sanacine I am quite free from colds in
the head and violent attacks of sneezing.
When I feel a cold coming a dose
of Sanacine relieves me at once.”—
Permarin, St. Mawes, Falmouth, Eng.
COUGHS
Nurse F. M. Harding writes : “Sanacine
is the best medicine I ever used in my
life for a cough or CO Iu ; the
moment I feel a cold shiver I take a
dose.” Isolation Hospital, Lydia: I
Millicent, Swindon, Eng.
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent cclds >
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose.
SANACINE
An Invaluable Remedy for
ASTHMA
COLDS
COUGHS
INFLUENZA
CATARRH
HUSKINESS
BRONCHITIS
HOARSENESS
CONGESTION
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
And Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Great Britain: Liquid and Tablets, I\l\ and 219. Sold by all Chemists and Stores in Australia
PROPRIETORS : ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
The
Good
Samaritan
JUST
IN
»TIME
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
The Grandest Remedy for
COUGHS and COLDS
A dose or two is generally sufficient
KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE
SOLD by all CHEMISTS and STORES
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sewer*
Prize Medals.i
Works: Birmingham, England.
sdf
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
(over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention ts also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
A TRIBUTE
TO
CLEMENTS
TONIC
How It Cured Loss of
Sleep and Neuralgia.
19 Bourke Street, Launceston,
December 7, 1911.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“My restoration to health by the
aid of Clements Tonic was little
short of marvellous.
“For two years I suffered dreadfully from Neuralgia and Insomnia.
The neuralgic pains were aggravated by my not being able to sleep. My
appetite left me, and I became so weak that I was unable to work, my hands
and limbs trembled and shook so, I thought my end had come. During
that time I was under medical treatment. I also tried various reme-
dies, and still kept getting worse. One day a friend gave me half a bottle
of Clements Tonic to try. The result was so good that I took a course.
My health improved rapidly, and I was soon free from my complaints
and felt splendid.
“I am a native of this city, and scores of my friends can vouch for
the truth of this statement. You may make what use you wish of this.
(Signed) SAMUEL COULTASS.”
Mr. COULTASS, of Launceston, is well known. Other testimonies prove the wonderful value
of this great Nerve and Blood Medicine in all cases of Nervous Breakdown, Weakness, Indigestion,
Insomnia or Loss of Sleep, Sluggish Liver, Melancholia or Depression of Spirits, Sick ana ner-
vous Headache, or Weakness after Fever or Illness. Send for it.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL CLEMENTS TONIC.
A


/ff.
Makes
The
hair
Grow
We are talking about Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. Just note that word
“Ayer’s.” You are perfectly
safe with it. No harm to you or
to your hair. Makes the hair
grow ? It certainly does. Stops
falling hair, too. Remember, it’s
“Ayer’s” we are talking about.
Ask your doctor about your hair
and about Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Get his approval. Your own
doctor and “Ayer’s” make a
strong combination. It means
faith, confidence, satisfaction.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C- Ayer & Co.. Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
THE
IDEAL APERIENT
sd
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
patentj
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
CONFID6NTIAL Letters
RetpaiQ Private „
when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying
Book is
used.
’NSC / 200
PATENT ZANETIC
COPYING BOO^,
!&
You slip your letter
paper into the ——
holder, write your letter in ink, and the copy is made
as you write. Latter shows no sign of copying. The
letter is po-ted and the book locked up. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 quarto, can be copied in
NSC/100, post free for 3/9; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC. Zanetic Works, Welford Road.
LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Please send Money-Orders, not P.O.’s.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. NicholKV'o Sydney Agents.
THE Australian —THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, Gd.
MOSS
aie,
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE—
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs'and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAXi CURE FOR ,
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE. SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOSHEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W,
D
1403.)
■rr
1
FLAT-CHESTED WOMEN!
Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as natural de-
velopment was concerned, but science has found a way to cor-
rect your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-
bosomed, and although you have been attenuated all your
life, if you suffer from no wasting disease your bosom can be
fully developed and your weight increased to normal.
It is the refreshing firmness and delightful fulness of the
feminine form that captivates, and the woman who is most
perfectly developed is the one who monopolises the endear-
ments of the opposite sex.
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect, flesh-builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week. Send 2d.
stamp for a free trial sample and free book.
T'\ 1,1,11? I?F FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
MR. G. VRCSMY.
Fatal Varicose Veins
Varicose Veins cause a great deal more misery than is generally
suspected, and frequently their presence proves fatal when they looks the
least likely to give trouble.
THE VECSEY METHOD
of treatment quickly
and permanently elim-
inates the worst cases, and cures permanently the various symptoms pro-
duced by them. A home treatment, to be used without laying up, its
action quickly overcomes the trouble, and makes old legs as good as
new.
FREE BOOK. FREE CONSULTATION.
Send 2d. stamp for our free book, which gives full particulars, or call
for consultation. Diagnosis and advice FREE. Send, write or call to-day.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
fd
W FOR ALL AGES,
from the nursery upwards,
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is an ideal food-beverage, easily,digested,
i nourishing, invigorating. It is indis-
k pensable toinvalids and the aged, and
Ik provides a full diet in sickness.
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Samples & Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk
Co., Slough, Bucks,Eng.
fdf
sd
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco ,to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
Yoo Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for U days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think bf,
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereafch St., Sydney.
[2.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Way back Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women &■ children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
BOVRIL
°f
Tickles tKe Palate
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Six Delightful Girls.
I am in love—no boast, my dears,
With six delightful girls,
In bumpers full I toast my dears —
Red rubies, gems and pearls!
To wed with one and lose the rest
Would surely break my heart.
Undoubtedly I’d choose the rest.
And let the one depart.
I am perplexed-polygamy
Seems fit and proper now,
The cold world calls it bigamy....
There’d be a howling row !
You’ve puzzled since the Fall, my dears.
And we went wooing you;
I cannot wed you all, my dears,
Alas, what may I do?
I drove with Enid yester eve,
By Luna’s ’trancing lanes ;
Her taunting lips confess’t her Eve,
When Cupid tugged the reins;
Yet, while we kissed, another girl’s
Ripe lips were haunting me:
I doubt the absent other girls
Are half as coy as she.
When blessed with one I’m jealous of
Five charming absentees,
Though her desires I’m zealous of
And her light whimsies please,
I wish for wizard’s power, my dears,
But Heaven grants me none;
In less than half ah hour, my dears,
I’d weld you all in one!
How dear were Bribe’s laughing lips,
Allied with Enid’s eyes;
How tranced were Madge’s chaffing lips
Allied with Freda’s sighs;
How darkly-fair would Mary’s seem
If blent with Mimi’s curls;
Were I as wise as fairies seem
I’d make you one, my girls!
I’d blend the warmth of Bribe’s kiss
With Mary’s saintliness.
At last I’d know how Hebes kiss,
And Spartan maids caress!
Where one girl’s sweet perfections end,
Another’s charms begin-
What bliss, did my deflections end
Above one perfect chin !
It baffles me! To choose the one
Would lose me five sweet wives,
So sadly I refuse the one.
Goodhap in other lives —
When I give up the ghost, I mean —
I’ll wed the six dear girls
Merged into one —-the host, I mean,
Of these delightful girls!
N.S.W.
W.M. WHITNEY.
The Sun Over the Fore-yard.
The sun mounts o’er the fore-yard.
Rouse, boys ! Rouse !
“Splice we the main-brace” now in glad carouse.
And drink to Beauty’s eyes from this bright can—
The tar’s own loving-cup—to bouse ami Ik,. „
Meridian sunshine, truly; passing hot;
The liquor’s gone. . ..yet. . . .still survives the pot;
How blest we all before we swigged the lot.
While expectation (tip-toe);,'[smiled and sighed
For what was coming, and; What now is not.
So passes noon upon the sun-smit main.
I would it now were only noon again !
When grog descending on the soul like rain
Brings dreams of Moll and Bet and Poll and Sue,
With just another driblet left to drain. ,
And yet the odor’s left (to fly too soon).
The refrain of the cup in afternoon,
The fading sweetness of a passing boon
In memory cherished; treasured in the soul
Like the last radiance of a setting moon.
And, still from day to day, while lasts dear life,
In lazy calm or elemental strife,
Or ’cross the Line with Neptune and his wife,
Or south out-past Kerguelen’s mists and ice,
The air’s with memories-meridian rife.
Yes ! Time must come ; our day is dying out,
When men shall tell, aboard strange craft, no doubt,
Of ships that “wore;” or went “in stays” about,
And took the sun at noon, and served out grog,
What time all maids were fair ; all hearts were stout.
Meridian’s round again ! I’m glad ’tis true !
There’s grog in show’rs descending <on the blue ;
With yet some kindly drops for me and you ,
To drink oncfc -more to Moll -and Bet and Suri,
Who hail us criming, as the anchor’s cast
And wave as we unmoor.... Adieu ! Adieu !
VICTORIA.
G. G. McC.
Where, the Curlews Call.
Where the pale-plumed pampas sway
Silver' in a/wan moon’s wake.
Hear the curlews crying low,
In the.-reeds that fringe the lake.
Where the shadows thickest fall
Hear a rustling, then a call.
Like unto a painted scene,
How the gaunt pines stirless, lean,
Silhouette''! ‘gainst the night
* Black’ as >jet. The Waning light
Of. a disappearing moon,
Silvers river and lagoon.
Sphinxlike in its mystery
Lies the Mallee’s great Scrub-Sea,
Rippling in moon-hollowed waves.
Till the far Dream-water laves
Shores of cities strange, it -seems,
As I lie here weaving dreams.
Gentle night around me throws ,
Her soft cloak, moon-edged, while blows
O’er the river a faint breeze
From the rippling Mallee-seas;
Like a painting by Corrit
Yon lone sapling leaning low.
Where the pale, plumed pampas sway
Silver in a wan moon’s wake.
Hear a rustling, then the call
In the reeds that fringe the lake.
(Lone land, where the Curlews call
Still you hold my heart in thrall.)
VICTORIA.
LINDSAY RUSSELL.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
* * '* * *Ti
"V - V \ 'f V.'v jf »
y. ... V. -S- » £ V 5 ■
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
ft
&wai
VSMar^
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments. ,
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 JOs.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
0 tr 0 nr * r 0 r r r.
Box of 50, 10/6.
Box of 100, 19/6.
Post Free to any Address.
TO SMOKERS
ORDER BY MAIL
Pot Pourri Cigars.
I——miMMBIIMUMI ■IBIIM 11l —I II
As the largest Retail Tobacconist in Aus-
tralasia, with a reputation for quality and sound
values, I am personally recommending the “Pot
Pourri” Cigar, in boxes of 50’s and 100’s —the
kind of cigar you are not ashamed to offer to
your friends and smoke yourself. By importing
them direct and selling them to the consumer,
you save all middlemen’s profits—therefore I am
enabled to sell a really high-class cigar at' a very
nominal price
A A MARKS, 376 D Q T eorge St., Sydney,
, N.S.W.
WELSBACH FANS
W Mankind’s Friend in the Tropics.
p ••
ELECTRIC.
THE GAS VENTILATING FAN
has an air displacement of 216 cubic feet per
minute, with the low gas consumption of two
cubic feet per hour, fitted with Ball-Bearings
and requires little attention; p r jjg g ac jj
WELSBACH ELECTRIC FANS
are made to pass the most stringent test, fitted
with Speed Regulator, and can be driven by
D.C. or A.C. Current, at 110 to 240 volt. They
are highly-finished, Black Enamel Frame and
Body, with Nickel Fittings.
Designs comprise CEILING FANS, 32in., 54in.,
and 60in. Blades, p rom £g t()
TABLE OR BRACKET FANS, 10in., 12in„
and 16in. Blades; also, the SWIVEL and TRUN-
NION FAN, lOin. and 12in. Blades.
Prices vary from il 7s. to £3 13s. each.
The WELSBACH LIGHT COMPANY are offer-
ing FANS, driven by GAS and ELECTRICITY,
which will bring comfort into the Home life,
and increase the energy of the worker during this
hot, trying weather.
fsd
Catalogue and other Information from
GAS.
TfaeWelsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd
Welsbach House, 302 Pitt Street, Sydney#
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic
102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington.
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth, Agencies.
Solid Gold,
£5/15/-
Post Free.
Solid Gold Watches
THAT LAST A LIFETIME!
This solid Gold Lever Watch has heavy
cases, Compensation Balance, and fully
jewelled movement. It is a perfect time-
keeper, and is guaranteed for 15 years, and
kept in order free for three years.
|y|Y BIG CATALOGUE of Jewellery
and Silverware, etc., will assist
you in making Selections
and SAVE YOU MONEY.
JOE DAVIS,
The Money Saving Jeweller,
DEPT. A,
26 Park Street, SYDNEY,
One Door from Pitt Street.
I import them in large quantities
direct from the manufacturers—
that is the reason I can offer such
great values. fio( .
fsd
,£7|lo|-
'' Post Free.
This Solid Gold English Lever has heavy
engin,e. case* Compensation Balance, and fully
jeweWiedi movement. It is a wonderful time-
keeper-, ijs warranted for '2O years, and kept
in repair free of charge for three years.
The Unvarying 1 Charm of
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
has won the steadfast adherence of the Con-
noisseur. They are absolutely uniform in
flavor, delicacy and subtle attractiveness.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN and VIRGINIAN.
Many grades—neatly and cleanly packed.
Your Tobacconist stocks them.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., who f 'rJ u .*H?
m
‘ 14
sag
jz ; :Zfia
SS&SJ
»8
$
/\
*3
D r
<gi-
-3S
04 1
asa
r«5
THE HALLEY MOTOR LORRY
is Three Times as Fast.
On the wood-blocks and well-kept roads of the metropolis and suburbs,
the Halley is actually three times as fast as horse transport. When the
rough and hilly highways of the country are to be negotiated, the disparity
in.favor of the Halley becomes even more pronounced. It brings the mar-
ket nearer! Furthermore, when backing up to a : siding, the whole effort
falls overwhelmingly and destructively on the pole-horses. The Halley
.“backs” with its full power. It is the saver of valuable horses.
SPECIAL AWARD and Gold and Silver Medals for Simplicity,
Accessibility and Freedom from Breakdown. The Halley is easily con-
trolled—the way is soon learned.
Fullest particulars gladly posted. Demonstrations willingly given.
15cwt., 20cwt., to G Ton Models.
DALGETY & GO. LTD.
MOTOR OARAGE,
136-8 PHILLIP ST., SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33.—N0. 1G75.
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 1912.
Piiici: fJi).
THE EMPTY BREAKFAST TABLE.
There has been a general rise in the price of bread. The delay and disappointment in regard to the Argentine crop are the control-
ling causes, but the coal strike has hastened the decision to raise the price of The loaf. — Cable.
The natural consequence of England’s Free Breakfast Table.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George-sti’eet North, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 138 7 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly . . .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps .for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS .
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i,e,, any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at J//6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
VpANADA. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
li.'C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Nexus Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
Nexus Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
: Egypt.. —The Colonial Book and Nexvs Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong.. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon.. — lF. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
Oiin. x Bjin., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, Nexv
Zealand, Fiji, British Nexv Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, 10oz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, IGoz. Id. — otherwise, Boz., Id., and Bioz. to
JOoz., 2\d.; JOoz. to ltoz., 3d.; elsewhere, J/oz., Id.,
axxd id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 1912.
A KAILWAY TO THE TERRITORY.
The silly multitude which believes that
evei’ything must be immediately brought
to Sydney, whether there is room for
half of it in Sydney or not, had a
day out last week, with the assistance of
State Minister Griffith, and the Tory
dailies, and other institutions. There was
a deputation, and the deputation made the
same noise that a monkey does when lie is
looking for a flea on his tail in a tree top.
It chattered at length about the necessity
for immediately building. a railway from
Sydney to Port Darwin, in oi-der to fetch
»the trade of Port Darwin ‘to Sydney, and
Minister Griffith cordially approved, and
the S. M. Herald backed up the idea, and
the Telegraph applauded, and other horrors
and businesses gave their moral support.
The proposition rested mainly on sentimen-
tal considerations. A line from Port Dar-
win to Sydney would be very much longer
than one from Port Darwin to Adelaide. It
wouldn’t be' so much a transcontinental line
as a coastal one. Instead of opening up
the Territory—which is Federal property
and must be developed with Federal money
—as much as possible, it would cut across a
corner of it only, and make all possible
speed to get out of it. It would avoid the
most promising mineral lands and hasten
into the intensely dry, low-lying and non-
mineral country of south-west Queensland —-
that region where an itinerant pedagogue
looks alter 137 children scattered over an
area of something like 63,000 square miles,
and where the rainfall gets down at times
to about 2in. per annum. And it would
end at an overcrowded port which is
further from Europe than any other im-
portant coastal city in the Commonwealth
except Brisbane. Still the sentiment or
conviction that everything should be dragged
instantly to Sydney was firm in the miuds
of the deputation and its supporters. For
Sydney is Australia’s biggest city, and it is
the doctrine of Toryism that the grease should
be poured over the fat hog; that every effort
should he made to bring all new trade and
population to the place where there is most
trade and population already; that the pion-
eering spirit is accursed ; and that any effort
to push business where there isn’t business
already is a ridiculous attempt to follow in
the footsteps of Columbus and Cook and
other fools.
* * * *
A side-issue of this business is the appar-
ent conviction of the Congestion party that
there is no future before Australia. Thus
it wants to drag everything to Sydney, under
a fixed assurance that there won’t be enough
people to go round, and that, if it doesn’t
grab every possible person for Sydney the
great Ma city will lose the only chance
there is between now and Judgment Day.
By the same process of reasoning the ‘Mvo-
cates of a railway from Sydney via Bourke
to Western Queensland and the Territory
devote themselves to amazing lies re the
alleged disadvantages of the straight line
to which the Commonwealth is committed —
the line from Port Augusta to Port Darwin.
Having a crazy creed to the effect that this
great continent will never, under any cir-
cumstances, be able to support more than
one railway from north to south, the Con-
gestionists of the eastern States are filled
with a desire to get possession of that lone
and solitary railway, or if they can’t get it
they want to prevent the hated land of Cen-
tral Australia getting it. Consequently
they devote themselves to trying to con-
vince the community that most of Australia
is such a rotten place as to be quite unde-
serving of a line. In the desperate struggle
for an argument they even assure the com-
munity that if the transcontinental highway
is built from Port Augusta to Port Darwin,
Rockhampton will be 4084 miles by train
from the great Northern Territory port,
whereas it would be only 1950 miles from
that place if the railway was built from Syd-
ney. This, after all, is much the same thing
as proving that Sydney is 1300 miles from
Parramatta, provided you go round by Mel-
bourne.
* * * -It
There is no proof that the whole
prospect and destiny of Australia lies in
building the shortest possible line from
Rockhampton to Port Darwin. But as-
suming that the connection is desirable,
there is no reason why the lines that ex-
tend westward from Brisbane and Rock-
hampton and Townsville should not be car-
ried further westward to connect with a
railway through the middle of Australia as
well as with one through the eastern
States. Nor is there any reason why
there should not be a railway from Mel-
bourne to the Gulf of Carpentaria, connect-
ing with all the eastern ports on the way,
as well as one through the middle of Aus-
ti’alia. To those people who regard Aus-
tralia as not quite dead it seems feasible
that there should also, one day, be a rail-
way connecting Albany or Esperance Bay
with the Far North, and that the Townsville-
Cloncurry line should be extended west till
it strikes the coast of Westralia. The silly
idea that Australia has nothing ahead of it—
that it will never support more than one
track north and soutli, and that if “we”
don’t secure the end of that track now “we”
will be eternally lost —is retarding the pro-
gress of the country all the time. The
Australian Government is pledged to build
the l’ailway up the centre of the continent.
That was the agreement upon which the
Territory was handed over to it. The
eastern States, quite naturally, want con-
nection with the No-tli. And on the foolish
assumption that there can never to all
eternity be more than a single connecti■m,
their advocates proceed to heap insane de-
nunciations upon the scheme to which the
Government is pledged. The South Aus-
tralians have a simple and obvious answer ;
they handed over the Territory on certain
conditions, and if the conditions r-e ob-
served the agreement will be null and void,
and they will be entitled to resume posses-
sion. Then the eastern States may clnmor
in vain for their railway. Meanwhile the
Australian Government, not being able to do
anything without aggravating somebody,
does nothing at all. From its own point of
view it is right. It can’t build the central
line without losing votes, unless the Con-
gestion crowd recovers the senses it never
had. It can’t build any other line without
losing votes. While it doesn’t build anything
it doesn’t necessarily lose any votes in the
immediate present. 1 In time, of course, its
neglect to do anything may infuriate every-
body, and lose votes all round. But that is
a matter for the future.
* * * *
The battle of the routes turns on the
question .'whether Australia should try to
maintain the old pioneering spirit, or
whether it should abandon it and settle
down to be a shop and office jobber in a
town. The advocates of the line throtxgh
;the centre of Australia want to live up to
the character which the heirs of a nearly-
empty continent should possess. They
want to carry the railway through the great
mineral belt of the Territory, and dig up
another Bendigo and another Kalgoorlie.
They expect to make great cities of the
termini at Port Darwin and Port Augusta,
and thus drag population and progress fur-
ther out into what are now the lonesome
places of Australia. They recognise that
if the iron highway up the middle of the
country is built, the lines that now stretch
inland from the east coast must be carried
westward to join it, and then half of Aus-
tralia will be opened to settlement and
civilisation. Of course Australia isn’t the
best-watered and most fertile country on
earth, and its centre isn’t as good as the
centre of Europe, but it is the only country
we have, and we must needs make the best
of it. On the other hand, the advocates of
the Sydney-Port Darwin line hold that we
should keep on concentrating population and
trade where there is most population and
trade already. They want the line through
Central Australia abandoned for good and
all, which means the definite abandonment
of Central Australia. They don’t regard
Port Darwin as a possible great independent
centre, and a place from which population
may spread out to the vacant spaces beyond,
but as a mere feeder of Sydney. They
nominate Sydney as the place which ought to
be first connected with * the Territory, and
as the natural outlet for the Territory’s
trade, because, having already more trade
than any other place in the Commonwealth,
it is least in need of new trade. The row is
mostly between the pioneers and the im-
porters—between the men who like to sleep
beneath the stars and the men who like to
live in terrace houses in Paddington, and to
go to their jobs per penny tram in the
morning, • wearing bowler liats and moored
to small black bags. And the advantage
of numbers, and votes, is with the importing
people of the bowler hats and the small
black bags.
A RE-ORGANISED SUFFRAGETTE
MOVEMENT.
“llenry Horsecollar” writes :
1 am weary to death of the ways of these London
suffragettes. They are so monotonous, with their
vvindow-breakings and their shoutings and their occa-
sional throwing of stones—so monotonous and so
humorless. It is all a waste of good possibilities.
I take it that the suffragettes are anxious to draw
attention to their case; that they have no scruple
about the destruction of private property so long as
they draw attention; yet that they don’t want to go
to gaol if it can be avoided. Also they have abund-
ance of self-sacrificing helpers and abundance of
money. In such a case they should abandon the old,
well-trodden paths where the policeman is always
looking for them, and seek new roads and devices.
They should never do the same thing twice —or if
they do it twice they should do it at long intervals.
They should never break out twice consecutively at
the same place. They should keep the police
moving, and the public amused and filled
with wild curiosity as to the next hap-
pening. It should be their aim to contribute to
the gaiety of nations, and then their doings would be
chronicled far and wide, whereas a policy of mere
window-smash threatens to become a weariness.
They require a male leader—a Chief Jester —and a
corps of male auxiliaries, and then they could get
to work in real earnest.
* * * *
Consider the possibilities of one simple protest!
They might send round agents to hire for a short or
long term almost every empty house in London.
The sudden rush of business would gladden the
house agents and make the landlords rejoice. In
the poor neighborhoods they could pay a small cash
deposit; in the better-class ones they might give a
bogus cheque ion account. On the eventful night
every suffragette would he camped . in an empty
house. Then at 11 p.m. precisely, they would
turn on every gas jet and water tap (having previ-
ously plugged up the sinks) and go home. Next
day the lunatic asylums would be full of insane
house agents, and the plumber Vote would go solid
for woman’s suffrage, because the profession would
be so darned glad at all the work it had secured.
Of course an infuriated and disguised policeman
would be stationed for a week afterwards outside
every house agent’s place, and he would arrest house-
hunters wholesale on suspicion. But that would
only make the next move easier.
* * . * *
If the suffragettes must have window smashing
04 their programme, it should be done anonymously,
at night, with the pea-shooter. A pea-shooter com-
mands a good wide radius, and if a multitude of
upstairs front offices were hired, and all the suffra-
gettes pea-shooted simultaneously, they might break
half the most expensive windows in London inside 10
minutes, while the police were away attending to 16
bogus fire alarms. Where offices Weren’t available,
suffragettes might 1 get access to ordinary business
premises by hiring themselves out under the name of
Jenkins— a respectable old female with a chronic
toothache —-to 1 do office-cleaning at. specially low
rates. This move would probably do a great deal to
secure the glazing vote. i But probably the best
result would be arrived a't by an effort to meet the
servant girl difficulty. Supposing large numbers of
attractive young suffragettes who could .cook—girls
from the country preferred and with first-class refer-
ences-—threw .themselves -headlong into the domestic.
Bridget market of London, they could easily obtain
access to a great many of the best houses. With
patience and perseverance a time would , doubtless
come when the domestic staffs of Ministers and . other
prominent men consisted mostly, of. these enthusiasts.
And if each of these Ministers and other. Importants
awoke soipe morning to find, all his. clothes gone, his
house front dyed in garish colors and placarded with
Woman Suffrage posters, his chimneys stopped up,
the premises consequently full of smoke, this male
flunkey. intoxicated or missing or locked up, and the
establishment infested with strange cats, he would
become an object of public ridicule. The spectacle
of a Prirr>e Minister fleeing into the street in his
wife’s bonnet, and clamoring amid a great escape
of cats for. the police, would be a subject for the
world’s mirth. Of course the domestic staffs would
be gone, 1 after distributing 10 waggon-loads of
clothing to the poor. ;
■ After that event the foundations of Bull's home
life would be broken up, for the Prime Minister or
other notable would always suspect his new Mary-
anne of being another political conspirator. And
if, when he was giving a dinner party
to many other ' people of social tonnage, he .
found a horse’s leg, with the shoe attached,
in the soup, ; or discovered a complete boiled
cat on his piaffe; and then one of his domestic jewels
suddenly broke a bottle of sulphuretted hydrogen on
the floor, and fled, locking the door behind her, he
would know that his worst fears were realised. And
if, to avoid a repetition of this trouble, he
took to dining at restaurants he would identify
the suffragette waitress by the hot soup she acci-
dentally spilt on him. But there would be no reason
to adhere too exclusively to the domestic side of the
case. Assuming that there could be found a few
hundred ladies of the “Votes for Women” persua-
sion, who are prepared to take risks —and appar-
ently that would be an easy matter —-it would be a
pleasing- novelty if, for instance, every important
train in the United Kingdom was stopped at the
same moment by a lady pushing for all she, was worth
on the communicator. With the block system there
would be no risk, but some thousands of railway
officials would curse simultaneously, and it would
dawn on Bull that he was up against . a well-
organised carflpaign. The dawn would become
broad daylight if the philanthropic ladies
who ran the new Dogs’ Home suddenly
turned all their live-stock, 4000 strong, into the
street, each dog being dyed blue, and then left the
premises by the back door without paying the rent;
and if 40 heavily-laden lorries broke down simul-
taneously in four of London’s main thoroughfares—
-10 in each thoroughfare. And supposing, just at
that moment, the 100 prize-takers in the suffragettes’
free beer-drinking competition emerged from some
premises close by, the police would reckon that they
had their hands full and say it was their busy day.
These things might be arranged to happen on the
anniversary of Mrs. Pankhurst’s arrest, so that they
would amount to something like a celebration.
A campaign of joyous frivolity such.. as the one
faintly outlined would naturally divide itself into
two sections. The general movement, including the
blue dogs and the free beer-drinking competition and
the insane house agents would be intended to impress
the nation at large. The special movement would
be directed against influential opponents of woman’s
suffrage. As far as possible things would be dong
quietly and unobtrusively. If it was possible to
arrange that, at a given moment, every anti-suffrage
member of both Houses who happened to be out of
doors would have his hat driven bard down over his
eyes, this hat smash would be achieved by a single
individual in each case, and she would endeavor to
he missing before the victim got out of the ruins of
the tile, and turned round. Orders for 800 different
loads of coal to be sent to Ministerial residences on
the same day would be distributed by post, and
would leave no trace behind them. The great object
of the movement would be self-effacement. It
would aim at being a secret society and an unknown
power, and it would endeavor to be everywhere, and
to always do something new. It would be a per-
fectly drilled force; if it even said “Boo” to a Lon-
don policeman it would endeavor to say “Boo” to
every London policeman at the same moment. There
ought to be hopes for a cheery organisation of that
sort. The present disorderly arrangement strikes me
as having no hopes at all.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
All Is Lost but Congestion.
Now and then the financial column of the
daily paper, in its passion for accuracy,
makes a sad hash of the loose eloquence of
the leading article. That was the sort of
thing which happened to Sydney Telegraph
last Friday. It got on to the railway con-
gestion anguish, and the truck shortage, nnd
the engine deficit, and the lamentable
struggles of Johnson’s railway's, and jtfhe
miseries of the wheat grower who, becaiise
of the railway deadlock, finds the mouldy
tail end of his last year’s crop stifi ,on
hand when the head and front of this year’s
crop is coming in. Then, in it= passion
for accuracy as before mentioned, the finan-
cial column reduced the situation for the
last four years to figures
1908. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Engines .. 696 798 872 *903
Carriages .. 1,259 1,325 1,420 I#2o
Trucks .. 12,540 13,649 14,527 15$80
Passengers .. 47,487,030 52,051,556 63,044,271 60,919,*628
Goods (tons) 10,175,389 9,298,929 8,393,038 10,355,*565
These are really interesting figures. Ac-
cording to all ordinary arithmetic they abso-
lutely acquit Railway Commissioner John-
son of any suspicion of lack of foresight in
providing rolling-stock to meet every reason-
able emergency. The supply of new passen-
ger carriages has kept pace with the in-
crease of passengers. The stock of trucks
lias increased enormously, while the quan-
tity of goods that these trucks had to carry
was just about the same in 1911 as in 1908.
In fact, the stock of trucks was increased
in 1909, and again in 1910, while the goods
to be carried were growing less and less, and
the new trucks were, in most cases, much
larger than the old ones. And the stock
of engines was increased even faster than
the increase of traffic seemed to
likewise the new engines were far mpx*e
powerful than the old ones. Yet it is well
known that the N.S.W. railways are in des-
perate straits for want of engines, and that
the difficulty of getting the wheat crop to
market has grown and grown until it has
become more like an impossibility than a
difficulty. Where 12,540 trucks carried a
given quantity of goods with comparative
ease in 1908, 15,680 trucks of greater
capacity, and hauled by more powerful en-
gines, are hopelessly bogged with much the
same quantity in 1911. In its misguided
desire for accuracy the Telegraph’s finan-
cial column supplied the explanation. Dur-
ing the last 10 years, it said —
The average distance which that tonnage of goods
has been carried has increased by nearly 34 p.c.
It is quite a simple explanation. One
Government and another exerted itself to
“promote settlement.” It had to do that
sort of thing in order to live. It pushed
railways further out, and pushed settlers
further out, so the boots and tea and sun-
dries they obtained from ; Sydney had to
travel further, and the wheat and pumpkins
and jumbucks they sent to Sydney had also
to travel further. Now 10 million tons of
goods travelling: (say) 66 miles is one thing,
and the same lot travelling 100 miles is
quite another. As the distance increased
cost increases. Also, more trucks and ;enf
gines are required, for the further they have
to travel the longer they are in getting
back for a new load. And the longer they
are on the road the more do they block the
way of other trucks and engines, and that
makds more delay and reduces the efficiency
of the rolling stock. No doubt this trouble
could be largely obviated by letting goods
for export take the shortest road to the
nearest deep-water port.’ But the insane
policy of Congestion demands that they should
all come to Sydney, no matter how vast
and needless and ruinous the distance fnay
be. The private traders and private land-
lords of Sydney, whose humble slave and
flunkey and maid-of-all-work the McGowen
alleged.“ Labor” Ministry is, demand it So
these curious results have arisen:—
(1) The expansion, of settlement has, by increasing
the distance that goods have to be carried, added
so much to the difficulty of getting to'the only
market the farmer is allowed to use, that now 15,680
trucks can’t carry his-goods neatly so well as 12,540
trucks did four years ago. : "... ' ;
(2) The difficulty-of getting his goods, to market
over the extra distances that the extra 3140 trucks
have to struggle with, has so hampered the producer
that, despite increased \ population -and - increased
settlement, the goods carried on the railways in 1911
were almost exactly -the same as in 1908, : :
(3) Therefore all there -is to show for four years
fuss and progress and lancL settlement is a lot more
worry, a lot more congestion, a lot more expense in
the way of freight, a lot more difficulty jn. turning
the crop into money, a wild whirl of correspondence,
3140 more trucks, and a maddened Johnson.
Regarded as the. fruit of all this energetic
land settlement it isn’t very much, but at
all events the blessed policy of dragging
everything to Sydney has been preserved.
All is lost but Congestion, still, while Con-
gestion remains, there is something to go on
with.'
. ' . •»
A Small Upheaval in the Quill-Driving
Trade.
A letter from Melbourne:—
The quietest triumph of unionism that ever hap-
pened in Melbourne was the recent revolt of bank-
clerks. Fifty of the black-coated toilers at the-
Bank of Victoria notified the management, through
their league-leader, that they were determined to-
throw down their tools and knock off work on the
last day of February unless their minimum wage
was increased by 10 “bob” a week —or language to
that effect. The demand was put in the form of an
ultimatum, to be answered by the Board of directors
before the date mentioned, and the Board answered
it in the polite affirmative without unnecessary
delay. The increase of salary was granted all
round, because it was demanded all round. Union-
ism succeeded where individualism would probably
have been rewarded with the order of the sack. The-
idea of one bank-clerk presenting an ultimatum to
the management on his own is too pathetically
humorous Ur words. Such things have been done
in the past, and the result was disastrous to the in-


dividual rebel. The difference between an impudent
demand and a reasonable request is a mere matter
of unionism. When the force of this distinction had
been so strikingly proved by the malcontents at
the Victoria, other clerks at other money stores
started to assert themselves, and within a week the
working exes, of the associated banks had risen
quite considerably. At the present time, a large
number of highly superiah young men, whose parents
and guardians had taught them to regard trades
unionism as a dangerous combination of vulgah
workers, are looking forward to the day yhen a well-
organised strike on a large scale will obtain for
clerical labor its rights, or something approaching
its rights. The “Clerks’ Union” (so-called), which
is the merest pretence of a practical organisation
thus far, should include, of course, all the sweated
employees of banks, lawyers, insurance companies
and the like. Capital of the kind that wears gold-
rimmed glasses on its nose has for ages past been
sinfully profiting by the snobbish respectability of
the slaves of tradition who labored for it. The
Labor party in politics, so far from advancing the
interests of the better educated quill-drivers, has
given them only scorn for scorn. Now that bank-
clerks are offering wharf-laborers the sincerest form
of flattery by imitating their method of arriving at
a fair deal, the old gulf between the unionist wage-
earner and the beggarly “salary”-earner is about to
be properly bridged. Melbourne, of all the big cities
in the Commonwealth, is the paradise of the sweat-
ing employer of “respectable” labor. At the time of
the big bank smash in the aftermath of the boom,
the salaries of even the valuable and indispensable
clerks of many reputable firms were reduced 30 p.c.,
and in some eases the reduction has been continued
to this day. There are clerks in the employ of well-
known professional men who have served them for
30 years without attaining to a reasonable living
wage. They have no union to aid them. They
suffer for the want of the co-operative spirit which
they were taught in their youth to regard as the
main evil of Democracy. Having at last emerged
from their state of political darkness, the careworn
quill-drivers may be expected to arise and demand a
small slice of the rich man’s cake in place of the
crumbs that fall from his table.
The Commissioner from Hull.
Hull is a dingy seaport on the north-eastern
coast of England—a muddy rising place with
a future before it and an insanitary past
behind it. And it has sent out a special
commissioner to tell Australia, in veiled
language, what kind of a fool it is in its
export arrangements. This country is the
greatest wool exporter on earth, yet all, or
practically all, of the steamship lines which
run between here and Britain have their ter-
minus in London, and the wool Australia
sells to Britain is dumped ashore there.
London isn’t a wool-manufacturing centre,
and has hardly any more use for this kind
of cargo than the tropical savage has for an
overcoat. In this business it is a purely
useless middleman. But the sheep’s hair
is landed there through force of habit, and
then it is put on trains and carried at suner-
fluous expense to the north of England and
the south of Scotland, where the woollen fac-
tories are mostly located. In like manner
the Australian butter, meat, apples, etc.,
which go to England, are all dashed ashore on
the banks of the Thames, though a good half
of them would be put on land much closer to
their ultimate destination if they were
despatched to some port further north, such
as Hull or Liverpool. It is reckoned that
if the Australian goods which are consumed
in the north of England were landed there,
instead of being humped to the expensive
port of London, and shoved into the most
glutted city on earth, the saving on fruit
would he fully Bd. a case, on butter about
|d. per lb., and on wool and meat much the
same. The point is one well worthy of con-
sideration, for, when a country sends away
55,000,0001 b. of butter a year, a saving of fd.
per lb. on a fairly large proportion of it
represents, the interest on a very respect-
able public debt. Hull is less than 200
miles from London as the crow bolts, for
English distances are short. Still on the evi-
dence, it appears that Australia could make
a' decent pyramid of money by sending por-
tion of its exports there by sea, and thus
saving needless railway haulage. What it
could make by saving needless railway
haulage at this end would be a much larger
matter. Apparently the idea that all N. S.
Wales or Victorian exports for the United
Kingdom must go via Sydney or Melbourne
at this side and via London at the other is
eating up the value of the wool and the cow
produce at both ends. In fact, it looks as
if the sheep and the cow spent one-third of
their lives paying for needless train ex-
penses. The Commissioner from Hull has
received a cordial reception from the daily
papers in Australia. What kind of a re-
ception would they give to a similar com-
missioner from Portland or Port Stephens
or Twofold Bay?
4
The Great Obstructionist.
The citizen of Sydney rages ceaselessly at
a number of grievances—at the rotten tram-
service with which he is afflicted, at the ab-
sence of a bridge or tunnel to connect the
North Shore with the city side of the har-
bor, and so on —but not one in 20 of him
ever sits down and figures out why such a
state of affairs isn’t swiftly ended. If a
fair proportion of the inhabitants of Syd-
ney had the time to spare from cricket
rows, sectarian discussions, surf-bathing and
the like to consider the political situation
in a rational and independent spirit, there
would presently ascend a howl for the ob-
literation of Party Government that would
be heard for many miles. And a similar
howl would arise on the same subject from
the country districts, always assuming that
the outbackers suddenly acquired the gift
of arriving at conclusions on political affairs
without regard to the guidance of the daily
papers. In truth, Party Government is the
largest lion in the path of progress in the
entire menagerie of State. It is the world’s
champion obstructionist, the most effective
system yet devised to prevent needed things
being done. Every day and every night the
State Assembly is filled to overflowing with
shouts of abuse, purposeless recriminations
and puerile insults. The press devotes
columns to the question of whether Brown,
M.L.A., did or did not declare in 1909 (as
alleged by Jobson, M.L.A.) for lessened
payment to tram-conductors or what not.
The uproar is a purely party concern, the
sole object of the Brown crowd being to
discredit the Jobson crowd, and vice versa.
The State which pays the fomenters of
these idiotic disturbances has not the re-
motest interest in them. It would be much
better for the State if the WADE-ites on the
one hand and the McGowEN-ites on the
other, instead of each eternally trying to
prove that the other ought to be dead,
settled down and attended seriously to the
State’s business. One of the reasons why
the Government of the day prefers im-
measurably to keep up an endless campaign
of bickering and abuse, rather than buckle
to and set about one or other of the big
things that clamor for attention, lies in the
fact that under the Party Government sys-
tem the big things are nearly all as danger-
ous as vague threats and vituperation are
safe. ' A North Shore bridge, for example,
is an extremely risky proposition for a
Government to tackle from the Party tac-
tics standpoint. The Administration which
started it would have to be prepared for the
unloosing of a flood of opposition orators
on the country districts, every one of whom
would argue that in this regard the country
was being shamelessly fleeced for the benefit
of the city. Only the other day O. G.
Wade —himself a pro-Bridger of a sort, and
the representative of a North Shore consti-
tuency—brayed loudly to the above effect
before a wayback audience. The same cry
will be raised, for a moral certainty, against
whatever Government dares to start an un-
derground or other civilised tram service.
The infamous delay in setting about the
work of decentralisation is almost entirely
a question of Party tactics. No Govern-
ment wants to lose Sydney votes by trans-
ferring Sydney trade, or trade that might
have been Sydney trade, to a number of at
present uninhabited and remote ports. This
is a situation where patriotism pulls one
way and self-interest another. Self-interest
lias been winning, hands down, for years
past, and there is no reason to think it will
do any worse in the future. The remedy
for the evil is in the hands of the people
who are groaning, not to say blaspheming,
under it. If they don’t rise up in protest
against an anachronism that is at the root
of half their troubles it is hardly worth their
while to protest at all.
Scattering the Seeds of Death.
From an old town on the rim of Sydney:—
Four years ago, in this N.S.W. town of about
20,000 souls, an attempt was made to awaken in-
terest on the part of the Department of
Health in the question of making' phthisis a noti-
fiable disease everywhere in the State. The ques-
tion arose through the distribution, by means of a
public auction sale, of the disease-soaked impedi-
menta from a house in which a poor body had lain
for months dying of consumption. Strenuous efforts
were made by the local health officer, pinioned and
leg-roped though he was, to stop the sale. The Board
of Health was appealed to. It replied pathetically
that “Nothing could be done, as in the district
phthisis was not a notifiable- disease.” Apparently
nothing has since been done, either, seeing that a
second sale is projected of similar goods, under
similar circumstances. The family whose disease
germs are now to be scattered has been decimated
by consumption. One poor fellow died six years
ago. His brother followed two years back. The
mother was buried at Christmas, and at her grave
the officiating clergyman referred to her devotedness
to her dying children till she fell a victim to their
dread complaint. Incidentally, three State children
have been “sheltered” in this house —a small,
tumble-down place, crying aloud for a fire-stick, with
the bedroom of two of those State children next to
that of the dying woman. I am not desirous of
indulging in bathos or hysteria, and therefore simply
state the plain facts. I don’t want to indict any-
body or any Department; but I do want to waken
somebody up to see how careless of human life
Authority is ; and I want to expose our dreadful folly
in scattering the cruel disease with one hand, while
with the other we grope in our pockets for the
means to fight the enemy of our own making.
The water supply at Stawell (Vic.) comes
in 18 miles from the Grampians, and as the
cash for the scheme was, many years ago,
borrowed from the Government, which bor-
rowed it from someone else, and as Stawell
dodged out of parting up for most of the
cost, it was at one time proud of its asset.
But as it was quite convinced that the per-
manent and reproductive work would last
for ever, it neglected to make any provision
for renewing the works when they wore out;
wherefore the Board is now beginning to
realise that it is in danger of having to do
something that will make it beastly unpopu-
lar. Recently it arose and substituted some
new reticulation pipes for certain old
ones, yet the populace in the higher
portions of the town can now only have a
shower bath " by means of a seltzogene; and
when the populace howls for more moisture
it is explained that the ancient main from
the Grampians is becoming so frail that if
too much water is allowed in it blows a hole
from the inside. Pessimists are predict-
ing that some day a heat wave will melt the
tar that holds the poor worm together, and
then there will be worse trouble than ever.
One way and another Stawell begins to
suspect that even a permanent and repro-
ductive water-pipe won’t last for ever, and
though it managed to do so little payment
in the first case, it can’t see how it is going
to refrain from expenditure in the future.
• ♦ 7
The fight of the N.S.W. State Government
against the Bank of the People which the
Federal Labor Ministry is building goes on
gaily like an army with banners. In Vic-
toria the tiredest and most prostrate Pre-
mier Australia possesses has been roused
out of bed in the bad cause, and in various
other places money is being poured out with
a lavish shovel on new Savings Bank pre-
mises and other appurtenances of battle.
The position is not especially promising for
the Federal institution at its beginnings.
It will have the Federal banking business,
but apparently most of the State Govern-
ments will prefer, in the immensity of their
cussedness, to do their bit of trade with
Private Enterprise banks. It will get a
certain amount of private business, but that
is likely to grow slowly, for competition is
very keen. And its Savings Bank business
must start, apparently, from the very be-
ginning, amid the fierce opposition of the
State offices. Nothing save sheer lunacy
with straws in its hair can prevent the
Commonwealth Bank being a success, but
its growth promises to be a work of time —
a good deal of time. Just here it may be
mentioned that there is still opportunity
for the Commonwealth to consider the wis-
dom of accelerating things by buying up
some of the very big and very thin joint-
stock ones that lost most of
their flesh in« 1893 and the succeeding years,
though in each case the tall skeleton re-
mains as a gallows might after the dead
depositor was cut down and buried. Then
the Commonwealth could, at a very moder-
ate cost, begin with a ready-made business
connection which would cover every im-
portant towri in Australia, and by compari-
son the State Savings Banks would be mere
financial ants making an unimportant local
fuss. In some cases it would be almost too
unimportant l to be worth calling a fuss. It
wouldn’t even amount to a dust.
4 :
“D.” attends a meeting:—
The keynote of the Sydney Anti-Home Rule meeting
was supplied, so far as I was concerned, by a Wowser
divine whom I observed hurrying across George-
street in the direction of the Town Hall at about
8.30 p.m. on Thursday night last. He wore the
regulation umbrella and vast flat hoots, a black
frock suit, which looked as though it had been made
at home, and a James McGowen bowler—a weird
and horrible sartorial combination. He suggested
something archaic, to the extent of being Early Vic-
torian. He looked like one with a tremendous
capacity for purposeless exasperation, the sort of
citizen who is capable of working himself into a con-
dition of wild passion over the continued existence
of Beer, the Vatican and such-like ineradicable cir-
cumstances. He radiated futility and well-meaning
anger in regard to matters concerning which he had
but scant knowledge. The meeting was an accurate
expression of his personality. As I came in the
occupants of the back of the hall were flinging out
Irish bricklayers, hod carriers, etc. The Hibernians
went protestingly, with myriads of red-ribboned Anti-
Home Rulers twined round them like lob-worms. I
asked a whiskered ancient nearby what their offence
had been. “Dommed. fleerin’ and irreverent Papists,”
he answered, with a fanatic gleam in his eye. When
the last of the Irish had been jerked into the street,
the show proper proceeded on its way, and a drearier
concern I never struck outside a Bethel. The
speakers were all either parsons or local preachers,
and, as is the habit of their class, they fired off
volleys of doddering old platitudes with an audacious
air of having just got off a collection of bright
new thoughts.
The inner meaning or real strength of these func-
tions is apparently to advertise the wilting kirks and
chapels and their pastors. Not a single argument
was supplied during the entire evening against the
Home Rule proposals that hadn’t been ventilated
about 4,000,000 times before. If the orators had
read a couple of pages apiece out of the Koran to
the audience they would have done about as much
good or harm to the cause they were advocating.
However, they got a fairly good and dirt-cheap advt.
for their various Gospel-shops, and the modern parson
needs that as badly as the Mysterious Jansen or any
other public performer.
4
One Rodgers, a sturdy, combative citizen
of Horsham (Vic.), assured Premier Weary
last week that he was voicing “a deep-seated
determination” to insist on the making of a
railway from the Wimmera district to Port-
land, in order that the Wimmera produce
may have a natural port of shipment. If
there are many other local determinators
with the pugnacity of Rodgers, they may
push their point through the passive obstruc-
tiveness of John Weary, who is trying to
shift his responsibility oxr to the Chief En-
gineer for Railway Construction. I ort-
land is no longer a proposition that a btate
Frights Government can avoid, or trifle ’~ith.
It has got to be accepted, or rejected, in the
limelight of public criticism.
The shire council of Tarro (N.S.W.) has
got the first cat’s-paw of what is likely to
become a cyclone very shortly. All over
the State, since the introduction of local
government, the councils have systematically
neglected the main roads, these being not
much used by the ratepayers, whose traffic
perambulates along the by-ways from the
farms to the railway station. As a result
the main roads, which were mostly in good
order when local government came into ex-
istence, have got into a most deplorable
state. The shire council argument is that
money extracted from the ratepayers should
be spent in making roads for the conveni-
ence of the ratepayers. The Government’s
argument is that the shires are heavily en-
dowed, some of them to the extent of 15s.
in the £, from the consolidated revenue,
and that this cash is given them to be spent
on the great highways. But as the shires
have had the handling of the money they
have ignored the Government’s argument.
The shire of Tarro ignored it a little more
violently than some others, and the north-
ern road between Waratah and Hexham
has just about vanished. On this subject
an exasperated deputation of people blew
into Works Minister Griffith’s office last
week and howled with indignation, begging
the Minister to do something. The Minister
said he would, and said it good and hard.
Tarro had received 15s. in the £ endowment,
which amounted to £4OOO, principally for
that road, and had spent only £3OO on it.
He promised he would write to Tarro coun-
cil and tell that body that if it did not im-
mediately put the way in repair he would
do it himself and deduct the cost from the
council’s next subsidy. This means that
the butter is in the fire, and the long im-
pending struggle between the local bodies
and the central Government over the main
road problem has really started. It didn’t
start any too early either. Some of the
great arteries of wheeled commerce are
hardly distinguishable now from the adja-
cent cow-paddock.
According to that luckless cynic, Minister
Beery, the N.S.W. State Government is in
the position of the man who, in defiance of
Marquis of Queensberry rules, sat on his.
opponent when he gat him down, because
there had been much trouble iu getting him
down, and it wasn’t safe to let him up. By
which figure of speech he meant —so he ex-
plained, in effect —that the McGowen Gov-
ernment, having now got a majority, didn’t,
consider itself bound by the pledge which.
Holman gave, that it would dissolve Parlia-
ment as soon as the redistribution of seats;
could be effected. Having got Wade down,,
the party was going to sit on his head till
the last moment. To which it might be'
replied that some people are more particular
than other people as to what they sit on..
Furthermore, the statement attached am
amount of importance to Wade when he is;
up that was, to say the least of it, bad;
tactics. The facts of the case, as set forth;
long ago by the fatally-copious Holman,.
were that the services of Speaker Willis.
were secured on the pledge that the Assembly .
would dissolve and go to the country at the
earliest possible moment. Then, when a
by-election made the Government strong
enough to break its promise, it decided to.
hold on for all it was worth, and it wasn’t
ashamed of being something very like a lie'
and a shabby deception—so long as the decep-
tion paid. Beeby’s attitude was that of a.
man who reckoned that his party couldn’t
afford to go to the country, even for the'
sake of its honor, lest the country should!
prove to be darned tired of it. Out of its.
own jaw is the McGowen Ministry con-
victed.
The busiest court of appeal in the country
never gets a word of mention in the papers
—which may be a very good thing for that,
court of appeal, as a rule. In the first 13
months after Holman had become Attorney-
General in N. S. Wales no less than 345 ap-
plications drifted in to his office to privately
upset the publicly-arrived-at decisions of
various courts. A few of the applications were'
double-banked, but, even so, as many as.
254 prisoners were affected. Two-thirds of
these applications to undo behind closed!
doors what the courts had done in the open,
came through politicians —and that isn’t the-
best feature of an unsatisfactory business.
Innocence is alleged in many cases —im
which event the matter ought, of course, to
go to a court of criminal appeal; but in far
more cases the application to undo what",
the constituted court has done is based on-
thiugs like this (there are dozens of them
“Wife destitute and in ill-health”; ‘‘wife-
and mother dependent on him” ; wife and!
family in need”; “wife ill and unable to.
provide for herself and child”; “wife and’
children in necessitous circumstances.”’
This sort of application doesn’t, however,,
howl for a court of criminal appeal so much;
as it does for a reform of the prison system.
At present, on the stupid plea that tha
prisoner mustn’t compete with the free citi-
zen, he is kept at jobs in which there is no.
money for either himself or the State; and
instead of allowing or rather obliging him
to work for the support of his family, the
unfortunate wife and youngsters either starve
or are thrown on charity, or some friendly
politician is called in to help roll away the
stone from the prison door. It is a bad
habit to get politicians into, anyway.
©
Thus a Maoriland paper concerning the louts
who prefer gaol to military training for the
defence of a white people’s country' and the
purity of the white race —
With the continuance of the firm stand already
taken, the workers and peace-lovers will- finally
secure a great victory.
They did once before in another land, and
thereby they made history. Poland
on its last legs got things down so fide
in the peace business that it abol-
ished its army altogether, or at least
it stopped payment of the army and
tha-t institution abolished itself. Then the
First Partition happened and the country
Ruin!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The principle of a compulsory minimum wage is
a deadly weapon directed at the very existence of
the private capitalist.— London Standard.
Lost, lost, all lost, we can no longer stay,
The enemy is master of the field.
Before this awful weapon forged to slay
Our private capital we needs must yield ;
Wild Socialists uprear their banners red,
How shall Fat flourish if the Lean be fed?
Fat, the triumphant master of us all!
Shall any brave the throne whereon he
sits?
Shall madding statesmen break them from
his thrall?
Shall treason pierce the coal-black of his
pits?
Ho, by the splendid hunger of their sires,
Let Britons guard their ancient altar fires!
The beacon light that led our fathers far
Shone from the holy temple of broad Fat ;
The freeman saw it glowing as a star
What time he grovelled low upon the mat;
It was the Bxdton’s heritage to slave
For aught of alms his lordly master gave !
Shall it be stablished fast and fixed by law
That he who works shall have enough to
eat?
Oh, for the vision that our fathers saw
When Toil was dust beneath its Master's
feet!
Mad to its doom runs down the fatal age
When pampered workers earn a living wage.
The secret of our Britain’s ancient pride
Was hunger gnawing at a people’s heart;
This spread her honored flag o’er oceans wide
And made her mistress of the shop and
mart;
And how shall industry and trade survive
Unless starvation and the Devil drive?
The die is cast, ’tis vain to make a row.
Mad statesmen air their Socialistic creed,
Fat, with a martyr crown upon his brow,
Beholds with pain his murdered country
bleed ;
His Private Enterprises sink and fade
In that sad land where wages must be paid.
Lost, lost, all lost! With wailing long and
drear
.The Tory goes with ashes on his head ;
His sun is set, the darker night is near,
The splendid day he knew is past and
dead ;
But in a million homes the folk are gay
With dreams of breakfast — breakfast every
day !
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
The Passenger’s Prayer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The discipline among the officers and the Euro-
pean section of the Oceana’s crew was exemplary ; but
the lascars, huddled together, alternately wailed
and screamed, terrifying the otherwise courageous
womenfolk, who awaited their turn in the boats as
patiently as the males.
—Report of collision at sea.
O Lord, pray I have a white crew by when
steel ships meet with a crash,
And lapping, icy waters of dawn come pour-
ing in through the gash—
When our good boat has a sick’ning list and
the other’s lost in gloom,
And half-drowned men come clambering up
from the flooded engine-room.
May there be no blacks to shriek and wail
when women wait for the boats —
No fear-mad wretches to rush and fight for
the first frail thing that floats.
Let there be courage and skill and speed
when Death from the dark bites through
And sloping decks to the sea go down. Oh,
give me a white man crew!
Give me a white man crew, O Lord, when
the ship to her rest has gone,
And feeble boats with the punching sea are
wearily “fighting on” ;
A heart of hope and the will to fight are the
plain white seaman’s all;
But let him be there upon the thwart when
the lifeboats landward crawl;
I want to look in no grey-black face when
the seas are rising sheer
And cravens bend to a strong man’s work
because of the pistol near.
The boat with only the. sea to fight may still
to a landing win ;
But God help the boat that fights the sea
and Fear in a coal-black skin.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


TO RUN A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
To Keep Ahead of Your Opposition by
Using HARRINGTONS’ EXCLUSIVE
STAR PICTURES !
A Complete List of All Exclusive
Films, Hiring: Rates and Synopsis
of the various subjects will be
sent on application to
THE LEADING CINEMATOGRAPHIC
* PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS
SYDNEY
fIDELfIiDE
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE
WELLINGTON.NZ.
MADE FROM LEMONS
ONLY
S 3
M
LAXO-TOSIC PILLS
Are a safe and certain remedy for Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Liver Troubles, Flatulence, Anaemia, etc.
Sold at 10id. and 1/6.*
CHOWMEN ! Write for particulars of the
J Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
BE UP TO DATE
AND DRINK
Franz Josef
Laa'er Beer
absolutely the best. .
NOTHING CAN APPROACH IT.
Trv HACKERBRAU
THE DARK LAGER.
where peace-lovers had secured a great vic-
tory didn’t even fire a shot. In fact, it
hadn’t a shot to fire —so wonderful was the
general blessedness of repose. Poland had
no British Empire to fall back upon, so it
was able to give the peace business a fair
trial, and the trial had hardly started before
there was no more Poland. In its last
moments the country noticed a previously-
overlooked leakage in its theory—it dis-
covered that it is no good loving peace unless
the other fellow loves it also, just as it is
no good loving high wages unless you are
prepared to fight for them, for if you aren’t
prepared to fight you will be very lucky to
get 2s. for a day of 10 hours. Whether these
Maoriland people who are taking a “firm
stand” are really believers in disarmament
and non-resistance, and are willing to accept
the full hazard and responsibility of their
acts, or whether they are merely cowards
who expect the British army and navy to
defend them, and propose to fight by
deputy, it ia difficult to decide. Certainly
every honest movement towards complete
peace and disarmament inside the Bull
Empire should begin with an appeal to the
British Government not to interfere with
its bloated sea and land defence system if we
are attacked. Then we might be an inof-
fensive people, accepting all responsibility
for our own methods, and giving the peace
policy a fair trial—just as Poland did when
it urged Prussia and Russia and Austria to
do the square thing, and was answered in
several languages with a cry that sounded
like “Rats!”
-♦
“S.” on the mystery of Victoria’s Toryism:
It is a singular fact that Victoria, the most com-
pact, and, for its size, the best settled State in the
Commonwealth is, with the exception of Tasmania,
the least democratic. As a rule density of population
means an increase in radical sentiment. Victoria is
the only State which has never had a Labor Govern-
ment. At the last general elections, with only a
monument of incapacity like John Weary to fight
against, Labor lost two members. At the present
time the party is in an utterly hopeless position.
Only once has the State really wakened up, and
that was at the last Federal elections, when the
party captured the squatting stronghold of Coranga-
tnite, and ran Deakin to a nose at Ballarat. Since
then, however, democracy has been in a state of
collapse. Victoria is the one State without a Work-
men’s Compensation Act (even slow old Bull Land
has had this principle in force for several years).
It is the only State where the Labor party, save in
very rare and spasmodic occasions, never tries to cap-
ture a seat in the Legislative Council. This House,
also, is the stodgiest and fattest in the Common-
wealth—except the Horror which appertains to
Tasmania. Victoria invites comparison with Tas-
mania in yet another aspect. They are both ex-
porting population hand over fist. Also, they are
capable of supplying between them more ruined old
towns and wilting districts than the rest of the
Commonwealth put together. Why, in the face of so
many horrible examples, should Toryism flourish on
Victorian soil? So far as the local press goes it is
no more Tory than the Sydney or Adelaide press.
The Education system is as good as anywhere else.
The inhabitants bear an outward semblance of in-
telligence for the most part. The tally of cretins,
imbeciles, degenerates, etc., is no larger than in
other States. What, then, is the answer to the
tragedy ? It is a point I would like to have solved.
♦
About thq Need for a Prodder-
There is a loud call in Melbourne, and in other
Australian cities, for a Prodder or Speeder-
Up, to persuade public persons and bodies to get a
move on. It is more than a year now since P’ran and
Malvern proved the success of their electric tram-
line, and pretty nearly every metropolitan council
has a district crying out for a similar convenience,
and knows it would pay, and has the power to build
it. Yet not one has done anything, except inquire,
confer, consider and so on. So with the electrifica-
tion of the suburban railways. The long-dead
Bent was a very live man when Merz reported on
that project. Now Merz is to report again, and
will probably report once more to his successor when
Weary is dead and buried—at least when he is
buried, for he couldn’t be deader than he is. Another
concern that' is asking for the Prodder’s attention
is the Harbor Trust—the Trust whose harbor mostly
consists of some tin sheds, a tortuous drain and one
dock. After about 20 years’ cogitation the Trust
tentatively opines that the “time has arrived” when
the dangerous wharves should be lighted by elec-
tricity, and an electric tram run along the wharfside
from Spencer-street to the Victoria dock —about 11
miles. The Trust has had the power to construct
such works all along, but it hadn’t the energy, and
it never will have, to all appearance. It admits
that the line ought to be built, but it won’t do the
work. At present it has an idea that the Railway
Commissioners ought to tackle the job—though
Heaven knows how they can come into the business.
Failing them, it will wait for the advent of the
Greater Melbourne Council, and that isn’t expected
before tWfe middle of the century. So with the
appliances for fire extinction in the city. Twenty
years ago Melbourne was told plainly that its city
mains were, for fire-extinction purposes, a farce
and a fraud. Larger mains must be laid and the
responsible parties are agreed on that point, but
they can’t come to terms as to the apportionment of
the cost, so nothing is done. For these and many
other undertakings a Prodder or Speeder-Up is
wanted ; in fact, about 20 are wanted, and even then
they would be overworked. And if they were ap-
pointed and set to work there would need be a Boss
Prodder to. speed them up. But all this is vanity.
In a State where the head of the Government is
the Champion Tired Man of the Commonwealth,
there is no place for Prddders.
♦
In a Wiltshire ( England) village a
church-clock has been made of scrap-iron to
celebrate the accession of King George,
These villagers can be really insulting when
they don’t try.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl.”
Royal “Everywoman."
Criterion “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” &e.
Adelphi “ The Night Side of London.”
Palace “ His Natural Life.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric .. Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 &2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Gi.aciariijm West’s Pictures.
Olympia . West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Exhibition Building.... Tiny Town.
Belmore Markets Wirt hs’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Mrs. McSweeney.”
Her Majesty’s “ Sinbad the Sailor.”
Royal “The House of Temperley.”
King’s “A Girl’s Cross Roads.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Kinemacolor.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Esplanade, St. Kilda.. The Follies.
e
The bears waiting to be admitted to the
iron-fenced performing enclosure were
packed close in their wheeled cage. But
they weren’t as badly crowded as Sydney
tram passengers, and no bear had on heavy
boots, or wore hatpins, or carried a damp
umbrella; neither was there a line of bears
on the footboard outside, each of them hang-
ing on by one paw and trying to retain
hold of a brown bag and the evening paper
with another, while groping for the fare
and being crawled over by an indignant
bear ticket-collector. Every bear was in-
side ; and although growls went up when a
long, soft-coated newcomer slid in from the
second cage, there was no real discomfort.
These comfortable animals, whom none of
the shoved and trampled tram passengers
present were entitled to pity, transpired at
Wirths’ Circus, Belmore Markets, Sydney,
on Saturday night. The broad-beamed ele-
phant, in his ready-made pants, is a humor-
ous encyclopaedia, especially when viewed
from the back as he waddles stolidly about
his steady bear-dragging job. He is reminis-
cent of a stout sailorman whose natural
bulk has been grossly exaggerated by the
divided skirts of the sea. Still, he can’t
compare with the trained bear who walks
on his hind legs, lolls a red, thirsty tongue,
and drinks solemnly from an up-ended bottle.
This Wirth season is distinctly the bears’
night out. The eleven Bastiens, a fine acro-
batic troupe with an extensive repertoire,
provide one of the new turns of the revised
show. Atoris and Le Van, a pair of aerial
bar practitioners, the Adelia Sisters and
George (wire entertainers), and Miss Dol-
inda (trapeze) are some of the mid-air
people. They share the space next the roof
wilh the Flying Jordans. Kitchen and Foy
and the Harry Nage Co. dispense most of
the humor left over by the bears. Other
talented performers and a drove of sleek,
well-trained animals are hereby dismissed
with a flick of the pen, there being no more
room available for a grand parade than
there was on the opening night in Sydney,
when even the belltoppers of the firm per-
spired in an heroic effort to make the vast
crowd as comfortable as the bears.
** * *
To wind up his season at the Palace
Theatre, William Anderson on Saturday
night produced still another dramatisation
of “His Natural Life.” Judged solely as
an effort at dramatisation, it is remarkable
for the audacious and frequently absurd
liberties which have been taken with the
author’s version; but judged as a mere
helping of melodrama to stay the ravening
appetite of those who must have melodrama
to follow the evening corned beef and pota-
toes, just as “morality” plays are the be-
setting weakness of the fairy who invites
you to Paris House at your own expense,
and just as unmusical comedy with its pink
fleshings is the crave of the covetous flapper
—but this sentence has become long and
unwieldy, and it is time to cut it off and
begin afresh. Judged then —as the writer
was trying to remark before his last remark
bolted off the course —as a dish of melo-
drama, it has to be recorded that on Satur-
day a packed house rushed at the play with
its mouth open and swallowed Anderson’s
goods whole. In face of that, criticism may
get back to its kennel, or bark its disappro-
val from a distance. Stage-manager Camp-
bell must be congratulated on his portrayal
of Gabbett, the owner of the wonderful
teeth, especially in the scene where he, the
Crow and John Rex draw lots to decide
which shall be the diner and which shall
be the bill of fare. There, mad with starva-
tion, slavering at the mouth in anticipation
of the victuals to come, stands —it might
almost be said howls —Clarke’s creation of
Gabbett. Next to Campbell’s work is that
of Tom Cannam as the Rev. Mr. Meekin.
Cannam has given some careful studies
throughout the season, but the holy Meekin
is his best. H. J. Bentley, as Rufus Dawes,
doesn’t strike the depth of misery of that
God-forgotten man. Walter Baker, as Rev.
John North, the manly and upstanding dip-
somaniac, is too little North and too much
Baker; and Frances Ross is wasted as the
colorless Sylvia Vicars. On the whole, how-
ever, the revival of the old convict story is
of more than ordinary interest, and it loses
very little in the telling at the Palace. R.
Dawes will be flogged on these premises for
one week longer.
In spite of numerous warnings from the
press, certain young ladies at the Adelphi
continue to learn typewriting from a bilious-
looking gentleman, and are, in consequence,
rapidly driven towards destruction on an
average of seven times a week, only to be
rescued when hanging by their last back-
hair to the edge of the precipice by a pugi-
listic parson and a chauffeur. The name of
this cruel deed is “The Night Side of Lon-
don” —London where the famous Lights
were lighted, and the Worst Woman
prowled about in her Babylonish garment,
and where so many other dramatic happen-
ings have happened in five acts or even more
at prices varying from 7s. 6d. down to a
“tanner.”
❖❖ ❖ ❖
St. George and the Dragon, the two
gentlemen who adorn the back of a coin, are
fighting a two-round battle on the Lyric
screen every day and night this week, and
each time George wins on a knock-out.
Anyone who doesn’t know the yarn about
England’s patron saint had better go along
and see it, and anyone who does know it
won’t suffer by seeing it again. The pic-
ture itself, by the Milano Co., is worth
looking at. The other leading attraction at
the Lyric is “The Margrave’s Daughter,” a
story of the Court of the Margrave of
Hesse, somewhere about the year 1557.
“The Voiceless Message,” a well-screened and
well-acted picture, was Colonial l’s head-
line this week. In the new programme “A
Noble Enemy,” a U.S.A. battleship yarn,
will be the attraction. “His Last Cent,”
which the programme says is “taken from
life,” will lend a hand to fill Colonial No. 2
during the rest of the week.
*i* 'l* »!' »!»
Reluctant though the writer is to draw
invidious comparisons between the dead and
the quick, the sacred cause of Truth impels
him to remark that for culture, humanity,
taste and all-round allurement, Prince
Charles, at the National Amphitheatre,
fairly loses the late lamented George, his
forerunner at the house next door. Charles
approaches the dead limit in educated
chimpanzees; he is a super-monk, if ever
there was one. Prominent among his fellow-
artists are the Harlem Trio, Mr. C., and
O’Dell and Hart.
* * * *
On Friday night the mysterious Jansen
will fold up the body which has no visible
means of support, and shove his other props
out of the Criterion and out of Sydney.
For the following two weeks the theatre will
be given up to H. B. Irving and merriment.
The Rev. North
(Walter Baker)
and his obsessions —
Rufus Dawes and
brandy.
“HIS
NATURAL
LIFE," AT
THE PALACE ,
SYDNEY.
Edwin Campbell
as the cannibal
Gabbell.
The violin—the faithful wailer that fol-
lows the tottering heroine through the snow
and attends at the bedside of the dying but
still garrulous stage infant —has hitherto
kept aloof from low comedy with a strong
odor of beer. Rinaldo, the wandering fid-
dler, now at the Tivoli, makes the serious
contrivance which is so addicted to gloomy
introspection in low keys and hysterics in
high ones, gurgle happily as if several pints
had been poured into the S-shaped mouths
in its polished face. It is good to know that
the violin can submerge its quivering nerves
if it wants to, and cease to be distressed
over snow wanderings and interminable
last speeces. Fred Poplar, the humorous
pursuer of limelight, Comedian Tom Paw-
son, the juggling Testros and Kitty Wager
are the chief remaining headliners of the
present bill.
The Bulletin gathers from the hoard-
ings, rumor, matinee devotees, and so on,
that “The Quaker Girl” is still at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney). T 9 verify the fact in
person it resolutely declines lest it thereby
blight one of its most gracious memories.
The central figure of the persistent old show
is certainly a Quaker Woman by this time,
mayhap (horrible thought!), a Quaker
beldame —and the writer’s predilection is
for Girls.
# & # *s*
At Sydney Royal, Everywoman continues
to collogue interminably with Nobody-
a veracious touch this, the average female
being prepared to talk to a dog rather than
remain silent. Everybody applauds the
show from the front of the house, whereat
Nobody is to be heard expressing disgust
and amazement, and wondering what m
Sheol the drama is coming to.
*
Fine dramatic work is being done at Ade-
laide Royal. Titheradge has shone brightly
in the machine-made epigrams of Oscar
Wilde, and Mrs. Brough as a strange suc-
cession of repentant and tearful ladies.
Beatrice Day has generally too little to do.
Lizette Parkes has come on enormously. She
has the gift of “holding” an audience, and
should be another Nellie Stewart. Plim-
mer, always sound, was a charming Incon-
stant George, though possibly not quite the
George the author had in his eye. Denms-
ton, in the same play, did perhaps his best
work. It is a fine company, and the princi-
pals stand down in turn, or take tiny parts,
in the true artistic spirit. At the Tivoli
are Ike and Will Scott, who sandwich in
with comicalities a most realistic bit of
bare-fisted fighting; also Wilson Hallett,
with his baby-cry, and the popular Charles
Johnson, who cakewalks. At the Kings,
Johnson and Wells do the same thing in
combination (are all buck-niggers named
Johnson, these times?). Miss Beaumont
Collins and co. (notably David Baird) give
tabloid Thrills. The acting is good, the
plays are good, but the note is always
forced, the loud pedal on all the_ time.
Millie Doris, whatever one may think of
her methods, is the idol of the house. The
leading picture-shows, West’s, _ Wonder-
graph and Empire, are specialising in fire
and water-bathing scenes, submarines, lady
swimmers, wrecks, and the ' burning-up
of R. Haggard’s She. St. Patrick and co.
gave a national concert at the Exhibition,
and the Huddersfield Bellringers (why
“Ole Huddersfield” last week only the
printer knows) have had a successful week
at the Town Hall. Their chiming wea-
pons are equal to anything, from Wagner
to “Harrigan.”
** * *
The panto, at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne)
will also proceed to the verge of Easter week,
or thereabouts. The panto, has now topped
the century, and to-morrow (Friday) that
estimable leg-show will get a final fillip
from the rallying of its members at a
Theatrical Carnival on East Melbourne
Cricket Ground. The Carnival needs only
fine weather to ensure a big benefit for the
theatrical funds that absorb the proceeds.
If the weather turns dog on the proposed
festivities the absent public can send along
their shillings by post to the secretary.
** * *
Melbourne Athenaeum Hall betrayed its
awful lack of proper ventilation when the
Repertory Co. took the stage for three ex-
hibits of rational- drama, the third of which
—“Lonely Lives” —was to happen after this
publication had gone to press. “Chains
and “What the Public Wants” came and
went on Thursday and Saturday last week,
the audience each time being boshter. _ Eli-
zabeth Baker’s “Chains” is a drab-tinted
study of Cockney suburban home life, photo-
graphically depicted, and dealing mainly
with the discontent of a young married
clerk whose salary compels him to add a
lodger to his means of support. He would
go to Australia to look for a larger income
on broader lines of industry if his loving
little wife didn’t whimper at the thought
of him taking the risk —alone. Also, various
relatives and friends indignantly or scorn-
fully counsel him to stick to his irksome
little job in a London office. His only sym-
pathiser is a sister-in-law who is sick of
serving in a shop, but is equally indisposed
to buy her “freedom” by marrying a tame
widower of the senior clerk persuasion.
Nevertheless the moody _ malcontent has
brought himself to the point of departure,
intending to escape by strategy, when his
wife joyfully tells him of a new responsi-
bility in store. Thereupon he settles down
again to the contemplation of a dull future
in the Chains that circumstance have forged
for him. In any other crowded Old
World city than London the same conditions
of life are general conditions, and the same
pros and cons, of argument would lead to
the same dead, wall of fact. Even a young
Australian married man in a small billet
gets no encouragement from his wife and
mother-in-law to travel to the Northern
Territory in quest of the free and easy life.
-*■ * * *
Arnold Bennett’s “What the Public
Wants” looks very like an earnest literary
man’s endeavor to make thick-skinned news-
paper breeders, of the Ilarmsworth type,
blush for their purely commercial instincts.
Bennett is somewhat amusing and entirely
unsuccessful. Sir Charles Worgan, manu-
facturing a wide assortment of newspaper
to suit all classes —Wowsers, workers,
wasters avM ordinary commercial men —ap-
pears positively heroic in his private enter-
prise. His more cultured brothers; his in-


STEGK
One of the World’s
Great PIANOS
fsd
Price in buying a piano is certainly a
consideration, but price is a dangerous
thing when used as a paramount issue.
While moderate price is one of the marked
individualities of the STECK Piano, it isn t
price that has made this Piano the standard
of musical excellence. It is the individual
magnetism, the broad, indisputable worthi-
ness of this reputable piano that brings
agreeable surprises and lasting satisfaction
to its owner. It is .not what we say, but
the experience of the purchaser that verifies
a truth more lasting than price.
As manufacturers of the STECK, we stake
our reputation on its being one of the finest
pianos possible to buy. You should call at
PIANOLA HALL, and see the STECK if
you are interested in good pianos.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 George Street,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
252 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
311 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q. N. Bank).
London, Paris, Berlin and New York. [l5
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
Insure
with the _ _
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY,
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
■ Phone No. 23G Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
The Household Disinfectant
Carbolacene
Cleanses and Disinfects in One Act.
Sold Everywhere. Pint Bottles, J/ 5
dignant dramatic critic who resigns his
position rather than suffer split infinitives,
the theatrical manager who insists on pro-
ducing modern masterpieces at a loss, ana
the widow who jilts him because Ins views
of what matters are not her views —ail these
seem less accurately balanced in their in-
tellectuality than the Napoleon of popular
journalism. Perhaps the fact that Giegan
McMahon was an expert actor surrounded
by amateurs gave undue force to the central
character and took the sting out of the
satire. But a play so void of plot and en-
cumbered with irrelevant dialogue in the
third act could hardly prosper, in any case.
Helton Daniel, as the wandering brother
and Miss Jolliffe, as the leading lady, did
very well without getting near to ones con-
ception of the parts—the man being too
heavy and the lady too frothy. Miss Ixu-
bina Ward and others in minor parts helped
to make a highly respectable amateur show.
The third and last week of “East Lynne”
is passing away to slow music at the King s.
The revival might have been prolonged, but
a wise manager never allows the old cam-
paigner to fight its popularity to a dead
finish. He drags it oft the boards in a fanly
Vigorous state, and keeps it fit for future
engagements. On Saturday the aggressively
moral and temperance drama of “A Girl s
Cross Roads” will be revived for one week
only. At the Princess’s the eccentricities
of Mrs. McSweeney will last another week,
or longer. Last Saturday a matinee per-
formance was thrown in, and Maggie
Moore’s passing references to St. Patrick
melted the audience to floods of cheers.
For some unaccountable reason a lady en-
gaged in collecting upon behalf of 27 orphans
calls on I. Cohen, who forthwith acquires
the delusion that she is his son’s fiancee
and is flabbergasted at the brazen, Niobe-
like manner in which she skites about her
27 kids, after admitting that she is un-
married. He is not prepared to part
from the £3O donation for which she
clamors, but eventually compromises for
£l5, less five per shent. This Hebrew
fantasy is being committed by Hay-
man and Franklin, new arrivals at the
Opera House. The male, who is a repre-
sentative of an immemorial type of vaude-
ville Israelite, is humorous enough and has
a commendably clear enunciation, while his
partner is a heavyweight Rebecca with a
certain amount of mature dash. The new
turn is not as diverting as that provided by
Terry and Lambert, the Yankee frivollers;
nor is it as interesting, from an aesthetic
standpoint, as the Casselli Sisters’ active
and intelligent legs; but then, again, it is
less mournful than the cross-talk indulged
in by 11. Rule, comedian, and a jumpy con-
federate in the dress circle. There are many
Rules in life, and 11. of that ilk is not the
golden one.
a
To produce a film like “The Flight to
Death,” which figured at the Prahran Lyric
(Vic.) last week, seems like wasting good
photography on a misbegotten story. The
yarn deals with the machinations of Nihil-
ists, but several of its incidents are quite
unaccountable, and even this paper’s trained
bloodhound failed to scent out a good reason
for the last motor smash. A fairly charm-
ing drama is “The Baby and the Stork ;
but “The Crime and the Criminal pulls
the public leg to excess, and drags the long
arm of coincidence out of joint and all rea-
son. Spectacularly pleasing is “By the
Zuyder Zee,” a study of a flat, flat land
where the nation, has been pumping for IUUU
years to avoid being drowned.
Among the starters at West’s Building,
Melbourne, on Saturday, was “Convicts Nos.
10 and 13,” a pictorial convulsion in three
acts and innumerable scenes. It is too much
dragged out, and the only thing that is as
inconsequent as the two ends is the middle.
The obliteration of a bad man over a good
big precipice is the principal feature of Ihe
Half-Breed’s Daughter.” Half-breeds mostly
live in mountainous countries for the ex-
press purpose of having a handy precipice
about the house. The strong suit of Aunt
Zoe goes in for Painting” is the arduous
imbecility of aunty’s relations. As regards
the film, “Beware of Magic,” the man who
describes it as a “screaming farce ought to
get six months for defamation.
* * *
Taits’ Follies still continue their frivolous
conduct on the St. Kilda (Vic.) Esplanade.
Nowanights, John McGowan is the most
renowned warbler of the group, though in
manner he is essentially weary, and seems
to be maintaining the vertical with an
effort. Fairly tuneful also is George Stev-
enson, singer of “Always” and similar dit-
ties, though George’s main fault is that he
needs an alarm clock like brother McGowan.
Compensating for the comparative tiredness
of those two members are the brightness <>t
Bert Leywood and Charlie _ Lawrence, and
the attractiveness of the trio, Mona, 1 byi-
lis and May.,
** * *
For three weeks in all “The House of
Temperley” will furnish the stage at Mel-
bourne Royal with a suggestion—ranging
from faint to middling—of the t»ad old Re-
gency period in England, when gents of
fashion flaunted loose morals and tight side-
whiskers, and their preposterous neck-gear
was leading up to the bronchial troubles
which have set their descendants coughing.
“Temperley,” as was recorded last week, is
a mere spectacular play of stoushing senti-
ment, with no dramatic punch to speak, ot,
nor any feminine interest worth mention-
ing. The final curtain falls on a cheap and
foolish military episode, ending in smoke
that leaves the heroine presumably mourn-
ing in a distant country. But seeing that
the heroine carries no weight in the casual
narrative, nor gets any public sympathy tor
loving one brother whilst intending to marry
the other, her supposititious tears don t
count. The only bit of early 19th century
muslin that appeals to students of human
nature is Ginger Stubbs’s girl
Brown) who bounces into Tom Cnbb s
Saloon with the idea that she isn’t going to
let her Ginger return to the prize-rmg and
be * damaged on the “dial” or. elsewhere.
When she learns that the belting of her
best boy will be worth £2OO and extras to
their domestic joint she withdraws her pro-
test, and leaves Ginger in the hands of his
backers, which is a truly womanly repul-
sion of feeling, anyhow. Tom Cnbb s Saloon
is the most satisfactory scene in the lem-
perley” series, although the ‘harmony
gathering at the three tables presents. more
character as regards its clothes than in its
cross-fires of conversation. The incidental
set-to between little Ginger and Joe Berks
Harry lames in the Coorong Desert (S.A.), preparing the way for the Dunlop Relay Race.
is as realistic as it can be, considering that
the fiery bantam is obviously too small tor
the iob. It has more snap in the prelimin-
aries and stoushing details than the subse-
quent prize-fight on Crawley Down, where
the Down is all in the background, and the
ring is pitched between a couple of rural
buildings. - Nobody views the battle from
those tempting points of vantage. lhe
fight with the “raws admits ot vast
improvement in stage managing at the
ring-side, apart from the fact that an in
troductory boxing display between Sam
Grey and Starlight seems ridiculously out
of place in this connection. There is no
furious uproar of and blas-
phemy around the combatants. The specta-
tors don’t implore their respective fancies
to blanky well kill the other bloke, as pat-
rons of noble art were wont to do of yore.
Fifteen rounds' are supposed to be running
their gory course, whilst the curtain hides
the combatants for one minute, but no hor-
rible language is shrieked from behind that
curtain. The prize-fight is. too dashed re-
spectable. Nevertheless, this journal must
modify a previous allegation that Harcourt
Beatty and the hired recipient of his raw
biffs are always smiting the air. As a mat-
ter of fact, Beatty often gets in the way ot
gentle punishment, whilst his doomed op-
ponent suffers many of the ills that flesh is
heir to. His nakedness, seemingly, is be-
ginning to color, like a clay pipe. J® l * l "
perley” has another week to run, so the
chances are that Arthur Styan’s bruised
candidate will have to be replaced ere the
season closes.
“N.L.”: This morality play is all very well, but,
after all, I think I prefer the immorality play.
London Stage Society has just produced “Travel-
lers ” bv Norman McKeown, of Sydney. The plot of
the thing is laid in an Australian mining town, and
half of the critics praised it, if not up to the
skies, at least as high as the ceiling, and the rest
blamed it down to the cellar. The author was told
that it was “a work of considerable courage and
ability,” and that “he only succeeded in showing
how faint is the line which separates the sublime
from the ridiculous” ; that it “suggests the work-
manship of Mr. Shaw,” and that it is “not merely
non-commercial, but also non-dramatic and non-in-
tellectual, too.” You can toss up these remarks and
take the one that comes down first.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Busk” : The Tom and Jerry scene of Tom Cribb’s
parlor, in “The House of Temperley,” recalls the
pugilism of 1812. John Gully ought to have been
brought forward as a spectator. Truly the most
astounding man in fistic annals. He was a friend of
Cribb, and the pair once took a joint benefit. Guiiy
retired from hitting live meat in 1808, when he
had fought a number of battles, especially those
against Gregerson. There is a saying that a man,
to achieve success, ought to be once stone broke.
Gully, the son of a butcher, afterwards publican, got
into the Fleet Prison for debt at the early age of
22. This was the foundation of his career. A little
amateur scrapping enlivened the tedium of the gaol.
The ability of Gully roused the interest of the Game
Chicken, who bought him out. Gully soon repaid
the Fowl from his winnings. Then he became a
publican. From this stage he advanced to bookmak-
ing, and he bookmade on a very large scale, being
quite the Joe Thompson of his day. He managed
to lose £40;000 in one whack, but was not knocked
out. About this time Gully had to pay large dam-
ages for battering his partner, Kidsdale. As is some-
times the case, his losses were an advertisement.
After all, he kept his position as the foremost book-
maker. Like Jack Wren, he progressed to owning
racehorses, but never singed a wing, like that bird,
by dabbling in playhouses. Gully upset all the
axioms about money that is easily got being money
easily lost. He kept gaining hand over hand. Be-
came a big coalmine owner, and reached almost
the best circles of society. His daughters were re-
markably handsome. He was twice married, and
had 12 children by each wife, total 24. He sat for
five years in the House of Commons, as member for
Pontefract. Death got him in 1863, at the age of 80.
It was his grandson, William Court Gulley, M.P. and
Q.C., who became Speaker of the House of Commons
in 1895.
“Brannigan”: Thus “Vulcan” (B. 7/3/’12):
“Consider the new Portus-Talbot firm’s programme—
Jansen, magician; nigger minstrel troupe; concert
artists; aviator Hammond, etc.—one-man shows,
vaudeville, platform events and out-door amuse-
ments, which the Combine wouldn t touch with a
telegraph pole—yet.” Which sounds all right until
you ascertain that “concert artists means the gre
Cisneros and a whole pyramid of supporting voices
for oratorio, etc. (commencing at Sydney next
June). I’m not in the confidence of the Combine, so
I suppose I must accept “Vulcan s word that it
would not have Cisneros on its mind. All the same
I wouldn’t take anybody else’s word for it.
The fund for Armes Beaumont closed at £483
ss. 5d., and it was handed to him with all due
pomp, at the Town Hall, by Mr. R. A. Molesworth.
CJ. Madden, who was president of the committee,
would have done the deed, but he was unavoidably
detained elsewhere, or pledged to interview a man
about a dog or something. The total amount col-
lected was £487, and, inclusive of bank charges,
the expenses incurred amounted to only £3 14s. 7a.
“mareazer”: “The House of Teinperley,” the Conan
& fa
dinkum Pl sc y ene of crumples
,m L Well the mill between the younger son of the
stoush, but the Royal P a stunt that wpuldnt
tk raa
ing Irving from an armchair in the wings, unce,
ts£&X K»sf«
backed out of sight. . c „i.„
“Y Z” • At a farewell spree which Oscar Asche
tfntpi Cecil in the early hours of a
Oscar complained dolorously of the wickedness o
ft'.lXu™"™, tta
aa*rtt “Tb2rs?r.™ sssfi *■
both instances, Asche was making heaps of money,
enjoying the Plaudits of thousands, and being noisily
'effusively puffed by scores of papers , but patne
tfc discontent gnawed his vitals because of the
means of praise the choir might have sung and
M i Thp font is if a great act-or s praises were
sung as he thinks they should be sung, all other busi-
ness would have to be temporarily suspended.
“Cockaigne”: Exit George Grossmith the second
•ind best " Three George Grossmiths and three Wil-
ham Earrens When Gilbert and Sullivan had
cockered up “The Sorcerer” they were utterly at a
loss for a 1 John Wellington Wells, the dealer in
• „ , IT w] onells Plenty of comedians, but all too
accentuated P Cecil who had emanated from the
drawing-room stage of the German Reeds appeared
fbe most suitable ; hut he was too much of the char
ac tor not subtle enough, and not a good vocal-
ist *So Grossmith, then only an enter tamer, w a
pitched upon. The combination of Gilbert, Sulli
Sin Grossmith and Carte became as complete in its
w a ; as tha of the Kaiser, Bismarck, Moltke and
Roon I think Vernon and Brough/ among the
L for Brough, what P could be better than his Lord
Chancellor?
A man with the Moabitish-sounding: name of Henry
•R pn . jahn has left Ballarat (Vic.) £lO,OOO, wnere
with to “purchase and maintain a menagerie. Henry
was a working jeweller in life, and when, where and
how he conceived the idea that the obscene caged
monkey and the trammelled and mange-afflicted lion
were essential to the happiness of the city he loved
so well is a mystery to his whilom associates.
For a time, at any rate, O. Asche has turned the
cold shower on his proposed new London theatre. It
was his intention to shove up a playhouse on the fine
site of the Cavour Restaurant, but unexplained diffi-
culties arose; so the playhouse hasn t arisen, and
isn’t likelv to just at present. The project, however,
is not entirely abandoned, and the mighty Ilajj pi o-
mises to get 'into holts with it on his return from
Australia in 1913.
A PERTURBED BILL-TOPPER SPEAKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chapman-Alexander mission revisits Australia.
Disquieting news item.
None dare assert that I’m a jealous mime ;
I’d be much hurt to be termed “vain” or “cocky” ;
Yet though alone I reigned, a star, one time,
Just now my throne seems tottery and rocky ;
My crown, in sooth, there’s danger of me doffing—-
Revivalists are sighted in the offing!
They’ve been before ; their coming I resent.
What makes me sore —they’re such big opposition.
Bill-toppers they, mummers whose time is spent
Saving (they say) their audience from perdition ;
My reputation as a draw they’ll break up,
And, worse, while doing it collections take up !
For many years have I adorned the stage,
And it appears my Art has been far-reaching;
My picture post-cards, colored, are the rage;
Ido not boast—the public likes my preaching.
What wonder, then, these rivals raise my dander,
This double-turn —Chapman and Alexander!
I’ll beat the drum anew, for should I let
Outsiders come and take the stage’s centre
And all the limelight, Work I’d have to get,
And, as a mime, the stage-door no more enter;
Walk up, walk up, my friends! My mumming’s
grander—
I’m cheaper, too, than Chap, and Alexander!
N.S.W.
EARDLEY TURNER.
THE STIPEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a meeting of the wardens of the Anglican
Church, when the motion that the church be pain ed
was put, the rector moved an amendment that his
sCne-nd, which had not been paid for two months, be
naid instead, the amendment being put by way of
drawing attention to the fact. . Mr. R—-, m reply,
said there was too much politics in the pulpit. #
Bundaberg item.
Whatever are we coming to
When parson makes so much ado
About the things of earth —the wage,
The food, the raiment?
We think the paint is wanted worst.
He thinks we ought to pay him first,
And threatens that he’ll call around
For early payment.
Our shepherd waits a month or two
Without a stiver of his screw,
And vows he cannot live on air
And soft evasions;
We only say we’d rather see
Our chapel shine resplendently
In virgin white, than strive to meet
His expectations.
So lay the paint on fair and thick
We love to see our temple slick,
No matter whether parsons’ wrongs
Are ever righted;
So long as all is fair without
What care we if the heathen flout,
And call our church a sepulchre
That’s only whited?
So long as pastor gets a crust
And carries on —of course he must
Put up with things—although his hopes
Get daily fainter;
And if we can’t his prospects mend
He still —we hope we don’t offend —
May drop the church and —happy end!
May turn a painter !
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.


IDEAL COUNTRY NATS.
A COMFORTABLE SOFT FELT.
For the
Autumn,
12/6
Exceptionally comfortable as well as smart to
wear is this soft Felt Lounge Hat for Men. In
Grey and Light Brown, with 3-inch brim,
bound or unbound, as illustration 12/6
ONE OF STETSON’S LOONGE FELTS.
For
Autumn
Wear.
A very smart Autumn style in
Stetson’s Nutria Fur Lounge.
Light Brown, Fawn and. Light
brims 2g to 2J inches wide,
tion
Men’s Hats—
In colors —-
Green, with
as illustra-
2 5/m
25 1-
DAVID JONES, LTD.
opp. G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
9
■;
#tSi
fay'. . jHi
• -Jr '
.w: J
fiug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKiri Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid."
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
4— —■ —
Sole Proprietor*:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
d SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
INTOPHET.
DREADITUS : “What new terror is this?'”
TORMENTUS : “We are inlraducing the Sydney
tramway system.”
A tiresome, sloppy squabble between
neighbors that got into the Melbourne courts
lately was interesting chiefly because of the
amazing amiability of one of them. The
parties were a master-mariner’s wife and an
orchardist, of Blackburn (Vic.), and the
bother arose over a handful of ■cherries. It
appeared that in December last the lady was
allegedly seen by the orchardist to enter his
garden and annex a few cherries, and he be-
came annoyed and handed her a summons to
answer a charge of petty larceny. The case
being dismissed the lady got busy and sued
the cherry-grower for £99 damages. When
the case came before Judge Box he was so
shocked, first at the extreme bitterness
shown between the master mariner’s wife
and the orchardist’s better-half, and secondlv
at the gross perjury one or the other was
committing, that he declined to settle the
matter himself, and remitted it to a jury.
Last week the plaintiff told the jury she
never took any cherries —she was, she said,
miles away at the time —and was, in fact, a
much harassed and long-suffering woman.
She yielded to everybody. Her neighbors
had complained about her fowls —and she
got rid of them. About her dog—she poisoned
it- About her goat—she gave it away.
About her calves—she sold them. About
her daughter’s habit of singing comic songs
when they were playing sacred music. She
liadn t smothered her daughter as yet, but
she was a peaceable woman, and would do
anything for a quiet life, and she might
have done even that had they not accused
her of taking cherries. She was a most pro-
testrul feminine, blit her appearance was
against her, being large and bounceful, and
the jury apparently reckoned she was
making a deuce of a fuss over nothing, for
it gave a verdict for the orchardist without
leaving the box.
* * * *
No less than 187 threepenny bits were
found under the flooring of an old church
now being demolished in Melbourne. Many
were °f a very early vintage. Apparently
the thrip ny bit habit in church is no new
thing.
Chasuble : With St. Mnry’s in Sydney,
preparing to spend another £lOO,OOO, the
supporters of St. Patrick’s, in Melbourne,
awake again. Grotty, *of Lyell, left
£lo,ooo_ towards finishing St. Pat’s towers
and spires; but it has not been disclosed
exactly how that bequest panned out, except
that there wasn’t £lO,OOO available, and out
or what there was the Church gave pretty
liberally to widow Crotty, who was left
much worse off than everybody thought she
would be. Already £200,000 has been spent
on St. 1 at s, and it will take a heap more to
complete the two spires in front, each 250 ft,
and the transept spire, 350 ft. Archbishop
Can apparently isn’t keen on the project,
lie wisely concentrates his energies on' the
indispensable and priestly work of bringing
the nuns up to State-school level as secular
teachers. For this reason the Archbishop
has discouraged an agitation by the Newman
Uub to gather funds for the building of an
L.C. College—St. Mary’s—within the Uni-
versity.
-f n Papua the Resident Magistrate’s job
still consists largely of a stern-chase after
the sorcerer and the witch. In the North-
Eastern division, for instance, there were 227
cases in the “Court for Native Matters” last
year, and 82 of them were prosecutions for
sorcery. It is the old pourri-pourri trouble
and the white man is beginning to feel that
Jt going to be with him until the Papuan
is civilised” which won’t be to-morrow or
the next day. The nigger dies, and the
other nigger, who
c a, n’t see what
killed him, con-
cludes that it must
be the work of
some third un-
friendly nigger;
wherefore the other
nigger proceeds to
wipe out the un-
friendly nigs-er, or
some relative of
his, or else sug-
gests that the
trouble should be
squared with a pig.
Recently one no-
torious wizard,
who knew just the
right thing to do
to make bad wea-
ther and spoil the
taro crops or the
fishing, was ar-
rested, and was be-
ing brought along
the coast in a canoe
by two native
policemen. Then the
Law, though it had
arrested lrm for sorcery, suddenly remem-
bered that if it kept him a prisoner he would
probably make bad weather and thus drown
the lot, so one-half of the Law begged his
pardon and pushed him ashore. Not, of
course, that it believed in sorcery any more;
still the Law observed that it had only one
life, and it wasn’t taking any risks.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF ALEXANDER.
MINISTER: "Hoo is it, Sandy, I havna’ seen ye at the kirk this long while?"
Sandy : "To tell ye the truth, Meenister, I canna' stand your long sairmons."
MINISTER: "Hoofs, man, you'll be just going to a place where there’s no sairmans at all."
SANDY: Ah, weel, I doot it'll no ’ be for the want o’ meenisters."
“Petronius”: This is how some alleged
Australians regard their nominal country.
Speaking at the Sydney Irish National For-
resters’ banquet, the boss cockie, a gentle-
man named MacNamara—
Went on to say that their Society’s aims could
briefly be placed under five headings, namely, first,
to develop national aspirations, and respect for their
religion ; secondly, to foster love for poor old Ireland ;
thirdly, to foster the spirit of fealty to the British
Empire and the Government under which they lived;
fourthly, to foster patriotism towards Australia ; and
fifthly, to cultivate the habit of thrift among the
members of their Order.
Australia comes fourth and thrift fifth. As
for the habit of washing it isn’t even men-
tioned.
WHATS IN A NAME?
Melbourne, Sunday.—“ Should We Legalise the
Tote?” was the topic adopted by Rev. T. S. B.
Woodfull for an address to a very large congregation
at the Wesley Church.
His answer was an emphatic negative. The sug-
gestion that charity should be assisted by the legal-
isation of the totalisator was worthy of scorn.
Gambling would be wicked, legalised or not.
Rev. Walter William Woeful: “ Accept
the proceeds of gambling! Never! Take
the unclean thing away!"
A citizen of Sydney, named Day, has had
a narrow escape from the clutches of the
Law. One Saturday in December there
was an unpleasantness in Redfern, and an
adjacent policeman was suddenly hit on the
jaw and “put to sleep” for 20 minutes. On
recovering consciousness he remembered the
occurrence and arrested Day. At the trial
Day produced several witnesses of the as-
sault, who all swore that he was innocent.
The magistrate, however, like most magis-
trates, took the word of the intelligent
policeman, and awarded Day three months.
But Day, peculiarly enough, was not satis-
fied, and appealed to Judge Rogers. The
police-court witnesses were reproduced and
again declared that if they were struck pink
or something Day was guiltless; and, further,
that one Robinson should s!and in his place.
Robinson, who was in court, was put on the
stand and promptly and emphatically denied
that he stoushed the policeman; whereas
Rogers looked sourly upon Day and refused
to disturb the original conviction. Pre-
sently, however, a breathless Crown Prose-
cutor announced to the Judge that Robin-
son had admitted, outside the Court, that
he was the author of the intelligent police-
man’s downfall, and the Bloke on Top being
satisfied by hurried declarations, Day was
hastily summoned from the cells and dis-
charged. The Judge, however, didn’t even
offer to shout him a drink, and, so far, the
magistrate hasn’t thought of apologising.'
* * * *
Melbourne Argus has seemingly forgiven
Chief Justice John Madden his offence of
fining that law-abiding journal for contempt
of Court in the. Peacock case. Whilst -its
distinctly feminine indignation was at white
heat the Argus boycotted John. It ignored
his existence outside of the courts. If he
opened a high-toned tea-fight with a long
and eloquent address on the philosophy of
the muffin or what not, the Argus turned
its hundred eyes away from the honeyed
wordy citizen, and pretended to be deaf. He
continued to play speaks, but the ruffled
news-organ was not playing listens. Time,
however, must have healed the journal’s
wounded feelings, or perhaps the genial
Waxcellency sent it a goose at Christmas.
Anyhow, it referred to his exposition of the
aim of the Educational Congress in Mel-
bourne as a “speech of admirable lucidity.”
TWO YEARS AGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Will E.S., met gentleman picnic two years ago,
Meadow Bank, wite F.A., Herald Office. —Romantic
morning paper advt.
Two years ago, on Meadow Bank,
The sun was bright, the world was gay;
From Cupid’s brimming cup they drank,
The shy E.S., the bold F.A. ;
Ah, where’s the lover who can say
What happiness they learned to know
When first they met, that golden day
Two years ago ?
Two years ago, he could not guess
How long her memory would cling;
She seemed a Mash in idleness,
And not the true, authentic thing.
He bought her no expensive ring,
Nor made the costly wine-cup flow.
He only sat her on*a swing
Two years ago.
Oh, yesterday! Can nothing make
Your sweetness linger with us yet?
Must all days die, ere new days break?
And we rush onward, and forget
The glory when the sun has set ?
(I beg your pardon. In this throe
I thought of —someone, whom I met
Two years ago.)
Since then, F.A., in Cupid’s car,
Through much experience has dashed,
And eyes as radiant as a star
On him their tender light’ have flashed ;
But Cupid’s trumpets have not crashed
With such magniloquent Yo-ho
As when the sweet E.S. he mashed
Two years ago !
Now, yearningly he thinks of when
Half-finished was his picnic spoon,
And longs to meet E.S. again
Beneath the pale, romantic moon,
Where they twin souls will coo and croon
In plaintive accents soft and low,
Repeating what was once their tune,
Two years ago.
Alas, alas ! These lovers twain
Had better keep themselves apart.
Lips will not sing their ancient strain,
Eyes will not ray their ancient dart.
No kiss, no crime, no dream, no art
(So fast moves on this world of woe!),
Are what they were in hope and heart
Two years ago.
Grim is the sentence written down,
The sentence of relentless Fate
Which bids the present turn its frown
Upon the Past with bitter hate ;
Closed is the door, and locked the gate:
Man finds not zest—and Woman, no !
In eating of the fruits they ate
« Two years ago.
N.SAV. - -■
ADAM McCAY.


SUNLIGHT
_,SBAP——
/|0, 000,000
rtabletsof Sun
flight Soap are
sold every week;
this is the high-
est possible proof
that Sunlight
p comes up
» expecta-
tions.
/
fs
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDEN THE
"pure FOOD ACT. 1908,’*
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITEO,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. NO. 57.
Wild’s Hairdressing: Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney', is
che proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
df
NEW ZEALAND RU<SS!
These Rugs from New Zealand are the lowest priced and
best-value Rugs we have ever offered.
They are full-sized Rugs with fringed edges in warm, fleecy
textures of fair average weight.
Patterns are reversible checks in Browns, (ftreys, Greens
and Blues, all dark colors eminently suited for continuous use.
Now that Winter is upon us, a rug is a convenience, and
the moderate pricing of these will appeal to the economical
spender.
NEW ZEALAND RUGS,
FuJ Size, Reversible
16|6.
POSTED 1/- EXTRA.
New Catalogue of Men’s Wear, including Travelling Goods, sent on request
Peapes & Co. Ltd., Outfitters,”
309-311 GEORGE ST>, SYDNEY.
The present situation of Sydney is that of
the short-sighted person who bought a full-
grown ostrich, and then found he had nothing
to keep it in but the cage of a deceased
parrot. The immense population heaped up
through the congestion policy is Sydney’s
ostrich,- and the inefficient tram service is its
parrot’s cage. The spectacle of the willing
ostrich trying to wear the cage on his tail
after the manner of a bustle, and pretending
he is inside, is distressing. Now an indig-
nant City Council has drawn the attention
of Chief Railway Commissioner Johnson to
the disgraceful and dangerous overcrowding,
and requested him to “issue immediate in-
structions that this practice cease forth-
with.” There must be a lot of people nowa-
days who are less miserable than Johnson.
The heavy artillery of “Snell” is heard in
the distance: —
A bulgy parson in Melbourne talks of the “hideous
immorality” that mixed bathing has induced from
Port Melbourne to St. Hilda (inclusive), and I want
to know what he means by it. “Hideous immor-
ality” should mean a lot. Being a not-too-mixed
bather myself, I have been keeping an eye lifting for
the hideousness, but my luck is not in. How do
the parsons find these things ? All my research has
led only to a conviction that mixed bathing has
served to make said stretch of sands comparatively
respectable. Before the mixed wets and partially
drpwneds took possession this was the camping
ground of those who dragged each other about in
token of affection. Here Bill and Liz twined them-
selves in knots, and decorated the whole foreshore
irnhuman clumps, night after night, a b'ne of mis-
conduct utterly repellant to the prowling Wowser, and
the cause of many vehement moral upheavals on the
part of that eminent legal geyser Madden. Now
the clumps are gone, and these cuddling camps are in
the possession of dank, blue persons, with seaweed
in, their whiskers, and dripping females with dis-
solving complexions and skimpy hair, washed up by
the sea. If the young people loiter in the street
the Wowser howls. If they loaf in the parks the
Wowser bellows. If they run down a flat place
into the sea the Wowser shrieks. What are we to
do for the Wowser?
GRA TUITO US WICKEDNESS.
THE BARD: "‘The cheek of you Australian artists clamoring for protection! What
encouragement does the native poet get?”
THE PAINTER: “ None — none, I admit. It’s just natural depravity on his part.”
APROPOS OF
THE MIXED
BA THING
TROUBLE.
IST WOWSER:
"Keep down ,
brother, or we
may be ob-
served.”
If the following case of slavery had been
reported from Belgian Last Aluca, the liovtl
of outraged British feeling would have been
i:i.„ , int - 0 t i, e bellow of the Lost Soul rolling
. . . . ... , .p , „i._
.over in the dark and tailing down tne one
stairs of Eternity
collar-maker, in Taunton, regularly
- d from five 0 - clock until eight o’clock in the
™ ? at home from 8 a .m. till 7 p.m. in the
f ° " d f ' g m . until midnight at home.
This woman, though aided at home by three of her
was able to earn phly 16s. a week
Fortunately, it happened in that holy place
w hj c h Premier McGowen, since he returned
, , . , , ~ rr.t.i
from the struggle tor a crust at. tlic notei
Q ec j[ an d Windsor Castle, reverent.lv calls
, , .. , , r ~. , ~, „ „ ; ,. .
the dear ole Motherland, SO it WAS ot no
interest or conciern to anybody, unless to the
s*« of the House of Commons
which was bored with the matter, or the
woman herself. And if she hasn’t yet
leanied that Britons never shall be slaves,
, Kell oJncntinn hss hppn shnmp-
“el music halL education las bee
fully neglected.
“Geofred” sees our friend the enemy at a
picture show: —
I went because The Bulletin had told me that
“The Japanese at School” were to be filmed, and I
wanted to see how the young idea of Tokyo and
Nagasaki learned to shoot out from among the
back-markers and land in the front rank within a quar-
ter of a century. I saw the Jap. girl learning sewing,
washing, cooking, and other branches of household
work ; but nowhere did I see her being taught book-
keeping or type-writing. This made me think that
perhaps the Jap. girl is not trained to push a coun-
tryman out of a billet that she can take at a lower
wage, but that she is trained in domestic duties and
impressed with their overwhelming importance. Then
came the same girls being taught nurse’s work, in-
cluding first-aid attention to broken arms and legs
or split heads, etc.—the sort of damage that might
happen to anyone on a battlefield. Physical culture
and all classes of drills for physical development were
gone thsough. Then came the Jap. boys. Kids
running up from eight to 18 or 20 were wrestling in a
ring. As one was outed another would rush on to
either “best” or be “bested,” till only one was left
supreme. The methods were sodden and rough;
yet almost every kid came up smiling. The sight of
100 of these Japs doing dumb-bell exercises was some
sort of a revelation, but it wasn’t to be compared
with the shivery spectacle of these same jokers learn-
ing which part of the target it is the best to hit.
Next morning I saw that the Rev. Peace-at-any-
Pricerg were nagging at our own cadets again, and
'asking whv the kids were taken out in the evenings
to learn - the “butchering business”? If only those
fanatics would go and-, persuade the Japs to knock
off their nonsense, I’d feel a lot more comfortable.
DELAY IS DANGEROUS.
There is no class of ailment that affects the sys-
tem quicker , than bowel complaints, and any delay
in treating diarrhoea or colic is-dangerous. Chamber-
lain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy is the
only remedy that is absolutely reliable in cases of this
kind, and as some member of the family is always
liable to an attack at any time it should always be
kept in the house. This remedy never fails to give
prompt relief.*
The letter of “Germicide” :
A long, iuug - tune ago, somewhere in the waybaek
epoch when “Liberalism” still regarded Willis as a
human being, a certificated nurse bought a piece of
ground in Killara (N.S.W.), and started to build
a private hospital on it. Months passed, and then,
Propputy woke with a howl to the effect that vested
interests, private enterprise and the rights of man
were being blasted by the lady’s venture. The “lead-
ing citizens” of Killara foregathered and assured
each other that the place was destined to be not so
much a healing-establishment as a germ-farm. It
was predicted that Disease would descend on Killara
like a blight, and ravage the health and beauty of
the local golfers. A state of panic set in. The
question of Microbes became more popular, as a sub-
ject for denunciation, than the Menace of Labor. A
public meeting of residents was called with the
object of assailing the proposed hospital, and its
authoress was asked to attend, after first fumigating
and disinfecting herself and boiling her clothing.
She did so, and was roundly insulted, after which
the gathering dispersed shuddering. Marrow-freezing
statements continued to be made concerning the grim
potentialities of the hospital, and on the 9th inst.
it was decided to hold yet another meeting. This
time there was a sanitary expert, in the person of
Dr. Ashburton Thompson, present to sift the evi-
dence L* the complainants. One of their chief
claims was that they had agreed to the erection of
the building under a misapprehension. Whereupon:
Dr. Ashburton Thompson: “Why did you pass
the plans for this house?” Loud bray in reply: “We
thought it was to be a private residence.”
Dr. A. T.: “How many guests, then, did you ex-
pect the owner to entertain?” Bray not so loud:
“Five or six.”
Dr. A. T.: “That, according to the plans, would
mean two or three rooms a-piece for each guest.”
Sudden absence of bray.
Dr. A. T.: “Show me the house that in your report
you said was 32ft. from the septic tank of the hos-
pital?” In reply a 'confused murmur to the effect
that they had meant to say that the septic tank was
32ft. from the back fence of the hospital.
And so on. It appeared, in pretty short order, that
the agitation against the establishment of the hos-
pital had emanated from a few land-owners in the
district, who had become afflicted with vague fears
that an institution of the sort might have a preju-
dicial effect on the land-boom which is raging so
satisfactorilv on the North Shore just now. As ■ a
matter of fact, private hospitals don’t affect, the value
of adjoining properties prejudicially, as witness the
condition of Darlinghurst, which is fairly creeping
with them. But, anyhow, why Killara should be ex-
empted from these. institutions, which are neces-
saries of civilised life so long as the public hospitals
remain un-nationalised, is a darksome mystery, and
the suggestion that it lias any such right is a Unique
example of Suburban Hide.
* * * *
Nothing on 1 his earth travels half so fast
as a really shocking story, and, if it is
booked through under such a label as “Miss
Brown and the King of Korea,” its round-
the-world passage by all the fastest routes
is booked ahead for the next 20 years. Once
fairly started, it makes the earth a sort of
saucer track, over which it reels at breath-
less speed, with good old Indignant Denial
pedalling madly in its wake. Some little
while back, Melbourne sat up with a jerk
when the dreadful news flashed through that
Miss Brown, a missionary’s daughter, had
been taken into the harem of the King of
Korea, and afterwards married by her father
-—presumably to the King. Most people said
“Horrible!” and passed the story on, and for-
got it. But the Foreign Missionary Secre-
tary wrote in haste to the senior missionary
in Korea, who replied wearily, after the lapse
of precious weeks, that he thought the old lie
had been dead and buried long ago. Then,
apparently for the manyth time, he recapitu-
lated the alleged bald facts, which were that
the King had hired a French lady, who
was formerly employed at the Russian lega-
tion as housekeeper, to look after the furni-
ture and other things in the palace, and to
assist in the entertaining of foreigners.. bne
had never been in the harem, but was simply
busy on a plain, drab and unsensational
job of supervising the feather-dusting and
afternoon-tea-ing. The rest was just Yankee
reporter. Hereabouts we see Indignant ive-
nial roll by in pursuit. But we also see that
Miss Brown and the King are streaking
away miles in the lead.
* * * *
Once more has Private Enterprise been
interfered with and discouraged. On March
5, a chauffeur of pigs was hustling a few up
Sussex-street, Sydney, when one of the
humble brothers of Fat became exhausted.
The chauffeur dragged it. to a sheltered spot
to rest, and went on with the rest ot the
family. Then Private Enterprise, in the
person of one Jackson, is alleged to have
wandered along and .sold the recumbent meat
to a passing dealer for 10s. When the
chauffeur called back a quarter of an hour
later for the resting bacon, he found nothing
but the low-spirited pig-smell; the brisk,
business-like transaction had been com-
pleted. The alleged seller ought to get on
when he gets out —that is, of course, pro-
vided he gets in.
* * * *
“D.”: The chief characteristic of the
“masked burglar” who has been enjoying
something of a boom in the Sydney press ot
late is incompetence, bordering on ihibe-
cility. His attempt on the assets of Miss
Hilda Spong panned out nothing, though it
the lady’s story is correct he nearly got
away with a small supply of lead. His
effort on Bellevue Hill was equally futile.
After rendering the only occupant of the
house senseless with fright and “ransack-
ing” the place from cellar to roof he fled
empty-handed. His Randwick venture
brought him an old tablecloth; on the
other hand, he lost his mask and was chased
off the premises in horror. In the writer’s
opinion the full-blooded style of “burglar”
is a misnomer as applied to this bungling
impostor. He appears to be simply a pry-
ing nuisance with a taste for bellowdrama
and an impaired nervous system.
* * * *
Another old trading ship of Sydney and
Polynesia has gone to her long-deserved rest
—the barque Loongana, owned by On (Jhong
and Co., of this, city. It went on shore at
Butaritari, in the Gilbert Islands, in Janu-
ary last, after having bumped or scraped
against every reef in that group during a
full 33 years. Its predecessor was the
ancient brig Isabella, also owned by On
Chong and Co., which, 34 years back,
wearily entered Butaritari Lagoon and
settled its aching keel on the coral bottom.
The tattered bones of the lady are still
visible. The Loongana was Tasmanian
built, and the stories which could be written
about it and its Chinese supercargoes, and
its English, German and Norwegian skip-
pers, and its multitudinous brown women,
and its numerous sins, rums and devilments
would have kept Robert Louis Stevenson
busy to this day.
LOST—AN INFERNO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The empty churches impotently sigh and plead
and groan. The masses peer and gape and grin.
Rid of the ancient fear of hell fire they are, at least
in part, unquestionably; but are they better for the
riddance? It must be doubted. — Melbourne Age.
Oh, give us back our Hell! The masses gape
And peer and grin, all heedless of their souls ;
We cannot scare them with our Bogey’s shape,
Nor fright them with the dread of burning coals,
Nor wield, as once of old, our outworn spell,
And make it pay... .Oh, give us back our Hell!
The masses prosper; yea, they make good cheer.
But hark! above the fortune of the State,
AYhat awesome sound is this that strikes the ear?
It rises from the void collection-plate!
Where now the thrip’ny-bit we loved so well,
Terror’s percentage? Give us back our Hell!
For, once we lose the old effective threats—
The pitchforks, tails, hoofs, horns and satyrs’
legs—
The sceptic age its reverence forgets
And cooks our goose (that laid the silver eggs!)
’Tis better thus? But where’s the prof—er, well,
The Board’s own tithe?.... Oh, give us back our
Hell!
VICTORIA
EPISCOPUS
THE STRIKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A Melbourne Archdeacon, preaching on the in-
famy of race suicide, points out that it is a middle-
and upper-class sin. In the swagger suburb of Cam-
berwell families have only one infant where the
families of plebeian, and contemned Footscray, the
grafter’s suburb, have two.
How shocking ’tis to have to tell
That in superior Camberwell
Such wickedness is rife,
While Footscray wives allow full play
To nature (so archdeacons say),
And do the State good service. They
Are giving it new life.
Kate Smith, of Port, no duty shuns,
She gives Australia little ones ;
But Vera Smmytthe, of Kew,
From grave maternal tasks refrains
The one thing she can do disdains,
And with her wealthy lord remains*
A non-producer, too.
Though she may name it what she like.
The swagger dame is out on strike- —-
A shocking thing to see
When one recalls the curses grim
The “classes” hurl at Bill and Jim,
Who stop, for no illiberal whim,
The wheels of industry.
And shall the thunders of the morn,
The leaders choked with hate and scorn,
Assail the culprit wife?
Nay, these reserve for Jim and Bill
Who Capital would seek to kill!
Compared with that, small crime to spill
So cheap a thing as life!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


THE N.S.W. MEMBER.
What becomes of his present salary, seven of the reasons why he needs more salary, and seven explanations why
more salary will be of no use to him unless the whole blackmailing business is made a crime, and treated accordingly.


NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. u
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Diamonds Reduced
Enormously.
WHY?
Choice Diamonds and selected Pearls, set In
Fine Cold Brooch, 2£ inches, £B/8/-
An illustration of this appears above.
Diamonds reduced—well, we have taken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and
we have to live up to it, and so to increase our already large output we are offering diamonds (un-
set) and diamond jewellery at merely a commission on the actual cost. We are thus giving the
public the benefit of our knowledge in buying and selling to them much cheaper than in London.
We think the experiment will pay us through the increase of sales, and, above all, through
the securing of hew customers.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
CAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
* PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
AHEM!
THE BLOOD: “Yes, I like all kinds of sport ,
but I’m awfully keen on hunting."
MELBOURNE MISS: “I know! I saw you in
Collins-street the other night."
“The Pariah” : Don’t wonder at “Clancy’s”
girl's hair falling out when she was such a simple-
ton as to use sheep-dip in its neat state. Perhaps
it’s my fault for not mentioning that one teaspoon-
ful of dip to a pint of plain sky-juice is the correct
solution for improving head foliage. However, any
bald-headed barber will sell the lady a certain hair
restorer for half-a-crown.
“F.C.”: Please let me have another inch
about the “kurrajong as a shade tree.” I am a most
obliging man, and simply exist in order to try to
please everybody; and I’m really overcome with the
advice of “J.M.,” who (B. 15/2/’l2) recommends
me to get my kurrajongs half-grown or thereabouts.
I am to “dig them up, lop off the limbs Bft. from
the ground, and in four years he guarantees some of
the weeds will be 15ft. high.” In other words, they
will grow seven feet! Leaping carcase of Jupiter!
Does “J.M.” know that I have had sugar-gums grow
6ft. in one year?
AMBITIOUS. .
“Mum sez, would you an' Mr. Kelly come ter the ole man's funeral , cos' she wants ter knock
out the one Mrs. Rooney giv' ’er ole man."
“Jaloom” : For making the mildest-man-
nered cow madder than the tiger of Sosh there’s
nothing to equal a “blow
out” of peaches. I had
it demonstrated for me
when I went to board with
a farmer.. Fresh meat
was seldom “on,” and Ted-
die, the farm-hand, missec}
it. He waited till the
peach season, and then saw
steak ahead. ( One morn-
ing I perceived him coming
from the garden with a
bucket of peaches. I con-
templated more peach
stews. Instead, Teddie ad-
ministered his dose to the
“beefiest” cow of the herd.
Some few hours after, dad
and mum started for town
in the old buggy, and
while they were crossing
the paddock the cow
rushed furiously at the old
horse. Give Teddie his
due he had the two dogs
ready, and with their aid
we Were able to beat her
off. While we were sym-
pathising with the old
couple on their narrow es-
cape the cow was at the
other end of the paddock
knocking down all the
suckers and anthills she
came across. Teddie sug-
gested that she should be
shot before she killed any-
body. To this the farmer
consented. With the aid of
a red rag she was brought
into range. Teddie did the
rest, and we had steak
next morning.
“J. 5.8.”: One “E. W. O’D” (B. 15/2/’l2)
says ■ the. triek of sinking post-holes short belongs to
the Speewah period. Well, I reckon the man who
has the holes passed before the posts are put in be-
longs to the Cow-cocky period. The commonest thing
is for two men to sink and two more to put up;
but no back-country fencer ever ran the risk of hav-
ing his post-holes filled with water and damaged by
stock while he was waiting to have them passed.
In putting up a cow-yard or calf-pen, it may be the
practice to wait until Woolly Whiskers pokes a
stick in to see if the orifices are down to Plimsoll
mark, but not in fencing outback. As far as post-
splitting goes, it’s a matter of timber more than
grain. If the trees are a good size, and, when down,
yield a good crop of posts, all well and good ; but
if a lot of falling has to be done for a few posts,
it’s all blight and misery.
“Given two nails driven into the same
tree at different heights, would they become fur-
ther apart as time goes on?” This is'the query that
T TT ~ ~ ,
J. H. Maiden advances in his latest part of “The
. ,
Forest Flora of N.S.W.” American experiments
answer in the negative; and tests are being made in
the Botanic Gardens, Sydney. Depending on the
answer to this experiment is the question whether
logs caught in branches of trees indicate, in their
present positions, the height of the flood that put
them there.
“B. de D.” : A bullock in London put up
a record in climbing stairs a month or so back.
With others he was being rushed to his doom at
the Islington market. With some premonition of
the fate awaiting him, he dashed for safety into the
entrance of a four-storey block. He got up 57 steps,
went round eight sharp turns, and emerged on the
flat roof, which was a clothes-drying “ground.” The
drovers went after him with lassoes, but he refused
to be. lassoed, and charged everybody who got on
the roof. One drover got behind a chimney stack
and fired shots at the beast, but missed every time.
The bullock allowed a photographer to take his pic-
ture, but was roused to fury when a reporter ap-
peared with his notebook. The pressman dodged
behind a chimney pot, which was rushed by the bul-
lock and smashed, so the Archimedean lever gathered
up his coat-tails and fled for his life. In the end
the bullock, was shot by a bobby, cut up in his
skyey bower to the accompaniment of much blood
and muddle, and carted away in sections. The most
notable feature of the incident was the absence of
Winston Churchill.
“Mallarapoonie” speaks:—
The Champion Mean City of Australia? Certainly.
Perth (W.A.), and an easy winner at that. Rightly
has it been described by one of our most thoughtful
citizens, as the Indigent Relation of the rest of
Westralia, and the Beer-Sparrer at the Pub. on
Westralia’s street corner. For years and years
Perth has battened, vampire-like, on the rest of
W.A., and more particularly on the goldfields por-
tion of the State, but, as for finding capital for the
development of these regions, well, does a pea-and-
thimble operator usually supports his missis and the
kids ?
Perth’s treatment of Albany, its rival with the
fine natural harbor, has; since the beginning, been of
a: brotherly nature, I don’t think. Since Albany
has had its overseas trade filched from it, and has
been refused, a railway into the forest country, that
might have made it a bicker and better export
centre for hardwoods than Bunbury, its existence
has been just a grey, stale-fish sort of thing, with
long spells between drinks. The arrival of a steamer
is now an event at Albany, and when the steamer
departs, Albany turns into bed, as a means of using
up time.
But, in so long and persistently denying Esper-
ance its railway to the goldfields, Perth is seen in
its spirit of most brilliant hoggishness. It is afraid
poor little Esperance would attract about 2s. Pd.
worth of goldfields trade, which Perth considers is its
right by inheritance. The antagonism of the gold-
fields to the bloodsucking methods of the metropolis
is an affair of long standing, and there is good rea-
son, too, for the feud. Examination of records goes to
show that Perth has less money invested in the
mining stocks of its own State than any other capital
city of the Commonwealth. Next after London,
Adelaide has supplied most capital for mining ven-
tures in Westralia. London, Adelaide, Melbourne
and Sydney represent about 90 per cent, of invested
capital. Paris represents another 5 per cent, or so,
and the balance is made up by Timbuetoo, Valpar-
aiso, Perth (W.A.) and a few other foreign places.
Persons seldom try to float mines or any other in-
dustries in Perth. They are invariably bluffed off
by notices of “Commission business only.” In those
three words is summed up Perth’s attitude to the
rest of the State —the attitude of a small, mean
Jew running an unimportant pawnshop in an obscure
side street.
Perth has never given the collieries at its own
back door a lift, if it could possibly get the black
goods from abroad. The treatment of Collie by the
powers that have sat in Perth has been of a kind
calculated to make hewers of carbon revolt. And
its scurvy treatment of its great north country
makes the top end of W.A. the most unimportant
part of Australia. Yes, from denying Esperance its
legitimate rights, to hounding O’Connor to his grave.
Perth’s record is a beauty.
* * *
“Dux” forwards a chunk of atmosphere
from the dive :
“Fifty up? Right-o! What ball have you got?
Spot! Right-o! Bash ’em up!
“Very balmy the hair this evenin’, ain’t it?
“Bootiful cannon. . .ah !. . .good stroke, sir. .one of
Stevenson’s!
“Fifteen plays nothin’.. .three to go.. .six.. .eight
... twelve 1
“Very skientific 1
“Twenty-seven plays nothin’.
“All round the world for a cannon, two. . .and
three are five —to get! Nearly went in, sir. Just
looked over the edge, an’ saw the drop was too
great. . .Twenty-seven plays five.
“Two. . .reminds me of old Harry at the Cri. fire
... four, seven, ten ... old Harry rushed out on the
. .. ,twelve.-..balconyon the.. .fifteen. . .third floor
.‘..you broke down sir, bad luck !
“That’s yours, sir; the plain! Five... well, old
Harry jumped. . .eight. . .jumped into mid-air. . .ten
.twelve. . .makes you thirty-nine. •
“Thirty-nine plays twenty. .
“Harry... three, ‘ five,’ eight.'.. saw - the jump... ten
.. .was too l)ig f9 r him. .'..a1l done, at ten.. ..and
damme... two... if he didn’t... four,., jump back
again !
“Thirty-nine plays thirty...a good game.
“A missl Thirty-one plays thirty-nine...two...
four... six... eight!
“Thirty-nine... each apiece. ..both equal... level
.. .as you were when you started.. .excuse me —my
little joke. Aha ! Splendid, sir ; splendid... five f
All done at five 1
“Forty-four plays,.. two.. five... three... makes
you forty-nine, sir.. .you missed it, sir!
“Forty-nine plays forty-four.
“Two... .a lovely one out of the box.. .four.. .and
six., .you’re out > sir! Forty-nine never won a game.
Yes, it is very dry work marking.. .1 don’t mind if
I do...mine’s a schooner!”
ALL HOPE VANISHED.
MAID (to mistress , who has surprised burglar
in her room): “I’ve rung up the police,
mum."
MISTRESS : “Police! Good Heavens , girl, I said
‘Parsonnot 1 Police.’ ”
“Aiteea” : I reckon the Fijian women are
the ringers at turning brother octopus inside out. I
have seen them at it repeatedly. They tease the
marine devil with a stick until he grips, when they
haul him forth, turn him out like a sock, and drop
him into the tucker basket. Have heard in various,
places that the thing tastes not at all bad, but I’ve
never put my own teeth into him.
DIABETES.
This highly dangerous disease will in its earlier
stages be remedied by prompt treatment with Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Take them in time. Price,
1/6 and 2/6.*
THE CREED OF COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bathurst, Friday.
At the inquest to-day into the death of Mrs. Alice
Hannah Wilson, of Evans Plains, who was found yes-
terday morning with her brains blown out, a finding
of suicide was recorded.
The 11-year-old son of the deceased, in the course
of his evidence, said that on getting up at six o’clock
yesterday morning he saw his mother lying in a pad-
dock near the house. He went up and spoke to her,
and as she did not answer him he knew that she was
dead. There was a gun lying near the body. He did
not give any alarm, but went up and got the coui as
usual.—A recent news item.
The stars may vary in their shining courses,
The marriage ties*may tangle and dissever,
And Socialists may threaten our resources;
But Posy, like the brook, goes on for ever.
Aye, Posy, with her sacred teats and udder,
Is queen of all our wide dominions now ;
Before her shrine we must salaam and shudder —
Oh ! Heaven bless the Cow !
What matter if a wearied wife and mother
Ends all her woes and worries with a bullet?
Our grief in well-skimmed cow-juice we shall
smother —
But while a teat’s on Posy we must pull it!
The sun may stay behind the bleak horizon,
Unnoticed by the cow-slave who is bilked
Of all the things he fixes longing eyes on—
But Posy must be milked!
Philanthropists’ humanitarian measures
Are Socialistic, meddlesome and prosy.
An agitating curse is he who treasures
Those juveniles embrutalised and dozy.
What matter if the Horned Abomination
The voice of conscience, love and hope has stilled?
It was so from the very inchoation —
The milk-pails must be filled!
An infidel is he who boldly preaches
That Private Enterprise must be contrary
To all the precepts of Our Faith, and reaches
The milk of human kindness in the dairy.
So let us hang him to a handy rafter;
Yes, nearby where the sad cows ruminate,
In order that they, too, may join in laughter—•
But quick ! the milk-carts wait!
Let us uplift our voices in thanksgiving
'Because we’ve learned to stifle our emotion—•
Because we’ve found the Elixir of Living
Contained in Spot’s and Posy’s creamy potion !
And let us fill the House of God with pleading
To Him who runs the Milky Way on high—-
And answers to the slaver’s interceding—
That Posy won’t go “dry” !
And let us send our saints to save the savage,
Whose faith is false, whose thoughts are most
untender,
Whose simple soul the world’s temptations ravage,
That he allegiance true to God may render.
But never mind the brats whose hearts are broken
(The cannibals with scorn might view them
now) —
The young slaves, who with all their griefs unspoken,
Are sacrificed to Cow.
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.
A SINK OF INIQUITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The people consume strong drink, they frequent
picture-shows on the Sabbath, Sunday is washing-
day with many of the women, and the men paint
their cottages on the Day of Rest. —Indictment of
Wonthaggi (Jc.) by the Rev. C. Thomas.
Wonthaggi, you are lost indeed,
A town deep-steeped in beer and
gin ;
Where very few are callous-kneed
Through - bending with the goodly
breed;
Where many do their sixpence in
On Sunday pictures—which is Sin.
In vain with sacerdotal gab
The pastor rises to explain ; •
The wicked men their paint-pots grab,
And where the town was painted drab
By saintly souls, these sons of Cain
Make haste to paint it red again.
For six; long days W'onthaggi men
Are toiling down among the coal,
Accumulating dirt, and then
On Sunday they wash clean again.
Eternal fire must be his dole
Who cleans his skin before his soul.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


J\ist to Advertise !
8/6
A Sixpenny Bottle of Caldwell’s Ink
and a 12/6 14ct.-Cold Iridium-tipped
Special Pattern Self-filling- O If*
Unleakable Fountain Pen* for O/O
If you can’t buy locally, send
Postal Note direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.. J
Yarra Bank Road, STH. MELBOURNE.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best piace to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“It Acts Like a Charm.”
PIL
RHEU-MANACA
Registered Trade Mark.
This is a scientific, skilfully compounded and
potent remedy, especially designed for use in at-
tacks of either.
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuritis or Lumbago.
Each Pill contains seven different expensive
standarised and potent vegetable remedies. It
has been in use in private practice by a regular
practising physician, with miraculous success, for
many years. First offered as a public remedy on
the Ist day of February, 1912.
DO NOT DELAY! USE PIL RHEUMANACA
WITH THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE
DISEASE.
Supplied at 3s. per bottle. Remit by M.O. or
Postal Notes. Send direct to—
Z. C. RENNIE, Proprietor,
P.O. BOX 1530, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“Vic” : At Ivanhoe, on the Yarra, in the
region where the late • engineer Thwaites wanted to
expand the river into a lake, the picture showmen
have lately held an exhibition of the landing of Bat-
man and his purchase of the Melbourne district
from the blafckfe. The affair was ludicrously incor-
rect. The Batman transaction was not in that
quarter; more probably it was on Plenty River or
Merri Creek. Batmaji carried the business through
without difficulty. He had N. S. Wales aboriginals
with him—men who had served him in pacifying
the. Tasmanian blacks. Certainly the N.S.W. blacks
and the Victorians understood each other fairly well
—it was like Scotch and Irish talkers qf Gaelic.
The document, preserved in the Melbourne Public
Library, was prepared long before by Gellibrand.
Only the price of the purchase—the blankets,
knives, etc.—had to be inserted. Then Jika Jika,
or rather Jaga Jaga, with the other chiefs, appended
their names, and the thing was finished. In this
matter Batman acted on behalf of the Port Phillip
Association, and no doubt that ; is why, when the
agreement was quashed, the Government paid up
about £3OOO as compensation.
A LICENSED VICTUALLERS’ ORGAN.
RESIDENT : "No, I’m damned if I’ll contri-
bulx Id your Grand New Rechabite Rising ."
CALLER (sadly): “ Ah, dear brother, I feared
it the moment you put your nose outside
the. door.”
“Hee Kee”: “Boronia” states (B.
25/l/’l2) that the jarrah pile skies the wipe some-
where beween the eight and fifteenth round in his
fight with Teredo Navalis, Esq. If this is so, per-
haps “Boronia” will come to light with some ex-
cuses for the longevity of the props of the old jetty
at Fremantle, the high level bridge at North Fre-
mantle —both of these were constructed some 50
years ago by the uniformed gent with the Govern-
ment brand on his pants—the Causeway Bridge,
and several other heavy-whiskered Westralian struc-
tures. In the Perth Museum there is a portion of a
jarrah pile which was submerged for about four
decades, and if “Boronia” were given a crack on
the head with a splinter of it, he’d wake up in
eternity. I’ll admit that some of the piles in the
more recently constructed Fremantle wharves have
had to be replaced. What the difference between the
ancient and modern jarrah is I cannot say, unless
it is that Jarrah, jun., is suffering from the curse
of Socialistic legislation, and isn’t as vigorous in
his youth as the old man was.
“Gouger,” concerning a plague of winged
cannibals:—
When the dirty old Barwon and Narran overran
their banks, aided by the tremendous flood waters
from Queensland, Lightning Ridge was left stranded,
with miles of water covering the box-tree flats on
every side. The flood brought down millions of mos-
quitoes, loaded with billions of eggs, which the
fiercely hot sun soon hatched. The next two months
was reinforced Sheol to man, beast and bird on the
opal field. The wretched horses made sleep almost
impossible for the first few nights of the plague, by
galloping over the ridges and crashing through the
small scrub, in their efforts to brush off the swarms
of winged devils that pursued them. After that
smouldering fires were made by burning green buddha,
and as long as these were tended and the suffocating
smokes kept up, the half-maddened beasts had some
relief. Before sundown long lines Of horses would
come in, and stand around waiting for the fires to
be lit. Then the animals would back into the
smoke and remain there all night, with only their
noses showing in the open. One morning in our
camp we found that two miserable kangaroo dogs
that had been left on the chain all night had perished,
and 14 fowls from the married people’s quarters were
dead—literally bitten to death. After that it was an
education to see every domesticated animal on the field
line up to the fires at sundown, the horses pushing
to their places, the fowls cackling and scurrving
through the horses’ legs, the dogs curled up, with
only their noses and front paws out qf the smoke,
while, on the outskirts, even the thick-skinned ?oats
would back their hinder parts into the reek. Cook-
ing and eating the evening meal was a dreadful opera-
tion. My mate and I would pile on the green bushes,
make a rush for the damper and plates, then squat
in the smoke, swallowing as quickly as we could half-
cooked chops, mosquitoes and smut, washing down
the black curses with pannikins of blacker tea.
Then we’d light a smouldering cow-dung fire at the
moijth of the tent, take our boots off in the rancid
smoke, and make one frenzied dive under the net
intd the -bunk, pinning the net down after us as if
50 ravenous bailiffs were scrambling to get in. But
the mosquitoes soon discovered how to get through
the! net, and after that there was no peace for the
field until an Indian unearthed a sunnlv of art mus-
lin. Had it not been that the flood was all round
us, Thus making escape impossible, Lightning Ridge
wou'ld have been abandoned in a fortnight.
Advices received from London intimate
that a Permanent Exhibition of Patents now exists
there. At this inventions can be tastefully displayed.
Diplomas, silver medals, a gold medal and a Grand
Prix are to be annually awarded. In a lecture
theatre a cinematograph machine will display various
exhibits at work. The promoters (learn patent attor-
neys and engineers, Phillips Ormonde & Co., of
256 Flinders St., Melbourne) appeal to all those
wbq want to buy or sell inventions or secure either
sales capital or publicity-*
“Iluia”: “The Haek”(B. 28/12/T1) seeks
information re the combustible properties of the
sperm whale. I have a bush place near Opotiki
(M.L.) and a humpy 100yds. from the beach. A
whale died about 500 miles out at sea, and after a
more or less protracted summer cruise, ran ashore
at my front gate. After weighing the cost of shift-
ing the shack, 1 attacked the stranded problem with
a respirator and a box of matches. The fireworks
display at the Crystal Palace is a fool to what fol-
lowed ; but the aroma was so overpowering that I
could not stay in the humpy until I had dragged
in a dead horse as an anti-toxin. Since then I
always scatter a few whales about the bush before
lighting, and I invariably get a good burn.
“N. or M.”: Tasniania’s whaling indus-
try, which has been moribund for the past 20 years,
is sitting up and taking notice, the battery having
been applied by a Norwegian co. Seven whales have
fallen to the harpoon of the Hobart and its attend-
ant Mimosa since the vessels began to exploit South
West Cape, and, if things continue to go thus well,
a trying-out base will be established at Port Davey.
Apparently the “fish” are ventur-
ing back to their old haunts, for,
last year, Smithton, on the
N.W. coast, was the over-
whelmed recipient of a stranded
school of 37. In the old and
thirsty days, oil and rum were
the two rivers of Pactolus, and
one of Tassy’s first publichouses
hung out the sign of “The Whale
Fishery.” This pub was opened
in 1805 by a man named Hop-
kins, a servant of Lieutenant-
Governor Collins, and the in-
augural supper was presided over
by “Bobby” Knopwood, the sport-
ing chaplain of the settlement.
At that time the Derwent oppo-
site the town was often so
crowded with spouting whales
that it was unsafe for a boat to
cross to Kangaroo Point (Belle-
rive). Whalers from all parts of
the world swooped upon the
harvest, and sailed off with gorged
holds until, the fisheries being
under no control, the whales were
almost exterminated and the in-
dustry fell down dead. The
most prosperous year was 1837,
when the value of the products
officially noted was £135,210;
but those figures did not include
cargoes taken by foreign whalers
who did not put into port. It
was a lavish and lawless time.
A crew of American whalers once
made a descent upon Maria
Island, and, overawing the repre-
sentatives of the law, set up their
trying-out plant, and refused to
budge. The Law dodged out by
a back door to Hobart Town, and
applied for soldiers or dynamite
or something, but by the time re-
inforcements came along, the trying-out was finished
and the Yanks had gone.
* * * »
“Move-On” meets P. Enterprise, J.P.: —
When you go to Maoriland the Tourist people tell
you that you should by all means climb up the Wan-
ganui ; and then they pass you over to the tender
mercies of Private Enterprise. The trip by motor-
boat and steamer down the river is about 18 hours
wide and 140 miles long. The bare fare is two pun’
ten. Trippers have to stay the night before the
scart at Tamaranui and breakfast at the time when
the rooster tears the atmosphere with the anthem of
his beak. A halt is made at “The Houseboat” for
lunch, and about 6 p.m. the vessel reaches Pipiriki,
where everyone has to put up at the dry hotel.
You start next morning at some freezing hour and
breakfast on board “The Houseboat.” Feeds and
beds are charged for at stiff rates and make extra
profit for the trip-purveyors, who run the whole river.
The motor-boat on the first day carries passengers
only, but as we had about 40 aboard at £2 10s., I
reckon we could have bought the boat. The steamer
carries mails and goods, and half the time is occu-
TOUGH!
BOLL FROM OUTBACK: “Look 'ere, old bloke. If yer'd killed this blessed sheep when yer
wei'e a kid it would have saved me a ’ell of a lot of trouble .”
pied bumping into the bank and working bales of
wool aboard and dumping odd sacks of flour off to
vociferous Maoris. It mustn’t be imagined that
there’s any gilt-edged luxury attached to the tour
either. On the motor-boat some passengers scramble
for deck chairs ; the others have to be content with a
seat on a “form,” and as this part of the run fills
up about 10 hours, a whole lot get restive and want
to walk. Mostly the Government looks after the
peripatetic tourist, and travels him and feeds him and
sleeps him at reasonable rates. But the Wanganui
River is abandoned to Private Enterprise, which is
preserved here, I can only suppose, as a sort of
Horrible Example.
NOTHING TO FEAR.
Mothers need have no hesitation in giving Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy to their little ones, as it con-
tains absolutely no injurious drugs. This medicine is
not only perfectly safe to give to small children, but
it is a medicine of great worth and merit.*
“Lakekamu”: “Don Guillermo” (B.
23/11/’ll) is -not exact in all he says about the
Papuan as a laborer, but hits the nail on the. head
in quoting the munificent salary paid to the average
plantation overseer — £l2 per month, and a cook-
boy. The real trouble with the Papuan recruited
for plantation labor is that he is perhaps the first
of his tribe to ever do any real work. For hundreds,
and I may be safe in saying thousands, of years^the
natives have never done
more work than would sup-
ply them with food and wea-
pons, consequently the sud-
den jump from the Stone Age
to the Steel cannot be made
in a year or even 10 years.
It has taken the European
centuries to attain his present
civilisation; and surely the
native cannot be expected to
leave off the habits of his
centuries all in a moment. It
is as if “Don Guillermo” tried
to harness a Brontosaurus into
a bread cart, and expected
the beast to finish the round
without breaking anything.
Moreover, progress in convert-
ing the raw material into a
good laborer is slower than it
otherwise would be, because
most of the overseers „ are
quite new to the coun-
try, and know nothing either
of the language or of colored
people. No wonder, then,
that the natives don’t under-
stand what the boss wishes
done. Patience is the only thing
to use when breaking in a raw
mob of Papuans, and it isn’t
the easiest thing to cultivate,
especially when you’ve got a
Board of directors that meet?
in a comfortable office afar
off and clamors for returns.
Astonishing the effect of circumstances on
cases. Here are the most scornful foes of
badges, signets and regalia, as worn by
unionists, putting up quite a feverish fight
against the efforts of the Melbourne Uni-
versity students to throw off their absurd
gowns, and the mortar-board headgear that
is more ridiculous than a Fijian’s coiffure,
and less picturesque than the top-hamper
of a Papuan. “Jawn” Madden says Austra-
lians, more than any other people, have
need “to retain the seemly accompaniments
of the discharge of grave business. (Ap-
plause.).” At his suggestion the University
Council resolved to enforce the wearing of
gowns by means of stiff fines. “Jawn” is
shocked at the manner in which Australian
democracy is battering down the walls of
Caste, and is greedy to have “class” cling
to its regalia, so that, when it loses its ram-
parts, it may entrench itself behind its rags.
True, the tailor makes the man—but always
the man who is incapable of making himself.
Nothing doubtful in “Montserrat” Lime Juice.
It’s good and pure. Being the genuine juice of cul-
tivated lime fruit, “Montserrat” is a grand, healthy
drink for the hot weather.*
IN ACTION OR INERT.
PATER (owner of jumpers): “My dears, will
you have the cheese on the hat or over the
hurdles?”
“Boswell” visits -the site of a continent’s
capital:—
About a mile from the main road, which runs
through Kink O’Malley’s Federal property, a num-
ber of cadets were sheltering from the heat wave
under a clump of trees. They had been lunching,
and their discarded paper bags came scurrying across
the plain before a head wind, end over end, until
they pulled up against the rabbit-proof fence guard-
ing the road. There wasn’t a vestige of grass to
intercept the fugitive bags over the whole distance.
Further along the road, hundreds of rabbits lay rot-
ting the sun, emitting a fouler stench as each
successive vehicle scrunched over them. Afterwards
we crossed the Queanbeyan or Canberra “river.” It
was higher than usual, for there had been an over-
night shower up-stream; but the most I could
discern was a few willows, a bed of stones and sand,
and a puddle like that which lies by the roadside
after a heavy storm. The puddle had not been im-
proved by the invasion of a regiment of geese intent
on the extermination of the tadpole kingdom.
An interesting liltle craft is lying in Rose
Bay, Sydney. Built in 1874 as a racing
schooner, it was christened the Olga. Then
its name was changed to the Privateer, and
it became the cruising yacht of a wealthy
owner. Some years afterwards a total re-
formation was made in its habits ; it became
the property of the London Missionary So-
ciety, and for a quarter of a century it has
been dodging the Devil and the coml reefs
under the name of the George Brown —so
called after the “father” of British mission-
aries in the South Seas. The old craft has
now been purchased by a Norwegian, who
is fitting it out as a deep-sea houseboat. His
idea is to take his family long cruises around
the Australian coast and through the Dutch
Archipelago, and sniff out likely mineral
propositions as he goes. So the George Brown
becomes the Grethe, Ihe new name being that
of the wife of the new owner.
The recent big fire at Briscoe’s, in Mel-
bourne, demonstrated a scientific fact and
offered a powerful hint to architects and
builders. The warehouse was a brick shell,
crossed and laced by girders, with a brick
dividing wall fitted with fire-proof doors,
and with fire-and-burglar-proof doors at the
rear. When the firemen had at last got the
upper hand the back portion of the store
was a blackened mass, feet deep in ashes.
The front was in its normal state, with
clerks and storemen busy among the stock
as usual. The rear doors, made of heavy
sheet iron, were warped and twisted all
ways, but the doors in the dividing wall
showed little sign of damage. They had
been built of Tasmanian blue gum sheathed
with thin sheet iron, on the principle that
hard wood must have a free supply of air
in order to combust, and as the heat was
never quite severe enough to melt the iron
and let the air in freely, the wood had stood
the test.
THE NEW BOHEMIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vienna, Wednesday.—The miners of Bohemia de-
mand a 25 p.c. increase in wages.— Cable.
The miners of Bohemia, a sordid crew are they,
AVho ask for faithful labor a slight increase in pay ;
Not so the old Bohemian who mined with brush and
pen,
And treasure gave for nothing to shallow surface
men.
The old Bohemian miners—deep sinkers that we
knew—
Are mostly underground now, or sinking someone's
brew ;
But reefs that they discovered are making new men
rich,
While in some dark bar parlor their palms for
“thrippence” itch.
The miners of Bohemia? No, no! they don’t exist!
The world knows not their labor! Like figures in a
mist
They pass and are forgotten. The world of them,
bereft,
Can find of them no traces, but treasure they have
left.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


cairn
\f7
A/
V*X\
\<X\
m e w p'P |0 /%n
1-IL, ' J*=-
CJOJ «2p(?
A n I ', >
irr /
Yoon* Vic.; "ere l oJhere \
are yer v "to "lt7e otVer
30
,
n, u . v W#a * >
The Murray-Watt Government claims
to have quite an exemplary record in
the way of making provision for a full
supply of railway engines. The Treasu-
rer stated yesterday that when the
Government toOK office 28 locomotives
per annum were being built t but an
increase to 40 per annum was insisted
on, and now they were to have 70 per
annum, and It was not Intended to go
abroad for any more. Such Is Mr
Watt’s summary of the position. Fo
the future it has yet to be explained
how good intentions are going to make
a factory capacity of 40 engines per
annum serve for requirements aroiunt-
ing to 70 engines per annum.
frebo^eC : \l 'jHl*
TVboCT -lire \ \ s
NJi,
programme
cowi|. session-ca«7(^
y o o 41 vie me <=*<7 o°'* |
\wao) f *e o«f e ;/
Melbourne scheme?/
JoVir7 ; / | C
bOT l can -fell / X°°/ r
a 'd T
about three
<£, < £’ of
.
i\
Rarn^
p*y
(r? I,
(>m|?,
Kilmorc, Sunday.
Alter two days of Ideal weather the
troops have been called upon to lace
the discomfort of rain, borne on the
wings of a gale. The men were cn-
gaged watering their horses when rain
burst over the camp. They made for .
the tents as quickly as possible.. The
Commandant (Colonel Wallack) pointed
out that it was no use the troops being
sent out in the rain, for many of them
had come to the camp without a change
of uniform, and It was a very easy
matter for Influenza to attack a large
body of troops. However, so that the
morning should not altogether be lost,
a series of lectures was arranged.
elite*' 0 *
ottve*
** 6 -
Nll
* / \Mm Ir 7 Y
''Had his \ 4
/ j^ s co T \
u>«d a "t?ai!7 , did vie ? '
"(baTs conVan»erilT. I'll make.
•the chaajg.6 «o lauJiul vis-
s 'ible »vJ su|?pon 1
CRICKET AND SUNDRIES.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
durability.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
DIDN'T WANT TO MISS IT.
I have seen men and women bathing together Tin's
degrading practice should be stopped at once
Recent remarks of Wowser.
THE ELDER WOWSER: “Hour after hour,
brother , I sat and watched men and women
bathing together in the sea."
THE OTHER: “ Where, brother? Tell me where,
and this shocking thing shall have my
immediate alt tent ion."
A streak of great joy fell upon Australia
last week, when one Harold Farleigh wrote
to 1 rime Minister Fisher to propose com-
pulsory church attendance for all Austra-
lians between the ages of 12 and 21. The
writer gave his solemn assurance that if
this matter was duly fixed up, a blessing
wouhl rest upon Fisher “like a dove.”
\\ hether Fisher likes the idea of a dove or
a sparrow or a vulture or any other bird
i esting upon lum is nnotlier matter.
Ex-Justice Ilolroyd, of Victoria, is writ-
ing his Reminiscences. He should, though
he probably won’t, include in the book the
yarn of how the present Melbourne Gas. Co.
was fixed up There used to be three cos.
u the city, but in 1878 they were united,
and the cost of running the fusing scheme
through I arliament was £6700. Some share-
holders started to growl, but the wiseacres
winked and said, “Mum’s the word.” Ilol-
royd, then the leader of the Vic. Bar, was in
charge of the business, and he and Webb
(also afterwards on the Bench) drafted the
Bd! and put it through the Select Commit-
tee. lhe poor old public wasn t represented
by even a clerk from the Crown Law Office •
hence the pleasure, with all its cunning
draftsmanship, got through with no light to
speak ot thrown on it. At £6700 the job
was dirt-cheap.
An unadvertised Australian, who is doing
particularly well in London, is artist “Jack”
Rower, of Adelaide. Power has made him-
self something of a luminous spot in the
tog by virtue of his ability and grit. His
particular forte is animal painting. He
draws and paints dogs with peculiar skill,
and makes courageous adventures into big
hunting subjects. His talent in this line
has secured him a clientele among the hunt-
ing classes in England—classes that have
beans, and are not chary of scattering the
desirable vegetable. Power had to make a
mg light, but he is now quite “there,” and
his paintings are featured at most of the
shows ot any importance.
Passed over Jordan recently, from Auck-
land, Eugene Bellairs, who tasted life when
it was raw, and frequently dripping, in the
early days of Maoriland. lie was one of
the few who escaped from the massacre of
Luropeans at Wairau by Rangihaeata,
nephew and lieutenant of the Napoleonic
Kauparaha, as the upshot of a land deal.
Bellairs told some hair-raising accounts of
that horror, but, at the time, horrors were
too common to occasion undue surprise, and
Bellairs, like many another, was no sooner
clear away with his life than lie was again
tossing bones with Fate for it. He was
through the subsequent Waikato war and
several other enthusiastic disputes, but
Death overlooked him or forgot him or soine-
tmng until the other day, when he passed
out quietly just as the clock was striking
00.
“N. Zedder” writes :
Payne, the man who unseated ex-Minister Fowlds
arv G »i e Jr Jynn - ( A « ckla nd, M.L.) at the Parliament-
arj elections m December, was one of the two or
three fluctuating- individuals in the Reps, who saved
the Ward Government’s bacon at the last minute,
lie was the most remarkable accident of the whole
campaign, and that is saying a lot. B’ailing to get
the endorsement as a candidate of either the Labor
party or the Syndicalist-Anarchist group, he
advertised himscdf variously as “a Labor
Candidate, an Independent Laborite,” “a
Socialist, the People’s Candidate,” “the People’s
Labor Candidate/’ “the Christian Labor Candidate,”
the Peoples Christian Humanitarian Labor Can-
date, and once, by the printer’s mistake, as “Payne’s
Candidate, which probably was nearest to the mark
After his election he called upon Ward to abdicate
in favor of hnn (Payne), and announced that he
was prepared to hold the portfolios of Treasurer
Lands and a few others. His programme, in brief’
wrfs to borrow £45,000,000, and provde good times
for the weary ; and I reckon that helped to get him
in. Maoriland dearly loves a pawnshop runner.
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
A controversy has
arisen in the S. M.
Herald as to the iden-
tity of the first ice-
maker in Australia.
The demolition of
Obed West’s old
home in Barcom Glen,
where Mr. Nicolle had
his first plant, gave
rise to the argument.
Nicolle started his
works in 1860 ; but in
the very first ’6o’s
this writer was pre-
sent, .in a primitive
building in Franklyn-
street, near Elizabe'th-
street, Melbourne,
when the first bar of
ice (the first so far as
Melbourne was con-
cerned) —• something
like pig-iron—w a s
turned out there by a
Mr. Harrison, a Gee-
long newspaper pro-
prietor, who had pro-
duced the commodity
at the sleepy town on
Corio Bay, before es-
tablishing the Frank-
lyn-street works; so
it is highly probable
that the first ice made
in Australia was produced at Geelong. Harrison after-
wards represented the allegedly-sleepy town in Par-
liament.
Deaii Bourke, of Townsville (Q.), the
iii str Australian-born Oatholic clergyman to
i-poeive the title, is a product of Manly
(Sydney) College, a tall cleric of his hands
and as good a sportsman as need he. Pro-
vided that Bishop Duhig, of Rockhampton,
IS appointed Archbishop of Brisbane it is
generally expected that Dean Bourke will
succeed to the Bishopric of Rockhampton,
and it there is anybody who would obiect
to the promotion now is the time for him
to speak.
Australia’s old friend, W. N. Willis, wlio
was understood to be editing a tremendous
organ of reform in the Straits Settlements,
is now in London, where he has published a
book entitled, “Blue.v Grey.” Apparently
the tremendous organ of reform didn’t even-
tuate,
John Ridley, who probably invented the
reaping-machine (there were other claim-
ants), is to have his memory definitely hon-
ored in South Australia at last. ’ The
Chamber of Manufactures had a trifle of
£l5O in hand towards a memorial, and now
an anonymous donor has given £lOOO more,
with the idea of founding a scholarship at
the Agricultural College, Roseworthy. The
first result will probably be to revive the
old controversy once more.
The Henri Salmet who, according to a
cable of the 7th inst., did a non-stop flight
from London to Paris in three hours ”5
minutes is chief instructor in the Bleriot
school in London. The feat has only been
achieved once before, and, curiously enough
it was by Salmet’s predecessor at the Bleriot
school, Pierre Prier. Prier took three
hours db minutes over the job. Shortly
afterwards he joined the Bristol Aeroplane
Co., and designed for it its famous mono-
plane, the most efficient article of the sort
on the British market. The Frenchman
dominates the flying business to a painful
extent in the U.K. just now.
Died at Manly (N.S.W.) last week, aged
1 0, J. P. W right, one of the Sydney men
who touched things and turned them to
gold. His wife, who died only the other
day, talked as proudly as her husband did
about their “start” in N. S. Wales. He
was a bootmaker, and they tramped up to
Bathurst, where he got a job at his trade.
Ihe shop he worked in-was his before long—
and that was how things usually turned out.
He capsized the old idea about the cobbler
sticking to his last for, though he remained
head of Wright and Co., the big shoe-manu-
tacturing firm, he also practically ran the
-Laylor Bros, jam business, and dabbled in
coal, woollens and a heap of other things.
He was a good Protectionist, and also for
s °™. . was .th e employers’ representative
on the Arbitration Court.
ms PLACE OF
SHELTER.
frfnrt h ’ "l* 110 * 1 . pro Posed to deal with so many milters
more or less important, did not say one word about
ner O £ r o ° POS f < li legislation, although 259 943
persons voted for national prohibition at the recent
poll, being a majority of 54 282 "I
taken with a view to securing the removal of Th g
three-fifths handicap without further delay! th
The Wowser : “ Come out, you coward!’
\ ic” writes an epitaph :
maxfrn was l “a, food for obiturists. Talleyrand’s
idef of The fid T v. al !’- n 0 ZeaL ” This was the
President 7nni l l A j S tralian Senate, in electing its
Zeal had been a success in bossing the
the V Ve CounciI > as President, tnder
elecUonTo th! ?° r & eoi!S Chamber, and his
election to the Senatorial job seemed to be a foregone
controlled ' thntd^ 6 !’ the l° uth Australian influence
controlled that Senate, with the strong quartette of
1 ’ a i ß°. wner a « d Playford. Ve Adelaide
Holder d in do d j 6, s ° "T 11 as with the peerless
afflicted yToi Ttf Be P S- Baker, as President, only
done hhrf Hidi "T Wlt u a feeling: of the injustice
sense and w broken > in a Parliamentary
tfme ’ thc d h fh retl f ed from politics for the fourth
time, the others being twice from the Victorian
wh?re a Tlmef S Beef l P n membei ' for Castlemaine,
Tnce from the n P 3 tter ® on m , ade Ms name, and
once from the Legislative Council, under the impulse
Sl ? K?, s P ectlve walk-over for the Senate Presidency
the little man crowded his big life with activity’
tta„ M 2r rn rh“' ■ a ,r r
man /<eai. lie was on the management of about a
ge^evervwhere 1 " 8 H lUtl ° nS ’ and " aS an active mana ‘
Rcld- 6 yWh ?i e ‘ , He was an engineer, and built the
Bendigo railroad for a goodly distance bevond
Pootscray, after which he partnered with the lon-
Tt °n rS o f C °h rmSh ai? l B m ce ’ and thus laid the foun-
dation of his considerable fortune. The wonder is
TThflnl* WIH - g ° \°’ Zeal bein g an obstinate bachelor.
His engineering also included the Moama and Denili-
th! r Willi Way + and °", e of the earl - y tentative affairs,
?rav^to I |,mh° Wn ra l When he built the Foots-
the ! TTT' n Dlg^ers ’ R est line, the bridge
■ e Saltwater was new. A company had made
the line from Geelong to Melbourne. Tts railway
wteh on tlfe « O Jf fuße-forgotten place named Green
vich, on the Saltwater, and passengers went to Mel-
bourne m a little steamer. Zeal had large station
property and laid the basis of some of that by an
early residence of six years in N.S.W. 7
Gh j, ef Justice Way was appointed in
io<s, the other Supreme Court Judges in S
Aus. were Gwynne and Stow. Since then'
not only have those two Judges died, but so
have Andrews and Bundey, who succeeded
them, while Boucaut, now 80 years old has
NO OCCUPATION.
HABITUAL POLE HUNTER: “What in blazes
am I to do now ?”
At a small festive gathering in London re-
cently, an Australian artist, who is battling
his way in the Fog, met a titled Englishman
of some distinction. The titled English-
man of some distinction fixed a monocle with
difficulty, and then said: “Ah! Oh, yes,
;V r - ~—• And, tell me, were you driven
from Australyah by the vexatious imposts
on capital?”
“Vic.” writes :
Adam English is just dead in Melbourne. His
i “ , of , Reynolds and English, carriers, first intro-
duced dynamite here. In this line they acted under
the impulse of a partner named Green, with whom
they later had a dispute, and the dispute led to
separation. One day, in 1874, a little deal box
arrived at their office, Queen-street, Melbourne. They
opened it, and it blew up. Reynolds was killed,
aad English grievously damaged. Green was
arrested and tried, but there was no tangible evi-
dence against him ; so he was acquitted. Damaged
m.?!L are - T T® long - M °hke returned to Prussia
Pid liV ,;u hea 1 111 A book in the Melbourne
1 ul.lie Library says he died about 1840.
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
first h ®fim« n w ho Was re j spo u nsible in the late ’so’s and
di(f diftv for th^if H-°. the tradesmen’s tokens that
vdl? t penny and halfpenny Geore-c
Frederick Martin, has just passed over, at 8£ He
in "Tsiw Au ®traha in the steamship Great Britain
in 1852, and had resided in Melbourne up to the
heTas a part d ne a r th for eXaetly 60 years ' ln business
SL, Vas ® ? dr i ne L for fnany years in the late firm of
mahpr« nf d K Martm ’ - dle ' smkers and medallists, and
makers of bronze coinage. He also did some press
ru°sh k °S,, the „ ff ° ldfields in the early days of the gold
rush. The Sydney tradesmen mostly imported their
beS ? 2 T y 6d To Bi ™‘ tbe'recognised price
hSIFdI sirus;
Hos!e!Tf the f ’
A gentle-looking man, with almost a
school-girl eye, is Samuel Turner, butter
and er mm a T land for an English house,
and one of the most skilled and daring
mourn am climbers in the world. He has
tackled the giant perpendiculars in four con-
tinents, and has carved a reputation on the
upper skulls of the worst of them. His
ambition is to crawl up Mount Everest, and
wbinb TT ng h ! s Preparations for the job.
vhich he hopes to start on within five years,
teo far as is known there is nothing higher
Everest, with the exception
or what the limglish call ‘game.”
„ R obmson Malvern, solicitor, takes
a trip into the Victorian House of Land-
of I 'the luT‘T? the legislative shoes
vuhJ! Kmg l Skinne r. All the couser-
Irntnl n f-T SI T| S T na associatlons heartily con-
gratniated Robinson on his unopposed elec-
tion. Nobody dreamed of congratulating
the constitueney The Age made no effort
nbiv g K U f P a P°R ula r candidate. Left miser-
ably between the -Labor devil and the deep
Conservahve se a , the Age now finds it politic
Tf if T lgs s i lde F once fought over,
it is in the sad position of waiting for the
dead past to give up its dead.
“Galleryite” writes:—
the'stateT^spmhlv ß n ° po , litician - though he entered
passed him hTwTm ?1 rly . as 64 - Cabinet makers
highest imiTu th slckGmn g persistence, and the
nf th! n 'V he e Y e . r ,achieved was that of President
tried^foThTpTT d L CCks hasty legislation. He
was hratm lw Tff 1 S « h f lr ln the first Senate, but
V a , ueaten by Chaffey Baker. Then he became a
jiiWi
Rich* 1 Landlords, rl and S< on theTena*
to rS th W e Cr prTTT ns ’T? a! mechanically walked over
to the President s chair, and was onlv prevented
ttTpartTf his y feH iSk and high-stepping aTTonon
bid for fame h fellow ' memb ers. It was his last
w '!t ''T’T w e T S t 0 w! 1 mol ' e P e °P le than
WJ KIP, • Wa les. When the Court was
established less than 10 years ago, Justice
and W. D. Cruickshanlt and
f a ™ . S “ lth helped him. All three broke
down, two are dead, and the third is worse.
Wright, who took up Cruickshank’s
! h, ‘. ni iddle of a case, and
P f er , a delay the business was finished in
T Eedrocim. He never got much better,
taken nn a w^ e !> J ' E. Spencer, who had
flcnlv T n r gh } S Yr rk ’ P aSSed out SUd-
fVdiT And dadge Eeydon, who followed
Cohen, crumpled up so badly that he had to
tbia i i mon . th ® Complete rest. Yet,
V /TT’ 10 have h ad to sit through a long
mlmbTcT C£ T haven’t usually noticed
much excitement on the premises.
HAVE YOU A WEAK THROAT?
tr^r^fT be P reful >' you cannot begin
treatment too early. Each cold makes vou more
'!‘C; j s always the hardest
at the o„t“tyo 1 :, S
PRIVATE JANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The negotiations for a union of the three Liberal
organisations in Victoria, the People’s Liberal party
(until recently known as the Commonwealth Liberal
party), the People’s party and the Australian Wo-
men s National League, have been reopened The
hope is expressed that the tactics of the Australian
Women’s National League in insisting on preserving
its separate identity will be modified so that an
effective union may lie attained. There are no signs
of that league making any real sacrifice in the in-
terests of unity.— Melb. Age.
As the first faint rays of daylight on the battle-field
are falling
Comes the sound of dim things stirring and of ner-
vous voices calling:
“That you, People?” “Y'es, I’m People!” “Right-
o! This is People here!”
Then the sound of something ripping on a thorny
point. “Oh, dear!
Here I’m in another tangle! Help me quickly some-
one ! ’Otv!”
In reply both People’s voices wildly bellow. “Wot’s
up now!?
W’y you’re alius gettin’ tangled w’en we’re startin’
a campaign !
W’y carn’t you put on trousis like a soljer, Private
Jane?”
“BRUTES!... .1 want to look a lady when I
face the enemy !
And how dare you even think I’d let the Labah
party see
I had limbs like any servant! Why, good gracious,
are you mad?
NO! I simply won’t unsex myself for any stupid
fad!
And now —if you’ve no more questions—will you
come and cut me free?
But please note that I preserve my feminine iden-
tity !”
So the trousered allies, growling, go to help the
skirted one,
And make ready for the battle ere the rising of the
sun.
When the sun is brightly shining, and the time is
past for marching,
Two distracted parties caper round a female busy
starching
Two new blouses bought for battle at a city bargain
sale,
While the drums of Labor legions rumble fiercely
down the vale:
“If yer won’t put on th’ trousis, will yer wear a
coat an’ ’at.
Then yer might look like a soljer w’en be’ind some
rocks yer sat!
<t° on, Jane! Do make yer mind up, ’fore the place
goes up in smoke!
Will, yer wear an ’at or ’elmet?” “NO! I’ll
wear my velvet toque!
And it’s no use you men talking, for I’m satisfied
I’m right!
And I won’t go out to battle looking like a perfect
fright!
The idea! Me in trousers! Why, I really never
heard
Such impertinence and rubbish! It's too utterly
absurd!
If you really are so anxious for this uniformity,
Then I give you both permission to attire yourselves
like me!”
So they argue while the thunder of the drums hangs
in the air
On a question of great import, namely: What is
Jane to wear?
N.S.W.
BLITHER F. M.


*
w
; - 4
-V
L^N
s
m
-v ’
1
I « /,
JT
"'V-.
■-■
*• -•■ f . 4 , l >r*~-.-. .:«r. c*
1
KWS
*r
v <**£*•
X
SK&
i-SSE
■<S*\
St
ifflS
m
l *H
sc;.-- *
:
*«*
■ G
»• v, X *<v% w* T % *%. \ \
I , %\ XV V ■ "I #% v»
ifc \% \r ’ll
§L'%4\ 1 v%A k m* ''Ml ?i-x
mV* l IP ,• 'Y t ;'
VX -J&
n
TY
sw
X'
»&«
-fe’4
A6 h
-X
#** f
fci * ji*
pr*3fi.
*
(#•
s?.
iX&jirt
» 1®!- • H*
: wan
*4A
■G-
~ - s
.*• *»
fife
088
%4-,, w
Vx
*
»
./ p*\e
s*&,/ it u
vw*s
t '”'6 *< ■ vl;
ra%i * f
#SP
X'
OSsIC
#3
«
X:
Mk
mm
w,
, :
m
c f-
■TX
m
K-'i
4&
- i
* *@B*
n
<c -•
J*'**' oW ' JjjgJwSM*
#9l?
I \
'!*■■•' 5
JUI
gg
x
ea^iKSS^"
s&£ "
"v> >
•. xSgv:
?J
J>-5
IgPf -V
AUSTRALIAN WOOL FOR AUSTRALIAN PEOPLE
The Austral Sac Suit,
M Jlure.
£3 3s.
Send for A utimin and Winter Patterns.
All Orders Carriage Paid m A ustralia .
GOWING BROS.,
EVERYTHING FOR MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR,
486, 488, 490 & 496 George Street; and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
Informatlon apply— 32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance Cos., Ltd., which is the Citizens’ Life Associa-
tion with the M.L.A. and the Australian Widows’
Fund grafted on to it:—
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Written to
Dee., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1900 .. £115,531 £41,252 £17,891 £86,388
1901 .. 168,520 34,282 26,584 107,654
1902 .. 197,424 34,492 27,533 £245 135,154
1903.. 217,062 39,472 29,766 147,824
1904 .. 239,820 58,450 31,894 1,531 147,945
1905 .. 255,130 64,962 33,545 20,572 136,051
1906.. 278,713 62,267 34,867 395 181,184
1907 .. 299,001 83,803 24,190 12,925 178,083
(Amalgamation with M.L.A. took place at
this point.)
1908 .. 667,435 274,307 74,674 157,054 161,400
1909 .. 692,089 321,484 58,392 1,745 310,468
(Widows’ Fund came in here.)
1910 .. 941,605 481,526 84,252 2,524 373,303
1911 .. 1,047,150 534,801 95,864 5,275 411,210
This co. has done better work for life insurance in
Australia than any other office in the past 20 years.
In the first place, it pushed Industrial insurance,
and, though that is comparatively poor stuff, it is
better than nothing, and its quality is_ improving;
moreover, the system trains hundreds of people to
become Ordinary policy-holders who wouldn’t have
any sort of insurance at all if they didn’t have an
Industrial policy to begin with. But that is per-
haps the least of this office’s big services. Somehow
or other it developed a remarkable business organisa-
tion, partly no doubt because the men who were
running it were going to have a share in the profits
that would come with success. For many years one
great Australian office strode out far ahead of all
others. Its competitors didn’t push it anywhere in
the race. Naturally, the time came when it almost
forgot that it was in a race at all. At last it woke
up to the fact that somebody was rushing up along-
side it. Still, the great office might not have
worried much if the men who were in charge of the
Citizens’ hadn’t grasped out and brought first the
M.L.A. and then the Widows’ Fund under their
roof. That not only made an office big enough to
command attention everywhere; but the fact that
these two old-established offices, run by the most
conservative men, were prepared to come in, gave
the Citizens’ and its assets a certificate that would
be a good enough introduction anywhere. The race
became really serious then; and thus, by setting
something like anew standard, especially in the
matter of expenses, the Citizens’ (which became the
M.L.C. after the amalgamation) did a service to tens
of thousands of people who haven’t got an M.L.C.
policy and perhaps never will have one.
A word was said just now about the remarkable
business organisation having been due more or less
to the fact that the men who ran the Citizens’ were
interested in the profits. Under the purely mutual
system the policy-holders get all the profits. The
mutual system doesn’t, however, make profits. James
Garvan, the founder of the Citizens’, tried to devise
a scheme that would do that. He therefore proposed
that one-fifth of the profits should go to share-
holders, who would be mostly men in the co.’s ser-
vice. It isn’t much use arguing whether the plan
succeeded or not. It is certain that something suc-
ceeded. The one-fifth of the profits are still, of
course, paid. Down to five years ago the payment
was lumped with “surrenders and bonuses,” and in-
cluded with the claims. In the table on top this
practice is followed throughout for the sake of uni-
formity; but if the truer plan is followed, and the
bonus is added to the exes., the results would show
up as follows:—•
Written To Re-
Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. serves.
1908.. £667,435 £262,576 £86,405 £157,054 £161,400
1909.. 692,089 308,232 71,644 1,745 310,468
1910.. 941,605 464,638 101,140 2,524 373,300
1911.. 1,047,150 515,005 115,660 5,275 411,213
The position with regard to policy-holders’ bonuses
is this: to compete with other offices, four-fifths of
the M.L.C.’s profits must be as good as five-fifths of
those in the purely mutual office. The M.L.C.’s claim
is that self-interest saves so much waste and secures
so much better service that it pays the policy-holders
handsomely to share the profits to 7hat extent.
The figures are unquestionably very striking. Even
if the shareholders’ bonus is reckoned in with the
expenses, the rate for last year was only £ll os. lid.
p.c. of the income notwithstanding the big volume
of new business. Charging the old or renewal busi-
ness 7 p.c., the new business cost 89 p.c. of the first
year’s premiums—an extraordinary achievement. Ex-
cluding the shareholders’ one-fifth, the new-business
cost was 61 p.c.; and an office which can do that
has certainly some remarkable force at the back of
it. As for the policies taken over from the M.L.A.
and the Widows’ Fund, the trustees for the latter
report: “The average annual surplus for the three
years five months ending March 31, 1910 (the
date of the union) was £32,223 on a 3-J p.c. basis
of valuation. On the same basis of valuation, the
surplus for 1911 would be about double that aver-
age.” In other words, under the management of the
M.L.C., profits available for bonuses have been just
about doubled.
Come next to the branch that the original Citi-
zens’ office grew on:—
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
1900 .. £176,406 £49,398 £98,681 £228 £28,099
1901 .. 184,112 43,649 99,756 42 40,665
1902 .. 188,688 41,707 110,234 36,747
1903 .. 192,491 53,543 103,560 35,088
1904 .. 201,166 58,169 89,596 53,401
1906 .. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1906 .. 205,910 46,757 75,251 849 83,053
1907 .. 235,086 55,770 82,820 96,496
1908 .. 217,371 98,068 84,268 1734 33.301
1909 .. 227,299 74,829 98,522 4746 49,202
1910 .. 243,286 74,108 105,330 2755 61,093
1911 .. 264,235 65,606 108,077 3916 86,636
The expense rate shown there is 40.9 p.c. of the in-
come. That is much better than it used to be, when
Industrial business was started in Australia, but
still 4|d. in the shilling is too much money to spend
in chasing business and collecting premiums. Yet
the only visible plan for bringing the cost much
lower is the universal insurance of wage-earners, the
premiums being collected by the employers and paid
in by them ; and unfortunately that would leave out
a whole lot of people who ought to be insured.
The Widows’ Fund had an Accident business and
the M.L.A. had policies with Accident benefits. All
this business has been put into one branch, which is
making considerable progress:—
Accident Branch.
Expenses
(including To Re- Re-
Income. Claims. Divs.). serves, serves.
1909..
1910.. £20,098 £5020 £6,500 £8,578 20,882
1911.. 30,164 9052 10,994 10,118 31,000
It has been very profitable so far; but English ex-
perience shows that it is a class of business liable to
fly up and hit the underwriter at unexpected times
and in unexpected places. For that reason, no doubt,
instead of passing much of the surplus to the credit
of the co., the latter is building up large contin-
gency reserves.
When the insurance canvasser is hooking a
fish the first thing the fish ought to be sure about
is the stability of the basket he is going to be
landed into. Big bonuses are all very well; but the
bonus won’t be paid perhaps for 30 years, and a lot
of bad things may happen in 30 years. The office
with a share capital has a small advantage here.
The purely mutual office can’t pay out more than the
policy-holders have paid in, plus interest earnings,
no matter what may have been promised them.
There is no outsiders’ fund on which they can draw.
With a share capital there is another fund; and if
the policy-holders themselves haven’t put in enough
to pay the face value of the policy and the declared
bonuses, or if the money has been lost in bad invest-
ments, then the shareholders must make up the bal-
ance, to the extent of the subscribed capital. This
is no doubt calculated to make this office prettv
careful about its investments, and probably explains
why it has nearly half (49 p.c.) of its total assets
in public securities. Of the balance 39 p.c. is on
mortgage, and only a trifle over 2 p.c. is sunk in
freehold property. The Ordinary branch funds earned
£4 10s. 3d. p.c., the Industrial branch £4 7s. Bd.
p.c., and the Accident branch £4 9s. lid. p.c. Yet,
in spite of these earnings, the M.L.C. section (which
includes all current business) bases all its calcula-
tions on a 3 p.c. rate of earnings; and all the sur-
plus actually earned above that rate will be avail-
able for bonuses.
The City Mutual Life Assurance So-
ciety (Sydney) :
Added to
Written Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1899.. £50,291 £22,890 £11,023 £ISSI £14,797
1900.. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1950 13,048
1901.. 61,979 19,435 15,997 2209 24 338
1902.. 63,552 31,850 14.717 1555 15,430
1903.. 63,732 34,877 14,142 1468 13,245
Assets written up 3 071
1904.. 65,619 29,610 14,227 1586 20’196
1905.. 70,242 27,515 15,615 1971 25,141
1906.. 76,874 31,955 18,666 2006 24 247
1907.. 82,388 33,001 18,875 2055 28 457
1908.. 93,442 29,894 24,162 562 38’824
1909.. 106,689 34,512 27,078 5505 39,294
1910.. 121,588 39,352 28,961 7388 45,887
1911.. -*150,250 173,844 27,774 6087 42,545
*This includes “premiums purchasing paid-up policies
allocated from cash bonuses not drawn.”
tThis includes £17,221 “cash bonus declared for
1910.”
That calls for a little explanation. Until 12 months
ago this co., like most others in the life .insurance
business, did not show its bonus payments in its
statement of revenue and expenditure. Then, how-
ever, it changed the form of its accounts and set
out two new items; on the expenditure side: “Cash
bonus declared for year”; on the other, “Single
premiums, including premiums purchasing paid-up
policies allocated from cash bonuses not drawn.”
It is probable that the “single premiums” are
wholly or almost wholly the society’s bonuses for
the year, employed to purchase additions to the
policy-holders’ insurance; and if the £16,033 repre-
sented by single premiums is deducted, the year’s
income was £134,217. That makes a fairer com-
parison with previous figures.
This society confesses that it isn’t aiming at big
business figures. There are one or two very strong
British offices which don’t canvass at all, and rely
upon the saving in exes., and the consequent big
bonuses, to get new business for them. There is a
lot of wisdom in the scheme —-provided too many
don’t adopt it —and The Bulletin has tried to
bring the Commonwealth Government up to the
scratch and establish an insurance office on these
lines. Meantime the City Mutual follows the plan
with variations. It canvasses, certainly, but it de-
clines to force business, on the principle that it’s
the last possible £IOOO that costs most to get, where-
fore it leaves off before it reaches the last possible
£IOOO. The rate, nevertheless, is still high:—
Expenses Compared With Total Income.
1902 ..£23 3 2 p.c. 1907 ..£22 18 2 p.c.
1903 .. 22 3 9 „ 1908 .. 25 17 1 „
1904 ~ 21 13 7 ~ 1909 .. 27 7 7
1905 .. 22 4 7 „ 1910 .. 23 16 4 ~
1906 .. 24 5 6 „ 1911 .. 20 13 10 ~
Almost everything depends, though, on the proportion
of new business secured: obviously an office that
dozed and merely received renewal premiums and
paid out claims could run itself at very little ex-
pense. If this co.’s renewal business is charged 7
p.c., then the new business cost 91 p.c. of the first
year’s premiums; and over that record the office is
quite justified in throwing bouquets at itself. And
in the art of making bouquets and throwing them
at his society managing director Crowley, of the
City Mutual, isn’t behind any other insurance person
.in Australia. The worst 'trouble of the small office,
as a rule, is to keep the policy-holder after it has
got him. But in that respect this office fares better
than most. Last year more surrender values were
exhausted than usual; yet the proportion to new
premiums received was no more than 74 p.c., and
in the great A.M.P. it was as much as 60 p.c.
Bonuses come from three principal sources—from
the reduction of costs below the rate assumed in fix-
ing the premium; from interest earnings in excess
of the assumed rate; and from a better mortality
experience than was expected. This office can’t show
much in the way of low costs, but its interest earn-
ings are unusual. On the average funds at com-
mand last year they amounted to £5 7s. 4d. p.c.
—very nearly 1 p.c. above the rate earned by most
societies; and even f p.c. on the funds means '£3735
a year available for bonuses. High interest earn-
ings, however, often mean big risks and large losses
through depreciation of securities. In the table on
top of these remarks there is a column showing
amounts written off. Down to three years agp these
were chiefly sums written off securities, and the bulk
of them must be set against the high interest earn-
ings. During the past three years the totals have been
larger; but £IO,OOO of the aggregate is still to the
credit of a contingency fund—a provision, no doubt,
for probable losses in the future. Asa matter of
fact, the profit on the sale of securities in 1910 was
£1578 in excess of the amount written off securities
(other than furniture, etc.), and last year the net
profit was £2362. Even allowing that jt has been
comparatively easy to make profits in the rising
markets of the past few years, the society’s record
in the matter of net earnings has been very good
indeed. The mortality experience is algo good; and
when policy-holders live longer and therefore pay
in more premiums, and allow of the accumulation
of more interest than the actuaries calculated upon,
the actual revenue in excess of the anticipated
revenue goes to swell the bonuses. The bonuses as
for 1910 were worth £17,221 in cash: this was
equal to 21 p.c. of the renewal premiums received
during 1911. Considering that the office is neither
big nor fashionable, and therefore has to battle for
all it gets, this is a good result —provided always
that the actuarial reserves are calculated on a suffi-
ciently stringent basis.
* * * *
F. W. Hughes, Ltd. (Sydney), manufac-
turers of wool-tops, who commenced business (so far
as this co. is concerned) with a deficit of £11,940,
representing goodwill ( £11,566) and preliminary
exes.:—
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Maj r , 1909..
Dec., 1909.. £17,411 7p.c.= £4,998 £4OOO 3,527
Reserves.
Dec., 1910.. 18,587 10 „ ~ 13,357 1,703
Dec., 1911.. 12,506 6 ~ „ 9,329 4000 880
The Hughes firm had been carrying on a wool-scouring
business for many years at Botany, and the proSpeec
of a Commonwealth bonus on wool tops produced for
export led to the promotion of this co, to carry the
scouring a step farther. The new capital asked for
was for an equipment of combing and other
machinery. Under the Bounties Act of 1907 a
maximum of £50,000 was set apart to encourage
this industry, payable at the rate of £IO,OOO a year
from 1909 onwards. Other tops are produced in
Australia, but, so far as this writer knows, only
for use in Australian manufactures ; and these goods
don’t carry any bounty. Apparently, therefore, the
only call for bounty is made by this co.; and, un-
less the present law is altered, the assistance will
come to an end in 1914 —which isn’t very far to look
forward to. So far the co. has published only three
sets of accounts, and only once did it set out separ-
ately the revenue derived from the bonus. That was
in 1910, when £6688 was drawn from the Com-
monwealth Treasury. The output of tops in that
year was 1,060,048 lbs., and as the bonus payable was
lid., there obviously wasn’t much unexported stock
as at Dec. 31 to draw bonus upon. Last year the
output was 2,248,000 lbs., and as lid. was still pay-
able, £14,050 would have been drawn if there hadn’t
been a limit of £IO,OOO set on any one year’s draw-
ings. If the full £IO,OOO was drawn—and that
much seems certain —it is plain that there was very
little profit apart from the bonus, which, as remarked
just now, comes to an end in 1914 under present
arrangements, \vith the current year the payment
is reduced to Id. per lb.; but ns the output is
expected to reach 2,800,000 lbs., the maximum will
still be called for. It is possible that, inasmuch
as only a few hundred pounds were drawn in 1909,
something in excess of £IO,OOO a year is now paid
out; if so the profit apart from the bonus is still
further reduced. In that case the prospect becomes
still less cheerful. The bounties may certainly be
renewed, perhaps on a reduced scale; but Parliament
will no doubt want to know first what amount of
labor the new industry is employing. 4nd it will
have to be admitted that top-making is a mighty
poor substitute for cloth-making so far as employ-
ment is concerned. Still, though the financial pros-
pects wouldn’t be very bright without the bonus,
the bottom wouldn’t actually drop out of the
business, as a market is being built for the tops
and “the demand continues to be most satisfactory”
(directors’ report, 31/12/’,11).
The capital is £IBO,OOO in £1 shares, on which
£15,011 is uncalled. Overdrafts and trade debts
total £58,734; on the other side, stocks and liquid
assets total £71,673, The goodwill item is now
exceeded by the reserves, even after allowing, for
the dividend; but there appears to be some addi-
tional paper in the item—“ Plant, premises, machin-
ery, lease and water rights, £158,874.”
The Colonial Meat Export Cos., Ltd., seems to
be half-cousin or something to P. W. Hughes, Ltd.
It has the same chairman, and the two directors who
were re-elected this year afe directors also of
Hughes, Ltd. Its object is to pack meat, mainly for
export; and probably it has friendly relations with
the other co. with regard to the disposal of the mut-
ton’s overcoat. This co-operation could no doubt be
to the cos.’ mutual advantage, though there is pretty
certain to be some grumbling about it, especially
when one co. paid only 6 p.c. last year while the
other paid 10 p.c.
The Newcastle Coal Cos. (N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1904.. £7107 5 p.c. =£2500 £7963 £8613
June, 1905.. 3582 Nil' 2688 £894 9507
Deo., 1905.. 6864 6 p.c; = 3000 6137 7224
June, 1906.. 5376 6 „ ~.58000 3601 5999
Dec., 1906.. 3682 6 „ ~ 3000 2093 4588
June, 1907.. 6527 5 „ ~ 2500 2556 1771 6359
Dec., 1907.. 5561 5 ~-,,,''2500. 1143 1918 8277
June, 1908.. 7633 5 ~ „ 2500.- 6326 7084
Dec., 1908.. S2ll 5 „ „ 2500. 5430 281 7365
June, 1909.. 7014 5 ~ ~ 2500 5234 6645
Dec., 1909.. 3807, Nil 4134 6318
June, 1910.. 2698 Nil 4305 -- 4711
Dec., 1910.. 2963 Nil 3600 4074
June, 1911.. 4967 5 p.c. = 2500 2351 116 4190
Dec., 1911.. 7730 5 „ „ 2500 4309 921 5111
In 1907 this co., after just 30 years’ hard gouging,
decided that it was about time it looked for an-
other mine; because a 3ft. seam won’t last for
ever, even if you have got about 3500 acres to peck
at. The unfortunate part of the business was that
the co. hadn’t built up a fund for the return of
capital or the purchase of another mine. Yet it did
a lot better than it deserved, under the circum-
stances, and, though it had to dj;op dividends for a
while, a brisk trade at the good- prices fixed by the
Vend enabled it to buy and equip anew mine—the
Whitburn, in the Maitland district —without getting
into a bog of debt. This shows the position now
and as at. June, 1907, just before the new land was
bought:—
June, 1907. Dec., 1911.
Liquid assets . . £16,881 £19,402
Liabilities .. .. 3,336 15,773
Surplus . . . . £13,545 £3,629
The new mine contains 546 acres freehold and a small
area under lease from the State; and, though this has
been bought, opened up and equipped, the co. has
now only £9916 less of a cash surplus than it had
just before the deal was made. (“Gash” here in-
cludes stores.) The Ocean part of the old mine has
lately been abandoned, but the new mine is now a
steady producer, and is showing good faces. But it
isn’t a big area, and the co, ought to start build-
ing up a fund for either the return of capital or
the purchase of more lands. It can’t expect to go
on having the same, luck as it has had over the
Whitburn; a bad market, for instance, would have
put it pretty close to the rocks. The capital is
£IIO,OOO in shares of £ll each paid up to £lO.
* * * *
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melb.) :
Profit on Writ-
Property ten Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. Off. serves.
Jan., 1905.. £2076 £221 6 p.c. = £1434 £16,011
July, 1905.. 1880 170 6 ~ „ 1434 £258 16,369
Jan., 1906.. 1869 441 6 ~ ~ 1434 17,245
July, 1906.. 1789 317 7£ „ ~ 1752 200 17,399
Jan., 1907.. 2087 581 7i „ ~ 1752 18,315
July, 1907.. 3958 313 7J ~ „ 1752 150 18,684
Jan., 1908.. 3952 288 7% „ ~ 1752 19,172
July, 1908.. 2102 753 8 „ ~ 1912 700 19,415
Jan., 1909.. 2009 379' 8 ~ „ 1912 19,891
Jul)’, 1909.. 2211 161 8 „ ~ 1932 20,351
Jan., 1910.. 2319 294 8 „ ~ 1912 21,052
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 - S „ „ 3912 501 22,111
Jan., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 „ ~ 1912 23,584
July, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 „ „ 1912 26,008
Jan., 1912.. 2714 2956 9J ~ ~ 2231 29,447
After one or two false starts this societj' went to the
Court 101 years ago and got a clean sheet on condi-
dition that it wrote off one-half its share capital
and paid the old depositors 4 p.c. p.a.
That transaction accounts for the profits on pro-
perty sales shown above; they are really only the
surpluses realised over the severely written-down
values, and some of the dividend paid nowadays
from that source is merely a return of capital for-
merly wiped out as lost. That sort of thing will
necessarily stop some day, because the properties
are not infinite. This little table shows, in fact,
that there is not a great deal left:—
July, ’Ol. Jan., ’ll. July, ’ll. Jan., ’l2.
Liabilities .. £37,015 £33,188 £35,877 £36,182
Advances .. 19,998 70,455 80,388 95,486
Foreclosures.. 72,305 35,266 30,973 19,932
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 911 234 340
Thus the society had £72,305 of properties on hand
101 years ago, and there is only £19,932 (book
value) left now; hence on past records no more
than £SOOO or £6OOO further “profit on property
sales” can be expected. But while the profits from
this source are nearing an end, it is worth noting
that the dividend has never absorbed all the ordinary
profit; so unless some bad accident happens, the
stoppage of profits from sales shouldn’t affect the
dividend. The biggest risk lies in the possibility
of a slump in the value of the properties on which
advances have been made, or which have been sold
on terms. But building societies ought to be on
velvet so far as most of their advances are concerned.
They fall in when the boom is sudden and the burst
quick—when the people who have borrowed money
on inflated securities haven’t had time to pay off
n _* an y instalments. This present boom hasn’t been
that sort: it has been gradual and prolonged, and
so many instalments have been paid on the majority
of time-payment bargains that no ordinary shrink-
age could reduce the value below the amount that
remains owing on the security. That’s the good
side of building society business to-dav. The
gloomier side is that the State will almost
for certain go on doing more and more to
help the people get homes on the best pos-
sible terms as to loans and repayments. In other
words, building societies are right up against the
most powerful of competitors, who isn’t looking for
any profit whatever.
The Sydney Permanent Freehold Land
and Building Cos., Ltd.: —
Loss Loss Total Capital
on on I,oss Norni-
Busi- Proper- for Total nallv
Dec., ness. ties. Year. Deficit. Intact.
1900.. £340 £34,372 £34,712 £58,218 £44,537
1901.. 502 2,723 3,285 61,503 41,252
1902.. 361 2,006 2,367. 63,870 38,885
1903 • • 89 B9 63,959 38,796
1904.. 383 1,725 2,108 66,067 36,688
1905.. 352 236 588 66,655 36,100
1906.. 472 120 592 67,247 35,508
1907.. 521 521 67,768 34,989
1908.. 365 11,626 11,901 79,759 22,998
1909. .2 r 478 2 137 615 89,374 22,383
1910.. ‘ 462 462 80,836 21,922
Profit. Profit.
1911.. 796 2,981 2,185 78,651 24,107
This co., with a capital of £102,758, owed about
£300,000, mainly to depositors, when the boom-
bubble burst just on 20 years ago. Practically all
of this money was in mortgages and vacant lands;
and the return was so poor that in 1895 depositors
consented to accept 2J p.c. as a permanent thing.
It was proposed then to revalue the assets and write
down the capital; but on reviewing the situation it
seemed very doubtful whether the capital was big
enough to fill up the gap, so nothing was done.
Little by little the assets have been realised, and
they have mostly brought so much less than the old
boom value that £78,651 of the capital has already
disappeared, that being approximately the difference
between the cost of the amount realised for the
assets so far sold. There are still £34,615 of assets
awaiting realisation, plus £10,632 represented by
“borrowers and land purchasers’ balances, including
foreclosed vacant land.” The co, owes £23,399;
deduct £1556 cash in hand = £21,843. To pay
that debt there is £45,950 of assets of various kinds.
In the past 10 years things have moved like this:—
„ ' 1901. 1911.
Net. liabilities .. .. £87,480 £21,843
Non-liquid assets.. .. 128,733 45,950
Thus £82,783 of assets have paid off £65,637 of
debt. At the same rate the remaining £45,950 of
assets should realise about £36,000, which would
pay off the rest of the debt and leave nearly £16,000
for shareholders. But whether the sediment will pan
out worse or better than the lot already got rid of
this paper doesn’t know. All it knows is that the
directors report that “valuations of the co.’s princi-
pal freehold lands were made during the year by
Richardson and Wrench,” and the directors “find
that the book values were consistent with such valua-
tions.” Which may mean that the shareholders may
save a few pounds more out of the wreckage than
was calculated above.
The Victoria Coffee Palace Cos. (Mel-
bourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
’ i 61926 4J p. c. = £9OO £457 £569 £1,492
1901.. 1905 5 ~ „ 1000 905 2,397
1902.. 1818 5,, „ 1000 715 103 2,5(0
1903.. 1464 4,, „ 800 664 3,164
Unclaimed dividends .. 20 3,18 t
1904.. 1517 4 p.c. = 800 476 241 3,425
1905.. 1537 4 „ „ 800 737 4,162
1906.. 1665 4 ~ „ 800 865 5,027
1907.. 2792 5 ~ ~ 1000 1792 6,819
1908.. 1895 5 ~ ~ 1000 895 7,714
1909.. 3568 8J ~ „ 1700 lB6B 9,582
1910.. 4114 10} ~ ~ 2100 53 196 L 11,543
1911.. 4853 124 ~ ~ 2725 2128 13,671
Perhaps that last line is right, and perhaps it isn’t.
During the year 12,000 new shares were issued, ap-
P ar ’ an h ss. was called up on them,
the directors refer to the dividend for the past half-
year as “at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a., with a bonus of
2s p.c., equal in all to 9d. per share for the period.”
there are 52,000 shares, and 9d. per share means
£1950, whereas 7} p.c. on the paid capital
( £23,000) means £1725. Previously £IOOO (5
p.c.) had been paid; so whether the year’s total
div. is £2725 or £2950 isn’t certain from the ac-
counts. Also £897, “payment in respect of new
shares, has been appropriated out of profits.
That may be a bonus or dividend, or it may be
the excessive exes, of the new issue. In the table
it has been deducted from the profits; but it is all
sloppy and uncertain, and sloppiness isn’t a good
asset to bring to the assistance of a concern of this
kind.
Twenty years ago the capital was £40,000, and
the co. owed £25,000 on mortgage, and about
£6OOO in other, debts. At that time it had a
leasehold, which it was writing down in a leisurely
way. . Even before the boom broke it wasn’t doing
anything extra, and was paying only 4 to 5 p.c.
dividend. After the smash it did worse still.
Values had of course shrivelled; nevertheless it
hung on to its old valuations until 1897, when it
decided to face the trouble and write cauital down
to £20,000. At the end of 1897 it ‘still owed
£26,516 on mortgage. For some years it paid
only bread and cheese dividends, and put all the
rest into the premises or used it to reduce the mort-
gage. Twelve months ago all it owed was £15,987.
But as times grew more prosperous the old microbe
bit the management, and the divs. bolted from 4 p.c.
in 1906 to 121 p.c. in 1911. Moreover, the co.
plunged into more buildings—which perhaps were
justified—-and the reduction of the mortgage has been
forgotten. Apparently the building additions are
going to cost over £IO,OOO ; but if it stops at that,
the new share issue will pay for the lot. Apart
from the management’s recent inclination to “go
gay,” the record of the past 12 years has been very
good. In the 11 years to the end of 1910 the
excess of liabilities over liquid assets was reduced
from £25,760 to £15,760 —an exact £IO,OOO less.
And over £3OOO had been spent on the freehold.
Last year more capital was got in and a good deal of
money was spent on buildings, so the calculation
stops at the end of 191 Q. Business ha? been boom-
ing; revenue, which was down to £14.191 in 1899,
reached £23.999 last year. But the time will come
when it will probably creep well down towards
£14,191 again; 'for the city caravanserai which
caters for the country visitor is hit more than most
when bad seasons come, and the giddy time in the
city is scratched as a luxury that can be done with-
out.
The bottom workings of the Ida H.
(W.A.) are not turning out as well as expected.
One winze is down about 120 ft. below the 1000 ft.
level, and a drive has been put out to the spot
where the rich shoot ought to be, but isn’t. No. 2
winze, sunk 150 ft. further north from the same
level, is also down 100 ft. odd, but the value at this
point is not nearly as good as in the workings above.


By Appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.,
You are assured of Absolute Security,
Efficient and Economical Management,
etc.
Fixed and Low Charges.
trust funds to lend
on approved securities at from
per cent.
2, 4 6 spring Street,
Sydney.
Write or call for Booklet.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION GAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane; JAS. HABDIE & CO., Sydney;
McGLEW & CO., Adelaide ; MALLOCH BROS. , Perth
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
In view of this the chances of the No. 11 lev el
ing satisfactory do not look too pr g- h
over, a doubt has arisen in the mmds of locai
holders as to whether the co. has the tin interests
in Nigeria it thinks it has. A man on the spot wno
ought to know says it hasn’t. # *
Great Boulder (W.A.) began , this year
with less ore reserves than anticipate . tl
mate just prepared by the management computes the
ore in sight on December 31 at *° s nS o’{ 0 ’ { ““
taining 608,712 fine oz„ which is 61,515 tons ot o
and 62.1090 Z. of gold short of what there was said
to be visible 12 months ago. Nothing shoi
miraculous return of the mam ore shoot from Hors
shoe ground can save this great mine from a Unger
ing death. * *
Bullrush Estates Cos. (W.A.) has ex-
tracted and treated 483 tons from its Royal Stan
dard option for a recovery of 36 ®: Gd '. pe A c „ la t es
an additional ss. per ton absorption in the plates^
This result is officially regarded as and
shows that the general sampling n Y a t e of the
relied on. Cos. has 12 months from the date of the
option to make up its nund whether it will buy tne
property or not. # *
From the Golden Butterfly’s standpoint
the whole position is considered to be most hopeful
in connection with the co. s Aookymc( • ■,) •
Fvervthing is improving “smoothly and satistacto
ily,” y and the 20,000 to 25,000 tons of ore reserves said
to be in sight are expected to yield a good profit. All
this reads very well, and after the broken-wmged ex-
istence which the co. has had to put ■ up with so
far the fervent prayer is here offered up that it has
not been misled this time. *
* *
Chaflinch (W.A.) has thrown up its op-
tion, on Reid’s leases near Bullfinch about which
the local paper spoke in glowing terms a few weeks
ago. It appears there is some gold m the show,
but insufficient to warrant a co. with 200,000 share-
holders fastening on to it as a means of support.
* * *
Asa result of temporary stoppage of ore
treatment, Hainault (W.A.) sustained a loss of
several hundred pounds on February operations
Its mill results for the past year do not show up
any too well either, as, with London office expenses,
depreciation, etc., still to be deducted, the leceipts
only show £3153 in excess of expenditure. As
previously stated, there is a chance of the co. doing
better in the future, but it is only a chance, and a
rather slender one at that. #
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) gets deeper into
debt,. The past year’s operations show, exclusive ot
depreciation, u ’Ome” expenditure, etc., a loss of
about £2OO, and seeing the way things are looking
underground at the co.’s Magnet property, the future
appears to be more gloomy than ever. For the first
90ft. of sinking this show promised well, but below
that depth it has turned out very badly. Tributers
still manage to eke out a more or less profitable ex-
istence worrying leaders in the co.’s Kalgoorlie lease.
IT * * *
Cosmopolitan Prop. (W.A.) has evidently
left its once profitable Itookynie mine to its _ fate.
The plant has beeh sold, and part of the mill is
going to the Bullfinch. Until the flat reef went
wrong in depth the property was one of the best
gold producers in the State, and paid £129,000
in dividends.
The other day Rowans’ Find took a crush-
ing out of its newly-acquired Morgans show (W.A.),
and announced itself perfectly satisfied with the re-
sult. Now news is to hand that the return did not
pay, and that in, consequence the mill has been
closed down. To clear the matter up some official
light ought to made available.
* * * *
V. F. Shallcross, managing director of
the British and Foreign Development Syndicate,
is getting excited. , Mines Minister Collier got back
at him in a minute replying to Shallcross’s state-
ment that the application for forfeiture of the
Queen’s Cross mine at Coolgardie was based on a
mere technical breach of the labor conditions.” Collier
says that “it was a most flagrant evasion of the
conditions of lease.” The Warden recommended a
fine of £25; the Minister overruled him and for-
feited the show, and then Shallcross talked of “at-
tacks on investors.” Shallcross’s Syndicate is also in
trouble with Fraser’s. The Syndicate has treated its tn-
butors badly, and now asks for 12 months’ exemption.
Joe Kearney is up against the shepherds with an
application for forfeiture. Fraser’s has three lodes
developed by 41 miles of drives, crosscuts, shafts and
winzes, and showing a capacity of production of
200,000 tons per annum. Shallcross’s Syndicate has
been running at a loss of £lll a month, and Shall-
cross says that £IOO,OOO is wanted to equip the
mine for a 200,000-ton production. Machinery cost
£20,000, and an offer was recently made to sell
the mine and plant for £3OOO, which looks as if
the Mines Department is likely to decide on a change
.of tenants. The published figures of loss amount to
the statement that the profits of crushing, cyamdmg
and royalties have been eaten by pumping costs.
Fraser’s is 22 years old, and very little has been
done on it for six years. The present syndicate
got the purchase money from old sands and slimes.
Tributers, directly and otherwise, have produced
£30,000 more, and that hasn’t gone back into the
mine. Fraser’s doesn’t want any £IOO,OOO work-
ing capital; but it does want a good 30-head null
and an ownership by somebody who will give the
mine a chance by not starving it.
* * * *
Associated Northern manager. G. M.
Roberts, estimates ore developed m the Gimlet
Extended, now optioned to the A.N., at 159,000 tons
worth 245. 3d., and 4000 tons dumped, worth 255.
* * * *
Tierney and Abbott, who own the Gimlet
South, at' Ora-Banda, have had their mine well
developed for them by three option parties, who
each did a lot of work and’ then threw the proposi-
tion down. First, Freedman and Johnston optioned
it at £BOOO, and then the Associated Northern had
it at £12,000, and, lastly, the Gwalia South sampled
it at and passed it out. All the Gimlet
shows are' too erratic in gold contents for close
sampling, but the mill says that 1600 tons of
Gimlet South ore bulked 335. 6d. Owners ask
£17,500 for the mine now, so that every optioner
has lifted the price.
* * * *
Dorrie Doolette brings tbe Corinthian
North to the East for flotation. Fred Morgan esti-
mates ore in sight-above 100 ft. from the south boun-
dary to 700 ft. north at 158,625 tons, value £195,448.
At the bottom level sulphides worth 425. have been
proved over a length of 255 ft. A winze is down 30ft. m
sulphide bulking 80s., and boreholes in both walls
of the winze show ore worth 50s. The Corinthian
North lode averages 31ft. wide; pay ore at surface
has been stripped for 700 ft., and the sulphides show
no trace of arsenic.
The Blair Atliol Coal and Timber Cos. has
hatched another sixpenny dividend, making its sixth
to date. The output in January was 8473 tons,
which constitutes a record. February’s output was
hampered by many idle days due to the strike atro-
city. Over 100 men' are employed at Blair Athol.
“Kobbi”: Many Peaks (Queensland), the
servant mine of the big Mount Morgan, has just de-
clared a dividend of 7 id. a share. The young co.
was originally in 2041 shares at £l, on which last
year it was able to manage a dividend of 30s. Since
then, each share has been split up into 40, making
81,640 shares at 6d. So the present distribution of
7-Jd. is equal to 255. under the old order of things.
Many Peaks is a satisfactory concern to be a share-
holder of, for it simply fattens, while Mount Morgan
does the work and pays a royalty of 2s. 6d. per
ton. (Mount Morgan uses a little over nine tons ol
Peaks ore to every 22 of its own.) Mount Morgan s
end of the bargain is equally good. For the half-
crown it gets a ton of flux which enables it to
heavily cut down its coke bill, and it has 245. worth
of copper from it into the bargain. Out of 507
tons copper obtained from Mount Morgan smelters
in February 114 are credited to Many Peaks.
* * * *
At the Duchess mine (Hampden, Cion-
curry) the bottom of the winze from the 550 ft. level
is showing 2ft. of lower grade ore (9 p-c. copper).
Optimistic local opinion reckons that the deepest
level has 300 ft. on ore, but nothing is said about
average width or quality. A sampling of a few
inches of ore cannot surely be taken as representa-
tive of the big reserves. There is a lode 550 ft. deep
and 300 ft. in length to figure on, so every Ift. m
width gives 165,000 cub. ft. of ore, and it 10 cub.
ft = l ton, the average width of the ore throughout
the mine will have to be 10ft. to give 165,000 tons.
No doubt there is a difficulty in estimating reserves
when a bulge may measure many feet wide, running
out to a narrow streak, and when the richer ore shoots
are alternated with blanks. Of course there are the
mines at the Trekelano, Mascotte and Hampden to
back up the Duchess, but the deeper ground in all
of th p m is unproved, and that means something in
considering the value of a Cloncurry mine—or, in
fact, any mine—for most of them get poorei at
depth.
* * * *
At Chillagoe (Q.) the lead furnace shut
down because of a collapse of brickwork. Last
month this furnace ran 14 days, and smelted 1380
tons of ore for 221 tons of lead, 11,4640 z. silver
and 1990 z. of gold. Railway receipts for the first
11 months of the financial year to March 31 total
£B7 120. Because of the damage done by flood and
fire the net revenue for the current year will pro-
bably show a decline, and that is one reason why
Chillagoe is calling up the remaining Is. pej share.
Mungana (N. Queensland) will recon-
struct, and its half-million shares will m future
be liable to calls. It isn’t likely that more than Is.
per share ( £25,000) will be required, because with
ordinary luck a profitable output of ore should be
maintained. Mungana closes its financial year on
March 31, and at the end of last year (31/3/ 11)
there was a profit of £14,700. For the 12 months
1530 tons of copper, 1874 tons of lead and 300,000
oz. of silver were produced at the Chillagoe smelting
wofks from 22,489 tons of ore. No doubt these
shipments were of higher grade than the average of
reserves throughout the Girofla and Lady Jane mines,
still they are evidence of sound value. The Girona
has been worked down to the 610 ft. level, and the
Lady Jane to 420 ft. The flow of water m both
mines is heavy, and there are no mines in North
Queensland where pumping plays a more important
part. Some years since The Bulletin suggested
that concentration might effect some slight economy
in the treatment of the lower-grade lead ore, but the
complex nature of the ore, the cost of mining, and
the limited output prevented any successful imita-
tion of Broken Hill methods.
Great Fitzroy is to reconstruct if share-
holders agree to the scheme that will be laid before
them at an extraordinary meeting on March 28.
It is proposed to raise £67,500 new capital by the
formation of anew co. in 900,000 shares of ss.
each, nominally paid up to 2s. This means that
Is 6d. per share is to be called up. Two-thirds
of this (£45,000) will go to retire some of the
debenture debt, leaving £22,500 (less expense)
available for development; The first issue ot
450 000 new shares is to be underwritten by deben-
ture holders. An important feature in this scheme
is that the balance of the debenture debt is re-
deemable by setting aside half the cash froxn the
proceeds of reserve shares and half of any net profit
that may be made. For 12 months ending June
30 1911, Great Fitzroy produced 69,593 tons of
ore, but, although the extraction of copper, gold and
silver (contained in matte and blister copper) was
fairly good, the heavy working costs ( £1 18s. oa.
per ton of crude ore) put the concern m the rnua.
There has been a continuous mopping up ml ail
available funds by expenditure on new plant, pay-
ment of interest, and administration, and the re-
sult is, reconstruction.
* * * *
Brilliant Deeps at Charters Towers is the
most interesting show at present. The footwall
reef is capricious, as proved by the blank passed
through, but about 260 ft. west of the crosscut
the level entered a good make of mineral stone, so
each breaking down of the reef from that point has
been anxiously watched. For the first 200 ft. west
of the crosscut the reef gave on the average, two
tons of stone per foot, and the quality was good,
for £3084 was obtained from 430 tons of stone.
Still a long blank rather damped local enthusiasm
and the share market has fluctuated a good deal.
The latest news is that No. 4 level, on its westward
course, is nearly opposite the corner of the Brilliant
Blocks’ lease. The Blocks is crosscutting at
2000 ft., and has a long way to go to reach the
Deeps’ boundary, while the Brilliant Deeps No.
level is at a vertical depth of 2540 ft. The Deeps
co is in 150,000 shares, so at 12s. the market
valuation is £90,000. It certainly seems a large
amount except to the eye of faith that can see the
rich shoot of stone extending above and below No.
4 level. # *
At Mount Morgan one of the new turbo-
blowers is in its place, and when the three other
blowers are in the equipment—so far as the blowing
of enormous quantities of air is concerned—will be
thoroughly up to date. A heavy blast is required
to convert the basic ore that comes from Many Peaks
into oxide of iron, without which the silieious ore
from Mount Morgan itself canriot be slagged. Mount
Lvell uses tons of air for a similar purpose, and,
under its smelting practice, nearly two tqns ol
pyritic ore are smelted with one ton of silieious.
Mount Morgan, however,, uses nearly twice as much
silieious ore as pyritic, so the conditions are re-
versed, and before it can slag off the extra silica it
has to apply a strong blast of air to convert sulphide
of iron into oxide, and has also to add lunestone
pretty liberally to the charge. Although .lust at
present attention is concentrated on the smelting
practice, the high cost of underground mining is in
reality a much greater trouble. Fortunately Mount
Morgan ore is high grade; the average ot 81,4<0
tons smelted last half-year was 2.75 p.c. copper
and B.76dwt. gold, and while it can maintain that
quality, the prospects are sound, even if the liberal
mixture of basic ore lowers the average grade ot the
total ore smelted.
Old State mining engineer Jackson, re-
porting on the Malbon (Cloncurry railway), esti-
mates 100,000 tons of shipping ore m the Macgregor
mines, and a lot of lower-grade stuff. Macgregor
will rail its ores to Hampden furnaces. The ime
from Malbon to the Duchess is constructing, and the
projected Macgregor line will likely be extended
to Argylla. The Nor’-West Cloncurry line over the
Dugald and the Leichhardt will go past the Cuthbert
group to the Dobbin and Crusader, and will serve
Mount Oxide better than at present anyway, though
a big producer, such as Oxide is sure to be, must
go north to the Gulf waters. Cuthbert has shipped
4000 tons of high-grade ore by team to Cloncurry,
and has 16,000 tons waiting transport, with a great
tonnage ready for mining. Jackson quotes the
Warden’s statement that Mount Oxide has .proved
250,000 tons, and recommends the Cuthbert line as
part of the railroad that must go to the Gulf. Then
there will be a line from the Pacific Ocean to the
waters of the Arafura Sea.
* * * *
The word “off” is given by the New Langi
Logan, Ararat (Vic.), starter now that things are
ready for the No. 2 bore to go up. No. 1 drill went
into country soon after the historical announcement
that green rock had been struck somewhere or an-
other in the main under level. If the field gets
going now no flogging will be necessary to carryt'*
two Cathcart mines forward concurrently or to help
the Langi Logan South out of the bog in which it is
stranded. The Bulletin believes that the Lan
Logan mines have a good chance, but.it warns all
who look for a big rise in scrip, supposing the No 2
bore reaches wash and a good prospect is got, that
a weary wait must follow before the gutter is risen
into, before the wash is drained, and before gravel-
ling is begun. In the meantime work at the Cath-
cart and the Central Cathcart promises well.
Good yields from the Cathcart would provide funds to
meet the Langi Logan’s calls. Manager Bryant, if
he wishes to hustle work in the big lead, will have
to hit the Cathcart tributary soon, or he will get a
howling lot of dervishes at him.
Minister Mcßride, at the christening of
the Central Blue battery, Bendigo, the other day,
puffed out a story of the fortune he had missed by
chucking up the sponge at that claim. Peter was
early in the field, and water beat him and his pals
when a few feet away from the reef. Tl ?us he missed
sharing in the £76,800 of dividends shelled out of
the treatment of 20,400 tons by the Central Blue
plant. This cuts up at £2 Bs. per share, so that
the crape on Peter’s arm can be understood. Cen-
tral Blues have topped the £ 5 mark since Peter
spoke, by reason of the hope that a bigger battery
will bring profits from the stack of low-grade dirt
awaiting treatment. #
* * *
Melbourne is coyly considering taking a
hand at tin mining at Glen Wills
turned such work down since the 90s. A httle co
aptly dubbed the Hopeful, is quarrying out tin-bear
ing granite rock, and having the handling done by
one A Whiting. The outcrop Whiting has set him-
self to diminish is 1500 ft. by 70ft, so tbat he has
plenty of rock to work up muscle on. All the dim
culties of mountaineering have had to be faced, but
at last a 10-head battery has been got up with a
pretty complete concentrating plant beneath it. as
thf ore samples from li p.c. to 2 p.c. oxide, it
ought to pay if costs can be kept down as they are
at the Blue Tier, where little Lewis, with water
power, put up records. Whiting reckons on costs
by running a suction gas plant, and it he can
concurrently get a good, extraction he will be lucky
What he really needs is a big modern battery to
handle a large tonnage, and he should t qt in P °t
vided he hits up profits with his 10-head, lin at
£l9O will surely help Australia. There are lots
roots like Glen Wills where cheap .treatment with
extensive milling plants ought to give good profits
to tin miners.
* * *
Early in March Mount Lyell (Tas-) had
consigned 1027 tons of blister copper, so the output
for the current half-year to. March 31 threatens to
be much below the usual thing (about 1000 tons).
There are so many shares that a shillin o cost
£6O 000 so to pay Is. per half-year the profit has
to be at least £ls on 4000. tons of copper. Thus
Lyell is compelled to force its output. Two lu
naces have been in commission. A third would have
been running had it not been for a shortage of
labor at the Mount Lyell mine.
The Cadia Copper Mine (N.S.W.) is to
resume operations. Though the show only about
16 miles from Orange, a heavy climb near the Gan
oblas makes cartage a severe item in the costs.
About two years ago negotiations were m piogess
to persuade the Government to build a railway to
the property, not only on account of the copper-
bodies, but to develop immense iron deposits said to
exist there. However, the c 6. is not to nave a
railway, and after a lengthy rest it is sorting to
p-et a move on by its own volition. The Cadia has
had many ups and downs, and this effort will pro-
bably settle its fate, as a copper producer one way
r>r the other First taken up by a sman
party it was passed on to a Newcastle syndicate,
which didn’t make sufficient inquiries about the con-
dit’ons attached to its working. The property is. a
freehold possession of the Scottish-Australian Min-
ing Cos which enacted terms, both by way of roy-
alty and working conditions that the abdicate
found itself unable to hump. After a lot ot . messing
about in a hand-to-mouth manner with four insignifi-
cant reverberatory smelters, treating only the better
grade ore, the present co. was formed
shares the syndicate received 40,000 . fully paia
as the vendor’s right, the Scottish-Australian wolfed
another 40,000, and 40,000 were offered to that toil
ing bullock, the public, which was to earn a living
for the rest. The new management started on a v'g
orous development campaign, and proved 100,000
tons or so of moderate grade ore. This is now to
be treated in a blast-furnace, and results will pro-
bably be interesting.
There are several flies in the ointment. The
ore-body is a costly one to mine, unless extensive
and cheap filling is available. It kes uiider a kirge
mountain of iron stone, known as the Iron Duke.
Previously the iron ore wasn t allowed to be ms
turbed, so cheap filling wasn t available. A mde
flat body like the Cadia deposit will crush all the
thnberbn Gdd’s earth if an attempt is made. to mine
it entire without the use of filling, bo unless wub
proviso is withdrawn, things will be pretty
Th and 6 not torrL^n ig cSpei!“ o unies P s 00 s r ome n sulffie
flux is used, a high-grade matte ‘will m^ e
alumimi £ “t?
while the large amounts of magnetic iron, oxide pre
sent 6 will give some sport when it starts to form
“sows” in the furnace. Altogether a pretty hvely
time is ahead of the management apart altogether
ttSn the worry of costs. Previous figures on this
geo” are unreliable, for though the co ran an
accountant in Newcastle there wasn t much mining
knowledge displayed in the books. This paper is
inclined to think that the only people who will pre-
serve a smile through it all will be those of the
Scottish-Australian Mining Cos.
* * *
The John Taylor-run Anglo-Australian
Exploration Cos. had a rocky passage to report to its
shareholders at the last annual meeting in London.
The nastiest bump encountered was the sudden fall
ing off in the value of the ore stoped from the Mount
Boppy Gold Mine (N.S.W.), which resuUed in re-
duced dividends from that source. So much was
this so that, after paying its other expenscs the
Exploration Cos. hadn’t enough ieft wer to supply
a dividend of its own. Its present Australian shows
so far have proved a one-horse team, and now th
willing horse seems inclined to jib. However, thing,
aren't desperate, for it will probably get going again,
and some of the other animals may brighten up altei
a little coaxing. In the nine years up to last April
the Mount Boppy has paid in dividends £395,383 on
a capital of £121,000, equal to close on 330 p.t.
of the capital, or a yearly average of 36 p.c. me
two neighboring shows, the South and Korth, have
been turned out to grass elsewhere, and M tar the
South does not seem to have found much to fatten
on at the South Lucknow. The North, however, has
had better luck, and something may yet result from
the Blue Spec at Hargraves.
Another of the co.’s holdings is in the Malta Gold
Dredging Cos (N.S.W.), which promised well for a
start, but soon found a barren patch directly it got
off the main channel of the river. The Tasmania
Gold Mine brings up the rear, and (as mentioned m
a recent issue) is still wrestling with the problem
of how to pump 100 or 150 tons of water for every
ton of ore raised, and make the job pay. According
to recent news from the mine, the opening of the
bottom level (1500 ft.) has started well, 50ft of
driving east having exposed an average lodge width
6ft., assaying loz. 6dwt. gold per ton. At the
time of the London meeting the Exploration Cos. was
contemplating anew promotion, the proposition being
an alluvial property of 100 acres, known as the
Mountain Run Option (N.S.W.).
“Will the undertaking pav ?” The economical
handling and transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke,
merchandise, etc., in or .about mines, factories or
warehouses, very often solves the problem. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, as agents for Bleichert
and Cos., can give useful information on this subject.
The Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways work-
ing in Australia, or in course of erection, and will
soon have at work, near Sydney, one of the largest
electric “Telpher” plants in existence. Special
electric and other cranes and mono-rail conveyors
can lie procured from the same firm.*
* * * *
-fC.F+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. —Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+ GF+ Malleable Fittings are.true to size; geome-
.perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties.- Suitable fot
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Cos., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Cos., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s, per ton, will save £7 per year, anti
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. l|ells Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends itself
to mine managers who welcome fin effective machine
which is cheaper to maintain and repair than Gyra-
tory and other crushers. This machine is of the
well-known Blake type, but has some additional im-
provements which have justified in practice all the
claims advanced by the patentee. The work of the
crushing i& done' on the down stroke of the pitman
instead of the up stroke; there is no strain on the
pitman cap; two large side rods resist the thrust of
the toggles, and enable the jaws to be regulated
within a large range; the back toggle is so made
as to resist all legitimate strains of crushing, but will
shear under exceptional conditions and save the
machine. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
of South Melbourne, have installed a great number
of these machines, and hold the sole manufacturing
rights for the Commonwealth.* [1
* * * *
Extract from the Finance Chronicle, London
(1/9/1910). —“The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society: Its moderate premium rates and its prompt-
ness and liberality in the settlement of its claims
have gained for it a favorable and firm footing
throughout the Kingdom. The annual accounts
of the Society have all along shown a steady
onward tendency, and of more recent years a marked
activity, by the extensions of the benefits granted to
its assurers, the introduction of Accident assurance,
and a carefully-adapted scheme, combining Accident
and Invalidity assurance with Life Assurance under
one policy.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE shows special qualifications
for mine duty, in that it is easy to handle and fix,
and is subject to neither rust, erosion nor electrolysis.
Full particulars may be had from the Australian
Wood Pipe Cos., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney; or Foots-
cray, Vic.*
F DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
t 0 Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ,
and 9 Queen Street. Melbourne.* V 2
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Cos. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific, appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Heavy-Duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves, cams,
gears or electric ignition, and run either on crude
or kerosene oils, are represented throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand by Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For marine work
the “Bolinder” engine has many advantages, viz.,
small oil consumption, ease of starting, no compli-
cated arrangement of valves or gears, being direct
reversible, fitted throughout with forced lubrication,
and absolutely no risk from fire and explosions, due
to using oils having a very high flash point. The
British Government and German -Navy are large
users of the “Bolinder” Marine Engines.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Cos., 453 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * " ‘ * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Cos., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*


World
BRAND
sdf
Renowned
STUHR
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Shrimp Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
o
o
Q
&
\--n
ope
(AinANAt
v>
VI
\
Most fellows find that nagging
little worries get them down
more than the big ones do. —
When things won’t go right with
me I just stop whatever I’m at
and go on with something else,
then come back to the old job
fresh again; and when I feel
really tired out I get them to
make me a cup of good Tea and
drink it hot—as hot as I can drink
it. “ Robur ”is the Tea to use—
it is refreshing—very refreshing.
The Clerk.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875. 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
15th MARCH, 1912.
We have received a small card from M. CHARLES
HEIDSIECK, of Champagne fame, posted from
Reims, setting out that he and his brother, M.
Henri, are actually the only Champagne Merchants
in France who bear and have the right to bear the
patronymic name of HEIDSIECK, M. Charles
Heidsieck also informs us that he only ships a
vintage wine, and the quality sent to Australia is
the same as that sold in London. His Wine has
been honored with the Royal Warrant of the present
King, as it also was by the late King Edward VII.
The 1904 vintage is in perfect condition, and the
Australasian Agents, Messrs. Swift & Company, of
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney, have received good
supplies for the coming season. We have no doubt
that sparkling “CHARLES” will be present at many
of the leading functions.*
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, March 18, 1912.
My liear Arlnl, —
• Mj g s “Georgie” Neild, the dark-eyed only
daughter of the late Senator, is going to
Rujsid. | She got engaged, while a mere bud,
td .Lifeutendnt Pflul, Daiclikot; of the Gromo-
hoi. After a tfouplotis time id the' fttisgo-
Monkey war he died. Now his people want
her to stay with them, as do Baron and
Baroness .Hedenstroxh. The Baron, yoti will
remember, was recently Cofisul-Generd for
Russia iii Melbourne, His wife is alleged
to have been a .Russian Stuart, a descend-
aEjt °... t b< ; Scottish Stuarts who migrated to
Russia when the troubles of the fainily be-
fcdmd very bad. They live in St. Petersburg.
Mls| Hotothy Gordon, the smartly turned-
but Hariinghurst girl Whose skating has
beeti a pleasing featdre of the Glaciarium
foi- sodid years pdst, is going oti the stage In
°he' pf the J.p.W. shows. Her people are
m'omiiient socially—Mrs. Gordon whs a Mlsd
losbery. She yearns for experience more
than mere dross. There is hot much in the
dross line to be torn off a stage career, the
recent fulminations of Miss Florence Young
and her fellow anti-unionists notwithstaml-
mg.
.. Muss Eileen Toohey’s engagement is de-
finitely . off. Her soldier-fianc<s, whom she
net during a hunting season in Ireland, was
rl” her fiaith. However, he , was willing
tjj ill ft • ‘ caus e of matrimony;
But dt .tins stage fftesh .complications, in the
rprm of mftihdted Anglican arose,-
With the, result above-mentioned. Her sister,
Mrs Kenclm Dormei-, is. still in Sydney, her
fmsband being in Maofiland on d fish-stalk-
ing trip ,of\something.
A-Mjss i>aisy Hay, of the Coolangatta Hay
tamily, waa-operated on fob Appendicitis at
Lewisham Hospital last week. The Hays
P rett y Persistent paltrons of this
establishment of late. Miss Nond spedt d
month there towards the end of last year
and emerged minus her appendix, and Mr.
Alec Jlay damaged his hand so badly dur-
ing, the recent fire at Coolangatta that lie
had t 9 have it attended to by Hr. McKay
fifglit S henchwomeii fo]t upwards of a fort-
engagement, is announced of Miss
Fjleefi Maiden and Mr. Kenneth Richards.
She was £ debutante at the' Uiiioh Club
nf Mf a ff e is , the , younger brother
of Mr. Richards, the polo-player.
Cl ? rl r who has been
Tasmania s gurgling streams, has
f i r tfPV nbul ' nt nose and a large
otitnt of Isaak Dalton monologues. He tells
ot dazzling days on the brink of the Scam-
?, ader t River, where the rod creaked,
the colk sank like a stone, and hungry
black bream nearly gobbled up the
f ts P°f their weight,” says George
modestly; “it’s their
humbers. The Scamander seems to be a
watery paradise teeming with bait-eating
j wuich climb all over the tourist and
™ p i°f, e r him to try them with another
prawn s liver.
Governor Chelmsford and Lady C. have
climbed down from their summer perch up
Moss Vale way. Cranbrook, on the Rose
Bay hillside, has shed its holland covers in
consequence, and the squeak of fiddles will
tall down its terraced garden on April 10.
An evening reception will swish its silken
skirts across the ballroom on that date.
Customs Collector Spence, of Invercargill
(M.L.), where the wind comes from, is at
present collecting calm weather impressions
in Sydney and Melbourne. Mrs. Spence is
with the traveller. It’s about five years
since I met the shriek of an autumn breeze
in Invercargill, and even now the memory
thereof nearly blows my hat across the
harbor.
Concerning the township of Tam-o’-Shan-
ters near the storm-beaten Bluff, Inver-
cargill used to print a postcard with a
bored-looking cab-horse dozing beside a
lamp-post. It was called “the most south-
erly cab-rank and lamp-post in the world ”
Ihe most southerly lamp-post has long since
been blown out, for the Chilian and the
Argentine have been carrying the thing the
intoxicated person clings to into latitudes
where Invercargill’s eagles never flew. As
t h e cab-rank, I don’t know, but it seems
that the hackney dog-sledge and the frozen
hansom will be at the Pole very soon. And
then the name of Invercargill will be
dragged in the mud as a thing of no ac-
count.
On Wednesday night Envoys Redmond and
Donovan hung over the horizon of a Cri-
terion box, while journalist J. D. Fitzgerald
chewed the cud of reflection in the same
spot.
One “Hop,” well known in this con-
tinent, with a bachelor party, filled the other
c , tbe the inscrutable face of
Asm. fixed hungry almond eyes on a Jansen
illusion which evolved geishas out of fresh
air and mahogany.
T i lug0 ’ of Chicago, where the Self-
Made Hog wrote the book of pickled advice
to his son, and the large and healthy U.S.
citizen Macken discovered each other on this
water front the other day. Hugo, one of
those young-looking American men (with a
Harrison Fisher kink in his necktie, and a
, sllirt . front), who might be 18
or is officially in charge of Jansen, which
seems as shifty a job as being in charge of* a
ghost and a rainbow and a pint of loose
atmosphere.
What a Dana Gibson girl would call “an
etemhg Waist” caught my eye at the theatre
the other night. The “waist” was moulded
t° the attractive appearance of Mrs.
MeVejq of N’York City. I think its archi-
tect must have been a French dressmaker
with a t Viennese accent. It was so distract-
mgly simple—to the casual eye, Just a dull
shade of periwinkle. blue, in soine trans-
ent stuff wim a lattice pattern,- made over
something white and pale bine,- With more
blue—in chiffon edged with ribbon—-cut low
ehohgh to show the whole throat, With an
inch or two of flesh below. Worn with a black
satin skirt, it made the ordinary theatre rag
look frhmpish. It was my first interview
with a. genuine. American waist. I hope
they’ll be worn instead of wings in the Un-
certain Hereafter.
Social riots are being unpacked oht of
their summer wrappings. The Denman
Hxes. are due to hurry into this town with
a loud alarm of military brass band at the
Central Station, before this meets your
penetrating glance. Having got their giant
staff and all its feathers deposited in the
city, they tear off again to open a pig and
pumpkin show at Newcastle. This done,
they’ll swallow an agricultural dinner and
eat a mile or two of illuminated address be-
fore taking root in the muse Um-mansion up
Macquarie-street way which is held on such
an uncertain tenure.
On April 2 Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress
entertain a galaxy of diamonds of the first
water, and a few paste buckles and knee
breeches, in the Town Hall. Cards are
heavily branded: “To meet their Excellen-
cies Governor-General and Lady Deu-
man.” A fixed determination to meet the
C.-G. and his lady is now raging round this
town. Positively no substitute will be ac-
cepted, and any citizen who finds that he’s
been asked to meet the Mayoral finger and
a ham sandwich instead of the genuine
article will be liable to rend the air with in-
furiated femabks.
From Londoii comes this bfief fiote:— l
Stanifortli Smith is looming large' in bulk arid
degiee m John Bull’s capital.- He roams about
among scientists,- explorers; big-game 1 shooters and
cannibal fanciers With a brOad srrtile'.- Staniforth
goes unbearded these days, and is a bachelor as
before.
The last American mail brought glad
tidings of another Harrie K. Chambers tilt
at fortune. This time it’s a serious drama:
heavily smeared with facts from life in
N Yoik city. The Toll Gsfte” has been
accepted with both hands hy Manager
Henry B. Harris, who’ll put it before 8 a
N 1 ork audience in October, with Dorothy
Donelly as principal petticoat.
The playwright’s microbe attacks some
tamiiies with the same virulence that makes
measles or procrastination or the habit of
poisoning relatives incurable vices with
others. Agnes Chambers, sister of the Ilad-
don and Harrie pair, collaborated with J
Clarence Lee in the farcial comedy, “Bad
Mrs. Bennett,” some time ago. The Play-
goers Dramatic Club, with the clever Elia
Crone in the name-part, produced the piece
on August 24, 1910. The Bulletin picked
it out as a winner, though it has mostly
languished in a brown paper parcel ever
“Ron Harrie * s Soing to drag
Bad Mrs. Bennett from her dusty hiding
place, and the lady is off to N’York and a
gay lire forthwith.
M Hugh Ward, Mrs. R. H. Todd and
7 ’ t Hoodman P us h e d a welcome home
to Mrs. J. C. Williamson into the Australia
drawing-room the other day. A large
gathering of matrons and maids, a few shrieks
in hats, and a slight masculine flavor of
frock coat collected round tea tables and got
through a mixed programme of songs on ice,
etc., with much tea to wash down the re-
marks, and some melody to sit on the head
or tu e tea, in case it should prove rebellious,
feid Macdonald’s melodious warble cut
through the chatter for 10 minutes. Then
the chatter rose up again with renewed fury
and fell upon the food supply and the repu-
tations of its dearest friends, and when it
had finished its attack on the latter its
dearest friend’s reputation was a fleshless
skeleton fleeing into the wilderness.
Black and white threatens to storm this
city at the autumn dress parade. Mrs.
J. C. Williamson, at her welcome home party
last week wore an ivory-tinted gown—ail
wool and more than a yard wide —with a hint
of Vienna in its drape of black lace. Some of
the best-frocked women present retired into
black charmeuse, with a foam of white lace
on their headgear. One youthful dame,
with no sharp gables in her curved outline,
added a great blob of violets to her raven
garb. Perfectly turned out in dove-grey,
Mrs. Willoughby put ordinary flesh to the
blush, for she glode across the room like an
emancipated French fashion plate, mounted
on mere shoe-leather for the occasion. Mrs.
Maxwell Allan was another graceful silhou-
ette in grey, with a fluff of chiffon aeroplan-
mg on the roof of her hat. Frank Greene,
superlatively groomed to an eyelash, saun-
tered in. Hilda Spong wore a negative
expression, and a stamped robe of some
diaphanous silk tied up with stamped black
velvet, rather tight about the knees. J.C.W.
himself, swathed in silence, eyed the conver-
sation for five minutes over the rim of a
tea-cup.
Miss Lottie Gilbert, like a juvenile steam-
tug, navigated Bessie Major—just back from
London—across the Mrs. j.C.W. party.
Bessie looks well, and keeps her fighting
weight in its accustomed place. She records
18 months’ work with the Asche-Brayton co.
with a pleased smile.
The Criterion Theatre has been raking in
coin with a steady “chink’ during the Portus
and Talbot management. The Jansen raid
on this city is the cause. The Woolly Sam
McCaughey-—a flourishing child of 76 sum-
mers or thereabouts —and other sprightly
youngsters (Mr. Gregg and Dr. Watt, I
fancy) had a box one evening, and dallied
with the Wizard behind the scenes, while the
juggler juggled on the stage and wiped a
heat wave off his forehead with a cannon-
ball.
The Stage Society and Society are to
have a gala evening between them on the
28th inst., when “Prunella or Love in a
Dutch Garden” is set down for presentation.
This fascinating Pierrot play, by Laurence
Housman and Granville Barker, will be pro-
duced by Max Montesole at the St. James’s
Ilall. He was producer to the English
Drama Society, and was for some time with
Tree, He is to play Pierrot himself, and
the part of Prunella has been given to Miss
Molly McArthur, daughter of Mr. W.
McArthur, ex-M.P. —he who was Whip for
the British Liberal party for so many years.
Other well-known people in the cast are
the Misses Merivale, Innes-Noad and Bestic,
and Messrs. M. C. Stephen, A. C. Stephen,
Winchcombe and McKeown.
South Australian pianist Annette Scam-
mell unpacked her technique in this town a
few weeks ago, after four years in foreign
parts. Now she plunges (though not in
bathing costume) into the German habit of
inviting music tasters to sample classic
chords at monthly afternoon rallies in
Paling’s concert room. A knowing-looking
booklet, with its slim cover tied up in brown
ribbon, came my way. It is loaded with the
menu for four piano assaults. The first is
dated March 30.
Baritone Wilfred Manning, who is one of
Auckland’s important chemists in commer-
cial moments, and a leading constellation in
amateur opera in his spare time, is now trip-
ping over the uneven pavements of Sydney.
The Palace Theatre hummed with excite-
ment on Saturday night, when the right way
to be mdrooned, without losing a hair-pad,
burst on the better feelings of Everywoman.
Frances Ross,’ the charming Sylvia Vicars,
who forgets all the things she ought to re-
member in defence of good Mr. Dawes, wore
a handsome mane of tawny hair streaming
down her honored back, and kept her fringe
in curl even while cannibal Gabbett smote
the air with an axe. Roland Challis, as
Mamma Vicars, didn’t wear her mane down
her back, but she stuck to her hair-pads, and
was (presumably) hacked to pieces behind a
shelter-shed in an elaborate coiffure.
“For the Term of His Natural Life’’ makes
a play that fits on to the masked burglar
melodrama now running a successful season
in suburban villas. The shuddering woman
who hides her new teeth in the flower
pot will easily picture the baleful eye of
a masked cannibal glaring down the chimney,
while a voice like a gramophone with all
its fangs protruding demands her best even-
ing dress or her life. We are still waiting
for the law that will make it a hanging
matter for women of the Pretty Creature
type to grow an hour older than Frances
Ross looked—by the grace of Providence-
on Saturday night. Vera Remee, a mere
youngster, has been practically trained
by Walter Baker during the last few
months. As Sarah Rex she wormed
her way across the third act with
a Cleopatra smile and the stagecraft of
a Mabel Trevor. The girl’s mandarin silk
draperies, in this scene, showed a sernent’s
trail of glittering jet, and her brow was
steeped in an Old Nile pattern of Worst
Woman bandeau. The heathen raged, but
not furiously, in a first-night audience at
the Palace. Young China, with ropes of
raven hair flowing over a gorgeous theatre
wrap, wedged in between pale brown and
white friends, is a frequent patch of color
in the best seats of our city theatres.
Lucas Malet’s last novel, “Adrian Savage”
(Dymock’s), wants chopping down to about
half its present length. Its brilliant liter-
ary style is partly submerged in its elon-
gated conversations, which begin in Paris
and meander through Bull’s Island after a
rough crossing from Calais to Dover. With
Lucas Malet the parental Kingsley manner
survives in a masterly use of the English
language, though it falls down exhausted
in the vivisection of emotions that struggle
for breath under tons of verbiage. French
Gabrielle, with her beauty and charming
clothes, and English Joanna, the plain and
wealthy spinster who puts her duty to God
and her diary above such trivial sins as ex-
pensive mourning, are delightful character
sketches. Joanna sheds candle grease and
tears over her diary at a time when the
average woman is looking for a burglar
under her bed.
A French child in the Lucas Malet man-
ner is a mixture of a Persian kitten, an in-
fant and a philosopher. “Pray, do not be
severe with M. Dax any more, mamma,”
says the tiny Bette. “You have, perhaps,
dear mamma, been so on my account, there-
fore it is for me to plead with you.” Im-
agine spanking an infant Chesterfield like
Bette! It would seem like caning a uni-
versity.
“Fur?” said the little shopgirl reflec-
tively as she lovingly smoothed a huge muff.
“Yes, fur’s going to be worn a terrible lot
this winter!” And just then the wild cry
of a passing rabbit-o echoed in the shop.
What unfortunate furred thing grows the
2s. lid. neck-wrap which leaves its dyed
hairs on the lapel of the best youth’s coat?
While on the subject, the story of the girl
who owned a real sealskin coat occurs to
me. It was such a desirable garment that
she allowed particular friends to hire it
from her for special occasions. It was a
profitable arrangement which brought in
pocket money and kept the moth at bay, till
a careless maiden left it hanging on her bed
at a fashionable hotel. It promptly van-
ished, and now the anguished owner seeks
vainly for her property in second-hand shops
and on the backs of passers-by.
The Otway slid out of this port last week,
with the crash of snapped ribbon streamers,
and the loud concussion of breaking hearts.
The outward-bound Australian cricket team]
faring forth in search of the cinders, was
tlm cause. When a cheerful young flapper
isn t eating chocolate drops at the shrine of
a matinee idol—Higginson has filled this
arduous billet for quite a while—she is put-
ting flowers on the altar of Hordern, or
drinking in the sweet music of Trumper’s
batting. So the cinder-searchers were
molested for souvenirs by adoring damsels
till the Otway’s gangway tore the air in
twain.
In Portland (Maine) there’s a club with
a long-haired musical name—the Kotzchmar.
It is called after a triple alliance in sound,
a man who once toiled there as pianist, or-
ganist and composer. The Kotzchmar Club
meets every month to bring forth a learned
essay on music. The world may, or may
not, strain its ears to catch the results. As
likely as not a good part of the world allows
the chariot of Catsneeze (which is easier to
say than the other name) to thunder past
unheeded. In May this assembly of Blot-
smash, or whatever the word may be, will
distribute its laurel leaves on the world’s
greatest living soprano. John Oakes Burke,
of Portland, dropped an informative line to
Melba the other day, in which he proudly
remarked that she was the subject of the
May essay, and lie was the. writer. And
after that there Avas dead silence in Heaven
for the space of one hour.
Have you ever noticed how a young man’s
fancy runs to drab, as a color? Even the
favorite mother-in-law joke is generally
dressed in a drab bonnet, and the man of
middle-aged thoughts often guesses this
muddy tint if he’s shoved into a tight corner
by a female query. I am reminded of this
by a blue gown worn by pretty Mrs.
Knowles (Lily Titheradge) the other day.
She whisked through a crowded drawing-
room while a male friend hurriedly indexed
her arrival. “Where is she?” “Over there
in a drab dress,” says the Invaluable He.
It was one of those soft yet vivid blue
gowns which have the shade of a sapphire
where the thin silky stuff floats into folds.
It was so blue that it was desecration to
call it by any fancy name. To a man it
was just a drab frock with a pretty face on
top of it. Women do dress for other women,
after all.
Yours in the city of uproarious trams,
VANDORIAN.


<s&,n
>• c
“ &
r
&
3&£
ria
Sn
■V.
'^M
Pi
/
C**«**22
|S
‘-“^s^SSssaM
k£2Wtf
>'
X.
■?x
iff!
SCSS
»»sSiii
<^6
.W
;A
I
w,
swS
wfe
is
■&&
rtS-inS
■*?ss#s
3E
M*
if®
Sg&
iiVstp
*5-
&S»5
.if ii
Bss?
%*/
\
TsSX
KrigT
*
«»
ss?
w 1?
nSS
I*
y»
m
:, »u
&n
e
'vAVr?
'J#v
f&SS*
:f*J
X'"
ss£
<r>*
Sia
Jar.
: .'v ;
2&3i
i®6
2fs#S
53ft
■>^v.s l -
®S«
Hk
3i3
"' i-
II
sXX
s4h
;J>?
ig
/
. - ■■
WM$
mm
ftKW
,4-sg
ftg
&*»■'..
A
ii"'
Cobra, Uhe Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Quite enjoys
A round or two.
When Jack Johnson’
Faint and reeling,
And the crowd’s hats Any more than
Hit the ceiling,
Chunder hits out
Quick and hard,
Crying “ He can’t
Break my guard
Wild, wet weather
Can break ‘Cobra’s’
Guard o’er leather!”
Money you will
Never lose
If you’ve “COBRA”
ON YOUR SHOES.


ROUGH FINISH FELT HATS
sdf
dsf
at Farmer’s.
The Bough Finish Soft Felt is.
the newest phase in Men’s Hats,
and is certain to appeal to men
who like the latest style.
PRICES—
-10/6, 14/6 8 15/6
SYDNEY.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
DATTI?D\TC For LADIES’ and
IAI ILIxInSO CHILDREN’S GARMENTS
■ of all descriptions
Sold a’ Prleea 3 d. tO I/-
JOURNAL OF FASHION, with Gratis Pattern, 3d.
CATALOGUE OF PATTERNS, Id.
Sold by
W. H. COOPER,
23 Royal Arcade, Melbourne.
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE
>
I
p.
■X
v-
J
THIS HOSE
is the Finest that
you can obtain.
Its quality ensures
long wear, and
its Construction
no kinking or
bursting.
The fact that more “ Dunlop”
Hose is sold in Australasia
than any other brand speaks
volumes for its Quality and
Durability. ONLY ACCEPT
“DUNLOP” BRANDS.
Sample Section on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Mclboupnfi, Sydney, /‘delaide,
Perth, Brisbane, Wellington
and Christchurch, N.Z.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
For
Quality
Wear
and
Comfort
1-
i.
's£>'3>
£
S
ALL
fading
SHOPS
Dunlop Rubber Co-
All St*tM * N Z -
MELBOURNE CHATTER,
Melbourne, March 18, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The late Zeal was a close friend of David
Syme, despite the fact that they drank dif-
ferent brands of politics. The friendship
dated from their young days, when they
were both interested in railways, Zeal as
engineer for Cornish and Bruce (the great
railway contractors of the early ’6o’s) and
Syme as a sub-contractor for sleepers and
other softgoods. The large and hefty Syme’s
way of flinging the heavy slabs of timber
about to show languid workers how it
should be done took the little engineer’s
fancy, and they chummed up. Zeal always
held to his engineering interests. He had to
do later with the Echuca-Deniliquin line,
and from the time he entered politics was
consultant engineer for the Government.
Though a member of the House of Sleepers,
he was progressive—as Conservatives go —
and was continually shaking up his brother
logs. Because he could keep awake longer
than any of them they put him in the chair,
and thenceforth he presided over the dreams
of the Stout Landlords.
Although little William Zeal, now de-
parted, lived and died a bachelor, there was
a romance in his life which gave the only
known sentimental touch to his career.
Some years ago, he offered his title and
mature self to a young Geelong girl, and
promised her a round-the-world honeymoon;
but the lady spurned him for a penniless
local youth who died after a brief period.
Zeal did not attempt to lay siege to the
widow. Seemingly, he was content to have
missed his last elderly ’bus.
Auntie Phipps, of the Fuller household,
wonders plaintively why General .Report is
so anxious to return her to England. The
lady declares she loves Australia, is per-
fectly contented with her lot (of small fair
nieces), and has every intention of staying
until the family packs up.
Miss Muriel Farr, of Adelaide, who has
temporarily parted with her health in the
unnecessary cause of “Liberalism,” returned
the other day from a Gippsland cycling tour
to be feted and fed by the feminine leagues
that live at variance in this city. Miss Farr,
unlike the stiff-collared political female,
scores most through an appealsome woman-
liness.
Mrs. S. P. Maclcay (who used to be Fan
Dango) gave a little dinner during the
week to a number of Westralians. Camelot
was decorated with scarlet blossoms, and
the pretty hostess wore a tunic of pearls
over white satin and numerous diamonds.
The Mackay baby, who is popularly known
as “Peter,” has flaxen hair, lovely blue eyes,
and a complexion of milk and roses.
Two notable knots will have been tied
this week before The Bulletin breaks
out. Wednesday, the 20th, was fixed for
the. McGowan-Walker literary and artistic
splice; and on the same day, Miss Gray, of
the.Riverina, was to take the name of Park-
Smith from a landed proprietor of the same
locality. The event was to transpire at
Scots’ Church, Collins-street, with refresh-
ments and speeches to follow at three o’clock,
at the Oriental. Special interest attaches
to. this bride as a niece of artist Millais’s
widow. The aunt twice married greatness,
for she was John Ruskin’s wife until she
got her historical divorce —in camera. Miss
Gray’s sacrificial robe was to be the usual
Empire, done in satin and adorned with real
lace, a gift of far-off relatives.
One of Melbourne’s pretty girls, Zara
Hope Morris, goes shortly to Sydney to
bridesmaid Marjorie' Lord, her handsome
cousin, who is to marry Henry Osborne, - of
the extensive Osborne clan. The bride-elect
is gathering in some gorgeous presents,
amongst them a dressing-case containing con-
siderably over a hundred guineas’ worth,
and many other glittering burglar baits.
Someone will have to present the bridegroom
with an automatic pistol, a baton and a
bulldog if the treasures are to be kept in-
tact. Or possibly he might swear himself
in as a special constable.
Mrs. G. F. Morris (widow of the late
owner of Fairfield Vineyard and the cellars
thereof) is off to London by the Orvieto,
and will probably help to further congest
Europe for a while.
The suburbanites who do not keep their
fingers on the pulse of the social world, and
who happened to be in the vicinity of the
Flinders-street station, on a recent Tuesday
after lunch —these dull human vegetables
thought they had struck a fight or a fire
when they found a surging, excited crowd
being shoved about by policemen. At last,
after much craning, they discovered that the
attention of the mob was focussed upon a
striped awning that leaned against the som-
bre sides of St. Paul’s Cathedral. Then
some remained as ignorant as before, and
some remembered with a guilty start that it
was the day of the “Jack” Baillieu-Beatrice
Madden wedding. The original intention was
to have a quiet piece of joinery, but the
families on both sides are extensive, and
even the “intimate friends” meant a large
mob. On top of that came a Governor and
Melba —circumstances warranted to raise a
shout even at a funeral. The plump and
pretty bride arrived with Pa in the family
coach, but left in a spruce motor for the
Baillieu humpy on the Macedon slopes.
Lesly Madden, the sole remaining spinster
of the Madden daughters, took her long
familiar part as bridesmaid. She and Athol
Levey, blue in gowning (like Mamma Mad-
den), sported cerulean chiffon and satin, with
blue roses in their hair. A miniature Bail-
lieu nephew helped a tot of a niece to carry
a barrow-load of train. Mrs. Pat Osborne,
more dimpled than ever, wore yellow silk
muslin and lace. Melba, underneath a Gains-
brough hat, flung back a majestic black
velvet coat to show a black and blue gown.
Beatrice Madden’s "nursey” sent all the
way to Ireland for the lace to hang on her
ex-charge’s back at the bridal. The veil has
been falsely charged with being a Dago pro-
duction. “Venetian point” some called it;
but the Italian fabric is a heavy needle-made
lace worth so many guineas the square
inch. If “nursey” could have nanned out
Venetian point three yards or so square
she could take up residence at Menzies’.
“Jack” Baillieu, the bridegroom of the
month, paraded his full name when signing
the register—Maurice Howard Lawrence
Baillieu. He has half a dozen brothers all
bearing similar burdens. All the same, they
answer gladly to “Joe” and “Dick” and
“Jack.” s
The Robert Kerrs, of Sydney, parents of
pita, who is shortly to marry Edgar Cohen,
journeyed last week to Melbourne, and un-
packed their traps at the Grand.
The Mayoress of Bendigo pervaded Mel-
bourne for a few days recently, but had lo
rush home to her own city. Arduous duties
lay ahead of her, it was said. Amongst
them were a presentation of prizes to sun-
dry King’s Scouts, a Kirby concert, and the
paper flower meetings for the Bendigo Fair,
which happens in the undermined city at
Easter. What are such functions without
a mayoress? What, indeed! Little better
than home without a mother.
Last week, Miss Turnbull accompanied a
son of Ballarat medico Woinarski to the
altar, and caused a crowd of people to at-
tend a wedding feast at the St. Ivilda house
of her aunt, Mrs. Grattan. The handsome
Grattan cousins descended from their sheep-
ish acres near Dookie and became fashion-
plate bridesmaids in peach and silver, pink
roses and mob caps. The ceremony was at
eight o’clock or thereabouts ; so the women
guests bared their shoulders and covered
their heads with picture hats. Aunt Grat-
tan, garbed magnificently in blue of the
glittering, elusive fish-scale shade, wore half
a blue ostrich on her head. The other half
of the bird is supposed to be still running
about in Africa. The bride was a dainty
little bit. of white almost hidden in girly
surroundings. Much champagne was poured
during the supper, which was spread in
marquees. While the departing two were
being pelted with rose leaves, a lynx-eyed
waiter picked up a roll of bank notes from
the floor, and coursed round the guests like
a greyhound in search of the owner. It
was then discovered that the bridegroom
was the dropper. This was a-had begin-
ning of married life.
Louise Smith, who married linoleum mil-
lionaire Dyer, sends a few friendly lines
and a picture of the Sphinx from the Nile,
where she is honeymooning and studying
hieroglyphics.
The Purchas man, who wedded Dorothy
de Jersey Grut and carried her off to Wes-
tralia, owns a voice which is related to the
priceless Melba warble. The Purchas
grandmother was a Dow, and was closely
related to Melba’s mother, who had been a
Dow before she was a Mitchell. The voice
trilled through that side of the family.
Mrs. David Mitchell’s singing used to de-
light the visitors to her country home.
Melba figured largely at the Purchas-de
Grut wedding, which, in consequence,
scored heavily over contemporary functions.
Dorothy Gotton allied herself, last Thurs-
day, to Frank Doyle. The bride belongs to
the extensive Janet Clarke clan, and sister
Nina (who married cousin Frank Clarke)
was engineer-in-chief of the holy function.
After the event, Frank Clarke made the re-
ception informal and happy by waiting out-
side the house gate for the wedding party.
The Frank Clarkes have the house that
Vera Clarke-Landale rented until her mar-
riage. By the way, the Smiths are threat-
ening to build another mansion in St.
George’s-road, Toorak, now that the Clarkes
have taken such a violent fancy to their
original home.
Gus Dudgeon, a stepson of Agar Wynne,
is next week marrying Miss Innis, sister of
Melbourne Herald’s City Editor. After
the ceremony, the pair depart for a trip to
England. The sea-trip has been ordered Jby
the medicine man of the prospective bride-
groom, and his best girl talks gaily of nurs-
ing him through the early stages of the
honeymoon.
Alberto Zelman, bright son of a gifted
musical father, is to be married, on March
00, to Miss Jenkins, who at one time wore
the name of Maud Harrington on the J. C.
Williamson boards. She is the daughter of
the Jenkins who made a big pile in the fish
trade, and lost the bulk of it through taking
the advice of land-boomsters.
The Barttelot aide has been told off to
accompany the Parliamentarians next
month to the Northern Territory, and make
ready the way for Denman.
A gilded bachelor who married the divorced
wife of his best friend is still waiting for
the honeymoon tour to begin. His bride is
busy arguing with the Law for the posses-
sion of the child of husband No. 1; but the
Law is long winded and quite unsentimental,
and the fight can’t be settled in one round.
Dalvin House, Noorat, which was built
by the late Neil Black, lias been purchased
by Mrs. Claude Bostock Palmer, of Terang,
the Marjorie Staughton of other days.
The Educational Congress has been filling
Melbourne with serious faces of the Spank-
you-for-your-own-good type. The owners have
been judiciously mixing play—serious, im-
proving play with valuable talk. On
Thursday, they dined at the Grand, and re-
ceived some advice from Fisher. President
Barrett also entertained all hands and a drove
of local society at a Heimath gardeL party.
The Denman lady trailed about th?s lawns
for a quarter of an hour in a lovely lilac
silk frock, with Miss Quirk and secretary
Vernon in her train. Mrs. Barrett, in white
lace, helped her doctor husband to pump-
handle the numerous guests. The Pinschofs,
in fine array, headed a large section of the
ultra-musical set; and Hal Elvins hurried
about under his long-haired hat. Medical
folk were much in evidence. Dr. Mary
Booth, in soft grey garb, spared one of her
valuable hours to come and idle sociably!
The pretty Lincoln girl who married Dr.
Farnsworth, of Sydney, was with her sister
and medico brother-in-law. Mrs. Dave.v
sported smart black and white trappings,
and the learned dons of the University ac-
companied their ladies and beamed on all.
A counter attraction to the tea and chatter
was provided by Heimath’s acre or so of
natural bush, which is tenanted by paddy-
melons, wallabies, kangaroos and native
bears. The quiet-loving guests pursued
these natives with parasols and cheap con-
versation.
A joyous meeting with Melba in its midst
found a corner of the Town Hall free of
carpenters, and straightway began to con-
jure up visions of the Melba Hall, which
will shortly sprout for the University Con-
servatorium. The songstress, with camel-
lias in her hat, and a face dimpled with
smiles, handed over her matinee cheque for
£lOOO odd. (The Government’s £lOOO was
in the hands of the silver-haired Prof.
Peterson, whom, so Rumor says, embraced
his small wife in the Treasury elevator'
after successfully raiding Premier Weary’s
office.) The Mayor was on hand with his
Mayoress, and John Madden and his dame
sat close by. Sugden, of Queen’s, spoke,
and Laver, of the extended hair, smiled.
Mrs. Peterson fairly bubbled with delight
under the elbow of her Professor; and Mrs.
Premier Murray was a cool grey presence.
Mrs. Orme Masson, who has worked like a
dairy-farmer in the cause, stood quietly at
ease. Later, the Mayor took the important
people away for a glass of wine. Melba
made as if to pour her share into the crater
of an inverted silk hat, then slid the glass
behind the glittering cylinder. Still more
money is needed, but the advice of the
soprano is, “Get the building started and
mortgage.” The health of the bricks was
drunk, and the thanks of all reverently laid
at Melba’s feet. “I am as happy as can be
to help,” said she, and slipped away to her
motor.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Methodist Confereneers urged warmly and
for about the 4-millionth time that the hotels
should close at six, and the wrath of Mr. Bung
is terrific. As one to whom the bottle holds
but scant allurement, 1 may say that this anti-
alcohol business appears already a shade over-done.
A recent project to start a new club in our midst
died swiftly and emphatically. It was informed that
it could not be allowed a license, and what is a
man’s club without a license? At the Ladies’
Club the hostess who would give her guests
stronger drink than barley water must take a bottle
in her pocket.
Saturday’s Melbourne express brought us Mr. and
Mrs. Cuthbert Burgoyne, one time of this State. He
is part-owner of P. B. Burgoyne and Co.
The authorities, spurred on by the frantic pro-
tests of motorists and such-like, are thinking about
doing something to our awful roads. One sugges-
tion embodies a tax on all wheels- —bicycles in-
cluded.
We have our mixed-bathing “problem,” like the
less-sainted cities of the Commonwealth, and the
dailies are flooded with letters expressing horror
of the “don’t-know-what-we-are-coming-to” brand.
The snag which the holy ones are up against is the
fact that the city fathers of Glenelg and kindred
suburbs have grown to appreciate the financial bene-
fits of surf-bathing, and are now as unwilling to
abolish the paying pastime as a Yid is to fling sove-
reigns into the sea. Prom which it may be safely
deduced that herein the cause of Stiggins is about
to take the knock.
The March Show terminated in a cheerful storm,
which spoiled some of the exhibits and deposited the
roof of the main grandstand some 150 ft. away from
its rightful locality. It was a good, healthy storm,
and howled more furiously than twins. The attend-
ance and gate money were both below last year’s.
A big advance was apparent in the ladies’ hacks,
both as to horses and riders. Mrs. O’Leary was one
of the few who clung to the old side-saddle. Other
competitors were, more or less elegantly, astride.
Most of those who didn’t patronise the Show
on Saturday went to Port Adelaide to watch the
Junior Eights and Senior Pours disport themselves.
But the weather was awful, and the function had to
be postponed till Monday.
A new croquet club was opened at Walkerville
on Saturday, with the assistance of Mrs. F. W.
. Young and Mrs. (“Bishop”) Wilson. The secretary
is Miss Dora Muecke.
Miss Lea, of Robe, has returned from her trip to
India, and is now staying at the South Australian
Hotel with her mother. Dr. and Mrs. John Corbin
and the Charlie Jessops are also back from a trip
to Melbourne.
The Lyric Club seems to have successfully weath-
ered the financial storm which recently threatened
its existence. New premises have been secured in
Pirie-street, a good winter programme has been
arranged, and the committee is happy.
At Mount Lofty, a few days ago, Miss Britten
Barden was married to Mr. Brookman. The cere-
mony was of the non-uproarious order—ln fact,
there was not so much as one bridesmaid. The
bride, who is in her early twenties, struck an origi-
nal note by appearing in a wedding garment of
mauve. Mr. and Mrs. Brookman are to honeymoon
in Japan.
There died last week at Kadina, William Beare,
LL.B.—member of a S, Australian family which did
good work for this State in the early days. His
brother, Professor Beare, of the Edinburgh Uni-
versity, was the past graduate of Adelaide Uni-
versity.
The Humphrey Martens leave for England this
week, taking with them a son to be sent to one
of the Universities, and a small daughter to be edu-
cationally “finished.” Mrs. Poulten—also a medi-
co’s wife—gave a tea to bid them “good-bye” last
week.
From “Rosna,” temporarily of London: —
Artist George Coates is meditating a descent upon
Australia with some of his very best daubs. If all
goes well he will be with you about October.
One-time fiddler Maud McCarthy, who is now Mrs.
Mann (having married a Canadian journalist of that
ilk), has been lecturing to London on Indian music.
The girl has lived in India some time, and her lec-
tures are punctuated by weird and wondrous Indian
noises, sung to weird and wonderful Indian
instruments. The cream and intellect of Oxford are
to hear the lectures shortly and be uplifted thereby.
A performiance of Arthur Adams’s “Pierrot in
Australia” vras given to a politely interested audi-
ence at the Little Theatre the other afternoon. The
part of Liz was played by Dorothy Spencer, a
daughter of Maurice Brodzky.
Pretty Alice Crawford is to play Emilia in Tree’s
production of “Othello,” which will happen at an
early date.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


-’V-O' ■’ ,£>''■ 'V* >’ 'X fTk
rr*
* ' J J
A
M I
68
IS*
»S 3»
’
SPv
Sff«
£
Sfcte
-
3f
; v , _ ■
mm
&f> *6
»l
it
ft#
. . <■ s-
mw
m
81
ef
.
■K
■x.:l
XlafSStW**
«&gSi*pM*
*
ps^r:
■rAJ;.*
-
.
Sft
Br
s?
■a- v
.
mm**,
■m
: .• •
'S
wmm
e.
iv* * J*'*' ’ ~z U -' ’ '' ''s
cgk
• *.
’ m
&aß£oit '
EM®
m
Wmmm "'-■
f: r
i«§i
!g»
/.
.*' jjipV?
:V ■ :• • ■ ■ '
. •
''w: •*:
>ra
- -'
'
v>’V:-
-•
12®
-ss
m
ms
MODEL «


%
A
nv
'c<,
5^2
%udorC6
“WITHDRAW! WITHDRAW!”
shouted the Connoisseur to the inexperienced
whisky drinker, who had merely said “ The
Best of 'Whisky."
If you want the best, call for it this way:
“Watson’s No. 10
Whisky ”
WHICH IS ALWAYS THE BEST!
The name is a guarantee of purity
and never-varying excellence.
REXONA, THE RAPID HEALER.
, Rexona is a reliable remedy for all eruptions and
irritations of the skin, Eczema, Pimples, Sores, Chil-
blains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica, Itching' or Bleeding
Piles, Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Scalds, Bad Legs, Stings
of Insects, and all kinds of inflammation. Rexona
is sold only in triangular pots at 1/G and 3/-.*
THE GREAT NEED
IN INDIGESTION.
-= * ——
Treatment that will Strengthen
the Stomachy
, Many 'sliffebebs from indigesitioii or
stomach trouble have found that the ‘com-
plaint has been banished as soon as their
bloo'd supply has . been increased by Db.
Williams’ Pills. This is & point to bekb ih
mind, because such h cube is h real cute.
Treatment of, Indigestion with Dr. Wil-
liams’ PiflK Pills goes behind the mere symp-
toms to the actual cause of the trouble.
They make hew blood, which gives tone to
the glands and muscles of the stom&ch,
making it capable of properly performing
the work of digestion;
They cured Mbs. George Walker, of
Booval, hear Ipswich, Queensland, who
buffered for years with frequent recurring
attacks of Indigestion.
“I was troubled a good deal with Indi-
gestion, and my liver was out of order,
too, Mrs. Walker told an interviewer. “I
would be attacked with such a burning pain
in the. chest and between the shoulder blades
that it was almost too much to bear. I
could hardly close my eyes at night with it.
I had to live very plainly, as even an egg
would repeat most violently. I would really
be afraid to look at food. I could only take
a little at a time, My body Would swell if
I took only even a bit of vegetable. I
turned very sallow, my skin was loose and
flabby; I looked and felt thoroughly out of
sorts. I used to have most violent sick
headaches, and I would be retching for
hours. I would have to leave everything
and go and lie down. Everything was
blurred so that I could not read a line of
print or do a bit of sewing when these
attacks came on, which was generally every
fortnight. My tongue would be coated, and
my mouth would taste nasty, and I would
feel quite run down. I would not have a
particle of strength or energy to do any-
thing, but Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills proved
most beneficial. My appetite improved
after I began to use them, and I lost the
sallow look and the pain after eating. My
skin got firm and healthy, and my strength
picked up, so I can conscientiously recom-
mend this medicine.”
Remember only the genuine Dr. Wil-i
liams’ Pink Pills cure. Don’t be gulled
into taking something said to be just as
good. Of all dealers at 2s. 9d. per box, six
boxes, 15s. 3d., or from the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.
p
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6; Double, 22/6 ; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. CallorWri.e.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEOHGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY,
POLITICAL
POINTS
U.S. Senate lias looked hard at a
scheme for the substitution of arbitration
J'3 T - it has decided that if a for-
eign Power demands that (say) Kansas or
Missouri or New York shall be handed ovei-
frpY*lf a f bla ? k 01 ‘ yellow nation demands
if some PnSn ltS 1,eo S le . ta the States or
it some Kuiopean or Asiatic race tries to
annex and settle upon any part of the
American continent, these are matters that
can t be arbitrated upon, for if the decision
fSaiMt Uncle Sam he would have to
hght just the same. And these exceptions
rf ! 0Und tbere was To very
miglit’as’ welfbe’droppetU * hlt
Prime Minister Fisher is said to lend a
thaUAhe e first t0 , n® demand °f Queensland
tnat tiie hist railway connection with the
Territory should be made by extending the
lownsville-t'loninii'i-.y line westward. "Such
a policy would mean making the Territory
instead 1 " of The S p T ra , ilwa y, to Townsville
instead or the I ederal railway to Pm*r
Fe| U i a ’ r Qd it: wouId loave the unfinished
hederal me between Port Augusta and
Oodnadatta an inevitable dead loss Also
fn;ru lght A l0 ® k unpleasantly like a breach of
r)wn h '<?T gamS l . that Queensland is Fisher’s
thin fr f n< , Xt i las a . bigger voting pSwer
"' hK " fectS ma ' v
i Anybody seen or heard or smelt anvtbino-
lately of a lost, stolen or strayed W S? some
where in North Africa? Plas it vanished
into; the desert, and is the sand of the Sa-
jiara blowing over its drv
bones? Or has it fought so
much that the last Arab has
Stuck his last dagger into the
last- back of the last Dago? Or
has it just laid down and died
like an evening breeze, in some
far distant, palm-shaded oasis,
where by the cool well-side the
remnants of an heroic scrim-
mage have knocked off, and
smoking Turkish cigarettes and
orujkmg Falernian wine, have
decided it is too hot to scrap
‘ l , n - y m ® re ■ As Amundsen and
the other _ Pole-Sherlocks are
out or a job now, they might
try and find the lasft Dago in
T ] ley . cn V l(l follow"him by smell—a
1 eifume of mixed coffee and garlic.
“J.R." writes:—
A humorous feature of the “Liberal” howl that
Commissioner Johnson, of N. S. Wales, is short of
engines, owing to the fractious action of the Caucus
in refusing to import any for him, is the fact that
the Made Government was equally decisive in the
same* connection when it was in office. Waddell was im-
plored by Johnson to import a herd of Beyer-Peacock
engines but he firmly pigeon-holed the proposition.
W circumstance that it is absurd to go
a.M-r ' i l */ 1 1 , they are insufficient, there is the
f, u t v,'i na J f . act . that ’ with the British coal strike in
IS unlikely that Beyer-Peacock or anv
firm would be in a position to fill such an
hant\hl ?' ny i la - r ” e or der, for that matter. But per-
the coal strike. lmP ° mg Cr ° wd has for S otten about
Harry Coyne informed a Toowoomba
(Q.) audience that he himself telegraphed
to Prime Minister Fisher to send military
assistance to Brisbane before Denham did.
Coyne thus endorses Denham’s statement
that military protection was necessary and
gHes the enemy another lift tip the lad (let
at Fisher’s expense. Couldn’t the Brisbane
Trades Hall muzzle this voluble person till
the election’s oVet?
So fat, there is no assurance that the Bill
for increasing the salaries of N.S.W. poli-
ticians will include a proviso that the new
salaries won’t be largely expended in bribery
and corruption—as Attorney-General Idol-
man says the old salaries to a great extent
were. A good half of his case for an in-
crease was based, not on the fact that mem-
bers’ services were worth more, but on the
statement that they had to spend so much
in bribing truculent hat-passers and collec-
tors of one kind and another —in mollifying
sports clubs and charities with hard cash—
m order to get a fair chance of re-election,
that they must have more in order to live.
But unless members are absolutely prohi-
bited from giving donations to any institu-
tions within their electorates, and it is made
a crime to appeal to them for donations*
the State will be merely supplying more
money for the blackmailers who hang
around local politicians. In other words, it
will be merely providing more bribery and
corruption funds. And it doesn’t want to
scatter its good money in that fashion.
Remarkable piece of information supplied
to the N.S.W. Assembly by Lonsdale, an
elderly anti-Socialist, who, while bewailing
the proposal of Minister Edden to establish
fetate coal mines, complained of the unfair
arguments used by Ministerialists to con-
demn capitalists, who, he alleged, were doing
good service to the community :■ —
l n T.¥w oriland the V have State mines, but they have
NO PRIVATE COAL to compete with, except, that
winch comes from N. S. Wales, and which, when it
reaches M.L. is burdened with the hi' h Co t Of
freight.
As a matter of fact, out of 144
working mines in M.L., there are
only three State-oWned—ohe at
Seddonville and two at Point Eli-
zabeth. The total output from
the various mines in 1909 1 latest
figures available) Was 1,911.247
tons, of Which only
about -290,000 tons came
from _ the State hiines.
And in N.S.W., during
the same year, o'nO;
257,271 tons were car-
ried to Ward’s loan
country.. Where does the
Wonderful Lonsdale get
his stock of misinforma-
tion?
It is mentioned casually that 1872 mixed
trains run annually on the Victorian snail-
ways between Melbourne and Ballarat
alone —almost the busiest section of the
system. As a matter of fact, most Vic-
torian country _ trains are mixed, and those
that aren’t mixed are muddled. It is a
thriftless system, very much akin to making
a tramcar a passenger vehicle in front and
a parcel delivery van at the back. England
abolished mixed trains by law away back
m the 80 s of last century, and has never
regretted their loss, but Victoria is petrify-
mg these days, and thinks of going back to
the bullock dray.
WHERE THEY DO IN THE BRASS .
The amounts now lent by the Australian Govern-
stat®? fre as follows: New South Wales,
£2,000,000; Victoria, £980,000; Queensland
£1,000,000; Western Australia, £650,000- Tas-
mania, £500,000. Total, £5,130,000. ’
The gold slump continues. For quite a
long time now every year has been worse
than the previous one, and in the first two
months of 1912 the output was 33,0000 z
less than in the first two months of 1911
That new; goldfield which the Northern Ter-
ritory railway is to open up begins to be
badly wanted.
Thus Sydney Telegraph (13/3/’l2)
The present N.S.W. Government is only in office As
the result of a compact with Mr. Willis, Under \Vhleh
at a critical moment he agreed to his party
and give it what Mr. Jlolm&rt called “a fictitious
majority” ‘on condition that it introduced no conten-
tious legislation.
Arid Unis the official records of the Gov-
ernment majority at 40 (forty) conse-
cutive divisions in the Assembly dating
back from March 13: —18, 21, 6, 15, 12. 10
9, 11, 9, 24, 9,9, 9, 10, 9, 11, 13, 12, 6 33,’
11, S, 11, 11, 8, S, 10, 10, 7,7, 6,7, 4,3, 2,
4,7, 15, S, 4. Everyone knows that the
Government’s majority is very small when
the whole House is present, but if the loaf-
ing “Liberals” won’t take the trouble to be
present, does it matter what the ptlpel
majority may be?
Milko": Our milk merchant called on
Sunday himself, explaining as the reason
thereof that the man on our run had got the
sack. He further explained that this party
was, all unknown to him (the milk pur-
veyor), a thrice-accursed uniohist, and after
a fortnight’s toil wafted the information to
the union that the said milk chandler was
not paying union rates. Upon this the
union threatened to have the law oft the
A CONSISTENT PERFORMER,
WADE: "Yes, me fritt's, I arsk yet ter leave
yet- future in my Ends, en' I can assure
yer in return that I'll never berray the
Trust,'"
milk hiicksVefr, but, he, ‘‘l got the bhlge
oh ( ,: m by telling ’em that that ‘employee
could not pass the doctor —that he Was a
medical reject. That put ’em in a hole,
you bet.” The milk pedlar did not explain
to me how it was he had kept a diseased
person handling my allowance of cow abs for
two weeks, in order to make & shilling or
two more profit for hiittstelf. Also, he only
grinned when I gave him my impression that
penalties were provided for milk magnates
Who gave employment on a dairy to un-
heal tliy workers. I thereupon changed imy
milk professor with the haste tli&t passetli
: all repentance.
The two Vaushh.h youngsters in the S.
Aus. Parliament—Crawford (ex-Treasurer)
■and lawyer Jim, one of the new members —-
are sons of the photo.-lithographer in the S.
" us ; Government Printing Office. S. Aus-
tralia s Government Printer, by the way, It.
Lj. L. Kogers, was one of the earliest mem-
the . fe . Aus. Labor party, but re-
peatedly declined Parliamentary nomination.
be , Gld Soldier: The Defence Depart-
ment bought about 1500 horses for artillery,
i. tr ? n ? port ail( i other services recently
and had them broken in by contract. However,
when the next general inspection occurred,
a pair of bolting horses scattered two drill-
ing regiments. As a result of the frac-
tiousness of the mounts and those harnessed
to tne waggons several citizen soldiers were
incapacitated and taken to the hospital. The
upshot was that five men were laid out, and
one of them, a warrant-officer, was so badly
S- h ! at + he be sent from the barrack
hospital to St. Vincent’s. There is no
suggestion that .the horses weren’t properly
broken in. The trouble seems to have been
due to the fact that there are not enough
men available to keep the animals exercised
and a newly-broken horse which has been
eating its head off in a stable for two -r
three days is a notoriously difficult propo-
sitmn to face. An alternative is to get
rid ot the horses and use motor transport
exclusively. The motor would cost more to
begin with,. but it would not want feeding
and grooming when it was not working.
-Lhe foreigner is almost everywhere taking
to motor transport, and is even mounting
his soldiers on the. steed which has neither
nerves nor a temper, and never gets tired.
-Lne Italians, after their experience in Tri-
poli, have mounted their rifle regiments on
bikes, and are looking for a light two-ton
motor-lorry to carry supplies for them. The
i rench are turning a division (16,000) of
their army into cyclists, and collecting 400
tight motor-waggons for their transport; the
whole to be kept up as a frontier force in
peace. Jhe example seems worth following.
UNDER WEIGHT.
N.S.W.: “I don’t mind paying , but I'd [?]
so me thing near full weight.
“ J.R.” : About ft mouth ago T. W. Reck*.
Chairman of the Sydney liftt-hot- THist, an-
nounced that he had “prepared a scheme
Which Would ptovide belthiiig ftcfcoin'moda-
tloft fol Vessels Up to 60,000 tofts.’* The
repoftt of the TtUst oft its proposed harbor
improvements is fto\V to hand. Nothing
tangible is promised as regards 60,000-toft
ships. The Trust remarks tliftt “it ciift
already assure us of a width of 700 ft., arid
a depth of 35ft., at low watet in the Eastern
Chanhelv and the Western . Channel is sooft
to have the same width an'd depth.” B\it '&
'60,,000-tori vessel coul'd. not turn, in a channel
only 7boft. widet i't is , eVed,'dphbtflu if , : d
45,000-ton eta ft like, the , Olympic could, ’do
it, and a, harbor wherein the big ships must
go straight ahead or straight astern if they
are, to avoid hitting ,the bottom, is, griev-
ously out of date. . The time will
pome , when the Sow-an’d-Pigs and Shark
Island will have to be blown up and the
fragments dredged away to make one good
clear chiannel of the present brace of water-
ways, and there seems no valid reason to
delay the reform.
THE DEAD JOSS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
London, Friday evening.—-Mr. A. S. Hewins (Tar-
iffite) has been returned unopposed for Hereford.
—Saddening cable.
Oh, for years we have made
The great cause of “Freetrade”
An Idol, a Joss and a Wonder!
For years we have vowed
That the Briton was proud
Of the system that “saved him from plunder’’!
We knew all was right
With old Gladstone and Bright
And their gospel—Long Hours and Low Wages!
Though tlie Tories might chafe,
We knew Britain was safe,
And we said so—in pages on pages!
With the Liberals “in ’’
Men would hold it a sin,
Which was instantly sure of rejection,
For any vile seat
To declare, or repeat,
Its belief in Accurssd Protection !
As we knew we were right,
We were eager to fight
When the least smell of danger was scented ;
But now we’re di&mayed,
I 1 or the great god, “Freetrade,”
In the last fight was NOT REPRESENTED !
N.S.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.
ASHES
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Warner's team is on its way back to England
wath the “ashes.” —Undeniable fact.
Will Bull show joy when home the victors come—
And have brass bands upon the pierhead playing?
He may be through the coal-strike stricken dumb,
And much too glum for music or hooray-ing!
In fancy I can hear the poor old soul
Make this remark (aside), the while there clashes
The bitter labor-war.- “I starve for coal
God! What a time to bother me with ashes!”
s\s.w.
EARDLEY TURNER.


NICHOLSON'S-*
PIANOS.
Steinway
Brinsmead
F eurich.
«•- NICHOLSON’S
ORGANS.
Mason and Hamlin
Bell.
We Sell for Cash or on Easy Terms.
We Take Old Instruments in Exchange.
NICHOLSON 8 CO., Limited,
Sydney, Newcastle, Orange, Brisbane, Toowoomba.
Books for Farmers, #c.
COUNTRY ENQUIRIES ANSWERED INTELLIGENTLY.
THE STOCKOWNER’S GUIDE, 1912, appliances
and improvements. This is a valuable new book,
and deals with Fencing, Water Supply, Drafting
Yards, Sheep Dipping, Buildings, Bush Fires,
Rabbit Destruction, Ensilage, etc., etc...
FIRST CENTURY OF DAIRYING IN N.S.W., by
McCaffrey
THE FEEDING OF CROPS AND STOCK, science of
the nutrition of plants and animals, by A D
liali. 1911
ANIMAL BREEDING, by Thos. Shaw, 1910. Deals
subject Slmi ’ . praCtical with an intricate
FARM LIVE STOCK OF GREAT BRITAIN, bv
Robert Wallace. 400 illustrations from photos',
‘u P a £ es - A valuable book that every Breeder
should possess .. .. ~
PRACTICAL FORESTRY and its bearing on the
improvement of estates, by Curtis . .
FARM DEVICES, AND HOW TO MAKE
THEM, by Gobleigh. 1910
FARM MACHINERY AND FARM MOTORS
Davidson and Chase ..
by
GUENON ON MILCH COWS explains his method of
judging- cows by the escutcheon
MILK AND CREAM, Testing and Grading Dairy
Products, by Thomson. 1911 .. . . ..
FARMING AND FARM ECONOMY, by Burn
TREE PLANTER and Plant Propagator, by
READY RECKONER FOR LAND, by Arman
BOOK-KEEPING FOR FARMERS, by Woodman..
SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF CHEESE-MAKING,
by Van Slyke and Publow . .
WHAT IN TEREjTS YOU ? We have bcoks on the following subjects :
Pruning Fruit Trees, Asparagus, Celery, Cider-making, Canning
and Preserving, Pigs, Sheep, Poultry, Ducks, Potatoes, Mush-
rooms, Fertilisers, Sugar, Oil, Rubber, etc.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
,N.S.W BOOKSTALL C°, LT-°
WCTORIAMARKffs) 476 CEORGE ST. SYDNEY.
Every Victorian
Motor Cycle Event of
6
$0
‘^S-V
■v;s3
*•-»■ - .
-0^.5
v.
-.. • -__ '•=••* 'SS’r>vj§‘»«v : *f’•«%•,
■^u'V' z
-\
"'T^m
&M
WSWHJt
**
..Race"' 2 "''' "' & Sgr I^Sgy
25 Mlie Roti<l Race - „ ZZ-r<
"S 0' r Mile Roadßace; ”~ ’" "Zzz
Mile Road Race . - '^a>*ii lirr %
„ oallarat to Melbourne ”•* f\*\ r*
~ r \/ll v*o«
- Pty. Ltd.
d¥ill
SPECIAL FREE OFFER!
From the British Record Proprietary Ltd.,
S 3 George Street West) Sydney
To Users of Our “FLAG” BRAND Records.
To every responsible and approved person applying who agrees to use our Records
and purchase from us (for a limited period) at least One Record per week, we will givo
One of our Rondophones entirely Free
THIS HANDSOME WELL-BUILT INSTRU-
MENT is our own exclusive specialty, and
is absolutely up-to-date, and contains every
modern improvement, price £3/10/-.
THE CABINET is a handsome and sub-
stantial construction in SOLID DARK
OAK, 12| x 124 x 6 in., polished to a fine
piano finish.
Powerful silent STEEL MOTOR fitted
with the latest frictionless bearings, finely
proportioned nickel-plated TAPER TONE
ARM, accurately balanced lOin. Turn-
table, large 16in. Sound Trumpet with
nine leaves, decorated in a charming
combination of softly blended Art Shades.
THE SOUND REPRODUCER is con-
structed in harmony with the latest
developments of the science of acoustics,
and possesses adequate power to per-
form full MILITARY BAND SELECTIONS with all
their original brilliance and realistic effect, and is so
exquisitely sensitive as to produce with perfection the
most delicate passages of orchestration, as well tis the
minutest variations of the Solo Artist’s voice. Such
An Opportunity of Acquiring a First-c f ass Instrument
has never before been offered in the world’s history,
and the above offer is made for the purpose of
Popularising our Records and as a Huge Advertisement.
will last a life time. Warranted 2 yeras.
. RECORDS are the BEST on the Market, are DOUBLE-SIDED
and FULLY GUARANTEED. NEW SUBJECTS BY EVERY MAIL.
DirsjimjirjrT* i C° ntr fl the Larges!: Stock of Records in the World.
REMEMBER. We make no extra charge for our Records. We have ONE
Price only. Purchasers in the ordinary way of business pay the same as those to
whom we give a Rondophone.
The Rondophone is given away Absolutely Free as stated
t FULL PARTICULARS AT OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
The British Record Proprietary Limited
23 George St. West, near Harris St.. Syrinx
sdf


sdf
KUPPER
LACER
"SHELL"
SPIRIT
IS THE
MOST ECONOMICAL
THEREFORE
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appoinfcmen*
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATiVES .
WflAt Australian Aganta—RICHARD HOLMES A CO., PERTH. KAICOOKUE and COOICARPtE.
Brewert and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
English captain Warner struggled hard
to maintain an appearance of absolute neutrality
thoughout the cricket war; but he blew right up
at the finish. He had sent a cable, or written a
letter, or flashed a wireless, or something asking the
Marylebone Club to intimate that it desired the best
team to come from Australia. The noble lord, who
is head serang of the Marylebone Club, accordingly
cabled Warner that he did "hope the best team would
be sent “home,” and Warner handed the missive to
the press, and passed on his way rejoicing. At his
first port he inquired anxiously what the Board of
Control had done about it; and when he was told
the Board had done nothing, and done it strenu-
ously, the explosion took place, and the lava and
dinders flew up 1000 ft. He was aghast that the
Board had .ignored Lord Desborough’s cable —it was
Unthinkable, awful. Apparently the Board did not
realise what an honor had been conferred upon it.
Whether he will arrive at the next port dead with
horror is hard to say. Next William McElhone
arose and was shocked that Mr. Warner should think
the Board would dream of interfering in his private
correspondence with the Peerage even had it seen
the cable, which it had not, for Mr. Warner had
riot sent it along, and the Board knew nothing ex-
cept the vague statements in the press. w llliam s
medical adviser reports, however, that he is now
out of danger and able to sit up.- #
The N.S.W. XI. that dealt-put sudden
death to Queensland struck a catastrophe at Too-
woomba. The wicket was soaked and N.S.W. cap-
tain Diamond sent tlie local team to bat. Bolkard
took six for 18, and the side vanished for 74. lhe
Cornstalks went in to rattle off the required number.
But Eric Barbour got loose, and, scattering five
wickets for 12 runs, burst up the show. The top
score was that of Waddy, who managed to jump to
25 before being thrown out, and the natives beheld
with amazement an XI that had walloped Queens-
land dismissed by Toowoomba for 81. On the second
day the wicket was still far from virtuous, but Too-
woomba managed to compile 147, and as the pitch
was improving all the time, the Cornstalks, with
orily 14l required to win, were buried in great calm.
But Barbour again got loose, and this time got away
with nine for 38, and, before the N.S.W. XI. knew
what had happened, it was all out for 80, and dished
by 61 runs. Then the N.S.W. XI. opened its mouth
tot speak, but could think of nothing adequate, and,
bqing too stunned to close its mouth again, a fly
got into the cavity. But what we all want to
know is—who is Eric Barbour 7 Why has he not
been found before ?
Last week this column threw some bricks
at Mr. “Hughie” Trumble, having by a slip con-
fused him with his brother, J. W. Trumble. How-
ever, as the rocks went wide of the mark, the writer
feels more hurt than the secretary of the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club. Of course, the remarks hurled
at Hugh Trumble were intended for our old friend
J.W., and are hereby declared null and void as far
as Hugh Trumble is concerned. Although he has
not expostulated in any way, this explanation is due
to him. As most people who follow the game closely
know, both brothers have been mighty cricketers
before the Lords and Commons. But Mr. J. W.
Trumble’s international career was, comparatively
speaking, as brief as his stay in Sydney. He chose
the better part, and after his single trip to England
in 1886, dropped out and settled down to the serious
business of life, sticking to cricket only as a pastime.
Hugh Trumble (who did not come to Sydney),
however, ranks with Spofforth, Turner and Ferris in
history as a phenomenal wicket-getter, and distin-
guished himself in five successive invasions of Eng-
land between 1890 and 1902.
By 22 votes to eight N.S.W. Cricket
Association threw out the motion of no-confidence
tabled against the Association’s delegates to the
Board of Control. Practically, McElhone and the
Board were called on to justify their procedure dur-
ing the recent upheaval, and McElhone rose to the
occasion. The change that has come over McElhone
is quite remarkable. Whereas he once swung a club
with both hands, he has now developed into a wily,
subtle old fox who deals out unlimited rope for the
other side to tangle itself up in. Which the Sorry
Six did. But when this motion came before the
Association the members felt that they had met a
long-lost friend. William P. got loose in his best
old-time style, and dealt out stoush and refutation in
a fearful manner, enlivened with flashes of scorching
sarcasm. It was a great speech, and when it was
over the people, who moved the motion were wrecks
under the table. 4
So much has been said about that letter
of conditions which the South Australian Cricket
Association forwarded to the Board of Control, with
its cheque for £5OO, that there is a general curiosity
to know what the thing was really like. Here it
is in all its glory: — ,
“Herewith I enclose cheque value £5OO, which I
have been instructed by the South Australian Cricket
Association to forward to you, subject to the express
conditions following:—
“(1) The amount forwarded, or so much thereof
as may be required to pay this Association’s pro-
portion of the legitimate preliminary expenses of the
1912 team, shall be used for such purpose only and
for no other, and the repayment thereof rateably with
amounts advanced by other Associations shall be
a first charge on the takings of the tour, as on occa-
sion of visit to England of 1909 team.
“(2). Preliminary expenses shall mean payment of
passages of the team to England and hotel and travel-
ling expenses there until after the first match has
been played.
“(3)'No portion of the said sum of £5OO shall be
used in. making any payment to any player except by
way of a nominal advance as against his share of the
profits of the tour, and in such ease any advance
made shall not exceed £5O.
“(4) r No advance out of the said sum of £5OO
shall be made to any player who has agreed or
agrees to accept £4OO from the Board of Control
in, lieu of his share of the profits of the tour, as this
Association contends that the Board cannot legally
make such an agreement or pay any money in respect
thereof.
“(5) No payment shall be made for the salary or
expenses of the Board’s representative out of the
said sum of £5OO.
“(6) This Association shall only pay its fair pro-
portion of preliminary expenses, and any moneys
received from other Associations shall also be ap-
plied only towards legitimate preliminary expenses
as above set out, and not for any other purpose, or
so as to increase the proportion of preliminary
expenses which this Association should have to bear.
“I enclose receipt for your signature.”
Saturdaj’ saw the commencement of the
10 th round of Sydney First Grade cricket, and
proved itself a batsman’s day. The gems of" the
afternoon were 181, not out, made in 210 minutes,
by L. A. Cody for Paddington against Sydney; 127,
perpetrated in 120 minutes, by 11. Cranney for Central
Cumberland against Waverley; 85, accumulated in
55 minutes, by Hughes of Paddington against Sydney ;
and 72, biffed in 130 minutes, by Andrews of Peter-
sham against North Sydney. Among the bowlers
the best were Coomber, of Waverley, who blew out
the lamp of four Central Cumberland wickets for 22
runs ; Folkard of Balmain, who suppressed five Bur-
wood wickets for 39; and Davis of Waverley, who
blotted six Central Cumberland sticks off the map
for 49. At Parramatta, Central Cumberland, the
local club, met Waverley, and was saved from utter
rout only by Cranney’s 127, the whole XI making
only 215. Still, in spite of Cranney’s effort, things
look far from gay, for Waverley, in the fading light,
totted up 104 without losing one of its masts. At
the Cricket Ground, Petersham knocked 167 off
the North Sydney bowling before the latter got a
chance to put up 92 for the loss of the first wicket.
Paddington, up against Sydney at Rushcutter’s Bay,
astonished the locals and itself by banging up 419
for six wickets. Cody’s fearsome 181 n.o. was a
display which kept the Sydney fieldsmen very busy
indeed. After this effort Burwood’s showing against
Balmain at Birchgrove was flat, stale and dispiriting
as last night’s beer; the whole side vanishing for
a measly 121. Balmain did not brighten things up,
losing three wickets for 48. Redfern, the crack
team, had apparently struck its dull day, and made
only 334 against University, which responded with
one for nothing. Up at Chatswood Glebe faced
Gordon, won the toss, and smashed together 309 all
in one afternoon.
* * * y
In Melbourne pennant cricket on Satur-
day, Northcote collided with North Melbourne, and
hit up 251 for five wickets, Cheswass contributing
123 not out. In its match with the ’Varsity, South
Melbourne acquired eight for 233, and would have
done better but for the ’Varsity’s smart fielding.
Ransford hit up 147 in elegant style for Melbourne,
in the Melbourne-Richmond debate, before he went
out l.b.w. Melbourne lost five for 352. In the St.
Kilda-Essendon concussion the Saints’ innings was
declared closed at nine for 331. Fitzroy was sacked
for a miserable 125 by East Melbourne, which then
annexed 47 runs at the expense of three wickets.
P’ran’s score against Carlton stands at seven for 226.
* * * *
Secretary Hill, of N.S.W. Swimming
Association, the ruling amateur body, has been a
busy man lately. When the N.S.W. Ladies’ Ama-
teur Swimming- Association decided to request the
reporters to leave its recent meeting, it laid up
trouble for everybody; but Mr. Hill seems to have
struck the lion’s share of it. For the be?t part of
a week he was kept busy explaining to the press that
he did not do or say the things attributed to him.
Nearly every paper in Sydney, including this one,
laid things at his door which he declines to have
on his premises. He writes: “I did not say that,
although my Association admitted both men and
women, it was not paying; nor did I say that I
had but little hope of the Swimming Association
recommending the nominations of the Misses Duraclc
and Wylie to the Olympic Council.... Also I am
positive no one at the meeting stated that no modest
woman would compete at the carnival to be organised
by Alderman Kelly, because they would have to mix
in the water with colored boxers and other undesir-
ables.” This is published in fairness to Mr. Hill,
but the moral of it all is: “Never exclude the pro-
fessional reporter, as his place will assuredly be
taken by the unprofessional; and the amateur re-
porter is the most fearful type of human being on
earth. He breaks up homes; lays the foundations
of life-long feuds between the man who requires
publicity and the fellow who gives it; and encour-
ages the drink traffic horribly, as only a sea of
whisky can drown the enmities he creates.
* * * » ...
With his usually pale, sweet face tanned
to the tint of newly-baked and somewhat-overdone
bricks, Harry B. James descended on Sydney last
week ; after having motored from Melbourne to Ade-
laide, and then back to the shores of Port Jackson,
over the route to be taken by the men in the big
Relay Despatch ride from Adelaide to Sydney, at
Eastertide. Notice boards have been erected all
along the route, and the whole of the details. ; -ftxed
up, and all that now remains is to get the riders —
car, motor-bike and cycle—started. The Coorong
Desert is always horrible, but on this occasion
James found it somewhat worse than usual. The
car —the Venus with which Syd Day put up his
record between Melbourne and Sydney—was loaded
up with rolls of matting, with which the long, bad
stretches were negotiated. If they were short ones,
ropes were hitched on, and all parties and the cook
hauled and hauled, and cursed the Coorong. But
the last straw was when the car pulled up at the
bottom of a huge wall of sand that rose like the
escarpment of a fort right across the road. All
hands got to, work with shovels, and changed their
opinions about pick-and-shovel-work not being
skilled _lab or (try it if you disagree) till they got
something like a grade, and then the matting was
. unrolled, and James, getting on board, let Gallagher
go for all he was worth. At about the third at-
tempt Gallagher, that is, Venus, snorted over with
one last convulsive kick and slithered down the other
side into a pit of its own making, where it stayed
till dug out and hauled on to the matting, which had
been rolled up, carried over the ridge, and laid down
afresh.
The contest will rage at Easter time,
April 5,6, 7 and 8, and is under the distinguished
patronage of the Australian Government. The Dun-
lop Rubber Co., as promoter, is, of course, attending
to all the details. In 1909 the bicycle relay ride
from Adelaide to Sydney was a great success, the'
despatch being whirled over the 1149 miles in 69hr.
3-smin. The presence of cars and motor-bikes in the
present struggle, and the consequent rivalry between
them and the reliable old push-bike, will lend an
additional interest. The push-bikes will leave Ade-
laide 24 hours ahead of the motor-bikes and 30 before
the cars, and the despatch they carry will be 368
. miles away, at Coleraine, in Victoria, before the
motor-bikes start to snort in pursuit; and the motor-
bikes will be plunging through the wilderness of Coo-
rong before the ears get going. There will be 65
relays of push-bikers, over distances varying from
10 to 28 miles, according to the nature of the coun-
try • 25 motor-bike relays', varying from 27 to 72
miles in length; and four relays of cars, varying
from 201 to 374 miles. It should be a fine tussle.
* * * *
The first chapter of J. D. Williams’
Cycling Carnival unrolled itself at Sydney Sports
Ground on Saturday afternoon and evening, and saw
some excellent racing and a tragedy, by which that
sterling rider and excellent sportsman, W. Bearpark,
lost his life, Bearpark was to have taken part in
the motor-cycle handicap, and was doing a trial
spin round the track. He had whirled round at a
dizzy speed several times, and apparently he threw
the throttle of his engine wide open as he swung
into the straight. The machine wobbled, and before
one had time to think it struck the fence, bounded
off it, and came down with a crash. Bearpark,
one of the coolest men who ever rode a bike, push or
motor, was thrown down on his head, and, unfortu-
nately, he was not wearing the skull-protecting cap.
He was placed in an ambulance and hurried away to
Sydney Hospital, where he expired a few minutes
after admission. The machine was not damaged,
and was ridden to victory by S. Hillsdon later in
the evening. Curiously enough, C. S. Crouch, the
well-known amateur rider, came down at the same
spot some time ago. It is worth while examining
that part of the track carefully, to see if there is a
lurking devil about it anywhere.
The racing was good and supplied about the big-
gest crowd of close and hotly-contested finishes ever
seen in Sydney. Every single event was fought
out in the straight, amidst wild excitement. The
motor-cycle races created great enthusiasm, and augur
well for the success of .the motordrome J.D.W. is
erecting. Another event that sent the crowd wild
was the struggle between A. J. Clark and Ivor Law-
son. Lawson won the first race, but Clark downed
the ex-Yankee very decisively in the second and
third. The carnival will be continued on the after-
noon and evening of this coming Saturday.
The Automobile Club of Australia (Syd-
ney) struck a rather unusual coincidence at its
hill climbing contest at National Park on Saturday
last. Twenty-one cars competed, and yet the first
three —Leslie Pye, J. Mailliard and G. F. Hill—
were the identical men who got home last competi-
tion two years ago and in the same order. The only
variation was that last time Mr. Pye took 126.8
seconds, and this year he snorted over the same in-
cline in 104 seconds.
* * * *
The Barry-McVea scrap, at Sydney Sta-
dium on Saturday, was a marvellous exposition of
what brute force and crass stolidity can do in the
ring against even a comparative overload of science.
For 20 solid and awful rounds, Barry, of Chicago,
was banged, and jabbed, and stabbed, and walloped
by McVea; and then, at the finish, was as strong as,
if not stronger than, his dark-brown competitor. The
toughness of these Yankees who have, during the
last few seasons, kicked up the Stadium dust has
been phenomenal; and their capacity to absorb pun-
ishment almost superhuman. Of course it is easily
explained: Any man who can attain maturity on food
prepared as described in Upton Sinclair’s “Jungle” is
beyond the power of the Devil himself to hurt seri-
ously ; though it might be remarked that some of
the grimaces he pulled would have made it hard to
distinguish McVea from the Devil. For he was a
very wild man sometimes. Still, it must be ad-
mitted, there were occasions, when Barry wasn’t
raging overmuch, and Samuel was doing as he liked
with the white man’s face, and the white man
clinched, when Samuel’s face took on a most remark-
able expression, while he held his hand aloft to show
the referee he was not hanging on. It was an ex-
pression that beggars description. It reminded one
of an early Christian martyr who had been forcibly
shaven and had tar poured* over him. At the con-
clusion of the rough-up McVea assumed a wrapper of
dove grey with purple .trimmings, and took his
ovation.
Mr. Barry struck a hard snag when in-fighting was
barred. All the Yankee fighters did, but it affected
Barry more than any of the others. He seems to
be absolutely ignorant of any other method of war-
fare. His ridiculous Yankee crouch, with his legs
fully extended, made it impossible for him to avoid
MeVea’s charges. His slowness allowed the dark
man to anticipate his fearsome round and over-arm
wallops to such an extent that he usually only tried
to strike McVea once every quarter of an hour, and
then only once with each fist. His utter inability
to time his blows, his insane method of circularising
all present that he intended (d.V. and MeVea’s left
permitting) to smite Mr. McVea, made it quite un-
necessary for the dark gentleman to be in the zone
of danger when the whirlies fell, for Barry sent them
along whether McVea was there or not. On one
occasion he forgot to issue his circular, and suddenly
lashed one of them right on the dark man’s chin and
neck. Over went the tall dark man, heels over head,
to come to a standstill on his haunches. After that
JdcVea declined to take any risks; in fact, he stood
Off, even when there was no risk; and had Barry
out loose with a regular cyclone of those wild swipes,
and kept it blowing at a good speed for about 90
seconds,, he would probably have got McVea. It
was somewhere about the 10th round that Barry dis-
covered what was plain to other people from the
first, and informed his seconds he was fighting to
last the 20 rounds. If Barry was only half the
boxer McVea is, he could eat that dark man inside
of 10 rounds. Why doesn’t Barry learn to box?
AVith his tremendous strength, his abnormal ability
to endure punishment, and his crass, thick-headed
courage, he would be among the world beaters if he
could box. What is the good of a boxer "who can’t
box? He is like a capitalist without any money.
Arnst, having given hostages to fortune,
has decided to meet, Barry and rake in the shekels
while the sun of youth is strong. So last week he
wandered with his wife to Bateman’s "Hotel,'Sydney,
and made merry. &t a 'feast? tendered them
by the scullers. Mfgi-'Arni't' Was presented with a
brooch of gold and gems. On Saturday jthey de-
parted for England on the Otway, iii cdUipany With
the majority of the Australian XI, At the Steamer
Bichard' bade the weeping friends, of the cricketers
have no fear, for in the event of a wreck, he would
pull them all ashore.
George Upward, clerk assistant of the
Senate —-the broad-shouldered identity who figures in
the foreground of Nuttall’s historical picture of the
opening of the first Australian Parliament—is start-
ing this month on a holiday trip to England, and all
the good amateur athletic “sports” of Melbourne and
thereabouts are invited to join in his send-off. Up-
ward was a mighty oarsman and sculler of yore, and
has been the mentor of many a victorious crew since
he joined the staff at Parliament House. It is as
vice-president and chairman of the Vic. Rowing
Association that Tactful George will be toasted and
buttered on the 23rd at Sargent’s Cafe. There are
two Upwards before the public nowadays,, and both
of them are George. The junior is a scenic artist for
the Combine. The “boy’s” talent for picturesque
effect in the playhouse was inherited; no doubt, from
his dad, who is a master of stage business in the
political ’ theatre.
* * * *
The cable credits veteran John Roberts
with the temerity to challenge any billiardist
champion or otherwise——to play him for any sum
with any balls,' ivory or composition. The message
says nothing about a stipulation as to the number
of points to be scored in a game, but it may be
presumed that the old man would impose a limit
on the trial of endurance. He would rather play
3000 up than iB,OOO up.- Anyhow, it is a remark-
able challenge for a man who is nearly midway in
the sixties to issue to the crowd whose leading
member is 20-year-old George Gray. As an exponent
of the art of billiards John Roberts is still the most
impressive Roman of them all. He is more likely
to make a break of 100 of more in brilliant style
within any given period of a session than any oppo-
nent worthy to meet him. But his capacity for long-
sustained effort has naturally weakened of late years;
his unexpected breakdown when he is playing
with beautiful ease and touch is due doubtless to
failing eyesight, and his nerve cannot possibly be as
iron as it was of yore. Dash, skill, judgment and
resourcefulness might serve to carry the veteran
triumphantly through a series of comparatively short
distance games, with restful pauses between, but he
can hardly have a hope of lasting through a long
and strenuous struggle with Gray, Stevenson or two
or three of the next best.
* * * *
Backers of Obi, who had bad luck when
the speedy hurdler got pipped on the Thursday of
the V.R.C. meeting, recovered their money with
interest at Caulfield last Saturday. Obi, starting at
four to one, won the St. Ivilda Cup with a length
to spare. With a vigorous rider on his back the
son of Coil is a fairly good horse in second-class com-
pany on the flat.
* * * *
The Tote came out of its shell again at
Adelaide last Saturday, when it threw back to the in-
vestors on Lady Valois in the Trial Stakes £25 155.,
and solaced the people who picked the second, in the
same race, with £35 12s. for having failed to pick
the winner. Christian Moses does occasionally pay
odds equal to the tote on the winner, but up to the
present writer has never caught him paying out £ss
on a second prad.
“Hee Ivee” writes from the Sunset State:
Wren, somewhat widely known in Victoria, arrived
here recently with a cheque book and some looge
silver, and began to inquire about a suburban race-
course. Some obliging gentleman offered him one
for £70,000, but even Wren threw aside his native
modesty and kicked at that price. However, the
site was deemed by him to be a good one, and he
secured a 10 years’ lease of it. It is said that his
first offence with his new implement of evil will be
a £5OO flutter, and, according to the lines it is to
be run on, it would appear that Wren is here to aid,
abet and encourage the proprietary clubs in their
production of the sprint squib. Not 10 per cent, of the
horses racing in Westralia at present could contest a
two-mile run except under go-as you-please conditions.
This is probably accounted for by the weird fact
that there are only two events per annum on our
racing menu which touch that limit.
N.S.W. bowlers were sadly buffeted in
Tasmania, above all places. At Hobart, Southern
Tassy defeated them by 95 to 88 and 105 to 87,
while Ma scored only once with 109 to 86. At
Launceston, Northern Tasmania took the Ma Staters
and rubbed their noses in the Tamar in all three
battles. Tasmania is coming on, and the recent
phenomenal outbreak in cricket has been quite
eclipsed by this new upheaval in bowling. Is the
place waking up ?
Balmain, Sydney’s tattered suburb, re-
peated last year’s success by gathering in the
N.S.W. Rowing Association Pennant for 1911-1912.
The water-siders scored 134' points, while the nearest
competitor, Sydney, accumulated only 64, and Leich-
hardt mopped up 62. The other six were so far
away that they were quite forgotten. The Junior
Pennant passed to Leichhardt with 62 points, which
had for runner-up Enterprise, with 40. The other
seven tapered off on a descending scale, which ended
with Sydney and ’Varsity in the mud, with nary a
point between them.
Arthur B. Postle took his fill of glory and
incidentals at Auckland (M.L.), on Saturday, when
he defeated Jack Donaldson in a three-cornered chal-
lenge match. Postle won at all three distances,
skimming over the 75yds. in 7 l-ssec. ; traversing
the 150yds. in 14 l-ssee. and the 200yds. in 19sec.
In addition to the prize Postle bagged a considerable
side wager.
Some more records: Vedrines, the French
flying man, recently skimmed 94 miles in 62min.
23see. He used a monoplane, driven by 100 h.p.
engine. R. «T. Lewis, a Melbourne motorist, re-
cently drove from Sydney to Brisbane in 76 hours
gross. His actual driving time for the 700 miles
was 32 hours. Some of the stretches of road he
banged and rattled over were absolutely awful.
Judging by the state of the tracks there is a con-
spiracy between the N.S.W. and Queensland Govern-
ments to make motorists take their cars over by
railway truck.
DYSPEPSIA.
WHAT A SYDNEY WOMAN SUF-
FERED —AND HOW RELIEF
CAME FROM TAKING DII.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
There is no person more to be pitied than
the Dyspeptic, who, if he eats at all, is in
dread of the consequences, which he knows
from experience are sure to follow. When
a remedy is found to relieve the terrible
agony endured after every meal, a feeling
of gratitude only remains. Such an one is
Emily Barry, 98 Dowling Street, Surry
Hills, Sydney, who writes : —-
“I have in the past suffered the torture
of Dyspepsia and Indigestion, which lasted
for a period of eight months, during which
time I was under treatment in St. Vincent’s
Hospital, but that did very little good: I
used to gasp with pain, which I would get
between the shoulder blades, like the stab
of a knife. I would place my hands be-
hind my back to ease these pains, and keep
them there until the sinews in them would
become contracted. The sharpness of these
attacks was so dreadful that I could scarcely
breathe, and hardly walk about. At last,
seeing Dr.' Morse’s Indian Root Pills ad-
vertised, I thought I would try them. I had
not finished one bottle before I noticed an
improvement, and continued their use until
now I seem entirely free -from the trouble.
I have pleasure in recommending them to
others, and if you wish you can use this for
publication purposes.”


sf
sdf
In
HALF
SIZES
AND
THREE
FITTINGS
X
&
STYLE
COUNTS
for a good deal ;
Workmanship figures
largely ; but Fitting
Qualities are of the
utmost importance—
the direct reason of the
“Marshall” Shoes
being predominant.
BOGO”
TOE.
Patent Colt
Blucher Oxford
SHOES.
MARSHALL SHOE uV
RICHMOND, VIC.
OF ALL GOOD DEALERS.
Make^
your
own
Cigareftej
If is
twice
os good.
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BBST and VBBBST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLYTO THE AGENTS
. Jacobs Bros 255? Georije Sf Sydney
ma
High
Grade
PIANOS
sdf
J.G.lrmler
LEIPZIG
Emil Henning
STUTTGART
GebrKolski
BERLIN
Carl Hess
I DRESDEN
df
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION
— ZZS%j2Z*~
J.Htss&C?
199 CLARENCES 7
SYDNEY N SW.
andat BRISBANE.
d
Turn
This
Button,
Pen
Fills
Itself.
“THE
MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
Self-Filling PEN.
A self-filling Fountain
Pen that gives better ser-
vice and no trouble in
filling. This you will find
in the “M ODER N”
AUTOMATIC SELF-
FILLING FOUNTAIN
PEN. Simply twist end,
hold pen in ink, untwist,
and the pen fills itself.
Guaranteed against leak-
age, as there are no
joints. Made in both
plain and fancy holders
and a large assortment of
nibs. Costs no more than
the ordinary fountain pen.
Modem Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
New York.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Ryan, Lewis & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Sole Agents for
Australasia.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and Safety types.
Dealers will find our en-
tire line a profitable one.
Write for trade prices.
They will interest you.
If It Isn’t an “ A. A.” It
Isn’t a “MODERN.”
CANT
B
SEAT
RIAR
I PIPES
ytßgy
ALL SHAPES
(\f EACH POST FREE)
i Quality Not Better
in a
r Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
Storekeepers* tobacconists
SHOULD SEND TOR OUR TRADE UST
“ mHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
1 he is the. only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent
Amongst
Medical
Men.
WINFRED
CIGARETTES.
The perfect hygienic conditions under
which “Winfred” cigarettes are made,
the absolute avoidance of every form of
added matter, and the sublime quality
of the tobacco used, make them the
most healthy smoking, men can enjoy.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO COMPANY, LONDON
00 (double‘o'’)
Old Orkney Whisky.
ďf
You Need
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
If you are afflicted with Piles in any degree of severity, or
if you are subject to occasional relapses, then you should try
Murphy’s Pile Pills, the greatest of all remedies for such
troubles.
Read this letter :
“I was a sufferer from inward Pil es for six years, and during that time
had tried many so-called cures, without deriving any benefit from them. Your
Pile Pills were recommended to me. After using three boxes, I am satisfied
that they have cured me completely. I shall always be pleased to recommend
them. J. W. CLISSOLD, Woy Woy.”
Murphy’s Pile Pills are non-aperient, cap be taken with
the utmost safety, give instant relief, and effect a speedy and
permanent cure. They are sold by all leading chemists and
storekeepers. Price, 3s. per box, post free. , .
Order direct if not obtainable locally. Sole Proprietors:
ANDREW MURPHY, LTD., Dept. B, 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
MUR
PHY’S PILE PILLS.
■RIGNEY SHOES
are worn by the best-dressed men all over Australia,
and are recognised as the standard of shoe excellence
and correct style.
Our mail order Department enables us to fit you
perfectly by post.
The .Shoe illustrated is very stylish and distinc-
tive, has fine welts and perforated vamp.
22/6 and 25/-
In All
Leathers.
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Send for a Copy of our Catalogue.
ws
1
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
" The Men’s Exclusive
High*Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEOROE STREET, and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Clement-Bayard
Motor Cars.
7-h.p. 2-Cylinder, as
illustrated, with Hood,
Screen, 3 Lamps & Horn,
£240.
i
.iii.* g
i m
.-.v
rZZTS/:
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
GARAGE—UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY.
810-SHOWMEN!
) KELVIN
GENERATING SET
0
"
PURCHASE
THE KELVIN
Generating Set
and you’ll be thoroughly satisfied.
' The Kelvin is the finest Set ever made
for Permanent a.nd Travelling Showmen.
The engine can be left alone to do its
work for hours at a time. __ It is ex-
tremely simple, and unskilled labor can attend to it.
Entirely British made throughout.
Voltmeter, ammeter, switchboard, silencer, tools and spare
parts supplied complete, and the whole is enclosed in a slrong
case on trunk for removal when necessary.
■WRITE FOR FURTHER FULLER PARTICULARS.
JERDAN’S,
CINEMATOGRAPH SPECIALISTS,
393 George Street Sydney.


A. SAUNDERS
FOR
CLOCKS AND BRONZES.
Reliable, Accurate. Low-priced.
50/-
8-DAY STRIKING CLOCK, in Black Fancy
Marble Case, Enamelled Dial, Visible
Escapement, Chiming Hours and J-Hours
on Gong. Height, 12in.
12/6.
“MARE” BRONZE ORNAMENT.
Height, 8J inches.
20/-
1-DAY GILT BEDROOM CLOCK,
Handsomely Ornamented, Bold
Dial* Guaranteed. Height, 81in.
£
12
3
mm
iw
50/-
14-DAY- STRIKING CLOCK, heavily
Carved and Ornamented, Walnut Case,
Strikes Hours and Jr Hours. Height, 19in..
WE SELL MORE
CLOCKS THAN
ANY HOUSE IN
AUSTRALASIA,
AND WE
GIVE MORE
SATISFACTION
WITH THOSE
SALES THAN
ANY FIRM IN
THE WORLD.
WILL YOU SEND
US AN ORDER,
AND PROVE
OUR WORDS?
8-DAY DIAL TIMEPIECE, Accurate Time-
keeper, 12in Dial, Highly Finished Movement,
Polished Mahogany Base. Guaranteed.
WE PERSONALLY
GUARANTEE
OUR CLOCKS, OF
WHATEVER
GRADE, TO BE
ABSOLUTELY
ACCURATE, AND
OF THE FINEST
POSSIBLE
CONSTRUCTION,
AND RELIABLE
IN EVERY WAY.
EACH CLOCK
IS OILED AND
ADJUSTED BEFORE
LEAVING OUR
SHOWROOM.
. m
H
|l\
4/6.
The A. Saunders “UN-
RIVALLED” WATER-
BURY ALARM CLOCK,
Rxtra Heavy, Guaran-
teed.
BEDROOM CLOCK,
Solid Silver Mount-
ed, Fancy Dial, Ex-
cellent Timekeeper.
8 - DAY FRENCH
CARRIAGE CLOCK,
Lever Escapement,
Bold Enamel Dial,
Superior Movement.
Guaranteed.
Let Us
SEND YOU
OUR
CATALOG
OF
CLOCKS—
IT
CONTAINS
ALL OUR
LATEST,
UP-TO-DATE
DESIGNS,
AND IS
QUITE
FREE.
35/-
& DAY MARBLETTE CLOCK, Perfect Timekeeper, Chimes Hours on
Deep-toned Cathedral Gong, Halves on Bell, Richly Ornamented Case,
Bronze Mounts, Finishe d with Fancy Pillars. Guaranteed.
Will You
REMEMBER
WHEN
ORDERING
TO REMIT
EXTRA
AMOUNT
FOR
POSTAGE,
AS WE
DO NOT
PAY
CARRIAGE
ON
CLOCKS.
BRONZE FIGTJstKEI
on handsome'
Black Pedestal,.
Height, 16 in.efees'..
21/.
8-DAY MARBLETTE STRIKING CLOCK,
Strikes Hours and Halves, Perfect Movement,
Gilt Finished.
20/-
BRONZE FIGURE
on Handsome
Black Pedestal,
Height. 16 inches.
21/-
8-DAY ENAMELLED IRON CLOCK,
Chimes Hours and Halves on Rich-tone
Gong. Accurate Timekeeper. Guaranteed.
Height, lOiin.
15/6.
BRONZE ORNAMENT. Height, 9£in.
(Q
9
4
5
6
15/-
1-DAY BEDROOM ALARM CLOCK,
Walnut Case, Splendid Timekeeper.
Guaranteed.
8-DAY
Wood
10/6.
MANTEL CLOCK, Light or Dark
Case, Strikes Hours and Halves.
Height. 22 inches.
JEWELLER/
MAKER
(S
saw
i
AUNDERs
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
817, GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
C OHSULT/Afc
OPTICIAN


-
i
.
/
• ‘j
B§|J
. .
■
, '•
itSSSfc
mm
wmssu
mm
Mil
- . .
H
'
m
ii
:
'■
■
mmz
■II
<
i
•■-••■ -v v; ;• •
»:'VS (
n
v>
#
€
'■
mm m
vSjij
i >i ' ’
«R§gS2
» 1
'
■
A . I
. i
mu
i§
■imSEm
mm
* “ '
mi!
■
■
.
-
I W-:
.
:
'
lii
RL “«
•">
28
#•
US
.£
u *z?m
“
liliSi!imi!fili®llll
; : ■
_ ''•■Mr
: •■ ■ m
~i.--. ,j
g* ■' - g-g-s
*
E-AGLET ”
ALL WOOL
COMBINATIONS
are the ONLY Kind
worn by the
Dr. Mawson Expedition.
Made in Australia.


Bronchitis
stopped” bp
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
when nothing else touched
the trouble. Mrs. L. Seger-
strom, 59 Murray Street,
Pyrmont, Sydney, N.S.W.,
writes (3rd June, 1910) that
her daughter Iris, aged 3
months:
'‘Was very ill with bronchitis, and nothing
df
did her any good until I gave
her Scott’s Emulsion.
The first few doses of
Scott’s Emulsion relieved
her greatly, and in a short
time she was quite cured.
She has improved in every
way, thanks to “Scott’s”
and is gaining in weight
and strength every day. ”
Scott’s Emulsion is the
best-proved preparation of
its class for bronchitis, and
it is the only emulsion
which has a world-wide re-
putation in cases of bron-
chitis. No other emulsion
has ever received the cordial
approval of the medical and
nursing professions the
world over.
The CERTAINTY which
you get with Scott’s should
be worth many times the
price of Scott’s Emul-
sion. Therefore, don’t ask
for “ emulsion ask for
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines,
IMMEDIATE RELIEF
obtained by the use of Dr. Seheuble’s Samol, the
latest discovery for the treatment of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica, Eczema, and kindred complaints.
The following is one of hundreds of unsolicited
testimonials reoeived from people who have received
benefit from the use of this new treatment: —
York Road, Beecroft, Vic., June 7, 1911.
“Dear Sir, —My husband had suffered with sciatica
for over 18 weeks, and had been under Doctor’s
treatment, but got no relief. I was looking at the
paper and saw your advertisement of ‘Samol’ being
good for Sciatica, and I sent and got a tube. The
first application gave relief and sleep, which he had
not had for 18 ; weeks.
“I have recomended it to four different friends o.
mine, and they all found it a great benefit to them.
“(Signed) (Mrs.) S. A. BOWERMAN.”
Samol is sold in tubes, price Is. 6d., 3s. 9d., and
65., and can be ordered through any chemist or ob-
tained direct from the wholesale agent, H. A. God-
dard, No, 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street,
Brisbane; or branches: 194 Vickery's Chambers, 82
Pitt Street, Svdney ; 9 to 15 Stock Exchange Build-
ings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Build-
ings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Build-
ings, Wellesley Street East, Auckland.
sdf
MAKE YOUR GAS
when you want it. Air
gas has all convenience
of city gas, but is far
more brilliant, heal-
thier, safer and
cheaper. Best for
lighting, heating and
cooking. Little at-
tention, Ea s y to
manage. Write for lit-
erature of BRANDT’S
ATMOSLITE AUTO-
MATIC SAFETY
AIR GAS MACHINE.
Call and see us at
the R. A. Show.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
AIR GAS EXPERTS,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Carter’s
ITTLc
IVER
PILLS
Constipation
Vanishes For Ever
Prompt Relief Permanent Cure.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
never fail. Purely vegetable—act
Burelv but gently on the liver. Stop
after-dinner distress—cure indigestion
—improve the complexion—brighten
the eyes.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS
MACHINES
Produce an Absolutely
Perfect Light.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels and Billiard Saloons.
The following are some of the users:
NEW SOUTH WALES RAIL-
WAYS AND PUBLIC
WORKS DEPARTMENTS.
MR. L. A. DANCAR, N.S.W
MR. D. COPLAND, N.S.W.
MR. J. LONERACAN, N.S.W.
MR. DAVID F. GIBB, N.S.W.
Messrs. ALFRED SHAW,
LTD., Q’LAND.
NESTLE & ANCLO-SWISS
C.M. CO. FACTORY, Q.
Messrs. MCDONALD BROS.,
Q’LAND,
MR. A. N. MACKAY, Q’LAND.
VICTORIAN RAILWAY DE-
PARTMENTS.
SIR JOHN MADDEN, VIC
sd
fs
dfs
df
COMMONWEALTH H 0 M E
AFFA RS DEPARTMENT,
VIC.
SIR RUPERT CLARKE, VIC.
MR. H. ALAN CURRIE, VIC.
MR. H. W. GRIMWADE, VIC.
MR. CORDON CHIRNSIDE,
VIC.
MR. ERNEST AUSTIN, VIC.
MAJOR C. CAMPBELL, VIC.
Messrs. CHAS. ATKINS &
CO., S.A.
MR. M. S. HAWKER, S.A.
MR. McKENZIE GRANT,
W.A.
MR. J. E. THOMPSON, W.A.
Messrs. STANFORD &
JOHNSON, W.A.
Messrs, HERLEY BROS,
W.A.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with
best results.
No OFFENSIVE ODOR. NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Cost —one-quarter that of acetylene, with one-tenth the Rouble.
CAN BE LSED WITH UPRIGHT OR INVERTED BURNERS.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MAunUM-
simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
For Further Particulars and Catalogues apply to DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
SYDNEY : Hannams, Ltd.
MELBOURNE : Philips (EE PiKe.
ADELAIDE s Chas. AtHins <£E Co- Ltd.
PERTH : AlcocK (SL Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE s E. Rich (SL Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON s W. Reid (SL Co., Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
GT D C" ET Colored and Artistic
I 8" It EZ. EZ. Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at 6d.
per paclcet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. Wo take all the risk. 'You
can return the cards if not sold. Ws have no connection with
df
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer, he the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126
ST., SYDNEY.
ABERDEEN
You can buy with confidence when
you see this brand on a horse or cattle
rug; in fact, if you are a man to insist
on getting good value, you will ash for
ABERDEEN brand. The best material
is put into them, and the workmanship
the same standard we have supplied for
Sts
■c
ro many years.
Rugs on horses mean better work with less fodder.
Rugs on cows —more milk of richer quality.
Smith, Copeland & Co., Ltd.
204-6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS vIcTOR , A . j Bartram & Son, King: Street, MELBOURNE
QUEENSLAND: H. i. H. Ross, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
S. AUSTRALIA: C. Whiting, Currie Street, ADELAIDE
TASMANIA: Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, HOBART.
WEST AUSTRALIA: A. Bulharry, PERTH.
m
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER 801/ND-BELLOWS.
Music, as you like it>,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument Ihe
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect.
MELBA now charms many a home—one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW .
The Test Tells The Tale.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
ALLAN & CO.
SOLE AGENTS ' ~~ "
Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St„ Melbourne. Bendigojiml Geelong_
CAPILL
%
©
Improve Your Youthful Appearance.
feel Jo? could”‘‘do d bet b tlr” "a you'MU*® l
“CAPILTjARINE” is a wonderful hair food—will produce
some moustache in a surprisingly little time.
Has a 30-years successful reputation back 01 it.
PRICE 10IG JAR. Post Free Anywhere.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER-worn
make your Moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 Post rr
CRAIG g AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
r
J
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A ’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in j and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
Red Light: There’s a dwt. or so of gold
in your stuff; but why bury it in so much mul-
lock? G.F.: Thanks; but canY take any verses
which are not guaranteed original... .W.R.: We
know nothing to his discredit. .. . J.R.A.: A Song
was cast out after a good deal of hesitation and a
slab of deep thought Kedcot: Too verbose; and,
anyhow, it has all been written over and over again.
. ...Meiosis: If you didn’t claim for it, it is your
own fault if you didn t get paid. Two thousand
times the B. has told contributors to cut out or
otherwise identify the par or article, specify date
and page, and send to the accountant, who will do
the rest One in Trouble: 4 Market-street, Syd-
ney G.R.G.: Can’t supply the name Sidonia:
Unsuitable J. Cowan: The sort of story that be-
gins, “It’s your turn to pitch a yarn, Bill,” is in-
variably the sort of story that should end there. . . .
D. Day (Tas.) : “Margery Daw” printed on “Red
Page,” November 2, 1911. Author, Daniel H.
Holmes, “Under a Fool’s Cap,” ISB4, reprinted by
Mosher, of Maine, U.S.A., in Bibelot senes
Jake H.: Burnt the terrace gladly Trucauines:
Write to the Defence Department Mallet: (1)
The fact that the Brisbane waitresses were, as you
say, “the first to down forks and go out in sympathy
with the strikers,” or that the Broken Ilill wait-
resses “went solidly on strike,” doesn’t impress this
paper as being a sign of vast intelligence in the
female; (2) neither does the alleged fact that “the
average girl talks of ‘our blanky boss.’ ”. .. .A.J.8.:
Don’t remember seeing it. If it was a paragraph
the old rule applies—cannot undertake to reply....
J.F.: Haven’t been able to ask T. Land if he re-
members you because (1) we have not met him;
(2) we wouldn’t know him if we did.... Mac: The
work of the Selection Committee is to select only.
Any action of the sort you mention would be taken,
not by the Selection Committee, but by the Board of
Control, which would then instruct the Selection
Committee to fill the vacancies. .. .J.S.M.: You
make an unsuccessful attempt to rhyme “one” with
“tome” ; still your speech is clear, and the poem
did not irritate us like some smooth and hazy ex-
ariiples read a few minutes previously. You at least
started off with a definite idea, and tried to express
it in as few verses as possible. The practised writer
often has eight stanzas completed before he remem-
bers that he was set going by observing a fair-
headed girl scrambling into a tram, and that the
purpose of the poem is to christen her Mary, tell
her she has the loveliest ankles and hair in the
world, and gently intimate that she has the right
sort of bosom to make a pillow for a poet.... Quid-
nunc : The worm has turned before and brandished
his pen to better purpose. Crawl on. ...A.H.H.:
Unsuitable... .R.J.K.: First attempts are rarely
successful —unless they are first attempts at being
dead. Poetry, being an intricate crime, requires
experience. .. .A.A.H.: The local bench wouldn’t be-
lieve you—or her. The arresting constable wouldn’t
talk about the joy of the surf or the delightful
weather, but simply testify, as follows: “Whin I
seen thim on tli’ beach, yer Worship, th’ female
defindint had her head on his shoulder and her two
arrums round him, an’ he was kissin’ her.”....11.
Kee: Verse of no particular value. .. .J.P.M.: Board
of Control jingle has the same interest as a rock
drawing. . . .Dick O’F.: Sorry can’t admit either. .. .
Margon: Sincere commonplace rhymes roughly pieced
together. .. .Whyte M.: If it’s a sharp axe, bring it
along, and we’il give you a job cutting w00d....
J.H.H.: The theme requires smarter handling....
G. : It isn’t the right sort of stuff, and we wouldn’t
print it even if we had your sworn affidavit that it
was original. .. .Giro: “I am making another attempt
to attract your attention. I don’t know how Eng-
lish and French go together, but believe that the
accent is fairly correct.” Follows a dreadful jerky
jumble in two languages. You’ve attracted our atten-
tion. Thanks for the warning. . . .E.W. (W.) : This
batch is p00r.... Saphead: To tell a simple tale you
have used every bit of the dictionary but the covers
and the illustrations... .Worester : You sent a
stamped addressed envelope, so it will be duly taken
back to you by a weary postman. Often wonder
how many postmen are getting sore feet tramping
round delivering similar stuff. It is a shocking
waste of feet R.S.P.: Wait a few years
Sefton: Poems received. Advise you to at once burn
all traces. Might be as well to change your lodgings
and adopt a suitable disguise. • If anyone asks you
anything, say you know nothing... .E.E.M.: Keep
on getting your hair cut. .. . J.H.8.: Wooden lines
with the rhymes firmly nailed on at the far end....
Russell B.: There will be no collection Goose-
Step: You will have to storm the basket to get it
back.... Hals: Not sufficient skill... .Adele: N 0....
H. : Old Sydney recollections not sufficient interest.
Blacksmith story better, but no use to us J.F.H.:
Doesn’t quite make port... .R.E.P.: Don’t try to
write verse any more....H. O’K.: A few extracts.:
“The doctor sat toying with an ivory-paper-knife.”
“Sobs of bitter anguish shook his whole frame.”
“The pampered beauty sought her_ fashionable mamma ,
in indignation.” Where was Papa? The ab-
sence of Papa and his Early Victorian whiskers is
a bitter disappointment.... Ruby: Sorry can’t use
it John C.: All unsuitable Bis: Ramshackle
bellowdrama.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
E.M.S.: Draw your pictures about three or six or
nine times larger to allow for reduction Charles
H.: The Durbar business is finished and buried and
forgotten and quite dead. •. .T.E.G.: The picture
isn’t much and the joke is less... .C.W.D.: None of
them struck gold or even silver. All too rough
D.H.: The cadger—who is only a medium quality
cadger, anyhow—is making a very hackneyed state-
ment. So 'is the girl with the hat that looks like a
vulture.... The Teacher: Barring the complete lack
of any redeeming feature there is nothing wrong
with, the picture R.W.T.: Looking at the sketch
dispassionately we should say (1) that it is a mighty
tall building; (2) the man who is falling has a
long way to go; and (3) he will hit the ground
pretty hard when he arrives. But it doesn’t require
a picture to elucidate these points.... Bancks: The
long arm of coincidence got them and cast them
into, the pit of oblivion W. Shaw: The “sufferings
suffrage” joke requires a long rest.... Mrs. A. O’L.:
Draw on Bristol board rather than flimsy paper.
Don’t double up your picture. And try to. get some
idea which doesn’t simply amount to a vision of
two people with a printed memorandum below setting
forth that one is making a remark to the other....
Grebert : We will overlook your pictures this time,
but if you do it again the Office Thug will be sent
after y0u.... R. Treleaven: It cost us 4d. for defi-
cient postage. The story ends there.
“Umhlatuzi” (from S’Afriea) :
In case the owner of £2 11s. 4d. or any other
large lump of capital should be driven out of Aus-
tralia by Socialistic legislation, and, being thus
driven out, should seek refuge in Africa, let me
draw his attention to a bilingual circular just posted
at all the Union’s railway stations. This notice sets
out that, on account of a shortage of colored labor,
special inducements are being offered to white men,
! “between the ages of 18 and 40, of good character
and physically lit,” to join the railway service. The
special inducements consist mainly of a revised rate
of pay, which for the Cape Province runs as follows:
First month, 3s. per day; next six months, 3s. 6d.;
next six months, 45.; thereafter, 4s. 6d. Men who
have reached the dizzy height of 4s. 6d. may be
utilised as leading hands.” Four whole days a year
are allowed as holidays on full pay, and if there
are quarters available thfe hands —who are under-
stand that they are graded as “temporary —may
nig in them. You will observe from these rates, etc.,
how amply justified the Chowth African war was,
and how wonderfully prosperous the subsequent im-
nortation of Ling Fat and Belt Hard has left the
country. Also, you will notice how advantageous
i it is to the white working-man to have a large black
i population to help in what is called thedevelopment
1 of the country. Here we usually call it the devil-
! mont” of the country.


Letters from Bibendum to a Self-made
Motorist.
IV.
df
Bi, Fulham Road,
London, S.W.
January 24th, 1912.
My dear Miles,—At the present moment your place is at
the business end of a moral toasting fork ; and for sound
reasons I’m just going to keep you well down on the coal-
glow for a goodish bit.
You see, I’ve never yet been convinced by the application
df
of any of the ordinary
amateur stage-direc-
tions for simulating
righteous indignation;
and even when a
fellow starts in on me
in a well modulated
silver - clarion - with-a-
cold-in-it voice—one
in which you can hear
“ Tve never yet been convinced” the tear-drops splash-
ing on his soft palate-like you have done, I naturally begin
to nose for signs of decay, all the same.
That is just why I have been sniffing round that “rotten
badly-built spare cover ” yarn you have been slopping such
a lot of bluff-juice over. And let me say, right here, that a
bad argument is like a dead rat under the flooring : the more
it is dwelt on, the easier it is to locate.
The mist ike you made was sending the King’s Evidence
Tight along and letting it talk for itself.
Your sending me that cover reminds me of the unsuccess-
ful bid William Anstruther Ronald Thorold Young—
•commonly known as Warty from his initials made to
regain the confidence of the Vicar of Loam-
well. When Warty was about twelve he
developed a keen interest in taking care of
any unconsidered trifles he could find lying
round loose in people’s gardens and back
yards. But in the still watches of one
murky night, he extended his operations to
the Vicar’s vegetable garden, and, next
morning, sold to that gentleman’s cook half
William
Ajistruther
Ronald
Thor old
Young.
a barrow load of fresh young potatoes.
That was where he came to grief. The Vicar’s gardener
was old and deaf ; but Warty must have calculated he was
blind and dumb as well. Anyhow the Vicar obtained the
permission of Warty’s widowed ma and demonstrated to
Warty that there was a strong cane that had no turning. For
three months thereafter Warty was so good that he began to
illustrate the fact that, for him at least, the straight and
narrow path was just about the widest thing in turnpikes
on the survey. Then he won the Sunday School prize
for an essay on Honesty. Next day the Vicar stopped
him and shook hands. Warty was carrying a bag. “A
splendid essay, my boy,” said the dear old Vicar, “and I
am sure you wrote it ,so well because the error of your
former ways has really struck home to you.” “Yes, Sir,
said Warty, with a little break in his pure young treble.
“ Ah, yes,” went on the Vicar, beaming kindly at his little
4.A
M
NX
“ A splendid essay my boy," said the dear old Vicar.
friend; “and you’re taking something home to Mother?”
“Yes, sir,” said Warty, “a nice vegetable marrow, sir. ’
And the Vicar would have felt no breath of suspicion if at
that moment some passing ducks had not quacked. The
game was up when the nice vegetable marrow in the bag
quacked back.
Spare the duck and spoil the yarn was Warty’s trouble.
Your trouble is that you ducked the spare and spoilt the
yarn just the same. You can’t side-step it ; every stain
round that burst is a double-bass quack to the effect that
you have left that cover out in the wet for weeks. The
soakage has gone right through ; which is another proof
of your utter carelessness ; and altogether I think you had
better start in, right now, to get sense.
Perhaps it will help you to know that that cover never
would have burst suddenly if you had kept it dry all the
time, and away from the light and air in a waterproof
wrapper. And here’s another bit of elementary informa-
tion for your guidance : If you store spare covers in a
damp atmosphere they will perish. Leave them in their
original wrappers ; keep them off the floor ; and see that
your garage is dry. Also, when you get home after a wet
run, don’t make a break for that bath and change, until
you have seen to it that your tyres have been lightly sponged
over and carefully dried. On this point, I might mention
in passing, some folks reckon they know more than their
daddy, and just let be on the dirt and the wet. But it’s
not what a man thinks he knows, it’s what he knows counts
and counts as money saved when it comes to drying
covers and filling up their surface cuts.
Your sincere friend,
(28)
BIBENDUM.
MICHELIN TYRES
toe obtained from all the leading Garages.
wi
l-Hoa.
« ”
One Koh-i-noor
outlasts six
ordinary pencils
and does better
work all the time
It’s a real pleasure to use a
“ Koh-i-noor” Pencil —such a
velvety touch it has, so durable
it is. Some people don t trou-
ble about the make of Pencil
they buy, which is a mistake.
Is it not worth while specifying
“ Koh-i-noor ” and thus secure
a Pencil which writes smoothly
from beginning to end, does
not break, and outlasts six
ordinary Pencils ? Be wise—
get a “ Koh-i-noor ” next time
you buy a Pencil.
In 17 degrees and Copying.
Also “ Koh-i-noor ” Propelling
Pencils for the Pocket.
Of Stationers, &c„ everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
KOH-I-NOOR HOUSE, LONDON, ENCLAND.
Millars’ Karri S Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Sotply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts o£ the world.
CARBIDE.
For First=Class
Results use
Best
PF'“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
m Compound -
I A safe and reliable remedyV
I for treating diseases of At-L
I mucous membranes, such as
discharges from the nose,throat
| stomach and urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself '* .
with each bottle
mailed on request. I
Evans Chemical
Cincinnati, Ohio
" U.S.A.
df
Superior to
INJECTIONS
[CUBEBS and
COPAIBA,
r Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
df
Each Capsule bears the name
JlycqL
When you say Disinfectant —
it is just as easy to say
“HYCOL”
and it means also that you i
will have the SAFEST, /
MOST RELIABLE in JL
the world. It is non- Pm
poisonous also, and 18 times
stronger than carbolic.
Agents:
N.S.W. Agents:
POTTS & CO.,
163 George St.,
Sydney.
THE H9STPSWERFUL
DISINFECTANT-
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
##o
m
Improved Bellows and fasteners
ouKjjujoog
m
h '! (! 4 4 t (i//'<
SS
wimim
Each “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection ;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend—
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is. of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size.
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT (Si SON, 137-9 King Street,
Sydney.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics ic the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L*o'U*l*S
CASTRATION EASY'
Our Emasculator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years. IMF-EASY TO USE.
451
Post Free Anywhere.
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
df
SHARPE & SHARPE
1 18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.


Scratched Until Blood Flowed from
Sores. Worse in Bed. Used
Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
Improvement from the First,
Now Completely Cured.
“A terrible rash broke out all over my
arms and legs. The spots came out about
the size of the points of pins and I suffered
sd
very much particularly after
I went to bed. I was re-
luctantly forced to scratch
my arms and legs until the
blood flowed from the sores.
I took all sorts of medicine
but without avail and I also
consulted a doctor. He sent
me two boxes of ointment
and told me to rub the oint-
ment well into Jhe parts
affected before going to bed.
I did as directed but instead
of getting relief I only got worse.
“The rash was always increasing but it
only affected my arms and legs. I used to
feel worse after getting warm in bed, so much
so that I dreaded going to bed at all. Never
shall I forget the pain I endured all along.
I would scratch the very flesh off as well as
the skin. I wrote to a friend about it and he
sent me a box of ointment, but it did no good.
I read about the Cuticura Remedies in the
paper and I decided to give them a trial at
any cost. I got two cakes of Cuticura Soap
and one box of Cuticura Ointment and began
using them as directed. From the first there
was an improvement and in about three
months’ time I was completely cured and am
now able to sleep quite soundly." (Signed)
J. E. Staunton, Carnacon, Ballyglass, Co.
Mayo, Ireland, April 15, 1911.
For more than a generation Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment have afforded the
speediest and most economical treatment for
skin and scalp humours, of young and old.
A single set is often sufficient. Cuticura Soap
and Ointment are sold throughout the world,
but to those who have suffered much, lost
hope and are without faith in any treatment,
a liberal sample of Cuticura Ointment with
32-p. booklet on skin troubles will be mailed
free, on application. Address R. Towns &
Co., Dept. 26K, Sydney, N. S. W.
fsd
J
MEN
AND WOMEN
In middle life can avoid
lhat most disquieting
sign of age—grey hair
—by using
Dr. B. Allen’s u.s.a. Mexican
Walnut Stain ( Registered )
which imparts a natural colour, light
brown, dark brown, or black, and does
not Injure the hair, but makes It soft and
glossy. It Is a perfect, cleanly and harm-
less stain, washable and lasting. Being
one liquid it Is most easy to apply. It
has no odour or stickiness, and does not
tsoll the pillow.
Solo by All Chemists.
The Initial Cost of
‘SWAAf
Fountpen
is trifling: compared with the life-
long satisfaction it affords. One
can’t use a “Swan” and after-
wards dispense with it.
Sold by all Stationers & Jewellers.
INSIST ON A "SWAN.”
Catalogue free from Makers.
MABIE, TODD 8 CO. (London),
or JAS. A. BURKE (w o h „tT le
15 Waltham Buildings,
24 Bond St., Sydney, N.S.W. [2
f
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped:—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
sdf
44 Castlereagh Street, SIDNEY,
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
“ The Queen
OF
M°
ll in
flfi s
Table Waters.*
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable from All Chemists.
"1
THE DREAD
OP FOOD
GIVES PLACE TO
GOOD APPETITE
AND GOOD DIGESTION
WHEN YOU TAKE
The dread of food—because of the pains that follow, the dull
weight in your stomach, the windy pressure round your heart—
is a natural consequence of indigestion. This all-too-common
complaint consumes your strength, wastes away your tissues
and breaks down your nerves. Thousands of people are worn
out, weary, weak and disheartened by the ravages of indigestion
and its kindred complaints, biliousness and constipation. When
that is your condition, don’t despair, for you can certainly be
cured by Mother Seigel’s Syrup. It has cured more people of
stomach and liver troubles, pains after eating, loss of appetite,
headaches, biliousness and constipation than any other medical
preparation that is before the public. Test it yourself!
THE DIGESTIVE TONIC
Mr. J. Higgins, 18, Atherton Street, Fitzroy, Vic., says:—“l
had headaches, was very costive, and suffered from terrible pains
in the stomach after eating. I could only take a little of the
lightest nourishment, and even that was frequently rejected. I
lost all my strength, decreased very much in weight, and I had
to give up work.
“After giving ordinary medicines a fair trial, I had to give
them up. I then began a course of Mother Seigel’s Syrup. After
taking only three bottles of the Syrup I was back to my work
a well man. I was cured, and have kept well ever since.”
MOTHER
SEIGEL'S SYRUP
IT CURES INDIGESTION!
TAKE IT DAILY . AFTER MEALS.
POEHL’S SPERMIN ESSENCE.
SPERMINUM is the natural source of health and vital strength
isolated and purified from organic bases. In the form of the
Essence, Spermin acts as a Reviver of Vital Energy, and
so stimulates healthy body juices which resist disease and retard vital
decline. Nervous Breakdown, Fatigue from Overwork, and
Mental and Physical Exhaustion, brought about by Over-
indulgence in Athletics will find a corrective in Poehl’s Spermin
Essence. It is of special Curative Value in all Disorders of the
Blood, the Nerves, and the Heart.
Sold in Original Bottles under the War ranty of the Organo-Tberapeutlc
Institute of Professor Von Poehl & Sons.
LITERATURE SENT ON APPLICATION TO STOCKHOLDERS
C. H. SMITH & Co., ROCKE TOMPSITT & Co.
22, King William Street, ADELAIDE. MELBOURNE.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY.
F. H. FAULDING & Co., 313, Murray Street, PERTH, W.A.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
tfhlcrvT*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the oough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like afcharm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Vi
BIO2A
Benger’s is the most easily
digested of all foods.
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
asd
for Infants, Invalids, and the Aged, enjoys the
universal recommendation of Medical men in all
cases of severe or temporary illness, and during
convalescence.
ood
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester,
England.
Bengtr’s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, tie., evcrywhtre.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Fair and Forty”: Re The Bulletin's statement
(29/2/’l2) that the Life Assurance cos. do not know
of any 100 year-olds on their books. The big American
cos. assume that everybody is dead at 96. Thus, an
aged policy-holder in the Mutual Life of New York —
one Daniels—reached 96 last year. As he was officially
dead, he applied for his money, and the co. paid in
full.
* * * *
“The Hack”: I chanced on a new kind of compe-
tition the other day—bed-making. It was at a big
Melbourne lodging-house, which nightly provides
beds for about a thousand Wearies. Each bed-maker
is expected to “make” 60 beds an hour. Some
former employees (now dead) are alleged to have
been able to “make” more; but they were the aristo-
crats or boskers of the profession. Anyone who can’t
make at least 45 beds an hour after a week’s practice
is accounted a duffer, and is expected to return to
the Law or something easy—and a heap better paid.
* * * *
“Pick”: If any Ma Stater has an indisputable right
to curse his luck freely, and incidentally drop in an
extra-blistering anathema for the benefit of those
who defeated the Referenda proposals on the plea
that no combines existed in Ma State, they are the
South Coast fishermen. The fish trade ring holds
such a grip on the business that no distant supplier
has any chance of dealing in the metropolitan mar-
kets except through its agents, who supply the neces-
sary cases and ice for packing. The fisher knows
pretty well what the Sydney, consumer has to pay
for the meat of; the sea, but in his wildest dreams
he never imagines himself getting half that much,
and he can kick if he likes and he hanged! If he
kicks too hard the agents will ignore his application
for cases and ice, and he may then sit down and
watch his boats and nets rot. This, however, is only
part of his luck. Ostensibly for the want of decent
harbor accommodation, but really for the want of
decent opposition, the steamboat service is irregular
and uncertain. The fishermen expect some casual
old trough to call in at schedule time, and they
toil mightily to get their consignment ready for
shipment; but if the boat has got lost, or tipped
up, or run out of firewood for the engines, their
fish have to remain boxed up in the sun, until the
hum wakes the wharfman, who then boots them
overboard. So the lakes and inlets are often use-
lessly depleted of fish, the fisher at the wet end of
the job, and the consumer at the dry one, are both
snookered, and the fellow who smiles is the Dago
middleman, because the market isn’t glutted and
that is good for “de beez.”
* * * *
Someone has discovered another use for Australia’s
old, reliable blue gum. This time it is its paper-
making qualities, and a co., with a capital of a
quarter of a million, has been formed to pursue the
expected dividends, with Tassy as the probable start-
ing point. The demand for wood pulp suitable for
paper manufacture is eternally on the increase, and
dubious looks have already been ca(st on the sources
of, supply, but if the new scheme is successful, even
Randolph Bedford should have no further anxiety for
a year or two that he might yet have to write his
stories on slate, or scratch his verses on corrugated
iron with a bradawl.
* * * *
“Quidam”: If you live in a country town and
begin running bills, they are liable to get away from
you, and the end is vexation of spirit and sum-
monses. On the other hand, if you pay cash, you
“ ave to pay Just the same prices as if you tick things
up. The average farmer would fall stone-dead re-
peatedly if requested to pay for anything before next.
harvest, and the storekeeper has to allow for all this
m his prices; so the man who pays a credit price in
cash is an ass, and is laying out his money in a. most
uncommercial way. This is where genius comes in.
Once you’ve established confidence in a country town,
a particularly easy matter to do, tick up everything
you buy, but at the same time put the price of it in
the Savings Bank. Allow the account to stand over
until the pillar of trade and commerce begins to
attach pained memos, to the account rendered, “fear-
ing that • you have overlooked the matter”-—-which
means that you’ve let it stand over about a year.
Then draw the amount out of the financial edifice
where it is reposing, and pay the pillar with a dig-
nified expression, which gives him the idea that he
has foolishly offended a valuable customer. He will
then offer you a cigar. It may be a very bad one,
but to be seen smoking it is a guarantee that you
have paid a bill, and has a moral effect on other trades-
men, who know the smell of their rivals’ weeds. By
this brilliant system all you have to do is to buy
enough things, and you can live on the interest of
what you owe, practically the most ideal method of
existence yet introduced to this mundane sphere.
My bitterest regret is that in my callow days I have
been fool enough to pay cash whenever I had it. The
only alleviating circumstance is that I have thereby
missed smoking a lot of cheap cigars.
A COMPLAINT OP WINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Guthrie deprecated our Australian vin-
tages masquerading under borrowed names, and ad-
vocated distinctive local description. —Press item.
The pleasant juices of the South,
That in the crystal leap or dream,
Between the bottle and the mouth
In red or amber gleam.
Above the vines the lightnings fork,
The splendid suns arise and set;
The music of the popping cork
Is balm for old Regret.
Ye drain the draught, the light is shed,
A tang upon the tongue remains,
The sunrise rushes to the head,,
The moontide to the veins.
Young Bacchus, ivy-crowned, goes by,
The wonder wakes. on land and sea,
The gladdened moments learn to fly
On feet of witchery.
Or long or short the bottles stand,
And this is “port”' and that “champagne”—
New vintage with the elder brand
Of France or sunny Spain.
Mock port, mock sherry, mock champagne,
Mock everything that Europe grows—
The South Australian Aquitaine
With ruddy “claret” glows.
Young Bacchus ivy-clad goes by,
And, warmer than the suns of France,
The young glad splendors of the sky
On glowing vineyards glance.
New suns, new skies, a wider air,
New vintage foaming in the press
A new world’s vintage that must wear
An old world’s faded dregs.
Above the vines the lightnings fork,
The splendid summers rise and set;
What reck ye so ye draw the cork.
And find the liquid wet?
The inspiration of the grape,
Within your torpid souls aflame,
Fails of its force to bid you shape
For new delight a name.
Or long or short the bottles stand,
And this is “sherry,” that' is “hock”—
Glad juices of a younger land,
The old-world labels mock.
N.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


The Delights of Photography
are Available to All!
p
HSUS!
Kodak simplicity is what makes the delights of photography aval -
able to all. Simplicity that renders the dark-room unnecessary, that
makes photography a genuine pastime instead of a laboisome dru ge, a
makes the securing of good pictures a hundred per cent, surer and easier
than by old-time dark-room methods.
These Folding Pocket Kodak Cameras are suitable for both begin-
ners and experts
No. 3, for 3Xitv. x in. Pictures. £3/12/6
No. 3a, for s><in.x 3Xin. Pictures, £4/101-
No. 4, for sin. x 4in. Pictures, £4/10/-
Excellent in design and construction. Great favorites with discrimin-
ating photographers.' Fitted with rapid rectilinear Jens, working at f/8,
and Kodak' Automatic Shutter, and Focussing Catch. Provided w,th
rising and falling front, reversible finder, tripod screws.
There are Brownie Cameras as cheap as 55., and Kodak Cameras
from 265. up —no excuse now for a home without the home pictures. Write
for our Catalogue; or, better still, let us show you how simple and inex-
pensive Kodakery has become.
“|F IT ISN’T AN EASTMAN, IT ISN’T
KODAK!”
DAK
(Australasia)
Incorporating Baker & Rouse
Prop. Ltd.
(Sole Agents for THE GAUMONT CO., LTD.,
Cinematograph Experts),
379 George St., Sydney.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba.
.. The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide. 78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. « Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
m
; v
li
HK
g
=® : i
m
K
~ Vl l »'il i
*
■■
m
HPHf
m
87
“ To-day any man is
foolhardy who penalises
himself with the handicap
of inferior clothes. ”
Condonised
Tailoring' brings the
Best in Tailored-to-Order
ClotbeS to good dressers everywhere
a t prices universally economical.
The London Tailoring: Service is a Service of Certainties. It guarantees
you all those niceties of Fabric, Fit and Finish which you aim for and
pay for.
Its obligation is to place before you in your home the finest of the
world's fabrics, and, from the material of your choice, to tailor to your
individual requirements a Suit of newest style—a Suit that will follow
and fit your every body line —a Suit that must please you in ev~ry
respect, or there is no sale.
Writs for Patterns of 63/- Suits to order, Measurement Forms, and our latest Catalogue.
Opposite
the G.P.0.,
Melbourne
Vffdmeh&teS
LIMITED
Opposite
the G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Also at FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and at GHAPEL ST. EIT, PHAHRAN.
F. S. MEYERS, Manager.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Wireless installed.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l AVilliam Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
d. Tons.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
on Country Lands, for 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS from 4 to 5 per cent,
on City and Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
jjank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of [)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . .. .. .. 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THF,
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Ivt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. , . .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up ... .. .. 413,588 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 106,000 0 0
] nternrinable Inscribed -Deposit Stock 3jQ91,669 4 5
\ UND’KR' GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors : JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F.
LORD, Esq. ; GEO. EDW. BUNNING, Esq.
General Manager —AY. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scot'and, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping:.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord Deutscher L/loyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN <fc CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & GO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston — 4 4 WEEKLY WORRIES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
Ail Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
♦Calls Hobart. b New Triple-screw Turbine.
a Third Class only. c Omits Capetown.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London . . From £45. £l6 Os. t0.£20 Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available -for outward passage
by Orient Line--,£llo (First-class each way) ;
£B2 (Second-class Orient). ;
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ďsf
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
April 11.
AFftIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 8.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
June 6.
PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. .. 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
\ Cruises to the
(South (Seas.
Interesting tours to Volcanic and Coral Islands
of the Pacific.
Calm Seas and splendid Scenery; a complete
change, affording unrivalled opportunities of view-
ing the native inhabitants in complete safety in
their semi-barbarous state.
Cruises can be taken, occupying from 22 days
upwards, visiting from two to 120 ports or
Islands.
Saloon Fares from under 10s. per day upwards.
Send for our Illustrated Pamphlet.
d
BURNS, PHILP * CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
Established
1817.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital -
Reserve Fund - - - -
Reserve Liability -
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lit.,
£3,000,000
£2,025,000
£3,000,000
£8,025,000
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclcellar, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq.; Shepheard Edgeeliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 335 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 2, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United
Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South
America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
. £1,500,000
. 1,500,000
. 1,500,000
Capital Paid-up .
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital .
£4,500,000
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. . . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. It. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Piniiey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane."
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£532,984 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 159,987 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
£769,471 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial (Ijutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Service.
To Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
By the Up-to-date Steamships
“KANOWNA ” ... 7000 tons
“ LEVUKA ” ... 6500 tons
“ WYREEMA ” ... 6500 tons
“WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
And other well-known Steamers fitted with all
conveniences for the comfort of passengers.
Tickets interchangeable with other Inter-State
Companies.
Also First-Class Return. Tickets to Melbourne, Ade-
laide and Brisbane available for return journey by
Rail under certain conditions.
For Dates of failing see Daily Papers.
Further information- on application to—
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
The METROPOLITAN
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
AN AUSTRALIAN OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALIAN INSURERS.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
— CORSETS“
Made in Canada for Ladies
who seek a better figure.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
S.S. Kyarra (7000 tons),
April 13 and May 11.
Wireless Telegraphy.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North bo Oairns.
S.S. Grantala, March 23.
S.S. Marloo, March 30.
S.S. Wollowra, April 6.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALHItEH” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SNIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.— H. S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
Twin-Screw Steamer
ARGYLLSHIRE.
12,300 Tons. CAPTAIN CHICKEN.
Will be despatched from: —
BRISBANE .. MARCH 20
SYDNEY .. APRIL 2
MELBOURNE APRIL 6
HOBART .. APRIL 14
ADELAIDE .. APRIL 19
Carries Saloon Passengers Only.
State Room and Saloon are situated on Upper
Deck amidships, Dining. Saloon, Smoke Rooms and
Lounge situated on Upper Deck. Doctor and Ste-
wardess carried. Wireless Telegraphy. Electric
Light throughout.
FARES, Single .. £4O to £45.
Return . . £6B to £76 10s.
From Brisbane, £2 extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply
to:—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney.
TURNBULL MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., PROP.,
LTD., Melbourne.
JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS’,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITER
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, '
And All Ports,
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
MAGNIFICENT MODERN STZAMSHIPS,
s.s. “COOMA,” s.s. “BOMBALA,” s.s. “ PEREGRINE.’
MELBOURNE-QUEENSLAND SERVICE.
These Steamers run to the following itinerary—
Melbourne depart Wednesday
Sydney arrive Friday
Sydney depart Saturday
Brisbane arrive Monday
Brisbane depart Tuesday
Keppel Bay arrive and-depart Wednesday
Mackay arrive and depart Thursday
Townsville arrive Friday
CAIRNS (Passengers and Cargo) tranship to T.S.S.
MOURILYAN (1350 tons), which steamer also
takes passengers and cargo for other Ports be-
tween. Townsville, Cairns and Port Douglas.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND WEST AUSTRALIA
’■ SERVICE.
Large Passenger and Cargo Steamers leave Sydney
and Melbourne regularly each month for Adelaide,
Albany and Fremantle, transhipping for other S -L.
and W.A. Ports.
FOR FARES, TIMETABLES AND ALL
PARTICULARS, APPLY—
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY, LIMITED,
Branches all Ports.
THE Australian -Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6<l.


Hotels, &c.
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
I? £ ffl?
lohe HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modem
Conveniences. Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Table. JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
IN view of your visit
to LONDON, obtain
and retain the Tariff
Booklet of the HOTEL
CECIL.
It is free for the ask-
ing, and presents by il-
lustration and description
an excellent idea of the
Hotel’s luxurious interior,
its imposing exterior,
and contains much useful
information concerning
the Metropolis, places of
interest, cab fares, etc.
It is of handy size for the
pocket, and gives the
Cecil’s Fixed Tariff Charges
whereby you can gauge to a
shilling beforehand the cost
of a brief or prolonged visit.
It will, in fact, enable you
to make a preliminary ac-
quaintance with
London’s Greatest Hotel.
Cablegrams—CECELlA,
LONDON.
timm
mm
.dSSSSSm
Wk
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 *>- 101-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Pree.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand. Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tun Bulletin.]" [5
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGARS
TRIAL
OA4/Y\,
Almost everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar smoking popular irr Australia.
My “FREE CIGARS” TRIAL is this:
I’ll send you 100 of any of the following Cigars,
and you can smoke five or six of them. If you
then are not satisfied, send the remainder back,
and I’ll refund your money in full, without any
charge for those you’ve smoked.
IMPERIALS ... 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6 „
DIADEMAS ... 22/6 „
GRAN BOUQUETS ,20/6 „
INFANTAS ... 17/6 „
LEVUCAS 15/6 '
Remit amount when ordering, and state
color (strength) you desire.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
Illustrated descriptive booklet will be
mailed free to any address.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
1IAM), The National Monthly. Trice, 6U.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the proeuss of initial development, Queensland
oilers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
HTO SAY THE LEAST, when the food particles
. are brushed from the
teeth their opportunity for mischief ends. But
that opportunity becomes slight indeed when the
teeth receive a regular antiseptic cleansing with
Sold by
local Chemists
and Stores.
4
oti
MS
o
Made by
F. C. Calvert & Co. t
Manchester, Eng.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
niigji £eo7yzlY
o
&diubmy/L
EASILY PROVED .
To try
NS
“King George IV*
WhtisKy
once is all that is needed to ensure its con-
tinuance —that is a certainty. Connoisseurs
proclaim it “pure, exhilarating and beneficial.”
It is the Whisky of Whiskies.
ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
THE TJISTILLERS ¥ TD,
largest Scotch Whisky Capital employed, ™
Distillers in the World. over .£3,000,000.
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
Sy4»ey—Angel Place; Melbourne—sa, William Street.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO BK
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
CONTKNTS—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/6; Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s
Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4; Wrestling Instructor, with 60 Photographic
Illustrations, 1/9; Bag Punching, lOd. ; ltoad Map of Victoria, 1/1; Sign,
Carriage and Decorative Painting, ‘2/6 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks,
illustrated, 6d. ; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in
Australia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1 /I;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1 ; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Light Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ llow Old Mose Counted the Eggs” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Soekery Set a lien” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1 ; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 ; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/0, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish
nrw Jokes and Witty Savings, 9d.; Complete
ANY tiUun Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/;
YOU WANT. Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s
Mention The Bulletin. Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
cmLoouE s 201 Bourke St., Melbourne
IF YOU EIHE A PERFECT SHAVE!
PRICE. 10/6, Post Free.
We Guarantee every “ Plum ” we sell for Two Years.
SEND FOR OUR ILUUSTIIATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG <£L AITKEN,
If you like a clean, smooth, safe, perfect shave,
the famous C. & A. “Plum” Razor will just suit you.
It’s easy to strop to a beautifully keen edge that
will cut the stiffest stubble without the slightest
feeling of dragging or pulling. The “Plum” is a
grand little razor !
Being practical hairdressers we know exactly how
to put it in excellent trim. We send it out in good
order and keep it in good condition for two years, free
of charge.
The 0.& A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache, Worn at
night; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/6.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/..
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
T
r
'KV.
WSi
. 5 MhEn
mm
m
*■
BREWED FROM
WAITED BARtEY
■
m Wri
■
/- ;~
TSmfy »«» *<r -*<?#•'«•
iVtij-iV’v •;
\
'
smsMS®,
@H./asiPi©*Nis
UNi
R
ďf
“PYROID” FOR GREY HAIR
DR. GRIFFITHS “PYROID,” latest London Com-
pound of Walnut Stain and English ,Oak Nuts, one
solution. Three separate shades—Dark, Mid-Brown
and Light Brown. Captured Australian market ,
avoid obsolete preparations. Stocked by every Whole-
sale Druggist in Australia. Retail from all Chemists
and Stores. Also, ARIBIS CELEBRATED EGYP-
TIAN HENNA FOR GREY HAlR—sold everywhere.
The’Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road. London, Env.
TO CAPITALISTS and
MINING INVESTORS.
Tine Very Best Tin
Dredging' Proposition
in Australia.
Present Owners not able to place Dredges
on ground. Lease 300 acres, containing
highly payable stream tin in clean loose
gravel. No overburden or large boulders.
Abundance of water at all seasons. Dis-
tance from good port only eight miles.
Full particulars apply:
ROBERT H. MILLS,
A.M.P. Chambers, BRISBANE.
New Records
for the ED ISON
Phonograph
The April issue of Edison Amberol
and Standard Records will be on
sale at all dealers on the 21st inst.
Such favorite artists as Edward
Favor, Ada Jones, Billy Murray,
Florrie Forde, Harry Lauder, Anna
Chandler, Billy Williams, Elizabeth
Spencer and Peter Dawson are among
the contributors.
Call at the nearest Edison dealer’s
on your way home, and ask him to
play over some of these records for
you. You’ll be sure to want to add
"some of them to your collection. If
you do not know the address of a
dealer, write us and we will tell you
that of the nearest, and also send the
latest lists.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
(Wholesale Only) Dept. 8.,
364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


Missing Friends.
RE PATRICK HASSETT DECEASED.
MARTIN HASSETT, son of Patrick
Hassett, late of Sutherland's, in Vic-
toria, Farmer, deceased, will hear of some-
thing to his advantage by communicating
with the undersigned.
Anyone who can give any information
concerning the said MARTIN HASSETT
is requested to write to the undersigned.
H. W. DUNKLEY,
Solicitor, St. Arnaud, Victoria.
WILLIAM DOCKREE WILSON.—His sister, Sarah
Jane Wilson, of 2 Highwood Road, Holloway,
London, England, formerly of Sussex Road, Holloway,
aforesaid, would be pleased to hear from him or to re-
ceive information from anyone respecting his where-
abouts. Other papers please copy.
JAMES. Charlie dead. Write
sister, E. WILSONCROFT, 30 Clare-
mont Avenue, Malvern, Victoria.
EYBURN McLEAN, formerly '
GRENFELL, address required by
F. CROMMELIN,
Solicitor, Grenfell.
Legal Notices.
Re ARTHUR WINSER, presumed deceased
riIHE abovenamed, ARTHUR WINSER,
JL who left England for Sydney, New
South Wales, at the end of 1875 or begin-
ning of 1876, was in or near Bathurst, New
South Wales, in 1892, and is believed to
have gone up country.
Anyone able to give any information as
to his whereabouts since the month of Feb-
ruary, 1892, or as to his death, or as to any
wife or child of, or any Will made by the
said Arthur Winser, is requested to com-
municate with the Solicitor named below.
The said Arthur Winser is entitled to
certain property, and an application to the
Probate Court in England is contemplated,
with a view to distributing his estate among
his known next of kin.
FRANK GEAREY,
5 Verulam Buildings,
Grays Inn, London England.
Venetian
Whipcord Trousers
13/11 Post Free.
These Whipcord Trousers wear like wire.
Every pair is cut separately, that’s why they
are so shapely. We make them for ordinary
walking or for riding. The seams are stoutly'
sewn and the material is Finney-like Quality.
Price, 13/11. Samples of material sent on
application. Mention whether for Riding or
Walking "when ordering.
FINNEY’S,
THE HOUSE OF QUALITY FOR MEN,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
Roosevelt is small potatoes as a big-game
hunter now. Two Queenslanders, the Curr
brothers of Abingdon Downs and Inkerman
stations, last year spent four months in
East Africa, where they bagged 17 lions, 40
hartbeeste, 21 zebras, and a whole truck
load of etceteras down through leopards,
hogs and giraffes.
“Jack” : I don’t want to be a policeman
in Queensland. When gathering names for
the electoral rolls, I’d be certain of being
accused by Fat of pursuing the Laborite to
the bitter end of the last beer in order to
rope him in, and of displaying a violent
desire to let the man with a stake in the
country look after his own vote or lose it.
And, during a strike, I’d be just as sure of
being mauled by the strike leaders and called
one of Cahill’s “Cossacks,” a “base, brutal
1 atoner,” and a “licensed assassin.” The
police, however, don’t seem to bear malice,
though,' as three-fourths of them at the very
least are good Laborites, it seems dead fool-
ish to aim mud their way. However, that
has been the habit all through this foolish
business, which has done a ton of injury
to Labor’s friends for every lb. it has done
its enemies.
Certificate, signed by all the residents of a
Queensland district, and handed to the de-
parting oldest inhabitant the other day:—
As Mr. Luke Pipe has decided to take his departure
for England, we, the undersigned residents of the
Bushley district, feel that we cannot lose such a
highly esteemed and respected resident without ex-
pressing our sincere sorrow and regret, and we have
much pleasure in giving him these few lines as a
reference to show to those with whom he may come in
contact that he is a perfect gentleman. Mr. Pipe
has been a valued resident of the Bushley district
for over 40 years, during which time he has been the
most prosperous farmer in the district. His good
qualities ’we all admit are unlimited. His
knowledge of farming is also unlimited, and for many
years he was the champion farmer of Central
Queensland and won first and special prizes for all
kinds of farm produce at the Rockhampton Agricul-
tural Society’s show. Asa fruitgrower he has also
taken a leading part, he being the only person in
the district that can grow apples successfully. He
is possessed of a wonderful secret concerning fruit
trees, which we hoped that he would at some time
have made known to us; but, unfortunately for us,
he is taking the secret with him. Asa weather
prophet he has no equal in the district, and this
gift is a great advantage in this country, especially
to the farmers. We hand this reference to Mr. Pipe,
feeling confident that he deserves all the eulogy
herein contained, and we sincerely hope and pray
that he may live many years and enjoy both health
and happiness.
If the Queensland Labor party wants to
commit suicide at next month’s State elec-
tion, one aid to that end will be the putting
up of Coyne and some of his dreadful col-
leagues as candidates. To do so is to asso-
ciate the party definitely with the insane
General Strike policy—the policy which
penalises union employers for the benefit of
non-union ones. It means a general en-
dorsement of the conduct of -4jhe tffb,culent
madmen who lately declared war against
friends and foes alike, against all industry,
and against the State at large, over a very
small question which was even then before
the Arbitration Court and in process of set-
tlement. The policy of the strike leaders
was that Labor should be the general enemy
—the anarchist and outlaw and mad dog of
society. And unless that policy is repudi-
ated, the party is likely to have a steep road
to travel for a long while to come.
Besides landing Brisbane workers in
grievous trouble and failure, the Queensland
strike leaders have pulled Premier Denham
out of the biggest hole of his long career.
Digby D. had promised to hold a special
session in April, to deal with the rejected
Liquor Bill. The Liquor Trade was arm-
ing for a big election fight, and the Wowser
was furbishing his cannon and calling out his
legions, and the multitude of his brolly was
like the reflection of the stars on the Sea of
Galilee. Now, so much has the wondrous
General Strike obliterated all other consid-
erations, Denham is able to drop the prom-
ised April session and the agonising Liquor
Bill, and go straight to the country. His
plea that it is necessary to drag the Par-
liamentary strike leaders before their con-
stituents at once is accepted on all sides,
and no Wowser shakes a gamp at Denham,
nor does one Bung throw a pint-pot at his
head.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
John Wilson passed out at Rockhampton,
the other day, and so the diminishing group
that saw that city in its beginnings has one
the fewer. Wilson arrived in ’65, and
worked and grew old, while a deal of town
property grew valuable. He came to the
scene of action in the Empress of the Seas,
with 490 others, and 32 died on the 91-days
voyage, mainly from “insufficiency of food.”
In other words, they died from a pain in
the place where the dinner ought to be.
J. W. Blair, one of Ipswich’s members,
who tore himself away from the Ividston
Government because he couldn’t get a wig
which he declared was promised him to put
on his youthful brow, lias returned to the
fold. He will henceforth chase the elusive
voter in the Government interest. Blair was
at one time- Attorney-General in the days
when George Kerr and Peter Airey flourish-
ed as Ministers of State.
Strike-leader Harry Coyne told a Too-
woomba-meeting that the Strike Committee
deserved credit, “the entire credit,” for pro-
viding the food supply and maintaining peace
and order during the strike. Amid the gen-
eral confusion it will soon be necessary to
appoint a Parliamentary committee to find
out if it wasn’t the farmers who really
struck against Coyne, and if Coyne’s army
prevented Denham from closing the port of
Brisbane against Badger’s steamers. The
present position seems to be that Coyne’s
forces didn’t strike and establish a sort of
blockade; rather they worked overtime to
earn food and gave it away for unspecified
reasons to parties unknown.
NOT RESPONSIBLE.
INDIGNANT CUSTOMER: “ This suit you sold me is no good. The rain makes it
shrink dreadfully .”
C HEN: “ Vell, mine friendl, if you vos not have sense enough to come in oud of der
vet whose fault vos it?”
“F. 8.”: A recent Bulletin par remarked
that Queensland once well-nigh became a
Chinese province. Dr. Lang, in “Freedom
and Independence” (published 1852) stated
that 1000 Chinese were imported into More-
ton Bay alone, and that “that district has
contributed not less than £13,000 for the
importation of foreigners through the hein-
ous policy of the Colonial Office.” The Fat
Crowd dumped the first shipload of Chinese
into N.S.W. in 1848, and Brisbane received
a sample two years later. Within a few
years of the opening of the Palmer rush
there were 20,000 Chows in the district
back of Cooktown, and the police had a
picnic in suppressing a kind of civil war
that broke out between Celestials hailing
from different districts. Yes, the “Chinese
province” was well nigh a fact in the ’7o’s
of the lately-pegged-out century.
“Saith the Koran.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From the Sons of Islam true,
Saith the Koran, it is due
(And in following out this precept they must faint
not)
That the likeness of the beast,
From the greatest to the least,
They shall carve it not in stone, and they shall
paint not.
For on Adam’s sons of old
Fell a madness manifold,
And a fear that struck them trembling all and
craven;
And they bowed them in the shade
To the things their hands had made,
And were worshippers of pictured things and graven.
And whoe’er shall fall from grace,
And portray the breathing face,
Or in stone cut out the living form and feature,
He shall bide in Eblis dark,
Till he lend the living spark
To the stone that he hath carven as a creature.
Dear Reformer, brother mine,
In your planning fair and fine,
Keep the rainbows in the back of your recital,
Or the folk in sudden fire
May demand that you inspire,
In the puppets of your dreaming something vital!
And in case your golden skies
Do not promptly realise,
And they find your pictured glories but a vision,
They will damn your life and work,
And condemn you (like the Turk
Does his Koran-breaking artists) to perdition.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 16, 1912.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The local representaiive of the Amal-
gamated Society of Tame Governors has
been pursuing his onerous duties in his usual
determined and uncompromising manner
since last I wrote the last Epistle of Jane to
the Sydonians. He attended the Warwick
Show and expressed his sub-regal -apprecia-
tion of the four-legged horse and the 10-
gallon cow; he returned and was re-elected
Chancellor of the University without a
struggle; and on Monday he braves the
yellow pup at St. Patrick’s jamboree. His
health shows no ill-effects and his spirits
are excellent.
Ex-Mayoress Diddams was the guest of
honor at a hen convention tea at the Cafd
Majestic last Wednesday. Before she
could escape, a necklet of pearls, diamonds
and aquamarines was thrust upon her,
while a bangle for little daughter Eileen
was thrown in as ballast. Mesdames
Crase and Hetherington, both ex-mayoral
dames, made the usual few well-chosen re-
marks, and the fervid applause drew a tear-
drop to the recipient’s eye-lash. Leon Ber-
liner and Alma Y|ullen served the music,
and if any votes of censure were passed I
didn’t hear of them.
On Tuesday, dark-haired Bessie Morrisett
meekly promised to obey one Syd Baynes,
who is a son of Harry Baynes and brother
of Mrs. M. Edwards, of this city. The
bride was caparisoned in the usual satin and
lace, and enveloped in a veil that has
already done much blushful service, having
been worn by seven various brides. The
first of these was Mrs. Walker, mother of
Mrs. Espie Dods, the present owner. Judge
Chubb, in his capacity as uncle, handed over
the dutiful Bessie, and Nina Walker and
Yaux Baynes were towers of strength to
the principals. The honeymoon will shine
in the sky above Southport.
News of another engagement enlivens the
dulness of our afternoon-tea tables. This
time the feminine half is handsome Marion
Darvall, who has been holidaying in the
Boonah district, and the victim of her charms
is one Matthew Wilkinson, a nephew of the
late Bishop Hale. He is a pastoralist by
trade.
The Demosthenes bore Englandward Doris
and Blanche Philp, who will be joined at
Melbourne by their political parent. A. B.
Overell, his pretty wife, and his fascinating
sister, Cherie, were also included in the
manifest of the ship that is named after
the eloquent Greek, now deceased.
Emmie Powell, late of the Telegraph,
who is shortly to wed Editor McKinnon, of
the Darling Downs Gazette, is approach-
ing her new state through a labyrinth of
tea-parties and kindred dissipations. Old
Girls of Brisbane High School waylaid her
the other day and handed out a silver rose
bowl (which her husband will no doubt
use as an ash tray or match holder). On
Thursday, Mrs. A. Moon, arrayed in silk
and lovely lace, flung open the hospitable
doors of Conon, and entertained the lady’s
friends at a d’oyley tea, which was one of
the most charming in the memory of the
oldest Pekoe inebriate. Roses were every-
where, even on the tiny name cards that
marked the place of each guest, and rose-
leaf and confetti showers were signs of the
times.
The races to-day were quiet. Miss Celia
Cooper gave a tea-party on the verandah of
the stand, and Mrs. Real, daughter Kath-
leen and Phil Forrest were among the in-
vited.
Mr. and Mrs. Orchard extended the hand
of welcome to bowlers and their feminine
appurtenances at the New Farm rinks to-
day. The hostess, who was draped in
black satin and a short blue coat, provided
an inspiring advertisement of the benefits
of the hospital treatment which she recently
underwent.
Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Macartney, of the
Darling Downs, are amongst the travel-
weary folk who have lately chaperoned lug-
gage in foreign parts. They have travellers’
tales to tell, especially about Ireland and
the struggles of their fellow-tourists to kiss
the blarney stone.
Yours, with forebodings of the winter,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Still they come! Another coal-king in
embryo is W. H. Robertson who has tapped
6ft. of a coal seam at Stanley (C.Q.). The
distance from Rockhampton is 95 miles,
which makes it the closest seam to that city,
so if the newspaper gush is even half true,
things generally are expected to boom like
a Badger. Robertson manages a bank, by
the way, but has a hobby for coal-stuff as
his father of Porbanlea (Burrum) did be-
fore him. Naturally “it is splendid steam-
ing coal, no clinker, and 82 per cent, of
fixed carbon,” is only two miles from the
railway, and everything about it is just
lovely.
“Waliala” from a remote part:—
Mention is made ((B. 30/11/T1) of the acci-
dental discovery at Mackay of a cannon, alleged to be
one of the number jettisoned by Captain Cook when
the Endeavor tripped over a reef near Cape Tribula-
tion, ’way back in 1770. The chances are that
Cook never saw that gun. About 1890, a monument
was erected in Cooktown, near the site where Cook
repaired the Endeavor, and the matter of searching
the reefs for the jettisoned guns and things was
then brought forward by Captain W. E. Armit, who
was editing the Courier at the time. A good deal
of discussion arose over the matter, and finally Armit
went in command of a vessel and made a thorough
search of the reefs around Cape Tribulation, but
neither guns nor any other ironware could he find.
Armit was of the opinion (and no man was more
competent to give one on this subject) that the
growth of coral since the cannon were jettisoned—
over 120 years ago—had been sufficient to completely
cover up all traces of them, and, taking this fact
into consideration, the writer feels doubtful if the
cannon at Mackay can be one of Cook’s. Dozens
of vessels have been lost in Torres Straits and
thereabouts, and it was common for vessels of any
size in the ’6o’s or ’7o’s to carry a few cannon for
signalling purposes.


47
V
0'
Q
Y.K
A
m
V
n
r /«
//
-H i ff^MML
U
Bom *B3o—
Going
Strong
Every year since 1820
has cut a new figure.
df
It has taken ninety patient
years of unbroken family
management to build up the
Johnnie Walker reputation.
One bad bottle of Johnnie
Walker would cost you a few
shillings. It would cost us
part of that dear-bought reputation. That is why
we maintain the largest ageing reserve of pure
Malt Scotch Whisky, and so watch every bottle
every step of the way that we can guarantee
Johnnie Walker “ same quality throughout the
world.”
Every
bottle
bears
this
label
GUARANTEED SAME QUALITY
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
JJmy7?a£/?e^Kfo™
IN SQUARE BOTTLES.
Obtainable wherever good Whisky is sold.
TOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.
J Au d at SYDNEY and MELBOURNE


w
sdf
Rifles, Shotguns'and Cartridges
THE RED W BRAND
There is such an intimate relation between a gun
and its cartridges that neither will shoot well if there
is any defect in either. The cartridges must be
uniform in size and shooting strength no less than
the gun must be accurate and reliable. The combi-
nation of Winchester guns and cartridges seems best
to fulfill these requirements. And why should not
this be so ? for Winchester guns and cartridges are
made in the same factory and tested together. Win-
chester Repeating and Single Shot Rifles and Repeat-
ing Shotguns are made for all kinds of shooting, and
Winchester Cartridges for all makes of shotguns, rifles
and pistols. Get the celebrated Winchester make.
For Sale by All Dealers.
GUN AMD CARTRIDGE FACTORIES OF WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO.
ssssm
m
:-r<
■
: prsfjjoiragp --wpa^Bißi
Pf
spffj
X l ' :,i; 'i
:- k i
-
sSite
?>
" ■:' ;■
•;rJV '&@F?
s*:*> .4*
df
df
df
Whether you pay a shilling or a guinea
for a razor, you are at constant expense
for new blades unless you buy an
Ado^rop
feSzoß
the only razor that strops itself.
Because this razor strops itself the blades last indefinitely,
and you save constant expense for renewals. That is
of importance to the poor man ; what is of importance to
every man, rich or poor, is that the stropped blade is
always sharp, and gives a better shave than is possible
with an unstropped blade.
Because there is nothing to adjust, there is nothing to go
wrong ; because there is nothing to unscrew or take apart,
there is a great of time and temper.
If you use an Auto Strop it takes only half the time to
strop the blade and clean the razor than merely to change
the blade in an ordinary “no-stropping” safety.
Standard Set.—AutoStrop
Safety Razor, one dozen
Blades, Horsehide Strop,
complete in case,
as illustrated. 22/6
At all high-class dealers
throughout the world.
AllUX'StropSafely Razor Go. Ltd., 61, New Oxford St., London. W.C.
Slip the Strop through the Razoß.
to
PM
i
Let the Razor Strop Itself.
mam
NEW WATCH BRACELETS
AT
STEWART DAWSON’S.
There is no article of personal adornment so useful as a good
Watch Bracelet. It not only adds an elegant touch to your costume,
but you make use of it frequently during each day. Use and Beauty
combined.
We manufacture our own goods; we import direct from our Hat-
ton Garden Centre; we sell our own goods direct to the public. This
means that you pay only one profit.
No. JBl2o—Oct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with Fine Quality
LEVER WATCH,
£6/10/-
df
mww.wi-iwii
No. J74B2—9ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 15ct. GOLD
f-plate LEVER WATCH,
£7/7/-
No. C 5995 —15ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 18et. GOLD,
High Grade, Full Jewel-
led Lever Movement,
£l7/10/-
oO
53
fX&MXB
Wahdws
%
S
8
No. J7SGs—Oct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with Fine Quality
Full Jewelled WATCH,
a Reliable Timekeeper,
£5/10/-
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. JSll7—Oct. GOLD
EXPANDING WATCH
BRACELET, with Full
Jewelled Lever Move-
ment, £B.
f' 03 k O
r-i
jo-
Sk: co '- y y
/X-- to
v 'T .
m
t-.
00.-;
No. J 7724 —15c:t. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 18ct. GOLD,
Full Jewelled LEVER
WATCH, £l4/10/-
No. J 773 3—Oct. GOLD
and ENAMEL Full Jew-
elled LEVER WATCH,
with Leather Strap, £4.
Hi
vO*
a
LADY’S GOLD BRACE-
LET WATCH, in 15ct.
Gold Case, £7/7/-
In 18ct. Gold Case, Half
Hunting Design, £ll/10/-
Otlier Styles, from
£6/10/-
"THE TREASURE HOUSE.”
Stewart Dawson & Co.
WE ALWAYS
PAY THE
POSTAGE.
(Australia) Limited,
- Strand Corner,=
412 George Street, Sydney.
WRITE FOR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.


THE CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
CHALMERS 20-30
Acknowledge
no Competitor.
MODELS.
20-30 2-Seater.
20-30 Pony
Tonneau.
20-30 Touring Car
WE GUARANTEE SERVICE.
This time last year the “CHALMERS” CAR was unknown to Australia.
To-day there are 92 running, all sold within 12 months. ~
Eighty per cent, of these Cars have gone to Country Clients, because the Car
is now recognised throughout New South Wales as the most suitable Car 01
Stock and Station Agents, Hotelkeeper and Squatter, and the Run About tor the
You ask : Explain how it is the “CHALMERS” is acknowledged as the best Cai
for Country Work?—Because they are high-powered, light, yet strongly built, and
cost very little for upkeep. , .. , ~ v
Refer to anv of our Clients with respect to upkeep, and they will tell you how
they get from 6000 miles to 8000 miles on their tyres, and average 25 miles to
the gallon of petrol. Ask them what their repair bill has been. We know their
anSW These facts justify the “CHALMERS” in being named the Champion Country
Car.
Let us post you a 1912 Catalogue. , . . , ..
New Shipment of 1912 model “CHALMERS” Cars due this week on the Stai
of Australia.”
“EMPIRE” Run-abouts, 20 h.p., four cylinders, three speeds, forward
and reverse. “ GRAMM ” WAGGONS in Stock.
ROY W. SANDFORD.
Solo Agent for
Australia,
181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY; 105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE.
I
DINNEFORDS,
MAGNESIA-
DINNEFORD'S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
dd
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
/
lt*G
* CROWN >
6
it
;/6 Watch
In comparison with its price, than in any other watch in the World,
stands alone as the CHEAP WATCH OF QUALITY.
CROWN 6/6, ECLIPSE 8/6, JUNIOR 10/6, MIDGET 10/6.
But remember! there’s no two ways about h—lngersoll must be on
the dial of the watch you buy, if you want to GET YOUR MONEY S
WORTH.
The Jewelled Trenton Watch offers the same security and saving to the buyer in
that the Ingersoll does in the low-priced class. Prices from 30/-
upwards 1 ? 6 If you hale any difficulty in obtaining an ingersoll or Trenton Watch, wnte
us for name of nearest dealer.
Robt. H. Ingersoll & Bro., 73 L York Street, Sydney.
Get your Money’s
Worth.
When you buy a {.5
Watch you make sure
that it bears the name
of a responsible maker.
Why, then, are you
not just as particular
when you pay only 6/6?
You need not thro-w
your money away.
There is more quality
and durability in a
Guaranteed
m
0
Is the most perfect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING ■«
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
IF
M. BEETHAM & SON. CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
ftREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
V.--
Wholesale :
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and givingToneand
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
, skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairvvorker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
HIMRODS
. .. ■ * '
CIVES INSTANT RELIEF.^
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the bene-
fits he received Irom HIMRODS
ASTHMA POWDER, and every
post brings similar letters to-day.
I
m
TAILOR-MADE
COSTUMES
We have a very
large stock of Serges
and Tweeds, and
particularly stylish
cloths, in a wide
range of the latest
patterns; and invite
a visit of inspection.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
Ride
sdf
BICYCLE
m
I
m
'Ft
VA
m
N
£
m
s.
■a
H
///
•TV
ft
si*s
a
Perfect in every Part.
ts chief features are
SILENCE
EASY RUNNING
PICKS UP QUICKLY
POWERFUL ON HILLS
INTERCHANGEABILITY
EXTREME FLEXIBILITY
Write now for Catalogue
and address of Agent to:
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Represer' ing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS.
MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY NORPERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of Genuine B.S.A. Parts, with EADIE Two-Speed
Coaster Hub. Free Wheel on both gears- Back-
pedalling and Front-rim Brake and Dunlop lyres.
As ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £*\2 10S.
Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Valuable alike Se Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
tv.o ‘AllonVufrvs’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel, etc. and is
Invalids and .he Aged. Being largely ptedigested ..is
Lsy of ass Son! A cup of .he* ? Allenburys’ Die. is useful in .he forenoon be.«een meal .
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants.
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
ď d
STS


Government Notice.
Department of the Treasury,
4th March, 1912.
A PPLICATIONS wH be received up to 15th
April, 1912, by the Secretary, Department of the
Treasury, Melbourne, from persons qualified for ap-
pointment to the position of AUSTRALIAN NOTE
PRINTER.
Applicants must be capable of taking complete
charge of printing currency notes for Australia from
steel plates. Original dies will be manufactured in
London, but working plates will be required to be
made by the Printer in Australia.
A thorough knowledge of bank note printing, pro-
cess of preparing working plates and machinery re-
quired for printing is essential.
Salary: £BOO per annum. Five years’ engagement
guaranteed.
ANDREW FISHER,
Treasurer.
Business Announcements,
[GENUINE DUTCH BULBS]
AWAY
TO*
I Now is the Time for Planting Narcissus, Jon-
quils, Crocus, Tulips, Hyacinths. Ranunculus,
Iris, Galanthus, Scillas, Oxalis. An assorted
Dozen for 3/6, we pay carriage, and with each
I hrder present free One Wonderful Arum
Cornutum Bulb (Gigantic Lily), that grows!
without soil or water. Placed on a shelf it pro-
duces an immense crimson flower. Blooms
twice yearly Directions for bulb growing
sent with each order. Obla.irxa.kle only /rom.
The Union Co„ 299 Elizabeth St., Mclb.
REAL CALABASH PIPE for 3s.
đ ď
'T'HE most fashionable and
popular Pipe, push-in
vulcanite stem, fire-proof
bowl lined with meerschaum
clay, the best and cool* st smoke,
Half the usual price, Only a small
stock and no more to be had at this
figure, therefore you should order at once from
The Union Manufacturing Go
299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
*
(THE WONDER AIR IPLANTI
d đ
Absorbs moisture from the air, needs no soil, no
water, no care. Lovely feathery fronds keep
beautifully fresh and green. Only l/3 each,
Two for 2/-, securely packed in basket ready
to hang up ; we pay carriage. Suspended any-
t where out of the direct sunlight it preserves its
charmingly fresh and green appearance for
years, the feathery fronds expanding in damp
weather and glistening with dew Obtainable only from
iTlxo Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
NOTICED the recent increase in the bulk of
The Lone Hand? Of course, it is the
advertisers who are primarily to blame. They
will rush it. But it enables the proprietors to
gi ve more reading matter for the same price—
Sixpence.
Amusements.
IYRIC AND COLONIAL THEATRES,
“■ Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the
Rage of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre:
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are
the Rage,
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants. ;
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LIMITED.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Wm. H. Bell, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial
Theatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tralasia. In fact, we supply more shows with pictures
than any other three, (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the We do not represent any
one firm of photo, play manufacturers, but we repre-
sent all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth ; Courier Buildings, Brisbane ;
Wellington, New Zealand; London, England;
Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING.
MR. WJ.LLIAM ANDERSON presents
WALTER BAKER and FRANCES ROSS
in a New, Realistic Dramatic Version of
Marcus Clarke’s grim story of the Convict System,
FOR THE TERM OF
HIS NATURAL LIRE.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
N
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
PIUNCE CHARLES BOOM.
THE ALMOST MAN.
HERBERT CLIFTON, with the £lOOO voice.
MR. C., MAUDE COURTNEY, O’DELL and HART,
TOM LEE, DAVE O’TOOLE, and btln-rs.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, Si DNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
SING A SONG OF QUAKKRS,
' THEATRE FULL OF LAUGHS.
ROYAL COMfO OPERA COMPANY
in the Musical Story of Sentjjnelnß'
TBJi GIIIL.
4,. BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
H E A T RE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE GREAT DRAMATIC SPECTACLE.
EVERY WOMAN.
Presented with a Powerful Company, headed by
HILDA SPONGr AS EYERYWOMAN.
PLAN AT PALING’S. PRICES AS USUAL.
A DELPHI THEATRE. SYDN E Y.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
GEORGE MARLOW’S DRAMATIC COMBINATION
iri the Sensational and Dramatic Object Play,
THE NIGHT SIDE OF LONDON.
4 The Greatest H uman Drama of the Age.
Popular Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
U HEBEVEK you see a bear with a Contl-
V nent on his back, think of THE LONE
AND. Its swag is a'Conlinent.
Amusements.
JHE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCEB’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
QLYMPIA AND GEACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No extra Fee).
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES, 3d., 6d., Is.
yy IRTH BROS., SYDNEY.
GREATEST ~~SIUO W O N
EARTH.
ALL NEW COMPANY.
BELMORE MARKETS,
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
Doors Open at 7 p.m. Entrance, Pitt Street.
£2OOO POLAR BEAR ACT.
PRICES ; 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Booked Seats, 1/- extra.
Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEES SATURDAYS AND WEDNESDAYS
AND ALL HOLIDAYS.
LARGE ZOO OPEN FROM 4 to 5 p. m. DAILY
FEEDING THE ANIMALS.
ADMISSION .. .. ADULTS, 1/-; CHILDREN, 6d.
XH IB I T lON BUILDING
(PRINCE ALFRED PARK).
Director: BEAUMONT SMITH.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
TINY T O W N.
THE ONLY MIDGET CIRC'US IN THE WORLD.
RESERVED ENCLOSURE, 3s.
SECOND SEATS, 2s. ;
THIRD SECTION, ONE SHILLING.
CHILDREN, HALF-PRICE EVERYWHEfeIfe.
IC HARD S’ TIVOL T~ T HEAT R E.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
THE GREAT RINALDO, the Wandering Violinist.
FRED POPLAR, Celebrated Character Comedian.
KITTY WAGER, London’s Brilliant Soubrette.
THE TOSSING TESTROS, Marvellous Jugglers.
MISS IRENE MILLAR, England’s Retined Comedienne.
WILLIE GARDNER, America’s Champion Skate Dancer.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling's.
PEIt A HOUSE, MEEBO U R N E.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
HAYMAN & FRANK!.IN, Hebrew Impersonators.
JACK HELLER, Acrobatic Dancer.
TERRY & LAMBERT, Character Impersonators.
EMERSON & BALDWIN, Club Juggling Comedians.
HERBERT RULE, Comedian. CARLTON MAX.
CASSELLI SISTERS, Song and Dance Artists.
WALKER & STRUM, Racket Jugglers, Comiques.
PASTOR & MERLE, Eccentric Dancers and Tumblers.
WILSON HALLETT, Mimic and Comedian,
Plan at Allan’s. $y PRICES —35., 25., Is.
-|T HEATKE MELBOURNE.
FOR EIGHT MORE NIGHTS ONLY.
THE HOUSE OE
TEMPERL E Y.
Sir A. Conan Doyleis Dramatisation of Rodney Stone.
Plan at Allan’s. Hy PRICES AS USUAL.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD^
ONE GREAT LAUGH.
MAGGIE MOORE,
Supported by a Specially Selected Company, in
Mlt S. M cSWEENEY,
AN AUSTRALIAN FARCICAL COMEDY.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Pignola.
J_| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE FUNNIEST, BRIGHTEST AND BIGGEST
PANTOMIME YET STAGED.
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
A MAGNIFICENT AGGREGATION OF ARTISTS.
Af HOST OF NOVELTIES AND FEATURES.
* PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
LYRIC THEATRE, Cliapel sV Praliran, Vic.
a EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
* at 2.30.
i' THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
Lessees & Managers —Amalgamated Pictures Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
d
Animated Pictures in Actual Natural Colors.
SPECIAL NOTE. —Krnemaeolor films are not hand-
colored films; they are actual photographs of Nature,
and the colors are imprinted in the pictures at the
time of photographing. PRICES: 3s. to fid.
ST. KIID A BEACH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30
J. & N. TAIT present
THE POLLIES.
THE RECOGNISED LEADING ALFRESCO SHOW
ON ST. IvILDA BEACH.
SPLENDID PROGRAMME.
CHANGE EVERY MONDAY.
PRICES: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
Reserved Seats at Allan’s and Haber’s.
fIIHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d
Amusements.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 23.
MR. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S POWERFUL DRAMATIC
CO. in
A GIRL’S CROSS ROADS.
FOR A FEYY* NIGHTS ONLY.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —35., 2s. and Is.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PJCTURiS.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
\/U E S T’S PAL AC E, MELBOURN E.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MatinSes Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
' very week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
'T'HE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
1 HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
FILLS ITSELF
Cannot
Leak
12/
each
From
ROYAL KSE SHOW
2nd to 10th APRIL,
£5OOO PRIZES £5OOO
Grand Parades of Horses and Cattle Daily.
Magnificent Displays of Produce,
Manufactures of the World.
EXCURSION FARES FROM ALL PARTS.
Ocean House , Aloore Street , Sydney. SOMER, Secretary.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL, STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
VICE-REGAL
The Misses Isaacs,
HAIRDRESSERS,
161 King Street,
SYDNEY.
Transformations from £3/3/- Puffs 5/6 set. Tails from 5/6.
Fringes from 5/6.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION. ’Phone 2138 Central.
L
PROTECT YOUR BEAUTY!-*®
ICILMA
The Most Effective Toilet Cream and Beautifier Known.
Protects the Skin, makes it SOFT, SMOOTH and WHITE.
Also Recommended for Use
Before and After Shaving.
FLUOR
Deliciously Foamy, Pure, Fragrant
and Absolutely Greaseless.
All Chemists, 2/- per pot.
Sample Tube 3d. in Stamps
CREAM
Leaves no trace
on the Skin;
Never Crows
Hair.
ICILMA DEPOT, Dept. D, 139 York Street, Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS
ď
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro*
tesquely photo-
graphed—stout people
look thin—thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessed. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price 1 /=,
post free any where.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
most
viciou s
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashieys,- t
night - wato hmen, i
homes, etc. Has more ‘
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
đ
dog. * Fires and recharges l>y pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H. L. Hutchinson L~
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
&a.
.-1- "K; KSOJM
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/-.
Do not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
d
A Puzzle Pocket,
Knife is one of
the most useful
novelties obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut a? well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general US", also a superior rabbiter's knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Po3tai Address-
Branches
BOX 3 HAYMARKET POST OFFICE, SYDNEY. Write for Price Lists, free upon application.
-111 KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.


PILES
I To those who suffer the agonising tor-
ture of Piles, a really genuine cure
comes as a boon and a. blessing.
Such a remedy is
I PETERS’
PILE CURE
■ which brings immediate releif and last-
ing cure.
Blind, Bleeding:, Protru-
ding: or Itching: Piles
I yield to its firm but soothing influence.
Made in the form of an Ointment it is
Easy to apply.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/-
■ Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
I
w
MORRIS'S
Wldies
ofMtims
HIGHEST GRADE.
!■ per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY,
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Liistß.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
l&klß’a
w GOUT V
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by all Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
ASTHMA CURE
finiMAULT'S INDIAN CIG&HETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervonsConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMATJLT & Co's INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTES. Sold, by,all Chemists. .
ď
MELTONIAN
CREAM
(in BUck
and White)
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots & Shoes.
LUTETIAN
CREAM
(made in light
and
dark colour*)
for all kinds of BROWN
Leather Boots & Shoes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by the Manufacturers of the cele-
brated “Meltonian” Boot Polishes.
E. BROWN & SON, LTD..
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1&49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or oni the ® c 'f u .. r '**
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury of any of the Aus
tralian States or New Zealknd AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgrag’e Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying*
ut> to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of any ne.
DiRKCTORS-The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, l c m
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon F. E. Wmchcombe M.L.C.,
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. Kl.a., • •
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPKKLY, Secreta y
MAKE
♦l+
SURE
YOUR PURCHASE IS
ASHTON Sl PARSONS* PHOSFERINE
The Only Original and Genuine Phosferine Nerve Tonic.
Insist upon having ASHTON & PARSONS’ Phosferine,
the kind spelt
PHOSFERINE
AVOID HARMFUL IMITATIONS
which do serious mischief in preventing proper relief and
recovery. To be certain of benefiting, always make sure
* you obtain
THE PHOSFERINE THAT CURES - - -
THE PHOSFERINE ROYAL PHYSICIANS USE -
CZ ‘
THE PHOSFERINE USED BY KINGS AND QUEENS
THE PHOSFERINE BUSY PEOPLE DEPEND UPON
- - ASHTON & PARSONS'
- - ASHTON & PARSONS
- - ASHTON & PARSONS’
- - ASHTON & PARSONS'
Ashton & Parsons Phosferine has been supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
V > --.... .■. _ 1 ' • '■ -V 7 . . .
To the British Royal Family H.M. the King of Spain
H.M. the King of Greece The Imperial Family of China
H.R.H. the DucLiess of Fife H.M. the Queen of Roumama
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
H.M. the Queen *of Spain H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
And the Principal Royalty, Aristocracy and Celebrities everywhere.
MAKE SURE no cunning resemblance, no tricky IMITATIONS with names ol
SIMILAR SOUND or APPEA.RANCE lure you into buying HARMFUL
SUBSTITUTES of the Genuine Original Ashton & Phosferine. Think
what it means for every purchaser to feel sure of benefiting equally, of sharing
equally with Royalty those exceptional remedial qualities of which Ashton & Parsons’
Phosferine is the SOLE POSSESSOR—then realise this great SECURITY is
provided only by Ashton & Parsons
PHOSFERINE
GREATEST OF ALL TONICS
A PROVEN REMEDY FOR
HFBILITY
OF APPETITE
EXHAUSTION
INDIGESTION
PREMATURE DECAY
MAT .'ERNITY WEAKNESS
SLE’ EIPLESSNESS
RHE :umatism
NEURALGIA
LASSITUDE
BACKACHE
BRAIN FAG
NEURITIS INFLUENZA
AN/EMI A HEADACHE
FAINTNESS HYSTERIA
SCIATICA WEAKNESS
M .nd all Disc tders consegamtt upon a Reduced State of the Nervous System.
e'caution, d ihai the Impostors mil copy this announcement in order to carry on
the deception. Y
THE GENUINfe ftl iHTON ,:4 JPMtSOIIS’ PHOSFERINE is sold by all Chemists, Btores,
-— “ ~~gS~Tn Bottles 1/- and 2 6.
ASK FOR fkSHTON & PARSQNjpV PHOSFERINE
The 2]6 size contains nearly four times the 11- size.
a wn
Tlte Drink for Men
and women and children, bless them.
Innocent without mawkishness,
Montserrat Lime Juice is the
pure product of the culti-
vated lime.
Supplied in two forms:
Unsweetened, i.e., Pure Lime
Juice. Sweetened, i.e., Lime
Juice Cordial.
Sold by all leading Storekeepers.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If vou are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientitic de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no wax-
ier how old you are. There is no ™y st ® ?
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully a
explain just how it acts. ,
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, ana
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing, du ,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
They rest the ear nerves by taking tne
strain off them—the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
fV
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it. ,
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing. , , ~ ,
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are, only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name • • •
Address ••
NOTE Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you must register it.
for More!''
A
Birds
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
V Over 70 years 9 success . J


THIRD SPECIAL ANNUAI SALE
STARTS MONDAY, MARCH 18,
FINISHES SATURDAY, MARCH 30,
During which time ALL SPORTING and FISHING MATERIAL CATALOGUED will be reduced by
10 PER CENT., or 2/- IN THE
with the exception of a few Proprietary Lines marked with an X in Catalogues, and Gun Cartridges# off
which 6d. and 1/- per 100 is allowed respectively for Black and Smokeless,
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE, POST FREE.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
HAYMARKET
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES —Hunter Street, Newcastle ; Church Street, Parramatta; 179 Oxford Street, Sydney; 273 Darling Street, Balmain ; 311 King Street, Newtown-
m
'•’"'■'try
MACHINE CLOSED IN CASE.
THE
STANDARD
Folding
Typewriter
Weight 61b.
cost £l2/12/-
FOR TRAVELLERS.
THE. STANDARD
Folding* Typewriter
takes up the least possible room in a travel-
ling bag, measuring only 10 x 9 x 6 inches. It
is perfectly adapted to the requirements of
commercial travellers, reporters and all pro-
fessional people, who conduct their private
correspondence upon the typewriter.
WRITE FOR DESCRIPTIVE
BOOKLET.
.
m
i
MACKI.ME open.
STOTT & UNDERWOOD
Agents Underwood and Standard Folding Typewriters!
box iw.ap.o. 70 pjtt street) Sydney.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
iNViGORATiNG
i
9
PILLS
BRIGHTEN , EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull snd depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, puritying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s, Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, 1/lJ and 2/9 per box.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, (id. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, I s 3d. Quadrille Gall Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science ok Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple-tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldbeads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality;- '9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for a,ll Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
đ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACINO
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man of- woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of tiiis great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
W BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH,
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’; Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. llrtal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; 'post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to VaMp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own BbiLDERj Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures'
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts.“ Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His'Own Schoolmaster,,
Is posted. Cabinkt Makers’ iJdANnYBOoK/ Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements ok ScwaiAa.
SCIENCE, 3s 6d. How McHOUGAI.I/ioPPKD THE SCORE,. &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Oat Count. Is 3d. Frjdnghi
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s (Jietdk,,
5s (id ] Misted. Virile Po.wers of Sjjpßßß Maniiooir 55..
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless-
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, 3s post. Gay
Like in Melbourne, Is posted: The Waybacks,. lis2dt.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it. i
Don’t be fooled into paying more-
Compare my prices >With others, and
save your cash. Established 25 Yearn.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (onm)-.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF IVIY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT;
*
Write tor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
;! REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
1 ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sait'ho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is- 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful, Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness anb
Its Curb, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 160 Q illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 1 0s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


IYER
Suffered for Years from Frightful
Retching and Bilious Attacks.
EVEN from childhood 1 was a great sufferer from liver
trouble,” says Hrs. C. Calcraft, of 131 Carrington
Road, Waverley, Sydney. “ From time to time 1 was sub-
ject to bilious attacks of a very severe nature, which would
prostrate me for days together. Fearful bouts of retching
severely strained my system and made me very weak. I
lost all appetite, and was altogether miserable. My skin
became sallow and my blood in a very poor condition, and
1 became completely run down. Many times had I read of
grand cures by Bile Beans, and eventually decided to try
this medicine. A short time after commencing with Bile
Beans I experienced a wonderful change in my health.
1 was freed from bilious attacks, and my appetite improved
day by day. By continuing with Bile Beans my blood was
purified, my liver put in order, and health and energy
restored to me. Bile Beans completely cured me, and
now I feel brighter and better than 1 ever did.”
[THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE|
Bile Beans have a world-wide reputation as a prompt remedy for
Biliousness, Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Debility, Liver
Troubles, Anaemia, Dizziness, Belching “Wind,” Nausea, Jaundice,
Heartburn, Flatulency, Colic, Vomiting, Bad Blood, Offensive Breath,
Pimples, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed Sleep, and all Common Family
Ailments. By strengthening and restoring to perfect working order the
internal organs, Bile Beans fortify the system against illness, purify the
blood, make the eye bright and the skin clear,
and ensure that perfect comfort and well-being
which is a synonym of good health. Of all
Chemists and Stores, at 1/li per box, or 2/9
family size (containing
three times 1/li box), or
Post Free direct
from THE BILE
BEAN CO., 39
fitt-st., Sydney
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your sKin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
tHat is, on HotH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe sKin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe sßin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been piaking beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Story of Abdul Kerim.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Bill has been introduced into the Italian Parlia-
ment, and passed with much enthusiasm, declaring
that Tripoli is annexed. — Cable.
ABDUL KERIM lived beside the dark
blue Mediterranean Sea
His clothes were funny, he’d not much
money, but he was happy as he could be;
With hens and goats, and some fishing-
boats, and figs and dates he lived con-
tent ;
He never worried; he rarely hurried, and
didn’t care much how anything went!
Prom dark to light he slept all night, and
rose up earlv and said his prayers ;
Yea! twice a day, in Mahomet’s way, he
sought relief from Shaitan’s snares.
He’d fourteen wives and some horrid knives
—a coffee-pot and a bubble-pipe;
He hated pigs, and civilisation, “Christian
dogs,” and the Time being Ripe !
Though foreign fools had drains, and schools,
and locomotives, and books, and drugs,
Abdul Kerim would have none near him — he
drew the line at tiles and rugs;
His musical ear was bad, I fear; in theatres
he took no delight;
He never “aspired.” He was far too tired.
But when he wanted a change he’d
fight!
Fight! Ah, yes! Old Abdul Kerim leading
his liglit-brown sinewy sons,
Taught the negro tribes to fear him—him
and his long, crook-handled guns.
Fight! He’d dreamed of it in his cradle —
learned it all in his mother’s lap ;
Just as the white man learns to labor, Abdul
Kerim had learned to scrap !
Pietro, he was a restless Dago —also living
beside that sea;
Fond of garlic and fish and sago, macaroni
and eau-de-vie;
Though decadent and rather dirty, Pietro
wasn’t so badly bred —
Centuries back—say, nearly twenty—Pietro’s
fathers the whole world led.
Down the dark blue Mediterranean, cooped-
up Pietro observed afar
Abdul Kerim, lazy, faineant; plainly, his
was a setting star!
“Ecco /” shouted the lively Pietro. “That
old fellow has had his day !
Me —I go—l seize his country ! Evviva!
L’ltalia fard da sd!”
Forth went Pietro, the Happy Pirate; all-
unconscious Abdul dozed ;
Roused by shoutings he sat up, irate. What
was this to his gaze disclosed ?
Pietro? 'Never! Of Abdul’s neighbors least
to be suspect of guile !
Allah! ’twas Pietro, with guns and sabres
waving in most offensive style!
Rage shook Abdul; he started forward,
grabbed liis carvers and cocked his gun;
Called his sons from the desert nor’ward,
and came at Pietro upon the run.
Short and sharp was the dusty trouble; both
were breathless and both were hurt;
Pietro left at a hasty double —Abdul squat-
ted him in the dirt!
Pietro rallied his frightened senses as soon
as ever he reached the sea —
This is the part where the fun commences —
so, at least, it appears to me!
For, with regular Roman humor, slightly
“watered” by lapse of years,
Pietro classed as mere idle rumor all accounts
of his bitten ears !
Further, anxious to let each neighbor know
how mightily he had scored,
Pietro put away all his sabre, saying, “ The
pen, it heats the sword!”
Then he issued a Proclamation —beautiful
language fashioned it!
“Abdul is part l of the Pietro Nation /” —•
Abdul doesn’t worry a bit.
N.S.W.
R. McGEDDON.
A Bottle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WONDER how Jim Patterson is?”
said my mate.
“He was pretty bad yesterday,”
said I.
Ted turned out of his stretcher and
yawned.
“I’ll trot up and see if he wants any-
thing,” said he.
“These chops are nearly done now,” said
I. “Give mine an extra touch of fire,” said
Ted. “You had ’em underdone last time.”
Then he put on his boots and went off-
Leaving his chop to sizzle, I set to work
to polish mine off. I was finishing up with
bread and marmalade when he returned.
“Chucked it,” said he.
“No!”
“Yes, uat out.”
I took the cleanest rug we had and went
up the track through the mulga to Patter-
son’s camp, a hessian affair with a bough
shade in front and a fireplace of rough boul-
ders close by. The dead man lay on his
stretcher before the door of his hut. My
mate had covered him with a blanket. He
had been a quiet man. His only comment
on his own illness had been a remark that
he’d either have to raise a sweat or “go out.”
I removed the blanket. Poor old Jim
had not been very'- handsome living, and death
had not improved hifn. I was glad to hide
him again under the rug. Ted came and
we tossed to see who should go to town to
tell the police. Ted won- He usually has
better luck than his mate.
“I’ll ride in on your bike,” he said. “I
wonder did the old boy have anything
worth pinching.” We had a look around.
The first thing we noticed was a bottle on
a ramshackle table.
“Hello!” said Ted. “Whisky?”
But after examination we let it alone. A
few clothes, mining tools, worn and bat-
tered books, an old bpx, pieces of specimen
quartz —that was all the hut contained.
“The heirs won’t fight over it,” said Ted.
“Don’t let anyone get down on that bottle.”
“I’ll need to get a gun, then,” said I.
He went off to the town, which was about
six miles away. I brought up a rifle, a
couple of books, and what tobacco I had-
Presently old Dan Moran came along.
“Is the man dead?” said Dan.
“He is that,” I answered.
The stretcher with the body on it lay
between me and Dan, and I was sprawled
before the door of the hut. Dan approached
the stretcher gingerly, and, pulling back the
rug, revealed the dead face.
“Augh,” he said, staring hard at it.
He seemed to ponder over the correct
thing to say, and was evidently unable to
decide. He pursed his lips, and looked from
the corpse to me, from me to the sky, and
back again at the ground. At last he
turned back the rug :
“Doid dam harrud, I dunnaw?” he haz-
arded in non-committal tones.
I gazed at him doubtfully and he became
uneasy. His eyes wandered past me and
presently his face lit up.
“Isn’t that whisky I see beyant ye there
inside?” he asked.
He was edging around the stretcher-
I put the rifle to my shoulder and sat bolt
upright.
“In the name of the King, stand back, I
commanded, in parade-ground voice.
“Phwat the divil” —-—
“I warn you, Patrick Moran”
“Me name’s not Pathrick!”
“More shame to your spopsors,” I cried,
“and you an Orangeman” -
“Me —me—an Orangeman !”
“An Irishman anyhow,” said I, “but let
me warn you to beware how you look at
that bottle. Beware of the V>ng arm of co-
incidence. Beware of the. might of the
Law!”
Dan peered at me in perplexity.
“Is it mad you ar-r?” stud he, and he
sidled out of the line of fire, “Moind that
gun,” he added, “like a good fella. It
moight explode unbeknownst.”
“There are more things in Heaven and
earth, Dan Moran, than are dreamt of in *
your philosophy 1 .”
“In me what?” said Dan, backing down
the track.
I lowered the rifle and he came a step
or two nearer. I moved the barrel in his
direction. He halted. He was thinking
hard.
“Dick, me b’y,” said he after a pause,
“that’s moy whisky. Lasteways, ’twas me
that gev it to poor ould Patherson.”
“Dan,” said I, “we’ve always been good
friends. Even when you blackguarded me
over the last crushing we did for you and
took your stone to Warty Bob’s mill, I kept
a soft spot in my heart for you. But let
me tell you this. Cer ain words cannot be
recalled. Don’t say them, Dan, don’t say
them.”
Dan removed his old Panama and scratched
amid his iron-grey wool.
“Huh !” he snorted at last, “ould Pather-
son’s defoonct. Didn’t Oi give ’urn the
shtuff when the poor divil couldn’t raise a
shweat, an’ now he’s thrun a siven. Un
what’s the good av me whisky to ’um now.
Dick, me b’y, a dhrap av the cratur at a
wake —a wake”
“You’d better go, Dan,’; said I, your
tongue’s getting you deeper in the bog.
After further argument he went off down
the track, looking back apprehensively every
now and then. I kept: him covered with
the rifle until he disappeared in the mulga.
In about half an hour Fred Martin ap-
peared on the scene. Fred is by calling a
beer destroyer, but he goes prospecting now
and then, by way of change. He had met
Moran and came to the point with brevity.
“I want that bottle o’ whisky I lent Pat-
terson before he died,” said he. .
“Lent — you lent him a botfle of whisky t
said I. ' , , ,
“Yes,” he asserted, “he was very bad, an
havin’ some down at me camp I let him
have it. O’ course he promised to pay me
back when he was able, ’n’ since he’s dead
the best way is for me to take me own
again.”
“Dan Moran said he gave him a bottle of
whisky.”
“Oh, Dan don’t baulk at a lie. Anyway
that bottle in there’s mine.” |
“You think he drank Dan’s.”
“I dunno. I want that bottle.”
“You can’t have it, Fred, not till the
cons come, at any rate.”
“Till the cops come!” he shouted wildly.
“What sort of a bloke are you? What show
will anyone ’ave of getting it from the cops?”
He made a sudden rush for the door, and
I only had time to punch him in the pit of
the stomach with the butt of the rifle. He
curled up in agony, and I dragged him out
into the track s and chased him away blas-
pheming and threatening.
By and by Frank Smith appeared.
“Have you been giving Patterson a bottle,
too?” I asked. “Patterson must have drunk
himself to death.”
“I believe,” said he suavely, “it’s not safe
to approach you. What have you been
doing to Moran and Martin?”
“Didn’t they tell you?” I asked.
“Oh, some tommy rot, of course. You
were quite right not to let them have that
whisky. Anyone’d know that Dan and
Fred’d do anything for drink. You were
quite right to stave ’em off.”
“.Glad you think so.”
“Yes. Now as a matter of simple fact
that whisky in there on the table was mine.
Poor old Patterson!”
He stooped, turned back the rug, and
looked at the face.
“Don’t look too nice, does he?” he re-
marked. “Yes,” he continued, replacing the
rug. “Last night it occurred to me that what
the poor chap wanted was a bottle of the
real stuff. ’Twas my last bottle, and for
reasons of hospitality I hate to be without
it. though, as far as my own tastes it
might lie for ever in the camp. Well, I
brought the bottle around in the moonlight.”
“There was no moon last night,” I re-
marked.
“I mean starlight, of course. He was
lying where he is now. I thought he was
dozing, and slipping gently in without dis-
turbing him put the bottle on the table —
where it is now.”
“It was kind of you,” said I.
“And, after all, the poor old chap never
touched it, it seems. So I might as well
take my bottle home with me. Eh! What?”
Smith likes to give you tlie idea that he
is a gentleman in reduced circumstances.
He also is endowed with a palpitating
thirst.
“Mr. Smith,” I said solemnly, “what poor
Patterson has done with -your whisky I
really don’t know. As for the bottle which
stands inside on the table, I hope—l hope
earnestly—that you have no concern with
it.”
“Come, come,” he said impatiently, but
politely; “whisky is whisky.”
(Continued, on page Jf4.)


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW
The Way to be Well Is to Keep the Kidneys Well.
N
f fcvery
[Picture
Tells
A Story."
What a lot of backache there is among the women. And
little wonder. A woman’s work, and care, and worry are enough
to break down a much stronger constitution than is given to most
women —or men, either, for the matter of that. The kidneys are
invariably the first to feel the strain. And they let their needs
be known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for help ; the
cry of the sick kidneys. There’s that awful dull ache away down
low in the back. Then comes sharp pains higher up, pains in
the limbs, headaches, a weary, never-rested feeling, a desire to
stay in bed in the morning—it’s all from the kidneys. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills help the kidneys ; they are made specially
to act on the kidneys. Doan’s Pills cure to stay cured. Read
this testimony :
A Sydney Woman Cured.
Mrs. E. Thompson, 194 Pittwater Road, Manly, Sydney, says:—“For years I suffered agony
from Backache and Lumbago. I was so bad that I could scarcely get about, and always felt tired,
languid and depressed. Other symptoms which clearly showed my kidneys were very much out of
order were headaches, dizziness and irregular secretions. I tried many different remedies, which
were supposed to cure Kidney trouble, but derived no benefit from them. At last 1 decided to try
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and only wish I had got them long before, they would have saved me
a lot of pain. After taking a couple of bottles, I, felt ever so much better, so I continued taking the
pills until I was quite cured. Considering how Very ill I was, I think it marvellous that Doans
Backache Kidney Pills have cured me so thoroughly. It is eight years since I was cured, and I
have been well ever since.” »
d
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and
Stores, 2j9 per bottle
(six bottles , iyjp), or
from Foster-McClel-
lan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
“True,” I replied, “and there are things
that are not whisky—strychnine, for one.”
“Strychnine ! You mean —you can’t”- —--
“Could poor Patterson have an enemy?”
“An enemy?”
“That bottle contains something besides
alcohol.”
“Great Heavens!”
“You saw the poor chap’s face? If a
man were to swallow what I saw in that
bottle”
“Not —not”
“Let me speak plainly.”
I was about to enlarge on the subject
when I was assailed on both flanks. Martin
and Moran took me by surprise. There was
a brief rough-up. I was tumbled headlong
over a boulder. By the time I had disen-
gaged myself the bottle, Moran, Martin and
Frank Smith in that order were speeding
down the track.
“Don’t drink it, you fool,” Smith was
shouting. “Don’t drink it! It’s poison :
it’s poison.”
Moran heeded him no more than if he
were a temperance orator, but holding the
bottle carefully in front of him ran blindly
int > the arms of the policeman whom Ted
had brought from town. The policeman
gripped fast, and Moran struggled furiously
to retain his prize.
“Let me have me whisky; I want me
whisky,” he kept shouting.
I limped down the track to watch the
fight. The policeman overpowered Moran,
and took the bottle.
“What’s all the row about, Dick?” Ted
asked.
“Don’t leave me to watch a corpse again,”
said I. “I’ve had the fright of my life keep-
ing these men from carrying off that bottle.”
“Gimme me whisky,” moaned Moran,
wiping• the sweat from his face.
“’Tain’t his ; it’s” began Fred Mar-
tin. *
“Poison !” said Frank Smith.
The policeman held out the bottle which
by a miracle had not been broken. It con-
tained a fine specimen of mountain devil,
preserved in methylated spirit.
G.J.R.
Tom Too-loose.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r ri HE bare landscape wears a shimmer of
wavy heat, and the only shade cast
comes from the posts of the wire
fence. Every sort of life seems dead except-
ing the flies. They take a fiendish delight
in tormenting a man who is striding up and
down the red dust of the road, cursing a
horse. The horse stands stolidly - in the
shafts of a spring cart. He has his ears
laid back in a very sulky way, and the man
has creeks of perspiration furrowed down his
dusty face. Now and again he rushes at
the horse and kicks him in the ribs, and
then the horse’s ears lie further back and
the whites of his eyes sbr/w wickedly. It
is evident that the man and the horse are
not friendly.
Over the brow of the hill a head shows,
and then a body and legs, and the whole
combination reveals itself out of the waves
of heat as a swagman. When the swag-
man reaches the cart he looks critically at
the horse, and then inquiringly at the man,
and throws his swag down.
“ Jibbin’ ?” he demands.
“What do you think?” asks the driver,
with some show of hostility.
“I’d belt the ’ide off of ’im.”
“S’pose yer’d do more’n that, eh?”
“Well, if he wouldn’t go, I would. I’d
put a pertater under his tail.”
“Anything else yer’d do?”
“I’ve cured a jibbin’ horse by. turnin’ ’im
round and backin’ him up the ’ill. And, if
that won’t work, I’d light a fire under ’im.
Never know’d the fire to fail, only it makes
’em bolt. Still, I’d far rather a bolt than a
jib ennyday. But I’d far rather sell a jib-
bin’ ’orse. Now, I ’ad an ’orse wunst what,
useter jib, and”
The driver suddenly looks furious, andl
steps up to the swagman and plants his;
right shoulder against his, what time his
left fist works convulsively.
“Shut up, or I’ll stoush yer in the jore,”
he says.
The swagman shuts his fists and says:
“Oh, yer would, Would yer?”
“Yes, I would.”
“Oh, you are a lively sort of customer, you
are.”
“Too lively for you by ’alf. For two pins
I’d let yer stop one now.”
“You !”
“Yes, and glad ter do it. I’ve been waitin
two solid hours for a joker like you to come
along with some fool’s advice, and pretendin’
yer know more about ’orses that I do that
’ve driven ’em ever since I could ’old the-
reins. I wuz dyin’ to sail into somebody
just ter relieve me feelin’s.”
The swagman looks thoughtful, and says:
“After all, it’s no use gettin’ excited over a.
jibbin’ ’orse.” Then a bright idea strikes
him, “ ’Ere, try a smoke,” and he thrusts,
a plug of tobacco at the driver.
The driver bites some off instead, and
commences to chew rapidly. After three
spits he says:—
“Now yer begins to act civil like, I don’t
mind tellin’ yer that that ’orse has made a.
different man uv me. I was one of the most;
peaceablest men goin’ till I wuz given him
to drive. At school you couldn’t make me
fight. I’d rather run a mile than fight a
minute, as the sayin’ is, if you’ll understand.
And I growed up like that. Blokes always
said I was too quiet like. I didn’t mind
people gi'vin’ me advice when I first drove
the ’orse; it was the cruelty-to-animals
blokes that started me goin’. When I was
doin’ me best to get the swine goin’, up one
of them blokes would come, and take me
name and address, and call me a monster in
human form, and it fair brbke me up, and
I’d let him ’ave it if it cost me five pounds.
And, to my surprise, I discovered that I was
a bit of a pug, and that a good mill useter
make me feel good, and I always noticed that
old Tom here would start quite willin. after-
wards. It seemed as if he says to himself:
‘Fred isn’t a bad sort Of bloke to fight like
that, and I’ll do him a good turn.’ And I got
into the way of takin’ every opportunity for
a fight.” . ,
“Don’t wonder at it,” says the swngman.
“I’d do it meself if I wuz in your place.
“Oh, I don’t want ter fight. I only wish
there, wuz not the necessity. What
grieves me is the way the ’orse ’as Come to
make trouble in fambly affairs, and come
between me and my missus. I don t like to
talk of domestic matters, if you’ll follow me
meaning; but yer sees I’ve been sucb a dif-
ferent man at home with that ’orse on me
mind that the old girl begins ter think that
I’ve got another bit of skirt. No use tellin’
her it’s Tom Too-loose, but she waits till I
•gets ter sleep to search me pockets for love
letters and all that sort of thing, and exam-
inin’ me clothes to see if she can find enny
lloose hairs. She found one of the hairs of
'Tom’s tail on me, and now nothing will make
.’her believe but there is a girl —and she’s
ginger.” , .
“ ’Ard lines that,” says the sympathetic
;swagman. “Why don’t yer sell the ’orse?”
“The boss can’t. He’s tried. Nobody
'would buy ’im. They say he useter be a race-
’orse wunst till he mauled the stable boys
about so much, and laid down with the
jockeys, till everybody wuz afraid of him.
'They useter call ’im Tom Too-Loose, though I
don’t know why they put the Too-loose
to it. I think they should have called him
Deeming, or Frank Butler. A bloke owed
the boss £27, and, as ,he couldn’t pay it, he
sent the ’orse round. Yer see, the boss ’ad
ter accept ’im, though, if yer asks me, the
boss should ’ave written the debt off and re-
fused the ’orse. It would ’ave paid ’im.
“Everybody knows ’im so. much that he’s
become the joke of the town. We did try
to make a deal with the new par-
son, and it nearly come off, _ only the
parson would drive himself, and insisted on
bavin’ a whip. Well, I didn’t tell yer that
old Tom Too-loose has a derry on whips.
W'on’t stand ’em at enny price. When you
use a whip he just starts to kick, and doesn’t
leave off till there’s no vehicle behind him
ter kick at. So. instead o’ sellin’ the ’orse,
the boss ’ad his best buggy kicked ter pieces,
and, to make matters worse, the parson and
all the women at the church thinks the boss
i is past prayin’ for. try in’ to sell him an
’orse like that. The boss useter go ter
church regular before that, and now he goes
shootin’ with the ungodly every Sunday
mornin’.
“You never see such a derry as that ’orse
’as on whips. We never use a whip, to him.
I always carried a sliprail to belt him with
till tiie cruelty-to-animals blokes sum-
moned me too much, and I ’ad ter give
' :it up. If Tom sees a bloke carryin’ a whip
in his ’and he goes for him like a bull ter-
rier, and a mouth as vicious-lookin’ as a
tiger. The boss’s little Willy is a nice little
kiddy with long flaxen hair, and everybody’s
favorite, and he was the only person Tom
Too-loose seemed to like. The nipper could
crawl all over him. But one day somebody
bought Willie a toy whip with a whistle in
the handle. And Willy went crackin’ his
whip down by the stables, and next thing we
knew was that the horse was carryin’ ’im
round the yard by the ’air. The missus
said the boss would have to get his gun and
shoot ’im, and I never saw the boss so wild
in me life. I didn’t know he knew so many
oaths. He said, ‘l’ll sell that ’orse if I
only get a pound for ’im.”
“But, Lord love yer, yer couldn’t sell ’im
for love of money. We had him in auction,
but the blokes spent all their time a-crackin’
whips at ’im for fun, and it put an end to
the sale. Then we thought we’d let ’im
roam about the streets and get pounded, and
never claim him, but the poundkeeper
wouldn’t go near him. S’pose he was
afraid. Then we put him out to grass
for life. The place was 10 miles
away, and, cornin’ home, I stopped
at the ’Alf-way House for a game of euchre
or two, and, blow me kite high, but if Tom
wasn’t ’ome before me.
“Yer mentioned a little while ago about
backin’ ’im. Well, if you’ll understand me,
Tom won’t back. Nothing will make im
back. If you try to make im back, he
catches you in his mouth and bolts. It s
the only way to make him go forward, but
he won’t go forward till ’e has a good holt on
you, and then he lets yer drop so’s the wheels
’ll go over you. I remember he jibbed once
and stopped all the traffic, and a bloke said
to me. ‘Why don’t you back him? And 1
said, ‘He won’t back, mate.’ And he said,
‘Blime, there’s not an ’orse I cant
make back.’ And he jumps ofiE his lorry and
grabs Tom be the ’ead. I suppose you 11 say
that I shouldn’t ’ave let ’im, knowin the
’orse as well as I do, but I was worked up
that way that it was just what I wanted. I
wanted ter see the wheels go over that man,
so’s the boss would be compelled to send Tom
Too-loose to the boilin’-down works. But me
luck was out. Tom just dropped him an inch
too close in, and the wheels only grazed a bit
of skin off his ’ip.
“I tried lightin’ a fire under him when he
jibbed one day at Sandy C-rik, but do yer
think he’d shift? Not a bit of it. You d
think he had been readin lox s Book ot
Martyrs,’ and thought he was Cranmer at
the stake, and I ’ad ter knock the fire away
to save his life.” . n T)J ,
“Wonder you knocked it away ? I d ave
let im burn.” .
“So would I if I ’ad been a single man, but
who’d ’ave looked after the wife and kiddies
while I was doin’ time?”
The swagman shakes his head wisely, and
says “That’s true.” , , .
“D’ye play euchre?” asks the driver, pull-
ing a pack of cards from his pocket.
“A bit.” .
“Let’s ’ave a game to pass the time away.
They sit down on a small bank and cut for
deal.
“Make it a bob a game to give an in-
terest,” says the driver.
“I’ve not got enny bobs about me, says
the swagman.
The driver gives a mysterious side glance
at Tom Too-loose and whispers: “It’s only a
bit of kid. Don’t look at the ’orse. You see
if he doesn’t go as soon as he sees I’m gettin’
interested. I don’t care whether he goes or
not. D’you pass?”
“Yes.”
“So do I.”
“I’ll make it clubs.”
“It’s your play.”
Tom Too-loose loses his sulky attitude and
pricks up his ears as he watches the game
progress, and they hardly finish the third
hand before he suddenly starts, off at a trot.
The driver bounds after and springs over
the tailboard.
“Yer fergettin’ the cards,” shouts the
swagman.
“It’s all right. I ’aven’t got time to wait,”
shouts the driver, and a minute later the cart
disappears over the _
ROBERT BROTHERS.


Westing'house
Oil Engine
»r STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
ď
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention:
1 uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
5 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westtnghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ncw Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Qu tor your Engineering Supplies.
Packings
Jointings
Beltings
Oil
s and Gre
Boiler Fluid
Paints
Water Valves
Injectors
Engineers’ Tools
Twist Drills, Emery Grinders
Feed Pumps
Centrifugal Pumps.
Quality the Best!
Prices the Lowest!!-
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
WE’RE “MOVING” ALL
THE TIME.
that*respect* Ce ma^es P er^ec *> our Removal Service has an advantage for yon In
You are guaranteed a thorough Service at the lowest rates. And don’t forget
we store furniture for any length of time. 8
SANDERS, SUTTON & WHITEHEAD Ltd.
REMOVAL AND STORAGE EXPERTS,
HEAD OFFICE: 43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Depots : Dulwich Hill, Chatswood, Mosman, Waverley, Burwood, Kogarah, Parramatta and Manlv
Phone numbers : Pity 1200, Central 476, 2028 and 4012.
đ
Guaranteed 2 Years
This is oar 2-h.p.
Hand Portable Engine.
Oil
ENGINE
Otto Four Cycle Type.
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don’t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES,
det prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense sale,
and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
d
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
♦ Everything is supplied by us.
Smetll Deposit,
Lonß Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of Ail Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
5“»‘ 49 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 339 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST STORIES written ip Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month
t'rice sixpence.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
New Digestions for Old
—strength for debility—cheerfulness for despondency—health for ill-
health such are the good results following a course of Beecham’s
Pills. If you are suffering from indigestion or any of the complaints to
which it gives rise you will find the World’s Family Medicine remove
the trouble and restore the organs to healthy action. This, at least,
has been the experience of hundreds of thousands of people who have
been led to adopt it during the past three generations and there is no
reason why it should not be your experience, also. Dyspepsia, liver
and kidney derangements, biliousness, headaches, sickness, constip-
ation are some of the many disorders from which you may find relief
After Taking
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
ii ■■■ •
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1| (56 pills) & 2/9 (108 pills).
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY j
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. fri:d. McWlLLiam, Manager.
Citroen Machine Cut Helical Gears
ARE EXTENSIVELY USED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA, INCLUDING :
Cockatoo Dock, Sydney
Sydney Harbor Trust
North Bulli Colliery
Queensland Railway
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co.
Melbourne Harbor Trust
Anthony Hordern & Sons’
Australian Chilling and Freezing Co.
...
Efficiency
98 per cent.
The Strongest
Gears.
The Longest
Life.
Single Ratios up
to 20=1.
Guaranteed
Noiseless.
Write for Particulars.
Australian Representatives:
HAES 8 EGGERS LTD.,
163 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Local Agents:
ADELAIDE: Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE : Diamond Lubricating & Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: Dean & Collin, 335 Queen Street.
Union"
Marine
Engines
SIMPLE.
m
T-r:;'
OVER
800
WORKING
IN
AUSTRALASIA.
EFFECTIVE.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
178 Clareocc Street, Sydney.
RELIABILITY UNEXCELLED*
MINIMUM COST OF UPKEEP. We Install with our own staff, and guarantee every engine.
Apply DEPARTMENT “ B ” for Catalogues.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write tor our Catalogue, or call and inspect,
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS IN WORKS, MILLS and FACTORIES.
Queensland Government Printing Office equipped with 58 of our Motors.
Australasian Agency:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. p
DICK’S PATENT
>v : . -i' f.
BELTING.
*% 'Y' ■ ■( *
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BAI.ATA.
TRADfc.
ď
i- ■
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look tor the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Ciroutar Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
đ
VENTILATING fane
EXHAUST *
LARGE STOCKS
CARRIED.
Belt Driven, 12" to 54"
Electric, 12" to 24"
ILDRIDGE
Pitt St., Sydney
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Cij &Ci
HEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPFiIETARY LIMITED-
Governing Directors
(MEPHAN FERGUSON
■i
(ROBERT SHAND
Head
1
Gordon St., Footscray, Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
AUTOMATIC
"ELECTRIC PLANTS.
CCUMULATORS.
n
wiinnvM
VACUUM CLEANERS.
LECTRIG
•ELEVATORS.
LTD.
'9
307-11 Kent Street, SYDNEY. 454 Flinders Street. MELBOURNE.
Co'
ft
o/i
£
£ter
Norton Grinding' Wheels
Made of ALUIMPUM, The advantages of this material over every
other known in the manufacture of Grinding Wheels lie in its
peculiar combination of hardness, sharpness and temper.
Whether your proposition is grinding special alloy, high-carbon
or high-speed steel, cast or chilled iron, brass or bronze, we can
confidently recommend one of the above wheels for the work. Large
stocks on hand of all grades and grains.
Agents:
m
m,
'4.
J
r
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
d
sdf
I ;i/; Vi-’ Z-r? ' i' „ i' ; f
does this with
ABSOLUTE
Adopted by N.S.W. Government Railways, Goldsborough, Mort 8 Co., and Leading Station Owners.
Sole Manufacturers — References to Users on Application .
;
■
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
