

Ik EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
. _ * -
R. Or. WATKINS CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
MANY A BUSINESS MAN
brings grey hairs to his head and wrinkles to his face through financial worries. To
such men who need money quickly and under fair and straightforward conditions we
extend our liberal system of financing. We never hesitate —there are no
delays—every transaction is treated in strictest confidence. These_ characteristics, to-
gether with promptness, leniency, purely business-like methods, low interest and an easy
repayment system, must appeal to discriminating men.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. Si I. CO. LIMITED
Office ■ Castlereagh St., Sydney. 01 %9A George St* West^Syrnfey* 1 5t, 155 Georg* St. West, Sydney
29 King St., Newcastle, N.S.W. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane 50 William St., Perth, W.A.
215-17 Swanston St., Melbourne. EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
a
w.
Dolors Recommend
GILBEY’S DRY GIN
asr“X*.
3»KS~
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING. *V.
Guarantor®
J. C, Ludowici & Son, Ld ,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
t
Take it back.
I mu st have -
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
* 7m,
CHUBB’S
RESISTING
32 REC
for preparing a variety
dainty Desserts
IPES
of the most
with
rzmmm.
J
ţ
be forwarded, Post Free to Any
■
Address, on application to
i
G.P.0., Sydney.
With PALMER CORD TYRES
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SILVERTOW N RUBBER C 0., 27 9 George Street. Sydney.
DRINK
MALTHOID
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
The strongest reason for using MALTHOID lies in the fact
that it is the best ready=to-lay roofing in the world. It is
absolutely waterproof; not even a deluge could penetrate it.
It is so easy to lay that any ordinary intelligent man, following
simple printed directions, would not have the slightest
difficulty. For the country nothing could be better, as it is
supplied in rolls, which reduces freight to a minimum.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
ť
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET (Opp. Lands Office),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Has new and improved features of indispensable value.
The boiler has great heating surface, making it a quick
steamer; the crank shaft is fitted with ring-oilers; being accur-
ately governed it runs steadily and evenly under varying loads;
its wrought-iron carriage and wheels are practically indestruct-
ibie
' Portable types held. Write for Catalogue.
DAVEY-PAXMAN
Famous Portable
STEAM ENGINE.
HELIDON SPA
P/ease choose your “SPA” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise.
STARKEY & CO., LTD.,
AGENTS.
The Bulletin
Tol. 33.—fto. 1690.1
[Thursday, July 4, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE AUSTRALIAN BOOK-BUYER.
A Monthly Journal of Book News and Reviews.
With Bright, Chatty Notes on the Books of the Month : Anecdotes on Books and Authors
throughout, including many photographs of favorite writers.
ISSUED MONTHLY.
Illustrated
SENT POST FREE, 1/6 per annum.
Forty-page Catalogue of Books, at Greatly Reduced Prices, sent Post Free to Any Address.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
.HOW TO USE THE POWDER.I
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
The great Antiseptic Powder which contains
no acid, and is guaranteed absolutely harmless
to the enamel. In contact with moisture the
powder liberates free, active Oxygen, and it
is the Oxygen which whitens the teeth so won-
derfully, and wards off decay as no other pre-
paration for the teeth can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal
bottles, handy for travel or home, price 1/6,
forwarded post free on receipt of stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
CO., LTD.,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
CSC
It
"orwarded Free, our New
regarding the Teeth.
The Comedy of Catherine
Among .the host of biographers who are
hastily compiling indiscreet memoirs of the
great, in order to satisfy the ravenous hun-
ger of the modern reader for historical scan-
dal, Francis Gribble is not to be found. His
works, George Sand and Her Lovers and
The Comedy of Catherine the Great (Bell,
per Sydney Book Club), are honestly writ-
ten, with no undue pandering to the naughty,
and a pleasant touch of persiflage. His
pictures of his heroines are broadly painted,
giving us not merely the lover and her
affairs, but the woman, writer or ruler, com-
plete. He rightly treats the. history of
Catherine of Russia in a vein of comedy;
for her innumerable love affairs were, in
the era in which she lived, not a thing re-
prehensible, but a grotesque jest.
&
Catherine was a woman of exceptional
ability and of exceptional charm. Her
moral education ceased when she was 14. At
that age she was carried off from her bour-
geois German home, married to a drunken
fool, and installed in a court where morals
were hardly mentioned. Lovers were thrown
at her head, for dynastic or diplomatic
reasons. She would have married her third
lover, if her subjects would have let her,
but the Senate told her that she was wel-
come to have “favorites,” but must reign
without a consort. The consequence was
the comedy of Catherine the Great. Her
marriage failed to provide an heir, so the
first lover was introduced. As the child was
taken away from the mother by the Em-
press’s orders, and she did not receive back
her —or another —child, for six weeks, it
is as impossible to prove the maternity as
the paternity of the future Tsar. The depo-
sition of her husband, Peter, was forced
upon her in order to save her own life, and
the subsequent murder of the imprisoned
man, whether or not with her connivance,
was only in conformity with Russian pre-
cedents. Then began her solitary reign, in
which her “favorites” played their trivial
or important parts in monotonous succes-
sion. Catherine was 43 before her practice
began to eause remark. It was, in her case,
what Balzac terms “the terrible love of the
w»man of 40”—and 50 and 60, Gribble
slyly adds. Till she reached what it has re-
cently been the fashion to call “the danger-
ous age” :
She had never, it is true, boasted of being
a virgin empress; but her love-affairs had
hardly been more miscellaneous than those
of her predecessor. Sentiment had been in-
volved in them, and they had been durable.
It would have been practically impossible
for her, in her position, to seek a consort
among foreign princes, and her people would
not allow her to raise a subject to the throne,
but her alliances had been very much like
marriages.
She did not, in her amours, fly in the face
of public opinion.—there was practically no
public opinion to fly in the face of. Her
senators told her to her face that they were
“delighted to see their sovereigns select sub-
jects on whom to confer their favors and
affections.” For them, as for her, the office
of favorite was a post in the Civil Service,
with a most extravagant pension scheme.
It was never Catherine’s desire to dis-
grace the favorites whom she discarded.
She preferred to regard them as superan-
nuated functionaries who retired from the
most dignified post in her Civil Service. She
liked to honor them on the occasion of their
retreat, and accord them magnificent re-
tiring allowances.
A picture of the procedure is accorded us
from a contemporary pen:—
When Her Majesty had fixed her choice
on a new favorite she created him her
general aide-de-camp, in order that he might
accompany her everywhere without attract-
ing reproach or inviting observation. .. .The
first day of his installation he received a
present of 100,000 roubles, and every month
he found 12,000 on his dressing table.....
The favorite lived in a gilded cage, but
was seldom faithful to the Empress. The
grotesque Potemkin, after dismissal, pro-
moted himself to a position that might be
described as Selector of Favorites, with the
privilege of squeezing enormous sums from
his nominees. Potemkin was one-eyed, and
with the other eye he squinted. He was
bow-legged, and had the habit of biting his
nails. He swilled kvass and ate garlic. He
frequently forgot, for days together, to
brush his hair or wash his face; and he
slopped about in a dressing-gown and slip-
pers—not ever wearing trousers under the
dressing-gown. He was not, thus, to be
called a decorative lover; but he was a
strong man, and Catherine was a woman—
and women to-day, as we see in the police
reporte and in many a Bulletin joke, rather
admire a husband or a lover that can give
them a black eye. So for years Potemkin
bullied Catherine and ruled Russia—a thing
he found just as easy as dominating the Em-
press—and when one favorite grew danger-
ous he pensioned him off in favor of another
handsome subaltern. The fact was that this
Potemkin, educated for the priesthood and
enlisting in the army, was a genius. It is
said that the Orlofs, the family of the then
favorite, presented him to Catherine as a
buffoon with a remarkable turn for mimi-
cry. Catherine liked his buffoonery, provided
The Red Page
for him a French tutor and a post in the
Government, and sent him to the Turkish
war with the rank of captain, with special
instructions to liis commander. The result
was that he returned a major-general! , This
system of education she pursued with other
of her favorites.
J*
The statement that he ruled Russia must
be qualified. He s; age-managed Russia.
For instance, during Catherine’s progress
through the Crimea :
He wished to give his Empress the im-
pression that her country was populous and
prosperous, and he did so. The villages
which he indicated on the distant horizon
were “property” villages of painted canvas.
The villages on the banks of the river were
improvised villages, inhabited by temporary
villagers, who, as soon as the party had
passed, were driven round by a circuitous
route to figure as the flourishing and con-
tented inhabitants of another village farther
on the way. Even the roads, where the pro-
gress was by land, were expressly made for
the purpose of the journey—and so badly
made as practically to cease to exist as soon
as they had served their purpose; while the
shops in the towns were stocked with mer-
chandise commandeered from other shops
elsewhere—supplied on credit, but never to
be returned or paid for. In some places,
too, a false appearance of plenty was given
by a display of bags of sand which were
passed off as sacks of wheat.... She was
driven past “property” country seats; and
she _ saw “supers” habited as merchants
making believe to drive a roaring trade in
goods brought, to. delude her, from Warsaw
and Moscow; while, at Sebastopol, she was
invited to review an imaginary fleet, com-
posed of superannuated merchant vessels,
rigged and equipped to look like men-of-war.
For 17 years he held sway, and died worth
50,000,000 roubles.
And Catherine remained the lover, though
periodically changing the recipient of her
love, till her death well on in the 60’s. She
died Catherine the Great. The picture of
the Russia of that age is a fascinating one;
and Gribble, with an occasional lapse from
literary dignity, has done his congenial task
well. Catherine emerges a woman of her
time, no inhuman prodigy, no debauched
artist in licentiousness and murder, but a
woman with a sentimental soul, placed in
the rare position of being able to gratify
every ardor of her heart. The impression
•left is that Catherine was rather a likable
person.
Verses by Wilfrid Maillor
EDGAR ALLEN POE.
No sun is here, but dusk and endless shade,
Here is no laughter, whispered speech
alone,
Save when afar there sounds a ghostly
moan
From some white figure flitting down a glade,
The half-seen vision of a phantom maid,
Beyond a hall with trailing vines o’er-
grown,
Where one sits brooding on an ivory throne
With great dull gems and kingly robes
arrayed.
Once he who ruled this realm of mystery ■
Ate the strange fruit of Tragic Fantasy;
Within the land of shades he entered soon,
Deep in the poppied cup, Life’s fever
drowned;
Thenceforth he saw Earth’s shapes and
shadows crowned
In alien lands With idols of the moon.
FRUITION.
You come to me, you come to me at last,
When TIove and Youth and all that’s sweet
are dead,
Even the beauty that was yours is fled,
The lustre of your hair is dimmed, o’ercast.
Your eyes have lost their fire, your Iciss is
cold ,
Afore those lips were warm, and full and
red •
And what have you to give me in their
stead,
You that have squandered with both hands
Love’s gold?
My face has been before you all these years,
You love me still as once you did, you say;
And do you think that now one fond word
clears
The dark mists of forgetfulness away?
For Youth you proffer Age, for Love a
mock;
You threw away the passion that I gave;
To-day what cannot be in vain you crave,
That door your hands can never more un-
lock.
For ever young I held you in my heart,
I had forgot that time could touch your
charm;
A dream you grew no evil chance could
harm,
A dream of loveliness remote, apart-.
And now yon come, Love’s beggar, destitute,
Of all the years of travail and despair,
Of all the years that grief with grief did
' share,
This is the bitter, this the withered fruit.
(From “The Secret Garden and other
Poems.”)
. Tlie late Wilfrid Mailler, who was also,
m his unpoetic aspect, a rev., has had mere
justice done to his memory by the appear-
ance of his collected verse under the title.
The Secret Garden, and Other Poems (King-
ston Press, Sydney). This is scholarly verse,
the outcome of placid meditative moods.
Mailler had a senSe of the sonnet, a ballad
ease; but a too-faint inspiration barely fills
the sails of his little graceful barque. He
stands above a poet like Hebblethwaite- —
there are resemblances, but Mailler’s con-
tent is less than his brother rev.’s. A little
niche is hereby allotted to him in the temple
of Australian verse, no higher up than, one
believes, the poet himself would desire.
Dream Horses, and Other Verses, by J. L.
Ranken (Aust. Authors’ Agency, Melbi.;
is.), has more of sentiment but less of
strength. These neddies would never win
against Ogilvie’s Grey Horses; they amble
gently on old familiar tracks long ago beaten
out by sturdier steeds. Yet they make a
pleasant team. But both these books of
verses are examples, worthy examples, of a
slightly shop-soiled art. There was no need
for the publication of more than half a
dozen of Ranken’s verses; the bulk of his
work is merely a variation of the stock
themes of the writer’s art —metrical tech-
nique with a slight flavor of individual fancy.
This modern world, with its growing disin-
clination to read poetry, will not be enticed
back by pleasant, lulling rhythms. But it
would be only fair to suggest that J. L.
Ranken means no more than pleasantly to
lull.
Verses by J. L. Ranken
Fulfilment.
When God has gathered us to Him,
And we think of the life that is done,
The jesting, the song, and the sorrow,
And the laughter and tears that are one,
How we’ll long for the danger and daring,
And the nights, and the light of the sun.
We will think on the fevered striving,
The struggle, the endless fight,
And the fierce mad joy of the battle.
And the wrecking of might on might;
We’ll look back on the life that is ended,
Like a dream that has passed with the
night.
When the rest that we’ve prayed for is
granted.
And we’ve finished with hatred and pain,
The dream will remain unforgotten.
Like the lilt of a haunting refrain;
And the prayer that we’ll pray in our heaven
Will be, "God, let us dream once again."
MY LOVE.
Oh! baby mine, whither are you speeding?
Out along the baby-lands with sunlit flowers
a-nod;
Baby songs are in the ivind,
And baby laughter round you,
And baby hopes, and baby prayers, and love
that's born of God.
Oh! laddy mine, whither are you speeding?
Out along the boyhood fields with winds of
hope a-blow ;
Stirring deeds you see ahead,
And joy of life has found you;
And, dear, there's all my love for you to help
you as you go.
Oh! son of mine, whither are you speeding?
Out along the broader lands where sun and
shadow lie —
Rougher ground is at your feet,
And sometimes. clouds above you;
But there's my love to lean upon, and help
you till I die.
(From “Dream Horses and Other Verses.”)
Women, Mottled and Plain
Some opinions of J. H. Curie, in The
Shadow-Show (Methuen),
d*
Evanescent though it be, there is real
beauty among colored women. The most
perfect female form I have seen was a
Hindu girl in Mauritius ; the loveliest face,
that of an Arab girl of Tunis. . . .The women
of India are comely when young, and‘often
beautiful. In Kashmir, where the average
standard is low, I have yet seen, here and
there, the most beautiful women of Asia.
These are of the bold, Romany type, finer
than the handsome gypsy, women of Hun-
gary. I should like to match these picked
Kashmiris with the handsomest young Jew-
esses of Odessa.
For comeliness of the negro type, there is
no one to compare with the Zulu girl. Deep
brown in color, her head is large, and her
forehead well developed. She has perfect
teeth, she is tall, and her figure is superb.
She dresses in a loin cloth, or, in the hot
weather, in a little arrangement of beads,
but is never entirely nude. Judged on her
own piaue, she is strikingly handsome.
The almond-eyed women of Asia, judged
by our standards, are not beautiful. As to
figure, they rarely come up to the five-foot-
five a tall man finds so attractive, and many,
especially among the Japanese, are so short
as to lose aesthetic significance. And yet
these types of women, among which may be
classed Japanese, Burmese, Siamese. Javan-
ese and Malay, are quite alluring. They are
fastidiously clean and dainty, they are
shapely little creatures —what one may call
well appointed... .The women of China are
downright plain ; but in one respect they are
above rubies. They are probably the only
race of colored women who arc not at-
tracted by the prestige of the white man,
and who, with rare exceptions, will have
nothing to do with him.
With hooked noses —Armenian rather than
Jewish —and mostly spectacled, _ the Parsee
women of Bombay are the plainest in the
East. But they are “advanced” women
beyond all in the East, educated and highly
serious... .In Europe, too, the plainest
women —the Finns —are politically the most
advanced. They may do whatever they
please; they may even be members of Parlia-
ment. Anything that takes plain races of
women from their homes would seem to be
encouraged, but whether this be mere coin-
cidence, or something profoundly sinister,
would be hard to determine.
Among the white women of civilisation, co
whom, think you, is the palm to be given?
....My affinity lies in the Gothic North;
Austrians, Russians, Germans and Scandi-
navians are the women of my dreams. Who
is this? So blonde, so physically fine, so en-
tirely neat, in her face intelligence—and a
trace of the devil! She is a Swede, and the
woman whom we have sought. By a short
head she bears the palm from the Austrians.
J*
The world is obsessed by this gdulation of
the woman. Everywhere you find the female
interest pandered to, until at last this, orgy
of sentimentalism begins to pall. And the
world goes further. Praising not only ad-
mitted virtues- —self-denial, the brave facing
of drudgery, sympathy, pity—it ascribes to
her exceptional intellect and high ethical
status, qualities the average woman does
not possess. In novels and plays women are
not only beautiful, but often creatures of
depth and subtlety, twisting strong men
round their fingers. In real life one does not
see these things; when strong men are
twisted, they are twisted through their
senses, not by the woman’s brains.
And so with ethics. On the stage you
will hear a woman say, “Reginald, rather
than think you guilty of dishonor, I would
see you dead at my feet.” (Loud applause.)
But in real life the female code of honor is
not highly developed. A badly dressed
Reginald would cause her a far acuter grief.
The man is much to a woman, but not for
his mentality; an observant man knows how
hard —how nearly impossible-—it is to rivet
a woman by his brains. His world is not
hers, nor does it greatly interest her. He
may talk well and forcibly.../; he may
draw polite attention or rapt gaze; but there
is a something he cannot rivet, an impish
inner-woman, whose mind is flying from his
moustache to the timbre of his voice, the
color of his eyes, the dresses of other women,
the color of their eyes, and to a .thousand
futile nothings—the very negation of intel-
lect ....
Of course, a tremendous change in the
status of woman is coming about. This
change is coming freely and naturally ; but
the woman, as showing her mental obliquity,
seems ignorant of it, for she is trying furi-
ously to force things. The change, as com-
pared with 50 years ago, is turning her
head; the sex is working itself towards
hysteria. A suffragette lately bit a police-
man’s neck....
What the woman really wants —this is
the psycho-physiological, or more recondite
aspect of the suffrage question—is not ex-
actly a vote. Drunk with power, she will
one day realise herself, come boldly into the
open, and demand—a husband; and a
female-controlled legislature, in special ses-
sion, will rush what we may call the; “Enab-
ling Bill” through....
Woman, as woman, is precious. But as
man’s rival, an asserter of female domin-
ancy, there is a something coming into her
face that is going to outrage Nature. There
are thousands of women in Britain and
America to-day, hard-faced and unsexed,
whom no true man would kiss. Your super-
woman is going to threaten the speeies.
Scotty Mac, Shearer, by R. S. Tait
(N.S.M • Bookstall) is a collection of short
stories that illustrate the Australian writer’s
usual conception of the backblocks as a place
of bustling and hilarious happenings. |
The theatrical caricatures of Plarry Julius
are an established feature of The Bulle-
tin’s dramatic columns. The N.S.W. Book-
stall Co. has made a volume of reproductions
of his work, with marginal anecdotes by
Claude McKay. Julius’s art is not inspired;
the mechanism of it sometimes shows; but
in the bulk his work, now that Will. Dyson
lias left us, is the best in Australia. Some-
times it is but clever portraiture, but more
often it is the seizure of the essential traits'
in a grotesquely humorous manner. In
his line he is not exceeded by any of the.
theatrical caricaturists of England; though,
of course, there are in their supreme class.
Max and the Continental geniuses. The;
letterpress consists of rather “precious”
humorous criticism, and a collection of ex-
cellent anecdotes, delightfully retailed. It
has been proved by statisticians that
there are only 23 stage anecdotes in
existence, but they can always be safely
attributed to the local mummer. As
Claude McKay apologises, “The latest
epigram of the man who plays ihe hind legs
of the elephant is awaited with impatience;”
and, the epigram not being forthcoming from
the hind legs, McKay courteously supplies it
to the gaping press. This book should hit
the popular taste with the force of the hero’s
fist, and the echoes of the impact should re-
verberate into many editions.


A
w aee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
for Economy
in...
SHAVING MIRRORS AND TOILET REQUISITES.
No. 1817 S—Shaving Set, on Polished
Wooden Base, 6fin. Mirror, one side
magnifying, the other plain. Movable
patent joint, which enables mirror to be
fixed in any position, 2 opal-lined Caps
and Badger Brush, 30/-
With 6fin. Magnifying Glass, 27/6.
With 6fin. Bevelled Mirror, 23/-
No. 1816 S—Shaving Set, on
Solid Nickel Base, BJin.
Bevelled Mirror, on mov-
able joint, opal-lined Cup
and Brush, 17/6 each.
No. 1825 —Shaving Mirror, on
Solid Nickel Base, oval Bev-
elled Mirror, with movable
patent joint, which will fix
glass in any position, 13/6 ea.
No. 1811S —Is having Set,
on Solid Nickel Base, ssin.
Bevelled Glass, opal-lined
Cup and Brush, with pa-
tent joint to swing mirror
to any position, 10/6.
No. 18278 —Shaving Set, Solid
Nickel Base, Of in. Magnify-
ing Mirror, opal-lined Bowl
and Badger Brush, 16/- each.
No. 1812 S—Shaving Set, on
Wooden, Base, siin. Bev-
elled Mirror, patent joint,
opal-lined Bowl and Bad-
ger Brush, 11/- each.
No. 1818 S—F olding
Travelling Shavi n g
Mirror, 52‘in. Bevelled
Glass, 5/- each.
6fin. Glass, 6/6.
Web
SBB&8S
-
■m
mm
miMMa
IS3&
msi
ft:
'‘••ft 1 :
“a®
■ft
No. 1848—Cut Glass Scent Bottles. Silver Cap
Top, 3in., 4/6; 4in., 6/6; sin. high, 9/6
No. 1918S —The Universal Shaving Mirror,
Nickel Frame, will hang, stand, or fold up,
New Patent Handles.
wT‘.
No. 1821S — Shaving Mirror, on Solid
Nickel Base, patent movable joint,
which enables mirror to be fixed in
anv position, Oblong Glass, 12in. x Tin.,
13/6 ea.; Bfin. x sJin., 11/6 ea.; Bin. x
s|in., 9/6 ea.
Oval Glass, Tiin. x 9in., 13/6.
Square Glass, Biin. 14/6; T|in., 12/6;
6fin„ 10/-
No. 1821 S—Solid Nickel Soap Case, 3Jin.
x 2Jin., 9d.: 3Ain. x 2|in., 10id.; 4iin. x
&in., 1/-
Postage must be added
to the prices quoted
on this page.
No. 1830S —Solid Nickel Soap Case, size
3|in. x 2|in., 1/-
:/r
B
K SSSsS S ' 8
gBS ,
No. 1823 S—Nickel-mounted Mirrors, on Standj
4 sizes, 3/6, 2/9, 2/6, 2/3 eacli.
No. 1824S — Shaving Set, on Heavy Glass
Base, s£in. Mirror, one side plain, the
other magnifying, 2 opal Cups and
Badger Brush, 21/- each.
No. 1813S —Shaving- Set, on
Solid Nickel Base, siin. Mag-
nifying Mirror, opal-lined
Bowl and Badger Brush,
16/- each, or with sJin. Bevel
Edge Mirror. 13/-
No. 1833 S—Shaving Set, on
Glass Base, siin. Mirror,
opal-lined Bowl and Badger
Brush, 12/6 and 17/6.
No. 1832S —Shaving Set, on
Solid Nickel Base, siin.
Square Glass, on mov-
able joint, opal-lined Cup
and Brush, 11/- each.
No. 1822 S — Shaving Set on heavy 82in.
Glass Base, 6gin. Mirror, one side plain,
the other magnifying. Movable patent
joint, which enables mirror to be fixed
in any position; 2 opal-lined Cups and
Badger Brush, 31/-
With Magnifying Mirror, 29/-
With 6fin. Bevelled Mirror, 25/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


SILK 8 WOOL
%
an
1
m
IRIS
TIES
REAL POPLIN
HERE'S a point worth noting- —“ IRIS" Ties, being
uncreasable, always look fresh —never crumpled
or unsightly. It's a feature you will appreciate
as fully as the thousands of tasteful dressers who swear
by “IRIS” Ties. Beautiful, rich shades of all the
most popular colors, which never fail to appeal.
Broad Ends, 2/6 ; Narrow, 1/6.
ASK YOUR MERCER FOR “IRIS” TIES.
Every Genuine Tie
Bears This Tab-
IRI
REG
REALPOPLIN)
v5/z/r <? Wool
v fX
NEURAIjGIA
ACASE FOR
fcdMNCARNIS
RUN DOWN
v A CASE FOR x
M
A CASE FOR
SLEEPLESSN
ESS
WINCARNIS
til
1J
A CASE FOR
WINCARNIS
BRAIN FAC
f^r
/
_ EXHAUSTIONt
|A CASE FOR Wl N CAR NISI
wietcfi
Gives New Life to the Invalid
An outstanding feature of “ Wincarms "
is Us extraordinary power in re-creating
lost vitality and giving new life and
renewed health to those who, after a long
illness, are left in a pitable state of
wrecked health and shattered nerves
Renewed Strength to the Weak
Every wineglasstul of Wincarius ' equips
the system with a definite amount of re-
newed health and strength that overcomes
weakness and exhaustion, and speedily
gives to the whole body a delicious
feeling of physical fitness that is lasting
Increased Vigour to Brain Workers
When the delicate mechanism of the
brain becomes disorganised by overwork,
worry, or by the ever-increasing demands
of modem business conditions, ’Wincarnis’
has an immediate effect in stimulating
the activity of the brain and promoting
additional keenness <* n d increased vigoui
to the whole mental system ' Wincarnis '
keeps the brain in " form,” -and ensures
the brain*worker against Brainfag
A Wealth of Health to Everyone
To everyone whose health is not as it
should be —to those suffering from
Anaemia, Sleeplessness. Weakness,
Brainfag, Lowered Viiahiy, Exhaustion,
Nerve Troubles, or who are merely ’run-
down ” Wtncarms offers a wealth of
renewed health and a progressive up.
building of vitality and vigour that will
make the whole system pulsate with new
life. Over 10,000 doctors recommend
' Wincamis,’ because they knrm its value
Will you try just one bottle ?
Wlncarnls is sold by all Wine Merchants, Lloensed Chemists and Grocers.
Australian and New Zealand Depot:
FASSETT & JOHNSON, 5 & 7 Barrack Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis Works, NORWICH, ENG.
A Handful
of Evidence.
The following 1 letters were sent
to us out of gratitude for the new
life and renewed health these
ladies have actually experienced
by the use of “ Wincarnis.”
Condemned to be life-long
Invalid.
Restored to Health by
“ Wincarnis.”
Mrs. SARAH DE VILLE, Burton-
on-Trent, writes:—
Dear Sirs,- —A few months ago
I was so dangerously ill that the
doctors said they could do nothing
more for me, and advised me to
make the best I could of life, as I
should never be well again. I was
terribly upset at the prospect of
being a life-long invalid, and when
a friend of mine urged me to try
“Wincarnis,” I applied to you for
one of your free trial bottles. I was
astonished and delighted to find that
from the first glassful your “Win-
carnis” put new life into me. I perse-
vered with “Wincarnis,” and before
long I was able to get about again.
Instead of remaining a life-long in-
valid, I was now able to carry on
business, and I owe all my renewed
health and strength entirely to your
wonderful “Wincarnis.”
Yours very gratefully,
SARAH DE VILLE.
So weak, could hardly walk.
“ Wincarnis ” gave new life.
52 Nightingale Road, Dover.
Dear Sirs, —I feel in duty bound
to write and thank you for the won-
derful benefit I have derived from
your splendid “Wincarnis.” For
months I have been depressed and
nervous, and so weak that I could
hardly walk, and felt I wanted to
be always sitting or lying down.
But your “Wincarnis” has put New
Life into me. I can now go about
my work with a new vigor, that
makes my household duties a pleas-
ure, instead of a burden as before.
I cannot properly express my grati-
tude for the grand health your life-
giving “Wincarnis” has given me.
It is splendid to feel so strong and
well. I have told all my neighbors
about your wonderful “Wincarnis,”
and I feel I want to tell the whole
world what a splendid tonic and re-
storative it is.
Yours very gratefully,
(Mrs.) C. B. BARNATT.
The Inky Way.
From London: The Press Gallery of the House
of Commons has been holding its annual din-
ner, with Sir Edward Grey (Sec. for For-
eign Affairs) as chief guest. The presence
of a dozen journalistic M’s.P. led to a refer-
ence to the number of old members of the gallery
who had descended to the floor of the House. Among
them were Russell of Killowen, Lord Chief Justice,
who was Parliamentary correspondent of the Dublin
Nation ; Justin McCarthy, T. P. O’Connor, Sir
Edward Clarke, K.C. ; Sir Henry Dalziel, and the
Australian J. F. Hogan, who did the Parliamentary
sketch for the Globe (London’s oldest evening paper)
before he became an M.P. The gallery has now a
roll of 200, made up of leader-writers, sketch-writers,
artists, Hansard men. and plain ordinary reporters,
mostly employed by the news agencies.
Truth is mighty and will prevail. A Melbourne
weekly went to press the other day with its special
female department headed: “Lady’s Litter.”
* * * *
“Bill L’Cohen”: The successful launching of the
Australian Journalists’ Association as an industrial
body registered in the Federal Arbitration Court has
inspired the Maoriland pressmen to decide that the
time is ripe for them to be up and doing. So, a few
days ago, the Maoriland Journalists’ Association was
formed, with branches in the chief centres. Better
pay and improved conditions are wanted for the man
with the pen, who mostly lifts a smaller envelope at
the end of the week than the printer or the comp, or
even the struggling managing director, and the old
Institute of Journalists (which is affiliated with the
London Institute) is incapable of doing the work.
The formation of the new body comes at a comfort-
ing time to Australian pressmen, who scent trouble
in the. offing. A considerable difference of opinion
exists in some of the offices concerning the interpreta-
tion of certain clauses in the existing agreement, and
if the difference keeps on becoming more and more
different, & great deal of trouble may happen almost
any time.
From London: As the amalgamated Daily News
and Morning Leader is challenging the supremacy
of the Daily Mail, the latter has retorted with a two-
column leading article in big type, evidently written
by the head of the Harmsworths, Lord Northcliffe. He
claims “the largest circulation for his two London
morning papers, the Daily Mail and the Daily
Mirror, and, incidentally, makes the interesting con-
fession that it cost him between £300,000 and
£400,000 to establish the Evening News.
F. J. Gillen, the man who spent nearly a quarter
of a century on the Overland telegraph line, and
got more information about Black Brother and his
rites and customs than anybody else ever did, had
luckily finished what he designed to be his last book
on the subject just before his death. It is to have
the not-very-promising title of “Across Australia,”
which is also the title of a booklet by Bishop White,
of Carpentaria, published in 1909. The S. Aus.
Government has secured Gillen’s unequalled collec-
tion of Binghi photographs.
* * * *
“B. de Burke”: Sir Emilius Laurie, a descendant
of Annie of the famous song, has sent his photo, to
the Ballarat Caledonian Society, and also pictures of
Annie and her husband. Emilius is 90 years old, and
blind. “Annie Laurie” has been blamed on to Burns,
but, at the most, Burns made her a bit more modern,
and it’s not certain that he did even that. One
Douglass wrote the original verses at the end of the
17th or the beginning of the 18th century. Annie
Laurie was a daughter of Sir Robert Laurie, by his
second wife, who was a daughter of Riddell, of Minto.
Douglass was turned down by Annie. She married
Alexander Ferguson, of Craigdarroch, who founded
a bursary at St. Andrew’s University, open only to
young men named Ferguson, who are numerous. It
was through this bursary that the mad poet, Fer-
gusson, was enabled to take up letters for a living.
Before “Annie Laurie” was sub-edited it contained
this verse:—
She’s backit like the peacock;
She’s breistist like the swan;
She’s jimp about the middle;
Her waist ye weel micht span.
Her waist ye weel micht span,
And she has a rolling e’e ;
And for bonnie Annie Laurie
I’ll lay me doon and dee!
* * * *
Unlike the Way of Providence, the Inky .Way in a
down-south civil service is not past finding out. It
is marvellous and mysterious, yet it came to light
when the present editor of the official Journal op
Agriculture was moved up one. He was a first-
class clerk in the Mines Department, and he knows
nothing about agriculture, and is totally unacquainted
with journalism, but it was his turn to be moved up
one. so he was moved up one. The law of promotion
is like the irresistible force which meets an im-
movable post in a plain. Still, some day, when it
turns a meat inspector into a chief medical officer,
there’ll be trouble.
THE PATRONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The prosperous, pot-bellied people, with flabbiness
under their chins ;
Long-leisured, and well-fed, and happy, because of
their separate sins—-
They looked on the world of the Dreamers; they
looked on it all, and then said:
“Great-fortuned are we, its True Patrons, that
Genius must battle for bread!”
They gazed on the work of the Artist; they gazed
on it well, and were wise—
The wan of his face in its faces ; the red of his heart
in its skies ;
The lotus abloom in its gardens; the image of Death
in its streams
(Ah ! well for the Fleshpots of Egypt that Sentiment-
ality dreams !).
They harked to the song of the Singer—a hireling
of Hunger, because
They gave him not corn for his gristing—but only
the husks of applause.
They heard the heart-cry of his anguish ; they heard
his crescendo of pain—
And —Glory ! —the Pot-Bellied People took up its
heart-broken refrain !
The trial, and trouble, and torment; the travail,
and torture, and tears —
Despairs of To-day and To-morrow postillioning
Yesterday’s fears.
Soul-sponsored in stomach-pinched splendor—and
slandered, and spittled, and spurned—
O Dreamers ! this sty is your temple—and here shall
your incense be burned!
For this is the creed of the Patrons: “That ever in
hunger and woe;
The Prophet who walks amid visions shall drudge by
the* man with the Hoe.
Good-bye to the Dreamers who burden with bundles
of baggage their pow’rs ;
For then shall their souls become Fattened —and
quite as prosaic as ours.”
My Dreamers! who faint ’midst the flowers, and die
at the Gates of the Dawn,
What time that your belts are too-slackened; your
brush and your banjo in pawn!—
Keep faith with the Pot-Bellied People, enshrined in
their separate sties;
For they are your Gods and your Patrons—tremend-
ously well-fed and wise!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


AEROCEN SAFETY CAS MACHINES
Produce an ABSOLUTELY PERFECT LIGHT.
:
Ideally Suited for Country Houses
Stores, Hotels Billiard Saloons
ŧ
ONE OF MANY TESTIMONIALS
(Copy). Yamala,
Frankston, 3rd January, 1911 +
Fear Sirs, — '
I send you herewith my cheque for the Aerogen Machine which you''sup-
plied to me, as per your account enclosed.
The light is perfect and the installation the simplest possible, and most
convenient. We find that anyone can m.anage it with ease and complete
safety, and it has brought a very definite joy to my house here in the complete
banishment of the kerosene lamps. Our servants are content, and the cost
seems likely to be much lessened. With many thanks,
Very truly yours,
(Signed) ' JOHN MADDEN.
Country Residence of Sir John Madden, Chief Justice of Victoria.
4EROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD.,
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD.,
Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : Alcock & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE: Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA: A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS : Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
J Ringing for More!'
im
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
k Over 70 years 1 success . J
\HfMO avv( >
Wo ’Wottver s\vou\d \)e. \{
\ qx\ rec~
#
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1 I Milk Food No. 2 | Malted Food No. 3
From birth to 3 months. | From 3to 7 months. I From 7 months upwards.
15=17 Market Street, Sydney
THE LONE HANP
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
POWER! WOLF
THe Most Economical Plant in tHe World is tHe
Patent Superheated Steam
Semi-Portable Locomobile.
The Coal Consumption on Standard Engine
is 0*789 lb . per B.H.P. per hour.
m»:'W _
UMolf /magdeburg-Bucka
' E
•• B i
350
MilifflitaiMj; iliiiisiniliiiiliiij SCMliiliiliiut ;,£9ii9jiH
CLASS T.H.C. ENGINE,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES—
HAES & EGGERS LTD.
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Local Agents —
ADELAIDE: Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE : Diamond Lubricating and Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: Dean & Collie, 335 Queen Street.
WOLF’S Standard Locomobiles
are a self-contained complete steam power plant,
including Boiler, fitted with patent, withdrawable Furnace and Tubes, Superheaters,
Engine, Jet or Surface Condenser, Feedwater Heater, Air and Feed Pumps,
all in one unit,
giving the highest economy in fuel and steam.
They occupy a minimum of floor space, requiring only the lightest foundations, and
are easily attended even by unskilled labor.
In regard to
durability, reliability, steady running, adaptability,
WOLF Superheated Steam Locomobiles at least equal the best steam engine or
turbine plants of several 1000H.P. Their superiority in economy is attained by
their faultless construction and in obviating the many losses, including radiation,
etc., which are unavoidable in steam plants having separate boiler and engine.
Over Suction Gas Plants, Oil and Gas Engines, WO L F Locomobiles
possess the following advantages:
Cheaper cost of fuel. —Great reserve of power allowing overloads up to 50
per cent.—Steadiness in running under extreme and sudden variation of
load.—USE ANY KIND OF FUEL, besides coal (woodwaste, logs, peat, tan
bark, sugar cane [bagasse], naphtha, petroleum, inferior coal, lignite, etc.).—
Utilisation of steam for heating or manufacturing purposes.—Easy attend-
ance even by unskilled hands. —Absolute Reliability and Greater Durability.
Greater Simplicity and Continuously Maintained Economy also at Lower
Loads.
In addition to the many Plants already installed throughout
Australia, we are at present Installing the following—
W. Angless, Melbourne • one 600 B.H.P.
W. Angless, Melbourne two 300
Clyde Brick Works, Clyde ... .. one 260 ”
Murrumbidgee Co-operative Flour Milling Co., Wagga .. one 180 „
Fuerth 8 Nall, Sydney one 105 „
N.S.W. Railway Workshops one TO „
Public Works Department, for Lithgow Sewerage Works... two 18 „
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
t
fc,
VACUUM FLASK
is the flask that never fails. You
ask disappointment when you
ask for an imitation.
Thermos Flasks keep hot'liquids hot for
24 hours and cold liquids cold
for days —in tf any * + emperature.
See the name Thermos — a name like it will nnt do\
Thermos Flasks and Jugs are sold
by Stores, Ironmongers, Jewellers, etc.
&
Wholesale Agents: H. A. Parker &■ Co., Castlereagh Chambers, 70, Castlereagh St*Sydney
THe Most Accurate *22 Calibre
REPEATING RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEVENS
VISIBLE LOADING No. 70.
ţ
You see the cartridge go in the chamber.
You know when this rifle is loaded.
Will handle indiscriminately, without ad-
justment, fifteen - 22 Short; twelve ‘22
Long, and twelve '22 Long Rifle R.F
cartridges.
Your dealer”can quote attractive prices.
Weight, 4ilb.
Insist on Stevens.
Write for Rifle and Telescope catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [3
The Price of the Pieper Bayard 'll Cal.
Semi-Automatic Rifle is within the reach of all.
*
cSi
? «vaP
The Bayard Rifle is auto-cocking and auto-ejecting. When you pull the trigger
the recoil cocks the rifle, extracts the empty shell, and makes it ready for the next
cartridge.
This Rifle is strictly High-Grade workmanship, is equal to that put in a
military rifle; it has the quick twist rifling and is very accurate.
Length of barrel, including Receiver, 24 inches.
No tools needed to take it apart. Has detachable barrel, takes .22
long and short Cartridges.
Write to W. A. COX, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Booklet, post free.
SrßOjyt, IV
)' <£a>tchWl^
■*W' Gmt/tdryJU
&dtHbufpJL
<&£&a/ J^g# >
M r>*wS
EASILY PROVED.
To try
“King George IV
WhisKy
once is all that is needed to ensure its con-
tinuance —that is a certainty. Connoisseurs
proclaim it “pure, exhilarating and beneficial.’
It is the Whisky of Whiskies.
ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
THE
ISTILLERS i
•Largest ScotchWhisky
Distillers in the World.
c
OMPANY,
Capital employed,
over ,£3,000,000.
L, m
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
Sydney— Angel Place; Melbourne—s 2, William Street.
“GOLCRYST” is CiScfGl
Mf .
lil||f.
v ..
fU, "
V •
SI
«s
»i
For Biliousness, Dyspepsia, Diver Troubles, Constipation, All Blood Disorders,
Excesses in Diet, GOLCRYST is a most useful medicine. ATSTDFT TON
Consisting: of EPSOM SALTS, SENNA, SARSAPARILLA, DANDELION,
LIQUORICE and GINGER, GOLCRYST is the finest Blood Purifier known. Sold
everywhere in packets, 3d., 6d. and I/-. If unable to obtain locally, write to Rocke,
Q-, Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane; N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug Co., Sydney.
When you have’
had
bur cocoahute
oysters and
farMe for a
1 monhh
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Comolete with instruction book.
Music, as you like it*,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours —Why not NOW?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models —7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO Prop - Ltc5 -’ 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
w
VERY BEAUTIFUL
ANGLO - AUSTRALIAN ACTRESS
DECLARES THAT
CLEMENTS
TONIC
restored her to health and strength
after a severe illness in a leading
Darlinghurst Private Hospital, even
after a trip to the Mountains failed
to give her nerve strength. She
writes from the Criterion Theatre
(Willoughby Comedy Co. manage-
ment) thus: —
Criterion Theatre,
Sydney, 29/9/11.
CLEMENTS TONIC LIMITED,—
“At the beginning of last year I was very ill in a private hospital at
Darlinghurst for some weeks. Although I recovered, I could not get
back my strength, so went to the Mountains for a change.
“Even this did me little good ; my nerves went from bad to worse.
When away a friend of mine advised me to try CLEMENTS T ONIC
which I did. Now I cannot possibly speak too highly of the benefit 1
derived from its use. I now sleep well and feel strong again, and have
had no recurrence of my nervous attacks.
“I can certainly most highly recommend Clements Tonic to all
suffering from loss of strength and poor appetite His a wonderful
health restorer. (Signed) MOLE l FACE!.
You can always be sure that where the health has failed through the vital
moehinerv of the body being out of gear, the irregular stomach, the inactive liver
Hie inoperative kidnevs. or the irritated super-sensitive nerves can soon be put
•i i ELEMENTS TONIC. —Insomnia or Loss of Sleep, Indigestion, Weak-
nK^ t wLiSrned or Run-down Systems, Biliousness and Nervous Breakdown quickly
”3. AU Cheats and Stores sell CLEMENTS TONIC.


Arc
You
Thin?
Paie?
S 3
m
m
fm
m
m
m
mm
ns
IS?
TSB
All run dtwn, easily tired, nerv-
ous? And do not know what
to take? Then go direct to
your doctor. Ask his opinion
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It con-
tains no alcohol, no stimulation,
and is a blood purifier, a nerve
tonic, a strong alterative, an aid
to digestion. Ask your doctor
about Ayer’s non-alcoholic Sar-
saparilla as a strong tonic for
the weak.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A,
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
BH
Eley Cartridges
ensure —as far
as any cartridge
can ensure
first-rate sport
and gratifying bags.
4
m
Among sportsmen and sportswomen
throughout the world, the accuracy
of Eley Cartridges is proverbial.
Make a trial of any or all of these:
Eley ‘Achilles’
Deep shell, gas-
tight, smokeless
(42-grain) powder.
Eley 'Pluto’
Grand Prix quality
cartridge, smokeless
(33-grain) powder.
Eley ‘ Zenith Deep-shell, gastight,
specially selected smokeless (33-gr.)powder.
THESE ARE ALL ELEY LOADED.
Sold by Ammunition Dealers & Gunmakers
Be very sure to see the name ‘ELEY’
on the tube or shell of each cartridge.
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON, ENG.
m
89
H
m
m
h
G 3
as
m
m
m
ť
BE- SURE YOU GET
BONIMINGTOIM’S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bonnington’s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock Bonnington’a; but have you tried my own
mixture ? It is ‘just as good.’”
Allow no one to deceive you. There is no remedy so good as Bonnington’s
Irish Moss.
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Try it the next time you have a cold, and you will be satisfied.
[1
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOEDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, ~ N.S.W.
VARICOSE VEINS
totally cured without
operation or laying up.
In some of the worst cases known, even where the
victim has been unable to walk, the patient has been
restored to his feet inside three days, and a few weeks
under treatment has absolutely healed and banished
the ulcers and permanently cured the varicose veins,
so that not a sign except slight scars remain to show
where the trouble originally existed. This is what
THE VECSEY METHOD
OF TREATMENT
ŧ
MR. G. VECSEY,
Founder of the Vecsey Vqrix-arlum.
is capable of doing in nearly every case. Once you are fully conversant with the method you
will easily understand why this is so. Cures without laying up or detention from business.
The treatment is painless, harmless, entirely of external application, and essentially a
home treatment. Every sufferer should take the trouble to investigate the truth of these claims.
The Vecsey Method of Treatment offers salvation to the thousands who without it will
remain incurable to the end. It cures absolutely and permanently, and leaves no ill aftereffects.
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE BOOK. CONSULTATION FREE.
Send a 2d. stamp, and full particulars; and our free illustrated book will be sent you by
return post. This method offers you an opportunity that nothing else under the sun can give
you. Get rid of your varicose veins. Send to-day, FREE CONSULTATION if you can call.
Hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM,
3103 Ash Street, SYDNEY
(Rear Bank of Australasia). [^23
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[i.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
JMS
m
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
• Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
LATEST o «/) _ JPQ
MODELS d& m 0 to &
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
APFMTQ wante 1 in each district. Write
AULHIO at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and our
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Deot. 280. LIVERPOOLa
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
large: stocks on hand. all models.
The'Standavd Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use sine* 1066.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
56 tons 7c wt.
The weight, of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
sold to <in re.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
B
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
Rowlands
Macassar
Oil
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies. Restores it. Closely
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which nature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this property.
Without it the hair becomes dry, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect of
a beautiful face. Good hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND’S,
67, Hatton Garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mothers of Pioneers.
Rise, while your Augers ring the stem
Of the tapered glass, and your soul-strings start
To song at the fameless names of them,
And the hot blood leaps in your heart!
Stand up, in a mist that is haply smoke,
And a rioting dimness that may be tears—
Drink, and be sacredly still! (Who spoke?
God fetter his soul who jeers!)
“To the Mothers of Pioneers!”
Swept with the showers and burned with sun,
On the slope where the cleared patch bristle?
brown,
At the jerking plough, as a man had done,
They have followed the furrow down.
Through whipping of branches and clutch of thorns,
The sundering wheeling of stamping steers,
Through forests of foreheads and locking horns,
They ride down the crowding years—
Our Mothers of Pioneers!
When the bush-thieves crouched in the stockyard
mud
They have hearkened (Aghting the fear that clogs
The blood in the heart) to the spattering thud
Of the lead on the mortised logs;
Or tending the hurt of a spent white man,
Far East by the margins of bending meres,
They have scourged, with their riAes, the Death that
ran
Through the scrub-fringe spitting spears—
Brave Mothers of Pioneers!
Stand up! Where the straight sun blights and blinds
And the grass-waves quaver querulously,
Swung to the sagas of shouting winds,
In a cradle of saddle-tree,
Some of you, hard, brown men, found birth,
And the strange world rang with your Arstling
fears,
Till, cleaving the croon of the creaking girth,
Their rich tones sang in your ears—
Our Mothers of Pioneers!
Your head’s proud glory has whitened, when
Your heart’s red blossom is splendid yet;
Hark back to its budding, 0 lean brown men !
(Gan the stone that is graved forget?)
Was their trust not truer than Tristram’s harp,
Or their devoir bounden as Bedivere’s ?
Yea, the woof of their breath, and their bodies’
warp
Have Abred you and your peers—
Grave Mothers of Pioneers!
For the seed of . your sweat, for your labor’s math
You have furrowed the desert and dipping range,
You have scored with your ravelling bridle-path
The inner lands and strange;
Your garner is glory—and eld therewith—
For swamp-damps stiffen and north wind seres —-
Shall their star slip to the shadow, sith
Your own in the East appears—
Your Mothers’, 0 Pioneers?
Cunning of chiselling, store of breath,
You have spent on the old-world shapes that lift
In your city squares ; what hindereth
From your green land’s underdrift,
That you rive the stone for the fashioning,
Till the white streets sleep, and the shoreward
piers,
’Neath their carven calm? Will ye do this thing
For the love that your love reveres—-
For the Mothers of Pioneers?
Must the veiled years suckle the shame of you?
Shall the Borne be greater than They That Bare?
“Their names lie writ in our hearts ?” —Go to !
Ye shall write them otherwhere—
Lest honor be buried, and love a name,
And the worth of your doing disappears,
And there falter the thread of a stricken shame
Through the storm of these lifting cheers,
“For Our Mothers of Pioneers!’’
Victoria.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
Reversion.
The cattle-dog to the length of his chain
Toiled and straiued with whine and bark,
Till the man on the stretcher turned and woke,
And lent an ear to the noise in the dark.
Outside the paddocks were white with light;
A moon in the east shone silverly ;
The man went forth from his broken rest,
And, cursing the dog, he set him free.
Then freed of his collar the dog howled thrice;
Three times he howled with a back-thrown head,
And setting his nose to the timbered ridge,
A noiseless shape in the night he sped.
All night on the ridge and the river-flats
A hurry of feet disturbed the hush;
A flying shape and a hunting shape
In silence sped through the startled bush.
The man on his stretcher tossed and turned,
The moon on his blind was broad and white ;
He dreamed of a snow-spread mountain slope
And a wolf that hunted a deer by night.
The dog came back at the break of day—
A weary straggler on wounded feet;
A thirst was quenched and a call obeyed,
And the blood-taste, fresh on his tongue, was
sweet.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Frangas non Flectas!
Here’s a motto for a man.
Though the whole world join to ban:
Hold it —live it to the end:
You may break, you shall not bend!
Fortune fair and Fate most dire
That with Circumstance conspire,
This defiance now I send —•
You may break, you shall not bend!
With my back against the wall
Here I stand: come one, come all!
Good and ill hap—foe and friend—•
You may break, you shall not bend!
This one question: “Am I right?”
Then for ever fight, and fight!
Hands that help, or hands that rend,
You may break, you cannot bend.
Here’s a motto for a man!
Keep it, live it, if you can !
While you’ve life and health to spend—
“ You may break, you shall not bend.”
w.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.


KING ST. - NEWTOWN
THE HUB
OF NEWTOWN
218-222
Sydney.
CASH STORES LTD.
Four Specials from our Blanket Section.
SPECIAL No. I.—Australian Super White Blanket, regular guinea quality, beautifully fished,
large double-bed size, weighing 71b., for "
SPECIAL No. 2.—Australian All-Wool Blanket, extra large size; the best grey Blanket inanutae-
tured for the price, weight 7 Jib 7- 'Viru
SPECIAL No. 3.—Heavy English Whitney Blanket, an exceptional good quality, weighing 741 b.,
for the double-bed size, only 10/ll
SPECIAL No. 4.—An extra heavy part wool, part cotton, Brown-grey English-made Blanket, double-
bed size, weighing 71b., for 10/o
Two Splendid Offerings from our Shoe Department.
“MY LADY” SHOE. —For dress and walking wear, is made of fine patent colt-skin, with tops of
dull velvet, calf inlaid. This Shoe has a flexible, sewed extending sole and a comfortable
i Cuban Heel. The grant, fast-colored eyelets, and the wide silk laces add much to the general
attractiveness'. This Shoe, is modelled on a new toe-shape, this season’s style. A grand fitter ;
sizes 2 to 7. Price. 14/9
£
HE
T
a
m
<
o
u
hub
£
►vfO
?VDNt^
BLACK STORM KING DERBY BOOTS. Made of the finest
selected Box Calf, and will stand the strongest and roughest
of wear, and yet the appearance is fit for a walking- or
dress-wear Boot; with occasional applications of Lucca or
Neatsfoot Oil they will remain soft and will wear indefini-
tely. Sizes, sto 10. Price 12/6
Our Motto—
WHAT OTHERS ADVERTISE,
WE SELL FOR LESS.
Please Write for
“ Our Household
Friend.”
IT IS FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
u
£j> *** '%%f /tc / <J' r fyiAt> y*
> f o> " W/7£ A) m/> & ~f!S
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage id. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ill
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
The Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
ALBERTS
>s^PROFESSIONAL
SYSTEM
ms
mitfe
BOOMERANG
“ BOOMERANG GRAND,” large size 6/6, small 3/6
“PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-
“ BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
“POCKET BOOMERANG,” t/-, post free.
ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells,
price 5/6 ; 80 rds., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/6.
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ’’ the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “ BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has not a “ BOOMERANG ”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “just as
good,” and get the “ BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
me
*3l
!w
ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
RAM
RIFE
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any capacity desired tor
Country Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, Irrigation,Town Plants,Railroad Tanks, etc.
DICE UVnRAIII IP RAMQ Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
***■ “n I linnULlb ■■ IVIO Satisfaction guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—Write for Free Plans and Book.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
t
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case,
larg-e bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste
extra
extra
Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical *
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET— BRISBANE
r.
p
m ,
BT
W
ft
Perdriau
Motor
Tyres
Lead
the
Rest.
PILRDRIAU
Motor Tyres
are made especially for
Hard Australian roads.
“Made Rig£Ht to Run Rig'ht.”
Motorists are invited to call in and inspect.
Price List and all details free on application.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. Ltd.
“THE BEST HOUSE FOR ALL RUBBER GOODS,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY; 105 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
w%
m m
M/
“ COMING, SIR, COMING!
with tHe WhisKy-and-
SPARKLETS!’
—Just made the Soda-water, and it's all ready to
drink , sir. Very much better freshly made. All
the best people are using ‘ Sparklets' at home , sir.
Find it cheaper and better than ready-made soda-
water. Ought to try it, sir l "
Syphons \ 6]6 8 41 - Bulbs * 2/5 8 1)6 Dozen.
§*p-YOUR STOREKEEPER STOCKS THEM.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33.—N0. 1690.
THURSDAY, JULY 4, 1912.
PltlOli Ol).
AN OVERSIGHT.
Progress is being made with the Commonwealth project of a Gallery of Distinguished Australians. —Sydney paper.
KING BILLY’S SON: “Yes, boss, plenty good picture here; but where my old man?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central,
Editorial, 257 City,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every weel: for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
I used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
Dart of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
wlien the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at i/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
Hews Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
' Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jeiuett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. Punchiappuliamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6| in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, IGoz. Id. — otherwise, Boz., Id., and 8)oz. <o
10oz., Hid.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 4, 1912.
A FROWSY AND OUT OF DATE OLD
ROYALTY.
The typical Sydneyite—the class of citizen
who holds that the region between Circular
Quay and Stratbfield contains, if not Aus-
tralia, at any rate all that is best and most
progressive therein —suffers badly from delu-
sions. In moments of oratorical frenzy, he
is accustomed to refer to his native town as
the Queen City of the South. Queens have
their weaknesses, but they are not commonly
dusty, bedraggled, indifferently washed and
insanitary females, and all those things Syd-
ney is. Tell the variety of burgher who
blithers, in all good faith, about the regal
qualities of the Ma capital that it either
lacks altogether, or is inadequately supplied
with, almost every convenience a civilised
city should have, and his contemptuous incred-
ulity is tremendous. Yet the charge is true.
Considering that Sydney is the biggest
city in the Commonwealth, the dustiness
of its streets in dry weather, and the muddi-
ness of them when it rains are wonderful
and scandalous. For the most part, the
streets aren’t cleaned in any serious spirit
and consumption germs and dust blight health
and property without let or hindrance. Such
cleaning as befalls is done perfunctorily
with instruments that were out of date years
ago. People are afraid to build tall build-
ings because the fire-fighting apnliances be-
long to an age when tall buildings hadn’t
been invented. Even assuming there were
fire-subduing machines capable of throwing
water on to an even modified form of sky-
scraper, there is always the possibility of the
water-supply suddenly downing tools. Syd-
ney’s water-supply is well enough for a town
of the dimensions of Bathurst (N.S.W.) or
Geelong (Vic.) ; for a place of well over
600,000 inhabitants it is an absurdity. The
traffic conditions in the city, and in all the
big arteries that lead out of it, constitute a
standing peril to the lives of the lieges. This
is due partly to the scarcity of traffic con-
stables and partly to the rank incompetence
of the few there are, both of which results
are directly attributable to the late Wade
Government’s policy—a policy persevered
with, for long, by the McGowEN-ites—of
sweating the police. Another factor is the
narrowness of most of the streets, and an-
other is the demented local practice of run-
ning what are practically trains among the
ordinary vehicular traffic of the busiest parts
of the metropolis. The trams can’t go slowly;
if they did, they would never get anywhere,
so to speak. Also, they would so congest the
streets that business would pass in its checks
in despair. So they rip along at a tidy pace
between the different crossings, and at short
intervals slay or maim such wayfarers as
haven’t been agile enough to dodge them. The
street-level train is seemly enough in such
slumberous spots as Yass (N.S.W.) ; but in
a Queen City it is an anomaly. In street
lighting; in public lavatory accommodation
(a most important item this) ; in the
matter of public baths and washhouses, and
in dozens of other vital matters of the sort,
Sydney lags placidly in the back ages of
municipal effort. And the tragedy is, it
doesn’t so much as begin to realise its posi-
tion.
* * * *
There is an irreducible minimum of com-
fort which an intelligent and wealthy mod-
ern city should set up as a species of stan-
dard, on the same principle that a fairly
affluent citizen insists on having warm under-
clothing when it gets cold, light garments
when it is hot, and so on. For example,
clean and level streets. A modern city has
the same right to look for these as a modern
citizen has to look for a daily bath. A man
might eat his dinner off the smooth surface
of Unter den Linden, Berlin, most hours of
the day, and not suffer a qualm, so effective
is the street-cleaning contrivance—part-
watering-cart-part-squeegee—which has been
adopted in Germany. There are many
streets within easy hail of the Sydney Gen-
eral Post Office wherein a man who at-
tempted to eat his dinner would irretrievably
lose the provender, down a chasm or what
not, and so be saved from typhoid. A city
of Sydney’s standing should have, roughly,
one underground lavatory for every half-
mile of metropolitan roadway, and for every
mile of main suburban roadway. It should
own a score or more perfectly-equipped and
efficiently-managed washhouses. Also, there
should be at least one Municipal Turkish
Bath, from which all drunks, persons with
skin diseases and other public nuisances and
menaces should be barred. Sydney should have
a policeman at every city corner to regulate
the traffic; to apprehend spitters, accosters
of fair women and “chyackers” of inoffensive
youths; to put the acid on the shop tout
who is daily growing in nerve and numbers ;
and to disperse argumentative inebriates,
bogus and otherwise. It should not depend
for its gas on any private company. It
should own its water-supply—a service that
may conceivably mean its very life. It
should construct and run its own under-
ground railways, abolish street-level tram-
ways so far as the populous centres are
concerned, take over and run such suburban
trains as it was deemed wise to maintain,
and link up the more distant suburbs —for
example, Ryde—with light line railways.
None of these_ things has it done, however,
and there is little likelihood, by the present
look of things, of any of them being done for
years to come.
The thing that holds up reform and keeps
the immense harbor-side town on a civic
level, practically, with Boutke and Never-
tire, is the fact that it is administered, not by
one, but by many corporations, many of
whose members are among the most blighted
specimens of the genus imbecile that we have
in this fair land to-day. There is neither
unity of effort nor unity of credit. One
municipality repairs a section of roadway.
The. adjoining bailiwick, by way of showing
its independence, or because its mayor has
issued a summons against or been kicked
by the next-door mayor, arranges that the
continuation of the road shall resemble a
convulsion of nature. In many cases, the
roads are neither watered nor mended. Some
councils object to traffic passing through
their domain, and so lay themselves out to
make things as unpleasant as possible for
the offenders. Some are hard-up; some
nearly bankrupt; and, as a result, are unable
to repair their roads however good their in-
tentions may be. The administrators of
many of them can’t see the necessity for
conveniences which other cities have re-
garded as indispensable to the public comfort
and health for decades, just as some people
don’t see the point of washing. The rate-
payers, whose goods, clothes, health and
tempers are prejudiced by the dust which
eddies freely everywhere most days of the
year, whose trams have failed them, whose
vehicles are damaged to the tune of thou-
sands yearly by the city’s unspeakable roads :
whose gardens are ruined when a dry spell
arrives, and who have to buv a drink in an
hotel when they want a wash and brush-up,
realise vaguely that there is something rotten
somewhere in the state of civic government.
But they rarely trouble to analyse the basis
of all these anguishes. It is, of course, the
lack of city unification. Until Sydney and
its suburbs are brought under the control of
one municipal parliament, with powers to
deal with all the great city services, and the
same obligation to attend to the needs of
Bondi and Camperdown as it has to see to
the comparative cleanliness of George-street,
the. alleged Queen City of the South will re-
main what it is to-day—a sort of aboriginal
potentate with straws in her tousled hair.
BULL’S SURPLUS AND BULL’S DEBT.
A shriek of great tonnage, under the head-
ing of “Triumphant Freetrade Finance,”
appeared in the Sydney Telegraph of June
26. Years ago it was the custom to say that
N.S.W. was a Freetrade country, though
Freetrade daily papers like the Telegraph
enjoyed 50 per cent. Protection through an
elaborate manipulation of the postal and
railway rates, and their rage when this ad-
vantage was torn from them was as the rage
of 10,000 lions. And the Telegraph and
S. M. Herald and Evening News professed
to be Freetrade papers; in fact, they keep
up the pretence, or profession, or sham, even
unto this day. So the King-street publication
broke into a hymn of thanksgiving over
Asquith’s budget, lately published in Free-
trade England, and pointed out with great
pride how the old man wgs raising great
surpluses, and wiping oqt the British
national debt —a thing that N.S.W. never
attempted in its wildest Freetrade days.
There was music of shawm and psaltery
and dulcimer and harp in the Telegraph
office when the report of Asquith’s financial
statement arrived, and the paper held forth
like this: —
Five millions will go toward reduction of the
National Debt, which the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer states the Government has paid off by no
less than 78 millions. A few weeks ago the Prime
Minister made a speech to London bankers, in which
he said that the Government had been reducing the
country’s aggregate liabilities at the fate of 10)
millions per annum for the last six years, while
other nations were rapidly increasing their liabili-
ties. In the period named Germany’s debt increased
at least 83 millions and Austria’s 112 millions; so
that Mr. Asquith was able to say, “If we compare
our action with that of any other nation we have
no reason to be ashamed.” It is undeniable that the
Liberal party is entitled to be proud of these mag-
nificent results of Freetrade finance. When the
present scheme was propounded, the public was
assured that without a protective tariff the United
Kingdom could neither raise a sufficient revenue nor
prosper in trade; while as for the famous Budget, it
meant the expatriation of dukes and a ruinous up-
settal of the community generally. But the Gov-
ernment went on undismayed by these croakings; and
what is the upshot of its Freetrade policy ? So
much revenue has been obtained that the National
Debt is being paid off, while other nations, with
Protection enough to give them fat surpluses, if
high tariffs could create them, have had to borrow
more and heavily. British trade has increased, social
reforms have been effected—including the greatest
of them, the insurance scheme —and not a duke has
been detected permanently leaving the country.
Actually England is able to find money out of revenue
toward naval expansion, while her competitors have
to borrow for that purpose.
* * * *
It is a fine large assurance, and it is
sad to remember, amid all this glory, that
the Sydney Telegraph’s own financial
column recently declared the total debt of
the United Kingdom, national and local, to
have risen from £1,084,590,417 in 1900 to
about £1,600,000,000 in 1910 —an increase
of, say, £516,000,000 in 10 years. Bull’s
finance is not a very easy thing for the aver-
age Australian to understand. In the first
place, an enormous proportion of the under-
takings which, in Australia and some other
countries, belong to the central Government,
are looked after in Britain by local author-
ities. _ These attend to police, schools,
lunatics, the enormous mass of paupers,
roads, bridges, cemeteries, gas, water, light,
harbors, docks, piers, canals, hospitals,
markets, tramways, sewerage, vaccination,
and very many other businesses. In fact,
they attend to almost everything. They
do most of the borrowing. They levy
rates which, in one notable instance, reached
21s. in the £ of rental value, but that was
an exception, and complaints arose. When
last heard of, the local rates in England
ran up to a maximum of 10s. Bd. in the £,
and the local debts were over £600,000,000.
Both of these annoyances were steadily on
the up-grade. Then the central government
runs a quaint variety of lOU’s these latter
days. They described as (1) the
national debt —an old and familiar institu-
tion ; (2) guaranteed loans; (3) other lia-
bilities. The Government steadily reduces its
national debt except in war time, and makes
great advertisement about the fact, but
between 1900 and 1910 the guaranteed
loans and “other liabilities,” increased
from £92,000,000 to £231,000,000. The
total Bull debt is, somehow or other,
always on the increase in recent times.
An addition of £516,000,000 to the aggre-
gate pawn-ticket in 10 years approaches the
heroic.
Bull, regarded as a Freetrader, becomes
something of an anomaly. He has long been
willing to tax anything at the customs pro-
vided he is assured that he won’t thereby
help along any local industry. If that is
Freetrade, he tries to be the genu-
ine article; but perhaps the thing
should rather be called revenue-tariffism.
His tariff now produces about £69,000,000
a year, which is a world’s record for
that kind of taxation. It seems a sort
of jest that an alleged Freetrade country
should raise the biggest tariff revenue on
this globe, but Bull does it. He taxes im-
ported beer, playing cards, chicory, cocoa,
coffee, chloroform (4s. 4d. per lb.—fancy
the horror of levying a duty like that on the
stuff which is used to alleviate pain!),
ether, certain kinds of fruit, glucose,
molasses, sugar, spirits of all sorts, soap,
wine, tobacco, tea (sd. per lb. —a proposal
to reduce the tax to 4d. was indignantly
thrown out the other day), milk (much
needed for infants), and other things. Some
of the duties, such as the one on milk, really
begin almost to look protective; in fact,
there is a suspicion that Bull is wobbling
without knowing it. Certainly, when any
of “the colonies” are willing to grant a pref-
erence to his goods—that is to say, when
there is a chance to get British goods pro-
tected in Australia or Maoriland or Canada
—the top-booted old man grabs at the alleged
curse of Protection with both hands. He
hates to admit that he is sick of his old
fetich, but he will take any aid that he can
get without “losing face.” Then in the way
of excise duties, he even charges £2 on a lun-
atic, and £5 if you want to get married in a
hurry, and 10s. for an inebriate under treat-
ment. His income tax runs up to Is. Bd. in
the £, and his bill for the maintenance of
paupers is bigger than it ever was before,
despite the fact that the old age pension
system has materially relieved the pressure
on the workhouses. Taking one thing with
another, it is difficult to enthuse over “tri-
umphant Freetrade finance” to quite the
extent that the Sydney Telegraph does. In
fact, there are moments when a tendency
arises to call that finance a dubious affair,
and the paper which advertises it a shame-
fully unlettered institution.
AUSTRALIAN PLACE NAMES.
“Henry Horse Collar” writes in reply:—
So the Count de Fleurieu wants to preserve the
names which early white navigators scattered around
the Australian coast. And thereby he arouses the
protest of Edward S. Sorenson, who desires to save,
or hoard up or embalm the Binghi nomenclature
instead, on the ground that it came earliest of all.
“The first names,” he says, “were aboriginal.” And
it is probable that they were, i suppose that in../
be said of every country. But the black
men that we found in this country were the real
aborigines, or whether tiiey were upstarts, dating bacx
a mere 10,000 or million years, and tueir nanks
were comparatively new devices which had taken tne
place of older designations, no one knows — -hoc even
k. S. Sorenson. And whether the names which our
Binghi is alleged to have given were invariably older
even than the European names, no one knows. There
is too liiucn assumption about this Bin uni business,
and too much tendency to kangaroo at a conclusion.
Let me put in a word for these early Dutch and
Portuguese and French navigators. They came here
long, long ago, in vessels that were like Balmain
ferry steamers, minus the steam and the ferry and
the Balmain. They were hungry for knowledge, and
each man took his life in one hand and his courage
in the other, and clawed his way around our inhos-
pitable coasts clamoring for information. Cook's
grandfather wasn’t born when they began their
search, nor had Cook’s great-grandfather proposed to
Cook’s great-grandmother. Their first desire was
to make maps of the coast for their own guidance
and the guidance of those who came ajfter them.
They couldn’t buy any maps. They couldn’t call at
any local port, and interview the harbor-master or
the Governor or the mayor, nor could they look up
details at the public library. They had simply to
scramble for themselves and start everything afresh.
Along immense stretches of the coast there was no
sign of population, and no reason to believe that any
place had any name, or that there was anybody there-
abouts to give it one. If they had looked far, far
ahead, and seen E. S. Sorenson in the distance, they
might have struggled against these difficulties. The
primitive navigator mignt have crawled into every
bay he came to, and carefully anchored there. Then
he might have landed and walked 20 miles, till he
saw a nigger (if he wasn’t killed by an unseen nigger
in the interim). Then he might have run 20 miles
till he overtook that nigger (if he wasn’t killed in
the interim and if he was swift enough to overtake
the nigger). Then he might have dragged that nig-
ger 40 miles back to the coast (if he wasn’t killed
in the interim, and didn’t die of thirst on the
road). And having got his aboriginal to the spot,
he might have asked that heathen, in a language that
the black man couldn’t understand, what was the
name of the bay, or river, or headland, or other
natural feature. And Binghi, being wholly unable to
see a reason for all this fuss, would have replied in his
own language, that if the white man didn t let go
his hair he would kick him (the white man) in the
stomach. Then the white man would get back to his
ship (if the niggers hadn’t burned it in the interim,
or if it hadn’t got wrecked), with a vague idea that
the place was named Stomach-Kick, or something
equivalent.
The early explorers did the best they could. They
didn’t anchor twice a day and run 160 miles a day
after unintelligible strangers. They just made maps
and devised names for the various features of the
coast. They didn’t give Australia its native name
because there was none. It is a lamentable fact that
the Australian native didn’t know that there was
any such place as Australia. He had never sailed
round it or marched across it. He hadn’t learned
that it was a continent or one of five continents,
because he was blankly ignorant of the fact that
there were four other continents, and he had no idea
what a continent meant. He didn’t even know what
the world meant, and he probably wasn’t aware that
he was in it. He lacked a knowledge of the solar
system. It isn’t certain that all the capes and bays
and rivers around the coast were definitely named
before the white man came, and, if they were, the
old names were seldom found until the new ones had
soaked in, and it isn’t easy to see that the world
would have been much better if things had been other-
wise. And if all these capes, bays, rivers, etc., have
native names that are traceable to-day, which is
doubtful, it is quite impossible to prove that these are
older than the names given them by the early white
explorers. Names have a habit of changing. Thus
London was once .Augusta, and Melbourne was once
Beargrass, and Innisfail, in North Queensland, was
Geraldton until a year or so ago, and Bendigo used
to be Sandhurst. Unless Edward S. Sorenson can
show that all native names are imperishable, it is no
use for him to declare that the present ones are
invariably older than those painted on the map by
the Dutchmen and Frenchmen who prowled about
these shores 10 generations of Binghi ago.
The tendency to find an aboriginal designation for
every place, and to blight the early white arrival for
not finding it at the beginning, is unfair. In
Binghi’s time a vast area of the interior was just a
flat, a featureless blank, a bit of dead chaos or dead
level. There was no more reason that every special
part of it should have a specific name than that
there should be a specific name for half-way up a
tree, or for the pint of water that is 857) miles off
the Australian coast on the way to Maoriland, or
for the bit of air (sufficient to fill a carpet bag) that
lies exactly, midway between Boggabri and the roof of
things. But the white man came and planted town-
ships here and there, where nothing had been save
flatness and dust, just as a long-previous white man
went to England and built cities where there had
been nothing but forest. He made railway stations,
and cross roads, and half-way houses, and mail
changes, and wild cats, and other features. He
bushranged at times, and the place where the body
was found (marked X on the plan) became a fea-
ture. Having located a place where there was no
place before, he rose up in his haste, just as David
did when he said that all men are liars, and called
it Jonesborough, or Tankville. Why shouldn’t he?
J if 1 ?' wa f, °^ en no digger for 12) miles around to
tell him that the real name of the dusty and feature-
less bit of earth was something that meant Cloud-
Shadows-on-the-Waters, or thereabouts. For my own
Part .t don’t believe that was the name, or anything
Binghi was under a double disadvantage. He had
no permanent towns or cities or fortifications or great
battle-fields. He wasn’t a navigator on any large
scale, so he hardly looked at his country from the
seaward side. He had no great religious contro-
versies or big politics, which all help to make names
—witness the Flames of Smithfield, and the Cape of
the Eleven Thousand Virgins and the Valley of Dry
Bones. He lived in a country which was ill-supplied
for its size with big land marks in the way of
cataracts, mountains, volcanoes, mud springs and the
like. There was comparatively little, considering the
area, for him to name; and, anvhow, be wasn’t a man
of wide vocabulary, nor an animal of large literary
discourse, looking before and after. He may have
been “sweet-sounding and often full of sentiment,” as
E. S. Sorenson alleges, but after considering the bar-
barous noise of “Boggabri,” I have doubts about the
sweet sounds, and I have always found Binghi more
flea-infested and dog-accompanied than sentimental.
Anyhow,' if he did call North Shore “Cammeray,”
what did that amount to? Supposing Binghi to be
the real aboriginal of the land, he had had thousands
and thousands of peaceful years to lie in the sun and
think out that effort. The white man would have
built 10 civilisations in the time, and made wars and
libraries and museums, and built and pulled down
and rebuilt cities, and invented arts and sins and
religions, and raised up public debts, and gone bank-
rupt and bald, and published dictionaries, and done
heaps of things. “Cammeray” isn’t much of a result
or consequence at the best. And probably the white
man who got hold of the name misunderstood the
situation, and the term really meant a vegetable or a
girl or a debbil-debbil. Who is the authority, any-
how, and who made him an authority ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Irreconcilables.
An effort is being made at present to split
the Labor party, not- by its enemies without,
but by its very bad friends within. The sec-
tion which threatens to break away is
against arbitration, and proposes to have
nothing to do with Labor-in-politics. It
will expel members of Parliament from any
union office they may hold, and its weapon,
apparently, will be the strike, the whole
strike, and nothing but the strike. It will,
in short, run on much the same lines as the


Maoriland Federation of Labor, which, in
its turn, is a relation of the Industrial
Workers of the World. This sort of devel-
opment is mainly the work ot outside, ad-
visers. A large number of Labor organisers
and lecturers and miscellaneous firebrands
have reached this country from outside at
one time and another. They were failures
in a political sense, and they came from
countries where their party stood tor politi-
cal failure. Not one of them be-
longed to a land where Labor had
captured both Houses of the supreme
Legislature, or had captured one House,
or even dreamt seriously of captur-
ing one House. Because they couldn t get
possession of their own Parliaments -
through lack of sense or for some other
reason-—they assumed that no Parliament
could be held by Labor—that the Legisla-
ture must always belong to the enemy, and
always be an enemy. These failures sent
their doctrine to Maoriland and Australia,
and some foolish people who have a tend-
ency to believe what any noisy and assertive
outsider tells them about their own country,
simply because he is a noisy and assertive
outsider —-who believe him even against the
evidence of their own eyes—accept the doc-
trine. In Australia, Labor owns the I ed-
eial Legislature body and soul. It owns
the State Legislature of N.S.W. But for
the insane Brisbane strike, in which the
irreconcilable party made such a monu-
mental failure, it might own to-day the
State Legislatures of Queensland, Tas-
mania and S.A. Even now . the prospects
are good, provided similar follies or treasons
are avoided in the future. On present ap-
pearances it only requires a little time and
a good deal of diplomacy, and Labor can rule
Australia. Then, if there is any boon or
blessing or advantage or millennium or
beatitude which Labor doesn’t possess,, it can
only be because the article, isn’t in the
country, or because, though it is available,
Labor is too stupid to get it. Instead of
having to ask its employer for concessions,
by strike or otherwise, Labor would be . in
the much more dignified nosition of being
able to take them. If it believed in a co-
operative Commonwealth there would be no
possible reason why it shouldn’t have the
thing—except, perhaps, its own inability to
construct it. There is only one nlausible
explanation why Labor should prefer strikes
to legislation in a country where it is able
to get control of the political machine, and
that is disbelief in itself. If it thinks that
Fat knows much better how to fill the coun-
try with wealth than Labor does itself, and
< h'at consequently Labor may get more wealth
by an occasional strike against Fat,, the
nolitical boss, than by being the. political
boss in its own person, the position is in-
telligible. It is a very humble position , to
take up—still it is a position. The section
which prefers strike to politics proposes to
give up to its opponents the loaves and fishes
of office, the control of the army and navy
and police, and the charge of the political
machine. In return it will get freedom, from
responsibility. It will have the easy job of
criticising the men in office, and saying that
things are done wrongly, instead of the brain
fag of being in office and showing how things
could be done rightly. It will be able to
demand that the other fellow will know how
to pay higher wages, for shorter hours, in a
low tariff country, instead of being the fellow
and showing the way to. do the thing. But
the irreconcilable section, or fragment,
which wants Labor to keep out of politics,
overlooks the fact. that there, is no future
before a narty which is afraid of responsi-
bility. The’ various Labor Governments
that Australia, has had may not have pro-
duced the milßnnium, but some of them at
least have tried honestly to fird it, and have
done something towards it. There is more
hone in them than in the policy of general
strike, which consists of serving a notice on
Fat to produce the millennium at once, else
work won’t resume.
—_
Again Capital Flees from the Country.
The S. M. Herald has once more found
occasion to mention with terror that capital
is leaving the country. On June 27 it pub-
lished a brief, or stunted, or dwarf shriek,
under the headings: “Fresh Fields! Inves-
tors Looking Out! Eyes on Argentina!”
On June 28 it published a larger groan,
under the title, “Capital Alarmed!” The
basis of the trouble was the fact, or alleged
fact, that certain wealthy men hereabouts
are thinking of investing a million or more in
Argentina pastoral, securities, if they find
they can get higher interest in Argentina
than they can in Australia. It sems a rea-
sonable enough proposition in its way. If
Argentina is so much poorer or more rotten
than Australia, that the Argentine will
gladly pay 8 per cent, for money, while the
Australian will only pay 4 or 5 or 6 per
cent., an outflow of Australian money to
that country is probable enough. It is a
case of coin finding its own level. It is an
illustration of the simple and wonderful law
of demand and supply, about which Ihe
S. M. Herald has written so many beautiful
articles, spread over a great quantity of
years. On the other hand, supposing the
money that is leaving Australia —assuming
that it really does leave Australia —-to be
foreign money, then its departure will relieve
this country of so much debt, and so much
interest liability. There is profit in the
transaction either way. Australia may be
saving interest by getting rid of an old debt,
or it may be making interest by putting an-
other country in its debt. There is only one
circumstance in which the flight of capital
from the country is always a curse, and that
is Avhen it goes away, by reason of a fool-
ishly ineffective tariff, endorsed by foolish
old papers like the Herald, to pay for goods
that might as easily be made in
the country. Then the departure of
canital neither pays off old debt nor
brings in new interest; it merely de-
nrives the community of employment and
keeps away population,. In this matter of the
exit of cash, by the way, the Torv press is
curiously uneven and snasmodic. If there is
one thing about which the S. M. Herald is
nrouder than another it is the way capital
is fleeing from England, because it wants to
find some place where interest rates are
higher, or taxes lower, or nrnsnects better.
The Herald describes the process in Bull’s
case as “The Investment of British Funds
in Foreign Enternrises,” and brags about
Bull as the banker of the world. Even
when Bull’s money goes to Argentina, the
lop-sided old rag never dreams of publishing
a huge headline, “Capital Alarmed,” as it
does when Australia’s money threatens to
go there. Yet that sort of scream would
apply as well in one instance as in the
other. Great areas of Britain are becoming
depopulated through the decay of agricul-
ture. The alarmed British money-owner
won’t put his cash into that sort of enter-
prise nowadays. He prefers, and has long
preferred, to invest it in foreign loans and
foreign land deals, and such like things.
In fact, he is a terrified man, and his capi-
tal is leaving the country. Some day. when
British local rates cease to run up to 10s. Bd.
in the £ in places, and the income tax doesn’t
climb as high as Is. Bd. in the £, a lot of
that capital may return and find employment
at home, but so far it shows no signs in
that direction. It can’t be said that it
isn’t wanted—the need for it in British
agricultural enterprise is glaring enough.
But legislation has driven it away—unlike
the case of Australia, where agricultural, pas-
toral and manufacturing industry are glow-
ing alike. It is time the S. M. Herald
spoke plainly to old father Bull on this
subject.
Three Per Cent.
The Commonwealth Bank has made a pre-
liminary announcement, and not a very ex-
citing one. In its Savings Department it
will pay interest on £3OO or less, but when a
deposit exceeds £3OO, the excess won’t carry
interest. Furthermore, the rate is fixed at
a humble 3 per cent. Neither item is cal-
culated to dazzle the depositor or to stagger
humanity. There are various institutions in
Australia which scrape up 3J per cent, for
their depositors, and there are some which
only give 3 per cent., but pay interest on
much larger amounts —£500 in one case and
£lOOO in another. The Commonwealth Bank
is plainly setting out under difficulties. By
reason of the failure to arrange a scheme
whereby the State savings banks could be
taken over from their present cantankerous
proprietors, it has to start from scratch, so
to speak, and build its savings bank business
from the ground up. And as no attempt
was made to buy up any existing banks so
that the new institution could commence
with a ready-made connection, the general
business —except for such as the Australian
Government can supply—must also start
from scratch, and be built from the ground
up. The Commonwealth has no public debt
for the bank to manage save the scrap that
it took over from South Australia when it
acquired the Territory and two bits of rail-
way. It has no great public works policy on
hand, and it is understood that the new in-
stitution won’t even have the management of
the Federal note issue. So the Bank
has its limitations. It promises at the be-
ginning to be a very large machine with a
highly-paid manager and a small busi-
ness. No doubt the business will grow, but
the fact that it commences at the tail end of
a boom won’t help it to grow extra fast, and
the fact that the terms it offers to savings
bank depositors are rather below than above
the average won’t help it to grow extra fast
either. Yet as a new concern, with all its
future to make, and a very costly manager to
support —one who costs about as much as
the biggest manager of the biggest and oldest
institution in the country—it is evident it
can’t commit itself very heavily to its de-
positors. And, on the other side of the case,
just because a great experiment was on hand
and a great principle was at stake, it had to
buy an expensive man where the average
new private bank is content to get along at
first with a cheap one. It seems a great pity
that the Fisiier Government didn’t make an
effort to buy up two or three existing banks
to begin with—concerns like the Commer-
cial of Australia, Queensland National, and
Australian Bank of Commerce, which have
an immense number of branches, a wide con-
nection, and the framework or skeleton of a
very large business. These are affairs
which were hard hit in the boom-and-burst
days, and though they are all recovering,
their shares are still at a heavy discount,
chiefly because they haven’t yet re-estab-
lished their prestige. If they became Federal
property the Federal guarantee would supply
the prestige. Then the Bank of the People
would open its big front door with a connec-
tion that would spread over practically the
whole Commonwealth, and it would have a
practical monopoly of the business of its own
Northern Territory where the Commercial
Bank of Australia is now supreme. It would
be a real Bank of All Australia —not a mere
financial side issue. It would save the
salaries of three general managers—that is
to say, instead of there being four managers
(one Federal and three private) for four
businesses, there would be only one
manager for four consolidated busi-
nesses, and the new high-nriced appointee
would have a chance to really earn his oats.
There would be less competition when three
rivals were out of the way, and consequently
more room for progress. The Federal
institution, even in its earliest days, wouldn’t
then be a one-pint bank paying a two-
gallon manager, so it might be able to give its
savings bank depositors a trifle over 3 per
cent, interest. Nobody can get very drunk
on 3 per cent.
»
The question may yet arise whether Willie
Kelly, M.H.R., should be granted a dis-
pensation so that he needn’t behave like any
other gentleman. The matter might be fixed
up by passing a special Act, called the Kelly
Relief Act, which would set forth that even
when Kelly did things which would be re-
garded as “over the odds” if most other mem-
bers did them, and which would be utterly
impossible in the case of courteous old war-
riors like Deakin and Glynn, it should be
understood that he couldn’t help it, being
built that way, and therefore no anger
should be shown. This suggestion is based
on an incident of last week. Hughes deliv-
ered a speech which was needlessly long (all
speeches are needlessly long), but which was
much above the speech average. At the end
of it he was dry. He didn’t want to go out
and drink neat whisky out of the bottle, but
he yearned for a pot of tea. Kelly rose and
started to flog the air in reply. There is a
sort of unwritten Parliamentary law that
when a Minister is replying to the Leader of
the Opposition, or the Leader of the Opposi-
tion is replying to a Minister, the adversary
should remain in the House and listen,
though George Reid took no notice of this
convention, in consequence of which Dibbs
once called him back as he was fleeing off
the premises, and told him to wait and hear
of something to his advantage. Kelly isn’t
a Minister, and never was one, and is never
likely to be one. Still, Hughes treated
him with courtesy, and passed him a memo,
of apology, stating that he was going out
for a hurried and harmless drink, and would
return almost immediately. That is to say,
he would return and listen to the foolish
shrieks of Kelly. And Kelly read it aloud
with a howl, and professed to regard it as
an insult. Then the thin garment of cour-
tesy was shed in all directions, and one
voice called Kelly a “pig,” and another
said he was a “rotter,” and a third said he
was “only fit for a taproom.” The general
feeling was that an act of needless polite-
ness had been wasted on the snapnish little
Foreign-trader from Sydney. Really the de-
mand for the Kelly Relief Act seems
urgent.
A great deal of argument has been ex-
pended as to the alleged unfitness of the
white British person to live in the pleasant
warm climate of Northern Australia. It is
time something was said about his apparent
utter unfitness to live in the colder parts of
his own bleak islands. On that subject, ever
since he got enough education to learn that
there were other places to go to, he has been
very definite and emphatic. The Scotch
census of 1891 showed that the counties of
Orkney, Shetland, Caithness, Sutherland,
Inverness, Nairn, Elgin, Banff, Perth and
Argyll were all losing population. The
census of 1901 showed Orkney, Shetland,
Caithness, Sutherland, Ross, Cromarty, In-
verness, Banff and Argyll still on the down
grade. In 1911 the northern counties which
were losing population were Orkney, Shet-
land, Caithness, Sutherland, Inverness,
Elgin, Banff, Forfar and Argyll, Either the
white man is getting out of these places at
a tremendous rate or else he is dying of
rheumatism. Possibly it is rheumatism ; for
why should he want to flee the blessings of
Freetrade, and go where the curse of Pro-
tection sits like a great ass on the tummy
of the land?
Melbourne Age makes vague though bitter
complaints against the Northern Territory
on the ground of alleged slovenly adminis-
tration in the past. Whether it wants to
abandon the Territory to niggers and China-
men, or tear up the railway, or cast every-
thing aside as a bad job by way of remedy,
it doesn’t say; but, all the same, it is very
angry. According to a leading article
(18/6/’l2) :
Mr. Thomas made personal acquaintance with a
microscopical portion of the problem during his
recent visit to Darwin, when, desiring to acquire sites
for workmen’s cottages, he discovered that all the land
in the vicinity of the township had been alienated to
owners who could not be found. We now learn
from the Administrator all the permanent waters
lying between Palmerston and Batchelor have been
suffered to slip out of the possession of the Crown
in the same lamentably stupid fashion.
These things are doubtless very sad, yet they
are quite common in a new country. There
was a time when the ownership of the lands,
and even, in many cases, of the women, of
Melbourne was just as indefinite. In the
very early, wild, rich, roaring and whisky-
fied days of Bendigo and Forest Creek, the
digger used to go abroad on an occasional
heroic burst. Ilis programme was simple.
He went to Melbourne. He got drunk. He
whooped things up. He got married to a
woman whose name he promptly disremem-
bered. He fell among land-sharks, who sold
him one or two allotments in the rising city.
The matter was fixed up at the office of some
solicitor whom he was afterwards unable to
identify. A haze set in. He couldn’t re-
member what else he bought or what other
women he married. He got back home on
all fours with a jim-jam and a bottle. And
a while later he did it all over again. Early
Melbourne was full of allotments with eight
owners, all missing, and women with eight
husbands; and the goldfields were full of
men with eight wives, and some faint recol-
lection of lost title deeds. But Melbourne
pulled through, and so doubtless will Port
Darwin. Probably the Government will get
over the difficulty by resuming all the town
and suburban lands belonging to unknown
proprietors, and putting the money to a trust
fund pending the upheaval of claimants.
There is really no very great difficulty about
the case.
“G.V.W.” whites :
An appeal having been made to the workers of
Australia for aid in supporting the Waihi (M.L.)
strike, it i 3 well to explain the present position.
Seven weeks ago the Miners’ Union, desirous of pre-
venting the engine drivers forming a separate union,
ordered a strike. As the union is a branch of the
red rag Labor Federation, this body took up the
quarrel while the miners sat back and waited events.
There were plenty of events. The pumps were
stopped, the horses withdrawn, and the companies
concerned got six months protection. The water in
the Waihi mine has risen to such an extent that,
were the trouble settled to-morrow, it would take at
least two months’ pumping to drain the 60-odd miles
of drives, . etc. Meantime, 500 to 600 people have
left Waihi, which is approaching a stage readily
understood by readers of the Deserted Village.
Numerically, the union is weaker now than before,
and both it and the Federation are looking frayed at
the edges. The levy of 10 per cent, called on all
affiliated unions by the Federation has been turned
down by all but one. Some of the others agreed
to pay anything from 2s. 6d. a week downward per
member. The Auckland Tramways Union refused
to pay a bean. The decision of the executive not to
call a general strike to support the miners is a direct
negation of its previous preaching on the folly of
sectional strikes. Its excuse is that some must work
to support the strikers. As a matter of fact, the
workers who have put their faith in the Federation
have run into a variation of our old friend, Uncle
"1 fiji. Anyone who can work miracles on the lines
®*- fh® loaves and fishes act is urgently required at
Waihi, while the Federation thinks things over.
‘Clarence O’Hagan” writes :
This cant about preference to unionists makes me
wild. . Fisher and Pearce and other conspicuous
Laborites keep on saying that the capable unionist is
to have preference over the capable non-unionist, but
when it comes to putting their say-so into practice
they are like the man who fell out of the aeroplane.
No wonder the Opposition is able to make a so-ng
about the appointments and handing-out-of-billets that
distinguish the present Federal Labor Ministry! Talk
about round pegs in square holes! The appointment
of a “journalist” in the office of the High Commis-
sioner is a case in point. This was suggested three
years ago, or more, to Deakin, then Prime Minister,
who passed the idea on to Reid. Reid said it was
good ; he would like a man, but would not move in
the matter until he had got to London. However,
the suggester, being a competent man, was asked by
the Prime Minister to put in his application. He
did, and waited —a-nd waited. At last Reid wrote,
asking for the said appointment; but, of course, the
Government had changed, though the Department that
is presumed to track these things was still in exist-
ence. Naturally, the man who had first suggested the
job (thereby, as Reid’s action shows, proving that he
could look ahead about three years, anyhow) thought
that he would have an excellent chance to get it. ' He
was a unionist—a member of the Writers and Artists’
Union. But what did Fisher, or Brother Thomas,
or somebody do? They appointed a man who, for all
I know, may be a shearing unionist or a pick-and-
shovel unionist, or a wharf-laboring unionist, but who
certainly is not a journalistic unionist. Of course,
Thomas and Fisher and Pearce have yet to grow
out of their quaint troglodyte belief that “Labor”
necessarily means a Bloke with bowyangs round his
trews. There is absolutely no excuse for Brother
Thomas, because all the facts were before him.
Moreover, among the applicants were other certified
and competent unionist journalists; but as they, pre-
sumably, lacked a pick and shovel in their writing
equipment, they, too, were deliberately passed out or
over, or a piece of cold shoulder.
Another lesson for the tariff-sinkers comes
to hand, this time from Geelong (Vic.). A
couple of years ago the Oriental Timber
Corporation set up mills, at a cost of
£200,000, at North Geelong, and commenced
importing from Siberia undressed timber,
which was turned out in the form of flooring
boards, boxes, etc., at the local mills. The
duty on imported timber is 3s. per 100 super
feet, and on the undressed article 2s. 6d.;
so the local timber-dressing industry is pro-
tected to the extent of only 6d. per 100 super
feet. This is absurdly inadequate, consid-
ering the cheapness of labor in Norway and
other countries with which the local manu-
facturer must. compete. When the Oriental
lining and flooring boards were put on the
market, the cost of the imported article
dropped, and still the foreign manufacturer
was able to make a good profit. The result
is that the Oriental mills have now closed
down, and it is announced that they will
remain closed until the duty is raised. As
a consequence, 2GO men and boys (who were
receiving £5OO a week in wages) have been
thrown out of work. The result of the
fool policy of keeping the tariff down while
wages are going up is something like this:
(a) the local industry is crippled, since the
local manufacturer is compelled to pay a fair
wage, or give up employing anybody; (6)
the local worker loses his job, since the local
manufacturer cannot pay the wage and at
the same time compete with the foreign
sweater; and (c) the foreign sweater waxes
fat on Australian money, which he spends
in a foreign country. If the duty on dressed
timber were fixed at ss. or ss. 6d. per 100
super feet, it would not be too high. And
while Andrew Fisiier and Frank; Tudor
are thinking over this matter, they may as
well remember that down in Corio (a seat
which Labor is going to have Beelzebub’s
own job to retain) there are 200 workless
voters who regard the gospel of fiscal agnos-
ticism as unsound, not to say rotten.
The Speech.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If there were a dozen Mr. Hughes, Labor would
probably remain in power for ever. He kept the
House for two hours crowded with friends and foes
who, if they did not appreciate his arguments, thor-
oughly enjoyed his amazing versatility and vola-
tility. .. .Nothing stopped him. He was sarcastic,
sardonic, satirical, declamatory, decisive, discursive.
He harangued, he charged, he pleaded, he asserted,
he denied. He was humble; he was charitable; he
was bitter.... Flinging off flouts and gibes in this
vein, Mr. Hughes held the House spellbound.
—Sydney Sun.
And what the H —l’s a speech
To rise upon your blessed toes, and wave your
arms and screech !
To pull the bung from out the cask of hot,
volcanic gabble,
And raise alternate laughs and cheers from
some confounded rabble!
To act like any taproom “star,” and rant of
serious matters!
To tear with talk and gestures fierce some
other talk to tatters!
To beat the air, and beat the clock till mercy
they beseech,
While work is rotting all around — that’s
what they call “a speech” !
Who made the first blanked speech?
A monkey swinging by his tail a little out of
reach
Of those below who longed to snatch the
coeoanut he guarded,
While on the branch with tooth and nail
their progress he retarded.
And just to keep them occupied, he jabbered
in his lingo,
And kept them sitting on their tails by <serv-
ing vocal stingo.
He made it warm, that speaker did —he told
them they were monkeys!
Not apes of great intelligence, but low-
browed forest flunkeys ;
They were not fit, he told them straight, fine
cocoanuts to cherish,
But should remain upon the ground, and do
a humble perish.
No interjections would he brook —denials
and corrections
He overlooked as mannerless and foolish in-
terjections ;
He jabbered all the things he knew —he chat-
tered in their faces,
And told them they were full of fleas, and
Horrors and Disgraces ;
He-swung upon his. useful tail, and grew
quite hot about it.
In case they’d missed a word of it, he started
then to shout it.
Weak squeals of rage went up from those
who listened to his clamor;
But down upon their protests faint his voice
came like a hammer;
No ape could hope to stem the flow of sound
that he’d discovered;
The forest all around was hushed, and new
apes came and hovered
To find the fount of this new Force that
spouted out like water,
And did not maim, or shock, or kill, but did
terrific slaughter.
’Twas something new to ev’ryone, this end-
less flow of blither
That seemed to mesmerise, and stun, and
paralyse, and wither.
They could not hope to do the same —his
tongue was like a swivel,
And threw off foaming floods of bright, acid-
ulated drivel.
It hit them straight between the eyes, and
left them dumb and mournful— .
This stream of terrible abuse, so biting and
so scornfuL;
They saw their Teeth were out of date —that
Tongue was now the master,
And he alone would get the branch who
talked a little faster.
So down they sat upon their tails, and
studied how he made it;
And very soon they learnt the trick, and
ev’ry monkey played it.
That was the start of politics—the monkey
out of reach
Who jabbered, swinging by his tail, that
first tremendous Speech !
N.S.W.
KODAK.


INS{/
2
oO
IEADING Australian
Company transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident g
Live Stock Insurance.
TO RUN A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
To Keep Ahead oi Your Opposition by
Using HARRINGTONS’ EXCLUSIVE
STAR PICTURES _!
A Complete List of All Exclusive
Films, Hiring Rates and Synopsis
of the various subjects will be
sent on application to
THE LEADING CINEMATOGRAPHIC
& PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE
WELLIMGTON.NZ.
The“N U<3GET”
POLISHES are
for Patent. Glace kid.Bqx
CALfm other LEATHERS
fHE BEST, therefore THE CHEAPEST.
Lyric s Colonial Theatres
Direction : J. D. WILLIAMS.
World’s Famous PHOTO-PLAY PALACES.
WHERE EVERYBODY GOES.
Continuous Performances : 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
STALLS, 3d. DRESS CIRCLE, 6d.
Entire Change of Programme twice weekly,
MONDAY and THURSDAY.
Startling attractions shown at these 3 Theatres
every week, at English and American
prices of admission.
We cater specially for Ladies and Children.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attend-
ants.
Patronised by over 65,000 People weekly.
Run under the Continuous-show System, now
all the rage in England and America.
Don’t fail to see the Startling Attractions
showing this week at the Lyric, Colonial No. 1,
ami Colonial No. 2.
They are sensations of Biographical Art, and
we guarantee them to be the most interesting
productions ever attempted in Photo-play,
The Greater J. D. Williaus Amusement Co. Ltd.
The Support that Liberalism Flings
Away.
“An Old Military Man” has ideas about a
flank movement on a new battlefield: —
In a few brief months, seemingly, the N. S. Wales
elections will be occurring. By all the rules of the
game the Me Go wen party should be bumped out.
It has alienated the Nationalist crowd—which had
always favored it, as against the rank Geebungs
who are associated with Liberalism—by the con-
sistent anti-Australian ism of most of its leaders. It
has been the most completely rampant borrower on the
Australian record. In the inevitable course of
things it has disgusted a large number of out-and-
out supporters of other days. No matter how hard
a party borrows it can’t distribute railways and
bridges, tramways and Schools of Arts everywhere,
and there are many who estimate a Government’s
worth by the amount of public money it spends in
their district, especially when the Government care-
fully teaches them to take that view of things. What
with one thing and another C. G. Wade has a golden
chance of achieving the end of every political leader’s
desire. Under an astute warrior of the Carruthers
type, Liberalism would simply crawl all over Labor in
the coming fray. But Wade lacks something—
whether it is cunning or the cheerful cynicism of the
political opportunist I am not prepared to sav—and,
as one result, his party is likely to continue" in the
soup.
The key to the whole State situation is what one
cally the whole of the young man and sporting vote,
tically the whole of the young man and sporting vote,
a proportion of the young woman vote, most of the
Irish vote and the Liquor vote. Though most of this
vast, floating means of support leans towards Labor,
it is not solidly or continuously democratic. Amongst
the Irish, for example, there are thousands who are
fairly yearning to vote the Tory ticket, but who are
driven infuriatedly into the Labor camp at regular
intervals by the Liberal attitude on sectarian ques--
tions. There is an absurdly incorrect impression
abroad that the Irishman in Australia or the Austra-
lian of Irish descent is invariably a manual laborer—
an unshiftable adherent of the toiler’s ticket. It
only requires a glance at the crowds which pour in
and out of the big R.C. churches, both in Sydney
and in the country towns, to convince anyone of
discernment that the bulk of the Irish are shop-
keepers, professional men, farmers and so on in a
prosperous way of business. The world goes well
with them. They don’t want violent change. In
fact, they are natural Liberals. An example of how
little it takes to divert a goodly proportion of the
Irish vote to Liberalism was afforded in the recent
Wernwa contest. The foolish Sydney dailies, in a
well-meant, attempt to help Conroy, credited him
with certain anti-ltomanist views. Conroy, an old
electioneering hand, promptly denied them. It was
good business. In addition to the legitimate Liberal
vote, he got a solid mass of Hibernian support in
every Irish centre, and it well-nigh won him the
election Lord Randolph Churchill’s historic plan
to dish the Liberals” was to “divide the Irish.” If
Wade -ism only had the subtlety to do likewise, by
shunning Orange platforms for a space, and yield-
ing here and there in the matter of unimportant sec-
tarian sops like the Bursaries Bill (perfectly safe
manoeuvres, since, when the numbers go up your
genuine Derryite always votes Liberal) an enormous
number of affluent Irish would be detached from the
JLabor side.
with its aspirations after the nationalisation
trade, has no valid claim on the affec-
tions of Bung. Yet, by the simple, easy process of
t0 A yell, metaphorically speaking, for
Bung s blood on every possible occasion, it has won
that much-cursed identity’s tolerance, if not affection.
/i° much for what it has done, but
rather for what the wild Wowsers associated with it
Sald a ’7 would like to do to the Trade— Bung
d v a / S ’ aiK all hls family and employees
with him. Yet, given anything like a show, Drink
Tn C i°7!i rV u tl OVA 0 V A~ aS witness the position in England.
To a round 80 per cent, of pub-owners, pub-keepers
wnrdTm w me merchants and their dependents the
word Liberal stands for one who unceasingly vituper-
ates their order ; holds them up to scorn as destroy-
rs of moiality and bursters of happv homes; and is
I*7 c ?mor sacrilegiously for the abolition of
alcoho! itself. The gagging by Liberalism of a few
of the party s noisier teetotal cranks, and a general
disposition to treat the publican less like a sinner
now a goes U to Ca Labor 0 “ a heap ° f SUpport that
as a >?ig section of Liberalism maintains
its present embittered attitude towards every device
from surf-bathing to Sunday fruit shops, for making
Shade cl ? ee 7 ,:r ! K 0 lon S win if continue to
ahermte the regard of the festive young person of
In th f e / e of youthful Australia, Lib-
eralism is the creed of Stiggins, and Stiggins is the
most insufferable spoil-sport on record
The above points have a merely academic interest
rp/irfh 0 * r lgffCste< that , the presentation of them wili
do Liberalism any good or Labor any harm. The
leopard is incapable of changing its spots, and simi
larly Liberalism cannot help being a dull, bigoted
narrow-minded idiot in certain respects. ° ’
♦
Reefer” hails the deck again :
N.S.W. Treasurer Cann has had a count made of
the passengers travelling by the Sydney-Milson’s Point
ferry steamers, and the count has apparently satisfied
him that the boats are not overcrowded. As Gann
works it out, it is simplicity itself. The Kulgoa is
licensed to carry 1255 people and the Kaikai 1358,
but as not more than 887 were carried on any trip
the days the count was taken, the charge of over-
crowding, according to Cann, falls into the bilge.
On that scheme I could undertake to double the
carrying capacity (on paper), and argue that the
terries were practically deserted, even if the skipper
had to swim behind and steer with a whale-boat oar.
My point was not that the boats carried more than
they are licensed for, but that they had on board
more passengers than they could safely or even com-
fortably make the passage with. Cann inquired as
to the basis on which the certificates authorising the
number of passengers carried was made up, and was
told by the Navigation Department that “the deck
areas are measured according to Simpson’s rule,
which is a well-known mathematical formula.” Well
the boat space on the Titanic was measured by the
British Board of Trade rule, which should be the
best-known formula of them all, and I suppose
even Cann knows how that panned out
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hbr Majesty’s “Sinbad the Sailor.”
Criterion “ Nightbirds.”
Royal “Kismet.”
Adklphi .... “ The Marriages of Mayfair.”
Palace “The Wearing of the Green.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Princess West’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Imperial Rink Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Blue Bird.”
Her Majesty’s Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
Princess’s “A Woman of No Importance.'
King’s “ Man’s Enemy.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Glaciarium Ice Gliding.
Town Hall Jansen the Great.
The deep bass of Oscar Asche is still
booming through “Kismet” at the Royal.
On the whole, Sydney appears to find the
meagre story rather less heavily told than
it expected, but it doesn’t regard that as a
fault, by any means. When all is said and
done, though, it is the Oriental color-scheme
that leaves this city pop-eyed.
The prolonged cruise of “Sinbad the
Sailor” is drawing to a close, so far as Syd-
ney waters are concerned. Next Thursday
the “combined ensemble of 350 people” pack
their costumes, tights, chestnuts, etc., and
move out of Her Majesty’s to make way for
the Quinlan Opera Co.
* sl« *
The Sydney season of the Cisneros con-
cert co. was extended to the length of two
matinees this week. The Town Hall being
as much engaged as the telephone girl, no
extra evening performances in that chilly
songbird roost were possible at such short
notice. Mrs. de Cisneros made her first
genuine concert success, off her own bat, on
Saturday night. The more closely the hand-
some lady with the stupendous vocal organ
sticks to French and Italian opera, the less
she misses the stage carpenter and the
Angelini baton. ’Cellist Liebling grows
s'eadily in public favor; his interpretation
of Dvorak’s “Waldesruhe” and “Perpetuum
Mobile” (Fitzenhagen) the other night re-
vealed unexpected flowers of style. P>ut
tenor Paul Dufault, the surprise-packet sen-
sation of the Cisneros co., is still on top.
THE DE CISNEROS CONCERT CO.
Mrs. De Cisneros, a Delila without a Samson,
and Paul Dufault in search of a top-note.
Frail birds and gaol-birds, In the “bunny-
bug” they cling, Those bright biids, the
Nightbirds, Are still upon the wing—at the
Sydney Criterion.
* * * *
Margaret Cooper closes down her piano,
at the Palace (Sydney), on Friday night.
On Saturday, Allen Doone and co. open in
“The Wearing of the Green,” and every
shamrock in Pitt-street will sway on its
stalk and shed sympathetic dewdrops.
sji jji iji
The two most prominent features of “The
Marriages of Mayfair,” at the Adelphi, are
the scenery and the intervals. The former
can afford to nod to any visible in this bloated
capital for some time; and the latter will
give the longest football half-time 20 yards
in 100. To kill the monotony of these
long spells on Saturday night the curtain
was raised and lowered at intervals, until
after a while it got the habit and went up
and clown of its own accord. The story,
which is by Cecil Raleigh and Henry Ham-
ilton, is remarkably well-preserved for its
age. Enter at various times Nigel Villiers
(Iv. Brampton), who has just become Mar-
quis of Deerminster; Dudley Gore (W. R.
Hunter), who is short of cash, and goes to
bad-egg Jim Callender (Hugh Butler) ;
Gore’s sister Dorothy (Violet Paget), who
is going to marry the Marquis; Sir A. Gore,
father of Dud. aforementioned, who is in
charge of the King’s jewels; a lawyer, in the
pay of Callender, who proves that the dead
Marquis married his second wife before the
first was dead ; and Lord Adolphus Villiers,
who would be Marquis if Nigel were out of
the way, and whom Callender wants to be-
come Marquis. Also, there is a traveller
who knows that the lawyer is a liar, but
he is in the Alps. So the deposed Marquis,
his girl and several others go to look for
him. Callender also goes, in company with
the Marquis-that-was, and proceeds to drug
that young man and leave him to freeze.
Enter then a snowstorm, and exit Callender
over a precipice; and at the same time enter
the girl and co., who find the insensible
Villiers; and, later on, enter the man they
want. The play goes on for another 40
minutes (25 of them interval), but by this
time it is quite obvious that things are going
to turn out to the complete satisfaction of
the audience that crowds the big theatre.
* * * *
Riualdo, the furiously silent and pre-
occupied fiddler, came back to Sydney Tivoli
last Saturday, and started to saw off a short
farewell season at high speed. He attacks
his fiddle fiercely, plucking and thrashing
at the strings regardless of cost. The result
is a perfect cataract of showy music and
much applause. Charles Hera, the quiet,
unassuming juggler, accomplishes nothing
very sensational in a graceful manner, and
the Hans Paxton troupe of acrobats pass one
another around the atmosphere with neatness
and despatch. The dancing Amaranths,
Blake and Granby, and Ronald George are
all laboring under the “last nights” sign;
but the wide smile of Bluett will gladden
the house till further orders.
** * *
The National Amphitheatre has acquired
a hypnotist—M. H. Norwood by name. He
takes on all and sundry, and moulds them to
liis will in an astonishing fashion. The only
criticism that can fairly be levelled against
his turn is that it is profitless. The amount
of good a man like this could do as Speaker
of the N.S.W. Assembly, in the way of mak-
ing out-of-office Liberals behave like human
beings, is incalculable. Millie Doris is on
the wing, but Barnes and West, and John-
son and Wells (who, with true Ethiopian
modesty, style themselves “the leading col-
ored comedians of America”) are still to be
observed at the usual rates.
The Bulletin wasn’t there to see, but
has every reason to doubt that in the Boer
war of the early ’Bo’s, concerning which Rider
Haggard wrote “Jess,” the Dutchmen rode
with American saddles. If they didn’t, this
is the only fault the paper has to find with
Spencer’s production of the Haggard yarn.
Otherwise the picture is excellent, the trip
across the flooded river, and the burning
of Croft’s house being especially well
screened. Among the other films, “Hydro-
aeroplanes v. Motor Boats,” in which the
aeroplane gave the boats a long start, and
gradually overhauled each one, is the first
favorite ; but the Path O’s Gazette picture of
the immense crowd at the strike meeting on
Tower Hill, London, is worth a cheer.
The Quinlan opera season is beginning its
last lap in Melbourne when this journal
comes to light. “Butterfly” does a final flit
to-night (Thursday), and to-morrow will see
the last of a “Lohengrin” that is quite the
best on local record. All the other perform-
ances at night will be revivals, except “Tra-
viata” (in hobble-skirts and modern hats),
which has yet to eventuate. The final mat-
infie performance, next Wednesday, will be
no opera whatever, but a Quinlan orchestral
concert, beginning with the Pathetic Sym-
phony of the Russian gentleman who got his
name from the Palace of Night what time
Cold in the Head was running loose. Agnes
Nicholls is' to sing an aria, and conductors
Knock and Voghera will divide the duty of
beating time for 55 instrumentalists. The
season means to die hard. Its death-bed
scene will be about the heartiest send-off
that any opera co. could get in Melbourne,
for all the artists in this case sing the Aus-
tralian language, and are startling revelations
of the fact that the modern English and
American schools of operatic acting are as
good as the best in the world, or even more
so.
“Madame Butterfly” and “Faust,” pro-
duced for the first Quinlan time last week,
were interesting successes rather than tre-
mendous hits. The setting of the first act
in “Butterfly” lacked the bridge effect of
the original J.C.W. production, nor was the
tenor (Gregorio) more impressive than pre-
vious Pinkertons. But Jeanne Brola shed
new light on the name part, and, with two
inches off her height, and a less un-Jaoanese
face, she might have squatted beside the
memorable Pampari, in this writer’s estima-
tion. Robert Parker made a convincing
American Consul, and everything else was
well done. Mabel Dennis came into promin-
ence for the first time as Suzuki, an older,
sadder and wiser Suzuki than we had seen
before. Next night the same unobtrusive
little lady was an excellent Martha in
“Faust,” wherein the least satisfactory item
was John Harrison as the tenor who sells
his immortal soul for a new girl. Agnes
Nicholls, as the new girl, achieved another
complete triumph of art over matter; the
Mephisto of Hinckley had a fine voice and
good manners; Samuell was a capital Valen-
tine ; and Rosina Beynon earned a rapturous
encore for Siebel’s song in the fourth act,
which is a lot more than some previous
Siebels have been able to do. Moreover,
“Faust” was a field night for the chorus, and
the staging had points of novelty.
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA, AT HER
MAJESTY’S, MELBOURNE.
Elsa of Brabant in “Lohengrin .”
A section of the audience at Melb. Prin-
cess’s last Saturday had been prepared to
shed shouts of approval for “The King of
the Hooligans,” or “The Boshter Burglar,”
or some such substantial melodrama; there-
fore “A Woman of No Importance,” by
Oscar Wilde, struck that section as sea-sprav
strikes a rock. To the hospitable majority
who gave Titheradge a grand reception, and
hailed Beatrice Day and Mrs. Brough as
expected pleasures, the play seemed an ill
bird flaunting gay plumage, with two or
three feathers of morality protruding from
its draggled tail: There is much smart talk
and false philosophy in dead and d —d
Oscar’s boomtime comedy, but the poor little
bit of plot bristles with inconsistencies. For
a long time the commanding male talker.
Lord Illingworth, appears a cynic worthy of
his reputation, which is that of a cultured
diplomat and profligate lady-killer—a man
of the world whose one virtue is his con-
tempt for petty caddishness. Then he is
transformed into a crude ass who attempts
to casually kiss a Yankee girl despite her
pronounced antipathy to him, and a petty
cad who calls his cast-off love his “mistress,”
after she has relieved him of the fear that he
must marry her for his dear son’s sake. He
is even about to refer to that dear son as his
“bastard,” but at that point the lady smacks
him across the mouth with his glove and
ends his caddishness. The inconsistency of
the central figure places the “mistress,” the
“bastard”, and the Yankee girl in a series of
false positions. The maiden rushes into
Lady Somebody’s drawing-room shrieking
for protection against the polished Illing-
worth as though he were a mad vulgarian,
whereupon her adoring “boy” proposes to
slay the. insulter on the spot—not kick or
stoush him, but kill him outright—and sub-
sequently the maiden aforesaid stands in a
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA , AT HER
MAJESTY’S, MELBOURNE.
Carmen.
doorway and listens for quite a long time
to a private conversation between her
“boy’s” father and mother. Every situa-
tion becomes false as soon as the plot thick-
ens. Outside of the quartette necessary to
the plot the characters are merely types,
having no sort of emotional connection with
aught that happens. In fact, they don’t
know that anything is happening.


1
K
0
V
ŧ
SARTO
is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root with special
flavorings, the recipe for which
is held by SCHWEPPES LTD.
exclusively.
SARTO is a refreshing bever-
age, and, being a blood purifier,
has most excellent tonic properties.
It is greatly improved by a slice
of fresh lemon.
For All
Seasons
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
15,000 Miles Non-Stop Run
Detachable "Wire Wheels.
SILENT KNIGHT ENGINE.
Lanchester Cantilever Springs.
Bosch Dual Ignition.
World’s Record.
Sidddey Deasy
SOLE AUSTRALIAN
AGENTS
Sunshine
Motor Car H. V. McKay,
Propty* Ltd> Managing Director*.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Titheradge depicts Lord Illingworth as a
pleasant, brainy worldling of fashion—a real
personage up to the time when he has to
come chasing an alarmed American girl into
the drawing-room. Mrs. Brough is rather
heavily-mannered and unconvincing as the
unlawful mother, and gets no sympathy tor
the character until her former lover is pulled
out of shape by the playwright. Harry
Sweeney is sometimes passable in the un-
thankful capacity of the good young man,
and sometimes very inflexible and artificial
in conversation. For instance, when he is
feeding Lord Illingworth with an assort-
ment of questions, to which his debonair
lordship replies with machine-made epi-
grams, Sweeney sounds like a page of church
catechism. Miss Lizette Parkes delivers her
contralto comments on Sassiety’s decadence
in a decidedly angular spirit. Indeed, Green-
away, Plimmer and even Greig are more
easy in their parts than any of the ladies
bar Miss Beatrice Day, who sports brilliant
gowns, looks exceedingly handsome and holds
a brief for amiable impropriety versus sour
stodginess. But. in spite of every weakness
“A Woman of No Importance,” well staged
and garnished, restores to the Princess’s a
measure of its former dignity.
Where does the Blue Bird build her nest?
Oh, where does the Blue Bird dwell?
She drops an egg on a small boy’s chest,
Then fiuuers away north, east or west,
But whither, no tongue can tell.
The Blue Bird’s egg spells peace and joy
And charity, so it seems,
Which fill the heart of the futile boy
Who seeks the Bird, as he’d seek a toy,
At night, in the land of dreams.
All efforts to cage this fowl of grace
Are evermore bound to fail;
It makes its home in the starlit space,
And men are as kiddies who hope to place
Some salt on the Blue Bird’s tail.
Since the first night of the symbol of Hap-
piness at Melbourne Royal a few inches
have been cut off the intervals between the
scenes, wherefore the subsequent recollec-
tions of their beauty are all the keener for
condensation, as it were. This is mid-
winter holiday time, and the attendance at
last Saturday’s matinee of Maeterlinck’s pic-
turesque fairy-drama suggested that children
are bringing their parents to hear the Word
and see the dainty panto.
** * *
The melodrama of Ruin through Heredity
and Degradation through Derrink is now
doing its second week at the King’s. It
deserves a month without the option for its
violent behavior in the dosshouse, where the
incredible arcfr-villain comes to gloat over
the hero’s downfall. There are disturb-
ances in that dbsshouse. A preliminary bout
between a policeman and one of the boarders
is a very willing go, and the subsequent
mix-up of Cyril Mackay and the other fellow
brings down the house after smashing some
of the furniture. Considering that the sober
villain is pushed through the window by his
thirsty adversary, Derrink appears to have
redeeming qualities, after all. Brandy
rushes in where Lemonade would have
feared to tread.
Gregan McMahon and his Repertory Com-
pany will purvey the fifth batch of higher
drama at Melb. Athenaeum Hall on July 18,
20 and 23. “What the Public Wants” is to
open the season, with Gregan once more as
the millionaire newspaper king. First per-
formances will be given of Tchekhov’s “The
Seagull” and Louis Esson’s “The Time ig
Not Yet Ripe.” Tchekhov’s bird is said to
be indescribable, but Louis’ effort is comedy
unadulterated, the comedy _ of current Aus-
tralian politics. “The Time is Not Yet
Ripe” promises to be far and away the most
effective of Australian stage-stories up to
date.
At the Opera House the Stavordale Quin-
tette have reappeared aLer many days of
absence. Their banjo imitations of that
sorely overworked /organ, the human voice,
are cleverly executed, and the air of domes-
ticity about the unobtrusive Misses Stavor-
dale and the very serious Mr. Stavordale
disarms criticism and inspires confidence.
Max Laube, “the human bird,” imitates
various feathered vocalists, by the. simple
and inexpensive process of labelling his
whistle with divers names. A third imitative
turn is the De Serris company’s reproduc-
tions of statuary and oil paintings. Several
performers are in their last nights, and the
programme, which shows a tendency to sag
at the knees, will presumably be buttressed
at an early date.
** * *
With a becoming solemnity and a muffled
pen this writer alludes to “A Life Story, or
‘Addressee —Dead,’ ” which was told with
touching music at West’s, Melbourne, last
week. It was the tragic yarn of two lovers
parted by sinful pride, and its sad conclu-
sion, showing one lover dead and the other
unhappily and uncomfortably married,
moved some even of the “nuts” to furtive
emotion. A few yards of jungle bellow-
drama were provided in , “Saved by Her
Lion,” and a dash of humor was noted in
“Irene’s Infatuation,” the tale of a flap-
per’s worship of a tenor. The solitary in-
structive item dealt with the slaughter of
Brazilian trees and the manner of carting
the timber thereof.
“The Battle of the Red Men,” filmed at
the P’ran Lyric (Vic.) last Saturday, was
another of the pictures that idolise the In-
jun for the benefit of the pious and senti-
mental. It was not a very lovely or inter-
esting production, and it is merely reticence
combined with good nature that prevents
this paper being impolite about it. “The
Female of the Species” was a tempestuous
but attractive love yarn, and there was some
fair drama in “The End of the Trail.” The
best film on the bill, however, was “Cardinal
Wolsey,” a successful attempt to stage a
threadbare theme in the lavish manner of
Herbert Tree and co.
Introduced by the halt and maimed ora-
tory of Big John Forrest, Price Conigrave
made his bow as a lecturer at the Melbourne
Athenaeum on Saturday night. He took the
Northern Territory as the subject of his
discourse, and in his intimate talk about
this country’s unguarded asset, he won
attention by an easy utterance that required
no assistance from the water-bottle. The
inability of the lanternist to properly illus-
trate his remarks rather marred the force
of his opening words, and there was some
impatient badgering; but he soon picked up
the thread of his argument, and thereafter
the crowd made the most of his valuable
conversation. During this week he is speak-
ing on “The Empty North” and “A Natur-
alist in Tropical Australia,” and next Sat-
urday (matinee) he will elocute on this
continent’s religion, “A White Australia.”
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA, AT HER
MAJESIY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Hinckley as the
King in
“Lohengrin."
Hinckley as
the High
Priest in
“Aida.”
Adelaide opinions about “Everywoinan”
vary widely, which is good for business. The
one thing certain is that the author got badly
confused between his abstractions and the
people representing them. For instance,
Youth —Everywoman’s youth—flirts with
Age, with whom the lady herself will have
no dealings; and when her Beauty is visibly
dead, on the stage before her, it is to .a
mirror that she turns to see whether she has
lost her beauty. Perhaps the best verdict
on this play is that every student of the stage
ought to see it —once. At the Tivoli, Alec
Hurley, here long ago with Marie Lloyd,
has reappeared in Australia, still Coster-
impersonating, as of old. Burnetti mixes
music with quick-change work, and the
Webbs mix it with foolery; and Jerry, the
image, is still as disrespectful as ever to his
parent, Carlton Max. At the King’s is a
charming Australian girl who calls herself La
Piedeste, and somehow makes graceful the
act of laying a table, and taking a meal,
with her toes. La Venere is a little woman
in a white skin-suit, who does various La
Milo statue-poses, without that lady’s figure.
The picture shows are frankly sensational,
except the one showing the Denmark King’s
funeral. Also ran: A Conservatorium con-
cert, a dog show, and Wirths’ circus. The
last-named, having taken most of Adelaide’s
cash, is now moving on the inland towns for
theirs.
AT POVERTY POINT.
With 12 “firsts” crowded into 17 nights at the
opera, the season-bookers took their seats at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) like boarders or saloon pas-
sengers coming for their meals. As a rule the person
in the next seat was a monotonous re-occurrence.
Accustomed strangers met one another on half-nod-
ding terms. A quick change season of grand opera
brings its own particular matters for conjecture
among the habitues. Will the man with the bald
head He on the left, and the woman with the rolling
eye reveal her shoulder-blades in one’s direct line of
vision, as before? The lady who carried a tall, up-
standing piece of osprey on her head was anxiously
watched for by at least one of the regular opera
eaters, who had sat behind her several nights. Being:
handsome and tall (apart from the bunch of
feathers), she was admirable in every position except
the seat immediately in front, and when, at last,
she was booked for a different part of the d.c., her
worst enemy gazed at her from afar off and said,
“U.ow nice she looks!” Handsome is as elsewhere
sits in a case like that.
Among the London entertainments in aid of the
host of Titanic funds, one was given by Mrs. G. B.
W. Lewis (Rose Edouin) and her niece, May Edouin.
At the entrance to the Clavier Hall Mrs. Lewis ex-
hibited a programme of 60 years ago, showing that
she then played Puck in “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream,” at Sadler’s Wells. Later she was the
original lessee and manager of the Academy of Music
in Bourke-street, Melbourne, afterwards re-christened
the Bijou. There she supported William Creswick
in a notable season of Shakspeare and sundries.
Earlier still she had toured the goldfields _as a
member of the Edouin Family, playing in billiard-
rooms, tents, and any other old place with a roof
over it and an opening wide enough for a pay-box.
The veteran is still keen on Shakspeare, and at the
Clavier Hall she gave an excellent impersonation of
the Nurse to the Juliet of her niece.
“Rosna,” from London: Ada Orossley poured out
her nightingale notes at the great Titanic Disaster
Relief Concert at the Albert Hall, when 500 in-
strumentalists thundered the works of Wagner,
Chopin and Co. to an audience of 10,000. Ada was
the only singer, and when she had finished the 500
fiddlers bowed low and gave her a basket of roses,
sft. high and one yard across.
“Librarian”: “The Blue Bird” seized upon me
directly the book came. It delights even those who
care for nothing else of Maeterlinck’s. Somebody
asked De Musset: “How is it the public likes your
comedies better than mine? You never wrote them
for the theatre.” “Ah,” said De Musset, “that is
just the point. You write to please the public. I
wrote to please myself.” Maeterlinck has said the
same of “The Blue Bird,” and that explains how he
here avoided the strained effect of all his other clever
work. Getting into a free and easy Shakspearian
mood, “The Blue Bird” just trickled under his pen.
It is worthy of Shakspeare, as Rostand’s “Cyrano” is
worthy of Molicre —immeasurably superior to “Peter
Pan,” which, indeed, is on a lower plane altogether.
Barrie is not deep ; there is always a kind of linsey-
woolsey about him, whereas every page of “The Blue
Bird” is intensely profound and spiritual. The mag-
netic, dramatic quality is inexplicable. Children
irresistibly spring up to it. Yet I don’t fancy any
of them could endure the reading, without having first
experienced the , electric vitality of the representation.
Australia will get acquainted with some interest-
ing lecturers soon. Miss Mary Proctor, daughter of
Richard A., astronomer, is to happen along with a
bunch of discourses on the ways and wonders of the
planets, comets, and other tourists of the upper air.
Her season will probably open in Melbourne about
August 5, and the talks will be illustrated by slides
that make the audience see stars. Following Mary at
a respectful distance will be Elbert Hubbard, the
Yankee instigator of “The Philistine,” who is ex-
pected to deliver rhetoric on his philosophy of life,
with a few remarks on great personalities from J.
Iscariot to Elbert Hubbard. Another approaching
lecturer is John Kendrick Bangs, author of “The
Houseboat on the Styx,” who will presumably supply
some dissertations on humor. Dix and Baker, Ltd.,
of Newcastle (N.S.W.), are pushing these talkers
into Australian notice, and Joe Brown, of Spencer’s
Pictures, Melbourne, is lending a hand.
“Looking Backward” blows the dust of two cen-
turies of an old moving picture:—ln the Daily
Courant of May 9, 1709, is an advt. concerning a
precursor of to-day’s living picture. The description
alleges: “In the landskip you see a town, out of
the gates of which cometh a coach riding over a
bridge through the county, behind, before, and be-
tween the trees, till out of sight; coming on the
bridge, a gentleman sitting on the coach civilly
salutes the spectating company ; the turning of the
wheels and motion of the horses are plainly to be seen
as if natural and alive. There cometh also from the
town gate a hunter on horseback with his dogs
behind him and his horn at his side. Coming to the
bridge he taketh up the horn and bloweth it, that it
is distinctly heard by all the spectators. Another
hunter, painted as if sleeping, and by the said blow-
ing of the horn awaking, riseth up his head, looketh
about, and then layeth down his head again to sleep,
to the great amazement and diversion of the com-
pany. . .And at a seeming distance on the hills are
several windmills, continually working and turning.
From a river or seaport you see several sorts of ships
by degrees lessen to the sight as they seem to sail
further off.” This picture was very popular. Steele
mentioned it in the Tatler, saying: “I doubt not
but it will give as good content as the moving pic-
ture in Fleet-street.”
Ethel Dane, who is Kiki in “The Glad Eye,” a
farce which, when the mail girded up its loins and
left, had been running over 200 nights in London,
and had produced the Kiki curl and the Kiki hat,
is the wife of Cyril Iveightley, the Australian.
Keightley, who is “doing” the British provinces, has
lately been playing one of his wife’s sketches in
Glasgow.
“Harrison 0.”: I always admire the eagerness of
the bellowdrammer connoisseur to applaud humane
sentiments. The other night, f’rinstance, I exam-
ined, in a Melbourne theatre, an allegation to the
effect that “The Woman Pays.” In this the prime
malefactor, wishing to rid himself of a woman who
has loved him not wisely but too often, has her
incarcerated in a madhouse and arranges with the
aged boss to do his worst to drive her to insanity.
Later, the villain decides that she would be better
dead than mad, so he suggests to the boss that he
should attend to the lady’s demise. Whereupon that
medical bloke displays his innate nobility by pro-
iecting his waistcoat, and booming in sonorous
tones: “No, I don’t mind tampering with a person’s
reason, but I draw the line at murder” —a piece of
virtue which calls forth vociferous applause from the
bob section of the house.
“W. 8.”: “Theorbo” (B. 20/6/’l2) might have
added to his list of operas produced by Lyster years
ago: “Anna Bolena,” “Crispino e la Comare,”
“L’Ebreo,” “Favorita,” “Lombardi,” “Poliuto,” “Ruy
Bias” and “Vestale.”
“J.F.H.” (from London) : Eugene Stratton is
going to revive the Moore and Burgess minstrels, the
famous burnt-cork co. that came to St. James's Hall
for three months, and stayed for 40 years. Stratton
was for a long time corner-man in that combination,
sitting and rattling bones by the side of his father-
in-law, the late George Washington Moore, the
founder of the troupe. Old Moore kept his favorite
seat in the corner until he was nearly 80, and then
sold out to a limited liability co., which made a
mess of the business. George Coppin once offered
Moore £lO,OOO and all expenses for an Australian
topr, but he was then doing such big business in
London that the proposal came to naught. Since
the disbandment of the minstrels Stratton has been
working on his own, and doing well as a coon singer
and dancer in the halls, where Leslie Stuart, the com-
poser of “Florodora” and other popular operas, has
kept him supplied with songs and dances.
Tittell Brune’s versatile husband, who played one
of the frostiest seasons ever known in Sydney at the
Cri., has left cotton-growing, banking, and a Pro-
fessorship at a University, to play a small part with
Tittell in “The Easiest Way” at Manchester.
“Universal” : The trouble with “Lawyer Bill,” who
assails the Northern Territory Pictures shown at Syd-
ney Lyceum, is that he expects too much for his
tanner. He calls the corrouorees “farcical.” Now
there are hundreds of tribes in the Territory. They
may be divided roughly into (1) the treacherous cos-
mopolitan breeds with imported Malay idea§ of danc-
ing corroborees. (2) The pure-bred semi-civilised
black who (in secret) still keeps to old-time cus-
toms. (3) The myall (wild) native of away along
the coast and the interior, who, as a rule, is as timid
as a rabbit. The Lyceum pictures give a faithful
enough idea of the first and second classes of abor-
iginal and of some of their amusements. Of course
they are only play-acting. It is only the natives of
the third class who take their corroboree customs
seriously. Myall dances could not be shown on any
civilised screen. The postures are appalling, and
not one shred of clothing is worn. Even if these
niggers could be got to comport themselves decently
and wear clothes (more or less) while gyrating,
they could not be got to face the camera. As to the
pictured attack on the “settlers” being the limit—
scenes such as this have happened and occur even
now. Witness the Wiluna Track tragedy, the Hum-
bert River murder of last year, the Calvert River
annoyance, and several other recent troubles. Ad-
mittedly the blacks’ favorite time for assault is just
before daybreak, but the camera refuses to work
at that hour. The justification of the pictured shindy
at the Lyceum is that niggers sometimes make trouble
by daylight. They may not do it often, but then the
Lyceum Theatre isn’t built often, and the man whom
the niggers kill in broad day isn’t dead often. As a
matter of fact, he is only dead once, but it is a
very long once and a very long deadness, and the
man who wants to be dead twice is a whale.
“S.S.”: Actorman was coming to Australia. A
great ship was bringing him, but. before they were a
week out the passengers had a sort of impression
that Actorman was bringing the ship. Later this
impression expanded into an idea that Actorman was
spinning the world with his feet, while upholding
tlie firmament with his terrific head. Then a sense
of humor came to the rescue of the passengers and
the crew, and the stupendous egotism of Actorman
relieved the tedium of what might otherwise have
been a dull tour. In the Indian Ocean the boat
struck a bad burst of inclemency, and was clawing
at the zenith half the time —with the result that,
sensitive souls were shaken loose, and strong meni
greatly desired to die. In an unusual tempestuous-
ness a little girl of 10 appeared before Actorman and'
some others in the smoking-room. She was limp and!
pale, very sick and shaken with fear. She put her
hands up to the great personage. “Oh, Mr. Actor-
man,” she pleaded ingenuously, “why don’t you stop
it?”
Chapel-street, P’ran (Melb.), renowned for its bulg-
ing prams and its business push, is leasing a lot of its
frontage to picture showmen. The thoroughfare
already holds two permanent shows, while a third
transpires in the Town Hall every Saturday night.
Nevertheless, a shindykit has leased a block within a
minute’s amble of both the Town Hall and the Lyric,
and proposes to demolish five or six shops to make
room for a new asylum for motion plays. The Taits
were originally accused of taking an interest in this
venture, but they repudiate the impeachment.
Melbourne people are distressing themselves a
great deal over the manner in which the patrons of
theatre galleries are being dumped together by ex-
pert packers. One party to a recent newspaper con-
troversy declares that he made a calculation,
and found that each individual of a gallery crowd,
stowed in by hired lumpers, was allowed llin. of
space. “It is not enough,” says the indignant writer.
Wlio’s speaking? If it’s Big John Forrest, it cer-
tainly isn’t enough. One of the packers, talking to
a Bulletin man, said: “A rush of fat people upsets
all your calculations.” We see it coming—a special
rate for fat galleryites on big nights, or a scheme of
space rates under which Benno will buy 20in. of gal-
lery for himself and his girl.
A romantic version of the story of the five Roths-
childs (sons of the original Meyer), who were “en-
nobled” for their cash services to the Austrian Govern-
ment, has been put into a German comedy, which
was lately played in an English translation, under
its Anglicised German title, “The Five Frankforters.”
The blessed British censor, however, forbade the use
of the original names. Rothschild was changed to
Naomi, and Nathan appeared as Joseph, and so forth.
The family desired this thin disguise, and what the
existing Rothschild family wishes is law in the land
of Jew Bull. The star performer of the piece was
our old friend Henrietta Watson, as the mother of
the family. Henrietta, alas! has arrived at elderly
parts.


iij
Our Winter Sale
Reduced Prices on
High-grade Sac Suits to Order.
An order for a Suit in our High-grade Tailoring Department, placed
of r the verv S W “w j he V + ei ? ] atest cut and style , Guiltless fit, and
of the very best selected materials at a considerable price-saving, in
the iollowmg colors: Grey . Flannels in all shades; Fine Blue Serges
!ith ff d i TW m S ’ l n Grey : Brown, Blue and Green Mixtures,
Dye? at these price*^^ speclalise ™ a Bough Cheviot Serge,
Usual Prices ... 90/= 100/= 110/= 120/=
Sale Prices 80/- 90/- 99/- 107/6
Remember, this is our first-class made-to-measure department.
Write for self-measurement form and patterns, and remember we pay
carriage on these goods.
DAVID JONES Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
03 /veij nonuatjAAhddg^gq
W
Comfort
For One - Penny-Farthing per day!
Warm Your Home with a
Perfection Oil Heater"
Vacuum Oil Co. Fty. Ltd.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
AN ENTHUSIASTIC APPLICANT.
The Government is offering a bonus of £5 for
every baby born in Australia. —News item.
“By cripes! It's about time that my efforts
were rewarded.”
This is generally supposed to be an age of
hustle. There is a prevalent belief or hal-
lucination that everything is done at breath-
less speed, and that the whizzing machinery
of civilisation chops the slow man to pieces,
leaving only the young and agile dodger to
fly about his business. All wrong! It is
the age of the slow man —the variety of
deadly slow man who burns a whole cigar
for each thought, and soothes his nerves by
listening to the shuffle of the hurrying
human sheep going aboard his totally inade-
quate trams and steamers. There was a sort
of flurry, a week or two back, amongst the
flocks that jostle for standing room
on the Sydney-North Shore ferries. The
very sight of the black and deeply-laden
wooden dishes swimming across the busy
shipping tracks is enough for any sane in-
dividual who isn’t either a lawyer or a
member of a Royal Commission. The mad-
dest lunatic that ever put straws in his hair
and howled at the moon would not deny that
nothing that is not already dead should
travel in such clumps and masses. Yet, no
sooner was the racket fairly started, than
the chief marine beekeeper said he did not
think the floating hives were overloaded at
all, but he would have a count or guess
made some time during the busy hours! And
the patient animals or insects that keep his
cigar alight were satisfied with the answer,
and stopped bleating and buzzing for room to
breathe. An age of hustle ! Don’t speak of
it while there is a snail in the vicinity!
“Iyles Innison” : The custom of requesting
an undesirable character to leave a country,
and not show himself within its borders any
more, works out all right if the other coun-
try isn’t waiting with a brick. If it is, the
exile is apt to become a pendulum, swinging
for the rest of his days between the Devil and
the deep. Something of the sort is threat-
ened in the case of a man who had served
a sentence of 12 months in Sydney, and was
then commanded to scamper for his life. So
he boarded the Levuka, and reached Suva,
where, possibly, he reckoned he would be
mistaken for a planter, or a rich uncle, or a
missionary or something. But Suva was
waiting on the wharf, and ordered him back
before he had time to look rich or holy. He
returned to Sydney by the same steamer, only
to find an old friend in blue blocking the
gangway, and requesting him to go in the
opposite direction. So, presumably, this un-
wanted individual will have to see-saw until
the ship collides with an uncharted disaster
—when, very probably, the undesirable will
save 27 women and children, and then go
down to the bosom of David Jones in a
bubble of glory.
* * * *
“P.X.”: Came South by the last 8.-P.
boat from Singapore a Marist who is sup-
posed to have made a full quarter of a
million out of the rubber boom, is a director
of half a dozen rubber cos., and. was looked
on by rubber men along the ship’s track as
an authority in the business. He didn’t
wilt right up when he learned that the Eng-
lish Professor Perkins had produced syn-
thetic rubber out of maize flour, and talked
of being able to market it at half a crown
per lb. “The Malay Peninsula can keep
going at Is. 6d. per 1b.,” lie says. “There
wouldn’t be a profit in it at that, but there
would be something quite worth pocketing
at 25.” Vegetable rubber will doubtless
keep going, but in all probability the real
glory has departed. It was the same with
indigo. In 1899, England imported natural
or vegetable indigo to the value of £986,090.
Then in 1902 the German indigo, manufac-
tured out of coal tar, struck the market. In
1908 the value of the vegetable indigo im-
ported into England was £136,882. Two
things happened in one act —the vegetable
indigo business was reduced to a shadow of
its old self, and England lost its place as the
world’s indigo centre. It will be the same
with coffee when some beastly spectacled
Teuton finds out how to make that pleasant
drink out of left-off bricks or broken-down
galvanised-iron roofs.
Sydney’s new Gaud Mayor threatens a
traffic innovation which swift modern condi-
tions simply howl for—the compulsory carry-
ing_ of tail lights bv all classes of
vehicles. Under the present system
the back illumination is carried only
by motors —vehicles the least liable
to be overtaken and bumped, except
by others of their kind —while the
moke-drawn dawdler is allowed to pre-
sent a stern as inky as the boots of
Beelzebub. But to confine such a re-
gulation to a well-lighted city, where
it is least needed, is idiotic. This is
a matter if not for the State, at least
for Greater Sydney.
Billy B.”: That quaint proposition, the
scurrying English tourist, you know, be-
comes more unreliable with investigation.
Many of his complaints about Australia and
the Australians have been shown to be frivo-
lous, or worse, but his persistency in being
horrified at the local product for sullying the
English language by pronouncing “cake” as
if spelt “kike,” “way” as “wy,” and so on,
almost convinced me that he spoke the truth
—j at n lie was rea Hy surprised and distres-
sed. But I find that he is not surprised at
all (even if it were the truth that cake is
mere kike”) and not at all distressed unless
] f. lS because we imitate his own bad habits,
feir William Ramsay, a distinguished Eng-
lish scientist and man of letters, is engaged
just now in <■ campaign in favor of phonetic
spelling,, and this is a sample of the pronun-
ciation in the home of the language:—
Pooting asied the consideraishon ov grait aeheev-
nients, such az the practical yuetilizashion ov elec-
trisity in the dienamo, the electric liet, the telegraf
the telefoen, in detail, let us aasc in whot wai thai
hav contribyutd tu our cumfort and conveeniens.
Evidently bi maicing lief eezier.
Now whot wai should we pronounce “kike”?
SOLVING THE DIFFICULTY.
"Why don't you get little Winkle to dance? ”
"I've tried , but I can't get him out of his shell."
“Try a pin."
“Kodak” tells a frozen truth :
As I hurried towards the boat the other evening, I
caught a glimpse of a poster as large as a mastodon
—-“Town Hall To-niglrWJane Smith, Australia’s
Brilliant Pianiste.” And right there, on the windy
tram crashing through the dusk, I felt glad that I
wasn’t going to get cold feet listening to Jane—-
whose surname, by the way, isn’t Smith at all. As
a writer, I have, for years past, received press tickets
for the Jane Smith brand of show ; for years before
that, friends and relations used to, force them upon
me; previous to that, I used to escape altogether.
I don’t know why the Jane Smiths always arrive
during the winter when the finest entertainment is a
grate of red-hot coal. Perhaps it is because Jangle-
ssohn’s Prelude in B Flat would go “off” in muggy
weather. The Prelude and the other things always
seem to me like a series of rash experiments and sud-
den catastrophes, with small patches of accidental
melody here and there. While the long keyboard
riot described as a “Prelude” is proceeding, 1 ima-
gine Janglessohn as a very hairy and tempestuous
old man in a greasy waistcoat, who spends his days
in a top-floor room with a piano and a demijohn of
beer, while his long-suffering frau argues in German
with his creditors, and tells them the accounts will
be paid in full when Herr Janglessohn has sold the
wonderful disturbance they can hear him making.
(Jane Smith, meanwhile, is a sort of relentless
machine in a low-necked dress, following with deadly
precision and a look of colc( determination the dizzy
gyrations and rocket flights of old Janglessohn’s
soul.) Jane being, as the critics say, “a finished-in-
terpreter of Janglessohn. I am enabled to discern
dimly when the beer is foaming satisfactorily and
when the demijohn is empty. But mostly the chaotic
old man is just incoherent and enraged, or sullen and
bewildered about nothing in particular. In his few
lucid intervals, he remembers tenderly simple airs of
his youth ; but a gust of musical rage seems to fol-
low all such indiscretions, and the tune is imme-
diately swamped in meaningless fury. To the trained
ear, Janglessohn may be a musical sage reeling off
yards of limpid philosophy and soul-tips. But, some-
how, I don’t think so. None of the musical people
really know what he is trying to convey. Once, when
a Great Artist was snatching handfuls of notes, I
leant across to an enraptured friend and asked him
what it all meant. He whispered back excitedly:
“To me it means a great brave wind blowing across
a field of lilies while a knight says farewell to his
lady and rides away to the wars.”" “What wars?” I
asked. But my friends only frowned and said,
“Sh-h!” Of course, he didn’t know. Then I touched
the arm of the perfect stranger on my other hand,
and asked him what he thought the Great Artist was
trying to convey. The stranger was sitting back in
his chair with his legs stretched out, his hands
rammed deep in his pockets, and his gaze fixed on
the chandelier. He seemed to be absolutely spell-
bound, and I expected something very enlightening.
But he only turned a lack-lustre eye on me and
sighed: “How the devil do I know ? My feet went
dead an hour ago! I’m hanged if I know what
women want to come to these shows for!” An incon-
sequent speech, if ever there was one, but it put the
position correctly. How many people would go if
their womenfolk didn’t drag them—or if someone
didn’t force tickets upon them —or if they hadn’t to
scribble something for a paper? Let no one rise
and howl me down as an opponent of Art. It is as
a fearless opponent of cold feet that I appear in this
column. And I can’t help it if enraged musicians
and music haunters fume at the bracketing of such
dissimilar items. While winter recitals are the
fashion, they will bracket themselves.
An unusually logical wife was the cause
of unexpected consideration being shown
to a Vic. bigamist by Justice Hood. The
bigamist had deserted his wife for No. 2,
and, having pleaded guilty, was awaiting the
usual moral lecture and the usual period of
gloom. But his Honor intimated that he
had received a letter from the first wife.
She stated that she was sueing for divorce ;
that when she got the article the accused
could marry No. 2, and that it wouldn't:
improve matters to gaol him, and let No. 2
get him as a depreciated article. Mr. Hood
remarked that it was highly improper to
send letters to judges, but under the circum-
stances he allowed
accused out on his
own recognisances, and
trusted he would
“marry the girl” at
the earliest possible
moment.
HANDICAPPED.
THE BEAK: "And
why did you not
explain all this
to the constable
when he arrested
vou? ”
THE YID: “Ex-
plain! Why, yer
Worship, I vos
handcuffed; how could I explain anything?"
The latest fashionable disease is said to
be “dog’s mouth.” It is alleged that a num-
ber of United States rich women have got it
through persistent kissing of poodles. The
dictionary has a lot about dogs. It men-
tions, among other things, “dog’s age,” “dog’s
apple,” “dog’s bane,” “dog’s bent,” “dog’s
camomile,” “dog’s cane,” “dog’s chop,” “dog's
dandelions,” “dog’s dinner,” “dog’s fennel,”
“dog’s finger,” “dog’s grass,” “dog’s nose,”
“dog’s parsley,” “dog’s tongue,” “dog’s trick ”
and about two-score beside. But “dog’s
mouth,” regarded as a disease, is apparently
new.
GROPING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I s proposed to proceed with and pass into law
the Navigation Bill as a measure of the greatest
urgencj' and importance.— Governor-General’s speech.
Mr. Deakin moved his censure motion.
—News item.
They lounge on cushioned benches and they waste
both day and night.
(The sounding gongs have slowed her down—they
don’t know where they are!)
The Opposition’s waking up! ’Twill be a bitter
fight!
(A pitch-black night, a coast abeam, and not a
single star!)
The session’s young, but you will hear some speeches
by-and-bye!
(They must keep moving here in case the current
piles her up!)
A witty speaker Jabberson 1 You heard that smart
reply ?
(The Old Man’s sticking to the bridge without a
bite or sup!)
(Chorus by the Engines.)
All along the ocean roads we’ve driven, kicked and
shoved her,
Up hill and down hill because her Master loved
her.
Always knew just where we were until we struck
the Bight!
Now we’re waiting off your coastline to see One
Dashed Light.
The expert’s been all round the coast—they know
where lights should be!
(The First is listening all he knows —he thought
he heard the surf!)
But “statesmen” need not hurry, for they don’t
have votes at sea!
(If she hits hereabout, old son, your grave won’t
be of turf!)
The public wants the lights, of course ! There have
been wrecks of late.
(This is the sort of seamanship that turns a cap-
tain grey !)
But still the speeches must be made, and they will
have to wait!
(No rest for any one of us until the break of day!)
(Further Remarks by the Engines.)
Up and down these dirty lanes she’s muddled, fluked
and laid- to !
All day and all night he worries ’cause he’s paid to !
Long and dirty dark they are !■ —Oh, can’t you show
a glim !
If he hits your Black Australia, well, it’s God Help
Him ! !
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


ţ
X 10,000,000
rtabletsof Sun-
light Soap are
sold every week;
this is the high- .
est possible proof
that Sunlight
k Soap comes up
.to expecta-
tions.
\
i;
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"pure FOOD ACT. 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W, No. 67.
FRIGHTENED MOTHER.
“One day my little girl frightened me with an
attack of coughing which I knew at once to be an
attack of croup,” writes Mrs. R. E. Smith, “Woy-
rallah,” Napier Street, Ballarat, Victoria. “I just
ran for a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,
and gave the child some, with the result that she
got relief at once, and after the second dose all signs
of croup disappeared.”*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
I
I
Inexpensive Riding Breeches
and 1 —rT* -*
With a confidence born of long experience in selling
good Riding Breeches and Leggings, we can recommend
the articles we mention below.
Being mostly hand-made, they reflect in workmanship
and finish the ideals of exacting buyers.
Riding Breeches, Grey and Brown Tweeds .... 257-
Riding Breeches, White & Corded Indian Moleskin 257-
Riding Breeches, Indian Khaki Cord ■•• • 22/6
Please state waist and seat measure, and length from
waist to knee, and then on to middle of calf when order-
ing.
Puttee Leggings, in Grained Pigskin 10/6
Tan Dressed Calf 14/6
Please give measure round thickest part of calf when
ordering.
Men's Wear Catalogue on Request.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
Men’s
Outfitters.
309-11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Decided by an Adelaide court that a five-
and-ninepenny football jacket may be re-
garded as a legal “necessity” for Australian
youth. Defendant was dissatisfied with the
jersey, and pleaded infancy as a handy way
of avoiding payment. The Court first
assured itself that the article was a reason-
ably good one for the price, and finally ruled
that, “considering the local surroundings
and the habits of Australian youths, sport
is a part of their lives ; and in playing their
games they have to dress according to the
requirements of those games, within reason.”
Verdict for the outfitter accordingly.
WELL VENTILATED.
HE: “What would you call Netties dress?”
SHE: “Oh, that's the sort of dress that you've
forgotten to put on at the last moment.”
“Mary” : Woman’s imagination in her ex-
cited moments is a wondrous thing. My
tram, the other 'evening, had a door splin-
tered in an argument with a dray. There
were about a dozen women in the car, but
I counted 27 distinct yells. Then the con-
ductor, in moving round the footboard,
thoughtlessly put his weight on the damaged
panel, and the pair of them fell with a yelp
into the street. This time I lost count of the
shrieks that tore the atmosphere. The
brakes were crowded on hard, and everybody
leaped up to see what had happened. My
view was blocked by the people in the rear
compartment, but I was horrified to hear an
agitated female scream, “Oh, he’s cut to
pieces; they’re picking up the pieces and put-
ting them in a bag.” I sat down quite faint
with the shock of it. Then a dusty indi-
vidual climbed on to the footboard and de-
manded my fare. It was the conductor.
He was cursing softly to himself, but there
was nothing else the matter with him, except
the bad threepenny he gave me in my change.
* * * *
One of the witnesses most bedraggled dur-
ing the British inquiry into the loss of the
Titanic was the baronet Cosmo Duff-Gordon.
He and his wife got away in one of the partly-
laden boats, and with the awful cries for
help ringing forth in the night, rowed
away unheeding. The kind of person that
Gordon is was shown by his replies to the
Attorney-General, Rufus Isaacs :
So far as you were concerned, no notice was taken
in your boat of the cries of these drowning people?
-—No.
No conversation about it? —I think there was none.
If I follow you correctly, no thought entered your
mind that you ought to go back and try to save
some of these people ? —I don’t think it would have
been possible for one thing.
Please answer the question?—Well, no, I suppose
not.
Didn’t you think whether your boat could save any
of the people in the water?—lt might have been pos-
sible, but it would have been very difficult going
back that distance to find anybody in the dark. At
that time I was not thinking about it. I was attend-
ing to my wife. You know she had had a rather
serious evening.
Lady Duff-Gordon had had a rather serious
evening. Of course! Even the hundred or
so of women who merely had to drown were
rather tired, owing to the seriousness of the
evening.
* * * #
“N or M”: Hobart’s principal streets have
some ancient and historic buildings tucked
away behind the more modern bricks and
mortar. In one of them, situated in Mac-
quarie-street, Sir John Franklin camped be-
fore he left Tasmania on his last expedition
Polewards. Government House at that time
stood on what is now Franklin Square ; but,
presumably, the explorer had finished his
official job, and retired to the older building,
which had previously been the Governor’s
humpy. Government Houses were not elab-
orate piles in those
days, and the King’s
representative changed
his spots with fre-
quency because one
spot was much the
same as another. Be-
neath the ancient
buildings in Mac-
quarie-street are the
old Government wine
and spirit cellars,
which are extensive
enough to have con-
tained the liquid cur-
rency of that thirsty
period. Until re-
cently there was a
well in one of the cel-
lars, but that has
been filled in. Apro-
pos of the rum cur-
rency, a Hobart man
has a book, once the
property of Richard
Brown, author of
“The Botany of New
Holland and Van
Diemen’s Land,” who
was in Tasmania in
Bowen’s time. On
the flyleaf is in-
scribed : “Ist May,
3783. Bought of Mrs. Ca —- I"the rest un-
decipherable] for a gallon and a half. —J.
Walton.”
* * *■
“Monty Peet”: I suppose it’s all right,
but it beats me how the writers who have
been laid away in the cold black earth can
rest quietly while these things are done.
The critic of the Sydney Telegraph, re-
viewing the first night of the Cisneros opera
crowd, said :—-
Mr. Default had the merit later in the evening of
bringing to a first hearing in Australia a remarkable
song by the New York organist Bruno Huhn, and
entitled “Invictus” These verses have been given
a flaming musical setting that form a stirring and im-
passioned utterance —as of one storming the very
gates of Heaven. The note of heroic resolution, of
defiance of fate, in the artist’s rendering moved the
audience to the depths. A repetition of the song
ensued.
In the dotted hiatus the Telegraph
printed the whole of Henley’s verses, ending
“I am the captain of my soul!” This is
pretty rough on poor dead and gone W. E.
Henley—to find about the best thing he
wrote coolly ascribed to a Yankee-Yid organ-
player ! Of course, the Telegraph’s young
man couldn’t be expected to have read Hen-
ley—-possibly he never heard of him. But
if he looks in Henley’s “Echoes” he will find
the poem, not headed “Invictus,” but in-
scribed to the memory of Henley’s dearest
friend, R. T. Hamilton Bruce. (If the Tele-
graph hasn’t got a copy of the book, I will
lend mine.) But what I wish to return to
for the moment, is the presumption of the
“organist” who does this sort of thing, with-
out apology or acknowledgment! Pre-
sently we shall find Keats’s “Ode to
a Grecian Urn” or the “Ode to the Nightin-
gale” thrown at us from the concert platform
under some title like “Homer’s Mug,” or
“The Forlorn Fairy Bird” —and credited to
Ephraim P. Klunzky, the Chicago Jews-
harp expert!
ACQUITTED.
WAITER : “Have you tried our turtle soup
sir?"
DINER: “Yes, I have tried it, and my decision
is that the turtle proved an alibi.”
The “wireless” business of Australia is in
a tangle. There are two big wireless sys-
tems, the Marconi and the Telefunken, and
the trouble started when rival cos. were
formed to acquire their rights in Australia.
The two cos. clawed at one another
for a while, and then the Australian Wire-
less, which owns the Telefunken patents, got
a contract to supply the vast station, with a
5000-mile range, near Sydney, along with
one nearly as comprehensive at Fremantle.
While this work was under weigh, the Mar-
coni people whispered dreadful threats of
impending actions; so the Telefunken people
came along to the Australian Government
with an indemnity. About this time the
Marconi and Telefunken people began to be
much better friends; but that didn’t end the
ructions, because the Australian Govern-
ment itself had just decided to take a hand,
too. It imported probably as good an expert
as it could get for the money, though the
money wasn’t very much, and presently it
was announced that he had produced a wire-
less system of his own on the Government’s
behalf. The Marconi Co., which had spent
a few hundreds of thousands in its labora-
tories and workshops perfecting its patents,
thought it would be just as well to make
sure that the Government department wasn’t
the masked burglar in disguise, so it applied
for permission to search the premises. Jus-
tice Higgins, however, ruled it out, appar-
ently on the ground that the King can do
no burglary; but, on appeal, the Full Court
struck a compromise by giving the Govern-
ment three months wherein to patent the
invention which it alleges its man has
evolved. Presumably the specifications will
be available after provisional protection has
been granted, whereupon the Marconi Co.
will be able to see whether its suspicions re
the masked burglar had any foundation or
not. Meantime, vessels continue to pass in
and out and along the Australian coast without
a wireless stick upon them, and that small
matter, involving the unnecessary risk of
hundreds or thousands of lives, is appar-
ently having no attention whatever.
* * * *
England provided a queer exemplification,
the other day, of one of the uses of a Court
of Criminal Appeal as a corrective of a
jury’s idiocy. One Dollery was accused of
stealing a bicycle. The evidence against
him was smaller than a postage stamp, and
more flabby than a piece of boiled blotting
paper. At the close of the case for the
Crown, the Judge was asked to stop the
farce out of hand. He thought that it
would be better to leave the matter to the
jurymen, and instructed them straight away
to acquit. Possibly the jury was deaf in
that ear, for it found Dollery guilty. An
astounded Judge refused to take this verdict,
and allowed the defendant’s witnesses to be
called. Also, he made the unfortunate error,
from the standpoint of the accused, of pass-
ing embittered remarks on the intellects of
the good men and true. They, being an-
noyed at the aspersions on their brains,
promptly found Dollery guilty again. The
Court of Criminal Appeal quashed a verdict
which was universally accepted as grotesque.
Had it not been in existence, Dollery would
now, probably, be a jugged citizen.
* * * *
Sundry ghouls—undertakers, monumental
masons and the like —lately bought up the re-
maining allotments in that desirable sub-
urban estate, the Melbourne General Ceme-
tery, paying the trustees the usual price of
£3 3s. per “block,” and are now retailing
them to bereaved relatives at the compara-
tively trifling figure of £l2. Edgar, the
State’s Minister of Health, is much shocked,
and has asked Attorney-General Dry Brown
if the Law can take a hand. It doesn’t
appear that the Law can,
but it might be explained
to Edgar and his fellow
Ministers, as well as to a
lot of bereaved relatives, that
the adoption of the clean,
tidy and sanitary practice
of cremating the, dead would
leave the jobbers in the
soup. Meanwhile, pending
the purchase of the tureen,
it is interesting to note that
as long ago as December 2,
1909, Solly, M.L.A., called
attention to the land-grab-
bing scandal, and about the
same time the “other place”
indulged in some unusually
violent rerharks on the sub-
ject ; but of course John
Weary, who was then Pre-
mier, continued fast asleep.
“Hullo”: I don’t claim to be an expert
at marbles, or two-up, or polo, but, judging
from the Sydney Telegraph reports of the
latter game, the Governor-General cannot be
regarded as extra-special himself. The im-
pression I got from the report was that Mr.
Denman spent most of his time missing
things. I may be wrong, but listen to the
reporter: “Lord Denman’s shot was a poor
0ne.... Lord Denman’s stick-work was
faulty... .But for faulty stick-work Lord
Denman might have scored.... Lord Den-
man missed his second shot after getting a
good one in.... Lord Denman had a good
chance, but over-rode the ba11.... Lord Den-
man had an easy chance once, but missed it.”
In Germany that reporter would be shot,
and in England—but there couldn’t be any
reporter like that in England.
OTHER PEOPLE'S POLITICS.
Tang Shao Yi (Prime Minister) continues to refuse
to return to his post, and has replied to President
Yuan Shih Kai, “If the President requires me, he
had better send a coffin.” Liu Tseng Tang (Foreign
Minister) has been appointed .temporary Prime
Minister.
A deputation waits upon the Prime Minister
of China.
SUPERIORITY RECOGNISED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Governor held a levee A noticeable feature of
the levee was a change in the order of precedence,
which restored to members of Parliament the right
of private entrance.
—Joyous telegram in S. M. Herald.
There is joy in the heart of the member for Bong,
and the member for Bing glows with pride;
Now, at last, has been righted a hideous wrong that
had spread through the Commonwealth wide!
For a haughty G.-G. had decreed that it be made a
custom, a rule, and a law
That the members for Bong, and for Bing, must be-
long to the people who couldn’t say Haw ! —-
To the public that couldn’t say Haw I
(Ha ! lla /)
To the public that dare not say Haw !
That were common as dirt, in top-hat and biled shirt,
but yet failed at the shibboleth Haw!
Yes—the Wrong has been righted; their Claim is
allowed; they march in when they jolly well
please!
And flunkeys, and minions, and footmen stand bowed,
while makers-of-law take their ease!
Their get-up is complete from the head to the feet —
in their manners there’s never a flaw ;
To the Presence they glide; there’s no waiting out-
side with the people who never say Haw !
The public who will not say Haw !
(Ila ! Ha !)
The public unfit to say Haw !....
Our bold legislators are no small pertaters—although
very few can say Haw !
So the member for Bong and the stiff aide-de-camp
may fraternise freely again!
And the meifiber for Bing may say any old thing, in
approved Parliamentary strain,
In the Governor’s ear —as he ambulates near in a
uniform likely to awe —-
For they’ve got the entree to the giddy levee — they
go in with the crowd that says Haw!
Three cheers for our makers of law !. . . .
(Interval for cheers.)
Who go in with the crowd that says Haw!
(Ila ! Ila !)
Why, the time won’t be long ere the members for
Bong, and for Bing, will be able to Haw I
{Haw !)
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


'
Mr. Deakin, the leader of the party,
cannot be absolved from a full share of
responsibility for the dlh'erences that
exist. He has not shown sufficient ap-
preciation of the important condition of
leadership, that he should be the leader
of the whole party and Identify himself
fully with Its broad interests, If It is to
achieve success ut the nollu.—"Argus."
John I bof* yo«
meviT - nothin®
Itew, o’ yours *rr
Wi llii —OK. I‘ktiJ A
OGJU^W:—- fekll) feltrc?
/vyurrty jf ou C^v>
Slowly > I doht' Relieve ir»
Until the Cabinet can see its way to setw-t ,an
acceptable successor, the question of Mr. O’CallK;
K han‘s retirement will be allowed to remain lli
abeyance.
' A 2>°_£h
\jTV
Tst
P ir> — Iho
\\ * Krrov/
V Where. lV>
■)^€r,r
(omj^ny
The outstanding feature of the Labor
party's proposals in Australia is that
there should be live days a week for
work, and six hours work a day.
There is not one man or woman
amongst you who does not feel that
every instinct within you tells you that
the men who preach litis ridiculous doc-
trine of laziness are unfit to hold public
offices, or discharge public responsi-
—Willie Watt, at Essendon.
IVicK (oml)iVe in
re|usecJ "lo Jell
io A ContrAcdor wl\o
s, reinforced
A* £ou crete. , TJ>e ConlrAjc/or
It >eh -found out Hfacf he
<LouM T>«y Vic/C$
\in Sydney *t~
H'i' her«rw.
the Ale ft?
ynce i-s £w-o
(V<ews Hfcm)
They proposed that for every child
born In Australia a £5-note should 'be
paid.... It was a step towards the na-
tionalisation of the home. (Applause.)
It was paying a premium to immorality.
—Senator McColl.
~Tf+E Rehear k
Judgment
Equity WotK
MOSTLY BRICKS AND BABIES.


NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
WATCH
BRACELETS
are all the fashion, and a very sen-
sible one, too. So easy to see the
time. Safe to carry. Very smart in
appearance. So effective as a jewel
ornament.
Our Stock is one of the largest in Sydney.
Specially strong and accurate Lever
Watches in all gold. In gold and
pearls, gold with diamonds, gold on
leather straps. Also silver and oxi-
dised steel.
w
EXPAND^
*8
Absolutely Reliable Movement, in Gold Case, with Expanding
Gold Bracelet, £lO/10/-
pAIRPAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
1 PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter St., Sydney
ABORICIN-
ALITIES
“0.K.”: The recent epidemic of British
farm immigrants seems to have created a new fund
of Australian merriment over the ignorant newchum’s
persistence in calling a paddock a “field.” “Field”
is good Anglo-Saxon for feld (German) or veld
(Dutch), which is veldt in Boerland lingo. “Field”
is “country, or open country in general,” or “a piece
of ground enclosed for tillage or pasture.” “Pad-
dock,” on the other hand, is an abortion of the
Anglo-Saxon pearroc, or park. The English diction-
ary meaning of “paddock” is “a small park under
pasture, adjoining the stables of a domain,” or “a
small field in which horses are kept.” So the new-
chum immigrant is speaking by the dictionary when
he talks of ploughing a field, and grazing sheep and
cattle in fields, and turning horses loose in a pad-
dock. When he hears fields and meadows described
as paddocks, he rightly assumes that the Australian
mind is always running on horse. And this substi-
tution of a very ugly word for two pretty ones pre-
pares him for the shock of hearing sweets referred to
as lollies.
* * * *
“Tarquin” : The camel is the boss kicker
of the universe. Hump’s hind leg will reach any-
where —over his head, round his chest, or on to his
alpine back. Even while lying down a playful ani-
mal will shoot out his legs and floor you. Compared
with Hump, the mule is an unimportant kicker, not
much ahead of the French boxer or the ballet girl.
SHITE.
CASSIUS : "Liqueurs , Henry , liqueurs! I can
remember the time when you always wanted
the biggest drink you could get for 3d.”
HENRY: "Yes, dear boy; but my salary is so
considerable now I experience the greatest
difficulty in holding it.”
“Jimmie Pannikin”: I’ve been looking at
the Wilcannia (N.S.W.) Show, and the display of fruit
and vegetables knocked me endways. There is nothing
the Darling plains cannot do with irrigation, and
when the railway threads its way from Broken Hill
to Menindie, the whole of the country between Wil-
cannia and Menindie will become a paradise of pro-
fuse and profitable production. Just now the Big
Trickle is, unfortunately, very low. Outbackers
pray for the day when either the Federal or State
Government will lock the Darling between Bourke
and Menindie in order to connect the two railways.
A magnificent province will be added to competitive
Australia when the Cinderella country comes at last
into its own. All the West wants is water, work
and accessibility.
“Montere” : I want to throw the clod of
contumely at “Tiaki” for his statement (B.
20/6/’l2) that the kiwi, like the weka and notornis,
lost its wings through electing to live in Maoriland.
The kiwi is the cousin of the ostrich, the descendant
of a long and kingly line of moas, the distant rela-
tive of the emu, and related by marriage to the ex-
tinct birds of Madagascar and the American ostrich
of Patagonia. None of his relations can fly, and many
of them have not even the rudiments of wing bones.
Whether they once could fly has nothing to do with
the present argument. The plain fact stands that
the kiwi did not lose his wings through settlement
in Maoriland. The bird belongs to one of two great
orders into which the whole feathered population of
the world is divided, and the whole southern hemi-
sphere was once peopled with its like. Possibly the
notornis and weka, like the extinct aptornis and
cnemiornis, ceased flying in Maoriland out of re-
spect for the other flightless birds they found there;
but the charge against the kiwi is not sustained.
With regard to the £3OO paid for the Dunedin
specimen of the notornis and the £llO at which the
Dresden specimen was obtained, it is fair to say that
the latter had been handled with a complete lack of
skill by the rabbiter’s dog, who caught it near Lake
Te Anan, and afterwards by the rabbiter himself,
whose notion of skinning a rare bird made up in
force for what it lacked in scientific detail. Dune-
din, at the bigger price, got the better bargain.
“Eddyson”: The possibilities of the situa-
tion where a nice girl becomes school marm in a
desolate place are sufficiently numerous to provide
a library of fiction. Here’s the simple case of Miss
Jane. Miss Jane was a nice girl even if she did
have to wear glasses. She was made boss distributor
of wisdom in the ant-eaten, wooden school at Cattle-
pit. The schoolhouse lurked among a waste of dead
timber on the dust track to Desolation, and the
pupils came drifting out of the wilderness in dribs
and drabs-world-weary children with the burden
of cow all over them, and each with milk in his, or her,
boots. Among the rest came Billie. Billie was big
and lubberly, drearier and more cow-oppressed than
all the rest, and there were greater quantities of
milk in his boots, because he was a worse shot with
the squirt and his boots would hold more. Billie
might have been 14, but looked 18 when he looked
anything at all. As a matter of fact, he rarely
looked anything, his face being inexpressive. For
three months Billie attended school without enabling
Jane to quite make up her mind that he was not one
of those automatic milking machines she had heard
of. Then came the Saturday afternoon when she was
to enjoy a Saturday-to-Monday visit at Peel Hill.
Billie was told off to drive her over in Hanlon’s
spring cart. Billie drove, looking like a stunned
soul, with no object in life, no hopes, no aspirations.
Hours passed and miles drifted by, and Billie con-
tinued to club Dobbin’s hindquarters, and say, “Ger
up!” with dreadful monotony. When Jane inquired
if they were ever going to reach Peel Hill, Billie
said: “Oh, thaa’s orl ri’.” After sundown Jane
struck. “You’ve lost your way! I’ll go no further!”
she said. Billie looked round at her. For a moment
his face was a little less wooden than a hen-house.
Then he said: “I ain’t goin’ ter Peel ‘lll at all. I’m
elopin’ with yer! Ger up!”
* * * *
“Mallarapoonie”: For originality of ex-
pression, conciseness of diction, and for the general
desirability of thorough-
ness and simplicity, I can
recommend some tribal
dialects in North Austra-
lia. Take, for instance,
the dialect of the big Wo-
gite totem that is spread
across the Territory from
the Victoria River to the
tablelands back; o’ Camoo-
weal. The vocabulary of
this tribe is alleged to
contain less than 2000
words, yet the users of it
can express themselves in
seemingly endless terms.
The process by which the
thing is done is simply an
easily-inteliigible system
of emphasis—a scheme
whereby the meaning of
any word may be altered
many times over. The
elasticity and comprehen-
siveness of their ordinary,
every-day words is remark-
able enough; but their
cuss-words are the most
astonishing things on
earth. When properly
aroused, and at a juncture
demanding emphatic and
concise expression, I will
back any old Wogite gin
to verbally run to a stand-
still inside, ten minutes
any other exponent of pro-
fanity west of the 138th
meridian.
“Veritas” : Talking about rats (nobody was
talking about rats) I recommend blue paint. It
beats the Pied Piper of Hamelin. Take one rat (or
two, if you feel equal to it), and paint or dye the
beast (or beasts) blue. Let it (or them) dry and
never mind the profane language he (or they) uses
(or use). Then turn your blue prey loose. If there
are rats about you will see them very shortly fleeing
for the foothills, while a blue rodent runs after them
demanding an explanation.
* * * *
“John M.”: The man who stated (B.
16/5/’l2) that a spud-heaver had dug 87} bags of
the tubers in eight hours ought to be made to do the
washing-up’for a week. When you come to think of
it, 87} bags represent something like eight tons, and
eight tons constitute a good average yield per acre.
Anyone who says he can dig and bag an acre of
spuds in eight hours is a plain diplomatist. In Can-
terbury (louland), a man, with two kids to pick up
after him, once filled 75 bags, 12 to the ton, in a
day, and so much limelight was cast upon him that
he thought he was Julius Csesar, and has rested on
his laurels ever since. You can only soak the yam
out of him nowadays with several long beers. The
best record that any spud-miner I ever heard of put
up was 45 bags, digged, bagged and sewed, and he
worked from daylight to dark.
THE ADVANTAGES OF BEING A RELATIVE.
OLD MAN BIGHI : “ You say you my brudder?”
THE SHEPHERD: “ Yes , brother
OLD MAN BINGHI : "By cripes, you must think you plurry fine pfeller. ”
“Mallarapoonie,” from Satan’s Chamber
of Horrors: —Gloomy, interminable, full of mystery
and nameless horror as the forests of Papua are—
these forests wherein, as “S.S.S.” says, lurk Satan
and a fair share of his works —they are not so silent
as that contributor would have us believe. There
probably isn’t another place on earth to compare
with the primeval jungle-country in Papua for weird
and unaccountable sounds. Apart from such dis-
turbances as may be created by jungle-dwellers,
strange and. loathly—hideous loose-jowled toads that
live in trees; great, foetid bats with harsh leathery
wings that vibrate in crescendo as they wheel in air;
and queer, nameless fantods and jim-doodles that
haunt the darkness —there are others which defy
definition. Escapes of marsh-gas, and the like, pro-
bably account for some unusual sounds; while others,
again, such as are sometimes heard in cavernous vol-
canic country, may be of a character purely subter-
ranean. Even the horrific mangrove swamps, full of
inanimate gnarled obscenities and frequented only - by
those despicable voiceless things that live in slime,
contrive to take a part in the chorus. Then there is
the dreadful “Fever-bird” —at least, it is alleged to
be a bird —which drives fever-stricken men mad by
ejaculating “Chunk” like hollow millstones slowly
falling on a mouldy coffin. It is the persistency and
dreadful regularity of the “Chunk” that kills. The
brain becomes mesmerised by the monotony of it,
and every sense becomes alert, straining to catch its
sound. It comes—“ Chunk.” You listen for it a
space, and in a minute or two it comes again—
“ Chunk.” Again you listen; your mind anticipates
it, and in the moment of expectation your mad-
dened brain is screaming “Now! Now!! Now!!!”
Then it comes— " Chunk and every time it is like a
Nasmyth hammer falling on your nerves. The Aus-
tralian bush is a music hall compared to the Papuan
forest.
“W.8.H.”: In what part of George-street
do those Abo-experts reside who are clamoring for a
close season for snipe? I want to know so that I
may communicate with them to the effect that the
bird does not breed in Australia. Its
nursery is in Siberia and other remote
parts, and its appearance here is a mere
temporary one. In fact, the snipe is an
absentee landlord of a kind, and any pro-
tection given it in Australia is not worth
a dog’s prayer unless protection is also
provided in other countries frequented by
the fowl of passage.
“Eryander”: To “F.A.T.” (B. 20/6/T2).
There is no end to the vagaries of tides, but no
room to give more than a few of the principal
causes. For instance, there is configuration of coast,
conformation of bottom, wind-influence, opposition of
currents of the same tide. A couple of notable ex-
amples. In Southampton Water (England) the tide
“makes” for four hours, then ebbs for two; then
makes again for two, and ebbs for four. On the
other side of the Channel, at Havre, the tide remains
steady at high-water for about an hour; then makes
up for lost time by running out in five hours instead
of six. But one needs to visit the Hebrides (the
Scotch ones; not the New Hebrides) to learn what
tides can do in the way of upsetting all calculations.
You’ll be sailing gaily along on one side of an island
on what you think is a strong flood, when suddenly
you encounter the “race” from round the other side.
The result is an apparent ebb and a fair chance of
piling-up the craft on the rocks, which are nearly
always where they are least urgently required on
such occasions.
Leave the office with a headache and go home?
Don’t do it —take Stearns’ Headache Cure before you
leave, and you will arrive home in a pleasant mood.*
“Effelle” : “Leo Lear,” in his remarks (B.
23/5/’l2) on the evidences of volcanic activity in the
south-west corner of Victoria, omits to mention
Tower Hill, the largest crater in that State, and
probably in Australia. This ancient funnel of the
infernal regions is fully seven miles in circumference,
and a third of its bed is taken up by a lake of the
usual unfathomable variety. Anyhow, its great depth
is vouched for by the icy chill of its water even in
the warmest summers. The rest of the bed is just
plain swamp, except where, in the centre, an island
700 acres in extent rears its hilltops to the level of
the surrounding banks. The belief was once held
that Tower Hill, Mount Eccles and Mount Gambier
were connected by a subterranean passage. The
couple of thousand acres of swamp contain an im-
mense depth of decayed vegetable matter, unequalled
as fertiliser. The soil for miles around is amazingly
fertile, and produces all the far-famed Warrnambool
potatoes. The Koroit water-supply is drawn from a
spring half-way down the lake bank. “Leo Lear’s”
statement that the Mount Eccles crater is full of
water is hardly correct. Its precipitous banks rise
in places 300 ft. above the water, which is said to
rise and fall with the tides of the sea 30 odd miles
distant in a horizontal line. The lake is the exact
shape of a foot, and as the locality seems to have
been Beelzebub’s headquarters at one time, no doubt
it is one of his footprints. He took a large size in
boots, did Beelzebub.
MEN OF HIGH DESCENT.
FIRST BAR-LOAFER : “ Sir'r, I tell you lam the
descendant of kings!”
SECOND DITTO: "Gam! My fathers the
Sanitary Inspector for Paddington."
“Alex. Ferrett”: The sooner the Rural
Workers’ Union gets its reward the better. Close
to Coopernook, a curious comer of N.S.W.’s
Cowland, there is a dairy-farmer whose hired boy of
16 is paid 6s. a week for milking 16 to 20 cows
morning and afternoon, working the separator, feed-
ing the pigs and poddies (“Can’t you hear the pod-
dies calling, Cocky Mine?”), and doing other farm
work. He gets no holidays. If he takes home a pint
or half a pint to his old mother from the ’ dairy
where there are about 50 cows in a fluid state, the
price of the milk is docked from his skeleton remu-
neration. When the said dairy-farmer has to pay
decent wages, he’ll talk about red ruin, abolition of
the marriage-tie, capital leaving the country, blarsted
Socialism, tearin’ me uniform, etc. —but he won’t
say a word about accursed cow-slavery. Say, why
doesn’t Fred Brown draw a callous cow-cockies’ hell ?
ONE DRINK MORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lo! the rains have come again, and on tableland
and plain
Spring the grasses for the sheep and cattle’s
dinner!
All the dams are fairly full, and Queen Cow and
Brother Bull
Are accumulating flesh—not getting thinner.
Ev’ry scattered, grazing flock —(Yesterday ’twas
starving stock !)
Feeds in comfort by the creeks and rivers flowing,
While the ploughman without rest turns the old
Earth’s softened breast,
And the farmer gets all ready for the sowing.
Now the merchant down in town has mislaid his
gloomy frown,
For the country mail is brimming with big orders;
And the man who runs a bank and the cabman on
the rank
Talk of rain that reached .the State’s dry, distant
borders;
But the gladdest of the crowd is the politician loud
Who foresees another spell of office frisky;
For the splendid drenching “fall” that Chance sent
us, after all,
Is the stuff we mix with Cohen’s Three Ball
Whisky.
N.S.W.
NATHANIEL LOBSTER.


Hotel
A ustra/ia
TARIFF :
From 13 - per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light, it is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN lor Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
Connected with Wireless.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL’S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
GREAT OAKS FROM LITTLE ACORNS GROW.
That dread disease, Consumption, has its com-
mencement in a cold on the chest. Don’t leave it
until it is too late. You can promptly remove your
cold with Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Is. 6d.
and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
m
3 .-'I
Foggitt, Jones’
Jellied Pigs’ Feet
make a delightful luncheon dish.
They are packed in tin* ready for
•ervice. For those who like some-
thing appetizing they are really
unsurpassed. Your grocer has
, them—ask him for a tin or two.
“Silas” : A Melbourne daily in its weekly
column of useful hints mentions casually that an
inflated bicycle or motor tyre makes an excellent
lifebuoy. I consider this great fact should be more
widely known, and hasten to add important details
from my own store of priceless truths. Any man,
woman or child falling into deep water in company
with a bicycle, and being unable to swim, should
immediately dive and recover the bicycle. Then
having deflated the tyre, with the assistance of a
bag of tools (to be obtained from every respectable
firm), he, she or the infant should remove the cover,
detach the tube as speedily as possible, inflate .it
again with the ordinary bicycle pump, wrap the in-
flated tube twice round the body, and float ashore.
Care should be taken to retain possession of the
bicycle. The difficulty of recovering an automobile
in deep water renders it advisable for motorists to
carefully remove and inflate a tube before going in
to drown.
MIGHT HAVE BEEN WORSE.
THE LIGHT COMEDIAN : “Had a successful
tour, Barnstormer? ”
THE HEAVY TRAGEDIAN: “Managed to save
the clothes I’m wearing by sleeping in
them."
PUTTING ON DOG.
ALBERT : “There goes Ethelbert—as usual, hading the polished gentleman
EGBERT: “True, Albert , true. But yer know the best of us is apt ter put on dorg at times."
“Wal”: The bush natives of Papua in
places where they cannot trade for sea-water or salt,
gather the leaves and small branches of certain
plants and dry them in the sun. Then they burn
them and collect the ashes, which are boiled and
skimmed until all waste matter has been eliminated
and a deposit of a sort of potash is left lamenting
in the bottom of the pot. This is used as a substi-
tute for salt. To a white man it is not palatable. It
reminds me of magnesia, without flattering that
useful drug.
“J.G.”: I endorse the statement of “Leo
Lear” (B. 30/5/’l2) that “blackfellows’ ovens” are
not formed by mud-springs. Along the Bendigo
River (Victoria) they can be seen every few chains.
Some of them are two or three chains across and
several feet high. Where
the mounds are most
numerous there is not
the faintest trace for
hundreds of feet down of
any earth movement.
You can dig till you
strike prehistoric rock,
and the color of the soil,
subsoil, clay, slate or
sandstone has no relation
to the murky hue of
Binghi’s “ovens,” which
are as black as black
brother himself. Also, it
is a curious thing, if the
“ovens” have been formed
by mud upheavals, that
they should be found only
in the vicinity of timber
where the ’possum hung
out. On several occasions
I have found in the ovens
stone hammers, hatchets
and various other , stone
implements, which could
not very well be mud-
sprung upwards .from the
globe’s bowels. On the
evidence, I find for “Leo
Lear,” and order “Mallarapoonie” to pay the costs
of the customary refreshment.
“Montalex”: “Tamumu” (B. 20/6/’l2)
asks for expert opinion as to when the moa, in legal
phrase, “ceased and determined.” Here it is.
Dinornis elephantopus (“elephant-footed”) is believed
to have been extinct for about three centuries, but
there is good evidence that the taller Dinornis gigan-
teus did not pass out till about 1750. The Maoris
have been a little over five centuries in occupation of
their present country, consequently the moa was in
evidence long after the arrival of that “legendary
canoe.” In fact, its bones have been found in Maori
cooking-ovens of not more than 200 years ago. By
the way, the finding of moa-remains in the Queens-
land pleistocene strongly favors the opinion that
Maoriland was at one time part of the Australian
continent.
“J. O’Neill”: The lamb had just been
fleeced in the Maoriland bush store by paying £3
for a Panama hat, the normal price of which was
255. “By golly,” said Rewi, when the. purchaser
had departed, “he te pig fool to buy te tree quid
hat to wear on te shillin’ head.”
lIUNYADI JANOS is the natural aperient water
par excellence. The average dose is. a wineglassful
taken before breakfast. Nature: herself has mingled
its chief ingredients, sulphate of magnesia and sul-
phate of soda, in- such ideal proportions that this
Water acts promptly, without griping or other dis-
oomfort, and may be used for any length of time and
at any period of life.*
“Leo Lear” : Have you met the “tupong,”
which is the white man’s corrupted pronunciation
of the Binghi “tuppurn,” a small fish that inhabits
some of the southern Victorian rivers? The beast
in question seldom runs or swims above a pound in
weight, and spends the greater part of the year in-
dolently reposing on the bottom of the stream wait-
ing for the time to become ripe, which it does in the
late autumn. The tupong then shift camp with one
accord, and retreat in great disorder seawards. At
this period Mrs. Tupong is laden with eggs. Pre-
sumably the lady spawns at sea? Local Black
Brethren get down stream early for the rush, and
catch hundreds of the emigrants at shallow parts in
nets placed across the water-course. Apparently,
the fish journeys only at night. Anyhow, Binghi
says he never catches any in the daytime.
“The Poor Farmer”: The keen observer
of humble things rarely falls in, but, when he
does, his tribulation is great indeed. Away back in
1902, when the drought had convinced everybody,
even the prophets, that the day for the seas to be
licked up was at hand, a lean frog hopped out from
under our corrugated iron tank and croaked joyously
of the rain that was to come. But I had hardened
my heart against all prophets, so I believed him not.
The rain came in abundance next day, even as that
frog had foretold. Again, in 1908, that same
croaker, or his direct descendant, lay low and said
nothing until a day or two prior to the ‘ break up.
So, all through this long drought of 1912, I have
anxiously awaited the prophet’s signal. And a few
weeks back he tipped me the straight croak. Heark-
ening unto him, I hastened to the saleyard and bought
all the lean stock that were not too lean to travel to
the parched Helds that were soon to be deluged with
liquid joy. I also laid my worst friend —the man
whose dog did not eat the bait I threw at it, and
thus caused the death of my own dog—lo quid to
five that it would rain in less than a week. The
first sound to greet me on my return was the vigorous
hallelujahs of my prophet. All night long, in the
language of augury, he spoke of the rainy days and
nights that were at hand. After half a week of this
and no rain, the clammy touch of doubt chilled my
heart. The fourth day I determined to unearth the
prophet, ; whom as yet I had only heard, and see if
his features resembled his illustrious parent’s, or if
the race had -- degenerated. Then I found that the
blasted tank was leaking and the batrachian had
been deceived.
OUR SAVIOURS: A PEAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now that the party fighting has opened it will
proceed until most of the members of the House have
spoken. It was expected from the beginning that
practical steps of this kind would be taken, and now
that the course has been adopted, and the House is
confronted with the issue, the debate will go steadily
towards the vote. — Reassuring News Item.
Hurrah! for the Session that’s now in progression—
one has the impression we’re moving, at last!
There’s cause for elation and congratulation, because
this young Nation’s chief troubles are past!
Now Parliament’s sitting, in dignity fitting, we’ll
shortly be hitting the Zenith of Pride ;
Ill-luck we’ll be baulking; the Drought will be walk-
ing—our flood-gates of Talking are opening
wide!
Debate, like an ocean, will roll round each motion—
though few have a notion of what it may mean ;
Gay jests will be dancing, and verbal shafts glanc-
ing, and repartee prancing all over the scene!
Applause—and loud laughter, immediately after! —
will tickle each rafter supporting the roof ;
And cities will wait for, and scribes sit up late for,
the men who orate for the country’s behoof!
Loud yells of derision will greet the division —that
splendid provision for counting bald heads
When the public, adoring, for whom they are war-
ring, are tunefully snoring at home in their
beds!
And bells will be ringing, and messengers springing
from room to room, bringing the idlers down ;
And the Speaker will wake up, and the tellers will
make up the lists that will break up the
Throne and the Crown !
And the tale of the voting will give rise to gloating,
while pressmen are noting the absent by name ;
And, as soon as the tally is read, some will rally
and utter a sally, like “ Swindle !” or ‘‘Shame I”
And furious workers will round on the shirkers, and
billiard-room lurkers, who couldn’t be found,
While the other chaps cheer and let out a “Hear!
Hear!” and jovially jeer while they joyfully
pound !
Then, once more resuming—the larger crowd pluming
themselves, while all-glooming the smaller crowd
sit—
The clash and the struggle, the dexterous juggle, the
pull and the tug’ll go on for a bit,
Till the bright light of morning, all lesser lights
scorning, gives everyone warning that Night’s
passed away....
And we, whom they slaved for, and panted and raved
for, feel the State has been saved for another
glad day!
N.S.W.
O.C. CABOT.
Sugar—with a Side-look at Hats.
Customs Minister Tudor was asked the
other day to pull some of the duty of £lO
per ton off beet sugar, on the ground that
this year’s crop of Australian sugar was
going to be 100,000 tons short of require-
ments, and that the only way to let Aus-
tralia get the 100,000 tons at a reasonable
price was to sool the foreign beet and cane
sugar producers on to one another. The duty
on cane sugar is £6 per ton, and if beet sugar
had to pav £4 per ton more than that, it was
reckoned that the fight between the two
wouldn’t be a real battle at all. The people
most concerned are alleged to be the jam-
makers and fruit-packers, who are said to be
shivering lest the foreign cane-sugar ex-
porter may put up his price about £3 19s.
per ton higher than he ought—lest he may,
in short, exact just so much as he dare with-
out letting in the beet sugar, kvhich, as before
remarked, can’t come in without paying £4
per ton more than the other brand of sweet
substance. It isn’t plain to this paper why
one lot of foreign sugar should be taxed £lO
and another lot only £0; but, seeing that the
production of the Australian article is _ ad-
mittedly not up to requirements, the obvious
thing is, not to reduce the duty on the £lO
line, but to put up the duty on the £6 line.
The jam-maker may howl a little, of course;
and for a year or so he admittedly may even
have to pay O.OlOd. more per lb. of jam for
the sugar that is in it. But in the long run
he will be best served by increasing and still
further increasing the production of sugar
in a country which can produce bigger sugar
crops than any other in the world ; and to
hack off some of the Protection whenever the
output falls below requirements is certainly
not the way to encourage present growers to
plant more, and new growers to come into
the business. As Tubor knows, there are not
enough hatters in Australia to immediately
provide lids for all the people in the coun-
try; but Tudor would hardly consider that
a good enough reason for abolishing or reduc-
ing the present duty on hats.
Dear Bulletin.— Warfare is going to be
very much cheaper presently. You’ll see.
Aviation is going to do it. At present it
takes about £2,500,000 to fit out a first-class
fighting machine, and then that expensive
piece of material stands a good chance of
being “outed” by some insignificant £20,000
submarine, or, perhaps, a couple of £5O
mines! This flying business is going to alter
all that. Even at this present—when, so to
say, we are at the ABC stage of aviation —
it is possible for a couple of skilful and de-
termined men to get aboard a £5OO aeroplane
with a 3001 b. bomb of olinite, or some other
super-explosive, and wreck the finest ship
afloat! This has been proved in Britain,
where, at the last Birthday Naval Review,
a young naval lieutenant aboard a hydra?-
roplane (the word is bound to come) carried
out successfully the peace representation of
this sensational manoeuvre. Now we are told
that the air-bullet has arrived —a cheap,
handy, casual kind of a weapon, yet full of
devilish deadliness. It is a small, cylindrical-
shaped, pencil-like thing, made of aluminium,
or some other light, ductile metal. It is as
thick as au ordinary pencil, and about six
inches long, with grooved sides. Its conical
tip, an inch long, is made of heavy steel, and
weighs an ounce, or thereabouts. The tip, of
course, keeps the thing in a vertical posi-
tion, as it falls; but to make assurance
doubly sure, there is also attached to the air-
bullet a simple little device in the form of a
cross, which absolutely ensures perpendicu-
lar direction. These infernal things are
thrown out in handfuls by the marauding
aviator overhead! 'No gun is required.
RENOVATED.
“ Yers, Mrs. Thinne, I went to the mission
and got saved, an’ I feel beautiful. You
orter go an ’ be done, an’ be lovely like me!"
Thrown out at 2000 ft., or even less, the bul-
lets will kill an ox, if they hit it. If a man got
one it would —supposing it to be dropped
right over his head —penetrate his cosmos
from his bald roof to his feet. And there are
a lot of vital spots between these two ex-
tremes. Carry this principle a little further
and picture the 1500 (proposed) aeroplanes
of France, and the (contemplated) 1200 of
Germany at work, and you can conjure up a
vision of the next land battle that will make
the alleged destruction of Sodom and
Gomorrah look like a Sunday-school treat!
It is highly pleasing to know that our people
out here sternly discourage the. use of these
abominable things, and heavily fine Aus-
tralian aviators for frightening cows. Like
the b.iled Hindu, we Australians are Cow-
Worshippers.—Yours, etc., Hullo.
A BLACKSMITH’S OPINION.
“For severe colds, which gave me racking pains in
the chest, I used Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy with
the best results. It ends these colds in little or no
time, and I do not think there is a better remedy on
the market,” says Mr. John McGrade, 154 Young
Street, Annandale, N.S.W. “1 give Chamberlain s
Cough Remedy to my boy and girl for colds and
croup, and can say that it is an excellent remedy
for children.”*


DOMMOWENLTH PARLIAMENT LIRRARS
A GREAT EVENT.
The colliers at Merthyr accorded their Majesties a great reception.
During the afternoon Queen Mary visited a number of colliers cottag es.
The minimum wage for colliers has been fixed at 4s. 2s. per day.-English news.
HIS MAJESTY: "We've just looked in, frendly-like, to ask after the new baby." COLLIER: "Thankee, yer Maj, 'E ain't very big, but perhaps'e'll grow."


Nervous and run down women are greatly bene-
fited by Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract. It
never fails to restore the lost energy and vitality
necessary to women.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
F or
DURABILITY.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
Is the most wonderful remedy ever discovered for the
cure of Coughs and Colds. It will relieve you when
all else has failed. Is. 6d. and 3s.*
We are Born to
OFFER BENEFIT*
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
It was a misprint all along. No doubt
the canon’s real name is Mash.
Died in Melbourne a few days back L. F.
Collin, of Swanston-street, who had been
for 58 years supplying the means whereby
little Emma might play her piece for the
Sunday afternoon visitor. He followed the
time-payment line when it was much less
used than it is to-day, and there is a legend
that in the boom days he had 3000 instru-
ments of torture, etc., out on hire.
HARVERSON,
BILLIARDIST
FROM ENG-
LAND, AT PRE-
SENT IN
AUSTRALIA.
F. H. Piesse, another of the makers of the
Australian Constitution, died last week. He
belonged to one of the most ancient and
more energetic of ’Groper families, and
dabbled in politics, wherefore Bigjohn For-
rest included him in the curious team of
makeweights that he brought over to Adel-
aide when the Convention opened in 1897.
Following the Kalgoorlie Miner’s conver-
sion to a semi-Laborite policy, it is said in
the West that part-proprietor and ex-editor
J. W. Kirwan is to go to London as the
State’s Agent-General. “Buglepumpkin”
Moore is retiring from the job, and Sydney’s
erratic old friend, “Tommy” Walker —a
barrister and Attorney-General nowadays—
was understood in Labor circles to be “con-
sidering the matter” and wondering how the
Fog would suit him.
Governor Bosanquet, talking recently at
Crystal Brook (S.A.), became reminiscent
as to his naval experiences. At Portsmouth
once, he said, a marine, asked if he desired
to object to any member of the court-martial
which was to try him for some offence, re-
plied promptly: “I object to the whole
blooming lot of you, and, most of all, to the
greyheaded old cove at the head of the
table.”
Two politicians passed out last week.
David Beazley, of the Victorian State As-
sembly, was aged only 53 when he dropped
the earthly bundle. He was a good demo-
crat in a dreary and unpromising legisla-
tive institution for 23 years. At one time
he was Speaker, and filled with credit a
chair that has had some rather discreditable
occupants. Senator Russell, of S.A., died at
the age of 70. He commenced his political
career in the Upper House at Adelaide 18
years ago.
Representation of S. Aus. in the Federal
Parliament is one of the unhealthiest trades
in the Commonwealth. To the list which in-
cludes Kingston, Holder, Batchelor and Hui-
chinson, has now been added “Billy” Russell,
a farmer-member of the Labor party, and for-
merly an energetic buzz-fly among his fellow
landlords of the State’s Leg. Council.
The Ottomans of Adelaide—most of whom
hail from Mount Lebanon in Syria—are
about to present an oil portrait of Batchelor,
late Minister of Foreign Affairs, to the Aus-
tralian Parliament, and Prime Minister
Fisher is to unveil it. Batchelor, when
leader of the S.A. Labor party, persuaded
the State Parliament to class Ottomans as
Europeans for naturalisation purposes.
Hence their gratitude.
S.A. has quite a heap of “Johns” who
were made knights. They include John Col-
ton, John Bray, John Downer, John Cock-
burn, John Stirling, John Bonython, John
Cordon and John Duncan. The latest crea-
tion, John Duncan, is one of Australia’s
richest pastoralists. But he was once “up
a tree.” _ In the early ’7o’s he was inspecting
country in the interior, when he was caught
by heavy floods at Macumba Creek, and,
with two companions, he was driven into
the upper branches of a vegetable. The
party remained there in an almost destitute
condition for four days and nights, and as
John didn’t own the tree, he hadn’t even
lawful means of support. His means might
be visible, but they weren’t lawful.
Apropos the just-dead W. R. Guilfoyle,
who made the Melbourne Botanic Gardens
what they are, “The Oldest Inhabitant” re-
cails that the Guilfoyles arrived in Sydney in
ISol, and were among the first people to run
a plant-nursery in Australia. Their creche
was at Double Bay, on an area which the
spread of Sydney has long since coated with
dwellings. Afterwards W. R. went to tickle
the soil along the Tweed River on his own
account; but, having got into the public eye
thioqah his work on the Challenger expedi-
turn he was offered the Melbourne job in
1873, and held it for 35 years.
“Cove” overhauls the departed :
My troubles about the rest, but here is my draft
for Prime Minister Fisher’s proposed National Gallery:
Badham, Banks, Batman, Bass, Berry, Bligh, Bourke
„ Bnsbane > Braddon, Brooke, Burke and Wills’
Cadell, Mrs. Chisholm, Clarke, Conway, Cook, Coppin,
Cunningham, Duffy, Esmond, Essex Evans Evre
Fawkner, Fairfax, Flinders, Franklin, Wilson Giay,’
Grey, Gordon, Hargreaves, Harpur, Herbert, Higin-
botbam, Holder, Hotham, Kendall, Kingston, Lang
Latrobe, . Leichhardt, Leslie, Light, Lowe, Macarthnr,
Macquarie, Mcllwraith, Martin, Moeller, Murdoch
O’Shanassy, Oxley, Parkes, Phillip Polding, Reibey’
Stephens, Stuart, Sturt, Barry Sullivan, Svme,
Tyson, Wentworth and Edward Wilson.
“Gil.”: King O’Malley’s institution of a
“Minister’s Suggestion Box,” for the recep-
tion of departmental officers’ ideas, reminds
me that Manager Delprat, of the Broken
Hill Prop. Mine, long ago adopted a similar
device. But a story to the effect that the
wealthy co. once doled out less than £2O in
exchange for an idea that savpd it many
thousands caused the “glory box” to go out
of fashion. For a lona - , long time it was
empty and cobwebby. Then a new idea was
dropped in . It. read : “Sack Delprat.” And
after that emptiness again supervened.
Concerning a man and his machine:—
McKeen, the man whose name is tacked on to the
motor trains that have just got a footing on the rail-
ways of Victoria and Queensland, is William R., jun.
to use gasoline or the like as a train motive-power
really wasn’t his idea. E. H. Harriman, boss of
what is known as the Harriman system of Yankee
railways, found that his revenue was being cut into
by electric lines, which could offer a swifter and
more frequent local service. To grapple with the
competitor he thought of a vast railway motor-car,
and turned on McKeen, jun., to the job, McKeen,
jun., being superintendent of motive power and
machinery of the Union Pacific line at Omaha. His
toughest, job wasn’t so much to invent an internal-
combustion high-speed engine as to design a con-
trivance which, while being light, wouldn’t crumple
up if it struck a cow or other nightmare at 60 miles
an hour; hence the whole business is mostly steel.
So far McKeen has put out 120 trains, and they have
made stir enough to flood the U.S. Patents * Office
with over 2000 applications to protect all sorts of
ideas connected with the whirling business.
ARCHDEACON HIND LEY,
Prominent in the Clarke v. Norton case.
David Carment, who for a quarter of a
century or so has been assistant actuary to
the A.M.P. Society, is going to retire at the
end of the year. General-manager Teece,
who is also actuary, hasn’t much further to
go either. He is 65, and in the A.M.P.
service retirement is optional at 60, and com-
pulsory at 70.
THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S DANCE.
Lord Denham wore a most beautiful gown of palest
pink and gold brocade, opening oyer an underdress
of cloth of gold, the skirt revealing on one side a
panel edged with sable. Fine and exquisite lace
formed the corsage and sleeves, which were outlined
with a narrow diamante edging. —-Sydney Telegraph.
Brief obituary of an old soldier: —
If the deceased Field-Marshal George White had
been as skilful an advertiser as Baden Powell of the
brown bashed hat, he would have made much more
fame than he did out of his defence of Ladysmith.
But lie was a silent man, and didn’t let off fireworks,
nor did he wear a long feather hanging down his
back. He and Roberts first met in 1857. They slew
mutual niggers in the Mutiny, and were together on
the march to Kandahar. White got his Victoria
Gross in that scrum, and did many notable things.
But he didn’t wear a wonderful bashed hat, or adver
tise.
Three old-timers of Maori land politics,
W. J. Steward, T. Y. Duncan and “Tommy”
Parata, have just been appointed to the
Upper House. Each of them is over 70 years
of age and none of them saw less than 27
years go yawning past from a seat in the
House of Reps. Steward, who was there for
41 years, was celebrated as the wearer of
“the white flower of a blameless life” —a
reference to a perpetual pale blossom in his
buttonhole. He will now be able to wear
the white flower of an aimless life for a
change.
_ Luke Burner, who fell between two poli-
tical stools in S. Aus. when the Labor party
arrived 22 years ago, died in Adelaide a few
days since. He had the bad luck to sit for
Wallaroo at the district that is now
represented by ex-Premier Verran and two
other teetotal Laborites. The biggest thing
he ever did—though he was afterwards
chairman of committees and a Minister —was
when, in 1885, he saw trouble coming
through the growing extravagance of Gov-
ment departments which had been bitten by
the boom microbe, and, colloguing with one
or two others, had John Downer’s estimates
cut down with an axe. One of the col-
loguers was the late Justice Homburg, who,
presently becoming Attorney-General, almost
exploded when he found that the old-fash-
ioned and expensive magnum bonum pens
were still in use in the department.
W. R. Guilfoyle, for 36 years Curator of
the Melbourne Gardens, has gone to fly
around the bowers of Paradise and
look at the asphodel. He came this
way as botanist with the Challenger
scientific expedition in 1868, and, dropping
off, took command at the Sydney Gardens.
He passed on to Melbourne as successor to
Yon Mueller in 1873. Von Mueller, hung
over with medals, was a great botanist, but
no gardener. Guilfoyle had enough bot-
any, but it was his eye for landscape that
gave him a national value. Mueller’s ideas
of the picturesque were amusingly evinced
in the lake, wherein he made a rock island
of kerosene tins. After retirement from the
public service _ in 1909, Guilfoyle was still
active. He laid out Melba’s beautiful estate
at Coldstream, near the Lilydale of her early
years. There she luxuriates, and even
warbles in the Lilydale Church occasionally
on a Sabbath morning, when she motors
over. It was Guilfoyle, too, who designed
the improvements lately made about the
ornamental gully in Fitzroy Gardens.
“Pick”: Morrissey, the man who fools
with snakes, lately came out from a N.S.W.
Northern Rivers hospital after many rounds
with the poison of a death-adder. Neglect
to make timely application of his snake-
poison antidote resulted in a close call for
Morrissey, but the antidote ultimately saved
him, and he is now on the tramp again with
adders and other varieties of land-eel peer-
ing from every window in his garments. So
often and undeniably has Morrissey demon-
strated the value of his snake-bite cure that
he is now planning to visit India to back
his discovery (which he alleges that he
learned from the gohanna) against the
cobra. It would be well if someone were to
look after Morrissey. The secret of his
antidote may be bought, and should be worth
something. If it isn’t bought, then some day
it may get lost along with Morrissey, who
isn’t the sort of citizen to take much care of
anything-—himself included.
One Victorian Judge displays a growing
habit of absence of mind. Walking down
Collins-street the other afternoon, in com-
pany with a friend, he met an acquaintance.
After a moment’s talk he said: “By the
way, you two should know each other. Mr.
Whistler, this is Mr. Trumpeter, our popu-
lar K.C.” A little later his Honor left the
new acquaintances together. “I ought to
tell yon, Mr. Whistler,” said one, “I am not
Mr. Trumpeter, K.C. I am Tinkler, the
Judge’s tailor.” “I knew there was some
error,” replied the other, “because, as a mat-
ter of fact. Trumpeter, K.C., died last
month. And my name isn’t Whistler. lam
Banger, the solicitor.”
Arthur Lynch, the astounding Victorian
who is a graduate in Arts, Engineering,
Medicine and Surgery, and reckons that he
knows more of law and military science
than he does of any of the things for which
the Universities have given him diplomas,
has just completed what he regards as his
big thing—“A New System of Psychology,”
in two volumes, “based on a study of the
fundamental processes of the human mind.”
Lynch, who is an Irish member of the
House of Commons, has packed into his brief
life experience as a civil engineer and a
lecturer in mathematics, a doctor and a
colonel (lie got into trouble over that in
S’Africa), a London journalist and a war
correspondent in Ashanti, and he has poured
out literature in French and German as well
as English.
From the Oldest Inhabitant
E. A. T. Pery, Police Magistrate on the N.S.W.
Northern Rivers, who is retiring from the service on
pension, is a sprig of the Limerick family. In the
’3o’s the heir to the earldom was a clerk in the
G.P.0., Sydney; he had been confided to the care of
Governor Bourke, who was a Limerick man, with an
intimation that the youngster had been “a bit wild.”
When Colonel Anderson went as Commandant to Nor-
folk Island, the Governor gave him young Pery as
clerk. On the island he married a daughter of
Lieutenant Schaffe, of one of the regiments stationed
there. A son was born, who in turn came to be
Earl of Limerick. He could not, however, take his
seat in the House of Lords without producing a cer-
tificate of birth, or an affidavit from some person
who had seen it. There were no records kept on
Norfolk Island, and all the other Australian registers
were searched without avail. Somehow or other the
register that it might have been in had disappeared.
But there was a very careful gentleman connected
with the Sydney diocese in years gone by, one Henry
Kerrison James, who lived at Miller’s Point. Mr.
James was industrious enough to keep a copy of the
registers, and, claiming these as his private property,
he made many a guinea by supplying certificates of
births, marriages and deaths. A peppery military
officer in Tasmania wrote in the interest of the earl
demanding a certificate. James declined, but sent a
copy to his solicitor in London, instructing him to
let the earl’s solicitor have it on payment of a fee
of 20 guineas. The earl’s solicitor waited upon
James’s solicitor, and asked to see the document, and
having perused the same returned it with thanks.
Then he made an affidavit that he had seen the cer-
tificate of the birth of the Earl of Limerick, and on
that the earl took his seat without giving James a
solitary copper. The earl’s maiden speech was a
complaint on the score of his birth certificate, but
he forgot to mention that he had done James out
of his money. By the way, the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment purchased the before-mentioned books from
James ; also, by the way, Parson Marsden was stuck
up once on the Parramatta-road and the register of
the day was taken from him. It has never been re-
covered, so legend says.
DIGGLE, THE
ENGLISH
BILLIARDIST,
AT PRESENT
IN AUS-
TRALIA.
The death of “Billy” Gurr, after racing to
catch a train, closes a career which, to all
intents and purposes, was closed with the
rout of the lamentable Tummus Bent. The
deceased was originally a draper, and owned
many qualities which in a draper are admir-
able ; but as a politician he was a humorous
and bald-headed failure. He was first
elected (with H. B. Higgins) to represent
Geelong in 1894. At a subsequent election
Higgins (this was after the S’African un-
pleasantness) was replaced by Andrews
(now chairman of the Vic. Licenses Reduc-
tion Board), while Gurr was returned at
the top of the poll. After that victory he
was made Postmaster-General in the Pea-
cock Agglomeration, and, later, was sent to
the Education Department, because, accord-
ing to a Parliamentary cynic, “he needed
it.” In 1902 he was defeated, though he
got back later ; but in 1908 he made the mis-
take of thinking that the cat was going to
jump with Adolphus Bent, and when the
wretch sprang in the opposite direction,
“Billy” had to get up and hustle as a com-
mercial traveller, with nothing but a free
“all lines” pass to remind him of his former
glories.
SUPPRESSIO VERI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We must remember the extraordinarily difficult
position in which the Archbishop was placed. He
desired as far as possible to save his Church from
a public scandal, and kept silence, although he
must have known very well that his silence must
lead to his beftig grievously misunderstood.
—The Argus.
To unmask the sinful brother
Is the duty of the pastor.
But his duty he must smother
(It would simply spell disaster)
When he’s tempted to discover,
For the joy of press recorders,
Little sinnings of the lover
Who’s a gent, in holy orders.
To the pagan folk improper
Be most guarded in your candor.
You may even tell a whopper
If ’twill save the Church from slander,
When a layman jumps the traces,
’Fore the world he should be chidden,
But a parson’s sly embraces
’Neath a bushel must be hidden.
In no case admit our pastors
Are not strictly on the level,
But may sometimes be past-masters
At the sport that’s of the Devil.
Even Peter at his portal
For the preacher turns the handle
(Though he was a wicked mortal)
To preserve the Church from scandal!
VICTORIA.
S.S.


■
mmmm
■
• -'>*% *■»,
U.*
W\ ';
Igb
v'«ti '* <* r
i
■
w,?
KM
PIIRF
I VllCi
I
ť
An End to Mouldy or
Dry Tobacco!
Climate or Weather Cannot Affed
the Condition of “CHAMPION.”
Every 2oz. HERMETICALLY-SEALED TIN is
guaranteed —it being Tested Under Pressure.
WAMPtQty
c
•OB
c O
IfIKE CV*
ni &gM£inOx
Air-Tight
2oz. Tins
FLARE-CUT
Lsight &
Dark.
MIXTURE
The Choicest
Blend.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.'
Information apply— 32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
“THE EDWARDS” ORE ROASTING FURNACES
ECONOMY IN LABOR, FUEL AND MAINTENANCE.
Write for Catalogue and Prices to —
FRASER g CHALMERS, LTD., London; STEARNS-ROGER MFG. CO., Denver, U.S.A.
T. EDWARDS, Ballarat, Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
After the reception given to its recent
short-dated loan, Maoriland must promptly make up
its mind what it is going to do about its volcano.
The Ricketty Islands had given their word to repay
£2,773,000 during this year. The money had pre-
sumably gone into the usual permanent and pro-
ductive works; but whatever else those works may
have produced, they certainly have not produced a
sinking fund for the repayment of the debt. In the
absence of that fund it boils down to this: Maoriland
has pledged itself, not that it will pay Cohen, but
that some new Cohen over whom it has no control
will lend the money to pay the old Cohen. Having
thus placed itself and its credit and its solvency
completely in Cohen’s hands, the Dominion must, of
course, accept whatever terms Cohen chooses to dic-
tate. In this case Maoriland asked Cohen to renew
the bill just for two years at 4 p.c., offering to
accept £99 and pay back £lOO. But since Maori-
land knew that it must get the money (it was either
that or dishonor its own I O U and throw the whole
pot of fat in the fire), it was driven to the under-
writers, who gamble in new share issues for a con-
sideration. The consideration in this case was an
extra 1 p.c. ; that is to say, they agreed to take what
Cohen in general might refuse to take, provided they
paid only £9B and were repaid £lOO in two years,
the £9B, of course, carrying £4 interest per annum.
But they required this 1 p.c. concession not merely
on the lot they might have to take up, but on the
whole £4,000,000. The underwriting fee therefore
amounted to £40,000 —which is part of the price that
the Dominion has to pay for putting itself in the
power of the money-lender, bound absolutely hand
and foot.
Had the underwriters come well out of the deal
they might have continued the business on the same
terms. But, unfortunately for them and Maoriland,
they were stuck with £3,500,000 of the £4,000,000
loan. That means that there is £3,500,000 of
undigested Maoriland I O U on the London market,
so that, though Maoriland has got rid of it,
somebody else has also got to get rid of it before, the
track will be clear again. Yet if the track isn’t
clear there will be a smash simply because Maoriland
must use the line. Without Cohen's consent it has
pledged its word that he will lend another £4,961,200
in 1913 and 1914, plus the £4,000,000 which was
borrowed the other day, plus the unconverted balance,
amounting to over £3,000,000, of a big loan matur-
ing in the latter year. The total which it has thus
pledged the unconsenting Cohen to lend in the next
two years is about £12,000,000. And, as remarked
above, there is already £3,500,000 of undigested
IO U yet to be absorbed. If it can’t pay this big
sum—that is to say, if Cohen won’t lend—the
Dominion must repudiate.
The Bullktin takes it for granted that Maoriland
won’t repudiate, and thereby join certain wild-cat
States of Central America and certain States of
Uncle Sam’s country, and blast its career for years
and years to come. The money will be got—but at
what price? Already we have seen that an offer of
£4 p.a. for every £99, the £99 repayable with £lOO
at the end of only two years, so that the interest is
really 4) p.c., has not attracted Cohen. What will
the country have to pay when it has to raise not
£2,773,000 but £12,000,000? It has put itself in
a cleft-stick, and who expects compassion from the
money-lender? The only way in which the country
could have argued on even terms with Cohen was bv
having a. sinking fund. Then it could have said,
“Here is your money. Are you going to take it or
are you going to renew the bill? It is a matter of
indifference to us.” Under those conditions the bill
would probably have been renewed on the same terms
or thereabouts. But going empty-handed, the country
is quite powerless. It must accept whatever Cohen
chooses to give. In the past Maoriland has got money
for 3| p.c. Some other countries are paying as much
as 6 p.c. There are Chinese and Japanese and Argen-
tine and Mexican and Italian and Brazilian 5 per
cents. Costa Rica’s 5 per cents! are quoted at 53
and Nicaraguan 6 per cents, at 80. There is plenty
of precedent for demanding 5,6, 7 or 10 p.c.,
according to the necessities of the borrower; and a
borrower’s necessity can’t be much greater than this
—that he must either borrow or burst.
If Maoriland has to pay 5 or 51 p.c.—-and that
much at least seems highly probable unless it does
something drastic—-the people ought to clearly under-
stand what it means. An extra 2 p.c. on the above-
mentioned £12,000,000 alone means £240,000 a
year. On the total £85,000,000 of debt which will
have to be either renewed or paid off at some time
or other, 2 p.c. would mean £1,700,000 a year. No
matter how the interest bill may bloat, not a penny
more will be earned by the works in which the
principal is supposed to be invested unless
the public service is paid less, or the public
which uses the railways, etc., is charged more. The
extra money must come out of the people’s pockets—
there is no other source of supply. The only question
is, When will the people pay? If they pay now and
pay hard into a sinking fund, it certainly won’t be
possible to accumulate £12,000,000 inside 24 years,
but it will be quite possible to accumulate 24
millions, and 24 millions will be the start of a very
powerful argument. If it is known that it is going
to continue, the sinking fund will thereafter command
for the Dominion a rate which will mean the saving
eventually of a bigger sum per annum than the sink-
ing fund contribution will amount to. If Maoriland
started now with a sinking fund contribution of
three-quarters of a million p.a. these things would
happen :
(1) The accumulation would give it such a stand-
ing with Cohen that the saving in interest and
charges would probably amount to over £750,000 a
year.
(2) It would end absolutely the danger of the
repudiation and chaos which would follow, supposing
Cohen buttoned up his pockets and refused to lend.
(3) It would pay the present debt off in about 42
.years.
On the other hand, Maoriland can continue to drift,
and pay nothing into a sinking fund, in which case it
will almost certainly pay more per annum in interest,
etc., than the sinking fund would cost; and after
paying the extra money for a century the debt will
be as good as new, and there will be the danger of
spoliation or repudiation every time an I O U comes
up for renewal.
The Brisbane Electric Tramways In-
vestment Co.: —-
Dividends.
« B, e .
Dee., Profits. Pref. Ord. serves.
1 905.. —■ £17,331
1906.. £24,961 5 p.c. = 117,812 2p.c.=£7,500 16,983
1907.. 32,669 5 „ ~ 17,812 4 ~ „ 15,000 16,840
1908.. 39,858 5 „ ~ 17,812 6 ~ ~22,500 16,386
1909.. 47,977 5 ~ ~ 17,695 8 ~ ~ 30,000 16,668
1910.. 77,014 5 ~ ~ 17,656 8 ~ ~ 30,000 46,026
1911.. 87,705 5 ~ „ 17,656 S ~ ~30,000 86,075
This is rather a mixed business, and the foregoing
doesn’t by any means show the entire profits from
“Badger’s trams.” In 1882 the Brisbane Tramways
Act was passed, giving a co. the right to haul the
citizen through the streets behind a horse, and charge
him just about what it liked for the service. Before
the 14 years had quite expired, the late Malcolm
McEacharn looked in and tickled Brisbane with a
proposal for an up-to-date electric system. All he
wanted was a straight run for 25 years, with the
right to continue thereafter unless the “local au-
thority” bought him out. The buying-out was to
be done on the basis of the value of the plant,
rolling stock and other _ property actually necessary
in the business at the time of purchase; that is to
say, goodwill wasn’t to be paid for. The Queensland
Parliament swallowed the bill, and McEacharn, who
had formed a CO., got his concession. Then he went
to J. Bull for the money, and formed another co. to
finance the first co. Hence there is the Brisbane
Tramways Co,, which nominally owns the trams, and
the Brisbane Electric Tramways Investment Co.,
which owns, all but a score of the shares in the
Tramways Co. The table on top of these remarks
shows practically the dividend received by the In-
vestment Co. from the other co., and the way it was
appropriated.
Now we come to the other co., the one that actu-
ally runs the tramways:—
Ex- Divi- Re-
Dec., Receipts, penses. Profits. dends. serves.
1906.. £141,677 £82,525, £59,152 £50,000 £25.674
1907.. 159,111 88,489 70,622 57,000 39,296
1908.. 178,510 94,964 83,546 65,000 57,542
1909.. 199,263 105,082 94,181 75,000 77,023
1910.. 222,580 115,695 106,885 106.000 77,908
1911.. 253,970 129,284 124,686 110,000 92,594
Of that £llO,OOO paid in dividends during the year
the Investment Co. got £109,927, leaving £73 to
go to the people who hold one or two shares each;
it was necessary to retain these nominal holders
apart from the Investment Co., in order to comply
with the law as to companies. Of the £109,927,
interest on debentures absorbed £19,069, and
£15,000 was added to a renewals reserve; the
balance was available for transfer to the Investment
Co. So the actual profit of the trams last year was
£124,686 ; or, if you like to deduct interest on
debentures, £105,617. The share capital is £750,000,
so the profit was slightly over 14 p.c. Knocking off
£15,000 for special renewals, Brisbane paid last
year £62,737 more than it would have had to pay if,
instead of handing the business over to a private
syndicate, the State had got the money at 4 p.c.
and done the job itself.
As shown above, the Investment Co. has now
reserves amounting to £86,075. There are 75,000
ordinary shares of £5 each, and it has been de-
cided to make the holders a present of 15,000 more.
That is, £75,000 of reserves are to be capitalised,
and the ordinary shareholders are to get one free
share for every five now held. This will reduce the
reserves of that co. to £11,075. But the other co.
will still have £92,594 of reserves; so that the
total will still amount to £103,669, plus insurance
and other small funds totalling £3500. Certainly of
that £103,669 a renewal fund accounts for £90,000 ;
and the real nature of. that reserve isn’t apparent.
It may be a set-off against actual depreciation—that
is to say, a reserve to provide for any specially big
renewals that may have to be done —or it may be a
stocking for dropping in surplus profits, so as not to
make the thing look too bloated. Or it may be a
kind of contingency fund to make good any differ-
ence there may be between the capital, that has been
put into the undertaking and what the “local
authority 9 may pay for it at the end of the 25 years.
For it may surely be taken for granted that the right
to purchase will be exercised eight years hence
Meantime Brisbane is up against this trouble: the
co.. having only - eight years to go, naturally won’t
make extensions,, because that would mean standing
out of its money for a while, besides doing some
pioneering work, in which there is rarely much profit
tor the pioneer. Brisbane hollers about the injustice
of course; but that’s the price it has to pav for
handing public services over to private exploiters.
Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Ltd. —This
co. was formed to take over the vaudeville enter-
prises of James Brennan as from March 3, 1911. The
nominal capital was 200,000 in, £1 shares, but onlv
90,000 were issued, of which 60,000 went to the
vendor. Apparently this £60,000 was made up in
some such way as this:—
Value of option on Sydney property .. £20,000
Goodwill . .. .. 37 ; 95 8
Leases and trifles .. .. .. 2,042
Total £60,000
The Sydney property is the National ‘Amphitheatre
m . Castler'eagh-street, where Brennan started the
business seven or eight years ago. He had a 25
years’ lease, taken in 1902, with the right of pur-
chase, and he passed it on to the co. for £22,650
—presumably the amount at which he had the
right to buy. The prospectus alleged that it was
worth £51,500. The first balance-sheet is more
modest, and puts it at £42,793, which evidently
includes a few pounds spent during the year. After
paying the £22,650 for the Sydney property and
a tnfle for registration, etc., the co. had about
£7200 left. Among the projects in hand, Brennan
had arranged to build a music-hall in Melbourne at
a cost, including land, of between £20,000 and
£30,000. This was gone on with; and as at March
29 of this year £24,508 had been spent. Whether
that included the final payments does not transpire.
Other premises were secured and plant was added
to, so that on March 29 the co. owed no less than
£35,441 —£20,234 secured on the Sydney pro-
perty and £11,775 on the Melbourne premises.
Brennan’s business had no doubt been profitable.
Though no accounts were published or auditors’ certi-
ficates attached, the prospectus alleged that “during
the past three years, from August, 1907, to. Sep-
tember, 1910, the profits of the Sydney theatre
averaged £7OOO p.a., and since this period £lO,OOO
p.a.”; and the temporary Melbourne hall had been
“showing a small profit after allowing £35 per
week for rent.” Instead, however, of the share-
holders getting any £ll,OOO or £12,000, the first
13 montns’' operations show a loss of £4OBO. Of
course, the directors are able to explain the dis-
crepancy. The Melbourne hall was to have been
opened in December, but it wasn’t ready till four
months later, and “a large number of expensive
artists were thus thrown on our hands and the re-
maining theatres burdened with the expense.” But
those artists ought to have earned some at least of
their salaries, etc., at the other halls. Yet the
£ll,OOO or £12,000 profit resolved itself into a
loss of £4oBo—a difference of, say, £15,000.
This paper can’t regard the explanation as good
enough to account for £15,000, or even half of it.
A further very unsatisfactory feature was the pay-
ment of an interim div. at the rate of 7} p.c. at
the end of October. By that time, at any rate, the
management should have known that the new Mel-
bourne premises would not be ready. Brennan him-
self appears to have regarded the div. as a mistake,
since he “refused to accept same,” so the div.
absorbed only £1520 instead of £3375. This
brings the P. and L. debit to £5934; add the
goodwill, “initial exes.” and preliminary exes., and
on March 29 there was £44,794 of “ the capital
unrepresented by tangible assets, allowing all other
assets to be worth their book value.
Since the period ended the business has under-
gone changes which the accounts don’t show. John
Puller and Sons’ Maoriland business has been
bought for 70,000 shares. The assets taken over
include four theatres, “valued by independent valua-
tion at £58,000.” This habit of throwing out
figures _ without the authority ought to be discour-
aged ; it was the same, it will he remembered, with
the prospectus. If the properties are worth £58,000,
then, since Brennan’s shares had slumped to about
145., little or nothing was actually paid to the
Fullers for goodwill. Finally, “your directors. .. .
as a result of the amalgamation, are in a position
to inform you that since March 29 last the profits
have not only been sufficient to wipe out the loss
before mentioned, but to leave a substantial profit.”
There is no auditor’s certificate behind this, and
Ihe Bulletin remembers two things: (1) The
last time a similar announcement was made was in
connection with Sanders, Sutton and Whitehead, and
where is that party now? (2) At the end of October
last the Brennan directors evidently thought
they had made a fine profit too, else they wouldn’t
have declared a dividend. Certainly with 11 shows
going this sort of co. ought to be in a better posi-
tion than the old co., with only one or two houses ;
and as one of the Fullers has become managing direc-
tor,, it is at least highly probable that the future
can t fairly be measured by last wear’s foot-rule.
Still, shareholders know enough now to realise, per-
haps, that they are in a business with a fine capacity
for swallowing money when things don’t go quite
right. 1
H- McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants, etc.
(Sydney) :
Dividends.
Pref! '
10 p.c. To Re- Re-
o Proht. p.a. Ordinary, serves, serves.
Sept. 06.. £5,6/4 £2OOO sp.c. = £937 £2,737 £2,737
Mar., 07.. 4,267 2000 6,, ~1125 1,142 3 879
Sept., 07.. 8,466 2000 7,, ~ 1992 4,474 8,353
Jf ar ;’ Of-'- 7 - 4 2 9 2000 7„ ~ 2029 3,470 11,823
Sept., 08.. 7,4/2 Nil 7 472 IQ 2Q5
« lar /i’ ™ ' 7,362 Nil 7*362 26*657
Sept., ,09" 6,539 Nil 6,539 33,196
2f- ar ;> ■ ,f’ 873 2000 7 p-c. = 2029 4,844 38,040
Bept., 10.. 10,248 8000 14 ~ ~ 4088 36 200
Mar., Ml.. 16,437 2000 10,, ~2899 11,538 47^738
Bonus to Ordinary Shareholders.. £Bll7 39,621
Sept.,’ll.. 16,857 2000 10 p.c. = 2899 11,958 51,579
Mar., 12.. 12,910 2000 10 ~ ~2899 8,011 59,590
The Bulletin won’t even blow out a match and
swear to some of the foregoing. For instance, there
“ Bonus to Ordinary Shareholders,
£Bll7 in the waist of the table. All that is dead-
certain is that £Bll7 disappeared from the “Divi-
,.® eser y?:” This reserve had been created as an
Ordinary Shares Reserve account” soon after the
co - l ) vas started. The pref. shares—on which the
public came in originally—were entitled to a cumu-
lative 10 p.c. for seven years; and no doubt this or-
dinary shares reserve account was created so that
ordinaries might get at least a taste in any bad year
when the prefs. took all the current profits. Subse-
quently it became advisable to let a few terms go
by without offering the ordinaries anything; but
when the finances became more flourishing, the
reserve was appealed to, and the ordinaries got an
extra shower to make up for the bad time. That,
anyhow, is what appears to have happened. All
deferred divs. have now been paid ; nevertheless, lest
anything should go wrong there is still a dividend
reserve of £7176 as well as an equalisation of divi-
dend reserve of £ll,OOO. Other reserves are:
Depreciation, £26,294; unappropriated profit,
£15,120. The nature of that depreciation fund isn’t
clear. Repairs and renewals are charged to Profit
and Loss; and apparently the depreciation covers
general wear and tear—is, in fact, a fund to provide
for special renewals and replacements in the future.
If go, the real profits are less than the profits shown
above. The provision for depreciation in the past
half-year is £2840; if that is a fair thing to charge
on top of the cost of actual renewals, then of course
the real profit for the half-year was £12,910, less
£2840 or £10,070. Even that is a shade over 20
p.c. on the entire capital. There has been extra
activity of late in the building business, wherefore
this co. has no doubt done quite an abnormal trade
at abnormal prices ; but from the foregoing it will be
seen that profits could shrink to less than half of
what was made last year, and 10 p.c. would still be
shown on the capital. A shrinkage of 50 p.c. in
this class of business isn’t, however, at all impossible
or even improbable. In 1906, in fact, the profits
were only £9941, though at that time the capital
certainly was about £22,000 less than it is now;
and probably they were a good deal less than £9941
a few years previously.
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd., stock
and station agents, etc., of Adelaide:—
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1907 £18,540
1908 .. £10,629 7 p.c. =£5250 £5379 23,919
Premiums on new shares .. 6250 30,169
1909 .. 6,473 7 p.c. = 6392 81 30,250
1910 .. 10.792 7 „ „ 6562 4230 34,480
1911 .. 15,177 7 „ „ 6562 8615 43,095
1912 .. 11,693 7 ~ ~ 6562 5131 48,226
This co. was formed in 1888 to carry on an estab-
lished business, and for many years was of
a semi-private character. In those days it
had a capital of under £20,000, in about 48,000
shares paid to 7s. 6d. Subsequently new issues
were made, the last of 50,000 shares in 1908 at a
premium of 2s. 6d. There are now 250,000 shares
of 15s. each paid to 7s. 6d. The' follo'wing shows.
the movement of the principal balance-sheet items
as at March 31 in each ease:—
1908. 1911. 1912.
Capital £75,000 £93,750 £93,750
Reserves 26,545 46.376 51,5.06
Liabilities .. .. 141,380 302,388 338,226
Sundry debtors .. 200,305 352,943 393,509
Premises, plant, furniture
and goodwill .. 42,382 89,472 89,767
Cash 238 99 206
So the co. has nearly £2 10s. of the public’s
money for every £ 1 of its own in the business,
and most of that money is represented by “Sundry
debtors” —which no doubt means advances on pas-
toral securities of one sort and another. So far as
the advances are made against pastoral products in
course of marketing, the risk is small, or ought to
be; but probably three-fourtns or more of the
money has been lent on pastoral properties and
flocks, etc., and there is risk of heavy depreciation
there. The business is no doubt highly profitable
while things go well; when they don’t go well the
value of the securities is liable to come down with
a terrific run. In these circumstances the management
does well to keep the dividend down to a moderate
7 p.c. and build up strong reserves. Already those
reserves are more than half as much as the capital;
but they are still less than one-eighth of the ad-
vances and other book debts, and that’s the item
that the reserves really have to stand behind and
support.
Mick Simmons, Ltd., dealers in smokers’
and sporting goods: This co., which took over a well-
known Sydney business, “started with a deficit of
£20,677, made up as follows: —
Goodwill (including leases, trade marks,
etc.) £20,656
Preliminary exes. .. . . . . . . 163
Total £20,719
Less Profit and Loss Credit . . . . . . 42
Net goodwill and other paper items .. £20,677
The first year’s trading gave a profit of £11,136
after writing £1132 off for depreciation. Out of
this a 10 p.c. div. has been paid, £BOOO. This left
£3136 available for reduction of deficit, which conse-
quently now stands at £17,541. As mentioned
above, this is represented by business connection,
trade names and marks, leases, etc.—all valuable
things, perhaps, but intangible. The capital to
start with appears to have been £70,000, subse-
quently increased to £90,000 as the business was
extended and stock was added to. The capital repre-
sented by substantial assets can be set out this way:
Fixtures, fittings and plant .. .. ..£16,325
Stock .. .. . . . . • • ■ • 57,041
Liquid assets, less liabilities . . .. 3,593
£76,959
Less half-year’s div. . . . . • ■ 4,500
Capital represented by substantial assets .. £72,459
The liquid assets mentioned above include £16,999
of book debts. It will be noticed that there are no
freeholds or similar high-class securities ; everything
is in assets that are liable to heavy depreciation. As
this means risk, the return ought to be large. Cer-
tainly, oh the average capital in the business
( £80,000) the profit shown last year was a very ex-
cellent 14 p.c.; but it is nowhere mentioned that
anything was provided to wr,jte down such wasting
securities as leases, trade marks, etc. Goodwill, so
far as it relates to business connection, ought to be
written down too —that is to say, the intangible item
ought to be replaced by tangible assets out of profits
—in order to give greater security to the capital.
At present the tangible assets represent only 16s. in
the £, allowing that the stock, fittings, etc., are
worth full book value. The business is one which
probably isn’t so seriously affected by bad times as
a good many, but, being scattered among numerous
shops, supervision may be expensive in order to pre-
vent leakages and general slackness.
The official “Summary of the 67th annual
statement of the New York Life Insurance Co.,’
noticed B. 27/6/T2, didn’t say all the things -it
should have said. Disbursements included-^—“Death
claims,” £5,102,887 ; “matured endowments,
£1,159,719 ; “bonuses to policy-holders,” £1,902,621.
Those “bonuses to policy-holders,” it seems, were
cash- bonuses, exclusive of bonuses paid as part of
the death claims and matured endowments. In other
words, ' the death claims were “with additions,”
though the summary didn’t say so. The American
insurance practice differs from the Australian. In
some countries —Russia, for instance —the bonuses
must be paid in cash ana not in reversionary addi-
tions to policies: and partly for that reason, since
the Yankee offices do business everywhere, most, if
not all of them, favor the payment of bonuses ..in
cash, either annually or at the end of the tontine
period. Hence, whereas the cash bonuses paid apart
from claims by the A.M.P. amounted last year to
only 2.6 p.c. of the total premiums, in the case of
the New York Life they represented 11 p.c. That,
of course, reduces the bonus additions to be later
on paid when the policy becomes a claim. Though
the official summary does not disclose the fact, other
head-office literature shows that the New York’s sur-
plus available for bonuses last year was £3,536,244,
which was equal to 21.1 p.c. of the premiums, ex-
clusive of money paid for the purchase of annuities.
As shown above, the amount collected in cash—apart
from the additions to matured policies—was rather
more than half the total. In addition an unspecified
sum was put by to strengthen the policy reserves and
bring them ali to a 3 p.c. basis. The 21.1 p.c.
bonus doesn’t compare too well with the A.M.P.’s 38
p.c.; but big bonuses are not everything, and the
amount put by to strengthen the reserves was money
well withheld, because, after all, absolute security is
the first essential in life assurance.
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
May, 1907.. £934,432 £571,619 £362,813
~ 1908.. 911,723 648,360 263,363
„ 1909.. 901,838 673,622 228,216
„ 1910.. 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
Nov., 1910.. 484,755 408,450 76,305
May, 1911.. 468,538 350,867 117,671
Nov., 1911.. 452,336 381,730 70,606
May, 1912.. 537,378 349,985 187,393
Twelve months ago, when the directors excused the
poor profits by saying that expected plant had
been delayed, The Bulletin remarked that they
“might say with equal- truth and more force that
the job involved in the change-over to Many Peaks’
flux was too big for the staff, which hadn’t realised
the difficulties.” The Board was extraordinarily
patient. As a matter of fact, the management was a
happy family. Walter Russell Hall, the biggest
man in the concern, liked to think of the men in
charge as “my boys,” and he hated to think they
couldn’t pull through. The others didn’t want to
hurt the old man. But W. R. Hall died, and then
things began to happen. The directors are not gar-
rulous, but a couple of sentences in their report teR
a lot: (1) “Following expert advice, various methods
recommended for securing economy and increasing
the output and the surplus revenue have been before
the Board, some of which have been adopted and
others are still under consideration.” (2) “Mr. R.
S. Archer has been appointed managing director.
Gapt. G. A. Richard has resigned the appointment
he held as general manager.” First Audley Smith,
a first-rate copper metallurgist, was sent up. Ap-
parently his report was so iconoclastic that Sticht,
of Mount Lvell, was invited in, and he had the
opinion of Dean, Lyell’s chief metallurgist. After
that a heap of changes seem to have been decided
upon; and finally a fourth head was called in, its
owner being Magnus, of the Port Kembla works, in
which Mount Morgan is interested. It was quite
clear that the place called for a firm organiser as
well as a good copper metallurgist; and if it gets
the combination, costs will come down headlong
with the production of a high-grade matte in a
THE HOUND OF COHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By 1917 Cohen will demand of Maoriland the re-
payment of more than £21,000,000.
—Official Statistics.
A down my ways the thing pursues me still;
With wearied foot and hot and gasping breath
I flee before it. All my racked nerves thrill
To hear its dreadful baying in the night,
A sound of horror that the dark can fill
With phantoms pallid as the ribs of death
To urge me onward in my hopeless flight.
t)own the black figures in a thousand rows,
Past revenue and surplus of old days,
I run and run for ever. Terror grows
At noon and midnight, and the endless chase
Wears my life thin as some lost soul that goes
Goaded by devils down the brimstone ways
Of some red-hot and most unpleasant place.
Amid a wilderness of cent, per cent.,
In tangled thickets of finance I hide,
Where grow the thorny roots of tax and rent,
And, 10, I hear the patter of his feet,
Feel his cold breath upon my panting side,
And fly ere yet his dreadful eyes I meet.
Near roads and bridges of desire I run,
By workman’s home and special settlement,
I dodge behind the Savings Bank, and shun
The open paths where Fat has his estate,
Nor ever dare I pause, though weak and faint,
For those wide jaws that follow grim as Fate.
“Give me a loan!” I cry to all the world,
“One loan at any price to.save.my skin!”
One toothsome loan into his red maw hurled
May give me breathing space to run again.
Alas! this thing bred of our fathers’ sin
By no devisings of our own is slain.
What, not one loan ? Then must I save my breath
To race through all the figures of my doom,
Till, leaping on ray soul, the headlong death
Tear me asunder, and with my sore fall
Banks, credit, cash and hope sink in the gloom
Of one black mortgage that envelopes all.
Jf.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
Thedirect route to UNITED KINGDOM. CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:“II.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
witli special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams. 4£d. per word, .“VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
SMS
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG,-Manager;
-4-GF+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. —Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
-f-GF-f- Malleable Fittings are true to size ; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Win. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s, per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates,
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated book on “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things, remarks (p. 1465) : “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at
Breclcenridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000
have been sold. This machine has revolutionised
ore-dressing, and as such is a phenomenal success.
The original form and forerunner of all modern
shaking tables with longitudinal riffles. . .has been
greatly improved.” And further on (p. 1478) re-
marks: “One feature of the Wilfley table to which
especial attention should be called is its ability to
separate sands from slimes while making the ordi-
nary concentration. This separation is more complete
and thorough than can be made by any classifier,
and should be taken advantage of in designing
mills.” In the last extensive additions made to the
treatment plant at the Golden Horseshoe Mine,
W.A., a large number of Wilfley Table Concentra-
tors were installed. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole
manufacturing rights.*
Extract from The Insurance Record, London,
22nd September, 1911: —“To have written insurances
for £5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident)
in a year which was marked by the keenest competi-
tion from beginning to end is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.”*
For large or small water carrying propositions
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has proved its efficiency. It
is the pipe chosen for the great water supply scheme
at Broken Hill. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain and Footscray, are the makers.*
Mr. W. Angliss, one of Melbourne’s “big” men, is
spending about £25,000 on new steam plants for his
various works. The contract was secured by Haes
and Eggers, Limited, of 163 Clarence Street, who are
supplying Wolf Steam Engines, as illustrated on
page 3.
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street (Basement), Melb. (J. W. Styles, 23 years
Expert Salesman.)*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, engineers,
etc., of Melbourne, having completed their contracts,
amounting to about £150,000, for the manufacture
and supply of Lockingbar steel pipes,, for Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, are now removing all
machinery to Melbourne works to manufacture similar
pipes for the new O’Shannessy water scheme for Mel-
bourne water supply, the cost of which will be over
£lOO,OOO. The work is to be completed within 12
months.*
The Bolin deu Heavy-Duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves, cams,
gears or electric ignition, and run either on crude
or kerosene oils, are represented throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand by Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For marine work
the “Bolinder” engine has many advantages, viz.,
small oil consumption, ease of starting, no compli-
cated arrangement of valves or gears, being direct
reversible, fitted throughout with forced lubrication,
and absolutely no risk from fire and explosions, due
to using oils ‘having a very high flash point. The
British Government and German Navy are large
users of the “Bolinder” Marine Engines.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
» * * *
Assayers. Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbbrg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
Patents.—Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine -Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
single operation. Whether the experiment of ap-
pointing a non-expert managing director will succeed
is very doubtful. It may do as a sort of inter-
regnum, but it has been a failure at other mines
where it has been tried. You couldn’t get a Delprat
or a Sticht if you had a non-expert managing direc-
tor sitting on top of them.
The profit for the half-year, as shown above, was
£187,393: but £24,707 comes off that for deprecia-
tion. Out of the balance —£162,686 —£100,000
has been paid in divs., making £200,000 (4s. per
share) for the year. Mostly the co. hasn t, m the
past, appeared to care two straws how its accounts
looked, but there is an apparent disposition now to
put the best face on things. For a good many years
unsold copper was taken into account at £5O per
ton, so there was usually a good surplus to add to
the next term’s profit. The past half-year got the
benefit of that surplus; but there won’t be any
corresponding surplus to pass on to next half-year s
credit, because “the directors have taken advantage
of the high price of copper to sell all copper (1715
tons) on hand at May 31, at the gross price of
£79 3s. 7d. for forward delivery. This copper has
been valued in the balance-sheet at £7O per ton on
the mine.” There is an apparent surplus there of
£9 3s. 7d. per ton; but the bulk of it will be
consumed in refining and realisation charges.
The reserves of auriferous copper ore blocked out
have been re-estimated as follows:
Vain?. Quantity.
Copper. Gold. Tons.
31 p. c. lOdwt. 1,499,000
2 1 „ 5 „ 2,027,000
This, of course, is auriferous copper ore. No esti-
mate of silicious sulphide is put forward. The
latter ore, hitherto handled at the chlorination
works, has been worth 0.91 p.c. copper and 10.96dwt.
gold. Most of this stuff will in future go into the
furnaces ; what is unsuitable for that treatment will
be dumped. The ore put through in the past 12
months has been as follows
Tons.
Auriferous copper .. .. .. 166,499
Silicious sulphide . . .. .. 93,413
Many Peaks ore .. .. .. 91,946
Total feed . . .. . . 351,858
The Many Peaks ore, purchased as a flux, contained
2.25 p.c." copper and o.lsdwt. gold. Costs have con-
tinued excessive; but as the works have been in pro-
cess of re-organisation, the figures canqot be regarded
as, 1 normal. Until normal costs have .been ascer-
tained the future cannot be gauged. - All that can he
said is that probably not another mine in the. world
offers such a quantity of equal material to' work upon,
Even the lower-grade 2,027,000 tons of ore in, reserv.e,
is worth 30s. per ton for copper (at £6O per. ton)
and 21s. for gold ; total 51s. Qpite 'as cheap: weirk
as Mount Lyell did before its recent labor' troubles
is not to be, expected; still its figures may, serve as
a basis. For the half-year ended' March, 1911, the
Tasmanian Co.’s costs were 17s. Bd. per ton; for the
next half-year, when difficulties were showing . them-
selves, they were £1 os. , 1
“Z.”; Apropos the late Benjalmip fehort’s
feat of getting a seat on the Board of thd A.M.P.
without being on the office ticket, there is one other
instance: in 1887 J. R. Hill, John Arthur ;apd J.
T. Walker were elected in .opposition to the. Board’s
views on the then-proposed officers’ pension scheme.
Present chairman A. W. Meeks ousted one- Of! those
three, John Arthur, in 1889. , . 7i;
* * * .*
Though nobody goes out delibei-aioljr to look
for a silver mine these days, the ..... 7 of the white
metal refuses to shrink. Here ate a'o ;.. :ifs’ figures
in ounces:—
1902 .. 162,763,483 11907 .. 184,206,984
1903 .. . 167,987,804 1908 . . 203,236,861
1904 .. 164,195,266 1909 , .. 211,215,633
1905 .. 169,588,839 1910 .. 222,879,363
I, ... 165,054,497 1911 . . 224,000,000
The figures for 1911 are the estimate of the British
Board of Trade. The development of processes for
the extraction of zinc from silver-lead-zinc material,
hitherto waste, is very largely responsible for the up-
ward movement, in spite of the neglect of silver-pro-
duction as a primary industry.
The Elmore people are keeping the Zinc
Corporation on the grill. Just before the Corpora-
tion decided to change processes, at the end of 1910,
it announced, a month’s profit of £10,510 from
21,740 tons of zinc tailings. With lead about £3
a ton higher, the profit in April this year was
£13,504 from 29,370 tons of zinc tailings and
11, SJ/0 tons lead ore. The latter was from the South
Blocks, the property which the Corporation was soft
enough to buy. The Elmore barrackers cheerfully
assume that this South Blocks lead ore ought to be
yielding as much profit as the stuff from “the neigh-
boring North Broken Hill,” in which case “the zinc
mill must be making only 2s. Bd. per ton, as against
the old 9s. Bd. per ton of the Elmore days.” The
assumption, however, is all wrong. The South
Blocks isn’t making, it can be safely said, one-fourth
of the North’s profit per ton. The chances are that
it was not purchased by the Corporation because it
was a good mine, but it was sold to that co. because
it was a poor one. Broken Hill men who knew
its weakness fell in over that transaction badly. Be-
lieving that it must own up to a loss presently, they
oversold shares. But they reckoned without a few
cute London financiers. The latter were heavily
interested in the South Blocks too, and try as they
mivht—even a dividend was declared —the wretched
shares wouldn’t shift. So they went on another tack:
they pulled the strings, and sold the whole concern
to the Zinc Corporation, for shares which were sale-
able. The Bulletin doesn’t suggest that the Cor-
poration is making as much out of zinc as it did in
1910, because the material isn’t what it was, though
the market is much better. But the figures given
above show that there is a terrific drag on the
revenue somewhere, and it is quite evident that, if
the South Blocks isn’t part of the drag, it anyhow
isn’t much help. The directors are not at all likely
to admit it, though, for fear of giving the wretchedly
bad bit of business away.
TV * * *
Broken Hill, which of late has been much
moister than usual, got nearly 4in. of wet in one
soaking the other day, and now reckons that it and
its mines can see water ahead for two years certain.
The Myalls and Peak Hill (N.S.W.),
after charging to capital £2975 for the sulphide de-
velopment scheme, managed to scrape through the
year with a profit of £2128, no allowance being
made for depreciation. A plant was assembled at
the Thomas shaft on the Peak Hill from the remains
of the Myall’s head-gear—with a few additions—at
a capital cost of £1783. The shaft has been deep-
ened to explore for the sulphides and a level started
at 500 ft. The Myalls was let on tribute to fulfil the
labor conditions. From the Peak Hill 35,755 tons of
ore was treated. It averaged 14s. lOd. per ton, and
gave a 78 p.c. extraction and a profit of Is. 9d. per
ton. But although the grade and recovery were the
best to date, the advantage was swallowed up by
higher costs. There is enough oxidised ore in sight
to keep the plant going for another two years; but
the fact seems to have at last dawned upon the co.
that its “oxidised - proposition” is very low-grade,
and patchy at that. So the sulphide proposition is
to be the thing for the future. So far these sul-
phides are untested; still the management states
that “there is little doubt but that we shall have ore
to deal with of a much higher grade than any of the
oxidised ores.” In alleged corroboration, it is
pointed out that nearly 100,000 tons of oxidised ore
have been treated for each 100 ft. in depth. How-
ever, the people who have loaned a trifle for the sul-
phide scheme don’t seem to be over-much impressed,
as they demanded 8 p.c. on the security of mortgage
debentures. After the ore has been proved a new
plant will be needed to treat it; and all the cash the
eo. has is £3378 in the bank and on hand, with
£2156 of liquid assets, including stores, while the
liabilities total £2845.
Associated Northern (W.A.) expects to crush
at its Ora Banda show towards the end of August,
and on an average recovery of about 20s. it hopes to
earn a profit of several shillings a ton. Possibly the
Kalgoorlie custom of taking some of the first month
or two’s bullion to build up a reserve will be
adopted, and in that case results will not appear very
attractive to start with.
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) reports for
the quarter ended March 30, that, although the milled
ore has not shown any improved value, recent de-
velopment work has revealed new bodies of ore which
are “very encouraging.” The information is also
huskily imparted to shareholders that, owing to re-
pairs to the main shaft, the expenditure for February
exceeded the value of bullion produced, and retarded
the accumulation of funds for a dividend. It was
said here at the time some £60,000 was put into
the re-organised plant—-this was after the fire —that
it would take the co. a very long time to make it out
of profits, and, although dividends have been pro-
mised several times since then, these words are
coming true. In view of the wretched appearance of
the mine in the bottom, it is the conservation and
not the distribution of profits that the Board ought
to be thinking about. By-and-bye money will be
wanted for operations on a bigger scale in order to
earn profits, and if the co. does not wish to run into
debt it had better hold on to all it can.
* * * *
The sale of the Gwalia South lease and
plant was completed a few days ago, when the Sons
of Gwalia paid over the £5006 and took possession.
In all probability the South’s shaft will be used for
working the western runs of Gwalia’s ore. A liqui-
dation dividend of ss. 6d. per share has' just been
paid to South shareholders, and a little more may be
distributed later.
* * * *
A local expert sent by Irwin and Co. T of
Adelaide, to check the official assays in the Bullrush
Co.’s Royal Standard mine, testifies that they are
about right. He endorses the action of the Board
in postponing the erection of a mill until the Kal-
goorlie wages question (which comes on for dis-
cussion in September) is settled, and mentions that
so far as can jibe seen the future depends on two
shoots of ore which have, he says, a total length of
434 ft. and an average width of 71in. Some other
shoots which assay well, but need development, are
said to have a speculative value.
• * * *
Oroya Links (W.A.) is getting optimistic.
A cable despatched to London the other day read as
follows: “Present position of the mine is the best
for the last 18 months. Oroya North Block develop-
ments most promising. Eclipse lease 750 ft. level:
Rise at 155 ft. south up 16ft. ; assays 335. over width
78in. North and south drives in good ore again.
Consider we can maintain present profits.” But, in
view of the spotted character of the shoots in the
areas mentioned, for how long?
Having dug out many thousand ounces of
gold and paid £2400 in dividends, the little Lady
Gladys, of Mulline (W..Y.), has sold out to a local
syndicate. The latter is sanguine of doing as well
as its predecessor, but the want of capital to combat
the difficulties associated with mining at depth may
dislocate its hopes, and perhaps strangle it in the
end.
* * * *
As mine buyers are backward in coming
forward, holders of copper shows at Phillips River
(W.A.) are working out their own salvation. Parcels
are being raised from a number of leases by owners
and tributors, and about . £5OOO worth is awaiting
shipment to Port Kembla and other smelters. In
view of the increased price of copper there was some
talk a month or so ago of work being resumed at
some of the chloroformed Phillips River Gold and
Copper Co.’s mines, but no signs of activity are yet
visible on any of them. Somewhere about half a
million sterling has been sunk in the equipment and
development of these so-far unprofitable properties,
but a good deal of this money was frittered away.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) is now glueing its
attention to extraction troubles, with which it has
been beset for nearly a year. However, the worst is
now alleged to be over, and in anticipation that the
rest is going to be comparatively easy, the co. is
giving superintendent McDermott a few months’ leave
to take a trip to Europe.
» * * *
Westralia Mount Morgans (W.A) turned
up the other day in the local Warden’s court with a
further application for exemption. The excuse for
dodging the labor conditions on this occasion was
that, owing to the “attitude” of the London liqui-
dator, the liquidator on the spot couldn’t get hold
of certain documents which the Mines Department in-
sisted on sighting before registering a transfer. After
the co.’s representative had had his say, several will-
ing workers stepped forward and induced the Court
to insist on tributes being granted. On this condition
exemption was recommended.
Officially announced that the further de-
velopment of Princess Royal (W.A.) will be con-
fined to prospecting below the 950 ft. underlay level,
for which work the Mines Department has agreed to
advance up to £2OOO, conditionally on the co. find-
ing £ for £. If the results lead to the working of
the mine below 950 ft., the money advanced, with 5
p.c. interest added, will have to be paid back within
three years of opening any levels below that point.
If, however, the results are unfavorable, no demand
will be made for a refund. In view of what is
known of the Norseman district at depth, the odds
are overwhelmingly against a refund.
* * * *
Interviewed, the Minister of Mines (W.A.)
said the other day that one of his first jobs would
be to amend the Mining Act, so as to make things
a heap more uncomfortable for the people who are
shepherding mining leases.
Queensland’s coal output doesn’t actually
bound ahead; still it keeps moving the right way.
This shows the 10 years’ production in tons:—
1902 .. 501,531 I 1907 .. 683,272
1903 .. 507,301 I 1908 .. 696,332
1901 .. 512,015 | 1909 .. 756,577
1905 .. 529,326 | 1910 .. 871,176
1906 .. 606,772 j 1911 . . 891,568
In competition with the mines of N. S. Wales, those
of Queensland suffer from not being on the water’s
edge or thereabouts. The result is that comparatively
little mineral is loaded for export, but from the
national point of view that has its advantages. This
old Earth doesn’t own too much of the fuel, and the
countries that have it will know enough to hang on
to their little lot some day—when it is too late
mostly. Last year’s Queensland output was cut up
approximately as follows: State services (including
railways), 316,684 tons; manufacturing and domestic
uses, 252,620 ; bunkering, 221,821 ; and cargoes,
100,443.
* * * *
News that the Bull-owned Queensland
Copper Co., at Mount Perry (Q), is to resume
smelting, has given new life to the small shows
thereabouts. During the spell, those of them that
worked at all have been sending their parcels to
N. S. Wales.
* * * *
Mount Morgan, notwithstanding its big
turnover for May, still has its troubles. On the old
general manager’s departure the spirit of record-
breaking seemed to bulge everywhere. lhe yield
of 84 tons copper from the precipitation works
was the highest to date. The smelters were also
on the track to a “best yet,” when the power
station failed, and then for one day both mine and
smelters were as idle as a dead dog, which was also
a record.
* * *
Cloncurry (Q.) has visions of a copper
boom, and any old thing with a likely-looking bluff
on it is being pegged. The last month s tally at the
Warden’s office showed 19 mineral leases and 31
licenses applied for.
* * * * *
In North Queensland there is always a for-
tune iust over the next hill; but the next gul y
merely gives tucker and drinks for a while, and then
it’s a famine. After Chillagoe’s own mines had been
blown out, the co. was going to fatten on the mines
round about. When they were proved to be small
potatoes, salvation was to come with the Etheridge
railway. But though that has been built, the works
have more than once had to close down for want of ore.
Einasleigh supplies the bulk of the copper, but its
output of little more than 3000 tons per month is
small for such a big concern as Chillagoe. Bead ore
is even scarcer, for Mungana mines are not deveiopeci
enough to become large producers of sulphide. A
few small shows are doing a bit, and Torpy s mines
at Crooked Creek are also to be worked again. Mount
Molloy will probably follow. But Chillagoe s profits
are not likely to expand much unless it can get a
more regular and bigger supply than is at present
visible.
* * * *
Old John Moffat, North Queensland’s Lan-
sell, is pushing west. Anthony Linedale, who spies
out the land for him, is overlanding from Burketown
with another mining man to probe a big looking
copper proposition that has been reported to them
from the Northern Territory.
* * * *
The deadly combination of reduced grade,
increased costs and diminished output, has told its
tale on the Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers
(<5.), with the result that the co. made a loss of
£2937 for its half-year. This doesn’t include £2522
written off for depreciation. During the P e ™ d
19,210 tons of ore were crushed for £34,851. The
cyanide plant treated 17,600 tons of sands and slimes,
averaging 2dwt. 16.6 gr., and secured an extraction of
9s. Id. per ton, as against the previous 9s. 9d. The
percentage of recovery remained much the same.
Costs amounted to 40s. 2.9 d. per ton, exclusive of
depreciation. Prospects are sick, but are to be given
a further chance in the No. 3 underlay, to the east,
and in depth. Cash and debtors total £6096, and
stores and fuel £10,613 ; on the other side, un-
claimed dividends and sundry debts amount to £127.
The co. has still 4s. callable per share.
When George Lansell wanted to shift the
directors of a Bendigo co., he and Dr. Atkinson
didn’t waste time. They let the balance-sheets and
reports pass as a formality, but when the appoint-
ments came on they just aimed to kill. That is
where the pugs from the Melbourne Stock Exchange
fell in over their set-to with the North Nuggetty
light-weights at Ballarat. They talked a lot of flap-
doodle, and were out of wind when the real business
of putting their men in possession was raised.
This doesn’t say that the North Nuggetty folk did
right to stick on. Having won the fight, their course
should have been to retire with flags flying. That
they have not done so means a final fight, in which
there will be no quarter, and probably no mistake
in tactics. The honors of the market so far have
rested with Ballarat and Daylesford, as The Bulle-
tin always said it would when discussing Daylesford
matters. ’ What happened was that Melbourne dealers
shoved prices too high. Then when caught on the
“bull” tack they squeaked like a lot of guinea-pigs.
There is a whisper that behind the fight over the
places on the Board was the ownership of the plum
that lies in the legal management. As to the future,
cynics expect to find the atmosphere of the Melbourne
Stock Exchange no better for the health of a Dayles-
ford mine than that of the Ballarat Exchange. A
tough constitution is wanted in any case, so the
change to Queen-street, Melbourne, may not mend
matters very much for the average shareholder.
Cathcart Central. Ararat (Vic.), has had
its meeting, and “Bill” Rain didn’t beat the big
drum. He has done too much inspecting for 8., M.
and Co. not to know how mines fizzle, and he has
a reputation to live up to. The Central has used up
£16,843 cash, of which £10,886 has gone in de-
velopment and the rest in plant. To make a profit
on an initial outlay of under £20,000 is a record
in recent deep-lead mining in Victoria, and, of
course, arises from the surprise yield of 528i0z. got
from 24-J fathoms. The only bit of elation indulged
in by the Board in its last little screed is where it
purrs out that the yields got from “the drives across
the lead of 151 ft., and for 119 ft. along the course
of the lead, taken in conjunction with the high-grade
of the wash developed, go far to assure a highly
satisfactory future for the mine.” This is more like
a bit of oats from the Cathcart feed-box than from
a staid mining engineer’s book. Still, to get on
to such feed so soon in life would have turned the
heads of older stagers than make up the Central
Cathcart team.
* * * *
A circular which spoiled many a. break-
fast in Walhalla is out from the Collins-street office
of the Long Tunnel Co. (Vic.). The co. is down
3375 ft., and the general fate of Victorian mines at
that depth threatens it. Wisely, the Board in good
times put by £25,000 out of profits for a rainy day,
but now, with patchy stone, high working costs and
a shortage of labor, the directors look like chucking
up the sponge. About £9OOO remains in cash, and
as the monthly loss is nearly £l3OO, the Board
throws the onus on the shareholders of saying if the
mine shall go on or shut down. Outside the co. some
people don’t think badly of the outlook, and Wal-
halla folk will certainly unite to prevent the grand
Old mine and their town from being blotted out by
a winding-up resolution. Matters looked much worse
when Dawson fought for the co. years back, and a
tip-top engineer should be got in to'run the rule over
the property once more. Why not; try G. C. Klug?
A man up in geology is needed just as much as one
skilled in mining.
The Junction, at Bright (\ic.), is a little
mint. On a paid capital of £9625 it has had this
record for the last five years:—
Gold, etc. Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
May, 1907.. £4125 £l9Ol £lOOO £1696
Nov., 1907.. 5390 2491 2000 2187
May, 1908.. 5234 2161 2500 1848
Nov., 1908.. 5569 2303 3000 1151
May, 1909.. 5049 2220 1875 1496
N0v.,.1909.. 3608 861 500 1857
May, 1910.. 4006 506 1000 1363
Nov., 1910.. 5459 2894 1250 3007
May, 1911.. 2703 2750 2960
Nov., 1911.. 6656 3554 3000 3514
May, 1912.. 5883 2738 3000 3252
So far 258 acres have been worked, and there are
about 158 acres yet to chew over. This means about
five years’ work. So far £3 3s. per £1 share has
been paid; but it is doubtful whether the ground
ahead will average quite as much profit per acre.
* * * *
G.A.: Have no more to say than was set
out in B. 6/6/T2.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*


CiidVliriuMH** ll
gxiisP
Bmruim
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
TRUMILK
HAS SOLVED THE QUESTION OF
MILK SHORTAGE.
TRUMILK is fresh cow’s milk reduced to
powder. The addition of cold water gives you
fresh milk suitable for all purposes at
A COST OF 3d. QUART.
Write for FREE SAMPLE to
TRUFOOD OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
153 William Street, Melbourne,
or to
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., 363 Sussex Street,
Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
Buchanan’s
“BLACK
(Si
WHITE.
55
M
wk\
A GRAND SPIRIT
“Black g White”
is indeed a “ grand
spirit.” Matured for
years in Scotland
before shipment.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 1, 1912.
My Dear Akini,—
The Women’s Handicrafts Society held its
first annual meeting the other afternoon.
Lady Denman sat on top of its cogitations,
and got on the right track by indicating
chocolates as the line of least resistance in
the female breast. Home-made sweets gc
like wild-fire, and the society that could
turn out in wholesale fashion these tooth
some inventions of the Devil (when he works
in league with the dentists) would soon sail
in a silver sea of hard cash. The Aus-
tralian girl is an inveterate sweet-eater. A
first-night chocolate box in this city is not
much smaller than a young portmanteau,
and the Kensington flurry last week, was
strewn with the skins of caramels. Mrs,
President Bassett waded softly through ths
statistics of the Women’s Handicrafts, and
remarked —in head-lines —its healthy growth
from six to 200 members. The Admiralty
lady has been pillar-in-chief.
Sydney’s slim little Mayoress (Miss
Clarke) was crushed up into a meek corner
of her official lair the other day, when bat-
talions of women stamped up to shake her
hand. Deputy Town Clerk Layton held the
fort at the door. His chest was heavily
armored in a solid brown tartan waistcoat,
so he pounced, unafraid, on special exhibits
such as the holy Mrs. Ebenezer Vickery,
and landed them safely in front of the small
municipal paw. A wild medley of ostrich
feather, and some ferocious striped gowns
moved into a dense scrum under the glitter-
ing lights on the ceiling—the afternoon'
sun being a grey smudge. Mrs. George
Fuller looked into the nffilde for five min-
utes with her pretty daughter Gladys. Mrs.
Arthur Tower descended from the Ranch,
up Bankstown way, with her two girls. The
younger put her fair fluffy hair up for the
occasion, and threatens to keep it in that
adult perch. After perspiring gently in the
odor of moth-halls and orris root, the crowd
slowly melted down the Town Hall’s marble
stairs.
A brisk breeze re the price of tickets for
the Civil Ambulance Ball swept across last
week’s gathering. The assemblage had put
on its best charity meeting manner for the
occasion. Mrs. Mac Neill Simpson flew high
and aimed at the flutter of a guinea ticket
entrance to the first-aid hop. “The prestige
of a club ball” was in the air for about five
minutes till it was torn to earth by chilly
remarks about 10s. worth of ambulance
charity being about the limit. Twelve-and-
six, or something of the kind, is the price
that comes nearest to the public’s idea of
what it ought to pay for a Civil Ambulance
supper.
Barrister C. J. Parr, who is Mayor of
Auckland most of his time, and a golfer in
his spare moments, is snatching a holiday
on the billowy shore of Manly-by-the-Surf,
where all is frill and holiday and picture
show, and peanut, and casualness. Mr. Parr
anchored in those wave-lapped parts in order
to be near Manly’s golf links, where he sol-
emnly affirms he can get the best game in
Sydney. A dark suspicion that Rose Bay
goffers are whipping the Society cat till that
exclusive animal emits a high-class howl,
has been in the air for some time. Snobs
and tea-fights are sitting like undigested
bricks on the chest of the Royal Australian,
etc., Rose-Bay goffer.
Mr. John Goombe, part owner of the
affluent Manawatu Standard (M.L.), is
chasing the flying hours with strong leather
soles in this city. Mrs. Coombe is accused
of having fallen a prey to the beguiling glare
of Sydney shops. A friend who ran her to
earth outside the glazed front of an im-
portant rag store, is alleged to have removed
Mrs. C. by gentle suasion to a smart bun
emporium for rest and refreshment. Later
on, the M.L. shopping enthusiast dived into
another Daughter of Eve store, and was
dead to the voice of the motor, toot it never
so wisely.
Mayor McCardle and Mrs. Mayoress, from
the small progressive village of Pahiatua
(M.L.), are having a holiday in this town.
Pahiatua, I’m told, is a Maori name which
signifies “Good God.” The statement looks
too improbable to call for any con-
sideration whatsoever. The man who
told me about it said he had it on
bad authority-—from an acquaintance with a
furtive and shifty expression, eyes too close
together, and of different colors, a retreating
forehead, large and restless feet, and a listen-
ing expression about the ears. McCardle,
by the way, is a son of the Leg. Assembly
(M.L.) pillar of that name.
Mr. C. Dawson, a moneyed man from the
Dominion of Shake, married Miss Burgess
the other day. She’s a daughter of manager
Burgess, of the Medlow Hydro.
There drops in a queer tale of the brave
swashbuckling days of old in M.L., which
is worth a hurried ink splash. “Early in the
’6o’s of last century,” says one who signs
herself “Maori Cat,” a tall and dashing
officer in the 18th Royal Irish Regiment,
then stationed in Auckland, was chiefly re-
markable for the length of his moustache and
the shortness of his cash. He went gaily
courting the rather plain and not too young
daughter of a tough old identity with a fat
bank overflow. When he demanded the
maiden-in-her-prime, dad said: “Yes, when
you can show me a balance of £lO,OOO I’ll
give you my daughter, and another £lO,OOO
as her wedding present.” The owner of the
moustaches went away with his lower jaw
trailing on the pavement, and told this tragic
story to his brother swords. Among them
were some fairly rich men. “Right,” said
they. “Among us we’ll advance the £lO,OOO,
and you can pay us back gradually after
you’ve got the old man’s money.” Dad was
temporarily stunned when he saw the long
suitor’s bankbook, but he recovered with
careful nursing and a vegetable diet,
and kept his word. The base and tall
deceiver married the lady, calmed down into
a model husband, gave his children a careful
raising, and, like many persons who bump
out of poverty into lots of cash, developed
uncommonly thrifty habits. He paid his
fellow swashbucklers in full, and finally
died in the odor of a highly respected reputa-
tion. Some of the cash is going to drift
Australia-wards, for one of his sons recently
married a Cornstalk damsel.”
Miss Nivison, from the Ohio wool patch, is
a well-known sport who can drive a motor
or handle the reins as well as many men. In
a strong-minded tailor-built garb, with a no-
nonsense hat firmly tied on her head, she
handed out soothing balm, such as resin and
unfractured sticks, to Muswellbrook blues.
The Ohio brothers Nivison also came in for
some of the polo angel’s benefactions, but
mostly their spare moments were occupied
with their personal bruises.
A golden-wedding memorial in a morning
paper caught my eye over the edge of an un-
certain winter egg. “Jack —Simpson. June
28, 1862, at St. Anne’s Church of England,
Ryde, N.S.W.” The now elderly bride Har-
riette was mentioned r ; the daughter of “the
late Captain T. Beckford Simpson, of the
Honorable East India Company’s service.”
Mosman is the present address of the golden-
wedding Mrs. Jack, but (alas!) the address
of John Company hasn’t even a doorknocker
left. The Hon. East India John Company
was not mentioned as “late,” but it expired
with a loud explosion of public feeling in
1858. The Hon. John’s London office was
pulled down in 1862 —the year of the Jack-
Simpson orange-bloom.
Ethel Irving has been chatting in London
about the things she saw in Australia. Our
women, she thinks, have “a lovely time of it.”
Social pleasures have a great hold upon
them. Theatre-going is more marked in
Australian than in English cities. She
thought well of Australian-born actors and
actresses, which was very kind of her; but,
although she read 150 Australian-made plays,
she did not discover a single one suitable
for production in London. Finally, by way
of a quiet dig, and perhaps a small advt.,
our late mumming visitor observed that Aus-
tralian women are fond of pretty clothes—
so fond of them that they paid her the sin-
cerest form of flattery by copying hers.
Nelson Illingworth, junior, is going to
push one of his pupils, Elsie Condon (a
coming-on contralto) into the public eye on
July 9. St. James’s Hall will be the jump-
ing-off platform.
The Stage Society is going to produce
Bernard Shaw’s “You Never Can Tell” (its
first appearance here) on July 8. The Con-
cordia Hall (Elizabeth-street), with a larger
stage than the society struck at its last
show in another location, will be the place.
G. Kay Souper, formerly of the Oscar Asche
and Irvine companies, will be in a cast which
mentions Mr. Adrian Stephen and Miss M.
Macarthur amid the rush of amateur talent.
The Cisneros song-chirp, in the Town
Hall on Saturday night, dragged the multi-
tude from its domestic coal-hob. Portus
and Talbot, Ltd., blushed to find themselves
at last famous in the perilous adventure of
navigating an operatic star. Eleonora was
at her concert best, half a staircase below
her operatic record, but top-storey enough
to rouse a tumult of applause for her dra-
matic Delilah outburst, “Softly Awakes My
Heart.” Two snatches of song from “Car-
men” —the gay “Habanera” and the
“Seguidilla”—also hit the audience in the
right place. The loud alarm of Brunn-
hilde’s passionate outcry from “Die Walk-
ure” was a showy streak of vocal fireworks,
but it needs a large slab of scenery and
orchestra to tame the final attack on top
notes into sounds that don’t suggest a
burgled household yelling for the police.
’Cellist Liebling turned himself into a small
successful orchestra for the sake of the Lady
Eleonora, and gave her a second voice on his
rine old Strad., in an obligato to “Nay
Though My Heart Should Break” (com-
posed by the gentleman whose name sounds
like Tschalk with a sneeze and a scoff at
the end), and other effusions.
Tenor Paul Dufault remains on his dizzy
height of academic perfection, tempered by
the warm breath of a romantic tempera-
ment —the one thing lacking in the Melba
music box. Dufault sings with his brain,
however, in which matter he resembles
Melba, and differs from several much-
boomed tenors, who depend on falsetto
tricks to snatch the public ear. He cre-
ated such an uproar on Saturday night that
he had to stem the torrent of applause with
a triple encore, “La Donne b Mobile.” The
cats on the slates of St. Andrew’s Deanery
(next door) are alleged to have crept on
to the chimney-pots to see if such a heavenly
serenade came from a rival cat-push singing
sweet mouse songs to the same old moon.
They thought they recognised the voice of
the famous cat melodist, Moll Roe. But a
weeping cloud drenched the view, and the
cats fled in a sinking condition and started
to bale out their back hair.
Glen Innes is growing fast and fierce in
its attack on the polo ball. It beat Sydney
D (an ungodly person says that this really
means “D— Sydney,” but that is impossible
and beyond all human comprehension) on
the lumpy Kensington ground last Friday.
When the team gets back to its native frosts,
the local girl will chant a song of thanks-
giving. At the recent polo burst in N.S.W.
sheepwalks, some of the daughters of the
Fatted sheepfolds practised polo while the
kookaburra chuckled to the rosy dawn. Their
bold challenge that the Misses Country Mut-
ton would “play the mugs” on their return
to Glen Innes, was carefully weighed in the
balance. One or two fathers of the flock
stole stealthily out of bed, dressed by the
light of a tallow dip, and stalked the petti-
coats’. polo in the frosty bite of early dawn-
ing—so I’m told. What they saw is buried
under several tons of silence. A hurried
sheep-cry tore by bush wireless round the
wool tracks of Glen Innes: “Ladies’ polo
is off!”
A man at Moree snorts through the penny
post: “What’s all this hullabaloo about chas-
ing a silly white ball? Why don’t the
dandies come up here and give us a hand
with the cattle mustering? It’s more useful
than a fool circUs-trick like polo. We ‘ride
off’ wild beasts by a jockeying jostle against
their shoulders when they won’t turn quickly.
It’s just like polo, only our game has horns,
and it’s wanted at Homebush. If the
dandies will try Moree cattle-chasing at 5
a.m., I’ll get up at four to boil the billy.”
Mr. Tony Hordern slid off his polo pony
at Kensington inch by inch with the caution
of a Scotch saxpence going on the burst.
Mr. Hordern’s polo is brand new, but he
makes a dashing attempt at the game of
fashion, and polite papers merely remarked
that he was “unseated.” No rich man has
ever been known to fall off his horse.
Thursday’s polo frenzy gave the most spec-
tacular effects for the gate money, but on
Saturday the Gee-Gee hit most of the balls
he had missed earlier in the week. Burn-
ham’s play was less dazzling on Saturday,
for the obvious reason that he had been so
severely smitten in the windpipe or there-
abouts, by the butt-end of a mallet (going
at the rate of 50 miles an hour, which beats
that famous express train, the Flying John-
son), that he stiffened out on the grass. He
rose and re-entered the frav. but his throat
was so badly shaken that he had to hire a
substitute to breathe for him. Sydney had
the bad luck to lose its brilliant polo-fiend,
J. J. Garvan. The slaughter in his case
comprised a badly-bumped head and a dam-
aged shoulder.
Mr. Ben Richards, a furious rider before
Lord Denman, was flung into the Garvan
vacancy, and dashed across the course on
ponies whose habits he didn’t know. Bare-
headed and open-mouthed, he tried to catch
the Cup. His spirited sprint was a forlorn
hope. The Gee-Gee’s team captured the
booty.
The more or less maimed Polers encased
their stiff limbs in swallow-tail garb for the
G.-G. Denmans’ Polo prance at Government
House. It happened on Thursday evening,
after the furious fray between the G.-G.’s
dandy team and the mighty men of Muswell-
brook. The casualties, Bruce White and
Burnham, A.D.C., were included in a hop
that was thick with Whites (they are
mostly sandy, with turkey-eggshell com-
plexions), Willsallens, Osbornes and Nivi-
sons. “Nutts,” A.D.C., was chiefly to blame
for the frivolous array of polo sticks, clasped
with claret ribbon, that hung below the com-
paratively ancient armory in the hall. A
Muswellbrook man contributed the nearest
thing to a scalp he could spare—a blue polo
waistcoat that dangled on a nail below the
portrait of an early Governor. Up aloft in
the same locality, are the Cullens’ new-laid
arms. Every person who has ever served
this State to the tune of “God Save” —even
as Lieut.-vice-regal—is dared to produce his
heraldic sign-board, so that its wild animals
can be daubed on one of the vacant wall
plots of old G. House. Chief Justice Cullen,
who was reared amidst the clash of Illa-
warra milk-cans, has evolved a gaudy for-
eign-looking sign with no hint of the cow-
rampant kicking up her heels on a field of
cloth of skimmed cream.
The night of the G.-G.’s polo prance was
young and pale grey, with a misty moon
stealing across a paddock of sloppy-looking
clouds, when the early polers taxied to the
party. Ladies who were connected by mar-
riage with polo ponies, and damsels who hoped
to be connected, also by marriage, with the
same fashionable stable, scurried into their
best fighting silkeries, and tooted to the lists,
rather before schedule time. Sweet girls
with heavily powdered noses shivered on the
brink of the dressing-room hairpins, till
Chamberlain Nevill or his understudy loomed
in the offing. Someone had to be in the first
flight for the vice-royal handshake, and I
think one of the healthy-looking Dangar
family led the way to the shores of his Ex.’s
patent shoes, and took the first plunge.
Lady D. gave a cordial greeting to the halt
and lame and sore-wristed polo tribe. Nutts,
of the flying polo pony, officially dogged the
G.-G.’s evening parade. The extreme length
of Major Quilter towered over the frosty
glances of Queen’s Clubbed ladies. Mrs.
Sep Levy got away with one of the sartorial
events of the night—a brocade of mandarin
shade, with a fluff of dark fur creeping round
its outworks. Debutante Beatrice Ogilvie,
from Glen Innes wool-sheds, turned a rosy
country complexion to the ballroom’s pale
yellow lights. She was young and pretty in
white, with a dull twinkle of small frosty
beads all over her person. Mrs. Anthony
Hordern’s filmy lace tails fluttered over a
garment of perfection in an evasive shade of
the primrose family. Mrs. Reg White out-
shone other White dames in the incandescent
glitter of her jewelled headgear. The archi-
tect who built the shimmer of white satin
that swathed the lily-stem figure of the
beauteous Lady Barttelot (at? the Gee-Gee’s
party) ought to be able to retire on the
princely profits of her cut- This is the
“simple” and apparently easy-to-scissors style
of robe which drives suburban Worths to the
edge of suicide. It is when the Paddington
or Surry Hills frock-builder contemplates
a costume of the sort that she feels wild
enough to amputate her own head and send
it in a hat-box to her worst-paying cus-
tomer, or else to give her youngest appren-
tice slow poison, and then send her on an
errand to the wholesale frill emporium
which refused to give credit. In the heavy-
weight section of costly frills the large Miss
Willsallen was a stone or so ahead of com-
petition, with Mrs. Pat Osborne, pleasantly
plump, a quarter of a waist behind.
The riding-boot, as now worn by well-to-do
mutton-maidens, is a female Wellington, that
pulls up to the edge of the divided coat.
The fashionable horsey hat, like a black
Quaker, in its broad, flat brim, is the most
alluring millinery the girl in the saddle can
glue to her head. Miss Kathleen Osborne, a
smart young puss in boots, Quaker-hatted to
a hair, rode round the fringe of the polo
casualties on a mole-colored pony, relieved
with black whiskers. The animal had no
perceptible moustache.
The winter clothes , display last week was
a richly-furred event. Kensington is a chilly
place in June, and each ecstatic polo-her
wore a pale blue nose over the edge of her
black fox or white bearskins. Some of
the exclusively furred were all over heads
and tails, with fierce, beady black eyes glar-
ing out of the depths of their peltry. On
Saturday, Mrs. Arthur Allen’s amazing
brown fur was mostly cruel little claws,
with a sharp beastie grip on her shoulder.
Lily Brayton’s extensive ermine gave no hint
of a scratch, and gently hugged the Lily’s
chin in its warm embrace. A collection of
silky-haired black fox, that swathed Miss
Keating’s purple tailor-made, incited the
owners of plain black pussy to writhe with
envy.
Pony-skin coats for ladies of the wealthy
motor species have been glaring exhibits
during the recent Kensington flurry. Mostly
they’re fine and silky, and dyed to suit the
owner’s taste. Thus, a chestnut hack or
defunct piebald cabhorse can produce a
black pony jacket as easily as an ancient
sheep can grow into “prime lamb” on the
butcher’s-cart. There’s rather a creepy feel-
ing about this dead-horse garb, and a lady
in a pale black pony-skin, sliced into nar-
row allotments and joined together, moved
about the polo plot like the funereal memory
of the undertaker’s nag.
The Chelmsford lady handed over the Dud-
ley silver urn, and a hot and thirsty Gee-
Gee had the first drink. H. White dipped a
freckled nose into the same address, and
Polo Richards took an untidy mouthful that
dribbled down his chin. Burnham, A.D.C.,
who looked as if he needed it, plunged his
aching jaw into the Dudley vase, and when
the Nutting attacked the fluid, a cloud of
steam arose through pouring a moist sub-
stance on a red-hot surface. Society giggled
in the offing, and inspected rival ladies’ best
furs with some acrimony.
The Sydney Polo Club’s dinner and dance
at the Burlington, on Saturday, resolved the
Gee-Gee’s victory in a handsome setting of
red camellias. The forage was rapidly
tucked away in the right place, with large
and healthy appetites, fostered by the furi-
ous pursuit of the Dudley Cup. Then the
company danced on its dinner with rollick-
ing contempt for consequences. Her Feath-
ers and the Polo Three from the old house
in Macquarie-street—G.-G. Denman, Nut-
ting and Burnham—joined the revel, which
included over 200 pair of dancing pumps.
Mrs. Leslie Willsallen and Mrs. Frank
Osborne tore the honors of belledom from
most of the damsels present. Miss Gladys
Bowker, in a dreamy garb of shot blue,
hung on to the beauty line for the Mere
Girl, who is having an uncommonly bad
time just now. The society matron—mid-
dling young and middle-aged—is so greedy
for admiration that her path is strewn with
the sighs of the flirty bachelor about town.
The Girl, you may have noticed, is forced
to dote on the matinde idol, and he only
loves her in the bulk.
Yours with a polo frog in my throat,
VANDORLAN.
Sydney’s Million Club, originated by that
irrepressible young advertiser, Percy Hunter,
has come down to a mere fortnightly lun-
cheon party in a city restaurant. The
Grillion Club, in a word.
A puzzled law court in Adelaide has had
to settle a case that was probably unique. A
leading girls’-school publicly expelled a pupil
of 13 for walking in Rundle-street with
“college boys.” The small sinner had some-
times been known to go to tea with Him or
Them; also, she was found guilty of being
seen occasionally without gloves. So in
presence of the whole school she was accused
of being a “bad influence,” and told to go.
The mother gave evidence that she had pro-
fessional rooms in town, and the child had to
come there to her after school; that she con-
sidered herself the best judge of her daugh-
ter’s character, and was satisfied with it;
and that the school reports had been satis-
factory. Judge Russell, who had to _ settle
this squabble, said that the schoolmistress
had made a “grave mistake,” an “honest
effort to do good for the child.” but an “ex-
treme act, likely to besmirch her reputation
for life.” However, as the action had some-
how been brought for mere breach of con-
tract, and not for damages, he could only
find five-shilling’s-worth of education lost.
And the costs a verdict for anything under
£5 carries in South Aust. are hardly worth
collecting.


The Reliable RIDGE
m
Btiifiy
t
The Eudge-Whitworth has been pnt
to hard, practical tests —speed trials,
hill-climbing contests, minimum fuel
consumption competitions—it has been
run on all classes of roa.ds, in all kinds
of weather, and has proved itself
supremely satisfactory.
A few of the Eudge-Whitworth fea-
tures are ease of control, patent spring
forks of an exclusive design that effect-
ually absorb all “road shock” on the
handle-bars (with the result that the
Eudge is most pleasant to ride), the
carburetter is very flexible, and works
well at all speeds, ignition is by high
tension magneto; valves mechanically
operated—
Fitted witH all
Accessories ready
for the Road,
£ 67110/ -
Call and let us give you a complete
demonstration of the Eudge, or if that
is impossible, write for our large free
interesting Catalogue, which gives full
details. Sit down and write now.
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Agents for Triumph, Rudge=Whltworth,
B.S.A. and New Hudson Motor Cycles,
Manufacturers for B. & B. Motor Cycles,
124*132 Castlereag'h St.,
near Market St., Sydney.
36
IS
r<'
HUMOROUS BOORS. -*i
“The Sadness of the Bush,’’ that certain critics have so often harped upon, finds no place here.
Fun, often fast and furious, but always good-natured, abounds on every page, sufficient to make the
proverbial cat laugh. Every turn and twist in human nature, every incident with a frolic in it,
every quaint quip of speech—all have been made to pay toll to laughter, and turn sadness into
sunBhine - The “ Bookstall ” Series—Price 1/- each, Postage Id.
mirthful reading. One of the most
The Missing Link By Edward Dyson.
The story of a dead-beat who engages himself to a travelling showman as Darwin’s Missing Link.
His experiences are novel, exciting, and decidedly funny.
Tommy the Hawker By Edward Dyson.
There is no lack of humor in Mr. Dyson’s latest, which is rich in fun and frolic of various
kinds and entertaining to the last degree. Tommy is decidedly “a character.
Benno—And Some of the Push By Edward Dyson.
The fun, though sometimes fast and furious, is good-humored, and most of the members of the
push are worthy of the prominence given them. Bright, sparkling comedy, with a laugh in eveiy
line.
Fact’ry ’Ands By Edward Dyson.
The doings of the “donahs” as here related make most
humorous books in Australian literature.
Scotty Mac, Shearer By r. s. Tait.
This is one of the most rollicking books that has appeared for some Scotty Mac is the
essence of geniality, and causes the reader to smile from cover to cover. The roof of a shearing-
shed covers a multitude of sins, but the sinners are evidently blest with a keen sense of humor.
How McDougall Topped the Score, and Other Verses
By Thomas E. Spencer.
This series of recitations is, beyond question, the most popular collection that has yet appeared
in Australia. The majority of the pieces are delightfully humorous.
By Mrs. Bridget McSweeney
(Thomas E. Spencer).
Mrs. McSweeney’s experiences, told in her own inimitable way, keep you rippling with laughter
from cover to cover.
The Surprising Adventures of Bridget McSweeney
By Thomas E. Spencer.
Those who have already made the acquaintance of Mrs. McSweeney, and know how entertaining
she is, will be pleased to meet her again. She is more charming than ever.
Why Doherty Died By Thomas E. Spencer.
The author of “How McDougall Topped the Score” has again vindicated his title to be considered
one of Australia’s best versifiers. Full of good humorous recitations.
The Haunted Shanty By Thomas E. Spencer.
The weird, mysterious, creepy feeling that surrounds “The Haunted Shanty gives place in turn
to rollicking mirth, broad humor, and clever, national character-drawing.
THE LATEST OF THE SPENCER SERIES:
That Droll Lady By Thomas E. Spencer.
Being the further adventures of Mrs. Bridget McSweeney. For those who treat their friends to a
reading or recitation of an evening, we can safely recommend “That Droll Lady” to score every
time.
The Spring Cleaning
The Bulletin Reciter
This volume contains the cream of the recitations that have appeared in the columns of The
Bulletin for twenty years.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., 476
George Street, SYDNEY,
and all booksellers.
HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS.
BY APPOINTMENT
DAINTY PEARL & DIAMOND NECKLETS.
\
M
The Most Artistic and Largest stock to Select from in Australia.
INSPECTION INVITED.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
LONDON OFFICE: 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS
The Tie of the
Century
<a>
9
a
.iffe
AMN
t NT
TIE
4TT4CIIEB
OCflß^
h? 2.
end of those double-
fold Collar trembles
JUST an invisible but perfect little attachment which
will fit any make or any size of double collar and can-
not get out of place until you remove it. *3JIf you buy
one attachment for each tie there will be no need to make
the knots more than once. ®JYou will treble the life of your
ties and collars. *JLong usuage may result in your ties getting
soiled, but it is impossible to damage the material or spoil
the shape.
Price Gd.
or with Tie complete 1/6, 1/9, 2/-, 2/6, and 3/-.
Sold by all Outfitters
te' 7


FARMER’S CASH BONUS SALE
Saves
lO
Per Cent
n
On Every
Cash
Purchase.
All Winter Goods Rigorously Reduced.
And Everything Less the Bonus.
FARMER’S CASH BONUS SALE is the economical buyer’s. half-yearly
festival—an opportunity to save 2/- in the £ on each Cash purchase (with
the exception of a few proprietary articles), and in addition all Winter
Goods, all surplus stocks, are most convincingly reduced to clear.
Farmer’s Sale Catalogue—Post Free.
The Sale Number of “Fashions and Facts’’ contains 80 numerously
illustrated pages of Sale Bargains.
FARMER’S SYDNEY
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collisox & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
I it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney. ______
MR. AND MRS. VERNON DOUGHTY, having
leased Hollyburton, Sandringham (Vic.), the
property of Mr. Fred Fairbairn, intend to open it
shortly as a first-class establishment for paying
guests. The house is beautifully situated in its own
grounds, with flower-beds and lawns, and has a grass
tennis-court,'garage arid stabling. It is"next door
to the famous golf links and Club House; has its
own bathing box,-and' is only three or' four minutes
from the beach and railway station. This property
has just been sewered on the most hygienic lines.
Telephone—24, Cheltenham.
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR.
By placing very large contracts, and thereby
securing special concessions in discounts, we are
enabled to offer these lines of STERLING QUALITY
and EXCEPTIONAL VALUE.
LADIES*
COMBINATIONS.
CHILDREN’S COMBINATIONS.
No. 84. MEDIUM WEIGHT—NATURAL ALL-WOOL.
Sizes .. ..2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Short Sleeves .. 4/6 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6
Long Sleeves .. 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6 8/-
MEN’S
PURE NATURAL WOOL UNDERSHIRTS.
No. 336. Long and Short Sleeves.
Quality. Chest.. 34 36 38 40 42 44 inch
Full-fashioned
Medium Weight.. 6/6 6/11 7/6 7/11 8/6 8/11
No. 338.
Heavy-weight,
Full-fashioned .. 7/6 7/11 8/6 8/11 9/6 10/-
Double-breasted .. 8/6 8/11 9/6 10/- 10/6
NATURAL WOOL AND COTTON SHIRTS.
Long and Short SI eves.
No. 326. Chest .. 34 36 38 40 42 inch
Heavy Warm Make,
Very Special .. 4/- 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/-
PURE NATURAL WOOL PANTS.
No. 336. Waist.. 34 36 38 40 42 44 inch
Medium weight,
Full-fashioned .. 6/11 7/6 7/11 8/6 S/ll 9/6
PURE WOOL PANTS.
No. 338. Waist.. 34 36 38 40 42 44 inch
Heavy-weight,
Full-fashioned .. 7/11 8/6 ,8/11 9/6 10/- 10/6
Short Legs .. .. - 8/11 9/6 10/- 10/6
NATURAL WOOL AND COTTON PANTS.
No. 326. Waist .. 34 36 .38 40 42 inch
Heavy. Warm Make,
Special .. .. 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6
We Pay Postage on these throughout
the Commonwealth.
BALL & WELCH PTY., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 1, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Quamby Club, which has the Fuller
lady for star member, settled into its new
quarters,, in Centre-way, last Thursday, with
a great fluttering of feathers and rattling of
teacups. An old man or so dodged about
with the furtive air of a trapped animal
looking for a way of escape. Lady Fuller,
in a peach-colored coat, indulged in a gen-
eral inspection, and gave advice about some
unfinished pantries, after which she was
lured into a cosy den for her tea, while a
cicada-like tempest of talk raged in the din-
ing-room.
Society’s temper and boots, to say no-
thing of its motor-tyres, begin to show
signs of wear as the end of the opera
season approaches. The people who con-
sider it the thing to go, and who would
rather be caught shoplifting than admit they
hadn’t seen every production, groan in secret
at the procession of first nights, which must
be attended, regardless of expense or bore-
dom. Before the start of “Faust,” a woman
in the foyer was heard to sigh, “Two more
operas and then I’m done!” with the ex-
pression of Atlas throwing down the world.
The Fuller lady, unaccompanied by his Ex.,
but attended by secretary Wilberforce and
Captain Wheatley, paid a State visit to the
opera last Wednesday week, when “Butter-
fly” was about. She did the occasion proud
in a Paddy-green satin, with her Kis-
inetian cloak of many colors around her, and
wore a pale, worried look midway between
a solid looking crown (rather than coronet)
of diamonds in silver and neck hangings
to match. The gallant captain’s breast line
of medals added to the effect of the entrance,
which was fully two minutes ahead of the
Anthem. The Anthem, in fact, was so be-
lated that the upstanding audience wondered
whether a straggling male vice-regal had ar-
rived ; and in looking round for a legitimate
cause of the “Gorsave,” the veterans present
got a terrible shock. In a box facing the
Fuller compartment was a tall, slim, grey-
blonde bearded man who looked like a re-
incarnation of Sir Henry Loch, the Vic-
torian Governor of yore, who afterwards
went to South Africa, and made rather a
mess of things. His resemblance to the
Gov. of Phil May’s time was quite startling,
the old inhabitants said. It sent a thrill
through the foyer when he came out between
the acts. But, seemingly, the Anthem didn’t
play for him. It must have played for her
Sexellency under the impression that she
had brought her John with her, and the
orchestra’s mistake is pardonable only on
account of the conductor being an Italian
stranger in a strange land. As time went
on the Lady in State looked around for a
she-somebody to bear her company in the
box, and beamed invitingly at Mrs. Casey, of
the big white house on the South Yarra bill.
Presently the aide came and fetched the
comely dame from her seat in the centre of
the d.c., and her two chumettes were left to
mourn the last fatal act of Brola Butterfly
by themselves. The summons to the box
may serve Mrs. R. G. Casey as a formal call
on a recent hostess. On the previous
Saturday night she and hubby had been two
of a select and sociable dinner party at the
Fuller home.
Most of the real opera enthusiasts are to
be found these evenings in the amphitheatre,
accompanied by music scores and packages
of light refreshment brought for the long,
long wait betwen the opening of doors and
the breathless, last-minute scuffle of the
Great Overfed to their seats downstairs.
The people upstairs go because they like it;
but a heap of those downstairs only crowd
along in case someone should note their ab-
sence and publish the news that they had no
music in their souls, and could be moved by
nothing but furniture vans.
All the gossips are wondering why Melba
doesn’t turn up o’ nights at the opera. Her
explanation is a “chill” —caught on the night
she went to “The Yflrgin Goddess,” maybe.
The absence of the vicerregals also caused
talk, until the Fuller lady sampled the
Quinlan version of “Mrs. Butterfly,” on
Wednesday, since when the persistent
absence of his Ex. has been officially attri-
buted to sciatica. Report, however, says
that a “command” had to he put off, pros-
perity having filled the space that would
otherwise have been taken by sundry Helps
and things. Auntie Phipps was boxed along
with the Fairbairn family one evening last
week.
Mrs. Quinlan —the peacemaker behind the
curtain —has been refusing much food and
flauery from the Best People; but she
accepts a cup of tea and a sandwich this
week from Mrs. Tremearn and company at
Mandeville Hall. The copper-headed man-
ageress is her husband’s A.D.C., and has
very little time to spare for what may be
called So-suety.
The evolution of Melba from a Queen of
Song into a Popular Idol is now complete.
On the recent first night of “The Virgin
Goddess,” at the Royal, the audience rose in
a tired manner at the instance of the
Anthem. Governor Fuller and lady were
marching to their private box, and the band
was making an unnecessary fuss about it.
But just as the amphitheatre crowd seemed
to be wondering why it had stood up, Melba
appeared, radiant in diamonds and tur-
quoises, between the State Excellencies.
Then the amphitheatre volleyed loyalty—to
Melba. She was accepted as a full and suffi-
cient cause for the hymn tune.
Marshall Hall, the masterful Professor of
Music, with a capital M, has forfeited all
claim to rule his orchestral concert followers
with a rod. of silence ere he starts to wave
the baton. The Prof, lias been a most pro-
nounced sinner against himself these grand
opera times. He breaks his own first com-
mandment. Sitting in the d.c. at tier Maj-
esty’s he talks in thunderous tones between
the acts, which is disturbing to every cul-
chawed soul that fain would brood over the
musical matter of the vanished scene. Worse
still, .he continues his discursive oration
whilst the Orchestra is playing the introduc-
tion to another act. Folks strain their ears
to catch the composer’s “motif,” or dulcet
insinuation, or whatever it is that ought to
be audible, and receive only the roar of
Marshall Hall’s torrential conversation.
Then a hissing “huss-sh” breaks gently from
the Prof.’s outraged vicinity, and he shuts
up under protest, as it were, just like a fiery
Hun, or Goth, or even a Vandal. And this
from the man who ordinarily delays the start
of an orchestral “movement” when he is at
the rostrum, because somebody is snoring
pianissimo, or cracking a gentle joke! Why,
Nickodemus reproving misconduct is not a
circumstance to conductor M. Hall!
The published balance-sheet of the Kismet
Ball makes even the previous meagre esti-
mate look extravaganc. A profit of £BOO
had been promised, but the result is £6OO 2s.
10d., of which amount more than £4OO came
from the inexpensive citizens who bought
tickets to merely see the boomed-up show.
Also, there were cash donations to the
fund (amount unspecified), so it seems that
the actual bedizened ball-rollers didn’t con-
tribute nearly as much as the lookers-on.
As for the catering, which was to be a fur-
ther source of revenue, the figures are
pathetic. Many oases of champagne were
donated (as well as the hire of the Town
Hall, and the band, and the adver-
tising exes.), and supper tickets to
the tune of £l7B 15s. were sold and
paid for. Yet the refreshments showed a
loss of exactly £5O. In shout, the fund
would have been £5O better off if eterybody
had brought their own tucker, and washed it
down with a drop of gratuitous champagne.
One night last week, the Victorian Artists
broke out into dramatic entertainment at
the old . Eastern Hills rooms, where the
paint is peeling from the walls in artistic
abandon, and plaster falls gently from the
ceiling. During an interval, someone took
the surrounding dilapidation as a text and
preached a crusade for the acquisition of
cash to pay for the necessary repairs. The
forthcoming dance is designed to help the
good work. The Society, having given over
the lease of the Athenaeum Hall, is thrown
back on its rather remote haunt, and simply
hungers to make it habitable again. Gregan
McMahon, of the Repertory Theatre, sup-
plied material for the entertainment. Rose
Quong, the almond-eyed girl with the sooth-
ing voice, recited, while Harold Smith rip-
pled a piano accompaniment.
The new Britannia Theatre was opened
with a flourish of tongues at a private view,
on Thursday evening. It is a beauteous
building, approached by marble stairs, and
luxuriating in mosaic floors and cushioned
lounges of the most restful description. The
Gillott knight sat in one of the boxes and
made the usual remarks incidental to such
performances. Lawyer Williamson, from
Sydney, listened in the other; and barrister
Maxwell, wearing his own bushy black hair
for a change, sat in the front of the dress
circle. J. D. Williams himself pervaded the
building, wearing a wide smile of welcome.
The interior of the new Bourke-street pic-
ture house is rose-red, with rose-pink col-
umns flanking a black-framed picture screen.
Two circles of red lights glow from some hid-
den ledge in the domes, and illuminate beau-
tiful painted ladies who lounge gracefully
on the flowery banks of the frieze. Soft
red carpets and red seats complete a nice
warm effect. After the talking, the manage-
ment improved the minds of all present by
showing a little pictured history, i.e., the late
Christopher Columbus discovering America
for Rockefeller and Co.
The Ambrose Pattersons glorified the last
bright days of their show by giving a tea-
party. Some Toorakians came along to the
pouring, and incidentally caused a few more
red spots to appear on frame corners. Lalla
Miranda sailed in, wearing fluffy Parisian
clothes and a sublime hat. Mrs. Lempriere
piloted “Weenie” Ffrench, the sister of
Melba’s Sylvia. And Mrs. Geoff Syme took
an observation through her lorgnette prior
to drawing forth her cheque book and mak-
ing herself owner of some of the canvassed
sunshine.
The innumerable small girls of the Cath-
olic Ladies’ College had their winter dance,
last Thursday. It was a dazzling affair of
fancy sets that lasted till 10 o’clock, and had
a sit-down supper exactly like grown-ups.
The festivitv was thoroughly artificial, every
female infant there “playing lady” just as
hard as she knew how. Mother Laurence
and the other nuns hovered around the flocks
of excited, gaily-dressed kiddies in their
sombre robes, and helped them through with
the joyous dances. The tiniest children were
butterflies, and shrilled a quaint little song
as they danced with hands and wings flut-
tering. The others were carefully graded
according to size, and each division had
a fancy set to itself and its own evolutions.
When it came to a waltz or a two-step, the
solemn little things produced programmes
and pencils. A daintily absurd little woman,
all lace and dimples, sat perched on a chair
with her toes tucked in; the top rung. She
sucked her pencil hard and made laborious
marks on her card, while her partner
sprawled on his chest on the floor and
scrawled her name on his pasteboard. When
the important business was completed, there
were still a few minutes left of the waltz
they had been booking so carefully.
Tickets are out for. the annual Carmelite
Ball, which transpires at the South Mel-
bourne Town Hall on the 17th.
Carrie Moore, cheeky and bright-eyed as
ever, thinks that Melbourne has grown like
Jack’s beanstalk during her years of absence.
The new railway station made her draw a
deep breath, and she stood amazed at the
sprouting cloud-catchers of Collins-street, and
the uprising of picture theatres and halls in
Bourke-street. Carrie just reached town in
time to give a send-off luncheon party to
baby-sister Ivy, who is a miniature of her-
self. The youngster is departing for a
world tour with Mrs. Chester, once matron
of the Pollard co., and now organising a
similar juvenile show. One of the Moores,
a step higher in age, travelled with the Pol-
lards. The whole family dances, and the
eldest girl has a good job on the London
boards. Carrie is now doing the big draw
turn at the Brennan theatre.
A young English Horsfall the is a rela-
tion of the local Horsfalls, who are connected
by marriage with ex-Governor Carrington)
has just arrived in this country and dis-
tinguished himself by a sudden plunge into
matrimony. The young man met Miss
Lettie Griffiths, of Sydney, on board ship,
on a Monday. He married her on Friday,
and fled with her to the Blue Mountains
on Saturday, for a brief honeymoon, before
hurrying aboard the boat which brought him
to this part of the world. The bride follows
her headlong spouse later in the year.
Geoffrey Syme and Mrs. Geoff (who is a
cousin of the benedict) feted him in Mel-
bourne, luhched him at the Grand, and oiled
him to his ship.
Mat Fitzgerald is about to go on the laud
somewhere up Rochester way. The gay
young bipods round town are taking a joyous
farewell of their jaunty chum in the supper
haunts which will know him no more —or
only occasionally.
Brentnall, of the Argus, who married pretty
Delie Huon, is another man who has tired of
the city and is making tracks for the land.
Their fiat in the city is being snapped up
by Jack McOomas and his prospective
bride, the daughter of a rich Geelong brewer.
Friends count the marriage a certainty this
time. The fracture of the engagement has
been reported by several unreliable perjurers
—the kind who ring up from a public tele-
phone and say their name is Smith.
The Philip Grey-Egertons are due to arrive
in Melbourne in time for the next Cup meet-
ing. She, you will of course remember, was
the wife of Baronet Rupert Clarke (Rupert
Baronet was related by marriage to Janet
Lady of that ilk). She is bringing with her
the Clarke maiden who,, “came out” at a
splendiferous ball at the Hyde Park Hotel
this (London) season.
Melbourne is being systematically bush-
ranged by teams of Y.W.C.A. maids and
matrons who demand £25,000 for a tho-
roughly-equipped, residential Girls’ Club.
During the first week they dredged £6OOO
out of the city’s innumerable pockets, in-
cluding £lOO from Melba’s. The raid is
being run on the usual lines, the bandits
lunching together at midday, and striving
for the banner which waves over the winning
team’s table. This standard has been car-
eering round the room ever since the holy
war started. Each team’s territory is care-
fully defined, and already one girl has struck
trouble for poaching on other gangs’ pre-
serves and extracting money from dad’s
friends. The members of the club, when it
arrives, will be taught a lot of useful things,
including how not to burn the steak and the
correct method of spanking infants. Even
John Dunn is helping, for John is often con-
fronted late at night by dreadfully worried
girls who have arrived by late trains, and
yearn to find a respectable substitute for
the paternal roof. And, as things are, he
generally has to go to a lot of trouble to
find one.
G. R. Rutherford, manager of the Arma-
dale branch of the Bank of Victoria, died
with tragic suddenness, last Thursday night,
while dancing at the Malvern mayoral ball.
When he fell at his partner’s feet, the other
guests thought it was only a faint, glanced
sympathetically over their shoulders, and
danced on. Three winters running Malvern
has had a like sensational experience. On
one occasion, the tragedy happened at a pri-
vate dance, which was being held in a
marquee with a temporary floor some feet
above the ground. A couple accidentally
stepped over the edge of the platform and
fell to the lawn beneath. The man had
heart disease, and was found to be dead when
picked up.
Mary Riddell, who is preparing for a
concert, on July 10, went last week with
mamma Maggie Stirling to spend a day with
Melba at Coombe Cottage. The country
aviary burst into song soon after their arri-
val, and the local kookaburras listened with
rapt attention. Young Mary’s soprano is
a fine foil to mamma’s full mezzo.
Perhaps it was on account of manager
Quinlan’s wire: “When are you coming to
see our show?” . that Melba made her first
visit to the opera on Wednesday afternoon,
and listened to “The Prodigal Son” and
“Hansel and Gretel.” The belated visitor
spread her feathers in. a box, and created a
mighty stir in the house. Beryl Fanning,
one of her young girl favorites, shared the
coop with her. This Miss Fanning has a
fine voice, and there is some pretty rivalry
between her and Sylvia Ffrench for the
diva’s most honeyed smile.
From my Adelaide correspondent: —
The Flower Ball, in aid of the District Trained
Nurses’ Society, filled the Exhibition Building on
Wednesday evening—and the desired coin was torn
off the populace in immense wads. Twenty-six sets
took the floor, and made an absolutely heroic attempt
to look like perambulating lilies, roses, etc. Mrs.
Mayoress Parsons’s bouquet or collection or gang of
Snowdrops led the way. Mrs. O’Leary (fuchsias)
and Mrs. Arthur Rymill (asters) scored heavily.
For one thing they exploited a pretty lot of girls.
There is nothing sadder than the spectacle of a tall
maiden with buck-teeth masquerading as a violet or
daisy. The men wore ordinary evening clothes
(where they didn’t wear extraordinary ones), with
the addition of a buttonhole. Which showed their
sense. Women can at least make a pretence of
carrying off these aesthetic disguises; man, dusty,
drab, unalluring, modern man, never. Lady Bosan-
quet’s two daughters were there; one in green, and
the other in floral moire. Herself affected a taking
costume of blue brocade. The O.J.’s wife appeared
in black, and Mrs. Parsons hid something softly
blue under a cloud-like wrap of rose ninon. The
decorations were of geranium scarlet, and the supper
was responsible for no deaths, so far as I can
learn.
On Friday evening a band of 30 girls took posses-
sion of the barren wastes of the North Adelaide
Institute, and, by hard work and attention to busi-
ness, transformed it into the semblance of a resort
for human beings. The basis of the color-scheme
was an admixture of pink and mauve. Ample
bunches of violets, encircled in soft pink ribbon,
marked the young hostesses, who, by the way,
shirked the ordeal of receiving, and deputed some
half-dozen of their parents to do the job for them.
Miss Gwenyth Main, of North Adelaide, was
quietly married (by the way, when was the last
Society maiden uproariouslv married? The date has
slipped my memory) on Wednesday, to Mr. Cham-
bers, who hails from “up North.” The knot was
tied in the St. Peter’s College Chapel.
Lady Bosanquet was one of a biggish audience at
the May Club on Tuesday afternoon, when Mrs.
Lion gave a lecturette on Napoleon. The pitiless
calcium light of Research was turned on to the
Corsican’s private life, and a highly genteel audience
gasped with grief at the result. “What,” as one
of them remarked sadly to me afterwards, “is an
Imperial Crown without Morals?” The leeturess, hy
the way, is an expert on Napoleonic lore, and is
writing a book entitled “Napoleon and the Revolu-
tion.”
Dr. and Mrs. Alfred Stokes have returned from
honeymooning in Sydney, and are making ready to
descend on Gawler—the town which is to be their
home. Other returned voyagers are Mr. James
Melrose and his daughter. They’ve been at Colombo.
The annual meeting of the Queen’s Home was held
on Friday. Lady Bosanquet presided over a mostly
feminine crowd. Good old Lack of Funds was the
leit motif of the function, and it was decided unani-
mously to make a fresh effort to get the place on a
solvent basis. At these meetings I have noticed they
always decide to make either a “fresh effort” or a
“spirited effort.”
The Mount Barker run of the Adelaide Hunt Club
was. a huge success, and herds of road-followers jarred
their horses’ legs in the cause of Sport.
The deluge, which has set farmers rejoicing, spelt
death to the Tattersall’s Club meeting, on Monday.
The. course was suitable only for an aquatic sports
meeting, and so the racing had to be moved forward
to the following Saturday.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


•y.-yyj
■ V :V:
m
iSsc
a
A DRINK, A TONIC, AND
! ivX**v.*'«v’’ •.v!v.* w.v.-.v.v.;. * .*!• *.v .• v. • • •*•*»* ■ .1 .*!*••. •••■• »*•, .-vX Xv •*•*«*«*•*•*•*♦*•*•’.v*XvX*t*»*Xv**»vt*
A DIGESTIVE COMBINED
“ Without Alcohol or Qas. J
B9UB
Grand Prix,
Imperial
Exhibition,
London, 1911.
The Highest
Award possible.
C A
GOtO
GOLD
SEAL
British
Analytical
Control.
3S
'a|iilllMs\ “t>;
v Je.u'v •.•■» it
t 1 '™- Wi«,,:t 1 m&
m
i"iih
>vW
..’'YW V '\
-•' .uwnui'”
Should be in Every
Home.
No other Drink in the World
has better guarantees for
Purity and Goodness.
ţ
GOLD
MEDAL,
Paris
Exhibition,
1909.
N.S.W.
PURE FOOD
ACT,
Serial No.
289
Guaranteed
Under
Pure Food
Laws.
Buy a Bottle and Try It
With Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Ginger Beer,
Soda Water, Plain Water (hot or cold),
or with Whisky, Gin, etc.
Obtainable at Hotels and Soft Drink Shops by
the Glass and Bottle; at Stores by the Bottle.
Suits Abstainers and
Non-Abstainers
O.T. is derived from fruits and herbs having nutritive and
beneficial properties. Agjeeable to the palate and distinguished for
favorable effects on the constitution, it is a drink that can be taken
in any quantity with the feeling that it is conducive to perfect
health.
It blends perfectly with all other drinks—moderating the
intoxicating effects of alcoholic liquors, the “flatulent” effects of
aerated drinks, and acting as a corrective for drinking water. O.T.
is a beverage that appeals to all conditions of men, women and
children in all countries.
Good for Colds 8 Influenza
The stimulating effect of O.T. improves the circulation and pro-
motes the warmth in the body necessary to ward off colds, chills and
influenza. Taken in time, it will counteract the effects of a chill
and drive out a cold that may be coming on. It is invaluable to all
engaged outdoors.
A Substitute for Alcohol
O.T. has “life” and “bite” like spirits, and is the nearest
substitute for alcohol ever produced. After alcoholic excess it
restores vitality, appetite and nerve, while satisfying the craving for
alcoholic stimulants. It is a splendid “pick-me-up,” and has a tonic
effect if you rise with a bad taste in the mouth or a disordered liver.
Most Beneficial for Ladies
O.T. has some similar properties to Gin, and is most beneficial
for ladies when needing a stimulant. If all ladies really knew the
merits of O.T. no home would be without it.
Relieves Indigestion, Colic
etc.
O.T. is a true digestive, and is the only after-dinner liqueur in
the world without alcohol. It ensures complete digestion, and pre-
vents indigestion, flatulence, and “full feeling” after meals.
The warm flavor of O.T. is derived
from certain fruits, highly
esteemed in Tropical countries for
safeguarding health .
O.T. is an excellent Stomachic, and a valuable aid for Colic
and other Stomach Troubles.
mm
, K*4 , ;w** v ' v ''lv.v I*' .v.v.v.’.v.v- ,v..’.v. • >v
and Mer1t$ of fl.T


WHO I E FAMILY STRICKEN DOWN.
“Influenza 1 :’.d my husband, self and children all
stricken down." says Mrs. Minnie Titter, Springvale,
near Wanganui, N.Z. “We had tried several so-
called cures, hut Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy was
the means of pitting us right again. I would never
think of being without a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Cough Reined) in the house now in case of emer-
gency.”*
BABY’S LITTLE TROUBLES.
Baby’s cough, if not attended to, often results in
croup and other serious troubles. Always keep a
bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery handy, and be
prepared. Every bottle guaranteed. Price, Is. Cd.
and 3s.*
GETTING RID OF
RHEUMATISM.
A Once Crippled Man Tells About His
Cure.
Treatment is Needed that will Drive the
Cause of the Complaint from the
System.
The question of curing rheumatism is
solely a question of driving the cause of
rheumatism out of the system. The fact
that in no complaint does the blood so rap-
idly become thin, coupled with the views of
many medical men that the cause is lactic
acid in the blood, indicates that the correct
treatment is treatment through the blood.
Added to this is the further fact, that the
great blood-making medicine, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, has cured hundreds of cases of
rheumatism, should satisfy any sufferer who
has not already tried them. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills make new blood and tone the whole
system to a point that enables it to expel
the rheumatic poisin with the secretions of
the body.
Mr. Patrick Flanagan, of Murray Street,
Waterloo, Sydney, relates how they cured
him: —
“Working in wet, cold weather I con-
tracted rheumatism,” he said. “It came on
in my arms and shoulders. Occasionally I
had to take a spell and knock off work. My
joints swelled, the skin got shiny and red and
the parts were tender. I had attacks, too,
in the thighs, and found great difficulty in
walking. Some days I could hardly hobble ;
every joint was stiff and sore. I could only
raise my arms very slowly. For one week
I was completely crippled. If I sat down I
could hardly get up. At night the pain
was much worse as soon as I got warm in
bed, and I would be awake for hours. I felt
burning hot and feverish and was bathed in
perspiration. I tried everything that was
spoken of but got no better. I went to doc-
tors and was given medicine, but they didn’t
give me any lasting relief. I was suffering
for about three years when I read that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills had cured rheumatism,
so I got some from Townley’s Pharmacy
in Crown Street. I felt no benefit until I
was on the third box; then I noticed my
arms were much less stiff and painful, and
the cramps and twinges eased out of my
shoulders. I kept on taking the pills and
thus got the poison out of my system. My
arms used to be like so many rusty, creak-
ing hinges, but the sore tender feeling wore
off and the swelling and shiny look disap-
peared. All the muscles became perfectly
supple and have remained so.”
The price is 2/9 per box, six boxes 15/3,
and if you are pestered by the shopman who
wants to sell some substitute of his own,
they will be sent post free by the Dr. Wil-
l'ams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
Sydney.
m
'©
OENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6; Double, 22/6; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or Write.
OENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The constant screamers of Ulster are
breathing fire on such a scale that flames
now pour out of their mouths to a distance
of at least three yards. The maddest of the
lot, Sir Edward Carson, has told a Women’s
Picture Hat League, or some such institu-
tion, that when Home Rule really arrives,
he and other daredevils are going to Belfast
or Derry in the Tory cause, and when there
he will “break every law possible.” So there
are stirring times ahead. It will be a great
spectacle when Edward goes raging through
the land committing bigamy, petty larceny,
libel, cattle-maiming, dog-theft, coyne and
livery, maintenance, barratry, forgery, tres-
pass, burglary, high and middle and low
treason, falsification of accounts, embezzle-
ment, drunkenness, resistance to the police,
exhibition of false lights on the coast, ob-
scene language, riot, unregistered den-
tistry, piracy, kidnapping, wife-beat-
ing, illegal correspondence with foreign Pow-
ers, lack of lawful visible means of support,
marriage within the prohibited degrees,
uttering base coin, breach of the Foreign
Enlistment Act, personating a constable,
sacrilege, bushranging and breakage of the
municipal regulations against keeping fowls
in a city. But the chances are that a police-
man will arrest Ed the Terrible before he
has got his interesting career fairly started.
It would be an interesting career, if the
bumptious and absurd old man could live up
to even a tenth of his programme.
IN TOPHET.
Sate Ministerial Exhibits.
There is at present before the Senate a
short Amendment Bill, introduced by Sena-
tor Pearce, Minister for Defence. It is,
therefore, a Government measure. The most
interesting clause read as follows: —
A person liable to be trained... .shall not be com-
mitted to gaol in default of payment of a pecuniary
penalty imposed for an offence against the provisions
of this section.
The humane old women of the Australian
Government are getting things down pretty
fine. Military training is supposed to be com-
pulsory, but if this measure becomes law the
trainee can simply “take a lunar” at his
officer and at the regulations. If he is fined
for disobedience, he can refuse to pay, and
as he can neither be imprisoned nor kicked
for non-payment, the business ends there.
There is a quaint sort of pathos about the
effort to be compulsory and voluntary at the
same time; to rise yip manfully for the de-
fence of our country and to sit down simul-
taneously ; to please everybody, and to get
everybody’s vote. Pearce might almost as
well throw the business up, and sell the
fleet, and abandon White Australia as a bad
job.
“G.V.W.”: The White Man is Starting
for Home, sure enough, in Maoriland. The
drift to the sunny North from the frozen
South in five years—l9o6-1911—was such
that the South Island lost two members in
the House of Representatives. From the
southern end of the North Island the move-
ment warmthward is also pronounced. Sim-
plest explanation I have seen of the matter
was hung out by the Government thermom-
eters the other day: Nuggets (far South),
40deg.; Wellington (centre), 46deg.; Rus-
sell (far north), 57deg.
Melbourne nowadays has about 592,000
people who live on an area of 163,480 acres.
Liverpool (England) has 746,566 people
crammed into an area of 19,502 acres —about
ten times the density of Melbourne. And
theorists are spending their time in argu-
ment as to whether the Anglo-Saxon race
can flourish in tropical Australia! Any
clean, spacious, airy tropic is a more promis-
ing place for an Anglo-Saxon than cities like
Liverpool.
FROM MOO NT A, S.A.
COUSIN-JACK MAN: “ Well, Billyboy, ded'ee
’ave nice denner, m’ son? ”
COUSIN-JACK BOY : “ 'Ess, maisler, I ded. I
'ad five plates 'av stoo and 'en I licked me
sister's bones."
Attorney-General Homburg has been tell-'
ing Adelaide deputations that, as they take
so much time and repeat themselves so
much, he cannot promise to see them in
future. If that is a reason for abolishing
deputations, by what right do State Parlia-
ments continue to live? In S.A. sometimes
30 or 40 members speak to the “Address in
Reply,” when the Assembly begins its work,
and the new things said are as infrequent
as palm trees in Norway. Homburg should
carry his crusade a bit farther.
It is now over a year since the Victorian
Government of Weary started to grow a
ship-building yard at Williamstown. Stocks
have been erected for two of the dredges that
are to be built some day.
A small work-shop, contain-
ing a drilling machine and a
planer, has been put up, and
the foundations of an elec-
trical power house have
been laid. And that is as
far as the much-boomed yard
has gone. It will only be
large enough to build
dredges when it is finished,
but the chances are that, if
the Dry Rot State waits for
its dredge before cleaning
out the Port Phillip chan-
nel, the blessed bay will be
drv land, and the yard itself
will be a sort of palisade in
the fiddle of a paddock. A
striking monument to a fired
adminis f ration is the yard that isn’t at Wil-
liamstown.
N. S. Wales has a Commission on Food
Supply taking evidence, and lately it has
been listening to the talk of live-meat sales-
men about the Sydney Meat Preserving Co.
—the concern that is subsidised by the squat-
ters, and therefore doesn’t have to pay the
price it bids for its supplies, which means
that those who do buy have to outbid a fic-
titious price. The salesmen say, with great
unanimity, that the co. is all right: “Its
operations result in steadying the market.
When the market rose unusually high, it
held aloof.” Nobody supposed otherwise;
but that doesn’t alter the fact that when the
public ought to be getting the advantage of
cheap meat, it can’t, because the buyer at
the fictitious price is on the spot. The sales-
men appear to think there is some virtue in
a “steady” market, whereas what the thing
really means is that the market may go
“unusually high,” but is never permitted to
go unusually low.
A writer in London Chronicle gives a
peep into the sweating houses of Belfast,
Ireland :—-
Linen tablecloths, floral design. The cloth is 45in.
square. To embroider one takes three days, at eight
hours per day. The remuneration is Bs. per dozen, or
Bd. a cloth —less than 3d. a day.
Cambric handkerchiefs, “top sewing” (that is,
tucking in the corners and stitching neatly down).
The cleverest workers can do 24 per hour. The
wage is -Jd. per dozen, or Bd. per day, and out of this
the singer of the Song of the Hanky must buy needles
and thread.
Thread-clipping parasol covers, 3d. a dozen; nine
hours for one dozen; rate of pay, Id. per hour.
Wage book of an expert cambric worker: Weekly,
earnings, ss. 2d., 6s. lid., 6s. o)d., 4s. 5Jd.
And so on. In no case does the payment
rise higher than Id. per hour. Still, it is
comfortable to know from Dill Macky and
Brother Snowball that Belfast will fight for
its established' liberties to the last ditch or
whatever its principal asset is.
In England the tailors, after a long battle,
haye secured a minimum wage of sixpence
per hour. Sixpence ! One brawny half-bob .
Those Australian Laborites —the Cheap Lab-
orite section of the party—who won’t vote
for a tariff that will keep cut goods made at
these rates will please remember that they
are employing sixpenny male adults (boys,
girls and women are cheaper) every time
they purchase a ready-made imported suit.
And if they are not ashamed of themselves
they ought to be.
A British Government has a tough job
these times. Some little while ago a wild
London female took to putting flaming rags
soaked with kerosene into letter boxes and
burning up the public correspondence—pre-
sumably in the interests of. Woman’s Suf-
frage. She got six months in gaol (a man
would probably have . got seven years), it
being obviously impossible, in the interests ot
the public correspondence, to leave her at
large. Then she entered a further protest
in gaol by throwing herself down two flights
of stairs, and an infuriated politician shook
his fist in the joint and several countenance
of the Cabinet, and called its members ‘tor-
turers of women.”
One of the latest desires of
the squabbling Liberal Leagues
of Victoria was to get old
Simon Phraser to resign. Then
the two State Houses, sitting
together, were to choose a Sena-
tor for the. rest of Phraser’s
term. The choice would have
fallen on Peacock, if nothing
went wrong, and Peacock would
then have had such a “pull” at
next election that it was reck-
oned Mauger must stand down.
Unfortunately, Simon the Or-
angeman didn’t see it, so a plea-
sant scheme fell through.
Thus a writer in London Chronicle :
In these very ugly and grimy towns.... we find
that the women go out t© earn the family livelihood.
The men folk either bide at home in idleness, or
spend the money allowed them by their wives and
daughters in the plentiful public-houses.
That was written about Ulster, where they
know what is best for Ireland.
ON LIFE'S HIGHWAY.
There were two classes of people in this com-
munity, as in other communities. There was the
class that wanted to lean against a fence, and there
was the class that wanted to fight its own way.
lceberg Irvine.
'Tain't always a matter of choice , unfortun-
ately. Some are forced to the wall.
The agonised rush for the job in Merrie
England : —
London, Wednesday Evening.—-Forty-five thousand
applications were received for 200 appointments on
the outdoor staff of the English Health Insurance
Commission.
Salary about 35s. or 40s. per week.
SQUELCHING THE BLUD-LUST.
Suppose Great Britain became involved in another
war, and the people of the Commonwealth demanded
that Australian troops should be despatched to the
scene of operations, the Caucus might condescend to
discuss the matter; but if a majority of one said
“No,” the whole body would come up from the cellar,
saying “No,” and the people would be helpless.
That is the condition of impotence into which, etc.,
etc. —Melbourne Argus.
Which all serves to show the advantages of
Law'n’order.
The lamentable fiasco of the Fremantle
(W.A.) dock—after four years’ work the
place proves to be an incurable sort of quick-
sand—is another evidence of the blessings
and advantages of imported experts. With
a firm conviction that no engineer in Aus-
tralia could possibly amount to anything,
the Government hired an expensive English
person to select a dock site. He chose the
place which proved to be a sort of quick-
sand, and also chose an English engineer to
supervise. A mere Australian official de-
clared the locality wholly unsuitable, but
being Australian he wasn’t listened to. Now
the Sandgroper hates to think of all the
money that he has buried.
THE FROST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The various Coalition leagues of the Liberal and
Conservative parties are coldly and chillingly polite.
What they said three years ago as a Fusion they
repeat to-day. —Melbourne Age, rather disgustedly.
Yes!
I must confess
We ain’t changed much these three year, more or less,
Since dear old Fusion-time. We’re calm and cold.
I’m told
(And proud of it) our creeds are fossil-old.
Just
As if a Pleiosaurus on the bust
Ended up comatose, and slept in slime
For sons, waking in some modern time
To prate of Old Red Sandstone, Coal-Age swamps,
Jurassic joys, and Palaeolithic pomps.
Thus
We miss the ’Bus,
Babble of Bygones, and in progress’s spite
Our prehistoric platitudes recite
All night—
Quite
Coldly and chillingly polite!
Coldly and chillingly polite!
Ain’t it a beauteous attribute to coddle?
You’re right!
The calm and smiling Deakin as our model,
Lib’ral and Tory, still we thrive serene,
Babble our creeds of eld, and somewhat lean
Toward the yague, apocryphal and mythic—
Three cheers for the Palaeolithic! !
And whether
As lasting as the Universe —or leather —
It boots me not to say: but, fused together
(One Blight),
We drift along the stream of Time, unwillingly—
Coldly and chillingly
Polite!
VICTORIA.
SIR RUPERT GARGOYLE.
THE CIRCUS RE-OPENS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The N.S,W. State Parliament will re-assemble for
the despatch of business on Tuesday, July 23.
—News item.
Said the Spirits of the Chamber to the politician
pugs:
“Gird your loins, and place in order all your batteries
of jugs.
The decanters must be ready, and the glasses close
at hand—
For if none was there for hurling, would the People
understand ?
“Practise hard at shying missiles, get adroit at dodg-
ing such;
For if you should fail at either, then you shall not
count for much.
Polish up your fierce invectives for those brazen Labor
brats,
Lest when Liberals demand it you should fail to
answer “Rats!”
“Is the inkpot in position, so that gallant little
Fitz
May despatch it at the Speaker from the cushion
where he sits ?
Are the hinges smoothly working, that the doors may
open wide
When the Member for Bombala shall no longer here
abide ?
“Are the censure motions ready? Has the stem, un-
bending Wade
Got them docketed in order for a ceaseless cannonade ?
Are they bombs of tissue paper, filled with nothing
more than air,
To be pointed at McGowen —but intended for the
Chair ?
“Are the policies each labelled with their tags of
Fat and Lean?
Has the fence been renovated for the fellows in be-
tween ?
Have new epithets been fashioned for the galleries to
hail?
For the old ones—‘Rat!’ and ‘Renegade!’ and ‘Liar!’
all grow stale.”
And the spirits gaily chuckled, sitting on their musty
bins:
“Ended has the Silent Season, and the circus now
begins.
Let us seek our nooks and crannies, lest in boisterous
July
We are rendered hors de combat when the whizzing
missiles fly!”
N.S.W
GIL.


The Claviola Piano
the most wonderful achievement in the field of Player Pianos.
The CLAVIOLA PLAYER PIANO places at your disposal
and at the disposal of every member of yonr family, a world of
delightful music. Its operation is simple yet effective, and can be
mastered by old or young, after an hour’s brief instruction.
In appearance, the CLAVIOLA PIANO resembles a high-
grade, upright piano for hand playing, has all its grand musical
qualities. It is built of superior materials by men of proven skill in
the piano maker’s art, and its grand construction is guaranteed to
withstand the trying Australian climate.
Hidden in the case of this exquisite piano is the Solo Claviola,
the glorious instrument that brings piano playing within reach of
everybody.
By means of the Solo Claviola, the power to express the true
quality of the beautiful compositions of the great masters in the
musical art, is transmitted into any musical person even if they can-
not play the piano, and, in addition, the delightful technical effects
are produced as perfectly as the human fingers can produce them.
The construction of the Claviola Piano has never been equalled
in any Piano Player. There is an entire absence of perishable rubber
tubes, bellows and fittings.
The Claviola tubes are made of metal, the bellows and pneu-
matics of a specially selected leather. Besides ensuring long wear,
these improvements do right away with the trouble caused by leaky
tubes, and thus the very finest results are produced.
We take ordinary pianos in part payment of Claviola Pianos.
Easy terms may be arranged.
PLEASE VISIT
OUR CLAVIOLA SALON
and play this wonderful instrument for yourself. If unable to call,
please write for illustrated art booklet.
MB
■mu, >«
The
Claviola Piano
plays tlie Artist’s Master Rolls. These
wonderful rolls are the exact records
note for note, expression for expression,
of the actual playing of celebrated pian-
ists —not simply suggestions and direc-
tions. In no other music rolls can such
exquisite results be produced, as with
the Artist’s Master Rolls.
W. H. PALING ®. CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, BRISBANE. TOOWOOMBA.
WATSON’S No. 10 SCOTCH
J
ftii
Among Men
the excellence of Watson's No. 10 Whisky
enjoys wide and well-merited appreciation
Try Watson’s No. 10 and yon note a softness
and smoothness rare in a stimulant so full and
individual in flavour; you mark a uniformity
of quality, a rich mellowness, and a singular
freedom from ill-effect, and henceforward
you will specify ‘No/.lo’ with confidence.
WATSON'S No. 10
Wholesome, trustworthy, enjoyable matured b\ age alone
Obtainable in all the leading clubs, hotels, and restaurants.
, Said, by Witu Merchunfr dnd Stuns t'veryxuhtfc.
The Experience of 97 YEARS in Every Bottle.
53?
I
is
CAMERAS & LENSES
Stock-taking Reductions.
Prior to our annual stock-taking we are offering an exceptionally fine
lot of Cameras, Lenses and Photographic Novelties at 25% below usual
Catalogue Prices.
These goods are not old, obsolete patterns, but are the very best makes of
Cameras for Daylight Loading Roll Films and Glass Plates, slightly shop
soiled, and including the following—
GOERZ, ENSIGN, VICTOR, ENSIGNETTE, ERNEMANN,
FOCAL PLANE, STALEY REFLEX, SHEW REFLEX,
ROYAL FAVORITE, VOIGTLANDER HELIAR REFLEX,
AND MANY PROFESSIONAL CAMERAS.
There are also some of the famous Voigtlander-Collinear Lenses, in all
sizes, that are particularly worth seeing.
25 1
If you cannot call and see these exceptional
Bargains, write us at once for a Price List of
all goods Included In the Stock-taking
Reduction of
TWENTY-FIVE PER CENT.
25/.
ŧ
lIP
The Leading Photographic Merchants in Australasia,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland (N.Z.), Wellington (N.Z.).
A, L. TILLY, Special Agent, Forth, W.A.


LIVER AND KIDNEY TROUBLES.
A SYDNEY WOMAN’S TRIALS. AL-
WAYS TIRED AND DEPRESSED,
YET UNABLE TO SLEEP.
“I suffered from liver and kidney troubles
for over two years, and severe pain under
the shoulder which would not let me get any
rest at night, and in the daytime I would
Mrs. A. Lord.
From, a -photo.
be ovefcome with
drowsiness,” writes
Mrs. Ada Lord, 45
George Street, Ers-
kineville, Sydney.
“I was always ail-
ing, always sleepy,
tired and de-
pressed, and had no
appetite; indeed, I
could never enjoy a
meal. The doctor first
treated me for indi-
gestion, and I might
as well have taken
water-for all the good
his medicine did me.
I was recommended to
try Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills by my
nephew, who had been
taking them with wonderful results for liver
complaint, which had affected his eyesight;
and I can truly say the first dose gave me
great relief. I was encouraged to continue,
and now I may say that I am completely
well, and would not he without them. You
mav use this, as I recommend Dr. 1 Morse’s
Indian Root Pills to everybody I know.”
£
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives
«<7A\S
E. RESCIi’S LIMITED, Brezver by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Grand National season opens at
Flemington next Saturday, when the Hurdle Race,
with a £1500 bonus, will bring out a fairly big
field. More than 50 per .cent, of the first acceptors
this year are handicapped below the lOst. mark,
whereas only six of the others are weighted above
list. No more than two winners in the last 12
Nationals have humped more than 10st., so precedent
favors the idea that a well-treated one —say Win-
garara, who won at Moonee Valley the other day—
is a more reasonable proposition than Arquebuse,
Obi, Yudnapinna, Forest Prince or Lord Desmond
among the high marks, or Flash Jack or Rufus
among the middle division. Nevertheless, there is
hope for them that have to carry a white nag’s
burden. The top weights will be looking dangerous
when some of the thrown-ins are done for —provided
that the course is not a quagmire on the 6th. Obi
is a racehorse of pretensions, credited with a win in
1910, and a 3rd last year, when he carried only 31b.
less than his present handicap. He will meet Arque-
buse on 361b. better terms this year, and should beat
him. Another racehorse is Lord Desmond (list.
21b.), a son of Voyou, who was fancied for the same
event last year, but met with a mishap before the
day. If the writer had to put his boots and socks on
something at a fairly long price, he would pick Lord
Desmond —and walk home barefooted, probably. He
would couple his forlorn hope with Guncap for the
double—Hurdle and Steeple.
Again the owner, who is apt to say he
doesn’t get anything out of the totalisator, scores
heavily. Owing to increased returns from its little
whack of the machine’s takings, the Adelaide Racing
Club has put up the stake money for the Grand
National Hurdles and Steeple to £500, a new
“Guineas” of the same value is instituted, and the
minor races (14 events in the two days) have a
minimum value of £150. Total increase since last
year, £775. And previously the owner’s fees had
been reduced to a figure that clubs with no tote can-
not look at.
* * * *
The sometime Sydney jockey Frank
Wootton gave his country a slight lift last Sunday
by steering to victory the winner of the Grand Prix
de Paris, probably the best race in the world.
Although it has been won over and over again by
English horses and English jockeys, this writer be-
lieves that Wootton is the first Australian to ride
the winner. The added money is equal to £12,000,
and there is in addition a sweepstake of 40 sovereigns
for starters. In 1909 the total prize money was
worth £14,071, and the , race was then the richest
in Europe. There may be more heavily-gilded ones
in the great chaotic U.S.A., but it is doubtful. Any-
how, the Grand Prix enjoys the reputation of being
the most auriferous race on earth, and an Australian
has just won it on a 30-to-one against chance.
* * * *
“Dick” Lilley, who has just retired from
cricket after 35 Test matches as England’s wicket-
keeper, names in his book of reminiscences a number
of “bests.” Sydney Cricket Ground is the finest in
the wo: Id, but Australian pitches are incomparably
worse than English when really bad. Hospitality
here is so rampant that English teams (he names no
names) have found it dangerous. Barrackers, though
technically a nuisance, are good judges, and sports-
manlike in criticising both sides. The fastest bowlers
he ever saw were Kortright, in England, and an abori-
ginal, “Henry,” in Queensland. Ernest Jones was
Australia’s best express, and Richardson the world’s.
Grace was England's best all-rounder and Noble Aus-
tralia’s, with Jackson coming near to Grace. Trum-
per was Australia’s best bat; Shrewsbury the best
professional; and Clem Hill the world’s crack left-
hander. Ranjitsinjhi stood out alone in batting, his
154 (not out) at Manchester, in 1896, with Jones
bumping all over the place, being the supreme effort.
The finest innings Lilley ever played against was
Trumper’s 185 (not out) at Sydney, in 1903, and the
best bowling side he ever struck was S. Africa in
1907. The veteran’s own highest scores were in
England (171) and here 91 not out (innings “de-
clared”). Three times he bagged six wickets in an
innings, and in one Test at Lord’s he gave no byes
in a score of 421, and dismissed Gregory, Noble,
Kelly and Trumble. That sort of keeper is not often
bred. After “24 years of cricket”—the name he
gives his book —he resigns the gloves for England
to E. J. Smith, who comes not only from his own
county (Warwick), but from his own old club, Cad-
bury’s cocoa factory at Bournville.
“O.K.”: How farcical is the system of
choosing England Elevens for Test matches some days
before the event, as though fair weather conditions
were assured. Capt. Fry was practically relying on
Barnes and Foster to do in wet England what they
did in dry Australia, the absurdity of which confidence
was shown in the fact that Rhodes, who was use-
less, or worse than useless, as a bowler in Australian
Tests, proved the best of the bunch on the dead
wicket at Lords. Meanwhile, Haigh, of Yorkshire,
long time the champion wet-weather bowler, was
improving his season’s average in one of the county
matches. The Test was farcical in so far that Aus-
tralia had no earthly chance of winning ’it, and still
more farcical in that England had the wrong bowlers
for the dirty job.
The dropping of Queenslander McLaren
for the first Test came as a shock to followers of the
team in Australia, as it meant that Gregory had de-
cided to attack J. Bull without a fast bowler. Ob-
viously a dangerous policy,- especially as Fogland
batting has for some time past been mostly dogged
stonewalling, prettily styled “careful watching of the
ball.” Slow or medium bowling is more easily
watched than fast —which should be clear even to
the man on the last tram. McLaren, or any other
fast bowler, may not take wickets himself, but the
startling contrast with the rest of the battery helps
to demoralise the batsmen. McLaren may be a really
good express for only a few overs, yet a judicious
captain would let him bowl those few overs at the
right time. In his last two matches before the Test
the Queenslander captured—against Lancashire, one
for 12 and three for 22 ; against Somerset (for what
it’s worth), four for 45. Clearly he wasn’t stale, or
homesick, or anything of the sort. Curiously enough,
England was also without a regulation fast bowler.
Foster comes slick off the pitch, but is not an express
in the accepted sense. Both Brearley and Hitch were
available and in form, but neither was chosen; so
in that respect neither team was the best available.
England, however, went one worse than Australia
by omitting Douglas—the indomitable, dogged,
dreary Douglas. Brearley and Douglas, instead of
Rhodes or Woolley, or Spooner or Warner, or any
two of them, would have made the team much
stronger on paper. From the much-broken play
itself nothing much can be deduced. Instead of six
and a half hours of cricket on each of three days,
there were about four and a half hours on the first
day, less than an hour on the second, and about full
time on the third. The most significant stage, there-
fore, was the first day. On it Kelleway got Rhodes
(59), and Spooner (one), both caught; Emery clean
bowled Hobbs (107), and Warner (4) ; and Fry
made 24 (not out). Four for 211 on the first day
read fairly well for the Australian attack, though it
looks like mistaken generosity to have left Hazlitt
on for an hour and 20 minutes when he wasn’t
troublesome. Not till 162 was on the board was he
displaced by Emery, who quickly got Hobbs and
Warner. On the second day Fry and Woolley raised
the score to four for 241, and on the last day Eng-
land indulged in tip-and-run until 300 was passed,
when it “closed” before noon so that Australia might
have a knock.
Playing for nothing Australia was scarcely strung
up, but Macartney bashed up a characteristic 99, and
Kelleway played like a rock throughout the 4 hours
40 minutes of the 5j hours available, patting up 61.
Bardsley, Jennings and Smith (not out) reached the
20’s; Gregory 10, Hazlitt 19, and good old Sundries
27 —a total of 282 when stumps were drawn at the
fall of the seventh wicket, time having run out.
The return match with Essex, which followed the
Test, gave followers of the team a bad scare before it
was drawn. In May Australia won by three for 564
(declared closed) to 192 and 240. Last week Essex
led off with 421—the same old Douglas 129, Perrin
104, Fane (who captained England here while A. O.
Jones was ill) 98. Then Hazlitt sent six back for
single-figure scores, his half-dozen wickets costing
105. But the county didn’t want more runs after
the first four wickets; and it did want to beat Aus-
tralia inside the three-day limit. Australia replied
with 178, of which Macartney contributed 62, Web-
ster 25 and Minnett 20. Essex had a new bowler
named Hills, who bagged five of the best for 63.
The cable makes no mention of who he is or whence
he came. But he came all right, and Australia,
through his coming, was, for the first time, com-
pelled to follow on, wanting 243 to save an innings
defeat. Hills was still there, but was losing his
terrors fast. Jennings improved from 16 to 62, and
although Macartney was stopped at 32, Bardsley
soared from 2 to 43; Gregory and Minnett played
out time with 103 and 16 respectively—five for 320
when time gave out. The county was much stronger
than aforetime, and the Australians, expecting a soft
snap, rested Kelleway, Whitty and Matthews after
the Test. It was a mighty close thing, and Bull is
evidently far from played out.
George Bonnor, who died at Orange
(N.S.W.) last week, was the hardest smiting crick-
eter who ever represented Australia, and he went to
Bull-land no less than five times with various teams.
On four occasions he was just an ordinary player,
but on the fifth (1888) he became a demon, and fin-
ished second to the captain (P. S. McDonnell) with
1204 runs, accumulated in 64 innings. His great
height (6ft. 4tin.) and enormous reach made him
a most formidable batsman when he got properly
going. On one occasion he gracefully topped a ball
into the face of the clock at Melbourne _ Cricket
Ground, and the Australian record ball-smite —147
yards—stands to his credit. He was playing his
57th innings in the match with Time when Azrael
bowled him.
* * * *
The howling of Tarshish is as nothing
compared with that of N.S.W. Rugby Union, and, at
time of writing, preparations are being made for the
wholesale execution of the XV that was sent to invade
Queensland. The first struggle, on Saturday week,
saw the Maroons of Brisbane on top by 18 points to
15—which, although bad enough, carried with it no
disgrace. Three points may easily be a matter of
luck; hence the gloomy chiefs of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union, sitting in awful state, decided that the luck
must have been against the invading team, and reck-
oned that a telegram to the effect that it must not
occur again would be sufficient. But last Saturday
the disaster that had followed fast the previous
week followed faster, and that night the Sydney
chiefs were stunned to learn that Queensland had
literally galloped over the N. S. Wales team, rolling
in in the dirt and jumping on it to the extent of
23 points to eight. It was awful. As details trickled
through it became evident that something like a
rout had taken place. After finishing the first half
with five all, the N.S.W. team went to the dogs.
Half the second spell was over before N.S.W. suc-
ceeded in crossing the half-way line. The Corn-
stalks seemed to have lost their heads in the face of
the impending disaster, and added to their troubles
by playing off-side and getting liberally penalised.
However, the figures speak for themselves; while
N. S. Wales added three, Queensland kicked up 18
before darkness and the whistle made a timely arri-
val. The Rugby Union people will go into sack-
cloth for the space of one month.
While this fearful thing was happening to the
cracks in Brisbane the understudies were shaking up
the Competition in Sydney. Glebe, which till Satur-
day had only one defeat scored against its name in
the Chronicles, struck its second disaster at Concord.
The day was far from gay, but it was the right sort
for the strong, meaty team which Glebe usually puts
into the field. Western Suburbs was the enemv, and a
strenuous first-half finished with the Hesperides team
leading by three to nil. Glebe made a series of des-
perate attacks during the second half, but failed to
score.' On the other hand, the Red team made things
so hot that the Western men were kept on the de-
fensive, and never had a chance of adding to the lead
of three gained during the first spell. But as Glebe
could not equalise it, it was enough; and Glebe was
walloped. University found Manly a soft snap, and
continued its victorious course, wiping out the village
by 19 points to six. Eastern Suburbs was at home
to South Sydney at Rushcutter’s Bay oval, and ad-
ministered a severe castigation to the presumptuous
invaders—2o points to nine. But the horrible ex-
ample was North Sydney, which called on Newtown
at University oval, and wished it had gone drinking
instead, Newtown jumping on it by 23 points to nil
—a truly awful doing under Union rules. Balmain
smashed up St. George by 19 points to eight-—which
was not altogether unexpected. This startling re-
shuffle leaves University at the head of the Compe-
tition with 15 points. Behind, in hungry array,
Western Suburbs and Glebe march with 14 and 13
respectively; Newtown has 12 and Eastern Suburbs
11. Below that there are single figures only.
Queensland had a day of mixed fortune
on Saturday. While its 15 was scrunching the Union
team from N. S. Wales at the Exhibition Ground, a
team of All Blacks was jumping on the Rugby League
team at the Cricket Ground. Or, rather, it had got
Queensland down, and was trying to jump on it; but
the Northerners struggled so desperately that the
victorious Maorilanders only won through by 15 to
eight, which, under League rules, is fairly close.
Meanwhile, the Rugby League Competition in Syd-
ney raged as usual, and produced two awful wallop-
ings. Eastern Suburbs got Balmain in the cleft-
stick, and played with it, and fell upon it—3s to
•nil. But for the greasy state of the ball spoiling
Messenger’s kicks, Eastern Suburbs would have
finished with about 60. Glebe and South Sydney
put up a strenuous affair, out of which Glebe just
managed to crawl with six points to five. Newtown
went home wildly hilarious, having rolled North
Sydney in the slush by S 3 points to five. But, all
the same, Newtown had nothing to crow about, as it
was merely North Sydney’s utter lack of combination
that threw the game away. In fact, North’s lack of
combination was quite five degrees worse than New-
town’s, and Newtown’s was awful. Western Suburbs
managed to score its first victory of the season,
beating Annandale by seven to three. So Eastern
Suburbs is at the top of the list with 12 points;
North Sydney, Newtown and Glebe have each 10.
None of the other four teams have got past single
figures, and as the first round is now ended, they
are quite out of the hunt for the premiership.
In the Australian Rules division, Padding-
ton and Sydney, which head the Competition list,
played a draw with seven goals 10 behinds each, or
52 points on both sides. But although this reduced
the gap between them and the victorious teams of the
day, they are still at the head of the procession, with
42 and 38 points respectively. The surprise was the
melancholy downfall of Y.M.C.A. before the onset of
Bast Sydney. The Lord, whp had hitherto helped
his lambs to victory, on this occasion looked sideways
at them, and they fell by 49 points to 38. It wasn’t
a very bad doing; but it counted for just as much
as a regular rout. Newtown and South Sydney
would appear to be a wonderfully evenly-matched
pair. The previous meeting resulted in a drawn
game, and Saturday found them struggling again.
South Sydney managed to scramble out with the tip
of its nose just in front of Newtown, and won by
the narrow margin of two points—B-12 to 8-10.
So, in the Competition Y.M.C.A. is third, with 32
points, and East and North Sydney have each 28.
Nothing lower has a hope of getting into the final
struggle.
The Soccer division in Sydney had a
great day on Saturday, when an invading team of
Queenslanders was met at Epping, and routed by six
goals to nil. Six to nil is a tremendous score in the
Soccer game. But although the score was so one-
sided there was nothing of a walk-over about the
game. The Queenslanders played well, and made a brave
snowing right to the end. What overthrew the Northern
team was the intimate knowledge of each other’s
play possessed by the members of the home team.
In this branch of football the great thing is to know
what your team mates will do under various circum-
stances, so as to be able to anticipate the move, and
be in the right place to take advantage of it. This
the N.S.W. team of Saturday understood thoroughly
and carried into effect magnificently, with the result
that it not only won its match, but gave as pretty
an exhibition of football as has ever been seen in the
Ma capital. About 3000 people paid for admission
and received more than their money’s worth.
Although Essendon leads the Vic. League
competition, and Collingwood is a long way down the
list, there is really so little difference between
them that one can never be sure which will “down”
the other when they meet; consequently the collision
of these two on Saturday drew a crowded house.
The ’Dons had their strongest team afoot,; while the
Magpies, weakened by losing injured players week
after week, had more youngsters in the 18 than was
good for them. They put up a great light, and a
finishing quarter that almost compelled victory; but
some of the new men found that finish too much
lor them, and the ’Dons were still eight points to
the good when the bell rang—s 4 to 46. The win-
ners were cleaner in their handling of the ball,
surer in marking and more certain in passing, yet
their goal shooting was faulty, and there was a lack
of vim about their play that doesn’t augur ultimate
success. They meet South on the 20th, and if they
play as on Saturday, the Red-and-Whites will win.
Carlton and ’Roy indulged in a ding-dong struggle
that showed no superiority on either side, and the
victory would have gone to ’Roy had it, possessed
more than one goal kicker. That one got four goals
and seven of the 15 behinds gained (39 points),
while Carlton potted six goals eight behinds (44
points). Thus ’Roy was left in the soup again.
South, with an eye on the averages of points scored,
made a holy show of Richmond, piling up a mountain
of 126 points to 37 ; and Melbourne indulged in a
like exhibition at the Students’ expense—92 to ’Var-
sity’s 37. St. Kilda, which hasn’t an earthly chance
of reaching the finals, naturally took great joy in out-
ing Geelong, which has'. The operation was performed
in a workmanlike manner —Saints, 83 points; Gee-
long, 68.
The ’Seray-North scuffle, under the Association,
provided that body’s finest game of the season, on one
side at least. ’Scray, having got some brawny local
lads and put them under the training of an ex-
Collingwood systemite, has now secured a machine that
works like a turbine. In each of its last three games
it has piled up over 100 points, so it was felt
that, if any team could wallop the unconquered
North, 'Scray was the one. Some 12,000 spectators,
therefore, viewed the episode, and made a vast up-
roar, as the mightv Northerners, paralysed by ’Scray’s
tremendous initial outbreak, got ever further and
further in arrear. At half-time the tale was—
’Scray, 64 points; North, 11. The case was hope-
less, but ’Scray was merciless. It has had many
thrashings from North of late years, and now that
it had at last got its enemy down it rubbed its
nose in the mud good and hard. The scorer’s final
statement was —’Scray, 17 goals 13 behinds; North,
four goals eight behinds. For a team that has wal-
loped all comers this was a fearsome catastrophe for
North. The two teams must meet in the finals, and
the collision should be memorable. Essendon sur-
prised Port by putting on 90 to 45 ; Brighton shocked
Northcote by acquiring, through straight kicking,
64 points to 53 ; and the negligible Pr’an 16 spoilt
Brunswick’s outlook by collecting 65 points to 60.
Also, the despised ’Townites spread themselves over
Melb. City, it could not be called a match, but
the scores go into the records alongside the best •
’Town, 141 ; City, 14. These Citizens should turn
their er —energies to croquet.
Michael Hayden, the 19-year-old lad who
won the N.S.W. 10 Miles Championship on Satur-
day in 56min. 15sec., has literally burst on a startled
athletic circle. Keeping in the first flight all the
way, his speed over the last mile was marvellous.
Charles Weyman, beaten by 4 2-ssec. for the title,
•has filled second place in 10 long-distance events,
and is running a neck-and-neck race with the gee-
gee who struggled under the initials T.M.S. The
third man, J. Chalmers, won the title in 1910, and
R. Fitzsimmons, the fourth, was first in 1911 ; so
apparently young Hayden is a champion of cham-
pions. And yet, if he is wise, he’ll chuck it. He s
ower-young for such strenuous heart strain.
Lacrosse in Sydney finished its prelim-
inary round on Saturday, Eastern Suburbs and Peter-
sham being at the head of the rush with 16 compe-
tition points. Balmain and Sydney are next with
11 points. These four will now fight out the pre-
miership, while the other five clubs look on and
make wagers about the result.
Another motor-cycle long distance record
has gone overboard —that of the Six Days’ Aggre-
gate, which stood at 2801 miles. W. J. Clark, in
England, has now succeeded in covering 3008 miles;
but he had to puff to do it, and during the six days
and nights was out of his saddle only 2CQ hours
which is too strenuous to be healthy. The first day
he covered 598 miles; the second, 438;. the third,
378 ; the fourth, 480 ; the fifth, 557 ; and the sixth,
557 miles. What Clark felt like when it was done,
is not stated.
* * * *
The aeroplane race between Australian
aviator Hart and Yankee flier Stone, which did not
come off when half Sydney and all Parramatta went
out to see it, eventuated on 1 Saturday last. Hart
flew his biplane, and Stone was on his splendid
Bleriot monoplane, so it was a case of a cab horse
against a Carbine. The Australian started 10 min-
utes before, his rival, and the Yankee, it seemed,
had taken so little interest in the event that he had
not made himself acquainted with the course, and
relied on following Hart. But he ran into a rain
cloud, and when he struggled out of it Hart had
disappeared. Stone then started to_ look for his
bearings, but only succeeded in finding the South
Pacific, or, to be precise, the Tasman Sea. Wheeling
back he fled inland and came down, lost, strayed,
bushed. Hart flew on, arrived in Parramatta’s his-
toric park, and received an ovation. The Yankee,
brave man as he is, will find himself suddenly up-
popular if he plays more of this sort of trick on
the public.
One doesn’t like to be hypercritical, and, any-
how, aviation is a hard thing for the man who
is on the ground to offer criticism about. But there
certainly does seem to be a lack of enterprise about
local fliers, when one gets up from reading an
account of how Galbraith Perry Rodgers flew from
New York to Pasadena, in California, a distance of
4231 miles, in 4924 minutes actual flying time. He
started from Sheepshead Bay in a gale, blew through
the upper;, air over New York, , circled some of its
highest buildings, and crossed three great ranges of
mountains, two deserts, and other varieties of coun-
try. He smashed and rebuilt his machine four times
on the trip, replaced many parts of it as often as
eight times, dashed through thunder-storms, rode
cyclones, and finally saw his engine blown to pieces
while sailing 4000 ft.. over Salt Lake, and saved his
life by keeping his head clear and making spirals for
six miles to earth. On another occasion he snagged
a tree-top, crashed down 45ft. into a back yard, and
scared several dozens of devils out of the family
and squashed the life out of some chickens, besides
breaking his machine. Yet he got through without
breaking his own bones.
The latest caper is flight by one’s own
power. A French motor manufacturer recently
offered £4OO for the first individual who flew 33ft.
in one direction, and then, 10 minutes later, back
over the distance. So far no news has been received
as to how the 118 entrants fared. Most of them are
reported to have adapted the ordinary bike to the
job, by fitting it with lifting planes and propeller.
Others had announced that they would do the trick
by means of artificial wings attached to the body,
and actuated by mechanism driven by the feet.
Anyhow, it should have been a weird and interesting
display. The result will be to hand by the next
French mail.
(Continued on page 36.)
PASSIVE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Baden-Powell repeated in Melbourne the accusation
he often made in England, that there are too many
passive lookers-on at popular sports.
Say, Barnum, have you ever seen
A captivating football match—
Not on the English village green,
But where the barrackers acclaim
Australian champions by name,
And their adverse opinions tick
On umpires’ heads with scraps of brick?
Hast seen the maidens who adore
The lovely blokes in spots and stripes,
And swell the mad, cloud-racking roar
When Benno Bolger deftly swipes
The other lad to slumber ? Gripes!
You can’t have seen the little Dollies
Get square with hatpins, boots and brollies!
Hast seen the barrackers a-row
Uproot the barrier in their zeal,
And give the hapless cop the toe,
The nearest follower the heel,
And building-stone from villas steal
With mettle and splenetic foam
To chase the conquering heroes home?
Hast seen the sweating thousands swell
With grand emotions at a goal,
And marked their quaint behavior well,
When moved to caper, squirm and roll
By Ginger’s marking? On my soul,
The play is not the thing! We prize
On-looking most for exercise.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Are You Well Equipped for
the Strenuous Battle of Life?
*
Nowadays the man who is not able to take
care of himself is brushed aside.
It is the old auestion of the survival of
the fittest, which means that the “weakest,”
or the inexperienced, or those who do not
grasp their opportunities to learn to defend
themselves must always “go to the wall.”
You will find that Scientific Boxing evens
things up. It will greatly reduce the disad-
vantages of lack of weight, and will develop
confidence in your ability. It shows you
how (o get the maximum benefit of your
natural strength.
I TEACH BOXING
WBY POST
in a simple, concise and practical way. I
explain all that is worth knowing in Scien-
tific Boxing in such a manner that you
CANNOT fail to understand.
You will find it an excellent exercise and
a very fine recreation for the long winter
evenings. Here is your opportunity to
awaken the skill within you—to make you
stand out from your fellows in self-defence—
and cultivate, self-reliance in time of need.
You should get all details of my instruc-
tion. I will be delighted to give you all
particulars of terms, and to send you book-
let, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,”
which gives complete information.
Kindly send 3d. to cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
18d CastlereagH Street, Sydney.
jPlm-formly powerffif, at any altitude
soi fa unaffected ksisfayw,% »traospherici|jfOTuJi;ti on>» j
v rn i OBTAINABLE EVERY Ifl |
*
iVHMaiiwiImHMHM
'X7JTHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
T* tinent on his back, think of THE
LONE HAND. Its swag is a Continent.
your
. own
Cigarette^
If
twice
asgoodi
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BE.ST arvA VBVE.ST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros lif 255“ George S? Sydney
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
The New Shoes You Want
are Ready at Rigney’s.
And they are going to please you, too. We
know it because we know practically every
kind of foot there is.
And we stock all shapes, fittings and in-
termediate sizes to meet every requirement.
If you want well-fitting, comfortable,
strong, natty footwear, THE RIGNEY
SHOES will please you sure.
The Shoe here shown is very dressy, neat,
serviceable, comfortable and high-grade.
t
Price 25!
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write for a Copy of our
Catalogue.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
‘The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 George Street, & 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
w
Pile Sufferers.
There is no need to suffer continuously, with the prospect of becom-
ing steadily worse, when Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills will restore you
once more to perfect health and freedom from the worry conseouent
on the presence of Piles in any form.
Murphy’s Pile Pills are so compounded that they afford immediate
relief in all cases, and steadily eliminate all congestion, swelling and
irritation, soothe and heal the affected parts and purify the blood.
They are effective in all phases of Piles, both internal and external,
recent or severe. Are non-aperient and perfectly safe to take.
Sold by all up-to-date Chemists and Storekeepers. Price, 3/- per
box, post free. Order direct, if not obtainable locally. Sole Proprie-
tors: ANDREW MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Svdney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
A. M. L. mo. Ltd.
(Australian Mercantile, Land 8 Finance Co., Ltd.)
.. . FOR .♦ .
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
Stock and Station Agents,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD,
Manager.
Also at Melbourne (SL Brisbane
ţ
LI ou EUR.
BENEDICTINE
V
m
m
Wr
pl'HlOi
I
w
N
m
J HC
DUNLOP
MOTOR
TYRES
are in great demand
for Motorists are
everywhere specifying
“DUNLOPS
Experience has proved to
thousands of motorists that
“ Dunlops ” give the best wear,
and the result is that our Mills
are working day and night,
trying to cope with orders.
It’s the Quality and Excellent
Workmanship that has done it!
Try a “Dunlop” and see for
yourself!
PRICE LIST POSTED ON APPLICATION
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide
Perth. Brisbane. Wellington and Christchurch, N.Z.
“Sien Sliang’s” communication :—
The passing of one Ah Gip, referred to in a recent
Bulletin, consequent upon the ministrations of an
Australian Chow medico, sets me cogitating as to
whether the Chinese plaster was used. I guess it
was, from the horrible details. In his own country,
the plaster is the panacea for all John’s ills. It
consists of a small piece of indigo-colored cloth, of
doubtful cleanliness, thickly smeared with an evil-
looking and evil-smelling mash, composed of herbs,
tiger’s heart, deer’s foot, and other, impediments,
mention of which may be excused. It is applied for
both internal and external complaints, the idea being
“to draw out the devil.” The Chinaman’s aversion
to amputation, whether as operator or patient, is
proverbial, but I have known the saw to be used.
Came across a fragment of yellow humanity whose
leg had been amputated and the stump dressed with
■nothing but a hunk of earth. Needless to say, most
of these patients pursue the same route as that
recently taken by the late lamented Ah Gip. Cannot
understand the eternal faith of the Chow in plaster-
ing. “Belong ole custom,” he says, and that settles
it. Occasionally a sufferer, finding himself recover-
ing, removes his plaster and sticks it on the wall
of a building, a railway sleeper, or some such place,
the idea being to transfer the pain to the object.
In the case of a headache the plaster is not used,
but the patient is dragged round by the nose till a
flow of blood sets in. This is supposed to drive
the devil out of the head. Marvellous is the Chow’s
faith in devils.


■ :.s-x
, -<■ ■ ■
V» ~.
“ ELM a
THE TIME TO ORDER IS NOW.
IN YOUR INTEREST we ask you to write us now re your proposed soda fountain for next
summer.
For if you delay ordering until the rush of the new season begins, you will perhaps have to
wait before a suitable machine can be erected.
YOU NEED NOT TAKE DELIVERY UNTIL YOU REQUIRE IT.
The man who looks ahead is wise, but he that gets ahead of time is wiser still.
We import or manufacture, as the case demands, for in every instance we supply a plant
exactly suitable to the requirements of your business, and at 20 per cent, less cost than small
jobbers. WRITE AT ONCE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS OF OUR EASY TERMS.
Profit-MaKing Outfits for Hotels, Chemists, QC
Refreshment Rooms, from
To get the true fruit flavors use our highly concentrated True Fruit Juices.
TRUE FRUIT JUICES in large or small parcels. More Customers at Less Cost.
The Latest American Automatic Carbonators of Drawn Steel, Sli ?et Tin Lined,
make cri p Soda-water at £d. per gallon without any attention from operator.
We have just installed the largest Soda Fountain in Australia, at the
Crystal Palace, for The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
We send our experienced man to erect without extra cost.
NELSON CARBONATING CO. L™-
167 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHEREVER music is appreci-
ated to its fullest extent,
wherever refinement and cul-
ture find their greatest expression,
wherever love of beauty in structure
and finish is uppermost, Tis there that
the Edison Amberola finds its most
enthusiastic admirers.
It combines the highest mastery of
craftsmanship with perfection of sound
reproduction. It plays both Standard
(2-minute) and Amberol (4-minute)
Records, and is obtainable in a variety
of finishes in Mahogany or Oak to har-
monise with the furnishings of any
home.
The Amberola is fitted with a new
style reproducer, which with the ageing
of the wood, assures a full, mellow tone
far beyond anything heretofore possible
in sound-reproducing instruments.
Any Edison dealer can supply you
with the Amberola. Ask the nearest
for full details, or write us direct for
latest lists of Edison Phonographs.
To Phonograph Owners.
We have just received from our printers
a complete catalogue of Edison Standard
and Amberola Records right up to date. Fill
in the coupon below, post it to us to-day, and
a free copy of the Catalogue will be sent you
by return.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
Dept. 8., 564-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Please forward me a copy of your complete
Catalogue of Edison Records, as * advertised in
The Bulletin.
Name
Address
The EDISON
AMBEROLA
Secures the
Approval of
all Music
Connoisseurs.
'/J
'/S
%
to
The Safeguards of Society.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gift, too, is completely indiscriminate. It is
to be handed over in respect to every birth, legiti-
mate or illegitimate. . .Is this an indication that
Labor despises the social and sentimental safeguards
with which Society protects the family and defends
the marriage-tie by damning illegitimacy as a proof
absolute of immorality.— Melbourne Age, on Proposed
Maternity Allowance. (Also, see John mi, 10-11 )
Deaii brothers, gather round, and let us pray
For guidance on this dark and dreadful day,
When our chief ruler black Sin recognises,
And Vice rewarded is with money prizes.
Five golden sovereigns for a child of shame!
O brothers, I entreat you in the name
Of our Great God, Respectability,
Shall we permit this sinful thing to be?
(Christian brothers, Jet us pray;
Sneers shall wash her sins away.)....
Shall we, the just and virtuous of the earth,
Give bounty for a nameless, shameless
birth —-
We, of the fortunate, who hither came
Already labelled with a father’s name?
Shall we be cheated of our Holy Right
To cast the stones of sanctimonious spite,
And mean contempt and calumny and scorn
Upon the luckless love-ojiild, basely born?
(Holy brothers, let us pray;
Stones shall bruise her sins away.)
Shall Magdalene be aided in her hour
Of Fagan joy and labor, with a dower
Filched from the taxes that the righteous
pay,
And go rewarded on l:er sinful way?
Shall our good money go to succor that
Unhappy woman and her nameless brat?
When she some secret means might well
have sought
To save the insult that Its birth has
brought.
(Godly brothers, let us pray;
Scorn shall wear Its life away.)
To save Society our curse is hurled
At her whose Crime is published to the
world,
The wretch who braves the hatred of the
Good,
And sins the sin of lonely motherhood.
The sniffs and sneers of all those godly folk,
Whose secret sins are hid beneath a cloak
Of righteousness that is a lifelong lie,
Alone can save the Sacred Marriage Tie.
(Pious brothers, let us pray;
God will hide our sins away.)
Vet, there was One in olden days, I ween,
Who looked with pity on the Magdalene ;
One who forbore to hurl a scornful name
At her they brought Him, taken in her
shame.
E'en though she stood accused by godly
folk.
Devout and upright men, no word He spoke,
But turned away, and wrote upon the
ground,
As though He heard not them that stood
around.
(Gentle brothers, bend the Icnce
To the Man of Galilee.)
And when their savage, sneering tale was
done
Ills scorn was not for that unhappy one,
But like whipped curs went forth the godly
band,
Despising pity none could understand.
Alas, my Christian brothers, even He
Failed in His duty to Society,
And found it in His simple heart to say :
“Neither do I condemn thee; go thy way.”
(Dearest brothers, pray with me
For the gift of Charity.)
But, brothers, we, the godly of to-day,
Know that the stoning is the better way.
The path of truest Charity must lie
In scorn and sneers that save the Marriage
Tie.
Thus shall the followers of Him, the Mild,
Brand with a hateful name the blameless
child ;
Pelt one poor sinner in the pillory ;
And damn the other for eternity.
And never, while frail women fall to shame,
And luckless babes are born without a name,
Shall wicked statesmen with a pious sham,
Deprive us of our Holy Right to damn.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
The Cult of the Anonymous.
Sydney Telegraph professed to be shocked
(28/G/’l2) at a remark of Prime Minister
Fisher to the effect that the time must soon
come when all writers on political
subjects “will be compelled to dis-
■ close who they are.” The paper took
the fallacious point that a defamed
politician or political party already has
ample means of redress by reason of the
fact that the publisher is there to be shot at
by persons who consider they have been
libelled. The weakness of the protection in
question lies, among other things, in the
Law’s notorious uncertainty and costliness.
At the conclusion of G. H. Reid’s prepos-
terous Anti-Socialistic campaign a Parli-
mentary candidate brought an action for
damages against a paper which had referred
to him as a Socialist. He was able to show
that in this paper Socialists had been de-
scribed as Anarchists, liars, Atheists, rob-
bers, advocates of Free Love, destroyers of
home life and opponents of the marriage
tie. If in the normal round of daily life he
had been called any of those things, he would
have got smashing damages out of his
accuser, for he was a perfectly inoffensive
citizen. Being a politician, the Court laid
it down that he only got what he was looking
for, so to speak, and, the jury concurring,
his request for a monetary salve was
brusquely turned down. The same thing
would happen in 99 per cent, of cases of the
sort. The press has a sort of prescriptive
license to distort people’s views and utter-
ances for the purposes of party politics.
According to the Telegraph :
Compelling writers to disclose their identity
would, so far as protection against unfair comment is
concerned, not alter the position in the slightest
degree.
The Telegraph’s own attitude during the
recent Werriwa campaign, when the enact-
ment in pegard to signed political matter
was in for«e, completely disproved the above.
By general consent, its daily signed article
from the ; seat of the disturbance was the
most impartial and balanced stuff that it had
published on political affairs for year’s.
Most of it was as civilly non-committal as a
daily paper dramatic notice, or any other
free advt. There was a significant absence,
during this period, of letters wherein the
writers mentioned that someone in authority
had assured them that, in the event of A.
Conroy being defeated, the Presbyterian
religion would be wiped out, a Continental
Sabbath established, free beer supplied to
all children under 14 years of age, and the
Union Jack publicly trampled underfoot in
the streets. The reason is simple. People
don’t mind signing the words “Sturdy Lib-
eral” or “Father of Twelve” to crude lies
of this sort, but they jib at attaching to them
their names and addresses. Similarly, leader
writers and the fashioners of special articles
are willing enough, in most cases, to distort
facts and statements for political purposes
so long as the journal which employs them
bears the discredit of their performance, but
where it is a question of committing them-
selves personally to such unworthiness, they
reckon that the game isn’t worth the salary.
The signed article system is, therefore, a
valuable buttress of the politician’s good
name, an asset which, after all, he has as
good a right to have safeguarded as the next
man. As it can’t do an honest paper, which
doesn’t want to misrepresent any party or
person, and is not ashamed of the views it
holds, a. particle of damage, it is difficult to
fathom the reasons for the anguish of the
Tory press on the subject.
A Matter for Aesthetes and Suchlike.
A measure which those who are interested
in what one may call the de-Vandalisation of
Sydney, would do well to watch is the Local
Government Bill, now more or less in the
political air. Sydney is still a city of Dread-
ful Hoardings. It is not quite so appalling
in this respect as it once was ; nevertheless
it is bad enough. A whole herd of harbor-
side and other eyesores was swept out of
existence, after the passing of the Local Gov-
ernment Act of 1906. The reason was that
this Act contained a thoroughly effective
axe for the demolishment of unsightly piles
of bills and timber. Under it a council
could :
(а) Prevent the use of any hoarding in the area
without the consent of the council.
(б) Demolish or remove any hoarding which, in
the opinion of a servant of the council, appointed in
that behalf, is or may be dangerous, unsightly or ob-
jectionable, or which has been erected without con-
sent.
By virtue of the above clause, all a council
had to do, when it found the neighborhood
afflicted with repulsive advertising matter,
was to produce an officer who stated that the
hoarding was objectionable, and a Court of
Law automatically did the rest. A love of
beauty surged up in the public bosom, or, at
any rate, a certain amount of love surged
in more or less bosom. Hideous advts.
started to fall broadcast like unto wheat
before the reaper. Vested mtciests
annoyed, and even, at times, raving mad.
And so wires were pulled, and the Act was
amended. In place of the old, effective and
easily intelligible section,. another was sub-
stituted which mostly consisted of wild words
meaning nothing. Under it, councils were
permitted to —
Regulate and control all hoardings in the area and
prevent the erection or use of such hoardings r as may
affect injuriously the amenities of a public park or
foreS. y °'
“ 1 „ , . .. ~ ,
As a means ot reducing the councils and
everybody else to a condition of absolute
impotence in the matter of eliminating the
hoarding horror, this amendment is priceless.
No council that was unable to put into the
witness-box the shade of Ruskin or j i>ro-
Retto or some art judge ot that cay ore,
could hope to persuade (1) a lory-minded
magistrate, or (2) any sort ot magusyate m
a case where the art-opinions conflic„ea, that
Blighters yehow and blue liver pill ad\t.
injuriously affected the _ of a
P arlr - I n practice, at the present time,
councils have, accordingly, no. control what-
eYe.v over hoardings, lhat is to say, Lie
citizens have no control over them. VMiicli
absurd. The Local Government Bill, now
in hand, proposes, to all intents anc pur-
poses, to restore the powers which were
taken from the councils six years ago. It
certain that interested parties - will battle
fike tigers to prevent the councils
those powers. It is up to that section of the
public which favors city beautification, and
rejoices at the spectacle of blots being wiped
o® the landscape, to see that the interested
ones are defeated. If. the councils .aren t
given an effective law, in this connection, it
1S hardly worth bothering to give them one
at all-
~— ♦
a Gilbertian spectacle, these days, is the
sight of suburban Bumbledom sitting in
heated judgment on the problem of its own
obliteration by a Greater Sydney. At a
recen t “conference” of self-elected “authori-
ties» on the subject a large and varie gated
selection of horror, chaos and cata-
clysm was discovered to lurk in the
proposal to transfer the various bor-
oughs from their present enlightened
managements to a Greater Sydney. Bumble-
dom decided that its obliteration was
“undesirable in any form, and to be
strenuously opposed.” Magnanimously, it
m-wt chfoct A me ’ „
ser vices ” J but Tt was emnhatic about
that* -Lld ff thp t
tragGCly tiiat oulct lesult it tiiG present
“ auto nomy” were disturbed, with all the
inefficiency and ineptitude it connotes, The
suburban councils are now Iwimr invited to
suDuman councils aie now Demg invited to
encioise this verdict ot the conference, and,
to do them no injustice, they are responding
to their own invitation with energy. As to
reasons, mainly the time wasn’t reckoned
to he quite rotten enough. Likewise, Bum-
bledom is simply appalled at the prospective
agonies of its beloved ratepayer under a
Greater Sydney council of ratepayers,
elected by the ratepayer himself on an adult
franchise: and it calls on high Heaven to
preserve the old conditions and the old debts
and ruts and mud-holes and dignities.


FASHIONS COME & FASHIONS GO;
WITH “JOHNNIE WALKER” ’TIS NOT SO,
BO UN IN 1820 HE
STILL IS GOING STRONG, YOU SEE.
ry
-
y.
f A C
«§
SB
L/ . .*9
V
T AC-
N
%
't&s-
££*
SS
> /'■
LA
Nj
&
2
m
m
1
Si
n
r
5a
4
gS*
\
7A
m
I >A
<k
a
m
a.<
fefc=v
i,/i>
*” I, . <r*^
f F ifyrr y-y^k
. . m lrl •<’/ , 5 v V
N
\
V V
>~V*M
F
*». * S'
C.v,
- \4 -
. w
r-^
VV (L
jfej)
«
ii
Wi
vU
: • y
yyc
r - ' • r
j-'
J
/§£
V*#
" MV
A * (Vv ///^
rJtfc&g
HvV
ft
Ci
* / — =~^r>'rr*- *i*c •
»&$*
3?
3-1=
?>lG<vA I YL^
/■^
*-•
v-AV\>
\vV Ct
P’.T-
THE “ADVANTAGE IN”
asking for “Johnnie Walker” is that you are sure of being “served” the whisky without a “fault
Every bottle bears this label: “Guaranteed same quality throughout the world.”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.. SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS, KILMARNOCK & AT SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.


Chest, muscle or
bone weakness —
then you need
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
In every part of the world
there are thousands of men,
women, children and babies
who have gained health and
strength from SCOTT’S
Emulsion.
No imitation is
nearly so good
No so-called “just as good”
remedy can furnish such over-
whelming proofs of purity,
quality and strength, or show
so long a record of successful
results.
DOCTORS every-
where recommend
SCOTTS,
because SCOTT’S Emulsion has
no equal as a builder-up of the
human system, as a strength-maker for
all. PROVE THIS. One bottle of
SCOTT’S will convince you.
ť
This is the SCOTT
Trade Mark - a sign
of Scott’s purity and
genuineness. See it
on your package and
thus avoid error and
disappointment.
Of all Chemists and
Medicine Dealers.
DR. HARTMANN’S
ANTINEURASTHIN
AND
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells
must be FED, and not stimulated by medicines in
the form of tonics or sedatives, which give temporary
relief, but cannot effect permanent improvement.
ANTINEURASTHIN is the ONLY known prepara-
tion containing an effective percentage of Lecithin
in an active organic state, completely assimilable,
and with its valuable principles undiminished in any
way.
A sample of Antineurasthin, together with a valu-
able treatise on Nervous Complaints, will be dis-
patched by return of mail, on receipt of twopence
in stamps, by the Wholesale Distributor for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. GODDARD, No. 3
Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane; or
branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland.
SERIAL, No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by H. A. GODDARD,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No 810. [1
Allcock!s
PLASTERS
No matter whether the Pain
is in the Back or Side# Chest
or Limbs# you can always
rely on an Allcock's Plaster.
It is a standard remedy# sold
by chemists in every part of
the civilized world.
Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion, etc,
Brandreth’s Pills
ENTIRELY VEGETABLE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO.,
Birkenhead, ENGLAND.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
ŧ
t
ţ
ť
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr-Growlng Compound
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those, who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by nrf True Hair Grower. _ ;■
I am not an advertising quack, but am. a business
man. .My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached th.e age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my hqad was quite bald.'
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause, renewed'growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, .and here let, me
say that pot only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but thofee of Continental Europe. 1 also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs-came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an,old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that . I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when, in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the niost reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. ; 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. ■
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at 6d.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
ŧ
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126
BOND ST., SYDNEY.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORRQCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
t
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
44 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
our T weeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
ţ
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” Trade Mark of
Kay’s Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
THE
PROOF of my CIGARS
IS IN THE SMOKING
aom.
BUYERS all over Australia and New Zealand, by their
repeat orders, testify to the good smoking qualities,
flavor, and aroma of my Cigars.
To convince yourself, send me an order for 100 of any
of the following: —
IMPERIALS
IDYLLOS
DIADEMAS
GRAN BOUQUETS
INFANTAS
LEVUCAS
45 1- per 100
37/6 „
22/6 „
20/6 „
17/6 „
15/6 „
Smoke 5 or 6 of them, and, if you are not satisfied,
return the remainder to me, and
I WILL REFUND IN FULL THE AMOUNT PAID.
Remit amount with order, and I will deliver Cigars,
all charges paid, to any part of Australia. When order-
ing, state whether you like a mild, medium, or full
flavor. Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any
address on application.
My only address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
“ mHE Australian thinks m Continents,because
I he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE 'LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that enters for a Continent.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
Nominis Umbra: A portion—a mere
portion, Nominis—of one of the sentences in your
Defence article: “For they do not know positively
or practically how to concentrate their minds upon
ony subject, and to demand and say that they must
do this or that is quite foreign to the average
colonial, either boy or man, and will be met with
refusal or cheek or an indifferent manner of doing
what is required ; ask them civilly and they will
even go out of their way to oblige or assist you (I
can express this with confidence after over 50 years’
experience in the colonies, and am a colonial myself),
and would act similar to them under the same cir-
cumstances (the whole military movement is wrong,
it is not want of loyalty or respect to officers that
stagnates or debars the cadets front acting as they
should (and would) but being compelled”— Here
We pause and take a long deep breath as a pre-
liminary to chucking your contribution. Thanks for
translating vour pen-name. It "is, kindly thoughts
like these that do much to brighten the ink-slinger’s
wretched 10t..... Prescription: Can’t say. Presume
it was some advertiser’s comnound. It certainly
wasn’t The Bulletin's P.V.G.: Glad to hear it ;
but it’s scarcely matter for public notice.... Mopoke :
You guessed right. It is doggerel. ...D.8.R.: Dar-
win article consists roughly of one part Darwin and
19 parts Chow, and the infamy and smellfulness
thereof. Cut out the Darwin stuff, re-christen it,
“Some Facts re Your Brother,” and post it to Bruce
Smith, and it may do good. ....Sorley Boy: The
gist of your vast Anti-Home Buie screed here-
with: (1) The bulk of the Irish people do not want
Home Rule. (2) Recent Papal exhalations have
given the Protestants a strong handle to their case
against a Parliament which .would- be two-thirds
Catholic. (3) Ulster will fight if Home Rule comes
to pass. They are wearisome, unconvincing old gags,
and we can’t bring ourselves, to take them seriously.
Thornbury: ‘ The Princess’s seats 2000 or there-
abouts; Her Majesty’s is good for 2400.... Austin:
They are not a hopeful lot. . . .F.C.C.: Nothing very
promising among them A.P.E. (Q.) : Regret
nothing suitable in this batch. Glad to consider'any
future items. .. .Kinny: Poem goes at an easy canter
towards an unimportant destination.... Wangaratta:
You can’t make “wish you” rhyme with “Fisher.”
While you were making these desperate experiments
you might have re-christened our Prime Minister
“Andrew Fichu”—-after the trifling lace or muslin
cape worn by women. Still, even that wouldn’t have
saved it. The poem makes about as much splash
as a cup of tea poured from the roof of a 22-stOrey
building while a fierce wind is blowing. Unknown:
It is only one wave in a sea of similar verse....
J.M.K.: Very rugged—and ragged. Why not attach
your full name and address?. .. .P.T.McD.: A soulful
tenor would draw gallons of tears with it if it could
be set to music. In cold ink, though, it is merely an
ordinary poem of the low-toned eventide Variety. By
the way, we have often tried to estimate how many
poets sit down per minute and write at the top of
a clean foolscap sheet, “MEMORY.” Asteroth
M.D.: Creditable, but it lacks kick. . .Mack : Poem re-
turned, marked “No account,”... .J.H. (Q.) : When
the Asiatic fleet is sighted off the coast, the Religious
Editor, as Colonel-in-Cliief, attended by The Bulle-
tin’s Past Grand Barmaid, as A.D.C., will hurriedly
muster the Legion of War Poets and march them to
South Head. There, at the word of command, they
will draw from their breast pockets their most
tremendous efforts, and start to read them aloud in
one vast discordant chorus. We admit that it is
almost as bad as poisoning wells ; but the country is
in a desperate position. We hasten to offer you a
lieutenant’s commission. At the same time we warn
you that the execution on both sides will
probably be staggering Peg: (W.A.): Too
horrible. Glad to see others. .. .Grafter (M.L.):
Five times round the world should have yielded you
a few experiences worth writing about. You might
try something in prose—-the plainer the better.
Verse is not your medium... .J.S.: The child is
unusual enough to be printed:—
Come hither mother, list to me,
Let gloom not blight thee with its shade,
In grief thou’lt pine with misery,
As summer flowers frost-bitten fade.
In joy and sorrow I was calm,
With courage brooked the tide of woe,
No fear of death haunts me, I am
Prepared when doom calls me to go.
... .A.K.: Grieve to say it is now going up in smoke.
... .E.A.R.: “Sir, I enclose a few verses to see if any
of them are worth a cent.” Don’t throw yourself on
our mercy with such a horrifying thud. Our soft
answer (especially designed to turn away wrath), is
that there is no money coming to you. Now pick
yourself up and go calmly and in peace like a good
ear....T.5.: Two lines only:—
From early morn there birds in song
Tell tales of love till eventide.
How surprised you would be if a wild bird on a tree
near by opened its beak and poured forth a stream
of talk something in this fashion: “Well, here’s
Spring again, and worms scarcer than ever! D—d
if I know how I’m going to keep the nest going,
unless a few more lovers come along and throw food
at each other, as they always do when they’ve eaten
enough and don’t want to have the bother of carrying
scraps home. It’s no use singing to the brutes—
they never give you anything for it. I saw a poet
making copy out of me just now. Wonder if he
would spring a crust if I went and whistled in his
ear?” Yes, it’s lucky birds can only sing. .. .Jack
R. (Q.) : Poem pig-rooted all over the place, and
ended by kicking a stately ode to death.... Sidonia:
We don’t care for it, and we’re almost sure “Larri-
kin” would be dead narked. We will even go so far
as to say that he would probably petition to have
himself struck pink, and then go gathering road-
metal with a view to our windows J.G.S.
(N.S.W.) : Thanks; one or two likely ones in the
batch.... Rockyite: Very young and feeble. It hasn’t
the same extraordinary air of abandon as your pre-
vious effort Tarrangower: Some fairly graceful
touches, but it’s a bit thin and rough... .Dick (Q.) :
Sorry not enough force or finish... .Westie: Weekly
News, Auckland ; Canterbury Times, Christchurch;
Western Mail, Perth; Western Argus, Kalgoorlie.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
W. Ilosking: You have a gruesome variety of mirth
Incidentally you misunderstand the Jew. He may be a
strenuous money-getter, but he is also a fairly
generous money-spender H. Mac: Already about a
L° ze ? ,( lrtlst ? have , sent alon g pictures representing
the father of twins leaping in ecstasy because he will
collect £lO from the Federal Treasury W.H •
That joke is evidently in the air. Six papers have
had it lately to our knowledge. .. .V.M.8.: Drawing
crude, but shows some vigor. If you are a flapper,
with short skirts and your hair down, and have had
| little training, then there is a lot of promise about
it. If you have been trained and your hair is up
the position is less hopeful M.V.M.: There are
traces of ability about them and occasional streaks
of humor, but the work is so utterly careless that it
is difficult to judge. They look like sketches dashed
off in one minute by a youth who could do a lot
better if he took a whole day... .Pippo: Your inten-
tions may be good, but your picture deserves to be
three different kinds of dead A.W.0.: Didn’t put
them in the fire as suggested, not having any fire at
the moment, but gave them to an enemy in reduced
circumstances. His language was as combustible as
you could ask f0r....F.M.: Moses was found so very
long ago that interest in him has diminished. Also,
there are doubts about him ever having been found.
Further, it is doubtful if there ever was any Moses
until recently, when he opened the pawnshop. All
Egyptian history has been scratched for him, without
success... .Frank L. S.: There is no demand on any
illustrated paper for anybody’s “first attempt at this
sort of thing.” N. Mcß.: The case of the man
who was bound over to keep the piece is a tragedy
that wandered round the less populated parts of
Britain 100 years ago. .. .Paddymelon: Thanks; but
the idea was used during the last Referendum cam-
paign. j


>\ '
I
,111* •WW
«»?
i ? |
111 I
wiM/m/t/.‘W''//////f/?/M
mi
urn m
V':
ms
is
r
si g S 3 ill
?f gg# »///
HI
iifj
in
Sis SSs
Hm
S«S?3
*ss
gplW
5/liJ
I?
yffa/ccYis of\JflgK-(/rcidc
BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS are the last word in piano
construction.
They possess all the improvements found in the best makes
of modern pianos.
And, in addition, they have patent features—snch as our steel
tuning system —which are not obtainable in any other pianos.
This, together with the scrupulous care exercised in every
detail of their construction, ensures instruments of superior tone and
durability.
A fact worth noting is that our High-grade Pianos are manu-
factured here, of materials seasoned in this climate.
THIS is why they withstand Australian climatic conditions
better than any imported pianos.
We sell direct from Factory to user, and thus save yon all
the usual agents’ and middlemen’s profits.
We sell for Cash or upon Easy Terms.
If you cannot call, write for our Catalogue, and full particu-
lars, which we will be pleased to send Post Free on demand.
CAPE VADER PIANOS are the lowest-priced pianos, which
can be really guaranteed, upon the market.
BEALE CO. LTD
MAKERS OF
BEA EE HIGH-GRADE PIA N O S
"The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.*'
CARL VADER PIANOS.
Prices: £49. 55, 60, 65. 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST„ ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN
ST., opp. Pike Bros., our
new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE.
Head Office and
CASH or EASY TERMS.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


SEND
TO=DAY
for a copy.
A. SAUNDERS’
MAGNIFICENT SILVERPLATE CATALOG
SEND
TODAY
for a copy.
is unequalled in Australasia. There are thousands and thousands of
Wedding Gift Designs, away from the ordinary, handsome, practical, and
priced at the most pleasing prices. SEND TO-DAY FOR A COPY,
WAITER, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, Hand-
engraved, fancy edsre. embossed. lOin, 30/;
I4in. 50 !.
IK
I® M
15/6.
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Satin Glass.
IT’S FREE
20/-
CREAM JUG,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Hand Engraved,
“Fern” n~v n
TWO-BRANCH SPECIMEN TUBE,
Pure Silver-plated, Burnished,
Gilt-lined.
•sajpneH passoquig; ‘pa^id-jaApg
Bjn <j 'sdnox pm SKOods Vax NooNHajLav'
’9/21
Si
ijHf" w ff" , Mniwwwiw
PRESERVING DISH, Pure Sil-
ver-plated, Nickel Silver, Fluted
Venetian Glass.
20/-
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand-engraved, Butterfly
Design.
FOUR-O’CLOCK FORKS, SlL-
ver-plated. Embossed Handles.
ORDER BY MAIL.
WE PLEASE
EVERYONE.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plited, Cherry Design,
Embossed Satin Finish. Burnished die.
: iiiii" -
arWm
m
I u
12/6.
BREAKFAS" CRUET, Pure
Silver-plated, Crystal Glass
Bottles.
OUR JEWELLERY
CATALOGUE
IS A BOOK
WORTH HAVING.
12/6.
FERN POT. Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Embossed and Fluted.
10/6.
EGG FRAME AND SPOONS,
Silver-plated Nickel Silver.
11 e
w
13/6.
DINNER CRUET, Silver-plated,
Crvstal Glass Bottles.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure Silver
plated, Hand-engraved.
ROSE BOWL, Hand-emibossed, Gilt-lined,
Silver-plated, Mounted on Ebony Plinth.
7/6
BEDROOM CLOCK, Solid
Silver-mounted, Fancy Dial,
Accurate, Reliable.
ao/-
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, Fancy Floral China,
■with Silver-elated Nickel Silver Mounts.
10/6.
SUGAR AND CREAM STAND, Silver-
plated Frame, Floral China.
ť
JAM
SPOON,
Silver-
plated
Nickel
Silver,
Hand-
engraved.
18/6.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated, Richly Engraved,
Butterfly design.
HOT-WATER KETTLE AND STAND, Pure
Silver—plated. Richly Embossed, Rustic Stand.
PICKLE JAR, Pure Sil-
ver-plated Nickel Silver,
Finest English Cut Glass.
WE PAY POSTAGE
ON ALL GOODS
EXCEPT CLOCKS.
SEND TO-DAY FOR
OUR SILVER PLATE
CATALOGUE.
12/6.
FRUIT DISH, Pure Silver-Plated Stand, Fancy Floral
China Dish.
BISCUIT BARREL,
Silver-Plated Mounts
Fancy Floral China.
25/-
Four-Branch FLOWER
STAND,
Silver-Plated Frame,
Golden Tinted Glass Tubes.
JEWELLER,
&CIOC/(
k MAKER A
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
802. 809.811.815,815,817. GEORGE ST. (Qpposite Railway Station) SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
LT/ Hq i
'M


B 8
.
m
W■
m
r\jM
■PS
’, / ' ■ . :
ft
m§s
s-
>■<«
Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. 8.,
M.D., etc.,
writes: “Takingan interest in all
subjects relating to food, I have
procured samples of Sanatogen
and subjected them to experi-
ment. . . .
“In my opinion, it is the or-
ganic phosphorus which makes
Sanatogen of such value. . . .
A series of experiments proved
that Sanatogen is easily and com-
pletely digested. I have arrived
at the conclusion that Sanatogen
is a substance of the highest
nutritive value, containing as it
does a large amount of organic
phosphorus— that is, phosphorus
which is offered to the tissues in
exactly the form in which it can
be easily absorbed. It is an ex-
cellent nerve food.”
“The Medical Times”
says: ‘ 1 There is no doubt what-
ever that the nutrition of patients
taking Sanatogen improves won-
derfully, due, in all probabil ty,
to its being easy of assimil Aion
and to the organic absorbable
phosphorus which it contains.”
A thousand times this number of Physiciar s endorse
SANATOGEN
The Royal Tonic Food.
Over fourteen thousand practising physicians have recorded in writing their high
opinion of Sanatogen, and many thousands more are daily prescribing it with the
most beneficial results in cases of debility, brain fag, lack of vitality, sleepless-
ness, disordered digestion, poverty of blood and various wasting diseases.
Can you ask for more convincing testimony of Sanatogen’s value than the
fact that it is thus publicly endorsed and recommended by practically the whole
medical profession ?
Among the original letters in praise of Sanatogen which are filed for public
inspection, there are many from world-famous physicians whose names stand
for the highest scientific achievements. Their advice, and the example of
distinguished men like those mentioned here, it is safe for you to follow.
Irresistible as this evidence is, the reader can realise the wonderful
revivifying effects of Sanatogen by taking it himself when his nervous system
and bodily strength have been undermined by overwork, worry or disease.
WRITE TO-DAV FOR FREE HEALTH BOOK.
You can buy Sanatogen at any chemists. Write to-day for a free copy of
Dr. Andrew Wilson’s health book, “The Art of Living.” Please mention this
paper, and address your postcard to •
A. WUEFING & CO. ,
SYDNEY.
Prof. Dr. C. A. Ewald,
of Berlin University, writes: “ 1
have used Sanatogen in a number
of cases, mainly of a nervous or
neurasthenic origin, and have
obtained excellent results.”
Mr. Hall Caine,
the celebrated Author and Dram-
atist, writes: ‘‘My experience
of Sanatogen has been that as a
tonic nerve food it has on more
than one occasion done me good.”
Mr. W. Rhodes,
the famous Yorkshire Cricketer,
writes : “ I have given Sanatogen
a good trial, and found it a
splendid tonic.”
Mr. A. G. Hales,
the famous War-Correspondent:
“ I find my health benefits by
every tin of Sanatogen. It re-
vitalises a man, and is not a
drug. ’ ’
a
> > ' >
'A• A ■ A *
See what DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH FOOD” will do for
Thin, Undeveloped Women!
IMPROVE YOUR
FIGURE
If You are Over-fat you
can depend on “FATCURE”
to take off all Excess!
Every Thin, Flat-Chested Woman Can be Fully Developed to Normal.
Every Over-Fat Man or Woman Can be Safely Reduced to Normal.
&
THIN WOMEN. —There is now no good reason why any
undeveloped or immature woman should remain flat-chested and
scraggy about the neck, cheeks or shoulders. The lack of a
well-rounded, nicely-formed bust deprives a woman of four-fifths
of the charm that would otherwise he hers.
Are your cheeks sunken and hollow? Have you deep lines
around your mouth and eyes? Are your arms thin and scrawny?
And is your chest flat and your bosom undeveloped? Do your
shoulder-blades and the “salt-cellars” that form at your throat
make evening dress almost a tragedy? Are you so thin that
your clothes merely hang on you? ?
Emaciation is really one form of disease, and the inability to add sufficient
tissue to round out and give to the body a symmetrical appearance is, in most
cases, evidence that some ailment is interfering with the digestive and assimilative
processes.
Dr. Falliere’s “Flesh Food”
is a scientific, harmless Bust Developer and Flesh Builder. Put up in Tablet
form, it is easy to use and pleasant to take, and, if desired, may be taken secretly.
It is not a common drug, but a skilfully-prepared, medicated food-treatment. Taken
under our directions, it will work wonders for your appearance.
In many cases bust measurements have been increased by over ten inches,
and the gain in actual weight—equally distributed over the body in generally
deficient cases—has been over five pounds weekly. Some other cases have shown
an increase in weight of even a pound a day. The average bust increase desired is
about six inches, and is readily accomplished. Results Guaranteed.
Flesh Food offers relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin
women who have despaired of ever possessing C presentable figure. It is a nerve
and tissue food treatment that adds weight and permanent development to attenu-
ated women. The increase once effected remains. It does not leave again.
We have not space' here, but if you will call or write, we will give you
hundreds of testimonials from grateful women who have used “Flesh Food” to
their everlasting delight, adding greatly to their general health, to 'he,, improvement
of their figure, and have so benefited their appearance that often friends who had
not seen them for several months absolutely stared in wonder at the favorable
change. SEND FOR A 'FREE SAMPLE OF DR. FALLIERE’S “FLESH
FOOD,” and copy of written guarantee.
FAT PEOPLE.— Excess fat injures your health, impedes
your movements, and makes you the butt of your unreeling
normal-weight friends.
People who are excessively fat never feel well and vigorous
like normal folks. You know this is true. Doesn’t it seem
ridiculous that some men and women should go on, day, week
and year in, year out, straining their vitality by carrying a load
of excess fat, when they could easily get rid of it? Suppose
someone suggested that you should carry about with you lift.' ,
pounds’ weight of lead in your pockets. You’d think him mac. 1
People who have been fat, and are now reduced to normal,
think other fat people ridiculous.
Excess fat impedes the heart action, rendering its functions difficult; interferes
with the breathing, and, by denying oxygen to the blood in sufficient quantities,
impairs the circulation, and depreciates the quality of the blood, so that it builds
new tissues but imperfectly.
Not alone does excess fat injure your health and endanger your existence ;• it
absolutely destroys your figure and makes you a ludicrous sight. Why do you stay
fat? €t Ak nr'***'* TIT& XT 1 9 9
FATCURE
Positively removes excess fat, and will restore your spoiled figure to decent and
pleasing proportions. It removes even a pound a day in many cases, and is always
a sure and lasting cure for obesity and corpulency. A few doses improves your
breathing wonderfully, and the course of treatment will cure you.
Is the only successful, and, at the same time, harmless, fat-reducer that has ever
been discovered. Its efficacy has Been undeniably demonstrated in thousands of
successfully treated cases. “FATCURE” is a vegetable compound, put up in palat-
able tablet form, is easily and (if required) SECRETLY TAKEN, and its use
is not followed by any harmful or unpleasant after-effects. It is totally and abso-
lutely non-poisonous, and can in no wise work any injury to the general health or
the constitution; and though it reduces excess weight by as much as a pound a day
in many cases, not the least unpleasant symptoms follow in its wake. On the con-
trary, improved conditions in the general health become noticeable, even in less than
a week after its use is begun. You breathe free again after taking “Fatcure.”
“FATCURE” is not a patent pill sold regardless of individual symptoms; but
is a scientific treatment, adapted t’p suit each special case. Obesity cannot be cured
by drastic purging pills.
We Supply a Free Sample of either “ FLESH FOOD ” or “FATCURE.’
We publish an interesting, useful book on each subject— one entitled “Bust Development.” the other “Obesity” ; and we
will gladly give or send either one to you, together witli a free trial sample, if ■' T bu will call or write, enclosing a 2d. stamp to
cover part postage. These books are written in plain English, and contain a great deal of useful and valuable information.
We make no charge for advice, and have a lady attendant to see those who call at our Offices. Our postal facilities are so
perfect that we can treat you satisfactorily, no matter how far away from us you happen to live. All packets are closely
packed, and sent out in plain wrappers.. Consents, secret.
When writing, be sure to say WHICH BOOK YOU WANT, and give vour weiarht as closely as you know it. All com-
munications confidential. WRITE OR CALL TO-DAY. WE GUARANTEE RESULTS WITH THESE TREATMENTS.
The Watworth Falliere Assn..
..‘JA U.Ji
1190 Ash Street, Sydney. 6201
Cut out this Coupon and Post Back to us. ■•••
THE WATWORTH FALL!ERE ASSN.,
1190 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs, —Please send me your book and a
Free Sample of
State if “Fatcure” or “Flesh Food” is desired.
Name
l
Address


Articles of Daily Usefulness.
Stewart Dawson & Co., while holding the fullest
stocks of expensive jewellery and plate, yet present
for your selection, artistically beautiful goods at prices
which, in view of the quality and workmanship,
are astounding.
Among the articles, illustrated below, is just
the “very thing” you have been needing.
.:£S’
P
iNo. J77ol—Solid Silver and Cut Glass Pin
Box, 3jin. long, 9/6.
** iiinrhi . . V:
ii i u ill •) fTT't
J949C—Silver-plated Hairpin Box.
Size, 3fin. x 2in. 5/6.
bmIISI^e
J9497—Silver-plated Trinket Box.
Size, 3§in. x 2in. 5/0.
"THE
TREASURE
HOUSE.”
u
w
ar
•No. J 770 Silver and Cut Glass Tip
Box, ilin. long, 7/(1.
“THE
TREASURE
HOUSE.”
•m?
a*
J9sos—Silver-plated Jewel Box.
Satin lined, 4|in. x 2Jin
17/6.
Z*«iSa
waaaa333QQQQaQaaaaa
J9sol—Silver-plated Jewel Box.
Satin lined. sjin. x 3iin.
20/-
WE
' -
PAY
POSTAGE.
Jo96o—The New Fold-up
ling Cluck, in Crocodile
Cuse. 00/-
Travel-
Leather
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE.
WWu^ lSt^\
mA
w
mss
JP49s—Silver-plated Hairpin Bux.
Sine, 3§in. x 2in. Brice, 5/t>.
Jo4s.S—Silver-plated Jewel Box.
Satin lined. Size. sin. x Jin.
I’rice, 18/6.
MAIL
ORDERS
PROMPTLY
FILLED.
J94S5 —Silver-plated Jewel Box, with lock
and key. Size, sin. x 3|in. Satin lined.
30/-
WE
MANUFACTURE
OUR OWN
GOODS.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
(Australia) Limited,
STRAND CORNER, 412 OEORQE ST., SYDNEY.
ŧ
t
CLEAN IT FROM THE BREECH.
THE NEW, 22-cal. REMINGTON lIAMMERLESS REPEAT-
ING RIFLE takes 15 short, 12 long or 11 Long Rifle Cart-
ridges. It has a 22in. best round steel barrel, walnut stock,
rubber butt plate, weighs 4-ilb., and is the only haminerless
rifle that can be cleaned from the breach.
Price, complete with 2-joint rod,
42/6
nut stock, steel rifle butt plate, weight 7O
Postage
3/9.
SPECIAL TARGET MODEL, 24in. Octagon steel barrel, wal-
Postage
3/9.
Either of above, fitted with Lyman sights, 15/- extra.
ALCOCK & PIERCE
318 Street, Melbourne.
ţ
ALCOCK S
PIERCE'S
RIFLE LIS^S
ť
Will not Of ily
interest y c «
they will sav e
you har/, cash.
Get Them
To-D ay.
Cobber Mouth Orfrjns
fir
Fitted with sound-reflecting Covers and Bell
Metal Reeds, give absolutely the loudest,
clearest and most musical tone of any Mouth
Organ. The covers are acoustically correct
in shape, and magnify the sound from the
reeds as the Horn
increases the tone
of a Phonograph.
Many inferior
Mouth Organs are
fitted with fancy
shaped covers, but
- \
r— ! «»—sia»r!sKrjESi?3!K-]t~iK
rr— r— ra k~" s-1 ess eai m trs e
only the ignorant buyer is i aisled as such
covers reduce the volume an- d interfere with
the free production of the t one. Only thor-
oughly seasoned material is < JSe d in the manu-
facture of Cobber Mouth Organs and their
<3 urabiiity therefore
•can be relied on. We
guarantee to replace
any Cobber Mouth
Organ which is de-
fective in material
or manufacture.
No. 1. The Professional Cobber, 40 Ml
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case ... 3/“
No. 2. —The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case 2/-
J?' Miniati ire Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell M .etal Reeds in fine
Metal Case .... |/g
No. 4. The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1/-
JACKSON
A.
WILLS &
& MACDONALD, Australian Agents, DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY
E. BEAT,, East St., Rockhampton, and 367-9 Queen St Brisbane-
CO., 7 Quadrant, Launceston; G. W. RYAN, 43 80-urke St Melbourne-
OPTICAL & PIIOTO SUPPLIES CO., Hay St., Perth Melbourne -
BUY THE "PLUM” RAZOR
1016
You know what a smooth, soft, gliding shave a
head hairdresser .gives ? Well, that is just what you
can give yourself every time you shave with the
famous “PLUM.” It cuts the stiffest stubble with-
out leaving any soreness. Never “drags” or “pulls.”
We guarantee to keep it in good order for two years,
free of charge. .
TheC. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous- j
tache. VVorij at
night; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
Send for our free
illustrated price list
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 13/8.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
PLUM RAZOR, in Case, 10/6, Clack
Handle.
Pair in Case, 21/-, Clack Handles.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/3 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
L
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
The PLUM RAZOR, tO/6 Post Free.
CRAIG ca. AITKEN, 654
GE^? B £ s gJ D R B **J /R f™~
Lngland is still mistress of the seas as
far as motor-boats are concerned, for the Duke of
Westminster has again walloped all-comers at Monaco
Bay, Monte Carlo. The “Cup of All Nations” repre-
sents the world’s blue ribbon for speed, and his
Nibs’s glorious boat Ursula beat the nearest rival by
lOmin. over a 93-]-mile run, maintaining an average
speed of nearly 40 miles per hour for the distance. The
exact time was 2hr. 40min. 27sec. The course was
a circular one, which had to be traversed 24 times.
The Ursula is fitted with a feaijt'ul and wonderful en-
gine, a 24-cylinder, 750-h.p., made by the Wolseley
car firm.
Alcock’s Sporting Review, which has ar-
rived at its third volume as a threepenny monthly, pub-
lishes a seasonable article on “Billiard Practice,”
which every amateur aspirant for tournament laurels
should take to heart. There’s a lot of readable stuff in
Alcoek’s red-covered publication—about the cricket
team in Britain, and fishing in general and sword-
fishing in particular, and golfing and tennis, and
lioofball, and assorted athletics, all served up with
illustrations in a well-printed magazine. It could
be improved by reduction to ordinary magazine
dimensions; but, anyhow, it seems to be going well.
* * * *
Maoriland’s big Canterbury Jockey Club
handled no less than £52,807 last year (to April 30,
1912), and the 10 per cent, dividend taken out of
the Tote money supplied £28,023 of it. In stakes
the owners got just upon three times more than all
the gate receipts; in fact, they got pretty nearly
twice as much as the gate receipts arid the nomina-
tions put together. An owner here and there growls
his opposition to the Tote on the ground that, if the
howling bookie were abolished, owners couldn’t get
a decent amount of money on. But with the Tote
doubling and nearly trebling the stakes, they can do
very well without Ike. Others besides the owners
get a bit out of the never-missed 10 per cent., too ;
£3174 was put into improvements last year, and
Dominion taxes took a cut of £7617.
* * * *
The morality of up-country racing came
under the limelight in the recent Melbourne case of
one Stribling versus the Stewards of the Nar-Nar-
Goon (Vic.) meeting. Stribling had been refused
the £5 stake of a race which his pony mare Norrie
won at the meeting aforesaid ; also, himself and pony
had been disqualified for life on the ground that
Norrie was really a mare named Gung Gung, and
was “rung in” under false pretences. Stribling
practically undertook to prove his innocence of the
alleged fraud. Judge a’Beckett decided that he did
not prove it. The evidence convinced his Honor that
whereas Gung Gung was one pony and the real
Norrie was another, the former was disguised as
Norrie for the purpose of winning the race in dis-
pute. Judge a’Beckett explained that he was
“surprised to find witnesses going into the
box to describe the operation of ‘ringing-in,’
and saying that such a fraud was not in-
frequent in racing.” His Honor forgot to
mention that the witnesses spoke of up-country
events. Metropolitan racing is dishonest enough, but
the crude swindle known as “ringing-in” belongs to
those “sport-loving” districts where racing is the
recreation of careless dupes and the business of crafty
rogues.
“Adelaide”: A word of protest over the
spirited War v. Sport cartoon (B. 20/6/’l2). The
idea —Military Training first, Football also ran —is
perfectly sound. The suggestion—that the two big
schools in Adelaide reverse those placings—is just
as unsound. Here are the facts: (1) St. Peter's and
Prince Alfred’s colleges are absolutely loyal to the
Defence movement; they had cadet corps of their own
years before it was made compulsory. (2) Natur-
ally, they play football also, and the meeting of. the
two is the event of the year to thousands of Old
Boys, sisters, cousins and aunts, etc., as well as the
boys themselves. (3) Adelaide Oval, the only suit-
able meeting-ground, is engaged by the senior
League, but one Saturday is kept for the “College
match,” and fixed months beforehand. (4) The
Defence force this year, no doubt by inadvertence,
has named that particular Saturday for a review.
Well, naturally the schools say that another Satur-
day might fairly be taken instead; and that is all.
Granted that duty to one’s father comes bct'oi e that.
to one’s sweetheart, yet surely, if the old man casu-
ally commandeers an evening reserved for the gjri
and the only one when she can get away— -it is a
fair thing to say, “Delighted ; but can’t you make it:
some other date?” The Defence Department has.
very sensibly recognised all this, and has made it.
another date.
* * * *
State control of boxing has proved a>.
success in New York. The sport was in a,
bad way in the sink of the United States,.
and the Boxing Commission waded in with i
an axe in each hand and killed an abuse at;
every blow. The first victims of its wrath were the -
gentlemen who put on what are known locally as :
“frame-up” fights. Scrappers who did not appear to t
be honestly trying to. win were promptly passed out ,
for various periods. The next class that came in for ■
the axe were the “all in” fighters who bluffed!
referees and resorted to brutality. Some of them i
were barred for 10 years, which meant life, for a>.
boxer who is good to-day is usually only fit for •
wheeling treacle in a barrow 10 years hence. Betting ;
at the ring-side was eliminated altogether, although i
it was understood that wagers could be made before •
hand and money put on “down town.” Then the ;
incompetent referees were weeded out, and a fresh i
crowd of strong-minded men, who knew the game •
thoroughly, came to the front. So boxing matches ■:
in New York now are really boxing matches and not;
dubious prize-fights, and they are as orderly as .
Mothers’ Meetings. The sport has paid the cost of '
its own regeneration, for the Boxing Commission::
collects a 5 per cent, tax on the gross takings of the :
halls. Up I*o December 1, 1911, these amounted to >
§235,373, of which the Commission drew as revenue.'
§11,768= £2353 for about six months work.
* * ■* *
“Pick” turns out another light on the'
“killers” that Albert Dorrington and others have put;
a halo round: —“Because a rival whaling syndicate,.,
proposing to operate down south, has intimated that:
when it gets to work with its harpoon, killers will be;
regarded as enemies of the trade and outlaws to be:
shot at .sight, the whalers at Twofold Bay (N.S.W.))
have jumped up as one man, and, with Austin Chap>~
man backing them, have demanded that killers shall
be protected by Act of Parliament. The killers are
the cattle dogs of the Eden whale-fishing community™
By yarding up in the bay, or rounding up at seal,
they have materially helped in the capture of every
hump-back or black-head taken there for years. Inci-
dentally, however, when at work, they run the calf
whales ashore, or tear them to shreds in the sea.
Also, when fun is scarce, they organise hunting ex-
peditions on then own account, and far from land,
like dingoes among sheep, attack the whale herds
and leave floating carcases about, from which the
whalers at home get no good whatever except the
smell when their fragments drift ashore. Though
the Twofold Bay killers are so well known that each
has his particular name among the whalers, they do
not _ confine their operations to that part of' the
Pacific workable from the Bay. Periodically, as the
whales travel onward, the killers likewise disappear,
and it is reasonable to suppose that their war of
extermination against the herds of the sea goes on
unceasingly. In view of these facts, I have two re-
marks to make about the proposed Killer Protection.
Act; (1) Because it asks that killers be legalised’
destroyers of probably hundreds of barrels of oil ]
annually, in order that perhaps a dozen barrels or so .
be secured by a few whalers at Eden, it is selfish.:
and stands condemned. (2) Because, when the killers ;
trespass outside the zone of the Eden whalers’ opera-
tions they may presumably be destroyed whether pro- •
tected w mt,. it is silly and need not be bothered!
about.”


1
1
&S.
Wfi L 5 KY- -
f?**N
r
r,
A
i
' v.-**
>
iff Watm m
Kiaa
as
%
m
'^*.2
/
■ ■
■H
/«
:y ••!
■
jlfii
1
r
», 6 # * »♦«#* *#>!?•£
■
I
:
©
j
iP-? .
.
■ill**!
: I
■HI
mm 3
■i
I gums
lllllil
The Mellow
Magnet.
It is the ** Thorne '' Flavor that
is so attractive —so magnetic—to
the appreciator of good Whisky,
■ ‘ -■ <£>•»
u Thorne Flavor ** is the ripe
product of 80 years. It is its
uniformity of excellence the
unvarying mellowness, smooth-
ness and purity that have elevated
this fine Glenlivet spirit to a
pinnacle of high public favor.
“ Toast your Successes or
Solace your Defeats" in Thorne's.
It will add a rosier flush to Good
Fortune —and soften the sting of
a Reverse.
The Whisky provided for the
regalement of the King's Guests
at the Garden Party during the
Great Delhi Durbar was
Incomparable
Thorne’s
Old Highland Malt
WhisKy.
U«xTi
aRX£»o«K Disffiium'
M i
U«f§*»* tettigay fcftlUMfrfccl
7«A»r s#£Ws:fo, tK**»U s»*»


Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin. Chemist, Southampton.*
For Influenza
and after-effects
NOTHING EQUALS
ANGIERfIMULSION
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
The remarkable soothing and healing properties of
Angier’s Emulsion, combined with its strengthening and
nerve-tonic properties, make it invaluable both during and
after influenza. There is positively nothing to equal it as
a healing tonic and restorative after influenza, pneumonia,
pleurisy, bronchitis or any illness affecting the lungs or
digestive organs.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGJER CHEMICAL CO., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W,
m
THE NEW NOTION.
COAT SWEATERS
Can be worn under the ordinary coat.
Very strongly advocated tor sports wear.
Made from pure kilted wool) as illustration.
White and Silver Crey Shades
1816.
Oversize, 1/- extra.
We are anxious that you should possess one of our
large Illustrated Price Lists. Send for one, free.
PIKE BPpTHERS LTD. , Brisbane.
IN BANANA LAND
It is announced that the Denham Govern-
ment proposes to introduce a measure pre-
scribing forfeiture of voting rights for indi-
viduals who howl down candidates at public
meetings. It is not announced that Denham
will also strike off the editors of newspapers
which deliberately suppress the speeches of
political opponents in their bigoted Tory
journals.
It is Winton now that is writhing in the
throes of a beer' strike. A women’s union
haA T ing compelled Bung to raise wages 25
per cent., that portly gentleman retaliated
by shoving up board from 20s. to 245., and
lifting the price of a meal from Is. to Is. bd.
A meeting of unionists promptly resolved to
swear off drink until board was reduced to
the old figure, with the result that a fright-
ful thirst is raging in the district.
Died a few days ago, at Gympie, Frank
Power, well known for many years in south-
ern Queensland as Gympie’s. mining lawyer.
Power was a well-known racing man and an
ardent politician, but failed in his various
attempts to capture a seat in the Assembly;
wherefore the Philp crowd placed him in the
Legislative Council. In the short-lived Philp
Ministry of 1907 he was Minister for Jus-
tice, but his political activities apparently
expired with the death of that, casual Cab-
inet, for he seldom showed up in the Coun-
cil afterwards. Power was, on the whole,
a good fellow, a good sport and a good citi-
zen ; for which reasons The Bulletin says
nothing about his unfortunate Tory predi-
lections.
“Longy,” from the railway line that is
crawling out past Cloncurry to the Duchess:
Another beer strike is on out here. The navvies and
others opined that it must be all drinks sixpence,
beer and whisky. The pubs offered beer 6d., all
others Is. The'strike was declared nearly a fort-
night ago, and on the list are only about a dozen
free labor drinkers. The navvies got paid on Satur-
day, and, at a meeting that night, voted by a 90 per
cent, majority to remain dry. Permission was given
to an old chap to dip his whiskers in it, on account
of age and custom. A funny attempt to break the
strike failed beautifully, forbye ’twas awful. The
Gov. visited the big mine on Saturday. That night
a cask of beer was put out on the road, some pints
placed On top nice and handy and a tap affixed. The
gag was, “It’s from AVee Mac .” Then one of the
pickets, a man made of very stern stuff, turned the
tap, and let the brown fluid soak into Queensland.
Abraham offering up Isaac must have been a great
sight, and no doubt the matter was fully reported
in the Hebrew Times and Bethlehem Examiner,
but it didn’t approach to Billjim offering up his only
begotten beer.
The inter-State conference on Australia’s
artesian water supply has published a pre-
liminary report which isn’t as beautiful as
the feet on the mountains of the bloke who
is the bearer of good tidings. It is proved
conclusively; says this conference, that there
is “a general decrease in the flow of the
great artesian basin,” and the experts don’t
think Australia can look for any help for
agriculture in that direction —premising that
the pastoral business has first call. Why
the pastoral business should have first call
the experts don’t seem to say, though on
general principles it may be agreed that the
agriculturist might well use up the stfrface
water, which he knows is suitable for irri-
gation, before he taps the artesian, which he
knows very often isn't. About Lpngreach,
in Middle Queensland, for instance, irriga-
tion with bore water produces one good crop.
Then the land takes about 20 years to re-
cover, fur it has a crust on it like Lot’s wife,
and it isn’t safe to get drunk and lie on it
lest you should breathe in the mineral ele-
ments, and die, or blow up, or become a ruin
like Baalbec.
FISHER'S INFANT BONUS.
MRS. O'SCOTT: “Now, Mrs. 'MeFlint, if he said £100 it might be worth considering.
In 1902 Premier Philp anticipated Fisher
in the matter of a baby bonus, with this
difference, that the Philp bonus took the
form of an additional vote instead of a £5
note. But it was laughed out, mainly be-
cause it conferred the extra vote on the
father and forgot all about the mother. And
the mother is commonly suspected of being
partly responsible for the baby.
Labor M.L.A. Filhelly, of Paddington, is
the lucky man of the Bananaland Assembly.
A few months ago he was a tide-waiter in
the Brisbane Customs, who had distinguished
himself as a cricketer and footballer, and
had consequently been frequently chosen to
act as referee at international football
matches. With a tide-waiter’s intuition,
Filhelly observed the flood which leads on
to fortune; ran the Padding' n plebiscite
against strike-leader -Ceilings ; then fought
and won his constituency; and subsequently
crowned his campaign by winning and wed-
ding brewer Peter Murphy’s gilded eldest
daughter. If Filhelly’s brains are equal to
his luck, he should make his mark in the
Queensland Opposition, which has plenty of
gaps waiting for brains.
The Harm They Didn’t Do.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Southern politician, John AA r eary, says that the
tired man, like himself, “can always point to the
amount of mischief he might have done, and didn’t.”
■ —Recent par.
The bear who yearly hibernates
AYithin his hollow tree,-
The frog who sleeps inside a rock
For thrice a century,
The specimens in bottles pent,
The 1-tip Van AVinkle crew —
Each drowsy lout could brag about
The Harm he didn’t do.
The Ruin and the Pyramid,
The Mummy and the Shroud,
The Hearse and the Sarcophagus
Might also sing aloud;
That down from old Creation’s dawn
Until this era new —
They’ve won a claim to endless fame
By AVrongs they didn’t do.
The stiff museum crocodile
AVho grins within a case,
AVith all a shopman’s greasy smile
Extended down his face,
The Log that Jove created king
When Frogland came to sue,
Could tell a tale till speech would fail
Of crimes they didn’t do.
The clod that covers Caesar’s clay
And Yorick’s shining skull,
The hero dust that whirls away
And fills the keyhole full,
Bavaria’s king (who built a nest
And thought his feathers grew),
Could come along and make a song
Of things they didn’t do.
The fossil hippopotamus
Ten thousand years in ice,
The stiff Siberian mammal old —
A prize without a, price,
The monkey tribe whose vacuous grin
AVe catch in ev’ry zoo,
Could duly chaunt and truly vaunt
The sins they didn’t do.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, .Tune 29, 1912.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Macgregor has returned from the
West, and next week will again shoulder
the burden which vice-monarchy is heir to.
His duty book has no less than six jobs
figuring on it in red ink, and a demand for
overtime rates appears inevitable. What is
the ruling pay for overtime to Governors
down your way?
Woombye was the > last place visited by
his Ex. and Lady Macgregor. That was on
Friday, and the entire cow of the district
was led forth for admiration and applause.
Anything less would have been taken as an
affront calculated to drive capital out to pas-
tures new.
The lions this week included three mili-
tary affairs. On Tuesday, the non-coms, of
the 9th A.I.R. waltzed the girls around to
the satisfaction of Colonel Hopkins, and on
Wednesday the Australian Army Service
Corps—-whose uniform is very beautiful —
rallied to the goose hop. Colonel and Mrs.
Harris, Major and Mrs. Sandford, and
Major and Mrs. Moon were there, and the
Acting-Commandant (Major Wallace Brown)
and his wife blew in to inspect the man-
oeuvres. The military Apollo also danced
industriously. To-night the men at the bar-
racks advanced on the eternal enemy armed
with pumps and evening dress. Details of
the wounded are expected in due course.
The , younger-set dance on Tuesday and
the Moon Moths ball on Wednesday _ were
plain civilian shuffles. The Brisbane
Grammar School “Old Boys” gave a
vmry nice dance on Thursday, at which
little Miss Evie Jones, youngest daughter of
“Tommy” Jones, for many years a teacher
at the old school, made her debut. Among
the pretty girls were the two Macdonald
sisters, Isabel and Mary, Lottie Bond, and
a Miss Little, whose coloring would have
filled Titian with woman’s most common
emotion. Several school breakings-up, and
the annual dances of one or two drapery
firms, have also added to the wealth of Pri-
vate Enterprise in this Town Hall-less city.
The boarding-home in connection with the
Y.W.C.A. was opened by Lady Mac. on
Thursday. It is for friendless hut financial
girls, and is just the same as any other old
hasli-tower, save that the harried boarder
must return to board ere the clock strikes
10. Cigarettes, strong lemonade, men and
the other deadly sins are warned olt the
course, while Cupid will be pursued two
miles with a 101 b. brolly. Still, the build-
ing, which is situated near All Hallows Con-
vent, offers a line view, and all the furniture
was donated by true-blue Christians. A
friendless girl can’t expect much more than
that for her money.
On Friday quite a number of citizens
visited the Institution for the Blind, Deaf
and Dumb, where the small afflicted ones
cheerfully did their sad little parlor tricks,
and were given the prizes for the year. The
lip language has done wonders for one little
chap, who speaks quite distinctly, and with-
out that dreadful monotony which is so pain-
ful. And yet he was quite dumb, and is
still deaf. Mrs. Bryan and her helpers de-
serve to be presented with a new order of
merit which would arise twice a day and
give three cheers in a voice like the angel
who gives out the hymn-number in Paradise.
Mrs. Elkington is overjoyed with all she
saw in Manila. From her accounts, it
seems to be a sensible sort of place, where
one dispenses with hat or gloves, if so dis-
posed, and strolls happily round quaint old
streets, which are ancient Spanish with a
dash of modern America. The servant-girl
question is unknown there, and where Brid-
get Amelia or a male substitute is. in
plenty, why seek further for the Promised
Land?
Frank Ahern, better known as “Skeet,”
and once a member of the football army that
isn’t going to save Australia, is engaged to
Ruby Millingen. An engagement is also
rumored between a recently-widowed (or
widowered) station-owner and one of our
best-known society girls.
A new school was to-day opened at King-
ston, Stodart, M.L.A., doing the sesame act.
The usual speeches and music occurred, and
afternoon tea was a circumstance not to
be despised.
President Meiklejohn and his sister, Mrs.
Gillespie, gave an “At Home” in the Com-
mercial Travellers’ Club to-day. Suspicious
females ransacked the place, and succeeded
in discovering two bars in as many flats
before a strong combination of members
drove the skirted horde downstairs fo the
tea-room. Benvenuti’s band did its best to
drown the conversation, and a staff of neat
waitresses dispensed food. Query failed to
establish the fact of the permanency or
otherwise of the n.w.’s, but I fear the worst.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
It will probably be months before the
“Liberals” know the exact dimensions of
their majority. No fewer than five appeals
to the Elections Tribunal are pending, and
the result no one can foretell. Yet, thanks
to the General Strike treason, Denham and
Co. could lose all five seats and still have a
solid hold on their jobs.
“F.C.H.,” from inside the Reef: —
“The Owner of the Gun” (B. 2/5/Y2) tells some
Rougemonts which it was pleasing to know you were
able to expose. This further exposure may he worth
publishing. A Thursday Island firm bought the Dart
from John Cowling in 1907, and the vessel then had
the cannon in question—the alleged old Captain Cook
cannon —on board. The manager understood the
cannon had been found by Cowling’s aboriginal crew
near Mabuiag, close to the place where the natives
of that island found a few hundred pounds worth
of copper ingots. The firm fitted out the Dart for
beche-de-mer trade, and, so far as I could learn, this
was the first time Japs had anything to do with the
working of the Dart. They lost the boat next year
on Swayne Reef —at least, lost several hundred pounds
of the owner’s money—and the latter firm then sold
out to some people in Mackay. Sixteen years ago
the Dart was trading from and about Townsville, and
was not bgche-de-mering. AVriter saw the so-called relic
many times, but never heard of the old artillery
being connected with Cook’s Endeavor until this
“owner of the gun” tried to turn the lumber into a
valuable scrap of history.
The next time a lumbering di’edge which
is being imported from foreign places goes
down with all hands in the deep seas, some-
body might do worse than indict the mem-
bers of the responsible Harbor Board or
Trust for manslaughter ; and if the Law won’t
hold them guilty, the public might, anyhow,
do a trifle of good by viewing them as morally
liable for the murder. The foreign-built
Manchester, which was being brought to
Sydney from Maoriland, will, it is now cer-
tain, never be seen again; and the W. T.
Appleton, which the Melbourne Trust bought
in Holland, has had a heap of luck not to
have followed suit. The lumbering Dutch-
built silt-barrel got away from some . Dam
or other last December, and has been risking
its crew’s lives ever since; and even now
it has only got as far as Townsville, where it
is laid up for repairs—the third place it has
had to crawl into for the same purpose. Just
what the crew thinks of the homicidal busi-
ness may be judged from the fact that; of
those who first trusted their lives to the
marine garbage cart, only the chief officer,
cook and one seaman are now aboard.


THIS MONTH’S
LONE HAND
contains a batch of jolly good stories
by well-known Australian writers and
some newcomers.
1 F rancis Birtles’ account of his trip
across Australia in a motor-car, with
his own photographs, is a feature of
interest.
A delightfully fresh view of an old
place in Norman Lindsay’s article on
Paris.
Altogether there is a liberal six-
pen’orth of good reading in
THE LONE HAND
FOR JULY.
m
1
Ineffable
Charm and
Attractiveness.
ABDULLA Cigarettes.
The reason for the superiority of
“ABDULLAS” lies in the extreme care,
skill and experience surrounding their
manufacture.
The selection of the leaf —its treatment
and preparation—and every stage up to
the final production of the cigarettes
involve a degree of knowledge and con-
summate skill which achieves always
uniformly high results.
“ ABDULLAS ” are made for the
many —their price, in view of their fine
quality, is not prohibitive. Whether for
the appreciator of choice Virginians, or of
Turkish, or of Egyptian flavors, the exact
“ABDULLA” is produced.
THE HIGHEST AWARD FOR
CIGARETIES.—The “Grand Rrix,”
Festival of Empire Exhibition , London ,
has been added to the long list of
“ABDULLA ” triumphs.
Ask your Tobacconist —he will supply
“ABDULLAS”!
©
IT
J
■
J/J -
J. J. J
J
FINE OLD COGnflC
moy
""F HROUGH nearly
1 200 years, by
patient care and
experiment, aided by
tbe soil, sunlight and
air of the Charentes
the finest grape-brandy
district in the world
MART ELL’S have
elevated their time-
honored product to its
present remarkable
standard of excellence.
©
8J36
X
SR


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.. 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and- FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sidney.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
on Country Lands, for 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS on most liberal terms.
on City and Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
jjank of ||ortb Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY k WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Reui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
lain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE.
Hustralian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. II
Myles, Esq.; Mark Siieluon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £SOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . . . . . ' 413,588 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091 069 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunnin"-
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years ar.d over, at the rate of 4 i per cent, per annum
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
Shipping.
N.D.L.
N ord D eutscher L/loyd
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundrj'.
Fares to London: 1., £66 ; 11., £3B/10/-; 111.,£15 to £l9
Fares to London: Return—l., £99; 11., £57/15/-;
111., £27, £34/4/-
Eeturn Ticket available for Return via Cape of
Good Hope per Holt’s Blue Funnel Line.
Ist Class, £88; 2nd Class, £66.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from
Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea.
Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSiERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECIvE & CO., Adelaide ;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
PHOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ŧ
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 ions, lo sail about
July 31.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 28.
AFRtC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 25.
SUEVIC and PERSIO to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation!
Fares—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto£2l 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. . . 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Keceived Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGBTY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
s.s. COOMA,
S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows:
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYAN (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous Hichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trios.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
“Winter Tours to
the Pacific Isles.
A CRUISE TO THE SOUTH SEAS at the
present time of the year is both delightful
and full of interest, and a trip in one of the
Burns, Philp Line of Island Steamers will take you
away from the rigors of Winter to the more con-
genial climes of the Tropics.
Send for our illustrated booklet describing Tours
occupying from 21 to 52 days at a cost of from ,£5
to
t
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney-
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
£3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
£8,085,000
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buekland, Esq.
Auditors: William Harrington
Palmer,
DIRECTORS:
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles iv. Mackellar, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Esq. ; Shepheard Edjrecliff Laidley, Esq.
w?u a cos > l? Ce r Geor^ e , St . Sydncy London'office- 29 'Threadneedle St , EC.
\V ith 336 Branches in all the Australian States, Mew Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 3i, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Mj 1 3, 1 apua London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable: remittances made to, and Draftsdrawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£1,500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 1,500,000
Reserve Capital .. .. .. 1,500,000
£4,500,000
DIRECTORS:
George J. Coiien, Esq .. .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Piniiey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. - Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£532,984 0 0
I Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 159,987 0 0
! Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ■■
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office; 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents -and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial (Dutual (jife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident-, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, li.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Garden of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO
UNITED STATES INLAND POINTS, also GREAT
BRITAIN and EUROPE, and AROUND-THE-AVORLD
TOURS IN CONJUNCTION AVITH SUEZ AND CAPE
LINES.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, July 13.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, August 10.
S.S. MOAN A, from Sydney, Sept. 7.
Sailings every 28 days.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
FULL PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable
at:
UNION S.S. CO. of NEAV ZEALAND, LTD
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” "Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIIIIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
S.S. Kyarra (7000 tons),
July 6 and August 3.
Wireless Telegraphy.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Innamincka, July 6.
S.S. Marloo, July 18.
S.S. Wollowra, July 20.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS:
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.S. F.S.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
* X.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
Commander.
12,600 tons. T. PRISKE,
Will be despatched from:—
BRISBANE about July 20
SYDNEY „ July 24
MELBOURNE about July 27
ADELAIDE ~ July 30
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berths cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships,
the superior third-class accommodation comprised of
two- and _ four-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships. Well-lighted and ventilated cabins
and spacious decks. Third-class passengers supplied
with fresh provisions from cool chamber throughout
the voyage. Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Elec-
tric light throughout.
*Fitted with Wireless.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. .. *4O. £l3 13s. to £2O.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. Somerset, leaving Sydney about August 20.
*T.S.S. Argyllshire, leaving Sydney about Sept. 17.
For further information see Illustrated Books
Pamphlets, etc., apply to —-
BIRT & CO., LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
ţ
South Sea
... and .. .
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
*T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, JULY 16.
*T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, AUGUST 13.
with Wireless.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), *R.M.S. Aorangi, July 13. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.S.
Manuka, August 6, arriving Sydney, August 20.
There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. *“Talune,” July 2.
(“Maheno,” from Sydney, June 26, connects.)
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com
PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates,
THE Australian Magazine—THE LON£
* HAND. TMp National Monthly. Price, Gd.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.


UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited.
HEAD OFFICE :
'GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS* SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
Fire insurances
- £500,000.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
Uure, &c. Hants also ctssuvcu/,
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
- of various classes.
The “ United ” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINIjEY, Manasrer.
msm
m
m
■
m
4
MSI®
.Pont
, i
mmm
WfeTEO BARIEV
#S‘ ft.vt'o }oot^.Cs:
y|g|| eRIQGE'&V
' : £i;
il
1
*
yr\ h \
■
L -
&
*a
£
ssarnsn
&
When something is wanted
to put on a hum or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
Local Stores and. Chemists sell it.
Made by K. C. CALVERT & Co. , M anc hbstm, En&
rpHE BEST
JL appear in
Price sixpence.
STORIES written
The Lone Hand
m Australia
each mouth.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
'EORGE HOTEL,
" St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
BRISBANE VISITORS.
<K6e HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences.
3val Billiard Table.
Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
JOHN BROS NAN, Proprietor
GREAT CENTRAL
LONDON.
NOWHERE in London exists the
equivalent of this famous Family
Hotel, offering the atmosphere of
a refined English Home rather than
that of an hotel.
Its situation is healthy and plea-
sant, within a few minutes of the
city’s chief attractions by tubes,
motor-’buses, railways and taxi-cab
rank at the door.
Rooms, large, lofty and airy. Wide
corridors—private suites (era famille),
including separate bathrooms. Every
thinkable modern convenience and
refined luxury. Most convenient for
visitors with interests in the City and
the Provinces, London’s five great
railway termihi being within a fe\V
minutes of the Hotel.
Telegrams, “ Centellare,” London-
ť
DR. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“PYROID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
EGYPTIAN-lIENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants, Melbourne and Sydney.
QREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
%
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
x' tifying and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 31- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hair worker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale: DUEUDIN AND SAIN.SI3URY, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting; Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Onoto
Pen
mrim
and upwards
THINK
OF THE INK
Ink well* are not
safe things around the
home. Acareless movement
and cushions, carpets, curtains
may be spoilt—as well as clothes.
The Onoto Self-filling Safety Fountain
Pen —f ever leaks
—Fills Itse.f in s flash
—Writes smoothly and speedily.
It is a perfect writing implement, and coots but
12- at all stationers, jewellers and stores And it is
British made.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to Thos.
Be La Hue & Co., Ltd., 361 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representative, Norman Baker, 50 York St., Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—For those who require a larger pen with a very flexible
nib, the new “G" has been put on the maiket.
Ask tor Onoto Ink— the best for Fountain and all other peu.
ŧ
iq for a Fall Moustache?
The y’re handsome
when they’re properly
grown. They look
manly and strengthen
a m a n's personality.
They give each wearer
confidence in himself.
CAPILLARINE is an absolutely marvellous moustache grower. It gets
right into the cells of the skin and nourishes the hair, forcing it to grow full
and strong. It is no newly-got-up experiment—it has a reputation of 30 years’
success. Try it.
PRICCIO/6, Post Free Anywhere. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER—worn ac night—shapes the
moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free.
CRAIG &l AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
1
JERDAN’S
The
Silent Empire
Biograph
The special features of this wonderfully
low-priced Cinematograph machine, which
must appeal to every discriminating pur-
chaser of a Biograph machine, are the
MALTESE CROSS ATTACHMENT and
its absolute silence. The Maltese Cross,
with its spindle, is entirely, cut out of
solid cast steel, carefully hardened and
tempered to secure the maximum durability
—and it renders the pictures steady and
flickerless.
Altogether it represents supreme value for
the money —it is conscientiously made from
the highest-grade materials, and projects
every class of picture as clearly and per-
fectly as its higher-priced rivals.
Travelling Bio-men should write for free
lists.
Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET (Facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
rr^
/
Front View op the Machine.
SAGAR “Premier”
Planing' Machine
does more operations,
with fewer changes,
than any other Planer.
The Sagar “Premier” is for
Hand or Power Feed, is entirely
self-contained, substantially _ built,
and quite the heaviest machine of
the type on the market.
Without change _of cutters,_ its
range is, viz., Making Glue points,
Surfacing, Straight, or Taper work,
wide or narrow, thin or thick,
Bevelling, Chamfering, Stop Cham-
fer in g, Cornering, Rabbeting,
Squaring up, Planing edges at any
angle to the side. Thicknessing
Panels and Boards, General Plan-
ing, from l-16in. to Oin. thick, at
speeds varying from 9ft. to 40ft.
per minute.
By adding suitable cutters (and
without removing the planing
knives) the machine is also suit-
able for Sticking Beads, Sash
Stuff, and Mouldings, Tongueing
and Grooving, etc.
We have a Special Booklet deal-
ing the Sugar “Premier”
Planer. If you would like a copy
please write us.
Sugar Woodworking Machines
are “built for business,” and offer
unusual capacity. Judging by the
service they are giving to many
users, we believe Sagar Machines
to be your safest investment.
Complete stocK Carried.
Catalogue sent Gratis.
AGENTS:
AcmeMachineTool Co
51=65 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY;
OR
JJ^PKersonS)
554=66 & 582=88 Collins Street, Melbourne.


“Henry IT.”: If it is proposed to
encourage the birthrate with a bonus
of £5 for every child, why not give
special encouragement in places where
there is /extra need for a birth-rate?
Why not give £50 for every child born in the
Territory? Alice Springs requires a birth-
rate at least ten times as much as Balmain
or Collingwood does.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM SHIELDS. Important.
YU ILL WILLIAM SHIELDS, or anyone
knowing the whereabouts of William
Shields, who left home at Dargalong, near
Murchison (Victoria), about 1879-80, last
heard of by letter from Wyalong Goldfield,
N.S.W., about 1890-91, communicate imme-
diately with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COY. LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CLARKE, of Northwich, Cheshire, Eng-
land. Last heard of at Annandale, N.S.W.,
twelve years ago. Brother Walter" inquires.
M. JOHNSON,
CJo Mrs. Wilson,
Dennistown, Punt Hill,
South Yarra, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
m
A BETTER
AIR-6AS
LI & NT!
One air-gas light is
not as good as an-
other. It tests with
the machine entirely.
That’s why of all air-
gas lights “Atmoslite”
is brightest, most con-
venient, and most eco-
nomic.
Write for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
WONDERFUL, VALUES IN JEWELLERY.
Seldom have such beautiful ideas in jewellery been
seen in such exclusive, choice designs and conceptions
as A. Saunders, Sydney’s leading jeweller, of 807-817
George-street, Sydney, is showing this winter sea-
son, and never before in the annals
of Austrklia have such wonderful
values , been offered. The dainty
selections in opal, tourmaline, aqua-
marine and amethyst-set jewellery are
a feast for the gods, and the exquisite
conceits in diamond-set designs are
the wonder and ad-
miration of all. The
quality of these de-
lightful selections is
of the highest, and the
prices the lowest.
Rings are a leading
feature with this popu-
lar firm, rings from
12s. 6d. to £lOO, each
one a work of art, a
dream of beauty. Pen-
dants, brooches, brace-
lets, necklets, charms
vie with each other for
supremacy, and the
watches of this famous
house are known far
A.SAUMDQ
&
uuiNdoa
ASAUNKO
and wide all over the world. We advise all our readers who cannot call and see this wonderful display to
send for A. Saunders’s catalogue without delay. A separate book is published for each department, and
will be forwarded immediately on receipt of application.
jflUniHH
..■■ |^^gi]BBBlsiS*
MODEL EE
5-Passenger Xouring Car-110-inch Wheelbase.
II
Twenty-Five
Touring Car and Roadster Models
99
t
Fully Equipped, 5 pass., 1 10-in. wheel base,
with Hood, Wind S creen, Gas Lamps and
Generator Long Stroke Motor, Three
Speeds, Enclosed Valves, Bosch Magneto.
Specifications and equipment are the same in Touring Car and Road-
ster Models, except that Roadster wheelbase is 86 inches.
2-Passenger, £230; 5-Passenger, £235.
A careful reading of equipment and construction details will impress upon
you its exceptional value at this price.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA;
HARRY W. COOPER MOTOR CO. LTD.,
Lyric Theatre Buildings, SYDNEY. 186 Exhibition Street, MELBOURNE.
The success of the R-C-H in the export field has been as immediate as in the United States
We are making shipments almost daily to the following countries:—
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, British Guiana, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, Great Britain,
Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Philippine Islands, Porto Rico, Russia, South Africa
Sweden.
Most of Australian territory has been placed, but there is still some very desirable
territory open in New South Wales and Victoria. We are closing same as rapidly as possible
and invite correspondence from responsible persons along these lines.
GENERAL R.-C-H SPECIFICATIONS.
MOTOR—Four cylinders, cast en bloc. 3}in. bore, Sin. stroke, two bearing crankshaft. Timing
gears and valves enclosed. Three-point suspension. DRIVE-- LEFT SIDE OR RIGHT SIDE as
rules of the road may require. Irreversible worm gear, 16in. steering wheel. CONTROL Centre
through H plate, integral with universal joint housing immediately below
SPRINGS—Front, semi-elliptic; rear, full elliptic and mounted on swivel seats. FRAME
Pressed steel channel AXLES—Eroru, I-beam, drop-forged; rear, semi-floating type BODY
English type, extra wide seats. Full equipment quoted above.
Amusements.
THE MARVELLOUS
RYSTAL P A L A C
Direction: J. D. WILLIAMS.
NOW OPEN.
JOIN THE CROWDS OF DELIGHTED VISITORS.
SEE THE SPLENDID THEATRE DE LUXE.
HAVE TEA, AN ICE, OR GRILL IN THE BEAUTIFUL
WINTER GARDEN.
Great Fun in the Arcade of a Thousand Wonders.
Solve, if you can, the Miracle of
“THE SHADOW OF THE CROSS.”
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS CO. Ltd.,
PROPRIETORS.
I NTEBNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL,
1 Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Wm. 11. Bell, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial
Theatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tralasia. In fact, we supply more shows with pictures
than any other three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo, play manufacturers, but we repre-
sent all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth; Courier Buildings, Brisbane;
Wellington, New Zealand; London, England;
Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
AIACE T~H EAT R E, SYDNEY.
Lessee : ALLAN HAMILTON.
Sub-Lessee and Director : ALLEN DOONE.
SATURDAY, JULY 6.
Return to Sydney of the Favorite Irish Singer,
ALLEN DOONE,
ALLEN DOONE,
And his Popular Company, headed by
MISS EDNA KEELEY,
in the New Play,
THE WEARING OF THE GREEN
By Theo. Burt Sayre.
HEAR DOONE SING
“ Nora McNamara,” “ A Four-Leaved Clover,” “Ireland
My Ireland,” and “The Wearing of the Green.”
BOX. PLAN AT PALING’S.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS
M. H. NORWOOD, Hypnotist.
MISS WINIFRED NORWOOD, Mystic Lady.
BARNES & WEST, in Character Comedy Acts.
JOHNSON & WELLS, Colored Comedians of America.
PHILLIPS & MERRITT. HARRY SADLER
Tbe Greatest “ Amphi” Successes to date.
A Tremendous Ovation Greets
HUGO & OLGA. NELLIE SEARLE.
PRICES: 2/6, 2/-, l/ : and 6d. No Booking Fees.
HER MAJESTY’S TIIEATItE,” sYDNeTT
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
GENUINELY HILARIOUS ENTERTAINMENT.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
STNBAD THE SAILOR
Infinite Variety. Packed with Features.
Glittering- Spectacles. Amazing Novelties.
COMBINED ENSEMBLE OF 350 PEOPLE.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
II E A T It E
Direction: J.
EVERY
ROYAL, S Y D N E Y.
C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVENING AT 8.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON,
With tlie London Company, and the Original Production of
KISM E T.
An Arabian Knight, by EDWARD KNOBLAUCH,
PRICES : Dress Circle & Orchestra Stalls (hooked), 7/6,
(atdoors), 6/-; Stalls, 4/-; 'Gallery, t 07.30 2/-, thereafter 1/-
AI)EL P II 1 THEA T R E. SYD KEY
.Direction and Management, Geoiige Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
RECEIVED WITH THE GREATEST ENTHUSIASM!
A Magnificent Reception accorded to the First
Australasian Production of the Mammoth
Drury-lane Dramatic Spectacle,
THE MARRIAGES OF MAYFAIR.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
■y H E X, YCE U M, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
gYDNEYGXA C I A R I U M.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12 a.m. 3 to 5 p.m. 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATE HlRE—(id.
Children Admission—Morning and Afternoon only, 1/-
Satnrday Morning : Admission—Children 6d.
Phone : 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager
Q XYMPIA AND PRINCESS, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROKNS VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plain at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
■y h e
A I. H A M B It A T H E A T R E,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d., 6d„ Is.
■HE IMPERIAL ROXXER RINK,
Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
EAT U RING ALL THAT IS BEST
ROLLER SKATING.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
Amusements.
M R WALTER BENTLEY
the Distinguished Actor.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
554 George Street, Sydney.
ICKAIt D S’ TIV O LI T JIE ATIt E.
Genera] Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
RINALDO, the Wandering Violinist.
CHARLES HERA, Celebrated Juggler and Equilibrist.
THE HANS PAXTON TROUPE, Five Ground Acrobats.
THE FOUR AMARANTHS, Whirlwind Dancers.
FRED BLUETT, Australia’s Favorite Comedian.
BLAKE & GRANBY, England’s Comedy Sketcli Artists.
RONALD GEORGE, Talented Instrumentalist.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBO URN E.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
THE SPRIGHTLY SISTERS, Entertaining Sketch Artists.
TINY ARNOLD, the Smallest Star Artist in the World.
MAX LAUBE, the Human Bird.
STAVORDALE QUINTET, Banjo <& Harp Specialists.
WALKER & STURM, Racquet Jugglers.
HENRIETTE DE SERRIS, Presenting her Celebrated
Living Art Productions.
Plan at Allan’s. ffIF“PRICES —35., 25., Is.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Praliran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
m EH MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA SEASON.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), JULY 4,
MADAME BUTTERFLY.
LOHENGRIN FRIDAY
PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
1" HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
MAETERLINCK’S WORK OF GENIUS,
THE BLUE BIBD.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
RIN CESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Sole Direction : ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PLIMMER DENNISTON CO.
in
A WOMAN OF NO IMPORTANCE-
By OSCAR WILDE.
Prices 5/-, 3/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
THE’ KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Powerful and Sensational Drama,
MAN’S ENEMY,
or LIFE AT MONTE CARLO.
EUGENE DUGGAN as SARAH DRAKE,
CYRIL MACKAY as HARRY STANTON,
and
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation.
Box Plans at. Allan’s. Popular Prices : Hs., 2s. & Is.
ELBOURNE REPERTORYTHEATRE.
Direction : GREGAN McMAHON.
At the ATHENAEUM HALL, COLLINS STREET.
THURSDAY, JULY 18—Arnold Bennett’s WHAT THE
PUBLIC WANTS.
SATURDAY, JULY 20 Anton Tchekhov’s THE
SEAGULL.
TUESDAY, JULY 23—Louis Esson’s THE TIME IS
NOT YET RIPE.
BOX PLAN at Pianola Company, Collins St., on Thursday,
July 11. Season Tickets at R dueed Prices now on sale
Town hall, Melbourne.
Direction: PORTUS & TALBOT, LTD.
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE GREAT JANSEN,
Whose Reputation Encircles Two Continents.
JANSEN,
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRANSFORMIST,
In his Magnificent and Unrivalled Exhibition of Original
Illusions and Magic Working
JANSEN
AND HIS ALL-STAR COMPANY
of
AMERICAN ENTERTAINERS.
JANSEN BOX PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRICES (Reserves, 4/-) : 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Fourteenth annual
CARMELITE BALL.
TOWN HALL, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
WEDNESDAY, JULY 17.
TICKETS 5/- EACH. May be obtained from
FRANK WRIGLEY, Hon. Sec.
33 Merton Street, Albert Park.
LYMPIAO L Y M P I A.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
\A/ EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best W ESI S PIC 1 PRES, THE BKST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN'TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
, C E GLr D ' " G-
Melbourne GLACIARIUM
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING,
IC E H OCKEY
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING.
THE Australian ."Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
“Warrumbucca” on a cocky’s trouble: —
If the threatened “country party” is brewed in
N. S. Wales, the Laborites and the other crowd may
thank themselves for throwing in the hops. Take a
sample ( of the goods. Until recently the Pastures
Protection Boards, whose funds are entirely sub-
scribed by landholders, made a practice of poisoning
rabbits on Government reserves and other lands
within their jurisdictions, and by such means (the
settlers co-operating, of course), the lice were held
well in check. About two years ago, however, the
Auditor-General discovered that P. P. Boards had no
authority “under the Act” to spend money on poison-
ing reserves. Why the Auditor-General, having made
his discovery, should have found it necessary to
blither* about it, is not apparent. But he did, and
since then P. P. Boards have had to discontinue
poisoning reserves, which have thus become breeding
paddocks. The Boards have urged an amendment of
the Act, conferring on them the power to keep State
lands clear, but nothing has been done. Meantime,
the rabbit pest in some districts has developed into
a scourge, and those unfortunate cockies whose hold-
ings adjoin reserves, and who cannot entirely wire-
net their properties, are being eaten out. To add
insult to injury, many settlers are fined for failing
to destroy the rabbits that pour in from outside.
Of course the Government trots out an excuse for
doing nothing; it has an amendment under con-
sideration which, if adopted, will, it says, abolish
P. P. Boards altogether, and transfer their oowers to
Shire Councils. Unfortunately, the rabbits won’t
Waste time considering things: they just go ahead
and multiply. And cocky, with his crop going and
the interest coming due on the mortgage, wonders
why the Government can’t amend the Act in the one
particular that howls for immediate attention (a
Bill of three lines would do), and then go on “con-
sidering” at its leisure?”


Rexophone
m
linffaftaxtititniiH
THIS HANDSOME STRONGEY-
BUIDT INSTRUMENT is the most
wonderful value ever offered
Model A SOUND BOX, Eoud
and Clear. MOTOR, Strong
and Substantial, plays twelve
inch record. Earge FEOWER
HORN, 16-inch Bell, Nickel-
plated Tapering Tone Arm.
5 polished Walnut Finish Cabi-
net, 11 xll x SIA5 l A inches.
ţ
Dover Rexophone
Is remarkable for the VOLUME,
BRILLIANCY and CLEARANCE
of its reproduction. REAR OAK
CABINET, 14J4 x 14J4 x 7 m.
Strong, Reliable MOTOR,
plays twelve inch record,
large FROWER HORN,
21-inch Bell. Nickel-plated
Tapering Tone Arm with
Swan Neck. REXOPHONE
■ SOUND BOX, Model B
510
BgSJffl
New Kent Rexophonel
Is a HIGH-CLASS SOUND RE-
PRODUCING INSTRUMENT
at a Moderate Price.
Polished OAK CABINET, 16 x
16 x lYi, in. with hinge
lid. REXOPHONE
MOTOR, plays two 12 in.
records. Large FLOWER
HORN, 22 V* inch Bell.
Nickel-plated Tapering
.Tone Arm with Swan
Neck R EXOHONE
| SOUND BOX, Model C, with rubber back.
ť
hMiTjfc'ffliifcKffliHmuji
HANDSOME, STRONG, RELI-
ABLE, WONDERFUL TONE.
Fine OAK CABINET, 16 x 16 x
7J4 in. with hinged
lid. REXOPHONE
MOTOR 12-inch Turn-
table, plays two 12-in.
records. Largest Size
Tapering Tone Arm
with Swan Neck,
24 inch FLOWER
.HORN, REX’PHONE
SOUND BOX. Model
C, with rubber back.
81
Richmond Rexophone
POWERFUL DOUBLE
SPRING REXOPHONE
MOTOR, plays four 12-inch
records. 12-in. Turntable.
Handsome DARK OAK
CABINET, 16 x 16 x 8 %
inches Large FLOWER
HORN, 26-inch Bell.
Largest size Tapering
Tone Arm with Swan
Neck. REXOPHONE
SOUND BOX, Model C,
with rubber back.
76/~
The Si|d Rexophone
Has the VOLUME and TONE of a
HORN TYPE INSTRUMENT,
with all the advantages of the
Cabinet Type. Fine OAK
CABINET, 15 x 13 x TYz inches
Double Doors. Strong, Reli-
able MOTOR, plays 12-in. re-
cord. Nickel-plated Tapering
Tone Arm. REXOPHONE
Model A SOUND BOX.
Ask for complete illustrated catalogue. Jack-
son & Macdonald, Druitt St., Sydney; G. \V.
Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne; Wills & Co.,
7 Quadrant, Launceston; W. Cornell & Son,
Grenfell St., Adelaide; Phonograph and Type-
writer Co., Central Arcade, Perth.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
, ETTES. Sold, by all Chemists.
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
lltmiimrA
F.WOLFF&SOHN
F.Woiff&Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON
6
Obtainable from all tlie Leading Stores.
ŧ
BY
APPOINTMENT
t
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
ţ
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD.," LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
rffML
Ik
j W//
r
r"r r-»
S*:
PRIZES VALUE £3500
. . in the . .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £250. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. Johnston, Raglam
Victoria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7-
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will, be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
VICE-REGAL
ť
HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs,
161 King Street,
SYDNEY.
Transformations from £3/3/- PwfFs, 5/6 set.
Fringes from 5/6.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Tails from 5/6-
’Phone 2138 Central.
w
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Bail
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U.S.A.
RICHARDSON”
ŧ
CHICAGO
HycsL
■ w 11 c-11 oajr
it is just as easy to say
11 HYCOL”
7
f stronger than carbolic.
and it means also that you
will have the SAFEST,
MOST RELIABLE in
the world. It is non-
also, and 18 times
Agents:
N.S.W. Agents:
POTTS & CO.,
163 George St.,
Sydney.
THE M9STPSVHRFUI
tflLQtaaaaas&g
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents —
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, lOd. ;
Brough’s Secret of Stage
Make-Up, 1/4 ; Sixteen
Amusing Farces, 1/1;
Thirteen One-Act Farces,
1/1 ; Twenty Humorous
Dialogues, 1/1; Home
Amusements, 1/1 ; “How
Old Mose Counted the
Eggs” and 116 Other.
Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic
Recitations, 1/1 ; “How
Sockery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations,
1/1; Famous Dialect Re-
citations, 1/1; 1401 Con-
undrums and Riddles,
1/1 ; Art of Ventrilo-
quism, 1/1; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clairvoy-
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
arj?
7
Diminishing'
Cards.
Ordinary
Play i n s
1 Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
Complete,
with full in-
struction s;
anyone can
work them.
2/9 ,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Flve, 6d. each;
ance, 1/1; Amateur Con- posted Bd. Above STricks, post free anywhere. 4/
Mention The Bulletin. juring Book, 7d. AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.' - *!
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE.
“A.L.” (Motor Car Acetylene Generator)
t
as supplied to his Majesty the King, and used by him at the Indian Durbar. No
smell, no danger, no fouling, no failure, no adjustments, no rubber parts. A sys-
tem on simple and ingenious lines. One charging of carbide can be used for
months, the London Bus Company scrapped all their old generators, and installed
the A.U Generators after most severe tests against every other make. Another
practical testimony as to its extrenv simplicity and reliability has been given by
Captain Scott, who has provided himself with a complete outfit of the “A L.”
Generators for the lighting of his expedition to the South Pole.
lib. Size, £4 10s. 21b. Size, £6 15s.
Write for pamphlet, giving particulars and description.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
ţ
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others In QUALITY, FINISH,
DESIGN and WORKMANSHIP.
Made from the Finest Quality Selected Old Briar
Boot, with Superior Hand-Out Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces. Extra Heavy Sterling' Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADING SHAPES
Price O
MT O
each
(Post Free).
ORDER
NOW !
Mick Simmons Ltd.
“ The Best House for Smokers’ Requisites,’’
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ESTABLISHED -3 874*
FOR
COUGHS .
fllAfhrtaqe’s
Ufunalonii
jkrilonic
FOR
COLDS .
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for "OWBRIDGE’S”
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL, ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
L. & G. Hardtmuth’s
I
PENCILS.
Nothing too good
can be said about the
quality of the “ Koh-
i-noor.” Its silken
touch and durability
make it the ideal
pencil for every kind
of pencil work. One
“ Koh-i-noor” easily
outlasts six ordinary
pencils.
Made in 17 Degrees
and Copying. Also
“ Koh-i-noor ” Pro-
pelling Pencils for the
Pocket
Of Stationers, &c.,
everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House,
London, England.
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and reliable remedy
for treating diseases of ALL
mucous membranes, such as
discharges fromthenose,throat
stomach and urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself f
Treatise with each bottle
or mailed on request.
The Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio
U.S.A.
ť
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
“Rimu”: The efforts which Sydney is
making to keep clean reveal more inoral pur-
pose than art instinct. The attempt to make
people put tram tickets in a sort of cockatoo’s
cage fails rather weakly owing to the mesh
of the wires being so large and the winds
occasionally rather gusty ; but the intention
is all right. Cutting down the trees in Hyde
Park because they cast their leaves at one
season and drop their fruit at another is a
very different matter. One alderman de-
clares that it is absolutely useless attempting
to keep the park in order while the
untidy trees are there. What does he mean
by keeping the park in order, anyhow? Would
he like to have the whole thing asphalted,
arranged with painted beds of artificial flow-
ers, and scrubbed with soap and water twice
a day? The figtrees of Hyde Park are a
glory and a delight. Morning and evening
the sunlight plays marvellous pranks with
them, and at night the electric light makes
a green fairyland under their spreading
boughs. There are a good many things in
Sydney that want cleaning up, and want it
pretty badly, including the fierce blue hoard-
ings that scorch the eye like the sulphur
flames of Tophet. But the trees in the parks,
for all their leaves and fruit, will do well
enough as they are.


W PITIFUL
SIGHT WITMCZEHA
Completely Covered. Bandaged from
Head to Foot. Dared Not Wash
Him. Used CuticuraSoap and Oint-
ment 4 Weeks and He Was Cured.
"A few days after birth we noticed an in-
flamed spot on our baby’s hip which soon be-
gan spreading until baby was completely cov-
/
V
ered even in his eyes,
ears and scalp. For
eight weeks he was
bandaged from head to
foot. He could not
have a stitch of cloth-
ing on. Our regular
physician pronounced it
chronic eczema. He is a
very able physician and
ranks with the best in
this locality, neverthe-
less, the disease began spreading until baby
was completely covered. He was losing flesh
so rapidly that we became alarmed and de-
cided to try Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
“Not until I commenced using Cuticura
Soap and Ointment could we tell what he
looked like, as we dared not wash him, and
I had been putting one application after
another on him. On removing the scale from
his head the hair came off, and left him
entirely bald, but since we have been using
Cuticura Soap and Ointment he has as much
hair as ever. Four weeks after we began to
use the Cuticura Soap and Ointment he was
entirely cured. I don’t believe anyone could
have eczema worse than our baby.
“Before we used the Cuticura Remedies
we could hardly look at him, he was such
a pitiful sight. He would fuss until I would
treat him, they seemed to relieve him so much.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment stand by them-
selves and the result they quickly and surely
bring is their own recommendation.” (Signed)
Mrs. T. B. Rosser, Mill Hall, Pa., U. S. A.,
February 20, 1911.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold
throughout the world. Send to R. Towns &
Co., Dept. 21K, Sydney, N. S. W., for liberal
sample of Cuticura Ointment, post-free.
An Interesting:
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.s.a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years'
proven efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
ŧ
—harsh—unnecessary. Try
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
the delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure Constipa-
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Headache,
Carters
>ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
and Indigestion, as millions know.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
t
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving tl\e beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis bas been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
sKin. No otber soap possesses
tbese qualities in sucb a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
MatcHless for the Complexion.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
P©««TPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only):
J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building. 24 Bond St., Sydney.
ţ
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
PrtcM in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/8.
$w crcdtf 0
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Made in England.
Acts like afcharm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
W/J/WJ/Z///' ■'(/WMUtMmtiUMi
,1
v i J
BIO2V '
Benger’s is the most easily
digested of all foods.
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
W 9
for Children, Invalids and the Aged, enjoys
the universal recommendation of Medical men
in all cases of severe or temporary illness, and
during convalescence.
’BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester,
England.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins bv Druggists, etc., everywhere.
ood
Business, Robbery, etc.
One of Australia’s own particular temperance
drinks has got fairly going in Fogville-by-the-
Thames. Two years ago 0.T., Limited, started a
factory in London, where a drink that tickles the
throat and warms the inner depths of the consumer
was bound to have a good chance of popularity.
And now a cable message to the firm in Melbourne
announces that O.T. is going strong, and the Aus-
tralian Eleven are touring advertisers of its hotness.
“S.S.”: Said the wise old waiter to me: “There’s
many points a young ’un has to pick up at this game.
Per instance, it wouldn’t strike you that there was
anythin’ wrong about holdin’ the tray—so—when
reachin’ fer a tip. Well, matter o’ fact, it’d be a
fatal mistake. See, the head of a well-dined gent
ain’t to be relied upon —it ain’t what you could call
discernin’. No ; always hold the ’and so fer a tip.
Hold a plate, and it’s twenty to one the gent thinks
he’s in church and gives you a thripnybit.”
“Marinoa” : The members of the Miners’ Union at
Broken Hill are an original lot, with their own
views of the law and its observance. Lately a dis-
traint sale was advertised, and the union turned up
in a body. A clock, sofa and other articles were
put up, and each brought Is.; so did the grand
piano and the carved mahogany sideboard. There
was only one bidder throughout, and in 10 minutes
he had bought the whole outfit for 10s., or there-
abouts. A proposal to help things along by putting
up the bailiff was vigorously opposed, on the ground
that the bob could be better spent in beer; so three
cheers for organisation were given instead, and the
goods were then passed back to the original owner.
The most dangerous hours in the Sydney district
for an outbreak of fire, according to the report of the
Board of Fire Commissioners for 1912, are from
1 p.m. till midnight. During 1911, there were 64
calls for the brigade at 1 p.m. as against 29 at
1 a.m. ; 65 at 2 p.m. as against 26 at 2 a.m. ; 62 at
3 p.m. as against 21 at 3 a.m. ; 55 at 4 p.m. as
against 23 at 4 a.m. ; 68 at 5 p.m. as against 12 at
5 a.m. ; 69 at 6 p.m. as against eight at 6 a.m. ; 82
at 7 p.m. as against 11 at 7 a.m. ; 75 at 8 p.m. as
against 30 at 8 a.m. ; 59 at 9 p.m. as against 35 at
9 a.m. ; 54 at 10 p.m. as against 45 at 10 a.m. ; 43
at 11 p.m. as against 57 at 11 a.m. ; and 68 at mid-
night as against 31 at noon. Thursday, with 177
alarms, was the busiest day last year for'the brigade,
and Monday, with 135, was the lazy day in the week.
Rand wick made the insurance cod's gnash their bal-
ance-sheets to the extent of 48 outbreaks ; while Pro-
spect and Sherwood, with only one, was the safest of
the suburbs. The number of fires has practically
doubled in ten years.
* * * *
“N. or M.”: Following the Norwegian co. now
whaling in Tasmanian waters comes the prospectus of
a South African enterprise of a similar nature, with a
trying-out station at Recherche Bay (Tas.). B.
Jacobsen, who has come south to have a look at
things, reckons that when his two ships get going
they should bring between £25,000 and £30,000 to
the port of Hobart. Which recalls the fact that in a
little while, by the present look of things, Jonah’s
old overcoat will be no more. The cetacean is an
outlaw among beasts. It does not come under the
restrictions relating to “shell-fish, crustaceans, seals
and all other fish,” and so has no protection from the
Fisheries Board. The killing season lasts for the six
months of the breeding season (the period when
most other wild creatures are left alone), and unless
special regulations are passed for the protection of
the whale women and whale children this animal will
take his place beside the dinosaur. Indeed, had it
not been for his habit of retiring to the fastnesses of
his polar refrigerator, such a helpless continent of
flesh as the whale would never have 'lumbered as far
down the ages as he has.
» * * *
“Mary MeC.”: There is no end to the uses of vege-
table fibre. A man has just made himself a suit of
clothes out of timber, and declares it tougher and
better-looking than tweed. The new idea seems cap-
able of wide expansion. Thus grass fibre, as the
paper-makers know, is a stronger material than that
derived from forest timbers; so why feed sheep on
grass to grow wool when the clothing could be made
out of the grass itself ? Invention goes round in
circles. Eve first thought of a vegetable wardrobe,
and now her daughters seem likely to come back to
the very oldest fashion, adding perhaps a few trim-
mings of aluminium or spun glass.
* * * 1 *
“Barroid”: Young Boxer, a bright product of the
Cow Country, has just been in complaining about
“these ’ere laws —there’s no understandin’ them.”
This is Boxer, jun.’s, trouble. Before he got married
he bought a cow or two for the missus to milk, and
when his cash ran out he bought Spot on tick, and
signed some sorter paper that went with the cow.
The man told him he’d hold the paper till he got
the cash. When Boxer, jun., paid the cash the bloke
give him the paper back. The missus didn’t like
Spot, so Boxer, jun., sold her again, and handed over
to the new owner the paper what went with the cow.
He told the old man about it, and the old man
rousted a treat, so he’d been to the bloke what
bought Spot and had got the paper back for a quid.
I looked at the precious document. Boxer, jun., had
handed over his own p.n. along with the cow!
* * * *
“Quidam”: When you read that good old Farmer
Jones died worth £23,000 it’s just as well to sit
down and think a bit before jumping to the conclu-
sion that Jones made all the pelf by coaxing wheat
and spuds out of the soil. When you’ve nosed into
the matter you’ll probably find that Jones bought
640 acres at £l, and another 360 acres at £2 10s.,
and as the land is valued now at £l2 the bulk of
the £23,000 represents merely unearned increment.
Consequently the young man who rushes in and buys
at £l2 and expects to do what old Jones did is
liable to be badly left. Incidentally, perhaps, he
will think better presently of the perpetual leasehold
idea.
NO LESSON,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Titanic disaster had taught no lesson, because
it had been quite extraordinary.— Mr. Alfred Cham-
bers, formerly Marine Adviser to the Board of Trade.
It was unusual and it was not nice,
The sinking of a ship of such a size;
Her bumping on a piece of jagged ice
Occasioned all of us no small surprise;
The thing that happened was not in the game,
But we have learned no lesson all the same.
Our watertight compartments sadly failed,
We had not boats enough to take the crowd ;
We lost the biggest ship that ever sailed,
Or steamed, or foundered, and our heads are bowed
Right to the dust in pity and in shame,
But we have learned no lesson all the same.
A lot of dead men sleep amid the weed,
Deep at the oozy bottom of the sea.
Women and babes are there, and cold things feed
On hearts that late were warm, and glad, and free,
But nobody was actually to blame,
And we have learned no lesson all the same.
Another score of life-boats had been well,
A trifle less of speed when ice was near
Might readily have saved them. Who can tell?
We offer no opinion but a tear.
We know the dreadful, cold, green death that came,
But we have learned no lesson all the same.
How should we learn? Fat builds his stately ships;
Shall we dictate to such a one as he?
In all things human there are flaws and slips,
And many things may chance upon the sea;
Yes, things may happen in Fat’s holy name,
But we ignore their lessons all the same.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


Millars’ Karri S Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, YIG.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
L-RV
Solomon
Solution
The greatest remedy on earth for
strains and sprains—and many
other horse troubles.
Large Jars 5/- obtainable from Chemists, Stores,
and Saddlers everywhere. Post Free for 5/6
from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
•olAljfo
GOUT v
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by alf Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
lEWCLUB
SHOT SHELLS
Their popularity began with
our grandfathers, and has grown
like an oak for 30 years. Never
equalled in demand by any shot
shells. Te-day, more in demand
than ever before.
If you prefer a smokeless pow-
der shell, get EMC NIT BO
CLUB Steel-lined Shells. No
better shells made.
The unequalled dependability
of UMC Shells under all condi-
tions has won for them a world-
wide popularity. Wl.erever you
find seasoned sportsmen, there,
too, you find UMC’s in general
use. Try them ’.
Remington Arms —Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
H. MOLDUN,
Australasian Representative,
P.O. Box 459, Melbourne;
1349, Sydney. [2
I
ifl
-
ilHW
Loaded 1 with
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” The “Stockport
Remedy” for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’
proven efficacy.
Australian
Established 1549.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
P„_ ho . d an d C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
«frovcrnmem Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
?rahan State" or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
un to 20 per cent! of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
nTwcTOßs—The Hon A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon James Burns M.L.0.; The Hon. E. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. I-:. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox Fso K C General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F. A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Turn a New Leaf
The Old Way
001®
«£>
Loss
Profit
Because of
Mistakes
Arguments
Dissatisfied customers
No check on assistants
No credit for good work
Temptation of em-
ployees
Forgetting to charge
goods sold on credit
Resulting from
Accuracy
Harmony
Pleased customers
Enforced records
Shows value of as-
sistants
Removes temptation
Prevents failure to
charge goods sold on
credit
A MODERN NATIONAL CASH REGISTER
TURNS LOSSES INTO PROFITS.
The National Cash Register Company
OF AUSTRALASIA,
LIMITED
335 Pitt Street, Sydney
343 Queen Street, Brisbane
281 Murray Street, Perth
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide
Macquarie Street, Hobart
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
RESERVES EXCEED THE PAID-UP CAPITAL.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
17 O-COWKELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
CASTRATION
Our Emasculator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument f<>r Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE — MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years. TO USE.
45/-
Post Free Anywhere.
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
3
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
There is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it fully and explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not s _een.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain on
them—the strain of trying to hear dun sounds.
AVhat a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain! ~
Being made of the purest and softest Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
piliow. For the same reason, a blow on the side ot
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds. , ,
So that you may clearly understand why these
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration of one as it .ies
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magni
fV
6 »
v/ A
fier is shaded
like a trumpet,
and so con
veys even the
faintest sounds
right to the
natural ear-
drum. Being
of the softest
rubber, it can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci
si on and com-
fort. The di-
vision , that
runs across the
mouth is to al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
Ear-Drum, and
tc brace it.
The shape
of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has
been chosen
after years of
experience a s
the best adapt-
ed to carry the faintest sound right down to the
natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times gets thickened, or loses its tightness, and
shouting does not act properly on it. It only
makes a confused and tiring noise. But the
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best
spot for perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-nerve
completely, or were bom deaf, we cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could do that, in spite
of some of the absurd claims made to-day. But if
you can hear the faintest sound, do not despair.
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people in
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night., and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time for Bs.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.— Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you must register, it.
VM 5 C / 200
Pa TC NT ZANETIC
CoP'oNf' '6>oo*jl
LETTERS COPIED WHILE
WRITING (in ink)
by using your own
Letter Paper,
Invoices, &c.,
with this
Book.
%
A
You simply insert
your writing paperin
the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by the
act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copv
(which remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge to vour communication.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which pro-
duces this result free, if stamped addressed envelope
sent, from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford Road,
Leicester, England.
One complete NSC/100, Copying 200 full size lOin.
x Sin. lei ters, for 3/9 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
(Money Order, not P.O.’s.)
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.
A Great Sufferer who had used
many “other” Remedies without avail,
writes of her experience with
PETERS’
PILE CURE
Mrs. Harriet Willard, Brown’s Creek,
via. Blayney, N.S.W., says: —“I am very
thankful to let you know that your won-
derful Pile Remedy has cured me.
It has been a blessing to me after all the
years I have suffered, and I cannot
speak too highly of it. Many
people here who know how I suffered are
surprised at the change in my condi-
tion.”
Peters’ Pile Cure is Easy to
Apply.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 67-
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane


Fishing Wets, Bird Nets and Rabbit Nets.
We are the Largest Makers of these Nets in Australia, and can supply you better than any other House.
Kindly note that a FEW DAYS’ NOTICE IS REQUIRED FOR FISHING and BIRD NETS.
When ordering, kindly send sufficient to Cover Carriage.
No. 16,
&
Bridles
No. I.—Best Fishing Nets, well tanned, fitted ready for use, with Leads, Corks,
and Ropes; any Mesh from 1 J inch to 6 inch—
No. 15.— Parrot and Cockatoo Trappers’ Nets, complete for working—
-6 x 15 20/- each 6 x 20 25/- each
6 x 25 27/6 each 6 x 30 35/- each
XT „ 12 x 30 42/6 each
JNo. 16.— Sparrow Catchers’ Nets, fitted, complete with Ropes, Pegs and Sticks.
(Clap or Ground Nets) as illustrated.
5 x 12 21/-each 5 x 15 25/-each
° x 20 27/6 each 5 x 25 32 6 each
No. 17. — Bat Folding Sparrow Catchers’ Nets, for night use, fitted in long
handles. Size of net, 6x9 feet, 27/6 each.
No. 18. — Rabbit Nets, made from best quality Thread. Small, 5/6 doz., 6d.
each; Medium. 8/6 doz., 9d. each; Large, 11/- doz., 1/- each.
Best Hemp Rabbit Netting, 3ft. deep, 31in. mesh, 6d. per yd.
We can supply this netting in any length.
Write for a copy of our NEW EDITION ART FISHING TACKLE MAGAZINE-CATALOGUE.
Nothing like it ever before attempted. A REVELATION IN TACKLE CATALOGUES. Gratis and Post Free from
MICK SI
TD
■ 9
Diredt Importers and Sole Manufacturers of
the Renowned “Stare Catch” Fishing TacKle,
Sydney, N.S.W
The Most Reliable Safety Razor
at the Cheapest Price th" Market
It takes the ordinary Gillette Blade, and shaves just
as smoothly and delightfully as any Guinea
article offered. We absolutely guarantee
to refund you your money if in
any way dissatisfied with the
article.
Price
4/6
each.
ONLY
EACH.
m
Don’t Throw Your
Safety Razor Blades Away.
WE ABSOLUTELY SHARPEN THEM to vour complete satisfaction
at 1/4 per dozen, and 2d. for postage.
A TRIAL WILL SATISFY YOU BEYOND DOUBT.
The Safety Razor Blade Sharpening Supplies,
177 George Street, Circular Quay, Sydney, N.S.W.
Free Offer to Horsemen
iff#?
11l Ilk
We have taken this space in the
paper to tell you we are giving
away to all Bulletin readers,
A New Illustrated Book,
Right Up-to-date,
"EVERYTHING FOR,
THE HORSE.”
It contains over 120 illustrations, and
is printed on 66 pages of art paper.
Only a Limited Number Printed. So write To-day, and Don’t Miss the Opportunity.
EDWARD BUTLER & SONS LIMITED,
7',e stators, 357 Geor&e Street, Sydney.
Aalb
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno s •FRUIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION. - Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION. ’
Prepared only by J. C. END Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
All=wool
Unshrinhable
StocKings & Soc Ks.
Wool is far superior to cotton for foot-wear.
It is more comfortable and much healthier. ''JfcMorC nr*
AJI-Australasian-Wool. They are unshrinkable and the
fiSSS* 1 * process retains the fleecy softness of the wool.
In a word are the anc | — they are no
dearer than ordinary hose.
Men’s 1 Hose—plain, ribbed, and in vertical stripes, art shades.
Ladies’ Hose—plain, ribbed, lace, and in vertical stripes, art shade*.
Children s $ Hose and Socks—plain, ribbed, lace, and embroidered in all fancr
colours. Of Men s Outfitters. Drapers and Stores. If your dealer does not
stock Jason he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
a a case of difficulty write for “Jason" booklet and name of nearest agent to
JASON HOSIERY CO.. Leicester, England. @
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boning, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter., Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
WindowTicketWriting Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power. (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How 'm Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10b 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
m
H
■
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. ~mg
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking MadeEEas t , Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, ail at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless .
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. |jff“ Established 25 Years,
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE of any country.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s (id.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, IS;
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. (id. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted., Vest; Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassn’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W. !
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un- t
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
uound, my price, 15s post paid (why pav 3 and 4
guineas). Boot-making and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-D A.Y.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).


Beautiful LIZETTE PARKES
... extols ...
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
m
*
Miss Lizette Parkes is
an Australasian Favor-
ite. Her career is a tri-
umph of both beauty and
brains. She recently won
two. beauty competitions
in New Zealand —one in
Christchurch (a beauti-
ful sold bangle), and the
other in Wellington (a
silver jewel case, which
was presented to her by
Sir Joseph and Lady
Ward). Her stage career
lias been a singularly
versatile and brilliant
one, with the J. C. Wil-
liamson and Meynell and
Clarke firms. At present
she is with the Hamilton-
Plimmer-Dennison Co.,
and is greatly delighting
her admirers, particularly
in the sweet character of
Simplicity Johnson in
“Lover’s Lane.” New
Zealand loves Miss
Parkes best Peter
Pan, a role in which Aus-
tralians have not yet
been fortunate enough
From M. and May Moore photo. to see her. In the following letter
Miss Lizette Parkes points the way to
perfect freedom from coughs and colds to all sufferers from chest com plaints.
SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I am writing to tell you what a strong advocate I am
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. It is the only thing that does me any
good when I have a bad cold and cough, or when my throat feels sore or
strained. During the past two years I have used it on numerous occa-
sions, and always with the best results. It is an excellent remedy, and
I never feel safe to start on a trip without having a bottle of it in my
bag.
With very best wishes for “New Discovery,”
I am, sincerely yours, (Sgd.) LIZETTE PARKES.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the quickest, safest and best-known remedy
for coughs, colds, pleurisy, bronchitis and all throat and chest troubles. It is a
remedy that can always be relied upon. It is obtainable everywhere at Is. 6d.,
and in larger bottles, holding two and half times as much at 3s.
D» Sheldons
I
DemonstratorAgentsWanted
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating- on ordinary
lamp oil. Operates equally well on Petrol, Paraffin. Alcohol, Benzine, I istillate, Naptha J
or Coal Oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for farms, shops, and all
power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and pumping outfits. Sawing out-
fits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse «-ears Sizes 2-h.p. to ioo-h.p. One
to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. Liberal commissions
paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely finished
demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed FREE.
Write for our proposition to agents and users o' power. Bank references given.
Detroit Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
ť
ŧ
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills (Ei Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning-/-Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Long Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Metchnikoff, the eminent pathologist of
the Pasteur Institute, lecturing before the Academy
of Sciences, claimed to have made the discovery of
the microbe of longevity. The microbe, he stated,
produces a sugar which has the effect of reducing the
intestinal poisons. —French cablegram.
LONG life to you !” The cheery toast
O’er glasses glowing red
Has cheered and warmed a countless
host
Of people long since dead.
Some sought for life in hops, and some
In nuts and pure fresh air.
(These last were mostly thin and glum,
And ran too much to hair.)
Some pinned their hope to sleeping out,
And flannel next the skin ;
Some rested and grew very stout,
Some hustled and grew thin.
Lots thought of living very slow,
In spots by sunbeams kissed,
Or dawdling to the sexton’s show
Upon a pension list.
By various ways and strange they sought
To hold their precious breath ;
With flannels, air and nuts they fought
The chucker-out called Death.
They smote him hard with good fresh greens,
They pelted him with eggs ;
And in return he p-ave them beans,
And ran them off their legs.
About the ’cumbered Earth he went
Making and finding room,
Dragging from mansion, slum and tent
The dodger of the tomb.
All this amid an endless hail
Of tonics, plasters, pills
Designed by men to make him fail
By curing all his ills.
Though here and there a human dodged
For ninety years or more,
The bulk were in the graveyard lodged
Ere they reached sixty-four.
The chucker-out made some mistakes,
t But still his work was done ;
Nut faddists, athletes, saints and rakes,
He got them every one.
Fair quantities of dead men’s shoes
Were scattered round each year;
And bright young men could pick and choose
The while they dropped a tear.
But scarcely one of them gave thanks
To him who cleared the way,
And dragged from out the crowded ranks
The men who’d had their day.
Now they would almost murder Death,
And make him loose his hold,
And give to all the gift of breath
Wherewith to grow too old.
Preserve us when behind each chair
The hungry Future pants,
And Murder whistles through the hair
Of Old Inhabitants !
Lord speed us when across the lea
Each screaming oldster scoots,
From him who wants his funeral fee
And him who wants his boots !
N.S.W.
KODAK.
The Drift of the Ganges.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MEHMET ALI killed his meat like
a good Mussulman. The fact that
it was human meat made no differ-
ence, and the blood from Watson’s severed
throat poured into the sand at his knees, to
which he had been forced.
The Afghan haled him back by the fore-
head as he lurched forward, then let him
drop limply on his side and left the knife
that had given him his quietus at a care-
fully-pitched distance from the just as care-
fully torn-up sands.
It had been a careful business altogether
—so much so that Mehmet Ali cleansed him-
self in mere accordance with custom when
it was finished, and the slinking things of
night snuffed fearfully at the steam rising
from the hot blood in the sand.
Watson’s death made little difference to
anyone. He had not been of much account,
anyway. A white man who drifts to the
level of his turbaned consorts never is. The
nearest outpost of civilisation happened to
be the depot of the Dhebilla Camel Co.,
which had employed him. The white men
there were glad enough to accept Mehmet’s
well-told tale of suicide. And the police,
who knew by bitter experience the value of
Asiatic evidence, were content to take any
report which saved a wearisome and pro-
bably futile “case.”
Only Sareth Ivhumar, that piece of
drifted misery from the Ganges who had
been the continual butt of Watson’s ill-
temper and antagonism—KNEW. But he
had no proof, though he had heard the sordid
quarrel between Mehmet and Watson, and
he was aware that a throat cut from the
back by a murderer might well look like a
suicide’s.
Sareth had absorbed wisdom from count-
less pundits, and was probably a great deal
cleverer than most of his teachers. He had
the misfortune to be patriotic, so the British
Government decided that it would spread
knowledge in the world, anywhere but in
India, and sent Sareth and half a hundred
others out for the purpose.
He was glad enough that Watson was
dead —this furtive bundle of high-strung
nerves and intelligence that had been one of
the finest expounders of an intricate philo-
sophy along the Great River. It was the
philosophy which was his faith that worried
Sareth now. To acquire merit, and in each
succeeding life to climb higher, was his ideal.
And this joy in his white tormentor’s death
was a retrograde step, and one which only
great deeds could retrieve. It came to him
once that Watson must be very angry to see
his murderer go scot-free, and because he
was glad of Watson’s death, the desire to
please his soul grew. As an expiation, it
seemed the most desirable thing in the
world to Sareth. Watson’s must have been
a retrograde soul, and he often puzzled him-
self, wondering what form it was now called
upon to inhabit.
He was watering the great sulky bull-
camel which was the pride of the depot when
this idea first came to him. For a moment
its immensity stunned him. Then his mind
absorbed it eagerly, for, to a fanatic, all
things are possible. The man who' evolves
his own particular religion is generally the
greatest fanatic of all.
It was some days later that Bleechmore
and Yoysin sat at their midday meal in the
Great Middle, while Mehmet Ali and a
couple of his countrymen theirs
by a separate fire, and Sareth Ivhumar ate
his rice silently and well out of reach of
their various defiling shadows.
The Dhebilla Camel Co.’s resources were
being taxed, man and beast, to their
utmost to cope with a new rush
of business, and the train Voysin
was in charge of was the largest it.
had ever dispatched. He had brought it
400 miles without accident, and he had pre-
cisely 267 miles to travel before he unloaded
and delivered his freight.
Sareth Ivhumar listened to the various
scraps of conversation miserably, and
guarded his meal jealously from alien con-
tamination. Bleechmore was descanting on
the excellence of a rival firm’s camels.
Mehmet Ali grunted in disapproval. “Ivhula
—he beat any camel here to hell,” he said
conclusively. Ivhula was the big, sulky
huh. Then Sareth drew his bow at a
venture —a hazardous one for any who knew
the Afghan : “I think,” he said slowly in his
labored, almost perfect English, “I think
Watson’s sahib’s soul in Ivhula now!”
“What’s that?” Bleechmore prided him-
self on the fact that his hearing was acute
as a black’s.
The Hindu repeated his assertion, and
watched Mehmet Ali covertly.
The Afghans’ faces were as impassive one
as the other. They muttered rapidly to one
another in a hills dialect. Then Mehmet
laughed at Sareth for a fool.
“These Hindus cause trouble always,” he
said contemptuously, announcing, further,
that doubtless Allah created them mad for
some special purpose—this last in insultingly
high-pitched English.
Yoysin slung an oath at Sareth. “Likely
enough,” he said. “Watson’s god was his
stomach. He’s gone where he’ll get plenty
of room, perhaps.” But Bleechmore didn’t
grin at the joke.
That night he was restless, and in the
coolth of the time following hard on mid-
night, when Nature seems too exhausted to
bother about making things unpleasant, he
rolled to the tent-fly for the sake of the fresh-
ness. There was a grey, smoky dimness
over everything, and the steely sharpness of
the scimitar moon and stars was scabbarded
in a drift of cumuli that even the hard
points of the Digger’s Pannikin scarcely
penetrated.
He rubbed the mist out of his eyes that
things might take form and shape before
him. And presently he lowered his lids till
his eyes were two streaks of fire between
their narrow slits gazing unwaveringly at
something straight ahead. The muscles of
his jaw and forehead pulled taut and rigid.
For it was a strange and evil sight.
He saw Sareth Ivhumar motionless as a
statue before a sharply-ridged mass that in
a little he made out to be Ivhula, the great
camel.
The Hindu was squatting in front of the
beast, looking intently at it. Soon his eyes
found and fixed the camel’s glance, which,
from a dangerous, irritable wandering, be-
came steady as his own. Bleechmore felt a
hot knife-blade slip up and down his spine,
and the sweat on his body dried as to a blast
of dry air. All the soul of him revolted
from this thing that he was watching, for
the Hindu had crept closer to the now docile
animal, and his mouth was close to the
great, flat nose in the long, solemn face of
the beast.
Silent as a drift of the very mist itself,
Bleechmore edged along the little space be-
tween him and these two.
He heard the bell at Ivhula’s neck tinkle as
the muffled breath, afraid to leave his nos-
trils, swelled out the passages through which
it came. Silently the man and camel gazed
at each other until the strange, flattened
nostrils lifted to the pressure, and the breath
came singing through, and the still air took
it indistinguisliably mixed with Sareth
Ivhumar’s.
Very softly the Indian began to speak,
and his lean, fine hands played over the
hideous head caressingly.
Vaguely, and with many gaps, for the
words and idioms that he did not under-
stand, he made out that Sareth was asking
pardon of the soul of his dead tormentor,
and promising revenge for what Bleechmore
had not even suspected was murder. A
faint breeze sprang up and flung away the
cloud from the stars, and the big camel
snuffed uneasily at the new scent that came
up-wind with it. Bleechmore heard the
strange, human-like sigh of the brute when
at last the Indian left it free to look where
it would, and himself caught sight of the
white man. Together they walked away
from the camel a few paces, then his hand
crushed hard on Sareth’s skinny shoulder.
The Indian listened defiantly to his sav-
age questioning. “I am not a Tamil dog,”
he said sullenly, and wrenched himself free
with a sudden, jerky spring as of wire un-
coiling itself. “I am no sweeper dog, I
say!” he snapped again, and the subservi-
ent meekness of Sareth Ivhumar was gone.
Bleechmore let him keep free. He was not
afraid, but the touch of the man was dis-
tasteful to him, and he was glad to let him
keep his distance.
“But, mind,” he swore as he came to his
tent, “if ever I catch you at your hanky-
panky tricks again, I’ll shoot you like the
dog you say you aren’t, and the camel, too.”
Sareth salaamed and laughed as the other
man did not like to hear his servant laugh.
Voysin sat up with a face as grey as the
dawn itself when he heard what Bleech-
more had seen.
His comment was terse. “Man, why didn’t
you shoot him?” Then, as he started to
explain. “Oh, I know, I know, but there’ll
be trouble over this —big trouble. I’ve a
good mind to shoot Ivhula an’ fire both men.
Watson was beast enough alive, an’ the
thoughts o’ him in that son o’ sin of a
camel aren’t pretty.”
“But you don’t believe that?” gasped
Bleechmore open-mou tiled.
“I don’ know,” said Voysin slowly. “Queer
things have happened here before, anyway.
An’ even if I don’t believe it, an’ you don’t,
(Continued on next page.)


&
m
%
Peps Guard
Throat & Lungs.
Everyone needs Peps at this time
of the year, because this scientific
breathable medicine in tablet form
gives just the help Nature requires
to fight against the hidden perils of
chilly July, when the weather is
treacherous. Be it only a husky
cough, a slight irritation in the
throat, or just a suspicion of pain
and soreness about the chest, it is
time to take a few Peps, which are
entirely different from old-fashioned loz-
enges and drug-laden mixtures, but infinitely
more effective.
The Peps way of stopping chest troubles is Nature’s
way. As the little brown tablet dissolves in the
mouth, the medicinal pine-air is released in the form of
fumes which mix with the breath and thus convey a valuable
soothing and strengthening agent direct through the bronchial
tubes to the lungs, which cannot be reached by liquid mixtures that are
simply swallowed into the stomach.
A. Comforting Glow in tHe Chest,
as the Peps fumes enter, stimulates the whole of the breathing organs, and
means defence against coughs, colds and chills, which, unresisted, would
work havoc with the strongest constitution. The Peps fumes are not
merely antiseptic, but germicidal. They destroy the cold-germ, protect the
delicate lining membrane of the throat and bronchial tubes from dangerous
infection* and positively arrest chest trouble in its earliest stage.
There can he no finer safeguard against the perils of July’s chilly days
than Peps, which are a unique concentration of the particular medicines
which Nature has furnished for the treatment of human throat and chest
ailments. Peps contain no opium or other harmful drugs, and are as
useful to the apparently robust as they are absolutely indispensable to the
weak-chested and convalescent. PEPS NIP A COLD IN THE BUD.
PEPS GO DIRECT TO THE LUNGS.
Peps, the unequalled
remedy for Throat
and Chest com-
plaints, are obtain-
able from all
chemists, at 1/6 and
3/- per box ; or direct
from Peps Pastille
Co., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
I
“ THE TRUE BREATHING CURE.”
Motion Picture
Exhibitors.
Write, wire or call nearest office for
information regarding the most
astounding reform in the history of
Motion Picture Film Distribution
recently launched by our five
offices throughout Australasia.
Direction: J. D. WILLIAMS. Management: W. H. BELL.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
CAPITAL £200,000.
Address
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH, and WELLINGTON (N.Z.)
Sareth does from tlie bottom of liis heart,
an’ it won’t be long before Mehmet does,
too. That’s not all the mischief, though.
It’s Ivhula himself. That damned nigger’ll
make him half-human before lie’s finished,
see if he doesn’t. He’ll mesmerise him. I’ll
shoot the brute, an’ rig up some lie for the
comp’ny. It’s the only way I can see out.
Bleechmore began to protest against sacri-
ficing the prize-camel of Australia tor the
whim of a half-mad Indian.
“He’ll only reckon the soul’s gone some-
where else. God knows what they'll land on
next for choice between ’em all,” lie pointed
out practically.
Voysin listened to reason after a while,
and then the mystery and fascination of it
all gripped them both. Saretli crept about
his work humbly as usual _ next day and
thereafter, and kept pathetically near the
“sahibs” o’ nights lest Mehmet Ali should
feel minded to do an unpleasant thing. And
nisrht after night the white men matched
their cunning against his, only to be out-
witted- and to earn faces of rigidly stretched
wakefulness.
And day by day Khula grew less amenable
to discipline, save from Saretli, and the un-
derstanding between the two was sickening
to behold. Mehmet Ali never went near the
beast by any chance, and Voysin, noticing
this, called him one day : , ,
“You do not believe in a dog of a Hindu s
tales?” he queried shortly.
The Afghan hesitated a moment before
answering, Asiatic fashion, question with
question. “Who knows?” he asked simply.
“But even so,” said Bleechmore quickly.
“What have you to fear?” and met the same
irritant answer: “Who knows?”
“Don’t watch!” he said that night. (It
was Bleeclimore’s turn.) “I’ve been at this
life longer’n you. We’ve just got to let em
play their own lovely game, an’ it’ll be better
for' one or other to go under quick an’ let
my nerves get a show. Myself I’m firmly
convinced that Mehmet Ali killed Watson.”
(“He made a good job of a good thing,
then,” interjected Bleechmore.) “And I
wouldn’t interfere between ’em for the world,
for they’re all pretty well mad by now —
Mehmet, Saretli an’ Khula. We weren’t
clever enough to stop him getting at the
camel between us.”
Bleechmore undressed miserably, and lay
awake remembering and sweating at a story
of revenge which one Klisson had told him
concerning two Afghans and a camel. Voy-
sin, who bad judicially determined to give
the combatants what he termed “a fair go,”
slept peacefully as the innocent-minded child
he was not by many years and more leagues
of wickedness.
But Sareth Ivhumar was, for all his
humbleness, and perhaps because. of his mis-
taken sense of piety, of a theatrical turn of
mind. So Voysin got up a little disappoint-
edly in the morning, and Bleechmore got
up considerably relieved that nothing had
happened.
It was dragging from dusk to dark when
at last Voysin’s nerves had the strain on
them relaxed once for all. They were hob-
bling the camels for camp, when Sareth
Ivhumar tossed his big bull’s chain to Meh-
met Ali with an insult of implied cowardice.
The Afghan kicked it away, and proceeded
with his task of finding new curses for the
brute he was attending to. Sareth laughed
shrilly—a clacking, unpleasant sound. “Be :
cause the soul of the Watson Mehmet Ali
killed is in the body of Khula, he is afraid,”
said Sareth.
Without a word the Afghan stooped for
the chain and walked towards the camel.
A few paces and he stopped. “Afterwards —
thou,” he muttered to the Indian. Then
“dog,” he said, and spat, and walked on
again.
Khula had wandered off some hundred
yards or so, and now his great bulk showed
out in a coppery-like mass on a hummock
which caught the last gleams of an angry
sunset.
Sareth Ivhumar called aloud once before
he, too, fell silent like these other waiting
men. “Watson! Watson, sahib!” he cried,
and at the sound the brute turned to face the
close-coming Afghan.
At the last it was Voysin who called Meh-
met Ali back sharply. He got neither obe-
dience nor answer, and in a sudden panic he
raced for the hummock —the fraction of a
minute too late.
For the coppery mass stretched itself to
its full height, and then the long, sinuous
neck stretched out and the camel’s great
brisket crashed down on the Afghan’s chest
with a deadened noise as of glass. being
smashed beneath a cushion. Voysin felt
sick and faint to see the carefulness with
which Mehmet Ali was utterly obliterated in
the sand.
Something laughed and laughed and
laughed as he turned back. It might have
been a belated kookaburra or The meek
little Indian looked up at Bleechmore with
eyes that were again like fire between nar-
row slits. “Listen,” he said, “the Watson
sahib was always a fool.’^
LILLAIS GOKDON.
Cats.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL last summer our suburb suffered
much from cats. We had a wave
or epidemic or avalanche or cata-
ract of cats. A large-minded Australian
in our street said it was the result of the
immigration movement. He had a theory
that every ship coming to Sydney bore
from two to 20 odd felines. These invari-
ably deserted, or were smuggled ashore by
sympathetic souls who felt that, just as no
home can be complete without a cat, so no
cat can be happy and perfect without a
home. My friend argued further that, just
as water finds its own level, so immi-
grant cats find their way into our suburb,
which, while not strictly a water-side
suburb, can see the beautiful harbor by
standing on tiptoe. It is far enough for
a cat to reach and not near enough for a
cat to fall overboard. It is a high, narrow-
streeted, cramped, congested, over-populated
place with heaps of “cover” for any mod-
erately active cat. Every front “garden”
lias steps or semi-basements with large,
accessible holes suitable for cats. Every
back yard has a bit of bush or a stunted
tree, a heap of rubbish or a set of fourth-
hand fowl houses or pony stables. All
these —streets and streets of them—are
intercommunicable by, for and to any able-
bodied cat. A single hurried leap takes
Murphy’s cat into Brown’s pony-garage, or
on to the roof of Me Whale’s hen-emporium, |
according to whether Murphy’s cat leaps to
the menacing north or to the penguin-
haunted south. If Brown’s dog is at home
or if Mrs. McWhale is feeding her poultry,
Murphy’s cat has to leap again; but he
needn’t trouble to look, as Jones’s, Smiths’s,
and Robinson’s premises are all pretty well
built on the same plan, and a standardised
leap always ensures eventual peace, safety
or congenial society.
Of course, outside the front and back
premises of the houses of our suburb, there
are the cold, hard streets, wherein nothing
can be guaranteed to even the most fervent
cat. For outside are dogs, policemen,
boys and the Salvation Army—the four
most uneasy things in Australia. If a cat
ventures down into the street it is certain
proof that (1) he, or she, is a new-comer,
or (2) in urgent need of exercise, or (3)
doing it for a bet of one mouse. I have seen
Class 1 race nine assorted dogs, and only
lose by sheer bad luck. I have known Class
2 to throw 14 spasms, or somersaults, and
a ricochet, ere regaining headquarters. As
for Class 3 it is either a swift old sporting
cat, in which case it wins, or a Juggins cat
which never comes back. ("Romeow, our cat,
went out once on general principles, but
he took the dog for escort, and I hurled
throw-downs at the enemy.)
When the cat-wave struck our suburb
last summer, the oldest policeman couldn’t
remember such times. In addition to the
ordinary choir meetings, claw-contests, bal-
cony-scenes and nightly serenades, we had
kitten shows, push-meetings, dust-bin raids,
suffrage rallies, and fur-classing competi-
tions. The cat population doubled or trebled,
and organised resistance to the dog-pushes
was the feature of the time. A dog might be
hurrying madly in rear of, say, our Romeow
or of the Cohens’ Ishbosheth, or Murphy’s
Macgillicuddy, who is a swift cat of poor
judgment, when, with a rush and a spit, four
or five large healthy, veteran Toms would
descend in a flanking avalanche of fur, fury
and loud language. Taken unawares, the
misguided dog would either turn and flee,
or, from the midst of the overwhelming
catastrophe, would frantically signal S.O.S.
Before the rescue brigade, or dog aids,
could advance, the cat-horde would have
scaled all adjacent heights, and thence
would spit the spite of scorn upon the torn
and terrified terrier yelping beneath them.
Things got so bad towards last March that
it was a rare thing to. find a dog. unless
he was very big and hairy, outside his own
fence after dark. But, on the other hand,
the place fairly boiled over with variegated
Now, in two short months, all is changed.
The cat-wave has receded ; the epidemic has
spent its curse and yowled itself over the
edge of things into the Ewigkeit! My large
minded friend (who is also rather pious)
says that the Lord sends the cats, in His
own good time, and that life is a fleeting show
anyhow. He deduces a moral lesson from .it.
So do I. But mine is different. I notice
that while cats were never so scarce in our
suburb “furs” were never so plentiful. In
nearly every home there is a vacant saucer
and a disconsolate kiddie, but there is also
a triumphant female wearer of cat-skin
toques, or stoles, or muffs or —well that’s
mv moral!
O.C.C.
Phantasmagoria.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rw't HE Desert Lure said: I shall fill you
1 I ' with longings of infinite pain;
I I shall trouble and torment and taunt
you —again, and again, and again!
For this is the Code of My Chosen (and
none shall deflect or deny) ;
Your roads we shall fashion and follow
right down till the day that we die.
The Sullen Sands said: Like the endless,
uncountable waves of the sea,
We shall stretch all around you for ever,
wherever, wherever you be.
We shall harass your throat with our harsh-
ness; we shall ravage your sight with
our glare,
Till up to the skies that are cloudless your
eyes shall unseeingly stare.
The Desert Wind howled: You shall suffer.
I shall seek you, and sear with my
breath;
I shall seek you. and sunder and shrivel
your flesh till the day of your death.
And then, when my dirge of defiance through
mulga scrubs murmurs and moans,
I shall spill me the dust on your carcase,
and scatter the sand on your bones.
The Camel Pad leered: I shall take you out
west of the Edge and the Rim,
Where Love is a viperine mem’ry, and Hope
is a maniac’s whim.
I shall take you where Life is an insult, and
Death an immaculate boon —•
Out under the sneer of the sunset, out under
the mock of the moon.
The Mulga Bush said: You shall seek me
’midst throes of the pitiless heat,
When Hades has stolen your vision, and
Hades has blistered your feet.
But one day, at last, from my brambles your
garments shall flutter and fly,
And the sleek crows shall circle above you,
and claim for a morsel each eye.
The Mirage remarked: I shall lure you with
promises empty as air;
I shall lure you and lead you—-and leave you
on the uttermost brink of despair.
I shall see your tongue, swollen and black-
ened, endeavor to mumble a curse
On me, who denies you a coffin —on me who
denies you a hearse.
The Phantod observed: When the shanties
have taken their tribute and toll,
I shall twist all the nerves of your body, and
torment what’s left of your soul.
I shall draggle your brain till it softens ; I
shall haggle your heart till it breaks —
Till the echoing voice of a pistol the slum-
bering silence awakes.
Said the Desert’s Great Voices in chorus:
Out here is our dreadful domain;
Out here are the cohorts of conquest; out
here are the pathways of pain.
We shall tyrannise, torment and torture ; we
shall threaten —and triumph ! —and test
All your manhood ; make mock of your weak-
ness—for we are the Kings of the West!
SUNSET LAND.
R.J. CASSIDY.


Tk
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
f ;.*ti
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
r—lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 —It is very- simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
", ■ FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd-,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
The
Boiler
Fluid.
JL
R£CiST£HEO
A Great Success
in Water Tube
Write for Interesting: Pamphlet.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
i
■V
V-**- ■} •* ■
:
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-Priced
Car, it will repay you to investigate the Metz 22-h.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylinder, Water-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE, WITH FULL EQUIPMENT, AA4A
Sole Agents— Write for Catalogue. dW* I U Nett.
BROWN & HELLICAR LTD.,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
t
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
Famous
Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising' Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to get more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OP MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet arid all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits he
received from HIMROD'S ASTHMA
POWDER, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
Famed for 40 Years.
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever,
Rose Cold, or ordinal y Cough.
Sold in Tins by ail Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ASTHMA POWDER
“THREE WITCHES”
CIGARETTES.
HIGHEST GRADE VIRGINIAN.
DELIGHTFUL and FASCINATING.
Price P er 100
I (Post Free).
SEND- —TO-DAY !
Mick Simmons Ltd.
The High-Class Tobacconists,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
.r ' rvSP>''Y*i
TL^S
\ fete
§
3 for 10/-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the moaeir. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tim Bulletin.] . [5
SANty
Ml n't
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
I '•
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
48 hours.
(ttiDY
Each Capsule bears the name
“Coaguline,” “Ivlinx,” “Tenasitine,”
I Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc. I
ITS THE LITTLE THINGS THAT COUNT
y'-y'
T.
m
Y/f
/
m
v__
9/
N,
m
'i
BEECH AMS PILLS.
AND
THAT
ACCOUNTS
FOR
CHANGE OF ADDRESS. SPECIAL NOTICE.
ON and AFTER Ist JULY NEXT, the Business of
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED
will be conducted at
THE BANKING HOUSE, The Pitt N r^ F Br N Tw., ofthe
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FRED. MoWILLIAM, Manager.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
wool, and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont. PRODUCE STORES— AthI one Place.
MONEY and MOTOR-CARS
are both good to have, but some motor-cars are better than the
money they cost.
Many are hot —but that is another story.
If you invest in shares, you (sometimes) get a return in money.
If you invest in a Chalmers, Car you always get a return in better
health, in pleasure , in a saving of time , in knowledge , and chiefly ,
increased happiness for yourself and those dear to you.
WHICH PO YOU KEEP tyOST?
ROY W. SANDFORD Ltd.
181 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
106 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
CHALMERS
EMPIRE.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
dividing WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
mackT ltd..
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
REFUSE DESTRUCTION.
COMBINED ELECTRIC LIGHTING an i REFUSE DESTROCTOR INSTALLATIONS
are now proved to be the most economical for Electric Lighting of
Towns.
The “ Heenan ” Patent Destructor
embodies the latest patents in connection with lief use Destruction.
Estimates Furnished on Application to the Australian Agency—
T. K. ST€RN€S, 37-43 Pitt St., Sydijey
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cemeivt (Asbestos) Shuts
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Hails,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-tourihs Ihe quantity of studding 1 and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
I ibro-Ceinent is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plaster.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog: L to sole importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
•* TANOYE ”
Portable Type Oil Engine.
•* TANGYE»»
Suction uas Producer Plant.
“CLAYTON and
SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable Steam Engine.
MLGETY'S
Machinery Department
SYDNEY: Miller’s Point
MELBOURNE : a’Beckett Street r
and at
BRISBANE, ROCKHAMPTON,
TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE
and FREMANTLE.
“TANGYE
Oil and Benzine Engines, Gas
Engines and Suction Gas Plants,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Irri >a-
tion Plants and PUMPS of all
“GAN E
MILKING MACHINES. All the
leading Dairvfarmers are installing
the “GANE” It is a highly fin-
ished machine and a wonderful Labrr Saver.
“CLAYTON s SHUTTLEWORTH”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines,
Thrashers, Centrifugal Pumps, etc.
THE
-
HE
MACHINES
S CO LTD
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for
B. F. STURTEVANT CO.
Multivane Fan.
This is the most efficient Commercial Fan in the world. Service tests, nnder the most
trying conditions, have proved conclusively that this fan will deliver a given amount of air
at a given pressure at an expenditure of considerably less power than other types It
occupies less space, is correspondingly lighter, and can be built to ran at the highest
speeds. We carry Stocks.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE No. 18 0.
■
i-'i
Farms an
Tbe “PE LAITTE”
AIR-6AS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest lilumSnant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway
Commissioners of N.S.W. and Victoria.' Thousand's
already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Laro-e
Machines supplied. Ordinary gas piping used for dis-
tributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN & CO., 5 Spring Street, Sydney.
BROS
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Bowman Buildings, King: William Street, ADELAIDE.
Electrical Accessories,
Motors, Dynamos and Cables
IN STOCK.
\tS
top
-Shearing
The Lister is the result of 25 years’ experience in Sheep Shearing
machinery.
The Lister is the ideal machine from every standpoint. It is a
marvel of workmanship to the last detail, is practically vibrationless,
smooth-running, and of great durability and unquestioned
reliability, combined with minimum cost of upkeep.
Parts are standardised and interchangeable with the Wolseley
Write for catalogue. You’ll readily convince yourself of the “Lister'
_ superiority.
ILUi
THE DORR THICKENER
Possesses Many Advantages Over Intermittent Settling.
A continuous supply of clear liquid from top of settler eliminating need of mill height
required in decantation; a greatly increased capacity, mills reporting as high as 66% to 33
Result of a 24' x 10' DORR THICKENER operating in N.S.W. is:—
INFLOW—I2O Water to 1 of Solids.
DISCHARGE-1 Water to 1 of Solids.
OVERFLOW—Perfectly clear.
N
LTD.
SOLE AGENTS,
263 George Sf„ Sydney.
525 Collins St., Melbourne.
tSCHARGE
THICK
m
CLEAR
DISCHARGE
