

wwl I I p
9
107 Kertt street, Sydney,
.Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES. BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
W'Mi
V
Sole
for
CHLORIDE STORAGE BATTERIES
Extensively used by N.S.W. Tramways, and for
other Electrical installations throughout Australia.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
BEOBA.R.T,
" —asife’— '
[jadleys Orient jjotel.
■
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *'•
Guaiiantbkd
J. Cr Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
aH|
*
Take it back.
I must have—
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
HUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
J
HANSENS
u
nfcet,
tablets
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
With PALMER cord tyres
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
ADVANCES MADEJON SECURITIES
m
M . S
W. MONT DE PI uii^^eo
74CASTLEREACH
EUSTACE BENNETT genewau h>/i/vmxcfk»
MONEY ADVANCED UPON ALL SECURITIES AT REASONABLE RATES OF INTEREST.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
MALTHOID
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
V ...
MALTHOID is a ready=to=lay roofing of theVhighest
grade possible. It is sold in rolls, and is so simple and easy
to lay that any man of ordinary intelligence can quickly lay
it. It is so compact that it reduces freight enormously.
MALTHOID has so many virtues that one feels certain it is
the one roofing above all others.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
THORNE’S
sdfg
WHISKY
ACE AND PURITY
GUARANTEED
' ' Ml-:. '
DAVEY PAXMAN
STEAGVI ENGINES
Portable, Stationary, Traction.
Thousands in every class of service are giving daily testimony
of the close regulation, economy and reliability obtained.
The Portable Engine is specially recommended. In sizes and
types to suit all requirements. Send for Catalogue. Also all
Engines, Pumps, Irrigation and Water Supply Plants.
jlMtrt-Vitlueffl
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET (Opp. Lands Office),
SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA
4( It is a dream of the
of Helidon Spa*
so says a medical man
HELIDON SPA is Nature's Elimmant*
STARKEY & CO., LTD..
mm
The Bulletin
Vo). 33.—N0. 1689.]
[Thursday, June 27, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOK SALE OF THE YEAR
42-PAGE CATALOGUE, mailed free to any address, contain-
ing lists of New and Second-hand Books offered at greatly
reduced Prices, comprising Australiana, Art, Biography,
History, Sport and Miscellaneous Books.
Novels published 3/6 offered 1/6 and 1/- each.
ROBERTSON’S, BOOKSELLERS, 238 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat and the
Prevention of
Consumption. *
A. the Larynx
or Organ of
Voice.
B. The Trachea
or Windpipe.
O. The Bron-
chial Tubes
of Dissected
Lung.
-
. rV :
CAUTION.—The large sale for
“Eumenthol JUJUBES” has led to a
number of imitations being manufac-
tured under the name of menthol and
other jujubes. It is important, there-
fore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes,
and be told they are “just as good” as
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This
proves that these imitations and sub-
stitutes have no reputation of their
own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hud-
son’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tins I/O.
The Red Page
Th e Repertory Theatre
Ihe fact that a member of the Adelaide
Literary Theatre dubbed the Melbourne
Repertory scheme, though in a qualified and
no unkindly sense, “commercial,” leads Gre-
gan McMahon to explain:
The basic idea of the Adelaide scheme
seems to be the elimination of all “commer-
cialism m the managerial department, and
o all professionalism in the stage depart-
ment. I must confess that I do not sympa-
thise with either of these ideas when carried
to. extremes. A repertory theatre should cer-
tainly beware of the “commercialism” that
sets large profits before everything else, but
L C !r binab f n of an ? atem ‘ business managers,
amateur actors, and— worst of all —amateur
producer cannot hope to attain to what is
best in the presentation of these plays
it an art scheme cannot hold its own
commercially within its own sphere, and if
the few enthusiasts who profess to support
it won t pay a fair price to see the ‘ -o, ood
play and so enable it to be produced in a
dignified way, then I think it best to give up
the idea altogether until the Labor party has
ne . a ..RtRe more for “the finer attributes
of civilisation.” It is an undignified proce-
dure, I think, to seek escape from the pay-
ment of authors fees. The unfortunate
nnS 101 ' wi t lG St , man who should be
paid. Why should art always go hat in
kaad asking for charity? If J ,hire is a?
audience for these plays in the Common-
wealth and I think there is a small one—it
should be made t<o pay fairly for their proper
production. This is equally a matter in which
the public needs education. My idea is that
the thing should be put on a business basis
from the very start-
Regarding “professionalism” in the stage
department much confusion of terms exists.
All pxofessionals are not ipso facto bad
actors, and all amateurs are not ipso facto
good actors. Let us delete these terms, and
use the word actors.’’ A good actor is one
who, having natural ability and artistic per-
ception, has acquired in addition the tech-
nique and ease that experience alone can
give. My endeavor in Melbourne is to get
together a company that has the first two
gifts, and to give such of them as lack ex-
perience the teaching and experience without
which their ‘sense of artistic beauty and
moyement can never “ring true.” If inex-
perienced actors and inexperienced producers
whether amateur or professional—conspire
to give performances of repertory plays, they
are doing more harm than good to the cause
they seek to help. In my opinion the audi-
ence that exists already will never attain to
larger proportions, or take the repertory
moyement seriously in this country until this
habit of asking for charity, and producing
, a l ‘T s , wl * :a ae of well meaning but un-
skilled labor, is dropped.
The English repertory theatres are now
bolding their own with the large commercial
enterprises, because from the jump they were
run by business men with experienced produ-
cers and experienced actors. I certainly
started with some amateurs—l call them
actors now—but I made sure that, firstly,
they were amateurs of natural ability and
artistic perception, and I didn’t let them
act. at all until they had gained a lot of ex-
perience under my direction (I am assuming
that I possess sufficient culture and artistic
sense and. experience myself to constitute
myself their director). I have from time to
time discreetly mixed them with professionals
of equal artistic perception and experience,
and the result has been a good and evenly
balanced performance.
My “pupils” do not “reflect” or imitate
me. I endeavor to get an effect from them
as a body, and I see that I get it. If I find
I can’t, I don’t produce that particular play.
.Regarding scenery—the use of draperies
with a symbolic suggestion” is very effective
m certain plays—the classic and poetic
drama—but I don’t see that this method of
symbolic, suggestion” can be used in modern
conversational drama or comedy, as Adelaide
suggests. You can’t escape the use of scen-
ery, and payment for same.
Lastly, damn all “committees, boards and
advisers”! How can a. committee of laymen
cast plays? It is essentially one man’s
work, an expert’s work. A good producer cafi
visualise a whole play, and the interworking
of every character in it. If he can’t do this
before he starts rehearsals, he is no good as a
producer. A producer must work indepen-
dently of everybody. Again, the practice of
fixing on plays a year ahead is unworkable.
With the limited supply of actors on hand,
the play must be ehosen to suit the people
available, otherwise many square pegs will be
found in round holes. I used to try to make
out a programme of plays for a year’s use,
but soon realised the futility of it. Now
eight weeks before the date of a season, I
ascertain what people are available, go
through all the plays available, and fix on
a play to suit those particular people. At
this moment I have got casts together that
can give convincing performances of my
July series of plays; but I wouldn’t dare
say what I shall do the season after. I don’t
try actors on the plays; I try the plays on
them, until I find one that sits easiiy on
them. When in the future I shall have got
two. complete working companies, each con-
taining a type or personality suited to any
casting exigency, then I shall perhaps ven-
ture to *»ap out programmes in advance.
The only use for a committee is ticket selling
and propaganda.
Adelaide dubs my enterprise “commercial.”
•It is—in the sense that I pay author’s roy-
alties, even Australian authors; theatre
rents; union wages to stage hands; a scenic
artist of simple but artistic views; a goodly
whack to the daily and weekly press; and if
there is anything over after that I have no
compunction in paying it to my butcher and
Greengrocer a>s a recompense for my daily
2 hours’ toil.
The Australian Girl
rent ly she isn’t. Despite the munii
cent otter :—-
O Sweet, here’s the chance of the ages!
Now, Darling, we shall not be long !
That readable Reddest of Pages
Wants You, even You, in a song,
And offers, 0 Vision of Brightness,
For whom all the, hearts of us throb,
One Guinea ! Despite money-tightness,
A Pound and a Bob!
the poem about her is not forthcoming. Roy
la. Rede gives his reason:—
The Girl aforesaid is a myth ;
j There is no Austral type.
I ve sampled “tarts” from divers parts,
And know this talk is tripe.
She wears imported lingerie,
And drawls an English note;
Her one distinction is, I think,
She’s got a blanky vote.
New South Wales, Historical, Physio-
grapmeal and Economic (Whitcombe and
Tombs, Melb.; 4s. 6d.), edited' by Prof.
a , nd wn I tt ™ b / A - W. Jose, T. Grif-
fith laylor and W. G. Woolnough, is, as a
geography of N.S.W., a very admirable geo-
graphy, though its appearance at this date
has prevented the inclusion of the statistics
available from the latest census, and the
tuple editorship has the defect of occasional
overlapping, compensated for, of course, by
the advantage of expert knowledge for the
separate sections, hardly likely to be coitn-
wuw ln 011 tI. man—except a man like
Willis or King O’Malley. The illus-
trations and diagrams are many and
elucidative. But then, who wants a
geography of N.S.W.? A section of Aus-
tralia, arbitrarily defined by imaginary lines
has no geography separate from the con-
tinent of which it, still somewhat restively
is an inalienable part. The physical condi-
tions in N.S.W. are, and can only be con-
sidered as, part of the general conditions of
the Commonwealth ’Tis pity that all this
learning, meant for the Commonwealth,
should be given to Ma. Also, it is a pitv
If Work 1 t he sch ° ol children
of N.S.W. should conclude that Australia is
a suburb of N.S.W. The work itself will
not foster this delusion, but its mere exist-
ence, and the supposed necessity that called
it into existence, unconsciously will.
G. H. Souter state? the obvious:—
You may see her in the Summer, as she strolls
around “The Block,”
In her funny hat and gossamer, and latest model
frock.
And suppose you want a smile from her, you’ll get
it, as you pass;
For she’s not a bit afraid of you—nor any other ass
You may see her in the “Office,” at her “Reming-
ton” or “Bliek,”
With her cheery word for Harry, and her pensive
look for Dick.
You can meet her at the “Oval,” when the football
season’s on,
Where she “barracks” most unblushingly for Jimmie,
Joe or John.
And you’ll find her, any Sunday, where the surf’s
a-rolling free,
For she knows she takes the “biscuit” in her natty
neck-to-knee”!
When you watch her in the “Panto,” dressed in
pretty things that fit,
DanC /<j|„ acrobatic dances—well—she’s absolutely
But you’ll also find her, sometimes, with a baby
on her knee,
Waiting patiently for Percy, when he’s out upon the
spree;
Making light of silent sorrow, and the, carking care
that grips—
With a dagger in her bosom, and ft smile 1 upon her
lips!
But no matter where you see her you will find her
bright and brave—
Whether whirling gaily down the days, or toiling
like a slave.
And she’s not a sylph; she’s not a saint, she’s neither
peach” nor “pearl,”
For she’s something better than the lot—a true Aus-
tralian Girl!
. 4 nd ( * eor S? S. Thomas’s jumpy effort is
just worth print:—
THE WATTLE BLOSSOM GIRL.
With flying locks, azure eyes, or maybe brown,
Deft hand upon the bridle rein
(Perhaps, it differs not, astride).
Incarnate poetry of Life’s Spring.
Over dry and dusty saltbush plain
Reviving e’en the “whaler’s” weary eye,
Leaves with the zephyrs of her transit
Echoes of laughter.
Sunburned lass, felt hatted, bare feet.
Jogging cherfully ’tween the gnarled trees
Gold splashed to match the tangled hair.
Herding mournful cattle to the byre.
Singing snatches of some ancient rime
(Relic of her mother’s youthful day) ;
Chaffing jestingly the dawdling laggards
With peals of honest laughter.
Pegtop skirt, dainty footwear,
Stockings of cobweb mesh, hat of rare design,
Claiming the moving tram with expert ease,
Satchel in hand. Disdaining with a look
The seat possessed by boorish male.
Passing the latest quip with every friend.
Gauging the prospects of a Sunday trip.
Punctuations—laughter.
Office, farmhouse, dairy, station, factory;
Working, idling, battling with a mate,
Know always then the Wattle Blossom Girl
Brimful of happy humor. And quaintly
Like silver flakes dropping on a velvet bed
Tinkles her laugh.
The samples are not up. No prize will
be awarded, but space rates, as always, will
be paid for the printed efforts.
“Love’s Pilgrlmage”
Under the title, Love's Pilgrimage
(Heinemann, per Sydney Book Club), the
author of The Jungle has written his auto-
biography. It is the story of a genius who mar-
ried. Not that Upton Sinclair is a genius ; he
is a fine writer, with an understanding of the
type he depicts, a Socialist, an advocate of
fasting as a cure for all evils, except the
evil of being born a genius or the evil of
having married a genius. In this book, un-
fortunately in its English dress disfigured
by a crass eulogy by a person of the name
of Hall Caine, Sinclair tells with frank-
ness the story of the genius who was snared
by marriage. It is a terrible narrative, done
with fine art —one of the few real books that
have recently come from the United States.
Into it the author has poured all his fierce
convictions —his Socialism, his ideal of free
love, even his Fletcherism; but these, to
him so important matters, are but subsidi-
ary in the reader’s eyes to his portrayal
of the creative mind of his hero. In most
works of fiction a genius must be taken on
no evidence but the author’s word. The
author tells you that his hero is a genius;
the other characters assume , that he is a
genius; but neither his conversation nor
his actions convince you. But in Love's
Pilgrimage, Sinclair buttresses his assertion
by actually printing the plots of the books
and plays his hero wrote or planned, and
quoting pages of his poetry—from which
the reader will learn that Thyrsis was no
poet, but assuredly a great and original
writer. ,
Jt
Thyrsis had the drunken father necessary
for a genius; and he carried right through
the section of his life here detailed his over-
powering conviction that he was not as
other men, his paralysing frankness, his
devotion to his art irrespective of the scorn
of the world, his naive obsession with each
new child of his brain. The psychology of
the creative force is here admirably and ex-
haustively done. The struggles of this
modern genius, set in America, for recogni-
tion and for the wherewithal of existence
are faithfully set forth; but the theme is
not the apathy of the world, but the influ-
ence of marriage upon this sort of mind.
For Thyrsis married. This book is that
tragedy.
Corydon came to him, dominated by him,
willing that they should live as bro-
ther and sister. But poverty—the
poverty that dominated all his life —’
interposed. Their forced propinquity made
the inevitable happen, and then there
was the baby. And Thyrsis, infatuated only
with his art, has the dreadful feeling of
having been caught in a snare. Suppose
he, the genius, should become domestic!
J*
It was a conspiracy of Nature, a con-
spiracy of all the world! It was a Snare!
He had been the sport of cosmic forces,
of the blind arid irresistible reproductive
impulse of Nature. Step by step he had been
driven, be had played his part according
to the plan. He had hesitated and debated
and resolved and decided—thinking that he
had something to do with it all! But now
he looked back, and saw himself as a leaf
swept along by a torrent. And all the while
the torrent had known its destination! lie
had had many plans and mhny purposes,
but always Nature had had but one plan
and one purpose—"which was the Child !
Dismayed as he was, Thyrsis could not
but smile as he realised it. The artist in
him appreciated the technique of the per-
formance. How cunningly it had all been
hidden, how shrewdly the bait had been
selected !•.'.,.
He marvelled at the prodigality that
Nature had displayed. Sh£ would create a,
million eggs to make one salmon; and she
had created a million emotions to make one
baby! What poems she had written for
them—-what songs she had composed for
them! She had strewn the pathway with
roses before them, she had filled their mouths
with honey, and their ears with the sound
of sweet music ; she had blinded them, she
had stunned them, she had sent them
drunken and reeling to their fate !. ~.
Those very powers and supremacies that
he had thought were Iris protection—were
they not, also, a part of the Snare? His
culture and his artistry, his visions and his
exaltations—what had they been but a lure
for the female? Even his genius, his mirac-
lulous, ineffable had been the
plume of the partridge, the crowning glorv
before which his mate had capitulated!...'.
He saw himself in new and grotesque lights ;
he was the young rooster, strutting before
his mate, and thrilling with the knowledge
of his own importance ! He was each of the
barnyard creatures by turn, and Corydon
was each of the fascinated females. And
somewhere, perhaps, stood the farmer, smil-
ing' complacently—for should there not be
somewhere a farmer in this universal barn-
yard ?....
And so he must stand by Corydon—he
must bring her food, that she might give her
child life! And for that purpose she would
hold him.... She would not know this, of
course; she would do it blindly and instinct-
ively, as she had done everything so far.
She would do it by those same generous
and beautiful qualities that had made him
hers! Therein lay the deadly nature of the
Snare. The cords of it were woven out of
love and tenderness, and they were wound
about his very heart-strings, so that it would
kill him to pull them loose. And he would
never pull them loose And the end would
be simply the withering and shrivelling of
those radiant qualities which he called his
genius—qualities which were so precious to
him, but about which Nature knew nothing!
_ So as an undercurrent to Thyrsis’ con-
tinual struggle for recognition, his incessant
poverty, his utter inability to compromise,
runs the sordid story of the worries of
domesticity, the increasing call upon the
artist to sink his individuality in the hus-
band. We see, and he sees, the effect of his
devotion to his ideal upon his wife and child
we see his attempts to break from the mesh
of marriage, his escape into the solitary life
in the woods, his wife’s attempt to adapt
her needs and her child’s needs to their grim
necessities. Thyrsis was no abnormal super-
man ; he loved, his wife, as she loved him.
despite the quarrels that came inevitably
from the disparity of their temperaments.
He had to make his wife and child suffer,
but was human enough to grieve that he had
made them suffer. The author has no brief
for the genius: the wife’s point of view gets
equal prominence in this long record of suf-
fering. The trouble lay in the, mere fact that
these two separate souls were “mashed toge-
ther in the stewpot of domesticity.” “Each
was in some way a handicap and a torment
to the other; and as ever, they had in their
hours of anguish no resource save to sit
down and reason it out together, and absolve
each other from blame.”
It is impossible in a review to adumbrate
all that the author has put into this loosely
sprawling book. But mention must be made
of the steps that led to Thyrsis’ conversion
to Socialism, with a full precis of the books
that led him to this new religion; and of the
final incident of Corydon’s love affair, and
on what rational principles her husband
dealt with it. There are, too, scathing criti-
cisms of the life of the idle rich, character
studies of magazine folk, descriptions of
farming life; and a fat section of love
letters. A book of absorbing interest, real-
istically frank. Almost a great book.
A book of 78 Australian Bungalow anc
Cottage Home Designs (N.S.W. Bookstall
Co.; iis. (id.) is a step in the evolution of
national architecture suitable for this climat
and this people. The object has beer
to provide home-builders with plans anc
elevations, from which a selection ma;
be made or a suggestion borrowed
lhe need is fairly catered for, thougl
the fact that all the designs are from
the pen of one architect (Reginald A. Pre
vost) militates against its variety. It should
be worth this publisher’s while to produce
another such book to which a dozen of the
leading Australian architects might contri
bute their characteristic conceptions of the
rational and artistic Australian dwelling
The present work needlessly antagonises the
reader by a colored cover design, showing
cottage decorated in four garish colors—this
however, is probably merely the artist’s poly-
chromatic fancy. The designs happily show
the almost complete elimination of that
abode of cold horror —the drawing-room, anc
the substitution of the large living room, and
ample provision of verandah space for sleep-
ing out. But in many cases the narrow hall,
or tunnel, is still retained. The designs are
plain, and will be easily understood by the
amateur house-builder.
A word for Thomas Mosher, the benevo-
lent pirate of Portland, Maine, U.S.A. The
Bibelot, ’a reprint of poetry and prose for
book-lovers, chosen in part from scarce edi-
tions_ and sources not generally known,” is
a dainty little monthly publication, sold by
subscription only, a dollar a year. This
year, for instance, the reprints include: A
Frelude to Life, by Arthur Symons; The
Dying of Francis Donne, by Ernest Dow-
son; L nder an Elm Tree, by William Morris :
With an Essay by W. B. Yeats, and a selec-
tion fjom the poems of Whitman. Moshers
Catalogue is the most artistic and interest-
ing catalogue of books published.
TX Gp°d work lias been done by Robert W.
ilhamson, a British solicitor interested in
ethnology, who made a scientific expedition
to i apua m order to study the customs
(many) and clothing (scant) of a little
known people in the mountainous interior of
our dependency. The work of his clear,
descriptive pen, his careful record of this
21^6. unc i vlli ? e( l race —which showed strong
affinities to the pigmy race recently discov-
led m German New Guinea—and his eluci-
dative photographs, appear in The Mafulu
Mountain 1 eople of British Few Guinea
. per Lock ey Library). It seems a
1 ty that the author has retained in his title
a name that has been discarded by the Aus-
tialian administrators of Papua.


JL
wte
Anthony Horderns’ for Smart Winter Coats
670
5506
a S
qW
O v UR ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LISTS place
the vast resources of the
New Palace Emporium at
the command of everyone in
Australia* Write for copies
of anything you want,
posted free on request, and
reap the full benefit of our
unique system of Spot Cash
Trading*
6*mx
No. 670— Stylish Coat of Soft Heather Mixture Tweed,
Diagonal Weave, in Tan, Light and Dark Grey, Reseda and
, Bronze 23/ 6
No. 5506— Fu11-length Coat of All Wool Vicuna Serge,
in Navy only, slightly fitting, panel back, cuffs and collar,
relieved black silk military braid 32/6
No. 1749 — Smart Full-length Coat, of Light and Dark Grey
or Green Twill, with faint stripe, loose back, with strap,
all sizes 14/6
No. 4901— Smartly-cut Navy Cheviot Serge Coat, full
length, sac back, with strap, doublebreasted, velvet
collar 24/0
No. 1777— Useful Full-length Coat of good-wearing Navy
Serge, loose back, double-breasted, splendid value,. 12/6
No. 6954x — Warm, Well-made Winter Coat, of. fashion-
able Scotch Homespun Tweed, in Stylish Brown, or
Dark Green Heather Mixture 27/6
No. 5489 — Coat, fancy stripe Navy Frieze, 5 length, slprlitlv
fitting back, Ottoman silk collar 29/6
No 5475— Coat, Navy, All Wool Cheviot Serge,
J-length, semi-fitting, collar trimmed Ottoman' silk, buttons
and loops 23/6
No. 5478— Navy Cloth Coat, 5-length, semi-fitting back,
trimmed moire and silk braid 21/-
5489
‘Jr
No. 2162— Plain, Smartly Cut i-length Coat of strong; Navy
Cheviot Serge. The back is slightly fitting,., stitched
collar and gauntlet cuffs. Sizes, S., S.W., to extra out-
size 14/6
Other new styles in Navy, 17/6, 18/6, 19/6.
No. 1748— stylish 5-length Tweed Coat, semi-fitting, large
storm collar and revers of self, deep gauntlet cuffs made,: from
all wool Scotch Homespun, in Herringbone Weave with
faint stripe in light and dark Grey and Reseda 22/6
No. 1724— Fashionable Blanket Tweed Coat, i-length,
semi-fitting back with strap. The reverse side of tweed, in
lighter shade, is used for large collar, revers, straps, cuffs- and
pockets, giving very smart effect. Colors: Fawn with Brown,
or Light with Dark Reseda Green 32/6
No. 5481— Fashionable i-length Coat of All Wool Navy
Diagonal Cheviot Serge, slightly fitting back, double-
breasted front, velvet collar to match, all sizes 25/6
No. 4927— Useful i-length Coat of warm, durable Tweed,
single front, panel back, in colors New Bronze, with velvet
collar to match, Grey, with black velvet collar 17/6
No. AS.s439— Stylish Black Cloth Coat, 4 and i length,
new sac back, collar and revers trimmed black moire antique
and wide silk military braid,. Sizes, S., S.W., to extra out-
sizes 22/6
Many other smart styles in Black Cloth, effectively trimmed,
16/6, 18/6, 25/6, 28/6, 35/6, 39/6, 45/- and 105/-
2162
Fifteen shillings
expended at the New
Palace Emporium will
GO FURTHER than a
SOVEREIGN spent else-
where. The Goods are
fresher, and the assortment
greater than at any other
store, and
Anthony Horderns'
Famous Low Prices
are the LOWEST in the
land.
o c wpi stol
*917
f\S.s*39
D S-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
- * ■ > ■ ■ ■ -


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery,
The Most Famous Small-Bore SINGLE SHOT RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
ST E V E NS
FAVORITE No. 17.
dfg
i' urnisked with Automatic Ejector in 22 calibre.
Carefully bored and rifled by the celebrated Stevens method.
For - 22 Long Itifle, - 25 Stevens and •32 Long rim fire cartridges. State which
calibre you prefer when ordering.
STEVENS are the “ Bull’s Eye ’’ Kind. Sold by all dealers in the Commonwealth.
For full information, latest catalogues, etc., apply to
APTHITP Hi HII I Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool C 0
IV I Box g(j ) Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [2 ’’
KING
99
Whisky
Its world-wide popularity is due to its
mature ripeness, soft refinement, and
exquisite flavour.
One of the principal brands of
THE
» -
z
ISTILLERS i
Largest Scotch Whisky
Distillers in the World..
OMPANY
f Capital employed
over .£3,000,000.
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
SYDEY Ang 1 Place ;
MELBOURNE :-sa, William Street,
I IMITED,
"I
MARK
Made in
England
Underwear
m
iu
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE * BIRD MARK * MERINO UNDERWEAR
AR
3QVUA
B.S.A.
Do you know what those Letters Mean?
They are famous the world over, and their presence on an
article is a silent guarantee of highest quality. You must have
seen these letters many times and perhaps know that B.S.A.
STANDS FOR
Birmingham Small Arms
This great name is associated with all that is best in
MOTOR BICYCLES. CYCLE FITTINGS,
RIFLES, MOTOR CARS, SMALL TOOLS.
These are all constructed in the modern equipped works
of the B.S.A. Company, with the highest grade material and
workmanship. No means are neglected which will ensure
faultless productions. Every part is severely tested at
various stages, is gauged to one thousandth part of an
inch, and guaranteed interchangeable. This systematic
maintenance of quality and infinite care in construction has
achieved for B.S.A. goods the title of “ Perfect in Every
Part.” They can be relied on to give satisfactory service—
always. Remember the name
B.S.A.
the Birmingham Small Arms co. ld.
Catalogues and all particulars of B.S. A. goods can be obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE,
4, Australian Buildings, Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price post free.
Anthony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
‘ " '
EVANS
FORMULA UVERFOOL THROATfOSPIHI,
THtese wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles act like a charm in
keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition.
Used by Leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madam Tettrazzini writes“l thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.’"
Ask for Evans’ Pastilles and see you get them.
ANTISEPTIC THROAT
Pastille.
MR. C. G. GURR, Editor and Publisher
of the ** Licensed Victuallers*
Gazette,** Adelaide, the well-
known newspaper, writes of
Clements
Tonic.
Mr. C. G. GURR is one of
the foremost scholarly writers
and journalists of South Aus-
tralia, and is held in high
esteem by his townsmen in the
“City of Churches.” He is
one of the active members of
the party to which he belongs,
and visits various parts of the
Commonwealth in their inter-
ests. Here is an extract from
his editorial, published Decem-
ber 23, 1911
.
m
, ::
I
“Clements Tonic has become a household word in all regulated homes
from Australia to New Zealand.
“Few genuine reliable medicines such as this have attained the solid
reputation for effectiveness in the thorough restoration of health that
Clements Tonic has achieved.
“Medical men use it with benefit where other specifics fail.”
“ Licensed, Victuallers' Gazette
Pulteney Street, Adelaide, 28/12/'ll.
All Stores and Chemists sell Clements Tonic for Nervous Breakdown,
Loss of Sleep, Constipation, Poor Blood, Windy Indigestion,
Weakness, Biliousness and Sick Headache.


That
Little
Hacking
Cough
•33* *v
Hard coughs are bad enough, to
be sure. But it’s often the lit-
tle, hacking, tickling, persistent
cough that means the most,
especially when there is a his-
tory of weak lungs in the family.
What should be done? Ask your
doctor. He knows. Ask him
about the formula on the label
of every bottle of Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. Ask him if this med-
icine has his full approval for
throat and lung troubles. Then
do as he says.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer &. Co., Lowell, Mass., U, S. A.
M
NTJ
PAT
ColIison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Investors’ Guide.
Established 187
[Health follows the I
regular use of
Montserral
Lime Juice
Sauce
It makes
„you enjoy
your food.
Of all Storekeepers*
'The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Century
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1606.
cures
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is f ree-° r wnte
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Roaci. London, En_.
“SUNOL”
The “Perfect”
Wld
Pipe Tobacco
AWARDED 4 GOLD MEDALS.
DARK or LIGHT
In Plug I per lb.
or Cut. Ol" p ost Free.
Try it To-day,
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Mention this paper when ordering.
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
■ have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
BONNINGTON’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
’n
%
50 hH.'
IRIS”
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
.RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAnv lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOI.DKN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving; for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. ..Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
w
IMPROVE YOUR
FIGURE.
You Can
Weigh What
You Should.
dfg
THIN WOMEN
If you are flat-
chested, thin, run
down and scraggly—
even if you never had
a nicelv-rounded bosom,
Dr. Falliere’s “Flesh-food” will build you up
and develop your figure. Does your mirror
mock you? “Flesh-food” will remove the faults
in your figure by rounding out and developing
the' deficient places. Put up in Tablet form,
it is easy to use and pleasant to take, and, if
desired, may be taken secretly. Taken under
our directions, it will work wonders for your
appearance.
In many cases bust measurements have been
increased by over ten inches, and the weight
over five pounds weekly. Other cases have
shown an increase in weight of even a pound a
day. The average bust increase desired is
about six inches, and is readily accomplished.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development
to the thousands of chronically thin women
who have despaired of ever -possessing a pre-
sentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food
treatment that adds weight and permanent de-
velopment to attenuated women.
FAT PEOPLE
Excess fat injures your health,
impedes your movements, and
makes you the butt of your un-
feeling normal-weight friends.
People who have been fat, and are
now reduced to normal, think
other fat people ridiculous.
Not ' alone does excess' fat in-
jure your health and Endanger
your existence, it absolutely
destroys your figure afid makes youi a
sight. Why do you stay fat? “FATfURE
positivelv removes excess fat, and will restore
your spoiled figure to decent and pleasing pro-
portions, and is always a sure and lasting cure
for obesity, and corpulency. A few doses im-
proves your breathing wonderfully, and the
course of treatment will cure you.
Is the only successful, and, at the same time,
harmless, fat-reducer that has ever been dis-
covered. Its efficacy has been undeniably de-
monstrated, in thousands of successfully treated
cases. It is totally and absolutely non-poison-
ous, and can in no wise work any injury to the
general health; though it often reduces excess
weight by as much as a pound a day.
WE SUPPLY A FREE SAMPLE OF EITHER “FLESH-FOOD” or “ FATCURE.”
9,1 stnrrm and sav which remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free book,
“BUST’’ to thin people ‘‘OBESITY” to fat ones. Be sure to say which sample you want No
matter where you P live we can treat you successfully by post. Write or call to-day. Confidential.
THE WATWORTH FALLIERE ASSN., 1103 Ash St., Sydney (aisoi)
Tobacco
fg
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, "The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR OX CO.,
Dept. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
MILNERS' SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
I
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Way back Books
BoW to il-iie
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Uo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDLR ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
plra This ia something ENIIKtLi ntw ,
it is', in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The P a d ismaae ol
soft rubber, which exerts a GETuLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Csn you ask f'lnia;™?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following -
-50 5 10 0
3 10 0
1 17 G
Usual Price. Sale Price.
Double-Barrelled, Breech-load-
ing Guns, engine-turned rib,
left barrel full choke, right
modified, rebounding locks „
and pistol grip. Trial .. £o 2 6 £312 6
Single-barrelled Duck Guns,
large bore, to kill at 100yds.
Trial ■ • • • • •
Single-Barrelled, Hammerless,
Breech-loading Guns, choke
bore, excellent stock. Trial. .
Double-Barrelled Breech load-
ing Guns, with Greener pat-
ent wedge fast cross bolt,
choke bore, walnut stock,
pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial
Special Pigeon Guns, with pat-
ent side clips, file cut rib,
top lever, choke bore, speci-
ally selected walnut stock,
Greener patent wedge fast
cross bolt. Trial . ■ • •
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22
calibre. Kill at 300yds. Trial
Guns by AH Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
All Orders for Quns and Rifles delivered Carriage
Paid to any address in Australasia,
5 10 0
4 17
10 0 0 7 10 0
0 15 0
0 13 6
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers,
242-244 Bourke St., MELBOURNE
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Last Lap!
Berlin, Wednesday.—The German Reichstag has
voted, en bloc, the Army and Navy Bills providing
for substantial increases in both services.-
—Cheering Cable.
Great Britain, population, ,000,000.
Germany, population, 60,000,000.
—Latest Estimates.
What a beautiful thing is Peace, my friends!
A beautiful thing, indeed!
By the Lord’s good Grace it gives us space
To furnish the things we need.
And what are the things we need, my friends,
Ere our preparations cease ?. ...
While we double our Fleet I will just repeat
What a wonderful thing is Peace! f
What a horrible thing is War, my friends!
A horrible thing, indeed!
Its very mention implies intention
Of arming with frenzied speed !
We’ve only four million folk, my friends,
To keep the foe from our d00r!....
Though the thought gives pain, I must say again
What a horri le thing is War!
What a marvellous thing is Trade, my friends!
A marvellous thing, indeed !
Though old John Bull had a mighty pull,
We’re fast reducing his lead !
We’re only a yard behind, my friends,
And I think he’s half-afraid
That he’ll lose the race —it’s a killing pace!
What a marvellous thing is Trade!
What a capital thing is Cash, my friends!
A capital thing, indeed!
By the tariff’s aid we have got the trade,
And the sequel all may read.
And what will the sequel be, my friends?
Well, the coming years will show.
We’ve the Cash,
We’ve the Trade,
We’ve the new keels laid,
And there’s only a lap to go !
N.S.W.
R. McGEDDON.
Ballad of Exile.
God’s flag’s unfurled! His banner of the stars
Hangs down the shining, wind-swept vault of ever-
lasting Heaven;
And here, shut in as by a prison’s bars,
My heart becomes a singing loom for thoughts of
thee to weave in!
O little one, whose rose-red trembling mouth
Breathes kisses sweet across the leagues that lie so
grim between us ;
It weaves for thee —far in the distant south —
Thoughts like the thoughts of lonely Mars when reft
of his dear Venus!
That goddess fair, born of the silver foam,
Had eyes like thine—lit with the rays of love’s star-
blazing splendor ;
And, like a ceaseless, swinging metronome,
My heart athwart the measured miles throbs forth its
homage tender !
My far-off love! from some Oythera’s isle
Thou art in these new Pagan days like young Astarte
risen ;
And all the gods, to win thy blessed smile,
Would leave their proud Olympic home to make
thine arms their prison!
To know thine amorous arms and close-pressed
lips—
To know thy deep, fire-pulsing love and all its name-
less glory ;
Were cause enough to launch the fighting ships,
And light a blood-red battle-flame on each sea pro-
montory !
Some call them fools —who fought for ancient
Troy—
But I, who know thine honeyed kiss —I know far
better ;
To spend with thee one hour of fervent joy
Were worth all else —worth death's eclipse and pain’s
Promethean fetter !
We who have swooned with love’s most sweet
excess —■
Whose hearts have heard the singing stars lift up
their chant elysian :
We know why Troy was sacked —yea, I confess
I’d fight the leaguered world for thee, my goddess
neo-Grecian !
My life I’d give—a thing of little worth —
To win you back, O star-eyed love, were you from
me thief-taken ;
Red war I’d wage against the blazing earth —
For hearts run o’er with bitterness when lips are
lip-forsaken 1
Remember, love, the dear undying days—
The days when heart cried out to heart and soul on
soul lay beating;
These are the things that set the Troys ablaze —
That lift on high the gleaming blades and set the
steel flesh-eating!
Oh, woman’s love! Oh, strange and mystic spell,
What fighting thoughts thou stirrest up—red flame
each brain-cell flashes ;
O bond electric, Time’s strong manacle—*
When thou art broken, hope decays and life’s but
grief and ashes!
In exile here and far, O love, from thee—
Far from the breast whereon my head in days of
yore found haven ;
I breathe a prayer, a strong man’s litany—
No moan of pale, ascetic priest with cowled forehead
shaven;
It is the song of fierce, tempestuous love—
Of hope and fear that shake my soul as with the
storm’s dread thunder ;
Hear it, ye stars that shine like eyes above—
Are all her heart’s dear thoughts of me? Ah, gods
of mine, I wonder 1
For we were born to fare forth hand in hand —
Were born, O love, to walk through life and on to
death together;
Unlike that long-dead Venus —fickle, bland—
Thou art not swayed as sways the wind the light, in-
constant feather !
Safe in thy soul I know I have my place—
I know that for thine exile’s kiss thy heart, dear one,
is lonely;
Oh, but to see thy lovely, tear-wet face,
As here beneath the stars I stand and swear I love
You Only!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


THE HUB
218-222
KING ST. - NEWTOWN
OF NEWTOWN
Sydney.
CASH STORES LTD.
Four Specials from our Blanket Section.
large double-bedweighhil 1 " 7rb. hl fo r ßlanket ’ regular " uinea quality, beautifully finished,
J turerl for the 1 weight Tflb Blanket ’ extra lar ° e size 1 the best grey Blanket manufac-
SPECIAL No. 3.—-Heavy English
16/11
for the double-bed size, only. " hitney blanket, an exceptional good quality, weighing 741 b.,
SPECTAL No. 4.—An extra heavy part wool
bed size, weighing - ' ’
ra neavy pari wool, part cotton, Brown-grev English-made douhle-
” 10/6
Tw ° Offerings from our Shoe Department.
vllve S tf calf inlaid dFe This d Sho a i k W Tnl’4L ma ?" e JS* ent c , olt - ski . n > with tops of
dull
Cuban Heel. The
attractiveness. This Shoe is modelled'"to
sizes 2 to
iant , , - flexible, sewed extending sole and a comfortable
Shoe ifmo!Sled^ letS ’ and f the . wide silk laces add much to the general
Price modelled on a new toe-shape, this season’s style. A grand fitter ;
l4/9
<
he
T
CO
a
rn
<
o
n UB
i S V'DNE'^J>'
BLACK STORM KING DERBY BOOTS. Made of the finest
selected Box Calf, and will stand the strongest and roughest
ot wear, and yet the appearance is fit for a walking- or
Neat«w r rvi o°+i: 0 ° + i : Wltt ‘ occasional applications of Lucca or
Neatsfoot Oil they wBl remam soft and will wear indefini-
tely. Sizes, 6to 10. Price 12/6
Our Motto—
WHAT OTHERS ADVERTISE,
WE SELL FOR LESS.
Please Write for
“ Our Household
Friend.”
IT IS FREE FOR
the asking.
iiSsS&s
<J'#?aAe y ,!
f° l «. Arri/ : k ,fl S
Vies,
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtanable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Soz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
CM
-
T
Y*
m
WELSBACH Specialties.
mantles, burners, glassware, gas fittings,
HEATERS, COOKERS, etc.
METALLIC FILAMENT LAMPS, ELECTRIC FITTINGS,
RADIATORS, and all Accessories.
EVERY REQUISITE for Every System of Lighting.
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.
302 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington.
380 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Agencies Everywhere.
THREE EXAMPLES
fg
of the Big Values we
offer in Solid Silver
Toilet Ware.
Our Big Catalogue
illustrates a Great
Variety of other
designs, etc., at
equally low prices.
SEND FOR A
COPY.
m
as
m
Solid Silver Hair
Brush, Hand-
some Floral
Design, Finest
Quality Bristles,
15/6
Others 12/6,
10/6, 9/6.
Handsome Solid Silver Hairbrush and Comb,
design. The brush has fine-qualitj', hand-
drawn bristles, and the comb is strongly
mounted. In silk-lined case
‘ Cherub”
22/6
Solid Silver Hand
Mirr o r, Beautifully
Embossed and Chased,
Vine design, best
Bevelled Glass,
Others 25/-, 30/-
JOE DAVIS
The Money Saving Jewellers,
26 Park St., Sydney
One Door from Pitt Street.
The Unvarying 1 Charm of
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
has won the steadfast adherence of the Con-
noisseur. They are absolutely uniform in
flavor, delicacy and subtle attractiveness.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN and VIRGINIAN.
Many grades—neatly and cleanly packed.
Your Tobacconist stocks them.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
Wholesale Agents
for Australia.
- ;
raw
J
z:
ir j
_j r
<217 J
VJj;
ITI
%
ilillii
ivxfr
HALLEY Motor Lorries
ARE EASY TO CONTROL.
The Halley is cheaper to run per mile than horse-teams. And when it is
“?*' working it costs no money, and needs the slightest amount of looking after
And. being from three to four times as fast, it brings the markets nearer. The
roughest roads and most hilly country offer no impediment to the Halley’s progress
it is constructed by a specialist in industrial motors, to withstand the hardest
conditions and severest usage.
iT he i. .“galley” is simple in construction. Anyone soon learns the way to
handle this lorry. The majority of •‘Halleys” in use are being controlled by for-
mer drivers of horse teams. This fact makes it particularly valuable to dwellers
remote from mechanical assistance.
-The Special Award and Gold and Silver Medals of the Royal Automobile
Club, for Simplicity, Accessibility and Freedom from Breakdown, have been
awarded the Halley.”
ANY TYPE OF BODY FITTED.
To Carry from 15cwt. to 6 tons.
DALGETY (Q. CO. LTD.
Motor Oarage: 130-138 Phillip Street. Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 33.—N0. 1689
THURSDAY, JUNE 27, 1912.
PIUCH 6|).
THE £5 BABY BOBUS.
We do not say that the birth rate of Australia is as high as it should be.... The practical way to set about remedying
the want of natural increase is by a policy of immigration.—Daily paper.
“Of course it’s nice and human enough in its way, my dear; but you must admit that such a business is considered
somewhat vulgar and low-class amongst our set, who know that everything this awful country requires may
be obtained from ’ome—and certainly of a much more matured and superior quality.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . .. . . 0 13 6
Quarterly . . . . . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
Vie Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion . only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at J/J6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hht Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.t—Panama-Pacific Neivs Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Ilong
Kong.
Ceylon. — lV. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6‘iin. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British. New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, 10oz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, ICioz. Id. — otherwise, Boz., Id., and 8ioz: to
10oz., 2hd.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 1,0 z., Id,,
and id. " each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 27, 1912.
THE COOL, DAMP CENTRE OF
AUSTRALIA.
The beginning of the new Federal session
finds the Australian Government, as usual,
carefully shirking the biggest questions of
the day lest it should lose its job. Just now
the two problems which overshadow all
others are the tariff, and the construction
of the great railway which is required to
promote settlement in the Northern Terri-
tory. These are matters of some difficulty
to the weak Fisher and the weak
Fisher combination, because they, to
a great extent, throw the Cabinet on
its own responsibility. Almost every other
point that is large enough to be worth
calling a point was settled for it in advance
by the party organisation. It inherits its
instructions, sailing directions, chart, or
whatever the thing may be called. All it
has to do is to be honest, sober, respectable,
not too mad in a financial sense, not too
wild in its language, not too obvious in its
pursuit of strange girls, and reasonably in-
telligent. On the tariff question, _ however,
the Parliamentary Labor party is left to
make up its own mind. And despite the fact
that the tariff is utterly inefficient, that the
influx of cheap labor goods has reached a
point at which even the, importers’ papers
begin to grow alarmed, and that the outflow
of gold is so great that the beginnings of a
panic are already discernible, it can’t make
up its mind. Not having any clear direc-
tions or any hereditary barometer, and hav-
ing a rooted dislike of responsibility, it lets
things drift. In the matter of the Northern
Territory it is in the same situation. It
has taken over the Territory, partly because
its predecessors carried the matter so far
that it could hardly do otherwise. It knows
that the place must be settled if the White
Australia policy is to have the semblance
of a chance. It is perfectly well aware that
the only hope of filling up the North with
population lies in the building of a railway
to make the great Federal property access-
ible. But the Fisher Government has no
clear instructions as to the route of that
essential railway. Owing to the fact that
every Labor member is just as anxious as
any other member to drag every possible
railway round by his own door and ash-
barrel and dog-kennel, the organisation
which draws up the Labor programme was
reluctant to give definite instructions. It
left the Ministry and the Federal Parlia-
mentary Labor party to do the best they
could, and in their dislike of responsibility
they do as little as possible.
In the matter of the railway to the West
it was easy to come to a decision. Westralia
is less isolated than the Territory, inasmuch
as it lies on the direct route to Europe and
to the headquarters of the Empire, while the
other place doesn’t. It is less of a danger
to Australia, and is less in need of defence,
because it lies further from the Brown and
Yellow Peril. It has less claim on the Com-
monwealth, because it isn’t Commonwealth
property, whereas the Territory is. There is
every reason why, on purely national prin-
ciples, the North should be considered first.
But the West, having more defenders than
the North, has also more voters, and more
prospective supporters of the Government
(provided fhey get their line early), and
more prospective enemies of the Government
(if they don’t get their line early). And in
an important respect, the line to the West
is the line of least resistance. It can only
go through S.A. and Westralia. No imag-
inable deviation can drag it through Victoria
and N.S.W. and Queensland; therefore it
isn’t a cause of dissension among those mem-
bers of the caucus who represent the biggest
voting power. The railway to Kalgoorlie
and Perth can be built without the Govern-
ment having to make up its mind, inasmuch
as it is the sort of work which, through its
mere situation, makes up its own mind. But
the really important road to the North is a
different proposition, so the Fisher Ministry
is wary and non-committal. For the present,
it proposes to survey a track from the exist-
ing northern terminus at Pine Creek to
Katherine Waters. By-and-bye, it will pro-
bably build the track to Katherine Waters.
That will amount to a very slight extension
of the present dead-end railway from Port
Darwin. It won’t connect the Territory
with any other State or any other centre of
civilisation. It won’t diminish its isolation
to any extent, or do much to help settlement,
or make the defence of the lonesome province
any easier. It will do nothing to make the
southern fragment of the transcontinental
line —the one from Port Augusta to Oodna-
datta—any less fragmentary or any more
profitable. But the Fisher Government
can extend the Port Darwin-Pine Creek
line to Katherine Waters or even a
little further without committing itself
or risking its job, and therein lies
the great merit of the scheme. Whether it
ultimately decides to build along the short,
straight track to Port Augusta and Adelaide,
or along the long, curly, circuitous one
through Western Queensland and Western
N.S.W. doesn’t matter. The little section
to Katherine Waters is on the road in either
case. This indefinite hanging up of about
the most urgent question in Australian poli-
tics may be a crime against the community,
but it postpones the final row among the
various State Fright elements in the caucus,
and it puts off the evil day when the Fisher
Cabinet will have to make up its mind.
Of late, the old question as to whether
the white man can be a permanent success
in warm regions has been raised again, and
the advocates of nigger labor have been
maintaining at the top of their voices that he
can’t. Judging by such evidence as is avail-
able in Queensland, the white man, under
civilised conditions, can do remarkably well
in the tropics, but it doesn’t follow that he
is at his best in a mixture of intense heat,
chronic drought, great evaporation, and
shifting sand. That is the description of a
great part of the region through which the
Australian transcontinental railway must go
if the State Frights crowd, which clamors
for the deviation through Western Queens-
land and N.S.W., has its way. There is in
the west of N.S.W-., the south-west of
Queensland and the north-east of S.A. a
huge area which is marked on the map as
“sea-level.” There is another such area
round the Gulf of Carpentaria—mostly : n
the Queensland section of the Gulf.
The first-named region represents the
burning depression or hot saucer-bottom
of Australia —the place where the
white man can’t live, if there are
any places in Australia where he can’t live.
It doesn’t, of course, absolutely represent
sea level, though Bourke, in N.S.W. is only
350 ft. above the ocean, and many other parts
of the basin are lower. In this dip lie the
Boulia, Birdsville, Beetoota, Windorah and
Jundah country in Queensland, and between
one-third and a half of N.S.W. The eastern
deviation party wants to add enormously
to the length of the Northern Territory rail-
way in order to drag it through the unprom-
ising hollow where, over a great area, the
extremes of heat, drought and evaporation
meet, so that the N.S.W. and Queensland
representatives may do their duty to their
constituents by hauling a costly public work
inside their State borders. The said hauling
won’t do them any special good, for a rail-
way that takes a devious course through
about the lowest and hottest and driest part
of Australia can do very little good to any-
thing or anybody. But the State borders
are there —so many streaks on the map; and
it is the duty of every good State Brighter
to drag everything he possibly can inside his
streak or perish in the effort.
* * * *
The other idea is to build the shortest and
cheapest possible line across the continent,
and to carry it over the great cool tableland
of Middle Australia. There may still be
room for eloquent liars and others to argue
as to the suitability of the white man for
settlement in the low. hot, damp country in
the Gulf region of North Queensland —the
area that includes Burketown, Normanton,
Croydon, and tfie region almost as far south
as Cloncurry. There may even be room for
argument as to his fitriiess or anybody s fit-
ness to dwell in the hot, saline, dried-up
sea-bottom region about south-western
Queensland. But concerning the. breezy up-
lands of Central Australia there is no doubt
whatsoever. Very few Australians take so
much interest in their own country as
to learn that there is an extensive group of
mountains in the middle of this continent,
just about half-way between Adelaide and
Port Darwin; that there is a region with a
fair rainfall; and that rivers—the Hugh,
the Finke, the Todd, the Waite, the Al-
berga and many more —flow down from it
and get lost, for want of attention and con-
servation works, in that same old dried-up-
sea country which the railway deviation party
wants the line to traverse. Even the baby
township of Alice Springs, at the foot of the
Central Australian mountains, is nearly
2000 ft. above ocean level. From there the
tableland slopes very gently north, with a
steadily increasing rainfall. At Daly Waters,
which is almost abreast of Cooktown, it is
still 700 ft. high, and the high lands con-
tinue north of that till they almost look
down on the coast. Port Darwin is cer-
tainly on a warm coastal belt, but the belt
is not nearly so wide there as the correspond-
ing locality in North Queensland.
For some unexplained reason, the worst,
form of Toryism and the worst form of
State Frights always go together. The viru-
lent Tory declares the Territory unfit for
white settlement, thereby meaning the
coastal scrap of the Territory which is low
and damp, though not apparently unhealthy.
That is the Tory in his Nigger Labor capa-
city. In his State Frights capacity he wants
to add hundreds of miles to the length of
the Northern Territory railway in order to
drag it through Queensland and N.S.W.,
where the big voting power lies—to drag it
round for a vast distance through a
low hot, inland region of a most un-
promising character. He proposes to
do this on the ground that the cool up-
lands, which would be traversed by the
straight line across the middle of Australia,
are uninhabitable. One way and another, he
seems to think that every place is uninhabit-
able, except for niggers and State Frights.
As a matter of fact, there is no need to argue
out the question of the fitness of the white
man for tropical settlement, so far as the
Territory is concerned —not for years to
come. If the railway is pushed- straight
through along the shortest route, from Port
Augusta in S.A. to Port Darwin, there are
only about 1000 miles to be built. Afid most
of this distance is lofty country, where the
white man can live and flourish beyond any
shadow of doubt, unless the weather is too
chilly in spots. (Gilbert White, Bishop
of Carpentaria, says in his “Across Aus-
tralia” that on the tableland near Alice
Springs, in the same latitude as Rockhamp-
ton, he had “six days of as cold travelling
as I ever experienced.”) If this line is
constructed, and the Halfway City or City
of Paradise (it would be Paradise
for those who like a cool climate)
is built in the middle of Australia,
then a great white population can be planted
along the railway and east and west of it,
till the end of the highlands is reached.
After that, if anybody can prove that the
fragment of low coastal country is unfit for
white settlement, the colored labor question
can be argued to a finish. But that problem
need not really turn up for quite a long
while. Even with the most vigorous settle-
ment that can be imagined it will be very
long before the white Australian in the Ter-
ritory need be more than a casual dweller in
the low shore lands, unless he wants to be a
constant dweller there. That is to say, it
will be a very long time before the pressure
of population drives him to the low lands.
The great Federal province has suffered
mostly from fools and State Frights. People
from cold climates, who judge things solely
by latitude as marked on the map, clamor
that the vast elevated country, where the
pious and holy Bishop of Carpentaria nearly
froze, must be hot, because it lies abreast of
Rockhampton and Townsville, and in their
inexperience they find these places hot.
Casual politicians from the south visit Port
Darwin and its immediate surroundings, and
find them unsuited to their constitutions —
debilitated, it may be, by southern winters.
They assume that Port Darwin is the Terri-
tory, just as the British Cockney takes a
day’s run over to Calais, and hands in his
verdict that foreign countries are a failure,
because he tried to buy twopenn’orth
of beer in a strange language and
couldn’t make himself understood. Local-
minded politicians from N.S.W. and
Queensland demand that the railway to
the North shall be built, for local reasons,
through the worst sections of their own
States, and judge the Territory by these sec-
tions, which are neither in it nor of it.
Whether the Federal province is approached
from Port Darwin, or via the Townsville-
Cloncurry railway and through the low-
lying north of Queensland, the explorer is
only looking at the fringe of the country, and
the fringe is no fair test. The middle of
Australia is a sanatorium, not a mangrove
swamp. If the railway is built as nearly as
possible due north and south, the Common-
wealth will discover a new asset. And in
doing so it will learn that it is a mistake to
judge the real interior of this country by
places like Bourke and Wentworth and Jun-
dah and Birdsville and Boulia, that grovel
down in holes. The real interior has a
future, and if the Fisher Government would
only take its courage in both hands and stake
its job on the fact, it might find the gamble
pay.
AUSTRALIAN PLACE NAMES.
Edward S. Sorenson writes: —
Count de Eleurieu, of the Socicte Geographique de
Paris, who has been touring Australia for the pur-
pose of making investigations into the old names
given to various localities by the French explorers,
says that he has found that these, in a great many
cases, have given place to others devoid of any his-
toric value, disregarding the law that the first desig-
nation given to a place should in* all cases be
retained.
Australians heartily agree with the Count, and
would be glad to see that law respected in all cases.
The first names, however, were not French, but
aboriginal. Places on our coast, and in the vicinity
of Sydney, that still honor the intrepid foreigner,
have far more euphonious aboriginal names, which
are not devoid of historic value to Australians.
Thev have a claim above all others; the very
earliest French navigators, as La Perouse, d’ENTßE-
casteaux, Daudin and Perron, had no right to
ignore these, and apply their own appellations in
tneir stead. ,
Personal names applied to places are always ob-
jectionable. The need of wiping out this practice
is brought home to us more forcibly when we hnd
obscure aldermen and politicians disfiguring our cit\
and country maps, often with harsh, uncouth expies-
sions that a conscientious man wouldn’t give to his
dog. However self-important these persons may have
been while honored with a little brief authority,
they had no claim to immortality by inflicting their
commonplace titles on all posterity. Even the people
who help by their votes to clothe them with that
authority know nothing about them in a year or two
afterwards. , , . . ,
We see the need also of restoring the aboriginal
names in numerous instances where places are
labelled with duplications borrowed from other
countries. This duplication is not only confusing,
but it is a form of flattery that is anything but
creditable to us, showing a deplorable lack of origin-
ality. One might even say that it shows a want of,
honor, if not altogether a laxity of morals, for the
business is a steal. Shandygaff names—New This,
and New That, and Native Something-else—are equ-
ally bad.
* * * *
The name of the Westralian capital, Perth, be-
longs to a town in Scotland, and is also duplicated
in Maoriland. Manilla, a town in N.S.W., has
caused no end of confusion, and was particularly
annoying at the time of the Spanish-Amerian war.
The aboriginal name of the place in Munila. Here
we see a corruption of the original through the
carelessness or the auricular dulness of some official,
with very bad results. Numerous instances of the
kind occur in our nomenclature. The name of the
Richmond River port-town, Ballina, which belongs
to a place in Ireland, should be Boollinah, meaning
“place of oysters.’ Louisa (N.S.W.) should be Illo-
e-jah; Breeza, Biridja; Woolloomooloo, Wulla-
mulla. Other Sydney names are: Rose Bay, Panner-
ong; North Shore, Cammeray; Pinchgut, Mattin-
wunye; Middle Head, Cubba Oubba; Sydney Cove,
Warrant-; Goat Island, Memel; Manly Beach, Can-
nae. The only consolation to be derived from Manly
is that the person who so named it didn’t call it
Womanly.
In almost every district throughout the country
one finds Sandy Creek, Deep Creek and Stony Creek.
There must be 10,000 Sandy Creeks in Australia.
When the watercourse is not sandy (it is sometimes
called MacPherson for a change), it is nearly sure
to be Stony or Rocky; if none of these answer, then
it will probably be Dead Man or Dead Dog Creek,
or Murdering Gully.
Emu, Dingo, Breakfast and Blackfellow are other
designations that occur frequently, not to forget
Smith, Jones and Jeremiah. Cooper’s Creek (the
one in Queensland, not the other in Victoria) should
be Koopa Creek.
The aborigine, whom the great white man looks
down upon, showed no such paucity of ideas. He
has an appropriate name for every place, for every
hill and waterway. The majority of them, when
properly pronounced, are sweet-sounding and often
full of sentiment.
In many places the names in a district have some
peculiar affix or prefix, which, to the aboriginal stu-
dent, would be often sufficient to locate them. About
the south-west border of Queensland, for instance,
many names begin with noc, as Nockatunga, Nocun-
dra, Nockaburara, Nocabareena, etc. In the south-
east corner many end with dilla, as Muckadilla,
Moomlilla, Burrandilla. In the big corner west of
the Darling River we have the termination cania and
the prefix yan, as in Wilcannia, Bancania, Yancania,
Yantara, Yandam, Yancowinna, Yanko. And in the
north and north-eastern parts of the State the ter-
minal bri (meaning running water) occurs fre-
quently, as Narrabri, Collarenebri, Boggabri, Cutta-
bri, Benalabri, Nogabri, Therabri. Billy, or billa,
and bony are familiar on the map of the same State,
the first —meaning river or creek —being applied to
streams in the south-east, as Tidbinbilly, Yarrango-
billy ( yarran is a well-known tree), Adjungbilly,
Wagrabilly ( wagra means tomahawk), and Bogabilla,
Bong signifies dead. Thus. Billabong is a blind
channel, or a channel with a dead end. Billa-
bong Creek (a tributary of the Edward River) is
therefore silly, as its meaning is Dead Creek. Creek.
In Victoria the terminal up, meaning watering place,
is common, as in Eurraminnup, Mulallyup, Wilinar-
rup, Quaggamirrup, Kooweerup; while in South Aus-
tralia, along the line from Adelaide to Broken Hill,
we come to a lot of places whose names end with
owie, as Terowie, Euriowie, Caltowie, Canowie, Yar-
cowie, Gumbowie, Condowie, Booboorowie. The
terminals or or ah, oo and ee are common over a
great part of Australia, while any, wang and ong
occur frequently in N.S.W. and Queensland; but the
prefixes are generally territorially distinctive, a mat-
ter overlooked by most writers when coining Aus-
tralian names.
Siiaiispeare asks, what is there in a name? There
is everything in a name. Take, for instance, New-
castle (a steal). The native name of the place is
Moorabinda. Had it been retained the poets would
have made it ring through the world, for the place
is one of the world’s greatest coal centres. But a
stodgy, stolen name like Newcastle, has no more
appeal or inspiration in it than a plate of cold
cabbage.
Take our rivers—Richmond, Clarence, Hunter
Hawkesbury, Hodgkinson, and so on. Who could do
anything with a monstrosity like Hodgkinson? It
could not have been worse if it had been Son-of-u-
Hog. Had it been so called it would have been
in keeping with some pet English names, such as
Pokestog-on-the-llike. The Clarence is one of the
noblest rivers that the traveller could wish to see.
It is dotted with 99 islands, on some of which are
towns and farms and mountains ; on others beautiful
gardens and recreation grounds. How many outside
the district know of its beauties? How few would
be ignorant of that charming river if it had a sweet-
sounding name?
There is no doubt that a name counts for a lot
with the people, and has a considerable influence on
settlement. A name that thev can take to their
hearts and love is a tie that binds and holds. Does
not the man whose childhood was passed in laughing
Riverina, or in snow-capped Monaro, look back to
that land with more satisfaction than the one who
grew up in New England looks back to his? (I am
referring to the New England in New South Wales,
not the New England in America —the country which
contains New Jersey, and New York, and New Bruns-
wick and New London and New Found Land, and
New Mexico, and numerous like horrors.) Does the
latter not feel that he has been robbed of somethin"
that is most dear to everyone who loves the place of
his birth? The great north-western corner has no
name at all, except Trans-Darling, which is lovely.
Con over the soft, lingering, mellifluous names
that are far-famed in Irish song.. Are these names
not loved for themselves ; do they not appeal to the
sentiments and the emotions, apart from all that
may be associated with them, of the sons and
daughters of Ireland ? The nearest approach to them
•in euphonv are our Australian aboriginal namrs.
And it must not be forgotten that there are a great
manv beautiful things in aboriginal legendary lore,
mueh of which has more or less bearing on native
place names. Every country should havp its distinct
nomenclature, and these are ours. We want no
hybrid titles on our maps, and it is certain that
future Australians will not tolerate such appellations
as New South Wales. South Australia fwhich is two-
thirds north and central), Western Australia and the
like. Australia will one day be divided into many
federated States, and it is to be honed that the
naming of them will be left to those of bush experi-
ence. who have some national pride in them, and
some artistic taste.
PLAIN ENOUGH.
What is a Place?
A little while ago one Morgan, of Mel-
bourne, was found running a two-up school
at Galatea Point, and was charged with
using a certain place for gambling purposes
< contrary to the provisions of the law. And
then the Victorian Courts and the Federal
High Court started to foam, just as they
have foamed for ever so many years, over
the definition of a place, and some lawyers
said that Galatea Point was a place, and


some said it wasn’t, and all the ancient con-
fusion and venerable Costs resumed. In
view of this trouble, The Bulletin draws
attention to the fact that six years ago
(31/5/’OG) it published a definition of a
place, and if its advice had been taken, and
its definition fixed by law, the present worry,
and many dozen similar worries, would have
been averted. The following was this paper’s
statement of the case: —
(1) A place is just a place, a situation, a posi-
tion, in fact, any old spot.
(2) A place is anywhere and everywhere in the
universe. When a man is standing, sitting, lying, roll-
ing, walking, or circumnavigating on a place, it is a
place. It is also a place if a man isn’t standing, sit-
ting, lying or rolling on or around it. It is just as
good a place if a cow is standing on it, or an ele-
phant. The South Pole will be a place when it is
found. It will also be a place if it isn’t found. It
is a place now —so is every other place. If there is
no South Pole, it is a place just the same.
(3) An imaginary spot is a place just as much as
if it wasn’t imaginary. If anyone is accused
of making bets in Atlantis, Utopia, or Barataria, the
Court will go right on and hear the evidence, whether
those places exist or not, and will therefore accumu-
late Costs. The Law believes in Costs. The locality
in which Bishop Pontoppidan’s legendary animals
existed was a place.
(4) If a man is up in a balloon the balloon is a
place, and is in a place. This clause applies equally
to a man who has fallen off a ship and not been re-
covered. Even if lie fell off Mark Antony’s galley
at Actium, and hasn’t been heard of since, he is in a
place, and can be prosecuted for making bets there,
provided satisfactory evidence is tendered with the
aid of a duly paid solicitor.
(5) Valhalla is a place. So are Nifleheim and Ge-
henna. For the purposes of this Act anybody who is
dead for 20 years shall be regarded as a place. He
is dust, and dust helps to make the earth, and the
earth is a place.
(6) It is not necessary for a spot or locality to
have any known name or address or latitude or
longitude, or to be approachable by any known or
definite road or other means, or to be located on any
map, or to be defined in any way. It is a place all
the same.
(7) A cockroach under ordinary conditions is a
cockroach. When it is stood upon it becomes a
place. A horse is a place when a man or any other
animal is riding it. So is any other animal. If a
man makes a bet while impaled on the horn of a cow
the cow is a place. When Captain William Jackson
Barry rode on the whale it was a place. So was the
turtle when Louis iie Rougemont was on it, or
wasn’t on it. It doesn’t matter how many animals
are piled on top of one another, each of them con-
stitutes a place for the purposes of this Act. So does
any vehicle, building, structure, object, or any solid,
liquid, fluid, gas, phantasm, chimera, rumor, delu-
sion, or sundry. This clause includes quicksands,
landslides, avalanches, earthquakes and volcanic erup-
tions. . , _.
(8) A place may be of any size or shape. It may
be tipped up at any known or unknown angle. It
may be raw pr fried or otherwise prepared. It may
be living or dead, or partly one or partly another.
Also, it may be wet, dry, or a little of both, with a
leaning either way. (Dust storms come under this
clause, man gets on t j ie shoulders of another
for the purpose of making a bet, the man underneath
shall be deemed a place, and shall be fined not less
than £lO for being one. The man on top shall be
fined double for trying to bring the Law into con-
tempt.
(10) Any solicitor or barrister who claims that
his client wasn’t in a place when the bet was made
shall be suspended for 12 months. Also, if the Judge
or magistrate entertains the claim thus advanced, he
shall lose three months’ salary. If the person on the
Bench is only a J.P. and gets no salary, he shall
cease to be a J.P., and shall be exiled to some
locality at least 100 miles distant, where he shall be
compelled to go on the land.
(11) The term “man” in this Act shall include
any woman or child who bets, also any automaton,
machine, performing dog, calculating pig, or any
other object that gambles, or looks as if it might
gamble.
(12) If, by the process of scientific discovery, and
the invention of flying men or airships, or the exten-
sion of wireless telegraphy, or by thought transfer-
ence or other phenomena, any method is devised
whereby a bet may be made, despite the definitions con-
tained in this Act, without both the parties being in
a place, they shall both be held to be in a place just
the same.
The Bulletin again recommends that these
views be embodied in an Act, and then three-
card men will be put to rout and two-uppers
scattered to the four winds.
An Eminently Successful Way of
Keeping Down Population.
While inquiring recently into the death of
a boarded-out infant, which had allegedly
been transferred when in a dying condition
from the East Melbourne Foundling Home,
Victorian Coroner Cole was handed some
figures that ought to have been made
public long ago. An inquiring constable
fished them out and informed the coroner
that they “staggered him.” They showed
that, between April 15, ’ll, and JMay,
5, ’l2, there had passed through this “home”
—run by a committee of ladies and main-
tained by subscriptions and a Government
grant of £IOO0 —252 children, of whom 132
had been discharged, 53 had died, 20 had left
and been readmitted, and 47 remained in the
institution. Of the 132 discharged, 97 were
still alive three months later, 21 could not
be found, and 1h had died. That is to say,
of 252 infants handled during the months
67, and probably more, had died! No won-
der the coroner, like the constable, professed
himself “staggered.” Next day the Boss
Benevolent Lady of the “Home” rushed
into print to say that their records were no
worse than those of similar institutions in
America (!), that the class and constitu-
tions of the children they received neces-
sarily entailed a high mortality rate, and
that the home existed for the purpose of
saving child life and rescuing the mothers
from further degradation. Also, Treasurer
Watt, who provides the £IOOO referred to,
said that he didn’t think the institution did
too badly considering everything, or words-
to that effect. John Weary, whose depart-
ment concerns itself with the inspection of
such institutions, had not yet made himself
sufficiently awake to say anything. As to
the president’s excuses or allegations, it is
more pertinent to compare the East Mel-
bourne Foundling Hospital, not with similar
institutions in America, but with one not 20
miles away—at Broadmeadows (Vic.). This
is managed by the Sisters of St. Joseph, and
receives infants of all denominations and
from all sources. The latest Victorian Year
Book gives these figures for. ’O9-’lO concern-
ing the two places
East Broad-
Melbourne. meadows.
Number of dormitories • .. 3 10 ,
Capacity in cubic ifeet .. 15,336 48,163
Beds for inmates .. .. 59 84
Cubic feet per bed .. . . 260 573
No.ofinmatesduringyear’o9-’lO 211 221
Daily average .. . . 123 76
No. of deaths .... 31 8
Percentage of deaths .. 14.7 3.6
Receipts from Government . . £I,OOO
Receipts from other sources £1,395 £1,037
Expenditure • • • • £3,014 £1,202
Total cost of maintenance .. £2,863 £852
Average cost per inmate .. £23/5/6 £ll/4/3
Probably one reason for the high East Mel-
bourne mortality is the fact that that home
is a close-packed collection of none-too-
modern buildings on a small allotment, near
a congested suburb. Those buildings must
have a large and venerable collection of
germs. They get little air, and what they
do get is not the fresh country air on which
the infants thrive out in the wind-swept
paddocks at Broadmeadows. This conclu-
sion is confirmed by the fact that of the 132
infants sent to boarding-out homes, 14 or
more died. The mother of the deceased
child told the coroner that when it entered
the institution it weighed 16J1b.; when she
took it away and gave it to a nurse at Oak-
leigh it only weighed llilb. Of course, a
Chief Secretary who meant to honestly and
energetically carry out the work he is paid
to do would at once order a searching in-
quiry as to the management of this pre-
cious “home,” and would try and discover
whose fault it is that the undertaker is re-
quired so often; and if he couldn’t find out
lie would close the place as a menace to the
community, and have it fumigated and dis-
infected ; or, better still, razed to the ground
—but the man in charge isn’t that kind of a
Chief Sec. He is a weary old battler —at
least he would be if he battled, but he
doesn’t. t
A Full Explanation.
“Petronius Earbiter” tells how he was:
informed: —
Lively woman carries her quaint “contrariness”’
right into politics, as well as into dress and deport-
ment. For instance, N.S.W. Liberals are handi-
capped with a Women’s League, which lately
“passed,” in more or less solemn conference, the fol-
lowing resolutions: —
(1) To be very loyal to the Empire!
(■/) To cultivate the spirit of true Liberalism! !
(3) To raise the standard of public life ! ! !
(4) To raise the position of women in ail spheres
of hfe! ! ! ! .
(5) To support as candidates for Parliament onia
Liberal and patriotic citizens of high principles and
ability / ! ! ! !
(6) To" support all movements calculated to mini-
mise Social Evils!!!!!!
I absorbed this virtuous and edifying programme
for about three-quarters of an hour, and then I
humbly took it—with all my unresolved doubts—to
a lady who is the vice-something of our suburb s
branch of the said Wimmin’s League. She said: —
“I am so glad you came to me in your dilemma!
All you men have to come to us in the long run, don t
you? Yes! Now, of course, No. I—Loyalty1—Loyalty to the
Empire—Yes” (brightly). “Well, it isn’t necessary
to explain that, is it? No l I’m sure you re veiy
loyal, because you come from Scotland ! All Scots-
men are loyal—Yes! Dear Mr... Bruce Smith, tor
instance, who is, of course, half Scotch by his name.
Yes!—.you see?” ( Laughingly .) “Do you know, I
should love to see him wearing the kilts —the plaidecl
tartan of the Bruces, you.know”— —
“How about the tartan of Clan Smith? I inter-
rupted. >
“Oh, yes! And that, too, of course! Well, the
next thing is—oh, yes ! —the spirit of true, earnest
Liberalism. Of course, I couldn’t say exactly what
that—er—ah—implies, but it means fun —( wildly )
—“fundamentally sound Liberal principles, you
know!”.. ..(I did know; she was quoting from the
Sydney Telegraph!) “Then, No. 3—let me see
... .yes !....‘raise the standard of public life
Yes! That, of course, is obvious. It is most neces-
sary. These vulgar Labor persons —and oh! their
women! My dear Mr. Earbiter, you ought to see
them 1 Plaint Oh, positively hideous! And the
airs they give themselves because their party is in
power iust now! And” (with a shriek of laughter)
“the way they dress! They are positive frights I
Dear Lady Gummidge, who saw some of the creatures
at Government House last week, said that they were
dowdy —Fancy! at Government House, of all places!
No really nice person could put up with them! How
his Excellency could ever — But it can t last, Mr.
Earbiter” ( tragically ), “it can never last. Society
couldn’t stand it!
“Yes No. 4 resolution was enthusiastically
adopted. So much depends on it, you know! Really,
as I often say to Mrs. Hauton, ‘We must raise the
sex dear Mrs. llauton ——raise them at once, uplift
them, and improve them —er —generally ! They have
been too long under man and the domination of male
ideas.’ Do you know Mrs. Hauton? A charming
woman, Mr. Earbiter, and so full of sympathy! * I
have known her go in her car to the poorest houses
and sit with a sick person for an hour, trying to win
them to the Cause, and to improve their sphere. I
oall it beautiful!. ...
“What is the next? Oh, yes! We cannot have
candidates, can we? who are not pure, good, stainless
men! The League is very, very particular in that
respect! All Liberals should be chosen for Parlia-
ment on the highest moral basis, and- —er —yes, only
patriotic, moral men should be elected. The League
considers that morality is indispensable in a politi-
cian, and —er —that it ranks before ability and mere
grasp of affairs. Only one thing should be allowed
to come before morality, and that is patriotism
loyalty, you know, and attachment to the Throne, and
—and so on! What is the last —oh, yes! social
evils. Yes” ( gravely) “the Conference deplored the
existence of so many dreadful evils among the people.
The spirit of pleasure—theatres —and those awful
picture-shows, Mr. Earbiter. And this wicked cry
for the Totalisator and fair betting, and all the de-
plorable Sunday trading we see around us to-day!
How can we ever be a Nation if we don t go regu-
larly to church and to Sunday-school, and stop buy-
ing cabbages on Sundays? Look at Japan, Mr. Ear-
biter! Do they allow such things? N0!.... We
women must put a stop to it at once, the making
of Australia is in our hands, and when only mce
people and good, religious people and respectable,
well-dressed people go to Parliament and to Govern-
ment House; and when only proper, clean-living men
are elected to the Liberal party, and the vulgar
Labor persons are sent back to the streets, or to pri-
son, you will see we women” ( proudly ) will relorm
and cherish this fair young land, and make every-
body good and happy ! Don t mention it... .1
always like to talk about our League, and our ob-
jects, and try and wean people from this horrid
Socialism! Good-bye.”
I left in a dream. _
The Only Way.
Last week Mayor Clarke, of Sydney, de-
livered a violent protest against the state
of affairs at Milson’s Point and Circular
Quay during certain hours of the day. An
extract: —
The travelling public are cooped up like sheep in
a pen. They are so huddled together that there is
not even elbow room for them. When the gates are
■opened they are simply pushed through by the force
of the crowd behind. There Is a great opportunity
for pickpockets, and I say that this state of affairs
■ought not to be allowed to continue any longer.
Having made bitter reference to the over-
crowded condition of the ferry-boats, he pro-
ceeded to suggest a remedy. It was, bneffy,
that a fffrther lot of ferry-boats should be let
loose on Sydney’s already-congested harbor.
The present position of affairs is hideously
inconvenient. Inoffensive citizens are liable
to get pneumonia while standing round wait-
ing for a chance to crowd on to one ot the
steamers, and if they get on they do the
journey under utterly uncivilised condmons.
But with more boats the constant dread of
■death would be super-imposed upon their
other discomforts. The only relief, as vari-
ous folks have long been pointing out, is a
bridge or a tunnel, or both, or several of
each. Even 40 years ago the need was ap-
parent in the mild fashion according to
which an immature Skye terrier is visible;
to-day it is the biggest thing in sight, a re-
quirement so vast in i.s urgency that it
■dominates the entire Sydney landscape.
Meanwhile, both the bridge and the tunnel
are as far off completion as ever. The
factor which blocks them, and always has,
and apparently always will, is, of course,
■our demented system of Party Government.
Most of the northern suburbs are solidly
Tory. A Tory Government won’t supply
them with a bridge in order to buy their
votes, because it has got their votes already,
and a Labor Government doesn’t worry about
them because it reckons that it couldn’t
buy their votes even with 10 bridges. There
are no suffrages to be gained, but there are
a whole heap to be lost. C. G. Wade, rep-
resentative though he is of a constituency
which is fairly languishing for rational
means of communication with the city, did
not hesitate, the other day, while orating,
away in the Back of Beyond, to denounce the
McGowen Government for its stated inten-
tion of getting busy with this grey-whisk-
ered old proposition. Wade described the
alleged intention, in effect, as a gross wrong
to the country constituencies, which would
Tiave to pay their share towards the cost of
the venture without getting any of the
benefits. The argument went down well
with the bucolics, _ as indeed it always does
whoever exploits it. Which is why every
•Government, under whatever name it mas-
querades, has sbudderinalv side-stepped the
big work from the beginning of time. Let
it be granted (1) that no State Government,
however earnestly it blithers on. the subject,
will have the nerve to start this costly but
vitally necessary job; and (2) that Private
Enterprise will not be given tlie chance to do
it. The question arises : Who is to take it
on? The answer is the City Council, the
body presided over by the painfully futile
old gentleman whose idea of grappling with
one of the most tragic transport muddles on
record appears above. Under a Greater
Sydney, this work would probably have been
started years ago. It would pay the city
well, if only by making easier the housing
problem, and opening up a vast area of rate-
able property along the shores of Middle
Harbor and elsewhere. In any case, from
the Sydney standpoint, the thing is a neces-
sity, like up-to-date fire-fighting appliances
and an improved water supply, and so Syd-
ney might as well resign itself to beginning
the venture, without further qualms. A con-
dition precedent is, of course, the institution
of a Greater Sydney, and for that ideal
every citizen who is inconvenienced by the
existing state of affairs would do well to
battle hard and tirelessly.
The Mono-Kail.
It is reported that Louis Brennan is only
waiting till all his patents are issued to offer
his mono-rail contrivance to the British Gov-
ernment and to the human race at large, lie
is working a full-sized line at Gilling-
ham (England), where for years he has
labored at perfecting his invention, lie is
now satisfied with if, and reckons that it
has really arrived. The report goes that the
mono-car has shown that it can travel 130
miles an hour on a single rail, bedded on
sleepers 3ft. Gin. long, placed 2ft. apart. It
can turn round curves that no ordinary loco-
motive will navigate. It can face grades
that the old loco, finds impossible. It is less
likely to capsize in a high wind than the
ordinary style of vehicle, for the gyroscope
resists any attempt to overturn it. It keeps
its perpendicular just as wtffl standing as
running. On the evidence of its trials this
concern could jog easily from Port Augusta
in the South of Australia, to Port Darwin in
the North, in 20 hours, and it might do bet-
ter if it put on a spurt. It seems a pity
that Australia’s voluble and hungry High
Commissioner can’t take his lunch with him
one day, and go out to make a thorough in-
spection of the new wonder. The Fisher
Government, if it could be a little less ab-
sorbed than usual, might set to work in haste
to see if the Australian rights are worth
buying, as The Bulletin urged it to do
more than a year ago. It certainly should
have got on the traclt of Brennan’s inven-
tion, and arranged for a series of trials in
Australia, before it committed itself to build-
ing a transcontinental railway on an old,
slow, costly principle, which is probably just
about ready for the scrap heap. The world
is suspected of being on the verge of a
revolution in land transit. It is quite pos-
sible that a considerable number of the mil-
lions now being expended on new railways
are just as much lost as if they were thrown
into the deep, deep sea, and (hat the old
“permanent and reproductive” lines have
suddenly depreciated about one-half. And it
is on the cards that, while the Government
lingers, good old Private Enterprise may buy
up the Australian rights of what may easily
prove an essenlial device, and bleed this
country remorselessly for the use of it. Of
course there is nothing in the Labor pro-
gramme about keening an eye on new me-
chanical devices. But it isn’t necessary to
keep always inside the four corners of the
nrogramme. In this case the Government’s
lack of interest may cost Australia such a
heap of money that a departure from the or-
dinary rut and routine would be excusable.
If the suspicions of many engineers are jus-
tified, the Brennan mono-rail is 1000 times
more important to Australia than evert the
Brisbane strike.
Alfred Deakin’s waggon is hitched, these
days, not to a star, but to the mudhole of
Joseph Cook, and for that reason his at-
tack on the Fisher Government last week
was unconvincing. He had to leave out the
most effective part of his indictment. He
might have preached High Protection. He
might have pointed out to the Hughes sec-
tion of the Labor party that it is really the
Cheap Labor party ; that it is the agent and
advocate of the Tory importer; that *t en-
courages the use in Australia of sweated
labor goods and “scab” labor goods and
colored labor goods; and that it has man-
aged to make this country, in proportion to
its population, the greatest employer of low-
priced misery on earth. He could have told
the Real Labor men that when they Fused
with the Freetraders of the Cheap Labor
crowd they had sold their souls for office.
He could have based his whole indictment
on the tariff, and challenged the Real Lab-
crites to declare that they approved of the
Cheap Laborites by voting against liis
motion. And a lot of the Real Laborites
would have hesitated to do it even at the
bidding of Fisher and Hughes. But he
couldn’t strike this note without throwing
the disastrous Cook overboard, so he let
the chance pass. Fisher and Deakin are
in much the same situation. Each is at the
head of a Fusion of Protectionists and Cheap
Laborites, and the Cheap Labor minority is
allowed to prevail, partly, it may be, be-
cause its policy is a policy of doing nothing,
and it is much easier to do nothing than
to do anything.
The very Fattest rib of the Anti-Socialistic
quadruped met its friend Private Enterprise
a few weeks ago in S. Aus., and promptly
howled for help. Private Enterprise in this
case consisted of the Port Adelaide wharf-
owners, who had just announced an increase
in rates “amounting to 50 per cent, on bales’
of wool and sheepskins.” Now, Private
Enterprise wouldn’t, of course, demand this
increase unless it was just and proper ; yet
the fuss made about it by the Fat Anti-Sosh
people who are interested in wool and sheep-
skins was deafening. They met and “pro-’
tested,” and thanked Providence that, any-
how, there were a few Government wharves
at which this daylight robbery surely
wouldn’t be practised. E. 11. Bakewell,
the chief spokesman for the Pastoralists’
Association —the concern which is quite sure
that State Socialism is the Devil—wrung
his hands over the infamy of the private
wharf-owners: —
These extra imposts would make it hard for the
primary producing interests of the State, more especi-
ally as' the great proportion of wool shipped to Ade-
laide had already to pay three wharfages. The
wharves were essentially a public convenience, and
should be acquired by tire Government at the earliest
possible date. The wharfage rates should be only
The Law and the Profits.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Yesterday the ease of Rex v. The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company was continued at the Water Police
Court.... .
The hearing of the information against Henry
Normand MacLaurin was gone on with....
The hearing was adjourned till next day at
11.15 a.m. — Lines kept in type by Sydney papers dur-
ing the last six weeks.
I turned into the familiar Court —into the
Court I went, but I recognised it not!
Aforetime, the Court had been the trysting-
place of misguided strangers, muddled
citizens and magnificent constables.
(Were they not magnificent, earner ados?)
There, Justice and Retribution held their
sway—there, Vice was more or less van-
quished, and Virtue let off with a
caution.
Aforetime, Minos, P.M., sat there in awful
state, and judged many who had been
haled before him ofttimes in an awful
There, Sergeant Antinous drew with
bright, compelling eye the unwilling
glance of froward men.
Yea, and erring women he regarded with the
sorrowful look of an Ancient Horse-
Marine to whom all probable tales have
been told !
There, the Scribes and Pharisees, the Ex-
pounders of the Law, the Publicans and
the Sinners gathered daily—
And when they were entered in, Sergeant
Antinous gazed steadfastly at the ceil-
ing and cried aloud —-
“Take off your hats, for this is holy ground!”
And, again, he cried with a loud voice:
# #
And, lo! the Court was opened by Minos,
P.M. —and generally closed by 1 p.m.
Disturbers of traffic, thieves, forgers, harlots,
bad lots, smugglers, abandoned wine-
bibbers, and even-more-abandoned bib-
whiners, received their admonition, or
correction, or compensation.
The assessments of iniquity and of obliquity
were declared and exacted; what Justice
demanded was straightway paid, to the
uttermost sovereign, or to the last syl-
lable of the recorded time!
He who waxed familiar, or disputatious,
before Minos, P.M., was abased and
put down in his seat; and he whose uni-
form had been torn was exalted.
She that bore false witness against her
neighbor was brought to shame; and
such as had stood on the bridge at mid-
night found that reproof cometh in the
morning.
In all the Court were found none that could
withstand the sweet influences of the
wily “D’s,” or loosen the bands of Con-
stable O’Ryan !
And, anon, there was an end of the matter,
and the Court rose.
Then the Scribes and Pharisees, and the Ex-
pounders of the Law said: “Let us
adjourn!” And swift was the adjourn-
ment thereof.
And they went forth ; and with them divers
of the legionaries; and, relating sad
stories, one to the other, they mingled
their beers together.
A time and a time ago, thus were all things
done in the Court of the Water of the
City of the Beautiful Harbor,
Rut now doth it suffer a melancholy change
for the waters of strife have covered it.
Its pleasant voices are no more heard, and!
the story of the innocent pawnbroker is
departed !
Justice and Retribution hibernate without,
and Law reigneth triumphant!
Very ancient is Law, camerados; it abidetb.
even from B.c. to K.C.!
The Law stretches forth its immemorial.
hand, and the Court is not.
Minos, P.M., thunders no more; in his seat
he broods upon the flight of Time and
the Costs thereof!
Sergeant Antinous is become a mournful
bystander; his eyes are closed in con-
templation—or sleep.
The Welkin resounds with the learned voice
of Argument, breaking like the waves
of the sea upon the shores of Precedent.
(Alas! camerados, the Welkin is nearly
worn out! It will cost much money to’
replace it. Let the rulers see to it!)
They have leased the Court to the Law and
the Profits; and where the Sugar is
there the Legals are gathered together!
Oye Legals! How glorious is the uncer-
tainty of the Law! How glorious the
certainty of Costs!
Tacitus —our learned friend Tacitus —
hnth it that the Law aims at perfection ;
but we say that the Law is a poor
marksman, considering its limitless
practice!
Is it right that they should lease our pleas-
ant Court for ninety-nine years as a.
legal shooting ground?
Camerados, let us demand our Court again
—let us insist that the Legals cease to
kid, and that the Crown lie down with,
the Lamb !
And I salute you !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


TO RUN A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOD REQUIRE
To Keep Anead oi lour Opposition by
Using HARRINGTONS’ EXCLUSIVE
STAR PICTURES !
A Complete List of All Exclusive
Films, Hiring- Rates and Synopsis
of the various subjects will be
sent on application to
THE LEADING CINEMATOGRAPHIC
& PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE
ADELAIDE AUCKLAND WELLINGTON,N Z.
J. C. Hassall and Coy., 16 Bond-street
Sydney, Chief Attorneys in Australia for
the Century Insurance Company Limited
(Funds and Assets exceed £1,000,000), de-
sire local agents in provincial towns and
districts for Fire, Accident, Workmen’s Com-
pensation, etc., and will be pleased to re-
ceive correspondence.*
810-SHOWMEN!
HERE S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . . and . . .
"MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
ft
such as to pay interest on the purchasing' price and
the cost of repairing.
Then a committee was appointed to ask the
Government to provide the wool-gi'owers
with more of the thing that ruins the coun-
try and bursts up the happy home; and J. J.
Duncan, who leads the Anti-Ruin party in
the Fatmen’s House, was chosen as a mem-
ber of the committee that proposed to ask
for some of the ruin for themselves. Inci-
dentally, Duncan and the other portions of
the Fat rib didn't decide to ask the Govern-
ment for cheap bricks for warehouses, fac-
tories and workmen’s cottages. On the
contrary, though it is obviously the proper
thing for the Government to own the
wharves so that the Fat squatter may escape
the fleecing of Private Enterprise, it was just
as obviously a monstrous thing for Verran
to propose Government brickworks and tim-
ber-yards so that the Lean citizen might
escape the same fleecing. Wherein anyone
who likes can see the beautiful consistency
and sincerity and unselfishness of the Anti-
Sosh quadruped, whose other name is the
Liberal” party.
The Sydney Women’s Liberal League Con-
ference, having previously adopted a resolu-
tion for “The preservation of individual lib-
erty and enterprise,” wound up with this: —
The Conference records its deep conviction of the
essentially immoral and unjust principles underlying
proposals for legislative enactments on the lines of
the Contagious Diseases Acts, which were abolished
m England in the year 1885, and pledges itself to
use every possible means to prevent the enactment
of such legislation in the State of N.S.W., and also
to assist the other States of the Commonwealth to
resist any similar attempt within their borders.
The anxiety of the Women’s Liberal League
to preserve to Flossie the glorious privi-
lege of “individual liberty and private enter-
prise ” is touching. Flossie will probably
be grateful, and regard the Liberal ladies as
brother women, so to speak. Still, there are
other aspects of the subject. It may be in-
tolerable from the individual-liberty - stand-
point to wipe out Flossie’s syphilis-propa-
gating enterprise, but what about the indivi-
dual liberty of some other people? It isn’t
only, the immoral person who contracts
syphilis, although the Liberal ladies in their
ignorance may think it is. Very often the
Perfectly innocent person succumbs to it.
What about his or her individual liberty?
Doesn’t that count? And what about the
individual liberty of the absolutely unoffend-
ing babe, born maimed or idiotic, of parents
who are the guilty or innocent sufferers from
t* l ® hellish disease? Doesn’t that count,
either? Seemingly not. Seemingly nothing
counts but the criminal prudery of the
Womens Liberal League.
From an Adelaide critic:—
•<T7- A i? red Sinclair - widely known 20 years ago in a
Wadham-and-Sinclair partnership that covered acres
of canvas, chiefly in Maoriland, is back in Australia,
and the S. Aus. Society of Arts has lent him its
rooms for a one-man show. His work is neat, beau-
tifully finished and photographic in fidelity. In his
light and shade on hillsides he sometimes recalls
Peter Graham. What he lacks most are vigor and
variety. His subjects—all landscape—are drawn
mostly from Adelaide, or the hill townships of Mount
Barker and Strathalbyn; but there are one or two
from Healesville, and one or two more from North
Wales, with a fine canvas from Somerset, England.
Sinclair holds a “Royal British Colonial” diploma,
in which George V. addresses him familiarly as
“trusty and well-beloved,” and suggests that he
should keep on at his good work with the brush. He
intends to, and Sydney and Melbourne should have a
welcome for him soon.
Sydney Telegraph put it this way on the
morning of June 21: —
LABOR.
Cargo Broaching.
VALUABLE CONSIGNMENT PILLAGED.
Then followed a report of the pillaging of a
case of Parisian blouses aboard a French
mail steamer on the voyage from Marseilles
to Sydney. Probably the headline was an acci-
dent, but no apology has followed it. Yet.
if by any accident there appeared a set of
headings to this effect: —
LIBERAL PARTY.
At The Quarter Sessions.
HEAVY PENALTIES FOR WIFE BEATTNG.
the. apologies next morning would be as
striking as the paper’s quaint information
on common matters of history.
On the strength of a cable blunder, ,T.
Bull’s Imperialistic Daily Express lately
gave a heavy-headlined column to the “trag-
edy of Australia,” the horror lying in the
alleged fact that “the final census count
shows that in .10 years the population has
increased by 118,000.” The Express man-
aged, somehow, to get hold of figures declar-
ing that, in the same 10 years, 570,500
people had emigrated to the country. Where-
fore it assumed that, besides grilling all the
infants who had arrived in the 10 years, the
Labor party, or some other infamous tiger,
had consumed 457,500 adults. This last
act of the tragedy left the Express flooding
London with tears over “the steadily dwin-
dling population,” and the stupid old slan-
derer never once seemed to suspect the truth
—that the very respectable increase of
113,000 was for the one year 1911.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sinbad the Sailor.”
Criterion- “ Nightbirds.”
OYAL “Kismet.”
“ The Marriages of Mayfair.”
rAOACE Margaret Cooper.
i i volt . Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
national Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Cyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Princess West’s Pictures.
LTMPIA West’s Pictures.
Cyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Imperial R IN k Roller Skating.
Claciarium Ice Skating.
lows; Hall Eleonora de Cisneros
MEbBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
g£ YAL - “The Blue Bird.*’
Her Majesty's Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
Princess’s "A Woman of No Importance.”
* YINGS “Man’s Enemy."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Ryric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Athenlecm Hall Price Conigrave Lectures.
Glaciarium Ice Gliding 1 .
Town Hall Jansen the Great.
“Kismet” made a first and highly success-
ful appearance in Sydney at the Royal on
Saturday night, with Oscar Asche as Hajj,
the picturesque beggar of Bagdad, and Miss
Lily Brayton as his daughter. A strong
company and a very fine collection of scen-
ery lent their support. At various times dur-
ing the season “Antony and Cleopatra,”
Midsummer Night’s Dream,” “The Merry
Wives ” and “The Taming of the Shrew”
will transpire.
*
The crowded state of the ferry-steamers is
as nothing to the congestion that has pre-
vailed during the past week at Her Maj-
esty’s, Sydney, where the craft of “Sinbad
the Sailor” rides the whirlwind of popular
approval, and defies “the bird” six nights a
week, to say nothing of matinges. This is
a vessel where youth and beauty are not
only at the prow and helm, but all over the
place, from the captain’s bridge to the water-
tight compartments. Hence its success.
* :|c *
The stage is taking its place as the chief
agent of reform. The subject of solitary con-
finement in prison was attacked by Gals-
worthy in his grim drama, “Justice.” Now
“Niglitbirds,” at the Criterion, points the
way to the transformation of our out-of-
“KISMET” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
H a jj (Oscar Asche) tells his daughter (Lily Bray ton) to prepare to wed a stranger at sundown.
date methods of treatment of the criminal.
The New Age Prison shows what ameliora-
tive results can be got by simple kindliness
and comfort. For instance, nobody can call
the convict costume at Darlinghurst either
attractive or aesthetic; but the New' Age
Prison officials have designed costumes of
blue and scarlet, relieved by bold designs of
the broad arrow conventionally treated, that
must have their effect upon the convict’s
artistic sense. The happy device of differ-
entiating the cells by pictures of flowers
rather than numbers must also appeal to those
criminals in for making false income-tax
returns, who do not desire to be reminded
of figures. And the substitution for the
exercise of the prison yard of “the bunny-
hug” and “the turkey trot” is cordially re-
commended to the authorities at Darling-
burst. As for the characters who are pur-
suing the Nightbirds of Happiness, Florence
Young’s voice and vivacity, Sybil Arundale’s
ankles and gaiety, Jack Cannot’s escapades
and aplomb, W. S. Percy’s black eye and
humor, W. Talleur Andrews’s singing and
Hungarianism. Reginald Roberts’s voice and
acting, and Victor Prince’s rather obvious
humor and rather obvious nose prevent any
of the Birds from suffering a dull moment.
*# * *
George Marlow requests the pleasure of
Sydney’s company at the “Marriages of
Mayfair,” to be celebrated at the Adelphi
Theatre on Saturday night, and thence every
evening until Mr. Mayfair deserts Mrs.
M. or gets a divorce or six months for big-
amy. No refreshments. R.S.V.P.
In the vaudeville business, there never
seems to be a shortage of people who can
throw lighted lamps, needles, cannon balls
and china plates into the air and catch them
again in their proper order as they come
down. Also, so far as the writer knows,
there has never been a dearth of people who
balance other people on their heads, or sup-
port them with teeth or ears while hanging
from a bar or strap. One sighs for the night
when the lighted lamps, etc., will stay up in
the air, and the sustaining bar or strap will
be invisible. These introductory remarks
are a sort of apology tendered bv the Reli-
gious Editor for his lack of excitement over
the arrival, at Sydney Tivoli, of Charles
Hera, juggler and equilibrist, and the Hans
Paxton Troupe of acrobats. Besides Bluett’s
songs and ventriloquist Fred Russell’s pat-
tei\ the second part contains the Four
Amaranths’ tempestuous turn, Blake and
Granby’s absurdities, and Ronald George’s
high-speed music.
£c %
Margaret Cooper, at the Palace, is still
explaining to the population of Sydney, in
clear, brisk fashion, how the cream puli' of
entertainment should be served up. As
usual, the managerial advertisement speaks
very highly of her each morning; but the
majority of those who attend the little show
also become her honorary advertising agents
in office, home and pie shop. For fear he
should be found guilty of painting the lily,
the present writer hurriedly closes his ink-
pot, and retires with a graceful bow.
* * * *
Millie Doris returned to the National
Amphitheatre last week, and the populace
signified its approval in the usual manner.
The Mcßanns do some new and amazing
juggling. To see them hurl frail straw hats
far into the auditorium, in such a fashion as
to cause them to boomerang back to the
stage, is to realise that there are more possi-
bilities in David Storey’s trade than one had
dreamed of. Florence Wix is a fine and
sprightly lass, with a rotten song ; and Cecile
Eldred and Carr earn every farthing of
their money, whatever it is.
:J: s(:
Perhaps the greatest free spread ever seen
in Sydney occurred on Saturday night at the
opening of the Greater J. D. Williams
Crystal Palace in George-street. The £70,000
structure- was packed. The crowd filled the
picture hall to the last seat, crowded the
Winter Garden to the last square inch of
room, and backwashed through ■ the Electric
Studio, the Hall of Athletic Exercises, and
the Pavilion of Automatic Devices. The
whole, system of Yankee ices, drinks, peanut
collations, popcorn and sundries was free. The
Crystal Palace has easily the handsomest
photo-play theatre in Sydney, and the plays are
shown by a greatly improved process. This
theatre is a symphony in dark green, with
pictures .painted on the walls, and framed
heavily in old gold. The screen is also
framed in old gold. The Winter Garden is
a pleasant haunt of high-priced refreshments
and iced drinks. Ladies “with encumbrance”
will be pleased to notice an enclosed space
filled with baby furniture and crowded with
dolls, teddy bears and toys, where the infant
can be deposited in charge of a nurse. A
careful labelling system makes the return of
the right infant fairly certain. The ventila-
tion is excellent. The place was filled with
smoke on Thursday before the opening, and
the atmosphere was completely purified fn
five minutes.
'l* *l*
Adelaide has been in a whirl of shows, a
Baden-Powell lecture, embroidered with
Scout rallies and concerts, being added to
the usual list. Also, the. rival showmen,
Wirths, have arrived with their circus, and
dropped it at the Exhibition. Besides the
Polar bear, the Wirths have “The Globe
of Death” with them, though it now calls
itself the “Globe of Life.” Still, it looks
just as dangerous as ever. “Everywoman”
has come into the Royal, displacing “The
Blue Bird.” The latter show includes a
clever young Adelaide girl, Maud Plunkett.
Manager Harold Ashton, who seems to have
taken root in Adelaide, is still in command.
At the Tivoli, manager Marcus celebrates
its 12th year under the Rickards banner.
The Keeleys are quaintly funny in their
lightning-like ball-punches, and Burnetti is
a really good musician behind all his clever
acting. At the King’s are the reckless acro-
bats, the Siddons; also some fine vocalists,
and a lady who can comb her hair with her
foot. To West’s, and the Empire and Won-
dergraph, and the other picture shows, is
now added the Pavilion, which asks to be
called the “Pav.,” and for the sake of brevity
this paper doesn’t mind. It is a charmingly
appointed house in Rundle-street, and is
open all day.
“0.K.” appears against the defendant in
the matter of Maeterlinck:—
All that is in the stagecraft of “The Blue
Bird” production had been oftHmestoUT in
The two surviving hopes of the Tyl faw , b of
sleep of infant precocity, and dreamed the dream o
Maeterlinck, at Melbourne Royal, last »atu: rc
The scenic strength and suggestive charm of the
panto-romance are accepted propositions. Herewith
few remarks upon its weakness. The could
appeals to the poetic sense of the P ub^ e at .
see beneath the surface of Be ter Pan, qhow
peal is not so logical, nor is its interest as a show,
so simply human as that of Barry s fairy ta •
tion seems subservient to fact in the awakeric
of Wendy Darling and Peter Fan, whereas Tyltyl and
Mytyl are merely borne to Shadow Land in the arms
of Morpheus. And the pauses in their journey are
frequent and long. The entertainment, which is un-
substantial fare for a winter night, is served in six
courses, with tedious intervals between them, no t
mention curtain breaks in two of the acts. 1
almost as much interval as action in a performance
of Maeterlinck’s fantasia on the Barry theme. it
deserves a great success, of course. Everything good
and sweet in intellectual dramatic work ought to
attract the million. “Peter Pan” should have been
a popular delight, and its sturdier eccentricity should
have smoothed the way to a great run for the present
production. Maybe that the somewhat mild applause
on Saturday night was only a faint indication of the
audience’s respect for a beautiful show.
The symbolism of the plot is often crudely definite
in form, and therefore its inconsistencies are obtru-
sive. “The Blue Bird” means Happiness, the advt.
states, while the play states that Mytyl and Tyltyl
don’t find it. They leave the real Maginnis perched
on a moonbeam in the Garden of Mrs. Night, a melan-
choly lady who seems anxious to keep Happiness flying
around her premises. Yet the children are vaguely'
understood to bring the Fowl of Joy back to their
home (in their dream), and it saves the life of Mrs.
Berlingot’s sick daughter, but, as soon as she has
got it, the incredible creature flies away, because
Happiness refuses to be caged. This is the very
lunacy of poetic imagery. Everybody knows that
Good Luck is a fleeting thing, whilst Bad Luck is a
devil to linger, but the Blue Bird, which brings Hap-
piness where it is not caught, and then flies from
where it never was, knocks spots off the Athanasian
Creed for incomprehensibility. The temporary return
to life of dead people and things in the Land of
Memory is very forcibly expressed. There is much
food for the sentimental in the incident of the two
unborn lovers, whose natural affinity is powerless to
get them both to town at the same time. The wrath
of the Oak against his hereditary enemy Man is
reasonable (although Man has done a lot for the Oak
in the way of planting acorns which might otherwise
have been devoured by swine). But how about the
birds which Man murders, the flowers he plucks and
wires, the fruits he eats, and the fish which he catches
and destroys by the ton, in order to keep up the
market price? Why are they not included in the con-
spiracy which the faithful Dog brings to naught?
As for Bread and Milk, they are absurdly out of
place in the fable. Bread is not a natural product
of earth, anyhow. It is created by bakers for Man’s
sustenance, and adulterated with alum. Cow’s Millc
is the very life of Man, if he is brought up on the
bottle. How can it become antagonistic to him at
the instance of its natural enemy the Cat? Bread
and Milk are introduced in the interests of huipor,
seemingly. Edward Rigby’s speaking of the first-
named part is supremely funny. Loaf gets the hear-
tiest and wholesomest laughs of the evening, the un-
born baby laughs being less wholesome. Miss Mcln-
tosh is impressive in the easy character of Night,
whilst Miss Bavley is only pretty and pleasing as
Light. The difficult Cat is well acted by Norman
Page, and the still more difficult Dog (E. Hendrie)
achieves the victory of the pathetic over the ridicu-
lous, when he is doomed to remain inarticulate in
his devotion to the boot that kicks him. The princi-
pal “boy” (Gertie Cremer) of this pious panto is a
great disappointment to the present commentator.
She lacks the naiveness of her quiet little sister,-Vera
Spaull, and is neither very winsome in personality
nor very earnest in her acting. If she is as interest-
ing as the cleverest of children could possibly be in
such a part, then the play is at fault in requiring" a
real youngster instead Of a mock infant for its central
figure.
The Quinlan co. is now in the third week
of a terribly busy season, at Her Majesty’s
(Melbourne). With the exception of
“Faust” and “Traviata,” the whole reper-
toire of 15 operas has been unrolled. “Mrs.
Butterfly” was to eventuate on Wednesday,
and Gounod’s version of the Man, the Girl
and the Devil comes due to-night (Thurs-
day). Changes in the cast of principals
usually mark the revival of an opera,
as was the case with the Melba
season, and the change usually repre-
sents a discount on the original effect,
but the orchestra is an invariable joy,
and the chorus never disappoints its ad-
mirers. Under this system of labor distribu-
tion the Co. thus far has preserved good
form all round. When “Tristan and Isolde”
comes to be revived next Tuesday, with,Mrs.
iNicholls and Coates again in the name parts,
it will doubtless find those trusty exponents
ot vehement musical drama in robust health,
lnree times last week the performance
bumped up against .a recent recollection, and
in (wo instances its bruises were severe.
Falla Miranda, .as Mimi in “Bohbme” was
hardly more satisfactory than Gregorio, the
Italian tenor who made her welcome to the
attic ot neglected genius, and lured her into
a long conversation. The gent was dramati-
cally uninteresting, and his small-sized voice
had streaks in it. The prima donna sang
only moderately well, whilst her acting
never distracted attention from the unneces-
?T r rl blonde , wig wherein she lived and died.
Melbourne hopes to see its long-lost daugh-
ter to better advantage in a more congenial
part. In this performance W. J. Samuell,
whose baritone is sympathetic to all music,
was a pleasing Marcel, and Miss Courtenay
had voice and vivacity enough and to spare
for the giddy goings on of Musetti.
* * « *
“Aida,” is one of the happiest of the co.’s
efforts. Melbourne has heard the opera
more forcefully sung in some respects, but
has never known it more harmoniously
nla.ved. In last week’s performance, Jeanne
Lrola, Edna Thornton and John Coates


STECK
One of the World’s
Great PIANOS.
Have you a little room in which you have wished
it were possible to place a Grand PIANO. We have
enabled you to do so. For a half-century we have
patiently experimented to reduce the Size and price
of Grand Pianos, to adapt them to the limited space
and purse of many music-lovers. In the STECK
“Boudoir” we have at last produced a Grand that
meets musically the requirements of the most exact-
ing tone critic. This dainty, beautiful instrument
charms all who hear and see it. Measuring but
sft. 7in. in length, it renders a Grand Piano of the
highest character available even for rooms of limited
space.
The STECK, more than any other Piano, possesses
a rich mellowness of tone, a sympathetic singing
quality, which makes it not only the ideal instru-
ment for the great artist in concert, but also the
best Piano for the home.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.
357 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
252 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
311 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q.N. Bank).
[22
London, Paris, Berlin and New York.
Hew Shipments of BTECKS monthly
in Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut,
Rosewood, Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony.
Insure
with the
*
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Ch arsed. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
> Phone No. 23G Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
15,000 Miles Non-Stop Run
World’s Record.
Giddeley Deasy
Detachable Wire Wheels.
SILENT KNIGHT ENGINE.
■ ■■■■■■lN.
Lanchester Cantilever Springs.
Bosch Dual Ignition.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS :
Motor Car H. V . McKay,
Propty. Ltd • Managing Director.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Sunshine
QUINLAN OPERA (HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE).
The return
of John
Harrison as
Tannhauser.
“ Tannhauser."
Enter Agnes Nicholls, as Elizabeth.
were the dusky Aida, the jealous Princess
and the gallant captain with the sausage
ringlets. Whereas the lovers voiced their emo-
tions with warmth and did themselves proud
throughout the proceedings, the contralto
(Miss Thornton) went one better in her
own particular scene. For the rest of the
performance the chorus was fine and pictur-
esque. High Priest Hinckley, of the rolling
bass, had the striking appearance of a pious
Egyptian, pierrot. Magrath was a Pharaoh
who commanded some reverence, and Sam-
uell presented the captured King of Ethopia
as somewhat like a nigger minstrel down od
his luck. “Aida” happens again next Sat-
urday, and will be in further demand. Also,
“Carmen” occurs again once only, next week.
Last Saturday’s performance of that hardy
annual \vas a picnic for some of the weaker
members of the co. Rosina Beynon, as the
raging Gipsy, was overweighted; ditto the
N. 3, or No. 4, tenor; whilst Robert Parker,
as the toreador, and Lalla Miranda, as
Micaela, helped to raise the average. On
Monday—the Wagner night—came an excel-
lent “Lohengrin” show. Here the chorus
counted for its full worth, and with Coates
as the knight in shining armor, Agnes Nich-
olls as a large, impressive Elsa, Edna Thorn-
ton as the villainess, and Parker, Hinckley
and Wynn in the men parts, the opera had
the best cast the co. can provide. The per-
formance in general was the finest this writer
has seen.
sjj
“Man’s Enemy” was uncorked at the
King’s Theatre on Saturday night, and the
odor of alcohol crept like a fog across the
footlights. All the trouble is caused because
Cyril Mackay meets Miss Eugenie Duggan,
the reigning belle of an ornate two-up school
or something of the sort, and falls hopelessly
in love with her elocution. They unani-
mously commit matrimony, and fly to Monte
Carlo in search of the Blue Bird of Happi-
ness. Here, in a high-class drinkery, fur-
nished in the chaste manner of an icecream
emporium, Cyril sadly pursues the nimble
fantod, while his giddier half is pursued by
an amorous Russian Count in a red sash,
presumably the badge of a Christian En-
deavor Society. The lady chants her _ wil-
lingness to fly with the Count to Siberia or
somewhere, but Cyril shoots him, and would
probably be lynched for his marksmanship
but for the timely intervention of the low
comedian. After Cyril has sounded all the
depths and shoals of alcohol, he is weaned
from the bottle by a pewer gyurl, who
dresses with the elaborate simplicity of a
musical comedy favorite. As a drawer of
corks and a slayer of fantods, Cyril Mackay
provides a vigorous performance—so vigor-
ous, in fact, that in the whirlwind of his in-
temperance on the first night he bumped
against a large statue, which crashed to the
ground like a dropped fan. Miss Duggan,
as the lady who nearly broke the seventh
commandment at Monte Carlo, wears some
new dresses, but her elocution is the same as
hitherto. As the Count who would a-wooing
go, Max Clifton talks like a Hebrew endeay-
oring to dispose of a brummy diamond. Rut-
land Beckett, a polished adventurer, is super-
cilious and well-tailored, and Charles Brown,
as Ikey 'Barnett, strikes this paper as a
sometimes tragic comedian.
** * *
The most notable circumstance about “The
Woman Pays,” which turned up _at the
Princess’s on Saturday night, is the industry
of the callous and incisive villain-in-chief.
Roger gets busy at 8.5 p.m., and by the time
the audience is feeling for its hat, he has
piled up a list of excesses ranging from
murder to common forgery, and including a
scheme of bigamous intent. Apart from the
capers of this more-than-usual miscreant, the
plot is wearisomely conventional. There
are the same old “props,” from the foolish
pa of the lovely heroine to the sodden pa of the
girl who has strayed, and they all dodder
when thev ought to cut it short and merely
do. The flood of talk allotted to the comic
relief” is particularly Amazonian, and
Frank Crossley, the alleged “relief” in
question, makes the most of his unfortunate
opportunities. Vivian Edwards is happy as
the evil Roger Marchant; though still
young, he is already efficient enough as a
villain to teach crime by correspondence on
the United States model. George Cross
plays a noble fisher-lad. Miss Nellie Bramley
is the nice girl who marries George, and
Miss Nellie Fergusson appears as a lady
with a casual infant that needs post-dating
to be respectable. Next Saturday the Plim-
mer-Denniston co. breaks out at the Prin-
cess’s in “A Woman of No Importance,”
and a cast including Geo. Titheradge, Mrs.
Brough, Miss Beatrice Day and Miss Lizette
Parkes will give voice to Wilde’s epigrams,
and look as aristocratic as possible.
* * * *
Somehow the “living art productions” of
Henriette de Serris (who by any other name
would be of no less personal unimportance
to the audience) are not rushed after at the
Opera House. They are remarkably clever
arrangements of human beings in the guise
of statuary or oil paintings, but a public
that has outlived the novelty of picture
studies from art is apt to wonder what’s the
good of whitening a fellow creature in imi-
tation of a more finely outlined marble
figure. The public is not even judging the
De Serris pictures on their merits. The
most unartlike of the lot —which is “The
Angelus”—gets the only burst of applause
worth mentioning, because its sentiment
counterfeits piety. Max Laube, a human
Blue Bird, has been added to the Rickards
bill; and various ladies—solo, duo or trio —
are appearing as before. Also. Will Fox
repeats his former turn in his previous
gaudy suit of clothes, with hat to match.
QUINLAN
OPERA (HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE).
"Tales of
Hoffmann.”
Julia Caroli
as the
automaton.
"Tales of Hoffmann
Dr. Mirakel, the weird one (Charles Magrath).
Jansen, the elegant young man of Mys-
tery, contiues to supply a want at Melbourne
Town Hall. The demand for magic is never
dead. Sometimes it gets surfeited, and goes
to sleep, but when the hour is favorable and
a satisfactory wizard strikes it with his
wand, the crowd comes along. Jansen is the
right man. The Town Hjj.ll seems the wrong
place for a soft-voiced professor to practise
his black arts in, but its seating accommo-
dation is great, and the effect of the Phantom
Princess from afar off is immense. More-
over, the xylophone player revels in the vast-
ness of the auditorium.
** ❖ *
Edgar Allan Poe, in the act of hatching
“The Raven,” that fowl that sat on the
pallid bust of Pallas and made dispirited
remarks, was cleverly shown in a picture
that came under the notice of this paper at
Melbourne Olympia last Saturday. The
film also tried to symbolise some of Poe’s
ideas, but in these weird tableaux the
achievement was smaller than the intention.
An unusual natural-history subject was the
otter hunting its dinner; while an edition
of Pathe’s foreign Gazette showed the last
stand of the motor bandits in Paris. “A
Stenographer Wanted” was the title of a
comedy that was really funny, and yet not
raving mad.
“In the Probate Division.—Emily Soldene.
Realty, £893; net personalty, £BlO. Probate
granted to her - granddaughter, Helen M. E. Simpson,
of Feltham, Middlesex.” Well, she no doubt enjoyed
the tens of thousands she made and spent better than
the few hundreds she made and hung on to.
“Blab”: When viewing the De Serris group of
Living Statues recently at Sydney Tivoli, I was re-
minded of a similar exhibition I saw at Paisley, near
Glasgow, in the ’6o’s. The Paisley statues mostly
represented members of the Grecian and Roman mvtho-
. logy. Two drag-loads of gods and goddesses left
Glasgow for the scene of action. The gods were
medical students, and the goddesses—well, they were
ladies anxious to display their shapely forms not
encumbered with much clothing. On emerging from
the undressing room, Bacchus supplied the sons and
daughters of Olympus with whisky from a hand
basin. After drinking heavily they mounted their
pedestals arranged on, tiers on a turnstile. Some of
them hiccupped. The curtain rose, and after the
first evolution of the turnstile the statues wobbled.
After a few more turns the mythology was leaning
up against itself at an acute angle. About the tenth
evolution all the deities fell with a crash and kicked
and cursed in a struggling mass on the stage floor.
The audience demanded its money back, and the hall
was cleared with police and difficulty. The whole
performance did not last more than a quarter of an
hour.
“0.K.”: The Bulletin, it seems, owes an apology
to Britain for having referred to Quinlan’s opera
ballet as crude dancers from a Gold Climate, or
words to that effect. Whereas the aforesaid limited
ballet (the word got changed to “unlimited” in tele-
graphic transmission) was assumed to be part of the
army that Quinlan landed on these shores, it is
actually an auxiliary force of local girl supplied by
the Combine. Therefore The Bulletin’s suggestion
that “If the frisky nymphs of Venusberg had been
borrowed from Melbourne dancing schools, the first
scene of ‘Tannhauser’ would have been an improve-
ment on previous productions” was like unto the
error of the man who shot at a haystack and killed
a crow, or of the proverbial dawg who barked up the
wrong tree. It was a pardonable and popular error,
all the same. Hundreds of spectators of that
“Tannhauser” ballet must have fallen into it. The
dancing seemed much too stiff and angular to be
Australian, nevertheless it was the only native-born
item in the performance. And the eight blessed
damosels who did the deed were selected from the
Combine’s own school —the eight students in this
case being apparently of the class that is coming on,
but has not yet arrived at panto, and comic-opera
proficiency. It is fairly up to them to shake their
legs like true daughters of the soil, and show the
imported opera co. what poetry of concerted motion
means in these latitudes. As a matter of course,
they are improving with each performance, but the
fact remains that those nymphs of Venusberg put
The Bulletin in a hole. Reading its comment on
his imported ballet Quinlan doubtless cried: “Gee!
but this is funny.” It’s a terrible thing for a hum-
orous paper to be truthfully stigmatised as funny.
Grant Hervey turned his Pegasus out to grass, the
other day, and wrote a play. The name of the work
is “A Sportsman and a Man,” and it deals with the
career of Adam Lindsay Gordon. It was produced at
Mount Gambier (9/6/’l2) amidst scenes of abso-
lutely blithering excitement, and at the finish the
members of the audience, as some small token of
their appreciation, doggedly insisted on standing the
author a champagne supper. Grant did not refuse.
“0.K.” : From a musical observer’s point of view
the most interesting item of the Quinlan opera season
in Melbourne, last week, was the producton of
“Aida.” The Egyptian opera is not built after the
antique Italian plan, which practically invited tumul-
tuous encores for the principals after each of their big
numbers, individual or collective. “Aida” was one of
Verdi’s earlier attempts in descriptive, consecutive
music writing—a compromise between sweetly tuneful
and strictly harmonious opera. Nevertheless, it has
semi-detached airs for solo and duet singers, and
when the loud Italians of a dozen years ago opened
their campaign in this Verdian work they never com-
pleted a big number without pausing for applause—
and getting it. In the last 12 years, seemingly,
Melbourne has learned to refrain from the old encore
interruptions, and the Quinlan performance of
“Aida,” which is beautifully smooth and subdued in
tone as compared with the fierce declamatory Italian
rendering, is allowed to pass without comment from
the audience until the curtain falls. In three of the
four acts, to be sure, there are two scenes, and the
curtain drops between them, which gives the prin-
cipals a show to get glory where glory is due. In
the last act, for instance, the contralto, as Pharaoh s
daughter, has a great scene all to herself, and numer-
ous “calls” result from it, a glory denied to Cis-
neros in the Melba season performance of “Aida,
because the “call” curtain was not provided. Still,
the silence of the audience, all the time the opera is
in view, bears dumb witness to the spread of what
may be called modern musical feeling among the
general public. Isolated indications of a desire to
start a furoTe whilst the curtain was up, or even
when the orchestra was finishing a finale after the
curtain had dropped, were promptly hushed the other
night. The majority were taking their Verdi as
seriously as they take their Wagner.
John Coates, the burly tenor, appears to be the
mainstay of the Quinlan opera co., whereof every
member is a more or less valuable support. Coates
is a Yorkshireinan by persuasion, carrying 17st.,
without a vast preponderance of stummick. A family
man in the 40’s, whose pretty little wife travels
with him. An artistic singer, of course, else he
wouldn’t have preserved his fine voice in full strength
through years of incessant work. And an actor
of such all-round ability that, if his operatic vocal-
ism failed him, he would be wanted for character
parts in a dramatic co. Big John is a Coates ol
many colors in histrionic work, whilst his tenor is
just as lyric or robustious as he likes to make it.
No sort of music has come amiss to him thus far in
the Melbourne season. He makes a rule, it is said,
of talking as little as possible by day when he has
to sing at night, and as he is mostly rehearsing his
next part on other days, he has not much time to
spare for afternoon tea discussion. Coates doubtless
makes for peace and goodwill in a touring grand opera
co. If there were much wrangle and ill-will in the
air he would silently knock the heads of the dissen-
tients together and restore harmony.
“Stargazer”: The Melbourne University students
have just enacted “Miles Gloriosus, a Latin comedy,
written by Plautus some 2000 years ago, and the
most interesting feature of the event was its demon-
stration that the difference between the broad comedy
of b.c. and that of d.b.y. (day before yesterday) is
scarcely discernible. Plautus chased his characters
about precisely as John Smith might, and proved in
a general way that it was just as comic to fall over
a banana skin on the Appian Way 100 8.C., as it is
in Collins-street a.d. 1912.
Rosina Buckman, the Maoriland singer who made
good during the last Melba opera season in Australia,
is likely to get a long-dreamed-of chance in London
shortly. A few days ago John McCormack —the
Irish singer with the look of dog-like fidelity in his
eyes—cabled to her to pack up and get a hurry on
at once to Covent Garden, where her prospects were
good. At time of writing the lady was trampling on
her best hat, to get it into her box in the least pos-
sible space of time.
“S.T.S.”: Maeterlinck always has had a keen eye
for the possibilities of a Closed Door, with something
unknown behind it; and in “The Blue Bird” he rides
his hobby almost to death. At the beginning, there
are mysterious knocks on the cottage door. It swings
open and discloses —nothing. Then, in drear silence,
enters what appears to be a witch. Even at the end,
the door is fast, for unknown reasons, until it opens
of itself, also for unknown reasons. But the dog is
left outside howling. In the Future scene, every-
thing leads up to the opening of the great gates at
the back. In the Memory scene, a fog takes the
place of the door, with two frightened children won-
dering what thev will see of the dead folk when it
lifts. In the Graveyard scene (generally omitted)
the idea is much the same. And the Palace of
Night is all closed doors, with Miss Madge Mclntosh
telling in her deepest melodrama tones of the un-
sneakable horrors attendant on opening them. With
his clever suggestions of doom, and his definite state-
ment that trees and animals and nearly everything
in Nature hate children and want to kill them,
Maeterlinck is a nice companion for any sensitive
youngster, I don’t think.
The Melbourne suburb of Brunswick will have two
picture theatres from this time forth. The Empire,
on the Svdney-road, is to be opened to-night (Thurs-
day) with much pomp and ceremony, and Brunswick
claims for this edifice that it is as good as the best
in the business, or even better.
AT POVERTY POINT.
COUP DE THEATRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sit in a curtained box and yawn
In lingering misery,
And the play goes on, and the play goes on,
And the hero struts on a garden lawn,
As the heroine enters L.U.E.
And there on the artificial grass
The plot has come to a pretty pass,
As anyone’s wife could see—
(My wife’s ignoring me!).
Her mouth is hid by a drifting fan
In elegant listlessness ;
Vet the gleam in her eyes would stir a man —
(They were still and chill when the play began)
But I don’t pretend at her moods to guess...
Now, all in a breath, intense, intent,
She flashes a glance that was not meant
For a husband’s eye to see.
(She has not looked at me!).
And why does her fan so misbehave,
And why does her hand shut tight?
(For ever so little a start she gave ;
Was somebody walking over a grave
When the heroine breathed, “Good-bye!
Good-night” ?)
While memories linger, memories stir,
And I have thoughts that are shut from her
Of a parting long ago.
(There are things she need not know.)
He’s playing his part, this actor-chap,
He’s playing his part too well!
My wife’s white fingers twist in her lap,
And I have lifted the door of the trap
That covers rriy personal hell.
(It’s raining in hell in my heart to-night,
For the past stands up as a mirage might,
And I watch my dream made whole
In the desert of my soul.)
Though far apart are the paths that crossed,
Yet a word has joined again
A heart to a heart that loved and lost,
And this is the way that it pays the cost,
The way that it hides its pain.,.
I steal a glance at my wife, and she
Through a film of tears looks back at me—
Pretence we have not guessed
The truth our eyes confessed!
Ah, well, what matter? The lie laid bare,
Since born of an impulse true,
May weld a bond for our hearts to share,
For each has knowledge that each played fair,
And the game begins anew.
Comrade, courage! “Good-bye, good-night”
Absolves us both—we shall start aright;
Clasp hands, dear heart... and yet
How shall our hearts forget ?
VICTORIA.
KETTLEDRUM.


..
THIS OVERCOAT 30/-
DAVID JONES "WINTER SALE
The Overcoat illustrated here is an extra-special bargain at 30/-
It is a well tailored and manly cut coat in Harris Tweeds, in Dark and
Medium Grey, Fawn and Green, with small, colored spots and checks ;
also in Dark Brown, Light Brown, Dark and Light Grey Mixture with
Stripes. Fitted with Storm Collar and Cuffs, has vent at back, and is
cut full and roomy. In all sizes.
Usual Price, 35/- Sale Price, 30/-
Another Fine Overcoat in heavy English Tweeds, in Dark Brown,
Stripes. Fitted with Storm Collar and Cuffs, and is cut full and
roomy. In all sizes.
Usual Price, 40/- Sale Price, 35/-
Sent Carriage Paid to any part of Australasia.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
\
mm
■
Kug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid."
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELnANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY: and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE COMFORTER.
ARTIST: “I wish 1 had never taken up art.”
SHE: “Well, there is no direct evidence that
you have, is there? ”
Edmund Fisher has prepared an assort-
ment of his Bulletin verses for publica-
tion, in book form, under the title of “The
Kiss of Dolly Day, and Other Cynical
Rhymes for Recitation.” E. W. Cole, of
Melbourne Book Arcade and elsewhere, is
the publisher, and the book will be on the
market next week. The author of the well-
known “Billiard Marker’s Yarn” has written
many, many pungent verses for The Bul-
letin during the past 25 years or more. His
selection includes the best cf them, and, as
compared with the ultimate cost of kisses in
general, “The Kiss of Dolly Day” will be
found ridiculously cheap at Is. and 2s. 6d.
* * * *
Another report of an infant school in an
overcrowded and insanitary state was thrown
at Victoria’s Education Department the
other day. This time it is the Middle Park
infants’ penitentiary, and the council that
sent the information curtly intimated that if
repairs weren’t carried out in a fortnight
it would instruct its health officer to con-
demn the building. Perhaps the best thing
would be to condemn the whole insanitary
department in one act and be done with it.
The Bulletin receives from “William
Hughes, Town Clerk,” a copy of “a letter
sent by his Worship the Mayor, Alderman
Munger, to the secretary of the Mascot Em-
pire Celebration Committee,” and “as the
subject is of more than passing importance,”
William Hughes, town clerk, wants it kindly
published. Alderman Munger, it seems, has
a brilliant idea. “For future Empire Cele-
brati ms it is desirable to offer a prize for
an essay on Imperial problems, the prize to
be open for competition to every member of
the Empire, irrespective of- race or color.”
The prize—the Mayor thinks it might be a
10-guinea medal—“should be offered in true
Imperial spirit to the Red Indian of Canada,
the Chinese of Hongkong, the Hindus of
India, as well as the residents of Mascot.”
Having inspected Mascot for the first time
the other day, and found it about the most
slatternly, unkempt, ill-paved and ragged of
the 50 or so absurd little municipalities of
suburban Sydney, The Bulletin moves as
an amendment that the Mayor be urgently
requested to repair the streets in his own
squalid area, the same being now partly rut
and partly rubbish tip, and that the town
clerk be instructed to lock up the municipal
stationery until the job is completed.
* * * *
“P.X.” goes exploring :
I found a one-pub town the other day, and now
I think less than I used to of the policy of pub-
reduction. It was a sizeable town, in spite of vicis-
situdes. At one time, quite lately, there were a
couple of thousand people or more in it, and they
had plenty of money to burn. But the local Hop was
strong in the land, and at first he said “no pubs at
all.” Afterwards he compromised, anil said “One
pub.” So tile one pub got its license, and has made,
I’m told, at least £.12,000 in five years.
The pub is a large barn of a place. When I was
there it didn’t have any floor-covering of any sort
in the hall, except dirt. I dragged my luggage to
my bedroom and fell over five cals. The girl ex-
plained that there were 1000 cats about the place,
but if there weren’t 1000 cats there would be
1,000,000 rats. I didn’t find any rats in the bed-
room, but I found plenty of other things. Evidently
the local cat won’t hunt small game. Or perhaps
that was the job of the 1001 th cat.
Where the place
wasn’t strewn with
eats it was strewn
with fowls. While the
cats explored the
kitchen table the fowls
fossicked on the kitch-
en safe. At the first
meal somebody drop-
ped half a loaf of
well-handled bread
and dived for it in-
stantly. He was an
old hand and knew
that some of the fowls
were waiting under
the more-or-less spot-
less damask.
I found the bath-
room the first morn-
ing. It was early, and
I was sorry to have to
disturb a hen and her
quarter-grown brood
that perched on the
edge of the bath. They
were mostly pullets, so
I had to ask the old
lady to take them out.
On considering the
bath, I went out too.
The girl was sorry
there wasn’t nobody to
clean the boots. Still,
she’d get a cup of tea
presently. It arrived
in half an hour, along
with her regrets that
the milkman hadn’t
come yet. I’m not an
expert in these mat-
ters, but I think she
tried to make up for
the deficiency by put-
ting in some tomato
sauce. It may, however, have, been something else.
It may, in fact, have been almost anything else.
When L went to ask for my bill the boss said it’d
do by-and-bye. : When I urged that I was leaving
directly, and pinned him down to the job, he fished
a package label out of a litter in the corner of the
room, and made some calculations in Arabic. Then
he groaned and said he reckoned it was about two-
poun’-’leven, and could I do a taste? I did a taste
and reckoned that, when the State makes up its
mind that there should be only one pub in a town,
it had better also make up its mind to run that pub
itself.
* * * *
After he had heard Archbishop Clarke’s
story, John Norton’s legal representative
gave his libel fight best, and agreed to say
that he wasn’t justified in biting the episco-
nal gaiters, and would hand over a cheque
for £lOOO to cover the rip. Of course, there
will also be Costs, probably another couple
of thousand. All through the weariful
Gnash ruction the public was led to believe
that the trouble was due to the cleric’s mere
“indiscreet conduct” as regarded a lady
parishioner, whereas it is now alleged
that the fuss arose in part through
Gnash’s philandering with the family
nursemaid, a damsel of 16, with what
the good man called an “angel face,”
And as that wasn’t the first philan-
dering, Duffy, on John’s behalf, decided that
there was monev to be saved by getting
down quickly. Still, Gnash had poor luck.
The case stopped after Archbishop Clarke
had told his story, which was mainly a story
about Gnash. And the accused cleric hadn’t
a ghost of a chance to tell his story.
TRAPELLERS’ TALES.
INTERVIEWER : “So you included Egypt in your itinerary? And what impressed you most
in the ancient land of the Pharaohs!”
RETURNED TRAVELLER : “Well, I saw the finest golf links in the world.”
“Ooray” : The Maoriland “red-raggers” are
on a real strike jag just now. Members of
the M.L. Federation are out at Waihi and
Reefton (mining districts), and a deter-
mined and hostile front is being shown by
both employees and employers. Two thou-
sand men are estimated to be on strike or
locked-out, and the official mouthpiece, the
M.L. Worker, sools them on thusly:—
Make the fight your fight, 0 mighty working class,
yourself part of it, your time and talents its servant.
Shout for victory! Work for victory! Give for
victory!... .Again, the curse of law-made unionism.
Again, arbitration is reaching out to strangle us.
Fight we must, and fight we shall. Give us fighters !
Give us Dantons (“dare and to dare, and again to
dare”). Give us a red-letter campaign.
It is a fine large hosannah, but there is a
lack of information as to what the battle
aims at, and what exactly the victory will
be if there is a victory.
Windsor (Vic.) Angling Club has made
the obvious discovery that the practice of
depositing silt in Port Phillip Bay is not
only unhealthy to the barracouta and other
beasts therein, but is liable to prove fatal,
as it will ultimately leave them no water to
dwell in. The club wants to know how long
this foolishness is to continue. In reply, the
Public Works Department, which more or
less controls the matter, says that only
27,000,000 cubic yards of silt have been
dumped into the bay since the beginning of
things, and 27,000,000 yards means a mere
layer of Ift. thick spread over 20 square
miles. That is one way of looking at it.
Another is that all Tffie silt thus deposited,
as well as what is washed down by natural
causes, will gradually find its way to the
deepest part of the bay, and that is the
channel which is continually being kept
dredged from the city to the Heads, and
27,000,000 cubic yards, swept into a channel
a quarter of a mile wide from Yarra to ocean
means a layer of mullock sft. thick. So as
fast as that channel is cleaned out it begins
to fill up again with the scourings just
taken out. The fool department says it
would cost too much to spread the stuff over
the low-lying reaches along the lower Yarra,
but when the department has finally put so
much in the bay that it is full, and Mel-
bourne is an inland city with only the shal-
low Yarra meandering from it to the ocean,
it will dawn on a lot of people that the first
cost would have been the least cost, and that
to eternally scoop out mullock and put it
where it will immediately start to wash
back again is about as intellectual a feat as
that of Sisyphus. Sisyphus, however, had
one excuse —he had no option.
“Chasuble”: Primate Wright’s visit to
Melbourne puts another wedge into the rift
between the Highs and the Lows, though the
split does not gape so wide as it does in
Sydney. The Lows of Victoria call upon the
Primate to be Primate, while the Highs
say, “We have no King but Caesar,” mean-
ing him of Melbourne. The Primate came
specially for a missionary meeting held in the
Town Hall. Archbishop Clarke did not
attend; but Norton and Nash were excuse
enough for that. It is not long since the
Primate was last in Melbourne, yet he looks
aged in even this brief time. It would not be
surprising to hear of his giving up, like
Barry. Clarke has nothing like the worries,
even with Nash thrown in; Melbourne
churchmen who visit Sydney find the bitter-
ness there inconceivable. Besides, Wright has
the misfortune to be a man of stronger con-
victions in matters of detail than the other
Arch., who paddles his canoe comfortably
enough alongside the Evangelicals.
ALL OVER THE SHOP.
MISTRESS (to new cook): “Now are you sure
you have had experience?"
COOK: “Oh, yes mum! I’ve been in’undreds
of places.”
LINES TO A SPLENDID EFFORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Liberal platform of the Melbourne Conference
lias given great dissatisfaction to many supporters of
the party. —Daily paper.
Strange as the moon emerging from eclipse,
Seen through an overhanging haze of smoke
Blent with white fog, and breathed on by the lips
Of some vast universe of throbbing beer,
I saw the wondrous thing that sizzling broke
Last week upon Australia’s atmosphere.
as when some soaring aeroplane is caught
Amid the barbed-ivire fences of the sky,
And all the merry winds in sport have taught
Peculiar lessons to its various wings,
Such was the thing that challenged me to try
To understand its weird imaginings.
Thin as the chill airs moving in the morn,
Scarce rustling the faint leaves upon the tree,
And tenderer than the sigh of the unborn
Young raindrop that shall gather e’er the eve,
Frail as Wragge’s drought, and sad as memory,
The thing in which they ask me to believe.
Soft as the suds of over-lathered soap,
Pale as affrighted ghosts of unhatched eggs,
Tepid as summer ink, or fainting hope,
And vague as chaos or eternity,
Uncertain as intoxicated legs,
The platform of Confusion’s policy.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


Keep your Table and
Household linen white
as snow by always
using Sunlight Soap.
DIRECTIONS ROUND EACH TABLET.
HO. 6 r, GUARANTEED UNDER THE
“PURE FOOD ACT. 1 008, '*
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITEO.
SYDNEY. N.B.W. No. ST.
Hunyadi
Janos
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
—and drink half a tumbler
on arising, before breakfast, for;
CONSTIPATION
A Stout Water and
Weather Proof Boot,
27)6
The sheet of Para Rubber packing inlaid between
the inner and outer oak-tanned sole of this strong,
Colt Hide, leather-lined Winter Boot makes it im-
pervious to cold and water. Easy and comfortable,
with a high legging, one may safely brave the most
inclement weather, safe in the knowledge that the
feet will be warm and dry on the return home.
BLACK OR TAN, 27|6. Posted 1/- extra.
Please Mention Size when Ordering,
also Color Required.
Men s Wear Catalogue on Request.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309-11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fg
Baden Powell, having viewed the situa-
tion in Australia, seems to understand that
although he may have come here to Scout,
lie remains to be scouted. His interest in the
kids who play the obsolete game has hardly
a pretence of sincerity in it. In Melbourne
the other day the chagrined “Chief” chal-
lenged disrespectful comment by escaping
in a motor-car from some silly function,
whilst a. lot of damp infant “scouts” were
waiting in the pouring rain for his blessing.
Baden Powell is looking for glorious advt.
all the time. Seeing that the compulsory
cadet system has swamped his scout craft at
this end of the Hempire, he acts like a show-
man down on his luck. Probably, also, he
feels that the yarns which passed for gospel
in Britain are getting sceptical criticism
from the Australian boy. Applause is limited
when he spouts from the platform absurd
stories of his ready-witted subterfuges at
Mafeking; as, for instance, the anecdote of
how he scared a party of Boers who came
upon him suddenly when he was out on his
own by motioning with his hands to a non-
existent brigade of followers, as though he
had them hiding in a trench prepared to
charge the foe when he gave the signal. The
Boers, in this lovely fiction, no sooner saw
him perform the “lie-low-and-wait” move-
ment with liis hands, than they turned and
fled like hunted devils. Which wasn’t like
their tactics. How could a surprise packet
of Boers have got near enough to the wan-
dering Baden Pool to spot his antics without
being within shooting distance, and the Boer
is a mighty prompt shooter. The yarn is so
thin that even a 12-year-old scout can see
through it at 20 paces.
A GENUINE WORSHIPPER.
Miss Sybil Arundale expresses the opinion that
dancing has a good deal to do with physical develop-
ment, and the strengthening of the limbs and feet.
“Dancing,” she says, “gives the feet proper exercise.
You can strengthen them until they become almost
prehensile. I can stand on the tips of my bare
toes, and jump off them, landing on them again,
with not the slightest inconvenience. The girl who
has not been trained as a dancer would howl with
agony if she did this. I’ve heard them do this when
they’ve stubbed a toe. I could almost kick a ward-
robe with my boots off without feeling any unpleas-
ant result.” — Theatrical item.
J OHNNIE: "My word! Kick a wardrobe with
your bare feet and feel no inconvenience!
I wish I was a wardrobe, don'tcherknow."
Premier McGowen, of the Ma State, lost
the support of certain believers in cleanli-
ness by breaking his Government’s promise
to put £5OOO on the estimates to pay for a
crematorium or corpse furnace. Yet the
movement goes on. A few weeks ago the
Bishop of Truro (England) joined those
whose work in the vineyard is finished. He
threw up the pastoral crook, and left the
sheep shepherdless and the palace empty.
His earthly tenement was burned at Holder’s
Green, in North London, and his cinders
were enclosed in an urn and placed in a
niche of Truro Cathedral. To return to
McGowen —that great ’Bus-Misser takes up
exactly the same attitude towards cremation
and tlie public demand for it that he assumes
towards the totalisator and the public de-
mand for that. He “doesn’t believe in it” ;
therefore, the public—like a kid that doesn’t
know what is good for it —shan’t have it!
Yet the old man would probably feel hurt if
anyone said in his hearing that he is a stodgy
and unprogressive Premier and a Tory of a
very backward kind. He is progressive
where the' party programme lays it down
that he must progress or lose his job. Wher-
ever he is left to himself he about ranks with
Bruce Smith.
“Squills”: A man passed out at Wallal
(W.A.) the other day from diver’s paralysis,
after being down in 19 fathoms of water for
an hour or so. Diver’s paralysis, alias
caisson disease, is common enough, though
rarely fatal, and it needn’t be either as com-
mon ’or as fatal as it is. To work
under water it is necessary to compress the
air so that the external water pressure may
be counterbalanced. Ordinarily the atmo-
sphere hits us at about 151 b.
to the square inch, and it is
not usual to strike trouble
till this has been trebled.
The unpleasantness begins
when the surface is reached.
Under high pressure the
blood absorbs nitrogen in ex-
cessive quantities, and if de-
compression occurs too quick-
ly, the nitrogen bubbles are
suddenly released, like the
gas in a soda-water bottle
when the cork is taken out.
The released bubbles, flying
around, block the small ves-
sels in the spinal cord, and
pretty soon unpleasant
things happen. The only
way to prevent it is to care-
fully graduate the pressure
as the diver is coming up,
by “staging” or “locking
out.” The rule during the
building of the Mississippi
bridge at St. Louis was to
take at least one minute for
every 61b. reduction, and the
results were excellent. When
a mistake has been made, and
the diver has been brought
up too quickly, re-compres-
sion, followed by slow exit,
is the best means of reliev-
ing the fierce pains of para-
lysis.
From the Old-
est Inhabitant:
Apropos Dr.
Lang’s old house in
Kent - street, Syd-
ney (B. 13/6/’l2).
There is a yet
older house of
some note in this
once-swell street.
It was built in the
’2o’s, and its first
tenant was Jus-
tice (afterwards
Chief Justice)
Dowling. He lived
there until he got
a grant in Dar-
linghurst and built
Brougham Hall.
In the ’so’s the
Kent-street house
was occupied first
by John Anderson,
M.D., and then by
Thomas Henry Neale, who made a pot as a carcase
butcher, and another pot as a moneylender, and
died one of the wealthiest men in Old Sydney. The
year 1866 saw the aged domicile a vinegar factory;
then, in 1868, certain philanthropic people bought
the property and turned it into a Soup Kitchen and
Night Refuge, and Sydney’s derelicts still doss in
what Old Sydney reckoned the mansion of its Chief
Justice.
* * * *
Last tveek, the morning paper described
with pride and enthusiasm the wonderful
new strong room which is being built at the
neiv Treasury Buildings, in Melbourne, to
hold Andrew Fisher’s gold reserve. The
odds against Fisher ever being cleaned out
by an ordinary masked Sikes are tremend-
ous. But for all the use it is against the
banks, the massive contraption, with its
enormously heavy door, combination locks
and so forth, might as well be made of brown
paper. If Andrew’s unlucky time arrives, he
will be cleaned out in a perfectly legal way
by three or four polite and affable officials,
who will drop in during the garish hours of
day and do the business without a jemmy.
Apropos, many years ago, before the boom
and the burst, the head office of the Q. N.
Bank was rather famous as the possessor of
the most efficient series of burglar alarms
in Australia. And while the late T. Mcll-
wraith and his friends were getting away
with 16 overdrafts, these alarms didn’t ring
once.
COW V. CRICKET.
There is still another item to be added to the list of complaints laid at the door of the dairying
industry viz., the decadence in rural centres of the national outdoor game. In bygone days, before the
advent of the dairy herd, a local cricket match was the centre to which gravitated the youth, beauty
and age of almost any country district on every Saturday afternoon. — N.S.W. School Inspector.
A most important and momentous domestic trouble which leaves no time Jor consideration of
the smiling stranger without the gate.
The last time the Commonwealth asked
for power to control trusts, combines and
monopolies, Fat burbled that in Australia
there really weren’t any monopolies to con-
trol ; and the Cow-men of Victoria mostly
believed him and voted “No.” Next time
they will probably know better. At the
beginning of the 1910-T1 butter season the
Victorian proprietary firms of butterbox-
makers remarked, with astonishing unan-
imity, that “owing to the rise in wages, etc.,”
the price of boxes would have to be whooped
up from Is. 4-Jd. per box to Is. 7M. The
co-operative butter factories had perforce to
pay; but they took counsel together, and
proceeded to establish two factories, one at
Dandenong and one in the Western District;
whereupon Private Enterprise suddenly and
unanimously dropped its price to Is. 5d.,
and forgot all about the alleged increase in
wages.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage clone in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
AN EASY VICTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As the Governor-General’s motor-car was passing
along Collins-street yesterday afternoon, William
Hudson, aged 19 years, attempted to pass in front of
it. Though every possible attempt to evade accident
was made, Hudson was knocked on the tram-line and
received a gash on the right arm. A tram was
pulled up just in time to prevent further injury to
Hudson. He was taken by Captain Wheatley,
A.D.C., who was in the car, to the Melbourne Hos-
pital, but after treatment by Dr. Wilson was allowed
to go to his home. The car was not damaged.
-—Melbourne Argus.
Whilst venturing to cross the street
(How reckless some boys are!)
Young Willie Hudson chanced to meet
The Gee-Gee’s inotah-car.
Despite its toot of wild alarm
The youth, who sought renown,
Attacked the motah with his arm
And tried to knock it down.
He suffered for his action rash:
The motah stopped his blow,
Inflicting on his arm a gash
And laying William low.
He fell before a tram that might
Have torn him limb from limb:
Yet, full of pity for his plight,
The tram stopped short of him.
Poor William, lying on the ground
Was splashed with blood and dirt,
But when they picked him up they found
The motah quite unhurt.
The beaten bruiser, looking blue
And shaken by his fall,
Was carried by the victor to
The Melbourne Hospital.
And there a surgeon put him right,
And gently greased his joints.
When William asked: “Who won the fight?”
They said: “The Car —on points.”
Bill’s dauntless arm is in a sling,
And damaged is his shirt.
But —this is the important thing—
The motah is unhurt.
VICTORIA.
O.K.
NO TIPPING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Church is, I think, called upon, too, to do
something towards suppressing this reprehensible
practice of tipping.— Melbourne parson.
The Common Man went into church,
And heard the lisping parson preach
Up in his lofty cedar perch
Of wickedness in those who reach
For worldly gain.
With periods so softly tripping,
Like little runs of molten dripping,
Did he arraign
The custom perilous of tipping.
He breathed the offertory then,
And sharp the Common Man arose,
Possessed with indignation, when
The platter lingered ’neath his nose.
“Avaunt!” he cried,
No votive thripny smugly slipping.
“Such servile blokes deserve a whipping.
1 can’t abide
This practice beggarly of tipping!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


MORE RAIN.


NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
[i
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER,
Diamonds
Reduced
Enormously.
6 Choice White Diamonds, set in Platinum and 18ct. Gold,
Some months ago we started the experiment of selling Diamonds at a broker’s commission on
landed cost, and we purpose continuing to do so for a further six months.
We have taken on a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output and wehave to.live uj, to
it, and so to increase our already large output we are oflering the best class Diamonds at prices
never before attempted.
We think the increase of customers and the great advertisement will pay us eventually.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“The Triumphant Fisherman”: I have
been patiently reading through the plan descriptions
of the great and beautiful city of Yassomalley, or
Kingberra, or O’Kingfish, or whatever it is to be
called. As I understand it, the great feature of
Yassucan or Youeantfish will be the involved and
relentless gaoling of the half-pint of water available.
The mud-choked trout that dwells in that region
will have to transform himself into a plain vegetable
when the gaoler-engineers get to work with
their locks and start imprisoning the element which
a modern French poet describes as “so frightfully
anonymous,” because you never know where it was
working before you got it. Once water trickles into,
or falls on, Fishoking—or Fishchoking—it is never
going to escape again, but will remain there until it
it quite dead, or until all the inhabitants are dead
of smelling it. Or, maybe, when it has become old
and acquired a slimy green overcoat, desperate people
will cut openings and invite it to run off the prem-
ises and take its mosquitoes with it. And it will
find that it is too sluggish to run, and will subside
gently and start to die in three volumes, until the
unemployed are bribed to cart and shove great
stretches of the landscapes upon its wide dwelling-
place. The manufacture of lakes in a dry region
necessitates desperate experiments in water economy,
and I foresee an interesting time for Fishchoking—
or is it Kingrooster? (I never can remember the
name of that splendid place).
WORSE THAN MIXED BATHING.
WOWSER (to brother): "Just fancy entering
so lightly clad!”
“Billy T.” : Danny Clarke was what you
might call a careful man. Thrift with him was auto-
matic. He was frugal in his sleep, and never moved
in bed, to save wear and tear on the blankets.
Danny was even sparing of his breath, for it was
noted at The Bunyip (Michael Bourke, licensed vic-
tualler) that he never shouted. But Clarke was not
deaf; he could hear another man shouting a mile
off. If any stranger happened to be wearing out a
cheque at the Bunyip, Daniel Clarke was invariably
one of the reception committee. Daniel’s total absti-
nence from strong drink of his own buying had been
noticed. It was frequently commented upon, and
some hints of popular reproach must have come to
his ears, with the result that he very nearly shouted
once. He started from home with the intention of
shouting. When he reached the bar door his splendid
resolution had not faltered. He marched to the
counter, and cried: “Well, boys, what is it going to
] )R i” Then repentance came with an overwhelm-
ing rush, and he added, hastily—“wet or dry?”
“A. 11.” :As nobody has asked me for my
testimony concerning the question of sharks and
colored bait, I butt in to say that I have seen Malays
diving from pearling luggers into waters simply
infested with the marine demon. The bathers
shout, sing, clap their hands and make as much
noise as possible as they reach the waters; but show
no fear. Possibly it is Malayan music which keeps
the shark at a distance ; anyway, as soon as it be-
gins he bolts out of earshot in the quickest time
possible. The Bingliis, too, all along the nor’-west
coast dive freely in popular shark resorts, though
they demur at entering the water singly. In com-
pany, they shout and make a great commotion be-
fore leaving the shallows, and will then swim and
dive freely together. The Malays have a theory
that even should a shark make an attack he can be
put out of action by a single blow, planted firmly
on the extreme tip of the upper jaw. They say
this paralyses the animal. At various ports in the
Solomons I have watched the islanders diving for
hours into water where I could see sharks cruising.
These brutes were of a tawny orange color, with
darker stripes on the back, and were smaller than
the species usually seen off the Australian coasts.
They made no attempt to attack the swimmers, but
scuttled off at every splash. On occasion a Euro-
pean has been tackled by the biggest specimens, but
they can hardly be regarded as maneaters. The
Malays on the pearling grounds love shark-catching,
and have some novel methods. Should a sheep be
killed on a schooner, the skin and waste parts are
baited on a strong hook and trailed through the
water. As brother shark makes a swoop for the
counter-lunch, it is lifted swiftly just beyond his
reach. This tantalises the customer till he comes
nearer and nearer. In his rage he leaps partly out
of the water, and lands in the arms of a whirling
lassoo. A bullet concludes the entertainment. At
certain seasons up North, a big trade is done in
shark blubber, which is rich in an oil that is
steadily increasing in commercial value.
* * * *
“Machete”: Do you know the Papuan
sling? The great western bow is well enough
known, likewise the curious “catching loop,” which
is like a long-handled tennis racket without the
strings, and furnished with a neat spike to jab into
your fleeing enemy’s cervical vertebrae once the loop
is over his head. But the sling, one of the most
famous and efficient of primitive missile weapons, was
used by few Papuan tribes, and has now almost
vanished. It was the principal weapon of the sturdy
little natives of Goodenough Island, a precipitious
mountain rising 7000 ft. from the sea. The Papuan
constabulary, who cared little for the Tugeri arrows
or the clubmen of the North, could hardly be got to
face the Island slingers. The implement is of the
ordinary pattern, but about Oft. long when doubled,
and the pouch for the stone is of hide. The projec-
tile used was about the size of a turkey’s egg, care-
fully ground from diorite to a double-ended shape.
When the sniper wished to let fly he dropped a stone
on the ground and slipped it into the sling with his
foot. Then with a strikingly graceful motion he be-
o-an his swing. On the released end of the sling was
fastened a cracker of pandamus fibre, which snapped
like a rifle shot. At any range up to 200yds. the
stone was much the same as a bullet, especially 1 1
struck bone. The people who had to tackle the
slingers in their fortified mountain villages had only
one consolation. The slinger had to fully expose
himself to “fire.” The time was then ripe for the
individual with the rifle.
* * *
“Tialti”: Don’t know how much “Paroa”
(B. 16/5/’l2) is prepared to punt on the kiwi as
the champion Jack Sheppard of the bird
world, but I'll cover it and back the Maori-
land kea (Nestor notabilis). This hefty par-
rot, which inhabits the mountain regions of
the South Island, is charged on the highest
authority with filing his way to liberty out
of a wire cage. Naturally Thomas Henry
Potts makes mention of this characteristic,
and in Hutton and Drummond’s book are
two specific accounts of remarkable escapes.
A captured kea was shoved under an inverted
iron bucket, the handle-tags of which would
not allow the rim to touch the ground all
round. The cooped-up kea shoved his bill
underneath, dug his feet well in the ground,
used his head as a lever, heaved up the
bucket, and sped the parting guest. Another
was immured in a wooden box-cage, but he
sawed his way through the timber like a rat
through a cardboard box. Caught young, the
kea is easily tamed, yet the settlers do not
seem to take to him kindly. Perhaps his
habit of mounting the backs of sheep and
sawing through wool, hide and mutton until
he gets the kidney fat has caused their anti-
pathy towards him. In a Lands Department
report it was once recorded that 200 sheep
were thus “kidneyed” in a single night at
Lake Wanaka. On account of this habit as
much as 10s. a head has been offered for the
thoroughly dead kea. The ancestry of the
bird is not accurately known to me, but I
fancy there is a circular saw in his pedigree,
also a swordfish.
“Snell”: The man on the fence is an Aus-
tralian character. Possibly he is conspicuous
amongst us for the reason that over millions of
square miles of our continent the fence is the only
safe and fairly comfortable thing for a man to sit
on. Have heard lately from a guard on a Victorian
line, whose attention had been attracted to a woolly
inhabitant who habitually perched on a post and rail
fence near the line out on a flat and arid waste in-
fested with a few sheep and one paralytic hut. The
man was there so often that the whole railway ser-
vice became infected with curiosity concerning him.
One day a mishap to the engine necessitated a stop
in the vicinity of the native on his perch, so the
guard sauntered over to make pertinent inquiries.
“Goo’ dayl” “Day, mate.” “Look here, 1 hope
you won’t mind my asking, but why do you spend
so much time on this fence?” The percher blushed
a little. “Oh, well, yeh see, Mister,” he said, “the
fact is, I’m looking for a wife.” Whiskers still sits
out on his long, lone fence by the road that goes no-
where and which nobody uses. The Railway De-
partment will supply further particulars to any en-
terprising spinster who may meditate passing that
way.
THRIFT!
BENNO: “ Blime, Ada,
this beer’s orlright.
Yer ought ter get
some? "
“Vagabond” : Just returned from stalking
deer on Maoriland’s highlands, and a real strenuous
time it was. The job of getting to the deer-grounds
used up the best part of two days, two horses, and
two bottles of whisky, and included a long drive on
roads that roamed recklessly over and through
boulder-strewn river beds, and along hillsides with
one wheel of the conveyance hovering on the brink
of Eternity and the other flying round in the Bank-
ruptcy Court. When the road petered out we had
to pack supplies on to camp over tracks a respectable
goat would require a bonus to tackle. My chief ob-
jection to deer-stalking is that there’s too much stalk-
ing and not enough deer, and that the pleasures of the
chase crowd out any other simple pleasures, like
smoking, eating and sleeping. You must crawl out of
the blankets in the darkest (and coldest) hour before
the dawn, and most of the morning you keep on
clambering over scenery which appears to have been
put in a bag and shaken out by a birthday party of
intoxicated devils. The arranged “long halt” at mid-
day usually cuts down to 15 minutes to boil the billy
and swallow stale bread and corned beef, because you
must hurry up to get to some gullies where the
chance is good, etc. When it is too dark to shoot
you stagger 1000 miles back to camp, wolf a feed,
light a pipe, and are just thinking of removing your
wet boots when the moon lifts, and it is time to look
down by the river in case a herd or two of deer
are holding a reception. For hours you crouch in
a damp (you can spell it without the “p” if you
like), dismal swamp, but nothing comes of it except
severe cramps and frozen trotters. It’s a glorious
pastime. I’ll say nothing of the reward of your
labors when the noble stag falls before your unerring
rifle. Let others tell of the fierce rapture at the
sight of the frenzied leap and the crashing fall of
the quarry, of the joy of posing for the camera with
one foot on the corpse, and the satisfaction of carry-
ing the fine head into camp. I could tell it myself
(I’ve a splendid imagination), but I’ll refrain. The
guides who take parties into the hills and pilot them
to where there’s a good chance, etc., demand anything
from £1 a day up. They earn it.
» * * *
“Move-on” : There is a fragment of the
whaling industry that has been hanging on in M.L.
now for a good many years, and is still going. Up
near the Bay of Islands, north of Auckland, there is
a little chunk of rock, about the toss of a pair of
boots from the mainland, and between the island and
the shore has always been a favorite promenade for
the swimming oil-tanks. A huge net is stretched
across the channel, and, when a visiting whale gets
snarled up in it, the local hunters gather up their
guns and fish knives, and proceed to prod him full of
holes and drag his carcase ashore and boil it down.
The net is made of heavy wire rope and steel chains,
the average whale being too boisterous for the health
of anything less strong. Just why the blowers take
this particular short cut is a mystery, but they have
kept on doing it, or trying to do it, as far back as
go the records of the white man or the Oldest Brown
Inhabitant, and the hoariest old Big Fish Lie in
the district relates how the speaker or the speaker’s
father or grandfather just missed a fine 110-ton
“fish” coming in at the submarine cellar door.
P’raps there’s a special “Little Pub We Know around
the Corner” of the whales there, or it may be that
the rocky island is “The Block,” and the lady and
lady-killer whales are in the habit of strolling round
to show off their latest barnacle wear. There is
another local theory that the whales come there to
scrape off their barnacles, but it doesn’t attempt to
explain just why they should call regularly at that
one particular spot, when they have thousands of
miles of rocky coastline to rub up against. Anyhow
they come, and a lot of ’em stay—or their bones do,
while the rest of them depart peacefully and smell-
fully in barrels.
“Dynamo” : Your friend “Jinnnie Panni-
kin” is correct in his statement (B. 23/5/'l2) that
the shell parrot is one of our most beautiful rrteat-
and-feather aeroplanes. But I marvel that James
has only met one talking specimen of the bird. I
owned a voluble sample myself, years ago, at
Broken Hill, what time Mr. Pannikin came along
and examined us in reading, hydrostatics, Venetian
history, Greek roots and eonchology ; and there
were, to my knowledge, a dozen similar talkative
fowl on the Barrier. And I once met a perverted
shell parrot in Melbourne which used to denounce
the Pope good and hard in a public house, and de-
clare that the whole College of Cardinals drank. Its
owner was a Roman Catholic. He kept the bird as
an evidence of the straits to which Protestants were
reduced to disseminate their slanders.
THE TWO THINGS NEEDFUL.
DEBUTANTE : "And what is the ‘ glass of fashion
and the mould of your form in society ?"
VETERAN OF FORTY SEASONS: “ Champagne ,
my dear, and corsets?”
Gunnar Landtman, Professor of Sociology
in the University of Helsingfors, Finland, has been
contributing to the old argument concerning mor-
ality as Brown Brother sees it in Papua. For two
years Landtman has been studying the natives near
the mouth of the Fly River, and he has arrived at
this conclusion: “Morality as understood by us is un-
known among the New Guinea tribes. On the coast
the natives have more touches of civilisation than
those of the interior, owing to contact with Euro-
pean traders, but the great majority are simply un-
moral. At certain seasons of the year they ha.ve
gluttonous and sensual orgies, with promiscuous in-
dulgence in polygamy. Unnatural practices are in-
dulged in by a number of interior tribes, while cer-
tain of the customs could scarcely be described. They
spring from sexual excesses. While these festivals
are not in progress the tribes are monogamous, and
the germ of a crude: common law is seen in the
penalty visited on those who depart from the custom
of this time. The male offender is invariably
killed.’’
TOLPODDLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tolpoddle, in Dorsetshire, England, lias erected a
to six convicts transported to Australia, in
1833, for conspiring to raise the rate of wages, whic
was then 7s. a week. —Daily publication.
What shame is this, that convicts vile,
At vicious plots detected,
Are honored with a granite pile
In public square erected,
While that sublime old English gent
Of rectitude the model,
Who o’er the ocean had them sent,
Receives no grand acknowledgment
In faded old Tolpoddle?
Is lawlessness become correct,
Conspiracy a virtue?
Tolpoddlers, when did high respect
For Property desert you?
These scamps sought eighteen pence a day
Their passions vile to coddle;
They worked for nix in Bot’ny Bay,
And now they get a martyr’s pay
In radical Tolpoddle.
’Twere well when strikers fill the street,
And leaders on a barrel
Demand for Hodge enough to eat
And second-hand apparel,
If Genius sculped most semblably
That fine old Tory’s noddle,
Who formed with chains in ’Thirty-Three
The first trades-union sent o’er sea
From glorious Tolpoddle.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL’S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
mJ
? s
Veaf and Tongue
Pate
ia made for thoae who want
something with which to mako
good “ meaty ” sandwiches. It
Is quite as tasty as the famous
Ham Pate, though It costs a
little lest.
Ask your grocer for a tin or
two. Each tin hoids a quarter
of a pound.
FOCCITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
“Pick”: “Wang” (B. 23/5/T2) asks, “Do
rabbits eat birds? or do birds leave because they don’t
like the smell of rabbits?” Neither is the case.
What happens is this. When rabbits invade a dis-
trict, the Pastures Protection Board enforces the
fool decree that phosphorus or strychnine shall
be spread broadcast, with the natural result
that, in time, all the birds are poisoned.
I have seen flocks of pigeons, parrots and
magpies wiped off the landscape by this means in a
single afternoon. Incidentally, “Wang” mentions
that there are plenty of insects. Of course. The
, birds that formerly ate the insects are all destroyed,
and the delighted insects increase and multiply until,
in many country parts, they are a worse menace to
the farmer than the rabbits ever were.
THE
DARLING
OF THE
GODS.
“Iyles I.”: I don’t bear him any grudge
about it, for I am a Hayseed myself; but I must
confess that I derive a whole hogful of inexpensive
amusement from Bill’s visit to, the city. He tries
hard to disguise the fact (I don’t know why he
should) that the fragrance of gum-leaves is on him.
He has enveloped himself in a new tailor-made suit,
got under a new hat—a bit wide in the brim—and
his feet are surrounded by new boots. But, some-
how, the whole blessed arrangement puts him away.
His clothes fit him everywhere but where they ought
to; the umbrageous brim of his headgear looks twice
as wide as usual, and his boots squeak agonisingly
every time they collide with the pavement. He also
purchases an umbrella, because he thinks a “brolly”
is the hall-mark of the city man. And he wears it
wherever he goes, irrespective of whether the day is
wet or fine. But it is a terrifying possession, and
hangs like a necklace of grindstones on his conscience.
He trips over it in the street; pushes it into every
second person’s eye, and eventually loses it in a tram-
car. That represents the young and up-to-date
cousin from the country. But there is the old bush
battler, long-haired and be-wrinkled, who doesn’t at-
tempt to hide the obviosity of his residential whence-
ness. Rather, he glories in the fact. He has wheat
in his whiskers, grass-seeds in his hair, and the odor
of sheep is all over him. It is a shocking waste of
good produce. But, all things considered, the bush-
man isn’t very surprised 'at the wonders of the city.
Jim Bunyip, from Wantalaggi, was the exception.
It was a wet day, and at the races the ladies held
their dresses well aloft to escape the destructive
dampness. Jim beheld the blaze of colored stockings.
He told us about it when he returned. “It was a
rare good show o’ fillies,” he said, “with rainbows
round their hocks. An’, my word, yer oughter jus’
seen their trottin’ straps!”
In 1906 there were no special provisions for
safety, the pay roll of an American steel plant num-
bered 6000. The fatalities were 47. In 1909, after
the introduction of a safety Committee, out of a pay
roll of 7000 only 12 fatalities occurred. Of this
number one death was caused by a man inadvertently
stepping before a running loco. Five other deaths
happened from causes for which no possible explana-
tion could be offered—in other words real accidents.
Phillips Ormonde & Co., patent attorneys, 266 Flin-
ders St., Melbourne.*
THE IRRESISTIBLE FORCE.
T. TOPER: " No, sir , ye're wrong. I can resist the drink easy enough; it's the barmaid's
lure what's draggin ’ me down."
North Coast (N.S.W.) cow-cockies are
mostly in a state of great distress because of th<
Board of Health’s wickedness in forcing farmers to
boil all pig-food with a view to check the spread oi
tuberculosis. The habit of the cow-cocky is to feed
the pigs with the milk of cows he considers diseased,
and when the said diseased Bluey and Strawberry give
up the ghost their flesh is fed to the grunters. The
men who object to the stoppage of this practice have
also been “resolving” against “State interference be-
tween a man and his children,” and altogether they
are first-class representatives of the Tory party to
which —as members of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association—they are firmly attached.
“Kobbi”: Re “Dinkum’s” query, “Can
animals smell water?” There is little or no doubt
about it. Watch a horse just unsaddled in country
that is absolutely new to him, and note how quickly
he gets the lay of the land, and, after a bite or two,
moves off to water, which may be the merest puddle
half a mile off. Not only has Edwin the powerful
sense of smell, but the instinct also to pick up the
“fall of the country,” so that when he starts out,
there is no aimless walking from place to place in
search of a pub. Besides, the general “feel” of the
country assists; for trees in well-watered or soaked
ground give off a different “atmosphere” from their
comrades of the dry hills. Apropos something of the
sort, I have noticed that iguanas, when foraging
round the apparently deserted camp, move the long
tongue from side to side constantly. Wouldn’t care
to say that the beast smells with his tongue, but it
has often struck me that his long taster catches the
wireless perfume-gram. The little fence lizard has
the same habit when searching for his dinner on the
splintered panel. Either he uses his tongue to assist
in locating the counter-lunch, or else he is merely
smacking his lips in anticipation of fly-steak.
STOPPED HOURS OF MISERY.
“The excruciating pains of rheumatism have
caused me many hours of misery,” says Mrs. Jane
Pierce, 1340 Sturt Street, Ballarat, Victoria. “It
seemed as though I would never get relief, then I
started to use Chamberlain’s Pain Balm. The first
bottle showed the merits of the Balm. Now I apply
hot fomentations and have the Balm well rubbed in
at the first appearance of pain, and it wards off what
used to be days of misery for me.”*
“R. McK.” : Let me add to “Leo Lear’s”
description (B. 23/5/’ 12) of the Devil’s playground
in Western Victoria, that at Alvic, 11 miles from
Colac, quite a number of bungholes similar to those
he mentions can be seen. Standing on Red Rock
11 small lakes are visible, besides Lake Colac (the
largest sheet of fresh water in the State) and Lake
Corangamite (the largest expanse of salt water).
There is only about two miles of land between these
two lakes, and the saltness of Corangamite has long
been a puzzle. AH the small lakes are salt, which
seems to bear out “Leo’s” contention that they go
right through the earth to the other side.
“Leo Lear”: “Wang” (B. 23/5/’12) is off
the track when he suggests that birds leave thick
scrub localities because they object to the perfume of
rabbit. As a matter of fact, few birds inhabit thick
scrub. Those that do are rare and shy specimens,
such as regent birds, bristle birds, pilot birds and
oof birds. Most aerial fowl prefer the fringe of
scrubs. But once a clearing is made bird life imme-
diately appears; and if “Wang” had spent his holiday
smiting down timber with his razor, the rush of
magpies, mudlarks, flycatchers, etc., to the spot,
would have caused a whirlwind like that which
dragged Elijah up to Paradise.
The Army Let Loose.
An Ancient Soldier writes:—
What arrant guff these British Socialists do ladle
out for the benefit of “the masses,” to be sure! The
other day H. M. Hynuman, M.A., the wealthy
founder of the Social Democratic Federation in
Britain, rejoiced heartily at the possibility of Eng-
lish soldiers “refusing to shoot down the sweated
and swindled workers of the United Kingdom.”
Keir H-ardie, Tom Mann, and the rest of this futile
crowd appear to spend a large part of their time,
these days, hurrying up and down the country,
openly or covertly urging the military not to pro-
tect the community against strikers, peaceful or
otherwise. And that is about the only contribution
they ever make to the alleviation of their country’s
woes. Their policy is purely negative. None of
them offers the vestige of a scheme for en-
abling the striker or potential striker to earn
enough to put a bit more food in his depleted stom-
ach. These political mountebanks are Freetraders to a
man; advocates, that is to say, of the fiscal idiocy
which has created Britain’s vast unemployed class
by removing so much of its collective steady job
to America, the European continent and elsewhere.
Hyndman and Co. don’t offer their working men
dupes a policy that will bring the latter remunerative
toil—which is the only thing on this earth
that . is going to do the vast majority of the
British “lower orders” any real good. Instead they
shout and orate and machinate and go to gaol in
the cause of a general strike. No civilised com-
munity can afford to permit a genuine, all-wool,
general strike, and an appeal to the military is in-
variably the first means adopted for stopping it.
The refusal of the soldiers to act would mean that
all laws were abrogated and that chaos had material-
ised. And when That happens the collection of taxes
ceases, and the unpaid, unfed army and police dis-
band, and everyone does what. is bad in his own
sight. Or if the army doesn’t disband—or if part of
it comes together again after disbanding-—it is
apt to be a force that means, under an ambitious
leader, to run the country for its own profit, as the
Praetorians once did in Rome, or the Janissaries in
Headache every now and then? Carry Steams’
Headache Cure—easy to carry, easy to take. Clears
Oie head in a few minutes.*
Turkey. It is a dangerous thing to teach an army
to break away from its old commanders. It may
then do one of two things—either dissolve and leave
the country to anarchy, or set up on its own account
as an oligarchy, ruling by the gun and bayonet for
its own benefit, fixing its own wages, selecting its
own leaders, and helping itself to girls and pro-
perty in a general sort of way. . Nothing but the
habit of obedience prevents it doing that now, and
Hyndman and Cos- want it to get rid of the habit
of obedience. Supposing it does! Why, then, with
the power to become rich and great should its mem-
bers step down to hustle for a crust among the
poorest of the poor ?
The Associated Chambers of Manufactures
of Australia have once more urged Prime
Minister Fisher to appoint a permanent,
non-political tariff commission, or board, and
the Inter-State Commission provided for in
the Constitution Act. As to this latter, which
Fisher said was a “constitutional power
which might be exercised sooner or later,” it
is notorious that inter-State Freetrade and
genuine Federation, as regards trade and
commerce, are only a farce so long as the
differential railway rates and port charges
now in force continue. The Commission
should, of course, have been appointed long
ago, and in saying it might be appointed
some day, Fisher is but fooling with the
laws he is sworn to administer. As for the
Permanent Tariff Board, that eminently sane
proposal should be welcomed, especially by a
party that has lived on its policy of sinking
the fiscal issue. One side of that issue, cer-
tainly, has been sunk permanently, and it
would be to the manifest advantage of Labor,
which can gain nothing by taking sides on the
matter, to hand over the ever-recurring ad-
justment of the details of a tariff to a small,
non-political body. As one deputationist
put it, a tariff stands on the same basis as
defence —it is really a weapon of industrial
defence, always there, but subject to such
increases or modifications as might prove
necessary. While Fisher is considering the
manufacturers’ requests, if he does consider
them, he would do well to ponder over one
suggestion offered him —that he should do
something to answer the imputation thrown
against his Government, that it is in favor
of the highest duties that will not protect.
Looking at Australia’s huge and ever-increas-
ing Customs revenue, that imputation ap-
pears well-founded, and if Fisher doesn’t
answer it, the electors may do so peremp-
torily next autumn.
o
“J.R.”: Defence-Minister Pearce an-
nounced the other day that he had written
to the British War Office people asking
them, in effect, when they had made up their
minds as to the type of flying-machine they
intended adopting, to send four of that sort
to Australia. He will not have to wait the
usual three months for a reply. The text of
the memorandum ordering the establishment
of a “Flying Corps” for Bull’s army arrived
by the last mail, and it appears that the
Bull War Office hasn’t the least idea what
type of machine it will use. It only knows
that it is going to buy 12 Henri Farman
hydro-aeroplanes and some loose floats for
the navy, and when it can make up its mind,
it is going to buy 25 aeroplanes for the mili-
tary service. Britain is lamentably behind
hand as regards aviation. The administra-
tion of its Flying Corps is a by-word. The
War Office has only £130,000 to spend on the
new science this year—a paltry sum when
compared, for instance, with the million
sterling that France proposes to lavish in
this direction during the same period. In
THE ABC OF SCIENTIFIC FARMING.
Pruning the crop.
the circumstances, it is absurd for Australia
to go to London for information on a ques-
tion in regard to which Britain is itself, ad-
mittedly, groping in the dark. A more ob-
vious procedure is for the Commonwealth to
encourage flying locally on machines which
experience has shown are fitted to Australian
conditions. There is, at least, one local fly-
ing school, aeroplane factory and skilled avia-
tor in the country to make a start with.
WET FEET
often result in a heavy cold, neglect of which means
Pneumonia or Consumption. A positive preventive
of these ills is Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
Coughs and Colds. Small dose. Pleasant to take.
Every bottle guaranteed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
THE BRED-NOUGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Caucus is elated over the scheme submitted to
it tor a maternity allowance of £5 to every child
horn and registered in Australia. The credit ‘for the
idea, as far as the party is concerned, is given to
Mr. who describes it as the “dream of his
life. The proposal, though it is not new, has been
adopted with a view of assisting the party at the
next general elections.— News item.
A childless couple, we sit here watching the fivers
sliding past;
For, all through a bit of feeble botching, our first
kid was the last;
It’s not our fault altogether, you see—and, cer-
tainly, not all mine,
For, under the law, polygamy is punished with more
than a fine!
And as for the missus—poor lass!—she dotes on
children, and always did ;
They talk about women demanding votes, but my
girl asks for a kid !
But medical science—they call it that—says, “Quite
impossible now!”
So, how can we manage a five-pound brat? Will
somebody tell me how?
There’s Smith and his missus with fourteen kids, and
all of ’em born out here!
There’s dozens I know —and some of ’em Yids—that
make their fiver a year!
Ay! some of the lucky ones make it ten with for-
tunate, thumping twins—
And wasn’t it one of the tramway men got fifteen
quid—for his sins?
And, look at the immigrants! Here they come, by
scores, with their new, young wives—
But what I always consider rum is that Baby never
arrives,
As he used to do, by the same good ship that carried
his parents out—
Not much! He comes this end o’ the trip—they
know what they’re about!
It’s up to Fisher to square this game, and level it
up for those
Who haven’t a baby to bless their name (unless it’s
under the rose!).
There’s all these fivers a-sliding past the married, but
childless, pair—
Two obsolete Brednoughts, hard and fast on the rock
of Sheer Despair!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
PEELING McGUIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The circus came to Boolga town,
And reared its tents with stirring din,
Then set the famous talking clown
To drag the gaping natives in
The wondrous Riding Monks to see,
Likewise the grand menagerie.
In with the rest went Con McGuire.
He saw the lion in its cage,
He saw the ape upon a wire,
Beheld the Bengal tiger’s rage,
And then he stood, amazed and wary,
Beside the awkward dromedary.
McGuire looked close. His face was sad.
“ ’Tis sore afflicted,” murmured Mae.
He thought the swellings very bad
That showed upon the creature’s back.
“Sure, them’s terrific boils,” said Con.
“Why don’t yez put a poultice on?”
victoria.
SNELL.


THE FEAR OF THE UNKNOWN.
But if that is true on the Government ide of the Ilouse it is euuall, so on the other... .It is a House of make-beieve. afraid to speah its mind, totally incompetent to give
effect to is pledges. —Melbourne AGE.


THE LATEST AND THE BEST
Remedy for Chest Complaints is Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs and Colds. It is effective when
all else fails. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS For
• DURABILITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Australia’s most ancient milionaire is Ban-
Smith, of Adelaide, who is 88 years old. His
partner, Thomas Elder, died worth £900,000,
though he had previously distributed a heap
of money among South Australian public
bodies. Barr Smith has already given awav
a traceable £30,000, and as all his sons anil
daughters are wealthy, there may be more to
come later on.
“Adelaide”: Sidney Kidman is rapidly
taking Tyson’s old place as a sort of squat-
ter king. He has also the regal art of
getting solid with the press. Adelaide
Register (18/6/T2) gives these things as
facts: (1) Were it not that Mr. Kidman is
sending 400 cattle each week to Adelaide,
beef would be at famine prices.” (2)
“The ‘Cattle King’ desires the consumers to
be inconvenienced as little as possible bv the
extraordinary position which prevails,”’ and
has told his agents “not to endeavor to get
the last penny out of the butchers.” (3)
Tt was a common occurrence at the sale on
Monday for Mr. W. Will, Mr. Kidman’s
manager, to say ‘Knock them down,’ even
when more money was offering.” A regal
Crown will hardly cover this. One large-
sized saintly halo for Ividman, please!
ETERNAL PROHIBITION.
“He has been in the Liverpool Asylum,” said
Sergeant Mankey, in the Central Police Court this
morning, but these old fellows will not stay in
there because there is no beer.”
ST. PETER : “No, sir! There's no beer here.”
THE OTHER : “Oh, I've made a mistook
Thort this was 'eaven. Goo’-by.”
Britain is full of small scuffling persons
of title these days—financially harried citi-
zens ever ready for a personal wrangle with
a dustman or other humble toiler on the sub-
ject of the latter's charges. The proud,
aloof, money-spurning aristocrat is going;
and in his place is to be found the worried
lordling with judgment summonses where
his ancestors used to carry gold pieces. To
cite a case in point, Baron Haldon (43), of
Beckenham, the other day, contested, in
Croydon County Court (here the newspaper
report begins) :
A claim by Messrs. Williamson, grocers, of South
Norwood, for £4 4s. Bd. for goods supplied.
Lord Haldon asserted that the goods were not de-
livered on the dates mentioned in the account, and,
after the evidence of two servants on this point, he
declared, “1 think that dishes it.”
r V hi J? evidence was being given for the plaintiffs.
Lord Haldon asked why this debt was not included
i'olT arrested for debt in January,
Judge Harington said there was not the least
ground for the suggestion that the account was
faked, and gave judgment for the plaintiffs.
Lord Haldon: “1 won t pay it. I am going to
America next week.”
His Honor: “Well, I think it is a verv good
thing.”
Imagine an old-time Baron threatening to
expatriate himself in connection with a small
grocery transaction, and being cheered on
his way by an assurance from the Bench
that it would be a good thing if he did!
Baden-Powell,
Chief Scout.
The first pilot
1 at Sydney Heads
was a man named
Gibson; his son
was signal-master
at South Head 60
years ago, and his
grandson. Alfred
Gibson, is chief
signalman there
now. The first
pilot in Port
Jackson was
Thomas Reibey,
who came out in
1792 in the Royal
Admiral, and set-
tled in Sydney.
He was the lius-
band of Mrs.
Mary Reibey, who
left a footprint
on local history
in her day.
William Hall Jones, the very white man
who has just ceased to represent Maoriland
in the Cold Country, and who, to the regret
of many, didn’t jump lou Ward’s claim for
the Maoriland Premiership when he had the
show, lias a political failing of the first mag-
nitude. ( Modesty is what is wrong with him.
When Seddon sent him a wire offering him
a portfolio, he wrote out a message declin-
ing the job on the ground that he didn’t
think he was capable. But some of his con-
stituents got on the scene in time, and held
down Jones, and tore up the message, and
declared that, the city of Timaru wasn't
going to lose its chance of being represented
in the Cabinet. Jones might think himself in-
competent, or sick, or dead or any old thing
he liked, but he was going to take that port-
folio. And Jones consented in a smothered
voice from under a heap of supporters.
“Rooney”: Died in Sydney re-
cently, Dave Kiss, an old Monaro
bushman. Such claim to immor-
tality as he possessed rested broad
based upon the hardness of his
skull. It was his pleasure to
amaze the simple bucolics of his
district by breaking into fragments
with his iron cranium a cheese
placed in a bag. Occasionally a
local wit would substitute for the
cheese a grindstone. It made no
difference to David. The only suf-
ferer was the owner of the grind-
stone. There was one circumstance
that Dave’s backers always feared
would ultimately beat their cham-
pion if it could be brought to bear
on him, viz., the Liberal party’s
luck in having C. G. Wade as a
leader. However, in the nature of
things, no one could get it into a
bag, and so the old man remained
undefeated to the end.
St._ Columb’s, of Haw-hawthorn (Melb )
mentioned so often in the Nash libel case"
™ ost i ly out of the Pocket of Bart
VV. J. Clarke; and on that hangs the tale of
how Armstrong came to be a bishop and to
bish at VV angaratta. Seeing that Bill
Clarke had put up so much of the money,
the St. Columb_ people couldn’t well do any-
thing but appoint his relative to the vicar-
agc. -the vast parson jumped at his chance,
and did so remarkably well that soon he was
Archdeacon of Ginosland. and then Bishop
of Wangaratta. Yet, well as Anak Arm-
sti ong had done at St. Columb, it was gen-
erally owned that Nash did better.
Until a few days ago the Vic. Eight-
Hours’ Pioneers’ Association numbered three
members. One of them, James Dalgaty, died
in a suburban train, and now there are two.
The old gentleman who has gone had been
the pioneers’ standard-bearer in the Eight-
Hours’ procession for many years. George
Launder and ■ John- McKay are now the
whole association.
Premier Watt, of Victoria, was lately
fined for refusing to have his child vaccin-
ated. This was his third falling in. Certain
fragments of an old clan of conscientious
objectors still linger around Melbourne, ex-
Federal Minister McCay being one and
Watt another. William believes in majority
rule till the rule is against him. Then he
believes in being the majority.
The first press correspondent to be killed
in the untidy scuffle going on between the
fellow who can play a barrel-organ much
better than he can fight and the chap who
is pointing it out was John Stuart Small-
wood, of London Chronicle, a man aged 2!).
He was with a party of Bedouins near the
Italian lines when the Dago began throwing
bullets around. Smallwood stopped two,
and then he stopped altogether.
The appointment of W. H. Ifould, an
energetic young S’Australian, to be Sydney’s
Public Librarian, in succession to historian
Bladen, recalls that John Fairfax, practi-
cally the founder of the S. M. Herald,
served awhile in the same place as book-
duster and distributor. Young John, having
struck financial trouble in England and emi-
grated in consequence, got a job at the
library; but as there wasn’t much to do
there in the ’3o’s, he used to drop in at the
bi-weekly Herald office and look around for
a few extra coppers. Evidently he found
them, because he and Kemp, the paper’s re-
porter, bought the whole turn-out before
long, and made it a daily.
The TruHi libel case in Melbourne has
squeezed out some information about Arch-
gaiters Clarke, the plaintiff in the protracted
business. His father, who had been an In-
cumbent at £lOO 'a . year, died when Clarke
was only 17. The widow was left with five
children and about £3OO per annum. The
son went to Cambridge, and earned his
whole expenses by scholarships and other-
wise. Finishing with Cambridge, he took a
country living at £l7O, and married Canon
Ivemp’s daughter, Kemp being Master of Char-
terhouse, Hull—a home for the genteel de-
cayed. Clarke was 50 before he got £4OO a
year. _ This was at Huddersfield, where he
was J icar — an ,d that, by the way, was where
he first heard definite things concerning
Canon Nash, the man that all the trouble is
about. Nash had been a curate there some
years before. Clarke’s, promotion to Mel-
bourne and a couple of thousand a year
came, he says, through the Arehbish. of
lork, who recommended him to a job that
lie didn’t even know was vacant.
Archbishop Redwood, of Maoriland.
John Logan Campbell, one of the best-
lmown of Maoriland’s settlers, capitulated to
the advance of Time a few days ago at
Auckland, where he had resided for the past
70-odd years. He was born at Edinburgh
in 1817, .and educated in that rocky town’s
University for the medical trade. In the
long, long ago, about the time when the
Homani Empire began to look shaky, he came
out to Sydney as surgeon on the Palmyra. A
very little while later (the Roman Empire
was getting shakier all the time) he moved
on to Maoriland. and there proceeded to haul
together a great fortune. Nearly all legiti-
mate trades, jobs, schemes or speculations
were alike to “Jock” Campbell, so long as the
siller looked handy to the surface. Yet he
was no mean grasper. He had a big heart,
and the arm with which he passed out money
was almost as long as the one with which,
lie dragged it in. He was at one time a
somewhat prominent figure in politics, and
wrote a book, and was knighted by little
Ueorge V.
Died in Sydney, a few days back, James
Baxter, a big contractor, known well in four
States. He made one fortune, years ago. in
Melbourne, and another lately in Sydney:
but the former pile was reputed to have all
been drowned at the bottom of the Adelaide
Outer Harbor, which he undertook, as con-
tractors do, to dredge for a lump sum. As
it happened, the mud was bigger than the
sum.
THE VANISHMENT OF THE KILT.
It is alleged that petticoated regiments are to be
abolished in Australia.
McTAVISH : “Tall off ma kilts! An ’ mail
mese? reedid lus? Dinna fash yerse?,
Muster Pearce. I will no! dae it! "
The S. M. Herald has had an interview
with a Colonel Graham, who brings baek
what the paper headlines “A Lesson from
Java.” ‘‘There are,” it is said, “30,000 vil-
lages in Java, which, though l-20th the size
of Australia, has a population of 32,000,000.”
That is the fact, buc the Herald forgot to
mention the lesson. Probably it was shy
about saying that, 110 years or so ago, the
Dutch rulers at Java, in order to prevent
the aggregation of private estates and the
growth of a horde of loafing landlords, shut
down absolutely on private property in land,
and that since then the population (mostly
rural) has grown ninefold —from about
3,500,000 to about 32,000,000.
Labor’s three in the next Senate election
in Victoria will be Russell, McKissock and
Barnes. Russell has already had six years
in the House, and McKissock used to sit for
Ballarat West in the State Assembly, so
Barnes is the only one with no sins to
answer for. The new man is one of the
products of the A.W.U. —successively a
shearer with a plain member’s ticket, then
a shed rep., afterwards an organiser, and
now secretary for Victoria and Riverina* with
headquarters at Ballarat. He was largely
responsible for the surprise that Deakin got
when, at last election, he found himself only
400 ahead of his almost-unknown opponent,
who was another Russell. This time Alta-
ble’s opponent iu Ballarat won’t be unknown
—it will probably be either McGrath, now
M.L.A. for Grenville, who stands solid with
the Ballarat mining crowd, or Hargreaves,
an eloquent Wesley College young man who
is the Labor party’s political organis-
ing. Whichever it is, Deakin will have to
do all he knows to keep that 400.
“J.R.”: The Sydney Telegraph wrote
lugubriously, the other day:—
It is probably the Caucus system which prevents
the development in the Labor party of men of the
first class in politics. A leader who has to be
elected and is frequently a compromise; a leader
who has to accept a policy, and is allowed none but
his own voice in formulating- it; a leader who man-
ages Parliament on instructions received before he
enters it, and does not guide his course by the con-
ditions as he finds them, is denied all right of initia-
tive, and all exercise of original power.
Has there ever been such a politician as this
writer desires? Certainly not in Aus-
tralia, and probably nowhere else unless yon
fall back on such an example as Francia of
Paraguay—the man who was called “The
Supreme” when he was alive because people
feared to mention his name, and was alluded
to as “The Defunct” when he was dead,
because people feared to speak of
his ghost. The two Pitts, father and
son, who were supposed to dominate British
politics in the 18th century, might be sup-
posed to fill the bill, but recent historical
research has put them out of the running.
William Pitt the younger is popularly be-
lieved to have crushed the French Revolu-
tion and the first Empire. The researches
of Dr. Rose, as disclosed in his three
recent books on the younger Pitt, dis-
prove these fallacies. When he came into
office at the end of the disastrous American
War he saw clearly that reform of Parlia-
ment was necessary, and that something must
be done for Ireland, but Geo. 111. and the
aristocracy, who regarded the old corrupt
House of Commons as necessary to maintain
their supremacy, would not have reform at
any price, and Pitt had to choose between
Ins policy and office. He chose office, like
any modern. He was fatuously ignorant of
the condition of the people he was supposed
to_ govern during the 23 years of his Pre-
miership. He carried on the war against
revolutionary France against his own better
judgment to please the King, without whose
support he could not have stayed in office,
and he carried it on by means of treaties of
subsidy—paying good British money for the
maintenance of continental armies. On one
occasion he just missed paying a million for
the equipment and maiutenace of a Prussian
army that was destined, not to fight the
Irench, but to occupy King George’s king-
dom of Hanover. That was the so-called
Heaven-born Minister” as he appeared in
real life. How many British Ministers since
i me h ave made a better showing? When
the_ fight between Disraeli and Gladstone was
at its height, two M’s.P., one of each party,
happened to be discussing their The
Tory said : “We are better off for a leader
than you. Ours is an unprincipled scoundrel;
but yours is a dangerous lunatic.”
COULDN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
“I was a long sufferer from severe colds on the
chest, in fact was never free from them urftil I tried
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,” says Edward P.
Craig, 467 Nicholson Street, North Carlton, Victoria.
“In my opinion there is no more valuaMe remedy
known, and I recommend it to everyone with colds-
or chest complaint.”*
THE UNKIND ARGUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
?l r .' said: “Those who accuse us of
robbing God have vessels consecrated to the sanctu-
the nw sideboards, and meat dedicated to
the altar stocks their larders.
The Westminster Gazette suggests that these
arguments might now be dropped.—1 Cablegram.
When troglodvtic warrior Wo
oof forth to meet the mastodon
Or argue with his fellow-trog,
He either dropped his hairy foe
Or had to drop the argument.
And if he prayed when he was spent
Before his dinner bit the snow:
“Please drop thy club, O fellow-trog;
Shed thy fierce tusks, O mastodon!”
His prayer went up—but where went Wo?
When kings from monkeries took toll
With impious and unsparing hand,
The holy shavelings cursed them well
By bell and candle, book and bowl—
To hottest flames of deepest hell,
By book and candle, howl and bell,
Consigned each sacrilegious soul;
And prayers and logic used as well;
But all the arguments the band
Of robbers could not quell they stole.
And so, to-day, as ’twas in Greece
And Britain in the days of gore,
’Tis judged in execrable taste
To sauce the ganders as the geese ;
To fail to let old evils rest,
And learn that what is now is best.
“Why this disturbance of the peace?
The Past, dear friends, should be effaced
All exhumations we deplore,
The argument should forthwith cease!”
TASMANIA.
JOHN DRAYMAN.


m
Hi-;'.
(■ «|SW>‘SIBP
t m.
i
r
.
m
113
ms
Wh
0-v
m
•f!om
i 1
IlilS
SHM
m.
m
||§g
1
a
s
w
®SB
r
■BW
Is
Sfl
i
cm
Ife
ill
X "c
IlSfel
mm
m
M.
"Wrote
I; x
\-i
W
a
•■Jk..:-'/*
\ m^vs,
s \
«■?
111
II
mm
:
I /
; 1!i
H
cm
?.fl
mm
Imrnm
HH
■
asm
i in
mmmm
; j-.,. 'g
m
1A
&;■
«#s
II
SIM
m >
88
If
HB
fi
MMi
■Si®
II
' V.
II
m
wm
mm
I
is
m\
mm
II SI
mmrn
m
reduced
565. 9d.!
n “AUSTRAL SUIT” is reduced during our Still-in-the-Builders’-Hands 10 per cent. Reduction Sale from £3 3s
to 565. 9d. The cloth Is not old stuff reduced in price to get rid of it, but latest styles fresh from the mills.
If we have not already received your measure, self-measurement form and pattern will be sent on application,
ALL ORDERS CARRIAGE PAID IN AUSTRALIA.
fg
486, 488 & 490 George Street
(being pulled down) :
and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUG A L PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.’
Information apply— 32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
"SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
"SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
D/ERCKS <8 CO. PROP. LTD., tg’&SlSj&JlZ*"™-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Electric Light Department of the
Sydney City Council:—
Sinking- Deficit
Fund Jess
Contri- Written Sinking
Dec., Loss. bution. Off. Fund.'
1304.. £1,921 £1767
1905.. | T 361 . 2045 £1404 B*7Bo
l Loan flotation expenses, £787 .. .. 9 567
Profit.
1906.. ■/„. B’34S 8 ’ 34S 3349 1400 2,319
(Net profit on Loan flotation, £357 .. 1,962
| Loan flotation and other expenses, £lOl 2 063
loo? | Goodwill Empire Co., £31,000 .. ..33,063
lyu '• • i Compensation for disturbance, £13,300 .. 19,763
I Profit. Sinking Fund. Written Off.
' f l 9. £l4OO 2,019
| Goodwill of purchases, £79,375 .. .. 81,394
1908. 4 Less Loan premiums, £lOOO .. " 80^394
"j Profit. Sinking Fund. Written Off.
, v £17,697 £4652 62697
1909.. 37,371 5211 25*396
Loan expenses, £627 25^953
mm ... Reserves.
1910.. 45,471 6999 _ 19 518
1911.. 61,441 6999 _ 80’,959
The profit for the past year is made up of £6O 544
"’I-eo? : ri ? vem ! e ovel ' working exes, and interest, and
,p h ‘ interest earned by sinking fund investments.
Ihe net revenue account as issued by the office shows
a tew pounds more than £60,544 ; but a small
amount spent on compensation, etc., has been de-
ducted from the published figures, and the figures in
the table are thus arrived at. The position as to
reserves may be shown like this:—
Book value of goodwill .. .. « S 7 mo
Loan flotation and other exes. .. ’’ " 3 000
Total paper assets .. poo mo
Levs —Sinking Fund £ 3fi ’
Depreciation Fund .. .. 74*557
Renewals Reserve .. .. 16 863
Capital Reserve .. .. 13*300
Loan Premiums ’531
P. and L. balance .. .. 29 710
171,152
Reserves (including depreciation and
renewals funds) £go
l! le t ' m / 1 ? rtak be^au without any goodwill items.
At that time there were four private concerns selling
electric current in different parts of Sydney, and,
after a while, arrangements were made to end the
unprofitable competition and buy them out. The
first deal, made with the Empire Co., served as a
basis for the lot. The council, having* no use for
the private cos. plant, didn’t buy it, but offered a
nxed pnce for the business. The customers were
s4erre<4 4o council, and all revenue in excess
of Id. per unit is paid to the cos. in extinction of
the capital debt. The Empire Co. has been paid
off; progress with the other three has been slower
chiefly because interest was payable to them on the
unpaid principal. The following shows the amounts
1^1907^— an ° US dat6S ' thC flrSt P urchase was made
„ . . , 1908. 1910. 1911.
Empire (purchase money).. £17,650
.Strand (ditto and interest).. 40,103 £32,248 £23 162
Imperial „ „ .. 17,074 17,422 14,329
Oxford-st. „ .. 10,086 7,286 5,202
The nearer the debts get to extinction less and less
or the payments will be called for to square the in-
terest bill, and more and more will thus be avail-
able to wipe out principal; so the tail of the debt
will go out much faster than the head and neck of
it did.
But though the table shows that, besides providing
enough to extinguish the goodwill, the undertaking
has accumulated reserves of £80,959, much of this
fund is of a very doubtful character. In fact, since
£91,420 is at the credit of depreciation and re-
newal funds, it is doubtful whether there are yet
any true reserves at all, since those funds are no
doubt merely a set-off against actual depreciation.
Even so, however, progress such as that shown in the
past four years will soon put the undertaking right,
provided no cuts are made at the revenue. The
capital expenditure as at December 31 last was
£941,504, so the past year’s profit was equal to
over p.c., after paying all interest charges,
taking the assets all round, probably 4 p.c. is
enough for depreciation, and this would allow 1 p.c.
for sinking fund on the debenture debt and nearly 2
p.c. for contingencies. That is a comfortable posi-
tion. But it is the first year in which the position
really has been comfortable.
The next table shows how rapidly the business has
grown :
Working Net
Revenue. Expenses. Revenue. Interest. Loss.
1904.. £4,061 £5,313 £2,436 £3,68S
1905.. 22,176 15,005 £7,171 7,874 703
Profit.
1906.. 40,983 21,567 19,416 10,931 8,485
1907.. 65,868 31,899 33,969 15,025 18,944
1908.. 93,600 56.785 36,815 19,380 17,435
1909.. 128,980 67,338 61,642 24,575 37,067
1910.. 166,047 88,497 77,550 27,763 49,787
1911.. 190,289 95,428 94,861 33,851 61,010
As the column devoted to interest suggests, the
rapid growth of revenue has been accompanied, or
rather preceded,_ by a rapid growth of capital debt.
This traces the incubus back for a few years past:—
Due on Due on Due to Other
Debentures. Overdraft. Companies. Creditors.
1907.. £350,000 £23,005 £23,051 £9,987
1908.. 475,000 Nil 85,487 17,632
1909.. 560,000 Nil 80,034 11,712
1910.. 750,000 Nil 57,530 22,033
1911.. 750,000 . 153,922 42,693 27,067
Though this big overdraft has been put into plant,
etc., just the same as if it were debenture capital,
-no contribution to the sinking fund has been made
in respect to it. So the undertaking can apparently
dodge the sinking fund by the simple process of
raising money by casual overdraft instead of by the
more business-like debenture. This is a matter that
wants seeing to. The capital ought to carry sinking
fund no matter what brand of IO U it is raised
upon.
* * * *
The New York Life Insurance Co. —
This was one of the three American concerns which
pursued the Australian at great expense a few years
ago, and begged him to take a policy about twice
as big as he could afford. It didn’t riot so extrava-
gantly as the Equitable, yet it got well over
£3,000,000 of Australian business, and it still has
about £2,250,000 in its books —very nearly half as
much as the plodding Widows’ Fund had when it
threw in its lot with the M.L. and Citizens’ after just
upon 40 years of toil. Unfortunately, the big
Yankee three didn’t confine their jamboree to Austra-
lia. In their competition to see more snakes than
all the rest of the Earth, they overdid things at last
m their own country; and then the Legislature took
a hand, and put the offices on an allowance. Among
other things they were restricted as to the volume
°* ,^. ew business they could write; and as new-business
getting in Australia was and promised always to be
expensive, owing to the good tendency of the Aus-
tralian to patronise the Australian office, the big
three almost deserted the southern field. A couple
of them still accept new business ; but thev probably
find it a hard row to hoe, and they are 'not likely
to find it any easier as endowment and other
policies fall in and small amounts are realised com-
pared with the extravagant estimates on which the
policies were mostly secured. Yet the policies
are honestly worth more now than they were
when the estimates were made; for greater
economy followed the clean-up, and in’ life
insurance economies mean bonuses. In the
days of boom and boast the expense rate was
usually somewhere around 25 p.c. of the income;
last year, on a total income of £23,152,124, the
expenses amounted to £2,508,823, or £lO 16s. 9d.
P j? C -i'T?o *?«*** . m °de r ate figure, seeing that
£1,522,726 of the income was from new premiums.
Charging renewal premiums with 7 p.c. and annuitv
purchase money with 3 p.c., and assuming that the
residue of the exes, went in securing new business, the
latter would cost 94 p.c. of the first year premiums,
rhere are Australian offices which are doing better
in this respect, but only two or three of them. The
prodigal has settled down to a steadv life at the
plough all right.
The position of these Yankee offices never was as
bad as it was made out to be for wire-pulling l pur-
poses. The agitation, of course, knocked business
endways for a time, and the income actually shrank
for a year or two ; but it is growing steadily again,
inis shows the New York Life’s movement in the last
five years:—
.1 097 £20,861,878 ■
* 998 21,008,853
1909 21,401,462
1910 22,099,262
1911 23,152,124
Under the American law securities have to be valued
every year, and the accounts consequently show on
one side increase in value of assets (if anv), and on
the other, decrease (if any). In the little list just
given the increases are not regarded as income. The
shrinkages and increments in the same period have
been as follows:
Shrinkages. Increments.
1907 .. £4,736,327
1908 •• 49,760 £40,360
1909 . . 892,413 1,412 746
1910 . . 247,613 90,513
1911 • • 178,277 159,670
Finally, this shows the year’s transactions, taking
account of this valuation of assets:—
* nc ° me £23,152,124
Outlay—
Claims .. ..£11,068,922
Expenses . . . . 2,508,823
Net shrinkage in value of
Assets 18,607
13,596,352
Added to Funds .. .. £9,555,772
The insurance fund now amounts to £116,494,258.
1", „ tlm bonus reserve amounts to
it year £1,902,621 went in bonuses,
ai *d u was equal to 11.4 p.c. of the premiums—-
which isn t anything to give three cheers about. The
best Australian offices pay three times as much. Be-
sides the insurance fund and the bonus reserve there
is a reserve of £3,216,290 to p .vide for contin-
gencies ; and that is a handy thing o have about an
office which has over £135,000,00 risked in all
sorts of securities, though mostly the/ are the best
gilt-edged, so far as one can tell at this distance
* * * .
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney)
Tteserve
(including
To Re- Insurance
_ Profit. Dividends, serves. Reserve).
May, 1907.. 10 p.c. =£3ooo £1576
Nov., 1907.. £3579 10 „ „ 3000 £579 2 155
May, 1908.. 3367 10 ~ „ 3000 367 2 522
Nov., 1908.. 3185 10 „ „ 3000 185 2>07
May, 1909.. 6389. 10 „ „ 3750 2639 5,346
Premiums on new shares 1875 7,221
Nov., 1909.. 5029 10 p.c. = 3750 1279 8,500
May, 1910.. 5377 10 „ „ 3795 1582 10,082
Premiums on new shares 3125 13,207
Nov., 1910.. 6605 10p.c.= 4614 1991 15 198
May, 1911.. 6306 10 „ „ 5000 1306 • 16 504
Nov., 1911.. 6522 10 ~ „ 5000 1522 18,026
Premiums on new shares 3125 21,151
May, 1912.. 6561 10 p.c. = 6054 507 21,658
This co., run by men who are full of push and pull,
is probably doing much better than the published
Profit and Loss account suggests. Take this com-
parison of the balance-sheet items for a guide:—
Liabilities.
N0v.,’06. May,’ll. Nov.,’ll. May,’l2.
Capital.. ..£60,000 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £125,000
Debts .. .. 9,597 9,547 41,378 18,569
Country mills 3,825 12,035 13,575 18,535
Pyrm o n t
wharves, mill,
etc 15,900 6,000 5,000 5,000
Vessels .. 18,050 25,066 28,502 33.402
Book debts, etc. 25,517 42,767 50,074 49,399
Cash, etc. .. 1,010 9,197 25,161 14,038
Stocks.. .. 9,502 23,686 28,593 33,906
In 1906 the wharf and mill property and plant at
Pyrmont were valued at £15,900. It is highly im-
probable that any of this property was sold; on the
contrary, additions have certainly been made. Yet
five years afterwards the item stood at £5OOO, so
it looks as though not only had all additions been
made out of profits, but that £10,900 had also been
written off, ostensibly against depreciation. In
the past half-year, according to the directors’ report,
“additional wharfage accommodation has been pro-
vided at Pyrmont, at a cost of £1600” ; yet the Pyr-
mont assets stand in the books at the same figure
as they did before this money was spent. In other
words, this outlay was provided for out of undisclosed
profit. It is impossible to follow other items in the
same way. They may or they may not have been
dealt with similarly, though the chances are that they
have been. In addition to the cash mentioned in the
last table above, there is the insurance and reserve
fund, which now amounts to £17,000, and is in-
vested outside the business altogether: £1250 is in
coastal-shipping cos.’ shares (and that is probably a
very good investment indirectly, even if otherwise it
is only second-class), and the balance is in City
Council debentures, or on deposit. Most cos. depend
largely on their reserves for the extension of their
business; but this one puts practically all its little
lot into gilt-edged securities. Hence a 10 p.c. paid
by this co. is worth a trifle more than 10 p.c. paid
by the ordinary trading co.
On the other hand, the co. isn’t all precaution and
no risk. In the first place, the Allen Taylor mills
aren’t sausage mills. Good times or bad, boom or
slump, the sausage mill -rinds on, for the people
must eat. But they neei. generally speaking,
build new railways or offices or houses. Of late this
country has been having the biggest boom in building
and construction on record, and Allen Taylor and Co.
have stood very well with the people who have had
the money to spend. Later on there is going to be a
calm after the storm, and if timber mills, tramways,
etc., are not actually thrown idle, thev are not
going to get the prices that have ruled lately. But
whether mills, timber tramways, etc., are used or
not, and whether they earn much or little, they will
go on depreciating; hence the wisdom of writing
assets down hard while profits are plentiful. By
adopting that policy the co. may be able to maintain
its dividend when the present riot is over; but unless
the past history of Australian concerns that supply
building materials is a liar, it couldn’t do it other-
wise.
The Haymabket Permanent Land,
Building and Investment Co. (Sydney):—
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £2344 3 p.c. =£2201 £143 £41,065
1901.. 2369 3„ „ 2271 98 41,163
1902.. 2922 3„ „ 2308 614 41,777
1903.. 2590 3,, „ 2477 113 41,890
1904.. 3044 3,, „ 2584 460 42,350
1905.. 3017 3,, „ 2595 422 42,772
1906.. 3349 34 „,, 3061 288 43,060
1907.. 3872 4„ „ 3534 £lO,OOO 33,398
1908.. 4856 4„ „ 3587 1,000 269 33,667
1909.. 4142 4„ ~ 3599 543 34,210
1910.. 7403 s£„ ~ 4958 2445 36,655
1911.. 7071 6„ „ 5417 17,836 20,473
May,
1912.. 4561 7„ ~ 3165 1396 21,869
The half-year’s profits were better than that, accord-
mg to the accounts; but tne co. had to pay land tax
for two years. It cheerfully confesses that it tried
to dodge the tax, on the plea that building societies
were exempted, but it discovered that “the exemp-
tion only applies to certain classes of building socie-
ties.” If it didn't it would be a scandal. Or,
rather, if the law called this a building society, that
would be a scandal. This is a co. whose job is to
make dividends for its shareholders by the process of
buying land wholesale and selling it retail. It isn’t
in any sense co-operative: it isn’t a mutual help
society, or even the beginnings of one. Besides city
and suburban land, it owns considerable country
property; in fact, country lands are no doubt by
far the biggest property asset. Some of these have
been cut up and sold; others are being cultivated by
the co. itself. Having so large a proportion of its
capital sunk in country lands, the co. has not been
able to go very far into the suburban subdivision
business and reap the rich harvest that has been
bagged by a few other concerns during the last four
or five years. When the boom started it was loaded
up with the wrong sort of goods; and, as those
goods had been very unprofitable for many years, the
shares were only marketable at a heavy discount,
and that probably stopped the co. from getting in
more capital. Even when the market said that the
shares weren't worth half their face value, the man-
agement took no steps to re-appraise the properties
and, if necessary, write off capital. Since then the
assets must have increased in value; but whether
they are worth 10s. or 15s. or 20s. in the £ now
this paper doesn’t know. The figures scarcely pro-
fessed to be serious for many years, and whether they
are to be taken as serious now the directors don’t
say.
This next list shows how the chief items have
moved: —
LIABILITIES.
Nov., May, Nov., May,
„ 1900. 1911. 1911. 1912.
Capital .. .. £75,176 £90,330 £90,428 £90,468
Deposits .. .. 50,699 52,430 55,596 61,160
Overdraft.. .. 3,097 11,416 15,009 11,049
Other debts .. 42,462 52,887 52,766 56,218
Assets.
Advances, etc. .. 42,0u3 82,608 96,126 110,918
City properties .. 57,803 36,359 34,359 35,059
Other properties.. 106,314 126,657 105,270 96,140
Cash .. .. 7,209 894 978 1,673
Thus in 1900 the co.’s properties stood at £164,117
and to-day they stand at £131,199. Meantime
advances—which include unpaid balances on property
sold—have moved on from £42,003 to £110,918.
This looks as though the co. has sold a good many
properties; but if it has sold the old ones it has
accumulated a lot of new ones, seeing that the total
now held is only £32,918 less than it was in 1900.
This big property holding is the weak point; when
a land-subdivision co. hangs on to so much in these
recent times of high prices it looks as though the
properties stand at too high a figure in the books, and
suggests that the co. is afraid to face the loss that a
sale would show. Current business may be quite
good and profitable; but much confidence can never
be placed in the figures until it is announced that
the assets have been revalued. And from the in-
vestors’ point of view that is all the more necessary
because the co. owes £128,427, which means that the
co. will have to pay £128,427, no matter how
much or how little may be left for shareholders.
* * # •
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Net Bonus to To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Consignors, serves, serves.
1902.. £1,528 6 p.c. = £lO4 £1,262 £162 £4lB
1903.. 2,957 6 „ „ 253 2,583 121 539
1904.. 2,778 6 „ „ 320 2,147 311 850
1905.. 4,958 6,, ~ 368 4,188 402 1252
1906.. 4,206 6 ~ ~ 432 4,126 900
1907.. 4,352 6 „ „ 479 3,873 900
1908.. 8,010 6,, „ 535 7,285 190 1090
1909.. 9,924 6,, „ 704 9,186 34 1124
1910.. 10,144 6 „ „ 865 10,403
1911.. 9,221 6 ~ „ 946 8,244 31 31
1912.. 12,667 6 „ ~1032 11,571 64 95
The reserves are wretchedly small for a concern
with a turnover of £1,349,403 for the past year
and a capital of only £17,206; but the society is
trying to improve the position by inviting the sup-
pliers to take some of their bonus in shares instead of
cash, and if they don’t do it, this paper trusts that
their boss cow Strawberry will dry off, and that Spot
will kick the milk-bucket over every morning for a
month. Apart from the fact that the co. offers as
safe a 6 p.c. as almost any trading concern in the
State, the supplier has this to remember —every £1
he leaves in the business is £1 added to the’ fund
which guarantees payment for the goods he supplies
to the co. He would in ordinary circumstances be
paid in any case; but it is obvious that there must
be risks of bad debts in a business with about
£125,000 worth of trade a month, most of this
trade being done with small shopkeepers who want
some credit. And if the suppliers don’t provide the
increasing capital necessary in an increasing busi-
ness, nobody else can do it without destroying the
co-operative _ character of the concern. The only
other plan is for the society to hang on to some
of the profits by reducing the bonus, and that would
be less to the advantage of the suppliers, inasmuch
as then they wouldn’t get any 6 p.c. dividend on the
money withheld. Apart from the disproportion of
capital and reserves to the turnover, the position is
good. The co. owes £97,709, practically all to con-
signors, and it has £44,367 in cash and £80,211
in other assets, apart from store plant and office
fittings. The bulk of this £80,211 is represented
by sundry debtors, and the total amounts to little
more than a fortnight’s turnover, for which reason
the outstanding debts, though they look large, are
really exceedingly moderate.
* * * *
W. E. Smith, Ltd., formed last year to
take over an old-established printing and stationery
business in Sydney, as from October, 1910:
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit-.
Oot., 1910.. - £19,068
Apr., 1911.. £3947 10 p.c. =£3408 18.529
Oct., 1911 .. 5354 10 „ „ 3408 £677 17,260
Apr., 1912.. 5122 4„ „ 1500 702 14,340
One or two entries in that table are subject to quali-
fication. As remarked above, the business was taken
over as from October, 1910. No accounts were, how-
ever, issued for the following six months; but in
June, 1911, a bonus or dividend at the rate of 10 p.c.
p.a. was paid, and £539 was also passed to the
credit of Profit and Loss. Assuming that the bonus
amounted to £3408, then the profit for the period
was £3947; but whether anything was written off
is not clear. The deficit with which proceedings
started was made up of goodwill £18,020, and pre-
liminary exes., £lO4B. In addition to these paper
assets, leaseholds stood in the books on October 31
at £4086. This latter amount is. of course, being
written off out of revenue. The capital is £75,000 in
£1 shares fully paid. This and the reserves as at
April 30 (before the half-year’s appropriations),
were represented by the following assets: —
Stock .. * £29,329
Plant and fittings .. .. 13,823
Sundry debtors . - ■ ■ 14,652
Cash, etc. (less liabilities).- 60 <
Goodwill and other payments 22,554
Total £80,965
There being no freehold or fixed property, the profits
should be large. A co. with any considerable propor-
tion of its capital invested in more or less gilt-edged
freehold might well be content with less. With most
of the capital in stock, plant and book debts, almost
everything depends on the stock-taking, and in this
matter one has to trust the management entirely.
amount written off “plant, machinery and type” is
10 p.c. p.a., and it is extremely doubtful whether it
is enough; still the directors say that, on a valua-
tion by experts, the plant was appraised at £3OOO
above book value. Six months ago the 10 p.c. div.
was here referred to as excessive, and, in view of the
struggle ahead, the dash into the excess wasn’t viewed
as promising. Apparently the directors have thought
better of it themselves, and they now pay at the rate
of only 4 p.c., making 7 p.c. for the year —in view
of “the advisability of building up reserves and fixing
a rate which can be readily maintained.” The 10
p.c. was an indiscretion, and smelt of share-booming ;
and the directors will have to do a bit more yet
to live it down. Meantime, one or two things may
as well be noted: (1) IV. E. Smith is no longer in
the business, in fact, he is dead. (2) The co. is
dependent on a landlord for its chief premises, and
the rent charge is equivalent to a first mortgage on
trading profits. (3) The co. is in keen competition
with houses which haven’t got a heavy loading of
goodwill capital to share the profits with. (4) The
co. proposes to borrow £15.000 on 6 p.c. debentures
for factory-building purposes, and that, though it
may increase the profits in good times, may be_ a
drag in poor ones. In any case, it means the creation
of another creditor entitled to a first bite at profits.
(5) Business has been booming in Sydney, largely
because of the riot of public borrowing, which must
end very soon. If the ordinary trading concern aver-
ages two-thirds of its recent profits, it will do very
well in normal times.
* * * *
Australian Marine Fibres, Ltd. —This
co. was formed early last year to acquire certain
leases in Spencer’s Gulf (S.A.), and to work them
for the marine fibre which is mixed with the sand
at the sea-bottom. The co. has a nominal capital
of £165,000, in 660,000 ss. shares, of which
U 40.000 were offered to the public and 310,000 were
issued in payment for the leases; but of the 240,000
only 122,144 were applied for, and another 110,000
are reserved. Of the paid capital of £97,691 no
less than £77,841 thus represents leases —-a very
heavy loading, seeing that the vendors of the leases
had not made a market for the product. The present
co. has bought a dredge, and the directors say that
it has begun its work all right. Now, as the
directors say, the thing is “to establish a market.”
They add that “this may take a little time,” though
they also affirm that “right throughout the year offers
of satisfactory prices have been coming to hand.”
Apparently the directors are not quite so sure about
immediate profits as they were when the prospectus
was issued; anyway, that document, to which their
names were attached, said: “Contracts can be made
at satisfactory prices as soon as the co. is ready to
give regular delivery.” If the co. can average the
estimated £lB 13s. 4d. per ton (2d. per lb.) for the
fibre, and if it can make the estimated profit of Jd.
per lb., and if three dredges can raise the estimated
20,000 tons a year, then it is plain enough that
the profit will be £140,000 a year. Also, if there
are the estimated 1,372,000 tons in the areas, the
profits will go on for 65 years, provided fresh licenses
can be got on the same terms at the end of the
current 21 years. But for the present (1) the co.
has only one dredge; (2) it has only £2873 of
cash left, though it has also £10,344 of uncalled
capital; (3) it apparently hasn’t sold so much as
lib. of fibre for 2d., and it merely, mentions “satis-
factory prices” in a vague way; and (4) costs have
yet to be determined. For the present, therefore,
profits are entirely in the clouds, though this paper
hopes that they will presently leave that uncertain
perch and settle in the shareholders’ pockets. Prob-
ably Australia wouldn’t get very much out of the
business for a while, but it would, at any rate, be
the start of a new industry, built up on one of this
country’s very numerous waste products.
* * * *
This is what happened with regard to
the much-discussed cash consideration paid by the
A.M.P. to Sir H. S. King, one of the society’s direc-
tors in London. For very many years—over a
quarter of a century—King had been the society’s
agent in Britain. When Chairman Meeks arrived in
London, three or four years ago, and announced that
he had come to open a branch A.M.P. office, King
said that, by English law and practice, he was en-
titkd to compensation. The society’s officers said
they didn’t think so, and King replied that if legal
arbitrators said he wasn’t, he would be quite satis-
fied. A settlement on those lines was at once agreed
to, with this provision—that the compensation, if
any, must be calculated as from the date of the
interview. That matter disposed of, King*, as the man
most conversant with the society’s business in Eng-
land, was presently asked to join the Board, and con-
sented. The arbitrators later on reported to the
society that King was entitled to compensation—or,
rather, to a lump sum in lieu of commission on
expected renewals—and the matter was then referred
to an actuary to discover the amount payable. The
negotiations were concluded before King was invited
to join the Board; and the fact that King had been
on the Board for about a couple of years before the
payment was actually made was due entirelv to the
slow progress oi the arbitrators and the actuary.
The A.M.P. soon found out also that, according to
English practice, other agents besides King had a
right to commissions on renewals, unless barred by
special arrangement. The society offered a fairlv
high commission for new business, but, following the
Australian practice, declined to pay anything on
renewals. The English insurance brokers’ reply was
a boycott of the A.M.P., which was only ended when
the society retreated, and fell in line with English
omces. That meant a somewhat reduced commis-
sion on new business, along with a pretty stiff re-
newal commission. The two together amount to con-
siderably more than the average cost in Australia —
another reason, of course, why Australian policy-
holders should be given the benefit of separate ac-
counts for the English business, so that thev mav
decide for themselves whether it is worth continuing
or not. If it costs more to get and keep the English
business, and if the English policy-holder doesn’t
live longer when he is captured (and it is prettv
certain that he doesn t), then obviously he can only
get the same bonuses as Australians at the expense
of Australians.
* * *■
Premier Denham opened his mouth to the
chamber of Commerce the other day on the ques-
tion of finance. “Some people,” he said, “were
professing anxiety as to how the maturing loans were
to be met. The best way was to increase popula-
tion, _ open up the country by railway development
and increase the exports and imports. The Govern-
ment had set itself an ambitious railway policv, and
nothing short of lack of supplies would curtail it.”
e , worc,s ’ Queensland has already spent
£45,000,000 of borrowed money professedly in
opening up the country, but it isn’t opened up
enough yet to provide interest and a sinking fund,
ana it must have more loans before it can pay anv-
thing off the old account. If a man bought 50
boxes of butter from Denham on tick so as to onen
up a trade in Cooktown, and then bought another
20 boxes on tick on the plea that the trade wasn't
opened up yet, and next cadged another 20 boxes on
the pretext that it would be all right when the
trade was opened up, and finally desired 20 boxes
more on the understanding that things would boom


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2 r 4 & 6 Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M.L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 9 S
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 31st March, 1912
..£9,023,826 810
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
Charges Low. Absolute Security. Expert Management.
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities
at from 4£ per cent.
Write or call for Booklet. A. J. MACKENZIE. Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION GAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 Willi&m St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney j
McCLEW & CO., Adelaide ; MALLOCH BROS., Perth
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
when the trade was really opened up, Denham
would probably say “Rats!” He might even say
“Snakes!” Incidentally the butterman remarked to
the Chamber of Commerce that unfortunately the
money market was tight and very sensitive. This
may presently suggest to the butterman that Cohen
is saying “Rats!” likewise. #
John Logan Campbell, the ‘father of
Auckland,” who died on Saturday, was the last sur-
vivor of the committee appointed at a small pre-
liminary meeting to draw up the prospectus of the
Bank of New Zealand. That was 51 years ago, and
even then John Logan was a citizen of credit and re-
nown. It was, by the way, the success of the young N.Z.
Insurance Co. that suggested the bank, and Campbell
and the other committee-men had the use of a corner
of the insurance co.’s premises in which to hammer
the prospectus together. ,
The Broken Hill market has taken the bit
between its teeth, and may bolt at any moment.
Compare a few prices at the close of this half-year
with those of 12 months ago:—
12 Months Ago. Now.
Broken Hill Prop. ..£2 16 .. £2 17 6
Block 10 210 .. 211 6
South (new) .. • • 5 6 *' huo
North 5 10 ••
Junction 03 0 •• 7 0
British (old) .. ..112 6 ..
Sulphide (ord.) .. ..106 • • 1
The B. H. Prop, has put on most of its extra weight
during the past month, the fattening being due*
(1) talk of the co.’s proposed non and steel works
and (2) an alleged new And at 1450 ft. It is early
times to mention profits from iron and (Re-
works, which haven’t yet been even decided upon
The co. owns, no doubt, a splendid lot of brains and
organising ability, but, giving everything in, it
would be 3 well onto seven years before new works
could be built and become profitable. As for the
alleged new find, it isn’t new. The co. had an ore
body at 1400 ft., and it was practically certain that
it would last another 50ft. The trouble is that the
body is right at the southern end of the mine and
the deeper they get the less length of the: shootthere
is in the B. H. Prop.’s ground, until finany—perhaps
at 1500 or 1600 ft.—it passes out altogether into
Block 10. There is, in fact, no new mine develop
ment anywhere that warrants bigger prices, and t
advance be wholly credited to the improved
mpf-al markets In other words, if the metal mar
kets fell back there would be nothing to sustain
the advance in share values. And, though menin
the metal business in Europe expect still bigger
prices, those metal markets are tncky and uncertai
things. Assuming, however, that they will keep
good for a while, then the British will get as litt
benefit from the temporary tall prices as any of t
big mines because it is not in a position to put out,
any “arge quantity of stuff. Most of its so-called
new lode is quite un-get-at-able at P res ™ t ; tf^
the Junction will benefit much is doubtful, t<oo.
Pivpn the present good markets one can rely
big dividends from the South, Sulphide, North,
B S II. Prop., and there should be a fairthingcoin-
ine from Block 10 and the British; but Block 14,
the Junction and the Junction uncer-
tain tail of the Barrier industry, and the man who
backs any of them to wave triumphantly is a gam
bier who gambles without a chance of anything muc
in the way of a prize—except, of course,, what he
may make out of the share market. There is no tell-
ing 7 what that insane institution may or may not
do. # *
The Ganbelego copper, four miles to the
south of Oanbelego (N.S.W.), now under the man-
agement of the Mount Boppv Co., has been un-
watered for a new trial. About *l°
been raised from the 200 ft. and 300 ft. Iwds, and the
nrosDects are good. A concentrating plant is under
consideration ; meantime the mine is being equipped
with suitable headgear.
*
The Diorite mine still manages to keep
out of a watery grave at Pambula (N-S.WO.and
during the half-year crushed 725 tons for 3220 z. ot
gold. S It, so far, appears to be the best of the group,
but it badly wants some decent °P en f l , ng '^ ) - ki J h ®
main shaft is being sunk another 50ft., making a
total of 310 ft. The average width of stopmg is * 4ft.,
the ore gradually merging into the hard felsite
country from which it cannot be distinguished by
the eye. The original idea of the syndicate was to
use the surplus from the Diorite to develop e
Faulkner —a iob now graciously allowed to the Great
Victory crowd. The Brass Knocker is evidently not
dead yet, as a recent crushing of 19i tons from a
winze 85ft. deep yielded 200 oz. of gold by amalga-
mation. The syndicate intends to put the shaft in
order and commence stopmg on the 80ft. ot ore it
claims to have developed. How much of this is pay-
able it would be interesting to know.
* * » *
Principal Westralian results for May:
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £ £ P er
Great Boulder .. 19,127 47,040 23,884 49/2
Ivanhoe .. 20,535 39,792 16,012 38/9
Italgurli .. -- 10,610 21,667 9,111 40/10
OroTO Links .. 11,130 13,673 3,575 24 7
Golden Horseshoe 27,162 35,285 3,054 26/-
Mde, Pers.ver- ss/1
S«S of Gvo.Ho •• 0,7*3 18,767 2,292 32/-
Lake View Sc Star 18,182 21,790 3,635 24/-
Great Fingall . • 5,922 10,700* 958 36/2
South Kalgurli . . 9!658 12,054 2,005 24 11
Associated Northern 1,643 t 6,30* 76/9
Associated.. ■■ 10,804 14,425 1,869 26/8
Oroya Black Range 4,800 8,816 3 505 36/9
Ynanmi . . 3,802 8,654 4,603 45/6
Fenian .’. 2,137 7,536 70/10
Sand Queen .. 970 2,963 1,251 61/1
Lake View Consols 9,0001 1,709 549 3/9
M da n ted ieS ’ COnS ? H ' 2,221 3,995 646 36/-
Mountain Queen . . 4,043 3,300 719 16/4
fnglistcn Extended' 1,217 2,386 88 39/3
SSSuS-T 11 5,11! IS m fa',?
Sandstone -- 690 1,133 200 24/9
Ida H -- 1-083 2,629 203 48/3
Morning Star .. 1,733 2,482 381 28/8
♦lncluding £3607 extracted from accumulated resi-
dues. tPartly tributors’ ore. tOld residues.
* * *
Golden Horseshoe’s reduced circumstances
were attributed at the annual meeting to causes com-
pletely outside the control of either the Board or the
officials at the mine. According to the chairman the
Door results have been mainly due to the continued
poorness of ore sent to the mill, coupled with exten-
sive slides, shortage of suitable miners, increased
cost of mining supplies, etc. All these setbacks may
have contributed towards the co.’s misfortunes; but
had it followed the example of its neighbor, the
Great Boulder, and been content with running on a
grade it could maintain, instead of shipping away
rich ore to the smelters, in order to make the mine
look more attractive on the market, it would be in
a much better position to-day. It is simply the old
story of the bad workman finding fault with his
tools. As usual, the directors gush over the future
and express astonishment in a veiled sort of way
that the shares are not a good deal higher; but on
the basis of 1911 results the divisible profit in sight,
with the debenture debt taken off, runs out at only
about 7s. or Ss. a share.
* * * *
As every little helps nowadays, Great
Boulder (W.A.) has arranged with the Government
Water Supply for a subsidiary service at a cut rate
for sluicing and re-treating, for the second or third
time, an accumulation of 300,000 to 400,000 tons of
old tailings. Recent work in the lower levels of the
Ijoulder has shown the shoots to be shorter and less
permanent than formerly. Also, graphite is becom-
ing more plentiful as depth increases, and where
there is more graphite in the mine there is less
gold ‘ *
Lake View and Oroya Exploration (W.A.)
has resolved to be up and doing. A Holman double-
head No. 1 stamp, with a capacity of 4000 tons a
month, has been ordered for the Queen of the Hills
at Meekatharra, and an amalgamation between the
Mountain Queen, in which it has a share, and the
Transvaal, which it owns, is being arranged. Why
the Mountain Queen wants to have anything to do
with the Transvaal is not clear. The Queen has a
big, low-grade ore body which is fairly amenable to
treatment by ordinary means, whereas the Transvaal,
which is many miles distant, is refractory enough for
anything. Two separate and entirely different methods
of treatment will be required, and what little the
Queen makes out of ore treatment for a while will
probably be swallowed up by the Transvaal. It
might be difficult to raise money to equip the Trans-
vaal just at present, and the Lake View and Explora-
tion folk probably think that, to increase the capital
of the Mountain Queen, and hitch the two together,
is as good a way out of their difficulty as any.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly is fluttering along at its
Kookynie (W.A.) property, and is confident of smit-
ing its detractors hip and thigh when the mill starts
When the plant does get going the management will
probably find that it has made a few miscalculations,
especially as to costs.
-*- * * *
In all probability, the Northern Mines at
Lawlers (W.A.) will never be worked again. When
known as the East Murchison United it produced
£600,000, and paid about one-tenth of that amount
in dividends. It then experienced what a local paper
terms “a period of unrealised expectations,” and sub-
sequently it reconstructed and under its present name
produced a lot of gold. Low recoveries and high
costs, however, drove it on the rocks, where it lies
in a critical position. „
Gold dividends amounting to £16,719 were
paid in the West during May, making the total for
the expired five months of this year £306,485.
* * * *
Last year, 59,373 tons of gold ore were
treated by the State batteries in the West for 56,265
fine oz. Working expenditure, including additions,
totalled £7490 in excess of revenue. The total value
of gold and tin recovered since the inception of the
system is £3,733,939, and the expenditure exceeds
this amount by £28,870. # #
For the first five months of this year
Charters Towers produced £168,830 from 61,411
tons. The most important producers were Brilliant
Extended, £27,974 from 15,930 tons; Mills United
£2l 940 from 8822 tons; New B. Freehold, £21,253
from’ 7685 tons. The best development during the
period has been at 2540 ft. in the Brilliant Deeps, a
crushing from the leading stope over this
level averaging £8 2s. 6d. from 168 ton®, with
gold contained in residues to come. No. 15 level in
Mills United is practically the same depth, but at the
moment the reef isn’t payable. Brilliant Extended,
a close neighbor, is sinking deeper, and at the bottom
of the shaft the two sections of the reef have con-
verged; but prospects are poor. Speculation m
Papuan Brilliant and Victoria has been active, be-
cause the Moonstone reef has improved at both ends
of No 2 level. These workings are shallow, and the
dip of the reef very flat. The Queen Cross has tim-
bered its prospecting shaft on the Moonstone line, and
should bottom on the reef in another 30ft. bo.
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, has put
through 168 tons for £1364. Still the share market
isn’t jubilant, for ore reserves don’t justify a market
value of £lOO,OOO. Certainly the New Brilliant
Freehold, after a struggle for 20 years with poverty,
gave its shareholders more than £lOO,OOO in divi-
dends ; but then the Freehold had three splendid levels
on the Day Dawn coming in from Mills United,
though not one of them was so good over a length
of 200 ft. as the Deeps No. 4 level at 2j4oft. Mills
United is now driving a level (No. 15) at 2540 ft.,
but its prospects are not bright, nor is ex^ e ?:
sion of No. 14 east into the New Brilliant Freehold
showing particularly good prospects. Still both the
Day Dawn and Brilliant reefs are very capricious, and
the man who buys when the stone looks white and
poor often scores’better than the punter who gets m
on top of a boom. # #
Th© Trafalgar lease, of 35 acres, at the
Springs, 50 miles west of Cloncurry (Queensland),
which was recently purchased by the Mount Elliott,
is a practically undeveloped property on a lode trace-
able on the surface for four miles. Two shallow
shafts have been sunk about 300 ft. apart; one shows
four to five feet of ore in the bottom, said to average
20 p.c. copper. From the other a parcel of 60 tons
—picked, of course —brought over £7OO. The ore is
said to carry 3dwt. gold and 6oz. silver per ton, but
these metal contents cannot be relied upon. Ihe
copper ore is mostly sulphide.
When is a mine “developed”? The ques-
tion has arisen over Mount Oxide. Last week’s Wild
Cat referred to the change of the Option Syndicate s
plans aid ascribed it to the undeveloped character
of the mine. “Undeveloped” is, of course, a relative
term A mine with a pot-hole or two might fairly
be called developed if £lOOO were asked for it
whereas it might reasonably be called undeveloped
if £lOO 000 were asked for it. In the Mount Oxide
case there has been 280 ft. of sinking, and some
driving, winzing and pot-holing, and 12,000 tons of
rich ore is showing, and 100,000 tons more may be
fairly assumed. The mine is developed so far; but
it isn’t developed to the degree necessary for plan-
ning reduction works. If it had been there would
have been no need for the co. which the Option Syn-
dicate is now forming in lieu of the one previously
nlanned. Gerard Williams, who has “done ’ most
of the Australian mining fields for the London Times,
has it is announced, been appointed general manager
of Oxide —whether on the strength of his press pull
or of his copper-mining experience has not been
mentioned. By the way, what is his copper-mining
experience ?
A Melbourne syndicate has been formed
to test the lodes in the Tartana leases by diamond
drill. The leases are on the road to O.li. about
15 miles from Mungana. Capital is £3OOO, in 300
shares of £lO each, which is considered sufficient to
pay expenses for 2000 ft. of boring. Area of leases is
about 100 acres. #
Mount Morgan pays a shilling dividend
in July, which will raise the total from this won-
derful mine to £8,033,000. For six months to May
31 the returns ran:—
Copper. Value,
Tons. Gold and Copper.
December . . 517
January .. 675 ®2,087
February .. 507
March .. .. 607 lo’Slf
April .. .. 644 88,723
May ~ .. 792 113,114
3742 £501,813
For the first four months copper was valued at £5O
and for the last two months at £6O. The average
selling price was much higher, but Mount Morgan
prefers to value copper at a moderate figure, m order
to give an approximate idea of the net return from
bullion shipped to the refinery in N.S.W. The treat-
ment of sulnhide ore from the open cut is about to
undergo a change. Crushing, roasting, leaching and
chlorination will be tried, for the ore is not so well
adapted to the simple chlorination process as it used
to be. The increased production of copper precipi-
tates suggests why.
Burketown, on the Gulf of Carpentaria, is
busy drawing attention to itself as “the natural port
for Mount Oxide.” The direct road measures 120
miles, or, if the talked-of railway goes round by
Gregory Downs, 140 miles. Surveyor Phillips’s re-
port was full of praise of the country near Gregory
Downs, and there is certainly copper in the vicinity.
Neither Burketown nor Normanton is a good port,
and their natural defects have frozen out previous
railway schemes; but the increasing importance of
Gulf minerals and the proved extent of the good
country on the Barkly Tableland have made a rail-
way to the Gulf a more attractive proposition than
ever it was before.
* * * *
An application by the local Mine Owners’
Association for a £20,000 Government subsidy to
trv to prolong the life of declining Gympie recalls
an earlier proposition by a Glasgow co. This Scotch
concern wanted a lease of 100 acres, in return for
which it was to sink a shaft 4000 ft. deep, and dabble
in the bowels of the earth. But Gympie was healthier
in those times, so it boiled over respecting the cor-
pulence of the lease, and it kept on boiling so long
that the co. got tired and withdrew the offer.
* * * *
No posing can now be done by the South
New Moon, Bendigo, as it has come down to about
the nimble-ninepenny dividend stage. The °°es
not crush tons, but sticks to the old-fashioned
These may mean a ton or a ton and a quarter, so far
as the outsider knows. Anyway, work is profitable,
and, as the co. was endowed with a modest share
register when it started life’s travail, £BOOO was
able to provide five Is. divs. during the past halt-
year. The Board has reached out a long arm and
raked in 400yds. of new ground on the Derby line,
and The Bulletin hopes the co. will be made to
work it or else be made to lose it again for some
brawnier toiler to tackle. Most of the quartz got of
late has been from the 440 ft., 580 ft and ,
and the two levels lying below. As W. H. Cundy re
marks, it takes a lot of work with a Bendigo battery
to eat up all the rock broken in a width of from
80ft to 90ft. Westralian practices applied to the
South Moon would eat up the reserves in a jw or
two. But Westralian speed would snuff out the Bee-
hive and all its brokers, and would clear out mine
managers and secretaries galore; and as these are
the factors in mining policy at Bendigo, the doT *ey
gait is retained despite the loss of interest involved
in letting gold remain unproductive undergound.
* * *
“High Street”: The Bulletin has kicked
now and then at the lack of “go” in the management
of the Moon group, Eaglehawk (Vic.). The half-
yearly meeting of the South Moon, just held, elected
one director (chairman) who is 80; the ex-chairman
is 83, and three others are 71, 64 and 62. Perhaps
that average of 72 explains things.
Out Beaufort (Vic.) way alluvial min-
ing is on the jig owing to the Hope lease having
got on to a shallow run of gold averaging 3oz. of
fold per fathom. This part of the. Cabbage Garden
has provided a good deal of the precious metal at odd
times, but there hasn’t been much ambition to poke
away into the wet ground. At, Corolulup, the Lod-
don Deep Leads is at a standstill owing to the fight
over the directorship in London, seemingly just at
the time when the co.’s chance of a lifetime was
near. Wash got, so far, has averaged about 17dwt.
per fathom, and divs. would come on that grade of
dirt to any hut over-capitalised concerns. Carters
is another Bull-owned deep-lead show about which
little is heard ; and it is said that some of the Black
Range identities are perforating the basalt with drill-
holes round Trawalla to locate deep ground. So the
long-deferred shake-up of the Avoca system and its
tributaries may be near at hand.* *
To date, New Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.),
has mined 78,855 tons, won 24,5000 z. gold, and paid
£1 to the shareholders for each ounce gotten. John
Till manager, has punched down to 910 ft. at the
main shaft, and has the No. 2 shaft down to 600 ft
Here he has an east crosscut out 670 ft., so that
development has not been spared to pay divs. lill
at present cuts up costs as follows: Mining and fall-
ing 7s Ofd. per ton; hauling, Is. 3id.; crushing,
Is Old.; total, 9s. 4 Id. On development work
2s Old. per ton also went. His trouble has been a
big fault at 800 ft., but he has picked up the shoot
of gold under the break and followed it along tor
120 ft. So he has an inducement to push down to
900ft’. to try his luck there. # *
The decease of W. McDonough, described
as the finder of Mount Lyell, has started William
Dixon, of Hawthorn (Vie.), breathing information
In disputing McDonough’s claim, Dixon alleges that
it was he who really discovered the mine, fired the
first shot, and dug out the first dirt being helped in
the iob by McDonough’s brother Mick. At that time
McDonough had sold his interest to Dixon, and Mick
subsequently did the same, the buyer in the latter
case being the late James Crotty. Crotty, Dixon an
one Karlson then became the owners of the hill, and
later on there were added F. O. Henry and Karlson s
two brothers, Henry holding five shares and the others
three each. Dixon’s grip on the mine is still sub-
stantial, and he is also an amasser of bricks and
mortar and a heaper-up of real estate in general.
* * * .
Sticht, of Mount Lyell, must thank his
stars for the improvement in the copper market. In
the past three months he hasn’t been able to run a
2 p.c. ore, and the missing 4 p.c. means a lot on an
output of nearly 25,000 tons a month, since 2 p.c.
stuff takes just as much mining and smelting as 2*
p c The market has, however, evened up things, tor
2n c at £75 per ton is worth just as much as 24
n.c.’at £6O. What Sticht must he hoping for now
is that the market will work for him for a couple of
vears- by that time his new power scheme and
other economies should be well on the way to com-
pletion. » * *
Mount Farrell, in the wilds of Tasmania,
is still handicapped by high costs. Its half-year
closed with a net profit of £2145 from 00-O tons of
ore which is less than 6s. 3d. per ton. The 692 b
tons raised produced 803 tons of concentrates, assay-
ing 53.90 z. silver and 58.7 p.c. lead, in addition to
which 357 tons were hand-picked fpr an average of
790 z silver and 65 p.c. lead. A total of 1160 tons
of high-grade ore and concentrateswere shipped-
The cost of production averaged £8 16s. 7d. per ton,
equal to £1 9s. 7d. per ton of jirude ore.
Tongkah Compound, with one dredge at
work on its Siam property, must be makmg £7OOO
a month at present—an astonishing yield, and there
will be times when it will make still more if tin
prices keep where they are, for there are very n
patches to be worked. Unfortunately the area is so
small that five years will see the end of the razzle.
The neighboring ground, which Pratten got under
offer for the co„ isn’t apparently very gaudy , there
is vague talk about an average of lib. Still there
would be good money even in that, for lib. of black
tin means about Is. 3d. at present prices and Sd. is
a top estimate of costs. There are 50,000 shares m
the co., and the new purchase would probably mean
another issue.
* * *
S G.: Co.’s position and prospects were
reviewed in B. 28/3/’l2 W.H.S.: Can’t give any
market tips. #
“P.X.”: The “Australian who has been
knocking a crust out of London” (B. 13/6/’l2)
says the A.M.P. remains “obscure and unobserved
in “an office in Cornhill that offers no means of
advt ” The office isn’t in Cornhill, and it does offer
means of advt. The first statement is a matter of
fact, while the other is one of opinion; but as the
Australian’s fact is wrong, his opinion is probably
not worth much. Anyhow, the premises in Thread-
needle-street were chosen, out of about a dozen sites
that were under offer, mainly because they gave the
society a chance to hit the eye of the half-million
or so of business people who pass daily.
• * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
* # * *
-+-GF+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. — Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
-|-GF+ Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s, per ton, will save £7 per year, ana
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
After considerable discussion on the advantages and
disadvantages of the mechanical stonebreaking as
against the handbreaking, the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) decided in favor of the mechanical
method, and, on comparing the various makes of
machine, decided that the one most suited to their
needs was the Bigelow Patent Stone Crusher. They
purchased a 16in. x 9 in. portable machine, and from
their engineer’s various reports on the matter they
are more than satisfied with it.
From June to September the Council crushed and
spread 3000 cub. yards of road metal at an average
cost of 2/6 per cub. yard; and the cost of spalls per
cub. yard averaged 2/4, making a total cost of 4/10
per cub. yard broken and spread. Their last con-
tract under the hand-breaking system amounted to
6/3 per cub. yard, stacked on the roadside, and
spreading 1/-; total 7/3, as against the 4/10 of the
mechanical system. Saving, 2/5 per cub. yard. These
figures speak for themselves to those interested in
the matter. , , , .
The Bigelow breakers, which are also largely used
by the mining companies of Australia, are manu-
factured by the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, who will be glad to answer en-
quiries.* „ * * 13
Extract from Financier, dated 2nd September,
1911, London: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not onlv in Australasia but in Great Bri-
tain and South Africa it has proved itself one of the
most progressive of the great Life Offices. *
* * * *
For large or small water carrying propositions
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has proved its efficiency. It
is the pipe chosen for the great water supply scheme
at Broken Hill. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain and Footscray, are the makers.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ,
and 9 Queen Street. Melbourne.* 12
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
# ' * *
The Bolinder Heavy-Duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves, cams,
gears or electric ignition, and run either on crude
or kerosene oils, are represented Aus-
tralia and New Zealand by Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For marine work
the ’“Bolinder” engine has many advantages, viz.,
small oil consumption, ease of starting, no compli-
cated arrangement of valves or gears, being direct
reversible, fitted throughout with forced lubrication,
and absolutely no risk from fire and explosions, due
to using oils having a very high flash point. The
British Government and German Navy are large
users of the “Bolinder” Marine Engines.*
* * * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins. Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
« * * *
Assayers. Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
* * * *
Patents.—Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (BY exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*


Under
Royal
Warrant
fg
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
SHAMPAGH*
Qlarieslleklsie*
Heims
World
BRAND
Shihr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins and glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
Renowned
STUHR
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1800, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 24, 1912.
My Dear Arini, —
Unreliable rumors concerning the strained
relations between Major Quilter, of the
G.-G.’s staff, and the Queen's Club are warily
stalking through this town. They are ail
armed to the teeth. The least reliable
legend hints that the great altitude of the
Footman-stealer’s head above sea-level brings
it within hatpin range of the club windows
in Macquarie-street. The Brute who, in
cold blood, stole the Only Jeames from the
fashionable Bridge dames’ menagerie is now
alleged to be contemplating a complete suit
of armor. The helmet may consist of a
heavy soup tureen (inverted) neatly glued
on to a meat safe.
The veteran William Lyne and his com-
paratively new wife have taken the Hol-
mans’ flat-roofed house at Bellevue Hill,
with all its contents, for six months. The
recently announced Dame Lyne had her
eldest step-daughter as guide and friendly
adviser in her search for a furnished nest.
“Si\” writes me from Tasmania: —
You’ll be glad to know that something more is
being done for that young Tasmanian girl of Green
Ponds who is placidly rearing an orphaned family.
Besides the contributions that have dropped in through
the par. on the subject, the local Council has now
been prompted to vote a sum, to be paid weekly till
the kiddies grow up and can punen for themselves.
The polo Whites, from Muswellbrook’s
sheepy walks, are in town for the Dudley
Cup episode at Kensington. They are
housed under the Denman roof-tree.
John Bull’s Ambassador to the U.S., James
Bryce, who has been turning an intense glance
on Maoriland democracy, is said to be a
homely official of the unfrilled species. An
acquaintance, who once rubbed elbows with
Mr. Bryce in a U.S. crush, says lie might
easily be mistaken for a plain citizen in the
evening tram-hunt business—-the business
that includes having your back hair chewed
by a hurried cab-liorse, while a raging motor
pushes your feet into the adjacent gutter.
Artist B. S. Minns writes from London to
a Sydney friend : “Saw the R.A. on varnish-
ing day. I have a watercolor hung. Coates
has a portrait on the line, and Streeton a
landscape (small). I missed Lambert and
Roberts. Fox has three, and Fullwood one.”
Mr. Bob Minter, who rented the Spencer
Bruntons’ luxurious nest, Elystan (up Wool-
lahra way), with its furniture, its green-
house, its motor, its velvet lawns and other
simple necessaries of life, is anchored there
till the owners return from their scamper
through foreign customs. The auburn-haired
Miss Minter, who is going to marry barrister
Norman Pilcher, won’t leave the parental
hearthstone for some moons.
The probate of the Dr. Piers Hatton will
the other day, reminds one that this de-
parted Lancet lived for a time at Rose Bay.
His prize dogs, his motors, and his wife's
frocks gave that mild water-bubble locality
a varied choice of tea-table s-ossip. He once
exhibited, with noisy results, his prize barks
at some annual conference of dogs in the
Old Exhibition Building. If that venerable
pile could speak it would open its walls to
detail the length and breadth of the howl
that occurred when the exhibitor and his
groom forcibly removed his canine dukes
after the judging. The authorities tried
vainly to obstruct the exit of the howl, and
great was the row thereof.
The owner of the mansion whose water
front looks right into Sydney’s Circular
Quay filled in this week end by dying. Every-
body who uses the ferries knew the house,
with the green lawns sloping down to the
water, but few knew Frederic Hamilton, the
owner. He was a North Queenslander, and
something big in the cattle business. In the
old gold-lined days of Charters Towers he
ruled the local steak market, and when the
historic Thady O’Kane lacked a subject
Hamilton supplied it. Though he was the
son of a. Presbyterian parson, the Northerner
didn’t take to religion kindly himself, and
was just about as “hard a case” as ever came
to pass hereabouts.
A parson with the festive name of Cake-
bread presided over the farewell social flurry at
Balmain to Dr. Sinclair Finlay and his large
and handsome lady, the other day. The
popular Finlays are going to trip back to
Britannia’s crowded isle to see if that damp
old lady’s rainfall is where they left it years
ago.
Camden Park, the large, square house that
stands in a mile or two of Macarthur-
Onslow land, up Camden way, has some
kind of hereditary right to feed and lodge
Governors and Bishops. The late dowager,
Mrs. Mac-Onslow, had, I fancy, one special
throne bedroom, which was never inhabited
by anything of lower rank than a bishop.
No poor relation ever snuggled under its
capacious eiderdown in those days. The
present Mrs. Mac-Onslow is such a kindlv
soul that this stern decree has probably been
bustled out of the family locker. in the
early part of this week, Lady Chelmsford lent
the light of her countenance to the auaust
home that lies under the Onslow shingle.
Mrs. Anthony Hordern’s new baby was
christened in the odor of Government House,
about the middle of June, and met the win ry
blast in St. Mark’s Church with a dimnled
protest. Lady Barttelot and Chamberlain
Nevill, the recently-returned Lebbeus Hor-
dern, Miss Gladys Bowker and the Society
buttles (Mother and Miss) assisted at the
naming of Baby Hordern. The pram, in
which this wealthy infant takes the air, is
said to exceed all local competition in its
aesthetic splendor.
As I write (Monday) muddy polo is rushing
across the wet Kensington course in pur-
suit of the Dudley Cup. which is just
ahead. A conspirator who hopes to tear the
'•ag of victory from the Denman team, says
that Scone has sent a mighty man—one like
Tubal Cain, who was a hefty person in the
days when this world was young—to help
the Sydney side against his flying Excel-
lency. This polo smiter is named Davies.
He battles in A team with the sporting
Garvan brothers and C. Withycombe. Mauve
shirt, yellow sleeves and white breeches are
the. conspicuous features in the armor of this
Knight of the White Ball. Says my tame
conspirator in a hoarse whisper: “The Den-
man game is won by combination. N.S.AV.
plays for keeps with individual effort. On a
bad polo ground such as Kensington (which
is more or less like a ploughed field at the
end of a tournament), science is a sorry nag
to spur to victory. Individual ball-clicking
and reckoning with the chances of the
moment, a deep hole, or a ferocious wart on
the face of the earth, must be the game for
the Dudley Cup. Personally, I expect to
see the claret-colored shirts of the Denman
team disfigured with the mud of defeat.”
Walcha contributed i s Ohio polo team to
the Kensington fray. When the four Nivi-
sons, of the Ohio sheep-walk, chase the
Dudley Cup, their gorgeous livery of purple
waistcoats and yellow and black fixings,
not to mention their extra special riding-
breeches, will turn some of their plainer
rivals pale with envy. Walcha wags (they
have a pretty wit at Walcha, and when
that town gives way to a burst of humor
all the planets guffa®. and Space holds its
sides, and Time bursts its waistcoat with
laugh er) make a libellous sort of pun or
jest on “Ohio,” but this affluent paper de-
clines to mention it lest it should be struck
for 2d. damages. The place with the “O”
at each end (suggestive of the lady in the
song who demanded tombstones at her head
and feet) was billed to meet the royal blue
lingerie of Muswellbrook to-day (Monday).
The Denman Exes., surrounded by the blue
silk-faced upholstery of their staff, crept
warily into the southern gallery at the first
Cisneros concert. “God Save” bleated plain-
tively like a lost sheep on the platform,
while necks were craned in a hurried search
of the usual vice-regal patch on the ground
floor. This is beautifully situated between
two Town Hall draughts, and is so close to
the music that nervous artists are transfixed
with the glare of the Government House
diamonds. The mid-southern perch gives a
more remote retreat to the vice-regal table,
with its perpetual bouquet. Cisneros, by the
way, had a small cartload of flowers laid at
the toes of her sft. 9in. of curved beauty
the other night. The scarce wattle, which is
only beginning to pop its golden head above
the wintry blast, made a handsome hedge-
like trophy.
The white hull of the naval training ship
Tingira hugs the placid waters of Rose Bay,
and flaps holiday bunting for Royal birth-
davs over the revised shell of the ancient
Sobraon. In south-westerly gales of the Tan-
gira grows a heavy crop of canvas awning,
presumably to prevent our juvenile navy
catching cold in its sea-legs.
Suet is the latest tonic for frayed nerves.
The society skeleton who prances round in
lean wisps of silk and velvet will object with
violence to suet as fat-making. But the
precocious child who is stuffed with jam-roll
till its nerves become comatose will roll
heavily along the road to a phlegmatic calm.
Suet-dumpling, says C. H. Heydemann,
Ph.D., is ballast for the excitable tempera-
ment. He recently told the “Diet in
Schools’ ” Conference (London) this pick-
me-up story: “Our baby’s dead,” said one
youngster to another. “It died of eatin’
ices on top o’ jam tarts.” The other infant
caught her breath, and gasped with envy:
“What a ’eavingly death !” This shows the
natural depravity of the juvenile stomach,
which hankers for gaudy poisons when it
ought to consume spotted duff.
The Boys’ Brigade ball committee is lying
in wait to spring its tickets on the dancing
man. He belongs to a hard-to-snare tribe of
mammal that threatens to become extinct
in even silver-gilt circles. So he has to be'
lured to a charity ball with a very delicate
bait. This year it’s a poster, plain and
fancy-dress hop, with a supper of solid worth
in the right place. Sydney Town Hall is the
place. The date is July 2.
For two years or more the foreign archi-
tects of women’s frocks have said three
things, mostly in italics with a French
accent. They are: “Crinolines,” “bolster
skirts” and “paniers.” These Caesars of frills
threatened the return of the steel dress cage
till the London press went black in the face
with enraged letters from “Paterfamilias,”
“The Man who Pays,” “Father of Dozens”
and other old inhabitants. Then the crino-
line collapsed, and the great Flouncers took
another reef in the already skimpy skirt-
measurement, out of pure spite, I suppose.
Between the balloon and bolster conspiracies
came the panier threat. It rumbles nearer.
Donkeys have never abandoned paniers. Man-
nequins recently giggled over them at Long-
champs for the benefit of the illustrated
papers. The genuine panier—the heavy cur-
tain of thick material dragged up into huge
puffs—is as dead as the crinoline or Charles
1., and needs a smaller funeral. The stage
will grip the defunct pretender, however, as
at seized the ankle-watch, and the actress-
hunting summer shark who flaps his fins in
five or six inches of surf. Sweet are the
uses of advertisement. The only French
models of the alleged paniers I have seen in
this town, merely added an inch or so to the
size of the hips. They were thin clouds of
gauze, that fell down dead like a slightly-
gathered tunic cut away in front. The 1912
panier of Pai’is and Vienna is as much like
the original as a pancake resembles a para-
"chute ascent.
The N.S.W. Bookstall Co. has brought
forth a bright and cheeky shilling’s worth of
“Theatrical Caricatures” by Harry Julius.
They are served up with sparkling letter-
press—of the footlight blend —by Claude
McKay, press agent on the J.C.W. staff. No
press agent who knows his business as well
as Mr. McKay does could resist such a bril-
liant opportunity as this book of “Theatrical
Caricatures” for hitting back at hostile criti-
cism. Naturally, any press comment which
did not laud the J.C.W. productions to the
starry vault of Heaven would be regarded
as a sign of profound ignorance. That the
daily press has sufficient spirit to resist the
advertising pressure of a great theatrical
combine, and occasionally open its mouth in
mtspokeu objection to a blighting frost in
the person of an expensive importation, is
greatly to its credit. However, this is an
infrequent casualty, and Dorothea Baird
got much the same kind of notices as Ethel
Irving. McKay’s letterpress is so clev-
erly put together, in spite of the pin-sticking
pars, that the sneered-at kingdom of news-
paperdom has been very generous in its ap-
plause.
Harry Julius usually gets his first night
theatrical caricatures sitting on about two
inches of d.c. step, peering amid the fat and
fleshy shoulders of habitual first nighters.
Very often he is merely an alert atom with
a pencil, bounded on one side by the horsey
repartee of a race-night theatre party, on the
other side by the ospreys and bare shoulders
of the Least Dressed. When or how he sees
the stage is his funeral —not mine
Brass bands and other implements intended
for the welcome of Eva Mylott are now
rushing through their final rehearsals. The
Australian contralto will enter this city by
its blue and wet fi-ont gate on July 6, per
the Makura—assuming that all goes well
with her and the vessel.
Ida Scott, a young Californian soprano,
gave a song recital in the Y.M.C.A. Hall last
week. She’s a fine upstanding American
woman, apparently clothed in Paris. If
not, the foam of white lace with a flick of
apricot velvet under a saucy corsage of
filmy drapery is a handsome French
understudy. She wore this creation at her
song-burst. Miss Scott has been trained to
a hair, but her style of singing is cold and
artificial. A dull manner and a chilling
smile made the tender words of her opening
number —“Still wie die Nacht” —sit like a
hard frost on the emotions of the musical
crank. Ida’s voice is mostly pure and full
in tone, and much practice has made it flex-
ible. That enthusiastic Boston friend and
forerunner, Miss Maude Millard, was well
to the fore in the audience. Fiddler W. ,T.
Coad and the bright girl pianist, Mirrie
Solomon, supported the Californian voice.
Hungarian Thuness Kovarick and his
fiddles two made their first public appear-
ance here on Friday evening. The stamp-
ing soles of the galleryites kept their cold
feet a few degrees above zero —the Y.M.C.A.
Hall being as warm as a freezing chamber
with its icebergs in full blast. Kovarick is
not a Kubelik. His next offence is his youth.
Putting aside this crime, he is a delightful per-
former who gets a good deal of the Kubelik
singing tone into the music of his fiddle.
Extensive applause and a vigorous booting
of the floor brought Thuness of the fair
locks, back to the bleak platform, when he
ought to have been thawing his finger-tips
near an emei'gency stove. The youth carries a
second fiddle as excess luggage. He picked this
up for the Beethoven “Minuet,” a charming
performance. Musin’s familiar “Mazurka
de Concert” flowed from the Kovarick fiddle
with brilliant fireworks. It incited the gal-
lery to wriggle on its chairs, and agitated
the great gold dragons on the back of an
Exclusive Jap concert coat (worn by a
front-seat lady), till they squirmed to
mazurka time. Little Mrs. d’Aleria, an
accomplished pianist, who recently dropped
off the edge of Europe into this city, and
soprano Leah Myers added their little bit
to the Kovarick first-night.
John A. Singer (U.S.), who is managing
the world tour of youthful fiddler Kovarick,
suddenly unloaded a packet of Asiatic travel
reminiscences at a recent suburban tea-
snack. Item, one of the first flags of the
Chinese revolution. This was hoisted in
Shanghai, and is quite hideous enough in its
stripes of red, black, blue, white, etc., to
cause a revolution. It beats the intoxicated
cockroach on the Chinese imperial banner,
and even the old rattlesnake flag of South
Carolina. Item : Potted Chinese pigtail, neatly
braided with red ribbon, and packed (germ
proof) in a small tin covered with the hea-
then language of Ah Sin. Item: One Chi-
nese fiddle. This brought ’cellist Liebling to
his feet, in a wild attack on its wooden
music. A Chinese fiddle looks as if it were
sliced in a thin round stick off a deal butter
box. It has two or three lumpy bridges, and
exudes the se*~'' class of squeak as a day-old
kitten, when the boy from next door nulls its
tail. Other incidents included a Javanese
dagger, with a curly blade.
The French-Canadian tenor, Paul Dufault,
is the star of the Cisneros concert season.
On Saturday night his first effort, the fam-
ous aria from “Joseph in Egypt” (Mehul),
displayed a tenor almost faultless in its
purity, and perfect in the method of its pro-
duction from the silver-lined voice-box that
lurks behind the Dufault collar. The steady
twinkle of the Canadian constellation
blazed into the light of a first-class planet in
the thrilling music of the “Invictus.” “I
am the Captain of my Soul,” the final line,
captured the sensational success of the
night’s song-burst.
•‘lnvictus,” “Morning” and “Boat Song”
were grouped together. They are set to music
by three New York friends of tenor Paul, i.e.,
Bruno Huhn, Oley Speaks and Harriet Ware.
The latter, who is responsible for the softly-
flowing music of the “Boat Song,” is one of
N’York’s well-known writers of melodious
verse and song. The words of “Invictus”
are almost household in English-speaking
countries, but the name of the writer is apt
to dodge the memory because Henley’s out-
pouring, “I am the Master of my Fate,”
sounds so like the spirit of Emily Bronte
stamping across a Yorkshire moor, carrying
the banner of revolution and protesting for
all she was worth against the Society of
Tame Curates. So Henley and Emily Bronte
have a tendency to become mixed. Anyhow,
when Bruno Iluhn snared the stormy words,
he set them to wild and whirling music, and
passed the result on to friend Paul, with a
meek request that he’d kindly “try it on the
dog.” “Invictus” leapt into public favor in
U.S., and is one of Dufault’s notable tri-
umphs.
Eleonora de Cisneros is a magnificent,
warm-blooded creature, who ought to _ be
preserved for ever in her present physical
perfection of wind and limb. Just here the
longevity germ might be tested. It is
absurd waste for such a woman to grow old
when there are so many people who might
be buried and not missed. As a popular
idol, she appealed to the eye on Saturday
night in a heavenly creation (Paquin’s, I
fancy, seeing that that firm is dress-builder
to the angels) of blush pink. It was_ a
faint blush, heavily embroidered in silk
flowers. Across one majestic shoulder a
cunning dark velvet band outlined the white
flesh.
On the artistic side, Cisneros is not at her
best on the concert platform. Mentally, she
is feeling for the swish of her Delilah drap-
ery, the uproar of the Philistines, the thun-
der of the stage storm, and the support of
the orchestra. Mostly it’s the orchestra she
lacks. If this want could be supplied by
the Portus and Talbot combination, Cisneros
would blaze like an electric arc in French
and Italian extract of opera. German music
she ought to carve out of her concert season.
Perhaps this office might find an understudy
to George Washington’s aye, if Cisneros
would use it with violence on the “Ich grolle
nicht” group.
Cosmopolitan ’cellist Liebling, whose
father is the well-known German pianist
Eiebling, and whose mother is an accom-
plished Russian, is another brilliant alien on
these shores. Liebling played the ’cello in
public at the precocious age of 12. Since
then he has used no other. His Strad. has
the deep, sonorous bass, mellow with age and
good living, of a church organ. Its lighter
fantasies are like a breath of wind flirting
with its valuable strings.
Margaret Cooper and her husband,
Humblecrofts, were harbor-launched, and
afterwards lunched at the 'Grand Pacific
(Manly), by Chamberlain Nevill one
day last week. The lengthy A.D.C.
Don Bartellot, of the Northern Ter-
ritory ride, and his elegant lady, and Mrs.
B. R. Wise were included in the party after
a stormy passage across the Heads.
One “Mallarapoonie,” well known to read-
ers of this paper, writes re the woman-doctor
in Central Queensland: “I often wondered
whether the lady medico was mostly profes-
sional person or just plain woman. The
other day I put her to the test. An infuri-
ated horse had left a beautiful blue imprint
of his hoof on one of my legs, also a deep
gash in the same place. Thirty miles away
there was a feminine medico, so we saddled
up the handiest petrol cart we could find,
and honked awav to find the Lady Cure. It
was the woman, not the medical person, who
asked me, straight off, if I could bear much
pam. I said I wasn’t Sure; she’d better
try me. With a pretty nurse at her elbow,
she started business. Her touch was deft
and strong but fairly heavy fox' a woman,
and she was quite a little Woman, too. Her
work was splendid, blit I own she turned me
up. Have diagnosed the weak place in hav-
mg a lady doctor—a man can’t say the
tilings lied hurl at the male medico who
fished gravel and loose threads of trouser out
ot an open wound. He’s got to suffer in
silence. It s the silence that hurts most, I
reckon.
At the bleak tail of another Royal birth-
day, I subscribe myself,
VANDORIAN.
“Fore Peak,” from the scupper:—
Most, if not all, of the Australian railways harry
the British ’warsman at half-rates. Often the same
railways also ferry the visiting foreign ’warsman
free over the face of the globe. But the plain
common, no-account bluejacket of the Australian
navy pays full fare every time. Now, he doesn’t
ob.ect to his Bull comrade getting a concession, but
he reckons that, as he will probably be the first
person called for when the time comes to defend
the lines he might at least get an occasional cheap
" de «°A then ?\ Sthl, knowing the boundless love of
the States which own the railways .for the Common-
wealth which owns the navy, Australian Jack is
rather timid about mentioning the subject too loudly,-
lest the local politicians might all break their necks'
in their hurry to hand out the concession.
A record of the strikes of the United King-
dom has been published. It shows their dur-
ation and how they ended- — i.e., how much
was added to or taken off the total yearly
wages paid in the trades involved. The last
11 years show seven years’ of decrease and
™ i y i ncrease - The decreases were
±18,144,412, and the increases £15,088,310.
Loss to the-employees on the 11 years—a*
trifle over ±3,000,000 per annum. Truly,
Bull’s is a Cheap Labor Freetrade land. If
the record is carried back to 1898-9-1900,
things can be made to look better for the
employees, but these days are a long way off.
It is the wage slump which began in 1901
that is the present cause of trouble.


“Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Is a champion
With the cue
When a big break
He is making,
HIS slim hand is
Never shaking.
But his cue —
Of which he’s fond —
Seems a long
Magician’s wand.
X
As the red flies
Like a rocket
Straight into the
Waiting pocket.
Someone murmurs
In the hall.
“ ‘ COBRA ’ scores
Above them all 1 "


CONFERRING WARMTH
on the Coldest Nights.
CSL comfort
FARMER'S Cosy PYJAMAS.
The problem, “how to keep warm these
cold nights,” is solved by wearing a pair of
Farmer’s Crimean Flannel Pyjamas. Cri-
mean Flannel is one of the best warmth-
giving materials known; it is extremely ser-
viceable, will not irritate the skin, and makes
the best and most comfortable pyjamas.
Farmer’s Crimean Pyjamas are smartiy cut,
well made, with Bradford collars, and will
give entire satisfaction.
Prices 14/6,16/6, 21/- to 32/6 Pair.
'hM
Men’s Mercery Section, Pitt Street Entrance.
FARMER’S SYDNEY.
'sS& r wrWf"/*Z&i
m
-T
■U
Dunlop i
Rubber
Heels
for
Comfort
and Wear.
(Walk on Soft Rubber
It's far more comfortable, besides
being cheaper, than on hard
leather heels that rack and jar
the nerves. To get the BEST
RESULTS specify “DUNLOP’
brand. TRY THEM!
boot shops.
ALL BOOT SHOPS /
RUBBER HEELS
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All State*
and N.Z.
9
fti'
m.
Thousands
of Golfers
will now use
nothing but
the “Dunlop”
—experience
having proved
that they
play better
and last :::
longer than
any other
Ball.
It pays to
use them
besides :::
improving
your play.
2'6ea
ALL SPORTS
DEPOTS.
fiolfi
Balls
THE DUNLOP ffa
RUBBER CO. R
All States and N.Z. v
fg
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 24, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Australian Parliament commenced
again last week with the usual overture by
postillions, powdered Jeames, carriage horses
and cocked hats. A rainbow of purple,
scarlet and gold surrounded the little G.-G.
when he dashed up to the grey steps. His
Ex. looked small, very much overlaced, and
rather cross-tempered. He had travelled all
the way from Sydney to take part in the
splendid harlequinade, and he may have been
afflicted with doubts as to the wisdom of the
proceeding. Two outsizes in Helps attended
him. Barttelot was one of them, and his
great, fat busby had a warm look alongside
the sharp cocked hat topped with feathers
that struggled to fly away on the wings of
the icy wind. The show was billed for two
o’clock, but did not commence to time —pos-
sibly because the chief actor had left his lady
in Sydney. In these cases it is the wife,
presumably, who worries the Ex. into punc-
tuality. An opening of Parliament is the
sort of function to which a woman would
naturally hurry. Military dignitaries faced
the wind and the gaze of the populace from
the top of the steps, while, in the Senate
Room, women crowded together and ruffled
one another’s dresses and tempers with their
struggles to get a better view. They waited
a long time before they got anything better
to look at than the back hair of the more
fortunate cat in front.
The Fuller lady swept in regally (with-
out her John) in a cloak of pink and mole-
color shot silk. A big, black Gainsborough
hat perched on her fair hair finished a good
costume picture. Alfred Deakin was in at-
tendance. (Mrs. Deakin is regrettably out
of the social searchlight for a time, owing to
the death of her mother.) Mrs. Andrew
Fisher collected a number of friends in an
inpromptu fashion, and drove them upstairs
for tea in one of the beautiful rooms that are
lost amongst the corridors. Some new scarlet
carpet showed the way up the marble stairs.
Eater ofl, some of the members left the cor-
roboree and wandered in with thirsty looks.
Mrs. Pearce, with pink plumes in her hat,
and Mrs. Thomas helped hostess the informal
proceedings. Maoriland Fowlds’ two daugh-
ters, who travelled to the almost-forgotten
Coronation with the Fisher couple, brought
their fresh complexions to the party. Mr.
and Mrs. Manson also helped to represent
the Great Loan Land. Senator Long, of
Tasmania, appeared to be getting a bad
time on account of some unappreciated mut-
ton-birds he had sent to a Ministerial home.
It transpires that there is so much oil in Tas-
manian mutton-birds that it is proposed to
drive steamships with them instead of coal.
Also, it is alleged that they are good for the
hair. This would seem to put them out of
the kitchen as table birds; but the hardy
Tasmanians have developed an Esquimaux
taste for the greasy creatures. An English
visitor, Mr. Esson, wandered round seeing
how Australians open a Parliament. Mrs.
Agar Wynne abducted a large motor load of
women, and oiled them off to a tea-party at
Mrs. Molesworth’s suburban home.
By way of retaliation for the dance the
Mayoral Hughes couple gave, St. Kilda is
arranging a return ditto for Wednesday,
July 17.
The Gallery students have fixed their car-
nival for July 4, and are arranging an
Egyptian set. An enthusiast is going round
plaintively reminding and warning the sweet
paint girls that silk was not known to
Pharaoh’s people; whereat the girls wail,
for, since the “Kismet” boom faded away,
silk has been going very cheap on the bar-
gain counters and Asiatic satins are hated
by every draper.
The Victorian Artists’ Society intends to
fnake a considerable splash later oh. For
that dance, the interior of the Town Hall
is to be arranged as a Norman castle, and
the. dancers will, of course, dress for the
period. I am acquainted with a lady help,
or Marion Annette, who alleges that her
people went to England with the Conqueror.
Don’t know if that gives her a claim for a
ticket, but someone might ask her if she has
a plan of the family tree about her. Per-
haps family trees might be accepted in lieu
of tickets at the door.
Statistician Knibbs held the interest of the
Repertory Theatre Club, at the last meeting,
with his address on Goethe’s conception of
Mephistopheles. The man of figures showed
a depth of imagination surprising in one
whose everyday work consists of piling up
and arranging concrete facts. The address,
so I gather, was compiled from a lifelong
study of the gentleman who reduced the
Devil to figures of speech, and reported vol-
uminously on the percentage of brimstone
and sin contained in him. Archibald Strong
introduced and bowed out the lecturer, and
led the subsequent discussion. Artist McCub-
bin sat thoughtfully through the proceedings,
but shook his head violently when Mr.
Knibbs,. who was all right in Greek, quoted
Burns in the original Scotch.
Mrs. Mayoress Wilks has been wrestling
with the problem of her Malvern dance
decorations. The councillors emitted cries of
anguish every time the word “drapes” was
mentioned, for the new and deliciously
cream-colored walls looked too beautiful to
be attacked by people with hammers. The
hostess, however, had an inspiration, and
the place is to be decorated with pink, white
and red native heath. There is plenty of it
about now, and, if the decorators do their
work capably, the premises will be good to
look at.
Lady Fuller, who is Presidente d’Honneur
of the Alliance Frangaise of Victoria, made
her first appearance last week at the occa-
sional soirees that society indulges in. Ill-
health and other detaining circumstances
have always foiled the vice-regal intentions
hitherto; but her Ex. made up for lost oppor-
tunities by motoring along to the carefully-
concealed Independent Hall two nights in
succession. On Wednesday, a concert drew
the Best People in gratifying quantities;
but the vice-regals left early. Fogged tram-
ltes caught a glimpse of the radiant blue
and gold lady and black-haired Auntie
Phipps—both laughing consumedly—and an
attendant Help carefully screwing an eye-
glass into his face with grimaces that looked
like laughter suppressed. Then the fog swal-
lowed up the motor, its occupants and the
.loke at one gulp, and the tramites were left
guessing.
By way of a change, on Thursday night,
a short French comedy, entitled Tin Fr6re,”
kept the invited English wondering where
the Point of the jokes lay. The beauteous
Ken 6 Vanderkelen came in as usual for the
heros limelight, and Alix Lamande and
Marie Boisgard were charming girls in fhe
cast. Some dainty French songs preceded
the playlet, and there were violin soli and
cups of coffee at suitable intervals.
The Fifth Australian Regiment dance
made a large splash of crimson in the dense
grey fog of last Friday night. High-tonedi
military dancers always engage the Prahran
lown Hall for their revels, and are invari-
ably pleased with it and its floor. But Fri-
day is Prahran’s late shopping night, and
there were some lively struggles on the pave-
ment between motor loads of delicately-
trocked women and swarms of curious shop-
pers armed with hatpins and knobby parcels,
lhe ambling trams were encumbered with
Hocks of expensively-clad aliens, who tucked
their pale-tinted evening shoes under their
dresses and sniffed fiercely when the battered
vegetable basket or the homing parcel of
sausages was pushed too close to their fin-
ery. At nine o’clock, people heavily uni-
formed and gold-laced danced a more or less
stately measure. Major-General Kirkpatrick
one of tbe Courtney colonel’s wives.
(Ihis statement should be carefully read •
there are two Colonels Courtney, and each
on £r Wife A No bi S a my is implied.) The
other Mrs. Courtney paced by the side of
Major Tivey. General Gordon and Colonel
Stanley towered like draped goal posts in
the set. Monash, another military man of
large calibre, brought his wife and daughter.
H was the daughter’s first big dance, and,
although she was not with the debutantes,
she wore the usual white frock. The buds
were a charming half-dozen gathered from
all parts. Some of them hailed from the coun-
try. 1 heir partners were military youths of
the regiment, and their red coats con-
trasted brilliantly with the white frocks. The
hilth made a merry night of it, for it was
the last regimental dance under the old
order. The new military regulations will
break up most of the regiments as they now
stand, and give most of the red coats to the
old-clothes man.
Lieutenant Henry, who secretaried the
show, pervaded the floor in brave attire and
a lull armory of smiles. Captain Maudsley,
not long a benedict, looked very proud of
M S iu young And Hennessey (of the
Melbourne City Council), who walks nowa-
days among whispers of future Gaud May-
oral honors, brought his lady in an ermine-
trimmed gown. Naval Commandant Tickell
was absent owing to the serious illness of his
helpmate, but sailor’s uniforms were dotted
about the room. A few kilts swirled pathe-
tically amid the trousered uniforms. The
little skirts, like the red coats, are doomed
by the decree of Defence Minister Pearce,
whose heart has never been touched bv the
catlike yell of the bagpipes.
A Governesses’ Club is about to material-
ise after months of patient work. It is
planting its tea cup, its bookcase and its
easy chair in the Centre Way—that brand
new block that makes an arcade between
Collins and Hinders streets. Miss Strick-
land, who has mothered governesses for
years, and helped them along their difficult
paths, is to be manager of the new institu-
tion. Miss Strickland says that the Centre
i a: L reall y her way, the rooms being
glorified reconstructions of her own apart-
ments in the same tram-sprinting avenue,
lhe short cut in older days led through
dark passages, around an overwhelming
smell of hair oil from a secluded barber’s
shop, and past heavy lorries, draught horses
and packing-cases full of softgoods for the
surrounding warehouses. The Club is
a comfortable place where the work-
ing guide of youth can spend a leisure
hour when in town, and where the workless
sister will find tea and information as to
possible jobs ; The subscription has been
fixed at a guinea a year, and the place is to
be opened early next month.
Laurence Messy, a Frenchman with a
flowing beard, who kept Melbourne girleens
fluttering awhile, has wedded the pretty
daughter of Jack Arthur, the well-known
grazier of the Geelong district.
Pearl Pardy, the little Melbourne girl who
married widower Baldock, is back in this
city from India, and Collins-street sees her
regularly at four o’clock tea. Baldock, who
has something resembling a monopoly of the
Indian horse trade, is a big, bluff, handsome
man and a fine sport. Before her marriage,
Pearl had a severe attack of stageitis or
boardenza in the early Australian days of
“The Arcadians.” She is a niece of Mrs.
Earle, who was the widow of Hugh Murray,
the wool man.
Widower Dr. Kenny is going to marry
again. Olga Woinarski, the clever violinist,
shares the numerous congratulations.
Commandant Lee and his lady had a tast£
of Melbourne military hospitality on their
way from Tasmania to Brisbane. A num-
ber of big guns and their wives uncorked lots
of champagne at a complimentary dinner.
A ext day, the hospitable people trooped down
to the station and waved handkerchiefs at
the departing Sydney express.
Edward Dyson has written a play for
which the Repertory Theatre management
require a particularly impetuous stage-lover.
Gregan McMahon says it is easy enough to
get girls to make love on the stage, but that
men stage-lovers are an entirely different
proposition. They are scarce at any time,
and when found are fearfully self-conscious
creatures even in the quiet love scenes
which demand no raptures. But the lover in
the Dyson play has to dash on to the stage
without any preliminaries and start to make
violent love to the girl before the audience
has recovered its breath. One or two in-
trepid amateur mummers have essayed a
rehearsal. They tremble in the wings, get
cold feet, hesitate, and—dramatically speak-
} ng are lost. Then the placard has been
hung out again: “Wanted a Stage-Lover.
Must be Tempestuous and Headlong. No
Sluggards need apply.”
, r?S h6m 1 e .” drew a heavily-gilt and top-
hatted audience to Her Majesty’s on Thurs-
day night. The station people have been
drawn to town out of season by the Quinlan
co., and they flocked along to stalls and
boxes ana talked rain points in the intervals.
A perfect swarm or blight of the dull, col-
lapsible opera hat that proclaims the trav-
elled social moth dotted the sea of well-
groomed heads that swirled round the exits
at motor time, and there was a general air
or boundless wealth very comforting to the
night loungers who always gather round to
hear the oflicial carriage-and-cab roarers
bellow at the street.
The orchestra reeled off many yards of
dream music and covered itself with critics’
praise; but Melba’s Mimi is still too fresh in
the opera haunter’s memory for a younger
star to be heard impartially. While the
musical critics rage furiously together, let
it be recorded that Lalla Miranda made up
unattractively as the tuneful consumptive
lor no apparent reason, she got under a
hideous, high-piled, fair wig. Her own
glossy black hair would have been much
better. In the not-so-far back days, Bassich
(that most artistic and beautiful Mimi) wore
her own blue-black hair, parted over her
forehead and softly coiled. Melba certainlv
wore a girlish fair wig; but Miranda need
not have followed her lead —that is, if she
was following anyone’s lead.
“Carmen,” on Saturday, had a record
house, according to the box office. The
boxes on one side were laden with society
‘fats,” while on the other side all the stylish
lightweights seemed to be collected. Two
pens were filled with ewe lambs in the hail-
bow stage,, and pink-and-white youths of the
college species. Auntie Phipps and a Help,
who is at least musical by sympathy, sat in
the ordinary stalls like a pair of suburban
music lovers.
Rosina Beynon’s Carmen was a cheeky
flapper whose chief characteristics were an
impudent swagger and an insinuating elbow.
Sad to relate, the skirt she swaggered in was
an ill-cut garment. Robert Parker made an
Escamillo good to look at, and the boxed
flappers wanted to cheer every time he ap-
peared.
Lily Brayton had a most prosaic experi-
ence during the last week of the Melbourne
season. She is very fond of sweets, and
occasionally indulges in a quiet feast, in spite
of the fact that the proper care of a star’s
figure forbids much sugar of the edible vari-
ety. She was happily chewing some Turkish
delight behind the scenes, when something
startled her. She swallowed hurriedly—
so hurriedly, in fact, that the gold crown of
a tooth went down with the mouthful. Dis-
mal thoughts of appendicitis accentuated
the gloom of the Virgin Goddess during her
last days here.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The members of the Victoria League proceeded en
masse to Montefiore on Tuesday afternoon, and were
offered a true Way welcome, also tea and cake.'
Mrs. Herbert Bymill helped her mother to disperse
the foodstuff and so on, and Lady Bosanquet, in blue
velvet, presided over the business part of the affair.
Mrs. Russell Booth (secretary) and Mrs. J. R. Ander-
son (treasurer) read their report and balance-sheet,
the same testifying that the wolf of insolvency was
still far from the League’s doorstep.
An Adelaide amateur operatic society has been
formed. Mrs. Herbert Walsh shares part of the
guilt. She is the secretary of the new body.
Mr. J. C. B. Moncrieff, brother of the Railways
Commissioner, has been appointed Chief Engineer of
Railways in the place of Mr. Rntt, who is retiring
The “Moncrieff Brothers” have been associated with
our trains for years. The feature of their regime is
freedom from accident and the extraordinarily long
distances that they carry you for a very short
amount of money.
One of our schools has had a “ragging scandal ”
just like a mere British cavalry regiment, and as’a
result a small boy is now in bed. There is a
rumor floating round that police-court proceedings
ants* 0 be taken against certain unspecified malign-
Mount Gambier has a new recreation ground
which will be known to posterity as Vansittart Park!
the Governor flung it open to the accompaniment of
loud oratory, exploding corks and disappearing food.
Arriving back in Adelaide from this revel on Sunday
morning he immediately bolted, Roosevelt-like, for
Oodnadatta, whence he returns (d.v.) on Saturdav.
A violent traveller is our Ex. when he gets reallv
going. “ '
Died the other day at Ru Rua Hospital, Nicholas
O Halloran, aged 69. The O’Halloran clan is a large
one, and by getting married to a Giles a couple of
generations ago it definitely related itself to all
Adelaide.
The May Club was filled to bursting-point with
Brain and body fatigue are quickly relieved by a
dose of Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract. It adds
tohe to the system, and puts you where you belong.*
Germans on Wednesday evening. Dr. Palleine was in
the chair, and gave an account of his recent travels
in the land of William, the man who is always
suspected of being just about to shove his spiked hel-
met into the middle of a great complication, yet
never really does it. I feel sorry for William, and
personally suspect him of being a passive resister. I
did not attend because the proceedings were con-
ducted in the Teutonic language, and though I can
recognise it at sight by its blotted look and its
curly and pig-like tail, I take no real interest in it
Mrs. Julian Ayers is in Adelaide for a space. She
and her husband are “on the land” near Bordertown.
Mrs. Darby (she who was Miss Crozier) developed
smallpox on her way back from Japan the other day,
and is convalescing from it in Sydney. The Norman
Brookmans, who have been honeymooning in the pic-
turesque but insanitary land of the Geisha, are back
in our midst unscathed.
The Adelaide Hunt Club had its annual run to
Reynella on Saturday, and finished with afternoon
tea at the Reynells’ house, where Mr. Carew Reynell
did the honors in his father’s absence. The acting-
host was Master of the hounds a year or so back, but,
like most men, gave up the cheerful sport on his
marriage. Miss Reynell and Miss Waterhouse both
followed, and traps and motors were thick on the
road.
J. J. Duncan, the Tory leader in our Landlords’
House, who was further disfigured by a knighthood
the other day, is a nephew of W. W. Hughes, a rich
squatter who helped to set the Adelaide University
on its legs. Duncan’s father managed the Hughes
station, and when copper was found by accident on
it, young Duncan was sent off with the news to his
uncle. The copper-find turned into the great Moonta
and Wallaroo mines; and the wolf has never since
made much of a disturbance outside the doors of the
Hugheses and the Duncans.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


-yr\ />
fix y
vX> 'y
v v v v £
>V '>
"VC V
yv\*N
\ V\ r \
DEWARS


ASK FOR
♦ ♦ ♦
FRANZ JOSEF
EAGER BEER.
TRY ...
HACKERBRAU
DARK LAGER.
fg
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6 ; Double, 22/6 ; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or Write.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITIES
POINTS
A LOST SUPPOR TER.
Senator Walker informed a meeting of the Liberal
Women’s Literary and Debating Club last night that
he knew of a lady who wanted to get her husband—
a doctor in the British Navy—-transferred to the Aus-
tralian Navy. When inquiries were made, it was
found that, under the Government’s legislation, a
doctor could not be admitted into the Australian
Navy unless he had taken his degree in an Australian
University. (Cries of “Shame.”)
D.T.: “ Won't you give me friend's ’usband a
job in the Guvment? ”
FISHER: “Nope!"
D.T.: “All right! Well, we won't vote Labor
any more, so there! ”
The attempted General Strike in England
collapsed even more suddenly than the simi-
lar business in Brisbane. A General Strike
and a siege differ in only one important
item. In a siege the assailants are outside
the starving city, and are themselves well-
fed. In a general strike they are inside, and
are probably worse fed than the rest of the
inhabitants. It is Lazarus trying to starve
out Dives. If the strikers could start opera-
tions with 100,000,000 61b. tins of meat on
hand they might have a chance. But if they
had the price of all that meat about them
they probably wouldn’t strike.
“Iyles Innison”: Premier McGowen’s
Thanksgiving Sunday idea, as a means of
celebrating the breakage of the drought, was
characteristic of the tired pietist who leaves
pretty well everything to Providence. There
is no more sense in thanking Providence for
breaking the drought than there would be in
cursing it for creating the dashed thing. A
more profitable thing would have been
for McGowen to get a move on in the
direction of decentralisation, on the ground
that a Providence which believes in tlie pre-
sent congestion policy would have dropped
all the rain on Sydney.
THE ACCUMULATED BILLS.
The Prime Minister (Mr. A. McKenzie), in the
course-of an interview, said the loan of four and
a half millions being floated on the London market
was principally for the repayment of old loans now
maturing, for advances already received in anticipa-
tion of authorised loans, and for payment of Dread-
nought money.
MAORILAND : “I reckon the old gag about de-
veloping the natural resowces is about
played out, so there's nothing for it but to
tell the truth."
The bad habit: of doing Aus-
tralian business in London calls
for a brick or a ton of bricks.
A Melbourne firm, wishing to
"tender for some of the machinery
required in the proposed elec-
trification of the suburban rail-
ways, was referred to the Agent-
General in London. Another
firm, acting for a manufacturer
of aeroplanes, offered to supply
them to the Defence Depart-
ment in Melbourne. “Apply
to the High Commissioner in
London,” was the answer. All
the tenders for railwav mater-
ial required by the Vic. rail-
ways are practically settled in
London. Private firms are oc-
casionally guilty of this out-
break of stinking fish ; but the
worst offenders by far are Aus-
tralian Governments, which talk
about their love for the countrv at the very
moment they are busy kicking it downstairs.
The Maoriland anti-drink party has de-
cided to drive its water-cart into politics for
all it is worth. The situation is compli-
cated. As the law stands it requires a
three-fifths vote to abolish drink —that is to
say, 60 per cent, of the poll is sufficient to
carry No License. But 51 per cent, isn’t.
If a bare majority could prohibit the sale of
drink, Maoriland could be made dry. On the
other hand, a bare majority of teetotallers in
Parliament can enact that a bare majority
will suffice at the No-License poll, and can
abolish the three-fifths majority proviso. So
the bare majority in Parliament has resolved
to be up and doing, and, on the figures, there
should very shortly be not a single beer left
between Stewart Island and the Three
Kings.
At long last John Bull proposes to adopt
plain manhood suffrage. For many years
he has been expanding the franchise, but
always with an eye to the property qualifica-
tion. Seventy or SO or 100 years ago there
were cases in which a county only contained
six electors, and they were probably three
cripples, two drunks and an epileptic, all
nominated by a big landholder, and paid a
small annuity by him to vote as he directed.
There were cases where a big city had no
member, and a bare patch of grass had two.
Things gradually improved and expanded,
till at last it was almost sufficient if one
could prove six months’ continuous owner-
ship of two rags and a bug in order ro
qualify. But it was never the human being
who was entitled to the vote ; the qualifica-
tion always lay with the two rags and the
bug. The new departure will increase the
number of voters by about one-fourth, which
is considerable. But the great change lies
in the qualification. A man will now vote
because he is an Englishman—not because he
uwns some furniture that was made in Ger-
many.
After all, though London is the
heart of a mostly-nigger Empire, it is
liable to be a cold city for the man
who wants to slap the tar-brush in the
white man’s face. When old Dr.
Creed, of Sydney, mumbled his pro-
nigger paper at the Colonial Institute
in the Big Fog, he couldn’t get a voice
to support him. As speaker after
speaker banged his arguments and de-
plored his piebald sentiments, the old
man grunted worse and worse. Finally
he ambled out with the safe challenge
to fight the lot of them in the news-
papers.
S. Aus. knows now why the State
Governments were so desperately an-
xious to block the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank. Of the S. Aus. Bank’s
eight millions, the State Government
has already borrowed five millions;
yet Premier Peake quoted the parable
of the Unjust Steward, the other day,
because the trustees kept a poor little
£200,000 in gold, instead of lending
that also to the Government. The
trustees replied, in effect, that they
didn’t know they were supposed to be
working the confidence trick;
somehow they had got the idea
into their heads, that they ought
to be prepared to pay depositors
back their money when it was
asked for, and pay it in gold,
too, and not in a State Govern-
ment’s indefinite lOU.
Extract from the Federal Parliamentary
report:—
Mr. Bennett : An attempt had been made to raise
alarm by saying that a rush was to be made by the
banks to get gold for notes.
The Prime Minister: Let them send up five lor-
ries for the gold, and they will get it.
Mr. Bennett : Nobody would give the statement
serious consideration.
It is a pity Bennett, M.H.R., didn’t give the
names of the persons who said that “ a rush
was to be made by the banks.” This paper,
at all events, has heard nothing of the asser-
tion, though it has heard a great many com-
ments on the fact that such a rush could be
made (it was done once in England out of
sheer political animosity, and the Bank of
England cracked up right there), and that it
is a very foolish banker who has all his
liabilities on demand as Fisher has. That
nolitician says that it won’t matter if note-
holders ‘‘send five lorries for the gold.” But
suppose they sent 10 lorries! And, any-
how. what kind of policy is it which quite
needlessly courts even a five-lorry rush?
There had been some alterations made to
the grounds of Parliament House (formerly
Government House) at Wellington, Maori-
land, and this is how the Dunedin Star felt
about it: —
The Goths and Vandals —a small army of muscu-
lar workers-—have transformed what was once a
vice-regal paradise into a reproduction of Sodom
and Gomorrah, Nineveh, Pompeii and other buried
cities.
That Greater Melbourne Council is com-
ing about the end of next century. The
other day the conference of municipalities
which is pondering over the matter, met for
the manyth time to draw up its report or
something. There are 47 delegates, and 19
were not too fired to attend. Only four
were favorable to the scheme propounded,
the rest either objected altogether, or wanted
amendments made, or opined that “the time
had not yet arrived,” or something. The City
Fathers said that owing to pressure of other
loafing, they had not been able to deal with
the scheme —they didn’t quite put it that
way, but that was the meaning. If Premier
Watt is going to make a genuine effort to
pass his Bill, he will have to ignore the ex-
isting tinpot councils altogether. But is
Watt game to fly in the face of Bumbledom?
A proposition by Prime Minister Fisher is
to the effect that all Federal ex-Ministers
should have free passes for life on all the
State railways of Australia. It would be a
poor sort of ex-Minister who couldn’t get some
kind of bagman’s job with his free pass to
help him keep down expenses ; and it would
be a hard-hearted party which wouldn’t let
a political friend hold a portfolio for a day
or two, or be an honorary Minister for a
month or two, in order to qualify as a life-
long deadhead. Quite a lot of unexpected
persons are already qualified if the scheme
comes off—Drake, Neil Lewis, J. W. McGay,
Dugald Thomson, Pumpkin Smith, Keating,
Best, Hume Cook and others whom the
nation doesn’t always delight to honor.
Fisher proposes, in return for the suggested
concession, to let all State ex-Ministers have
the free run of the Federal railways, so
traffic should be heavy. After all, there is
something unsatisfactory about this policy
of adding small unconsidered perquisites to
the open and visible salary. It leads to pen-
sions, free drinks, counter-lunch and all man-
ner of abuses.
NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
During the recent strike in London many
pawnshops had to close because the monish
of Moses was all lent out and the premises
of Aaron were so full that they couldn’t
hold another bundle. If Bull’s country
sticks much longer to the policy 7 of Freetrade
and big estates, it will have to invent the
india-rubber pawnbrokery.
PLAIN BUSINESS.
The Government’s invitation to the churches to
hold thanksgiving' services for the recent rain has
been accepted by all denominations. —Daily paper.
PREMIER JIM : “Ana, by the way, while you’re
about it, you might mention to the Almighty
that we're pushing along with the Burrin-
juck reservoir."
A cry of misery filled the air last week
in re that disloyal regulation which shuts
out from the Australian navy any doctor
who hasn’t taken an Australian degree, and
the air was filled with wild bellowings of
“Shame.” There isn’t really any such regu-
lation, of course, though when the man with
the English degree and the man with the
Australian one are equal the latter gets the
preference. The “loyal” push would, of
course, give the English medico the prefer-
ence—in fact it would probably shut the
Australian out of his own navy altogether.
A CANTICLE OF TRUSTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
To control by law the operations of trusts and com-
binations acting detrimentally to the interests of the
public.—- Plank 6 of Liberal platform.
The Liberals of every State were represented, and
the views of people living 3000 miles apart had to be
reconciled. —Joseph Cook on Liberal platform.
Let us control the trusts,
Let us make laws for them,
- Let us speak much of them upon balconies,
Let us make mention of the evil of their ways;
For in distrust of trusts is there hope,
And we shall have favor of the people.
Bring unto us a trust that we may see it,
Lo, if there be any such we shall smite it with
the jaw ;
For a trust is an abomination before the Lord,
And in our detestation of it there shall be many
votes.
The people cried aloud.
" Bread was up,
So was meat,
So was rent,
So were rags ;
(Also the prophecies of Wragge
As a kite),
And the people cried aloud and said:
“Who in the name of the profit hath caused all
things to ascend?
Yea, who the blazes has caused the price of living
to increase?”
And a still small voice made answer:
“The trusts.”
And the men of Belial stood afar off and said with
a loud voice, “Aha!
Bring ye us a trust that we may see it,
Yea, bring us all the trusts that have a name:
The Sugar trust,
The Salt trust,
The Beef trust,
The Bread trust,
The Tripe trust,
Yea, even the Beer trust, that is wet as the dews
upon a parched land;
For we be Liberals of every State,
And our views are the views of those who dwell
3000 miles apart.”
And one ran swiftly and brought a looking-glass,
And they that dwelt 3000 miles apart looked
therein and saw
The Sugar trust,
The Salt trust,
The Beef trust,
The Bread trust,
The Tripe trust,
Yea, even the Beer trust that is wet as the dew
upon a parched land.
And the men of Belial stood afar off and said with
a loud voice, “Aha!”
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.
SCIATICA IS A
NERVOUS DISEASE.
Nerves Must Be Restored to a State of
Tone.
♦ —-
This Man, Crippled for Weeks and
Unable to Work—Cured by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.
: +,
If you have sciatica or neuralgia, you
ought to know that the complaints are nerv-
ous diseases that can only be cured by re-
storing the affected nerves to a proper state
of tone. Sciatica and neuralgia are very
similar except that the pains in one case are
in the face; in the other, in the thigh. As
the nerves get all their nourishment through
the blood, a blood-making tonic like Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills is the correct treat-
ment.
Mr. Edward West, corner of Smythe and
McKellar Streets, Benalla, Victoria, was
crippled so badly by sciatica that he was
unable to work for weeks. He was finally
cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and he
gave the following account of his illness and
cure to a reporter :
“I was droving and sleeping out, and the
exposure at last told on me,” said Mr.
West. “A pain gradually came in the right
hip. It grew worse and worse till at last
I was in agony. For weeks I had to give
up work. Then the complaint might lull a
trifle, but the least change of weather laid
me up again. All the right leg from the hip
to the ankle was affected. I was rubbed
with weak turps or had flannels sprinkled
with it put on. I had the leg blistered from
hip to calf, and the skin was painted with
iodine, but nothing gave me lasting relief.
The leg was so bad that I could barely feel
the hot flannels. Many a time I could not
get in or out of bed by myself, and when
there I would lie quite unable to move and
racked with pain. It was impossible for me
to close mjr eyes till the paroxysms eased a
little. K’nife-like thrusts would dart
through the leg. I dreaded nightfall, as I
always felt worse. The leg felt stiff, and I
could nob put the full weight of the body on
it. I often had to knock off work, and per-
haps then I would be unable to go out for
weeks. One doctor injected morphia into the
calf to try and ease me. After reading a
little pamphlet through, I was so convinced
that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills would do me
good that I told my son to go and buy me
a couple of boxes for a trial. I was in bed
at the time laid up. The two boxes acted
wonderfully. By the time the fourth box
was through I felt fit for anything. I went
back to work a cured man, and I’ve kept
free from sciatica ever since.”
When you ask for Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills don’t be put off with anything else.
They are 2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes 15s. 3d.,
and if necessary will be sent post paid, on
receipt of price by the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co, of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.*


bbs
Across Aiistralia
io sydiW:iS3
A Supreme Test
bel
t
R©
s
and
le
Gar
ca
WW X>*w?rt, and Swamp
ms a 9 h.p. “Brush”
|fad»fin Oil Co. Pty. Ltd*
#
BOOKS FOR
HOME-BUILDERS.
COME AND SEE THEM, IE POSSIBLE. OR WRITE US.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL C° L T -°
(opposite queen
VICTORIA MARKET5)
476 GEORGE 5T. SYDNEY.
Whal m? tiers the motor!
as long as gou have $
*emi j-
w
m
m
»■
m
m;
: £v
wx
►
5
* -■
**?«*»,
r
Qi
■
r
m
*
* x s§&s&:
Mil I
#jl§t
sn
iMpKSww
.-.
|IS
m
mm
9 '


fd
K UPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED, Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices: Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Surrey county, whipped by Gregory and
Co. in May, to the tune of seven wickets, squeezed
home in last week’s return match by 24 runs. It was
the third defeat and second successive failure of the
Australians, but, if no bouquets can be handed them,
the occasion does not call for bricks. In spite of the
tricky wickets, resulting from the moist weather
conditions on the Murky Isles —conditions to which
seven of the Australians are unaccustomed —the team
gave a strong combination of seasoned battlers a
great run for the bun. Hobbs, Hitch and Strudwick,
all here last summer, were wound up for this en-
gagement, and had to fight for their lives. Strud-
wick, at the sticks, kept down Sundries. Hobbs,
one of the world’s best cover-points, performed a
diving contortion act in the last hour or two that
sent Queenslander Jennings pavilionwards, “run out”
for 82. And Hitch, the nuggety, express bowler,
who halts in a long run to do a giddy little side-
skip, bagged most of the remaining wickets with
much abruptness. Coming on top of the shock admin-
istered by Hobbs, the side-stepping of Hitch on the
last of a dirty wicket was too much for the Austra-
lian tail-enders, who, a little while before, had seen
Jennings and Smith apparently knocking off runs
with ease. Last week’s special mention of David
Smith proved prophetic. His third appearance dur-
ing the tour revealed him a rod in pickle with a
vengeance. Following a first innings 13, he
punched up an even century, much to the surprise of
Surrey. This, with the consistent performances of
Jennings during the last week or two, has done
something to reveal the actual batting strength of
the team. Off the bat, Surrey scored only 10 runs
to the. good, and Sundries, as in the case of Lan-
cashire, accounted for over half the winning margin.
It was a match with a “magic” or “fatal number.”
Tom Hayward began it with 21. In the same in-
nings Ducat made 21. The County’s second innings
sundries numbered 21. Australia’s sundries on both
innings aggregated 21. Australia’s skipper made 21.
The highest individual aggregates were: Jennings
114, Dave Smith 113, Hobbs 106. In the match
Jimmy Matthews, of Victoria, had easily the best
bowling figures on either side, with seven for 92.
All things considered, Hitch was fortunate in bagging
those tail-enders just when he did. After Surrey,
the expected soft snap was found in Somerset, where
victrov was achieved with a margin of 10 wickets;
Australia’s first victory since it downed S’Afriea on
May 28. Roy Minnett, of Sydney University,
smashed up the County’s first innings for 59, his fast
medium bumpers, shot from weirdly-waving arms,
bagging seven wickets for 29. His second innings
‘none for 32” still left him seven for 61—and'he
wanted them badly, for his five previous wickets had
cost 40 runs apiece, or thereabouts. Up to the end
of last week, Minnett’s best with the bat was his
second innings 64 against the M.C.C.; but he has
had few chances when runs were really wanted on a
wicket that suited him. Never a careful watcher of
the ball, the dashing Roy is not too sound in defence.
Tb e habit of going forward, practically on spec., to
the pitch of every ball, is no good on Fogland’s
uncertain wickets, even though it may bash up cen-
turies at times on the billiard-table pitches of Sun-
land.
* * * *
To-day, Thursday, the little man who for
some weeks past has been at No. 1 position in the
Australian batting and bowling averages, has a birth-
day. Charles Macartney, respectfully styled “The
Governor-General,” and disrespectfully referred to as
“The Wee McGregor,” was born in West Maitland
(Ma State), on June 27, 1886; which makes him
26 not out against the bowling of Father Time. He
has had two trips to the Isles of Murk. When a
lad of 15 he amassed 177 for North Sydney’s Third
Grade team, and when 19 made his first appearance
for N.S.W. in _the Brisbane encounter with Queens-
land, scoring 57, and capturing three wickets for
80. In the same season he knocked up 70 against
S.A. at Adelaide, and for N.S.W., in the 1905 Aus-
tralian Eleven, scored 24 and 25 (twice run out),
and bagged five (Trumper, Duff, Noble, Darling and
Howell), for 123. The stereotyped and generally
misleading system of “averages” reckons “per in-
nings,” but it is “match figures” that should count.
Omitting the small-fry fixtures at Oxford and Cam-
bridge, Macartney’s contributions in the 11 others
prior to the current Test were 88, 127, 208, 148, 94,
21, 117, 4, 111, 66, 49—total 1033, or 93.90 runs
per match. And if we put him to a more severe
test, and take the five toughest matches of those
finished, namely, Notts, Surrey (first), M.C.C., Lan-
cashire and Surrey Return, which include three
Australian losses, his scores are 88, 148, 94, 111 and
66 ; aggregate 507, or an average of 101.404 per
match. So much for his right hand. With his left
hand, and bowling in only six of the aforesaid 11
engagements, he has bagged 14 wickets for 148, aver-
age 19.57 per wicket. Though his trundling re-
quires more or less trickiness in the turf, he made
his runs on all sorts and conditions of wickets. So,
whereas most Australians are fair-weather batsmen,
here’s to the health of the ambidexterous, amphibi-
ous, champion all-rounder.
* * * *
Syd Gregory is somewhat of a Jonah in
the matter of spinning the coin. Out of 14 tosses
he has called wrongly 12 times; and as the first
choice of the wicket depends upon successful calling,
the record of the team shines the brighter in the face
of this continued ill-luck. This serious set-back is,
without a doubt, due to the persecution that two-up
has been subjected to in the Ma State, and if it
should conduce to the loss of a Test Match there’ll
be a massacre of Wowsers for sure.
* * * *
Ernest Hume, who died last week while
sojourning with the Australian Eleven in England,
was a man to leave a gap. He was a
champion in the great fight for Law and
Order in the Control of International Cricket.
In the N.S.W. Cricket Association he waged a long
and splendid battle on behalf of New Blood ; and the
promotion of many of the younger brethren has been
due to his efforts. As a buttress to the Board of
Control, Hume was second only to Percy McElhone.
His presence in the Land of Slush was due sqlely to
his desire to spend a holiday helping the colts to
make a good showing for Australia and the Board
of Control.
In response to the request in last week’s
issue the Sporting Editor has received sufficient
copies of Frank Laver’s pamphlet to keep him going
for a week or two. It is an interesting brochure
which calls for a more detailed notice than space will
permit of this week.
By the kindness of a friend who doesn’t
wish his name mentioned, this paper has received
a copy of. the balance-sheet of the Australian cricket
team tour of England in 1909. Some of the figures
are interesting. The total receipts in England
amounted to £12,941 10s. lid., added to which
the £287 os. 3d. taken at the Sydney and Melbourne
matches, made £13,228 11s. 2d. Of this the
Board of Control received only £lOO3 11s. 4d. in
return for the risk of having to foot the bill had
there been a deficit. Dr. Poidevin, who did sterling
service in arranging the programme, got £lO5, and
the 16 players cut up among them £7359 6s. 6d.,
or, roughly, £459 each, for a pleasant six months
or so holiday and trip, with all exes. paid. It cost
£915 to get t*he team to England by steamer, equal
to £57 3s. 9d. each man, from which it is evident
that the gentlemen did not deny themselves any-
thing in the shape of frills. Laver, in his pamphlet,
published in reply to the Victorian Cricket Associa-
tion, dwells pathetically on the fact that, at the
end of the tour, he presented McAlister with an
album of views as a token of goodwill. Of course,
it may have been a private gift of photos taken,
developed and printed by the august Francis him-
self ; but it is an irritating fact that in the balance-
sheet appears an item of £BO, branded, “To man-
ager, for souvenir, entertaining, photos, etc.?’ The
writer wouldn’t do Mr. Laver an injustice for the
world: but one cannot help thinking that
Mr. Laver regarded the Board’s representative
with the team as an absolute outsider, and handed
him one of the official souvenirs as a matter of
friendship. Which was calculated to make McAlis-
ter about 16 times madder than before. It is also
alleged that McAlister paid for his photo, but re-
turned the one he received from Laver.
The heroes of the All-Black Rugby League
team faced the Ma State combination, as advertised,
on Sydney Agricultural Ground, last Saturday. They
were a hefty-looking lot. The skies were unusually soft,
and the ground was somewhat that way inclined also.
But it was hard enough for the N.S.W. team, accus-
tomed to rock-like surfaces, to keep its feet and run
with ease. The Maorilanders were at a disadvantage.
For four days they had tossed on and buffeted the
eternal sea. They had played only one match to-
gether, and had not had time to develop their com-
bination or evolve a decent back machine. But they
were full of sand. For 40 minutes they kept their
end of the log up with splendid bursts of individual
play and wild energy that staggered the great Kan-
garoo team to which they were opposed. And then
their condition gave out—the buffeting of the aged
and cantankerous sea got in its work. They went
to nieces, and the Kangaroos bounded all over them,
and finished up a hard-fought game with a glorious
victory—27 points to eight.
On Saturday night the windows of Heaven were
opened, and the celestial fountains were broken up,
and it rained upon the earth in great style. Sunday
saw more showers, so that, when the teams faced
each other again on Monday, the ground was not
ground, but soup, and hope beat high in the hearts
of the Maoriland football swimmers. Even while the
battle raged more rain came down, and made the
soup thinner still, and turned the bag of wind into
a slippery, slimy thing resembling a globe of beef-
tea, and impossible to hold. Two previous matches
had churned the ground all up, and when Maoriland
captain Francis looked at it he lifted his eyes to
Heaven and said solemnly, piously, “The Lord hath
delivered them into our hand! Get going, you
tigers!” They got going, with the wind and rain
in their faces, and the back machine of the N. S.
Wales team rushing down on them like a storm.
Talk about a stalwart defence! It was simply mag-
nificent. The slippery ground deprived the Kan-
garoos of the advantage of speed. Man after man
was hauled down, half smothered in the mud, and
the Cornstalk line hurled back. The Maorilanders
made no passing charges to speak of —but they
dribbled, dribbled, like a baby farm on strike. The
forwards spread themselves out on the front, and
charged along together, with the dirty, slimy ball
passing up and down the line in a marvellous man-
ner. The local barracker knew it was all up when
the first half, in which the home team had the
assistance of wind and rain, ended with a margin of
five to two. And yet it was during the second half,
with defeat staring them in the face, that the Corn-
stalks played the game of their lives, and had the
Blacks battling right on the line over and over
again. But the Kangaroos had no idea of dribbling.
They strove to pass with their hands when their feet
should have done the work. The Blacks hauled them
down one after another till, getting the ball on the
ground, it was carried at the toe right to the other
end of the premises. It was a hopeless struggle,
though as game as could be. And when the whistle
blew the Maorilanders had added seven points to the
score of the first half, while the Cornstalks had put
on five. Had the home team played half as well in
the first half as it did in the second, history might
have told another tale. As it was, Maoriland won by
12 points to seven.
* * * *
The Rugby Union having climbed down,
the usual round of competition matches pro-
ceeded in Sydney on Saturday, and gave the under-
studies the opportunity they yearned for. And, cer-
tainly, they made the most of it. The result was
that all the victories were big margin affairs, show-
ing that when any one team found it had an advan-
tage, it pushed it right home. Glebe, the combina-
tion with the meat, put a fearsome-looking crowd
into the field and over-awed South Sydney by its
general appearance alone. In play South was no
better, and only managed to score a miserable five to
the 27 of the bounding butcher team. University,
looking clean cut and somewhat fine, appeared to be
at a disadvantage with the heavier Newtown crowd—
till play began. And then the combination of the
Student team told its tale, and Newtown was downed
by 14 points to five. The surprise of the day was
the thumping win of St. George over Manly; and
when the whistle blew, with St. George on top by
16 points to nine, the victors were the most sur-
prised of all —which is saying a lot. Manly must
have been making a night of it on Friday. Eastern
Suburbs vindicated its outraged honor as premier
club by falling on Balmain by 25 points to three,
and Balmain hasn’t been seen since. Even the ferry-
boats can’t find the old suburb. Western Suburbs
had a soft snap in North Sydney, and kicked up 14
points to the Hillmen’s six. In the competition,
Glebe and University are neck and neck with 13
points each. Western Suburbs has 12, and Newtown
10. Below that are single figures only, which have
lost all interest. For the owners of these figures
the competition is over.
* * * *
Undisturbed by the mighty events happen-
ing around, the Australian Rules section continued
the even tenor of its road. The excitement was
clustered around the meeting of Paddington and
North Shore for the return match; and followers of
the section were considerably excited. They met on
Sydney Cricket Ground and put up a dizzy battle,
which saw the Paddington crowd on top at the end
of the first quarter, with 32 points to 7. At half-
time Paddington had 54 points to North’s 27, and
was still going strong. North’s goal shooting was
horrible, and splendid opportunities were missed, so
that the third term ended with Paddington 61 points
to 33. The final quarter was a hurried affair, but
the North Shore was out of it, and the game ended
with North underneath by 74 points to 40. For the
rest, Y.M.C.A. smothered Newtown by 135 to 22.
East Sydney suffocated South Sydney by 82 points
to 14. And Sydney managed to beat the - Rail-
ways by 81 to 53—not a very decisive victory under
Australian rules. The struggle resumed on Monday,
when Paddington fell on the Railways by 128 to
16 ; Newtown shifted Sydney off the map by 56 to
17 ; East Sydney mopped up North Shore by 45 to
40 ; and Y.M.C.A. put a tombstone over South Syd-
ney by 118 to 12. Paddington now leads the com-
petition by 40 points to Sydney’s 36, Y.M.C.A.’s 32,
and the 24 of East Sydney and North Shore. The
others don’t count.
# * * *
The Soccer inter-State scuffle, between
N.S.W. and Queensland, at Sydney, on Monday, was
played in the face of a sea of difficulties, and in the
middle of a sea of. mud. Despite the disadvantages
some very pretty football was seen; and the crowd of
enthusiasts which braved the rain and general discom-
fort to watch the game, got its money’s worth.
After a strenuous battle in the bottom Of the slush,
half-time found N.S.W. leading with one goal to
nil. and the name anybody’s. But during the second
half the Ma State team seemed to suddenly recover its
kicking accuracy, and a series of splendid shots at
goal landed it victor by three goals to nil.
* * * *
The Quid of Discord. Maoriland Rugby
Union recently blew up in a burst of fury when it
received the invitation of the N.S.W. Rugby Union
to send along a few representatives for the Austral-
asian team which is to visit ’Frisco. There has been
tnJhble between the two bodies over money ever since
the coming of the Yankee University team, each body
having a different version of its liabilities. So the
Maoriland body, deeming it could not be done with-
out, prefaced all negotiations as to the proposed
trip a couple of months hence with a demand for
instant settlement of its old account. The N.S.W.
Union rejected the demand, told the Maorilanders to
go to Hades, and communicated with Queensland,
which jumped at the chance of being represented in
an international team. So now Maoriland is out of
it, and the players who might have gone are declar-
ing that their idea of a real good afternoon’s sport
would be to play football with the Rugby Union
Council —the Council to be the ball.
* * * *
An ideal Melbourne winter afternoon —-
bright, crisp and cold—brought thousands to Satur-
day’s football matches, especially those in which
South and ’Roy and ’Wood and Melbourne were con-
cerned. The former, expected to provide a close
contest, turned out to be as one-sided as a Liberal
Leaguer, the Red and Whites making hacks of
the Maroons, and getting further and further ahead
the longer the disturbance lasted. At the finish South
had acquired 66 points, ’Roy 28, and the disgusted
spectators a dour and argumentative spirit. The
other big game was a gorgeous episode. Melbourne,
having last year captured a capable rover and a com-
petent goal-kicker, has trained them into champions,
and there are no other specialists playing who can
come near them. ,The team persistently plays to
these two, and the consequence of this was that at
half-time the Red Legs had got 42 points to the
Magpies’ 26. Knowing they must win this game or
be practically passed out of the competition, the
Magpies, while partaking of refreshments, considered
their case deeply, and, on resuming, told off their
smartest plavers to attend to Melbourne’s two stars.
The effect was at once apparent. The rover roved as
briskly as ever, the forward went for the “marks
as usual, but always beside each was an obstructing
and competing shadow, and, when the final bell rang,
Melbourne had added only three points to its 42,
while ’Wood had put on 27—53 to Melbourne s 45.
The Magpies’ goal-shooting was faulty, but they had
fought hard for their win, and deserved it. Down at
Geelong, Carlton, rushed into the field half an hour
late through an excessively gradual “special,” struck
instant trouble through getting a man injured, lost
20 points in the first few minutes, and never got
within reach of the Seasiders again—Geelong: 79,
Carlton 60. The top-notchers of the competition
’Don—pushed the whippers-in—’Varsity —further into
the soup with a score of 120 to 52, and St. Ivilda
cantered easily away from Richmond with 86 points
to 42.
The most notable Ass. outburst in and around Mel-
bourne was the capsizing of Essendon by the despised
Brighton 16. The ’Dons kept ahead through the first
three terms, but in the last the ex-Bentites swept all
before them, piled on 25 points, and won by 66 to
’Don’s 55. The chance of the latter to reach the final
four is now none too rosy. Brunswick revenged it-
self on ’Cote for its one-point defeat earlier m the
season, by heaping up 52 points in the final min-
utes and winning by 40 points—9B to 58. ’Town
handed Port a surprise in the shape of a score of 51
points to 48; North put P’ran through its facings
with 72 points to 45, and ’Scray mercilessly raked in
149 points to Melb. City’s 50. These Citizens have
lately sacked their committee and other officers, and
acquired new ones, and this writer hereby urges them
to follow suit as regards the players.
* « * *
As anticipated weeks ago in this page,
Homebush (Sydney) Municipal Council arose in
anger recently and felled a tree right on to the neck
of the cyclists who have made travelling dangerous
in that suburb for the last few Saturdays. The
strip of roadway between Homebush and Granville is
ideal for road racing—but there is no room on it
for the general traffic and the cyclists; and the
cyclists have to go in the interests of public safety.
So now League and Union are offering rewards for
particulars of a good road-racing stretch, where there
is a weak council.
* * * *
The rowing men of Westralia and South
Aust. are having a somewhat undignified squabble.
It all started from the habit athletes have of writing
or talking for the newspapers. Somebody in Ade-
laide said that the oarsmen had not been welcomed
and looked after in Perth as they should have been;
and someone on the other side said they had, and the
Adelaide man was merely trying to “get into the
limelight.” And then details of free lunches and
paid-for programmes began to be exchanged, and the
Rowing Associations have started to send each other
polite but sarcastic letters, and in general a lot of
fellows are tending to make themselves slightly
ridiculous.
* » * *
The first challenge round of the Davis
Oup tennis matches (England v. France) will be
played at Folkestone (Eng.) next month. The win-
ner is to play America, and the winning team in
that match will come to Melbourne to argue the
matter out with Australasia. At present there is a
hitch in the arrangements. France and America agree
that the final should be played in Melbourne in
November; but England prefers December. Either
month will do Australia, but the Tennis Association
wants to make definite arrangements about the
courts. France has a very strong team, and the
chances are it will beat England, and settle the
argument about the date ; while the Yanks, although
they will put up a good fight, don’t appear to have
much chance against the Frenchmen, Gobert (who
recently beat Wilding), Laurenz, De Cugis and Ger-
mot. Although the Australian team is not decided
on, Brookes is a certainty; and if Wilding is back
those two will defend the pannikin. If Wilding is
absent, the most likely team is Brookes and Dunlop,
doubles; and Brookes and A. B. Jones, who has
just won the N.S.W. championship, singles.
* * * *
Balmain’s defeat of Eastern Suburbs in
the eighth round of Sydney lacrosse struggle levelled
things up, and put fresh hope into the sinking hearts
of the teams underneath. It demonstrated, as one
correspondent put it, that it was still “possible to
knock the top dog off bis perch.” The result of
Saturday’s debacle leaves Eastern Suburbs and Peter-
sham level with 14 competition points. Balmain has
11 ; Sydney 10, and the other five are apparently out
of it.
* * * *
Williams, the Englishman, is having a
cold time in his long billiards bout with Lindrum, in
Melbourne. The champion played the “Gray stroke”
considerably last week, and, on Saturday afternoon, he
increased an unfinished 400-odd to a 700-odd break.
Williams sits like a Chinaman brooding on opium,
whilst Lindrum is doing these wicked things, and when
at last he gets a turn at the table, his hands and heart
are numbed and he fails miserably. The champion
makes the hazards with wonderful confidence and
accnracv since his return from England. He’ll hit the
pocket off the red a hundred times in succession,
without touching a cushion. Yet he is improving
also at the top of the table game all the time. A
player of Williams’s comparatively limited resources
couldn’t make an interesting long game with Lin-
drum this season, unless he took a very long start in
a match for money.
THE BATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Los Vegas, U.S.A., Sunday.—Jack Johnson, the
I champion, says he is willing to post a certified
cheque for £3200, and give odds, that he can beat
the fireman. Flynn s answer is that the result of the
r ourth of July battle will be a terrible knock to the
“big smoke shift.” —Cable item.
Round I.
The men stood within hearing at the sounding of the
gong,
And cheerfully Jack’s seconds chortled; ‘‘Now, we
shan’t be long!”
But general astonishment pervaded all the place
As Flynn got in the deadly jab—Tons Gahddam
black Disgrace !
It fairly staggered Johnson, who was now observed
to flinch,
And some of Flynn’s supporters yelled: “Jack hasn’t
got no cinch 1”
But then the darkie came again and ripped a snorter
in
With: “Say! Ah guess mah mammy’s more a man
than you, Jim Flynn!”
The fireman countered gamely, crying: “Shoo I you
black hog, Shoo 1”
And for the next half-minute deadly words and
phrases flew ;
But, just as Johnson swung with: “Jim ! you cain’t
fight worth a dime!”
The First Round was concluded to the usual call of
“Time!”
Round 11.
The nigger didn’t wait, this round. With his ap-
palling grin
He flashed his gold-and-diamond teeth upon t
dazzled Flynn ;
And, standing ten feet off, he dealt a pulverising
smash
Upon the fireman’s tympana with: “Hoo! you
Irish trash !
With consternation it was seen that Flynn seemed
badly hurt;
But, still, he countered bravely with: “Ah, cut it, yez
black Dir-rt!”
Though reeling from Jack’s frightful laugh, the
Irish lad was game,
And caustically stalled him off until the respite came,
For, just before the gong went, Flynn brought off a
fine harangue
With: “Jack, yous is as handsome as a bald orang-
outang !”
This fairly rattled Johnson, and before he could reply
The call of “Time!” proclaimed the opportunity
gone by!
Round III — and Last !
No sooner were the gags off than they stood up in a
trice I
And it was plain their blows would now be anything
but nice....
Now Johnson’s education and great dialectic strength
Showed out conspicuously as he used his weight and
length!
He changed his former tactics altogether; never
smiled,
But led with hard, jaw-breaking words that drove
the fireman wild!
He called Flynn a flamboyant freak —a dilettante
pug —
To which the fireman only said: “Nit! Hear the
Talking-bug !”
Then Johnson, warming to his work, got clean all
over Flynn
With: “Ah’ll shore desquamate you, Jim, you poah
podophyllin !”
And: “Say! but yore a molecule, you lock-jawed
Gothamite !”. .. .
Just here Flynn’s crowd threw in the towel—and
Johnson won the fight!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
COMSTOCK’S NERVE AND BONE
LINIMENT
Is a powerful penetrating preparation,
which acts through the pores of the skin on
the nerves, bone and muscles. It possesses
the marvellous properties of an immediate
pain-killer, and is unequalled as a remedy
for the pains and aches to which human
beings are subject, and which only an ex-
ternal remedy can relieve.
It overcomes all pains and aches by re-
lieving the effect on the delicate nerves,
causing the circulation of the blood to be
fully maintained through the injured part.
It is an invaluable remedy for sprains and
for reducing all swellings, which under its
influence become softened and disappear.
Rheumatism, Sciatica and Lumbago all
yield to the powerful, penetrating and con-
quering properties of this Liniment if used
in connection with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills according to directions.
For Stiff Joints, Neuralgia, Lame Back.
Scalds, Burns, Contracted Muscles and
Painful Swellings it will be found that Com-
stock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment has no
equal. It prevents severe blistering, and
draws the burning sensation from Burns
and Scalds, and averts discoloration of the
skin from bruises.
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment may
be obtained at all the leading Chemists, or
will be forwarded by mail (post paid) at
the same price, 2s. 6d. per bottle (6 bottles
13s. 6d.). Address —The W. H. Comstock
Co.. Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney.


loe
Clace Kid
balmoral
l\ r - *'
also at
IS'fe and
22&
M vjail
m
The Marshall Shoe
with virile individuality
and good taste
MARSHALL SHOE t%.
RICHMOND, VIC.
The Experience
of 97 Years
in Every Bottle.
ITS
00 (DOUBL.e‘O')
I
The Door of Health
stands open for all Pile sufferers who will take Andrew
Murphy’s Pile Pills. They minimise the pain and irrita-
tion of this affliction quickly and surely, and effect a
permanent cure without the loss of a moment’s time from
your daily duties.
Hundreds of sufferers have found Murphy’s Pile Pills
to be all that is claimed for them. Whether you have
suffered one year or twenty, they will be found invalu-
able. Ointments, unguents, and all outward applications
are forever superseded by these Pills—Nature’s greatest
remedy.
If you are a sufferer from this disagreeable, distracting
and dangerous affliction, you should go at once to your
chemist or storekeeper, and procure a box of Andrew
Murphy’s Pile Pills. Price, 3/- per box, post free.
Order direct, if not obtainable locally. Sole Proprietors:
ANDREW MURPHY. LTD.. Dept. 8., 109 Regent
Street. Sydney.
Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills.
wm
*-■
Uniformly powerful, y«pori»ei''«i>ily of any altitude
and is unaffected by varying atmospheric conditions.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
gd
A BETTER
AIR-GAS
LIGHT!
One air-gas light is
not as good as an-
other. It rests with
the machine entirely.
That’s why of all air-
gas lights “Atmoslite”
is brightest, most con-
venient, and most eco-
nomic.
Write for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.^
HE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
IGH
Grade
PIANOS
T J.G.lrmler *
LEIPZIG
EnilHenninc
STUTTGART
GebrKolski
_ BERLIN
Carl Hess
I DRESDEN
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION
J.Hess&C?
199 CLARENCES 7
SYDNEY N SW.
and at BRISBANE.
*3
PRIZES VALUE £3500
. . In the . .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £250. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. .Johnston, Raglan.
Victoria, for the modest outlay' of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
Complete Shoe Satisfaction!
Style, perfect fit, serviceability, last-
ing shape and genuine comfort—you
get them all in Rigney Shoes*
The Shoe illustrated is a very fine
patent walking or dress boot —the
latest style.
Price 27/6 S 30/
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Send for a Copy of out
Catalogue FREE.
fg
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
‘The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 George Street, & 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney.


»■*•«
if
Z
\
3
t'*.»•
:*.<
tVW
m
'A
df
The Gentle Art of Giving is rendered delightfully easy by a glance thro' H. SAUNDERS'BEAUTIFUL FREE JEWELLERY
CATALOGUE. It' sso full of Exquisite Designs in the Newest, Loveliest Ideas, all wonderfully low-priced- Do send for a copy to-day./
£2
£2
Ladies’ Gold, Open Face, Keyless
WATCH, Fancy Dial, perfectly
Timed and Adjusted.
£2.
Set. Gold Set Pearls and Tur-
quoise,
12/6
&ct Gold Set Pearls and Red or
Blue Stones,
17/6.
xi,
i 15et. Gold BROOCH, Set 11 Pure
Diamonds, 1 Pink and 1 Green
Tourmaline,
£5/10/.
20/
S M /
%
v
20/
Gent’s Nickel Open Face, Keyless, lever, TIME-
KEEPER, Full- jewelled, patent adjusted Balance,
non-magnetie, dust and waterproof cases,
20/.
Guaranteed 1 year’s free repairs.
MBsubt
9ct. Gold set Pearls and Peridots or Amethyst, or
Pink Tourmaline,
£3.
loot Uoiu Circle
BROOCi±, Set with
Pearls,
*'2/0.
Solid Cold EARRINGS,
Set Pearls, and any
colour Stones,
2.»/.
t Gold Wedding
RING,
10/.
Isct Gold, 15/.
18ct Gold, Set 5
Pure double-cut
Diamonds.
£5.
15ct Gold Band RING,
20/.
a
TPHHMMK
. . ■ '
a
;
WE ARE
FROM
ONE
ANOTHER
Uli
9ct Gold “Miz-
pah” BROOCH,
S/6.
.'old and Pearl Horse-
Shoe CHARM,
3/0.
9ct Gold Seal PEN-
DANT, Amethyst or
Topaz,
15/.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
9ct Gold PEN-
DANT, Set Pearls,
and Torquoise,
32/6-
Gold “Dinna' Forget”
CHAKM.
10/.
9ct Gold SLEEVE
LINKS
20/.
Initials engraved free.
A.SAUNDERS
32/6.
9ct Gold PEN-
DANT,
32/6-
18ct Gold Dia
monds and Em-
erald Cluster
KING,
£7/10/.
32/6
Set Amethysts
and Pearls,
33/G
g
Set Gold “Prince of Wales” MUFF CHAIN,
£2/10/.
£3
ISct. Gold pure-
double cut
Diamonds,
£l5-
15ct Gold
Set Dia-
mond and
Ruby,
15/6
Gold PENDANT,
Set fine Pearls
and Turquoise,
:so/.
A.SAUNDERS.
50/
50/
9ct Gold
NECKLACE
50/-
Set Pearls
and Ame-
thyst,
50/.
Hct Gold Filled “Prince of Wales”
MUFF CHAIN,
25/, 30/.
9cC Gold,
get Pearls,
and Gar-
net or
Peridot.
12/6.
fg
9ct Gold CROSS,
nicely chased,
7/6.
Solid Gold “Laughing Jackass”
BROOCH, set Pearls, Rubies,
or Olivines.
30/
loot. Gold EARRINGS,
set Pearls and
Rubies, or Aus-
tralian Sapphires,
£3/10/-
18ct Gold set pure
double-cut Dia-
monds, Rubies, or
Sapphires,
£ S/5/.
18ct Gold RING,
set Diamonds,
Rubies, or Sap-
phires,
£5-
18c t Gold RING,
Diamonds and
Rubies,
or Sapphires,
£l2/10/
Solid Gold
Engraved
TIE-CLIP,
10/6-
Plain, 10/.
Solid Silver Sovereign hand
chased,
10/.
Oct Gold £2/10/.j
&ct Gold Bar BROOCH, any Name
engraved,
rn 5.
9ct. Gold Set Pearls and Turquoise,
12/6.
Solid Gold BROOCH, set Pearls, or
Pearls and Turquoise,
25/.
50
m
Gent’s patent 10 year’s guaranteed Gold
cased Hunting, Keyless, Waltham
WATCH, full jewelled, Compensation
Balance,
50/-
Guaranteed 3 years’ free Repairs.
■
9ct Gold Half Round Plain BRACELET, Strong Safe-
ty Chain Attached,
40/-
JEWELLER, 1
U|tifCHaGUfyy
«L MAKER A
dfg
SILVERSMITH
c ohsulti* c i
M


M
r- .
L‘J
m
m
NEGATIVES with the
greatest range of tone
values are secured by
daylight development.
The darkroom is obsolete, since science made possible development by
daylight methods. As a result, photography has become a more enjoyable
pastime, as well as surer in its results, less costly, and more convenient.
Tank development ensures absolute Uniformity of results and a greater
percentage of perfect negatives than is possible by darkroom methods. It
saves time by enabling you to develop a roll of film or a dozen plates or flat
films at once. It saves space, as any one of the tank outfits can be stowed
handily in a corner ready for instant service.
The Tank method of development, as exemplified in the Kodak Daylight
Tank, the Eastman Plate Tank, and the Premo Film Pack Tank, must appeal
to both novice and expert.
The prices of the KODAK TANKS are:—
Brownie Box, 7/d; Brownie Tank Developer, 14/6; 3£in. Kodak Tank
Developer, £l/7/6; sin. Kodak Tank Developer, £l/10/-; 7in. Kodak
Tank Developer, £2/7/6.
The prices of the EASTMAN TANKS for plates are:—
sin. x 4in. Eastman Plate Tanks, 15/- (takes also x size, and
also postcard); Sin. x 7in. Eastman Plate Tank, £l/2/6 (takes also
64in. x 4|in. size).
The prices of the PREMO FILM PACK Tanks are:—
No. 1, for 12 3-Jin. x l6/6; No. 2, for 12 4|in. x 3Jin., x.
or sin. x 4in. films, £1; No. 3, for six 7in. x Sin. films, £l/7/6.
Call and we will demonstrate the Daylight System of Development to
you free of charge. Explanatory Booklet sent free upon request.
KODAK. (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating' Baker CD, Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 6 Mercer Street.
HOW SORE THROATS ARE CAUGHT
And How to Cure and Prevent Them.
IN the -days of our grandparents,
there was a general idea that sore
throats were due to draughts and
wet or cold weather.
People who had a genius for catch-
ing sore throats (as so many of us
have to-day !) always took great care
to muffle up their throats, to avoid
draughts, and to wear a respirator
during cold, wet, or foggy weather.
Yet they still went on catching sore
throat !
Nowadays, we realise that sore
throat is an infectious ailment which
has very little to do with the weather.
Cold, damp weather may be one of
the causes of sore throat, but only
because it lowers our vitality, and
makes us susceptible to the microbes
of sore throat—that is all.
These microbes or germs are the
true active causes of sore throat, as
they are of those dread infectious
diseases diphtheria, consumption
of the lungs, measles, and scarlet
fever.
The Germs of Sore Throat.
These germs are only too plentiful,
especially at this time of the year.
We meet them every day, every
hour, in every public telephone, in
every public conveyance, in every
crowded, stuffy place where we may
breathe the germ-laden breath of
sufferers from sore throats, convales-
cents, and people sickening for some
infectious disease.
At last, however, science has given,
us a safeguard against these risks.
There has now been produced a
germ-killing throat tablet which
cleanses the mouth and throat from
disease germs as easily and as rapidly
as dirt is removed from the skin. It
is called Wulfing’s Formamint, and
can be tested bv anyone without ex-
pense. (See note at the end of this
article.) No one susceptible to sore
throat who has not already tried
Formamint should delay to do so ;
for Wulfing’s Formamint is a trust-
worthy cure for that complaint, as
well as a preventive of infectious
diseases.
To understand the value of this
discovery, we must remember that
all germs including the most
deadly ones, like
the Diphtheria
B a cill i—are
living particles
of vegetable life,
ext remely
minute, but visi-
ble under high
powers of the
microscope. For
their proper de-
velopment, these
seeds or germs
must find a
“suitable soil.”
This they have
in the soft lining
of the mouth and
throat, which
gives them the
warmt h and
moisture they
need.
In such a re-
ceptive soil,
germs will flou-
rish like the pro-
verbial green bay
tree, until they
multiply into
whole colonies.
The above picture shows how the germs which
cause tore throat and tonsillitis are destroyed by
means of the germ-killing throat tablet described in
this article. The round plate, coated with a sub-
stance on which disease germs qu ckly develop, was
inoculated with the germs of sore throat, which
immediately began to grow. The right half of the
plate was then treated with saliva from a person
who had sucked three tablets of Formamint —the
germ-killing throat tablet. The result was that all
the germs on it were destroyed, while those on the
left hand (not treated with Formamint) grew
luxuriantly. Exactly the same thing happens in
the mouth of people who suck Formamint Tablets—
the germs are quickly killed and sore throat is
easily cured aud prevented.
In the case of an ordinary sore throat,
they merely produce symptoms of
pain and discomfort, which quickly
disappear when a few Formamint
Tablets are sucked.
If, however, the germs are of a
more harmful kind, they produce
certain poisons which get in to the
blood and set up diseases like
diphtheria, scarlet fever, or
measles.
This is where the value of Forma-
mint lies as a diseas e-preventive, for
Formamint is the most effectual
method known to Science of killing
these germs in the mouth and throat
before they become dangerous.
It should be clearly understood,
however, that
Formamint is not
a cure for such
diseases as diph-
theria, when
once they have
established
themselves in
the system.
But there is
no doubt what-
ever that, if
taken in time,
Formamint will
certainly pre-
vent diphtheria
and kindred
germ - diseases,
even though one
has actually
been in close
contact with the
patient. For this
reason, doctors,
nurses and sani-
tary inspectors
always take
Formamint Tab-
lets when they
have a case of in-
fectious disease.
Many distinguished persons have
publicly testified to the value of
Formarnint. To take only a few
examples :
Remarkable Letters from Prominent
People.
Ford Glantawe writes: “I have
been using Formarnint for sore throat
with most satisfactory results.”
Madame Adelina Patti writes : <C I
have taken Formarnint Tablets for
some time past, and have found them
very beneficial to the throat.”
Mr. C. C. Hutchinson, K.C.,
writes : ‘ ‘ Through the great benefit
I have derived from Formarnint
Tablets, I have recommended them
for sore throat to hundreds of other
people.”
It is this personal recommendation
which has done so much to spread
Formarnint’s fame far and wide, and
none are more enthusiastic about it
than doctors and scientists them-
selves. Among the latter several
have made exhaustive laboratory
experiments with Formarnint, one of
the most recent of which is depicted
in the centre of this article.
It should be noted that there is no
duplicate or substitute for Forma-
mint, because Wulfing’s Formarnint
marks the discovery of a new
chemical compound, which is manu-
factured by a patented process and
can only be produced by the firm of
Messrs. A. Wu fing & Co. The
real thing is sold by all Chemists,
in bottles containing 50 tablets. To
prevent substitution, the purchaser
should specify Wulfing’s Formarnint.
(Note. —Any reader of this article who has not yet
tried Formarnint, and would like to do so, is requested
to write to the makers, Messrs. A. Wolfing & Co., 17
Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W., who will be pleased to
send a free sample and an interesting handbook.
Kindly mention The Bulletin when writing, and
enclose two penny stamps towards postage.) -:


Throat & Chest
trouble relieved by
GENUINE
scons
EMULSION
Day after day, week after M
week, year after year, let- * "
ters arrive telling how
To Youth and Age
SCOTT’S brings
strength.
And these letters, from all parts
of the world, provide indisputable
evidence of the health-giving value
of SCOTT’S Emulsion. Thus
Miss Frances J. Kelly
wrote this letter.
“Scott’s Emulsion I cannot praise
too highly. I suffered with my throat
and chest, also I had a cough I could
not get rid of. After the first bottle of
Scott’s Emulsion my throat and chest
were greatly relieved. I wish I had
tried Scott’s before, instead of wasting
money on other preparations.”
Miss Frances J. Kelly, 160,
Dowling Street, Darlinghurst.
30.5.11.
One trial of Scott’s Emulsion will
convince you. That is if you really
get genuine SCOTT’S EMULSION ,
as known by this Trade Mark. /
df
This is not only a Trade Mark.
It is a guarantee of SCOTT
purity, genuineness and
strength; put on the package
so that you may know you
really have got genuine
SCOTT’S EMULSION
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
A MARVELLOUS ADVANCE IN MEDICAL
SCIENCE.
SAMOL,
THE NEW TREATMENT FOR RHEUMATISM,
GOUT, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, Etc.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF OF PAIN.
“SAMOL” is a preparation for the treatment of
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, etc., afford-
ing immediate relief from pain in the above cases, as
also in cases of Neuralgia, Toothache, Sprains and
Burns. It further allays inflammation and irritation
in Eczema, Insect Bites, etc.
When “SAMOL” is applied to a painful part the
pain will be relieved, and repeated application will
bring about a cure in cases for which it is recom-
mended.
“SAMOL” is the discovery of Dr. Scheuble, of
Vienna, and he has received an award from the
Academy of Science of Vienna, and a unique recogni-
tion from the Emperor of Austria for his scientific
skill.
“SAMOL” is sold at 1/6, 3/9 and 6/- per tube,
and can be ordered through all chemists, or obtained
post free direct from the Wholesale Agent, H. A.
Goddard, No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street,
Brisbane; or branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82
Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-16 Safe Deposit Buildings,
Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings,
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings,
Wellesley Street East, Auckland. [2
Allcock's
PIASTERS
A UNIVERSAL REMEDY
For Pains in (he Back.
Equally effective for all sorts
of aches and pains, the result
of taking cold, over-exertion
or strain.
Constipation, Biliousness, indigestion, etc
Brandrethts Pills
ENTIRELY VEGETABLE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO.,
Birkenhead, ENGLAND.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS
MAmmiCC Produce an Absolutely
MAUmNLO Perfect Light.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons.
ONE OF MANY TESTIMONIALS:—
gf
t Copy.]
18 Hunter Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
November 28, 1911-
Dear Sirs,—l am writing to let you know
how pleased I am, with the Aerogen os
Machine, which was installed at my tome
(“Clydesdale") about three months ago.
Everything has been most satisfaction y,
the machine proving very simple to tv or - ,
and also very economical. The light is
excellent, both for ordinary use m the
house and for the billiard table. 1 s
be only too glad to personally recommen
it to anyone.
Yours truly,
(Sad.) GEORGE G. KISS.
Residence of Geo. G. Kiss, Esq.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with best results.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
CAN BE USED WITH UPRIGHT OR INVERTED BURNERS.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a
clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS:
Sydney: Aerogen Gas Machine Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Commerce Buildings, Ash Street (behind Equitable Building).
Melbourne: Aerogen Gas Machine Co. Pty., Ltd.
133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : Alcock & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON : W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE: Alfred Shaw Ltd.
The Australian
Arrol-Johnston
Specially Designed.
AN Australian pup, from the famous breed of
“ 15-9 ” Arrol-Johnstons that won the team
award in the 19 \\ International Light Car
Race, and obtained record orders from H.M. War
Office for cross-country work*
a
Australian agents Sydney? Eyes & Crowie, Ltd.;
ADELAIDE: Murray Aunger, Ltd.; BRISBANE: Howard Cycle
& Motor Co.; PERTH: Perth Motor House ; HOBART: H. C.
Heathorn & Co.; MELBOURNE: Essendon Motor Garage, Moonee
Ponds.
gf
HERE IS A SUQQESTION.
One that you will recognise as timely.
BUY
ABERDEEN RUGS
Right through the Commonwealth both Horse and Cow Rugs are
now wanted. Every buyer who knows a good rug gets the
“Aberdeen” brand, for it is much superior to any of the old-
fashioned kind.
The fastenings are a valuable and important improvement, and embody both simplicity and
efficiency, and, combined with the perfect workmanship and the same standard quality canvas, makes
the perfect rug.
EVERY GOOD STOREKEEPER and SADDLER STOCK
“ABERDEEN” HORSE and COW RUGS.
Smith, Copeland & Co., Ltd.,
Agents :
MELBOURNE—J. Bartram
BRISBANE—H. I. H. Ross.
ADELAIDE—C. Whiting &
& Son Ltd.
Handcock.
204-6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOBART—Seabrook & Neal.
PERTH, W.A. —A. Balharry.
FREE
C°^ Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at 6d,
per pacivet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 6s., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list oi
jewellery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent's Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. 126 ■*» ST » SYDNEY.
ƒ
F
R
E
E
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
SYDNEY.
LONDON AGENCY,
44 Castlereagh Street,
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
“DINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
/
DR. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“PYROID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants. Melbourne and Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
McD.: We hate that slovenly kind of per-
sonal par which runs something like this: “Born in
Ireland in 1853, he broke his leg at the age of ten,
but afterwards married Jane Smith." Can’t you
make these unconnected facts stand up
instead of leaning them against each other like
a dried fish loafing against an oil-painting?
Jamble: Over-long; and we don't like helping our-
selves to butter Tarra: Senior’s, 250 George-
street, Sydney. .. .Jimmy Crow: Watched it care-
fully for two days, but failed to detect the joke.. . .
Wyn de Wiff: Mike Howe gag old as unpaid bills;
funeral story basketed on suspicion Boko:
You’ve got a nerve to send that yarn as original....
Bellerive: Herewith “The Drunkard”:—-
A fierce and tattered drunkard
Raised a chair above his head
Raved and vowed to number
His frail wife with the Dead
Don’t kill me Jack she pleaded
When the ruffian with a frown
Restrained from brutal murder
And dropped the weapon down
Then he clasped her to his bosom
And tears from his eyes did start
Her love aroused old memories
Which touched the drunkard’s heart.
.. . . E.M.G.: It is one of those fine themes that re-
quire skilful handling. You have scored an honest
try.. ..John S.: Majestic poem which treads heavily
on its own feet. .. .X.Y.Z.: Very labored. It will
duly aeroplane back to you on the two penny stamps.
....Prospect: Very poor indeed.... M. 1. Grant:
Yes, but you don’t wail anything that we can get
hold of. You should try to groan a fact or two in-
stead of just howling at large.... M.C.: Ashamed
to say we don’t know him. But here’s part of your
poem, anyway:—
JANSEN ON THE RIVERINA.
He’s been to Bolder City and to Dawson
And felt the cold much keener
He travelled along with Jimmy Lawson
In the land of Riverina.
He climbed its hills and mountains
And saw its valleys green
Beside some sparkling fountain
He has camped and read The Bulletin.
It was down the Murambidgee
I met him years ago
Shearing sheep that were rough and ridgey
With a boy named—(Mick Angelo, or some such
name).
Hereabouts we desist, the poem having degenerated
into a personal advertisement. (P.S.—The adver-
tising department is on the ground floor, down the
stairs to your right.)....11.T. (V.): Encouraging
stuff, but nothing quite good enough in this batch.
“A Song” gets nearest, and there is promise in
“Gippsland.”. . . .P.C.C.: If you try again, try prose.
Don’t on any account versify.... L.D.: “If unsuit-
able, please DON’T return to my address.” Down
on your knees, guilty wretch, and thank Heaven
that the basket swallows a multitude of sins!... .
Grafter: Exceedingly du11... .N.S.H.: They fall flat
in a cultured way... T.R.P.: Thanks. Hardly enough
in it. Glad to consider other items. .. . A.A.8.: Got
as far as verse 15 then turned back for a drink.
There will be no cheque. ... P.H.F.: It drifted out
.Joseph II.: She is just the same old Perfect
Girl that every fellow has loved and no fellow has
succeeded in marrying. Lots of girls look like her,
but they change. Heavens! how they change! (In
disposition that is to say.) ... .Jonah: Rejected with
respect and good wishes. You were ever an unlucky
fellow Allan D.: You can’t pass those shuffling
cabhorses off as steeplechasers.. .E.H.: Raw material
of a Lawson story in it. ...M.C.: N 0... .D.E.D.:
Humorous story made us remember the household
bills and wonder gloomily why life was such a h —l
of a bother. That isn’t the effect you aimed at, is
it? Jack P.: Better cable your inspiriting poem
to the cricketers in England... .G.E.M.: Take the
Titanic tribute to the ocean’s marge and cast it
into the waves- It will serve them right... .A.S.K.:
“Perhaps the enclosed may arouse suflicient ire in the
fair sex to make it interesting enough for publica-
tion.” It won’t. The surest way to make a woman
wild is to remark in an offhand way that she has big
feet. But why do you desire to make her wilder
than she is already? Satan: You’re another case
of mistaken identity or something Evoc: Note
your manful intention to go on writing despite dis-
couragement, cheap sneers, etc. There is a fine ring
about your words suggestive of Milton: —
All is not lost —the unconquerable will
And study of revenge, immortal hate
And courage never to submit or yield.
And so on T. Gib-Cat: Streaks of humor plainly
visible, also some good phrases, but the subject is
poor, and you commit the damnable offence of
writing on both sides of the paper.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
8.5. D.: After a great mental struggle, and tom
with conflicting emotions, we chucked your picture
out V. Martyn: Half and half sort of thing—not
good enough and hardly bad enough. Like the freak
who was too big for a dwarf and not tall enough for.
a giant; also, he couldn’t get a job as a living
skeleton or a fat girl Crozier: One ordinary per-
pendicular Jew. Second perpendicular ordinary Jew
is speaking to first vertical Jew about a third
(absent but presumably vertical) Jew. Where does
the laugh come in?... .G.F.F.: The “original joke
about the cow, the school ma’am and the bright kid
has been falling wearily into the basket for the past
15 years J.H.C.: Lunch and policeman joke in-
effective Hobo: Fully appreciate your kindly re-
marks about the paper, but all the same your draw-
ings are terrible. .. .Freshman: You have a whole
conditional purchase of cheek. , That joke was pic-
tured in The Bulletin not long since. You are a
literary fraud, and you can’t; draw A. 8.: Dead
least it, isn’t really dead, but the best
doctors have given up its case. .. .Bosco: Concealing
our sentiments as much as possible, we merely say
that your work presents no redeeming features.
One of the American land seekers has
found himself an Australian hride. She was
one of the smartest tea-maidens in a Collins-
street foodery, and all the exclusive Johnnies
who were in the habit of feeding from her
fair hands gave her handsome presents, and
intimated that they doubted whether they
would ever eat heartily again. The Yankee
person who has deprived them of their idol
intends to return to Australia, after fixing
up his American interests.
“J.” : A woman visitor to Melbourne, who
knows China by sight and smell, remarked
in surprise at the number of mandarin coats
worn here by fashionable women to theatre
and bridge parties. In many Chinese homes
the elaborate wrap is a treasured possession
that outlasts many successive human owners
and many epidemics. When the family dies
out, the coat is always liable to be sold to
someone who knows nothing of its ancient
history. I wonder if the wearers of these
imported coverings ever read about the Lon-
don girl who contracted _ leprosy through
wearing a wig made of Chinese hair?


The best horse is known by the races he wins;
similarly
The best tyre is known by the races it wins.
INDIANAPOLIS MEETING
500 MILES RACE
RUN AT INDIANAPOLIS, U.S.A.
MAY 30, 1912.
WORLD’S RECORD BEATEN
Ist. Fitted with MICH ELI N TYRES
(IN 6 Hrs. 21 Min. 6 Sec.)
SEVEN out of the First EIGHT
Fitted with MICHELIN TYRES.
You may not be the owner of the winning horse
but
You can always own a set of
MICHELIN TYRES
MICHELIN TYRES
Obtainable from All Leading Garages.
asthma cure
ERiMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIUM AULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
f'Ringing for More!
-.yijtiwsiL. ii i ~ a, .i
m
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
v Over 70 years' success, a
For BILIOUSNESS & INDIGESTION
M
9
a
m
m
o
PULL*
CONSTIPATION CONQUERED.
There lies the vital secret where so many diseases and ailments are
concerned — Constipation must be conquered, or normal organic action,
freedom from liver and kidney troubles, and from stomach and bowel
disorders, is not possible.
Cockle’s Pills conquer Constipation of the most stubbornly aggressive
kind; because they strengthen and stimulate and revivify the organs,
which they cleanse and regulate with such consummate ease and efficiency.
The whole system is freed from the wholesale disturbance due to the con-
stipated tendency, from blood impurities, from effete matter, from lurking
disease. Yet Cockle’s Pills act so gently and pleasingly that the most
delicate persons like them.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd,
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Sewer*
Prize Medals^
Works z Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead penal.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
by mating use of
suck a satisfactory
method of cleaning
the teetk as
#
It is pleasant to lcnow tliat you
have polished so nicely those teeth
that show.
It is satisfactory to feel that
your teeth are all properly cared
for —thoroughly cleansed with
this antiseptic dentifrice.
And it leaves such a pleasant
feeling of freshness in the mouth.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
'LINSEED COMPOUND.” Trade Mark of
Kay’s Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
ESTABLISHED 1874,
COUGHS.
es
jungMc
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and elfective.
When purchasing, ask for “ OWBRIDGE’S”
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL, ENGLAND,
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
i
s® t WELL CHOSEN GIFT
Waterman’s
i(ldeaU
Fountain Pen
Cement friendships already formed, and do
a good turn to those you delght to honou>,
by offering, as your glad token of esteem,
the World-renowned Waterman’s Ideal
In 4 Styles—Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6
and upwards; Safety and Pump-Filling.
1 5/- and upwards.
, Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-nnor House, London. England.
m
Big G '
Borated Goldenseal
I Compound m
.'a safe and reliable remedy V
[for treating diseases of ALL
mucous membranes, such as
discharges from thenose,throat
stomach and urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself ? -
with each bottle I
\or mailed on request. I
Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio
U.S.A.
“Coaguline,” “Klinx,” “Ten&sitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.


SCALES ON SCALP
HER HAIR FELL OUT
Tried Hair Washes Without Benefit.
Used Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
In a Few Months Hair Grew Several
Inches. “They-Will Cure Others
as They Cured Me.”
“Some two years ago iny hair began to
fall out, which was caused by scales on the
scalp. I consulted chemists who advised me
to use certain hair washes, etc. These I
tried, but without any benefit. In fact, they
seemed to irritate the scalp. I was advised
by a friend to use Cuticura Ointment but
did not do so at the time, but-purchased a
cake of Cuticura Soap and bathed my head
several times daily in hot water. ' After con-
tinuing for some weeks, the scaly irritation
was completely removed from my head.
“I then wrote for a sample of Cuticura
Ointment. I used that, with a tin purchased
from the chemist, and lam .pleased.to say
that the effect on my hair was simply mar-
velous. In a few months it grew several
inches, and it is now as glossy as when I was
a girl. I still continue to shampoo my hair
with Cuticura Soap weekly, and to use
Cuticura Oiptment on the scalp to prevent
dandruff, etc. I would advise anyone suffer-
ing from scalp disease in any form to give
Cuticura preparations a trial, fully believing
that they will cure others as they cured me.”
(Signed) Mrs. Anne Browne, 136 Frances
St, Leichhardt, Sydnev, N. S. W., Nov.
15, 1910.
For more than a generation Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment have afforded the
speediest and most economical treatment for
itbhing, burning, scaly and bleeding skin and
scalp humours, of young and old. A single set
is often sufficient. Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment are sold throughout the world, but to
those who have suffered much lost hope and
are without faith in any treatment, a liberal
sample of Cuticura Ointment with 32-p.
booklet on the treatment of skin and scalp
troubles will he mailed free, on application.
Address R. Towns & Co , Dept. 4K, Sydney,
N. S. W
An Interesting
Experiment.
II you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered 'in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’
proven efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
gdfgfgdfgdfg
Carters
Kittle
IVER
PILLS.
Your Liver
Is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired— Out of
Sorts —Have No Appetite.
CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will put you rij/ht in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
EAT AND BE
STRON6
To be well and strong you must eat food, and having
eaten it, you must digest it and so turn it into the material
of your own body. You cannot be well if your body is not
properly nourished, and it cannot be nourished if your food
does not digest perfectly. Indigestion (imperfect digestion)
will make you weak and ailing, subject to headaches,
stomach pains—very likely constipation, and certainly
discomfort after eating. Matters do not end there, for the
poisons, formed in your stomach from the stagnant mass of
food, will be drawn into your blood and carried to every
part of your body, thus weakening your system and
rendering you liable to more deadly diseases. Don’t hesitate.
Take Mother Seigel’s Syrup. It so strengthens the stomach
and liver that indigestion becomes impossible, and it
cleanses your system of all impurities.
STRENGTH COMES FROM FOOD
BUT IT MUST BE WELL DIGESTED
My life was a misery. Everything I ate caused me more or less pain
and trouble. I also liad pams in the chest, together with a sense of
great weight and oppression, as well as heartburn, wind, and other
distressing symptoms.
1 tried all sorts of medicines, but with no good results. After a few
days’ use of Mother Seigel’s Syrup I began to feel better. What I ate
began to nourish me instead of causing pain and distress. Six bottles
banished every trace of Indigestion, so that I have not suffered since.” —
From Mrs. McMaton, 21. McDonald Street. Erskinville, N.S.W. 23.3.11.
MOTHER
»
SVRUP
SHARPENS APPETITE. AIDS DIGESTION,
ENSURES GOOD HEALTH.
Choose a “Swan.
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Eountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
“Swan Safety
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
'
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE,
Sold by ail Stationers
Branches. and Jewellers.
15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond St. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/li, 2/9 & 4/6.
titilcretT*
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectuall y
cuts short all
attacks ot
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like afcharm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
P9OA
JSS3
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
SEE
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
BENGER’S POOD Ltd, Otter Works, MANCHESTER,
ENGLAND. ,
Fencer’s Food is sold in Tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere. |
ood
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Briner”: Four little grey whaling steamers, look-
ing like war sharks, popped into Hobson’s Bay early
in June, and, after taking in coal, left for Maonland.
They were the Hawk, Eagle, Whangaroo and Whang-
arei. The two former are only 65 tons, the others
45, yet they came out from Norway under their own
steam. In the hows of each is a harpoon gun; and
attached to the head of each harpoon is a couple of
pounds of gun cotton, whose business it is to explode
when the missile pierces the hide —-said to be some-
times 2ft. thick. The idea is that the whale won’t
then feel too fresh when the boats come along. When
the animal’s soul has departed a perforated and
pointed nozzle is driven into its head, and an oil
pump gets to work. The Hawk and Eagle will use
Campbell Island as a base; the other two will keep
further north. The crews have signed on for two
years, so there should be good prospecting in the
Southern Ocean.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: “Sir,” bleated the vinous-looking cat-
astrophe in human form that had lapelled me, a total
stranger, on the sidewalk, “for the love of Heaven
give me sixpence to get a whisky!” After I had
heard his tale of a recent desperate encounter with
black bottles, and had been handed a word-picture
of the pangs that assail a man suffering a recovery
without the means of breaking it gently, I parted.
But the next time his life required saving at my-'
hands, I grew testy, and roundly charged him with
making a business of it. He admitted it. Nay,
more; he owned that he had never been what you
might call really blithered, and would, in fact, as
lief drink tea as beer any day.. “Fact is, mister,”
he said, “I discovered that nine men out of 10 won’t
look at you if you ask for pennies for bread, but
every man Jack will stop and listen if you put in
a straight, barefaced demand for sixpence for beer.
Two will lecture you, three will confound your in-
fernal impudence, but the other five will part up.
They like your dashed honesty. So I made the tank’s
craving my strong suit. No, sir, I’m no bibber.
Even this comes off.” He laid a finger on his car-
nation nib, and rubbed away a few blossoms. When
he has made a bit more he intends purchasing a
milk run, so he told me.
* * * *
“Snell”: On a list published by the Age setting
forth the odds in favor of the criminal as against
the police, I see that the dog-stealer has the liveliest
chance of escaping detection, the odds on him being
nine to one. It. just happens that I know a profes-
sional dog-stealer by sight. He was pointed out to
me at a fight in the brick jug on Eastern Hill, Mel-
bourne, one night. My informant was the son of a
clergyman, graduating as a “gun,” and the expert
embezzler of faithful hounds looked like a neat-
handed Phyllis in the habiliments of man. “But,
surely,” said I incredulously, “there’s nothing in
dog-pinching as a profession?” “Isn’t there,
though!” said the young “gun.” “Wish I had the
trick of it. But that gooey has a fascination for
tykes. He could wheedle a mastiff through a brick
wall. He’s just got to toot to faithful Tray, and
Tray is his.” “But what are the rewards of his
honest art? Who buys prigged poodles as a steady
trade?” The “gun” grinned at my innocence.
“Garrt!” he said, “you don’t suppose dogs are
duffed for their face value! There’s a bit in it that
way, of course; but mainly Gussie there is special
dog-stealer to the profession, and the cracks pay
him well. When a burglar wants an inconvenient
dog removed, Gussie beguiles the honest watchdog
from home, and catches his fee like a gent. If he
can’t steal the dog he hangs round and entertains
him while the cracks clean up the home. It’s easy
to Gussie, and his terms are spot cash.”
* * * *
“Iyles I.”: Does advertising pay? Well, a gentle-
man who has been doing the N.S.W. country districts
says it does. He called on Yass recently, and re-
marked that he was * the advance agent for
a big circus due there within a few days. He.
ordered loaves of bread by the barrowful, and other
provender by the hundredweight, not to mention
various delicacies for the somersaulting elephant and
the three-card bear. Next he got out an artistic
programme for the local season. It was bubbling over
with blank spaces, whereon, for, a consideration, the
business men of the town were cajoled into advertis-
ing their wares. The agent then collected his half-
sov. or so from each victim —and struck out for the
skyline. He stepped across the Drylongago River and
the Daddylonglegs Creek, and hasn’t been seen since.
Possibly he has been devoured by the somersaulting
elephant.
“Don Q.”: Uncle Sam having tried State control
in the construction of the Panama Canal, and having
made such a good job of it, is preparing to experi-
ment in, some other directions. He reckons the. next
place to show Private Enterprise how to do it is in the
parcel post system, which the said Private Enterprise
operates to the great detriment of the public. He
reckons that with a charge of ss. 6d. for an lllb.
parcel (to quote one price) he will knock P.E. clean
off the ground floor. What sort of a price must
P.E. be charging? In Australia, the Government
will carry an lllb. package for 3s. within one State,
or 4s. beyond a State. In England the speetre at
the rich man’s feast does the same job for lid., and
in Germany for a mere sprat. Samuel also has his
■optic meditatively glued on the telephone systetns
run by Private Enterprise, and calculates that he
could give as good a service for a. heap sight less
than £22 10s. per annum per subscriber. In fact,
the man who guesses he is the cutest circumstance
on record is beginning to allow that it is time he
got sense.
THE DEAD FINISH OF ISAAC NOSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The publicity campaign which is being carried on
in New York City in connection with the “men and
religion” movement, is evolving widespread comment
from the press. The advertising is placed upon the
sporting page.—News item.
’Tis the voice of the Barwon,
I hear him complain:—
Wot’s this in the Sport?
’Ave I got ’em again?
W’y, strike me! The papers
Is barmy—fair barmy I
’Ere’s the gallops all given, as sure as I’m livin’,
alongside the work of the blanky Salv’army!
’Ere ! Abey, look ’ere !
’Ere’s a “Service of Song,
For Men Only”—that’s queer!
’Ullo ! Sandfly’s gone wrong !. ...
’Ooray ! That’s a knock
Fer the public—a bosker !. .. .
Wot’s this?....km I dreamin’—“Poor Sinners are
streamin’ to kneel at the bones and the blood of
St. Oscar!”
W T ot the ’ell does it mean?. . . .
Where’s the weights for the Cup ?
’Ere we are !... . ’Ere’s Malt Queen —
’Oly Smoke! They’ve scratched Krupp !
Wot’s been given to Blink ?.,.'.
Nine stone-two ? W’y, by Hookey !. ...
Look ’ere! ’Ere’s another! —“Dear, Misguided
Brother; be sure you hear Bettstein, the Con-
verted Bookie!”
Oh, chase me ! it’s awful!....
They’re cornin’ the double !. .. .
“To Bet is Unlawful”—
“Young Man, What's the Trouble?”....
This ain’t no clean pertater,
“Fine Riding by Slater.”
Well, strike me ’arf dumb, too! if that’s wot we’ve
come to —w’y, give ’em their blankety Totali-
sator 1
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Rexophone
h
'r'jjjg handsome strongty-
BUILX INSTRUMENT is the most
wonderful value ever offered.
Model A SOUND BOX, Toud
and Clear. MOTOR, Strong
and Substantial, plays twelve
inch record. Targe FLOWED
HORN, 16-inch Bell, Nickel-
plated Tapering Tone Arm.
sPolished Walnut Finish Cabi-
net, 11 xll x 5 Vi inches.
fg
hrrmjr^K.i.iitmU
Is remarkable for the VOLUME.
BRIEUANCYand CLEARANCE
of its reproduction. REAL OAK
CABINET, x 14 Vi x 7 in.
Strong', Reliable MOTO R,
plays twelve inch record.
Large FLOWER HORN,
21-iuch Bell. Nickel-plated
Tapering Tone Arm with
Swan Neck. REXOPHONE
SOUND BOX. Model B.
dfgdfg
[NewKent Rexophonel
Is a HIGH-CIyASS SOUND RE-
PRODUCING INSTRUMENT
at a Moderate Price.
Polished OAK CABINET. 16 x
16 x in. with hinge
lid. REXOPHONE
MOTOR, plays two 12 in.
records. Targe FTOWER
HORN, inch Bell.
Nickel-plated Tapering
(Tone Arm with Swan
Neck REXOHONE
SOUND BOX, Model C, with rubber back.
fgfg
handsome, strong, reli-
able. wonderful tone.
Fine OAK CABINET, 16 x 16 x
7)4 in. with hinged
lid. REXOPHONE
MOTOR 12-inch Turn-
table, plays two 12-in.
records. Largest Size
Tapering Tone Arm
with Swan Neck,
24 inch FLO W E R
HORN. REX’PHONE
SOUND BOX. Model
C, with rubber back.
81
OMHISBi
POWERFUL DOUBLE
SPRING REXOPHONE
MOTOR, plays four 12-inch
records. 12-in. Turntable.
Handsome DARK OAK
CABINET, 16 x 16 x 8%
inches Large FLOWER
HORN, 26-inch Bell.
Largest size Tapering
Tone Arm with Swan
Neck. REXOPHONE
SOUND BOX. Model C,
with rubber back.
dfg
Has the VOLUME and TONE of a
HORN TYPE INSTRUMENT,
with all the advantages of the
Cabinet Type. Fine OAK
CABINET, 15 x 13 x inches
Double Doors. Strong, Reli-
able MOTOR, plays 12-in. re-
cord. Nickel-plated Tapering
Tone Arm. REXOPHONE
Model A SOUND .BOX.
Ask for complete illustrated catalogue,
son & Macdonald, Druitt St., Sydney;
Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne; Wills
7 Quadrant, Launceston; W. Cornell i
Grenfell St., Adelaide; Phonograph and
'"writer Co., Central Arcade, Perth. ■
Jack-
G. W.
& Co.,
is Son,
Type-
OXYGEN.
EXTENSIVE works are at present under construc-
tion near Sydney for the production of Oxygen
by the Liquid Air Process. The whole of this plant
has been supplied by the BRITISH OXYGEN COM-
PANY LTD., Westminster, London, which possesses
all the British and Colonial rights of the Linde
patents for this process, and has established Oxygen
Works in the principal manufacturing cities of the
United Kingdom. , , .
In a few weeks this plant will be producing
Oxygen in large quantities of unsurpassed purity,
suitable for medical, laboratory and all industrial
purposes, at extremely moderate rates.
Complete Outfits are stocked of the most up-to-
date type .for welding and cutting steel and other
metals'by the Oxy-Acetylene process.
Agents— FYVlE (Sl STEWART,
362 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
and 225 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Always
Welcome
The Edison Phonograph is an inexhaustible
source of entertainment. It is always wel-
come in every home. The more you hear it
the more you like it. Ever ready to amuse
and entertain just one individual or the
whole family at a moment’s notice, and to
cease when desired.
Get one for your home. Consider this
suggestion to-night in your home. Talk to
your wife about it. Then go to-morrow to
the nearest Edison dealer and hear the Edison
Phonograph nlav some of the new Edison
Records. Write us direct if you do not
know the address, and we will tell you and
send lists of Phonographs, and also complete
catalogue of Edison Records, which has just
been received from the printer.
THE “NIGHT BIRDS.”
The “Blue Danube” Waltz, which is being
so successfully featured at the Criterion
Theatre, is obtainable on Amberol Record
No. 481, by the American Standard Orches-
tra, also No. 49, sung by the Knickerbocker
Quartette, and on Standard Record No. 510
by the Edison Symphony Orchestra.
“Everv Little Movement,” also from the
“Night Birds,” is obtainable on Amberol Re-
cord No. 582, sung by Marie Narelle and
Frederick Potter, and on Standard Record
No. 10,512, sung by Marie Narelle and Mary
Jordan.
The EDISON
Phonograph
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
11
Congo
EACH roll of Congo roofing is a yard wide and
7Z feet long. It can be cut and trimmed
easily with a knife.
To make a roof with it, simply unroll the roof-
ing and nail it down, cementing the laps firmly
together with the adhesive cement which we supply
free. We supply the nails and tin caps free also.
With each roll goes a ten-year Surety Bond Guar-
antee. Back of the guarantee stands the Royal
Exchange Assurance of London.
Sample free on request.
Congo Damp Course is a waterproof,
antiseptlcTfelt to be laid against the foundation walls
on the outside to protect them against dampness and
vermin. Use it to insure having a dry cellar. The
expc trifling.
G. C. DELMAR, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australasian Representative for
“Congo.”
Aft Calendar Competition.
THREE PRIZES
are offered by Messrs, Wood, Coffill & Company Ltd,,
BXO-12 George Street, Sydney, for the three designs best
suited for the decoration of an Australian Art Calendar,
Judges:
W. LISTER LISTER, Esq., President Royal Art Society.
fULIAN ASHTON, Esq., President Australian Society of Artists.
ARTHUR C. J. WOOD, Esq.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
25 Guineas
lO Guineas
5 Guineas
Experiments, on
Human Beings
have proved the
body - building
power of Bovril
to be from 10 to
20 times the
amount taken*
#,
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/0.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/- Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
HEALTH AND
STRENGTH SERIES,
fully illustrated: —Ring-
craft (by Jim Driscoll),
1/4; Swimming (Jappy
Wolfe), 1/4; Massage
and Training, 1/4; Prac-
tical Cricketer (Craw-
ford), 1/4; Scientific
Boxing (Tommy Burns),
3/3; Weight-Lifting (Sax-
on), 1/4; Lawn Tennis
(Ritchie), 1/4; Curative
Exercises for Indigestion,
1/4 ; for Constipation.
1/4 ; Correct Breathing.
1/4 ; Muscles of the
Body, 1/4 ; Way to Live
(Hackenschmidt), 3/3 ;
Race Walking, 1/4 ; Run-
ning | (Shrubb), 3/3 ;
Wrestling, 1/4 ; Science
of Wrestling (Hacken-
schmidt V 3/3.
DC - AND ANY BOOK
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous .
a
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illusti at ion). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T w o - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d. ;
post free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices
tatalogues
FREE.
include postage to any address.
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE ■
dfg
,Do You Long for a Full Moustache?
The young man who
has not a full mous-
tache is seriously
handicapping himself.
Grow a strong mous-
m—ii tache and you retain
the confidence of those with whom you are in contact or doing business.
“Capillarine,” when used regularly, never fails to produce a handsome manly
moustache. It has been tested for 30 years without failure. Surely YOU would
not doubt it! Get a jar. . , .
PRICCIO/6 JAR, Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List, Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER— worn at night—shapes the
moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free.
S-x n ML t tT' P A TTWir W 654 George Street, Sydney
C I 'LI &L .A.l X • Established 30 Years.
df
gd
fgd
fgf
g
This “Vibrator”
can be affixed to any household faucet,
and immediately the water is turned on
you apply the Vibrator Arm to where
your trouble or complaint is—and you
get a gentle, exquisite vibration. No
other Vibrator gives such a gentle,
soothing, perfect vibration as this
simple and effective attachment. Nerve
Troubles, Debility, Deafness, Head-
ache, and Liver Troubles are speedily
Relieved and Cured. Write for new
booklet—free to any address.
JERDAN’S
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET
(Facing: Royal Hotel), SYDNEY
(StplcbHAtfCl
brewed rROM
MAI JED BARLEY
WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGARS
TRIAL
Oa*'
Almost everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar smoking popular in Australia.
My "FREE CIGARS” TRIAL is this:
I’ll send you 100 of any of the following Cigars,
and you can smoke five or six of them. If you
then are not satisfied, send the lemainder back,
and I’ll refund your money in full, without any
charge for those you’ve smoked.
IMPERIALS ... 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS ... - 37/6
DIADEMAS ... 22/6 „
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6
INFANTAS ••• 17/6
LEVUCAS... ••• 15/6
Remit .amount when ordering, and state
color (strength) you desire.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
Illustrated descriptive booklet will he
mailed free to any address.
MAKE £4O A MONTH
Be Your Own Boss
If you are making less than ten pounds a
week you should write us to-day. We can help
you to wealth and independence hy our plan.
You can work when you please, where you please,
always have money and the means of making
barrels more of it. .
HOW WOULD YOU LIKE to be able to
start out from home on a combined business and
pleasure trip, stay at the best hotels and live like
a lord, and clean up £2 every day? Work at
fairs, amusement places, crowded street corners,
manufacturing institutions, anywhere and svery-
where, ten minutes' walk from home or on the
other side of the globe. Just set a machine up
any place you happen to select, and clean up
£2 above operating expenses.
MY PROPOSITION is the WONDERFUL NEW
CAMERA with which you can take and instantly
develop six entirely different kinds of pictures.
Including Buttons, Post Cards, and four styles of Tin-
type Pictures. This remarkable invention takes lifty
pictures an hour and requires no experience whatever.
Every man. woman and child in the world wants
pictures, and each sale that you make advertises,sour
Camera and makes more sales 1 for
you.
I want to make you a
special proposition on
this Camera together
with a Tripod and a
complete outfit, ready
to take 100 beautiful
sure-to-please pictures,
land if you will write me
to-day, I will send you
by return mall full in-
.formation regarding this
wonueriul monev-maker, and make you a special lib.
era! offer. Don't delay, but write me to-day.
f
L. liASCEM/E, Msrr., 627 W. 43d St..
Dept. 328. N.Y.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
f*“‘PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag" nts for Australia.


Shipping,
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. * Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION. AMIDSHIPS,
CON V EItTED INTO VJCIIY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB k £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 I os. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA. ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cahines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney*.
Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OE
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
on Country Lands, for 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS on most liberal terms.
on City an I Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. If. DAVIES, Secretary.
|ank of ||ortli (lueensianri
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves . . 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Undue Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: X QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY k WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |]eui Z ea^an d.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GE0KGE STREET,
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... , 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
..on Australia, Nest Zea-
land, Kiji, Great Bri-
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts' all other usual BanUini.
at Interest for
fixed, periods, and
business.
the;
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act-)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,19S»34'4
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Svtlnev.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, EX-
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. II.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq ; Frank N. Yauwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Aet 1SG3.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £SOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up’ . . . . . . 413,588 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Direstors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the~-rate-of 4 per,-cent, per annum; 2
years and over, at the rate of 4J per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping;.
N.D.L.
N ord D eutscher I_vloy d
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
Fares to London: 1., £66 ; 11., £3B/10/-; 111., £l5 to £l9
Fares to London: Return—l., £99; 11., £57/15/-;
111., £27, £34/4/-
Return Ticket avnilable for Return via Cape of
Good Hope per Holt’s Blue Funnel Line.
Ist Class, £88; 2nd Class, £66.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from
Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea.
Twin-screw Steamers.
lor Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOU MANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & D Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERM.EYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MIJECKE A CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI A CO., Perth and Fremantle :
IIIOS. BROWN A SONS, Ltd., Brisbane A Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE .
Ail Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient lane—£llo (First-class each way);
£B2 (Second-class Orient).
Saloon Return Tickets to Africa interchangeable
with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line.
Third-class Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with P. and O. Branch Line.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, A'C., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
s.s. COOMA,
S.S. BOMB ALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows:
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for. CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYAN (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous Ilichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trips.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnanibool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
’ HOWARD SMITH COY., LTD.,
, Offices at all Ports.
£ Winter Tours to
the Pacific Isles.
A CRUISE TO THE SOUTH SEAS at the
present time of the year is both delightful
and full of interest, and a trip in one of the
Burns, Philp Line of Island Steamers will take you
away from the rigors of Winter to the more con-
genial climes of the Tropics.
Send for our illustrated booklet describing Tours
occupying from 21 to 52 days at a cost of from ,£5
to £25.
M ' i
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney-
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
established
1817.
Paid-up Capital -
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Norrnand MacLaurin, Ivt.
M.L.C., President.
ģ
£3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
Richard Binnie, Esq. £S ’ 085 ’ 000
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas 'Buck-land, Esq.
Auditors: William Harrington
Palmer,
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellajy'Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
I The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, O.M.G., M.L.C.
Esq.; Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office-George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United
Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South
America, Honolulu, and the West. Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
•Capital Paid-up . . . . ..£1,500,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . 1,500,000
Reserve Capital . . . . . . 1,500,000
£4,500,000
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen. Esq .. .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
r ... General Manager:. T. A. Dibbs. .
j Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
J Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. SOutah.
Accountant: AAL R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: AV. C. B. Tiley, AV. H. Piniiey.
London OfH.ce: 13 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South AA'ales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . . . £532,984 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 159,987 0 0
Reserve Fjund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
£769,471 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~~
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Gannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEFNSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the AA'orld.
The Colonial Mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOl!
Alutual Life .Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without. Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head. Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,2.29.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberalßonuses., equitably distributed.'
Chief Office for Sew South AVales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lion, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith- K..C., ALP,.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
A.U.S.N.Go. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS
T o CAIRNS (Queensland) and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
Special attention is drawn to the opportunity of
enjoying a Holiday during the Winter Season at
places where the climate is mild and the scenery
beautiful. The services are performed by the follow-
ing steamships, fitted with all facilities for the com-
fort of, Tourists.
TO CAIRNS EVERY TUESDAY—
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA, ” 6500 Tens
T.S.S. “ WYANDRA,” 4500 Tens
and other well-known steamers, the round trip from
Sydney occupying 20 days.
TO LAUTOKA, SUVA AND LEVUKA EVERY
FOUR WEEKS—
T.S.S. “LEVUKA,” 6500 Tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
The round trip occupying three weeks.
For sailing dates, etc., see Daily Papers.
Further particulars on application to—
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
S.s. Kyarra (7000 tons),
July 0 and August 15-
Wireless Telegraphy.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports. )
BRISBANE
MACKAV
TOWNSVJLLE I S.S.'lnnamincka, July 6.
And Ports >torrh to Oairns. )
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, wliicli can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL St CO., LTD.,
Agents. G BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
'j S.S. Gran tala, June 29
(Wireless Telegraphy).
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-RED ’’ EOUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CAN A]) A or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
July 23
Aug. 20
Sept. 17
Oct. 15
Nov. 12
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 25!) George Street, Sydney.
F. H.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
* T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE..
12,600 tons. T. PRISKE, Commander.
Will be despatched from :
BRISBANE about July 20 I MELBOURNE about July 27
SYDNEY ~ July 24 I ADELAIDE „ July 30
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berths cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation comprised of
two- and four-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships. Well-lighted and ventilated cabins
and spacious decks. Third-class passengers supplied
with fresh provisions from cool chamber throughout
the voyage. Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Elec-
tric light throughout.
*Fitted with Wireless.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. .. £4O. £l3 13s. to £2O.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To tie followed by the
T.S.S. Somerset, leaving Sydney about August 20.
*T.S.S. Argyllshire, leaving Sydney about Sept. 17.
For further information see Illustrated Books,
Pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne and Newcastle.
ELDER. SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
PI. JONES & CO.. LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
ƒ
South Sea
- .. and . . .
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS 1
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
•T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, JULY 16.
:|! T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, AUGUST 13.
*Fitted with Wireless.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
ington), *R.M.S. Aorangi, July 13. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.S.
Manuka, August 6, arriving Sydney, August 20.
There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RATATEA and TAHITI. *“Talune,” July 2.
(“Maheno,” from Sydney, June 26, connects.)
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation (o the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE Australian .Magazine—TllE 'LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chesc complaints.


TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Garden of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO
UNITED STATES INLAND POINTS, also GREAT
URTTAIN and EUROPE, and AROUND-1 HE-VVORLU
TOURS IN WITH SUEZ AND CAPE
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, yiz-r
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, July 13.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, August 10.
S.S. MO AN A, from Sydney, Sept. 7.
Sailings, every 28 days.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
FULL PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable
at:
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
'EORGE HOTEL,
• St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
BRISBANE VISITORS.
E»e HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Table. JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
QUEENSLAND,
The V/onderiand of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
. T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
fgdfg
GUARD YOUR HOME AGAINST DISEASE.
Use HvcoL 18-20 times stronger than Carbolic Acid, and f
Non- poisonous. GET IT NOW.
N.S.W. Agents: POTTS 8 CO., 163 George Street, Sydney.
the MQST PQWERFuI
• DISINFECTANT-
Tuto&trop
k^z ET oR
takes 12 seconds to strop and is as easy to clean.
There is nothing to take apart, you cannot strop
it wrongly, and it will give you the same smooth
velvet shave every morning of the year.
■ Standard Set. .
In handsome velvet-lined
leather-covered case, as illus-
trated. Contains quadruple
silver-plated self-stropping
razor, one dozen blades, and
first quality horsehide strop, complete.
Price in Australia, 22/0
Price in New Zealand, 25-
Of all High-class Dealers
. throughout the World.
Illustrated Description Free.
Sole Depdt for Australasia:
Partridge, Abercromby, Ltd.,
York Chambers,
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 1003.
fgdfg
Australians Abroad Series
No. 5 . . . New York
IN London (Aust.) Made to Measure
Clothes, the world's highest tailor-
ing ideals find expression. Their
' ■ wearers, wherever business or
pleasure may take them, invari-
ably rank first amongst the world's well
groomed.
Our illustration shows a London dressed
Australian viewing the sky-scraping won-
ders of New York in the company of an
American friend.
In Your Winter Suit be Sure You Get
Full Satisfaction in Fabric, Style,
Workmanship and Fit-Let the London
tailor it and this is Guaranteed you.
CLOTHES the London tailors for you are made with scrupulous
care —fashioned from honest fabrics, and made to fit and hold
their shape by conscientious methods. The result is satisfac-
tion, and, knowing that, we guarantee it.
The London Guarantee is the last word on London Tailoring
excellence. Before we put scissors to cloth, the London Patron knows
that the Suit will be precisely as he wants it —that it must fill his every
requirement or he pays us not at all.
Test the London Service —order a Londonised Made to Measure Suit.
xwafm&fcies,,,
Jzta
Opposite tHe G.P.0., MELBOURNE-.
£5504
I
A
/
7
We mofce owr Clothes Pictures COME TRUE on Your Back.
Write for Patterns of 63/- Suits
Tailored to Order.
These we post free on request, and with them send a
Measurement Form and a Copy of the London Catalogue.
A NEW OVERCOAT CATALOGUE
ALSO FREE ON REQUEST. '


Get Rid of
Bronchitis
BY USING
ANGiek@mulsioN
Of Chemists, 13, 2/9 and 4/6.
The combined healing and strengthening properties of this
remedy make it unequalled in bronchitis and all catarrhal
affections of throat and lungs. For upwards of twenty years
Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by the medical
profession and used in the hospitals. It is the standard
approved remedy for colds,' coughs, bronchitis, and all throat
and chest affections.
Send,for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper,
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., 7 Barrack St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
dg
“OSMAN” PYJAMAS
7/6 THE SUIT; 3 SUITS FOR 21/-
POST FREE.
The Quality of “OSMAN” Flan-
nelette and FINNEY’S reputation
for dependability is a combination as
solid as the Rock of Gibraltar.
Electrically equipped workrooms,
expert bands, a keen desire to please,
and years of knowing how. have pro-
duced, in these “OSMAN” Pyjamas,
the finest value in Australia
WHERE SHALL WE POST YOURS?
UP* __ __ The Temple of
M* 1111 O Men’s Fashions,
Brisbane, Queensland.
IN BANANA LAND
“N. Peck”: Here’s a coincidence. During
the “general” strike, Coyne, the leader, issued
food coupons, and called on union and other
sympathisers to see that funds were provided
to honor them. Then I came across this in
an ancient law-book: —
Coyne and Livery : The name given in Ireland to
an assumed right of the Anglo-Irish nobles to estab-
lish themselves and retainers free of cost on their
tenant’s estates, and any similar practice. The first
term signifies the exacting of food for men.
So it appears that J. Harry Coyne was
merely following the ancient practice from
which his name was derived.
Some South Australians propose to tackle
wheat-growing on the Dee River in Central
Queensland. The Dee is the watercourse on
which Mount Morgan huddles. The Dawson
Valley railroad was last heard of wandering
down that way towards the coalfield, but the
railway has got more or less mislaid, and it
is suspected of being a sort of lost iron child
sleeping out in the bush without sufficient
clothing, and an expedition is away looking
for it. The wheat men think that the Dee
waters will help their crops, but the big
mining co.’s chlorination works don’t improve
these waters. Also, they rely on the rail-
way—if it hasn’t died of hunger in the bush.
CooktoWn distinguished itself the other
day by holding a great banana-wolfing con-
test, wherein Michael Feinn, the local cham-
pion, was knocked out by a ceriain Saxby.
hitherto unknown to fame. Feinn, puffed
up with vainglory, gave Saxby a start of six
bananas, and was finally beaten by one. Ac-
cording to the Cooktown press, there are
grave suspicions of foul play, allegations
being not infrequent that Feinn was ho-
cussed with huge green bananas of unfair
size, whereby he was so embarrassed in “com-
ing up the straight” that Saxby, whose ban-
anas were of normal size, “waltzed in a
winner.” Cooktown has not been so excited
since the Endeavor was beached there.
Exactly 50 years ago John Connolly and
Michael Power sallied out from the coast and
founded the township! of Gayndah. No town
has seen more of the ups and downs of pion-
eering life. A tearing, swearing village in
its infancy, it forged until it came to
be regarded as the capital of the great sheep
country of the Upper Burnett. Then the
sheep industry shifted west, and Gayndah
went to sleep for over 30 years, until a rail-
way chanced alone the other day, opening up
possibilities, and incidentally
■yfjgj&lng the almost dead and buried Burnett
metropolis. To-day the old town is going
ahead fast, and Toowoomba may expect a
rival in the near future.
Queensland, with or without its amended
Liquor Bill, is on the highway to become
one of the most temperate countries in the
world. In 1885, Auditor-General Drew re-
ported that in the previous year the average
Queenslander had poured 25£ gallons of
liquor, or £l3 12s. of coin, down his
throat. In 1911, the average ran down to
Ilf gallons, or £3 7s. per head. It is
doubtful if any other State in the world
has put the peg in to such an extent in
the time.
A Commission having been appointed to
view the prickly-pear curse fore and aft, just
as though it hadn’t been viewed fore and aft
a million times already, the cockies in one
of the threatened districts met the other day
to knock their ideas into shape. Spraying
the pest was voted no good, and digging it
out was too big a job. So the meeting
was ripe for an excuse to just let things
slide. _ The ingenious man of the crowd then
supplied what was wanting. “Where would
any of us ha’ been,” he asked, “if it hadn’t
been for the pear last drought! Let it alone,
I say—it will help us next time!” Also,
since many a. cocky fed his familv and him-
self during that drought on pumpkin and
goat, this paper puts it to him that it is an
obviohs waste of time to breed anything ex-
cept pumpkin and goat.
THE RECRUIT.
At a meeting of unemployed in Hyde Park 40 men volunteered to assist in the work of unloading
food cargoes. Their terms arc 35/- a week.
SHIP OWNER: “My friend , Mr. Poverty!"
“Pol”: Why does ' Disrby Denham persist-
ently run up the Union Jack at various coun-
try school functions, where flag-hoisting is
part of the biz? Is there no such thing as
an Australian flag anywhere?
In Senior Police Magistrate Ranking, who
died a few days ago, Queensland lost a valu-
able official. Ranking came from Hastings
(England), and put in a few of his early
years on Cressbrook, with D. C. McConnell.
Subsequently he plunged into the sugar in-
dustry on the Logan, where he gained little
cash and much experience. He afterwards
entered the Public Service and discharged
the duties of Police Magistrate in fully half a
dozen plapfjk, always with tact and effici-
ency. Ranking also served on a number of
Commissions, one of the latest being the
famous Commission of Inquiry into the work-
ing of the Liquor Laws of Maoriland,
wherein his impartial, level-headed findings
intensely irritated Mr. and Mrs. Wowser,
without pleasing Mr. and Mrs. Bung, and
Miss Bung and Baby Bung.
The Debtor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The debtor is a diner who fares upon the best;
He travels by the liner from gaudy East to West;
He wears a pallid waistcoat, he hath a shining face,
You gaze upon his phizog. and find it full of Grace.’
The debtor is a gallant who meets you with a smile;
Not his the ways of lenders—a genus full of guile :
Ilis paunch is often portly, his cheek is often vast:
And if you want his Future you’ll find it in his Past.
The debtor’s coat is spotless, his hat is often new,
What time the lender trudgeth in garb of seedy blue ;
When men who lend out money are mown by Ruin’s
scythe,
The debtor stands unshaken—his bosom’s lord is
blithe.
The debtor is a diner when lenders go without;
Ilis hopes are always vernal, his fears are up the
spout;
’Tis not his borrowings harass or rob his soul of
peace—-
No, No! He’s only worried when borrowings must
cease.
The dun who bites the debtor, a craven lout is he;
His boots are often holey, his pants of low degree ;
His step is never jaunty; his eye is never clear;
He seldom hath the solace of gaiety and beer.
He scowleth and he growleth when squand’rers gaily
dine;
He grudgeth them such trifles as raiment superfine ;
But debt sleeps on serenely in comfy feather bed,
The debtor is a diner, and his table’s ever spread.
The debtor is a diner, the dun a hungry slave;
The creditor a whiner from cradle to the grave;
The man who owes the money shall see the lender
toil
To make his days be sunny and find him corn and oil;
When primal dawn was waking and Life was in the
bud;
When earliest spring was breaking in fever through
the blood,
Then rolled the mighty mandate above Creation’s
span—
“ The dun is but a bandit; the debtor is the man!”
QUEENSLAND.
E. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 22, 1912.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
At time of writing the local walking dele-
gate of the Australian Union of Superfluous
Governors was still absent from the city, but
I haven’t heard that any anxiety had been
occasioned thereby. He will not be lost.
Kings have been lost, but not Governors.
North Queensland is plunged in gloom.
Bishop Frodshapa has had to resign his see,
owing to ill-health. He fought hard for Aus-
tralian Church autonomy, during his visit
to England, but without success. His
more important work in founding the school
of Tropical Medicine will long be remem-
bered in these parts, although it brought him
much abuse and vilification from cranks and
extremists in Britain, who wrote him per-
sistent and often ungrammatical letters. Not
knowing what the tropics meant, they
concluded that he was aiming at wholesale
vivisection, or wanted to dismember
the empire. He is referred to affectionately
in the West as “a good bloke,” and his suc-
cessor will have to be a man of many parts
before he canj-oust George H. North Queens-
land from the hearts of his happy-go-lucky
flock.
J. A. Robertson, the new president of the
Brisbane Club, and his handsome wife, gave
a big At Home in the Club-rooms on (Thurs-
day. The hostess trailed silver-grey satin
draperies with her usual grace. Bridge was
played, and music of an excellent brand
supplied. _ Other goods of excellent brand
were obtainable in the usual place.
On Wednesday night, the Queensland Art
Society gathered itself into a mighty atom
and said good-bye to Evan Smith, who, as
secretary for five years, has been a pillar of
strength and a tower of comfort. The fact
was impressed upon him with some gold im-
plements for keeping the loose ends of his
shirt-sleeves from flying all over the place.
In future he will abide at Melbourne, where
the Australian Government sits pensively on
the unfinished tariff wall, watching the na-
tions heave across their cheap-labor goods.
On Wednesday the “Old Girls” of the
Brisbane Grammar School gathered in large
numbers at the Cafe Majestic, and glode
furiously on the light balloony toe. The list
of glodes did not include the turkey waddle
or the chimpanzee embrace. We are a slow-
moving people in these parts.
Last night was distinguished by the Corinda
private assembly. The little hall was a per-
fect bower of wattle, and the scent thereof
made me long more ardently than ever to
bring into collision the head of the “scent-
less Australian flowers” maniac and a hard-
boiled brickbat. Mrs. W. N. Robertson,
Mrs. T. B. Steele. Miss Grace Bell and Miss
Gladys Pollard all slogged in to make the
multitude highly delighted at the close of the
evening. Among the dancers I noticed
Macaulay Turner and Miss Beryl Spowers,
whose engagement is very new indeed.
To-night Miss - Porter will give her annual
dance party. On Thursday, Mrs. Hunter
Brown entertained a party of young folk
at a “small and early.” At Albion, Mrs. ,T.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
A manly moustache not only improves a young
man’s appearance but brightens his prospects “to
get on” in the world. It makes him look older and
more confidence-inspiring. Capillarine is a moustache
grower with a successful reputation of 30 years
behind it. It goes right to-the roots of the hair
and forces strong, healthy growth. 10/6 jar, of
Messrs.' Craig and Aitken, 654 George-street,
Sydney.* Jfcfr
H. Flower did the same for the youngsters
of her acquaintance. These events were al-
leged to be highly satisfactory to all con-
cerned.
On Wednesday, Percy Carvosso, the well-
known footballer, and son of W. H. Car-
vosso, of the Supreme Court, married pretty
Joan Woodyatt, of Gympie, at the Wharf-
street Congregational Church. The bride
was encased in the usual satin and lace,
and was helped off the fence of spinsterdom
by her two sisters, Ivy and Tempe, and two
little maids, Joyce Hill and Beryl Carvosso
(the only daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Car-
vosso). Gordon Cramond and Cyril Carvosso
assisted the groom to toe the line. The moon
of rejoicing hangs in the sky above Tew-
antin.
Another wedding was that of Gladys Gor-
don, youngest daughter of Mr. P. R. Gordon,
for many years Inspector of Stock, and David
Crawford, of Maoriland.
Two more engagements are mentioned.
One is between Arnie Lavers, once of Bris-
bane. and Miss Ruby Wilcox, of Toowoomba.
Another is that of Gordon Cramond to fair
little Dorothy Chapman.
To-night the town is filled with joy be-
cause our Rugby Union team has defeated
the N.S.W. invaders. Thousands of stal-
wart men are fighting the great fight over
again in club and pub and street-wav- Mean-
while, we are training our national defence
team to meet the invaders from the North.
I know, because I saw 11 kids being drilled
the other day.
Our Health Commissioner, Dr. Elking-
ton, and his well-liked wife, are due from
Manila by Japanese boat to-morrow. Their
home will be at the Belle Vue Hotel for the
next few months.
Mayoress Raymond lost a little son of six
last week, in the midst of a special effort she
was making for the Children’s Hospital; I
think less of Fate the more I see the way it
runs its job.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The deadly North has just killed another
bright youngster known around the Gulf
mostly as “Dad” Creffield. The kid had
been in the Horse Guards once and drank
his first rum in Burlcetown just 50 years ago.
That and the climate, and perhaps a few
subsequent rums, cut him down in the flower
of his youth, aged 80 or thereabouts. His
wife, another Gulf pioneer, was even more
unfortunate. She lived to be only 70-some-
thing.
It now transpires that N.S.W. Premier
McGowen was “misreported,” and that all
the times he was represented as clamoring
for Private Enterprise as a support for hos-
pitals a unanimous mistake was made. lie
didn’t say the thing which was so generally
ascribed to him, and which he was so slow
in contradicting. In fact, he said the other
thing. He cordially believes in the Labor
party’s policy of jnaking hospitals a State
concern, and he always said so, though by
reason of boundless misunderstanding and
the deafness of the press a report got around
that he never said so, and invariably said
something else. Consequently, matters be-
came upside down.
Says Mr. Parson Richards, of the Inde-
pendent Church, Collins-street, Melbourne,
abusing the Defence Act, more particularly
compulsory service
If democracy is to prove its fitness to supplant
the old-time autocracies and tyrannies in the task of
government, it can never be by erecting a new
tyranny, in the name of defence. A luster social
order can never be raised upon a foundation of in-
justice or by ignoring the legitimate prerogatives of
conscience.
Rut Mr. Parson Richards forgets to mention
that when the lamb has raised a juster social
order, the lion will eat it all the same. If
Mr. Parson Richards is really so anxious
about the “prerogatives of conscience,” etc.,
what he ought to do is to go and argue
with the lion.


. v
A DRINK, A TONIC, AND
A DIGESTIVE COMBINED
Without Alcohol or Gas,
1911
Gkand Pbix,
Imperial
Exhibition,
London, 1911.
The Highest
Award possible.
to
GOLD
SEAL
British
Analytical
Control.
-*«kJSSr
an
A
CSS
>‘W
*«(
i
far
1
>wr
klUtlili
4iw
ft
Should be In Every
Home .
No other Drink in the World
has better guarantees for
Purity and Goodness.
fg
GOLD
MEDAL,
Paris
Exhibition,
1909.
N.S.W.
PURE FOOD
ACT,
Ser al No.
289
Guaranteed
Under
Pure Food
Laws.
Buy a Bottle and Try It
With Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Ginger Beer,
Soda Water, Plain Water (hot or cold),
or with Whisky, Gin, etc.
Obtainable at Hotels and Soft Drink Shops by
the Glass a?id Bottle; at Stores by the Bottle.
Suits Abstainers and
Non-Abstainers
O.T. is derived from fruits and herbs having nutritive and
beneficial properties. Agreeable to the palate and distinguished for
favorable effects on the constitution, it is a drink that can be taken
in any quantity with the • feeling that it is conducive to perfect
health.
It blends perfectly with all other drinks— moderating the
intoxicating effects of alcoholic liquors, the ‘'flatulent, effects of
aerated drinks, and acting as a corrective for drinking water. O.T.
is a beverage that appeals to all conditions of men, women and
children in all countries.
Good for Colds 8 Influenza
The stimulating effect of O.T. improves the circulation and pro-
motes the warmth in the body necessary to ward off colds, chills and
influenza. Taken in time, it will counteract the effects of a chill
and drive out a cold that may be coming on. It is invaluable to all
'engaged outdoors.
A Substitute for Alcohol
O.T. has “life” and “bite” like spirits, and is the nearest
substitute for alcohol ever produced. After alcoholic excess it
restores vitality, appetite and nerve, while satisfying the craving for
alcoholic stimulants. It is a splendid “pick-me-up,” and has a tonic
effect if you rise with a bad taste in the mouth or a disordered liver.
Most Beneficial for Ladies
O.T. has some similar properties to Gin, and is most beneficial
for ladies when needing a stimulant. If all-ladies really knew the
merits of> O.T. no home would be without it.
Relieves Indigestion, Colic
etc.
O.T. is a true digestive, and is the only after-dinner liqueur in
the world without alcohol. It ensures complete digestion, and pre-
vents indigestion, flatulence, and “full feeling” after meals.
\' ' '
The warm flavor of O.T. is derived
from certain fruits, highly
esteemed in Tropical countries for
safeguarding health.
O.T. is an excellent Stomachic, -and a valuable aid foi-Colic
and other Stomach Troubles.
fgfg
jffj and Merits ot OX


c, c^..—
\V^>
to
Rv
riOYAI.
ViX /'•xw i-
i
p®
i\
\ -
Wherever #e Mai/Goes
North—South East West to the furthest
Boundaries of the Commonwealth there our Goods go.
OUR MAIL-ORDER CATALOG
—a copy of which should' be in every Home “ Outback”—
will prove the immense significance of this fact to you.
Write for your Copy (post free) To-day.
LincolnJiuarl s C» a
Flinders St -Opr Rly «stn: Melb •- •
Zfct// Qj~c)es~ Oc/Z/Tfrens”
a
0
■V,
Is*
■ JV
SB
fSc
m
Repeating Rifles
BEST FOR AUS-
TRALIAN CAME
Some rifle makers are always
talking about the strength of
their .product. You want
strength, yes, but accuracy and
dependability are the prime
requisites of a rifle. The espec-
ially strong points about Win-
chester rifles are their reliability and accurate shooting
qualities, but in attaining these, strength and wear-
ability have not been lost sight of. There are thousands
of Winchester rifles giving satisfactory service today
that were in use twenty years ago. Winchester rifles
are made in calibers for all kinds of shooting. The
Model 1892, made in .25-20,
.32, .38 and .44 calibers, is
widely used for Australian
game. These rifles are not
expensive, although they
are made to get game
and stand hard usage.
For Sale By All Dealers
fg
df
gdf
gd
gf
ƒ
fg
DAW*SON <a CO.
No. 0404—Fine Quality Seal Skin Bag, i»
Black or Green, 16/0.
No. 0408 —Black Morocco Bag,. with Nickel
Fittings and Purse, 32/6.
By dealing with this house the purchaser has the full benefit
of direct negotiations with the actual producers. The prices
of the articles pictured give a pointed illustration of how
great that saving is.
We pay the postage on all goods, and fill mail orders
promptly. Write for Illustrated Catalogue. It is posted free
on request.
FINEST QUALITY BAGS.
NEWEST
DESIGNS
JUST
RECEIVED
dfg
DIRECT
FROM
PARIS,
No. 0405 —Black Seal Skin Leather Bag, with Purse, 1,5/6*
No. 0406 —Smaller iSiZe,
:.A 1 i :
Stewart Dawson (El Go,
(AUSTRALIA LIMITED),
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
No. 0412 Brown Seal Skin Leather Bag,
with Purse, 40/-
. iMi
No. 0279 —Solid Silver Manicure Set, in
Morocco Leather Case, 32/6.


MONEY and MOTOR-CARS
are both good to have, but some motor-cars are better than the
money they cost.
Many are not —but that is another story.
If you invest in shares, you (sometimes) get a return in money.
If you invest in a Chalmers Car you always get a return in letter
health, in pleasure, in a saving of time, in knowledge, and chtefly,
increased happiness for yourself and those dear to vou.
WHICH DO YOU NEED NIOST?
ROY W. SANDFORD Ltd. CHALMERS
181 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
106 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
EMPIRE.
fg
m m
m
m
.5214
HAVE VOO EVER
TRIED Shi-Noleum
the polish that acts
more quickly, and gives
a brighter surface to
your Linoleums, Wood
Floors, and Furniture
than any other?
if yon have not, you really
ought to give it a trial, you
will find that, it enables you
to do your polishing in half
the usual time, that it in
more economical, and that
it will preserve your floor**
coverings lor years,
it
is sold by all Stores in>
W. S. W.. Victoria 91
Queensland■
Ths Paget Manufacturing CoXtd
Miiboumc 8i Sydney
THE TRIALS OF TRAVEL.
Do not add to the trials of travel and of everyday life by carrying
a fountain pen that leaks—tfiat cannot be refilled without a bulb
filler. There is a safer, better way—to carry an Onoto.
The Onoto is the British made fountain pen that
Fills itself in a flash from any ink supply.
That never leaks and spoils clothes and carpets.
That gives writing satisfaction, gliding smoothly and
speedily over the paper.
It is sold by all stationers, jewellers, stores, etc. And it is worth many
times the price asked —12/* - *
LS;.; NoU.» Baku.. 60 York 5,d0.,.
\m*»)
Onoto
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Pen
IMPORTANT.— For those who require a larger pen with
a very flexible nib, a special model—the new G has been
pjon the market. It is exceptional value for the money.
Try this new G at your stationer’s.
3S*
1
Aall
** Underwear,
SocKs and
StocKings.
For Men, Ladies, and Children.
The beautiful texture of Australasian wool
is at its best in . It is not made
harsh by the process of rendering
it unshrinkable. On the contrary, 'it
retains to the full the soft fleeciness 6f
the natural wool. Hence there is no
better wear than . Why not
wear it ? It costs no more than other
all-wool hosiery.
"<tu<nrl Stockings. Socks and Underwear, fpr Men.
-C-i Ladies* Children. In all prices.
made Jerseys for Children are splendid »'•—
wear Ol Men's Outfitters, Drapers tnd Stores.
If your dealer does not stock " Jason ' he can
obtain it from h 3 wholesale housa.
In cos. o/ difficulty write for "Jason"
booklet and name of nearest agent to—
JASON HOSIERY Co..
Leicester. England.
“60LCRYST” is GSeftil
/
9f
t
a
o
Q
For Biliousness, Dyspepsia, Diver Troubles Constipation, All Blood Disorders,
Excesses, in Diet, "OODCKFST” is » most se^VNa” C<l SAKSAPARILLA, DANDELION
Consisting of■ » the finest Blood Purifier known. Sold
o^.n/v-, «»»*»• *» »»“>■' » rt - -
Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne, for fr S r * hl an(i Co . pertli; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,” Ade-
; laideTS?T F ay^ F andCoSe, Brisbane; N.’s.W./ Elliott Bros./jyJnc^^^
Cobber Mouth Organs
Fitted with sound-reflecting: Covers and Bell
Metal Reeds, give absolutely the loudest,
clearest and most musical tone of any Mouth
Organ. The covers are acoustically correct
in shape, and magnify the sound from the
reeds as the Horn
increases the tone
of a Phonograph.
Marry inferior
Mouth Organs are
fitted with fancy
shaped covers, but
only the ignorant buyer is misled as such
coders reduce the volume and interfere with
the free production of the tone. Only thor-
oughly seasoned material is used ill the manu-
facture of Cobber Mouth Organs and their
durability therefore
can be relied on. We
guarantee to replace
any Cobber Mouth
Organ which is de-
fective in material
or manufacture.
/?
CO
y • teILiuLJL-Jtegns
cts pwaisggeaßß
No. 1. —The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case ••• 3/“
No. 2.—' The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case
No. 3.— The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case
No. 4.— The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1
JACKSON
A.
WILES &
& MACDONALD, Australian Agents, DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY
’OPTICAL & PHOTO SUPPLIES CO., 11,-.y St.. Perth.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
8 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
I sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 1 5/-. P ost free>
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Mclb.
ii
A.L.” (Motor Car Acetylene Generator)
ySX£ £
tern on simple and ingenious lines. One cha g » o-enerators, and installed
%S%
clptafn 1 'has 0 provided h 1 loTth' ° f A ' L '
Generators for the lighting of his expedition to the South Pole.
lib. Size, £4 10s. 21b. Size, £6 15s.
An orwl rloanri ntiOTl.
fgdfg
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
Each "BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand tied, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend—
XT appordFON “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size RoYmvoo A d C mmddings, two sets Of . wrought and hand-turned
Fnor’ii<;h STEEL REEDS, invisible -fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality ot tone.
Price includingneatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (lllb.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows and three independent stops. Each Accordeon i& fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highlj-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in ]oudn«*f
and 1 quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
Dost free.
dfg
ALBERT (SI SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney


Census Bulletin, No. 12, recently issued
by Statist G. H. Knibbs, reveals the fact
that of 4,455,005 persons accounted for in
the Commonwealth on census day, 1,469,022
were married, 2,783,543 unmarried, 191,743
widowed, 4500 divorced, and 5597 lay low
and said nuffin. N.S.W. headed the divorce
list, having over 1000 more legally-torn-
asunder folk than its next neighbor. Of the
married, three were boys 14 years old; eight
were boys of 15, 25 were boys of 16. Two
of the 14-yearlings were padding the long
road to the old age pension in N.S.W.; the
other was at it in Victoria. Ten married
men alleged to be aged 100 years or more
still survived on census day. The toughness
ot these old pretenders is wonderful. Most of
the centenarians are fully 85, yet they still
struggle along. On the femaie side there
was a wife in Queensland who was under
14 years. Scattered throughout Australia
there were 18 married girls aged 14 years,
92 of lt> years, 343 of 16, and three of 100
and bogus (that is to shy, 100 and
over). There were more married men
aged between 40 and 44 than at
any other similar period, and married
women were most plentiful betweep
the ages of 30 and 34. From 35 to 39 was
the time when the merry widow was most
abundant. Unfortunately, there was nt>
record of the average age of the merrv
widow s husband when he died and left her
an average relict of 37. Nor ife there any
news of the average number of years they
lived together before he gave up the job. '
.Missing Friends.
WILLIAM SHIELDS.
Important.
W 11-'L WILLIAM SHIELDS, or anyone
* • nowl ?g the whereabouts of William
shields, who left home at Dargalong, near
Murchison (Victoria), about 3579-80, last
°f by letter from Wyalong Goldfield.
N.S.W., about 1890-91, communicate imnm-
POv y r^n h oPP EQUITY TRUSTEES
COY. LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
ESTATE OF ROBERT CLAYTON
MERCER, Deceased.
W TIj E a Vy on . e who knew or beard of
JOHN WOLSTENHOLME, who
was born in Rishton, England, in 1812, and
®|{?e to the gold-diggings in Australia in
1857, kindly communicate with the under-
signed. A reward will be paid to anyone
supplying satisfactory information. DOLAN
Solicitors, Napier, New
(“JEORGE CLARKE, of Northwich, Cheshire, Eng-
land. 'Last heard of at Annandale, N.S.W.,
twelve years ago. Brother Walter inquires.
M. JOHNSON,
C/o Mrs. Wilson,
Dennistown, Punt Hill,
South Yarra, Melbourne.
E VA mJC- ALFR^ D , EVA /S, formerly waiter at
Melbourne Club and Menzies , Hotel, Mel-
went s^dne y» December, 1902, or
anyone who knows his whereabouts. Please write or
se.j?£5 e .j?£ -n- to C - Mc Farlane, Solicitor, 418
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
£2O REWARD for Information Concerning the
Whereabouts of CORNELIUS (CON.) BOURKE.
‘HE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND ACFNCV
COMPANY, LIMITED, of No 4M ®S
S ’ n ( M r o r e i Victoria (the Trustee of a Settle-
ment of C. Bourke), is desirous of ascertaining the
whereabouts of one Cornelius Bourke (commonly
known as Con Bourke), formerly licensee of the
Prince of Wales Hotel, Hamilton, Victoria, and who
is supposed to have left Victoria about 22 years ago
and gone to New South Wales or South Australia.
He sometimes went under the name of McDonald.
The above reward will be paid to the first person
supplying the said Company with satisfactory in-
formation concerning the present whereabouts of the
said Cornelius Bourke if living, or if dead, the date
of his death, name of the place where he died,
whether he. was married, and if married, whether he
left a widow and children. Information must be
supplied within two months from the date hereof.
Dated the 18th day of June; 1912.
ERNEST W. POWLING, Princes Street, Port Fairy,
Solicitor for the said Company.
T
Public Notice.
THE TONGKAH HARBOR T. D. CO., N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
"VTOTICE is hereby given that a DIVI-
DEND (the seventh) of 10 per cent.
(2s. per share), has been declared, amount-
ing to £15,000, payable on July 22, 1912,
and for this purpose the Share Register will
be closed from 13th to 22nd July inclusive.
tt i a , , H. J. WISE, Manager.
Hobart, 14th June, 1912.
LETTERS PATENT.
KJOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Patentees
1 ' of Australian Letters Patent No. 16,585, dated
13th December, 1909, for “Improvements relating to
the separation of substances by the wet magnetic
process," are prepared to satisfy any demands and all
requirements of the public respecting said invention.
FURTHER information sand particulars including:
drawings and specifications are obtainable from
EDWARD WATERS AND SONS, Patent Attorneys,
414-418 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 7 Moore
Street, Sydney, Established 1859.
Amusements.
■ nternational pictures. colonial
■ Theatre Buildings, GIO George St., Sydney.
Wm. H. Bell, General Manager.
This Company supplies the*- Lyric and Colonial
Theatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tralasia. In fact, we supply more shows with pictures
than any other three (3) concerns.combined.
Don’t forget, Mr.' Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo, play manufacturers, but iwe repre-
sent all the best. WH HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER. "
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth; Courier Buildings, Brisbane;
Wellington, New Zealand; London, England ;
Dewar House, Hayrnarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
Palace theatre. Sydney.
Lessee : ALLAN HAMILTON.
Under direction of J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.'
THE MOST FAMOUS OF ALL ENTERTAINERS
Margaret cooper,
DIVA OF HUMOROUS SONG, and
HER BRILLIANT ‘ENGLISH COMPANY.
Reserved Seats, 6/-; Unreserved. 4/-, 3/., ?/. and 1/.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS. Plans at Nicholson’s.
Amusements,
AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS
THE FAMOUS McBANNS, Club Jugglers, etc
MILLIE DORIS, She of the Hoc X Bun.
CECILE, ELDRED & CARR, Aviation Dancers.
PHILLIPS & MERRITT, People of Joy and Gladness.
A HIL & PHLORA, “ Silent Comedy ” & Acrobatic Act.
HARRY SADLER, the Happy, Original Comedian.
FLORENCE WIX, English Comic Opera Artiste.
HAROLD HEATH, Monarch of all Dancing Comedians.
PRICES : 2/6, 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Reserves, 6d. extra.
EH MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction, .T. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
FUN FROM THE WORD “GO.”
H
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
SINISAD THE SAILOR
Is Brimful of Entertaining Features.
COMBINED ENSEMBLE OF 350 PEOPLE.
. BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
THEATRE K O Y A L, S Y D N E V.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
MORE THAN A SUCCESS—A SENSATION.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON,
In An Arabian Knight, by EDWARD KNOBLANCH
PSMKT.
Prices : Dress Circle & Orchestra Stalls (booked), 7/6,
(atdoors), 6/-; Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, to 7.30 2/-, thereafter 1/-
ADBIPHI TH E A THE. SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Grorge Marlow, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF BROUGHT TO RUIN.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
For the First Time in Australasia,
The Bewildering, Gorgeous, and Astonishingly Successful
Drama of Modern Life,
THE MARRIAGES OF MAYFAIR.
ADELPHI PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
TOWN HAUL, SYDNEY.
■ Direction: PORTUS & TALBOT, LTD.
Under the Distinguished Patronage and in the Presence
of their Excellencies
THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL,
LADY DENMAN and Suite,
ADMIRAL SIR GEORGE KING-HALL,
LADY KING-HALL and Suite.
FINAL CONCERTS:
FRIDAY, JUNE 28 (Matinee).
SATURDAY, JUNE 29.
ELEONORA DU CISNEROS,
THE DISTINGUISHED CONTRALTO,
Supported by
PAUL DUFAULT, the Eminent Tenor;
JAMES LIEBLING, the Famous ’Cellist.
PLANS AND DAY SALES AT PALING’S.
PRICES : Reserved, 10/- and 6/-; Unreserved, 4/- and 2/-
BRISBANE CONCERTS:
EXHIBITION lIALL,
TUESDAY, JULY 2, THURSDAY JULY 4, and
. SATURDAY, JULY 6.
"|“ HE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
YDN E Y
GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12 a.m. 3 to 5 p.m. S to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATE HIRE-6d.
Children Admission—Morning and Afternoon only, 1/-
Saturday Morning : Admission—Children 6d.
Phone : 492 Glehe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager
Q LYMPIA AND PRINCESS, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
TH E ALHAMBRA THEA T R E,
■ Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d.. 6d., Is.
THE IMPERIAL ROLLER RINK
1 Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
FEATURING ALL THAT IS BEST
ROLLER SKATING.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
WALTER
BENTLEY
M R
the Distinguished Actor.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
554 George Sireet, Sydney.
OICK ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE
Geheral Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE
' EVERY EVENING AT 8.
CHARLES HERA, Celebrated Juggler and Equilibrist
THE HANS PAXTON TROUPE, Five Ground Acrobats.
'ILK FOUR AMARANTHS, Whirlwind Dancers.
FRED RUSSELL & his Automaton, “COSTER JOE.”
FRED BLUETT, Australia’s F'avorite Comedian.
BLAKE & GRANBY, England’s Comqdy Sketch Artists.
RONALD GEORGE, Talented Instrumentalist.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s?
f\P E R A HOUSE, M KLBODRXK
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEE’™
THESPRIGHTLY SISTERS, Entertaining Sketch Artists.
TINY ARNOLD, the Smallest Star Artist in the World.
MAX LAUBE, the Human Bird.
MONIE MINE, Song, Story and Dance.
WILL H. FOX, Monologue Entertainer.
HENRIETTE DE SERItIS, Presenting her Celebrated
Living Art Productions.
Plan at Allan’s. SSHTPRICES—3s., 25., Is.
rTIHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
JL appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
Amusements.
IYRIC THEATRE, CbapelISETPraliran, Vic.
■■ EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at -2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous "MacK Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA, fid. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read's and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
|-| EH MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA SEASON.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), JUNE 27,
FAU ST.
Carmen Friday
' PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
-y lTEATBE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
| MAETERLINCK’S WORK OF gTenIUS,
THE BLUE BIRD.
I '■
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, B/-
Stalls, <1/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
I D RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
; ■ Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Sole Direction : ALLAN HAMILTON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 29.
PLIMMER-DENNJSTON CO.
in
A WOMAN OF NO IMPORTANCE-
By OSCAR WILDE.
r ‘ ces 5 /~i 3/-. 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
T HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Powerfully Impressive and Sensational Drama,
MAN’S ENEMY,
or LIFE AT MONTE CARLO.
Presented by
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation.
EUGENE DUGGAN as SARAH DRAKE.
CYRIL MACKAY as HARRY STANTON.
Popular Prices : 3s., 2s. & Is. Plans at Allan’s* The Grand.
EXPLORING IN THE FAR NORTH.
Beginning
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, JUNE 29.
ATHENAEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Direction: H. Faulkner Smith.
Eight Illustrated Lectures by the Intrepid Australian
Explorer,
MR. C. PRICE CONIGRAVE, F.R.G.S., Etc.
POPULAR PRICES : 2/- * 1/- Reserved Seats, 1/- extra.
Concessions to Schools and Colleges.
Box Plan and Tickets at Pianola Co., 252 Collins Street.
■y O W N HALL, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction: PORTUS & TALBOT, LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
THE GREAT JANSEN,
Whose Reputation Encircles Two Continents.
JANSEN,
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRANSFORMIST,
In his Magnificent and Unrivalled Exhibition of Original
Illusions and Magic Working
JANSEN
AND HIS ALL-STAR COMPANY
of
AMERICAN ENTERTAINERS.
JANSEN BOX PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRICES (Reserves, 4/-) : 3/-, 2/., 1/-
Q L Y M P I A. OLYMPIA.
OLYMPIA. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAY’S and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
WE S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEgT
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY A® 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30."
The Greatest (Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEStfgj PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
|CE GLIDING.
Melbourne GL4CIAIMUM
EVERY AFTERNOON AN I)
EVENING.
ICE HOCKEY
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING.
2
LLERS
Ml
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/ Length, 12 Inches.
/ “ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John M ii.i.kr.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEnTNERSNOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
QREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
dfg
Wholesale:
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
our Tweeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 - Market Street,
SYDNEY.
I
y
M
SfvNT^
JtilQ'ij
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name IW
mh
The “PLUM” RAZOR Gives a Perfect Shave
If you use the famous PLUM Razor ypu can rest
assured of having a smooth, gliding shave every day.
It is made of silver-ringing, highly-tempered steel.
We| guarantee to keep it in order for two years
free of * charge.
TheO. & A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
ni?ht; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/0.
Singrle Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/..
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/3.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not he without it.
All the Above Post Free.
fg
Write for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG (a AITKEN,
• ' ■‘t - ~ “ *
The “PLUM” RAZOR.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
VICE-REGAL
The Misses Isaacs,
HAIRDRESSERS,
161 King Street,
SYDNEY.
Transformations from £3/3/- Puffs. 5/6 set. Tails from 5/6-
Fringes from 5/6,
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION. ’Phone 2138 Central.
gf
Schute, Bell & Co.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.


Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. <1902). Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
df
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
(/each
POST FREE *
Quality not
Bette/ in a
Guinea Pipe.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
HA YMARHCT. SYDNEY. N S W.
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
Y 9 GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
t No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold, in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
W GOUT V
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR'S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by alf Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
g
Cm
.22
CARTRIDGES
fg
The straight-shooting;, hard-
hitting, sure-firing ,22’s.
The reason why UMC .22 Cart-
ridges are the best is that they
are made with precisely the same
care, the same tested materials,
and undergo the same rigid safe-
guards as the heavier calibre,
big game shooting UMC ammu-
nition.
UMC .22’s are also made with
the hollow point bullets, which
increase their shocking and kill-
ing power over the old solid
bullet.
Try Our New “liesmok” ,22’s.
UMC .22 short, .22 long,
.22 long rifle Lesmok,
Smokeless and Black
Powder—as you wish.
Remington Arms —
Union Metallic Cart-
ridge Co.
H. Molden, Australasian
Representative, P.O. Box
45 9, Melbourne; 13 49,
Sydney. [l
1
DINSEED COMPOUND.” The
TUmec’y” for Coughs and Colds. Of
proven efficacy.
“Stockport
40 years’
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established IS4K
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
TX A 6 TVrmVTP'V fpn T "nVrTI or * Security or Freehold or Leasehol
XI.XS.k9 Xi i X XtXilV U city or Suburban Properties, or o
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand pg" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the nrivilesre of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. ; The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HE tD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretaiy
3 a
I
m
A
1
1
lS«?
rM
ChE£T
is
DISEASE,£
DEFE/ITES
P
UNCONDITIONAL
gUPPENDEP i
©
53
COUGHS & COLDS
Are Easily Defeated
by
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOE
Murray’s Eng-lish Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
fgd
Is the most perfect Preservative -for the Skin
and Complexion. Invalu&hle for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOUTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
CASTRATION EASY
Our Emasculator combines the best, American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID—SAFE MERCIFUL,.
Has just the proper power, and being made of:
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-,
faction for many years. 3Sgr~EASY TO USE..
I Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
m
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 JDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
There is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it fully and explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the
l Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off
them—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds.
What a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain !
Being made of the purest and softest Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
pillow. For the same reason, a blow on the side of
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why these
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration of one as it lies
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magni-
fier is shaped
like a trumpet,
and so con-
veys even the
faintest sounds
right to the
natural ear-
drum. Being
of the softest
rubber, it can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci-
sion and com-
fort. The di-
vision that
runs across the
mouth is to al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape
of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has
been chosen
after years of
experience a s
flic best adapt
ed to carry the faintest sound right down to the
natural ear-drum.
'bo persons who are nearly deaf, it is not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times gets thickened, or loses its tightness, and
shouting does not act properly on it. It only
makes a confused and tiring noise. But the
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best
spot for perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-nerve
completely, or were bom deaf, we cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could do that, in spite
of some of the absurd claims made to-day. But if
you can hear the faintest sound, do not despair.
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people in
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night, and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time for Bs.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
I
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you mutt register it.
CONFIDCNTIAL Letters
Retail) Private
when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying
Book is
used.
'* SC/200
Patent ZaneTiC
copt«no E»o O, V
&
w
You slip your letter
paper into the
holder, write your letter in ink, and the copy is wade
as you write. Letter shows no sign of copying. The
letter is ported and the hook put away. 400 octavo
(Sin. x sin.) letters, or 200 quarto, can be copied in
NSC/100, post free for 3/9 ; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of Lhe
celebrated Zanetic. ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road.
LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Please send Money-Orders, not P.O.’s.
PILES
To those who suffer the agonising tor-
ture of Piles, a really genuine cure
comes as a boon and a blessing.
Such a remedy is
PETERS*
PILE CURE
which brings immediate releif and last-
ing cure.
Blind, Bleeding, Protru-
ding or Itching Piles
yield to its firm but soothing influence.
Made in the form of an Ointment it is
Easy to apply.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity), 5/-
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.


Our Special Snaps
B
THE SILENCER ITSELH.
THE SILENCER TAKEN APART.
TIIE B.S.A. RIFLE SILENCER, as above, to
fit the B.S.A. Miniature Rifles 22 cal., also Win-
chester Rifles, 1902, 1904 and 1900 Models
Price, 32/6 each.
Postage 9d. N.S.W., 1/2 Inter-State.
TIIE B.S.A. RIFLE SHOWN OPPOSITE HAS A
SILENCER FITTED.
Send for our
Illustrated
SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO
LISTS, FREE .
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever
rib, rebounding locks, left
walnut stock; weight about
aD £l/15/-
Snrnp Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt £2/5 /-
feame uun as 2/0 Ns w . 5/2 Inter -State.
LESTON DALT CO.’S D.8.8.L.
30in. steel barrels, extension
choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
71b.
fg
B.S.A. MINIATURE RIFLE, No. 2 MODEL,
22-calibre, bolt action, self-cocking, 24in.
round steel barrel; length overall 41,in.;
weight, about 5Mb. ; screw adjusting rear _ 0/ —
sight to 200 yards, barleycorn front sight, walnut stock .... 32/6
Postage on one Rifle, 2/3 N.S.W. ; 4/2 Inter-State.
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE RIFLE, No. 3 MODEL, same
make as No. 2 Model, but improved, and fitted with target sights
Freight paid 50/-
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE REPEATNG RIFLE, 22-calibre;
same description as No. 3 Model Freight paid 70/-
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches —Hunter St,, Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford
St., Sydney; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown. [3
The Most Reliable Safety Razor
at the Cheapest Price th" Market
It takes the ordinary Gillette Blade, and shaves just
as smoothly and delightfully as any Guinea
article offered. We absolutely guarantee
to refund you your money if in
any way dissatisfied with the
article.
Price
ONLY
4/6
. EACH.
Don’t Throw Your
Safety Razor Blades Away.
WE ABSOLUTELY SHARPEN THEM to your complete satisfaction
at 1/4 per dozen, and 2d. for postage.
A TRIAL WILL SATISFY YOU BEYOND DOUBT.
The Safety Razor Blade Sharpening Supplies,
177 George Street, Circular Quay, Sydney, N.S.W.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SA L T
INVIGORATING
Skin Deep Beauty.
12
Y\\G£kSo4£
CROWN
10
It is not always the best looking watch
that gives the greatest satisfaction. A.
smart looking case does not necessarily
mean Timekeeping Quality. Accuracy and
reliability of movement or works, and the
reputation of its makers should have first
consideration.
The discriminating buyer has a way of
looking deeper than the outward finish of a
watch. He is not misled merely by pretty
outward appearance.
Over 25,000,000 discriminating Buyers in
England, America, Canada, Germany,
and South Africa, and in almost all
parts of the Globe, have tried and tested
Ingersoll Watches
and have found them exactly as represented by the makers. The most
practical, economical and perfect watch that money will buy. Now, for
the first time, we are able to offer Australia this wonderful scientific
production, so if you are ready for a cheap watch and believe that 6/6
entitles you to a reliable timekeeper, be sure to ask for an Ingersoll, and
look for the name on dial, and guarantee in back of case. They are
there for YOUR protection.
CROWN 6/6, ECLIPSE 8/6, JUNIOR 10/6, MIDGET 10/6.
The jewelled Trentoii Watches are as eminent in quality and economy as the
Ingersolls, and range in price from 30/- upwards. If you cannot obtain an Ingersoll
or Trenton Watch locally, do not accept a substitute, but write us for name of
nearest dealer.
ROBT. H. INGERSOLL & BRO., Makers,
73 L York Street, SYDNEY*
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of Che largest and mosc successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U.S.A.
RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO
BOOKS YOU CANT GET EL
HERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over «50 en
gravings, new 190 S edition, 2s (id posted. Meriiik
England, Cd. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Du. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. AH Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, l/C.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handy book, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Sciencb of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Min ers’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ds. Not Guilty (Blatch-
fnrd), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Qukf.n Elizabeth, ls6d,
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
IMF- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*]
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3s. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Pip.NO Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. . Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all ls. How . to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os, ed.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Boilder, 1/s. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Docfroß, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Bpef,ches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Evsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d..
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social.
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French'
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,,
ds 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, 55..
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth' rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless-
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay-
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d:
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I* - Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOI' FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Saitho, genuine,
Is. Odd Bush Songs, Is ad Dost. On. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Oancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W..
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
i.ound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, hy Paine,
posted, Sd WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Don’t Neglect Y our Skin
8
la
j
C>
Rub Zam-Buk In, and Avoid
AH Winter Skin Troubles.
The skin is one of the most sensitive
parts of the human body; and because it
is also the most exposed to injury and
disease, it ought to get more atten-
tion than most people think is neces-
sary.
A sudden chill, dirt in a cold-
crack or small abrasion, and skin-
weaknesses, are all likely to lead to
trouble. Neglected chafings, “chaps,”
chilblains, cold-sores, or cuts may
also cause more serious disease in
the shape of festering wounds, ulcers,
or itching sores, and even chronic
eczema is often traceable to neglect
in the early stages of a simple affec-
tion.
Zam-Buk is the ideal application
for the skin at this season.
No ordinary ointments or salves, concocted from
rancid animal fats or mineral irritants, can do for the
skin what Zam-Buk does. Such coarse and harmful
preparations never give lasting satisfaction —the sort
that is undoubtedly got from rubbing in Zam-Buk.
Smearing the skin with Zam-Buk has an almost
instantaneous cleansing and restorative effect. So
pure are the juices in Zam-Buk that they sink deep into the pores,
permeating all the minute “machinery” of the tissue, and they just go
to work right away to end the trouble thoroughly and permanently.
No skin looks so well—or is, in fact, so soft, sound and healthy
throughout—as the skin that has had frequent dressings of Zam-Buk.
And this perfection is more than “skin-deep,” seeing that a healthy
skin exerts a wholesome influence upon the rest of the body. The
Zam-Buk treatment can reasonably claim to be a revival of one of the
LOST ARTS of the old Grecian days, when proper care of the skin was
universal.
the WORLD’S GREATEST HEALER
Zam-Buk is invaluable for eczema, ulcers, ringworm, psoriasis, bad legs,
rashes eruptions, pimples, sores, scabs, scales, piles, pains, swellings, chapped
hands,’ sore faces, cold sores, chilblains, cuts, burns, festerings, gatherings,
poisoned wounds, children’s sores, and all injured and diseased, irritated,
inflamed and unhealthy conditions of the skin. Of all chemists and stores at
Is. 6d. and 3s.
6d. per pot
(3s. 6d. holds
nearly four
times the Is.
6d.) ; or post
free from the
Zam-Buk Co.,
B 9 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
'am
Buk
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
'lf you Have not, you Have not
done your duty hy your sßin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
that is, on both Hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally-you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s Health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Moths.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOON as pleasure pierces night’s
Deep, pulsating shadowings.
Moths, with sad, bright broken wings,
Flutter round the pavement lights;
Moths, that once had beautiful
Velvet wings, and lips as cool
As anointed altar-flame
Moths whose wings are wings of shame.
Once desirable and sweet
Amaryallis butterflies.
Lifting Faith’s untroubled eyes
Loverwards; their fall complete.
Now scorched moths with eyes oi sin,
Wine-stained lips and cheeks akin,
Rouged, transfigured, shamelessly,
Flaunting love illusory .
Once enlarged with love’s delight,
Now bewitched, bewildering
Ghosts of beauty, hurrying
From defiling things of night
That pursue like livid flames,
Burning ever-shameless shames ,
Theirs the passion that imparts
Broken wings and broken hearts.
Hope does not desert them quite;
Sometimes swift and fiery love
Comes, an emanation of
Tenderness ; a single night
Stays beseeching, blotting out
Evil dreams ; remains to rout
Seasons of despair that are
Aftermath of love bizarre.
Round the lamps they poise and flit
Scorching broken wings the more ;
’Tis a part unbargained for —
Luring love, yet dreading it!
Brooding o’er the desolate
Wonderment of life and fate,
Dazed with pavement litanies,
Strange, delightless moths are these .
Moths, whose brittle, burning wings
Shame the wings of butterflies,
Moths whose tired, pathetic eyes
Blaze amid the shadowings,
Where they shrink in darkened doors,
Terrified of Minotaurs ;
The espousal of a beast!. ...
Hell would spare that shame at least.
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
A Bit of Diversion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rp W O old men were sitting in the scant
I shade of a myall, what time the heat
shimmered till it looked like a lake
of dancing water in the distance. Beyond
the mystical lake the timber seemed sus
pended on the horizon.
The old men had a kelpie lying panting
by, with four vigorous pups sucking susten-
ance. .
The tall old man was bothered with the
flies, and waved a small bunch of leaves irri-
tably, but the little old man treated them
with the utmost unconcern.
“Phy d’ye not brush the flies from ye,
Tommy?” said the tall man.
“Wot’s the good?” said Tommy. “They 11
on’y come back again.”
Tommy had arabesques of whisker, being
bald in spots. He was bullet-headed, and
had little marble-like eyes which couldn t give
vou the least idea what he was thinking
about. He just sat with his arms on his
spread knees and twiddled his fingers.
“Well, ye moight think av the falings av
other people,” said the tall man, turning his
head away. “And, anyway, ye moight kape
yer mouth shut to kape ’em from lukin m-
S °The conversation lapsed, and the only
things which did not seem inert to the heat
were the four pups. The kelpie didn t seem
to care what happened.
Then a crow flew languidly on to the dead
branch of a belar and gave a disheartened
caw, and cocked his head at the two swag-
men. Perhaps he thought, “nobody seems to
die ”
And at length the Irishman turned and
Sai ‘T)i’ve bin thinkin’, Tommy, me bhoy,
whoile we’ve bin sittin’ here that this is a
day that is av peculiar interest to us. As ye
know, Oi’m a genius for dates, and Oi re-
mimber that to-day is a sort av majority tor
us, if Oi moight put it that way. In plain
wurrds, to-day is the twinty-furst anniver-
sary av the day that we furst became cob-
b6“l don’t know, but if you says so—well,
we’ll say it is,” remarked Tommy, who did
not appear to be given at all to sentiment.
“Av course ut is, me ould shport; an to
show ye how good and strong me mimory is,
Oi’ll give ye another instance of a quare
coincidence. years ago to-day we sot in
this same shpot.” „
“All right, Paddy; let’s say so, ennyways.
“Do ye moind, Tommy, ut was on that
day a felly in advance av shape rode up on
a chestnut wid two whoite shtockings and
a shtar on his forehead?”
“I remember. The ’orse wuz branded
“C.R. in a triangle,” said Paddy.
“Ter wrong, Paddy. It wuz C.K.
“If ye bethink ye awhoile, Tommy, ye 11
remimber that ut wuz C.R. Oi renumber
the brand particularly bekase the telly
squinted.” , „
“’E didn’t squint: he wuz cross-eyed.
“Well, we’ll say, just to be agreeable, that
wan eye wuz lukin’ round the corner and
the other wuz expectin’ to-morrow; but
there wuz no mistakin’ that it wuz an R,
and it’s just loike ye, Tommy, to conthradict
whin ye know that Oi’m roight.
“When I knows yer are wrong, yer means,
yer old bog-trottin’ villain” —showing signs
of irritation. , , ~ .
Paddy reflectively stroked his clean-
shaven chin with one palm, and he raised
his eyes to the crow who still cocked his
head at,them from the belar.
“Do ye see that black crow up yonder,
Tommy?” he said. “Just cast your eyes
up, me bhoy. It’s a black crow, black as
the ace av spades, an’ Oi moight mintion be
way av a change in . the conversation that
ut’s the same crow that have been tollenn
ye up ever since I furst met ye twmty-wan
years ago, an’ if Oi ’adn’t been wid ye he’d
have pecked at your bones years ago. And
Oi can hear him say, as he sits up on that
dead limb, ‘Oi’ll have him yet, whin he
hasn’t that ould Oirishman to luk afther
him.’ But that is away from the point.
What Oi wanted to ask av ye is, what color
is that crow, Tommy? Is he a whoite
crow ?”
“Of course he’s black.
“Luk agin, Tommy. Make shure before
ye spake. Isn’t he rid or grane?”
“Have sense,” said Tommy.
“Well, begob, that’s just what Oi was
thryin’ to get at, ye obstinate, cantankerous
ould fossil, an’ Oi just asked ye the question
fully expectin’ ye’d say he was yaller, be
way av your religious thraining, and just to
be contrary. And it is all av a piece wid
yer saying it wuz C.K. in a thriangle whin
Oi said ut was C.R. But ye would rather
die than admit that Oi’m roight.”
- Tommy looked a bit tired, and raised Ins
shoulders slightly.
“Wot rl o you know about an orse: he
said. “W’y, I don’t believe yer ever see'd
an’ ’orse till yer came to ’Orsetralia forty
years ago.”
“And what do ye know about a horse l
“I knows an ’orse because I’m a ’Orse-
tralian. If us ’Orsetralians don’t know
’orses w’y did they call the country ’Orse-
tralia?”
“Are ye an Australian?
“Course I am. Borned here and brought
up.”
“Oi’m sorry, Tommy, rale sorry.
Tommy’s blood fired up, and he asked
fiercely: “Because I’m a ’Orsetralian?”
“No, bekase ye niver mintioned the fact
before.” Paddy shook his head dolefully.
“An’ phy did ye not mintion that ye was an
Australian before, Tommy, so as to deliver
me from a delusion Oi was laborin’ undher !
“It’s the first time I’ve ever knowed yer
to labor at anything, Paddy. And what did
yer take me to be?”
“Well, well, well,” said Paddy, more sor-
rowfully than ever. “And it do show how ye
can be mistaken.”
“ ’Ow mistaken?”
“And here Oi was always taking ye to be
a kangaroo rat wid de mange.”
This hurt Tommy’s feelings more than
words could express. He sprang to his feet
and whooped: “Ter ’ell with the Pope!”
Paddy gazed at him in mild astonishment.
“Do ye moind, Tommy, that we made an
agraymint two wakes ago. that we would
niver inthroduce religious discussions in our
arguments excepting, av course, on the 12th
av July and the Holy St. Pathrick’s Day t
Tommy whooped: “Ter ’ell with the
Pope!” with increased emphasis.
“If any other man but you, Tommy, had
behaved in such a disrespectful way to the
Pope, Oi’d ’ave had his liver.” Then he rose
ponderously to his feet, and started to
thump one of his palms with his fist. And,
by gob, sind the Pope to Hades again and
ye’ll think that ye have met the man who
shtruck Buckley.”
Tommy became frenzied, and yelled: ler
Hell with the Pope!” finding the aspirate in
pYoitpiripntv
Paddy took action according to promise.
When Tommy rose stiffly he said: “ler
’it me, Paddy.”
Paddy waved the fist he had just used tor
business purposes, and cried : “Oi did. And
sind the Pope to Hades agin, an’ be the holy
shmoke Oi’ll make ye bounce.” _
“I never thought ye would ’it me, and us
old cobbers for 20 years.” .
“An’ phat did ye think Oi would be doin
an’ ye usin’ the Pope as ye would a felly in
argument at Grogan’s shanty?”
“Well, this is about the limit, and we dis-
solves partnership, becos I won’t travel with
yer any more.”
“Roight, me son, roight. An which road
will ye take, an’ ye take yer choice. Here’s
the River-road, an’ there’s the road to
Cudgellico.”
“I’m for Cudgellico.”
“Roight, me son, roight. And now for a
fair division av rations.”
The tucker bags were spread and the ra-
tions shared amicably to a tea leaf, except-
ing a slight discussion about the fairness in
apportioning the baking powder, which
Paddy called the “dydnomite.”
“And now about Jennie?” said Tommy.
“Jennie is moine, but for the sake av
ould toimes, an’ so ye won’t give me the bad
name along the road, we’ll draw for her.”
And he broke a twig and Tommy drew the
shorter and lost. “An’ now take your pick
av the pups.”
Tommy took one, and Paddy took the
next, and Tommy picked another, and Paddy
had the one that was left. The men then
opened their shirts and put their two pups
inside against the bare skin. Then Paddy
swung up his swag, and, whistling for Jennie
to follow him, set off along the. river road
without even a “good-bye’ ’to his 21-years’
cobber.
Even when he topped the rise he did not
look back. Tommy still sat where the
track to Cudgellico branched off.
Two miles on Paddy dropped his swag and
sat down. Then he drew out his clay pipe
and started to smoke.
By-and-bye a young man dropped his
swag by him and passed the customary time
of day, and sat smoking. At last he got
up and knocked the ashes from his pipe, and
said he would have to be going.
“As ye get over the roise beyant, ye
moight do me a favor, me lad, an’ widout
anny throuble to yerself or Oi would not ax
ye. There’s a little ould man wid whoite
moleskins sitting be the tlirack for Cudgel-
lico, or he was sitting there an hour ago.
Oi’d take it as a favor if ye say him cornin’
this way to dhrop yer hat, be way av a
warning.”
“Righto. Who is he? Don’t you want
to see him?”
“Av coorse Oi want to say him, and me
his ould cobber for twinty-wan years, more
or less. To tell ye the trut’, me son, we’ve
just ’ad a bit av an argument about a horse
we saw a few years back, the exact toime
of which Oi cannot remimber. He said it
was branded C.K. in a thrinagle, and Oi
said ut was C.R. And the argument got
warrm, and Oi lost me timper, and Oi
knocked him down.”
“And was it C.R. ?”
“Sorra wan av me knows for sure,” said
Paddy, meditatively, stroking his chin. “Ye
say, the siccond letther was a bit indistinct,
and the wan moight as well be roight as the
other.”
(Continued on next page.)


Every Picture
Tells a Story'
1 fW
S'
>
\
{
Price 2/9 per bottle (six bottles 15/3), at all chemists
and stores, and post free from Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WHEN BRIGHT DAYS ARE DISMAL
Sunny days bring joy to well folks. But to the man or woman
with an aching back, every day is dark —-just a dismal round of
suffering. Can t work well, enjoy play, or even take restful sleep.
Always that dull, throbbing backache.
Have you thought that your kidneys may be disordered ?
Sick kidneys signal for help. The first call may be lameness or
pam in the back—scanty, painful or too frequent urination—re-
curring headaches or dizzy spells —nervousness, or a constant dead-
tired feeling.
Avert the serious kidney diseases —dropsy, gravel, diabetes,
Bright’s disease. Cure the weakened kidneys with Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, a remedy that strengthens weak kidneys, stirs
sluggish kidneys to action, soothes and heals inflamed, congested
kidneys. Backache is cured and a perfect filtering of the blood
is restored.
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
Mr. Frederick Bradd. Abercorn Street, Bexley, Syd-
ney, says:—-“I caught a severe cold, which settled" in my
kidneys and caused severe backache. I suffered intense
pain, and could not stoop or move about freely. I did not
know what to do to get ease, for the remedies I used did
me no good. Seeing air advertisement for Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills lead me to try these Pills. They did
me good right from the first dose, and in a short time I
was cured. I have no sign of backache now, and attribute
my cure solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Four years later Mrs. Bradd says: “My husband has
been free of backache ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured him three years ago.”
Mrs. Vincent Churchland. 30 O’Sullivan Street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, says: “Eleven years ago I was suf-
fering a lot from a weak and aching back, and on the re-
commendation of a friend I took a course of
Doan's Backache Kidney Bills, and they cured me. I told
you this at the time, and gave you permission to publish
same for the benefit of other sufferers. lam how pleased
to add that I am still well, and have never had the slight-
est sign of backache ever since my cure was effected, ,11
vears ago. I can strongly recommend Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills to other sufferers, and feel sure if they will
take a thorough course of these grand pills they will soon
be cured, as I have been.”
fgf
Backache
Kidney
g
“And you knocked him down! Why, you
ought to be shot.”
“Well, kape yer timper, me frind,” said
Faddy. “Shure, it was only a bit av a di-
version we was having afther all. Wan
must be up to something to relave the tadium
av a hot day, and Oi wish ye good day, mate,
and good luck, if ye must be going.”
When the young man reached the top of
the rise he dropped his hat. Half an
hour later Tommy drowned his swag along-
side of Paddy.
“And was It C.R. or C.K., Tommy?”
asked Paddy.
“I couldn’t tell you, Paddy. It’s my be-
lief they didn’t put the branding iron on
properly.”
“Very possible, me bhoy. And ve did not
want to sind the Pope to Hades?”
“No, Paddy. It wuz you, on’y I knowed
yer wouldn’t mind going.”
, Paddy did not seem to be listening, wav-
ing his hand as if an explanation was not
necessary.
“Whoile Oi sat waitin’ for ye. Tommy, Oi
Was betliinkiit’ hie hoW We could celebrate
the twinty-futst anniversary of our becom-
ing cobbers (and to-day Will do about as well
as any other day), and, as we can’t raise
enough to visit Grogan’s, and we have no
turkey and plum duff, I was thinking if ye
would go across to Yarrandandy station and
thry and secure some raisins whoile Oi’ll
get down to the river and thry for a Mur-
ray cod.
ROBERT BROTHERS.
Safety!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CAPTAIN BOLLARD, as lie landed at
Circular Quay, could scarcely be-
lieve that he was at last free of the
Eastern Pacific —free with the liberty of a
favorite horse pensioned for ever. From the
wharf he had driven past (lie bisection of
Bridge-street by Pitt-street. Me had looked
oht oh South Sea Island Corner, Where from
dawn to dark it is scarcely possible to avoid
Collision with a man with a mate’s certifi-
cate held in a Cape Horn suit —and felt
afraid that arohhd that corner waited his
Old Life to drag him back to sea. Well, he
knew South Sea Corner and Macquarie
Biace, and the worn sandstone flags before
the entrance to Mrs. Purcell’s little hotel,
and its big willow tree. He knew equally
Well that the willow tree had gone with the
dead men—once the strong men whose swift
certain feet had worn the sandstone flags—
and that the little old public-house had even
replaced by a new, glaring and uncomfort-
able bar. Yet old imnressions were stronger
than his Hew knowledge. He felt South Sea
Corner for all its changes ; and the fact that
a new generation talked copra and snail-
shell and M.O.P. and tortoise-shell and ivory
huts in a new bar seemed to bring the East-
ern Pacific nearer than it had been since he
had joined the Australian-bound ship in
Gizo.
Then he di-ove to the bank and satisfied
himselt of the remittance of his credit —a
credit big enough to keep him until the ar-
rival of the time to die. And after that he
]l l?b e cted the “desirable seaside residence”
offered him by the agent he had instructed
by wire—so anxious was he to be quit of
the moving element that had for so long
)een his home, h ollowing the choice of one
ot these lie had a week of moving in. and
disposing of his new furniture, and opening
up the cases of island curios that w. r<. j-uc
to remind him of 30 years of hard battling- -
pme apple clubs, and arrows tipped with
human bone and cassowary claws, and in-
tricately carved paddles, and pot-bellied and
indecent gods, and murderous stilettos made
ot cassowary thigh bones —and in that work
he forgot ali about the conflicts and Maiaita
and San Ghristoval and Santa Cruz and the
human hand pointing skyward from the
cooking pots in the village of Atta, and all
the excursions and alarms of his stormy life
before the little despairing steamer swam
up to where he waited and took him back
to civilisation from Gizo.
On the eighth day, having his house in
order, he walked to the tram from his little
home by Parsley Bay. His left leg was
stiller than usual. He walked with an ap-
parentJy rheumatic gait—yet he knew that
his ill was not rheumatics, but a withering of
skin and tightening of sinew as the result of
a partial barbecue at Sumarango 20 years
betore. And at the reminder back went his
thoughts to the old life —to the life that he-
ft 111 at. South Sea Corner, and would end, in
the fullness of time, at Parsley Bay.
Thinking thus, he forgot the tram, and
walked Sydneywards—living his close calls
all over again.
“That -was the time ! The cobbera cook-
ill’ in the steamhouse, and the big Guadal-
canal- nigger clippin’ me over the head with
a cobbera knife, an’ I choked him with me
hands! He couldn’t weather old Tom Bol-
lard.
“It wasn’t bad. though—clear sea an’
pumice bottom below, so you could see 12
fathoms deep, and a dirty carpet-bag shark
cruisin’ among the painted fishes.
“An’ the time the missionary asked me to
read prayers while lie was awa v. an’ the
on’y book I had was Nares’s Sailin’ Direc-
tions, an’ I read the nigs all the soundin’s
in Boston Harbor, an’ they said ‘Amen’
whenever I stopped to haul my wind.
“San Christoval! That was good tradin’
—pretty place an’ bad nigs. Pine trees on
white sand patches an’ lazy surf an’ the
black canoes, an’ the long-tailed bo’sun
birds, an’ a little gin with hibiscus flowers
in her hair—pretty piece she was, too.
“Many a close call have I had —old Tom
Bollard. In (he eld days I bought black-
birds with old Brownbesses an’ cutlasses
and Snider rifles, an’ 20 years after they
near did for me with the same guns. An’
the second time I wasn’t blaek-birdin’ —I
was recruitin’. Same thing, says you—
same thing!
“But they wasn’t goin’ to wipe me out for
that but for savin’ iwo men and a woman
they had tied up for the cookin’ pots....
But I saved ’em —an’ I got £(> a head re-
cruitin’ fee for the men.... The times I’ve
seen!....l made a hole in that village with
two plugs o’ dynamite. Some o’ the nigs
that got away ain’t stopped runnin’ yet.
“But the time I was tied up for the cook-
io' pots meself! An’ the supercargo’s hand
stiekin’ out of the cookin’-pot among the
sago! That was near —nearer than ever I’ll
be to it again till my time comes to take in
my papers.”
He could see it all bad an-
chorage, the drifting schooner, the yelling
savages ashore armed with old muskets more
deadly to the armed man than to the target;
and later, his dead mates —one dismembered
for the cooking, the other slowly roasting,
and, to fill in the intervals of his screaming,
the sound of the sea rushing and retreating
over the coral-trash-laden flats and tinkling
fragments of coral against the stones. lie
remembered the only thought he had found
then —that of comparing the sound of the
disturbed dead coral with the noise of the
shingle by the groins between Hastings and
Brighton when the English Channel falls
for a moment from the shore.
He could still hear the yelling of the
dancers as they celebrated his defeat and the
capture of his ship ; still see the noisy moon-
lit beaches torn by the feet of Sooty-black,
swan-black, glossy-black, copper-red men—
breathless, sweat-glistering, but dancing as if
they could never be tired. He could smell yet
the stench of hot, oily flesh and disturbed
sand ; could see still the young bucks decked
with frangipanni and hibiscus, and the old
women enjoying the screams of the roasting
man—more cruel than death itself.
The night thick in the shadows, the moon-
light silver on the whiteness of the sand,
the fires crimson on the forest blackness;
flying foxes working at the cocoa nuts on
the palms: the roll of the surf making an
undersong for the wonderful harmony of the
dancers’ chant:—
Au niara. Au mara
La hala hala
Itoo wau.
And then the sudden rescue, the white men
mad with the lust of carnage, morning break-
ing over a slaughterhouse in all that beauty,
and two Captain Cook runts or island pigs
granting under an orchid-covered tree lean-
ing over porcelain blue water, and the chat-
ter of the satin birds in the papaw trees.
Also, he remembered two old chiefs lying
there dead —two old chiefs like grey and re-
verend monkeys.
“Yes, it was a close call —that was. Bad
nigs they are. Admiralty boys are bad, too.
Hive me those womanish, slender nigs in the
Carolines. Graceful, too, all them nigs
about the Pelews—as pretty as any boy I
ever saw at l r ap.
“Blackbirding at Santa Cruz. Dismasted
near Angaur. Fifteen hundred miles in an
open boat on a provision of seven tins of
bully beef eked out with hat linings and boot
leather. Yes, that was a hard time, too.
“But there was the good times! The
time I got half a hundredweight of tortoise-
shell for a pound o’ trade tobacco, and ten
ton o’ copra for a dozen Jews’ harps and a
Piece o’ turkey red. Y’ can’t do that now,
though ; the nigs know as much as a pawn-
broker. But I had the good times! Give a
chief an old pipe that was too strong for me
to smoke, and a stick o’ tobacco an’ a mouth-
organ, and he’d give me a boy, an’ I’d re-
cruit my ship’s capacity in a fortnight.
“I nearly went out that time they took
me for Dick Pentecost down in the Hebrides !
Some of Dick’s recruits had piccaninnies
aboard, an’ he got his hair off when the
piccaninnies cried, an’ he took ’em by the
legs an' knocked their heads against the
mast and then dropped ’em overboard. An’
they got me for him two years after, an’ it
was a good job there was a chief there who
was my pal and told ’em I wasn’t the man.
They got Dick Pentecost a couple of years
after that, an’ Dick died slow* an’ couldn’t
scream any more a long time before he
finished breathin'... But I’ve been lucky...
All my close calls —tied up for cookin’ pots
one time, an’ half roasted another, an’ many
a time clubbed blue an’ green an’ black an’
yeller... Never be so near to death again
without doin’ it complete... Near it scores
o’ times... But now I'm safe. And money
in the bank—l'm safe!”
It was at that moment that the driver of
the motor-car called out. But he was a
second too late. Crushed under the hea\.
wheels was the body of Captain Thoma
Bollard, who had had many close calls, an.
now was safe at last.
RAN DOLPH BEDFORD
The Resumption of Hell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD Satan was not feeling well;
He sat and gloomed within his 11<
Ilis drooping horns were glum
For his domain, once proud to view,
Was but a tenement or two
In Heaven’s remotest slum.
For in a modern Paradise
A hell is not looked on as nice ;
So Satan glowered and gloomed.
The City Council to improve
The streets had told him he must move ;
1101 l was to be resumed.
The trouble was not architects:
The scheme was due to Christian sects.
These tenements of pain
Were, so the new religions reckoned,
Upon Jerusalem the Second ' v
A most unsightly stain!
He’d taken an (denial lease
Where could torture souls in peace—
The Irony of it! —
Ilis lease was cancelled; he must go.
lie contemplated in his woe
A notice brief to quit.
Put as the newspapers he scanned
Within a sheet from Maoriland
He found this thrilling news:
“A Presbyterian defends
The worm whose gnashing never ends.
He has for Hell a use!”
And presently to him there came
A copper, haloed in pink flame.
And said: “Go, gnash in peace!
We’ve orders got from Maordand
That these old tenements we'd banned
Through all eternity shall stand!”
And gave him back his lease.
N.S.W.
A.H.A.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORSE PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 HORSE-POWER
WESTINGHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
r^sS
-irf
7
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest
efficiency, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from to
1000 horse=power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane, Q.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES.
The Only Rational Method of BOILER TREA T/VIENT.
NOT a
Boiler
R£CIST£»EO
Write for Interesting: Pamphlet.
A Great Success
in Water Tube
Boilers.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
METZ CARS.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-Priced
Car, it will repay you to. investigate the Metz 22-h.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylinder, Water-Cooled' Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE,
Sole Agents—
WITH FULL EQUIPMENT,
Write for Catalogue.
£2lO
Nett.
BROWN & HELL!CAR LTD., 103 pitt st -’ SYDNEY.
ONTHEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
WOLF’S Patent Superheated
STEAM PLANTS.
r *RWfl2f .fMMtfebßrj
- J _
-a?•*'V' -• ■'•,Ji<^P‘Sp«K^KS
iftiVr'-V wV *<2s wSSL2a2 | iC2a-li*Aia3irf»a«
Class THC Engine 820 B.H.P. Max.
The Most Economical Power Producer Yet Built.
WILL USE ANY KIND OF FUEL WHICH IS BURNABLE.
Guarantee Test just completed by a prominent Consulting Engineer, carried out
on a plant recently erected in Sydney, gave the Remarßably Low
Fuel Consumption of l*l4lb. of COAL (not costly charcoal
or coke) per Brake Horse Power per hour.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Australian Representatives:
HAES g EGGERS LTD..
163 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Local Agents:
ADELAIDE: Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE: Diamond Lubricating & Trading Co. Ltd., 396»398 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: Dean & Collin, 335 Queen Street.
£ooH Well After Yourself
If you consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps healthwards the moment
you find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
your vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about yourself, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them. Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great number of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
TaHc
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all times you can confidently rely upon
Sold everywhere ia boxes, price lfl\ {56 pills ) & 2/9 (168 pills).
CHANGE OF ADDRESS. SPECIAL NOTICE.
ON and AFTER fst JULY NEXT, the Basinets of
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED
will be conducted at
THE BANKING HOUSE, Th - pl « of,he
Opposite PALACE 1 HEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FRED. MoWIELIAM, Manager.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
fg
dfg
fg
fg
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES,
7 *
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I .fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well"
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Out out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney,
fg
,
' % 7~~ » K
Building for the past 30 years,
and now MOST POPULAR
MAKE ON THE MARKET.
Reputation UNEQUALLED for
SIMPLICITY and
RELIABILITY.
UNION ENGINES now supplied to run on
KEROSENE.
’Phone
2548 Central.
UNION OIL ENGINE GO.,
178 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Electric Storage Batteries
for All Purposes.
Traction, Town, House and Train Lighting Cells.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY, LONGEST LIFE.
Supplied to the Governments of Queensland, New South Wales,
New Zealand and Westralia.
107 BATTERIES INSTALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
Manufactured by the D.P. Battery Co ., Limited , Bakewell,
England.
Sole Australian Agent—
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. v
DICK’S PATE
BELTING
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
J
a
<
tt :
lr
DC
<
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruarrt against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers : Ja»«eS Ifordfe & CO.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
► of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE'
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
fgd
VENTILATING niwro
EXHAUST rflllS.
LARGE STOCKS
CARRIED.
Belt Driven, 12" to 54"
Electric, 12" to 24"
J. WILDRIDQE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt St., Sydney
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought iron, Cast iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, I Salves, Pumps, Flaming,
Patent t£ Nelyamfoo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Our WORKSHOPS are fitted with MODERN High-Speed TOOLS.
We manufacture ELECTRIC ELEVATORS.
WARBURTON, FRANK I, LTD., 307-311 Kent Street , Sydney . 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne ,
w
Sizes 20" $ 24
Get the Maximum Efficiency out of your
High Speed Twist Drills
A Barnes A.ll Geared Drilling' Machine
will accomplish this for you. They handle larger sizes of Twist Drills, and drive faster than is possible
bn Cone Driven Drills of similar swing. 8 Geared Speeds and 8 Geared Feeds—all under instant control.
Indispensable to the Progressive Shop. Write to Agents fof full details and prices.
Parke ®, Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WELL-BORING PLANTS
THE KEYSTONE
Traction and Non-Traction.
NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
♦
SEND FOR PARTICULARS TO THE SOLE AGENTS—
fgdf
g
S'-V ;
I
265 George Street, Sydney
52$ Collins Street, Melbourne
ik-
f
