

Tic EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
X£. 6. 'W «SC CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
, —FOR— • _ .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BUSINESS MEN WHO TRAVEL
will find that our Head Office and Branches will readily assist them when they need
financial aid promptly and without tedious delay, on business-like conditions. Our
low rates of interest and very helpful terms appeal to discriminate business men.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO. Limited
Head Office : 74 Castlereagh
Street 74» Sydney
,phith
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
50 William Street, Perth, W.A.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
5=
'jam
Jil
y
r
A
t*
£
Williams’s, mi Whisky
EOBAK.X.
Radley’s Qrieiit jjoteL
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantkkd
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
dh
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
ty •
fd
h
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
dfh
dfh
gfh
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
With
'T* ix
PALMER CORD TYRES
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
LVERTO W N RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
g
h
gh
gh
Royal
Dutch
gf
SUPERIOR
EVERYWAY.
OOFINO.
Now is the time to consider what is really the very
best roofing ; one that will be found absolutely
water and weatherproof ; one that is free from all
the roof troubles that arise in conjunction with
slates, tiles and iron.
Well the answer is Malthoid undoubtedly
Malthoid.
TIIE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALUS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
hgf
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S ,V. O.
MwWay
AIR-COOLED
BENZINE
ENGINE
Requires no water or piping—is air-
cooled. No overheating, easily man-
aged, starts instantly, cheap to run.
Uses benzine. Pitted with Bosch High
Tension Magneto. Thousands giving
splendid satisfaction. Portable and
Stationary from 2J&-H.P. Catalogue
on request.
h
Mat-Virtue £. d
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET
(Opp. Lands Office), SYDNEY.
fgh
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water: STARKEY & CO., LTD.,
P..i4.U -I--I P,.iJ Bimini.tian
The Bulletin
Vo]. 33.—N0. 1695.]
[Thursday, August 8, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


NOW READY. Sent Post Free to any Address.
Sixty-Page Catalogue of THE McCRAW-HILL BOOK CO., NEW YORK.
With full Index of Authors and Titles, eompnsingrthe best Technical Books on the following
ELECTRICITY, ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, MINING, METALLURGY IRON AND •STm
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, CIVIL ENGINEERING ’
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
GEORGE ROBERTSON Ar nn prodv . .
Kwn ‘' LTD,, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
f f
9 9
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC and
PROPHYLACTIC.
SUITABLE FOR OLD and YOUNG.
The Medical Press and Circular
says: “These Jujubes should be of
special service to Lecturers, Public
Singers and Speakers, and, indeed,
to all who are called upon to use
their voices freriuently for prolonged
periods.”
gfh
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers,
*rice l/<
SON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., Limil
YORK STREET, SYDNEY. Post Free on
The Red Page
MOUAT LEMONT.
What temple shall I enter at thy feet,
What sacrament availeth here below,
That I do penance till all thought is sweet,
And pure as thy investiture of snow?
Let me but hear thy cloudy music fall,
Not the far thunder, but the tacit shower
Of secrecies revealing thee, till all
My heart encloseth rest like a shut flower.
How silent, where the unperturbing sea
Frets not the border of thy seraph air,
As one who to the Earth’s enchantment free
Loves her too much for thy eternal prayer.
Sad symbol of our hearts that so forget ’
The quiet haven for the troubled foam,
Breaking upon the reefs that overset
The sail that beateth evermore for home.
Thou hast a morn remembered when all
streams
Poured from thy bosom through a forest
hid
By silence from the eddy of day’s beams
That would disturb her bough-enchanted
lid.
No song of men, no gladness, no refrain
Of the blithe axe re-echoing can reclude
The time thou hadst the sunshine and the
rain
Interpreters for thee and Solitude.
We stand beneath thy unitary power,
We watch thee when no cloud a shadow
throws
Upon thy stole of glory in the hour
The sunset is a pilgrim to thy snows;
And there is 1 never heart that doth not climb
With the meek evening to thine altar
peak,
And, failing, doth not sorrow for the time
Prayer touched us so, and nightly God
would speak.
Thy footstool is the land, but far away
The intangible, dim girdle of the sea
Folds thee for ever, like the Milky Way
Andromeda—’tis fitting thou shouldst be
Lovelier and more monumental shown
To the eternal wave than to the shore;
It knoweth what e’en thou hast never known
And murmureth it to thee evermore.
The sound that is the ivy of the beach
Hath harmony beyond all earthly song;
Oh thou that hast for ever heard it teach
My heart some fragment, so it may belong
lo all my being—and as thou dost shine
A greater temple to the changeless sea,
Be it my glory that I am divine
Less to the world than to Eternity.
Hubekt Chubch, in Poems (Lothian, Melb.).
Hubert Church
High up on Mount Egmont—the Maori-
land Parnassus—we must set up a little
altar to Hubert Church. There are other
altars in his neighborhood, some consider-
ably higher up; but a large area is still re-
served, at the top, for the great ones that
are to come. Church deserves a better site,
for he takes his Muse seriously and labors,
apparently by the illumination of the mid-
night oil, assiduously with the file. But the
wings that .would lift his Pegasus to loftier
altitudes have been denied him. He has
many of the attributes for great poetry, but
not that one without which great poetry
cannot be written. He fails to communi-
cate the emotional or the mental thrill; his
inspiration refuses to be incorporated in the
writtqp. word. Technically Church is not
lacking; he knows what is craftsmanship in
metre, but not its soul. Hence his modest
altar on the slopes but not the summit.
His “Ode on Metaphysical Thought,” in the
recently published Poems (Lothian, Melb.,
printed in England) is a brave effort on
material that is congenial to him but not
congenial to the Muse. The thought in it is
confused: the result is where
he has some simple desire to express does
he succeed: —
Some diviner Argonaut
Of the drifting sail of thought
a hall discover all the main
We have trembled for in vain.
Under Truth's pavilion cloud
Men shall wander pure and proud,
Ear shall hearken to a word
l[ ,a t no sophistry hath blurred;
lime shall fold her icing behind,
Death be youth and beauty blind:
Leery heart shall burdened be
With more joy than it can see.
The inclusion in this book of the lorn*
poems, “New Zealand,” “To the Light” and
A Fugue” weaken by their lack of interest
what without them would be a collection of
artistically written and daintily expressed
tugative glimpses of beauty. His aptness
ot phrase leaps challengingly from his
lighter poems.
What were it, dear, to gather you
Like a harvest glebe the dew j
And to find at breath of morn
Heaven with my waking bornt
The Summer light it goes,
The bird away it flies,
And Love is one with those;
The rose that never dies
Never was a rose.
But this, quality is not sustained. Too
many of his verses are verses, not poems.
But here are two pieces whose quotation
discloses the ambit and the limits of Hubert
Church’s delicate art.
WHO MAY CONDEMN.
What shaU a man condemn,
Whose secret hour has flamed
With turpitude, in them
Found out, dishonored, shamedf
You twine your hidden thought,
Lapped in a drowsy prayer
The prie.st presents—you brought
Another gospel there.
You see beyond the walls
A harlot of young time;
Her squandered splendor calls
To you through anthem rime.
Her eyes you see when lids
Drop down—the organ jars;
A dolt the priest tvho bids
Aspire beyond the stars.
The murmur of the breeze
Evokes the day you held
Her face, near wandering seas
In some white land of eld.
Ah, riot of red days
Unknown to all, for she
Is dead with tears —you praise
The blessed Trinity.
The sullen stone that falls
May crush a virgin bride,
Or, muffled in sea walls,
Roll stainless through the tide.
The harlot of the street,
If Rate had looked, away,
Had followed where the feet
Of Jesus make the day.
EPITAPH.
Underneath this stone I give
Roots the sap by ivhich they live;
And the bird that plucks a blade
Knows through me the deep, black shade.
Not when I had power to thrill
Heart that loved me—good or ill —
Gave 1 all the Strength divine
God ordained to be mine.
Now , within my shrunken grave,
Death has left me power to save.
To ennoble, them that knew —
Though I slumber, I indue.
The Time That isn’t
lhe time is not yet ripe for Louis Esson.
His tour-aet comedy, The Time Is Not Yet
hipe (Irazer and Jenkinson, Melb.), is an
interesting experiment in a purely Austra-
lian political comedy; but the author, who
in Dead, Timber wrote a one-act play not
unworthy of being compared with Synge’s
lijdvrs to the Sea, fails to last the distance
of four acts. There is brilliance in the dia-
logue, but the plot, action and characterisa
tion fatally handicap the comedy. His plo 1 :
shows an “intellectual” Socialist and hi
fiancee, the daughter of a “Liberal” Trim
Minister, standing for the sarfie constitu
ency. The outcome of the election fails to
interest the reader, for the reason that th
Socialist’s platform is too farcical to carry
the slightest conviction. He believes in com
pulsory Greek in schools and universities
he favors the suppression of daily news
papers, picture shows, A.N.A. debates, fern
mine fiction, pony-racing and pleasant Sun
day afternoons; and he doesn’t believe in
anything, and doesn’t want any votes. That
is his policy. Excellent foolery, yes; bin:
foolery that discounts any possibility oJ:
dramatic interest. His fiancee is equally
vacuous ; and there is no mention of a third
candidate, who would have won the election
hands down. Of course, Love wins by
tremendous majority. The Prime Minister
is equally unreal. His platitudes are the
platitudes of the successful Tory politician
but the man behind them, the man who sin-
cerely believes in them, does not appear. The
only real people in the comedy are the red-
hot Socialists and the energetic woman
secretary of the Woman’s Liberal League.
In these portraits Esson has gone to the life
class; the rest of his characters are merely
mouthpieces for clever fooling. And in his
tenuous plot Esson does not progress. The
scene in the Socialist club, ably observed, is
mere talk, the election crowd is admirably
presented, but both these scenes leave us
just where we were. Only in the first act
pnd the last is there anything doing, and in
the last act we have guessed long before
exactly what would be doing. The dialogue
is sometimes delightful. John K. Hill, a
Chicago drummer, remarks that Australia
has lots of t space,; to which the woman can-
didate replies: “Our sheep require it. Our
population is mostly sheep.”
“We prate of progress,” says the “intel-
lectual Socialist, “and what is Australia’s
chief contribution to civilisation? Frozen
mutton and the losing hazard. .. .You say
Socialism will destroy the purity of the
home. Of course it will. To the devil with
the purity of the home! Purity is a disease,
and the suburban home is a horror.”
Ana _ the Prime Minister remarks : “The
patriotism of the great dailies is most com-
mendable. I shall recommend the editors
for birthday honors.”
As a one-act play, the election meeting
would make an effective and humorous
farce; but The Tithe Is Not Yet Ripe, bril-
liant and cheeky as it is, is not a comedy,
not even a farce. Its characters and its
plot are machine-made. As a satire on Aus-
tralian politics it lacks the one necessary
touch- that we should be able to believe
that its characters are alive. All credit,
however, to Esson, for a first attempt.
-*■
The Trader, a story of adventure in New
Guinea, by Cecil Ross-Johnson, the latest
shilling volume from .the N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., is well written and evidently founded
on actual experience.
Mark Twain’s A Tramp Abroad can now
Zu °J ,tained cloth binding for 7d.—plus
the Australian bookseller’s extortion. Ever-
ett s Library is another recruit to the cheap,
well-printed, even illustrated, reprint.
A French Ironist
Remy de Gourmont’s A Night in the
Luxembourg has been admirably translated
by Arthur Ransome (Swift, per Sydney Book
Club). It is a book not for Gertie Flapper
nor for W. Wowser, Esq. It is a beautifully
written criticism of Christianity, not a Nietz-
scliean attack, but a suave, philosophical,
almost genial analysis, with a smile, perhaps,
beneath the stately sentences.
It begins as a detective story begins, with
the unexplained death of a newspaper corres-
pondent in his rooms. “The Mystery of the
Rue de Medicis” has a brief newspaper noto-
riety; then, as there are no further develop-
ments, interest in it dies. But the dead man
left by his will to a friend a manuscript, evi-
dently written just prior to his death. The
manuscript follows. In it the writer recounts
the strange adventure that had befallen him.
He begins his story thus: —
I am certainly drunk, yet my lucidity is
very great. Drunk with love, drunk with
pride, drunk wi h divinity, I see clearly
things that I do not very well understand.
He tells how he met in a church a stranger,
contemplating with curiosity a statue of the
Virgin. “It is this that they call my
mother !” he remarks. “They are full of such
good intentions.... I have had so many
mothers that this image doubtless resembles
one of the women who have believed that they
gave birth to me.” For the stranger is not
Christ, nor God, but a god who claims to
have inspired not Christ alone, but-Epicurus,
Pythagoras, Lucretius, Spinoza and St. Paul.
In the author’s philosophy all religions are
the same religion, though, through the
stranger, de Gourmont puts forth as the
essence of his belief the teaching of
Epicurus.
The stranger takes the man to walk in the
gardens of the Luxembourg, the gates of
which, though shut this winter night, open
for them ; and they find themselves in day-
light, with all the flowers in blossom and the
birds singing their delight of a summer d%y.
The god is enraptured over the roses. “These
roses are enough to make me jealous of men.
The rose of your gardens,-the women of your
civilisation, these are the two creations that
make you the equals of the gods.” He tells
his listener of the gods, who, like men, grow
old and die, and whose power, though exer-
cised on a much more extensive material, is
of the same order as human power. But,
like mortals, destiny rules the gods. He
criticises the gospels, but adds of these pious
dreamers, “These men touched God with their
hands.”
*** y
I told you that the religion of the ancient
Greeks was that which translated with least
ugliness and least falsity the true state of
the world which, is invisible to you. There
are gods, that is to say, a race of men as
superior to other men as you are superior to
the most intelligent animals. You have con-
quered the earth; my ancestors conquered
space, and colonised the greater number of
the planets that gravitate round the sun.
Our possible domain does not extend beyond
the solar system As for the infinite
worlds which are spread beyond our sphere,
they are for me as for you the unknown and
the unknowable Terrestrial life is pre-
carious since it is at the mercy of atmo-
spherical circumstances. If the original heat
had increased instead of diminishing, the
termites and the ants would perhaps be two
great nations, sharing between them the
empire of the world, and man would be one
of their preys Leisure is indeed the great-
est and the most .beautiful of man’s conquests.
But after conquering leisure, you dis-
dained it, and slaves, ashamed of the inac-
tivity of their domesticated hands, set them-
selves to preach among you the sanctity of
labor. Poor madmen!
The god exclaims that Lucretius’s poem
(from which comes almost' all that we know
of the system of Epicurus) is the most beau-
tiful, perhaps, of the works of men. “Ah!
if men had chosen for Bible that admirable
book! ’ He asks his disciple to be the new
Epicurus.
To know that one has but one life, and that
it is limited! Lose your days neither in
weeping for the past nor in weeping for the
future. Live your hours, live your minutes.
Joys are flowers that the rain will /tarnish,
or that will throw their petals to the wind.
....Your morality is to-day the lowest find
the saddest, that lias ever reigned. The ex-
ternal hell, in which you now scarcely believe,
has entered your hearts, where it devours all
your joys.
He foresees the death of humanity:—
But when I see humanity disappear, it is
at first in the manner of the ants and the
bees, and of all the other animalities, once
intelligent and creative, now reduced to
mechanical existence. You will come to re-
semble marvellous clocks. Your mathemati-
cal complexity will be the admiration of the
intelligences which have succeeded vour owe
lheu- multiple and contradictory activity
will stop sometimes, struck by surprise t«
observe the sureness of your movements, and
you will be one of the terms, though no
longer the same, in the disturbing problem of
intelligence and instinct. . ..
To receive happiness ready-made would be
offering one’s neck to the rope. Christian-
ity found a very beautiful formula: to work
out one’s salvation. Now that is a personal
work. If someone should propose a method
to you, examine it. If you are being offered
salvation already prepared, turn away vou
head; the food is poisoned. ... Human wis
dom is to live as if one were never to die anc
to gather the present minute as if it were to
be eternal.
The god disappears, and the man goes
back to his rooms with one of the goddesses
who with him have listened, to the discourse
There he writes his book, and is found dead
The goddess has disappeared, leaving her
robe.
—♦ —■
In a recent Red Page, an example of
coding a diplomatic cable in American slang
was given, with the suggestion that perhaps
it could be as well coded in Australian
slang. “Slang Merchant” submits his
effort: —
Dinnyhayeser set . lurk, lumping polony Kingpin's
straight monniker, chatting dead sudden' stink Fog
wards by long punt, pinched by tartlet from head biff
establishment. Hiny hops have had a cut, but have
dropped their bundles. Tipped that tartlet is hump-
ing bluey between the devil and the blue sea. If slu
makes the shed before cut out, legpullers at Big
Smoke and the Wowserless One will receive straight
tip to collect their eheqhes, and two camps will join
in red-hot jamboree. Antonio- no good to Gundy on
first stretch.
The translation is:—
Complete set of plans, bearing the Emperor's own
signature, calling for immediate attack on England
by airships, stolen by young woman from the War
Office. The German police have tried but accom-
plished nothing. The young woman is thought to he
crossing from Holland or Belgium. If she succeeds
in reaching-her destination quickly our ambassadors
in London and Paris will be, handed their papers,
and war will be on with two countries. At the pre-
sent time we can expect no help from Italy.
Things that Matter, “papers upon sub-
jects which are, or ought to be, under dis-
cussion,” by L. G. Chiozza Monev (Methuen,
per Sydney Book Club), is a manual for all
who believe that the time is not yet ripe.
According to the author, the things that
matter range from the .emigration of capi-
tal, the recent fall in real wages, and the
mockery of education, to British iron stag-
nation, the endowment of motherhood, and
eugenics. The author believes in high wages,
and proves that the workman who obtains
an advance in wages is a benefactor of his
country and his kind. The “industrial un-
rest’ will never b@ “settled.” “If the great
mass of the working people—almost the en-
tire nation that is—do not continuously
secure higher wages, the nation must Cease to
advance both actually and relatively to other
nations.” He suggests, as the only solution
of the problem of unemployment, the organ-
isa'ion of each trade, with State control,
taking as an example of the Consolidation
of an industry, though not of its methods,
the American Steel Trust. Applying his
reasoning to our conditions, it will be found
( liat only in those industries carried on by
the State, the post office, the railways, etc.,
is there no problem of unemployment. The
nationalisation of the other industries would
similarly narrow the range of unergnlpvment.
In dealing drastically with the industrial
conditions of British railways, he suggests
that the following notice should be placed in
every carriage of every express train :
“You are travelling at the rate of 60 miles
an hour, which is 88 feet per second—a late
at which it is undesirable to encounter an
obstruction. It will interest you to know
that the signalmen upon whom your safety
depends are paid about 255. a week, and
worked for 10 hours a day.”
In “Votes for Men,” the author supplies
statistics which explain why the Labor party
has so little influence on British elections.
Political elections in that country of the
free, after making deductions for plural votes
and workmen unable to vote, are decided by
rather more than one-half of the manhood of
the nation.
Australasian readers are commended to
The English Review— the solitary liter-
ary review published in England that is
worth reading. Its price has recently been
reduced from half a crown to one shilling
a copy. In its pages the names of practi-
cally every real poet and every real writer
have appeared. It is absolutely free from
the taint of the Wowser: its freedom of
speech is astonishing in the land where books
must be written for the flapper, under the
threat of being refused room in the subscrip-
tion libraries. It is an unfailing good shilling's
worth. Annual sub., 12s. 6d. Also, in a
class by itself, is The Round Table, a
quarterly review of the politics of ihe
British Empire (2s. 6d.). This is a grimly
serious review, though the articles, contri-
buted by correspondents situated in the dif-
ferent dominions, have the advantage of local
knowledge, and show a judicious fairness of
treatment. In the present issue (June)
there are articles upon the Brisbane strike
and other Australian and Maoriland hap-
penings and tendencies. Dull, but solid.


Jk
w aae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ 3 WEEKS SALE
The Second Week.
SAVE MONEY at SALE PRICES.
Last Days
Saturday, Aug . 17
HEN'S SAC SUITS.
LATEST STYLES. PERFECTLY CUT.
And possessing tile Many Advantages attend-
ant upon Goods of Our Own Manufacture.
51
Navy Diagonal Serge,
(i and V, and 74
Usual Reduced
Price. to
91
US
50
113
50
00
112
118
131
235
32
Serge,
Serge,
37/0, 10/-, 32/6, 33/6
sizes
.. 40/-
sizes
161
119
27
90
44
131
:oo
Fine Diagonal
4 to 6
Fine Diagonal
3 to 7
Navy Serge, Indigo dye, sizes
4, 0 and ■<, 41 and 01...
Diagonal Serge, fast dye,
sizes 4 to 7
Black Diagonal, sizes 44 to
to 74
Fine Diagonal Serge, fast
dye, sizes 3 to 7
Fine Diagonal Serge, fast dye,
sizes 3 to 7
Navy Serge, sizes 4 to 7, 51 to
71, 4i to 74
Navy Serge and Vicuna, sizes
3 to 7
Navy Serge, Indigo dye, sizes
3 to 7, 14 to 94
Black Corkscrew, sizes 44,
64, and 74, 64 and 74..
Hairline Tweed, sizes 3 to 7
Fancy Tweed, sizes 3 to 7
Heavy Tweed, sizes 3 to 7..
Fancy Tweed, sizes 44 to 94,
35/-, 37/6, 30/-, 31/-
Sergerette, sizes 3 4 and 7,
44, 64, 74 and 94 .. ..37/6
Self Tweed and Worsteds,
sizes 4to 7 .. .. .. 37/6
Check and Striped Tweeds,
sizes 4 to 7, 84 and 64
40/-, 12/-. 35/-, 36/-
Fancy Worsted, sizes 3 to 6 . 42/- 36/-
Fancy Suiting, sizes 3 to 7.. 45/- 37/6
Fancy Tweed and Sergerette,
sizes 4 to 7, 74 to 94..
45/-, 47/6. 38/-, 39/-
Scotc-h Tweed, sizes 3 to 7.. 50/- 42/6
40/-
42/-
45/-
45/-
47/6
50/-
50/-
52/6
55/-
35/-
35/-
35/-
37/6
37/6
42/-
43/-
42/-
44/-
47/6
55/-
32/6
35/-
35/-
47/6
27/6
30/-
30/-
32/-
32/-
Men’s Boots U Shoes
112 prs. Tan Balmorals and Patent Boots,
sizes 6’s to 9’s; Glace Balmorals and Tan
Willow Balmorals, sizes s’s to lls’s; Glace
Derby Boots, sizes s’s to 10’s; Patent
Derby Boots; Glace R.S. Boots, size B’s
only; Tan Glace Buckle Boots, size B’s
_ Usual Price, 18/6; Reduced to 15/-
119 prs. Tan Willow Balmorals and Button
Boots, sizes s‘s to 10’s; Glace Balmorals,
patent caps, sizes 6’s, 9’s, 10’s; Calf
Goloshed Balmorals, welts, sizes s’s to ll’s.
Usual Price, 15/3; Reduced to 12/9
106 prs. Glace Balmorals, Tan Balmorals, sizes
s’s to 10’s; Tan Willow Balmorals and
Patent Balmorals, sizes s’s to 10’s; Patent
Button Boots, Patent Balmorals, Tan Wil-
low and Glace Lace Boots, sizes s’s to
10’s; Glace Balmorals, patent caps, sizes
s’s to 10’s; Glace Button Boots, sizes s’s to
10’s; Horseskin Balmorals, size B’s only;
Glace Derby Boots, sizes 6’s, 7’s. 10’s only.
Usual Price, 14/3; Reduced to 11/9
291 prs. Box Calf Balmorals, sizes s’s to 10’s;
Mineralised Yearling Balmorals, sizes s’s,
6’s, 7’s, 10’s; White Buck Oxford’s 6’s, 7’s,
B’s, 9’s; Calf Oxford Shoes, sizes s’s to
10’s; Tan Willow Derby Shoes, sizes 6’s,
7’s, 9’s, 10’s; Glove Derby and Calf E.F.
Shoes, sizes s’s to 10’s.
„„„ Usual Price. 11/9: Reduced to 9/11
112 prs. Glace Balmorals, fair-stitched Yale
and pointed toes, sizes s’s to 10’s.
Usual Price, 11/9; Reduced to 10/6
199 prs. Glace Balmorals, fair-stitched, sizes
s’s, 10’s.
Usual Price. 10/9; Reduced to 8/11
150 prs. Glace Balmorals, no caps, easy fitting,
wide toes.
Usual Price, 12/6: Reduced to 9/11
5o prs. Calf Goloshed. elastic sides, with or
without caps, sizes 6’s and 10’s; Tan Ooze
Calf Almas, sizes s’s. 6’s, 10’s: Glace and
Box Calf Balmorals, sizes s’s, B’s, 9’s, 10’s;
Box Calf Lace-uns. sizes 4’ s to 6’s.
Usual Price. 10/6: Reduced to 7/11
61 nrs. Glace Balmorals, sizes s’s. B’s, 9’s,
id’s: Box Calf Balmorals, sizes s’s. 9’s,
10’s: Tan Ooze Balmorals, size 10’s only.
Usual Price, 9/11; Reduced to 7/6
Hair Tonics, Dyes and
Restorers, p »> i: -? •••• •
„ , „ Price. to
1 doz. Saonetta Hair Stain,
bottle 5/3 3/-
2J doz. Hirsutus—Life for the
hair 4/6 2/3
6 doz. Tatcho Hair Renewer,
trial size bottle, non-oily .. 2/9 2/3
27 doz. Valentine’s Ammoni-
ated Extract Walnut Stain 1/4 1/1
17 doz. Pratt’s Devonian Cream,
to strengthen the hair .. l/ll 1/6
38 doz. Lime Juice and Glycer-
ine, A. H. & S., Soz. bottles -/9 -/7
17 doz. Bay Rum Hair Tonic,
A. H. & S.. Boz. bottles .. 1/- _/9
25 doz. Bay Rum and Canthar-
ides, A. FI. & S., Soz. bottles 1/- -/9
21 doz. Bay Rum and Bitter
Apples. A. H. & S„ Boz. bottles 1/- -/9
32 doz. Bay Rum and Rose-
mary. A. H. & S.. Soz. bottles 1/- _/9
24 doz. Chesebrough’s Vaseline
Hair Tonic 1/6 l/_
HAVANA
1500 Partagas, Conchas Bouquet
3000 J. S. MUrias, Bouquet
5800 A. Murias, Regalia Bueno
750 A. Murias, Unionistas
1200 Ramon Allones, Fandangos
1500 Castaneda, Parisianas
1750 Flor de Cuba, Media Regalia
3000 Flor de Cuba. Jockey Club
700 Upmann, Petit Bouquet
MANILA
2700 La Fonda, Manila leaf
1000 Company General, Cortado Fino
1250 Company General, Chiquitos
3,)UU La Flor de Intal, Nuevo Habano
2000 La Minerva, Divinos Silver Foil
1250 La Insular, Imperiales ..
130 Germinal, TJnicos, in Glass Tubes
200 Maria Christina, Ministros Glass Tubes
5000 Maria Christina, Ileinas
4000 Maria Christina, Brevas Chicas
CIGARS.
CIGARS.
INDIAN, CONTINENTAL and COLONIAL CIGARS .
2500 Spencer’s, Torpedoes
750 Spencer’s, Gold Mohurs ..
5000 Flor de Dindigul, No. 2
5000 Flor de Dindigul, Sublimes
1500 Spencer’s Planters’ Special
7000 La Batavia, Rothschilds ..
2500 Trio Cigars, oval tins
2000 Alpha, Rothschilds ..
2000 Thisbe
5000 High Life, Reina Victoria
CHOICE CIGARETTES.
501 b. Triumph, Hand Made, Virginia. Plain, 4oz. box reduced to 2/9 per box.
501 b. Triumph, Hand Made, Turkish, Plain or Gold Tip, 4oz. box reduced to S/6 per box.
251 b. Triumph, Hand Made, Selected Turkish, Cork and Gold Tips—
4oz. box reduced to 4/- per box.
5000 Virginia Cigarettes, made by Ardath Tobacco Co., Plain or Cork Tipped, in hermetically
sealed tins of 50 for 1/6. The Best Value Ever Offered.
POPULAR TOBACCO.
4001 b. A. H. Sc S., 8 and 14 plugs to the lb. ...
5001 b. Semper Eadem, 5 plugs to the lb. ..
8001 b. Triumph, Dark, 41 plugs to the lb
6001 b. Triumph, Aromatic. 5 plugs to the lb
3001 b. Semper Eadem, cut, 4oz. pkts. .. .. ~ ~
3501 b. Triumph, Dark, cut, 4oz. packets ..
2501 b. Triumph, Aromatic, cut 4ioz. pkts...
1001 b. Archers’ Albion Chips Tobacco, 2oz. tins, 1/-; 4oz. tins, 2/-
Reduced
to
;2/9 lb,
3/9 ~
5/- ~,
5/3 „
4/- „
5/9
5/9 „
7/9 ~
SMOKERS’ SUNDRIES.
18 doz. Plated Puzzle Match Boxes .. .. ~ ~ each
12 doz. HP. Match Boxes
6 doz. HP.N.S. Match Boxes ..
4 doz. Glass Match Holders, silver-mounted
li doz. Glass Ash Trays, with cigar rest .. .. .»
li doz. HP. Ash Trays, with cigar rest „ „ ~ ...
2 doz. Glass Ash Trays, with cigar rest ~ ~ ~
6 doz. Gilt Ash Trays, with safety match holder
4j doz. Metal Ash Trays, Green Frosted, with cigar rest, assorted patterns.,
2J doz. Metal Ash Trays, Green Frosted, with cigar holder, match holder and
cigar rest
2J doz. Metal Ash Trays, Green Frosted with cigar holder, match holder and
cigar rest .. ...
f doz. HP.N.S. Ash Trays, with wood match holder and two cigar rests
18 doz. Waltonian Patent Safety Match Holder, to hang on wall ~
9 doz. Wood Pipe Racks, with mirror back, to hold 7 pipes
9 doz. Wood Pipe Racks, with mirror back, to hold 10 pipes
3 doz. Polished Oak Pipe Racks, to hold 7 pipes
3 doz. Polished Oak Pipe Racks, to hold 3 pipes
15 Aluminium Cigar Cases
White Blankets.
Colored Blankets.
125 prs., Blue, for Single Beds,
9/4 size pair 10/- 9/-
130 prs.. Blue, Three-quarter
Beds, 10/4 size 13/9 12/6
120 prs. ditto ditto, 10/4 size.. 16/- 14/6
70 prs. Blue, Double Beds, 11/4
size .. .. .. .. 20/- 18/-
98 prs. ditto, ditto, extra large 27/- 21/6
91 prs. Scarlet, for Single Beds,
9/4 size .. .. .. .. 12/3 11/-
96 prs. ditto, ditto, 9/4 size .. 13/9 12/3
75 prs. Scarlet, for Three-quar-
ter Beds. 10/4 size .. .. 17/- 15/3
59 prs. ditto, ditto, 10/4 size.. 19/6 17/6
97 prs. Scarlet, for Double Beds,
11/4 size 24/- 21/6
50 prs. Scarlet for Double Beds.
Extra Large, 12/4 size .. .. 29/6 26/6
Shooting Sundries.
5 sets Ideal Reloaders, 44-40
rifle set
4 sets Ideal Reloaders, S. & \V.
revolver
20 sets Reloaders, 12-gauge, com-
plete ~
3 sets Reloaders, 410-gauge, com-
plete
5 Sets Eureka Closers, 42-gauge,
each
1 Leather Cartridge Carrier,
metal corners,, to hold 2QP ...
1 Canvas Cartridge Carrier,
slide lock, to hold 200. .
1 Canvas Cartridge Carrier,
slide lock, to hold 100 ..
1 Canvas Cartridge Carrier,
to hold 200 ;.
1 Canvas Cartridge Carrier,
to hold 400
2 Game Bags, extra quality
2 Leather-lined Game Bags
3 Moleskin Game Bags
4 Solid Leather Gun Case, full
length
0 Parker’s Rifle Club Registers
2 doz. Xylonite Tablets, for Scor-
ing cards .. .. ..
ALLOWANCES ON AMMUNITION.
325 Ballistite Cartridges, 24 x 42
Gauge, No. 8 shot .. 400 42/6 9/9
2500 Repeater Scliutze Cartridges,
12 Gauge, 1. 2, 5. 6. & 8 shot 11/9 9/9
2300 Repeater Dupont Cartridges,
12 Gauge. 1. 2, 6 & 8 shot.. 11/9 9/9
3000 Shotted Caps, No. 2.. .. 2/3 1/3
4500 Winchester primed Shells,
44 calibre .. .. .. 4/- 1/9
500 Winchester primed Shells.
38, calibre 3/6 1/9
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
TEAS FOR ALL TASTES.
Expertly Blended and Celebrated for flavor
and Quality.
GOOD FAMILY BLEND (White Label),
1/- per lb.
Usual Reduced
Price. to
51b. tin .. .. .. tin 5/- 4/9
101 b. tin 0/9 9/3
201 b. tin 10/- 18/-
PALACE BLEND of China and Ceylon
Teas (Yellow Label), 1/3 per lb.
51b. tin .. .. .. tin 0/- . 5/6
101 b. tin 11/6 10/6
2011). tin 22/- 20/-
UNIVERSAL BLEND of Fine Indian and
Ceylon Teas (Blue Label), 1/6 per lb.
51b. tin tin 7/- 6/3
101 b. tin .. .. .. .. 13/0 12/-
201 b. tin 26/6 23/6
OUR SPECIALITY BLEND of Finest
Indian, China and Ceylon Teas
(Red Label), 1/9 per lb.
51b. tin ~ .. tin 8/6 7/9
101 b. tin .. 16/- 14/6
201 b. tin ~ ~ ~ ~ 31/- 28/-
TRIUMPH BLEND of Choicest Indian,
China and Ceylon Teas (Purple
Label), 2/- per lb.
51b. tin .. .. .. tin 9/6 8/9
101 b. ,tin 18/- 16/6
201 b. tin .. .. .. .. 35/- 32/-
EXTRA SPECIAL BLEND (Purple
Label), 2/6 per lb.
51b. tin .. .. .. tin 11/3 10/6
101 b. tin 22/- 20/-
201 b. tin 42/6 39/-
“ROBUR” REDUCED.
PILLS and TABLETS
Usual Reduced
Price. to
10 doz. Ayer’s Pills, Cathartic,
bottle -/10i ~/9
40 doz. Blaud’s Gelatine Coated
Pills, 100 in bottle .. .. 1/-; 3 for 2/-
36 doz. Blaud’s Sugar Coated
Pills, 144 in bottle .. ..1/-; 3 for 2/-
49 doz. Blaud’s Pill Tablets, 5-
grain, 100 in bottle .. .. 1/-; 3 for 2/-
5 doz. Blaud’s Arsenic Tab-
lets, 100 in bottle .. 1/-; 3 for 2/-
6 doz. Blaud’s Arsenic and
Strychnine Tablets, 100 in
bottle 1/6 ■ 1/-
11 doz. Aloin Compound Tab-
lets, a tonic, 100 in bottle.. 1/- -/9
4 doz. Antipyrine Tablets, 5-
grain, for Headache, 100 in
bottle 1/6 1/2
4 doz. Blaud Pill and Aloin
Tablets for Anaemia, 100 in
bottle 1/-; 3 for 2/-
20 doz. Backache Pills for Kid-
ney troubles 1/3 1/-
10 doz. Cascara Compound
Tablets, 100 in bottle .. 1/9 1/3
84 doz. Cascara Sagrada Tab-
lets, 3-grain, 25 in bottle.. 3 for -/loj|
78 doz. Cascara Sagrada Tab-
lets, 3-grain, 100 in bottle.. 1/-; 2 for 1/6
4 doz. Caffeine Citrate Tab-
lets, 2-grain, for Headache,
ache, 100 in bottle .. .. 1/6 1/2
4 doz. Chemical Food Tablets,
each tablet equal to one tea-
spoonful of Syrup, 100 in
bottle 1/9 1/3
4 doz. Caffeine and Antipyrine
Tablets, for Headache, 100
in hottle 1/9 1/3
30 doz. Compound Podophyllin
Pills . . -/6; 3 for 1/-
24 doz. •Compound Rhubarb
Pills -/C; 3 for 1/-
55 doz. Compound Sulphur Blood
Tablets, box .. .. ~ -/6; 3 for 1/-
•8 doz. Flemming’s Quinine
and Camphor Pills, bottle .. 1/1 -/6
4 doz. Guy’s Fruit Pills, box 1/2 -/7i
4 doz. Hypophosphites Co.
Tablets, each tablet equal to
1 teaspoonful of Fellow’s
Syrup. 100 in bottle, bottle 1/9 1/3
108 doz. Little Liver Pills .. -,/6; 3 for 1/-
23 doz. Laxatine Tablets .. 1/-; 2 for 1/6
8 doz. Laxative Fig Choco-
lates for Children, box .. 1/- -/10
43 doz. Purgen, the new Aperi-
ent for Adults, box .. .. 1/2 1/-
11 doz. Soda Mint, for Flatu-
lency and Indigestion, 100
in bottle, bottle .. .. -/6; 2 for -/10
51 doz. Trilene Tablets for
Fatness, small size, box .. 3/- 2/6
3) doz. ditto ditto, large size .. 9/- 8/-
ANTHONY HORDERN h SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W


WINCHESTER
W : W t
•Kvi/.V/.v-
mmik***** .
1 '?' ‘ '
'V-V.v/.V* %
m’-v!
■, ,
a#
,
, •:! . '*•-*•.
. * - ••
'•‘"’‘as-sas. ■y.’
',:. • ■•; /• -^0!
WZ&i <■;
*s»:
|#sps
. %■
•■• . ■ ,' s v
.;" f .fiiftj&fc'sritf** . ■ ' j? 'S; ’,
. W J ' , ; 1 its v .*£
\' f- r .i> ) ' .<■■;. "«s
‘ ." •■' '-v-v;:'.; '*
,•;, •.. «y ••. *...; •. %/• ,* c V
Shotgun Cartridges
“NEW RIVAL"
Made in America by Experts .
The effectiveness of your gun is enhanced by using good
cartridges in it. If you have not used “New Rival” car-
tridges, do so next time you go shooting and you will then
understand why they are sold in such large quantities.
These cartridges are made in America, where there is more
shooting done with the shotgun than in any other country.
They cost more than other makes, because they are worth
more; and they are worth much more to you than the
slight difference in price. Every shot counts when “New
Rival” cartridges are used, and you realize your full skill.
SOLD BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
AS evidence of the
splendid value
& which we offer
in our tailoring depart-
ment let us send you
patterns of a specially
fine group of fabrics at
63/-* These include
Fox's All-Wool Serges,
Fancy Worsteds,
Heather Mixtures,
English, Scotch and
Blarney Tweeds* All are
of Extra Good Quality
and of highly fashion-
able Pattern and Shade.
631-
the Suit
Every Garment Finely
Tailored to Measure.
3*
P
I
I
«35>
r
-*?
v>i
//
R 5473
You order London Clothes without risk of disappointment*
They are definitely guaranteed*—What you get must be
what you Want* Write for Patterns and Measurement Forms.
Opposite the G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
Our illustration shows three London-dressed, Australians in Naples.
GUARANTEE.
Every Garment we make
to order must please, fit
and satisfy its wearer in alt respects, or we under-
take to immediately return every penny of the
purchase money. London Stores Ltd.
The Inky Way.
THE PROUD GENIUS
[Fok The Bulletin.]
There is a splendid genius to whom I bow the knee;
His name upon the scroll of Fame is writ for all to
see ;
I nodded in a nervous way to him the other morn,
But—
He crushed me to the pavement with a look of sober
scorn l
That proud and splendid genius I do not care to
meet
When, chin in air and shoulders braced, he marches
down the street;
Nor does it greatly cheer me when in deep dejection
sunk
That —
He sometimes condescends to borrow thrippence when
he’s drunk I
nowhere. FUGITIVE SCRIBBLER.
* * * *
“Wonga”: It seems to me that a ghastly mistake
has been made in assuming that the signing of
articles is going to hurt the Conservative party.
Certainly the Tory papers are kicking hard against
the proposal, but that is because they naturally
oppose anything new. In practice it will be the
Democratic writer that is going 10 be hit up, if not
altogether silenced. Your remarks concern,ng the
unpopularity awaiting writers who pour out the
Anti-Sosh myths—their being socially boycotted and
so on—-would be all right if it were not for the fact
that the said writers mix with a crowd that cordi-
ally endorse all the wild anti-Australian ideas
referred to. So far from suffering, they would be
little tin gods. Furthermore, incredible as it
seems to a healthy Australian, much of this weird
stuff is written by men who honestly believe what
they write. The breaking of the marriage tie, the
menace of republicanism foreshadowed by the build-
ing of an Australian navy, and such-like, is real
live gospel to these writers. To sign their articles
will not penalise them. If the real truth was
known, most of them would rush the publicity with
great joy, seeing in it an enhancement of their ser-
vices to the men that have got the money. Your
remarks infer that no one could possibly write such
stuff and write it honestly. The view does The
Bulletin credit as regards its democratic mind, but
not as regards its appreciation of the inwardness of
the Tory.
On the other hand, the writer who has strong
democratic tendencies is very much liable to suffer if
he voices his views. Given that he writes in accord-
ance with his principles, such writings will be
obnoxious to the majority, probably, of the people
he mixes with socially. Consequently, he will find
himself and his family ostracised and penalised as
only the truly civilised can penalise their fellow
beings. Many of our most democratic writers live
in what are really conservative circles. They are
reared therein and want their families to remain
there. This may be all very petty and pitiful—but
it is very human. If it comes to the pinch, most of
them wifi probably conclude that the game is not
worth the candle, and tone down their views. Of
course it is sad that this should be so, but we are
not all built to be martyrs, and, anyhow, many men
who would not care a continental for themselves are
not prepared to sacrifice their wives and kids.
Consequently, the capitalistic crowd scores again.
Furthermore, despite all the talk about “hirelings,”
the truth is that the field for democratic writers is a
mighty limited one. With the signing of articles it
will be more limited—that is, if the thing is going
to be honestly carried out. For instance, this item
could not be written for The Bulletin if it had to
be signed with the writer’s name, unless he was pre-
pared to chuck his job, which he is not, seeing that
there is nothing available in the democratic line.
With all its faults, anonymous journalism has helped
democracy more than conservatism and the democrats
that are preparing a club to biff the capitalists’
organs are going to drop it with painful results on
their own toes, and ultimately drive a lot of good
men, through brutal force of circumstances, into the
enemy’s camp.
That is a journalist’s standpoint. Maybe the
public is not worrying about the journalist, but con-
sidering itself. Well, getting away from the city
papers for a moment, the writer would like to ask
a few thousand Bulletin country readers how often
have they known of local gr'evances being redressed
through the publicity caused bv an anonymous letter.
The country newspapers are full of them, and, while
much is piffle, good work is continually done. And in
nine cases out of 10 the letter wouldn’t be written
if the writer had to attach his name publicly. lie
would lose his living if he did, for there is nothing
on God’s earth more relentless than Fat in the little
country towns. In a less degree, the same thing
applies to the city newspapers. If these remarks can
be torn to pieces I hope they will be, because, as a
journalist, I want to get the right view of this
matter, and at present the spectacle of the democratic
press and politicians fighting for signed journalism
looks to me to be the most extraordinary contradiction
I have struck.
* * * *
Death played a silly trick on a decent, hard-
working pressman when it took “Jimmy” Ryan sud-
denly at the Wodonga (Victoria) railway crossing.
Ryan, who was rather hard of hearing, was trying
to get over the line (a thing he had never done in
his paper), when a train came along unexpectedly
and the usual happened. He was proprietor
and editor of the Wodonga Sentinel,, a little
rag he had -nursed through strenuous years of
drought, boom, bank-failures and prosperity. He
had to fight the comparatively big papers of the
adjacent N.S.W. town of Alburv. but he always man-
aged to bring out a commendable little sheet, and
did by no means badly in the long run. He was a
rather quaint and querulous cuss at times, but a
better-hearted inkslinger or type-slinger» would be
hard to find. The great event of Ryan’s life was
a visit of the late Tummas Bent, when that meaty
worthy publicly alluded to the dead pressman as
“the brightest mind in the district.” Come to think
of it, that wasn’t an inaccurate description.
» * * *
“Chudah”: Yid has been a term of contempt, but
Yiddish, as a literature, grows continually. The
cultured read it. It is no longer regarded as a
jargon. The maid-servant becomes the mistress. It
really progresses towards becoming the national
Jewish tongue. For centuries it was the mother
tongue of several million Jews, who rise in Society,
especially in New York. Fonder of their lingo than
Irish or Scotch of Gaelic. It conquers Hebrew every-
where except in Palestine, in which limited area
Hebrew kills Yid. Dr. Israel Davidson, in the
Jewish Quarterly Review, makes a learned com-
parison of Hebrew and Yid in modern literature. Yid
literature was nowhere 25 years ago. Now grown
into gigantic proportions! Abramowitz is about the
biggest name in belles-lettres, writing both in Hebrew
and Yid. His Yid writings are ahead of every-
thing, except what he has done in Hebrew. Peretz
and Rabbinowitz are quite towering Yid penmen,
through enormous circulation, not equalled by the
Hebraics. More than half a dozen others are names
to conjure with. Poets quite swarm, led by Rosen-
feldt, Schneor and Yehoash. In criticism and journal-
ism, Frischman, Niger and many others are notable.
In fact, there is a regular cornucopia bursting forth,
and it cannot fail soon to be known to the outside
world. English translators will plunge, and who
knows that they will not light on a Heine or Hoff-
mann, if not a Goethe?
“Fried Nigger”: Australia’s end in the land of
whirling politics is being held up nowadays by quite
a school of players. Roland Hogue, son of Sydney
ex-politician Hogue, is in “Little Boy Blue” at a
Broadway theatre. Ivy Scott is singing with a
French opera co. in.N’York. Elsie Wilson is touring
as Princess Flavia in “The Prisoner of Zenda,” and
her husband, Rupert Julian, is with Lewis Waller,
who is playing “The Explorer” at Daly’s. And Syd
Bracy is doing nicely in “Robin Hood” at the New
Amsterdam.


£ 3
• > I f 11 1
iimn'
lltlMil
m
3C.
j”
£
IN
rv
m
r
v.,/1
rs.
S.
M
fe
BwiN
/>>
■^rv
£
HR
99
9^
hr
i
i
T
rs
iiimii
s
2
iiimii
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets.
A SAFE. SURE AND RELIABLE REMEDY FOR
THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IN CHILDREN
AND ADULTS.
Worms, by their movements, and the interrup-
tion they offer to the contents of the bowels,
generally occasion pain or uneasiness in the ab-
domen, sometimes spasmodic, sometimes gnaw-
ing or biting, and not infrequently of a vague,
indescribable character, and yet very distress-
ing. Sympathetic with this is a sensation of itch-
ing at the anus and at the nostrils, producing a
disposition to scratch the fundament and pick
the nose, which is characteristic of this affec-
tion. The bowels are often disordered, some-
times constipated or stopped, and sometimes
relaxed with occasional bloody discharges, as in
dysentery. The discharge is sometimes in
shreds or flakes, which are not infrequently
mistaken for fragments of partially-digested
food. It is not uncommon for portions of un-
digested food to pass with the discharges. The
appetite is exceedingly variable; in some cases
natural, in others deficient, craving or de-
praved ; one condition not infrequently alter-
nating with another. The abdomen is often
hard, swollen and tympanetic, the breath heavy
or foetid, the tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste, and a copious flow of saliva ; swelling of
the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and dis-
position to grind the teeth during sleep are
other characteristic symptoms. The effects,
however, often extend beyond the alimentary
canal, and various derangements of health are
experienced in consequence either of the direct
irritation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Among the
most common of these are nervous affections,
such as fretfulness, irritation of temper, wake-
fulness, or disposition to excessive sleep, dis-
turbed sleep, sudden starting out of sleep, as if
from fright, dizziness, spasmodic movements of
the eyelids, dilated pupils, perverted vision, tem-
porary blindness and deafness. General con-
vulsions are not infrequent in children, and
symptoms strongly resembling “Water on the
Brain” have been ascribed to worms and have
ceased on their expulsion.
Cases of St. Vitus' dance, melancholia and ner-
vous diseases, and even insanity, have been
attributed, with the most apparent reason, to the
same cause. In addition to these affections
may be mentioned obstinate cough, spasm of the
glottis, palpitation, languid circulation, pale and
yellowish skin, sunken eyes, a livid circle about
the eyelids, and a general emaciation. This con-
dition is often accompanied by fever, and is
then called worm fever. Persons in apparently
perfect health may be afflicted with worms, and
the only symptoms may be periods of irritable-
ness or a constant desire for something to eat,
which may last for months until the system
breaks down, and the worms manifest their
presence in some other manner.
Worms have frequently been described by
medical men as “The Children’s Enemy.” Un-
doubtedly there is no greater enemy to health,
happiness and comfort of children than the
presence of worms in the stomach and intes-
tines; causing an indescribable irritation and
gnawing in the bowels, which upsets its victim,
impairs the health, spoils the temper, and
drives the mother to distraction, and earns for
the little innocent the harsh and undeserved
reputation of being “a cross child.”
Unfortunately many mothers fail to recognise
the fact that their little ones are suffering in-
tense pain and distress, and are practically
irresponsible for the outbursts of temper, rest-
lessness and peevishness, and until some more
serious symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of this
disease are somewhat variable, but generally
they are so characteristic that no mother need
have any doubts. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if the general conduct of the child
is such as to give the slightest suspicion, an
examination of the stools (evacuation from the
bowels) will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an indiffer-
ent state of health. It becomes peevish and irri-
table in its temper, and complains of itching of
the nose, whilst the same symptom may be very
prominent indeed in the lower part of the bowel.
Another point to which the attention of mothers
should be specially directed is that the child is
apt to start in its sleep, its repose being in this
way of a disturbed nature. Note also that
many children who are in the habit of wetting
their beds do so by reason of the irritation
which these worms produce in the body, the
irritation extending to the bladder and causing
it involuntarily to part with its contents.
In every heap of decaying matter there is
always to be found a nest of worms. They
breed and multiply in impure matter. And so
it is in the human system. The accumulation
of partially digested food in the intestines,
which becomes putrid when the bowels are con-
stipated, induces the presence of worms. A
few doses of Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Relicts, followed by a dose or two of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, will disturb them in
their nest and drive them out of the system.
INCORRECT DIAGNOSIS.
TONIC PRESCRIBED FOR WELL-KNOWN SYD-
NEY MAN WHO HAD LOST THIRTY POUNDS
IN WEIGHT.—WORMS THE CAUSE.
“Sometime ago I began losing weight in an alarm-
ing manner,” writes Mr. G. B. Renton, of 14 Sir
John Young’s Crescent, Sydney, “so much so that
I went to see a doctor, who examined me and
came to the conclusion it was due to overwork
and worry. I continued to lose weight, and
also suffer from peculiar internal pains. I
became very anxious at the continued loss of
weight, and thinking I might be going into a
decline went to a second doctor, who examined
me thoroughly and gave about the same opinion
as the former one had done, and prescribed a
tonic. One night going home in the train I
read one of . your advertisements giving symp-
toms of people who have worms. The symp-
toms given strongly coincided with my own,
and I determined to test the question. I
accordingly procured a packet of your Com-
stock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets, and took
eight tablets, and in the morning four Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and to my intense
satisfaction and relief passed two very large
stomach worms. I took them in a glass and
showed them to the doctor who had last exam-
ined me, and who had prescribed the Tonic, and
it is needless to say he was surprised at the
result. Altogether I lost thirty pounds in two
months, due to these worms, and you may
believe me I was thoroughly alarmed, thinking
I might have consumption. I regained all this
lost weight immediately I rid my system of the
worms, and am in splendid health at present.
These are the simple facts, which speak for
themselves, and I shall be only too pleased to
confirm them to any person who doubts their
truth. You have my permission to use this
for publication.”
FORTY WORMS
FROM A TWO-YEAR OLD CHILD. FROM TEN
TO FOURTEEN INCHES LONG.
Mrs. Jonikait, of Tairua, New Zealand,
writes :
“I am still giving Comstock's ‘Dead Shot’
Worm Pellets to my little girl and boy, and
they are both improving in health since taking
these Pallets. The little girl is just two years
old, and since taking your medicine she has
passed forty worms. They have been all very
large (from ten to fourteen inches long). I
hope by still using your Worm Pellets that
she will soon be rid of them all. One day last
week, after taking one dose of the Pellets, she
passed nine worms. I mean to keep on using
Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets till the
children are cured of the worms, for I think
they are dreadful things for children to have.
You have my permission to publish this letter.”
STOMACH WORM EXPELLED.
AND HEALTH GENERALLY IMPROVED AFTER
TAKING A FEW DOSES OF COMSTOCK’S
“DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS.
Mrs. J. O’Leary, of 111 Peel Street, Ballarat
East, Victoria, writes :—“A little daughter of
mine, Julia, was suffering from Stomach
Worms, and I decided to try Comstock's ‘Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets. My daughter had been
ailing for some time, and was thin. After tak-
ing a few doses of the Pellets and Dr. Morse's
Indian Root Pills, a worm several inches long
was expelled from the bowels, which had the
appearance of being a Stomach Worm. She is
still continuing the medicine and shows much
improvement in health since adopting this
treatment. I have no objection to your using
these few lines for publication, seeing that
other children might be relieved from suffer-
ing.”
TOO WEAK TO WALK.
DUE TO WORMS. MARVELLOUS RESULTS OB-
TAINED'FROM COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT”
WORM PELLETS.
“My little girl, now four and a half years of
age, was suffering for over four years,” writes
Mrs. F. Weiss, of 403 Riley Street, Surry Hills,
Sydney. “She appeared to have consumption
of the bowels, and I took her to the Hospital,
where they prescribed powders, which I gave
her, but did not seem to do any good. I then
discovered she had Worm Fever, and tried vari-
ous medicines, which, although they caused her
to pass some worms, only afforded temporary
relief. One day I received one of your books
describing what Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm
Pellets had done for other children, and I
straight away procured a packet. After the
first dose, the result was simply marvellous,
the child passing hundreds of worms. This
was four months ago. I have since continued
the treatment, and feel sure she is now practi-
cally rid of them. Whereas previously my
daughter was very thin, and that weak
she could not walk, she is now full of life
and energy, and for this I have to thank Com-
stpek’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets. You . have
my permission to use this for advertising pur-
poses. and I shall be only too pleased to recom-
mend them at every opportunity.
TWO LITTLE GIRLS
GREATLY DISTRESSED BY THREAD WORMS.
“My two little daughters,” writes Mrs. Maud
Tongue, of Edward Street, Charters Towers,
Queensland, "were afflicted with thread worms;
in fact, one of the children, Laura, Was literally
alive with them. I had recourse to many reme-
dies without success. The distressing symptoms
of restlessness at night, and peevishness for a
long period, worried me considerably, until I
came to try Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm
Pellets, and I found them most effective. My
children have now recovered and enjoy their
sleep and make flesh, whereas they both pre-
viously grew thin. I now recommend your
medicine as a sure remedy, having derived
immense benefit from its use.”
THE USE OF PURGATIVES.
Although the use of medicines which are
simply purgatives may cause the discharge of
some small worms, such medicines are useless to
thoroughly eradicate the pest. Physics which
do not kill the worms and their eggs have no
permanent results, as the worms pass through
the matter in the intestines and reach the upper
portion of the bowels or the stomach, or fasten
themselves to the membranes of the intestines
until the effect of the purgative is over. Worms
require a specific medicine, and there is no
remedy so effective as Comstock’s “Dead Shot”
Worm Pellets. They kill the worms, destroy
their eggs and dislodge their nests.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
scientific preparation, prepared in the form of
a sweet that children eagerly take. They are
packed in glass tubes with full directions in
each, and are for sale by chemists and stores
generally at 2s. 9d. per packet, or six nackets
for 155.; and if unable to obtain locally, will
be mailed post free on receipt of price. Pre-
pared only by The W. H. Comstock Co.. Ltd., 23
Lang Street, Sydney. N.S.W.; and Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
COMSTOCK’S
NERVE AND BONE LINIMENT.
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment is a
powerful, penetrating preparation, acting
through the pores of the skin on the nerves,
bones and muscles.
It possesses the marvellous properties ot an
immediate painkiller, and is unequalled as a
remedy for the aches and pains to which human
beings are subject, and which only an external
remedy can relieve.
It overcomes all pains and aches by relieving
the effect on the delicate nerves, causing the
circulation of blood to be fully maintained
through the injured part. It is an invaluable
remedy for sprains and for reducing all swell-
ings, which under its powerful influence be-
come softened and disappear.
Rheumatism, Sciatica and Lumbago all yield
to the powerful, penetrating and conquering
properties of this Liniment, if used in connec-
tion with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, ac-
cording to directions.
For bruises two or three applications well
rubbed in will afford almost instant relief from
pain, prevent swellings, avert discoloration.
For cuts, small wounds, or abrasions of the
skin, this Liniment, diluted with warm water,
will be found a perfect antiseptic, cleansing the
wound and aiding the process of healing.
Diluted with water and used as a gargle it will
cure Quinsy and Bronchitis, Sore Throat and
Hoarseness, and all complaints of the Throat
and the Tonsils. Also use externally, cover
afflicted parts with flannel wet with the Lini-
ment. Catarrh and Cold in the Head are cured
by pouring a small quantity of the Liniment
into boiling water and inhaling the fumes.
For Stiff Joints, Neuralgia, Lame Back,
Scalds, Burns, Contracted Muscles and Painful
Swellings it will be found that Comstock’s
Nerve and Bone Liniment has no equal. Bath-
ing, friction, oils, liniments and ointments
have in thousands of cases proved utterly un-
availing. Stiff Joints and Sprains that have
resisted all other treatment have yielded to the
powerful influence of Comstock’s Nerve and
Bone Liniment. The persevering use of this
liniment will cause the mdst stubborn case to
relax.
DISLOCATED SHOULDER.
UNABLE TO USE RIGHT ARM FOR SIX MONTHS.
COMSTOCK’S NERVE AND BONE LINIMENT
AFFORDS WONDERFUL RELIEF.
“As I always believe in giving credit where
credit is due,” writes Mrs. E. Maher, of “Nil
Desperandum,” Dartbrook Road, Auburn, “I am
sending this statement in praise of Comstock’s
Nerve and Bone Liniment. Just 12 months ago
I dislocated my shoulder, and for about six
months suffered continually, being unable to do
any work that necessitated the use of my right
arm. I was treated by a doctor, and also tried
various Liniments recommended by different
chemists, but all to no purpose, the severe
pains still continuing. After being in this state
for about six months, I one day read an adver-
tisement containing some testimonials from
people who had benefited by the use of this
remedy, and so decided to test it myself. After
trying the first bottle I felt much relief. I am
now using my fourth bottle, and find I can use
my shoulder with considerably more ease, and
intend continuing to treat myself with Com-
stock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment, as I know
of nothing to equal it. lam only too pleased
to allow you to use this for advertising pur-
poses, and would confirm same to anyone calling
on me.”
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment is ob-
tainable from all the leading chemists and
storekeepers, or will be sent post free on receipt
of price, 2s. 6d. per bottle (or six bottles
13s. 6d.), by The W. 11. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23
Lang Street, Church Hill. Sydney, or Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made!
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. 14
For '22 Short R.F., -22 Long R.F., and - 22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2}}]b.
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES—PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
tol»
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. |4
g
f
The favourite
" SCOTCH WHISKY^
everywhere, because of its mature
ripeness, soft refinement, and exquisite
flavour.
ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
The f) ISTILLERS C 1 OMPANY I tdL
Scotch Whisky Capital employed
Distillers in the World, over ,£3,000,000.
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
SYDNEY—AngeI Place. >
MELBOURNE— 52, William St.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON
m
CHICAGO
Wa
i
ss
sJ^/RINKA®^
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for mein, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MOSLEY and GEO. BRETIIc. <k trO., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
gh
Each “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend —
No. 105 ACOORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT <& SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney
u
60LCRYST” is CiScfCil
77
&
£
O
Q
Q
«-j
For Biliousness, Dyspepsia, Diver Troubles, Constipation, All Blood Disorders,
Excesses in Diet, “GOLCKYST” is a most useful medicine.
Consisting- of EPSOM SALTS, SENNA, SAKSAPARIEEA, DANDELION,
LIQUORICE and GINGER, “GOLCKYST” is the finest Blood Purifier known. Sold
everywhere in packets, 3d., Gd. and 1/-. If unable to obtain locally, write to Rocke,
Tonipsitt & Co., Melbourne, for free sample. T 3
W TJ TOTfSALE AGENTS: —W.A.. Neale. Constable and Co., Perth;' S.A., “Birks-Chemists.” Ade-
laide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane; N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug Co., Sydney.
fIYCQL
When you say Disinfectant —
it is just as easy to say
“HYCOL”
and it means also that you
will have the SAFEST,
MOST RELIABLE in
the world. It is nom-
k
poisonous also, and 18 times
stronger than ca.rbolio>
Agents:
N.S.W. Agents
POTTS & CO.,
163 George St.
Sydney.
THE M9ST POWERFUL
DISINFECTANT*
1 r
FITTINGS
- Build the —
Perfect Bicycle
and are known by the distinctive chain wheel
and the trade mark of the three piled rifles
which is stamped on every part. In their own
interests all cyclists who desire safety and satis-
faction should
REFUSE
IMITATIONS
and insist on a bicycle built of genuine B.S.A.
Fittings. Made at the famous B.S.A. factories
of the finest materials oniy, every part of B.S.A.
Fittings is guaranteed interchangeable; being
gauged to less than one thousandth of an inch.
Ready replacements, therefore, can be obtained
from any cycle agent throughout the Colony.
ĥf
Write for free copy of Australasian
edition of the B.S.A. Handbook. 11
contains fullest particulars of the latest
Free Wheels, Two and Three-Speed
Hubs, &c. Post free from
D. Y. RENNIE.
(Representing The B.S.A. Co.)
4 Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
pADCI
m
, B.S.A.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
' ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.


Stop Coughing
Every cough makes your throat
more raw and irritable. Every
cough congests the lining mem-
brane of your lungs. Cease tear-
ing your throat and lungs in this
way. Take
Auer's
From the first dose the quiet and
rest begin; the tickling in the
throat gradually subsides; and
nature completes the cure. Sold
in three sizes. Consult your doc-
tor freely, and follow his advice.
Any good doctor will tell you
that no medicine can do its best
work if the bowels are consti-
pated. Ask your doctor if he
knows anything better than Ayer’s
Pills for correcting this sluggish-
ness of the liver. Dose, only one
pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & 00.,
Lowell, Mass., U- S. A.
m
PAT END
A
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877
VAC!
«ES*5
Jmcs j
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservative#.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1586.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
s. GREEN. 210, Lambeth. Road, London, Eng.
Golden Key” Cigars
The Cigar of Distinction
for Cultured Connoisseurs .
H
I
G
H
£
S
T
&
G
R
A
D
E
FRAGRANT, DELICHTFUL. and COOL.
In Two Strengths— Mild and Medium.
Packed in Heavy Cedar Presenta=
tion Cabinets containing 50 Cigars.
Price 22/6 Post Free.
Try a Sample Lot of 5 Cigars, 216
packed in a Cedar Box. — post Free.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Mention this paper when ordering.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
OMEN!
Would you like to
be Well and Fully
Developed ?
4
Mi
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the
one essential that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of pro-
per bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly
take from a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy woman-
hood. . .Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as natural
development is concerned, but science has found a way to cor-
rect your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-
bosomed, and although you have been attenuated all your life,
if you suffer from no wasting disease, your bosom can be fully
developed and your weight increased to normal.
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-
bosomed, hollow-cheeked and generally seraggly in appearance, and suffering
the effects of anaemia and defective digestion, who are now, for the first time
in their lives, healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full
vigor of robust womanhood, as a result of a few weeks under our wonderful
“FLESH-FOOD ** TREATMENT.
Many women whose figures have been spoiled by maternal duties have
been entirely restored to splendid form, and flat-chested young women who
suffered slow development have had the fault corrected by this treatment.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond
question, and its use is no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases
gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measurement up to
8 and 10 inches.
PT TRIAL SAMPLE FREE.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation and
development, and will send same and a FREE SAMPLE TREATMENT to you,
FREE OF CHARGE, upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All
communications private and confidential. Write or call for full particu-
lars. Consultation Free. Lady Attendant, 9 to 5 daily; Sat., till 12 noon.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 Ash St., Sydney.
1807.
h
Congo
EACH roll of Congo roofing is a yard wide and
71 feet long. It can be cut and trimmed
easily with a knife.
r■ To make a roof with it, simply unroll the roof-
ing and nail it down, cementing the laps firmly
together with the adhesive cement which we supply
free. We supply the nuil3 and tin caps free also.
With each roll goes a ten-year Surety Bond Guar-
antee. Back of the guarantee stands the Royal
Exchange Assurance of London.
Sample free on request.
Congo Damp Course is a waterproof,
antiseptic felt to be laid against the foundation walls
on the outside to protect them against dampness and
vermin. Use it to insure having a dry cellar. The
expense is trifling.
G. C. DELMAR, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australasian Representative for
“Congo.”
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 60 years,
but after taking your treatment for IJ, days I
gave the pipe up for good , and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 101 Castlereagh St„ Sydney.
. [2.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. dollins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, o/o Sydney Agents.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
miliion Wayback Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but. ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for rnore?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
6 £3 12 6
0
Usual Price. Sale Price.
Double-Barrelled, Breech-load-
ing Guns, engine-turned rib,
left barrel full choke, right
modified, rebounding locks
and pistol grip. Trial .. £5
Single-barrelled Duck Guns,
large bore, to kill at 100yds.
Trial • • • • • • 8
Single-Barrelled, Hammer less,
Breech-loading Guns, choke
bore, excellent stock. Trial.. 3 10 0
Double-Barrelled Breech load-
ing Guns, with Greener pat-
ent wedge fast cross bolt,
choke bore, walnut stock,
pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial
Special Pigeon Guns, with pat-
ent side clips, file cut rib,
top lever, choke bore, speci-
ally selected walnut stock,
Greener patent wedge fast
cross bolt. Trial . .
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22
calibre. Kill at 300yds. Trial
10 0
10 0 0
0 15 0
10 0
1 17 6
4 17 6
7 10 0
0 13 0
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special. Sale Catalogue.
All Orders for Cuns and Rifles delivered Carriage
Paid to any address in Australasia,
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers,
242-244 Bou'rko St., MELBOURNE
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Brotherhood of Beer.
The Rev. Acton Davies doubted if the Brotherhood
of Man was the keynote of Christian teaching. The
brotherhood of sin appeared to him a deadly reality.
—Religious paper.
Wide o’er the world they wander,
Unharmed of scorn or fame.
The serpent tongue of Slander
Is wasted with their blame;
By Wowserdom forsaken,
’Mid founts of amber cheer
They stand with faith unshaken—•
The Brotherhood of Beer.
Across their pewters glowing,
Across their glasses bright,
A flood of speech outflowing
Confuses all the night;
They laugh, they plead, they sorrow,
They tell the crusted tale.
Nor reck they of the morrow
That beckons thirsty-pale.
In incoherent gladness,
In wet and ample mirth,
They dissipate the sadness
Of life, and death, and birth;
With liquids to enlist ’em,
They burst through creed and caste;
They break the Social System,
The first is like the last.
A soul with beer deep laden
Sees mankind in the mass—•
The king, the knave, the maiden,
The sage, the saint, the ass —
To all he bears him proudly,
To most his speech is fair,
The airs about him loudly
His large opinions bear.
A communistic failing
Besets his thirsty heart,
The world is unavailing
To tear his dreams apart.
He turns back all the pages
That tell of modern man,
And lives in golden ages
When molten floods began.
Wise is the man who preaches
In temples pure and high,
When simple folk he teaches
To sorrow and keep dry.
Of brotherhood he proses.
And points the way to win,
The persons he supnoses
Are spnk in deadly sin.
But e’er the oldest Druids
: Erected rings of stone,
Some joy-enchanted fluids
A brotherhood made known —
A kind of mystic blending
Of kindred, aim and thought,
Where small things had their ending
And great things came to nought.
Wherever men get blithered
This gospel comes to light.
The wrongs of earth are withered
And everything looks right;
While foaming pewters reaching
A crowd who -want to hear,
Throughout the world are preaching
The Brotherhood of Beer.
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.
“The Black Nun.”
With eyes aloof and sombre,
A face austerely pale;
The black nun sits in a corner
Wrapt in her floating veil.
Flounces, and frills, and stitches
Of fine embroidery,
Fashion the gossamer muslins
Wrought by her industry.
Beyond an open window
Where the flaming sunsets blaze,
The skies shine blue in summer
On Nature’s marriage days.
Soft cloudlets float and gather,
A wind laughs in the leaves:
While a song of brown birds mating
Rises above the eaves.
Blind to the warm world’s splendor,
Deaf to its ecstasy,
The black nun works in a corner
At her fine embroidery.
Silks, and satins, and laces
Framed for a bride’s array,
What is the semptress thinking,
As she sees them borne away'/
With eyes austere and sombre,
A soul untouched, aparfl
Only two lithe hands moving
To the throbbing dreams of a heart.
Does she spend its stifled passion
On some cross-crowned altar’s glow?
Is there never a tortured vigil.
That only the white stars know?
QUEENSLAND.
ALICE GORE-JONES.
Spring, and Elizabeth.
Coy Spring’s delicious breath
Is fragrant in the hollows,
And calls Elizabeth
To frolic with the swallows.
Bright Spring laughs here and there,
And exquisite her dress is;
But she’s no whit more fair
And fickle than my Bess is.
Spring frowns, and straightway cold
And harsh the piercing breeze is;
So should my Lizzie scold,
My every rapture freezes.
Spring smiles through tears that fall
Demurely, but Time’s pet is
Not sweetly whimsical
As my distracting Bet is.
Spring dimples. Infinite
Her glee at Winter’s death is;
But Spring’s not all delight,
As my Elizabeth is.
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.


THE HUB
OF NEWTOWN
218-222
KING ST. - NEWTOWN
Sydney.
CASH STORES LTD.
Four Specials from our Blanket Section.
SPECIAL No. I.—Australian Super White Blanket, regular guinea quality, beautifully finished,
large double-bed size, weighing 71b., for " 19/11
SPECIAL No. 2.—Australian All-Wool Blanket, extra large size; the best grey Blanket manufac-
tured for the price, weight 731 b ' 16/11
SPECIAL No. 3. —Heavy English Whitney Blanket, an exceptional good quality, weighing 741 b.,
for the double-bed size, onlv ‘ 15/11
SPECIAL No. 4.—An extra heavy part wool, part cotton, Brown-grey English-made Blanket, double-
bed size, weighing 71b., for 10/6
Two Splendid Offerings from our Shoe Department.
“MY LADY’’ SHOE. —For dress and walking wear, is made of fine patent colt-skin, with tops of
dull velvet, calf inlaid. This Shoe lias a flexible, sewed extending sole and a comfortable
Cuban Heel. The giant, last-colored eyelets, and the wide silk laces add much to the general
attractiveness, t his Shoe is modelled on a new toe-shape, this season’s stvle. A grand fitter :
sizes 2 to 7. Price " B 14./Q
QfrES
<
he
T
-4
CO
m
<
o
rf UB
rt
®VDNt^
BLACK STORM KING DERBY BOOTS. Made of the finest
selected Box Calf, and will stand the strongest and roughest
of wear, and yet the appearance is fit for a walking- or
dress-wear Boot; with occasional applications of Lucca or
Neatsfoot Oil they will remain soft and will wear indefini-
tely. Sizes, 5 to 10. Price. 12/0
Our Motto —
WHAT OTHERS ADVERTISE,
WE SELL FOR LESS.
Please Write for
“ Our Household
Friend.”
IT IS FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
fid
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Strops
Itself.
U
u
Easy on
your pocket
easy on
your face.
Auto Stoop
Hazoß
Easy on your Pocket —
BECAUSE whatever the price
of a razor, you are at constant ex-
pense for new blades unless you
use an Auto Strop, the only self-
stropping; Safety Razor made.
Easy on your Face —
BECAUSE you can strop the
blade to such keenness that the
touch of the razor when drawn
across your face feels like a delicate
caress.
wm
A \
Hi
Auto Strop Razor with
rust-proof blades and horse-
hide strop in leather case.
Price in Australia ... 22/6
price in New Zealand, 25/-
Sole Depot for Australasia:
Partridge—Abercromby, Ltd.,
York Chambers,
Market Street, Sydney.
m
Perfection in Suits
at Popular Prices.
Are you anxious to LOOK SMART, UP-TO-
DATE and EXCLUSIVELY STYLISH ?
If you are, LET US MAKE THE SUIT
THAT WILL MAKE YOU LOOK SO.
You may rely upon our Made-to-Measure Suits as
being the best possible productions in modern, right-
to-the-minute Tailoring. Nothing inferior will be
offered to you.
Our Tailors are men of great experience and skill,
while our Cutters are renowned for their expertness
and the magnificent fit they impart to every suit.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
We will gladly send you patterns FREE—patterns
of the choicest aid most up-to-date materials; also
Self-measurement Forms.
Seasonable Suits at Reasonable Prices.
Carriage Paid to the Country on Every Suit.
suits Expertly Made
to Measure from
£.3/3/'
We have made Thousands of Stylish-looking Men
LET US MAKE YOU ONE!
...
We Can Suit
You to a
Nicety.
Marcus Clark 8 Co. Limited
Sydney’s Expert Tailors,
Central Square, opp. Central Railway Station, Sydney
■
Smoke the soothing, satisfying,
subtle
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
and enjoy the true charm of
choice tobacco.
TURKISH VIRGINIAN EGYPTIAN.
Your Tobacconist will supply ABDULLAS.
Dal gety & Co. Ltd.,
Wholesale Agents
for Australia.
m*
%
2?
THE CAPABLE CUTTING
A Fine American Model.
Whether on the score of fine appearance, or in the essentials of
reliability, economy of upkeep, and excellence of detail in construction, there
is no similar Car superior to this,;
We have specimens of two Models, “A-30” and “T-35” on spot, and are
able to deliver direct from stock.
The splendid reserve nower of these Cars makes them finely resistant of
the hardest conditions. The mechanism successfully withstands the roughest
roads and severest usage. The fine body finish preserves its beautiful
appearance in tlie face of hard temperatures and the severities of climate.
The Petrol capacity is ample—2o gallons in “A-30” and 15 gallons in
“T-35” —giving them a wide, effective radius —a fine feature in the country.
BRIEF SPECIFICATION. —4 Cylinders—cast en bloc; magneto and
battery ignition; three speeds forward and one reverse; selective sliding gear
transmission; 110-inch wheel base; Standard Universal Quick Detachable
Rims; latest type of foredoor body, with inside control; nickel trimmings
throughout.
Let us send you, post free, full
information of this fine car .
Also F.N., Austin, Daimler, Delaunay-Belleville, Halley Lorries.
DALGETY&COMPANY LIMITED
Motor Garage: 130-138 Phillip St., Sydney
and BourKe Street, Melbourne.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33.—N0. 1695.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 1912.
Pkcok 6d.
WHEN THE GRAND-STAND BLEW UP.
Consternation exists among sport lovers and sporting bodies owing to the disastrous effect compulsory service is having, and will have, upon Australian sports.—flail)/ miter.
N. Hey, Bill, slip over an tell them cows ter point their guns the other way—they’re spoiling the game.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by. William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosxnan, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Oflice of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1334 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . £1 G 0
Half-yearly . . . . . . 0 18 G
Quarterly .. . . . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to This Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The rigid to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully . read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly cunfi-
den Hal.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiie Bulletin is fonvarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand ; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at J//6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, ' Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency. Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery' Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. IK.' Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. ; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Peclder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
ti : )in. x Hin., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Bates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): —Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. J d.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, IGoz. Id. — otherwise, Boz., Id., and 8)oz. to
lOoz., Hid.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, J/oz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 1912.
THE STREETS OF SYDNEY.
The “traffic expert” whom the N.S.W.
Labor Government imported—it being un-
derstood that all good tilings must be
imported—has come and gone. He arrived
like the breath of spring, and he fled sud-
denly like the dead leaves of autumn. He
happened along in a state of complete ignor-
ance of the city which he had to advise upon.
But he remained long enough to learn at
least a little, and his imported assurance
probably filled in the hiatus. During his
brief local career he saw the narrowness and
crookedness of the streets (laid out, in the
first place, by imported persons) ; the bottle-
neck at Red fern (devised by an imported
engineer) ; the hump-and-dead-end railway
station, the Private Enterprise ferries, the
lack of any means of harbor communica-
tion save by the Private Enterprise ferries,
the lack in the city of overhead railways and
surface railways and subterranean railways,
the congestion, the hills and dales the per-
son who was run over amid general
excitement, and the decayed, streak-of-light-
mng tram-cars (bossed by an imported per-
son), which stop with a crash and a jerk
and 17 convulsions. Having digested all
this evidence, he we his verdict. Tie
recommended a bridge over the harbor,
which almost everybody in Sydney has been
recommending for 50 years or more, and
which Xerxes, the Great King, also advo-
cated in his own sphere in the far-off days
c.c. He noticed that, where there is high
land on each side of a harbor or river, a
bridge is better than a tunnel, because,
where a tunnel has to dive far down under
deep water and then climb up 200 ft. or
dOOft. or more in order to emerge and
breathe, the grades are apt to be too steep.
That point had also been observed and com-
mented upon by some thousands of people
before the imported expert brought his
carpet bag this way. It was his opinion
that the natural route for a railway through
Sydney and across the harbor is via Wyn-
yard-square and places thereabouts, which
involved no very great mental effort, seeing
that the ridge thereabouts leads up to the
spot where the harbor is narrowest, and
where the high lands on each side furnish
the most convenient jumping-off place for a
train. In this matter, also, the costly per-
son from England only mentioned tlie ob-
vious fact which thousands of previous
advisers, including The Bulletin, have
been mentioning for many years. Al«o—in
common with everybody who knows London,
Paris, Berlin and other first-class cities —
he urged the construction of a system of
underground railways, or tramways, or what-
ever they may be called. So, having stated
the obvious, and mentioned the conspicuous,
and propounded what everybody worth men-
tioning knew before, the expert collected his
fee and departed. He left behind him an
estimate of the cost of his scheme. It is
alleged to be one that is calculated to
stagger humanity. At least it seems to have
staggered Minister Griffith to such an
extent that he has kept a notable silence
about it ever since.
* * * *
The imported expert, to put the matter
shortly, appears to be a futility. He can
no more get blood out of a stone than any
local engineer, nor can he make grapes
grow on thorns. Not being Moses, lie can’t
get water out of a rock. N.S.W. has built
up a city transit problem—built it up out
of pure cussedness and of set purpose—
which is not exactly like anything else in
the white man’s world. Transit* problems
there must be where a great mass of people
are gathered together, but they should be
avoided as long as possible. N.S.W. has
rather endeavored to acquire its problem as
early as possible. By a costly and insane
endeavor to crowd all its commerce, manufac-
tures, public offices and population into one
spot, it has raised, in a State with about five
persons to the square mile, such a city
traffic difficulty as should not have come to
pass until N.S.W. had at least 100 persons
to the square mile, A larger proportion of
the population of N.S.W. is compressed into
the 95,000 acres which constitute Sydney and
its suburbs than is to be found on 95,000
acres in any other State of Australasia —
probably a larger proportion than is to be
found on 95,000 acres of any other State
of any size or importance in this world. As
a natural consequence, there is about the
biggest possible traffic question in this one
congested area, and the smallest possible
number of people in the whole State to pay
for the solution of the conundrum. The fact
that the streets of Sydney are narrower and
more crooked than those of Melbourne and
Adelaide, and the other fact that an especi-
ally loony gang of early politicians, unlike
those of Melbourne, didn’t see the necessity
for carrying the main railway line through
the city, and for building a comprehensive
suburban railway system while land was
still fairly cheap, have aggravated the dis-
order. Now it has become a very large and
top-heavy complaint. Victoria, with nearly
three times N.S.W.’s density of population,
has no city traffic problem, and doesn’t ex-
pect to have one for a long while, though
Victoria also has the' congestion disease
badly enough. Maoriland, with about twice
N.S.W.’s population to each mile of country,
has encouraged the growth of a number of
small coast cities, instead of establishing one
bloated monster, and, as a result, it isn’t
likely to have a serious traffic nroblem for
about 100 years. And when the problem
arrives there will be enough people to find
the money to meet it. Maoriland’s biggest
city holds, with its suburbs, about one-tenth
of the total population of the country, while
N.S.W.’s one big city holds much more than
one-tliird. The result is that the country
with a comparativelv dense population isn’t
within sight of the day when it will have to
spend its riotous millions on tube railwavs
and such-like, while the one with a thin
population is “up against it.”
If Sydney is to be fitted with the appli-
ances that a civilised community of its size
requires, the bill will be a staggering one for
the State’s mere handful of people to carry.
It will be, roughly speaking, 20 times as
much per head as the people of Italy or
Russia would have to carry for a similar
job, for N.S.W. has more than 20 times as
large a proportion of its people crowded into
one centre. If the necessary money is not
found, Sydney will become a hopeless wilder-
ness of traffic, and a by-word, and a back
number. And if it is found, it may be the
last straw on the sagging back of N.S.W.’s
credit. The special misfortune is that, even
if the bridge or bridges, and possibly the
tunnel under the harbor, and the city main
line, and the tube railways beneath the
ground—if all these are built, the State will
get nothing out of them save such profits
as it can drag from the passengers carried.
The unearned increment will go to the local
private landlord. A wholly different method
of relieving the difficulties of Sydney would
be to build a few short lines, which would
divert a great deal of the trade of northern
N.S.W. to Port Stephens, and of southern
N.S.W. to Twofold Bay; to construct
wharves at these places for ocean steam-
ships ; and to lay out cities of which the
State would be sole ground landlord for ever.
That would relieve the undue pressure on
Sydney. The relief would postpone the
day when it would be necessary to soend an
amount, so vast that Minister Griffith
hesitated to mention it. on maintaining the
position of Sydney as the unnaturally large
head on top of an unnaturally smail body
and an almost invisible pair of legs; and on
enriching the private landlords of the N.S.W.
metropolis. Incidentally, it would furnish
the N.S.W. Government with a magnificent
income from ground rents : would help it to
live up to its alleged policy of public owner-
ship of land : and'would give a great lift to
many agriculturists who are being killed by
unpossible freights and impossible distances.
Unfortunately the rotten and Impel °ss
McGowen Ministry, which got into office
on a reduction-of-borrowing policy, appears
to have only two big ideas. One is to be
kind to the private landlords of Sydney.
The other is to spend loan money at a rate
which N.S.W. never heard of before.. Its
motto is: “The way to keep in office is to
give the people a good time while you are in
office.”
THE CASE FOR THE MANUFAC-
TURER.
The Australian manufacturer has a cold
time under the two Fusion parties—the
parties which are part Protection and part
Freetrade, and part Labor and part Cheap
Labor, and one half Australian and the
other half pro-nigger or pro-sweater. He is
nobody’s dog in particular. The unions
keep their most strenuous eye on him, and
he is struck with demands for better wages
and better conditions with a regularity that
is unheard of in the case of the agriculturist,
the pastoralist and the importer—especially
the blessed and multifarious importer. He
is asked to conform to rules regarding a
very small proportion of apprentices to a
very large proportion of journeymen which
would astonish the great softgoods middle-
man or the retail shopkeeper. The tariff is
constantly being altered to his disadvantage
by a covert sort of process. It is supposed to
represent the weight which is put in the
balance to make good the difference between
Australian high wages and the low wages
of some other countries, and when wages
are pushed up here without the weight being-
increased the effect is exactly the same as if
wages remained stationary while the weight
was diminished. Since the handicaps came
out some years ago the weight on the im-
porter’s horse has remained the same,
but that on the local manufacturer’s
horse has steadily risen. Yet the Austra-
lian factory-owner has merits of a kind. He
is not absolutely a gorilla or a thug. He, at
least, brings people to Australia, to help to
carry its public debt, to pay its rates and
taxes, and to defend it when wanted. And
it is his policy to keep money in the coun-
try, where the Governments want it so badly
for borrowing purposes. On the other hand,
it is the importer’s business to send money
out of the country to pay for foreign goods,
and to keep away all save the most primi-
tive sort of workers, because expert Austra-
lian artisans interfere with his job of bring-
ing in the produce of foreign artisans. Cer-
tainly the Australian manufacturer pos-
sesses, in some cases, many of the elements
of a Shylock, but that matter isn’t repaired
by giving preference to two worse Shylocks,
the foreign manufacturer and the warehouse
middleman.
It is the constant plea of the present
Government that the tariff can’t be improved
until there is some legal, guarantee that in-
creased duties will be accompanied by in-
creased wages. It is worth while to con-
sider how things . are moving while that
guarantee is being waited for. The N.S.W.
State Statistician recently published his
estimate of hoAV the value of each £10(1
worth of manufactured goods was divided
in his State :—■
1905. 1911.
Raw material . . ..£62 1 2 £6l 12 10
Fuel. . . . ...... 1 18 2 2 5 7
Salaries and Wages 17 5 10 13 9 2
Balance (proprietors’ profit,
rent, bad debts, depre-
ciation, insurance, inter-
est, cost of new machin-
ery, etc.) 18 14 10 17 12 5
£lOO 0 0 £lOO 0 -0
The exact figure of the manufacturers’ own
profit can’t be got at, for the amount
he has to pay for rent (which is going up),
interest (which has risen), bad debts, de-
preciation of machinery, scrapping of obso-
lete machinerj 7 , purchase of new 1 machinery
(three heavy items), new buildings (the
cost of building is distinctly up), and land
to put new buildings on (land has gone
almost sky-high of late) are hazy problems.
But however they may pan out, the amount
available to cover all these items was £lB
14s. lOd. out of every £lOO worth of goods
produced in 1905, and only £l7 12s. sd. in
1911. (In 1901, by the way, it was no less
than £l9 155.) And where the proprietor-
toils personally, his own wages have to come
out of this as well as his profit. Or, as re-
gards the last two years, the N.S.W. position
may be set down thus :—-
1910. 1911.
Value of output .. ..£49,615,643 £54,410,928
Less fuel and-raw material 32,600,861 34,702,516
£17,014,782 £19,708,412
Less wages .. . . 8,691,386 10,044,494
£8,323,396 £9,663,918
So, on the face of things, the aggregate
N.S.W. worker got £1,353,108 more in 1911
than in 1910, while the aggregate employer
got £1,340,522 more. And that is where the
bloated and rapacious manufacturer came in.
* * * *
The other side of the case shows where
the bloated and rapacious manufacturer
doesn’t come in. During the year he had to
increase his stock of machinery by £942,452
worth (from £11,578,620 to £12,521,072),
in addition to paying for wear and tear of
old machinery and the cost of scrapping
obsolete plant of one kind and another (and
even if tools and machines lasted 20 years
on an average that would represent some
£578,000). Also, he had to invest an extra
£919,834 in buildings and land. These
things were necessary in order that he
might wrestle with the increased out-
put. Therefore, in the matter of ex-
tra machinery and extra premises alone
the N.S.W. manufacturer spent £1,862,286
in order to earn an extra £1,340,522. That
represented an actual decline in his net
takings. And with a larger business there
were more working proprietors’ wages to be
paid, and more money to be provided for
rents, interest, exchange, insurance, deprecia-
tion, rates and taxes, travelling expenses,
etc., and more risk of bad debts. Altogether,
the N.S.W. employer of Australian white
labor at fair wages—the individual whom
the present Government seems to regard
with such enmity and suspicion, while it ex-
tends the glad hand to the middleman who
imports British cheap labor goods—hasn’t
been on an especially good wicket of late.
* * * *
In theory, no doubt, the manufacturer
can’t have much to complain of, seeing that
his business shows a really remarkable ex-
pansion, despite all his grievances. In prac-
tice, however, this argument doesn’t entirely
hold good. The importer can curtail his
operations at the shortest notice when things
go wrong. lie sacks a few ill-paid clerks
who are so badly organised that they have
never once dared to strike, reduces the" wages
of a lot more, sends, a cablegram instructing
somebody in Lurope to send out only half
the usual consignment of spring hats, and
then sits back and waits events. When
business declines he can cut down everything
to correspond save the interest on the value
of his warehouse. The manufacturer has to
look ahead. When an expansion of trade
looms in view lie has probably to build some
more factory. He has to order new machin-
ery well in advance, and often he has to
make contracts far ahead for the supply of
raw material. If his reasonable expecta
tions of a great increase of business collapse,
through a reduction of the tariff while wages
remain stationary, or through a sudden rise
in wages while the tariff remains stationary,
or through any other cause, he can’t stop
suddenly like the importer. When he runs
down it is a much more serious matter than
in the importers’ case, for his dead assets
don’t simply consist of the four walls of a
warehouse and a heap of packing cases;
they include a mass of machinery which
represents, taking Australian manufac-
turers in the aggregate, £l5O for every £lOO
worth of mere premises. That is to say, he
has £250 of fixed capital at stake where the
importer has only £lOO, and in addition he
generally has much longer contracts, and
can’t stop at short notice without a much
greater loss. This makes him an easier man
to bail up suddenly for a rise in wages.
Partly owing to this fact, and partly be-
cause he usually employs unionists who
have ideas of their own about wages, where-
as the importer usually employs “scabs”
who are a humble race of little account, the
manufacturer has more industrial disputes
than the average. This helps to bring him
into disrepute with persons like Prime Min-
ister Fisher, who always give the for-
eigner’s middleman the benefit of the
doubt. Yet the manufacturer deserves
the benefit of the doubt now and
again. Possibly the N.S.W. man isn’t the
finest specimen of his class ; still, there is this
to be said in his favor, that while the num-
ber of his employees has increased 64| per
cent, in 10 years the wages paid have risen
by £lO3 2s. 6d. per cent. Allowing for the
fact that women workers —a comparatively
ill-paid crowd —have increased much faster
than males, the position is that the Corn-
stalk manufacturer now pays his male em-
ployee about half as much again as he did
ten years ago, and his female employee the
same. If the importer could show any such
good record his employee would hardly be
the _ humble, hungry, non-combative 'person
he is, and the importer wouldn’t have the
good record he possesses as a peaceful citi-
zen. And. if the squatter or cocky has put
up wages in the same ratio thi's country has
not heard of the fact.
The Federal Statistician has published his
figures up to the close of 1910. During the
last year of that period (1909-10) he reckons
that the value of all the output of Australia
increased by £13,000,000 (from £174,000,000
to £187,000,000). The primitive and pre-
carious sheep and. cattle business was worth
£6,000,000 more in 1910 than in 1909. The
manufacturing business was worth £5,500-
000 more. There was an increase in fowls,
bees, rabbits, tree-felling, and such-like small
deer. Agriculture, the vaunted and pam-
pered “backbone of the country,” showed a
decline of over £1,000,000. This suggests
that the manufacturer, in addition to being
the best and most progressive wage-payer in
the country and the most consistent em-
ployer of union labor, is sufficient of a
standby to be. worth' more consideration than
the brick which thd Federal Government so
consistently throws at him. And -there is
another aspect in which he calls for some
support and a shred of applause. Australia,
under present conditions, produces a super-
fluity of wheat and wool, and has - to depend
on exports to get rid of the' surplus and
turn it into money. It produces a grievous
insufficiency of manufactured goods, and has
to depend on imports to make good the
shortage. Supposing present methods to
continue—when war comes our way, and
the blockade, happens, the wheat-grower and
the pastoralist will be, to a certain extent,
superfluous paupers, heaping up unsaleable
and unusable goods, and their surplus must
either be burned or left to rot and smell like
the Devil at the blue vault of Heaven. On
the other hand, the manufacturer will be a
god, for the influx of manufactured goods
will be stopped, and the local supoly will be
wholly inadequate. Ladies of fashion,
dressed in potato sacks, will offer the de-
spised factory owner fabulous prices for
boots and clothes. The impoverished
daughters of the squattocracy—Pa having
left his wool to decay because it couldn’t be
exported, and because there were insufficient
local factories to use it or local people to
buy it—will struggle with the city Lizzie
for industrial jobs. In fact, it will be the
great day out for the manufacturer. He
will represent the only branch of industry
that is at a gigantic premium. Sheep, in
those days, will be 6d. each, while boots will
cost £l2 the pair. So Australia would do
well to consider whether this person isn’t
the man above all others who requires en-
couragement just now, seeing that it is the
scarcity of him and the comparative abund-
ance of the other fellow that are likely to
make Australia an industrial wreck when
once its communications with the outer
world are cut off. In a financial way it is
somewhat of a wreck just now, but it is the
importer, not the manufacturer, who is to
blame. The outflow of gold, sent away to
pay for imported goods, is the great pro-
blem of the moment, and one that comes no
nearer a solution.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cloud that Keeps Growing Darker.
Some more trade returns —-those for the
whole Commonwealth, covering the period.
Ist January to 30th June —are to hand, and
they are full of instruction as to the marvel-
lous borrowing and importing jag that this
country is on. There lias never been an-
other jag like it since the white man’s his-
tory began in Australia, and there is never
likely to te another like it. for this one
promises to exhaust the possibilities of the


case and the patience of the public creditor.
The figures for the first half of this year, and
the corresponding period of last year, are as
follows: —
Merchandise Only.
First half of First half of
1911. 1912. Increase.
Imports .. £30,475,987 £36,905,764 1 6,429,777
Exports . . 28,960,110 28,138,880 821,230
Increase of the Bill to be Paid .. £7,251,007
which represents an addition to this coun-
try’s liabilities at the rate of £14,502,014
per annum. Then to help make the balance
good, Australia made a net export of gold
(gold exported in excess of gold imported)
to the extent of £2,820,202 in the first half
of 1911, and £5,907,928 in the first half of
1912. Putting complete imports of mer-
chandise and gold against total imports,
these are the figures:—
Merchandise and Gold.
Surplus
Imports. Exports. Exports.
To June, 1911 £31,424,894 £32,729,219 £1,304,325
Surplus
Imports.
To June, 1912 37,689,580 34,830,624 2,858,956
Gone to the Bad by/.. .. .. £4,163,281
Now Australia is a deeply-indebted country.
On a very moderate estimate it had, even
before it floated certain recent foreign loans,
to send away from the country goods and
gold to the value of £14,500,000 per annum
(£7,250,000 per half-year) more than it
brought into the country, merely to pay
interest and prevent the load of obligations
growing any bigger. Unfortunately, its pro-
duction of gold is decreasing at an alarming
rate. The fall is about £1,000,000 a year,
and, according to all the evidence, the output
for this year will be only about £9,600,000.
Consequently, this community has done two
very mad and wonderful things during the
first half of 1912; (1) It has sent away,
roughly speaking, £1,100,000 more e-old than
it has produced, and thus seriously dimin-
ished a cash reserve which was already fall-
ing before this latest phase of the trouble set
i n - And (2) it has even then bought fully
£10,000,000 more goods than it paid for by
its current earnings ; so it is piling up lia-
bilities at the rate of £20,000,000 per annum,
by mere excess of foreign buying. Part of
the liability was met by using up the cash
balances which the Australian banks had
accumulated in London during better and
saner days, and the rest was covered by
plain, vulgar borrowing in one shape or
another. It is all madness and wickedness
—the madness of men who don’t know, and
the wickedness of men who know but don’t
care. Part of the trouble arises out of the
fool tariff which becomes more and more
impotent to exclude foreign goods as local
wages go up. Part is due to habits of
extravagance acquired in the good years, by
people who fancied that this set’ of good
years, being unlike any other set, would last
for ever. These two influences, combined
with huge purchases of foreign material in
haste, for use on loan-fed public works, tend
to account for the unparalleled growth of
imports. The decline in the exports of mer-
chandise is due partly to lower prices, and
partly to slightly worse seasons. And then
there is the fact that a larger number of
people than ever before have left off growing
wheat, or rearing cattle, or making boots,
to toil on Government works, built expen-
sively under boom conditions. This influence
tends both to reduce exports, by reducing
production, and to increase imports by mak-
ing the community more dependent on foreign
supplies. And behind all this crazy boom
policy are the spectres of the diminished gold
yield. the increased commitments of ignorant
or wicked Governments, which seem to pile
up their liabilities the more as their resources
become less, the mass of old or short-
dated new loans that are falling- due, and
the glassy _ eye which the British money
market begins to turn on Australia’s appeals
for a trifle more to go or with. Something
must break, but what will break first it is
not easy to say.
Bull at Sea.
The recent dock strike or shipping shindy
in London, which led to the famous prayer
of Ben Tillett : “God, strike Lord Devon-
pokt dead,” a supplication that will proba-
bly be remembered even after the famous
effort of La Hire is forgotten, is a matter
which opens long avenues of consideration.
When a community sets out to be the world’s
carrier—not merely to be the carrier for its
own people, which can be done by the simple
process of penalising the foreign competi-
tor, but to be the' sea beast of burden for the
nations in general—it has to be efficient
and cheap. Especially it has to be cheap.
It has to give better value for the price
charged than the negro or the Chinaman or
the Japanese or the Dago or the half-breed,
or any other competitor. It has to have
cheap ships, cheap officers, cheap sailors
and cheap wharf-laborers. The Englishman
wiped out a lot of competitors by war, and
a lot more by cheapness—by giving an effici-
ent service for less money than anyone else.
He drove the Yankee, who was actually
ahead of him 52 years ago, almost out of
the business, partly because the Yankee lost
his chance during the Civil War, but largely
by being the capable starveling of the
waters. Now the cost of living is going up
very seriously in England, and Bull is try-
ing hard to reconcile certain incomplete cir-
cumstances. (1) He wants to raise the
wages of his shipping folk all round. (2)
He wants to still hold his position as the
proud Beast of Lading of the Sea, and to
carry for the Chinaman and the Jap by the
old process of underselling other carriers
And (3) he wants to maintain his old Free-
trade traditions by refusing to protect even
his own coastal trade. The scheme isn’t
very successful. Thus in 1895. 58 691926
tons of British and 21,847,248 tons’ of
foreign oversea shipping entered and cleared
at United Kingd-un ports. In 1910 the
figures were 79,815,085 tons and 54 215 228
tons respectively—the increase being: Brit-
ish, 21,123.150 tons ; and foreign, 32 367 980
tons. In 1895 Britain owned over 48’ner
cent, of the world’s shipping, while in 1910
it possessed about 41 per cent. The posi-
tion is still wonderfully good, even if it isn’t
quite all that it once was. And it can only
be maintained by cheanness—in fact it
seems, of late, to have been hardly cheap
enough. A nation which is willing to merelv
carry for its own people can have a well-paid
marine by the simple process of shutting out
cheap and extraneous competition. But one
which is proud to be the heavy-weight lifter
for half the human race on Freetrade condi-
tions —which acts as sea-drudge or nautical
packhorse to the Egyptian and the Hindu
by a sheer process of underselling its rivals
—must pay its sailors and officers and dock-
laborers on a rather humble scale. How-
ever frequently the Almighty may strike
Lord Devonpokt dead at Ben Tillett’s re-
quest, tile position must remain a difficult
one. Incidentally, it may be mentioned that
modern finance has greatly confused the
shipping situation of late years. A United
States trust or swindle or combine is known
to be, in secret, the owner, or part-owner, of
quite a number of big steamship companies
which still preserve an outward British sem-
blance. The British flag and the British
registration remain, and the ill-paid Briton
still does the toil, but where the profits go is
something of a mystery. In other words,
there is a suspicion that, as regards an im-
portant section of his mercantile marine,
Bull gets the credit and the obloquy, the
poor wages, the ship biscuit, the risk and
the bilge-water, while certain American per-
sons in the background get such profits as
are attainable. But this is not a question
of building a merchant navy—merely of buy-
ing one ready made.
The Overworked and Misguided P.M.G.
In view of complaints to the effect that
the telephone service has been, if possible,
even a little worse than usual of late, the
question is hereby raised whether the status
of the Postmaster-General isn’t altogether
wrong. He is a member of Parliament, a
member of the Cabinet, and a member of the
Caucus. He is expected to spend a large
proportion of his waking hours sitting in the
House, listening to debates on the Address-
in-reply or the Motion of Censure, or such-
like innumerable foolishness, and ready to
vote when required. He makes speeches on
all sorts of subjects, and goes on electioneer-
ing campaigns. And while he is doing these
irrelevant things, the struggle to get con-
nected with “Central” grows more acute.
I.he P.M.G. really has no more time for all
this sort of folly than has the Railway Com-
missioner or the boss of the A.M.P. Society.
The department that he is supposed to ad-
minister is a gigantic affair, and requires its
chief’s entire attention. Under the present
system the P.M.G. is selected because he
belongs to the right party, is a strenuous
debater, a good electioneering agent, also
sometimes because it is his State’s turn to
be represented. Incidentally, he is selected
because he knows as little about the man-
agement of his very intricate business as
any other reasonably intelligent individual.
The scheme worked fairly well when
a P.M.G. had only one State to
look after, but now it suffers from
overloading. Incidentally, it may be
mentioned that in Britain the P.M.G. is
often outside the Cabinet, and then he has
no Cabinet meetings to attend, and—unless
he is wanted for a close division—nobody’s
business to look after save his own. Otlier
hard-working British Ministers, like the
Attorney-General, Solicitor-General, the four
sea-lords of the Admiralty, and the Commis-
sioner for Works, are almost always outside
the Cabinet, while cheap nobodies like the
Privy Seal man and the Chancellor of the
Duchy of Lancaster are in it —presumably
because they have little to do, and, conse-
Trtrerrtly,-- mucdr-time ter discourse. The
precedent might be worth following. The
Australian idea that every Minister must
have a seat in the Cabinet, and must plug
away at helping to shape the Government
policy, was quite unobjectionable in the
days of lots o’ time. But the Postal De-
partment shouldn’t have lots o’ time.
An Old, Old Farce, and Some Reasons
for Ending It.
Harry Levien, M.L.A., proposes to re-intro-
duce in the N. S. Wales Assembly the Total-
isator Bill, which he has handled there so
many times before. His persistency in this mat-
ter is admirable, but it can hardly be described
as business. The measure has no earthly
chance of passing as a private member’s
Bill. Amongst otner things, there is abuuc
14 times too much Ring money available
for the purpose of engineering its deieat.
One of the points in favor of the abhorred
Caucus system is the fact that, under it, the
possibility of bribery and corruption, so far,
at any rate, as Government measures are
concerned, is reduced to a minimum. If the
McGowen Administration brings in the
Totalisator Bill as a party measure, the
bookies and other interested parties will be
well advised to lay aside their cheque books
and give up the game as utterly and irre-
trievably lost. In any other event, wliat
with the support their cause invariably gets
from the frauds or fools who are supposed
to abhor betting, and what with the support
they are in a position to buy, the members
of the Ring, as long experience has shown,
have nothing whatever to fear. Assuming
the McGowen Government is prepared
to abide, by the overwhelming mass of nro-
Tote evidence that was given before the
late Commission, the Ring is in a despeiate
position, since it is now generally recognised
that the introduction of the machine must
involve not merely the limitation or regula-
tion of bookmaking, but its complete aboli-
tion. It is a plain question of decent snort.
Even under present conditions the enter-
tainment of kings is none too savory. There
is no doubt that horses, trainers and jockeys
are stiffened with painful frequency. in
the event of the Tote coming, and any pro-
portion., however small, of the bookmaking
fraternity being suffered to remain, develop-
ments in the racecourse ramp line will be
simply stupendous. The reason is obvious.
One of the first effects of the arrival of the
Tote will be the wiping-out of the smaller
bookmakers. The affluent ones, who do busi-
ness with horse owners, workers of commis-
sions and the big punters will remain. At
present this class of operator can —ork off
the smaller fry, and wind un in such a posi-
tion that, whatever happens, no one but the
Public will stand to be a financial loser.
With the small bookie eliminated, the big
man will be in the position of having to hump
practically the whole of every wager that is
fired into him, no matter how unsatisfactory
the transaction may look later on. He would
be hardly human, and certainly no bookie,
if he didn’t proceed to remedy such disabili-
ties in the way nearest to his hand—namely,
by attempting to corrupt those in a position
to save his pocket. Which is another wav
of saying that stiffened races would be rife
at every meeting. All the countries that
nave adopted the machine have learned this
lesson. In Prance, the bookmakers were
suffered to bet at Lbngchamps and elsewhere
tor some time after the installation of the
lari Mu fuel. It was onlv that
they shouldn’t call or howl the odds. The
men did business by writing the odds on slips
of paper, and silently handing them to clients
—thus rendering themselves mfire or less un-
objectionable on aesthetic grounds. And yet,
they had to go. It was agreed that they
were making the racing game too red-’mt
altogether. And so, in N. g. Wales. The
bookmaker is doomed the moment the ma-
chine arrives, and he knows it- and may be
expected to battle furiously for his nationallv
undesirable life, in consequence. Pie has an
immense null in the AssemHv—such a pull
that no Private Member’s Pill lg going to
perturb him. Why can’t the Government
end a. dreary and uredifying farce hv making
the introduction of the contraption that
must wipe out the Rina its own concern?
+
What, exactly, is the mystery that lies
behind the recent Maltese immigration into
Australia? Every now and then the papers
chronicle the arrival of some little consign-
ment of folk from the isle of the Maltese cat,
and there are suspicions that, in many
cases, the money for their passages is put
up by Somebody in the background, and
that they arrive in bond, so to speak. There
is no positive evidence of this, though cer-
tain of the arrivals have been heard to
speak of the necessity of getting immediate
work, in order to repay the people they owe
money to—presumably their passage money.
But the Maltese is, pre-eminently, the sort
ot man whom a certain other sort of man
would regard as a desirable settler. He
isn’t exactly a European, though he may be
said to hang out his shingle in European
waters at least his island is a shade nearer
to Europe than it is to Africa. He says he
is of Phoenician origin, and came originally
from Tyre or thereabouts, and Tyre was next
door to old Solomon at Jerusalem. Malta
has been owned by Greeks, by Carthagin-
ians from Africa, by Arabs, French, British,
Germans, Spaniards—in fact by almost
everybody. The local language is'a sort of
mangled Arabic, or struck-by-lightning dia-
lect.. The Maltese has no great record as a
soldier —in that respect he can’t com-
pare. for a . moment with the hard-
fighting Spaniard, nor is he even up
to the Portuguese or Italian standard;
but as a cheap and willing and long-
hour laborer he holds th° European record.
He even undersells the Egyptian, and lie is
cheap enough. He multiples like the rabbit,
and as there, are about 1500 people to the
square mile in Malta, he is necessarily an
abundant immigrant. But he isn’t a wildly-
desirable immigrant, though, at his worst,
he is miles ahead of Abdul and Ram Dass
and Gholab Turban.
.*.
According to the daily papers:—
The question of stopping the export of meat and
butter while the prices remain high, will be discussed
at the next meeting of the Labor Council.
There is much to be said in favor of the
idea, provided other circumstances are suit-
able —or rather provided they are made
suitable. The food demand of the world has
been growing for a long time much faster
than the food supply, and prices have been
rising in a serious fashion, especially in Eng-
land, which depends almost wholly on foreign
goods, brought long distances at great cost.
And the price of food must ri se to corres-
pond, even in the countries that have a
superabundance of it, unless a standard figure
is fixed for each article, and no speculator
or other dubious character is allowed to buy
for export when local supplies are above
that figure. Thus, the Netherlands Govern-
ment lately prohibited the export of rice
from the Dutch East Indies, holding that
there is no longer any real surplus for
export, and that the local stomach comes
before commercial profits. But —and this is
where _ the trouble comes in—if Australia
keeps rnrporting at the present rate, it simply
must send away wheat and meat and butter
and every old thing it can lay its hands
upon, in order to pay for the goods, no
matter how high local prices run. In the
first half of 191- this country exported about
x_,UO(_),(JOO worth less of these goods than in
t|j e first half of 1911. And it imported
±1,100,000 more of drapery alone than in
the first half of 1911. Inside six months,
so far as can be estimated, Australia went
about ±10,000,000 in debt for mere imported
clothes and sundries —went £10,000,009 into
debt through not sending away sufficient
butter and meat and wheat to pav for the
cheap labor clothes and sweated labor sun-
dries that it clamors for. If it deliberately
cuts down this export to vanishing point, for
the sake of cheap local food, how are all
the insane drapery and the other cheap labor
products to be paid for?
“George Street” : There is a grim lesson
for the asses who say that Asia has no wish
to occupy Australia in that recent episode
of the Chinese stowaways on the E. and A.
Company’s steamer Empire. For the privi-
lege of getting a foothold on these shores
they had stood in darkness for weeks, on a
spot little larger than an opened-out copy
of The Bulletin, their heads pressed
against an iron roof, in an unspeakable atmo-
sphere, with little water and less food, and
with the intolerable heat from the furnaces
giving them a foretaste of Sheol. Consider
the possibility of an army of tenacious hor-
rors such as the above landing with guns in
their hands in the unpeopled North, ready
to. submit to any hardship, undertake any
toil, and risk any danger to attain their
end. It is enough to make the most casual
citizen experience a vague feeling of dis-
satisfaction with our boy armies, broken
railway gauges, absence of direct communi-
cation with the point of probable danger,
and all the leisurely want of concern which
marks our preparation to keep Australia
white.
♦
The hand of “D.M.W.” writes on the wall:
As a specimen of the evil that men do living after
. them, the present financial position of Maoriland
would be hard to beat. Democracy has never been
quite dead in the unsteady islands or United Shakes,
and there are not wanting those who, even at the
present juncture, would make a desperate attempt
to do the honest thing, • and swear off the financial
drunk that, with one brief interval, has been raging
ever since Vogel first ran the cutter to Cohen’s pub.
But what are they going to do about it ? This drunk
is not like those of the ordinary alcoholic kind. The
coming years are all mortgaged, and the youngest
baby in . the place is in pawn.
Including the recent short-dated I OU, loans to
the amount of £21,073,000 will mature within the
next five years, and there wo-dd seem to be no
earthly mode of meeting these liabilities, except by
further borrowing in a country where things are so
bad that its own public securities are down' to about
£75. It is a comparatively easy matter to burn
Vogel, the father of it all, in effigy—he has been
dead some years, and should be smiling pleasantly in
Abraham’s bosom. There would be no special diffi-
culty about setting a day apart for cursing the bones
of Seddon, who would have been a giant among men
if he had only avoided the tents of Israel. A month
of fasting and prayer for Warp —he is really deader
in politics and repute than either of the 'others—
might prove stimulating. Any number of modes
of lamentation over the horror of great darkness,
which is fallen upon Maoriland, might be contrived ;
but the problem of what is to be done in the present
crisis _ remains still to be solved. The proposal to
establish a State Bank appeals to many; but ii ,s
•difficult to see how even the best managed .State
Bank is going to get over the immediate demands
of Shylock for his pound of flesh. Also, a State
Bank, run and financed as Maoriland itself has been
for the last few years, is a proposition to send a
shudder down the soine. Though not a very rich
country, Maoriland has some resources, and might
even now lift the tremendous burden that has been
placed upon its shoulders, if only the position wure
fairly faced. One thing is quite certain in the midst
ot all the confusion and muddle. No Ministry has
any right to be regarded as sane, or honest, or even
stupidly well-intentioned that does not insist on
living within its own means. This might imply loss
of popularity for the crowd in power, enormously in-
creased taxation, perhaps a temporary diminishment
of population, stagnation of trade 'and other un-
pleasant things; but it is better to repent now in
bags and ashes —yes, even in flax mats and pumice
stone —than to face the smash towards which 'Maori-
land is running at express speed.
Some patter concerning an alleged State-
aided comedian: —
The most damaging accusation yet levelled against
the State-aided immigration system is that a vaude-
ville artist —presumably a very second or third rate
vaudeville artist —was enabled to travel out to this
empty continent on a ticket purchased from an agri-
cultural laborer for £2 10s., It is a trifling'matter ;
but it is also a complete tragedy in miniature—the
sort of straw that the careful historian of the future
will gather up and make great use of when con-
structing his life-size model of this lunatic Common-
wealth. Consider the facts: By adopting a policy of
High Protection, Australia could give itself the
world-wide advertisement it is always hungering for,
and at the same time automatically attract all the
trained artisans all its new industries could swallow.
Not having made up its mind about High Protection!
it wants mostly farm-hands—plain, simple-minded
Hodges, who can minister humbly to the cow and
the cabbage and little more. The cheap and useless
comedian, whose only assets are a stick of red nose-
paint, two suggestive songs and some deafening
clothes, gets an offer of a temporary minor footlight
job away in the far south land, but does not know
how the Old Harry he is going to get to it A
chance meeting with a simple and bureau-captured
Hodge, at a London waterside pub, shows him the
way. Fifty greasy shillings are exchanged for a few
papers, and, a few days later, a noble ship steams
proudly down Channel with its load of reinforcements
for the lone Pacific outpost of the White Race. And
one of the supposed national guards is a cheap clown,
who will return as soon as his suggestive song's have
had their vogue, and when the insane rattling of his
feet in time to inferior music no longer cheers the
gallery! If the rumor is correct, and the absurd
fraud really was practised on the expensive immigra-
tion system, what an ass it makes of this suffering
country! One imagines that the bucolic who sold
the passage must have either been half-witted or a
drunken waster. A level-headed tradesman of regular
habits making a bee-line for a well-protected land
ot high wages and steady jobs, would not have bar-
tered his passage for the price of a week’s steady
beering. But, as things stand, Australia doesn’t
seem to be catching too many of that valuabh* tvpe •
it can’t expect to when it isn’t bidding for them in
the one sure way.
“Sidelights”: The long-promised and
badly-wanted survey of the Australian coast
seems due at last, and every thoughtful shell-
back thanks God for it. The longshoreman
who onlv braves the vasty deep at rare in-
tervals has good cause to do likewise, onlv
he is mostly too much of a blighted and
unthinking ass to realise it. The news-
papers don’t help him much. Unless the
vessel which butts into a marine fence, with
fatal results, is a passenger liner, or unless
there is heavy loss of- life," or a spectacular
The Power of Oratory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are here to talk not only to this audience, but
to the people of New South Wales, and beyond and
above all we want to talk to the people of the rest
of the world. Evidence is, all around us that the
eyes of the civilised world are centred on this beauti-
ful continent of ours.-; — Premier McGowen.
We do not speak to you alone
Whose ears are open to our tales,
But seek to make our message known
To all the folk in New South Wales;
And far beyond our words are hurled
At everybody in the world.
Oh, everybody’s ears are wide
To hear the things we have to say ;
Shall not our bosoms Swell with pride,
While well we know that far away,
In lands where loans are set afloat,
Persons with cash our speech shall note?
We smile to think that British air
Shall echo to our pleasant voice ;
Our knowledge kindred hearts shall share,
And England at our deeds rejoice.
But most we hope that Jacob’s seed
Shall to our words of state take heed.
The happy land of New South Wales,
As every politician notes.
Whatever other product fails,
Can grow a crop of useful votes,
And these we cherish night and day
Lest Wade should filch our jobs away.
But. oh! ye wires that girdle round
The world by shining sea and land,
Spread, spread afar the growing sound
That shall the nation’s purse expand.
Yea, mention to the generous Jew
The things we did and mean to do.
Ob. nleasant Uncle, overseas.
Whose three balls glitter in the fog,
Observe and note it, if you please,
We do not go the solid hog—-
But wherefore should we sigh and fret
That thou art kind, and we in debt?
Non-borrowing is still our creed.
On loans we really look askance ;
But who can blame us in our need
If we should ask a small advance?
’Tis but a scratching of the pen—
Say twenty millions now and then.
We do not talk to those alone,
Whose ears are open to our speech:
Ob. no, we make our message known
To everybody we can reach.
specially in Cohen’s ear,
We would remark : “The time is near.”
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


THE POLICY Of THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . . and . . .
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
4*
>?
Your Children Remember
the scenes of travel, pictures of various industries, and
strange and distant peoples, and other educational sub-
jects that are shown daily at our theatres.
We Operate Six Public Schools
of this character-—The Crystal Palace, Lyric, Colonial
Nos. 1 and 2—in Sydney; The Melba and Britannia in
Melbourne. They are schools and theatres combined.
Yours for the Public Good.
Managing Director,
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
firework performance of some sort, the item
isn’t interesting enough to justify more than
a few brief lines. Cases like the Papanui
and Pericles raise a bit of a sea, but who
hears, for instance, of the location of the
half-brick that lay south of Cape Bolingbroke
waiting for some ship to stub its toe against?
This death-trap was discovered some time ago
for the simple reason that it stopped a ship.
It wasn’t the ship’s fault, as the chart gave
30 fathoms of fluid at that spot, whereas
the chart has now been proved a liar to the
extent of a good seven fathoms, the rock
being a bare 18ft. from the surface —just a
neat and accurately-placed depth for the
scientific disembowelling of any boat that
scraped over it.
«
A public servant tried to make the Govern-
ment pay him for an immense quantity ~f
arrears of leave, last week, but failed. The
Full Court bumped him out on a legal point,
and the Law, on this occasion, took the horse-
sense point of view of the ordinary man of
the world. It is not desirable from any
standpoint that an employee should be en-
titled to a cash equivalent for leave which
he has omitted, for whatever reason, to take.
At the best it means that the employee gives
worse service than necessary, as a result of
persistently neglecting that period of rest
and recuperation which every man requires,
from time to time, if he is to keep in health.
At the worst, it may mean that the holiday-
eschewing toiler is the author of a massive
series of swindles, and is only sticking to
his job because he fears to have somebody
look at his accounts in his absence. A wise
employer—and this remark applies equally
to the State and to the private employer—-
would not only firmly refuse to pay his
hireling for foregoing his holidays, but would
deliberately kick him off the premises, for a
while, every year or so.
Some August birthdays: Alfred Deakin,
56 on the 3rd ; Federal Judge O’Connor and
Premier Scaddan (W.A.), 56 on the 4th;
Rolfe Boldrewood 86, and Judge Isaacs, 57
on the 6th; Poynton, M.H.R., 59, George
Turner 63 on the Bth; “Bleeds” Fitchett,
something or another on the 9th; Agent-Gen-
eral McCall (Tas.), 52 on the 10th; Gover-
nor Barron (Tas.), 65 on the 11th; Gover-
nor Chelmsford (N.S.W.), 44 on the 12th;
Premier McGowen (N.S.W.), 57 on the
16th; Simon Fraser 80, Bishop Dwyer 54,
Bishop Pain 71, W. H. Ogilvie (poet) 43 on
the 21st; John Forrest, 65 on the 22nd; J.
C. Williamson, 67 on the 23rd; Glynn,
M.H.R., 57 on the 25th; Prof. Lyle (Meib.),
52 on the 26th; Andrew Fisher, 50 on the
29th; Foster, M.H.R., 50 on the 30th.
PAR
Signs of mourning were observable aboard
the Ivallowatta, the flagship of the Sydney
watermelon fleet, last week, owing to the
death of J. W. Laughton, who might be
described as the Admiral of the Trade. His
end was not altogether untimely. As a
matter of fact, he had been pottering geni-
ally up and down the little stretch of reef
and beach between Port Jackson and Broken
Bay for 40 years. He was 70 when he came
to his final moorings.
“Chasuble”: The last act in the Gnash
drama has been played (or should one rather
say the final round in the dreary old scrap
has been fought?), and the Archdeacon has
resigned his job. The vineyards of Sale
(Vic.) wherein he labored for four years
will know him no more. Frivolous or no, he
was a parson of ability. He took his M.A.
at Cambridge in 1888, entered the ministry
in 1890, and was subsequently chaplain of
Loretto School, Musselburgh, and rector at
Huddersfield. In 1895, or thereabouts, un-
pleasantness arose, and he left. Clarke, now
Archbishop, followed, as vicar, and heard
things. Nash came next to Australia. He
was examining chaplain to the Bishops of
Bendigo and Gippsland for a while, and pre-
pared many candidates for the ministry.
Also, he was in Tasmania for some time.
Then he put in three years in Sydney. He
was incumbent of St. Columb’s, Hawthorn,
for six years. Also theological lecturer to
the students at Trinity College. Incumbent
of Christ’s, Geelong, in 1906-7. And then
the long-drawn-out debacle or downfall
began.
“Sa Wen”: Re the unreliability of the
cablegrams about the Prophet and Peanut
disturbance (B. 11/7/’l2). Pending the
arrival of a new system of Liarless Tele-
graphy, I would venture to suggest that
Abdul and Pietro be locked in an operating
room, armed with an extensive vocabulary,
and there should talk to death the goose that
laid the golden egg.
In two whirling years—or rather 23
whirling months—the present N.S.W. Gov-
ernment borrowed £9,213,231, in addition to
using up old balances on hand. And rather
over £8,000,000 of this falls due for repay-
ment inside . the next seven years. The
outstanding N.S.W. loans which were floated
between 1874 and 1909 had a currency of
from 33 to 51 years, and thus the State had
time to turn round, and room to swing a cat
before the bill fell due. Now it seems glad
if it can raise £1,000,000 or so repayable
about the middle of next month.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Quinlan Grand Opera Go.
Criterion “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.”
Royal “Othello.”
Adklfiii “The Girl Who Loved a Soldier.”
Palace “Sweet County Kerry.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Princess West’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Imperial Rink Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ You Never Can Tell.”
Her Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl.”
Princess’s “ A Message from Mars.”
King’s “The Girl Who Knew a Bit.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Glaoiarium Ice Skating.
J. Rufus Wallingford and his confederate,
“Blackie” Daw, bogus company promoters,
descend blithely upon Battlesburg, a sleepy
U.S. town located in the middle west of
Pitt-street, Sydney, and find it ripe for fleec-
ing. “Blackie” Daw, sent ahead to prepare
the way for his chief, so convinces the in-
habitants that Wallingford is not only a
millionaire, but a patriotic millionaire,
ready to invest all his cash in Battlesburg,
that when the great man arrives he receives
a Roosevelt reception, and finds the leading
fat men ready to pour their dollars into his
hands. He forms a bogus manufacturing
company, arranges for the purchase of a
site for his mythical factory, talks largely
of tramway “franchises,” and starts a boom
almost as rotten as the one from which
Sydney is at present suffering. Land values
soar, and the crooks start to clean up. Un-
fortunately each falls in love with a pleasing
representative of Battlesburg femininity,
“AIDA,” AT HER MAJESTY'S, SYDNEY.
John Coates going nobly to his doom, escorted by four stalwart Egyptians.
Amneris (Edna Thornton) grief-stricken.
and they prolong their stay. But even true
love must give way to easy profits ; and the
pair are on the point of departing, when a
representative of a big railway offers them
a million dollars for the rights of a railway
“franchise” that they had airily acquired.
They take the money, and find that, without
knowing it, they had been honest men.
More, the covered carpet tack, which they
had alleged they were going to manufac-
ture —specimens of this revolutionary inven-
tion were prepared with a little glue, the
remains of a red silk tie and a box of tacks
—turns out to be the one thing that the
great heart of the U.S. woman had always
yearned for, and enormous orders are
booked by the great wholesale houses. So
Wallingford and Daw are forced to remain
and become rich; and the fools they had in-
tended to fleece are within two years mem-
bers of the Battlesburg Millionaires’ Club.
*!• *!* '!•
Everybody likes to see somebody else
taken down ; and the audience on Saturday
night at the Criterion, received “Get-Rich-
Quick Wallingford” with delight, and with
vivid memories of the number of times they
had been similiarly fleeced. The company-
promoter is no stranger to Sydney; but there
is an ease of manner and an expedition about
the methods of this delightful pair of crooks
that will be useful to our own exponents of
the gentle game of getting something for
nothing. The comedy is swift and snappy.
The stage-management is marvellous. The
dialogue is superficially brilliant; but the
tail of the comedy—the fourth act, intro-
duced just to show that Battlesburg had pro-
gressed—fails to wag. And during that act
only three trams pass—which shows that
while Battlesburg has probably a lower red
roll than Sydney, it has something yet to
learn from George-street. As G. R. Q. Wal-
lingford, Fred Niblo proves himself a facile
and prepossessing actor, whose signature
will be in demand in the autograph books of
the matinee girl. He has the bland manner
of the true company promoter, and his deal-
ings with his suspicious directors are de-
lightfully convincing. As his confederate,
Harry Corson Clarke, who is billed as “the
original Jones” in “What Happened To
That Bloke,” is an equally typical specimen
of the genus crook. A dozen of him could
be arrested any day in King-street. Miss
Josephine Cohan, takes the rather limited
part of the stenographer, who, for one
moment, sees through the fraud. She is a
comedienne on whom this paper looks with
favor. Her conception of the girl is quietly
played ; she has not many opportunities for
emphasis ; but she gives the impression of a
reserve of personality and a charm of man-
ner which may, or may not, be confirmed
when she has the opportunity to spread
herself. There are 19 other characters; and
a large bouquet of boronia is hereby pre-
sented to the collective 19, for none of them
spoil the picture, and two of them adorn
it. Miss Beatrice Holloway plays with
charm the pleasant part of the girl who con-
verts “Blackie” Daw’s heart, and Miss Rosa-
lind Smeaton has nothing to do, and does it,
but to look a peach.
* * * *
Carrie Moore has arrived at the National
Amphitheatre, looking as arch and cheery as
ever. She has a useful lot of songs, and she
delivers them with much art and charm.
The Pechillis are in their last nights. No
really earnest thrill-seeker will lightly miss
the purple patch in this troupe’s turn when
a small inoffensive Chow stands against a
board while a large and malignant-looking
Mongol flings knives at him, till his head is
completely surrounded with the lethal cut-
lery.
ijc ifc Jjt
“La Traviata” (The Misguided One) was
flung on to the stage of Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) in the garb of 1912 on Saturday
night. The performance of this usually
sparkling opera was as bright as the Dead
March in “Saul, or the dirge on the decease
of the last man—sung by the man himself
five minutes before the final trump. Verdi
wrote of. the first production of “Traviata”
(in Venice, the year being 1853) : “Tra-
viata last night made a fiasco. Is the fault
mine or the actors? Time will show.”
Donatelli, one of the most corpulent women
of her day, was the consumptive Violetta,
whose “wasting away” caused an uproar of
mirth in the audience. It was reckoned
that she was perishing from gluttony. The
famous tenor Graziani had a cold, and sang
his part as Alfred Germont with a lobster
in his throat.* Varesi, the baritone, huffed
at what he considered a “secondary role,”
sulked strenuously as Germont p&re, and
killed the duet with Violetta (who weighed
about 15st.) in the garden. The lady died
bard amidst the delighted laughter of an
audience that refused to listen to her death
rattle.
* * * *
The Quinlan Opera Co. had the hardihood
to play “Traviata” in modern dress and sing
it in English. Though every opera in its
list is given in the tongue of Bull and Co.
the Italian school of florid vocal art suffers
in consequence far more than does the slow
and stately Wagnerian music. The lan-
guage of the well-known firm of Britannia,
Lion and Bull may be first in the money
changes of the world. But it was not built
for trills, caterwauls or cascades of sound
that trickle down the heroine’s back hair
when the hero winds up his tenor in a
tragic swan song. Lalla Miranda, the Vio-
letta of the deadly “Traviata” performance
the other night, practically saved the show.
Her charming voice, with the light and flex-
ible quality which is so admirably adapted
to the Italian school of music, rippled up
and down the scale with the ease of a can-
ary singing for an extra lump of sugar. She
looked out of the picture in a modern dress
which was not within a coo-ee of the mag-
nificence of the famous Lady of the Camel-
lias. Violetta’s lady friends appeared to be
in rather poor circumstances, and had (so
far as one could judge) made scratch
toilets for a tame suburban first Thursday
evening or 14th Saturday night. The alleged
gay party in the house of the frail Violetta
(first act) was a dreary business with a
yawn in every chorus. Spencer Thomas as
Alfred the lover, William Deyer, Papa Ger-
mont, Seph Jones, as Gaston de Letorieres.
and a few small fry, represented British beef
clad in frock coats and suitable Sunday
breeches. The orchestra, for the first time
at any first-night performance here under
the baton of Voghera, made no attempt to
drown the voices of the principals. The
delicate music the only Angelini drew front
the fiddles, before the curtain went up on
the gorgeous “Traviata” that opened the
Melba season here, was recalled by the
Voghera command of soft silences.
** * *
The anti-Home Rule humbug and the
gentle . persuasive suffragette are stowed
away in the darkest corner of the Palace
Theatre, where Allen Doone and his Irish
co. are making merry, and as a side line mak-
ing money. There is no likelihood, so far.
that “County Kerry” is in danger of losing
its sweetness on Pitt-street’s desert air
within the next two or three weeks.
* * *
The Stavordale Quintette of banjo players
twanged for the first time at the Tivoli, last
Saturday, when the hybrid instrument was
made to drone sleepily. One of the com-
pany, which includes two ladies, is a harp-
ist, and the golden-toned, stay-at-home in-
strument chimed in wonderfully well with
the lightweight music-maker that travels
with the pioneer a thousand miles and 25
years ahead of the grand piano. The Al-
ginas, comedy acrobats, threw themselves
about for the first time, while the tireless
Amaranths flung round regardless of ex-
pense for the fourth last occasion, or there-
abouts. Alec Hurley, of the Coster songs,
comedian Fred Bluett, Fanny Powers, and
the jumping Frank J. Sidney supply the
other second part turns of importance. The
clowning Webbs and Niagara and Falls are
on the point of departure, if not actually
right over the brink.
* * * *
Extract from Sydney Telegkaph of
l/8/’l2: —
CRUELTY TO A CALF.
DASHED TO THE GROUND.
He [the policeman] noticed the defendant catch a
very young calf by the tail, throw it violently
around, and dash it to the ground.
A fine of £2, in default one month’s imprison-
ment, was imposed.
According to the gallery’s definition, God-
frey Cass, the hard-fisrhting villain of “The
Girl Who Loved a Soldier,” now at the
Adelphi, is not a calf, but “a fair cow.”
Still, a cow is a grown-up calf, and Hugh
Buckler, who dashes him to the ground with
such regularity, had better beware. Even a
splendid hero may dash once too often withiD
the meaning of the Act.
V s;j *
At 7.30 on Monday night, writer left the
Crystal Palace. There were then eight
people in the dress circle. At 8.15 he re-
turned, and there were only eight vacant
seats; also, there was barely room to turn
round in the variety arcade. This speaks
volumes for the popularity of the double-
barrelled show. “When Kings were Law,”
a story of the Court in the 17th century,
when the European Courts were seething
with plots and intrigue, often planned by
high personages like the Archbishop, was the
attraction in the picture department. “Fight-
ing Dan McCool,” an American war picture,
was the most notable film that “also flicked.”
*!» •!» »I>
Oscar Asche will beg no more alms at
Sydney Royal after Friday night. Hajj
will then vanish, ancj “Othello” will step
forward in his place to rage and strangle in
a more gentlemanly fashion. It is rather
sorrowful to notice how our distinguished
White Australian specialises in murderous
niggers. . It would be a relief to see Oscar
as a polite and respectful negro waiter, with
his razor decently out of sight in the pocket
of his white drill coat and a tray of cool
drinks with straws in them. Possibly,
though, that sort of part would not appeal
to him.
S.A. Government, last week, gave a trial
trip in Adelaide Town Hall to the moving
pictures which are going to advertise the
Wheat State throughout Britain. Lands-
Minister Young admitted handsomely that
the late Verran Government started the idea,
but remarked that his own Ministry had
followed it up. The pictures, as shown, have
but one weakness: they fail to suggest the
vastness which is one of the Wheat State’s
chief assets. They give bits of • Adelaide
gardening-effects (which most English cities


STECK
One of the World’s
Great PIANOS,
EXTRACT, taken from the Life of Robert Schumann
By VOV WASIKLEWSKI, Pa~ e Un,ann -
ou years ago tney still say so to-day The QTPpy
does not rely solely on a" reputation made in the
lence. present musi ?al excel-
action are a revelation to" prcwpectiv^'ni’an 11688 ° f
chasers, who immediately
an instrument of altogether exceptional nferit. 0 *
THESE PIANOS CAN BE HAD FOR CASH
or on easy Terms.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
252 COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE
„,,„J onThe Block).
31 1 QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE
(opp. Q.N. Bank 1 ).!
London, Paris, Berlin and New York.
[25 <
h
New Shipments of STECKS monthly
In Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut,
Rosewood, Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony.
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged.
’ Phone No. 236 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Em
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. g HOWARD POPF m
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. ° PE ’ Manag:er -
could rival), but not its great stretches of
park lands. They show S.A.’s live stock,
and its. harvesting operations, but never a
really big mob of sheep, or the great grain-
stacks common at every wharf or railway
station. Apart from this, they are highly
effective, showing grape picking, copper,
wheat, wool and cattle and—especially effec-
tive —the Port Augusta ostriches. The many
views of city streets and cricket grounds and
crowded sea-beach are, presumably, to show
possible immigrants what a pleasant place
Australia is, and the whole thing ought to
be a big advertisement for the central State.
“YOU NEVER CAN TELL,” AT
METROURNE ROYAL.
The mighty K.C.
The wise old waiter.
“On Our Selection,” at Adelaide Royal,
has been successful even beyond expecta-
tion- The buffoonery which is Steele
Rudd s strong suit has been carefully
preserved, and the love interest (which
isn t) has been carefully added, giving a
chance to Guy Hastings and Miss Marlow.
The T lvoli stars, the De Serris troop of
statuary posers, do a striking turn. This kind
of thing has been done often by individuals,
but in bulk it is a novelty. Max Laube re-
produces bird-notes with marvellous fidelity.
At the King’s, the most riotous turn in a
strong bill has been that provided by Nor-
wood s hypnotised subjects. The organ-like
Gisneros and the magnetic Dufault have had
several good (though not remarkable) crowds
in the Exhibition, which is not too well
suited for vocalism, but is the only house
available just now. The Empire pictures a
strong Australian play, “The Sin of a
Woman”; Wests’, a Redskin dratna; and
Wondergraph that old thriller, “Called
Rack. And the new Central’s pictures of
big game are perhaps the most really stir-
ring of the lot. Sayers and Lennon, a picture
co. which controls the Empire in Adelaide
a . a Broken Hill house, has paid an in-
terim 20 per cent, dividend for its first half-
altho,u&h acknowledging a loss of
xiuuu on thd kinemacolor” tinted-film ex-
penments. It announces the building of a
bigger theatre in Grote-street, Adelaide—off
Victoria Square. Bruce’s Lyric is almost
alongside it, and across the Square is a new
big Central. Wondergraph still occupies the
i.own Hall, but is hard at work on an up-
to-date new building just opposite the Royal.
West s are further down Hindley-street, in
the old skating rink (rebuilt), and away up
Bundle-street is a new Pav., open all day.
lruly it is a dissipated city.
❖* * *
Harrison O” spends an evening among
the mummers of Israel:—
Melbourne’s annual outbreak of Yiddish histrionics,
which eventuated last week at the Temperance Hall,
fani ’ the fo ™ °f a performance of Abraham Gold-
faden s operetta, Bar-Kochba.” Simon B. Kochba
i;’ seen ? m £ly, a y? un S man with a taste for elocu-
P o "’, wh lS? l , ha exploits for the purpose of urging his
I ldS^t 0 r ey° lushe an d hit their Roman op-
vm,™ t u ard > ° n After listening to the
OW s recitation the mob apparently goes
and does something sudden and sanguinary behind
the scenes, for when, the elocutionist next appears he
is crowned king with much lack of pomp and a com-
parative absence of ceremony. He the n P falls in love
dreary Rnhhi the bulk T daughter of a grave and
.Rabbi, and makes, presumably, impassioned
speeches to her, with the fervor of a Sal. Army con-
vert retailing the untruthful story of his redemption
His ardcr is reciprocated by the bounteous D?nah ;'
but she, poor dear! is taken prisoner by the Romans
d r!im el + 3fter her first duet with her young man.
. kochba tears around, with his black whiskers Ann
Ping in an agitated manner, and talks destruction'
sarv n ßahh,' Cr thmgshe slays the harmless, unneces-
ha/ % impression that the old boy
daughter Of "course• betr ,? yal of h is embonpoint
litnfl CO j lse ’ jt 1S ah a mistake, but by the
time this is found out the Rabbi is a very dead' .Jew
and insists upon remaining dead. occurs to
m, -V g + at f ,5 1S deadness, and his slayer becomes mo™
agitated than ever, and his whiskers wave like Love’s
banner on the battlements of Song. Finally the wor-
ried young man decides to make an end of himself
It seems a pity that he should be thus cut off in the
Thev r ea f r, hlS y ° u J; h ’ because his whiskers a r e unique
Knew -a. never happen again. The music of “Bar"
i-h > a is mostly of the vaudeville or opera-bouffe
variety, except the choruses. These take tKo ? Jte
of a monotonous sort of chanting,' which seems to
f ° r a P°m-pom accompaniment to make its dul
SL
numerous, and won the approbation of Abraham, not to
mention Shem, Ham and Japheth and Noah Arkbottom.
B. Kochba was played with considerable energy by Mr.
David Reitzin, of N’Yark; and Mr. S. Mendessohn
made the Rabbi sufficiently interesting to cause one
to regret his untimely demise. As Dinah, Mrs. If.
Finkelstein sacrificed romance on the altar of avoir-
dupois ; but Miss B. Finkelstein was pleasing enough
as Sarafina. Mr. J. Cohen’s Csesar was, witihout ex-
ception, the most unimpressive monarch the present
royalist has yet encountered; but Mr. R. Finkelstein,
as Papus, a comic jeweller, was a distinct success.
He was sufficiently humorous in Yiddish to cause the
present commentator to larf, despite the fact that he
was listening in English. R.. Finkelstein gives one
the impression that he would make an excellent
Ha.u, in “Ifismet.” The Chosen People are just now
making an effort to establish the Yiddish drama in
Melbourne on a sound commercial basis.
** * *
At Melbourne Town Hall last Saturday,
the valedictory warble of Melba maintained
the reputation of Australia’s most famous
citizeness. The artist scorned to come war-
ily along and sing her autumn-tinted voice
into “form” with a comparatively easy exer-
cise. _ She opened in the Mad Scene from
“Lucia,” in which the beauty of her tones
and fluency of vocalism made it hard to say
that she was dodging some of the difficulties
she formerly overcame with ease. Judged
by this performance of the rested Queen,,
there appears to be still a long time of roy-
alty in her song. The quality of sweetness
is mellowed, not impoverished, whilst the
florid decorative art of the triller, in her
duet with Lemmone’s magic flute has
acquired new ingenuity. The Jewel Song
from ‘Faust ” was Melba’s last item on the
programme, but the audience hung on to her
until she had given three encore numbers,
one of them a remarkably dramatic render-
ing of the antique English song, “John An-
derson, My Jo.” The trusty Lemmong did
some great work apart from his accompani-
ment to Lucia’s madness ; Una Bourne shone
at the piano; jx. C, Bartleman, the bari-
tone, sang well; and Hattenbach ’celloed
res P ecta bly. There will be no more
Melba in Australia—except on the gramo-
phone for the next two or three years, it
is stated.
“YOU NEVER CAN TELL," AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Dolly Clandon (Gladys
Ellam).
Gloria is in love.
One day last Week a nameless person who
talked like a grand-duke’s body-servant, and
was probably an imported member of “The
Blue Bird” co., rang up this paper at its
Melbourne office, and ’phoned the present
writer to the effect that he was a “despic-
able cad "the accent descended like a true
British brick on the wrong syllable) for
writing as he did of one of the ladies who
appeared at the Royal in “You Never Can
leli. bince when the writer has been won-
dering which of the three ladies he was
de-spic-ably caddish about, seeing that he
called one of them “pleasing,” another
charming,” and the other a fitting object
tor family pride. Heaven only knows what
sort of adjectives are expected of a real gen-
tlemanly critic! Also, Heaven recognises
pa® fact the present performance of
You Never Can Tell” is not a very popular
attraction. William the waiter goes for
nearly as much as he is worth, but the good
humor of the Twins is not sufficiently
brought to light, and the other characters
are only dimly understood. If all the acting
were wholly admirable, and the impersona-
tions were picturesquely convincing, a com-
edy so essentially urtsuited to a large theatre
would probably miss the financial mark, but
not by much. As it is at Melbourne Royal,
the dainty, compact; story seems vulgarised
by its spacious setting, and some of Ber-
nard Shaw’s interesting characters are not
shown as the author designed them. They
seem naturally improbable, instead of oddly
truthful, and for the crowd that hasn’t read
the play and imbibed its spirit, the perform-
ance lacks suggestion in many places. Only
William’s lines are fully appreciated. “If
it is a little against a barrister to have a
waiter for a father, it is a little against a
waiter to have a barrister for a son. Many
people consider it a liberty, sir.” Norman
f age-—the boy twin—has got a shade of gen-
iality into his address since the first night
but sister Dolly (Miss Ellaro) is still rather
shrewish in a cheerful sort of way. “You
Never Can Tell” will run into next week,
seemingly.
* * $ *
“A Message from Mars” is once again
working miracles in the disposition of Hor-
ace Parker at the Princess’s, where of yore
he was a spare, peevish young bachelor with
selfishness oozing from his mannerisms.
Plimmer is a plump Parker, who takes his
dream-tribulations as though they amused
him, and parts with his 80 golden goblins
to a distressed Polly as though he didn’t miss
them much. On the other hand, Dicey, in
the guise of Sweeney, is a crudely beautiful
young man, making himself so offensively
useless when he ought to be amiably heroic
that he deserves the abrupt replies he gets
from Minnie. Miss Lizette .Parkes is Minnie.
Her habit of seeming disdainful when she
feels sympathetic, and of dropping light re-
marks in deep artificial tones, will want
watching lest it get her down to melodrama,
and keep her there. Titheradge is a new
and likeable edition of the Tramp who
avenges some of his wrongs on Parker’s
decanter. Mrs. Brough is a somewhat mild
and uncertain Aunt Martha, and Miss Bea-
trice Day, delightfully apparelled, srives
unusual importance to the sassiety lady of
the house which has a transparent front
wall. The fashionable inhumanity of Mrs.
Clarence, the lady in question, never loomed
large until Miss Day took the part. Reflect-
ing on how she ordered the parlormaid to
bang the door in Parker’s face when he was
dreaming, one hopes that the awakened
Christian will Mrs. Clarence out on the
mat if she visits Minnie after their marriage.
Another character with a strengthened in-
dividuality is the flying man from Mars,
the tinsel on Greenaway’s eyelids suggests a
gnome king in a panto, rather than a sorrow-
ful professor of Otherdom, but the rest of
him is quietly effective. Uiilike the previous
Messengers, this clean-cut, brown visitant
strikes one as having been raised in a
planet where Wowsing is unknown, and
bounders are strictly prohibited. The Plim-
mer-Denniston period is nearing its end at
the I rincess’s, and there are one or two
other revivals to follow.
Two or three nights last week, Frank
was the cast at Her Majesty’s
(Melbourne), wherefore the prince who in-
duced Miss Blanche Browne to come to the
ball, was a comparatively ordinary person-
age of chorus extraction. Otherwise “The
Quaker Girl” has proceeded as before. Miss
Nellie Wilson, who is the one reprehensible
lady in. the plot, continues to express her
impropriety with an excessively foreign
accent and a wickedly effective costume. Ehed
Leslie is still tracking the exiled Princess to
Grace Palotta’s dressmaking establishment,
and the dancing of the principals in general
has lost none of its early grace and vigor.
The whirling sensationalism of the new
bellowdrammer perpetrated at the King’s
on Saturday is but darkly adumbrated in the
Hubert Bath, Quinlan’s placid conductor, and
W. J. Samuell as Rigoletto.
foregoing rhyme. “The Girl Who Knew a
L\t Charles Darrell, who numbers
Ihe Power and the Glory” and “When
-London Sleeps” among his previous convic-
tions, and it surpasses both these master-
pieces in noisy incoherence and unrestrained
imbecility. In a Darrell drama a rational
incident would be as out of place as Brother
Snowball at the Vatican. The play leaves
one with a confused general impression of
chaos and the elements tottering on the brink
of Eternity, while the Valkyries charge
through the Flames of Smithfield, and Gene-
sis, fleeing from the Deluge, clamors for ad-
mittance at the back door of Noah’s Ark.
If this is what the author intends to convey,
he must be congratulated upon his succes's.
The players do their best to drag their parts
out of the mire of improbability. Miss Vera
Kamee is not displeasing as the sorely-tried
Lucy, and Cyril Mackay, as the hero, is
deserving of the best that can be said of him
by his tailor. Lizzie North, a member of the
Itahab profession, is represented by Miss
Olive Wilton as a creature of freakish atti-
tudes who, when she abandons the blame-
ful life, is almost drowned in her own bathos.
Miss. Ada Guildford makes an ornamental
villainness (Hon. Dr. Elspeth Blaythwaite,
no less!), and Rutland Beckett pictures a
villain whose crimes seem to bore him to
extinction. Among others who are not
utterly accursed are Max Clifton, Miss Flor-
ence Richter and Miss Marie D’Alton.
* * sjs *
JMiss Nella Webb, a new serio-chronic
( ‘the incomparable American diseuse” is the
chaste description of the programme), trans-
pired at the Opera House on Saturday.
Brightness, decorativeness and a certain
amount of personality are among the new-
comer’s good points, while her bad ones
include a voice with an upper register that —
however the subject may as well be dropped.
It is improbable that this defect will prevent
this paper learning to love Miss Webb; but
a e j cll^ nces of it: conceiving an affection for
Ardo, ‘ the Human Frog,” are remote. Ven-
triloquist Fred Russell improves upon
acquaintance, and, so far as this paper is
concerned, the presence of the Paxton Troupe
will mitigate the grief it is unable to feel at
the approaching departure of Rich and
Rich.
* sj! * :fc
Lady Audley, the outrageous person who
revels in bigamy and sudden death, illus-
trated her shocking career at Melbourne
Uiympia last Saturday night.- During the
course of her four or five minutes on the
sheet, her Ladyship attempts violent homo-
cide twice, and, in the first few flicks, goes
off her head to the accompaniment of
haunting music by Spencer’s band. The
picture christened “His Lesson” gave extra
joy to the congregation, and its text, that
peevish wives should be soothed by gifts of
clothes, is cynically commended to young
men about to marry.
. Bhgg : Lismore (N.S.W.) is expending every
fragment of energy it has over from the paramount
job of cow-valeting, on its coming Eisteddfod. The
hrst prize for the chief choral item is worth £lOO
and the second £4O, while the minor events have
i no ar CUPS -n ld P rize s aggregating over
£lOO. So you will see the Festival is no slouch as re-
gards size. This annual event is the only thing that
avails to obliterate all class and religious distinc-
tions in Lismore and environs, where, normally, the
pride of social position is something stupendous,
not to say asinine and where, also, the different
religious denominations tear at each other’s weazands
night and day. For the purposes of the Eisteddfod
parsons and priests, shopkeepers and solicitors, bank
managers, socialists and auctioneers, all put their
Sdf Ti ag !' er % asid f and .^ et together almost like
Iriends. The brief entente is well-nigh pleasing and
edifyingenough to condone the dreadful music that
the Festival is usually guilty of.
Norman Page, after playing Cat in “The Blue
Bird for some 800 nights, is dominated by his
animal impersonation, ne talks, walks, stares and
Hfl Wn f a u r cat - His own natural human tone
has departed from his voice pro. tem., and he is
employing a medical man to recover the lost prop-
erty- if possible. The best thing he can do is to
abandon the character, and undergo a course of fog-
horn exercise, or something. Nature is loth to for-
give a male actor who plays a Cat for three long-
years. It is taking liberties with his sex so to
speak. If he were a she—but no matter.
O.K. ’: Was “The Blue Bird” worth such lavish ex-
penditure on scenery ? it seems too serious in spirit for
a Panto, and insufficiently reasonable for a Sermon
His haunted by unanswerable queries Whv should
the Bird of Happiness flit from moonbeam to moom
beam, in the Garden of Night, whilst that dejected
af™ °rpn y of VVa [ s and Diseases / Why
are the Unborn Children mostly bigger and invari
ably wiser than the Born ones, and how came S.
and 11 j s w j fe , to be selected as the parents
of the two privileged Bird-snarers? The Tvl familv
wus quite unworthy of the honor. It is full of
hereditary ills seemingly. When Tytyl ind Mvtvl
visit their aged grandparents in the Land of Memorv
six deceased brothers and sisters turn up a of
whom were alive after T. and M. were born The
inference is that T. and M. will soon follow" them?
And in the Kingdom of the Future these two sur-
viving youngsters meet an unborn sister (or brother!
uv, see , lTl .®’ 18 soing- to die in infan.cv. What an
unhealthy tribe! Which side of the finiilv do the
aged grandparents belong to, and how about the
parents of the other parent, anyhow? “The Blue
llird is not a truly poetic entertainment Poetrv
suggests heartfelt truths to the reasoning mind in a
more or less definite .form, but the mind perceive?
that the suggestions m Maeterlinck’s fairv tale If?
hfods Wh6n th6y are not obvious
“THE GIRL WHO KNEW A BIT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lucy s starving in the slums;
Suddenly the good news comes—
Brought by Cyril Mackay bold—
She is rich in notes and gold.
Beckett, with annoyance filled,
Tries to get the lady killed
In a dungeon dark—the cur!
Cyril promptly rescues her.
After which, he goes to sea,
But his ship is wrecked (ah me!)
Hes reported dead, but, lo!
Lucy will not have it so.
In a dream she sees him, and
Says she’ll search the sea and land
Till she finds him. What a tart!
Weak of head, but true of heart.
Off she goes; but who’d expect
-aer boat would be also, wrecked?
(Shipwrecks happen ev’ry day
Almost, in a Darrell play.)
On an island does she land ;
Beckett being close at hand.
Not a nice position, this,
I or a pure and upright miss.
Soon her outlook seems less blue;
Cyril s on the island, too!
(How they do arrange these things
In a drama at the King’s!)
Once again they cross the foam,
This time getting safely home.
Off to ‘choky” Beckett’s led;
Lucy and her boy are wed.
Note, I carefully refrain
Fr°m attempting to explain
What the drama’s title means.
Please inquire behind the scenes
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
ILLS OF THE FLESH.
One manager points out that the threatened legis-
lation for the purpose of assuring every patron of the
gallery sufficient space for a comfortable seat, may
lead to the theatre gallery accommodation being sold
by measure. —Daily paper.
A fat girls’ deputation went
To see the diplomatic Watt,
Their tears and protestations blent,
Expressing soulful discontent
With their most mortifying lot.
A promised law they dubbed unwise,
Invidious, a wicked sin,
Class legislation—girls of size
To handicap and penalise
The stout in favor of the thin.
If space rates should come in, you know,”
Said one sad lass, “this country’s sons
Would never give our sort a show,
And to the gallery’s measured row
Would only take the skinny ones.”
VICTOKIA.
SNELL.


GET AN “AUTOTHERM” FOR SUMMER
fh
Just think what a boon it would be to possess a flask that sup-
plies hot or cold liquids at any time —a flask that is as useful in
feummer as m Winter The “Autotherm” Vacuum Flask is so
constructed that it keeps hot liquids almost the same temperature for
-.4 hours, and longer; while ice-cold liquids placed in it remain so
for some considerable time. There is no other Vacuum Flask that
can show a constiuction comparable with it—-so hygienic, so easy to
manipulate, so easily cleaned and every Authotherm is thoroughly
tested before it leaves the factory. There are ever so many uses for
an Autotherm. For picnics, for travelling and touring, for invalids,
for the business man s lunch it is almost indispensable.
The Autotlierm Flask, as illustrated, is all nickel, with im-
proved screw cork top ; making leakage impossible.
Pint Size, 16/6; Quart Size, 2S/6-
We also have a canvas covered Autotherm, with screw top of
cork - Pint Size, 10/9 ; Quart Size, 17/6-
DAVID JONES LTD.,
:r - . , - 9
opp. G.P.O.
SYDNEY
* *
f
'Sf
f - m
.
■
■ :
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid."
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Sldn Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Mote
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return,
mail.
Sole Proprietors;
H E. KUGELHANN & CO,,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14=16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The subject of some recent Bulletin
pars.—one Skerritt, of Melbourne —has had
another bout with the Law, and has come
off best. First, he was given 12 months for
being an idle and disorderly person, he hav-
ing been discovered in a city lane, about
midnight, wearing rubber shoes and having
a waddy concealed up his sleeve. He ap-
pealed, pleading that the unusual contrap-
tions were for the purpose of escaping from
or dealing with a pugilist who had promised
to stousli him. The appeal Judge ordered
the case to be re-heard, on which occasion
the vindictive pugilist corroborated Skerritt,
but the magistrates again convicted him, and
handed out four months. Once more Skerritt
appealed, and this time Chief Justice
Madden, who has intimate knowledge of the
habits of cantankerous pugilists, quashed the
second conviction and liberated him. It is
to be hoped that the matter is finally settled,
and that Skerritt is neither idle nor dis-
orderly. But it has taken a lot of cash and
hurry to decide the point.
A FAUST INTERVAL.
CRITIC : “But Marguerita is so enormously
fat. It’s preposterous.”
PRO: "Not ; at all. That provides a motive for
the devilish pertinacity of Mephistopheles.
He is going in for oil fuel.”
“Brass Button”: The building of the
White Star’s 18,000-ton Ceramic is going to
provide a pretty little problem for some of
Australia’s out-of-date ports. Port Phillip
especially may have solid reasons soon to
weep for the error of its ways in delaying
the opening up of Portland and Western-
port. There is a persistent rumor floating
round the White Star offices that Victoria
will be wiped off the visiting list when the
new liners get to business. The White Star
cherish a memory of a perilous bump that
their Cufic made on the floor of the Vic-
torian port, and it is quite possible that they
may refuse to chance a vessel that draws a
lot more water, and is a heap harder to
navigate. It would be a horrible blow to
Victoria if it had to transport its goods to
Hobart for transhipment to the Ceramic, as
it may quite possibly have to do. New ports
can’t be equipped in five minutes, and if the
White Star lead the way past the obstacle
instead of over it, it is pretty certain that
other lines will follow the lead. The posi-
tion isn’t so serious for Sydney—yet. But
anyone who has watched the manoeuvring
required to get even the present 10,000 ten-
ners berthed will be able to guess at the size
of the job when the new 18,000-tonner comes
along. And that’s without thinking of the
30,000 and 40,000-tonners that are to follow
later on. It almost looks as if some of the
neglected deep-water ports will HAVE to
get a chance by-’n-bye.
On Sunday night N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment missed by about sft. a smash that
would have possibly eclipsed Sunshine and
Richmond. A mountain train of 14 com-
fortably filled cars came thundering into
Parramatta Station, and was turned into a
dead-end instead of a loop line. Whether
the driver did not notice that he was not at
any platform, or whether he thought he had
been run into a side line for some unknown
reason, is hard to say. But the train crashed
into the buffer head, and carried it away
as though it was matchwood. Fortunately,
the continuous brake held well, and between
that and the weight of the clamped carriages,
and the resistance of the soft soil through
which engine and tender were ploughing
towards a 30ft. drop, the outfit was brought
to a stop when the front bogie stood about
4ft. over the edge, resting on nothing. Had
the engine gone down the drop it would
almost assuredly have dragged the whole
train on top of it, and the smash would
certainly have burst the gas tanks. Then
there would have been a mass of burning
wreckage with layers of living humanity
sandwiched in among it. Parramatta is
about the worst constructed station the
writer has ever seen, and he has gazed upon
some bad ones in his time. The wretched
place is built on the sharp turn of a double
S, so that one end of a train is always in-
visible from the other; and a driver is bliss-
fully unconscious of where he is hurrying
to when he rushes past the home signal and
takes the station yard. In fact, it is a place
that bears a placard, “A Smash Badly
Wanted.” Sunday’s narrow escape may
possibly hasten reconstruction.
Last week, Melbourne got a further warn-
ing of its risky position on the edge of a
barrel of gunpowder, so to speak ; also, more
evidence of the plentiful lack
of wisdom with which the
city is governed. Stone’s
timber-yard caught fire, and
was reduced to a heap of
ashes. The concern was
situated in the heart of
Fitzroy, with the Town Hall
on one side and rows of
small cottages on the
others. So close were these
latter that, when the timber-
yard walls fell in, bricks
through roofs and
ceilings on to beds, from
which (it was between mid-
night and dawn) the occu-
pants had hastily fled. Luck-
ily the water pressure was
at its highest—that being
an hour at which few people
are washing dishes or
clothes or themselves, or
watering streets or gardens,
or cooking, or boiling beer,
or such-like. Yet, even so,
the supply, until it was con-
centrated, was so insufficient
as to be almost farcical.
Only the atmospheric condi-
ditions—a moist night, and
the utter absence of wind —•
saved the brigade from a
fearsome struggle to rescue
the city. As it was, that
institution just managed to
get the upper hand in
time. Of course, the aver-
age municipal councillor,
whose innate insanity alone
makes him permit the exist-
ence of timber-yards in
crowded suburbs, assumes
that, because the city
escaped this time, it will do
so always, and that because the hot
winds and dry roofs that might have
prevailed were absent this time, they will
always be so. But the warnings have been
many-—too _ many. The holocaust must
shortly arrive in dead earnest.
LIMITED GREATNESS.
HORACE : “Sir, I am the gr-r-reatest act-orrr of my age."
OBTUSE PERSON : “Indeed! And what is your age?”
There is a pronounced boom in the ancient
business of process-serving, in the Ma State,
these days. About 5000 prosecutions of
cadets have been authorised since July 1.
As soon as these lads have their bits of blue
paper, the summonses for breaches of the
Federal Electoral law are due to issue. The
Federal elector whose name is not enrolled
by the State policeman is bound, under the
bright fresh statute to see to the ceremony
himself. If not, legal trouble will smite
him good and hard. Any adult who has
lived a month in a subdivision is an author-
ised voter, and when the overworked and
underpaid cop overlooks him, he has 21 days
in which to send a signed - application in all
due form to the registrar of the sundivision.
If he fails, the penalty is 10s. for the first
offence, and £2 for the second. (For the
third the delinquent is boiled without the
option.) Criminals of this - class are said to
be as numerous as bogus converts in Sydney
just now.
* * * *
A night watchman in Melbourne has reso-
lutely refused to allow his salary to be raised
from 455. a week to 575. 6d. a week, the
wages fixed by the Board. Mr. Murphy,
who is Inspector of Factories, and whose
name is suggestive of argument and elo-
quence, pleaded with the watchman to accept
the extra 12s. 6d. a week. The firm, whose
place wants watching, backed up Murphy.
But it was all of no use. The guardian of
the place, who seems more angel than man,
meekly flapped his wings and replied that he
wasn’t worth more than 455. a week. His
conscience was against taking 12s. 6d. a
week that he didn’t earn. He didn’t even
consent to receive it and give it to the Mel-
bourne Hospital or the Yarra Bend Asylum
for the mad. He wouldn’t touch the filthy
lucre. But Murphy decided that he must
take 575. 6d. or get the sack. This reminds
me of the first R.C. Bishop of Melbourne in
the 40’s of last century. Father Goold, of
Campbelltown (N.S.W.), was appointed
Bishop of Melbourne, but he told the Pope
he wouldn’t take the billet though a big
salary was attached to it. Like tho night
watchman he said he was treated well enough
as he was, and he was unfit for a bigger post
or a more stupendous remuneration. But
he was ordered to pack up and be off to Mel-
bourne, and he did so, and lived on Eastern
Hill for a generation. Night watchmen and
heavenly watchmen undervalue themselves,-
in a marvellous fashion.
Melbourne Police Chief O’Callagban’s
incompetent sleuths are at present trying to
solve a Mystery of a Hansom Cab, which
may turn out not to be a mystery at all. The
episode began about midnight of July 30, at
a city street corner, when and where Thomas
Morrissey, aged 40, a night watchman, and
another person, so far unknown, engaged
cabby Matthews, and desired him to drive
them round the city. There is little beauty
about the scenery of Melbourne at that hour,
but possibly they may have wished to view the
effect of moonlight on the pavements, or to
watch the rats chasing one another into the
drains. Anyhow, Matthews says he drove
them for a space of one hour, “several hotels
being visited in the interim.” The hotels are
supposed to be closed before midnight, but
as to whether they were, or, if not, why they
weren’t, or how the visitors got in, and why
and what happened Matthews was unable to
explain. Possibly the hour’s drive consti-
tuted them bona-fide travellers, but Matthews
hadn’t his solicitor with him, and couldn’t
tell. Anyhow, after cantering round for the
period named, the unknown man alighted and
desired Matthews to drive on with Moris-
sey, aged 40, in the cab. Matthews drove on
for another hour, in silence. Then he
gradually awoke to the fact that the pro-
ceeding was unusual, and that he might
drive on for ever unless he “took steps” of
some sort. So he looked through the trap
door and asked how long the “drive-on” busi-
ness was to continue. Morrissey said
nothing, so Matthews drove on a further
space. Then he got down, and, shaking his
passenger, asked him what the next item on
the programme might be. Again Morrissey
said nothing, so Matthews drove on some
more, till he collided with two policemen, one
of whom wore the unaccountable name of
Gavan Duffy. Gavan told Matthews to drive
on again—to the Melbourne Hospital, where
the acting medico said that Morrissey had
been deceased for quite ,a, while, and that
Matthews had better drive him to the
Morgue. Matthews, by this time, was hear-
tily sick of driving Morrissey, but he finished
up the night by depositing his late passenger
in good order at the abode of recent corpses.
So far there is no evidence of foul play; but
Matthews wants his fare, and Morrissey
didn’t pay it, and the late Morrissey hasn’t
got it on him. The police earnestly desire
a brief conversation with the unknown friend
of the- deceased. And, so far, they haven’t
succeeded. '
THE LAMENTATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Mikado’s Death. World Wide Sympathy.
Britain’s Condolences. American Sorrow. Mourning
in India. —Newspaper headlines.
Britain condoled, and bitter was her flow
Of tears, when came the news, the other day,
That a little brown man,
Who was King of Japan,
Had bade the world good-night, and gone away.
Britain condoled, and bitter was her flow
Of silent tears. The cable told us so.
America in sorrow bowed her head
And beat her breast, and tore, no doubt, her hair.
It’s a heart-breaking thing
For a little brown king
To quit this life, despite his nation’s prayer,
America in sorrow bowed her head,
And murmured: “Gee! Another monarch dead!”
Poor India mourned; she bore the dreadful blow
With calm submission to almighty Fate:
So calm and resigned,
She seemed not to mind.
It is her way to squat and meditate
As though she didn’t care a damn ; but Oh 5
Poor India mourned. The cable told us so
VICTORIA.
O. K.


<ss
10,000,000
r
ptabletsof Sun-"
light Soas are
sold everySveek
this is the high= „
est possible proof
that Sunlight
k Soap comes up
to expecta=
tions.
gfh
gh
fg
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT. 1908,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED.
SYDNEY. N.S.W. No. 57.
KAPUNDA J.P. CURED.
“I have great faith in Chamberlain's Pain Balm,”
says Mr. S. E. Hancock, J.P., Kapunda, S.A. “For
years I suffered with rheumatism in my arms and
shoulders, brought on by a chill. Now an appli-
cation of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm gives me instant
relief and soon remedies it. I recommend Chamber-
lain’s Pain Balm to all sufferers from rheumatism.”*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms. 30 Upstairs
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Svdney, is
che proper place to go if you wimt the best "of atten-
tion. 'Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
G. 30 ; Saturday, close at 1 o’clock.*
This Double-Breasted Motor
Jacket 21 1- to 27/6
The motorist —quickly annihilating dis-
tance-must necessarily meet with varia-
tions in climatic conditions.
When the weather turns cold this all-wool,
navy blue Motor jacket or sweater will
prove useful.
It is double-breasted and buttons right up
to the throat.
S.M. Men’s Out Sizes—Extra O.S.
21 - 22/6 25/- to 27 6
State chest measurement when ordering.
Postage Is. extra.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309-11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“I-lop Skip”: Sydney’s Circular Quay,
where the ferry passengers in their thou-
sands hurry to and fro, is at present a
maze of tram lines, and little less dangerous
than a railway yard. Yet I notice workmen
tearing up the blocks, smashing the under-
lying concrete and apparently laying another
line of rails for the suburbanite to lean
across. Never a sign of an overhead bridge
or a subway for the nervous or infirm indivi-
dual who is not able to bound like a kangaroo
at the clang of the motorman’s gong—just
another set of steel ribbons for his bewilder-
ment and possible execution, and the realisa-
tion of his life insurance policy. All the
blither about city improvement, and all the
beautiful diagrams which appear from time
to time in the morning paper seem to have
left the Quay unaltered. It remains an ex-
posed and chaotic horror even to the most
agile pedestrian, and a nerve-shattering flick-
ergraph nightmare to the man whose hand
and brain has to steer a heavy car in short
rushes through the dim, drifting crowds
which scurry, sheep-like, across the tracks.
If the place were brilliantly lighted, it might
not be quite so murderous; but it isn’t more
than half-lighted. Yv hat should be a dazzling,
shaddwless expanse is, on winter evenings
especially, a rather gloomy and confusing mass
oi shadows and lights. Under the low ferry
verandahs, the illumination is at best patchy,
and the frenzied newspaper seller has to hold
coins up to his eyes before he can be certain
lie is giving the right change. Then the
footpaths are about one-third the width they
should be, and, with homeward-bounders shel-
tering from the rain, the man whose boat
lies near the eastern side has'to charge like
the Light Brigade in order to get through.
I am not so well acquainted with the.de-
mented dead-finish z’ailway burrow on the
artificial mountain; but the lunatic Quay I
know well, and escape from twice daily. The
crooked, torn-up, dirty and uproarious dis-
arrangement of streets which lies between
these two regions we all know and hate.
Heaven alone can tell how such a place ever
came to.be known as “the Queen City of the
South,” “The Worst Woman in Australia”
might be an appropriate variation.
A WARM RECEPTION.
OSCAR ASHPIT (tragedv): “So you have re-
Jurned from Buliabangwallaroo! Ah! My
Hamlet was much appreciated there. I
have heard that they are waiting for my
return visit to welcome me with open arms.”
JIM-JAMS (comic relief): “Well, ‘open arms’ is
hardly the expression, old man. ‘ Concealed
weapons’ is more like it.”
Victoria’s Coronet 1 Cole lately lianpened
on another feckless caper of the happy-go-
lucky Neglected Children’s Department-—the
concern of which John Dead-Weary is nomi-
nal head. Somehow it is always the coroner
who ferrets these things , out, and it is too
late to help anyong when the coroner has
done with him. In this case, Dr. Cole dis-
covered that an infant suffering from a seri-
ous and easily-communicated disease was
left by its mother at the Melbourne Royal
Park depot. The mother, who appeared to
be mentally weak, ‘ was taken away by a
friend, and casually disappeared. She evao-
orated or dried up or blew
away. The infant, without
being seen by a doctor —the
thrifty department doesn’t
keep a regular medico—was
sent to a nurse, who looked
after, three other children,
and it passed out four days
later. The nurse was told
to take the infant to the
local medico, fee’d by the
department, and would have
done so as soon as she was
at liberty, and had the child
given her time. Unfortu-
nately, the infant made
haste to get out of a world
where it wasn’t wanted—
and sp the coroner came into
the business. The other
three children boarded with
the nurse have not, so far,
suffered from contagion, but
there is a good chance for
them’still ; doubtless another
diseased infant will be sent
along presently. As with
the Education Department,
Victoria’s Neglected Chil-
dren’s. Department is about
the limit in the way of
mean, callous parsimony
and whole-souled shiftless-
ness. The late Ben t
used to grudge money for
education as an unprofitable
investment, and, apparently,
the present Ministerial
heads are of like mind. Yet
the .health , of the State’s
■ children should be it? first
consideration ; 'the second should be
to give all of them a sound educa-
tion.. However great the expenditure
on these, items, the dividends ‘will be
proportionately large, by-and-byet but it
won’t be next election, or the one after, and
the average State politician is incapable
of seeing further than that.
, * * * *
According to the Sydney dailies
(81/7/Y2), the National Council of Women
“unanimously resolved to recommend its
Council in each State to carefully consider
the question of deserting husbands and
fathers.” And, having considered the de-
plorable proposition, some of them will
probably find it appeals to them, and will
proceed to abandon the old man as sug-
gested. What the ladies propose to do
after they have deserted him is not yet
known. Possibly they intend going on the
variety stage.
* * * *
The, Oldest Inhabitant, in a clerical vein:
St. John’s, the fashionable church at Toorak
(Melbourne), is celebrating its jubilee. In 1851 the
necessity for a place of worship there was first
mooted, and a meeting of churchmen was called in
November of that year. Mr. Alfred Ross (Westgarth,
Ross and Spowers) presided, and presented the site
of the church, then valued at £672. The plans, by
Mr. Waddell, afterwards head of the Public Works
Department and architect of St. Mary’s, Sydney, were
presented by Messrs. Dalglish. It was not until 1860
that a building contract was let to-Gosling and 00.
The church was formally opened on Sunday, July 13,
1862, Governor Barkl.y being present. The preacher
was Dr. Broomby, who conducted services until the
arrival of the first incumbent, Walter Fellowes,
brother of the Judge. He first officiated in October,
1863, and encumbered for 37 years. Parson Fellowes
was well known in the cricket field. While Toorak
House was occupied by the Queen’s representative.
Toorak Church tens fashionable. A notable wedding
took place in that blessed edifice in August, 1868,
when Charles Edward Bright, of Bright Brothers and
Co., married Anna Maria Georgiana, eldest daughter
of the then Governor,'John Henry Thomas Manners-
Sutton, afterwards../Viscount Canterbury. It was a
good match for' the woman with the three badlv-
chosen front pames. Bright was rich, and Pa Can-
terbury hadn’t enough money to buy the dog that
associated with Lazarus.
NO MOKE BILLS TO PAY.
FIRST DUDE: “I hear Miss Flighty is to be
married shortly .”
SECOND DUDE : “‘lndeed! Who is the fortunate
man? ”
FIRST DUDE : “Her father.”
J.”: No less Ilian three big foreign
missions (namely, the outfits controlled by
Chapman and Alexander, Archibald, and
Ditchfield) have been tearing mpnev .off
the inhabitants of Melbourne and suburbs
of late. Thus is money driven out of the
country by a reckless Labor party—at least,
I suppose these people call themselves toilers
in the vineyard !
Another cocksure mis-
sionary has been pervad-
ing Victoria, and telling
young Australia that he
isn’t all he ought to be —
which he never was, nor
was anybody else, and he
never expected to be,
anyhow. . The present
intruder is the apostle
Ditch field —not Gum-
field, nor Ditchpaddock,
nor Mudhole, but Ditch-
field. After about two
weeks’ residence, he diag-
nosed the case, and said
that Young Australia
lacks reverence for old
age. Which he possibly
does. It may be that he
is very short of rever-
ence for old age. Yet
Australia was one of the
first two countries on
earth (Maoriland being
the other) to provide its
indigent ancientry with a
really decent old age pen-
sion all round. It may
not bow or bob-curtsey
to old gra’fer as some
races are alleged to do —
but it pays ; and that is,
perhaps, more practical.
In England, until the
other day, the old man
was carted away by
Bumble to what is called
“the Union,” and there he
was separated from the
old woman, and bidden to
be humble and obedient
to the workhouse master
for all the balance of his
days. He was supposed to be treated with
respect by the rising generation, but what
he was mostly treated with was skilly.
“Shellback”: The Titanic tragedy is still
working for the benefit of humanity. One
of the latest effects of the record maritime
horror is that the mammoth Cunarders,
Lusitania and Mauretania, are in future to
carry a “staff captain.” lie must be one
who has had actual command, and he will
be responsible under the master for the con-
dition of the life-saving apparatus and the
boats, the carrying out of boat drills and the
condition generally of every part of the ship.
This duty now falls on the chief officer or
mate, who, in addition to carrying out the
jobs of chief executive officer, has to take his
watch and assist in navigating the shin.
Also, on the skipper’s watch, the unite is in
supreme control of the ship. In vessels like
the huge Cunarders these duties are recog-
nised as being too much for one man, and a
poorly-paid man at that.
PURVEYING TO THE PERVERTED.
THE HOLDER OF THE SUNSHADE: “My dear,
I have a literary success. I have written
a book everybody should- read."
THE OWNER OF THE SUNSHADE: “ Yes, but
to have a financial success you must write
a book nobody should read."
A ROYAL HUMORIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Emperor of Germany is not the humorless
person many people suppose him to be. He can both
make and enjoy a joke. When he recently paid a
visit to Herr ilagenbeek’s ostrich farm, the Kaiser
selected a couple of birds for his wife and daughter.
The Emperor was in his best humor, and made
arrangements for Herr Hagenbeck to stock the ostrich
farm, which is to be started on the Kaiser’s new
property in South-West Africa. Much amusement
was caused the other guests by the monarch laugh-
ingly observing to Herr Hagenbeck: “Naturally, I
have no intention of competing with you.”
—Daily paper.
All ye who dearly love a jest
Tray hearken unto this;
Its humor is the very best—
The kind that none should miss—
And, further, I may state this joke
Was cracked by no plebeian bloke!
In fact it came from Kaiser Bill
Of Germany. ’Twas at
An ostrich farm. His nibs said, “Will
You send this bird and that
Up to the place where I abide?
The tradesmen enter at the side.”
The ostrich farmer said, “Right oh!”
(Or words to that effect.)
’Twas hereabouts that William so
Diverted the elect;
They roared as if some clown had sat
With force upon a brother’s hat!
“I don’t intend,” said Kaiser Bill,
“With you, Herr, to compete,
In rearing ostriches.” A shrill
Larf broke from the elite—•
For ’twas agreed by ev’ry bloke
That Bill had cracked a wondrous joke!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
THE CITY OF CANBERRA-BLARNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
The exhibition of the plans for the Federal capital
city, in the basement of the Sydney Town Hall, is
most interesting. .. .It is a surprise.... to find that
a site wnien nas incessantly been declared waterless
by its opponents, will have as a dominating feature
the lakes which may be created by embanking and
locking the local streams, . . .main decorative features
of administrative centre, lake front, grouping of pub-
lic buildings. .. .beautifully drawn in water-c010r...
There is a beautiful treatment suggested for the ad-
ministrative centre, with gardens and lakes ; and in
one lake an island, with gardens, ornate buildings,
with porticoes and peristyles, etc. The suggestion for
administrative buildings is quite solidly Egyptian
in some places. . . .No. 66 proposes to pull down the
Black Mountain to fill in the level flats. .. .a set of
plans which would be admired anywhere, and when
finally carried out future generations will be proud
of the foresight of those who aimed at placing a
beautiful capital city upon a supremely beautiful
and suitable site!—/. D. Fitzgerald, in S. M.
Herald, about a city plan on which the foreign
prize-winner has painted much water.
M’was Misther Fitzgerald
Who writ in the Herald —
Shure, a dar-rlin’ ould, lady-like journal !
Iv the plans iv a city
Ar-rtistic an’ pritty,
Reshplendint, coinplate an’ shupernal!
’Twas undher a- casemint,
Or down in the basemint
Iv the Town Hall thot’s Sydney adorning,
That Misther Fitzgerald
(Oi see be the Herald)
Inshpected the plans wan foine morning.
Bedad, he was < plazed, now!
An’ fairly amazed, now,
On seein’ them byootiful picthures—
But his sowl it was shockin’
To hear shpalpeens mockin’
And shpakin’ contimpchuous sthricthures!
Wid hemmihgs and hawings
He looked at the dhrawings:
Sa3's he, “Oi am hoighly deloighted—
Shure, the picthures O’m scanning
Are dhrames iv town-planning—-
’Tis meself thot is gettin’ excoited!
“ ’Tis wondherful, ra-ally !
Hurroo fer Austhraly !
Shure, isn’t them contors entrancin’!
’Tis grand how they’re buihii'.i’
Wid paint, ink and gildin’
Och, shure, but Austhraly’s advancin'.
“Am I slaping—or waking?
’Tis Hiven they’re making!
’Tis betther than Cork an’ Killarney!. ... ’•
So Oi see by the Herald
That Misther Fitzgerald
Knew all about Canberra-Blarney!
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.


TERRIFIED.
The Commonwealth Government is adding a new terror to life by the creation of a new Court. This is the effect of the Bill to amend the Royal Commissions Act. It turns a Royal Commissinn into a
Court — a Court with tremendous powers if the president should happen to be a judicial person. —Melbourne Argus.
FAT MAN (to Attorney-General Hughes): “Murderous wretch! That weapon is meant for me.”


NABOB BOOT PASTIL.
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWiS_jc_W H i TTY , Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. ri
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
WHY?
5 Choice Diamonds,
set in Platinum and
Fine Gold, £35.
Fine Diamonds, set in
Platinum and Fine
Gold, £4O.
Diamonds reduced—well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output; and
we have to live up to it, and so to increase our already large output we ate offering diamond jewellery at
merely a commission on actual cost.
We are thus giving the public the benefit of our knowledge in buying and selling to them much
cheaper than in London.
We think the experiment will pay us through the increase of sales, and, above all, through the
securing of new customers.
CAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
1 PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET’
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“McNorth”: Up Cape York way there is
a creature of the aquatic persuasion, known locally
as the diamond fish. This lump of blubber is about
the size of the National Debt, and has a mouth with
the capacity of a suction dredge. I reckon that the
variations in tides we have been hearing about are
caused by the diamond fish having a long-sleever
occasionally between meals. A few weeks ago a Jap
diver (genus homo') was on the bottom, searching
for the elusive oyster that seereteth the pearl, when
about two tons of black blubber called. Just then
Nippon remembered that he had an urgent appoint-
ment at the Yoshiwarra or somewhere, and prepared
to leave at once ] but old Diamond landed with great
suddenness, and carried away the brown man’s air-
pipe and line. Don’t know if the marine beast has
any other use. If he has I never heard of it.
“Mallarapoonie”: If the Binghi of the
North Australian coast were asked offhand what man-
ner of tuck-out he most preferred, he would doubt-
less answer, with some promptitude, “Turtle, you!”
Next after his favorite hawk’s-bill would come alliga-
tor’s eggs or young crocodile. In respect of gastric
after-effects, crocodile has probably no compeer on
earth. Owing, doubtless, to some oily substance con-
tained in its flesh, it has a property, peculiar to it-
self, of sweating through the system and transmitting
its effluvia to its jubilant consumer, who, possessing
no mean personal odor of his own, thereby assists in
setting up a combination that is unique. Thus, about
a week after a tribe of hungry niggers has dined
well, but rather unwisely, on crocodile flesh, the
average educated, civilised or domesticated nose is
liable to be struck dumb with much astonishment.
In the mode of capturing turtles Binghi is no slouch ;
also, he exercises no little bravery in the pursuit of
the quaint sea-reptile. It is no unusual thing for a
steamer on that coast to meet four or five of him
clinging astride the submerged trunk of a pandanus
palm, well out of sight of the low mangrove-fringed
coast. A party of Binghis, astride their palm log,
may go out on one tide and come in . with the
next, remaining many hours in the water in
quest of basking turtles. Locating a hump-backed
blur, like an inverted soup plate, on the sea
ahead, Binghi paddles with extreme caution toward
his prey; for the turtle may be said to sleep with
one ear or flipper open. A dexterous noosing of neck
or leg, a quick stab with a spear, and then Binghi
is emptied into the warm, wet sea ; for the maddened
turtle temporarily takes possession of the light pan-
danus log, to which it finds itself attached. If the
spear-thrust has been successful there will be a wild
flurry of gore-stained sea water and turtle’s fins, and
black human heads bobbing in the froth; and pre-
sently Binghi will remount his log and set out to
tow his cwt. or so of dead soup-tureen hilariously
toward the shore. If the thrust has been otherwise,
Binghi just gets back to land, through a shark-
infested sea, as best he may ; while the turtle goes off
with his rope and his log and his most diabolical
wishes.
“Dux” : The big drum banged with a loud,
flat bang. The lassies clanged their tambourines
with unfeigned frolicsomeness, and the large and
bloated Brigadier-General beamed on the tout en-
semble (as the horse poets say). There, in the centre
of the ring stood Arthur Barnett, the hardest “doer”
of 1 the rowdy crowd on board H.M.S. Shiekker,
Arthur was testifying. “Once upon a ' time, yous
blokes an’ tarts, I wuz too thin-skinned to join the
Army an’ be ’appy”—(Bang on the drum and
“Praised be ) —“but now I don’t care a tuppeny
’appeny”— (Bang, Bang). “I know my pals ’ll all
larf an’ scoff, something orful, but what do I care?”
(“Hallelujah!”) “What will I say to ’em
now?” “What will you say to them, bro-
ther?” asked the Brigadier-General. Then Arthur
cleared his throat. “You lot of blankers, I’ll say ;
a nice lot o’ (variegated) cows yous are to scoff at
a (something) cove as is saved. If yous don’t like
it yous can blanky well go to blanky-—(BANG!
BANG! “Lord be praised!” from the men and
screams from the lassies.)
LOGICAL IRREVERENCE.
BACKBLOCKS SUNDAY-SCHOOL MA'AM (to child
who has been repeating Lord's Prayer):
“yes, but you forgot something
CHILD (who left out “Give us this day our
daily bread): “I know ; we've got plenty,
so I never asked the baker to call.”
“Scrutcher”: On behalf of John Maori I
would like to add to the published list of virtues
of flax its medicinal advantages. In J.M.’s chest of
drugs the root of the swamp vegetable is in the
handiest position. It is roasted, ground into a
powder, and taken, a teaspoonful at a time, in water. If *
you take three teaspoonfuls you will be buried after a
most interesting tangi or wake. Mrs. Brown Grundy
in the pa has her own opinion to offer when she
observes Huriana dosing herself with the article. It
is always a bad opinion—same as that of Mrs. Pale
Grundy in the drawing-room. The gum of the flax
is used for a variety of purposes, and its supporters
claim that it will cement anything from fractured
glass to a broken promise. Am testing the truth of
this with a view to a large trade amongst Maoriland
politicians.
“Pick”; Re rats. (Some fellow was talk-
mg about rats, B. 4/7/’12.) The best way to shift
them into the next bailiwick, or further, is to
sprinkle their runs with powdered caustic soda. It
is more effective than all the Pied Pipers that Brown-
mg ever lied about. The hydroxide liquefies where
spread, the rats walk on it, there are squeals, impre-
cations and the sound of a great galloping, and the
horrified vermin don’t stop fleeing- till their feet cool.
FORCE OF HABIT.
VISITING PARSON : “And now, my
dear young friend, I must leave
you."
YOUNG LAG (cheerily): “All right .
Be good."
“Wandi”: The spurwing plover is an
aggressive bird at nesting time. Like the magpie,
it darts at the head of footman or horseman, sorne-
times piercing his hat and knocking
it off with the sharp wing-spur. A new-
chum who had been shown this spur,
and well primed with yarns about
men being stabbed in the head and
killed with it, was one day crossing
a flat when a pair of plovers began
to dart at him. In terror of his life,
he buried his head in a bunch of
grass, where he lay very still until.
the birds had alighted
on the ground some
distance away. Then
he moved along on his
hands and knees till
he got into the timber,
when he sped from
tree to tree, taking
observations from be-
hind the bole of each
before darting for the
next. “They must
have a nest about
here,” said one of
the men, on the inci-
dent being breathlessly
related to him. “You’ll
have to be very care-
ful for the next month
or two. A prod o’ that
spur an’ you’ll be
booked for the last
journey.” “Is it piz-
onous?” asked Chum-
my. “Deadly,” was
the reply. “I wish
the wretches would
make their nests some-
where else,” another
man remarked. Then
he rushed outside to
see if anything was
disturbing the fowls.
On the next occasion
that Chummy had to
go to the flat he took
a gingham with him,
and it was while pir-
oeutting under this.
with a mob of cattle ringing round him and the birds
screeching overhead, that a stockman met him, and
he learnt that he was something of a failure.
“D. W. Mac”: The untidy habits of the
emu so far chronicled have not included fence-wreck-
ing. Yet that is his most infernal method of creat-
ing a nuisance. When doing a sprint for any cause
whatever a wire fence is an unholy joy to him. At
least, that is my impression. On the other hand, it
may be short-sightedness which makes him butt into
the structure under full sail. It is surprising the
amount of damage he can do, too, in one charge. I
have seen a strainer knocked at least two feet but
of plumb by a buck emu bumping it while putting
up a speed record for the West. In the Far West
this and other little waywardnesses have led to the
emu being classified as a noxious animal.
“Sliprail”: It seems strange that so much
wheat should have rotted in heaps in the Mallee
when, according to “Wanderer” (B 20/6/T2’) hand*
winnowers are so plentiful and women willing to
manipulate them so abundant. The wheat he alludes
to was heaped there pending the arrival of the old
travelling horse-winnower, which the modern har-
vester hasn’t quite threshed out of existence As
regards girls, l know scores of German descent whose
physique would delight any physical culturist. But
their shapely forms are simply the natural result of
marriages between men and women of the sturdy,
clean-living peasant type for generations past. It is
not due to the exercise gained at the winnower, nor
is it acquired by sinking post-holes. Despite the
loud roars of “Wanderer,” to the contrary, I re-
assert that women do not work outdoor on the Mallee
farms. Let “Wanderer” offer his hand and an extra
shovel to any of the girls about and see how he is
received. Here I will allow myself to get furious,
and say that it is no use him blathering about the
Far North-West. The further back you travel the
more tony the people become. I will not go so far
as to say that the people right back dress for dinner
and wear lunch-bangles; but you won't find any
ladies doing field work. In fact, I doubt whether the
girls there would altogether approve of Maud Miiller,
who raked the poetical hay. As to the agricultural
and matrimonial chances-in the Rainbow (N.S.W.)
district, hare are two cases. (1) Twenty years ago
two young men carried their swags to the locality.
At first they worked for the farmers; later they
acquired land of their own; last year they retired
from the plough with their fortunes made. But
they were only rich bachelors. No smiling children
of their own climbed upon their or hung round
to borrow some of their hard-earned' money. They had
worked through the long years a's lonely unmarried
men. Now, does “Wanderer” really think they
would have escaped the altar if there , had been an
abundance of bright young women anxious to become
the wives of farmers? I doubt it. And again (this
is No. 2), if business in Rainbow was partially dead,
would the man whom the travellers started in the
princiapl hotel in Rainbow, a few years back, now
be in a position to buy that costly structure, Mac's
Hotel, Portland? Then about those farmers’ sons
whom “Wanderer” has seen flying to Queensland.
Either “Wanderer” has mistaken Capital for a horde
of people, or else he is filtering his converse through
a badly-made hat. If he really did see a migration,
it must have been a burst lunatic asylum, for nothing
that wasn’t a lunatic would want to get out of this
smiling region. In (But hereabouts
“Sliprail” begins to bash the crust of the earth and
show symptoms of genuine annoyance, and he is hur-
riedly replaced in his socket.) .
* * *
“Wyn de Wiff” : When White’s racehorse
Firefly died, a Maori, after some difficulty, secured
the body for 10s., and removed it to a paddock
owned by the tribe. Strolling down to the pa he
announced, casually, “I buy te big black racehorse
Firefly. I don’ want him. I raffle him te pound te
member.” The list soon closed with a paid-up
membership of thirty. The winner, wishing to in-
spect his property, inquired as to its whereabouts.
“He down in te paddock,” said Henare. Hori
came back greatly perturbed. “He lie down dead,”
said he. “No fear,” said Henare, “he only tired.
He gallop round te paddock quick, my word. You
go and look.” Hori came back again. “No, he lie
down dead all right.” “Dead, eh? By gorry!”
Ilenare appeared greatly shocked, and after thinking
deeply for awhile, he said. “I tell you what r do —I
give you back te pound.” Hori was satisfied to be
let off a bad bargain without being out of pocket.
The others were satisfied. They had lost their money
in a fairly conducted raffle. Henare was satisfied.
He was £2B 10s. to the good.
AT PIKER’S PUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ove* the great grey desert’s waste the leering red
moon hung;
Turning to brown were the embers coaxed from the
shredded camel dung;
Sucking a pipe that filled the air with a flavor of
burning tea,
This is the tale McCluskey told in the weird warm
night to me.
“Our tongues was out when we arrived at Piker’s
pub, us three:
Jim Jamieson (“Jim Jam” for short), Jack Consi-
dine an’ me.
We dumped our ’Tilders in the bar to take a little
rest,
For that ole pad was long an’ ’ot we’d trodden from
the West.
But Piker’s pub was Paradise, an’ Piker’s bar was
cool,
An Jim, who’d changed a weighty cheque, was born
a thirsty fool.
“We drank until the big sun spilt its blood across
the Rim ;
Until the scrubby silhouettes grew far away an’ dim.
For Jim’s thirst was a freakish thing—no matter
how ’twas drenched
With tiger-snake or lightnin’ juice, it never yet was
quenched.
An , worst of all, ole Piker’s stock was finished save
for some
Queer likker that resembled tar—’e called it Sunset
Rum.
“By midnight all the rum was gone—diluted, drunk,
an’ drained ;
But each of us ’ad room for more, an' still Jim’s
thirst remained.
Blue, devils danced before ’is eyes, but. Jim ’e knew
them all—
The devils most prodjjus, an’ the devils meek an’
small.
An’ so ’e did not mind them much —just brushed
them bv an’ curs’d,
An’ asked them what-in-’Ell they meant by laughin’
at ’is, thirst.
“A big lamp on the counter glowed; its misty,
murky light
Flung ghostly network through the door, an’ fiili-
gree’d, the night.
Jim looked at it as if ’e twigged salvation in its
glow;
It was indeed the star of ’ope—but burnin’ very
low.
With glassy eyes ’e lurched ahead across the sickly
sheen,
’E clutched it in ’is shaking hands, an’ whis-
pered, ‘Kerosene! ’
“Then with a greedy, gurgling gulp, before we could
recoil,
Or do a thing to stay ’is ’and, ’e’d drunk the luke-
warm oil.
’E was not sick; ’e did not faint nor ‘Water—
quick ! ’ demand ;
'E simply smacked ’is lips, an’ cried aloud, ‘By
Gord ! that’s grand.’
Two bright eyes in the darkness glowed from that
ole thirsty scamp,
An’ threw more light across the night than Piker’s
’randah lamp.
“Jim filled ’is pipe an’ sucked it ’ard to see if it
would draw ;
An’ then the strangest, saddest thing in all the West
we saw.
’E struck a match an’ lighted up—an’ Jamieson
became
In one tremenjus blindin’ flash a pyramid of flame!
'E ’adn’t time to say, good : bye ; no farewell curse ’e
spoke,
But in the twinklin’ ef an eye ’e disappeared in
smoke!
“The red moon scorched across the sky. Jack Con-
Sidine an’ me
Skedaddled out across the plain as slick as slick
could be.
A smoke-wreath ’ung athwart the stars—a gosser-
merry veil,
Through which the moon, with fiery fangs, ate out
a crimson trail.
It stretched nor’-west a thousand miles beyond the
Never’s. rim,
An’ as we ran we wondered if it was the soul of
Jim.
“An’ now whene’er I see a man a match on some-
thing rub,
I ahvavs think ’ow poor ole Jim went out from
Piker’s pub.
Me take the pledge?—no, not by much, for up in
Kingdom Come
I often seem to ’ear Jim say, ‘I wish I’d stuck to
rum.’
Yet no man can bring back the past, or alter what
’as been—
Bvt ever since that awful night I’ve sworn off kero-
sene.”
NEVER NEVER LAND.
R. J. CASSIDY.


There is alwaj'S a danger of concealing inventions.
They require patenting. A U.S.A. decision affirms
that “It would indeed be a strange perversion of the
purpose of the patent laws if one who has conceived'
a new device and proceeded so far as to embody it
in rough sketches, or even in finished drawings, could
there stop and yet hold the field of invention against
all comers.” Phillips Ormonde & Co., patent attor-
neys, 266 Flinders St., Melbourne.*
IT DAZZLES THE WORLD.
No discovery in medicine has ever created one
quarter of the interest that has been caused by Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds. It
has brought relief in the most hopeless cases, when
all else has failed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. *
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL'S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
RELIEVED AFTER MANY YEARS.
“Chamberlain’s Tablets have been the means of
relieving me of Indigestion,” writes Mr. James Coffey,
ex-stationmaster at Mentone (Vic.). “I was for
many years with the Victorian railways, but am
now retired. In the rush of work there one is apt
to neglect oneself and fly to all sorts of alleged reme-
dies. In Chamberlain’s Tablets I have found the
best remedy I have ever tried.”*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best piace to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
No excuse for the pale and ansemic—Steams’ Wine
of Cod Liver Extract sends rich red blood coursing
through the veins, makes rosy cheeks, bright and
clear eyes.*
‘i-lVii
m
Foggitt, Jones'
Jellied Pigs’ Feet
make a delightful luncheon dish.
They are packed in tin* ready for
•ervice. For those who like some-
thing appetizing they are really
unsurpassed. Your grocer has
them—ask him for a tin or two-
“Tamumu”: Is
“ Tiaki ” certain
that John Maori
introduced the
dog into M.L., as
mentioned in
his par. on the
“takahe” (B.
20/6/’l2) ? Among
the many alleged
dogs that snarl
and slink about
the pa, I. have
never seen any
canine that
seemed to be other
than the result of
mis-mating of de-
graded European
progenitors. He-
nare has never
pointed out with
pride anything as
a descendant of
the original kuri
of the Ark, and
this, among a
people strong on
genealogy, seems
rather odd. One
would have ex-
pected the coun-
try to have been
over-run with wild
dogs of an un-
known breed in
the early days, but
old-time shepherds
say that all the
canine outlaws of
that time were of
the sheep dog
species, undoubted
descendants of im-
ported collies who
had reverted to
the pri m i tive,
lured by the call
of the wild. There
were many of
these, and various
methods were ad-
opted to extermi-
nate them. One
squatter in Cen-
tral Otago hit on
the brilliant idea
o f hunting the
outlaws with
bloodhounds. The
re m e’d y proved
worse than the
disease, as one o f
the bloodhounds
took to the bush, and, mating with a collie, a new
type was evolved, a ferocious brute that at times
would not hesitate to attack man. This also, in
the end, was translated to the happy hunting-grounds
at the cost of much time and many shekels. On the
whole, “Tiaki” notwithstanding, I am inclined to
believe that the dog, like the cat and the pig, was
introduced by the white man. Te kuri sounds sus-
piciously like the Maori adaptation of “the cur” of
the pakeha.
“Eddyson”: The Chinners lived on one
side of Deep Creek, the Antwells on the other. But
there was more than the creek waters between them.
Envy, hatred and all uncharitableness divided them
into jarring factions. Chinner cultivated down to
the bank on his side. Antwell toiled and moiled on
the opposite bank. The pair relieved the heat and
burden of the day by. knocking off at intervals to
spout abuse, profanity and shameful accusations.
Where another man might ease up for a smoke,
Chinner would straighten his back, hurl the honest
sweat from his brow, and call out to Antwell, re-
minding him that he was a hog and a dog, and con-
THE DEPTH OF MOURNING.
The magistrate adjourned the court for an hour
out of respect to the deceased. —News item.
COURT CRIER (after many refreshments):
“Well, by Jingo, Hi feel sorry enuff for
another . ’arf 'our. ”
nected by blood with even more noxious animals, and
recalling to his mind the spotted bull calf he stole
14 3 r ears ago. Then Antwell would lean on his hoe,
and tell Chinner candidly what he thought of him
and his. Other members of the rival families might
chance along, and chip in, but it was most likely
that while old man Ghinner and old man Antwell
were exchanging speech up creek, Mrs. Chinner and
Mrs. Antwell were passing scathing remarks over
the washing down creek, and two youths, representa-
tive of both houses, were fighting like small fiends in
the dust of the school track. Chinner used all his
influence to prevent the pile bridge being built over
Deep Creek at Hole’s Ford, a mile away, because, he
said, he scorned any more intimate connection with
the infamous family over the water. Antwell resisted
it because, he said, the Chinners, having stolen every-
thing else of his, would probably steal his house if
there were a bridge. After maintaining the feud
for 27 years, Antwell died. The Chinners flew a flag
on the day of his funeral. For a week or so old
man Chinner went about his work as usual. Then
he began to display great restlessness, and drifted
from job to job in a fidgety way. He would stand
for an hour at a time looking across the creek to-
wards Antwells. Now and again he let loose a feeble
string of expletives against the vacancy formerly
occupied by Antwell. One morning, seven weeks
after Antwell’s funeral, Chinner was found hanging
in his own stable. He left a note of explanation:
“Since Antwell went this place ain’t been fit to live
in.— Jim Chinner.”
THE BURGLAR-PROOF
SAFE.
SALESMAN : “It resists the most strenuous efforts
of the most expert burglar.”
BLOQUE : “ Yes, I can understand that, but what
I can’t understand is how the deuce you get
the burglar in.”
“Pat O’Maori” : I admire the off-hand way
in which “Montalex” (B. 4/7/’l2), settles the
question of the extinction of the moa. If anybody
really wants to know the pros and cons, of the
question, let him look up the Transactions of the
Maoriland Institute, and after wading through the
opinions of experts, he will come to the conclusion
that the moa is dead, but that the when, how and
whaffor of its pegging-out are subjects upon which
no two experts hold the same opinions. Von Haast
insisted that the last dinornis had given up the
ghost thousands of years ago, while others, whose
opinions were worth considering, thought it not be-
yond the bounds of possibility that the thing might
still be found alive in remote corners of the shaky
islands. But “Montalex” actually gives the date of
the finish of one species of the race of big birds.
Would he explain exactly how he knows when a
Maori oven is less than 200 years old? I have my-
self dug out a number of Maori ovens, and by meas-
urement of bones found near, or actually left in them,
I have found that by far the larger number were
those of Dinornis elephantopus. One femur was taken
from an oven whose fire-discolored stones showed on
the surface of the Waitaki river-bank. The cooking
place may have been a century or 20 centuries of
age. There were plenty of stone flakes about the
spot, and these may or may not have been the primi-
tive knives of a race prior to the Maori. Twenty
years ago bones of Dinornis elephantopus were very
plentiful in many parts of the South Island, but those
of Dinornis gigantevs were always scarce, and, when
found, were in a bad state of preservation. I like
the certainty of your correspondent on these matters,
and would be glad if he could let us have the exact
date at which the human race discovered the use of
fire.
* * * *
. “Eddyson”: You don’t know Wallace
(Vic.) ? As the name implies, they are strong on
frugalit3 r about Wallace. They give medals for it at
the local sports on New Year's Day, and those of the
inhabitants who are not wearing medals have at
least received dishonorable mention. It was a
Wallace couple went to Ballarat to be married. His
name was Dougal McTavish, and he had a plaid
complexion. Anyone who attempted dealings with
Dougal McTavish caught a tartan. Dougal’s brother
Tam went with the couple. He had to go to Ballarat
with a load of “taties,” anyhow. The McTavish
sojourned to Ballarat for the ceremony, because the
Ballarat parsons were cutting rates at the time, and
because he intended honey-mooning there at the ex-
pense of the bride’s aunt. Arrived at Ballarat, Tam
and Dougal set about hunting up parsons, and getting
estimates for the job. The lowest tender worked out
at 9s. Bd. The proceedings had opened, when in
bolted brother Tam, wild-eyed, desperate, breathless.
“Stop!” he gasped. “For the love o’ Heaven dinna
answer him, Dougal, man. I ’ave jist onearthed an
offeecial that does it for twa-and-sax!” Dougal
McTavish was married by the registrar.
“Ivunisasta”: In Koepang, Dutch Timor,
the person who is engaged in trade of any kind is
looked upon coldly by local society, which mostly
consists of Dutch naval officers and their wives, all
of them great sticklers for etiquette. A certain
number of civilians, who are the fortunate owners of
large copra plantations, are also numbered with the
elect—perhaps because their wealth springs out of
the ground instead of them springing after it. Sen-
sible people stuck to copra instead of going wild over
rubber during the recent boom. They are now reap-
ing the very handsome reward of £3O or £4O per
acre from cocoanut. And, in addition, the price of
copra seems to be steadily rising. The lucky owner
of a couple of hundred acres of bearing trees can
reckon on a net income of £5OOO per annum. Since
cocoanut oil was ridded of its distinctive flavor and
odor, it has become the best substitute for butter-
fat on the world’s market, and the demand is steadily
increasing, particularly in India, where, as a vege-
table butter, it can be freely taken by sects to which
animal fats are forbidden. In the U.S.A. it is dis-
placing the Self-made Merchant’s lard —-the one who
gave the book of advice to his son—and in Europe
it is largely used in making the most delicate
pastries and other things dear to the spreading vest
of the German. Trade and banking are left to the
Chinese in Timor, though the local Chinaman has
I not a snow-white reputation for probity. When in-
dentured seamen are returned from the Australian
pearling grounds they bring with them the remnants
of their earnings in English money. It is highly
diverting to watch them proudly displaying their
few sovereigns to raw, brown relatives, who, for the
first time, see the blessing called foreign capital
flowing into the country. When everyone, down to
the small brown infant, has inspected the beautiful
golden discs, a procession is formed, and straggles
proudly to the bank, where the quids are changed
for the familiar rupee or guilder. The wooden-faced
Chinese banker hands over the cash by instalments,
and for a while the building resounds, with the sweet
“ting, ting” of rung coin—for the returned Koe-
panger is a wary animal, and tests each piece by
dashing it on the floor. If it rebounds with a sharp
“ting” it is pocketed with a satisfied smile. But
now and again a base coin would go “tonk,” and is
immediately tossed back to the imperturbable sharper
behind the counter, who wears a childlike expression
of pained innocence. When a schooner arrives from
Broome, there is always a lively hour or two in the
banks, for there is a good deal of spurious coin in
circulation, and the chance of working it off on re-
turned islanders is too good to be missed. The Koe-
panger is a cheerful, sunny-tempered creature, with
no idea of the value of money. But he strongly
objects to being swindled, and is shockingly sudden
and promiscuous with the kris when he really loses
his temper. So the banker reckons it better to pass
over a genuine coin than to press the argument too
far.
* * * *
“Observer”: How many varieties of gates
are there Outback ? I followed a bush track the
other day, which extended 12 miles to a station
homestead. The first obstacle was a “cyclone” gate.
Next, I had to negotiate the double gate that opens
in the centre. As in most cases it was made of
stringy bark poles, and when closed was fastened
with a piece of fencing wire. After that, I intro-
duced myself to the portal that is trained to swing
back to position upon being opened. This beast is
a terror to all new-chum riders. The next means
of entrance was the tarred, sawn-timber outfit,
which is easily opened from the saddle by pulling
back the baton from the slot. There were two speci-
mens of this ruffian, one being a “slam” gate with
an old axe-handle for the catch. Then the stud
fence loomed in view, and the hinged obstacle to be
negotiated this time was held in position by a
rusty iron hook, slipped into a ring. A horseshoe
and a piece of chain constituted the mechanism. But
to detail all the gates I opened and shut on the 12
miles ride would make this paragraph spread out
like Gibbon’s Decline and Crash of the Roman Em-
pire. There were about 20 of them, and nearly
every one was different from the other 19. If there
were two of them alike I wouldn’t mention it, for
fear the settler should be overcome with remorse
and would alter one of them so as to make it differ-
ent from the other.
“Mallarapoonie” on a scientific subject:—
Has any wanderer come across cases of natural
amputation ? There is only one authentic case I
know of wherein a human being lost a limb by the
process. This was in the matter of a blackfellow,
way up in the big Peninsular country of Queens-
land, who had had the lower part of his leg
terribly mutilated in some tribal fight or other un-
pleasantness. The catastrophe was of such a nature
as to outdo the best and most enthusiastic endeavors
of the local dog-medicine-man. So, after due diag-
nosis, and upon much deep and mature consideration
on the part of the said tribal doctor, it was decided
that the limb had to go. A ligature was twisted
firmly on, and Binghi was put to sit on a vacant
allotment in the scrub where he wouldn’t have his
attention drawn from the horror that was before
him. Hot, damp sand was piled on the injured
member to assist decomposition, and the sufferer
was left to his meditations. Through the heat of
days and the chill of nights Binghi just sat there,
through what must have seemed to him an intermin-
able time, and permitted the amputation of his leg
by natural means. Periodically some gins came and
fed him with scantiness and a cold eye; for, in the
aboriginal mind, an abundance of food to a pro-
spective cadaver is plain waste. At intervals, too,
as the notion took them, they scattered ashes to
disorganise the ants which had attacked him. One
morning, however, at the tail end of about a fortnight’s
time, Binghi drew the stump of his leg out of the
heap of sand and went home to see about breakfast.
Now he is a cheerful one-legged nigger, propelling
himself jubilantly over the landscape with a pole;
and writer defies the fleetest person in The Bulletin
office to lay hands on him without some tobacco as a
lure. Awhile back, when in Laverton, (W.A.),
Carr Boyd showed me the photograph of a one-
legged nigger whom his party had fallen fn with
away out in the region of the Petermann Ranges.
This fellow, who was quite wild, had, doubtless,
also undergone some process of amputation, and,
like my friend, he propelled himself with the uni-
versal pole. In fact he prQpoled himself over the
landscape with such velocity that Carr Boyd had
to run him down on horseback to ask him the time
of day.
“Vigilans”: In the face of the living evi-
dence, the black-labor and piebald Australian crowd
evidently sees that it is no use persisting in the lie
that white men can’t live in the North; so Dr. Creed,
as a fair representative of the lot, falls back on the
compromise that white men can never do laborious
work there. The man who knows the North knows
that this is a more absurd perjury than the other.
My own personal experience is that the harder you
work up there the healthier you keep. What the
white man can’t do is to drink hard, and the
wrecks are mostly caused by failure to realise that
until too late. Certainly you want to know when
to work and when to knock off. And, of course, you
want to know what to work at, and where to do it.
I see that the newly-arrived Administrator gloats
over the Daly River land. It is practically a swamp
in the wet season. Dr. Gilruth suggests draining,
I’ll admit. Draining! Why, I have actually gauged
Sin. of rain there in 10 minutes 1 Yet in the dry
season this country is so poor that C. B. Fisher
gave it best because it would not then carry more
than a beast to the mile. Rice it would grow, and
goats, no doubt, and pigs; but the Territory isn’t
looking for rice swamps at present, and goat and
pig country scarcely needs hunting for.
SHOWED THEM UP.
JIM: “ That old feller there used to be the
champion stockrider round this way about 4 0
years ago."
BILL: “ Was he? Well, that just shows yer
they couldn’t ’ave been much in them times
ij an old bloke like that could be the best
of them."
“N. or M.”: Does any Bulletin reader
know of the existence of an aboriginal Tasmanian
canoe other than that which the Count de Fleurieu
states to be now in the museum at Paris? Presum-
ably the craft were fairly common in the early days,
and the natives must have used them to cross the
four or five miles of water to Maria Island. Bobby
Ivnopwood, in his diax'y for June 21, 1804, mentions
seeing three of these native boats at the Huon. The
entry for the day runs: —■
I breakfasted with Lieutenant Lord and Hum-
phreys. At 5 p.m. Mr. Collins returned with the
White Cutter from Betsey’s I. He went to the River
Houin and reports it to be by far the most eligible
situation for a settlement. The great supply of fresh
water, good land and trees and the anchorage safe
and good. He see many of the natives and was
conducted to the town by some of them, where
there were about 20 families. He stayed all night with
them. They were all very friendly. He see three of
their catamarans, or small boats made of bark, that
will hold about six of them. At eight we heard the
report of a gun and likewise in the night. Sup-
posed a ship in Fredrick Henry Bay.
The Mr. Collins mentioned above was harbor-master
to the settlement and cousin to Lieutenant-Governor
Collins.
BILLINGSGATE GROWN POLITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A recent Billingsgate mission report states that
more courtesy and civility was received at the fish
market than at the Stock Exchange. —News item
The world is changing ev’ry day,
Each week we’re hitting something new;
The hobble skirt —it melts away,
The hatpin passes from your view;
We lose our taste for decent brew
And take to stuff that loves to bite —•
And now we’re told (it can’t be true)
That Billingsgate has grown polite.
There was a time —so pundits say—
When language of the purest blue
Arose and wreathed in bright array
The finest thoughts of that purlieu ;
When ev’ry fish-fag promptly flew
To phrases of such lurid might
As might have graced Apollyon’s crew—
But Billingsgate has grown polite.
And now we’re told its dames display
A wealth of civil talk in lieu
Of ancient Saxon chidings gay,
The surplusage of pub and stew ;
No wonder Britain finds her shoe
Is pinching her in parlous plight;
Her flower is dead—her rose is rue—
Her Billingsgate has grown polite.
Envoi.
Our olden customs be but few
That weather Time’s consuming blight;
And now He gives us this to chew—-
Our Billingsgate has grown polite.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.


Rev. W. G. Taylor ssji<J. at the conference of ministers and
Church workers held in connection with the Chapman*
Alexander Mission yesterday morning, that he believed a
clear indication of the power of God was about to be mani-
fested amongst the policemen of this city. He said there
was a remarkable conversion of a well-known Sydney police-
man on Sunday afternoon. “On Tuesday night," he added,
“I had the privilege of bringing him into my church."
There were other cases,
too, and he was con-
vinced that there was
going to be a re-
markable working
of God amongst f
the Sydney police. j
The midnight reveller might,be brought to'
repentance by being urged to sing some soul-'
stirring hymn, say, “Shall We Gather at the
River.” This would at least have the salutary
effect of turning his thoughts to water.
I
/ »e V A ,
Of course the present giddy attire will have to be
altered, and some sober and reverent garb substituted.*
Sergeants will receive three halos.
Mrs. Foley: “Look here. Pat, how is it ye coom hoine ivery
day lately with yer uniforrum torn—’specially at the
knees? It’s patch, patch, patch.”
Foley: “Be aisy, Kitty. Iver sence the Sairgint
found Salvation he puts us troo a knee-drill ivery
morn’s morn on the harrd stone flure of the station
afore we go on jutyl”
Officer Kelly (having
just pulled up a young
man for “language”):
“Look ’ere. Afore I
takes ye in O’ill jist read yez
what the good book says
about swearing.” (While he
is looking up the Ten Com-
mandments in his pocket
Bible the offender clears out.)
In emergencies like this policemen will
appeal for help from on high to resist.
Mollony, having tackled a “tough” and got a Wack eye. “turns
also,” according to Scripture. The tough un is muc J*
to Mollony; “Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian.
Tty'**
its
The efficacy of prayer, or what may happen to a Rocks push when
“dealing it out” to a “converted” bobby.
How to deal with a bursts?.
The main duty of the Chief of Police will be
to compose prayers to be “used” by the poflco
la the course of their duties.
THE CONVERTED COP.


CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above' remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and affectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(Tha Old Smuggler Bottia)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY
HATS.
For
durability.
Some of the WORST CASES of
DEBILITY,
INSOMNIA,
NERVE BREAKDOWN,
CONSTIPATION
have been cured by
CLEMENTS TONIC.
The Rev. J. llosking, D.D., Minis-
ter of the Congregational Mission
Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne, writes :
“/ suffered from, Nervous Pros-
tration, Insomnia and Nervous
Headaches. One hottle of
Clements Tonic put me right, and
was worth its weight in gold!”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS 8 STORES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
DAVE BOWMAN, Leader of Queensland
Labor Party.
In the game of N.S.W. politics, Cohen,
M.L.A., was the first man _out this session.
He fled down the steps in disorder one night
last week with the Speaker’s minions leap-
ing behind him. William Herbert Wood
twice opened his mouth to say something,
but the beaming eye of Willis was on him,
and he closed it again.
The other day Robert Briscoe was ad-
mitted to Melbourne Hospital, having dis-
located his jaw while yawning. The papers
do not say what Joseph Cook was talking
about.
Lindsay Campbell, the first Australian
aviator to be killed while hunting sparrows
in the air, was an interesting personality.
When quite a boy he made experiments with
a view to solving the problem of flight. In
1910 he opened a workshop in Brisbane for
the making of models of aeroplanes, and was
the first secretary of the Queensland branch
of the Australian Aerial League. In 1911
he gave a series of exhibitions with various
breeds of kites at Bondi (Sydney), and also
showed at Victoria Barracks (Sydney) some
manipulations of military kites, for which
he received the thanks of the General and
staff. General Gordon’s recognition was the
cause of a syndicate being formed to send
him to England and France, so that he
might master the latest details of sky craft
and negotiate with aeroplane makers with
regard to Australian agencies. Two months
ago lie acquired his pilot’s certificate from
the English body, which complimented him
on his skill. And then he struck a hole in
the air and went the way of many other
good men of his trade. The hole in the air
is incurable. When you step on to nothing
it seems that you must fall. At any rate,
nobody since the days of Lucifer, son of the
morning, has devised a remedy for it.
“B. de D.” : Of all the Eureka Stockade
veterans, Patrick Leahy, who recently handed
in his gun to the undertaker at Fremantle
(W.A.), was probably the most picturesque.
He came from county Kerry in the early
’so’s, and at Ballarat met Peter Lalor. The
two became close friends. Although in the
forefront of the battle with the red coats,
Leahy escaped all damage. Later, he went
to N.S.W., and was at Lambing Flat in
1861. He helped to promote the roll-up of
3000 diggers, by reason of which the great
aggregate Chinaman left with his hog-tail
streaming in the wind. In 1875, just after
the landing of 3000 Chows at Cooktown, he
was again in the front of a well-earned dis-
turbance. In fact, he was one of the leaders
of the anti-alien movement, as long as he
was able to sit up and take reasonable nour-
ishment. In the SO’s of last century, he had be-
come an old man, and from that time onward
he pottered about the Westralian diggings.
He lived to be 93. Before coming to Aus-
tralia he had served a military apprentice-
ship, first in the local faction quarrels of
Kerry, and later in the Kaffir scrum of ’34.
From this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant:—
Amongst recent deaths was that of Mrs. Emma
Jane Oakes, widow of Charles Shelley Oakes, of
Parramatta (N.S.W.). She passed out at Manly on
August 1. The original Oakes and Shelley were of
the missionary band which left Black wall ('London)
in the ship Duff, for Tahiti, in 1796. Brown brother
didn’t want missionaries, and the band came to
Sydney. There were four ordained clergymen (two
were married and brought their wives and one child),
with ?5 male adherents. One of these, Rowland
Ilassall, had two children. The adherents were
all tradesmen of one sort or other. All tne
clergymen returned to England, but some of the
adherents remained in Sydney. Among them were
Wm. Crook (who became the founder of Congrega-
tionalism), Samuel Clode (who was murdered on
Brickfield Hill, by a soldier and a convict man and
woman, who were hanged for the crime), William
Henry, Francis Oakes, William Smith, William
Shelley, and, perhaps, some others. Francis Oakes
became Chief Constable at Parramatta, and married
a daughter of Sergeant Small, of the Governor’s
Guard, temps Phillip. Rowland Hassall got a store-
keeper’s billet at Toongabbie. Others, where quali-
fied, became teachers and preachers. Parson Mars-
den’s daughter married the eldest son of Rowland
Hassall. George Oakes, M.L.C., the first man killed
by Sydney’s old steam trams (August, 1881), was
son of Francis Oakes, and his wife was a grand-
daughter of missionary Shelley. Archdeacon Oakes, of
Kelso, is a grandson of Francis Oakes; h’s (the
Archdeacon’s') mother’ s ! grandparents being William
Shelley and Rowland Hassall.
Broughton Barnabas O’Conor, who suc-
ceeds Trickett as Chairman of Committees
in the N.S.W. Top House, defeated Jacob
Garrard, at Sherbrooke, in 1898. He did
nothing particular until 1904, when Car-
ruthers took him into his Cabinet. He was
shunted out in 1907, to make room for T.
Waddell. T. Waddell was willing to come
over, with the fragment of his Progressive
party, and join Carruthers, and a place had
Jx> be made for him in the Ministry. The
position was stated in Cabinet meeting, and
it was hinted that somebody must make
room for the big and imposing Waddell.
Then there was the corpse and disembodied
spirit of a dead silence. Gradually it
dawned on Broughton Barnabas O’Conor
that everybody was looking at him. just as
the shipmaster and the chief steward and the
cabin boy and the whale and the chief en-
gineer and the deck-sweep and the barman
looked at Jonah. Even Samuel Wilkinson
Moore was looking at him. So Broughton
Barnabas O’Conor threw up the job, and
next year he threw up the Assembly and
became an M.L.C. He and old Berkeley
Basil Moreton, of Queensland, are the only
two double-B politicians that Australia has
produced, so far as this writer remembers.
“Chasuble”: Fighting Larry Rentoul, of
Melbourne, has been elected Moderator of the
federated Australian Presbyterians. He
was imported, from Ireland, by ex-Premier
McCulloch, in 1879. for the new East St.
Kilda Presbyterian Church, McCulloch’s fav-
orite toy. However, he ouarrelled with Mac,
and passed on to an £BOO per annum profes-
sorship at Ormond College. Rentoul’s speci-
alities are the German language and German
theology. In my opinion he is the ablest
man the Australian Presbyterian Church has.
Yet three Melbournians have come in before
him for the Moderator«hip: Meiklejohn,
Murdoch and Holland. He is a fiery Demo-
crat- and with the right
thinkers of the Kurruk. Amongst other
offences he was an unabashed pro-Boer. His
rows and reconciliations have been numerous
as the sands of the sea. Sometimes he is
observable pitching into Archbishop Carr like
Old Henry; at other times he stands shoulder
to shoulder with him in assault upon some-
one else. He was mainly responsible for the
-ousting of Dr. Strong from the Collins-street
Scots’ Church. Yet he has battled in com-
pany with Strong of recent years. About
500 Australian and other Presbyterian minis-
ters have been trained by him at Ormond.
A tale of dead men and wide acres:—
George Henry Lethbridge, who died at Neutral
Bay. Sydney, on Friday, and was buried at Albury
on Monday, was a son of Robert Copland Lethbridge,
of Werrington, Penrith, and Mary, youngest daughter
of Captain Philip Gidley-King, once Governor of
N.S.W. The lady was born at old Government
House, Sydney. They were married in England in
1826, and immediately sailed for Port Jackson. Miss
Mary King had a grant of 790 acres, known as the
Werrington Estate. The railway line from St. Marys
to Penrith runs through it. There the couple settled.
The shire of St. Marys is dotted over with King
grants—-Philip Parker King, 1500 acres and 650
acres; E. King, 610; P. King, 660; Mary King,
790 ; Anne J. King, 790. In the same shire, as
known to-day, S. Foster had 400 acres; Mary Put-
land, 600 acres; Mary O’Connell, 1055 acres. Put-
land and O’Connell were one and the same lady,
daughter of Governor Bligh, widow of Lieutenant
Rutland, and wife of Colonel O’Connell, of the 73rd
Regiment. Among the many old land grabs of the
district was the “King’s Gift” (2000 acres), given
by Governor King to Colonel Johnson, in consideration
of his “bravery” in subduing a lot of ragged convicts,
who rose in mutiny on empty stomachs, at Castle
Hill. The Colonel gave this great reward to his
youngest daughter, Blanche, when she wedded Mr.
Weston, from India. The map of the County of
Cumberland is rich in old Australian names with
broad acres tacked to them. The late Mr. Lethbridge
was at one time Sheriff’s Officer at Alburv. and
afterwards Chief Sheriff’s Officer at the Supreme
Court, Sydney. At that time his brother-in-law,
Charles Cowper, was Sheriff.
PARSON FITCHETT, of “Bleeds that Wen
the Empire .”
“Carmine”: The late Alma-Tadema was
a Friesiander. His father was a small Dutch
notary, who was in despair when the future
R.A. took to art. Tadema was rejected by
several Dutch schools of instruction ! Then
he met Leys. This painter indoctrinated him
with a love for barbaric German subjects—
bad sellers and not Tadema’s metier anyhow.
He broke away with his painting of a 3000-
year-old Egyptian Festival, and made a con-
siderable success. This kept him on Egyptian
subjects for several years. Then he turned to
his final and most profitable love—Old
Greece and Rome. His first wife was French,
and left two daughters. He made a clever
painter of one of them. His second wife
was English, Miss Epps. Pie taught her
painting, too, and she became even more
eminent than his daughter. A great instruc-
tor. Alma-Tadema’s first London mansion
was at Regent’s Park. A gunpowder explo-
sion in a boat upon the Regent’s Canal
wrecked this house, after Tadema had ex-
pended an immense sum over it. So he
built and lavishly re-furnished another resi-
dence on a site far removed from the possi-
bility of marine peril. Pie died a naturalised
Englishman.
“P.F.”: So “Jack” Verran, of S.A., has
been made a permanent “Honorable,” has
he? The British Government does not con-
fer this title on an ex-Minister unless he
requests it. What does Verran want with this
tag pinned on to his name? Didn’t a recent
Labor Conference thunder against any future
acceptance of titles by Labor legislators?
ARTHUR RUTLEDGE , K.C. , District
Court Judge (Queensland).
“D.”: Touching the question of “muck-
worms” and Ministerial blither generally,
they now call him O’Melee.
D. D. Wheeler, well known in Victorian
journalistic circles, and for many years chief
reporter on the Hansard staff of the Cab-
bage Garden, died at St. Ivilda on Saturday,
aged SO years. He retired from Hansard
on pension nearly 20 years ago. Half a
century back he was distinguished as an
amateur actor, and took part in the press
performances in aid of the G. V. Brooke
memorial, which resulted in the pallid bust
of the great tragedian, now immured in the
Victorian Art Gallery. Mr. Wheeler married
a sister of the late Howard Willoughby, one-
time editor of Melbourne Argus.
“Locust” sends a bulky scrap of biog-
raphy :—•
Re Dr. Morrison, just appointed Constitutional
Adviser to the infant giant China, struggling to adol-
escence. Years ago, when the writer and Tub Bul-
letin were both young, and the former read the
latter . (as most young Australians did) with proper
assiduity, we (the young Australians aforesaid) were
startled to a pitch of hero-worship by an account
of a young Melbourneite’s tramp across Australia
from Normanton to Geelong, humping Matilda. It
was a journey of ,2000-odd miles, and it took 123
days to accomplish. The youngster who did this was
George Ernest Morrison, lately Times correspondent
in Pekin, eminent journalist, traveller, explorer,
diplomat and soldier. The career begun by that
transcontinental tramp has culminated in a world-
wide reputation,, a unique position as journalist-
diplomat, the largest journalist salary, probably, in
the world, and the friendship of one or two millions
of Chinamen. While still a mere youth, Morrison
displayed the qualities which make for the successful
war and special correspondent. He went as a common
sailor in a “recruiting” schooner, in other and
plainer words, on one of the Queensland slavers which
were engaged in the island labor trade for the
Queensland sugar plantations, in the days when it
was fondly believed that a man who worked sugar
must have a black skin and a variegated handker-
chief round his neck. He exposed the slave-traffic in
the Argus. Then he led an exploring expedition in
Papua, in the days'when that great island was a
terra incognita, called New Guinea. His letters and
adventures did much to arouse Australians to an
appreciation of their interest in the big ichthyosaurus-
shaped island, sprawling across Cape York. He
brought back much information and experience in
bis mind, and two spear-points in his tenement of
clay. He retained the former permanently, but the
latter were extracted. He took his Edinburgh M.D.
degree, and then, after adventures as a purser, as a
medical officer in a copper mine in Spain, physician
to a Morocco sheeref, and a member of the Ballarat
Hospital staff, he went off and walked 3000 miles
through China. He wrote a book on this, and estab-
lished another reputation as author. Then he went
to Siam as Times correspondent, and 14 years ago he
cast anchor in Pekin, where he has remained ever
since, an international figure, breaking his residence
at odd times by further trips through China on
horseback. He has been through every province in
China- he is the only European who can boast of
that. He knows China as no other white man
past or present—ever knew it, He is trusted by the
Chinese as no other European was ever trusted since
Gordon led “the ever victorious army.” Possibly
the man who, next to Morrison, knows most about
China and the Chinese, is another Australian “Billy”
D ?xu ald A a ]f ith B'? w boy- Dr. Morrison was shut up
with the Legations when the Boxer rising over-
whelmed Pekin. He at. once, with his usual fertility
of resource, became a soldier, surgeon and intelli-
gence officer. He cheered up the soldiers, the women
and children, performed many brave deeds which
are recorded m the memoirs of eye-witnesses, and bv
means of the superb intelligence system which he had
built up as Times correspondent, he was able to keep
the Legations fully informed of all that was going
on. Ill's solid achievements have caused him to be
universally classified as a great Briton. We his
countrymen, may safely classify him as a good’Aus-
tralian. He is 48 years young.
ADMIRAL MYTH.
(A deep-sea chantey—or something of the kind.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Too elaborate provisions for seamen would make it
impossible to run ships without loss. Another un-
necessary provision was that crews should be accom-
modated above the water-line. All additional expen-
diture by the ship-owner meant something more to
the consumer. If this were borne in mind they
might arrive at a happy mean between making the
sailor comfortable and coddling him out of all use-
fulness. —Bruce Smith, M.H.R., on Navigation Bill.
“Old Spruce” is a-growlin’ and kickin’ upstairs!
With a Yo! IIo! blow the ffian down!
Our tack it is hard, but it’s little he cares!
Give him some time to blow the man down!
He’s follered the sea and he’s sailed round the
Horn !
With a Yo! IIo! blow the man down!
For feather-bed sailors he has a great scorn!
Give him some time to blow the man down!
His tongue it is rough, but his heart is of oak!
With his Yo! IIo! blow the ma,n down!
Don’t offer him dainties —he’ll blanky well choke !
Give him some time to blow the man down!
Salt horse for “Old Spruce” and a stiff tot of rum!
With his Yo ! IIo! blow the man down!
He thinks that all lubbers are sweepins’ and scum !
Give him some time to blow the man down!
“Old Spruce” should ha’ battled with Nelson or
Drake!
With his Yo! IIo! blow the man down!
It takes a starbowline to sail in his wake!
Give him some time to blow the man down!
So here’s to “Old Spruce” with the brine in his
blood!
With his Yo! IIo! blow the man down
Both dead and alive he would sleep ’neath the
flood!
Give him some time to blow himself down!
Note. —Forty-three more Yo-Ho’s and 86 blow-
downs omitted for want of space.
N.S.W.
JOHN STOMACH, A.B.
THE NIGHTMARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I admit that Premier Jim has been a spook, a
nightmare to our political opponents.
-—James McGowen on himself.
A nightmare came to me in sleep,
A staid and solid thing
That Holman through the midnight deep
Towed with a piece of string,
The awful vision made me weep
Like love-sick bards in Spring.
I said: “It is a dreadful spook
That brings to life anew
The ancient methods drear and crook
Of traffic with the Jew”;
And all my soul within me shook
To think what it might do.
Dumb with cold fear, I watched it glide
Adown the darkness drear,
A solid nightmare full of pride
That Holman tried to steer
Against the big Australian tide
That thundered fast and near.
N.S.W.
RIMU.


•v-
-*5
■**
IT’S*
Fd'sJ
>.c
I
rre^tstfza
iAsA
mm
n
X
• ; v:
in
*r
M
-jyi
So,
&
PH
/3
K&r*. dr
?W:
!
Ir
1?£S?
ft
ZJ[.,
*tv
rr"
n\
a
a
i
■
o 1
n
iflS
m
m
“ABOVE ALL OTHERS.”
FOR Fit, Style and Wear you cannot beat the Austral Sac Suit to Measure from 3s.
Country residents are invited to send for full range containing over 100 patterns for selection ;
also, if we have not your measure, easy self-measurement form. All measures once received are
registered, and can be referred to at any time. All orders carriage paid in Australia.
GOWING BROS.,
—/ion r.nAma onH T £ 7 Q 11 13 15 & 17 Rnval Arrorlp SvHnpv


WORTHINCTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
Sn’vsSs'i nr V Ss “rsr’KSi.ffi's
“bld oK
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
SISKOL’ ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL'' COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Bank of Commerce
(Sydney), the Phoenix that rose from the ashes of
the old A.J.S. Bank:—
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1910.. £11,670 3 p.c. =£8,441 £3229 £3,229
Dee., 1910.. 18,421 3J ~ ~18,103 318 3,547
June, 1911.. 14,957 2* „ ~14,550 407 3,954
Dec., 1911.. 12,268 2J ~ ~ 14,850 1,372
June, 1912.. 24,249 2J ~ ~14,936 9313 10,685
When the long-delayed arrangement was concluded
with the old creditors of the Australian Joint Stock
Bank, 2s. 6d. in the £ of the debt was written off,
2s. 6d. was made payable in two years, ss. was con-
verted into share capital, and 10s. was represented
by stock, interminable except for a small repayment
each half-year. At the same time the old paid capi-
tal was entirely written off, along with 255. per
share to be called up. This provided for a total
writing-off of something like £837,000, an amount
which was said to considerably exceed the necessities
of the case. In other words, while the new assets
were said to be all good, the old assets were said to
be written down below their real value. Under those
circumstances, it might be expected that the bank
should be in a position to pay more than a 2} p.c.
dividend ; but there are other things to be taken into
account. For very many years it seemed doubtful
whether the bank would eventually pull through. It
had got into a shocking mess, and did not appear to
have much talent for getting out of it. Naturally,
under such conditions, very little good business flowed
to it; hence, with anew share capital of £1,194,899,
plus an interminable debenture capital of £1,730,198,
the reconstructed bank has even now advances total-
ling only £4,158,487. A bank with a capital of
£2,925,097 might quite safely take enough deposit
money to do £11,000,000 of advance business, and
allowing a profit of only 1 p.c. on the extra business
that might safely be taken, there would be £68,000
to be added to the total now shown. Moreover, the
inscribed stock capital carries a fixed 4 p.c., and that
is dear money under normal conditions. Fortu-
nately for the A.B.C. the money market has tightened
of late, and an extra J p.c. or so has been obtainable
for overdrafts. This and the steady growth of new
business has greatly improved the look of things.
The next table shows the progress made lately:—-
1911. 1912.
Paid capital .. ..£1,180,812 £1,194,899
Inscribed deposits . . 1,730,197 1,730,198
Special deposits .. 416,812
All other debts .. 2,500,048 2,750,830
Liquid assets .. 1,417,934 1,157,823
Advances, etc 4,059,942 4,158,487
Premises .. .. 369,150 370,328
The special deposits represent the 2s. 6d. in the £
of old locked-up deposits, which the new bank under-
took to repay in two years. That transaction has
been completed. “All other debts” include new
deposits. No bank in Australia offers greater security
for such money, seeing that new deposits stand ahead
of all the capital and inscribed stock. Put in another
way, there are £5,701,547 of assets, against
£2,750,830 of liabilities to the public (apart from
the inscribed deposits, which are rather in the nature
of fixed capital). Put in yet another wav, the Aus-
tralian Bank of Commerce has £1,157,82*3 of liquid
securities (presumably the £78,500 of British Con-
sols are still more or less liquid) against £2,119,917
of liquid liabilities—current accounts, notes, bills
and everything else that is callable, which is a mighty
good showing.
The Australian Bank of Commerce has still £6312
10s. (whence the 10s.?) of its old notes in circula-
tion. This is a very small amount compared with the
figures of some of its big contemporaries. Presum-
ably there will, one of these days, be a fair profit
realised Under this heading by the larger banks. In
the case of an institution like the 8.N.5.W., the old
note that was accidentally burned by our grandfather
while in the horrors, presumably appeared among the
liabilities to the last. The abolition of private bank
note issues will supply a chance for a much-needed
cleaning up.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Cos. (Syd-
ney) :— ■
Writ- To Re-
ten duce De-
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit, ficit.
Dec., 1904.. £l2O Nil £l2O £14,682
June, 1905.. 465 5 p.c. =£437 2B 14,654
Dec., 1905.. 390 5 „ „ 437
Loss.
June, 1906.. 640 Nil
Profits.
Dec., 1906.. 503 Nil 503 14,838
June, 1907.. 670 5 p.c.= 437 £lO9 124 14,714
Dec., 1907.. 632 5 „ „ 437 109 86 14,628
June, 1908.. 725 5 „ „ 437 109 179 14,449
Dec., 1908.. 1156 5 ~ ~ 437 109 610 13,839
Further payment for goodwill, £5063 .. 18,902
June, 1909.. 619 5 p.c.= 481 109 29 18,873
Dec., 1909.. 319 5 „,, 481 110 19,145
June, 1910.. 362 Nil 362 18,783
Dec., 1910.. 786 5 p.c. = 525 243 18 18 765
June, 1911.. 1316 7£ „,, 788 528 18,237
Dec., 1911.. 816 7| „,, 788 225 18,434
Capital written off, £8750 .. 9,684
June, 1912.. 1405 12J p.c. = 765 300 340 9,344
This big hotel is a good place to dine at, and it is
not a bad place to drink at occasionally ; but as an
investment there is not much to be said for it. The
co. started with a paid-up capital of £17,500 (after-
wards paid up to £21,000), of which £15,000 was
goodwill—in other words, the great bulk of its
alleged assets consisted of the alleged value of the
right to carry on business on another man’s property
at a heavy annual rent. When a tenant rents a place
(say) for 20 years at (say) £IOOO a year, and puts
down the lease as an asset worth (say) £4OOO (or
£400,000), he can only justify his conduct by writ-
ing off £2OO (or £20,000) a year out of profits, so
that the lease and the alleged asset will vanish simul-
taneously. This company had no regular system of
extinguishing . its goodwill item. Its lease expired
and its principal asset presumably perished.
Its lease was renewed, and the principal
asset revived again. The lease expired once
more, which was again very bad for the chief asset.
This time it was renewed only on condition that
the co. spent something over £SOOO on the improve-
ment of its landlord’s premises. It might have been
better to have carried away the furniture, the liquors
and the spittoon, closed the front door with a crash,
and told the owner to keep his premises and go to
perdition. The co. had then paid-up capital and
nominal reserves representing, on paper, £18,661.
Of this £15,000 was represented by “Goodwill"
lease, etc.” and £IB6O by “Furniture and improve-
ment accounts.” Thus Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Cos
apparently had, at the most £3OOO worth of visible
assets in the business, and most of these it could
have gathered up and taken away. To pay over
£SOOO for the right to keep £3OOO worth of goods
on the old and rather unprofitable stand, may have
'* cen , good policy, but it doesn’t look so. As matters
stand, the co. has now a nominal paid-up capital of
£12,250, which is all that is left of £21,000. Its
12i p.c. dividend looks fairly gorgeous, but it is
really only a little over 7 p.c. And seeing that the
£13,900 of alleged capital and reserves are repre-
sented by less than £4400 of visible assets, the divi-
dend is hardly anything. If the co. set aside a sum
each half-year sufficient to wipe off all its paper
assets, and to fully reinstate its real original capital
by the time its lease expires, it would pay something
infinitesimal per cent. It is hardly worth keeping
up the beer and billiard struggle for something in-
finitesimal per cent.
Port Adelaide Dock Cos. (S.A.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June,’o6.. £4399 7 p.c. = £2680 £1719 £12,865
Dec., ’06.. 4074 7,, ~ 2680 £IOOO 394 13,259
June,’o7.. 3231 7 „ ~ 2680 551 13,810
Deo., ’07.. 4893 7 ~ „ 2650 2213 16,023
June,’oß.. 4546 7„ ~ 2650 1866 17,889
Dec., ’OB.. 4994 7,, ~ 2680 2314 20,203
June,’o9.. 3683 7,, „ 2680 lOO3 21,206
Dec., ’09.. 5203 7„ ~ 2680 2523 23,729
June, TO.. 4882 9,, ~ 3446 1436 25,165
D-c., TO.. 6746 9,, ~ 3446 3300 28,465
June,’ll.. 4997 11 „ ~ 4211 786 29,251
Dec., ’ll.. 7760 15„ ~ 5743 2017 31,268
June, T 2.. 5302 15 „ ~ 5743
That 15 p.c. is made up of dividend 4s. per share
and bonus 3s. 6d., which means that the directors
think they can spare it now, but won’t swear to keep
it going for ever. This co. gets most of its revenue
from wharves, and that kind of profit depends largely
upon trade. At present there is an abnormal trade,
and everything along the water front is lovely. As
regards the export business, the co.’s well-being de-
pends largely on the harvest; and with good October
rains this year’s crop, though of only small acreage,
should be heavy, and South Australia’s purse will be
filled up again. The co.’s properties consist mainly
of wharves. No mention whatever is made in the
accounts as to whether anything has been written
off these for depreciation, the only hint being “Re-
pairs, £180,” and that might have been brought
about by a smash. Wharves, more so than most ship-
ping properties, are very liable to slow but certain
wear and tear, and unless a sufficient allowance is
made, the reserves shown in the table are not real.
This co. owes £sll, and had £8225 in liquid assets
before paying its dividend. At December, 1911, it
had £10,551 before paying dividend, so the position
has grown weaker in this respect. Wharves, dredge
and property are set down at £105,426, of which
£4318 consists of an item which reads “Rebuilding
Princes Wharf.” If the old previous wharf was
wholly written off this is an awkward way to put
the item, and is apt to lead to misconception. If
the old wharf wasn’t written off, the form of the
item is all right; but the item itself is distinctly
wrong.
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Cos.
(Queensland)
Dividends. Writ-
A ten De-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. ficit.
June, 1905.. £1237 9 p.c. =£ll6 £1237 £ll6
Dec., 1905.. 1337 9 ~ 2Jp.c. „ 717 504
June, 1906.. 1573 Nil 1573
Dec., 1906.. 1514 18 ~ 2J „ ~ 833 681
June, 1907.. 1855 9 „ 2| „ „ 678 1177
Dec., 1907.. 1917 9 „ 2 it ~ ~ 678 1239
June, 1908.. 1880 9 „ 2| ~ ~ 678 1202
Dec., 1908.. 2047 9 „ 2|- „ „ 678 1369
June, 1909.. 2229 9 „ 3£ „,, 902 1327
Re-
serves.
Dec., 1909.. 2504 9 „ 3£ ~ „ 902 1202 400
June, 1910.. 2332 9 ~ 3| ~ „ 902 1430 400
Dec., 1910.. 2931 9 „ 5 „,, 1302 2029
June, 1911.. 2843 9 „ 5 ~ ~ 1302 1541
Dec., 1911.. 3188 9 „ 5 „ „ 1302 1886 •
June, 1912.. 3315 9 ~ 5 ~ ~ 1302 2013
Another £2013 goes towards filling up the large
hole that the directors made in this co.’s purse prior
to 1903. The co. runs both a gas and an electric
light supply, and in earlier and friskier days it
forgot all about the electric light plant wearing out.
Also, it didn’t remember too much about the gas
plant. This sort of thing went on until 1903, when
the auditors downed tools and told the directors that
they didn’t think the plant, mains, etc. (most of
which were bought with borrowed money), were
worth what the published accounts valued them at.
So the co. had its choice of two things—to write off
capital or to make up the loss out of future profits.
It chose the latter. That explains the “written off”
column. Of course, part of the writings off go
towards providing for depreciation of the present
plant.
As matters stand, the co. has about £11,505 of
visible liabilities to the public (debentures, interest,
consumers’ deposits and sundries). And it has
£5786 of cash and book debts; so that cash liabili-
ties are a good way ahead of cash assets. Still, if
the difference between the two represented all the
hole that wanted filling up, the case would not be
serious. The trouble is that the old plant, despite
all that has been written off it, is still suspected of
over-valuation, but to what extent no one knows.
Probably it isn’t a very serious extent nowadays;
but that is mere conjecture. If a valuation had
been made by independent experts when the financial
spectre first appeared, and the deficit had been ex-
plained in full, and every half-year a certain amount
had been set aside to meet new depreciation and
a certain amount to meet the old dead horse, the
position would have been clearer. A bank, which has
to deal with other people’s money, and which depends
on its credit, is naturally afraid to show how thin
the security for other people’s money has become
but a concern which trades mostly on its own capi-
tal is differently situated. Still, it is interesting
to notice that the miscellaneous liabilities are only
f 1j’505. Eight years ago they were no less than
£26,702, so the improvement is very solid. The
electric light department, out of which arose no small
part of the trouble, isn’t feeling too well even unto
this day. This is the position:
Gas profits £3323 5 11
Electric light profits .. . . 225 19 2
’ . . . , . £3549 5 1
Less interest and income tax .. 233 19 3
£3,315 5 10
Certainly, very little of the capital is sunk in electric
light compared with the amount buried in gas.
Still, the electric profits would require to nearly
double before the new illuminant carried its full
share of the burden. Possibly, when the directors
with a fierce and diseased desire to be up to date
rushed into the new business, they struck something
that they didn’t fully understand.
* * * *
Albury Gas Cos. (Albury, N.S.W.)
, . . To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1904.. £471 10 p.c. =£375 £96 £922
Dec., 1904.. 524 10 „ „ 375 149 1071
June, 1905.. 418 10 „ „ 375 43 1114
Dec., 1905.. 554 10 ~ ~ 375 179 1293
June, 1906.. 516 10 „ „ 375 141 1434
Dec., 1906.. 508 10 „ „ 375 133 1567
June, 190/.. 488 10 „ „ 375 113 1680
Dec., 1907.. 543 10 ~ ~ 375 168 1848
June, 1908.. 673 10 „ „ 375 298 2146
Dec., 1908.. 613 10 „ „ 375 238 2384
June, 1909.. 672 10 „ „ 375 297 2681
Dec., 1909.. 731 10 „ „ 375 356 3037
June, 1910.. 779 10 „ „ 375 404 3441
Dec., 1910.. 719 10 „ „ 375 344 3785
June, 1911.. 663 10 „ „ 375 288 4073
Dec., 1911.. 512 10 „ „ 375 137 4210
June, 1912.. 445 10 „ „ 375 70 4280
Phe profit is evidently shown after allowance has
been made for renewals and repairs. During the year
anew gas purifier has been installed, and this pro-
bably accounts for the reduction of the profit shown
in the table. Still, the 10 p.c. dividend is in no
danger, and, unless insufficient is being added to the
renewals and replacement reserve, it appears to be
fairly earned. The following table shows the good
progress made during the last 10 years, as far as
what may be called the cash position is concerned:—
1902. 1911. • 1912.
Liabilities .. ..£4863 £SIOB £5255
Liquid assets .. 893 3680 3884
Deficit. . . . £3970 £1428 £1371
Thus, in 10 years, besides paying an annual 10 p.c.
div., and allowing for renewals, and adding to its
plant, the co. has greatly strengthened jts position
in the matter of readily available assets. It certainly
has a £SOOO mortgage, but it has also a heap of
money on hand, and can look its banker in the eye
and fear not any man. Gas sales continue to creep
up. As at June, 1902, the total sales were £1493 ;
at June, 1912, they were £1912. Thus, the only
doubtful point is whether the renewals and repairs
are being well looked after, and on appearances the
co. may have the benefit of the doubt.
* * * *
Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting Cos.
(Castlemaine, Vic.) :—•,
Net Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1990 .. £6353 10 p.c. = £4OOO X 2353 £14,192
1901 .. 7107 10 „ ~ 4000 3107 17,299
£IO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making it
£50,000, and reducing reserves to .. 7,299
1902 .. 6814 10 p.c. = 5000 1814 9,113
1903 .. 6268 10 ~ „ 5000 1268 10,381
1904 .. 6250 10 ~ „ 50Q0 1250 11,631
1905 .. 6423 10 ~ ~ 5000 1423 13,054
1906 .. 6741 10 „ „ 5000 1 741 14,795
£IO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making it
£60,000, and reducing reserves to 4,795
1907 .. 6778 10 p.c. = 6000 778 5,573
1908 .. 6705 10 „ „ 6000 705 6,278
1909 .. 6308 10 „ ~ 6000 308 6,586
1910 .. 6163 10 „ „ 6000 463 7,049
1911 .. 6854 10 „ ~ 6000 854 7,903
1912 .. 7354 10 „ „ 6000 1354) i>,248
Written off . . £IOO9 /
During the year this solid little company has pur-
chased the whole outfit of its local rival, the Stand-
ard, and the transaction has made a few changes in
the appearance of the balance-sheet. For a long
while it had traded exclusively on its own money;
now it has an overdraft of £5647, which is scarcely
large enough to giye it any sleepless nights. This co.
was one of the very few in the brewing business that
did not overload themselves with pub properties at
boom prices. It stuck to beer-making, and that
business was so profitable that within the last 11 or
12 years it, on two occasions, transferred large slices
of reserves to capital, and continued to pay the old
10 p.c. upon the lot. Thus, the 10 p.c. dividend is
realiy 15 p.c on the capital actually put up by share-
holders, assuming that the £40,000 subscribed in
1900 had been actually paid in cash or its equivalent.
Year after year the accounts have shown results so
amazingly uniform that one would assume that
Castlemaine’s thirst never varied more than a few
pints from year to year. Certainly there may be an-
other explanation. Until this year the accounts
never mentioned what sum (if any) was written off
for depreciation, and the chances are that the uni-
formity was arrived at by the simple process of writ-
ing off much or little, according to the size of the
surplus revenue in excess of the dividend. Probably
the writing off this year is a special appropriation ;
if so, the gradual increase in the disclosed profits
may be taken as a hint that things are moving the
right way, and that the 10 p.c. dividend is more
easily earned now than it was when the last slab of
reserves was capitalised. The capital is £60,000,
and the visible reserves £8248. Of this money the
brewery premises, plant and stock, stand for only
£21,186, notwithstanding the recent purchase before-
mentioned ; the balance is represented by hotels
( £39,100), mortgages, advances and trade debts.
The assets, other than the brewery premises and
plant, are now £63,596, less liabilities £5647 ; total
net, £57,949. In 1900 the assets of the same kind were
£56,598, less liabilities £8000; total net, £48,598.
Thus, in 12 years, the co. has, without getting in
any new capital, provided itself with additional
brewery premises and plant, and added £8351 to its
pubs, mortgages, etc., besides paying a very solid divi-
dend. The pub property now represents very nearly two-
thirds of the capital, and in these days that sort of asset
is under suspicion, seeing that the cold-tea crowd
may veto the beer-pump, which gives such property
half its value, out of existence at almost any
moment. Otherwise, everything in this hop garden
looks lovely.
* * * *
The Ballarat Banking Cos. (Ballarat,
Vic.) :
Written Added
off Pre- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £3974 7 p.c. = £2975 £999 £66,858
June, 1905.. 4028 7 ~ „ 2975 1053 67,911
Dec., 1905.. 4040 7 „,, 2975 1065 68,976
June, 1906.. 4050 7 „,, 2975 £SOO 575 69,551
Dec., 1906.. 4098 7 „ „ 2975 1123 70,674
June, 1907.. 4129 7 ~ ~ 2975 1154 71,828
Dec., 1907.. 4007 7 ~ ~ 2975 1032 72,860
June, 1908.. 4050 7 „ „ 2975 1075 73,935
Dec., 1908.. 4079 7 „,, 2975 llO4 75,039
June, 1909.. 4103 7 ~ ~ 2975 500 628 75,667
Dec., 1909.. 4160 7% ~ ~ 3187 973 76,640
June, 1910.. 4204 7| „ „ 3187 lOl7 77,657
Dec., 1910.. 4176 7* ~ ~ 3187 989 78,646
June, 1911.. 4276 7\ „ „ 3187 lOB9 79,735
Dec., 1911.. 4356 7\ „ „ 3187 1169 80,904
June, 1912.. 4395 7£ „,, 3187 l2OB 82,112
In a general way the risks taken by the shareholders
in a bank are in proportion to the amount of other
people’s money which the management has lent out.
On that basis the Ballarat’s shareholders have
smaller risks than any others in Australia. Of every
£2 10s. in the business £1 is their own. Moreover,
their holding of liquid assets —the sort that is least
liable to a slump in value—is no less than 46 p.c.
of the total debt to the public. Their capital and
reserves combined total £167,112; the advances and
all other non-liquid assets total £307,702. Thus, the
capital to represent more than half of all the non-
liquid assets is provided by shareholders themselves.
But while the risks are small (assuming that the
management is normal), the progress is painfully
slow and the prospects are not dazzling. Ten years
ago the advances amounted to £302,363, to-day they
are £305,065. There are no branches of this bank,
and Ballarat, where it hangs out its sign, has shriv-
elled in importance as a gold-mining centre, while it
has derived far less benefit than it should have done
from the rich lands by which it is surrounded.
Partly because it has the use of comparatively little
public money, and partly because of its big holding
of coin, the earnings are small. Computed on capital
and reserve combined, the recent record runs like
this:—
Dec., 1908 ..£5 2 0 p.c. Dec., 1910 ..£5 2 8 p.c.
June, 1909 .. 5 3 2 „ June, 1911 .. 5 4 6 „
Dec., 1909 .. 5 36,, Dec., 1911 .. 5 5 9 „
June, 1910.. 5 4 0,, June, 1912.. 5 410 „
There is something to be said in favor of having the
whole business right under the eyes of the general
manager and his directors; on the other hand, a one-
office bank mostly has to keep an unusual proportion
of unproductive liquid assets. The bank with many
branches, when it finds itself getting short, can call
in a little from here and a little from there without
attracting attention, and thus weakening its credit,
whereas the one-office bank cannot so easily replenish
the till without inviting comment.
At the same time, men who are best acquainted
with the American system of local banks, have most
to say in its favor, as compared with the Australian
plan. No bank with two or three hundred branches
scattered throughout the Commonwealth, could be
expected to be very much interested in whooping up
(say) Albury or Bendigo, as a local bank would do.
Moreover, the possibility of one day promoting and
becoming a partner in a local bank appears to have
the effect of attracting men to the business who
would otherwise turn it down scornfully.
Equity Trustees, Executors and
Agency Cos. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1904.. £3036 12 p.c. = 1.1500 £1536 £11412
Dec., 1904.. 2435 8,, „ 1000 1435 12 847
June, 1905.. 3775 12 ~ ~ 1500 2275 15’122
Dec., 1905.. 3225 8 „ „ 1000 2225 n’347
June, 19(6.. 2616 12 ~ ~ 1500 4116 is’463
Dec., 1906.. 2314 8 ~ ~ 1000 1314 19V77
June, 1907.. 3301 12 „ „ 1500 1801 21*578
Dec., 1907.. 1994 8 „ „ 1000 994 22*572
June, 1908.. 1256 12 ~ ~ 1500 22*328
Dec., 1908.. 2585 8„ ~ 1000 1585 23,913
June, 1909.. 2170 12 ~ ~ 1500 670 24,583
Dec., 1909.. 3214 10 „ „ 1250 1964 26,547
June, 1910.. 2589 10 „ ~ 1250 1339 27 886
Dec., 1910.. 2279 10 ~ „ 1250 1029 28 915
June, 1911.. 1832 10 „ ~ 1250 582 99497
Dec., 1911.. 1869 10 „ „ 1250 619 30J16
June, 1912.. 2646 10 „ ~ 1250 1396 31,512
The profit is shown after £2BO has been deducted
as a bonus to the staff and £35 written off the fur-
niture account. The tendency to appoint the pro-
fessional trustee, who is always anchored to his job,
in preference to the casual trustee, who is liable to
flit, or die, or, through inexperience, misinterpret
wills, is steadily growing. The accounts are not
clear on one point which most similar cos. are only
too anxious to make known. No mention is made of
the amount of trust estate in hand, nor of the income
derived from such estates, so it is not possible to
estimate the average charges the co. makes. This
co., like all the latest trustee cos., is content with
a modest paid-up capital, leaving the greater portion
uncalled. It has a nominal capital of £500,000, in
200,000 shares of 60s. each. Of this £375,000 is
unissued, and of the £125,000 issued, only £25,000
is paid up. So the shareholder gets dividend on
10s. (not a very large dividend, either), and has a
40s. liability hanging over his head, like the sword
of Damocles or the dog that licked Lazarus. The
company has made very considerable progress during
the past 10 years, so far as the accumulation of
assets is concerned -
June, 1902. June, 1912.
Liquid assets .. £14,015 £33,497
Other assets .. 20,770 24,580
Liabilities .. ' 300 Nil
This shows a very solid improvement as regards the
assets, though there is no advance in the matter of
profits. Thus, taking the eight years from June,
1904, to December, 1911, the net ea'rnings for the
first four years were £22,696, and for the second
four years £17,794. In the first four years the
dividends were £IO,OOO, and in the second four
years £10,250. In the first four years the amount
added to the reserve was £12,696, and in the second
four years it was £7544. As already mentioned,
this institution doesn’t state the value of the estates
on hand. The decline or torpor in the net earnings
may, or may not, be an index of the size of the busi-
ness. Certainly the co. never looked more solid
than it does now. Its reserves were never so large
before, and its investments are exceedingly solid.
Still, while the solidity of the concern increases, its
dimensions, so far as they can be judged, don’t
exactly rise up and obliterate the horizon.
* * * *
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Added
Dividends and to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
1899 .. £2248 7 p.c. = £1856 £392 £I,OBO
1900 .. 3359 8,, ~ 2121 1238 2,318
1901 .. 2367 8„ ~ 2121 246 2,564
1902 .. 3928 8„ ~ 2121 1807 4,371
1903 .. 2546 8,, ~ 2121 425 4,796
1904 .. 1576 6„ ~ 1590 4,782
1905 .. 2122 6,, ~ 1590 532 5,314
1906 .. 2171 6„ „ 1590 581 5,895
1907 .. 3060 8„ „ 2121 939 6,834
1908 .. 3631 9,, ~ 2386 1245 8,079
1909 .. 2712 8„ ~ 2121 591 8,670
1910 .. 2923 8„ ~ 2121 802 9,472
1911 .. 3743 9„ ~ 2386 1357 10,829
1912 .. 4193 10 ~ ~ 2651 1542 12,371
The profit is the largest one this company has ever
shown. The dividend is the largest one it has ever
paid. The amount added to the reserve fund is not
the largest amount ever added, though it represents
a fairly good addition. Queensland has had good
seasons of late, and it has been enjoying (if that
is the correct word) a loan boom which is little short
of heroic. Therefore, affairs in Digby Denham’s
State are more or less out of focus, and it might be
well for the Queensland Trustees if it hadn’t shoved
its dividend quite so high till it knew what the
immediate future was liable to bring forth. There
is no reason to suppose that anything is shaky so
far as this company is concerned, but the whole
State is more or less shaky. The co.’s own funds are
invested in first-class securities. Even a great public
slump could hardly reduce its earnings to a dis-
astrous extent. It has £25,250 of paid capital and
£176,750 of. uncalled capital, and this writer would
rather sleep in a lions’ den than be a shareholder in
a concern in which, for the sake of getting divi-
dends on 55., he took the chance of having to pay
35s. —in fact, he reckons that the story of Daniel
m the lions’ premises was really the story of the
first trustee co. Still, the £176,750 of uncalled
capital is a very solid defence for the company’s
clients. In fact, considering the large uncalled
capital, the good quality of the investments, the fact
that the profit is the largest on record, that the
addition made to the reserve is the second largest
on record, and that the total reserves were never so
massive before, there is only one thing to complain
of. That is that the shoving of the dividend up to
10 p.c., which is the highest figure to which it has
attained, shows a dangerous faith in the great
Queensland loan boom. A company should rather re-
duce its dividend every time the country increases
its borrowings. The time of increased borrowing is
the time when the boom is wonderful, and prosperity
blossoms like the superficial wattle tree, and profits
are beautiful to look at, and the ground is hollow
underfoot.
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Cq. (Sydney):
Writ- To
/ ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £5543 10 p.c = £3722 £250 £1571 £24,200
June, 1905.. 5606 10 „ „ 3723 800 1083 25,283
Dec., 1905.. 4469 10 „ ~ 3725 94 650 25,933
June, 1906.. 4398 10 ~ 3726 672 26,605
Dec., 1906.. 3723 10 „ 3726
June. 1907.. 3730 10 ~ ~ 3730
Dec., 1907.. 4568 10 ~ ~ 3733 835 27,437
June, 1908.. 3938 10 „ ~ 3734 -- 204 27,641
Dec., 1908.. 4077 10 ~ „ 3740 337 27,978
June, 1909.. 4110 10 ~ 3740 370 28,348
Dec.; 1909.. 4937 12J „ „ 4683 254 28,602
Premiums on new shares .. .. 19 28,621
June, 1910.. 4687 12* p.c. = 4687
Premiums on new shares .. ..3095 31,716
Dec., 1910.. 5858 12£p.c.= 4859 999 32,715
Premiums on new shares .. .. 12 32,727
June, 1911.. 6081 12* p.c. = 4881 l2OO 33,927
Dec., 1911.. 5981 12j „ „ 4881 llOO 35,027
June, 1912.. 6024 12i „ „ 4882 1142 36,169
It is not exactly a good sign for the community when
things look up, as they have been doing, with our
old friend, “Monty Peet.” That gentleman does a
varied business. When he deals in mortgages he has
to make advances on good security at the same rate
as a bank or insurance office would get, and the
business, though safe, is not wildly profitable. Yet
“Monty Peet” has to do a lot of that sort of work
in order to keep his money employed in times when
money is abundant. Those are the days when in-
terest is low, and business is slow, and a good part


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & O Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 9 8
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 30th June, 1912 £9,258,750 10 7
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
REGULAR ACCOUNTS FIXED AND LOW
CHARGES. ABSOLUTE SECURITY.
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities,
at from 4£ per cent.
Write or call for Booklet. A. J. M ACKENZIE, Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION GAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney ;
McCLEW & CO., Adelaide; MALLOCH BROS.,Perth
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings - save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
4-GF+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS.— Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+GF + Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
* * * *
Considerable saving of fuel in generating steam is
being effected by the use of reliable cocks and valves,
steam-resisting engine packing and jointing
material; also by protecting heated surfaces to pre-
vent radiation and ensure transmission of heat.
Bell’s asbestos packed boiler mountings, “Belfry”
steam valves, “Dagger” packing, “Bellite” jointing
and asbestos non-conducting composition, rope lag-
ging and “Wadnit” mattresses can be obtained direct
from the makers, Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
A simple and continuous Vacuum Slimes Filter is
the “Wilfley.” It consists of a revolving drum,
which is partly submerged in the material to be
filtered. The drum, covered with filter-cloth, has a
vacuum pipe passing through it, by means of which
liquid and air are withdrawn by a vacuum pump.
The filtered slime is removed by a simplet apparatus,
placed at or below the level of the pulp. Directly
the cake is removed the filter-cloth is re-immersed,
ready to receive a fresh cake. The residual liquid in
the slime cake is removed by distributing water over
the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owing to the
fact that the filter is circular in form the work is
being done continuously during the whole revolution
of the drum. The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights of
this machine.* [2
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911:—“The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth ; and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa, it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
The essential features of a satisfactory pipe line
are capacity, durability, economy and adaptability.
PIONEER WOOD PIPE fills the bill. It is manu-
factured by The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, N.S.W. ; and Footscray, Vic.*
* * * *
Why is it that such people as the Murrumbidgee
Milling Company, Clyde Brick Works, railways, pub-
lic works, etc., are spending thousands of pounds in
installing Wolf Superheated Steam Engines in their
works? Because these plants are absolutely the last
word in power economy. Refer to page 43.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
co Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ;
and 9 Queen Street. Melbourne.* ?2
* * * ♦
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
*-**■»■
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
■*■•***
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Cot.lison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain ; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
► ■*■**■
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
of the staff isn’t kept at full stretch. But when bad
times arrive “Monty Peet” is able to devote himself
mostly to more swift and risky, yet more profitable,
lines of finance. He is a sort of monetary lifeboat
that only does a good business in times of storm.
The capital is £78,125, in £1 shares, and the
reserves, as shown above, are £36,139. During the
last half-year business has expanded in a remarkable
fashion. Advances of one kind and another have
grown from £107,371 to £119,811, which is a sign
that cash is more scarce than it was, and the de-
mand for it more intense. The co. has run
somewhat into debt in its effort to meet the calls of
the moment. At the end of December it owed
£11,918 to depositors and creditors, less £1073
cash, which made its net indebtedness £10,845. At
the end of June it owed £26,098 on bank over-
draft, deposits and sundries, less £1035 on hand,
making a net indebtedness of £25,063. So the
money market is brisk and prospects are good.
* * * *
An official circular issued in London last
month states that the value of the bullion won from
the Lancefield (W.A.) during the first seven months
of the current financial year, exceeded working ex-
pense by £10,050, and with the cost of development
taken off, £3191 remained. At the end of last
year the ore reserves were estimated at 218,245 tons,
worth 345. 6d., but since then another level (No. 8)
has been driven, and ore ranging in value from 465.
to 505., exposed. Experiments are now being made
with a view of discovering a cheaper method of
treatment, the expenditure being met by the co.’s
bankers and its largest shareholder, the London, Aus-
tralian and General Exploration, Ltd. It is hoped
that within six months operations may be resumed
on a basis which will ensure regular monthly profits.
This, of course, will entail another reconstruction.
» * * *
“Winding up liquidation dividend im-
probable,’’ was the laconic and dismal message that
reached local shareholders in Rowan’s Find (W.A.)
the other day. As an instance where shares have be-
come valueless on top of official bulletins affirming
that high assays were being obtained, this one would
be hard to beat. From the jump, the gaudy reports
issued by the co. concerning prospects and so forth,
were frowned upon in this column, and a broad hint
was given to stand from under.
* * *
Middle of October is the date now given
for the starting up of the Bullfinch (W.A.) treatment
plant. It certainly won’t be running before then,
and may-be it will take a little longer to get going.
Good returns will probably be maintained for a
little while, after which everything will depend on
how the northern side of Kearney’s lode shapes. So far,
the value of ibis body is variously estimated at from
lOdwt. to 15dwt. over a big width, but then it has
only been followed as yet to a shallow depth. As
mentioned in previous pars, the original shoot loses
nearly all its gold below 100 ft., and there isn’t much
rich ore left above that point. There may be suffi-
cient to make a splash for a time, but certainly not
enough to save the face of those demented optimists
who boomed the show in the beginning.
Depths of some Westralian shafts: Great
Boulder (Edwards), 2879 ft. ; Main, 2845 ft. ; Sons
of Gwalia (underlay), 2720 ft. ; Ivanhoe, 2660 ft. ;
Great Fingall (vertical and underlay), 2516 ft.; Gol-
den Horseshoe, 2390 ft. ; Associated, 2268 ft. ; Chaf-
fers, 2274 ft. ; Boulder Perseverance, 2200 ft. ; Lake
View Consols, 2017 ft.; Kalgurli, 1900 ft.; South Kal-
gurli, 1818 ft.
* * * *
Chaffers (W.A.) states that the amount
received from divs. on investments, bullion and
sundry receipts during 1911 was £45,042, of which
bullion represented £44,205. Expenditure, inclusive
of depreciation, absorbed £45,364, leaving a debit of
£322. Cash resources at December 31 totalled
£17,545.
Mountain Queen (W.A.) is holding a
meeting in London this month, and the controllers
and friends propose by the weight of voting power
to increase the capital of the co. in order to raise
money for the purchase and equipment of the Trans-
vaal • mine. Recent developments in the Queen are
said to have materially increased the oxidised ore
reserves, and a further addition is expected. A slimes
plant, capable of dealing with the current, as well
as a good deal of the accumulated residues, is being
erected, and is expected to be ready about the end of
September. As regards the Transvaal, the method
of extracting the gold will probably consist of wet
crushing concentration by oil flotation, fine grinding
and sliming. The profitable handling of its ore by
this or any other known process is, however, by no
means assured. Arsenic in large, and high-grade ore
in small quantities, are the principal obstacles to
success.
Golden Pole (W.A.) still lingers. After
getting next to nothing for some time, the tributors
recently struck anew 3ft. shoot of ounce ore at the
No. 3 level. Another party is hopeful of getting
good values in a bit of new ground at the No. 2
level. There may be a few pickings left in the mine
for tributors, but the day is gone by when share-
holders will get anything.
Chaffers (W.A.) has sold its tailings for
4d. per ton, which is equivalent to about £3500.
There was £13,000 in hand at the end of 1911, and
unissued shares to the value of £17,320. At the
annual meeting in London on June 24, the chairman
informed shareholders that when the lode which the
co. is looking for at 1600 ft. is struck, there will be
sufficient capital in hand without recourse to recon-
struction. Insiders, however, think differently.
There is an undecided opinion in W.A.
about the discovery of lode formations at Kurnalpi.
Routledge and Graham, loaming the surface, ob-
tained 700 oz. of gold, and the shaft was put down
40ft. in what was called lode formation. The mining
registrar of Kanowna doesn’t give the actual
prospects obtained at depth, and he considers that
the field is more suitable for individual miners than
for companies. That opinion fails to hold up the
big lode theory. Indicator veins are mentioned, but
the fact sticks out that nearly all the gold has been
found near the surface.
* * * *
Burnt Creek. Maryborough (Vic.), seems
to be putting on financial robustness just when Duke
and Main Leads Consols is fading away from the divi-
dend list. A good many Victorians, including a
University prof, and several keen-witted sons of
Judah, own to scorched fingers over Burnt Creek. It
is not once or twice that the claim has flattered folk
into the belief that divs. were to be maintained, but
what with water, and what with new plant, the get-
ting into the Duke lead, the patchy ground and the
cemented bottom, there has always been as good
reason for calls as there is for putting cash into
the church treasury. Still, now the advance by the
State is being wiped off, there is more than the
usual bar of hope that the better ground showing
both in the east and west ends of the mine will
yield decent profits. One thing can be said. No
claim in Victoria has done cheaper and better work
than Burnt Creek.
* * * *
Chairman Vince and the other objected-to
directors of the North Nuggetty (Vic.) have hauled
down the flag in the face of Chief Justice Madden s
decision that the nominations of Sandy Oliver and
Claudie Gallatily, to the North Nuggety Ajax Board
were in order. Fight was at first talked, and there
was every chance of the matter going to the Full
Court after the Chief had granted the injunction re-
straining J. A. Mitchell and W. D. Campbell from
acting on the Board. These were two of the old uns
whom Chairman Vince declared elected. That ad-
ditional litigation is abandoned probably means
that the old Board will be potted with costs
They cannot have done badly out of their North
Nuggetty holding, as they have been in the
show since it was floated ; but they are wise not to
let their divs. go in feeding limbs of the law. New
men may make new manners, so the transport of the
co. to Queen-street ought to help shares, but wet
nursing scrip does not mean that the old yields
will be repeated. Next, of course, should come a
statement of reserves. Queen-street isn’t likely to
be more fluent on that score than Ballarat.
* * * <
Diamond Creek is only half a day’s march
from Melbourne, but no one, save a few sports and
their donahs, travel thither. Off and on, for half a
century, the little claim has been going. Now it is
very much on, with levels at 800 ft.. and full of
resolution to get down to 1000 ft. The reef is a wee
bit of a thing, but, like the old Baker’s Creek at
Hillgrove (N.S.W.), what there is of it is real good
stuff. From 16,600 tons, 21,5000 z. of gold have come,
but divs., at £8750, fall short of the Bendigo return
of £1 per oz. won. A good bit of faulting takes
place, and the stone is patchy. But at times the
stuff is so rich that the Heilanders who run the show
expand sufficiently to dole a pinch out of the petty
cash. Alex. Gordon makes the original remark that
the future never looked more promising for Diamond
Creek. That, coming from a man who bumped into
the Maroomba and Bullfinch icebergs, isn’t bad talk.
.T. D. Oswald, with all his Maldon experi-
ence, ought to know better. To talk of any mine
in the big ranges, opening up well at the bottom
level until the gold is actually proved is taking a
risk. His pitch about Rose of Denmark at Gaffney’s
Creek has, therefore, to be qualified by the fact that
the gold in the dykes there nearly always occurs in
the quartz floors. These have to be got and then
have to be shown to be payable. In the upper
ground Rose of Denmark was a jeweller’s shop. So
were a dozen other claims at Woods Point and
Gaffney’s, but they haven't matured at depth accord-
ing to age and promise. Hope is a very elusive
prop, as J.D. must know after his life’s work.
* * * *
A Rip Van Winkle interlude, and then
out rolls the old Iron, Steel and Metals Manufactur-
ing Cos. of Melbourne, to show that there is still life
in dry bones. We know that Earle Hermann exists,
for is he not with us ; but where are such heroes as
Moore and Hesketh, and the Gardners and John
Storer, all of whom put stuff and brains into the
South Melbourne iron and steel shop? Hector
McDonald, still the chairman, is in London, where,
apparently, he is divided between Balfour and the
Iron and Steel interests. Never was there such a show
for butting into hard times as the Iron and Steel.
Its profitable days were those of the debenture float,
when half the countries in the world seemed to be
sniffing after the Moore-llesketh elixir for converting
raw ore into fine steel. Anyway, the Indian negotia-
tions seem to have gone up the flue. Now, Hector
McDonald thinks that the needful for a practical
trial of the patent will be put up. If the latest
scheme comes off, the best and the worst will be
learnt of this once much-advertised process.
* * * *
G.P.M. (Ardlethan) : W. and J. Lem-
priere, ore buyers, 16 O’Connell-street, Sydney....
G.A.T.: No mention of it has been made in The
Bulletin.
* * * *
For the first five months of the year
Charters Towers produced £168,830 from 61,411
tons of stone, concentrates and residues. The most
important producing mines were:—
Tons. Value.
Brilliant Extended.. .. 15,930 ..£27,974
Mills’ United .. .. 8,822 .. 21,940
New Brilliant Freehold.. 7,685 .. 21,253
Brilliant Stockholm .. 2,948 .. 10,628
East Mexican .. .. 2,965 .. 7,164
38,350 ..£88,959
* * * *
Mount Morgan’s financial history for five
years (to May 31 in each year) :
Revenue. Expenditure. Dividends.
1908 .. ..£911,724 £648,360 £225,000
1909 .. . . 901,838 673,622 200,000
1910 .. ..1,079,914 721,722 200,000
1911 .. .. 953,293 759,317 200,000
1912 .. .. 989,714 731,715 200,000
£4,836,483 £3,534,736 £1,025,000
The revenue figures are approximate, because they are
compiled by taking copper at the flat rate of £SO per
ton, with the exception of the two last months of
this year, when the valuation is raised to £6O. The
actual gross revenue was higher than set forth in
the monthly estimates. The surplus received, over
£SO per ton of copper, was originally designed to
pass into a contingent fund against fluctuations in
the price of the base metal; but Mount Morgan has
not stuck very closely to this policy, for copper is
now taken at £6O. The output for five years was
747,323 fine ounces gold, and 32,835 tons copper,
which, with gold at full value and copper at £SO
for 58 months and £6O for two months, makes a
total revenue of £4,836,483 (including sundries
and interest). Mount Morgan has given shareholders
slightly over 20 p.c. of its revenue, a poor result,
seeing that the ore has been worth over £SO per ton.
At Charters Towers most of the lower-
priced shares have fallen. East Mexican, for the
last half-year, crushed 3494 tons for £8385. The
reef has shown a falling-off in both size and quality,
and the reserves of payable stone are very limited.
Over No. 5 level there is a block 60ft. in length and
30ft. high, carrying a 12in. reef of payable
stone. Chairman Millican mentions the large extent
of unexplored ground to the east, and above the
present workings. The hanging-wall reef isn’t
developing too well at present, for the 12in. of stone
is only lightly mineralised. Any substantial im-
provement would, however, make Mexicans a favorite
again.
Brilliant P.C. has started to sink an un-
derlay winze at a convenient po-'nt from its 1596 ft.
level. It has also decided to bail out the old winze
some 150 ft. further west, which, when left nearly
two years since, had a payable reef at the bottom.
The Stockholm is providing funds for this work.
The quarterly return was £ 14,322 from 3374 tons
of stone, and the mine appears to be in good form,
though decidedly natchy. It is intended to sink the
shaft another lift below No. 11. There are 260,000
snares in the Brilliant co. In the good old days
£680,416 was paid in dividends.
Charters Towers mines, for the quarter
ending June 30, crushed 71,365 tons for £150,022,
so that the present average value of the stone is about
half the average that obtained when the field was
shelling out £2,796,384 in dividends. The Brilliant
Deeps has better prospects below 2500 ft. than it
ever had throughout 20 years, but there isn’t a
claim on any of its boundaries that has assured pros-
pects. The Brilliant Block is considered to have the
best chance, because No. 4 level, in following the
reef, came close into the Block’s boundary. This
big divergence from the anticipated course of No. 4
doesn’t make the prospects ahead of the level (to
the S.W.) favorable for B. Deeps, but it is evidently
improving the chance of the B. Block.
The new and up-to-date plant at Hamp-
den started work on July 16, and by the end of the
month had smelted 1815 tons of ore for 102 tons of
blister, containing 101 tons of fine copper, 48oz. gold
and 1070 oz. silver; also, matte, estimated at 198
tons, containing 119 tons copper, 560 z. gold and
1200 oz. silver. The plant appears to have been running
slowly, as its estimated capacity is from 6000 to 7000
tons of ore per month. “Pending adjustment” is
the explanation offered. It is stated that the con-
verter trouble is now over, and that present produc-
tion of blister is 15 tons daily. The matte men-
tioned above seems to be very high, 60 p.c. copper—
a long way above the usual grade for converting.
Probably in the converter trouble is to be found
the explanation. The grade of ore extraction is
about 12 p.c. copper, so that the co. evidently had
a handy reserve somewhere to sweeten the return,
which was a somewhat necessary luxury in view of
the immediate wants.
St. Mungo, Cloncurry (Q.), has evidently
made the most of a good copper market, for it has
declared a 6d. dividend. Th s will cost £IOOO, and
makes the total from the mine £4OOO. There are
now 40,000 shares, but the market price is about
the same as it used to be with only 10,000.
* * * *
Mount Morgan’s copper furnaces put
through 32,116 tons of ore last month, for a return
of 856 tons of blister, containing 847 tons of copper
and 99070 z. of gold. The average metal extraction
per ton of ore was 2.6 p.c. copper and 6.ldwt. gold.
With copper at £SO this is worth 505., but with the
base metal at £75, the average per ton of crude ore
rises to 635., making the total value from 32,116
tons of ore £101,016. The actual return is slightly
higher, because the output has been sold (forward
delivery) at £79 10s. The clean-up at the mundic
works gave 12850 z.
* * * *
Mount Lyell’s two mines are employing
900 men, and there should be no difficulty in keeping
the three furnaces supplied with 30,000 tons of
crude ore per month. It is hoped that the grade will
rise again over 2 p.c., which, with the metal at £75,
is only worth 30s. Years ago the good profits from
low-grade ore were due to the fact that costs on ore
were under 16s. per ton. At that time Mt. Lyell
could mine and smelt at a lower cost than the
Broken Hill mines could. Mine and concentrate
costs will be high during the current half-year, and
the grade below the average. The market value, at
28s. per share, is £1,680,000.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) holds up its re-
putation as a rich, but narrow, reef. A clean-up gave
tributors 14440 z. from 133 tons, and with over lOoz.
to the ton this old show cannot be considered done
for. The tribute agreements will not be renewed.
Tributors have taken more than £IO,OOO out of the
mine in seven months, but some of them have been
on unusually good stone recently, and have drawn
attention to the northern end of the ground and its
possibilities. Unfortunately, the mine is very
patchy, and cross-courses appear to have an influence
in concentrating the yellow metal in the narrow
streak of quartz. The co. should be fairly well off
for cash, and prospecting of Smith’s reef,. No. 3 reef,
and a footwall branch vein will be carried on in a
more spirited manner. The mine has paid £272,500
in dividends, but it is a very long spell since it paid
the last.
* * * *
According to the official reports, Broken
Hill Junction North mill is now doing well. The
chairman of directors estimates that the week’s run
to July 27 gave a profit of £2OOO, which means an
enormous improvement. For the week the mill
treated 2207 tons of crude ore and 810 tons of
“dump material,” the latter probably included a
large proportion of high-grade middlings that have
been saved from previous runs. The vanning plant
is treating these middlings to much advantage, hence
the sudden spring in the output to 539 tons of lead
concentrates, averaging 54 p.c. lead, 31oz. silver and
14.6 p.c. zinc.
* * * *
A Sydney co. with a capital of £6OOO in
£1 shares, has an option over the Brimbramalla
gold mine, Clyde River (N.S.W.), giving the vendor
1150 shares and £350 cash. Already 2500 shares have
been issued and subscribed. Tributors have managed
to get a return of £l2 per ton without the sands
and slimes, but tributors’ returns don’t give much
indication of a mine’s value. Work done on the
property is a shaft 150 ft. deep, from which the ore
has been stoped for a length of about 300 ft. A
tunnel at 120 ft. connects with the shaft; in driving
this tunnel a 41ft. lode was encountered, ranging
from 6dwt. to Bdwt. The shaft is to be deepened,
and later on a cyanide plant, erected with the usual
10-head battery that small cos. love to sport.
* * * *
At Wyalong (N.S.W.) the only properties
that are yielding gold to any extent are the Junc-
tion Amalgamated and Golden Fleece, and there is
likely to be an addition shortly, judging by develop-
ments at Harry Nelson’s prospecting area south of
the Klondyke. Several small crushings, yielding ioz. to
loz. gold per ton, have already been taken from a depth
of 50ft., on an ironstone and quartz reef, about 9in.
wide, and as the stone is being driven on towards
the old Klondyke reef the improvement in the quality
is very noticeable. The stone also contains pyrites
and free gold. The reef is looking well in the face
and underfoot. About 20 tons are now being
crushed, and altogether there should be some good
crushings taken out before the end of the year,
which will tend to relieve the general gloom.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek tin (N.S.W.) is appar-
ently developing another area of payable wash-dirt
from Chandler’s shaft. When the leading drive
reached 24ft. the bottom had dipped considerably,
and the depression is now being prospected by a
crosscut, which has been run out from the end of
the drive. At 19ft. there is 15in. of wash-dirt, worth
1401 b. of tin oxide per cubic yard. The sinking of the
new shaft is making slow progress in consequence of
the non-delivery of timber. The leading eastern
drive from the Rock shaft has a rising bottom at
1178 ft., where some crosscutting has been done to
try to determine the course of the lead, or succession
of pot-holes, that contain the best wash. This eastern
•section up the lead produced £12,819 worth of tin
oxide last year, but it is nearly worked out.
* * * *
Hill End (N.S.W.) was provided with a
reasonable excuse for a holiday on the christening of
the Amalgamated Hill End’s recently-installed plant,
a comparatively small affair, intended to treat the
ore from the upper levels and also the mullock tips.
Some of the townsfolk see visions of the famous
days of Holterman’s nugget. It is 40 years since
the discovery of this enormous mass of gold, probably
the largest ever found in any part of the world.
The find weighed 6301 b., estimated to be worth
£12,000. Some idea of the size can be obtained on
comparing it to a slab 4ft. 9in. high, by 2ft. 2in.
wide, and 4in. thick. The present co. is an amal-
gamation of about 20 old claims, which are being
developed in depth. The deeper ground aimed at has
not yet been reached, but it is anticipated that
within a year the lower tunnel will pierce the aurifer-
ous channel, and that levels will be extended to the
Star of Peace shaft. This means piercing practically
the whole of the Bonanza zone several hundred feet
deeper than the old workings. The first crushing of
500 tons has been taken from all parts of the old
workings.
The Tambaroora Golden Gully Sluicing
Cos., at Hill End (N.S.W.), after much delay, occas-
ioned by the non-arrival of machinery, dry weather,
floods and any other handy excuse, is at last nearly
ready to get down to toil. This is a pioneer effort
on the field for this class of work, though rich de-
posits of alluvial gold first attracted attention to the
district.
Mareeba (N.Q.) had almost forgotten its
old mine, the Queen Constance, when a party of
miners, sinking on a spot marked by Peter Meredith,
struck a reef at 75ft., showing gold pretty freely.
Quite close to the claim the London Hydraulic Cos.
is about to sluice a hillside of surface. Prospecting
for a reef, with a jet of water at high pressure, will
be something new in that locality.
* * * *
Since it took office nine or ten months ago
the Labor Government in the West has spent
£IOO,OOO, or thereabouts, in assisting the mining
industry; New State mills have been erected in
various centres, and £SOOO set apart for overhauling
and titivating old plants.
(“ Wild Cat” continued on page 36).


Under
Royal
Warrant
CHAMPAGNE
IQS
1181
m
champagne
'-barleslieidsieaC
Reims
ms
(i; j jj ,*&<***
To H.M.
Kin^
» George V
World
BRAND
h
Renowned
STUHR’
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins and glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEOROVE, LONDON, E.C.
For Chronic (
Indigestion
TAKE
ANCIER#MULSION
Of Chemists. 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion lubricates and soothes the mucous
membrane of the stomach and intestines, arrests fermentation,
and promotes normal healthy action of the bowels. It is a
splendid tonic to appetite and digestion and it builds up health
and strength. Doctors prescribe it for chronic indigestion,
nervous dyspepsia, stomach and intestinal catarrh, etc. It has
cured many obscure and obstinate digestive troubles.
Send for free Sample ; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL. Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
(
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, August 5, 1912.
.My Deae Abini, —
Wandering Ambassador J. Bryce is the
guest of the N.S.W. Government this week
for a series of scenic snacks per motor and
launch. The National Park, where the
long red road falls down into the shady
creek; the roar of the Bulli breakers and the
distant blow of the Kiama blow-hole; also,
the white and shoreless whiskers of the oldest
inhabitant of the Hawkesbury—a specimen
which never dies unless it happens to stray
away from the local gumtrees beneath which
it is its habit to chew the solemn end of
centuries —all these studies in natural his-
tory will whiz before the learned motor
goggles of the globe-trotter from Washing-
ton. The purple mists of the Blue Moun-
tains, and the frozen hair of the Jenolan
Caves are likewise in the Bryce catalogue
so far as this State is concerned. Further-
more, he will see the wonderful sunset, the
parish pump, the picture of what the Fed-
eral capital is to be, and—if he has luck—•
Mr. Wood being thrown out by order of
Speaker Willis.
Reverting to the Hawkesbury and its
numerous oldest inhabitants—it was up that
way that, once upon a time, a traveller
found a male person of 60 sitting by the
roadside and weeping bitterly. Being asked
the cause of his woe, he stated that he had
just been walloped by his parent. This so
staggered the traveller that he had to lean
against a tree for support, but when he re-
covered he went to the door of the adjacent
house and cautiously reconnoitred. Inside,
an ancient of 85 was leaping about in a fury,
and denouncing the person of 60 for his
youth, laziness, cussedness, ill-manners and
general discreditability. Inquiry revealed
that the disgraceful person had been throw-
ing stones at his grandfather, and had hit
that venerable on the back with a sample
of road-metal. And he had done this merely
because he was forbidden to go bird’s-nest-
ing. Yes, they are an bid, old crowd on the
wonderful “Oxberry” River.
Kosciusko, which grows granite and hoar
trost in large quantities, has consumed—per
local Government hostel —more eggs this
season than the Monaro hen could supply.
The July carnival of snow-boots and frosty
noses failed the tourist hotel up to its hot-
air radiator. The new ballroom was used
tor evening entertainments, in which euchre
chased bridge, and the two-step collided with
concert music. Mr. and Mrs. Williams, a
honeymoon couple from Rockhampton (Q.),
had the. suite de luxe (whatever that may
be), which suggests the anchorage of a dis-
guised duke; Mrs. David Davis (Darling
loint) and her daughter, the J. D. Hills,
from the sheepfolds of Yass, and Mr. and
Mrs. Raul Wenz (Cowra) made a Kosciusko
quartet. Mrs. A. McKay (Delegate),
Winchcombes, Carsons, and Davennorts
(Sydney folks) also ascend this month to
try the temper of their ice-blades on the
hoary head of Australia’s top hat. If this
winter-mountain habit grows the hotel had
better lay in a supply of flags marked “Ex-
celsior, ’ and hire them out to tourists at 6d.
each.
The inter-State Conference of National
Council dames last week, was up to its
usual flood-level of irrelevant chatter. The
waters of conversation overspread the banks
and covered the regions of low-lying intel-
lect, and only here and there the top of a
pinnacle of brain appeared above the great
wash of proceedings. (This sort of writing
involves severe mental strain, so I will aban-
don parable, and wrestle with mere facts.)
Now and then a voice spake with common-
sense, then softly subsided under the flotsam
and jetsam of prolific balderdash which
poured from the Would-be, the Has-been
and the Never-was.
Lady Denman took a hand at soothing the
mental strain of the week’s wash-up, though
the few specks of gold which were saved
didn’t pay working expenses, and left no-
thing over for a dividend. Lady Chelms-
ford takes the National Council seriously,
and was seldom absent from her moorings
on the platform of the King’s Hall. She
sat very firmly on Mrs. Innes-Noad’s plump
chest. (in a figurative sense, let me rush to
explain) when that hearty-looking dame rose
to her feet in the Picture Flow clash of
arms. This speaker remarked, in an apolo-
getic tone. of voice (the battle waging hot
against picture shows as feelers from the
Evil Octopus below) that some of the penny
novelettes were much worse for the juveniles
mind than the average flickergraph. This
sentiment was sternly rebuked* by the
Chelmsford lady, on the score that one had
to visualise the scenes in the Deadwood
Richard type of literature, whereas —etc.
Mrs.. Innes-Noad panted in silence, and trod
heavily back to her seat after this rebuke.
As a sister of Mr. Spruce Myth, and a
corner joist of the “Liberal” ladies’ forum,
the blood of all the Myths must have boiled
m her veins. Personally, one ventures to
remind the snubbed lady that if it hadn’t
been lese majeste she had a smart reply to
heave _at the objection. Dead-and-hung
Richard s wild career is generally profuselv
illustrated, and you can buy the lot for 3d.
Mrs. Ebenezer Vickery gave her blessing
to reformed picture shows. After a stiff
dose of these frivolous entertainments (swal-
lowed with her eyes open from a sense of
duty), Mrs. Ebenezer summed them up as
bad in spots. But apparently the spots are
so large that one of them is enough to cover
the patient and hang over on each side of
him, after the manner of a frill, for this holy
woman means to spend some of the late
Ebenezer’s money on picture shows of her
own. I wonder if these saintly efforts to fill
the screen with the shadows of Right-think-
ing People, and to show the impassioned
Sunday school and the rise and progress of
the Sunday scholar, will return 10 or 15
per cent, interest. Anyhow, they will be free
from the atmosphere of peanuts and empty
lemonade bottles (which roll about with a
loose marble in their mouth), to which Mrs.
Ebenezer takes exception in the unregen-
erate brand of flicker.
Miss Rose Scott, who is cursed with a
sense of humor (a hideous affliction to stray
into the National Council’s leaded dialogue)
rose with her best bonnet and a seraphic
smile (and other garments) to praise the
picture show in all its length and breadth.
As tor the vulgar jokes, I generally notice
that it s the people of one’s own household
who always laugh at the vulgar jokes.” A
taint titter from a few Philistines, and a
shocked silence from the ladies who were
out. to reform the earth. Then a squeak of
chair legs, and Mrs. James (Westralia), in
fashionable attire, side-stepped a dull dis-
course on the prowess of her State, with
Woman whirling her battle-axe in the fore-
front of the battle of reform.
Mrs. Dobson, who mothers the National
Council s live lambs in Tassy’s Isle of Jam,
was in the first heat in the recent raid on the
flicker show. She is a well-fed, good-look-
ing dame, with a pleading taste in bonnets,
and is not unlike a Sunday edition of the
late Emily Soldene—as she was 10 or 12
years ago, when the joy of life had not yet
departed. Mrs. Dobson’s unctuous voice fell
like melted butter on the morals of the
young.
Mrs. Hugh Dixson flung in a peaceful word
or two at the assembly re sanctuary for
birds. Mrs. L. Plarrison (also at the inter-
state Council of Gnats) hoped the day would
come when a small boy could cast his eye
over the edge of a bird’s-nest, and leave the
eggs undisturbed. This kind of boy will have
to be specially constructed out of clay, and
then Providence must lean him up against a
fence to dry. I presume the average sinner
has to climb to the top of a rocking tree
fork, tear his breeches, scratch his face, and
suffer other perils before he sees the eggs—•
speckled temptations snug in a cosy nest.
I owls that nest on the ground—the much-
robbed hen, for instance —are either outside
the boy’s machinations or beneath the notice
of the Bird Preservation Society. The emo-
tions of Chanticleer when Mrs. Chanticleer
informs him with a fierce cackle that a mon-
ster has left their homestead only one china
n ® s !' e gg> are probably equal to the despair
ot Mrs. Sparrow over her domestic bereave-
ment. Yet Chanticleer dies for the Sab-
bath dinner —unwept even by his feath-
ered spouse, who takes another lord, and con-
tinues to be robbed by members of the Bird
I reservation Society. Robbed and basely
cheated with earthenware eggs, she, the
humble hen, has no more friends than has the
tail-snatched ostrich.
Miss Roberts (Tasmanian delegate) shook
her purple ostrich plumes over the depravity
of women who wore ospreys. This good lady
wasted some of her priceless time by girding
at the excellent rule which chained the ora-
tory of each Gnat in Council, down to 15
minutes. “Ting-ting” went the warning
bell. The ostrich plumes moved in battle,
and the deplorable condition of once beauti-
ful woods in the Apple Isle was detailed —-
till—at last! “Is my time up?” asked the
astonished visitor, and flopped into her chair
for five minutes, to rise again m argument
under the discussion clause.
The exact amount of respect one woman
has for the platform oratory of another per-
fect lady was _ shown at this congress of
Gnats in Council. The tramp of noisy boots,
the squeak of umbrella points and the
uproar of moving chairs went on with hardly
a gasp of silence, while the most beautiful
sentiments flowed from the lips of dear Mrs.
Such-and-So or Miss Thereabouts.
Lady Denman, in dove-grey plumage, with
a crown of diamonds (or a young crownlet)
perched on her fair hair, gave the cordial
hand of greeting to the dames in council.
The place was Fedei’al Government House.
The time was the latter end of the flood. A
few humble citizens splashed through the
rain to join the fray, tied their goloshes to
their brollies, wriggled out of waterproof
wrappings, shook the rain out of their ears,
wrung their hair into a vase or other recep-
tacle, and made a meek appearance in the
hall. Here the worst-mannered, or semi-
society groups, tucked themselves away into
hostile tribes, to talk at the late arrivals —
after the manner of their kind.
In the gay drawing-room, where the
friendly yellow shades help the complexion—
even the National Council magnates have
been known to allude to a complexion below
their breath —his Ex., fortified bv the blue
sash of his order, helped his hospitable lady
to clutch the hand of the National Council
The staff was detailed for duty. No skulking
round shaded corners, with slim voung
maidens, but a steady procession to the
supper table, with portly dames in tow, was
tlieir allotted task. Private Sec. Vernon
rounded up the stragglers in the ballroom.
Chamberlain Nevill peered over the heads
of the company in search of waifs and
strays. Don Barttelot de Gee-Gee (he of the
Northern Territory ride), the vast Quilter
aide, and the cheerful Nutting, spread
themselves out as a fatigue party attached to
the forage department. The mighty Burn-
ham, of the cyclonic polo team, lagged in
the offing of the ladies’ party.
Tittle Baronet Tom Lees —-with the State
Government House rulers —at the Denmans’
frivol, unwound his valuable throat out of
a large white comforter, and walked warily
on the edge of youth and beauty. All the
Sydney girls are said to run after this
juvenile importation, but I haven’t noticed
anything more rapid than an occasional
crawl. The pretty Mrs. Turnbull showed
the possibilities of pale blue. The tall Mrs.
Gilbert Lodge sailed across the in an
elegant sheen of ivory satin, with a tunic of
hoar frost, or something similar. Mrs.
Frank Plomley dared the wintry billows to
cross from Manly to the Gnats’ party. Mrs.
• F. Brennan and Mrs. Kirkland were
amongst the good-looking dames in black.
Mrs. Tom Hughes, a head taller than the
average woman, put in a splendid appear-
ance in Oriental blue, smacked with beaten
gold. Miss Lottie Gilbert—a joyous young
person to be incidentally tacked on ’to a
National Council —in a white frock, wore a
jewelled pendant any poor and deserving
person could steal with pleasure, if the
law and the owner weren’t looking. Nurse
Christie, from a cottage hospital at Water-
loo, was one of the guests, and Don Walter
de Gee-Gee marched her off to supper.
The Chelmsford afternoon reception
snatched the. only fine day (worth mention-
mg) this city had seen for about three
weeks. _ The Admiralty lady trailed her soft
draperies across the lawn. Dames of inter-
state moment dug their strong-minded heels
into the thick turf for an hour or so. then
retired in good order. Aide de Mole.vns
announced the visitors at one door of the
ballroom. They tramped across an aching
void of green carpet to reach the Chelmsford
lady—it felt like reaching for a star —then
bounced out to the golden afternoon. The
pretty Baby Thesiger (born in England last
year) was one of the nicest persons present,
and showed her golden fluff of hair and pink
cheeks to the company, through an open
casement window.
“A marooned Australian man,” cast upon
the rock of a Jjoridon hotel, sent a hurried
impression of his feelings on Alexandra
Day. The writer was too agitated—having
presumably lost his lifebuoy and unsink-
able cork boots to mention why he was
marooned, or what sized tips his desert-city
tavern tore from his homesick person at
morn and dewy eve. He plunged into a
summary of female charms from the jump
off. “Alexandra Day here, yesterday. Thou-
sands of girls selling flowers—artificial roses,
mostly. All dressed in white with lots of
artificial flowers stuck on their frilly hats.”
“Stuck on” is a careless desecration of West
End millinery, but the marooned one was
evidently in haste, and took any old expres-
sion that came to hand.
He continues : “Australia was to the fore
m the person of Mrs. George Reid and 20
Australian girl-helpers, and thev certainly
made a hit here. All the papers enthused
about them, and the (London) Daily Tele-
graph confesses it was fairly knocked by
the over-seas beauties. It also alleges
that its heart (if a newspaper 7ms a heart)
was captured by the fair daughters of the
Commonwealth. These girls were cer-
tainly diamonds of the first water. It
made a mere man feel homesick to see the
familiar faces in this smoky old metropolis.
Most of the girls I knew by sight (unfor-
tunately only a few of their names were as
familiar as their faces) were from Sydney.
Miss Madge Mitchell, Miss Hill, two Misses
Sydney Jones and Miss Studdy, I picked out
amongst the sparkling throng—which, I
think, was the way Mr. Pecksniff put it. The
Dowager Queen Alexandra drove round in
the afternoon, dressed in the deepest mourn-
ing, for it was, I think, the fiftieth anniver-
sary of her joyous arrival in London. Sel-
dom see The Bulletin here, though I met
it, like the Scarlet Woman, in Colombo,
Babylon, Naples and Paris.”
The last sentence interests me. In the
first place, The Bulletin is, I should fancy,
a Crimson Woman —not Scarlet. Anyhow,
the writer says he met it in Babylon. I
thought that the old place had been utterly
blotted out, and the bones dug up and
carted away to the four winds. I must see
the general manager, and find out if we have
an agent at Babylon, and if his name is
Merodaeh Baladan.
The Roman Carnival in aid of the Alex-
andra Hospital for Sick Children, is ap-
proaching its last toga. The results will be
various. A tableau, showing the early
Christians being flung to the bears and
prawns, is going to be cinematographed on
the spot, with many other thrilling acci-
dents, in or about the time when Nero
played first fiddle in Rome. Seven brass
bands are to produce appropriate music,
when the Battle of Lake Regillus rages in
the Stadium sawdust.
Castor and Pollux are not advertised
amongst the list of attractions that will
appear at the Roman carnival on August
15. Presumably the noise of seven brass
bands will rouse them from their slumbers,
however, and one expects to see them ride
furiously through a damp cloud, and charge
the doorkeeper at a hand-gallop.
A man at Moree drops in a hurried line.
He says: “A poio club is in the air up here.
Rules and the price of liorsefeed, also the
exact height of the ponies, and the breadth
of the men who ride them, are being talked
threadbare at out stations where the occupa-
tions of cattle-yarding and rabbit-cursing
begin to pall on gay young bucks.”
On the very new Mikado of ambitious
Japan a much travelled American woman
recently shed the light of her personal obser-
vation. She says the fresh brown Caesar, or
Basileus of Nippon, is modern—like his
nation’s cruisers. He has even been seen to
help his Empress—take her arm, and so
forth —in their country walks abroad near
their summer palace at Nikko. Yoshi-hito is
the third son of the recently departed
Mikado. Here Japan is ahead of the usual
hereditary grip on the throne. Brown
Pharaoh can choose the most likely of his
sons, and proclaim him heir. The dowager
empress had no children, and Yoshi-hito is
the son of the late Emperor (Japan’s Wise
Man) and a Court lady. The word “harem”
is not mentioned as an official annex to the
throne of the early-rising Jap, but it exists
as a more or less official fact. Therefore, by
the grace of Heaven, Mutsuhito (now de-
ceased), the 121st Pendragon of his isles,
chose in his lifetime, the third of his sons,
Yoshi-hito. The new ruler is said to prefer
the European style in matrimony—one wife.
Perhaps it isn’t the European taste, but
Europe, which is a Pecksniff sort of contin-
ent, pretends that it is.
The society Sutherlands, from Palmerston
North (M.L.), are inspecting our water-
front. Their recreations are motor-cars and
fishing.
Mr. Cyril Ward, heir-apparent to baronet
Ward’s last title, with his wife and small
son Joseph, passed through Sydney last
week, for the Kingdom of Bananas. Mrs.
Cyril has relatives up Brisbane way, but
little son Joe is too young to be concerned
about such trifles.
Miss Audrey Major, of this town, who
married cricketer Hazlitt, is having a good
time in England. Hazlitt, 8.A., heaves in-
formation at the Young Idea at the King’s
School (Parramatta) when he isn’t playing
cricket on Bull’s sodden wickets. As the
only Australian petticoat that went with
the Kangaroo team to the other side, Mrs.
Audrey got all the trifle and champagne,
sprinkled with nice remarks from any sport-
ing members of the peerage who happened
to frequent Lords pitch. At lunch in that
select menagerie, she met a glittering array
of coronets, etc., and Avas pounced on with
hospitable intent by Princess Henry of
Pless, who used to be Miss Cornwallis West.
This lady’s foreign princeling, Hans Henry,
is, by the way, Governor of Chelsea Hospital
amongst his other recreations. The rest of
his name sounds like an insurrection in
small beer. Hans Henry is a Prince when
he wears his sharpest sword and largest
garter (or, I suppose, he arranges it like
that), and merely Count von Hochberg and
Freiherr zu Fiirstenstein on his afternoons
off.
The Australian dramatist who can pro-
duce anything that moves as rapidly as
Belasco’s “Girl of the Golden West ” will be
able to buy a team of aeroplanes, a palace
or two, and even climb up towards a
K.C.M.G.-ship—a bauble that is alleged to
have its price. Belasco made a pot of money
out of his “Girl,” which he wrote round
one situation—the drop of blood that drips
from the fugitive’s wound on to the hand of
his pursuer. This dramatic end to a man-
hunt in the U.S. occurred as a matter of
cold fact. The wretched game, badly-
wounded, dragged himself up into a loft,
and almost escaped the official bloodhound,
or pug dog, or whatever beast it was. A
drop of gore fell, by the bitter irony of
Fate, on to the paw of the Law which was
raging below. Climax.
The news of Miss Olga Monie’s engage-
ment to the rich Mr. Lebbeus Hordern
floated into this office, to-day (Monday). I
followed it up by telephone, and chased it
to Strathfield. Through the far-off whir of
“Engaged,” and “Is that you, XXX?” and
the general buzz like a maddened beehive,
and the cry of the lady who said she wanted
lib. of chops, came a voice which said: “Yes,
what is it?” or words to that effect. I put
my query, and the speaker said she was
there. I said I knew she was there, and
repeated my question. She asked me to
speak louder. I spoke all I knew, and she
said she couldn’t hear. At this point I was
rung off. I got connected again, and she
said she had no very clear idea what I was
driving at. Here we were interrupted by a
dog barking, a lady ordering groceries, a
bank stating that the overdraft must be
reduced, a person protesting that the meat
w*as really quite good, another saying that
the rent must be paid and a
voice like that of a flapper in tears, declaring
that father wouldn’t hear of it till Alger-
non got his salary raised, and that she—the
flapper in tears —felt like drowning herself
in the upper waters of _ the Parramatta.
Amid the confusion a Amice said something
that I took to be “Yes.”
Yours in a fainting condition, amid the
ruins of a telephone.
VANDORIAN.


***
S'**;
SfB
11
KT
V
■IX' S i
I
VM
\
;A?>H
sax
?/.
t ?h&y* >. r ,
- : &
&M. wm
,ar J?
//:■> ,•* 'Atflf'fi. ■ iJ'®
,; / : '/'-;f ; V >• /JfyFi
t't&mmJ 1 %
/■ / .. .rsd
m
it#.
~f ! H i/; ; : 'I /■?f> Vj
» i 4 14 i,
-4
f-wSm
Ufi
C fcj
S < —. C / ‘^'
Cobrat, '* Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Is a champion
Golfer, too.
As the ball flies
On its way,
Clubmen murmur,
“ Splendid play !
Did vou see that?
j
Man alive !
Braid could hardly
Do that drive !
Chunder must have
Played a lot !
j
That was clean —
A COBRA shot! ’


gfh
CHARACTERFUL GARMENTS
Farmer’s “Victor” Suits,
Ready to "Wear.
Farmer’s “Victor” Suits possess that character and individuality
which appeal to all smart dressers, and strikingly emphasise the
high-grade work put in the modern ready-to-wear garment. In all
essential features “Victor” Suits approximate so closely to the
Tailor-made that only an expert eye can distinguish one from the
other, whilst our system of cross sizes enables us to fit all figures
—tall or short, stout or slender —with satisfaction.
The materials come from world-renowned makers, and are in
newest shades of Brown, Green and Grey. The coats are modelled
in two- or three-button styles; vests medium in the opening;
trousers smartly cut and containing hip pocket.
Price 551- the Suit.
Other Prices : 45/-, 50/=, 60/-, 65/-, 70/-, 75/=.
CARRIAGE PAID ON THESE SUITS
THROUGHOUT the COMMONWEALTH
FARMER’S, Sydney.
DUNLOP
HOT-WATER
•BAGS*
last several Winters
do not crack or leak!
BUY ONE NOW ’
The cost is nothing
compared to the
comfort they give.
If your Chemist or Storekeeper doe* not
•tock ** Dunlop” brand, order direct from
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
more
cold
fg
hfg
h
fg
' '9* * ift
k,V*
1 \
Qp)
s:
DUNLOP
GOLF BALLS
ALWAY 3 GIVE 3ATDFACTION/
GOLFISTS say that the
“ Dunlop ” plays longer
and better than any other
ball procurable.
Obtainable from all
PROFESSIONALS and
SPORTS DEPOTS at....
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
M M Jt
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. j
Melbourne, Sydney.
Wellington, Christchurch
2'6
hfg
h
gh
USE
DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRES
It pays—their strength and quality
ensures a big mileage, and every
cnticfartinn Obtainable all Garages, but
saubiacuon see you get » D unlops."
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. All Stntes *nd N.Z. J
gfg
DUNLOP
MINING
ENGINEERING CooJS
Stand alone for
Quality and Price.
EVERY CLASS OF RUBBER GOODS
STOCKED OR MADE TO ORDER.
TENDERS AND SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne. Sydney.
Perth, Brisbane, Wellington, Chrlatohurch,
Obtainable
all
Boot
3toreo
Specify
"Dunlop
Brand'
0)E
©
©
DUNLOP
NEEtf
ĝh
Ensure
Easy*
Comfortable
WalKing.
Dunlop Rubber Co.-all States & H~Z
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 5, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Swastika Club captured Mary Proc-
tor, on Friday, for tea, and, to the members’
great joy, the astronomical little lady talked
a bit. She repudiates the general idea that
astronomers are awesome personages, who
turn their backs on this microscopic world
and gaze yearningly into Space. During
her wanderings she has met many star-
gazers, and nearly all of them took an in-
terest in golf, tennis or some earthly game
of the sort. One whose name I forget—or
perhaps she didn’t mention it —wrote a poem
for her about planets and mutual attrac-
tion, Jupiter’s rings, double stars and such-
like sentimental things. She speaks in a
sweetly intimate way of what she calls “the
friendly stars.” She explains that she is
more attached to the constellations she has
been properly introduced to, and knows by
name. On the voyage out, a book by an
Australian woman astronomer helped her to
get acquainted with the quenchless night
lights of this part of the blue immortal roof.
The authoress (formerly Miss Orr, of Syd-
ney), is now married to Astronomer Ever-
shed, and dwells in an Indian observatory.
President Mrs. Staugbton took the lady into
tea, gave her some beautiful pansies, and
turned on a good musical programme. Gertie
Johnson, a black-haired beauty with a
Melba-praised voice, loosed some top-notes.
Mr. Nicholson sang of some heavenly girl’s
starry eyes; and Maurice Dudley’s wife
showed once again that she can recite as
dramatically as her professional stage hus-
band.
The Swastika Club is divided into liter-
ary, dramatic, musical and social circles,
each of which is designed to catch different
varieties of women and blend them into one
grand, sweet cat. The nice tame men who
help in the literary and musical outbreaks
are said to wonder morosely why they can-
not be admitted as members. It is simply
because the. institution may yet be made
residential, in which case, of course, Mrs.
Grundy would shriek and swoon away if she
thought any male person belonged. The idea
of men members is pleasing to contemplate,
but impossible. Only British or American
missionary homes in the (so-called) “East”
can be mixed and residential.
In the sunshine of Wednesday afternoon
of last week, South Yarra got under its
most blinding top hat, clamped itself inside
its best dress, and tottered in the new boots
that pinch like infuriated lobsters to Christ
Church, for the Eric Byron Moore-Dorrie
fetaughton wedding. The bride, who is one
of the bright girls of society, glowed in a
frock woven in Brussels, and assembled here,
while her groom wore a nervous look, and
grasped his shaven chin anxiously. Three
maidens, simply clad and hatted in white,
followed _ the procession. It was the sort
of simplicity that makes a horrifying bill,
and is conducive to domestic revolution.
Roma Clarke stood, slim and tall, in the
shoes of sister Grace Byron Moore, now in
Japan. Nona Grey-Smith and Marjorie
Levey were the other attendants. Marjorie
had Guy Miller apportioned to her as
groomsman, for it will be their turn to play
the star parts in a few weeks’ time. Byron
Moore himself made only a brief appear-
ance, for he is a very sick man, and not
equal to long-distance functions. Mrs.
Byron Moore wore a charming wallflower-
brown frock, while the Staughton widow
wept gracefully over her daughter in an ex-
quisite gown of black lace. It was as nice
a weeping gown as I have ever seen. The
whole smart set were amongst the also-rans,
and all finished strongly at the breakfast at
St. Neot’s, the Staughton home in South
Yarra. Time (approx.), 4 hour 28min. 18
4-ssec. —a record for the distance.
By the way, the late S. T. Staughton
directed in his will that his wealth was to
be spent in the land that produced it. This
so upset his widow that she tried to have
it set aside. And, having partially got her
way, she found that she didn’t really want
it, and stayed on to shake a presidential bon-
net in the face of many a harassed com-
mittee.
Said that the young widow who had en-
gaged to change her name in one syllable
only is relinquishing the idea. Her "fiance
cannot separate himself from the sea, and
she wanted him on the land.
Mrs. Albert Miller has offered the use of
her garden for an October fete in aid of the
new Babies’ Home. The agitated matrons,
realising at last that -every babe is a valu-
able national asset, have decided to stun
Mrs. Grundy and smash her umbrella, spec-
tacles and heart by taking any baby without
question. The poor mother may, if she likes,
leave her offspring on the doorstep, and run
back unencumbered to face a censorious
world. And the Home will regard the little
bundle as a valuable piece of living Aus-
tralian property, and cherish it accordingly.
The vacated John Madden familv domi-
cile (Cloyne) in Chapel-street, took on the
commercial character of an afternoon tea-
shop whilst its furniture-sale was pending.
On the day before the auction last week a
red-lettered card in the hall notified visitors
that tea could be had in the kitchen. The
refreshment was temptingly displayed on a
small table in the back hall, and when an
unsuspecting wanderer, after viewing the
goods and chattels, turned her attention to
a cup of tea and a scone she found that it
had cost her sixpence. The payment of the
penalty was less painful than the shock of
astonishment to women who thought they
had been soothing their nerves gratis.
A damsel of some social tonnage is almost
ready to jump on her best trousseau hat
with disappointment. She is betrothed to a
young medicine man from Caledonia, stern
and saving, and had collected enough fine
clothes to strut through a series of London
seasons. Her young man, however, in call-
ing here for his bride, made a motor tour
through the back station country, and be-
came enamored en route of a beautiful doc-
torless solitude. He is now establishing
himself in the wilderness, while the prospec-
tive bride is reddening her eyes and damag-
ing her temper by brooding over the waste
of lovely chiffons. A sunbonnet, a riding
habit and motor goggles will meet all re-
quirements in the region where it has pleased
her future husband to hang out his brass
plate and red lamp.
Some charitable women have considered
the roofless plight of the baby inhabitants of
the crowded Brighton Home, and decided to
raise funds somehow, and build a large, com-
fortable place with spacious grounds and a
few reliable cows attached. Mrs. Roystone
Davey (she was a Miss Hordern before her
marriage) is in the van. Gaud Mayoress
Davey has promised to help, and Mrs. Geoff.
Syme, the widow Staughton and Mrs.
Drought are already working hard.
The Girls’ Training Home, in East Mel-
bourne, is the next institution to be helped
with a charity dance. The sets are all to
be dressed with a view to after utility. The
garments of the housemaids’ set will revert
to the home inmates, and a ghostly crowd of
dancers will hand over their Bolton sheet-
ing shrouds for bed furnishings. An iron-
mongery set will x-attie through the Lancers
partly arrayed in good kitchen hardware.
The towel set will be especially useful, be-
cause it takes more than one towel to make
a dress. Don’t know what their headgear
is to be—possibly sponges. The people who
are working out this scheme will preside
over the unique hop in Prahran, on Septem-
ber 3.
There has been much ruffling of fur in a
fashionable cat-club on account of the black-
balling of an unsuspecting citizeness. Some
of the rejected one’s friends are resigning
just by way of indicating what they think of
the proceeding. The reason for the fierce
onslaught is intensely womanly. “She says
nasty things behind one’s back. She laughs
at people up her sleeve” is the plea raised
by the defence. Of course, the complainants
themselves are the most sweetly-spoken
critics in the world; hence the prompt-
ness with which they cast the first
black ball. It induces melancholy re-
flections. Don’t we all say nasty
things behind backs! What else are
backs for, and why, otherwise, shouldn’t
people be all front? And what are our
sleeves for but to laugh in?
A globe-trotting friend writes to me in a
mild ecstasy of excitement on the subject of
Mrs. Oswald Watt’s life-size, full-length por-
trait in the Paris Salon, which institution,
in her (g-t.f’s.) opinion, causes the Royal
Academy to “look like a Sunday-school class
di-awing exhibit.” The picture is by the famous
Nicholet, and is the talk of the season, so I
am credibly informed. And the subject of
it is here in Melbourne, and missing all the
reflected glory that might be hers so easily!
I think, if I had my portrait suspended in a
famous picture exhibition, I would spend
most of my waking hours standing casually
about in its vicinity, with the object of get-
ting a really frank expression of ooinion as
to my personal appearance. And yet, one
never knows! There is a grim story of a
fair young maiden who did this, and was
shortly afterwards picked out of the Regent’s
Park canal, not only extremely wet and
grimy, but dead. And the coroner’s jury
murmured felo de se before passing on to
the next set of remains.
Talking of Watts, Mr. Ernest Watt and
his new bride are over here staying at the
Hotel Oriental. She was a Miss Beerbohm,
and is a niece of Sir H. Beerbohm-Tree, the
tremendous actor who blews fortunes on his
productions, and occasionally gets a bit
back from them. Another of her uncles is ,
Max Beerbohm, sometime critic of the
Saturday Review, and a caricaturist and
essayist of distinction. Her brother married
Miss Elsie Anderson, a daughter of David
Anderson, of the Orient Co., and he is acting
with the Lewis Waller company in New
York.
Our Mrs. Percy Chirnside is making a tre-
mendous hit in London, where she is staying
with the lovely Mrs. Alec Hay. These two
young women and Mrs. T. H. Kelly were the
only Australians to penetrate or burst into
the Royal Enclosure during last Ascot week.
Tickets for the Royal Enclosure are sought
by persons in the Smart Set, or thereabouts,
with the same frantic avidity that the absurd
Crusading folks displayed in their tiresome
chase for the Grail, in the black and super-
stitious and altogether-degraded Middle
Ages. Frequently they fail to get them —
just as the Crusaders hardly ever got much
Grail —for the documents are in the keeping
of the Master of the King’s Buck- (or is it
Tripe?) hounds; and he is one of the most
unapproachable officials on earth. Rendered
utterly desperate by the Master’s dogged
refusal to weigh in with the enclo-
sure tickets, some Americans attempted, this
year, to obtain a bunch of them by fraud.
However, the canine expert, was _ too much
for them. Temporarily leaving his animals
to fend for themselves, he fled, in a dishev-
elled frame of mind, to London, and got out
an injunction against the deceivers. . It was
the first case on record in which the
majesty of the British Law has been invoked
with the express object of preventing people
from getting into society.
The Gray-Egerton dame, who, with her
chick, is due in this city about September,
will stay with daughter Phyllis Power. Her
second baronet will not accompany her
hither, but will meet the returning pair at
Colombo, and take them for a ramble
through India.
The Norman Brookes baby can congratu-
late itself on having arrived. A few months
ago, the tennis champion’s bride was taken
very near the shadows by a severe attack, of
typhoid fever. Mamma Mrs. Emmerton, with
the aid of a couple of white-capped nurses,
dragged her from the danger zone.
Mrs. Charles Fairbairn and nephew Os-
borne O’Hara, who is at present on leave
from his regiment in India, indulged recently
in a motor smash. Nephew Osborne saved
all his face ; but Auntie’s shapely nose struck
some hard substance, and had to be laid up
for repairs. The latest news is that it is
mending nicely.
Molly Carew, in a moonlight-blue ninon
dress, gave her first nervous bow of the week
at the Athenaeum, last Monday night. Her
audience was very friendly. Uncle Kelly,
of the big Treadway drapery, strolled in at
the head of an army of softgoods women.
Brother-in-law-twice-removed Dunlop, who
mixes tennis with his rag-dealing, followed
with another feminine battalion. Musical
Tom Hogan and his wife led a large she-
party to their seats. The squatting Reids,
of Camperdown, garrisoned one corner of
the hall. Molly had an osprey waving against
the draped peacock blue background, and a
spot light streamed upon her complexion.
She looked charming, and would be most
satisfactory, if only she would discontinue
forcing her voice. She can do pretty well
everything with the piano, and her memory
is faultless. The gifted girl should be able
later to evolve an original entertainment,
instead of following the lead of Margaret
Cooper, and struggling with her high-pitched
songs. She had the valuable assistance of
Barker and his liquid gold harp, also a tragic
young man called Book, who arrayed him-
self on the stage as various Dickens charac-
ters, and delivered himself of their speeches.
The Alliance Frangaise has secured a
snappy novelty for its next soiree. Pathe
Fr&res are lending some new and exquisite
French films of some of the old chateaux,
and these are confidently expected to make
the audience purr with delight.
The special show of bulldogs that hap-
pens regularly at this draughty time of year
is made merely a one-day parade, in defer-
ence to the nervousness of the breed. The
rain fell in sheets on this year’s sullen
pageant, and rmly the wildest enthusiasts
towed their brutes to the scene. Dr. Ire-
dell’s imported English dog, which missed
last year’s function through being immured
in quarantine, was hailed champion, and
was dragged home again through the slush
covered with honor. An umbrella would
have been of more service under the moist
circumstances.
Said that Percy Frostick (the talented
first violin of the Quinlan orchestra, not the
gilded society youth) has suffered a break-
down owing to the strain of the quick-
change Melbourne season. The first violin
has to endure to the end; the society youth
may escape at any interval.
Beatrice Day recently settled down with
her schoolboy son to what she fondly imag-
ined would' be a happy, domesticated month
in a home-like Melbourne flat. But the flat
variety of Maryanne proved to be only 10
degrees less reliable than the villa variety—
which is horrible, when it isn’t absolutely
poisonous. So the clever woman has to
spend most of her off-stage hours propelling
a broom and hovering anxiously over a gas
stove, what time a disgusted son hangs round
and looks on moodily.
McCubbin, artistic worshipper of the blue
gum, hangs his typically Australian pictures
at the Athenaeum, on August 14.
Melba sent an electric shudder through
the hair of emotional Melbourne, one day
last week, by arriving in her big touring
car, accompanied by several cwt. of luggage.
She had come into town to stay for the con-
cert, a dance, and the last splendid farewell
and departure. She stepped out briskly at
a fashionable foodery, and trotted across the
pavement, exhibiting in transit a neat vision
of grey spats and patent leather boots. Then
she disappeared, and the street sighed trem-
ulously, and slowly came to.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—.
Mayor and Mayoress Prosser gave a party to their
ratepayers last week. The revelry transpired by
night—like that other famous social function which
preceded the battle of Waterloo —and it consisted of
a concert, a. supper, a dance, and more supper. Mrs.
Prosser assisted to chase dull care off the premises in
a blue, lace-draped frock. Brave Mayors and fair
Mayoresses were there in force —-also, the Governor
and Lady Bosanquet. She wore her blue frock—or,
at any rate, one of them. One of the daughters wore
emerald green, the other looked ravishing (forgive
the novelty of the phrase) in floral ninon.
Miss Gladys Prockter, of Glenelg, was married at
Brighton on Monday, to Mr. E. Hartley-Williams.
He used to inhabit Mount Gambier, but is now a
Westralian, and to the West the newly-weds will go
as soon as the honeymoon’s fitful fever is o’er.
Mrs. Dudley Hayward, who recently bought the
Gordon Ayers’ place in North Adelaide, gave a bridge
party there on Friday. About two score women
warmed the artistic-looking house up by the simple
and easy process of playing cards and drinking tea.
Fair-haired Editha Hunte has got big enough
to be engaged, and the inevitable result has duly
followed. The George Milnes, who are now in Eng-
land. will remain there long enough to allow their
daughter to act as bridesmaid.
Mr. “Percy” Bowman is in Melbourne with his
horse Monarch, and your deponent hereby wishes
him luck. That much-rushed fowl has been eluding
him persistently of late. Monarch was just beaten
for first place a few days back, and The Greek died
suddenly while in training.
It is claimed that Mrs. Henry Dunstan, who died
at Magill on Friday, was the first female to be born
at Port Adelaide. The event occurred in the winter
of 1840. Dr. Mayo, who rode through eight miles
of swamp to attend the case, was the grandfather of
the woman-medico of that ilk.
Another old colonist, Alexander Kirk, used Golden
Grove as a jumping-off place or spring-board to
Paradise on the same day. He arrived in the Lysan-
der in ’3B, and made some of the Port-road.
The Hunt Club met at the Outer Harbor last week.
By rights the day should have been a merry one. The
Orient Company had asked both riders and spectators
to tea aboard the Osterley, and there are few things
that give us more whole-souled delight, hereabouts,
than the prospect of a free feed. However, disaster
piled upon disaster’s head, as Chapman or Alexander,
or someone of that sort, puts it, and the outing was
a dead failure. To start with it rained, so that the
going was heavy for the horses and the “take-off”
was like a sodden feather-bed, and the “landing”
was like a greased quicksand. Also, it was blither-
ingly cold, which made things miserable for the
roadsters and spectators. And, finally, the ghastly
news was broken to the company that the Osterley
was late, and that the free meal, above-mentioned,
would have to be consumed in a railway shed. Have
you ever fed in a shed ? Regarded as a dissipation
I can only describe it as rotten. In the end, most
of the people caught the early train to town, using
such language concerning the clerk of the weather
as one rarely hears employed in regard to the Devil,
or even the Labor party or the telephone department.
The immense and splendiferously tuneful Mrs.
Cisneros is here. But, alack! there is no concert-
hall available that is big enough for her. The Town
Hall is booked right up by the flickergraph industry,
as usual, and there is no other edifice capable ■ of
doing justice to the vast contralto’s tremendous art.
The Cisneros Count fled in disorder and frenzy when
he found the sort of place his wife was to sing in—
and he didn’t stop till he got to Sydney. In justice
to ourselves, I must mention, however, that several
authorities aver that the Count’s departure had no-
thing to do with anything but the Langford-McVea
fight. Anyhow, I hear that he arrived in the grossly-
wronged old Ma capital in time to witness the whole
of that affray.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


t IJ-- •
rnmn*
r
V
v-J
V:/s;>
r;-:*n
/
&
>
iS
«»£
m
mm
St
I
"X
Si*
■ P
"wimm
i
im
mmmmmmmm
KWK
'\v»£ r
r«M
rfvXv-rfJiii -1
C»#\v;, C*.VPP
&»??»«««
«!;;4
t,v*'-.-»fv;r-
wAV:V.v/* ,: ' ■<#
I feV ? r
ggffiffi
SWA
as
PS*?:--;
y.v.j
pISPi
iti*iiikLj'V •»
/A--. 7
J ;.«.;>
Dewar’s Imperial


ASK FOR
♦ ♦ ♦
FRANZ JOSEF
LAGER BEER.
TRY ...
HAC KERB RA U
DARK LAGER.
NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Dull headache, brain in a muddle, easily irritated?
Take Stearns’ Headache Cure; one wafer brings a
smile. Easy to carry, easy to take.*
gh
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It.
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6; Double, 22/6 ; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or Wrii e.
DENYER BROS.' Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Spider” on a little known trade: —
Chief Secretary Jack Murrajq of Victoria, has again
been putting his ill-selected boots in it. A deputa-
tion from the Bill Stickers’ Union waited on him
asking for a Wages Board. He said “No,” on the
ground that bill-sticking was only a casual occupa-
tion and was not skilled labor. Which showed the
ignorance of John. Let him try his hand at sticking
up a fair-sized bill at a reasonable elevation even
on a calm day. He will take six times as long as
an expert would do. His bill will be crumpled and
ask|w even when he is finished. And when he thinks
the business is done, even if it be done badly, and
is about to move away the gummy document will
fall on him and blot him out, and he will curse
miserably beneath it and barely save himself from
suffocation. On a windy day his bills will simply
blow away. Bill-sticking is an art, even though it
be a humble one —a greater art than loafing. There
are 80 Melbourne billposters in the Union. A
Wages Board has been granted to another trade
with only 22 hands. Billposters’ wages range from
255. a week to £3 55., without rhyme or reason.
THE BOGEY.
FAT: “Well, by gum, if this don't frighten
'im, nothin will.”
“D.”: The local Tories raised a mighty
howl over the complaint raised in the House
of Commons that a short-sighted man —
really a man who was going blind,
and whose case was hopeless—had been
shut out from Australia. It means another
vote lost to the Black Labor party.
“Vulcan”: Andrew Fisher’s baby-bonus
scheme is a mild bit of Sosh by comparison
with the latest French proposal. M. Mes-
simy, a former Minister for War, recently
tabled a Bill authorising a bonus of £2O to
mothers for every child after the third.
Either the whole of the cash may be taken,
or half, or all, may go to form an annuity.
The latter option assures the mother of,
say, eight children of an annuity of a bit
over £2O after 60 years of age, in addition
to any old-age pension or other circumstance.
Nielsen, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), is back from
the U.S., where he has for months past been
drawing £4 4s. per day as “expenses” for
doing something not very well defined. It is
supposed that he went to inspect something,
or report on any old thing—anyhow, a
rather inconvenient member of the party
was out of the way for a while. And by
calling his £4 4s. a day “expenses,” instead
of plain remuneration, the matter was so
put that Nielsen was able to retain his seat
and his Parliamentary salary. In fact, he
could do that even if “expenses” were made
£lO or £2O a day.
“0.C.C.”: I see that the Dutch Govern-
ment has issued a decree prohibiting the
export of rice from the Dutch East Indies —
Java, Sumatra, etc.- —owing to the local
shortage. The announcement was received
quite unmovedly by the Sydney Foreign
Trading press, but what sort of a row will
they kick up the day the Australian Govern-
ment prohibits the export of meat from the
Commonwealth —owing to the high price
locally, and decrees that until steak,
ribs, mutton, pigs’ feet, corned, etc.,
are respectively down to a certain figure in
the local market, the prohibition will hold
good ! Also, that whenever they go up again,
the prohibition will resume holding good!!
Did you hear a noise like seven devils in
tlie distance?
“Lud” in explanation :■ —-
The Manhood Suffrage Bill, introduced by Educa-
tion Minister Pease, in the British Parliament, will
add 2,000,000 voters to the roll. If the women get
the vote, there will be altogether 10,500,000 stuck
on. The present number of voters is slightly under
8,000,000. The Bill abolishes all plural voting, and
all University votes. It stands on a strictly one-
man-one-vote basis. The number of plural votes
struck off will be 500,000. This, and the knocking
off of the university qualification, is a severe blow
to the Tories. No property qualification. Nothing
but residence or six months’ occupation. No voter
disqualified by shifting. His vote adheres to him till
he becomes qualified in the new place. This is called
continuous registration. Penalty for plural voting
will be £2OO, or a year’s imprisonment, and dis-
qualification for seven years. After passing the Bill,
the Government will proceed to re-distribution of
seats. Considering that there is in London a con-
stituency with 38,523 voters on the roll, right along-
side one with 3133, it is wanted. Ireland has a top
constituency with 10.330 electors, and a bottom one
with 1742. It is all very happy-go-lucky.
According to Brother Robinson Snowball
(of Melbourne), in the course of an earnest
anti-Home Rule blither, on July 12: “In
England the illiteracy is 29 per 1000; in
Scotland 39 per 1000; and in Ireland 102
per 1000.” It seems probable enough. The
absolute prohibition of Irish schools, uni-
versities and literature of all sorts under
the later English Tudors certainly made Ire-
land an ignorant place. Even within the
present writer’s recollection (and his years
are only 53), the teaching of history was
forbidden in the Irish national (Govern-
ment) schools, presumably because even the
most brilliant liar couldn’t write a history
of English rule in Ireland that would stand
inspection, and yet not raise a shudder.
Whether the same rule still holds good he
is unable to say. Yes, Ireland is not abso-
lutely bursting with knowledge. «Tt is time
for a change. Curiously enough, Brer Snow-
ball seems to think the illiteracy of Ireland
under English rule is a reason why English
rule should continue.
“N.” : One of the current joys of life is the
plan of a Federal capital at Yassberra (the
one which aroused J. D. Fitzgerald to so
much loose glory in the S. M. Herald), done
by the successful competitor from Chicago.
The Chicago man never saw the
place. He comes from a dead fiat
city, located Deside a huge fresh-
water lake, and the average rain-
fall thereabouts is 33 per cent,
greater than that of damp old Lon-
don. So, being accustomed to lots
of fresh water —-Chicago has 12,900
square miles of good drinkables
opposite its front door, and the
depth thereof is 690 ft.—the man
from Pork City spread himself. He
dashed rivers, lakes, ponds, pud-
dles, bogs, waterfalls, torrents and
all sorts of wetnesses into his plan
of Yassberra, and made a glory and
a fishy radiance of it. And J. D.
Fitzgerald fell down and wor-
shipped the design, and said it was
“supremely beautiful and suitable.”
“F.C.” : A recent return alleges that Vic-
toria’s 29,424 senior cadets put in an aggre-
gate of 12,616 hours —5929 of which were
voluntary—during the quarter ended June
30. It works 01ft at something under two
minutes’ training per week per cadet. Where
is the liar who says we aren’t going the right
w'ay to achieve an effective citizen army?
Let him be instantly hanged !
The Stinking Fish mongers of the Cold
Land were on a bad wicket when they alleged
that the Lancashire immigrant, Whalley,
was refused a landing in Westralia because
of short-sightedness. In reality, he was re-
turned because he was suffering from a
double corneal ulcer, and would shortly have
to enter an institution and become a charge
on the community. Anyhow, this country
would do well to reject all short-sighted new-
comers. It has more than enough already.
Aren’t the men who are postponing the build-
ing of the Territory line and the passing of
a genuinely protective tariff sufficient afflic-
tion. without inviting others?
Before the law all men are equal. If a
millionaire is found wandering around with-
out visible lawful means of support he is
jugged like anybody else. —Casual Tliilo-
so-plier.
The Postal vote still obtains in Victoria,
where it is mostly used by timid spinster
ladies of a Stout way of thinking, though
even they use it so little and with such poor
success as to make it not worth the bother.
As a case in point. At the Abbotsford
(Vic.) by-election last week, out of 60(59
votes given, only 52 were sent through the
post, and of these 41 were rejected as in-
formal. That is, 11 effective postal votes
were given—one-sixth of one per cent!
IN DEFENCE.
An official return shows that the total expenditure by the Federal Government at Yass-Canberra, to
July 1, was £84,500. “This,” says Mr. O’Malley, “shows the falseness of the statements by those
wishing to create the impression that we are spending vast sums from rates and taxes, licenses, and so
forth.” —Sydney TELEGRAPH.
THE O'MALLEY: “There! The roosters who told you we were spending millions were
WRONG ! The whole caboose cost only £84,500.”
Transplantation to London has not modi-
fied George Reid’s Yes-Noism. George got
this off his chest last week :—
During my life visions of a really Imperial Parlia-
ment, with a truly Imperial executive, have crossed
my imagination, but a calm investigation of facts
has led me to only two practical results —first, un-
bounded wonder that an Imperial system so loose
and disjointed should work so marvellously; and,
second, the stubborn fear that closer bonds might
lead to greater friction!
If George’s disarticulated system works in-
differently well, and yet causes George “un-
bounded wonder,” why shouldn't a less dis-
articulated system (particularly of trade)
cause him still more unparalleled and inde-
scribable astonishment? And if, under the
existing Dutch-doll system, George experi-
ences no fear, why—when it is proposed to
tighten up the joints of the system—should
George shudder all over the premises, and
totter on his foundations?
AUSTRALIAN NURSERY RHYME.
[For Tiik Bulletin. ]
The maternity bonus proposal by the Federal Gov-
ernment, is to be considered after the Budget debate,
in the House of Representatives.— Daily paper.
Baby, baby Bunting,
Daddy’s gone a-punting-!
Gone, where Hookies yell and grin,
To do the Bunting bounty in !
sr.s.w. O. C. G.
From Sydney Telegraph (30/7/T2) :—
Colonel J. MacArthur Onslow, M.L.A., asked the
Premier: “Has he received any communication from
his Excellency the State Governor, or from
his Excellency the Lieutenant-Governor, regarding the
toast given by Mr. TreflS, the Minister for Agricul-
ture, on July 8?” The occasion was the one on
which Mr. TreflS coupled the name of the Pope with
that of the King, and gave the former precedence.
This transparent effort to stir up sectarian
feeling comes with an ill grace from Onslow,
who got a footing in Waverley, in the first
instance, by a judicious manipulation of
the R.C. vote on the part of his supporters.
“Tomato” Jessep had held the seat for years,
practically on the Yellow Pup ticket alone.
Onslow came along in the role of broad-
minded patriot and anti-bigot. It was re-
presented by the supporters of Onslow that
no Laborite had a show in this shabby-
genteel suburb, and the argument went.
Onslow got every fragment of anti-Orange
vote that was going, and the unhappy Jessep
went out of politics with a rush, and back to
an unhampered study of the banana trade.
In the circumstances, Onslow’s latest effort
amounts to putting a decomposed fish in the
friendly hand that helped him to his job, or
surreptitiously leaving assafoetida in a bene-
factor’s belltopper. It recalls the case of
King Lear, who complained that his chil-
dren had dropped a toothless serpent in his
tank.
“Y.Z.” : “The Minister in charge of immi-
gration, who met the steamer, expressed the
opinion that the immigrants were a fine
body of people.” That is the stereotyped cry
of the Melbourne press after the arrival of
a bunch of immigrants, and Melbourne
people are wondering what becomes of the
grand specimens immediately Hagelthorn
withdraws his penetrating gaze. Fine samples
are extremely rare among the immigrants
who invade Melbourne, and if they are any-
thing like fairly representative of the bull-
dog breed, as produced in these latter days,
John Bull’s stock has degenerated most woe-
fully. John sent us the scum to begin with,
and it seems to me he is seizing the present
opportunity to send the dregs.
The Manchester Guardian (England)
spoke in a freezing tone of voice about
Maoriland’s recent loan :
The result of the Maoriland Government loan of 4J
millions is somewhat remarkable, in view of the at-
tractive terms upon which it was offered. The fixed in-
terest was Si per cent., but as the bonds were offered at
99 and repayable at par in two years, the real return
to an investor was 4 per cent., while to the under-
writer, who received a commission of 1 per cent., the
return was 4 f per cent. Actually it was really more,
because those people received an extra \ per cent, in
accordance with the practice relating to applications
for new issues on forms bearing the stamp of a firm
of stockbrokers or a financial house. The under-
writers of this loan have had to take up 85 per cent.,
which means that for the bulk of the money the
Maoriland Government will pay 4f per cent., and if
to this is added the expenses of advertising the issue,
etc., it will probably be found that altogether the
money has cost them 5 per cent.
Which, all things considered, is even a
harder frost than it looked at first glance.
“Billy T.” : The party system is responsi-
ble for an enormous waste of svmpathy. The
Hop Boon Gooey case owes its prominence
entirely to a lavish expenditure of snuffle,
and this wealth of sniff and snort is in-
spired. not by a yearning to keep the Hop-
pess Poon Gooey in, but by a passionate
desire to put Fisher out. The Six Hatters
excitement was another burst of fictitious
passion, having a purely party purpose. So
with half a score of similar scares worked
up with Wowserish fierceness by the party
out to the moral detriment of the party in.
In fact, it appears to me that about 75 per
cent, of the pious and political clamor that
afflicts this naturally peaceful and easy-
going community is engineered directly, or
indirectly, by party politicians, and if the
party system were abolished there would be
such dead silence and holy calm that it
would be always Sunday afternoon. As
things are, a dogfight cannot happen in the
street without Brother Hump or Brother
Howler finding some deep political signifi-
cance in it.
THE WATERS OF BABBLE-ON!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is something very unusual about the char-
acter of the no-confidence debate now going on in
the Legislative Assembly.— Sydney Telegraph.
Mr. Fitzpatrick criticised the Government’s finan-
cial system. There was a limit to borrowing, he de-
clared, not only in this country, but in the Mother-
country a 150...- — N.S.W. Ass. proceedings.
The simple explanation seems to be that Bull has
been on a financial jag, just as we have, and when
Bull is expected to support, not only his own public
drunk, but ours as well, a great deal too much is
asked of him. —The Bulletin.
By the waters of Babble-On we sat down and wept,
When we remembered thee, O Zion!
Y'ea, for behold ! to our grievous astonishment, wrath
and dismay, while we slept —
The little, lamb-like loan had grown (or had been
metamorphosed) into a Roaring Lion!
By the rivers of Babble-On, there we sat down !
Yea, we wept when we remembered Zion !
For lo! while the rulers gathered together in purple
and fine linen, and discoursed wantonly, say-
ing sweet things—even the false prophets
Jones, Smith, Robinson and Brown —
The little baby-loan had become a furious giant,
stronger than Orion !
O Daughter of Zion, arise! cry out in the night!
The just men forsake^thee —the foolish ones con-
tinue to gabble on!
Thy loans are become as monsters, eager to devour
thee on sight!-
And thy IO U’s are gone over thy bead; why,
then, more indite t....
Let our cry come unto thee, as these irregular
lamentations we write !. ...
Turn thee, ere too late, from the loan that is easy
and light—
For at the last the insatiate serpent turneth to bite.
Then, fury driveth the rabble on,
And there is no escape from Babylon!
N.s.w.
AN INFURIATED PROPHET.


No More
Transmission
Faults
Mobilubricant
In the square can.
wm
MfiBILIIBRICANT
AUTOMOBILE
vmx&Ttos
MQBILUBRICANT
Ci^rkA>
MOBILUBRICANf
<«UTOMOBILB
LUBRICATION
The New High Grade
Grease
A Non-electrolytic, true compound, specially manu-
factured for Automobiles from selected Pennsylvanian
stocks (vacuum distilled) and picked Organic Fats,
free from acids and water.
In 5 or 101 b. tins, 6 to the case. 9d. per lb.
In 251 b. tins, Bj4d. lb. F. 0.8. Melbourne.
If your Garage does not stock
Order direct—
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
'
s. J
Wit'' / *■' ■-
c.a i
11?—net-'
r/vL
MAIU
‘,jV ** ..I i- t,7‘ ■■
Hi
ci=r=
W
theAtai/^f \
S>
ves
There our Goods go—North, South, East, West—to the furthest
Boundaries of the Commonwealth. —“Our Store at your door” is
with us no mere catch word—We have made it a practical pro-
position in thousands of Australian Homes in the past.—We can
bring its benefits to you —now!
OUR “ MAIL-ORDER ” CATALOG
55 Wherever the Mail Goes ” —that you’ll like to keep and is worth
paying for —is yours gratis and post free for the asking.—lt
has its message for you no matter in what far-out Corner of the
Continent you are tucked away
WRITE FOR YOUR COPY TO-DAY.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
244-254 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
Pty
Ltd
V
m
w
1,000,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
WRITTEN, ILLUSTRATED and PRINTED IN AUSTRALIA.
The Trader A Venture in New Guinea. By CECIL ROSS-JOHNSON.
I IIC 1 1 cIUCI . Wlth Sjx Full-Page Illustrations. Price I/-; Postage Id.
“The Trader” is one of the most fascinating books of adventure yet published, and some of the
chapters would be hard to beat for tense dramatic situations and vivid word-painting.
the young Australian explorers who invade New Guinea in search of pearls, copra and
rubber meet a series of adventures, or misadventures, sufficient to satisfy the most voracious
appetite. The description of the man who keeps the last bullet for his mate, who has been
captured by cannibals, is worth the money itself; and the story of the trader who has been
dynamited beyond recognition, and who prays his comrades to put an end to his suffering, opens
up some fine points regarding legal murder and common-sense humanity. Altogether a book out
of the common.
BOORS ON BUSHRANGING
Not having had a national war, Australia has only the history of the guerilla
warfare carried on by the bushrangers against law and order to write about. Men
like Ned Kelly, Ben Hall and Frank Gardiner have furnished us with excitement
in plenty, but apart from newspaper or official reports there are few authentic
histories. _ The stories here told have been verified in the main by the authors,
and contain much important information that has not hitherto seen the light,
and that oftentimes puts a different complexion on bushranging episodes.
Dan Kelly, Outlaw By AMBROSE PRATT. i/-, Post Free i/i.
Being the memoirs of Daniel Kelly (brother of the famous Ned Kelly), supposed to have been
shot in the memorable fight at Glenrowan. The most convincing account of the Kelly Gang.
Three Years with Thunderbolt. Edlw by
Bushranging stories, like far-off fields, are ever green, and when the bushranger has a noted
personality and is not a mere robber, there is an added charm attached to the tale.
The Outlaws of Weddin Range. Ambrose i/(
The many stirring episodes in Ben Hall’s life are depicted with such skill that while we are
reading actual history, the whole thing has an air of genuine romance.
Gentleman Jack. By DON DELANEY.. I/-, Post Free 1/1.
Altogether a rattling story, apart from the fact that the doings of the notorious Ben Hall gang
are woven in with the main plot, and lend it a keen note of tragedy.
The Devil’s Nightcap. By LANCELOT BOOTH. 1/-, Post Free, 1/1.
The story of the Ben Hall-Gardiner gang. Historically true in outline, full of strenuous incident
and dramatic tableaux.
The Convict Pugilist. By GEO. COCKERILL. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
A tale of the early days when might was often right. Contains graphic descriptions of fights
that frequently meant life or death. Exciting, thrilling and entertaining.
The Spell of the Bush. By JOHN X. CAMERON. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
To many “The Spell of the Bush” is a living thing that haunts and charms simultaneously; but,
when to that is added the fascinating touch of bushranging', vou come under an influence that
compels you to read on and on to the end.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.
476 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AND ALL BRANCHES
AND BOOKSELLERS.
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
Throws Moving Pictures in any
place, at any time, with the
light that it makes itself.
The light is produced from electricity generated in the small magneto (Fig.
1(>) as the handle that projects the picture is turned. Thus the machine is abso-
lutely independent of any outside means of lighting, and can be used as successfully
in the camp or country house as in the city house. The light is a small electric
bulb, and the magneto cannot get out of control in any circumstances.
1
i
mg
PATHE FILMS WILL
NOT BURN and the
PATHEHOME is the only
Cinem ato=
graph which
will not in=
crease the
cost of fire
insurance on
your home.
No.
I—Handle.
3 —Delivery Spool.
B—Gate (the Damp-
house is on the
Gate).
12—Receiving Spool.
13 & 15 —Lamphouse
14—Lens.
16—Magneto.
The Pathehome gives the same result as the old cinematograph, but with-
out any risk, and is no more like it in principle than a modern runabout is like a
mail coach, The showman’s cinematograph and smaller copies of it in the hands
or the unskilled are dangerous. There is no danger with the Pathehome. Con-
sider this and the pleasure that you and vour family can get out of it, no matter
where you live, and write for full particulars now. Do it at once, using this
coupon.
FILL IN THIS COUPON and Post At Once.
PAI'HE FRERES, '/S Queen Street, Melbourne.
Please send me free catalogue of the Pathehome Cinematograph.
Name
Address
Dept. C.
Oct to know more of this
wonderful machine. Get our
catalogue posted free. It will
interest and delight you.
Write now.
Pathe Freres,
48 Queen St., Melbourne
and All Over the World.


810-SHOWMEN!
T* HERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
h
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The fierce interest taken in the Sydney
Rugby League's premiership struggle was evidenced
by the crowd of close upon 25,000 people who
braved the boggy afternoon, the sloppy ground and
the blighting wind and rain, to watch the contest
between Eastern Suburbs and Glebe, on the Sports
Ground, on Saturday. It was a memorable crowd
from the standpoint of the League, for it left £642
3s. 3d. on the doorstep as a token of its good-
will. Hardly had the multitude swarmed into the
ground when down came the rain, and Thiering
kicked off for Glebe in the middle of what looked
like a universal shower-bath. East charged, and had
Glebe defending from the very jump. The Reds
cleared the line again and again, but the Eastern
bulldogs came barking back, and all but got
through. Then a lucky and splendid kick —the sort
of kick that William the Conqueror did at Hastings—
sent the game right down to the middle of the
field. Glebe, rolling rapidly, as mentioned in
“Hohenlinden,” got the leather and swept on to the
Eastern 25 before the man with the goods was
hustled into touch. Then Eastern Suburbs lost a
man (he was ordered off the field by the referee),
and the game became more equal. Messenger marked
near half-way, and kicked a very pretty goal.
Glebe’s long-range leg had several shots at goal,
but it was not till the second spell that he succeeded
in booting the sloppy, greasy pudding over the bar,
and equalising the scores. Neither side could get
over the other’s line, and it became a matter for
heavy artillery. It was a smart heel-out to Messen-
ger, with a consequent potted gaol, that gave
Eastern Suburbs the winning lead of six points to
four. The result of this game practically decided
the premiership, as it put Eastern Suburbs too far
ahead to be overtaken. There are only three more
engagements, and Eastern Suburbs would have to
lose two of them to be brought level, even if Glebe
brought home the bacon in the whole of its three
riots yet to be. And such a thing is quite unthink-
able. For Eastern Suburbs has 20 competition points
and Glebe was only 16, while Newtown is third with
14. For the rest Newtown defeated Annandale by
14 points to 10; Balmain overthrew South Sydney
by 14 points to five; and North Sydney slew Western
Suburbs by 16 to five.
* * * *
Queensland Union Rugby XV faced Syd-
ney’s Union team at the University Oval on Satur-
day, and had a disreputable time. Rain came down
just before the riot started, and turned ground that
was already soft into a Slough of Despond. The ball
became slippery, and the players slid and flopped
helplessly. But even under these conditions skill and
brains told. Some of the Cornstalk players really did
wonders. Also, the N.S.W. men, probably because
it was their own mud they wallowed in, were quicker
at getting it out of their eyes than the invaders, who,
according to a sympathetic onlooker, had never seen
mud in their lives before. This paper disbelieves
the statement, and has a suspicion that in at
least some parts of Queensland the mud is
infinitely superior to that of the Ma State. Both
shies made gallant efforts to get away with passing
charges. But the day was not intended for passing
charges. It was the day of the dribbler, and if the
men on either side had dribbled like the youngest
inhabitant of a maternity home, the figures, and
perhaps the result, would have been different. As
it was, N.S.W. won by 12 points to three.
* * * *
The Australian division of football bad a
bad day for the beginning of its inter-State carnival,
when East Fremantle met the N.S.W. XVIII at the
Australian Football Ground, Sydney, on Saturday.
In spite of the opprobrious condition of the ball, the
visitors played a charming game, and won applause
from the crowd which cheered them on. The local
men seemed somewhat nervy, but played up better
towards the finish. The Westralians established a
lead, but, amidst shouts like a vast “Amen,” the
local men drew level, and dashed into the fray with
enthusiasm. However, the combination of the
Westralians was too excellent. It was game men
against a machine—and the machine won, by 54
points to 48. A margin of six only ; but it must be
remembered the winners were a club team only, and
a club team against a State.
* * * *
The great Soccer contest, the Gardiner
Cup, is now drawing near the goal. In other words,
it has reached the semi-final stage. Garden Island —
which must never on any account be supposed to in-
clude bluejackets, being composed entirely of arti-
ficers and workmen cunning of hand —hurled Corri-
mal and its chances into the open grave by three
goals to one. When Balmain C —Balmain is a teem-
ing nest of Soccerites —played Burns Club previously
it made a drawn game. On Saturday they met again
to decide who should kiss Polly or walk the plank.
It was the Walking Day of Burns, by two goals to
nil. In the tussle for the Rawson Cup Glebe met
the bluejackets of the warship Drake, at Lyne Park,
and climbed all over the mariners of England by
four goals to nil. Balmain took its life in its hand
and journeyed to Clyde, the most dangerous spot in
all the N.S.W. railway system, and fell upon the
Granville Club, and rent it by four goals to one —-a
bad doing in Soccer. Sydney went out to Campsie,
and got loose on Canterbury, and rolled it up with
six goals to one. In the Association struggle Bal-
main assaulted the Police, tore the uniform off it,
and won by four goals to one. The fun will eventu-
ate when the victorious Balmain team, which so far
has not lost a match in this struggle, bumps the
splendid AVest Sydney team, which has also had an
undefeated record, but had its beauty marred with a
drawn battle. Like Baal, Jehovah was sleeping, or
gone a journey, when Y.M.C.A. met Glebe, and the
Good Young Men were rolled in the slush by five to
one. West Sydney was to have met Newtown at
Sydenham, but as all the players were not swimmers,
the match was abandoned. So the result is that in
the Rawson Cup competition Glebe has 15 points,
Balmain 14, and Sydney 12. In the Association Cup
Balmain has 21 points, West Sydney 19, and Glebe
11. There are others in both competitions, but they
have received heathen burial, and they don’t count.
As the Victorian hoofball season draws
to its close, the struggles of the teams to get into
the “final four” become almost fierce, the vigor dis-
played by the lower-placed teams being as great,
and often as vain, as their regrets for throwing
away easier chances when the season was young. On
Saturday morning seven of the 10 League clubs still
had premiership chances. By sundown only six were
left —Melbourne having been passed out by ’Roy by
one measly point. Alternately either side led, but
by less than a goal, and for two hours there was no
rest or respite. A close, hard contest means low
scoring, and a 12-point advantage is not easily met;
consequently nothing was thrown away. The last
quarter was one continuous scuffle, neither side giving
the other a chance to get going. Ultimately, the
worn-out battlers of ’Rov saved the day by potting
six goals seven behinds to Melbourne’s six goals six
behinds. At Victoria Park, ’Wood, with its back
to the wall, met the same Geelong 18 that had
jumped on Essendon the week before. A win for
the Seasiders assured their entry into the finals; vic-
tory for the Magpies still left them a chance, pro-
viding some team would obligingly wallop either
Essendon or the same Geelong—and there are a few
matches ahead with possibilities about them. As
with ’Roy and Melb., neither side gave the other a
chance to break away, and at half-time ’Wood led
by a point only. At lemon-time Geelong had a four-
point lead, and set out for the couple of goals that
would make victory certain, but the Magpies put up
a finish that knocked the big, lusty Seasiders end-
ways. ’Wood’s forwards can’t kick for sour apples,
but by huge persistence they put on points till the
tallies were level. Geelong broke away, and three
good marks and long kicks gave them a goal. The
Magpies set their teeth, and plugged away till, point
by point, they were level again. But a draw was no
good to them, so they kept at it till they got another
“behind” and the lead. Then Geelong collapsed, and
the resolute pluggers put on two goals just as the
bell rang—-’Wood, seven goals 15 behinds; Geelong,
six goals eight behinds. At St. Ivilda the locals,
having no final chances, bogged in with the apparent
intention of “outing” Carlton likewise, for pure
devilment, and very nearly succeeded. Going off
with a strong lead, they kept going so strenuously
that at lemon-time they were 18 points to the good.
It took Carlton 15 minutes to knock off five of the
18, and things didn’t look too good, but by resolute
play in those last few minutes they pulled the game
out of the fire, and won by three points only—s 4 to
Saints’ 51. ’Don kept its end up against Richmond
—72 points to 43—and South ran over the Students
in the last half of the game, acquiring 85 points to
’Varsity’s 47.
* * * *
None of the Ass. scuffles counted for much,
North, ’Scray and Essendon being certain to go into
the semi-finals, while the question whether Brighton
or Brunswick will complete the quartette will not
be decided till next Saturday, when they meet on
’Wick’s ground. The uncertain North went down
to Williarnstown, and were unaccountably walloped
by 71 points to 46 ; Essendon piled up 139 to P’ran’s
66; ’Wick 127 to Melb. City’s 78; ’Scray 92 to
’Cote’s 49, and Brighton 52 to Port’s 17.
* * * *
Rifleman Ockerby, of Fremantle (W.A.),
put up a fearsome record for accuracy on Saturday
last by hurling 23 consecutive bullets into the eye
of the cow’s bridegroom at 800yds. Nobody has
risen to cheer wildly over the fact; and yet if the
people of this country knew what they were about
they’d make more row and joyful noise over that per-
formance than the booting of 100 goals by Messenger.
Till Messenger can learn to kick shells about 1400yds.,
and kick them accurately, his feet are of no real
value to this country.
* * * *
“D.” I have been following the boxing
game now for a good many years, but never have I seen
a more imbecile effort than that of the elderly police-
man who temporarily stopped the Langford-McVea
scrap on Saturday night. At an early stage of a
singularly inoffensive engagement a cry of anguish
was heard from the ringside, and a uniformed indi-
vidual, whose name subsequently turned out to be
Goulder, was seen to arise and announce that all was
over, and that Langford had lost, or words to that
effect. The combatants were paralysed. McVea
walked to his corner, stepping lightly in the manner of
Agag, and wearing the appearance of a man who has
had a great weight removed from his mind —not to
mention his jaw and other vulnerable parts. Lang-
ford simply stood and yammered like unto an appre-
hensive bull-pup. He confided to the writer, later,
that he thought the authorities were going to arrest
him for simony. The crowd, fortunately, didn’t
move. It understood too much about the fighting
business to believe that either of the men had
offended. And in a few minutes the astounding
Goulder was induced to see the error of his ways, and
to withdraw his embargo, or whatever it was. The '
episode affords a good example of the folly of put-
ting a man, who knows little or nothing of boxing,
in authority over a big public contest. Had the
people been robbed of their evening’s entertainment
on what about of them would have considered
absurdly inadequate grounds, there would probably
have been a dangerous riot. In any case a police-
man, or other official, sitting outside the ring, is not
the person to say whether the men are fighting in
accordance with the rules or otherwise. Even when
he is a young and keen-eyed policeman, it is impos-
sible for him to give a fair deal all round in those
circumstances. Such matters are for the referee,
and no one else. If non-boxing policemen are to be
suffered to referee glove-fights from the auditorium,
and the authorities are logical, Australia may expect
shortly to see plays censored and stopped by unlet-
tered detectives arising from the midst of the stalls ;
football matches ended by female warders; and Chap-
zander meetings arbitrarily broken-up by old beer-
stained and atheistical John Hops, who take no
stock in the sport or business of missionising. The
Dunn is well enough in his place, but as a supreme
authority in regard to matters with which his
acquaintance is of the slightest, he is a superfluity,
amounting almost to a Peril.
The Mclnstoush (ex s.s. Zealandia, Sun-
day last) latest importation, Ernie Zanders, is a
welter weight of promise and ability—or of mighty
fine luck. The path of the aspiring bruiser is gener-
ally strewn with bruise and damage, but this fellow,
who started on September 10, 1910, has trod the
rose-strew-n path and the primrose way. On the
above-mentioned date he fell upon Bob Horneye, at
Chicago. Robert’s eye was said to be made of horn,
and his jaw of steel. But, all the same, he lasted
just eight rounds, and then he was oblivious of
current events for quite a long time. Between that
and June 1, this year, when he fought young Kurtz
at New York, Zanders has had 19 scraps and won
them all.
* * * *
“Pug”: Sydney Evening News eulogised
Sam McVea for his “good sportsmanship” in not
taking advantage of an errant policeman’s action in
not ordering last Saturday night s scrap off, to refuse
to continue. His downfall had begun when the inci-
dent occurred, and no one knew it better than McVea.
The people who had taken seven to two about Lang-
ford winning were simply furious with him. They
didn’t attribute his omission to get briskly out of
the ring and leg it for home, with a decision against
his dangerous little rival on a foul, in his possession,
to anything so estimable as “good sportsmanship.”
Their embittered verdict was that he had lost the
chance of a lifetime —to say nothing of their money—
through sheer Ethiopian slow-wittedness. The c»ld
truth is that the larger of the two Samuels had no
option but to act as he did. The interloping John
Dunn had really no more legal authority to ad judicate
in the fra}' than the beeriest irresponsible in the
“bleacher” seats. Failing a pronouncement from the
referee that Langford had fouled him —which he was
well aware could never come, since Langford hadn’t
done so —McVea was forced, by the rules of the
game, to stay in the ring and fight on. An interest-
ing situation would have arisen, by the way, had the
John Hop not caved in, and bade the contest to go
forward. The principals, their aide-de-eamps, the
referee and the police would probably be still
arguing wildly in the ring, amid the ruins of a
Stadium, wrecked as a mark of popular disapproval
and contempt of the whole demented busin ?ss.
* * * *
“0.K.”: It is a strange coincidence that
the sculling championship, which passed away from
Britain 30 years ago, should be restored to the
tired little island by a man who is the legitimate
successor to Ned Hanlan, the rowing machine of that
period, iriaman, tne trench Canadian, was not the
first “colonial” to win the championship on the
Thames, 'irickett had previously taken the title
from Joe Sadler, a third-rate holder of it, anyhow.
But Hanlan was the comparative light-weight, whose
methods had already put the old English traditions of
oarsmanship into deep mourning before he fulfilled
Cockney expectations by making a holy show of poor
Trickett. As long as the Canadian remained cham-
pion superior strength appeared to have no chance
against superior style in an outrigger. Critics de-
clared that Hanlan would never be beaten by a
weightier athelete who was not equally easy and
graceful in action. Bill Beach silenced the quid-
nuncs by beating mechanical skill with rugged
strength, and, from his day until last week —a
stretcn of 28 years—strength of limb has seemed to
count for more than swing of body and turn of
wrist in first-class sculling matches. Barry is
an even lighter-built craftsman than Hanlan was,
but he is about sin. taller, and probably as un-
labored in his action. And, of course, he has a
longer reach than the original “machine.” Whether
his defeat of Arnst, a much finer athlete, was an
unqualified victory or otherwise, the fact remains
that Barry had previously put up a good race
against the strong man in Africa, and is far and
away the best sculler Britain has produced since
Trickett took away her championship. Labor-
saving action has recovered its lost reputation, as
the first and almost the last essential in a boat-
pusher. It gives the man power of endurance, which
is tantamount to pluck. The “superb stamina ’ of
Arnst was admitted before the race, but in the
struggle it was the tall, thin chap, with the mechani-
cal swing, who overhauled and outlasted hxs great
opponent.
* * * *
“H.S.”: According to the cable, ex-cham-
pion sculler Arnst intends to try pigeon-shooting as
a means of earning a living. My forecast is that, if
he does, and goes straight, he will presently starve.
Europe’s crack pigeon-murderers are divided roughly
into three classes: (1) Amateurs, who don’t much
care whether they win or lose money over the carnage.
( 2 ) Gamekeepers or other employees of wealthy
Italians, Frenchmen, Jews, etc. These men are backed
and otherwise exploited by their masters like so
many racehorses. (3) Experts, well born and other-
wise, who “shoot for the books.” There is as much
money to be made by judiciously missing when the
ring has freely taken three to one on the gun, as
there is to be got by pulling or stiffening a favorite.
The friends of the Honorable Dead Bird, who can kill
a dozen birds running with his. first barrel, from the
33yd.-mark, on the difficult ground at Monte Carlo,
hardly ever back him, for they never know when he is
“trying.” jiut a deluded public does, and that is
where he, and his allies, the bookmakers, score.
Pigeon-shooting, since it became hopelessly discredited
in England, half a dozen years ago, has grown rot-
tener and rottener. Nowadays, a man has to be devoid
of both shame and decency to make a profit out of
it. Also, he has to be a surprisingly good performer,
since success soon brings him back to a mark at
which it would be difficult to make sure of hitting
a lion with artillery. Arnst’s best hope of making a
any money out of the unsavory game is to offer
himself as a standing advt. for Blogg’s guns, or
Sligg’s Smokeless Powder, or both. But there is only
a mere pittance to be made even out of this practice.
Australian oarsman Harry Pearce has
hurled defiance at Barry, the new champion sculler
of the world. Pearce has wiped the surface of Aus-
tralian water clean, excepting, of course, Arnst. The
£5OO wager is said to be already on deck, and the
only thing to haggle about, apparently, is the ques-
tion of expenses. The Pearce family do not antici-
pate much trouble on that score, anyhow, and burly
brother Sidney has refrained from hoofballing in
i Maoriland, so as to be on hand as trainer in general
to his famous relative should Barry cable an accept-
ance.
* * * *
The first Australian aviator to meet sud-
den death in the practice of his profession is
Lindsay Campbell, who met his fate on Friday last,
at Brooklands, England. He was flying a monoplane
in a slight mist and gusty wind, and had traversed
3-J miles in eight minutes. He took a sharp turn,
and his engine seems to have failed just as he took
the turn. The monoplane side-slipped, and thereby
prevented Campbell from making proper use of his
planes, failed to right itself, lost way, and dropned
like a stone. The rider crashed down through 800 ft.
of air, and his chest was crushed in with the impact.
So that he died within a few minutes. He leaves
a wife and two children.
* * * *
Temple ,T. Wood is a mighty gatherer of
amatepr championships. On three successive Satur-
day afternoons, now, he has raked in a premiership
of one sort or another. At Brisbane he grabbed the
three and five miles, and on Saturday last at Rand-
wick (N.S.W.), he hauled in the five miles cross-
countryship. That is Temple Wood’s third consecu-
tive win of the N.S.W. event; so it is evident that
when the young man is fully extended, he streaks
along at such a pace that the flies haven’t time to
settle on him. Charles Weyman, as usual, ran
second. Weyman is the most consistent second-
placer in any brand of sport in Australia.
* * * *
The abandonment of the sixth Test, owing
to rain, suggests that if Triangular Cricket is to be
a success it will be necessary for the English auth-
orities to import Hugh D. Mclntosh, and turn him
loose on the construction of roofed-in cricket fields.
Outside play is evidently quite impossible. As
usual, Gregory lost the toss, and Captain Fry de-
cided to go to the wicket .while. it was visible
through the mist and snow and sleet. He did, and
his side knocked up 203 for the innings. For even
that very moderate showing he had mostly to thank
W. Rhodes, , who smacked 92 before Whitty clean
bowled him. Hobbs, Captain Fry and Sundries each
made 19; Woolley and Foster each got 13, and all
the others single figures. Hazlitt and Whitty divided
the bowling honors between them, Hazlitt taking
the smaller share. His four wickets cost 77 runs,
and were spread oyer 40.5 overs; whereas Whitty’s
four were taken in 27 overs, at a cost of only 43
runs. Matthews also took a couple, in 12 overs, at
a cost of 23 runs. Kelleway and Emery had 19 and
22 runs knocked off them respectively, without doing
any damage in reply, and Kelleway added horror to
misfortune by sending down one wide ball. Then
Australia got going, and had piled up 14 without
losing a stick, when once more the windows of
Heaven were opened, and the field broke up into a
quagmire. The powers that be, with their heads
just visible above the water, cancelled the match,
which, of course, goes down as another draw.
Africa is out of the hunt, and the winn ng of tne
rubber between England and Australia rests on the
fate of the next Test. But the continuous rain has
played the deuce with the trip, and leaves the whole
question between the Lion and the Kangaroo in a
very unsatisfactory state.
“Sport”: What’s the matter with cricket
as a gate-money sport?” is a matter for angry discus-
sion in Britain .these times. The attendance on the
first day of a recent county match —Derbyshire v.
Hampshire—totalled 189, and public interest in
triangular Test matches is confined mainly to news-
paper reports. Something has got to be done to
bring the old game nearer to up-to-date requirements,
but the doctors are in hopeless disagreement re
the best course of treatment. E. H. D. Sewell pro-
poses four-day matches, so as to give more time for
interruption by rain, whilst Lord Harris votes for
a two-days limit, and comparatively difficult
wickets. Which latter proposal seems the most rea-
sonable alternative, from an English point of view,
to the older suggestion of adding length and breadth
to the stumps. The attempt to maintain the popu-
larity of cricket with a billiard-table pitch, on the
supposition that Australian and S’African weather
will keep the ball rolling, is now a proved absurdity.
It should be abandoned without further protest. Given
wickets that were fairly difficult when dry, and three
days in which to play a two-days’ match, most of the
county fixtures could be brought to a definite issue.
For Test matches a full three-days’ limit could be
allowed, but on a bowlers’ wicket the extra day
would rarely be needed. Safe, scientific batting has
lost its value. There’s no more money in it. The
science of the future will have to take risks, and
triumph by methods that are spectacularly effective.
* * * *
“Montalex”: Re the Olympic games.
Conan Doyle has just suggested that the British Em-
pire should be represented by one comprehensive
team, “which could avail itself of Cingalese and
Malay swimmers, Indian runners and Sikh wrestlers.”
The proposition is not merely unsavory ; it is idiotic.
The Indian (meaning, presumably, Ram Bhag) can’t
run worth a cent. Neither is the Sikh anything
special at wrestling, nor can either Cingalee or
Malay show the way to a first-class white swimmer.
In fact, Doyle’s bright scheme for dragging the dis-
colored races into the Olympic contests, strikes me
as about as sensible as a proposition that hackney -
and cart-horse champions should be started for the
Melbourne Cup.
When N.S.W. and S.A. met on a hockey
field previously, it was in Melbourne, last year, and
N.S.W. won by nine goals to nil. On Saturday last,
amid the slush and mud of a wintry Saturday after-
noon, the teams representing the same two States
met again in S.ydnev, and the result was even more
disastrous to the Children of the Sun, the South Aus-
tralians. They were overwhelmed by 14 goals to one.
The S.A. captain shouted himself hoarse giving instruc-
tions, whereas the N.S.W. skipper rarely lifted up his
voice. His team was trained to its work. S.A.
secured from the bully-off, and, with a sudden rush,
carried play into the Cornstalk territory. But some-
one blundered, and the South Australians were penal-
ised, and the Cornstalks, following up the free hit,
went right through with a most infernal charge. A
few minutes later they repeated the charge and the
score. At half-time the record was N.S.W. six,
South Australia one. When the second half started,
it became evident that the N.S.W. team had received
instructions to make the game willing, and to press
every attack right home. And the team followed
out its instructions to the letter, and let loose a
series of charges that were almost insolent in their
coeksureness. Tt was evident that the N.S.W. captain
did not deem that anything like a repulse and a sudden
follow-up was possible; and took risks accordingly.
Audacity had its reward, for N.S.W. won as above-
stated.
* * * *
Previous to the S.A. match, the N.S.W.
Second XI had wrecked Victoria by three goals to
two. The Victorian match was much the better to
watch, being a more even struggle than that with
S.A., which was a run-over affair. The Victorian
team, it transpired, had not had a single game
together before meeting the Cornstalks. At the last
moment the team which had been selected was unable
to come in its entirety, and the gaps had to be
filled hurriedly with men who had no chance to prac-
tise with their comrades. But. all the same, in the
first half the Victorians did the attacking, and drew
fiMood, and were level at half-time, with one
all. In the second half N.S.W. scored two, while
the visitors managed to get one only.
* * * *
In another of its casually inspired
moments this paper mentioned two horses for the
Australian Hurdle Race last Saturday, without pay-
ing heed to the 17 candidates which also ran. The
Caulfield event proved to be a match between those
honored steeds —Uxbridge and Wimmera —and the
former did its duty to The Bulletin by winning
in record time, with an admirable jockey up.
Cameron, who won last Melbourne Cup on The
Parisian, rode a discreet waiting race on Uxbridge,
whilst Wimmera was tearing round the long course
(nearly 3| miles) lengths ahead of the field. Coming
down the straight for home, the big horse had prac-
tically collared the leader, and. flving over the final
fence (whereas Wimmera struck it pretty hard), he
won handsomely by a neck. Probably the shouts of
the populace were equally divided betwen the victory
of Uxbridge and the defeat of the runner-up, who had
been disnlaced in the betting by his stable com-
panion, Ballista, loudly alleged to be a better stayer.
* * * *
The Australian Steeplechase, next Satur-
day, is really the same old hurdle race, rim over a.
longer distance—nearly four miles—and Wim-
mera, Tinapagee, Guncap, United Kingdom.
Ballista, Wingarara and Fiddlestring are the
most likelv-looking lot. If he were a safe and easy,
jumper, Tinapagee would win easily enough. Also,
if Wimmera can be induced to go more soberly than
he went in the Hurdle, he may do the deed; and
if Guncap is a better weight-carrier than his figure
indicates he should beat United Kingdom, as at
Flemington last month. With two or three con-
spicuously good “tips” to its credit, this paper is
loth to risk a failure in suggesting that hot-headed
Wimmera may be a profitable investment on the
day.
#'* * *
Jockey R. Koops is on the road to estab-
lish a record —that of the most unlucky jockey in
Australasia. Of the last two years the bulk of his
time has been spent getting repaired after accidents
at hurdle racing. His list of misadventures includes
fractured leg (twice), broken collar bones, concussion
of the bram, also of the spine, and a few smaller
unconsidered trifles. “Still,’ he’s a man of fine
courage,” saith the Sydney Teleoraph. H’m, yes,
perhaps so ! But isn’t it mistaken courage to go on
getting smashed up to provide a betting medium for
a number of human fungi that rarely do a day of
decent work in their lives?
* * * *
Tho sudden heavy hacking of Bohadea for
the Melbourne Cup has brought that otherwise un-
remarkable five-year-old to a short price on the
unlawful lists. Trained in the same stable as The
Parisian, he is annarentlv a genuine bit of “hot
stuff.” but the Public will want to be convinced bv
what they see before rushing to back Bohadea on what
they are told. Certainly, he is kindly weighted, with
7st. I2lb. for the Melbourne Cup. seeing that he won
a two miles w.f.a. race as a three-vear-old in the
autumn of 1910. and has not started for anything
since he ran third in the Chamnion Race at the
same meeting. But a lenient burden doesn’t make a
brilliant Cun horse, and Bohadea’s form, thus far.
has never glittered. When he won the Loch Plate
(two miles) aforesaid, he beat onlv Diabolo and Obi.
who were afterwards put to hurdlps. A lot of im-
provement was required to make the good-lookinv nav
a first-class one. The imorovement may he evident
to the stable, but tbp public are not rusbiug to take
it on tri’st.
(Continued on vane SO.)


k
mmm
mmMMM
mW-W
mwMvWm
sa
-■ ’ 1
_
BMHB
H
- ■
'■■ ■■■
mm
:
m"
!■ ,; v Vv-
: ; ;
wm
Wmmlw
.
' : • ■ lIIIM
■
f- • •• I
i
vJ
£&fi4 .
r
1
Bfi*
WfrmM
■
a»
m
m
SHOE
MARZ
TOE
PATENT
COLT
BLUCHER
BALMORALS
DULL KID
TOPS
PRICE
22/6
18 6 to 27 6, and are leader's in sates and popularity.
Theirs, arp m:
A T■ T ' . >vt t w : v-i X.
'
a Richmond, Vic. §Blll
V
? ■; »
UloN
m
l ana
'i'' »''»((•(V;-
r Hi
*wmm
r r y
**
wmßom
:
nil
//a
ou
/
yj
Shell
Mo
The product of
tine source only
More miles on “ Shell" than
on any other.
Its perfect purjtv —that's
the point*
OXYGEN.
Extensive works are at present under
. construction near Sydney for the pro-
duction of Oxygen by the Liquid Air Pro-
cess. The whole of this plant has been
supplied by the BRITISH OXYGEN COM-
PANY LTD., Westminster, London, which
possesses all the British and Colonial rights
of the Linde patents for this process, and
has established Oxygen Works in the princi-
pal manufacturing cities of the United King-
dom.
In a few weeks this plant will be produc-
ing Oxygen in large quantities of unsur-
passed purity, suitable for medical, labora-
tory and all industrial purposes, at ex-
tremely moderate rates.
Complete Outfits are stocked of the most
up-to-date type for welding and cutting steel
and other metals by the Oxy-Acetylene pro-
FYVIE ®. STEWART,
362 Collins Street, Melbourne ;
and 225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SS&
00
0
m
DOUBLE
Old
PILES CURED.
Perfect temper and serenity are not possible where Piles consti-
tute a daily torment or torture in one’s life.
But why suffer from this distressing and dangerous complaint
when instant relief and a permanent cure are so readily accessible
by taking a box or two of Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills? There is
no better remedy. The cause of the trouble is eliminated from the
system by natural means, and the health is built up and fortified
steadily but surely. These Pills supersede ointments and all out-
ward applications ; are non-aperient and positively harmless.
Murphy’s Pile Pills are obtainable from all chemists and storekeepers.
Price, 3/- per box, post free. If supplies cannot be secured locally,
order direct from the Sole Proprietors—-ANDREW MURPHY, LTD.
Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
f
gfd
IF YOU
THIS 35/- BATTERY >
it means that the moment you feel the least
touch of Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gout,
or Nerve Trouble, you have an efficient and Posi-
tive Cure • an agent that gives instant anc
permanent relief. No trouble —
simply hold the “Hand Wires”
and you feel a delightful, soothing sensa-
tion as the Electricity combats and van-
quishes the complaint. Strongly made,
neat, durable, and worth fully 45/-.
Jerdan’s,
Opticians and
Electricians,
393 George St., Sydney
(Facing: Royal Hotel).
x
Shoe Comfort and Foot
fg
vSatisfaction.
This is what you get in every Rigney
Shoe.
Rigney Shoes are made of the best leather
money can buy. They are perfect in work-
manship, design and finish, distinctive in
appearance, and full of comfort and wear.
This Shoe is a Choice Tan Calf Oxford
Shoe, smart shape, very serviceable and
comfortable.
Price = = 18/6
Postage 9d. Extra.
Send for a Copy of our Catalogue.
The Rig'ney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., and 179 a Pitt St., Sydney.


WHEN AND WHERE
YOU LIKE
The Edison Phonograph will entertain
you just when and where you like. In-
door in Winter, outside in Summer; it is
ever ready to amuse you and pass the
time pleasantly.
The Edison Phonograph is undoubt-
edly a thing of beauty and a joy for ever
—the ideal entertainer.
Ask the local Edison dealer to play
some Edison selections for you. This is
a convincing demonstration of Edison
superiority. If you do not know the
address of a dealer write us direct, and
we will tell you, and also send lists of
Phonographs and Records.
THE EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale Only),
Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
hfg
h
a»
m
THE
BEST PIANO
for th*
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99-101, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
: if i
;
I
7
%
mm
V h
Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. 8.,
M.D., etc.,
writes: “Takingan interest in all
subjects relating to food, I have
procured samples of Sanatogen
and subjected them to experi-
ment. . . .
“ In my opinion, it is the or-
ganic phosphorus which makes
Sanatogen of such value. . . .
A series of experiments proved
that Sanatogen is easily and com-
pletely digested. I have arrived
at the conclusion that Sanatogen
is a substance of the highest
nutritive value, containing as it
does a large amount of organic
phosphorus—that is, phosphorus
which is offered to the tissues in
exactly the form in which it can
be easily absorbed. It is an ex-
cellent nerve food.’’
“The Medical Times”
says: ‘' There is no doubt what-
ever that the nutrition of patients
taking Sanatogen improves won-
derfully, due, in all probability,
to its being easy of assimilation
and to the organic absorbable
phosphorus which it contains.”
A thousand times this number of Physicians endorse
SANATOGEN
The Royal Tonic Food.
Over fourteen thousand practising physicians have recorded in writing their high
opinion of Sanatogen, and many thousands more are daily prescribing it with the
most beneficial results in cases of debility, brain fag, lack of vitality, sleepless-
ness, disordered digestion, poverty of blood and various wasting diseases.
Can you ask for more convincing testimony of Sanatogen’s value than the
fact that it is thus publicly endorsed and recommended by practically the whole
medical profession ?
Among the original letters in praise of Sanatogen which are filed for public
inspection, there are many from world-famous physicians w 7 hose names stand
for the highest scientific achievements. Their advice, and the example of
distinguished men like those mentioned here, it is safe for you to follow.
Irresistible as this evidence is, the reader can only realise the wonderful
revivifying effects of Sanatogen by taking it himself when his nervous system
and bodily strength have been undermined by overwork, worry or disease.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR FREE HEALTH BOOK.
You can buy Sanatogen at any chemists. Write to-day for a free copy of
Dr. Andrew Wilson’s health book, “The Art of Living.” Please mention this
paper, and address your postcard to:
A. WULFING £i CO.,
17 BOND STREET,
SYDNEY.
Prof. Dr. C. A. Ewald,
of Berlin University, writes: “1
have used Sanatogen in a number
of cases, mainly of a nervous or
neurasthenic origin, and have
obtained excellent results.”
Mr. Hall Caine,
the celebrated Author and Dram-
atist, writes: ‘‘My experience
of Sanatogen has been that as a
tonic nerve food it has on more
than one occasion done me good. ’ ’
Mr. W. Rhodes,
the famous Yorkshire Cricketer,
writes : “ I have given Sanatogen
a good trial, and found it a
splendid tonic.”
Mr. A. G. Hales,
the famous War-Correspondent:
“ I find my health benefits by
every tin of Sanatogen. It re-
vitalises a man, and is not a
drug.”
The new'Stadium of Hugh D. Mclntosh
opened with a roar on Saturday night with the third
and decisive battle between Langford and McVea as
the draw. And somewhere about 8000 citizens
travelled through blinding rain and the slush of ages
to see what the new place was like, and watch the
two colored brethren decide (it was generally assumed
that they would decide) which of them shall meet
Johnson in the near future. The roofing-in of the
Stadium justified itself thoroughly, and the huge
crowd watched the fight in solid comfort, regardless
of what the weather was like outside And outside
it was just plain beastly. It was a solid, stubborn
fight, but marred somewhat by the interference of
the head copper man, Superintendent Goulder. The
gentle Goulder seems to have been attending young
ladies seminaries to watch croquet matches, or
standing guard over a Wowsers’ athletic meeting, or
something equally enervating, of late, for he butted
into the proceedings in a decisive manner when there
was absolutely no occasion for him to do so. He
seemed to be under the impression that when the
men were less than 18in. apart it was “in-fighting,”
and he succeeded in partially spoiling a good scrap
and making himself somewhat ridiculous. He had
announced he would not allow kidney punches, but
apparently he knows as much about what is a kidney
punch as he does of the home-life of the mega-
therium. Langford dealt McVea a harmless back-
slap, while feet away from the region of the kidneys,
whereat, to the general amazement, Goulder uprose,
glorious in some form of fancy dress, shouted bellow-
dramatically, “This must stop,” and formally de-
clared the affray at an end. That he afterwards
caved in and allowed the innocuous carnage to re-
commence, didn’t render the incident any less banal
and foolish. After that the men snent so much time
avoiding disqualification that they were left little
leisure for the purpose of boxing. It would have
been a much better fight if McVea hadn’t been quite
so scared of Langford and Superintendent Goulder
had taken a course of instruction in how to put ’em
up. Langford, or somebody on his behalf, had
thought out a block for McVea’s left, and it turned
out that when his left is blocked McVea is done. So
he was done brown at the end of 20 rounds, and
Langford stands forth as the only man in Australia
at present entitled to the honor of being walloped by
the great champion of the Golden Teeth.
* * * *
After all, it seems there was quite a
numerous following in the U.S.A. that reckoned that
Flynn had more than Buckley’s chance against John-
son. It “figured out” that Johnson had been lionising in
London, that garden where the baleful fizz-blossom
blooms so prolifically, and generally going the pace
that kills. Also, they remembered, he was getting
older every day, and they decided that he had passed
the age limit inside which the fiery spirit of life
is at its recuperative best. In fact, they unduly
adumbrated on the fact that he was getting older
every day. He had knocked out Flynn before, but it
cost him 11 rounds of awful fighting before he man-
aged to score; and as Flynn had improved out of
sight, naturally he was good for the 20 rounds stipu-
lated for. What never occurred to them was that
Johnson might have improved out of sight also. The
negro usually does not improve after 17, but, if any-
thing, gets denser and more obtuse. Johnson is the
exception, as Flynn found when he got into “holts.”
Johnson, although a colored man, seems to have been
mentally, as well as physically, better than the low-
grade fireman of white descent. It’s a sad admission
to have to make, but the truth is mighty, and must
prevail. Also, the idea that Johnson swigs cham-
pagne when it is flowing freely is quite erroneous.
Writer received a letter from London while Johnson
was cutting his dash there, which told how the black
champion filled his glass every time, held it to his
lips, and dexterously spilled what he should have
drunk on the floor, as he dashed the gleaming crystal
back to the table. He is a loud-mouthed bounder,
who talks ridiculous rot about being a greater public
draw than King George, but he has nous enough to
keep himself well and strong physically. And (tell
it not to Gath), he is still the daddy boxer of them
all; the straight, upstanding boxer of the olden time,
with the straight left and the right cross, and a
splendid defence, combined with the agility of a
specially-bred Angora cat. Although he announced
that he did not intend to seriously train for the fight
with Flynn, it leaked out that he underwent a most
strenuous preparation, and when he got into the ring
his speed was described as dazzling. And when the
scrap was over Johnson showed hardly a mark. The
supremacy of Johnson is having a depressing defect
on the Americans, and the national press is beginning
to deplore the decadent state of the manly art. In
fact, it fears it is the first visible sign of* a general
movement of the country towards that deplorable:
state known as “the dogs.”
* * * *
Palzer, the most promising of the “White
Hopes,” has broken away from his manager, an in-
dividual named O’Rourke. Palzer made the usual
public statement, and did not make any apologies.
He said that although he scrapped and scrapped, and
drew good houses, he never seemed to get much
money, while O’Rourke visibly waxed fatter every
day. O’Rourke then issued his statement to the
public, beginning with the explanation that but for
him Palzer would still be in obscurity. He charged
Palzer with swelled head, flouting the press, ingrati-
tude and general sin. As for money, why, through
his management this unknown had earned $3500 in
the year, and he (O’Rourke) had taken only half of
it; and, no doubt, he marvelled at his own modera-
tion. In conclusion, he warned athletic clubs that
he had an ironclad contract with Palzer, and if that
young man fights at all he must fight under his man-
agements for a considerable time yet. Palzer says if
the contract holds good he will run away out of the
country (become a White Slope, in fact), rather than
fight for O’Rourke’s benefit. This may lead to him
being seen in Australia.
* * * *
Bombardier Wells made a great impres-
sion in Yankeedom, where he was mistaken for a
matinee idol when he took the air. Curiously
enough, he has never been marked about the face in
a scrap, and landed in Amurka with his pristine
beauty unimpaired. What it will be like when he
has been through sundry mills with tough proposi-
tions which have grown up on the Chicago offal (a
food that kills off all but the very strongest), only
the Lord knows. But at latest advices the tall, ele-
gant bruiser, with the beautiful blonde hair and
clear, blue eyes, was smashing the hearts of the
women wholesale.
* * * *
The cycling position in Victoria grows
desperate. The first fruit of the riot between the
League of Victorian Wheelmen and the Inter-Club
Association apuears in the form of the abandonment
of the great Warmambool to Melbourne road cycle
race —the greatest road race in the world. The
Dunlop Co.’s position was peculiar and difficult.
The leagues of Victoria and N.S.W. and all the other
States are allied, and to have espoused the cause of
the Inter-Club Association in Victoria would have
brought the Dunlop Co. into conflict with the Leagues
in every State. But as the road-racers of Victoria,
almost to a man, are supporting the Inter-Club Asso-
ciation, it was obvious there could not be much of a
Warrnambool race under the flag of the League. It
would have consisted almost entirely of riders from
other States: so the Dunlop people very wisely
“chucked it.” And that’s the end of it. However,
there are a number of road-racers in N.S.W. who
will not altogether regret the rumpus. For, of
course, the Victorian riders who are supporting the
Inter-Club Association are barred from racing under
the flags of the Leagues. Which means there will be
mighty few, if any, Victorians in the Goulburn-to-
Sydney race, and this will give the Ma State riders
a chance to get what they consider their own. Of
late years the Victorians have shown an unpleasant
disposition to collar the plums of the Goulbum. p- <■
as they have done those of the Warrnambool. In
fact, since 1904, N.S.W. has won the Warrnambool
once only, when .T. Donohue got home first in 1908.
The other seven Warrnambools have all been won by
Victorians. This is the second gap in the history
of the race, which did not happen in 1899 and 1900.
The mailed particulars of the French
Grand Prix motor race prove it to have been a bitter
contest of 960 miles over the Dieppe circuit, on two
consecutive days. On the first day Brown flew m
first in his Fiat, in 6hr. 36min. 37sec. Boillot
bubbled in 2min. 3sec. later, and Wagner, in another
Fiat, came third. On the second day the competitors
were let loose in the order they had finished the
previous afternoon, and the race developed into a
stubborn battle between Brown, Wagner and Boillot.
The alleged experts who watched it, declare it was
the most strenuous and severe test on both cars and
drivers the world has seen. Boillot struggled to the
front and stayed there, winning in 13hr. 58min. 2sec.
for the whole distance. Wagner was second in 14hr.
llmin., and Brown third in 14hr. 28mm. Regal
came fourth, in 14hr. 38min. Brown was disqualified
for refilling his petrol tank on the course, and Regal
got his place. The Peugeot car, driven by Boillot,
was a 175-h.p. whizzer, fitted with Continental Tyres,
and maintained an average speed of 68 miles an hour
for the whole journey. The English team of Sun-
beam cars finished fourth, ninth and 19th, and
France and Italy divided the glory between them.
Grant Hervey appears to be in a fair way to turn
his talent and his massive personality (nearly 19
stone nowadays) to the best commercial account.
Hervey is a showman in anything he undertakes,
from patriotic verse to election addresses, and as a
partner in the management of the Harry Craig
Dramatic Co. he ought to be capable of boosting it
into a fat combine sooner or later. His first attempt
at melodrama writing was “A Sportsman and a Mau,
or Adam Lindsay Gordon,” which received its bap-
tism of boodle at Mount Gambier, S.A., a few days
ago.
“Swing Gate” slams violently: Dash it! The plain
boiled notices served out to Louis lisson’s four-act
comedy make me creak on my hinges. Imported
plays and imported actors are heralded with a flour-
ish of inkpots so loud that the average playgoer’s
sense of proportion is blotted out before the curtain
is raised, while that of the paid critic is warped by
the length of the advertisement. In staging Esson’s
“The Time is Not Yet Ripe,” Gregan McMahon
attained a rare distinction. Iladdon Chambers is
an Australian, and he is a dramatist, but he is an
English author in the sense that Will Ogilvie is an
Australian poet. Chambers, I believe, never wrote
or staged a play in Australia. Again, there are
many Australian melodramas, some of which are ex-
cellent in their class ; but they are not Drama, with
a big D. All of which leads up to the praise due
to the Repertory Theatre Club, for its enterprise in
allowing Esson to express himself behind real foot-
lights. There could only be one first production of
an original Australian drama, and that first night
happened on July 23, in Melbourne Athenaeum Hall.
Newspaper “make-up,” submitted for what it may
be worth, would have given Louis Esson a full
column, with triple crossheads, on the cable page.
The Age and the Argus simply published quarter-
column notices —not criticisms—at the bottom of
a back page. The opening of the Burrinjuck flood-
gates was a momentous event in the history of Aus-
tralian rural development, and it received all due
prominence in the daily press. The first Australian
expression of a sincere attempt at legitimate satire
in dramatic form, I submit, was another momentous
event, though fruit on the Yanco irrigation blocks
will ripen some generations before Australian drama-
tic art becomes distinctive. Esson’s comedy is sound
work, and in spite of Gregan McMahon’s handicap in
producing the play without the space and conven-
iences of a well-equipped theatre, his band of ama-
teur actors gave a most satisfying interpretation.
This is a personal opinion, and I may be wrong, but
even if abler critics say it is a weak play, the ob-
vious sincerity of Esson’s work demands equally
sincere criticism. We don’t get criticism in the
daily press. The first night of a new musical
comedy, carrying the hall-mark of a successful Lon-
don season—a hall-mark gained through hackneyed
(not knock-kneed, if you please, Mr. Printer) group-
ings of legs and the woman —is hailed with a full
column or more. This is good business; good for
the paper proprietor and good for the theatrical
manager. What the public wants is what the thea-
trical press agent tells the public what to want.


A copy of this Prospectus has been Hied with the Registrar-General of Joint Stock Companies of the State of i„ „ ,
Companies Act, 1910, of the State of Victoria ' “ PUrSa " lce ° f S “ U °“ 87 «*>
Applications for Shares will be received tip to Noon on the 12th Aueust 1912
PROSPECTUS OF
FAIRYMEAD SUGAR COMPANY LIMITED
(To be registered under the Companies Acts, Queensland.
CAPITAL £265,000, divided into 265,000 Shares
(with power to increase) of £1 each.
APPLICATIONS are now invited for 115,000 SHARES, payable as to:
ss. per share on application.
ss. per share on allotment.
5s per share on Bth January, 1913.
ss. per share on Ist July, 1913.
Applicants may pay the instalments in advance, on allotment. Dividends will
oe paid upon the amount paid up per share, and date from Ist July, 1912.
Applications for less than 50 shares will not he entertained.
v PRIC ' E ’ £ 26<)>ooo, payable as to £150,000 in fully paid up
, .®. -kl. each, and as to £llO,OOO in cash if the issue now offered for 1
übscnption is fully subscribed, otherwise in shares and cash.
.. . *. S LEAVES A BALANCE OF £5OOO AVAILABLE FOR WORKING
'' HICII, WITH THE WEEKLY RETURNS BEGINNING IN
AUGUST, IS AMPLE FOR ALL PURPOSES.
No payment is to be goodwill.
No part of the issue is underwritten.
The sale is direct, with no intermediate profit.
t i Jc ie *i^ en< !? rS un< lertake to hold not less than 130,000 shares for a period of
not less than three years.
t-TAn a Provisional Directors :
<' ?omJp NG P V Eairymead - Bundaberg, Sugar Planter, l M . rv
WTLI ( i wA^Tv:rr/7\r' ai ' Bundaberg, Sugar Planter, f Managing Directors.
MerSanl &WANr -™N, partner of W. Crosby & Co., Collins Street, Melbourne,
W jEDWARD SHAW, of the British Australasian Tobacco Co., Ltd., Sydney ;
WILLIAM EDWARD WILSON, of R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Merchant.
General Manager:
WALTER A. THORNE.
Bankers:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING CO. OF SYDNEY LIMITED
-TTTir -R A ATT- nrffcfA Brisbane, and Bundaberg.
IIIL BANK OH AUSTRALASIA, MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
Auditors : Solicitors •
(To be appointed.) Messrs. SLY & RUSSELL, Sydney.
Vendors' Sugar Agents :
CT-AU'r'R E WTT?« & c S^’- 2 A O (iueen Street, Melbourne.
SiM.S & CO., Adelaide.
EALAND LOAN & M.A. Co., Ltd., Brisbane and Rockhampton.
Brokers:
JfBBBBNS & CO.. 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
r A CI Rn\Tn°r E T T a; 352 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Jr VS BOND, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
S. C. WARD & CO., 12 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Company’s Sydney Office: 72b KING STREET.
Secretary ( pro tetn.): W. J. McGOWN,
Registered Office: FAIRYMEAD, BUNDABERG.
therein.
ihe2!,„ I) Hl table H nn ature t ture of the undertaking, the value of the estates, the character of)
kp„«s Plant ’ *“ and
Messrs. A. H. and E. Young commenced operations in 1880, by the purchase of
pi«Sfk, a aLAe, V trS“m C e W S e tim° bIIS “ MS Wi *“ "*» M “ ess “
Commonwealth mead bland of white sugar is well and favorably known throughout the
THE REASONS FOR THE FORMATION OF THE COMPANY are to define
amily interests, and to provide for fixed capital in the form of shares.
ASSETS TO BE ACQUIRED BY THE NEW COMPANY.
ciommis? DED ESTATES;—The P ro P e Hies situated in the Bundaberg and Isis districts
comprise.— _ <499 acres Freehold Land,
of which ... 5918 acres are Cane land,
. a nd 1581 acres Grazing Land.
t. , A Valuation of these lands has been made by Mr. A. C. Wiles Auctioneer nnrl
K a and V U att^he a d he?So lliCated L ° Cal Auditor ’ of Messrs ' Wiles aad Coy., of Bunda
THE TOTAL OF THE VALUATION IS £180,780.
Wane fully endorse the above figures, at which they consider the land
would be readily saleable to farmers, their price to the New Company for the land a* n
farmers 1S at £140,000 ’ so P rovid ing a margin of £40,000, should the Company sell to
THE AREA OF LAND AT PRESENT IN CANE IS 3404 ACRES. The balance
m cane land is under cultivation, green-soiling, lucerne, in grass, and fallowing.
Ihe fertility of these lands is borne out by the evidence furnished by the Vendors to
the Royal Commission showing the average annual yield to be 19.49 tons of cane per acre
over a period of ten (10) years. e
SUGAR MANUFACTURING PLANT, RAILWAYS, TRAMWAYS LOCOMOTIVE
ROLLING STOCK, IRRIGATION AND STEAM PLOUGHING ’ PLANT SUGAR
STORES AND OTHER BUILDINGS, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, 8 LIVE
STOCK AND OTHER STORES.
... A Valua «o n of and report on these assets has been made by Mr. Hector Kidd
M.LG.E, of Hunter House Hunter Street, Sydney, many years Chief Inspecting
of |ugar Mills for the Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd., and is attached hereto*
IDL VALUAIION IS £l-.1,297, including some minor assets amounting to £8855,
Kfor‘ these iSete i S W £l2o,ooo.'' “*“* "*'* "* «*«* «■•"■»» “»•
From the foregoing it will be seen that :
The price to the Company for the Land is fixed at..
For the Plant, etc., at ..
"
Total Purchase Money
SHIPPING FACILITIES.—These are exceptionally good.
~ BY BRISBANE STEAMER calling twice a week at the Plantation Wharf (near
which the sugar is stored). 1 41
NOW ITT P f T> A ST V RAT fw A V puge) with the MAIN
NORTH COASI RAILWAY at Meadowvale, which gives ready access to the inland
marKets.
This railway connection, in addition to carrying the cane grown on the estates, is
al^ oa s e d for. the transport of cane purchased by the Vendors from farmers UP AND
DOWN the line. The A endors have always maintained, in past years, the best relations
with farmers from whom they purchased cane, and believe that expansion in this direction
is likely to continue. The.policy in past years has been to give high prices for cane in
order to encourage growers, as their co-operation in increasing the supply of cane helDs
to keep down manufacturing costs. y
MO^A^Gmr ° f sugar, the Vendors have recently established a
MOLASCUIT f ODDER PLANT at considerable expense. This fodder is a combination
ot the fine particles of the cane fibre, after the extraction of the sugar, mixed with
Molasses, and is readily saleable, forming an excellent fodder for horses, cattle and sheen
The Vendors regard this as a valuable use of an otherwise waste product tU d b p ‘
£140,000
£120,000
£260,000
I-Lk. -Messrs, Yarwood, Vane and Coy., of 16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
toU^- 2Uth JUUC ' I<Jl2 ' “ thc Boul,s **> V*"**
MeSsis. Mullens and Co.,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
A. H. & E. YOUNG, FAIRYMEAD PLANTATION, BUNDABERG.
coiei■ Hiins'"!f h*, 6 1 wlt \A our wishes, we have examined the Account Books recording the
f/ i h ov,', , above hrm and have gone carefully through the Profit and Loss Accounts
wiH th! ! y *i udt d olst December last, shown therein. The results naturally vary
w u.i, b - eas,,ns and consequent quantity of cane available for the Mill, the tonnage of
which is given in the following table: —
1901
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906
1907
Total Tons
Crushed.
44,383
12,276
46,355
80,760
70,283
91,171
103,208
1908
1909
1910
1911
Grand total
Total Tons
Crushed.
73,916
25,405
. 58,629
. 55,872
. 662,318
:V ter , fn'oviding for Managing Partners’ salaries, depreciation, maintenance, and all
otnei working expenses, the prolits figure out: —
For the whole. 11 years at an ANNUAL AVERAGE of .. £25,071
r or the last six years (during which the White Labor Policy
has been in force) at an ANNUAL AVERAGE of .. £27,564
, depreciation provided and charged to Profit and Loss in the above-mentioned
lesults is proved to have been ample by Mr. Kidd’s valuations.
llie Books have been well and thoroughly kept. Yours faithfully
YARWOOD, VANE & CO.
no motkfi 10 ' 11 . not keen Pushed during the last few years, and larger profits should
bringing a greater area of cane lands under cultivation, and by the purchase of
mamifacturinghost's Cane from Uirmers. An increase in production will mean diminished
EE ?UF- EE R ANNUM may reasonably be expected after
piovision has been made for depreciation, and a dividend equalisation fund.
e^Vi : Ai' RIAIAKY PRODUCING INDUSTRIES, VARY
w , UT S A E T^9 NS L and therefore, to set aside a FUND IN GOOD
TIIE EQUALISATION OF DIVIDENDS will be brought before the
Directors of the new Company by the Managing Directors, as a policy to be adopted.
HAVE BEEN ENTIRELY CARRIED ON
f * Will IE LABOR. With a sufficient protection against cheap black labor sugars, in
accordance with the settled policy of the Commonwealth, and an adequate supply of
suitable white labor, the Vendors see no reason why the white labor policy should not be
successfully continued, so far as the Bundaberg District is concerned.
Qualifications of Directors .. .. .. 250 shares
Managing Directors 1000 shares
GENERAL MANAGER.
It is proposed to retain the services of Mr. W. A. Thorne, who has been Manager
tor many years.
.Phe Managing Directors will receive a sum of £l2OO per annum for their joint
services, and are willing to undertake the active supervision of the business for at least
three (c.) years.
k° buhl at the rate of £125 per annum each.
FREE FKOM ALL LABILITIES
. . E hNDORS h ILL PAY ALL PRELIMINARY EXPENSES, including adver-
tising, brokerage, and legal and other costs incidental to flotation.
) V1 , LL . REAP . TEE FULL BENEFIT OF THE COMING
ERU rU, II i;U SEASON, to begin early in August. Returns will commence at once.
Ihe Company will be registered on an early date.
The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is 1000
shares.
IN THE EVENT OF OVER SUBSCRIPTION, ALLOTMENT WILL BE MADE
AS NEARLY AS POSSIBLE ON A PRO RATA BASIS, and the balance of application
money be applied towards the payment due on allotment. The Directors reserve the right
to give priority to applications made by employees, and to reject, if they see fit. any
particular application or applications. • ■ *
Failure to pay any instalment, when due, will render previous payments liable to
forfeiture. '
Application will be made for an official quotation on the Stock Exchanges of Sydney,
Melbourne; Brisbane and Adelaide. *
A branch share register will be kept at the Sydney office.
Prospectuses and Perms of Application may be obtained from —
SYDNEY—MULLENS & CO., 92 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE—Quick & Roberts. 352 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE-—T. A. Bond, Eagle Street.
ADELAIDE—S. C. Ward & Co., 12 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
The only agreement affecting the Company is the following:—
29th July, 1912. Agreement betwnen Horace Edward Broughton Young and
Charles Ernest Young, trading as A. PI. and E. Young, of the one part, and
Norman Waterhouse Booth, of Sydney, Accountant, for and on behalf of the
Company, pf the other part, being an agreement for the sale of the; property
mentioned in this Prospectus for £150,000 in fully paid up shares of £1 each, and
±IIU,UUU in cash, it the issue of shares offered for subscription in the said Pros-
pectus is fully subscribed, otherwise in shares and cash. A copy of the contract may
be inspected at the offices of the brokers, i.e., Mullens and Co., 92 Pitt Street
Sydney; Quick and Roberts, 352 Collins Street, Melbourne; T. A. Bond, Eagle
Street, Brisbane ; S. C. Ward and Co., 12 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
None of the said Provisional Directors have any interest in the property proposed to
be acquired by the Company except the said Horace Edward Broughton Young and
Charles Ernest Young, who are the legal owners of all the property proposed to be
acquired.
The estimated amount of preliminary expenses is £5OO.
Dated the 2nd day of August, 1912.
Reports on the Property obtainable at the Office of the Brokers. Detailed list (see
Mr. Kidds report) may be inspected at the Office of the Brokers.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES
To the Provisional Directors,
FAIRYMEAD SUGAR COMPANY, LIMITED.
G/o MULLENS & GO., 92 Pitt Street. Sydney: or, QUICK & ROBERTS.
352 Collins Street. Melbourne: or, T. A. BOND, Eagle Street, Brisbane;
or, S. C. WARD & CO., 12 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Gentlemen. —
I hereby apply for Shares in the above Company on the
terms of the Company's Prospectus dated the .... day of July, 1912, and now enclose
the sum of.. (£ : : ), being the application
money of 5/- per share on shares. I request you to allot me that
number of shares, and I agree to accept the same or any less number that may be,
allotted to me. I authorise you to place my name on the Register of Shareholders in
respect of shares allotted to me, and I agree to pay the sum of 5/- per share on allot-
ment and the balance in terms of the Prospectus.
Name in full
(Mr. or Mrs. or Miss.)
Address
Occupation
Date
Usual Signature
Cheques to be payable to “Bearer,” & to be crossed “Fairymead Sugar A/c.”
Add Exchange to Country Cheques.
This Form of Application should be forwarded to the Brokers to the Company


Thousands of
doctors praise
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
The strength-making powers of
Scott’s Emulsion have gained
for it the highest possible
praise from doctors, nurses
and patients. Experience has
proved
for we£knes_s,
poor. appetite,
chest_ complaints,
for ill-health arising from
general debility—there is no
emulsion nearly so good as
SCOTT’S EMULSION. And
so pure, so palatable is Scott’s
Emulsion that
for men, women
and children
it is equally beneficial a source of new
strength to all. But be sure you get
SCOTT’S Emulsion. Other kinds may
result in disgust and disappointment.
Therefore, ask only for SCOTT’S
Emulsion and see the trade mark.
fgh
Are you sure YOU
know this trade
mark? Note it now.
See it on the pack-
age you buy—it is
the sign of SCOTT
purity and genuine-
ness.
Of all Chemists and
Medicine Dealers.
ANOTHER FAMOUS DOCTOR TESTIFIES
TO THE VALUE OF
SAMOL
for Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and Kin-
dred Complaints. Dr. J. Doberer, Director of the
Hospital of the “Brothers of Mercy,” Linz, writes: —
“I applied Samol and Salimenthol in the case of
a patient suffering from a general attack of rheuma-
tism of the joints, and who had a temperature of
over 104 F. In the course of 10 days under this
treatment all troubles disappear. The quick, sooth-
ing effect of Samol was amazing.”
SAMOL
is the result of research work of a celebrated Aus-
trian physician, Dr. Scheuble, of Vienna, who has
received many honors for his discoveries.
Samol is sold in tubes, price 1/6, S/9, and 6/-,
and the Salimenthol Tablets in cylinders, price 3/6,
and can be ordered through any chemist, or obtained,
post free, from the Australian agent, 11. A. Goddard,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Brisbane ; or
Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; 3 Ellersbaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland. [ 1
AHcockS
PIASTERS
Rheumatism in Shoulder
can be relieved a nd cured by
them. Also invaluable for
Pains , Stiffness or Sore-
ness of joints or muscles.
Apply wherever there is Pain.
Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion, etc.
BrandretKs Pitts
ENTIRELY VEGETABLE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO.,
Birkenhead. ENGLAND.
The Australian
Arrol-Johnston
Specially Designed.
AN Australian pup t from the famous breed of
“ J 5-9 ” Arrol-Johnstons that won the team
award in the \9\\ International Light Car
Race, and obtained record orders from H.M. War
Office for cross-country work*
a
Australian agents Sydney : Eves & Crowie;
ADELAIDE: Murray Aunger, Ltd.; BRISBANE: Howard Cycle
& Motor Co.; PERTH : Perth Motor House 5 HOBART': H. C.
Heathorn & Co.; MELBOURNE: Essendon Motor Garage, Moonee
Ponds.
fg
IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO GET
BETTER THAN f
“ABERDEEN”
TARPAULINS.
We specialise in their manufacture,
and can guarantee the superiority
of these famous Tarpaulins.
They are not only the finest that
best workmanship and most reliable
materials can mean, but they cost
no more than the less suitable kind.
The canvas is wonderfully durable,
and so is the stitching. Purchase an “ ABERDEEN ” just once, and you’ll shun any other
kind afterwards.
See that “ ABERDEEN ” is the Brand on your Rugs, Tents, Flys, Buggy Rugs.
If your storekeeper or saddler has not this brand, write direct to us.
Smith, Copeland & Co., Ltd.,
204-0 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
'Ufrpßili
T
fills Ifee]
Can.no
Cleans I
SLegula.
British.
rlajK.
elf.
cure
The flany Points of SUPERIORITY
hgf
Eckersley ’s “REGAL” Aerated
Water Machine
over ALL OTHERS create a demand
for it by all sensible
HOTELKEEPERS.
♦
Catalogues from
ECKERSLEY & SONS
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE,
The Only Manufacturers of GOOD
Soda Water Machines and Fountains.
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
hfg
44 Castlereagh Street. SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM AND GOUT.
MUGKADILLA HOTEL,
QUEENSLAND HOT SPRINGS.
Site of Famous Bore, adjoining Railway Station.
Western line (10 hours from Toowoomba).
Wire or Write Manager, Muckadilla, Q.
Tariff £3 3s
Take Ayer’s Sarsapa- C
rilla. No alcohol, no 1
stimulant A strong nerve
tonic. A blood purifier.
An aid to digestion. i
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can he obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
our T weeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
T ailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
£iWi
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No noticf (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Nanu
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted.
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
“G.V.W.”: That kind of thing is not
worth much attention. When a country floats a two-
years loan at 99, the nominal interest being 3+ per
cent., all the explanation to be found between Stewart
Island and the Three Kings won’t prevent the real
interest being 4 per cent. And when the under-
writers’ commission is 1 per cent, the real interest
becomes 4-J per cent. After that there are the ex-
penses to be considered. As for Mr. Allen’s alleged
statement, that “the debt could not be paid off in
42 years by an annual setting aside of £750,000,’’
and that these errors discredit utterly The Bul-
letin’s criticism —any compound interest table will
show that £750,000 a year, compounded at 34 per
cent., will produce about £70,000,000 in 42 years,
and at 4 per cent, it will produce about £79,000,000.
So it ought to about meet the bill. Perhaps Mr.
Allen hasn’t a compound interest table about him. . .
N.lt.W.: You may be telling the truth or you may
be lying. Brougham is a long way back, and “Old
Wicked Shifts” may now be safely charged with
almost anything. At all events, that yarn appeared
in 1884 in the New York Tribune, which used to
be run by Horace Greeley, the gaunt genius with the
dirty boots, who fought U. Simpson Grant for the
President’s billet in ’72 and 105 t... Maccabee: Verse
published herewith as a sign of gratitude: —
Said the Reverend Henry Ward Beecher
To a hen, “You’re a beautiful creature!”
The hen, pleased at that,
Laid an egg in his hat,
And thus did the hen reward Beecher.
....Quid Rides: Pars are not “credited” to anyone.
Send in your bill (either sending at the time a cut-
ting of the par. or mentioning the date of the issue !
in which it appeared). Tales and verse are paid
for on acceptance, but pars, are too numerous....
Frank B. : Anaemia is the trouble as regards your
gags. Don’t know what ails the drawings, but in-
cline to the view that they have general paralysis of
the insane. .. .Hopscotch: “Abest” was a seemly title
for the first poem. On being weighed it was found
wanting. The one beginning:—
Hey! Jack ! be quick if you would see
This sunrise. Up ! Jack quick !
I know it’s six, but you’d call me
If you were up, old brick,
was turned down on the grounds of undue sprightli-
ness.... Flick: A sound seasoned lot of gags. The
first two took us back to the dear, dead days when
our lady acquaintances wore bustles.... Bullswool:
If the other items are as vague and wordy as the
motor-car one, you needn't worry to type them. We
hate basketing type-written M5....R.8.: Why the
blazes did you do it? What was your motive for the
crime?. .. .Octopus: By way of spiking your guns,
we will take a line from your poem: “What have
you for yourself to say?” The answer, of course, is
“Nothing.” Flop back into the basket. .. .A.C.8.:
Verse very dull and heavy. Sketch rough handling
of an ugly and not very original idea. The last de-
fiant speech of the girl is thoroughly unnatural....
A.M.F.: What is the broken suspender incident in-
tended to be? A Terrible Adventure in the Life of
a Curate?....Orhilius: Two good tries, Bilius....
William Y.: Seems to be a ponderous remark about
nothing in particular. . . .J.P.S. (V.) : It is sad, with
a feeble, draughty, indefinite sadness that defies
analysis.... Parrakeelyah: The basket foreclosed on
the whole batch,. . .P.L.A.G,-: No use. .. .Paul S.:
Not worth all that space and fury.... Melroyd: The
rhyming moralist is only bearable when his rhymes
flow easily. .. .R.H.M.L.: Some grace, but fearfully
labored... .T.W.V. (V.): Motor-bike does not go
fast enough... .G.G.L.: Enough in it for a par. The
point is rather small to hang a sketch on. . . .W.J.C.:
We notice your hat bobbing astern on a stormy sea
of words. Poet overboard!... .W.E.8.: The rejected
verses are about Baby Australia, aren’t they ?... .
F.E.L.: No need to apologise to Edgar Allen Poe. '
The verses won’t appear... .Kello: Unsuitable....
Wa-100-loo: Nicely written pars., but they lack in-
terest or novelty or incident or something. Perhaps
they lack everything. .. .J.H.: Your poem makes us
leei that at one time or another we may have done
you an injustice. So we haste to print it with apolo-
gies, and if you call in any time you are passing
the sporting editor will shout for you:—
THE NARK.
In this grey world of dismal cant
The editorial “regret”
Is just, the last dam thing we want
In this grey world of dismal cant.
Oh tender poets who, hoping, pant
And then are down to zero set,
Ye know too well that cursed cant
The editoral “regret.”
... .L.F.: Can’t use that “Well done, good and faith-
ful servant” joke over again. It is overworked....
0.8.R.L. (Port Lincoln) : Some of the most solid,
comprehensive Trusts are those which have their
headquarters in Freetrade Britain, like the Shipping
Combine and the Cotton Trust. Don’t worry about
our mental condition, but just read Gibbon’s “Decline
and Fall of the Roman Empire,” Brooke Adams’s
“Law of Civilisation and Decay,” Patten’s “Economic
Basis of Protection,” and you will have so much to
think about that you will have no time to write fool
pars, to the effect that when ships come to Australia
loaded with imports that makes for cheaper freights
on Australian exports. Give up writing and read
hard... .C.H.: You are about the 50th person who
has sent us that weary statement of your Minister
of Finance that Maoriland’s last loan was floated at
3] per cent.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Cosmos: Another artist got in before y0u....
E. Laird: Old Irish chestnut from the blarney tree
that grows in the bogs Con S.: “Froth and
Bubble” picture gone to its long and boundless rest.
....John M'M.: That “just dog” joke was done to
death in the dog days of the Dark Ages, and it was
thrown overboard in the horse latitudes. .. .E.W.H.:
That man has been sitting on the beach counting
dredge buckets for years and years and years
G.S.C.: The picture is no good, and that alleged
distinction between a Christian and a Wesleyan
isn’t new. Many years ago, in Sydney, the man who
wanted libel damages set forth in his statement of
claim: “Inasmuch as the defendant did call the
plaintiff a Wesleyan, thereby meaning that
he was not honest in his business dealings.”....
W. Hocking: Pictures are S. Hocking, which shows a
sort of familv resemblance, so to speak... .E.M.S.:
Pictures of little account, and the market for jokes
about sick passengers at sea is flatter than that for
Mount Cannindah copper shares.
Australian girls, who adored Julius Knight in
former years for his limelight and his legs, will be
interested in the latest pen portrait of Beaucaire
Superbus. A globe-trottress writes: “Twice last week
we looked down from the top of a motor-bus on
Julius Knight in Oxford-street. He looked much
older, but it suited him ; also, he limped and made
use of a stick. He was dressed immaculately in grey,
and wore spats like Sir Charles Wyndbam.” Every-
thing comes to them who wait. _ Julius, seemingly,
is now the old Man Beautiful, with a touch of the
gout. The girl who spotted the time-worn Apollo
from the 'bus-top repeats a conversation she heard
at the Albert Hall, where Tetrazzini was making her
first appearance on the concert platform. Three
Yorkshire boys were enthusing over Tet’s flute-like
trills. An impatient Dago friend remarked: “Oh,
yes; Tetrazzini is all right—but Melba —ah, she is
an Australian singer!” And one of the young Eng-
lishmen replied: “Yes, everyone says Melba has some-
thing in her voice that no one else has.” The Aus-
tralian-gold warble is a recognised product of the
soil. There is a little something in the soprano of
Lalla Miranda which distinguishes it from all the
others in the Quinlan opera co., and presently the
Germans will be remarking the true Australian qual-
ity in Amy Castles’s voice.


s r
J
Which
Non-Skid
(a) Is not an imitation
(b) Is not an experiment
(c) Ensures a firm grip
on the road
(d) Remains a non-skid
all its life
?
“Semelle.”
BECAUSE:
(a) It is the original non-skid, of
which all others are imitations*
(b) It is the product of our experi-
ence*
(c) It has specially hardened steel
studs* which project well above
the tread*
(d) It does not wear down into a
plain tread cover, but is a non-
skid all the time*
MICHELIN TYRES
Gan be obtained from all
the Leading Garages.
FB
&
b®o®cfi
No. 39
BOVRIL
For
Health
ana
Beauty
as
DARK or
LIGHT
CUT or PLUG
6/-
per lb.
Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
A CORRESPONDENT writes : “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
\
' NMOdD
7l osa3o N '
%
6/6 Watch.
'J'HE wonderful thing about the
Ingersoll Watch is not its price.
The wonderful thing is its
ACCURACY at a price so far below
what you must pay for accuracy in
any other watch. Ingersoll watches
are the timepieces of 20,000,000
people —people in every walk of life,
but people who judge a watch solely by
its timekeeping accuracy and not by
the amount of money it represents.
Have you a watch you can depend
upon ? If not, get a fully Guaran-
teed Ingersoll.
Crown 6/6, Eclipse 8/6,
Junior 10/6, Midget 10/6.
The Jewelled Trenton Watch offers the same
security and saving to the buyer in high grade
watches that the Ingersoll does in the low-priced
class. Prices from 30/- upwards.
If you cannot obtain a genuine guaranteed Inger-
soll or Trenton Watch locally, do not accept a
substitute, but write us for name of nearest dealer.
Robt. H. Ingersoll & Bro.,
73 L YORK ST., SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medala.
Works : Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
IS
r
Turn
This
Button,
Pen
Fills
Itself.
1]
A Self-Filling Fountain
Pen —that is Different.
Users of Fountain Pens
will find the
"MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
Self-Filling
Fountain Pen
especially desirable for com-
mercial or home use. You
simply twist the button at
the end, hold pen in ink,
untwist, and the pen fills
itself. There are no joints,
therefore avoiding any
danger of soiling the fin-
gers or clothing. Costs
no more than the ordinary
fountain pen. Made in both
plain and fancy holders,
with a variety of nibs.
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
New York.
22 THAMES STREET.
NEW YORK, (J.S.A.
Ryan, Lewis & Co. Pty. Ltd ,
5 1 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Sole Agents for
Australasia.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and Safety types.
Dealers will find our en-
tire line a profitable one.
Write for trade prices.
They will interest you.
If it isn’t an “ A.A.” it
isn’t a “ MODERN.”
h
DR. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“PYUOID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold evervwlm’-e. and from Wnssiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants, Melbourne and Sydney.


NEW IDEAS IN WEDDING
AT
A. SAUNDERS.
GIFTS
i«
iMwiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiinilHßSß
|g^d
*4 rite Cl
gc£3gg^
217-
Salad Bowl and Servers; Fine Crystal-cut Glass,
Silver-plated, Nickel Silver Mounts.
Very, very beautiful are our latest English Designs in
Wedding Gifts; very exclusive, high quaiitied, and
moderately priced, too. Send your order by mail—we
pay postage—and let us send you our 180-page
Silverplate Catalogue.
WE POST IT FREE.
30/-
Fruit Salad Dish and Spoon; Pure Silver-
plated Frame, Cut Crystal, Amber-tinted
Glass Dish.
£2.
Toast Rack; Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver, Richly Embossed.
Two-branch Specimen Tube;
Pure Silver-plated, Burnished,
Gilt-lined.
15/6.
Butter Dish; Solid
Oak, Silver-plated
Silver Mounts, China
English
Nickel
Lining.
£2.
Hot-water Kettle and Stand ; Pure Silver-
plated, Rustic Stand, Richly Embossed.
Juvenile Single Egg Cup,
Stand and Spoon; Pure
Silver-plated.
6/0.
Jam Dish; Silver-plated
Frame, Fancy Floral China
Dish.
£3.
Cheese Dish; Pure Silver-plated, Richly
Hand-embossed.
507-
Cake Basket; Pure Silver-plated, on
Nickel Silver, Richly Embossed, Hand-
fluted. '
Fern Pot; Pure Silver-plated, on White Metal,
Beautifully Embossed.
We Pay Postage.
17/6.
Sugar Scuttle; Pure Silver
plated, Hand - engraved But
terfly Design.
15/6.
Fruit Salad or Preserve Dish; Hand-decorated
Floral China, Silver-plated, Nickel Silver Frame.
4/6.
Serviette Ring; Pure
Silver-plated, Richly
Engraved and
Embossed.
35/-
Sugar and Cream Sifter and
Stand, Pure Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, Gilt-lined.
27-
Jam Spoon ; Pure
Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver,
Hand-engraved.
45/-
Liqueur Bottle; Hobnail Cut-glass,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver
Frame.
£2.
Entree Dish; Pure Silver-plated, on
Nickel Silver, Highly Burnished.
|§gpi|
a
K,
m
mb
m
25/-
Waiter; Silver-plated, on Nickel Silver,
Hand-engraved, Fancy Edge, Embossed,
Sin
Send for Catalogue
257-
Biscuit Barrel; Polished Eng-
lish Oak, Pure Silver-plated
Mounts, Patent Handle, Carved
Feet.
25-
Tea and Coffee Service, Pure Silver-plated, on White Metal, comprising Tea, Coffee, Sugar and Cream,
Hand Engraved “Fern” Design, Gilt Lined, with Covers.
d
m
res
mi
gK&£gy
C!J:
17/6.
Dinner Cruet; Silver-plated,
Cut Crystal Glass Bottles.
AUNDERS
Sydney’s leading jeweller .
607-617
GEORGE ST.
*
opp. RAILWAY Sin.
SYDNEY
M. 3. W.


Facile Princeps.
BUCHANAN’S
“B
Ls
A
C
K
W
H
I
T
E”
WHISKY.
.. *-
-
ft
«s v i
t: ''<*> v
x,
X- •
C
a *
m•' K •
• "***' ,
/:■
■ \
&
\ :
%■
a
a,' >
* '"■ * f.
*ii. ’ ■ /XSSsSwil
mi
lif
f»fe.-
ilfe
jMrav
#*
id
Semper Idem „
BUCHANAN’S
“B
E
A
C
K
<&L
w
H
I
T
E”
WHISKY.
Seal the Compacfl in “ BLACK. WHITE.**
The Secret of the Great Popularity Everywhere of
BUCHANAN’S “BLACK & WHITE” WHISKY
V*;
is that it is a
HIGH-GRADE WHISKY,
and always uniform |,n Quality. This is due to the fad
that MESSRS. JAS. BUCHANAN CO.. LTD., have the
LARGEST STOCKS IN THE WORLD
Maturing in their Bonded Warehouses.
Facile Prin ceps.
BUCHANANS
“B
E
A
C
K
(Q,
w
H
I
T
E”
WHISKY.
®®tßfli®
m im
hhH»
S&iSS;? ' : U7.-'••<•«'
«\V~.
11 m ■
afea
\s
S
•«w
Semper Idem.
BUCHANANS
“B
E
A
C
K
W
H
I
T
E”
WHISKY.
“A GRAND SPIRIT.”


NEW WATCH BRACELETS
— at
STEWART DAWSON’S.
There is no article of personal adornment so useful as a good
Watch Bracelet. It not only adds an elegant touch to your costume,
but you make use of it frequently during each day. Use and Beauty
combined.
We manufacture our own goods; we import direct from our Hat-
ton Garden Centre; we sell our own goods direct to the public. This
means that you pay only one profit.
No. .78] 20—Oct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRAOE-
LET, with Fine Qualitv
LEVER WATCH,
£6/10/-
gfh
gh
No. J74S2—Oct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 15ct. GOLD
3-Plate LEVER WATCH,
£7/7/-
No. C 5995 —15ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 18ct. GOLD,
High Grade, Full Jewel-
led Lever Movement,
£l7/10/-
oo
0/BBia
N
*5
No. J7B6s—Oct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with Fine Quality
Full Jewelled WATCH,
a Reliable Timekeeper,
£5/10/-
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. JBll7—Oct. GOLD
EXPANDING WATCH
BRACELET, with Full
Jewelled Lever Move-
ment, £B.
co .y
.
m
No. J7724—15ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 3Set. GOLD,
Full Jewelled LEVER
WATCH, £l4/10/-
No. .T77l3—Oct. GOLD
and ENAMEL Full Jew-
elled LEVER WATCH,
wilh Leather Strap, £4.
ƒgh
Ippw
Uj IUJ MW
LADY’S GOLD BRACE-
LET WATCH, in 15ct.
Gold Case, £7/7/-
In ISct. Gold Case, Half
Hunting Design, £ll/10/-
Other Styles', from
£O/10/-
‘THE TREASURE HOUSE.”
Stewart Dawson & Co.
(Australia) Limited,
WE ALWAYS
PAY THE
Vf y 5
-Strand Corner,—
412 George Street, Sydney.
WRITE FOR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
"A.L.” (Motor Car Acetylene Generator)
ĥfg
smeli^fda^pr B W" the Kitl /b and used by him. at the. Indian Durbar. No
smell, no dan ei, no fouling, no failure, no adjustments', ; no rubber nnrts ‘A sve
months" The london i; i? Cni r ,S lineS> ' one - of carbide can be used for
the" ‘A I ’’ "oonpratm* Company scrapped all their, old operators,
nulK Generators alter most severe tests against everv other make. Another
Captain 1 Scottwho a Lc° ,ts simplicity and reliabilitv has been given In-
Generators fn^’th?li e pro . V m Cd hlra ,— f wlth a complete outfit of the “A.L.”
venerators tor the lighting of his expedition to the South Pole.
lib. Size, £4 10s. 21b. Size, £6 15s.
Write for pamphlet, giving particulars and description. >
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Is the most pertecc Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
h
Want a Good Watch —3/11?
«■/ %
GUARANTEED.
e defy anyone to sell this watch at the price in the ordinary
way we can't do so ourselves —-it’s worth 10/6. This offer is
simply an advertisement. We want everyone—YOp included—
to appreciate the excellence of our famous KING OF ALL
Cigars and “CORN COB” TOBACCO. They’re the two best
, smokes known fragrant, lasting, deliciously flavored.
CIGARS.
KING OF ALL REIN A AUCTORIA—4 a 1/-; Sample Box of 10, 2/0; CO for 9/0; Box of 100,
18/6."; Light;-..and Heavy Weights. All Post Free.
■KING OF ALL CLUB, 20/- BOX OF 50. Post Free.
KING OF ALL BUENOS,. 6d. each; 3 for 1/-; 100, 32/6. Post Free.
TOBACCO.
2oz. CORN COB Packet, Cut, Light or Dark, lOd. The Watch, 3/11. Postage, 6d. Total, 5/3.
Inter-State, 2d. extra. The AVatch only, 10/6. Post Free.
4oz. CORN COB, Plug, Light or Dark, 1/4. Tin; Corn Cob Watch, 3/11. ' Postage, Gd. Total, A 5/9.
Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lib. Boxes, 6/-; 2oz. Packets, 6/6. Inter-State, extra.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Tlie Newcastle and County Mutual
Building, Land and Investment Co. (Newcastle,
N.S.AV, .from the, time when £2501 of forfeited
capital was added to reserves:—
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1>!)J •• £15119 .24 p.c. =£641 £1123 £592-'
1900 .. 1502 4 ,, „ ]H24 631 57t;9
1901 .. 1439 6' ,, ,,1281 1209 4718
19 ‘3 •• 1710 5 ,, ,, 1281 70S 4439
1903 .. 1543 5 ,, ,,1281 790 3911
IH " 4 •• 1784 5 „ ,,.1281 139 4275
1905 .. L578 5 12>1 126 4446
!9()6 .. 1598 6 ,, ,, 1537 390 4117
1907 .. 1418 5 ,, ,, 1 SI 71 4183
1908 .. 1524 5 ,, ,, 1281 — 4426
1009 .. 1632 5 ,, ,,1281 4777
1910 .. 1669 5 ,, ,, 1281 — 5165
‘9H •• 1769 5 „ „ 1281 —• 5653
'O'- 18515 5 „ ., 1281 430 5767
I his company, formed in 1886, lias suffered the usual
ups and downs of a land and building concern in a
mining town, and the downs have been more pro-
nounced than the ups. Only once during the past 10
.years has the dividend pushed its nose above 5 p.c.
Then something seems to have stung it, and it jumped
back smartly. The trouble, as usual, seems to be a
comparatively big holding of unproductive land.
Freeholds and leaseholds, although they have been
written down, bring in only 34 p.c. net. Fortu-
nately, the co. is helped out by a fair quan-
tity of new advance business. Reserves consist of
Fund ( £2181) and unappropriated
profit ( £3856). A year or so ago the assets were re-
valued, but apparently they weren’t written down
any too strenuously, seeing that a slice has had to
be cut out of the depreciation fund during the past
year. This throws some doubt upon the balance of
the reserves. Anyway, capital sunk in an enterprise
of this rather speculative sort ought to give more
than 5 p.c. dividend ; and if it doesn't, unless some-
thing 1 “very substantial is added to reserve, it is />
fairly reasonable presumption that some of the prin-
cipal is in assets that are ’not worth 20s. in the £
Thehnost cheerful feature of a rather drab situation
is the steady growth of advances,’ along with a
steady,-..though slow, reduction in properties. This
shows these movements in detail:—-
1899. 1904. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Deposits.. .. £3,362 £10,978 £16.133 £18,507 £19 367
Other liabilities. 6.773 3,362 2,710 790 821
Advances ..18,046 28.31S 34,941 35 572 36 942
Properties ,.. 24,248 17,178 15.306 15,617 15^054
Total liabilities, are thus £20,188; the capital, dis-
regarding the reserves, is £25,163. Creditors are
amply protected ; there is about £2 5s. of assets
for every £1 owing to the public. The shareholders’
risks appear to be correspondingly moderate; on the
other, hand, their prospect of any large return is very
little better than the late Mr. Buckley’s.
The Mareeba Goldfield (N’Q.) is suffering
a mild sort of boom. The London Hydraulics is
being floated to work some alluvial found there, and
the latest whoop is that the Queen Constance reef has
at last been discovered, after many unsuccessful efforts
to bring forth the blushing beauty. A sample taken
ovsr 18m. of the reef, cut by the shaft, assayed 6oz.
lOdwt. 16gr. of gold per ton. This is the result of
backing an opinion contrary to the weather-wise local
folk. London Hydraulics also whoops, because it
practically surrounds the discovery.
Blair Athol coal and timber co. (Q.) has
had skip the usual quarterly dividend (6d.).
Money is required to pay for a siding and the buiid-
i ng -. ot * house for the manager. For ,the half-year,
to March 31, the profit was £3942. The recent in-
crease in the number of shares issued will not tend to
quicken dividends. Fortunately this colliery has a
gfoocl customer in Mount Morgan, which has con-
traded to take fronr 2000 to 3000 tons of coal per
SH 1 * f ° r two years. Last half-year the output was
38,410 tons.
* * ■* *
“Kobbi”: Back of ‘’Gladstone (Q.) the
Queensland Copper Co. (of iMount Perry) has given
1 ~~
up the ghost in its attempt to locate the ore-body in
its leases on the north and south of the Many Peaks
-claim. Mount, Morgan promptly took the northern
lease. About a mile away the McDonald syndicate
is still trying to pluck, patience and pocket r to locate
a lode, outcropping oh its lease, but 345 ft. of tunnel
hasn t shown anything worth cheering about. Some
14 miles away Osborne and Charley have tackled
°“-tried fraud or misery, Mount Cannindah.
tallide Coal Cos: reckons it has a 16ft. seam,, and
sample parcels have been sent out on trial. A Gov-
ernment analysis, gave the coal the following worth
(vide Mining Journal) :
~ . , Top. Bottom.
Moisture ~ .. io.l p. c . .. 10.2 p.c.
Volatile matter .. 22.05 ~ .. 21 35
Fixed carbon . . 61.35 ” ! ! 60 95 ”
' Ash • • • • 6.5 „ . . 7.5
So Gladstone’s back country has most of its minino-
development in front of it yet.
* * - * *
“Observer” writes from Clononrrv (Q.) •
Corboidd leaves Elliott at the end of this month
(duly) lor London. The amount of copper produced
tor June was a record for the mine, and the output
tor July gives promise of being a capital one, too.
Jhe company, realising that the present high price
may not last, is apparently making, a spurt in its
output. Corboidd, when advising the June returns,
wisely sounded, a -note of warning to shareholder
not to count oni a future output of more than 620
tons per month) until the other mines recently ac-
quired are opened up and equipped, and facilities for
transport available. No doubt he had in view his
impending departure on a business trip to the Cold
Country. At present the Mount Elliott and Consols
mines never looked better. The creep which took
place at the former last year has long since been
made good.
TV hen times were good, several Charters
lowers cos. took up shares in the Miners’ Industrial
Accident Association, which is now to be wound up.
Brilliant Block held 279 shares, and will receive
something like, £558 as a. liquidation dividend.
Brilliant Central is-also interested, and will receive
a fair amount, but it is doubtful if this will obviate
calls, for the Central has to do some timbering and
considerable work in prospecting for the Brilliant
cross reef underlaying into the Central from Kellv’s
Queen Block,, The latter is about to re-work the
upper, levels on,,the St. George reef. It has 24 feet
ofehea.vy mineral stone at the bottom of the winze.
.Still, shares al'q not so popular as they were. The
recent crushing ( was below expectations.
’Ms,*.,*:*■ * *
, Stannary Hills (N.Q.) is looking for more
cash, and Would like to reconstruct;. General-
manager stoclfdale has gone in quest of any possible
hope he can gdt. Meanwhile tributors are working
the leases, and, the liquidator has advertised for a
buyer for mines, tramway, plant, machinery, stores
and s,chattels. >Which is the Dead Finish, as The
Bulletin predicted.
“He Wake,” from Woodlark Island, off
lapua: From 200 tons crushed George Jones’s mine
returned 1077dwt. of gold. Some weeks back he hit
a smaH patch that dollied lOOoz. out of a few lb.
ot dirt, and bar gold from the mine weighing 300 oz.
is a ship companion for this letter. Tom Bo.ylan has
extended his shaft another 40ft., making it 80ft
deep, and the reef has now widened from 6ft. to 12ft."
iPi. , tons crushe d to date an average of 6oz.
gold has been got. Asa result of one month’s work
6160 z. bar gold is also being shipped bv this boat.
Others who have struck rich stone are Walthon and
Franklin and Weekly and party.
Antimony hag! made its appearance in the
sulphides at Yua-nrai (W.A.), consequently a modifi-
cation of the present oxidised ore treatment will
ultimately be required for dealing-with this class'of
ore. Meantime a small experimental plant is being
installed, the results so far obtained from develop-
ment m t ie sulphide levels are declared to be first
rate. In the case of the co.’s other show—the Oroya-
Black Range—reduced working expenses have enabled
attention to be directed to large blocks of low-grade
ore throughout the mine. In cutting up some of
these blocks a lot of high-grade stuff has bp/>n
exposed, and so materially improved the outlook.


1
mt. t
A
WA
m
Mtmmi
i s&M
m
:
! i
The Convenience
($X Simplicity of the
KODAK. Camera
as compared with a plate camera would
make it worth while even if the pictures
were no better BUT THEY ARE.
Kodaks load and unload in daylight with film cartridges that weigh
ounces where glass plates weigh pounds.
Kodak Films are superior to plates for hand camera work, not merely
because they are light and non-breakable, but also because chemically they
are made to exactly meet the' harsh lighting conditions which the amateur
encounters.
By the Kodak system no dark-room is required for any part of the work,
not even for developing, as anybody can, without previous experience, develop
films perfectly with a Kodak Film Tank, and get better negatives than are
possible by the old dark-room method.
The Kodak system gives the amateur the widest possible latitude in the
finishing of his pictures. He may use the daylight tank system, the dark-
room method, or mail his films to some professional finisher. IT'S JUST AS
HE CHOOSES.
if it isn’t an Eastman
it isn’t a Kodak.”
Kodaks, 26/- and up.
Catalogue Free at the dealers
or by mail.
K.ODA.K. (Australasia)
,
Incorporating' Baker (EL Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 6 Mercer Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.
PINE OLD COGri/qC
b mm
'"THROUGH nearly
1 200 years, by
patient care and
experiment, aided by
the soil, sunlight and
air of the Charentes
the finest grape-brandy
district in the world —•
MART BUR’S have
elevated their time-
honored product to its
present remarkable
standard of excellence.
Bis 6
y
m
m


Missing: Friends.
TOHiSi LENNON, late of Bourke. please
communicate with Mrs. Lennon, Moonbie
Street, Summer Hill, to your advantage.
Brisbane Courier please copy.
BROOIvER. —If Mary Ann Brooker, for-
merly Mary Ann Gray, daughter of
Lawrence Gray, late of Roadvale, Queens-
land, will communicate with Born & Hayes,
of Ipswich, Queensland, Solicitors, she will
hear of something to her advantage.
FREDERICK WILSON.
] F this should meet the eye of FREDERICK WIL-
SON, formerly of Warborough, Mosman, Sydney,
he will hear of something greatly to his advantage
by communicating with Shipway and Berne, of 113
Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia—
Solicitors for his Brothers and Sisters, and for his
late Mother.
£5O REWARD.
The abovenamed FREDERICK WILSON left Syd-
ney in 1894, and was engaged in Farming pursuits
in Putara, near Eketahuna. New Zealand, up till
1902. We have just heard from a friend of his that
lie was in Wellington, New Zealand, in 1907, and
in Ohakune, New Zealand, in April, 1908. If he is
dead, we will pay the above reward to the first
person who gives us - satisfactory proof thereof. If
he is alive, we will pay the reward to the first
person who gives us such information as will lead
to his discovery bv us
SHIPWAY A" BERNE, Solicitors,
113 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Cobber Mouth Organs
'lS*' -
BE?CC3BC3Eg
E 5 858 Era g~3 r_a i^j
No. 1. —The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case ... 3/"
No. 2. —The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case ... 2/”
No. 3. The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case 1/6
No. 4—The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1/-
Sold by all Stores.
The Trade supplied by
JACKSON & MACDONALD
Australian Agents, Druitt St., Sydney
A. !$• Beal, East St., Rockhampton, and
367-9 Queen St., Brisbane;
Wills & Co., 7 Quadrant, Eaunceston;
G. W. Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne;
Optical & Photo Supplies Co.,
Hay St., Perth.
Martin s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Cadies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
HE3MEfSftI.ES
'H
FROM THE
26th
JULY
TILL
17th
AUGUST
THE
BARGAIN
BANQUET
IS
SPREAD.
Where shall we send
YOUR copy of our
Big Sale Catalogue ?
Every page is bristling
with bounteous bargains
which we send Post Free,
too!
Sit down and write for
a Sale Book to-day-now!
□
Finney, Isles
& CO. LIMITED,
The Drapers of Queensland,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
“Kobbi”: The auctioneer’s hammer broke
the last link of the Bell family with the
Jimbour estate the other day, when the
bargain and curio-hunter trooped to the old
home in force. The Dalby Council, which is
anxious to “do something” in the line of a
memorial to the Bells, had representatives
at the sale. They secured the library in-
tact, and rescued from the other bidders the
wire cradle in which Joshua Peter B. rocked
all his bairns, with the exception of Speaker
Joey. Interesting to note that the Bell
mansion was lit by a gas plant installed 40
years ago and fed with coal from an outcrop
near the house. Joshua was well ahead of
his day.
A certain “influential deputation” begged
Treasurer Barnes to allow payments under
the H ederal Land Tax Act as a deduction
under the State Income Tax Act. The Den-
ham-Barnes press and narty denounce the
land tax as an iniquitous scheme of spolia-
tion, for which reason the above deputation
leckoned it had a soft thing on. And when
the official reply came that Denham and co.
could „do nothing in this matter, the “influ-
ential” folk aforesaid rent their belltoppers
and cried ‘ Ichabod!” unto 70 times seven.
“Kobbi” : The deadly North has been at it
■ This time the victim is Michael
McKieran—dead at the age of 80 years, 40
of them spent at Townsville. There are
three amazing events in Australia’s history,
and one, at least, of them must appear in the
biography of the orthodox ancient inhabi-
tant, deceased.. Otherwise he isn’t genuine,
and the label is bogus, and the name isn’t
blown in the bottle. The well-worn Eureka
is one; and the other two are the Chinese
riots at Lambing Flat (N.S.W.) and at the
Crocodile (near Rockhampton (Q.). r “he
deceased young man Michael was at Lamb-
uJg Hat, and in the earliest ’6o’s he drifted
about Bananaland as drover and prospector.
Then either the uniform or the cook attracted
him, and at various times he wore the cop’s
outfit and kept the peace at Queensland’s
street corners. A retiring pension gave him
plenty of spare time, and of it he spent
as Mayor of Townsville—the Jewel of the
North.
Kobbi : A Parliamentary committee has
been appointed to inquire into the claim of
David Down to have discovered payable gold
P e& k Downs (C.Q.). At present,
Peak Downs is. noted mainly for what it
used to be—which, at its best, wasn’t very
much. The settlement of the country there-
abouts dates from the’early ’6o’s, when Rock-
hampton itself wasn’t in short pants even.
The alleged discoverers of the golden Downs
are legion. The man who gets the “local
vote” in Central Queensland is one Nelson,
who was employed keeping flies or niggers
off sheep thereabouts. As early as ’6l; he
got gold in Sandy Creek, near where Cler-
mont now is, and large developments of a' 1
rather tame and flat nature followed for a
time, though, the place brightened up in ’63
and ’64. Griffin, the notorious murderer of
the gold escort, was police magistrate there
about then, and as some idea about the im-
portance of the place it is noted that one
gold outfit which left in ’67 carried 2806c#.
Griffin murdered the escort (two troopers’)
when returning with the equivalent cash.
ANNA PAVLOVA , the Russian dancer now at the Palace (London).
Jacob Horwitz, a one-time Bananaland
legislator who amassed a pot of money in
wheat and then retired to Berlin, made a gift
of £7500 to the Warwick Hospital. The in-
come derived from this capital at 5 per cent,
supplemented by the Government grant of
2 to 1, will provide the institution with an
income of £1125 per annum. The Hebrew
is seldom ungrateful.
Digby Denham’s Industrial Peace Bill
proposes to establish a Court for the settle-
ment of Industrial questions, and to wipe out
the old Wages Boards. The measure does
not abolish the right to strike, but insists on
the giving of notice that a stoppage of work
is contemplated, and provides that a secret
ballot shall first be taken—a principle that
will probably rouse Strike-leader Coyne to a
burst of fury. The Bill will undoubtedly
create a few lively scenes in the Bananaland
Assembly.
“ Ivobbi ” : Police-Inspector Quilter,
arrested by death at Rockhampton, the other
day, on a charge of having no visible
means of support for his burden of longev-
ity, had been 31 years in the force. His
reputation, quite sufficient in his later days
to keep the law unbroken, was made in
north-west Bananaland among the cattle
thieves. Appendicitis and peritonitis carried
him off to his narrow cell. Bail was not
allowed.'
“Kobbi” : Rockhampton railway folk lifted
a parting glass or so to two of Queensland’s
oldest guards the other day—Perrier and
Dodds. When Dodds first joined the rail-
ways, in ’67, Central Bananaland had a
lonely 30-mile line to Westwood, with casual
stations mostly at a big gumtree and a lone
pu6. Now guards in the same district have
800 tosOOO miles of track to put the brake
on t$ —and the distance is growing.
“Kobbi”: Bananaland turned over to a
back page of its historical notebook when it
decided on additions to the Government
stores in William-street, Brisbane. The'
building was erected back in 1829, and was
used by the Imperial Government for com-
missariat purposes in the leg-iron and broad-
arrow days. Three things are said of it
now: (1) It isn't suitable for the present
purposes. (2) It is in excellent preserva-
tion. (3) It promises to last another 80
years. So, mainly for sentimental reasons
and the connection it has with our great and
lagged grandfathers, its unsuitableness will
be further fostered.
In Abject Terror.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Abject terror’ - describes the feeling of the Aus-
tralian meat exporters since the American Beef Trust
has commenced its operations in Australia.
—Daily paper.
In abject terror we have seen
The bovine monster seek our shore
To chew the tender herb and green,
And, still unsated, ask for more.
His awful presence haunts our dreams,
His hot breath scorches all our hope,
Our voices are 113'steric screams,
Our hearts become as lathered soap.
He enters at the garden gate
To rend, and ravish, and destroy ;
Our cabbages are dark with fate,
Our cauliblossoms void of joy ;
We howl aloud in stark despair,
We rage, we rave, we swear with pain,
We pull out bunches of our hair.
Nor pause to stick them in again.
The Tory, swathed in rolling fat,
Perspires in agony of dread,
The while he dances on his hat
And mentions objects that are red ;
He sees the circle of himself
Diminish slowly day by day,
While other fellows grab the pelf
That once he snugly stacked away.
His editor in loud alarm
Smashes his paste-pot with a brick,
And calls on patriots all to arm
And join in one tremendous kick ;
And, splashing seas of fervid ink
O’er reams of paper wild with fear,
Dashes his fevered brow with drink,
And floods the landscape with a tear.
And yet the simple facts remain
Through all the uproar and the fuss,
The thing which causes all our pain
We asked to trample over us;
We knew the horror lay in wait
With all his cunning and his sin,
And left a wide, unguarded gate
To let the big destroyer in.
And now a splendid madness howls
Aloud on all Australian airs,
While persons of befatted jowls
For once are busy at their prayers;
The invitation to our shore
Has been accepted right away,
The Beef Trust enters at the door
And by his look he means to stay.
N.S.W.
M.McC.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
» Bbisbane, August 3, 1912.
My Deab Tiiaegomindah,—
A number of us have been seething with
indignation (you should see us seethe; it is
a truly impressive spectacle) at the doings of
the 30 young men who recently gave a
Bachelors’ Ball. Everyone connected with
“trade” was supposed to be barred —though
you simply can’t do it in these com-
mercial parts without depending for
dancing men on the lazzaroni of the
parks. A kind of master of etiquette
was appointed. His job was to intercept
and push out traders, and preserve the correct
Buckingham Palace tone generally. The
mere press female received her invitation
inscribed thus: “Miss Mabel Jones, Even-
ing News” ; and lest she should pre-
sume so far as tq attempt to connect
with the supper, or otherwise diverge from
the straight path of strict business, her ad-
mission ticket was branded in large letters,
“Press.” So _ enraged were our ordinarily
sheep-like dailies at all these innovations
that they practically boycotted the haughty
function.
Talking or blithering of unusual darnces,
by the way, there was one at a private house
in town recently, at which the hostess cordi-
ally invited all hands to come along and
bring their own suppers! I hear from one
of the most persistent and shameless liars
of my acquaintance, that the lady’s street
was a teeming mass of youths trailing cray-
fish, beer bottles (loaded), sardine tins
(charged), and sundries, for hours before the
revelry began. In an economic manner of
speaking, the affair was the success of the
season.
Every female in the hamlet is now en-
gaged reviewing her best clothes and sub-
editing her most eligible hat; also, the moth-
riddled portion of the male villager’s habili-
ments is being industriously inked and
darned, while he is greasing his best boots
and rubbing cocoanut oil on his hair. The
reason for these excursions, alarms and re-
pairs is the presence in our midst of the
Governor-General. The town has acquired
greatness, and is going to live up to it re-
gardless of expense. Dissipation of the most
elegant and high-flown variety looms ahead
of us. Some of us have already been en-
nobled by invitations to a garden party.
All possibility of the low-down and “ornery”
sneaking in and stampeding the local peer-
age has been frustrated in advance by some
master of social . strategy, for enclosed with
each invitation is a crested card inscribed,
Tor Presentation to the Chamberlain.” No
ordinary bit of pasteboard or betting ticket
will be accepted by the noble doorkeeper, and
the social outcast will either have to stay
away and hoe the vegetable garden or climb
the fence, unless he invests in a man-lifting
kite. &
There was a large roll-up at the Orches-
tra, 1 Society’s concert, on Tuesday. Mrs.
Dob Bell, the only soloist, lifted a tuneful
soprano, and was awarded a barrowload of
jonquils and other fragrant vegetables. Iler
frock was an alluring crepe-de-Chine affair
sprinkled with painted poppies. Conductor
Sampson came in for a demonstration, and
acknowledged the same with a curt bow, which
seemed to suggest that he was determined to
keep the effusive villagers (or should it be
hamleteers?) in their proper places.
tt J ? ck .'Thomson, whose sister, Mrs.
Aal Macdonald, of Melbourne, is staying
with her, gave a tea party on Wednesday
afternoon. Mrs. Arthur Feez, the Gilbert
Wiison lady and a full panel of other guests
did full j'ustibe to the festive sandwich—
that is to Say, they non-suited it and
estreated its bail.
Mrs. W. N. Robertson- with some assist-
ance from sjpter Gladys Pollard, gave a
dance at her: Sherwood home on Monday
evening. Pretty Ida Chambers indulged in
a similar function last Wednesday evening
And, on Thursday, Bob Philp’s younger
daughter hostessed a dance at Aunt For-
sylhs, at. Toowong. Other elegant sprees
were Nellie Lawrence’s annual, on Tuesday
and the Moon Moths’ parade, on Wednesday’
The Commercial Boatshed is shaking under
the tireless hoofs of dancers as I write. So
the winter blows past to an accompaniment
of thudding and twanging, and the violin
man with the tired eyes looks wearily at the
flute-blower, while the pianist stares with a
wild, blank look at the ceiling, and pounds
away at the white fangs of the stunned
piano.
The fame of this village has been spread-
ing and folk are arriving, carpet bags in
nand, from the ends of the attentive earth
—or thereabouts. Among the visitors are
Mrs. Lucas (Rockhampton), Mrs. Tom
Watson (Double Bay), Misses Cooper and
h letclier (Armidale), Miss Tunks (Glebe
loint), and fully seven others. No wonder
the London season was voted a failure by
maddened duchesses.
Governor Fuller, of Victoria, returned to
-Brisbane on Tuesday evening, and on
Wednesday the Queensland Club, < ever
anxious to prove its loyalty to Food and
ihrone, fed him sumptuously. He said that
he had never toasted better roast gohanna
even in Buckingham Palace. On Fri-
day, Mrs. Lumley Hill hostessed a
dinner in his honor at the Hotel Daniell
(O Connor?). Major-General Kirkpatrick,
Mr. and Mrs. Noyes, Mrs. Gilbert Wilson,
the Foxton aide and several others helped to
devastate the victuals. This morning, Fuller
went off—or rather he departed southward
in the State car.
W. E. Vincent, who, with Phillip Lytton,
is responsible for “The Girl from Wayback
is at present in Brisbane. The town is hold-
ing up. You could drop any world-celebrity
out of an aeroplane, and the oiace wouldn’t
turn a hair—a characteristic, I believe, of
all the great capitals. They are used to
receiving the Rich and the Great.
On Thursday evening, two of our bud-
ding musicians (by the way, do musicians
bud or do they hatch out?), Gladys Frost
and Mabel Woolcock, gave a concert in the
Albert Hall. Both girls are pupils of the
Marshall Hall Conservatorium in Mel-
bourne, and each excels in her own line. I
forget for the moment what the lines are.
The melting strains of the Jew’s-harp and
accordion ever made me forgetful. Mr.
Diebels, a musician whom it were folly to
abuse, was also a circumstance of the even-
ing. I-le happened easily, like a fatal acci-
dent with screams complete. This concert
has given the musical set a desire for? more.
But, then, musical sets always do, want
more, as witness the ravenous way they
demand encores. When Gabriel blows his
trumpet, he will have to accede to their
world-wide uproar, and sadly puff “The Last
Rose of Summer” or “Egypt” before he will
be allowed to proceed with his soul-njuster-
ing. And the iSheep will sing to the effect
that he is a Jolly Good Fellow.
Mrs. Hall and daughter Amy dispensed
muffins and tea at the Caf6 Eschenfiagen,
this morning. The patients were not numer-
ous, but costly. The muffin I wrote, their
names on was unfortunately devoured by
myself in a forgetful moment, consequently
I am unable to tell you who they were.
The University Musical and Dramatic
Club made its first appearance in public on
Wednesday evening. Owing to the friendly
disposition of the audience there were no
casualties. Musical items filled in the first
part of the programme. (That sentence
seems to suggest that the programme was a
sort of swamp which had to be filled by day
labor.) At half-time, the undergrads, in the
hall got carefully uproarious, and piped a
few personal out harmless verses on each
professor present, The second part, or ex-
cavation, was reclaimed by a band of ama-
teurs, who struggled without serious damage
through “The Scheming Lieutenant.”
Lottie Richter, Vera Parker and Gertie
Hegarty were the feminine soloists at the
Vincent de Paul concert, on Wednesday.
Judging by the amount of vegetables handed
over, the florists sold right out. No village
flower blushed undetected, for I cannot see
a single blossom from my ink-stained camp
on the roof.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


0©
M
m
m
V
-
Really Good
for Ladies
n
i
/
For Abstainers
and
Non-Abstainers
DRINK, A TONIC, AND
DIGESTIVE COMBINED
WITHOUT ALCOHOL OR GAS.
A HP is derived from the finest natural foods—Fruits and
A • Herbs. It mixes perfectly with all other drinks,
and greatly improves their flavour and palatability. It moder-
ates the intoxicating effects of Alcoholics, lessens the flatulent
effects of aerated drinks, and acts as a corrective for drink-
ing water.
HP is an excellent Stomachic, a proved remedy for
-*• • Indigestion, a valuable aid for Colic and Stomach
Troubles, and a great Pick-me-up and Tonic after Alcoholic
excess. Being a real aid to Digestion, it is a splendid After-
Dinner Liqueur.
Q nr is a preventive and remedy for Colds and Influenza,
A • and it has properties which specially commend it
to ladies when needing a stimulant.
TRY THESE BLENDS :
LEMONADE & O.T.
GINGER ALE & O.T.
GINGER BEER & O.T.
SODA & O.T.
SARSAPARILLA & O.T.
QUININE & O.T.
fgh
WATER (hot or cold) & O.T. (add Juice of Lemon)
A Substitute
for Alcohol
as
m
FOR
Colds
Influenza
Colic
Indigestion
etc.
For Digestion
and Indigestion
>
SH
1
M
J*
l '.V
J’K-'Sv’:}'*"*'
v&c*
1
V l '
v\
%
12
sc
f
Obtainable at
Hotels and Stores.
REFUSE
SUBSTITUTES


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS.
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 13s„ £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON A CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers 8 Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
™ Bank of Jorth fiueeiisianti
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves . . 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sis.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui aland.
SYDNEY BRANCH: -
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock . . . . . . £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Jj’iji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Ban tirin' Imsr
THE %
Australian gank of Qoramerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED ' CAPITAL . . . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,195,344
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
HEAD OFFICE—George! and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yaiiwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth.
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO.OOO o o
Capital Paid Up . . .. .. 413,590 14 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,009 4 ;
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors—Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years and over, at the rate of per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland,
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping;.
N.D.U.
N ord D eutscher Ivloyd
MAIL, STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted witli “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
Faresto London: 1., £66 ; 11., £3S/10/- ; 111., £l5 to £l9
Fares to London: Return—l., £99; 11., £57/15/-;
111., £27, £34/4/-
lieturn Ticket available for Return via Cape of
Good Hope per Holt’s Blue Funnel Line.
Ist Class, £88; 2nd Class, £66.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from
Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea.
Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne ;
IL MUECKE & CO., Adelaide:
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle ;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Westcm —‘‘ WEEKLY WORRIES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DTSCHARCING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
All Steamers fitted with Wireless. *Third-class only.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line —£110 (First-class each way);
£B2 (Second-class Orient).
Saloon Return Tickets to Africa interchangeable
with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line.
Third-class Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with P. and O. Branch Line.
ROUND THE AVORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
HOWARD SMITH LINE
“OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
S.S. COOMA,
S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows: —
M ELBOURNE every Wednesday.
S 7DNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYAN (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous Hichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trips.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pine, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
| Winter Tours to
the Pacific Isles.
A CRUISE TO THE SOUTH SEAS at the
present time of the year is both delightful
and full of interest, and a trip in, one of the
Turns, Philp Line of Island Steamers will take you
away from the rigors of Winter to the more con-
genial climes of the Tropics.
Send for our illustrated booklet describing Tours
occupying from 21 to 52 days at a cost of from £5
to £25.
gfh
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney-
BANK.
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
fg
hfg
£3,000,000
£2,085.000
£3,000,000
£8,085,000
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt.,
M.L.C., President.
The lion. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
'Thomas Buckland, Esq.
DIRECTORS:
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles iv. Mackellar, lvt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq.; Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of. Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. j. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..£1,718,898 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,540,000.., 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen,' Esq ..' ", ~ Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. DmiiS.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector;
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: IV. C. B. Tii.ey, W. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: IS Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar-, Esq.; Hon. 11, S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager : F, A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of, Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock). 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man. :E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
23 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS
m To CAIRNS (Queensland) and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
Special attention is drawn to. the. opportunity of
enjoying a Holiday during the Winter Season at
places where the, climate is mild and the scenery
beautiful. The-services are performed by the follow-
ing steamships, fitted with all facilities for the com-
fort of Tourists. 1 .
TO CAIRNS EVERY TUESDAY—
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA,” 6500 Tons
T.S.S. “ WYANDRA,” 4500 Tons
and other well-known steamers, the round trip from
Sydney occupying 20 days.
TO LAUTOKA, SUVA AND LEVUKA EVERY
FOUR WEEKS—-
7.5.5. “LEVUKA,” 6500 Tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
The round trip occupying three weeks.
For sailing dates, etc., see Daily Papers.
Further particulars on application to —
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mdart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulinarca,” “Wimmera,” “Rivcrina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON, '
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Port:.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PI 111 E
And GULF PORTS I
ALBANY f
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports. J
S.S. Kyarra (7000 ton ■),
Wireless Teles;ra -y.
Sept. 28 and Oct. -6.
BRISBANE
HACKAY
TO\VNSVJU,E
And Pores North to Claims.
S.S. Marloo, Aug. 10.
S.s. Wollowra. Aug. 17.
S.S. Grantala, Aug. 24.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable alter
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can. he
ascertained on application at the Company’s Oilice.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADSAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES
The Best Route to Europe.
SAI LI NOS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NX, LTD.
Managing Agents, 209 George Street, Sydney.
F.S. F.S.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SOMERSET.
11,900 Tons. J. B. HUNTER, Commander.
Will be despatched from :—-
BRISBANE about Aug. 20 I MELBOURNE about Sept. 9
SYDNEY „ Sept. 4 | ADELAIDE „ Sept. 13
Tht Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class pasengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round. Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. .. £4O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed bv the
*T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE, leaving Sydney about Sep-
tember 17.
T.S.S. DORSET, leaving Sydney about October 15.
*Fitted with Wireless.
For further information see Illustrated Books,
Pamphlets, etc., apply to—-
BIRT & CO., LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITII, McEACHARN & CO., LTD., Mel
bourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
11. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
h
... and ...
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
•T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, AUGUST 13.
•T.S.S. TOPUA, 4400 tons, SEPT. 10.
* Fitted with Wireless.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Ilall on upper deck. I ’ef-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every :1s
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Ilaapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping tlieucc to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), *R.M. t.s.s. Tahiti, August 10. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M,S.
Aorangi September 3, arriving Sydney, September 1/.
There is also a service everv 23 davs from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. *Talune, July 30 (Maheno,
from Sydney, July 24, connects.)
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z.. Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE Australian Magazine—THE
HAND. The National Monthly.
EON E
Price. 6U.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.


New Zealand Insurance Clid.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Min nett & A. E. D’Arcy, Joint Managers.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Garden of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO
UNITED STATER INLAND POINTS, also GREAT
BRITAIN and EUROPE, and AROUND-THE-WORLD
TOURS IN CONJUNCTION WITH SUEZ AND CAPE
LINES.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, August 10.
S.S. MOANA, from Sydney, Sept. 7.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, October 5.
Sailings every 28 days.
All Steamers 'equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
FULL PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable
at:
UNION. S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
QEORGE HOTEL,
*St. Hilda., Melbourne.
• Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
fgh
&he HOtEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South. Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Table. - JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
OJflcbnateu
brewed prom
waited barley
R?
Tsr-i
iM
fg
LIGHT,
HEAT,
COOK with
Atipslits Air-Gas.
For lighting it is
unequalled for bril-
liancy, safety and
cleanliness.
Fo r heating and
cooking it is best and
most hygienic.
Lea. r n about it.
Write for literature' of
Atmoslite Automatic
Machine.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
-i*eA<.n,
t x. «
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
THREE PER CENT. ALLOWED ON ALL DEPOSITS UP TO £3OO.
Agencies at 490 Victorian Post Offices, and at 317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Melbourne, 15th July, 1912. DENISON MILLER , Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
QREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
hfg
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and (riving; Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
ivliose skin is show-
ing; a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3,1- Obtain-
ible from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale: DUERDIN AND SAINBBURY. Melbourne.
!M
«a
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for IOJ -
j Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLERS FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.] [5
“Coaguline,” “KlillX,” “Tenasitine,” The Australian Magazine—THE LONE
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc. 1 HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
HOW I PERMAMENTLY
REMOVED MY
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
After Pastes, Powders, Depilatories, Electricity,
and various advertised preparations had failed.
A Simple, Easy Method which any Lady can use at Home, and
Quickly Rid Herself for ever of this humiliating Affliction.
By KATHRYN B. FIRMIN.
I was deeply humiliated by superfluous
hair, which seemed to steadily increase and
become more hideous as I grew older, and I
cannot find words to tell you how good I
felt and what a terrible load was lifted off
my mind when I finally realised that the un-
sightly growth had disappeared for ever.
Before achieving this - happy result, I had
tried many advertised remedies, but found
to my sorrow that if they removed the hair
at all, it was for a short time only, and the
hairs soon reappeared
—stronger and thicker
than ever. Even the
electric needle wa s
tried upon my skin,
and I endured a great
deal of pain from its
use, but simply met
with disappointment. I
had spent so much time
and money on these
various methods that I
was in despair, and
almost ready to give
up, thinking that I
must suffer for ever
from this terrible afflic-
tion. It was then that
I chanced to learn of a
device by which the
women of ancient
Rome had completely
rid themselves of super-
fluous hair. With this
idea in mind I began a
series of careful experi-
merits in an effort to wrest this hidden
secret from the past. At last my efforts
were crowned with success, for I discovered
a method entirely different from anything I
had ever before seen. I used it on my own
skin, and it quickly removed all my super-
fluous hair without the slightest vestige of
pain or discomfort. I was delighted, and
feared that some sign of the hair might re-
turn. After a few weeks had passed I
noticed that my skin still remained clear,
soft and white, and as the months slipped
by and not the slightest trace of the hated
h
fgh
superfluous hair returned, I realised that I
had truly made a most marvellous discovery.
The wonderful transformation in my appear-
ance caused comment among my friends, and
they thought that a veritable miracle had
been wrought. When I divulged to them the
secret I had discovered, they tried the same
method on their own skins with equally
effective and permanent results. They told
me in guarding this secret I was withhold-
ing a great boon from womdnkind, and
urged that I should tell
others, so that all
afflicted women might
benefit by my discovery.
One of the most emin-
ent chemists of Paris
examined the treatment
and gave it the highest
endorsement. A promin
ent society lady whc
used this method some
time ago now says:
“Y our treatment is
marvellous, because it
is permanent. My skin
has remained smooth
and white without a
shade of superfluous
hair.” I have never
known this remarkable
process to fail, but you
can judge for yourself
of its seemingly mira-
culous power. I am so
grateful for my own
delivery from the curse
of superfluous hair that I feel that I should
give full particulars regarding my discovery
to all my sisters who need it. Merely
enclose two penny stamps for reply, and I
will send you particulars by return of post.
I will positively guarantee that any lady
can permanently and painlessly remove her
superfluous hair, and that she can easily
use this process in the privacy of her
own home, without the knowledge of any
one. Address, Kathryn B. FirmiH
(Dept. 631 II.), 133 Oxford Street, Lon-
don, W. Eng.
NOTE.—The discovery of Mme. Firmin is unquestionably a marvellous blessing to all women suffering
from this humiliating affliction, and we strongly advise readers to write at once for full information
regarding her secret. Don’t use this treatment near the scalp, eyebrows, or where you do not' wish
to have the hair permanently removed. *
COUPON.
Issued to Readers of Sydney “Bulletin” by Kathryn B. Firmin.
Out out this coupon to-day, and send with your name and address (or write and mention 631 IT 1
enclosing two penny stamps tor postage, to Kathryn B. Firmin (Dept. 631 II.), 12f3 Oxford Street
London, W. (Eng.), for free information regarding her marvellous discovery for permanently and
painlessly removing superfluous hair. * i dnu
NAME
ADDRESS
THE
PROOF of my CIGARS
IS IN THE SMOKING
*
a**y\.
DUYERS all over Australia and New Zealand, by their
■L* repeat orders, testify to the good smoking qualities,
flavor, and aroma of my Cigars.
To convince yourself, send me an order for 100 of any
of the following:—
IMPERIALS 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6 „
DIADEMAS 22/6
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6 „
INFANTAS 17/6 „
LEVUCAS 15/6 „
Smoko 5 or 6 of them, and, if you are not satisfied,
return the remainder to me, and
I WILL REFUND IN FULL THE AMOUNT PAID.
Remit amount with order, and I will deliver Cigars,
all charges paid, to any part of Australia. When order-
ing, state whether you like a mild, medium, or full
flavor. Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any
address on application.
My only address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
Dominion Accordeons
Are,High=Grade Musical Instruments
and excel in their beauty of design,
solidity of construction, exactness of
tuning and superior quality of tone.
They range in price from 12/- to
30/-. ONE of the best is—
r
Dominion Accor-
deon, No. 117,
Size llJi x 6 Vi ins.
Three sets reeds,
three acting stops.
Ninefold Triple Bel-
lows, with all cor-
ners metal bound,
polished ebonised
tops and mouldings.
Fitted with Brass
Amplifying Trumpets
on keyboard, very
powerful tone.
Price, 29/-
Ask for Complete Illustrated Catalogue
And name of nearest Agent.
Jackson & Macdonald
Druitt Street, Sydney
WHEN ORDERING
(Mum
ALE-
Insist on
FOSTERS
‘Bugle
Brand’
AT THE BAR.
ANYWHERE.
EVERYWHERE.
Waterman’s
(Id^l)
Fountain'Pen
(?
mm
The
SELF-FILLING
Style.
Press down the bar, dip
'point in ink, release
pressure and the pen is
filled. By far the simplest
and most efficient Self-
Filling Pen on the market.
This Pen has all the
superior qualities and
patented parts of the
regular styles of Water-
man’s Ideals.
12/6 and upwards.
Of Stctioners and Jewellers
everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London,
England.


Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 2nd August, IJI2.
SEPARATE TENDERS will be received
until noon on MONDAY, the ldth
AUGUST, 1912, for the following works:—
a. External Painting to Military Buildings
at LA PEROUSE and HENRY
HEAD.
b. External Painting, etc., to Military
Buildings at PARRAMATTA,
c. Alterations, etc., to 11.A.G.A. Store,
GEORGE’S HEIGHTS,
d. Repairs and Painting to Military Build-
ings at BONDI and COOGEE.
Specifications may be seen at the Office of
the Works Director for New South Wales,
Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney, to
whom tenders endorsed with the name of the
respective works should be addresesd.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 20th July. 1912.
TIMBERS FOR COMMONWEALTH
DEPARTMENTS.
TIYENDERS will be received till noon on
JL WEDNESDAY, the 21st AUGUST,
1912, for the supply and delivery of the
following timbers, in accordance with
schedules and specifications, which may be
seen at the Office of the Works Director,
Sydney, New South Wales.
Queensland Beech.
Queensland Black Walnut.
Queensland Maple.
Queensland Bally Gum.
Queensland Yellow Wood.
Queensland Silky Oak.
New South Wales Ironbark.
Cairns Kauri Pine.
Tenders may be submitted for the whole of
the items required, or for any item separ-
ately.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Timber for
Commonwealth Departments,” and addressed
to the Secretary, Department of Home
Affairs, Russell Street, Melbourne.
KING O’MALLEY.
Minister for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 20th July, 1912.
TIMBER FOR FEDERAL CAPITAL.
HPENDERS will be received until noon on
JL WEDNESDAY, the 21st AUGUST,
1912, for the supply and delivery of the fol-
lowing timbers, in accordance with schedules
and specifications, which may be seen at the
Office of the Works Director for New South
Wales, Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney.
(1) Queensland or New South Wales
Red Cedar.
(2) Celery Top Pine.
(3) Tasmanian Blackwood (Dark
Colored).
Tenders may be submitted for the whole of
the items required, or for any item separ-
ately.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Timber for
Federal Capital,” and addressed to the Sec-
retary, Department of Home Affairs, Russell
Street, Melbourne.
KING O’MALLEY.
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 20th July, 1912.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Vacancies (5) for Surgeons.
4 PPLICATIONS are invited from per-
Z\_ sons qualified for appointment -as
Surgeon in the Royal Australian Navy..
Minimum salary £387 16s. 3d., maximum
salary £433 Bs. 9d. per annum, including
deferred pay, but exclusive of uniform and
provision allowances, and medical attend-
ance, valued at £44 2s. Id. per annum.
Term of engagement three years, with
option of re-engaging for further three years
if services required.
Successful candidates may be required to
undergo a short course at a Naval Hospital,
or in one of H.M. ships prior to joining ships
of the Fleet Unit.
Candidate’s age not to exceed 28 years,
which may, however, be extended to 30 years
in special circumstances.
Further particulars may be obtained on
reference to the Commonwealth of Australia
Gazette of 20th July, 1912, or on apnlica-
tion to the Naval Secretary, Navy Office.
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, and at the Naval
Staff Office, in each State.
Applications must reach the Naval Secre-
tary, Navy Office. Lonsdale Street. Mel-
bourne, not later than 31st Aueust. 1912.
S. A. PETHEBRIDOE.
Secretary, Department of Defence.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 30th July, 1912.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL
COLLEGE.
Appointment of a Master.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as
a Master, to teach not less than two of the
following subjects, viz.: —
French, History, English, Geography,
during the first year of instruction at the
temporary Naval College at Geelong, and in
later years at the Royal Australian Naval
College at Jervis Bay.
Applicants must be of Australian birth, or
permanently domiciled in Australia, and not
more than 45 years of age.
Salary £5OO per annum, inclusive of all
allowances except travelling.
The appointment will probably date from
Ist January, 1913.
Further particulars regarding the nosition
may be seen in the Commonwealth Gazette,
and may also be obtained on application to
the Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Lonsdale
Street, Melbourne, and at the Naval Staff
Office in each State.
Applications must reach the Naval Secre-
tary, Navy Office. Melbourne, not later than
31st August, 1912.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE.
Secretary, Department of Defence.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 29th July, 1912.
Tenders for Supply of Structural Steel
Work for Construction of Wood Store
at Darwin, Northern Territory.
fTIENDERS will be received until noon on
JL WEDNESDAY, the 14th AUGUST,
1912, for the supply of Rolled Steel Stan-
chions, Steel Roof Principals, etc., for a
Wood Store at DARWIN. Northern Terri-
tory.
Plans and Specifications may be seen at the
Office of the Commonwealth Works Director,
Customs House, Sydney.
Tenders are to be F. 0.8., Sydney, and
should be addressed to the Secretary, De-
partment of Home Affairs, Russell Street,
Melbourne.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 29th July, 1912.
Offers from Persons Willing to Sell
Land Suitable for Postal Purposes at
Macksville, N.S.W.
OFFERS will be received until noon on
MONDAY, the 2nd SEPTEMBER,
1912, from persons willing to sell land
centrally situated and generally suitable for
Postal purposes at MACKSVILLE, N.S.W.,
to have a frontage of about 100 feet and
depth of not less than 132 fet.
Offers to be accompanied by plan and
full particulars of the site offered, and to
be addresesd to the Works Director for New
South Wales, Customs House, Svdney.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 31st July, 1912.
Tenders for Demolition of Cottage, etc.,
at Drill Hall, Raymond Terrace,
N.S.W.
TENDERS will be received until noon on
MONDAY, the 19th AUGUST, 1912,
for the demolition and removal of Cottage
and sundry works at the DRILL HALL,
RAYMOND TERRACE. . .
Specification may be seen on application
to the Postmaster, Raymond Terrace Post
Office, also at the Office of the Works Direc-
tor for New South Wales, Customs House
(4th Floor), Sydney, to whom tenders en-
dorsed as above should be addressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. , T T
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Business Announcements.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
HIM ROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
.Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
m
C—3
G\
lenseal \ I
d \ I
ible remedy 11
n nao AIL
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
- Compound _
• A safe and reliable remedyl
'for treating diseases of ALL
mucous membranes, such as
discharges from thenose,throat
stomach and urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
L Why not cure yourselft ,
\Treatise with each bottle
Ikor mailed on request. I
\jhe Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio S A
X*. U.S.A. S\
fg
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
In
48 hours.
Each Cansnle bears the name
(mi)
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” Trade Mark of
Kay’s Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
Under Distinguished Patronage
FOR “UNITED SERVICE” COTS,
CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
GRAND ROMAN CARNIVAL.
STADIUM, THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, 8 p.m.
Gladiatorial—Naval and Military Turns.
“ The Battle of Regillus ’’—Sword Attack by 32 Mounted
Troops.
Bayonet Eight by Naval Teams.
Duel Scene—The Three Musketeers, by 8 Swordsmen.
Art Tableaux and Sketches by Souter, Rubbo, etc.
A NIGHT OF SENSATION AND HILARITY.
ADMISSION : 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
■y II RATHE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY.
The Perfection of Exhilarating Comedy,
YOU NEVER CAN TELL.
By GEORGE BERNARD SHAW.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stails, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
> KINCESS’S THEATRE, MET.BOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Sole Direction : ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PLIMMER DENNISTON CO.
in
The Famous Comedy Drama,
A MESSAGE EROM MAES.
Prices 5/-, 3/-, !/•
Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
Charles Darrell’s Thrilling Dramatic Romance,
THE GIRL WHO KNEW A BIT.
The Play winch is Attracting Thousands Nightly.
Powerfully presented by WILLIAM ANDERSON S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
including CYRIL MACKAY.
Popular Prices I 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plans * Allan s & The Grand.
Booking Fee 1/- extra. _____
nil ISS MARY PROCTORi
IVI the distinguished lady astronomer
(Daughter of the late Richard A. Proctor).
AUSTRALIAN LECTURE TOUR.
(Direction of DIX & BAKER LTD.)
SYDNEY : Y.M.C.A. HALL, commencing AUGUST 19
(six nights).
J. WALLACE BROWN, Representative.
lypElAiWuß NE GLACIARIIia.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE RETURN OF MUSICAL COMEDY.
A STRONG CAST OF FAVORITES.
Reappearance of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA
CO.
THE QUAKER GIRL.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats fc Dress Circle, 6/-
ryMPIA.O L Y M P I A.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and. EVERY EVENING at
.ay j; g x’S PALA C E, MELBOURNE.
thf best WEST’S PIOTUItES >raß best
l gf ALL: LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen s.
Her MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY..
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE QUINLAN GRAND OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, at 7.15 : Wagner’s TANNHAUSER (Final)
FRIDAY, at 8: Bizet’s CARMEN (Final).
SATURDAY, at 2 : Debussy’s PRODIGAL SON (Final);
Humperdinck’s HANSEL & GRETEL (Final).
SATURDAY, at 8: Puccini’s LA BOHEME (Final).
PLANS AT PALING’S AND HOTEL AUSTRALIA.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF KISMET.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT. FOR ONE WEEK ONLY.
Shakspeare’s Tragedy,
OTHELLO.
Plaved bv OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
’ AND THEIR LONDON COMPANY.
OSCAR ASCHE as OTHELLO.
LILY BRAYTON as DESDEMONA.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee: ALLAN HAMILTON.
Sub-Lessee and Director : ALLEN DOONE.
ALLEN DOONE’S SWEET COUNTY KERRY.
Every Evening.
SECOND WEEK.
SECOND WEEK.
Every Evening.
A CONTINUOUS SUCCESS.
A CONTINUOUS SUCCESS.
Hear Doone singr “ Noreen,” “A Toast to Erin,^
“ Endearing- Young Charms,” “ Love’s Language.”
MATINEE, WEDNESDAY, at 2.
PRICES 4/-, 2/6 & 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAY EVENING & SATURDAY.
CARRIE MOORE, “ Australia’s Own,” Inimitable
Musical Artiste.
Last Nights of THE PECHILLI TROUPE.
Continued Success of BESSIE SLAUGHTER.
THE SIDDONS, SHIPP & GAFFNEY, LE BRUNS,
HARRY SADLER and DOUBLE COMPANY.
PRICES : 2/6, 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Box Plan at Theatre.
ADELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 SHARP.
THE MOST PICTURESQUE, SPECTACULAR and
SENSATIONAL DRAMA EVER STAGED.
THE BIGGEST & BEST of ALL AUSTRALIAN PLAYS
Produced at the Adelphi Theatre on a Scale of
Magnificent Splendor.
THE GIRL WHO LOVED A SOLDIER.
Adelphi Prices : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/- Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
HE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
GLACIARIUM.
YDN E Y
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Bto 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATE HIRE—6d.
Children Admission—Morning and Afternoon only, 1/-
Saturday Morning : Admission—Children 6d.
Phone : 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager
H E
ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Haymarket. Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OF CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d., 6d., Is.
The imperial roller rink,
Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
FEATURING ALL THAT IS BEST
in
ROLLER SKATING.
JAMES C, BENDRODT,
General Manager.
ILYMPIA AND PRINCESS, SYDNEY
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
~ tc K A RD S* TIVOLI THEATRE
R General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
CHE STAVORDALE QUINTETTE, Banjo and Har]
Specialists.
THE ALGINAS, Comedv Acrobats Extraordinary.
ALEC HURLEY, English Coster Impersonator.
MISS FANNY POWERS, Popular Australian Artist.
FRANK J. SYDNEY & CO., Specialty Jumping Act.
FRED BLUETT, Australia’s Favorite Comedian.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established lavorites
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Palings.
~ . HOUSE. MELBOURNE.
1 General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
THE HANS PAXTON TROUPE, Ground Acrobats.
MISS NELLA WEBB, the American Diseuse.
MOZZETTO, the Great Juggler.
TOM DAWSON, the Popular Comedian.
FRED RUSSELL, the Great Ventriloquist.
ARDO, the Human Frog.
>lan at Allan’s. 2s„ l
YRIC THEATRE, Chapel St.,
■ EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY
at 2.30.
'rmr KAMOTTS “NON-FLTCKER
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Macld’ Screen together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA 6d. .to 2s. a
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric lheatre Cate.
The Correct Use of the Human Voice
ELOCUTION IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
THE DISTINGUISHED ACTOR
WALTER BENTLEY
OF WORLD-WIDE FAME
TEACHES BY POST, or, by Private Lessons.
All farther information and arrangement of time of p rivate Tmtion and Fees can be ase
appheation at the College or by letter. 554 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W-_
You Can Grow a Moustache!
Try
Here’s to your better, more manly appearance!
Possibly you have tried several times to grow a moustache 1
once more and let _
CAPILLARINE.
be your assistant. It never fails, and has a 25 years’ reputation
behind it as an unequalled hairgrower.
PRICE 10/6 PER IAI. P... Free An,wh.r..
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE ™AINER-wor„ « I
make your moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, post r
CRAI6 & AITKEN,
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
Makes you look manly
m
Before
nn*t


WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
AEROGEN GaS GENERATOR.
WARNING.
It has become necessary
for us to Warn Buyers
that all Air Gas
Machines are not
Aerogen Machines.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons.
TWO OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
Forsayth, North Queensland,
Dear Sirs, — March 4, 1912.
Twelve months ago I purchased from you a 90-light Aerogen Gas Plant to illuminate two
(2) Hotels, both two-storeyed, a Public Hall, and Aerated Water Factory at Forsayth, super-
seding two (2) Acetylene Generators. I am very pleased with the change, which has resulted
in substantial savings in both cost of light and labor, in addition to providing a better light.
The light is white and brilliant.—Yours faithfully, d ) e B TORPY
i
Quirindi, N.S.W.,
Dear Sirs November 12, 1910.
Regarding the Aerogen Gas Plant you lately installed for us, we are very well pleased with
it, and can, with confidence, recommend it. The lighting is good and the working of the
machine easy to understand. Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) RONALD BROS.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH: ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA: A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd,
J Hinging for More!'
m
rm
A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years * success, j
For general use
The ‘ALLENBURYS’ Diet is a
complete and easily digested food.
It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
helping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and whole wheat in a partially
predigested form.
Made in a Minute
—add boiling water only —
ALLEN & HANBURYS LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND
and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
1111
§
h
THE LOME HAND
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6(1
f
The Most Economical Plant in the World is the
Patent Superheated Steam
Semi-Portable Locomobile.
RWolf
m i
f
s*i
- a
350
■H
■
WFSL .
illil.ililWi . ' Imilstiiiililiiiiiiilii.ili. iliiii
CLASS T.H.C. ENGINE ,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES—
HAES & EGGERS LTD
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Local Agents — •
ADELAIDE: Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE: Diamond Lubricating and Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE : Dean & Collie, 335 Queen Street.
The Coal Consumption on Standard Engine
is 0*789 lb. per B.H.P. per hour.
WOLF’S Standard Locomobiles
are a self-contained complete steam power plant,
including Boiler, fitted with patent, withdrawable Furnace and Tubes, Superheaters,
Engine, Jet or Surface Condenser,. Feedwater Heater, Air and Feed Pumps,
all in one unit,
giving the highest economy in fuel and steam.
They occupy a minimum of floor space, requiring only the lightest foundations, and
are easily attended even by unskilled labor.
In regard to
durability, reliability, steady running, adaptability,
WOLF Superheated Steam Locomobiles at least equal the best steam engine or
turbine plants of several 1000H.P. Their superiority in economy is attained by
their faultless construction and in obviating the many losses, including radiation,
etc., which are unavoidable in steam plants having separate boiler and engine.
Over Suction Gas Plants, Oil and Gas Engines, W OLF Locomobiles
possess the following advantages:
Cheaper cost of fuel. —Great reserve of power allowing overloads up to 50
per cent.—Steadiness in running under extreme and sudden variation of
load.—USE ANY KINO OF FUEL, besides coal (woodwaste, logs, peat, tan
bark, sugar cane [bagasse], naphtha, petroleum, inferior coal, lignite, etc.).—
Utilisation of steam for heating or manufacturing purposes. —Easy attend-
ance even by unskilled hands. —Absolute Reliability and Greater Durability.
Greater Simplicity and Continuously Maintained' Economy also at ' Lower
Loads.
In addition to the many Plants already installed throughout
Australia, we are at present Installing the following—
W. Angless, Melbourne one 600 B.H.P,
W. Angless, Melbourne two 300 „
Clyde Brick Works, Clyde one 260 ~
Murrumbidgee Co-operative Flour Milling Co., Wagga... one 180 „
Fuerth 8 Nall, Sydney ... one 105 „
N.S.W. Railway Workshops ... . one 70 „
Public Works Department, for Lithgow Sewerage Works... two 18 „
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE .


And There Is Not Now a Speck of
Eczema on Body, Had Suffered
about Two Years and Was Giv-
ing Up Case as Hopeless.
“For about two years I suffered with
eczema, my whole body and face were
6inothered with it, consequently I could not
3C'
(
eat or sleep and after trying all
kinds of cures and medicines I
was just on the point of giving
up my case as hopeless, when
a friend advised me to try
Cuticura Ointment, which I
did and obtained instant relief.
There is not now a speck of
eczema to be seen on my body
thanks to Cuticura and I am
only too willing and pleased to
tell all my friends about it.”
(Signed) William Brown, Forth and Clyde
Hotel, Balmain, Sydney, N. S. W., December
10, 1910.
Sores All Over Baby’s Body
“When my baby boy was six months old,
his body was completely covered with large
sores that seemed to itch and burn, and cause
terrible suffering. The sores were over the
entire body, causing little or no sleep for
baby or myself. Great scabs would come off
when I removed his shirt.
“We tried a great many remedies but
nothing would help him, till a friend induced
me to try Cuticura Soap and Ointment. In
six weeks’ time he was entirely cured.”
(Signed) Mrs. Noble Tubman, Dodson,
Mont., U. S. A.', Jan. 28, 1911.
Although Cuticura Soap and Ointment are
sold throughout the world, a liberal sample
of Cuticura Ointment with 32-page booklet
will be sent, post-free, on application to R.
Towns & Co , Dept. 13K, Sydney, N. S. W.
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.8.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years'
proven efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
fgh
Carters
•BPittle *
IIVER
PILLS.
Your Liver
Is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired—Out of
Sorts —Have No Appetite.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
•will put you right in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS
fgh
fg
hf
gh
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair=Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Out out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at 6d.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. 126 bond st„ Sydney.
fg
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out lof a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
"■ "Swam Safety
Can't Lpah,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
hg
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE,
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
l v Waltham Building, 24 Bond St. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6.
tfjilcrcdf*
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like afcharm in
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
StwcEifs rwcj
A
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
•J For use during illness and con-
valescence.
•I For weakly and overgrowing
children.
fljf As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases of
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
0191#
is soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
the most easiiy digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested.
I BEMGEB’S POOD LTD., Otter Works, HANCHESTEB,
ENGLAND.
' Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc. everywhere.
BIOSV
fh
Food
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Dano”: At the recent stud sheep sales, the prin-
cipal buyers were, as usual in recent years,
S Africans. The dailies see nothing amiss in allow-
ing the pick of Australian pedigree sheep to be
a P e > rather they applaud the presence
of buyers, who “make the sales more success-
f ul - The getting of big prices at the present time
is to them of far more importance than the inevit-
able future deterioration of Australian sheep, and the
corresponding improvement in African flocks. By
way of return, S’Africa prohibits the export of
ostriches or their eggs to any country, including
Australia, which would gladly import some of the
ill Evidently it regards the practical monopoly
ot the feathered trade as of more lasting benefit
than the present selling of its best birds—and when
we have lost our monopoly and the S’Africans have
kept theirs, we shall perhaps realise which of the
two of us was the short-sighted fool.
nr \T ort Watch”: Worth noting that the P. and O.
Moldavia, whose smoke has just vanished over the
horizon, carted away from Sydney and Melbourne
combined something over £500,000 in gold. Our
gold exports are reckoned to be a pair of millions
more than our production for the first six months of
the year. Of course, this country is getting back
button-hooks and boot-laces and bicycles and motor-
cars and mangles and corn-sacks and coffins and
various other luxuries, but it must make the most
rabid anti-Protectionist sit back and think hard,
when he sees that all the corn and frozen cow and
sheep s clothes and corpses and rabbit-skins and the
rest of the things we strenuously drag up to pay the
bills with aren’t enough to meet the cost of the other
things we buy back. And if he thinks hard enough
he 11 be able to think ahead to the day when all the
wheat we sell won’t pay for the whisky we buy; and
every hair and hide we can raise, and every scraping
of lead and gold we can dig out won’t lie enough
to swap for the manufactured goods we import. Then
when the importers begin to clamor for solid yellow
gold to make up the deficiency, we’ll find we haven’t
enough—and we’ll have to take to pawning our im-
ported shirts and shoes. And when our last eight-
day clock and the family flat-iron and our dress
suits have gone round to uncle, and we’ve feverishly
handed out the last of our spondulicks—well, per-
haps the Kickers at Tariff will begin to realise that
we d have been better to have manufactured these
goods ourselves, and kept the money in the family
stocking, instead of shipping it off in half-millions
at a time.
* * * *
The Middle Harbor suspension bridge, which has
just been given free of charge to the N. S. Wales
Government, was built by a syndicate 20 or more
years ago, with the idea of selling the sandstone
ridges on the northern S’"de of it as residential sites.
Then the land boom burst, and the possibility of
selling any residential sites anywhere vanished with
a howl. For some years the owners of the
bridge earned a pittance by charging curious
visitors Sd. for the wild joy of walking upon
it. For years past attempts have been made to
sell it to the State. A vast sum was asked. Then”
the proprietors came down to £6OOO and a tram.
Next it was offered for nothing and a tram. Then
it _ was proposed that the land owners (also the
bridge owners) should subdivide the ridges into
building blocks, on the Government guaranteeing
tram connection. To all these propositions the
Government turned the deaf ear and the glassy eye,
which. indicate plainer than any words can sav,
“Nothing doing.” Now the Government has got the
contraption for nix. The land owners will cut up
their property next season, in the sure and certain
hope that a grateful Government will do the fair
thing by them, as regards a transpontine tram.
“Vulcan”: Cargo pilfering is rising to a fine art
on Sydney and Melbourne wharves these days.
Making a whisky cask leak three bottles- (glass and
all) to the dozen, without outward sign; metamor-
phosing a 30-guinea “Paris model” into a wet sack,
also without visible indication; and causing an
alleged consignment of typewriters to disgorge scrap-
iron on delivery (all actual recent instances), are
mere elemental efforts. The other day,. Sydney and
Melbourne shipping people were, staggered by the
sudden and complete evaporation of a whole consign-
ment of 160 cases of Mildura dried fruit, valued at
£250. The stuff was safely placed on a Melbourne
wharf for shipment, and was supposed to be snugly
lying in the ship’s hold for Sydney. On arrival at the
latter port, however, not even a stray currant was
visible, let alone 160 cases, which, seemingly, had
dropped up the vessel’s funnel, or just vaporised, or
something, and that was the end of them. This
sort of thing, which is becoming chronic in a whole-
sale way of late, augurs a chaotic, idiotic or
just plain hiccup system of “Private Enterprise”
wharf management that is a, positive premium on
thievery. And the scandal is fattening to such huge
proportions that York-street and Flinders-lane will
soon be driven to the dreadful necessitv of calling
on the State Governments to apply some “State
interference” in the public interest —preferably in
the direction of taking wharf management over from
the shipping companies, and handling inter-port
goods, etc., _ in the same wav as they now handle
railway freight, with the minimum of loss and
bother. When the post-office mislays one of the
“commercial community’s” letters (3 x 6 inches, and
weighing a half-ounce), out of a total of 1,000,000
or so, whole pages of print howl about “State mis-
management.” Hut. other than ’phoning up the
police in a subdued voice, “Private Enterprise”
shames an oyster for silence, while whole tons, hogs-
heads and gross of goods are chronically disappearing
in transit under its charge. All the same, the local
thief gets a lot of unmerited respect in the matter.
Some time ago a Sydney house received a large,
nicely-packed stone in place of some valuable London
goods it had expected. This was promptly shipped
back to London again. There it was found to exactly
fit a large hole in a Fogtbwn carter’s paved stable-
yard.
* * * *
A growing industry at Malaysia is “cod-liver oil,”
made from shark’s liver. The raw product is sent
to Europe, where it is treated and sold —and drunk—
as cod-liver oil.' It is obtained from the innards of
the ordinary deep-sea sharks, which, about October,
cross the reef to marry, and are speared in the middle
of the stomach and the honeymoon. The male is
despatched , first, and the missus, who hangs round
waiting for him, goes .next. The sharks measure
from. 6ft. to. 1.8 ft.. long, and .a 10-footer gives about
five gallons of the medicine. In the early-Victorian
or mid-Victorian novel the heroine often died of
consumption,' for which cod-liver oil was then the
favorite remedy. It is unpleasant to think that Eva
Sfc~©toir,-. in “Uncle Tom’s Onbin,-”-may have drunk
three full sharks before she died.
BILL DRAWS THE LINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I don’t like the Dagoes—an’ I never did;
Nuflin they can say goes down with this here kid!
Smelly blokes, an’ greasy,
Livin’ cheap an’ easy—-
Yous can ’ave the Dago—l’d sooner ’ave the Yid !
Mos’ly Yids is decent—some on ’em is clean —-
But a well-washed Dago I ’ave never seen;
Twig ’em serve a tray fish—
See ’em ’andle crayfish—
Watch ’em messin’ oysters round be’ind the screen!
’E’s a dirty brute, too, as you may beleeve—-
Spittin’ on the froot to rub it wiv ’is sleeve!
Pinchin’ carrymels, too,
Out of tins ’e sells, too,
Asn’t got the pluck to do a nopen thieve.
’Ere’s the thing the stranger never understands:—
Orl the fish an’ froot-shops in the Dago’s ’ands !
W’y the ’ell don’t Sydney
Shunt the bloomin’ kidney—
Send the blighters lively back to their own lands?
I’ll eat steak an’ oysters any time yous like—
Or a bit o’ fried fish cooked by Solly Ike;
. But I ain’t a-lookin’
For no Dago cookin’ ;
Lead me to the Dago’s— that’s the time I strike!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


*6
STOCKINGS
ss
The only all-wool hose with the softness
of silk. And unshrinkable.
There are none like them for warmth,
comfort, and wear.
The range of is so large that
every individual is catered for. Men's,
women's and children’s : in black, tan and
fancy art designs and colours: in plain,
ribbed, and lace: fully fashioned and
seamless.
There is a
for every foot. And
every foot should be clothed in
It promotes health and does
not irritate the skin.
"JMoru
Stockings, Socks, and Under-
wear. for Men. Ladies, an 1
Children. In all
fitters, Drapers
prices Of Men’s Out
and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock
obtain it from his
fg
wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason” book -
let and name of nearest Agent to —
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
AalS ‘l’
h
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
rfiAljfo
GOUT V
& RHEUMATIC PH I S
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by alf Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
22
yem/ngton.
iREPEATER
We are just as proud of the
REMINGTON .22 Repeaters as
we are of the REMINGTON Big
Game high-power Rifles —for just
as good reasons. There is no
other make of the .22 class built
to as high a standard.
The features that place the
REMINGTON .22 in a class
by itself are the real big
REMINGTON features—
llammerless and Solid
Breech. You clean the
barrel from the breech.
There is perhaps a greater
difl'erence between the
REMINGTON and other .22
Repeaters than is to be
found between rifles of any
other class.
A real rifle —the REM-
INGTON .22 Repeater
—shoots without ad-
justment. .22 short,
.22 long, or .22 long
Rifle Cartridges.
REMINGTON
ARMS--UNION
METALLIC
CARTRIDGE CO.
H. MOLDEN,
Australasian
Representative,
P.O. Box 459,
Melbourne;
1349, Sydney.
[3
L,
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” The “Stockport
Remedy” for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’
proven efficacy.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Estabmshkd 1849.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
n c
Freehold and C.P. Combined), Pae.oraland 1 ‘. 0 ." “? s£“£%.
of Government Debentures, lnscnbed__Stock < JT wes^|; u^ rent RATES OF INTEREST,
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEbi rorvlv .
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrovvcrs the privilege of repawn
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of an, fin °;
Directors—The Hon. AW. Meeks M.L.C Chairman ! mTT- The Hon. F.E Winchcombe,'M.L.O. ; Adrian
Knox J E^ S K B a nS ’ ’ General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, RI A FS 8
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H - W - APPEND*, secretary.
ESTABLISHED -3 874.
r'OK X
COUGHS. 1
ftoiridge’s
UjkgMCi
I FOR I
COLDS, m
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for “ OWBRIDGE'S”
and take no Substitute-
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL, ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So/d by all Chemists.
by mating use of
suck a satisfactory
method of cleaning
the teetk as
Mfc E>wi
It is pleasant to lcnow tliat you
kave polisked so nicely tliose teetk
tkat skow.
It is satisfactory to feel tkat
your teetk are all properly cared
for —tkorougkly cleansed witk
tkis antiseptic dentifrice.
And it leaves suck a pleasant
feeling of freskness in tke moutk.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., - :J
Manchester, Eng.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/- Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
HEALTH AND
STRENGTH SERIES,
fully illustrated: —Ring-
craft (by Jim Driscoll),
1/4 ; Swimming (Jappy
Wolfe), 1/4; Massage
and Training, 1/4; Prac-
tical Cricketer (Craw-
ford), 1/4; Scientific
Boxing (Tommy Burns),
3/3 ; Weight-Lifting (Sax-
on), 1/4; Lawn Tennis
(Ritchie), 1/4 ; Curative
Exercises for Indigestion,
1/4 ; for Constipation,
1/4; Correct Breathing,
1/4; Muscles of the
Body, 1/4 ; Way to Live
(Hackenschmidt), 3/3 ;
Race Walking, 1/4 ; Run-
ning (Shrubb), 3/3 ;
Wrestling, 1/4; Science
of Wrestling (Hacken-
schmidt), 3/3.
pP-AND ANY BOOK
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous
“3
Multiplying-and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
-word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Pull In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, if-
Two- from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d. ;
post free, Bd.
Tiie Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Catalogues
ErtEE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. a
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
s
PRIZES VALUE £3500
. . in the . .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the AttorneyrGeneral).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750
3rd Prize, value £250
2nd Prize, value £4OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. Johnston, Raglan>
Victoria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
CASTRATION
Our Emascnlator combines the best, American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE'S PERFECT EMASCIILATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years. Uf*F~EASY TO USE.
451-
r Post Free Anywhere.
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
g
SHARPE & SHARPE
is bridge: street. Sydney,
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
There is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it fully and explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drum's are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off
them —the strain of trying to hear dim sounds.
What a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain ! , ,
Being made of the purest and softest Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
pillow. For the same reason, a blow on the side of
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds. , , ~
So that you may clearly understand why these
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration o ( f one as it lies
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magni-
fc?
fier is shaped
like a trumpet,
and so con-
veys even the
faintest sounds
right to the
natural ear-
drum. . Being
of the softest
rubber, it can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci-
sion and com-
fort. The di-
vision that
runs across the
mouth is to al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape
of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has
been chosen
after years of
experience a s
the best adapt-
ed to carry the faintest sound right down to the
natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times gets thickened, or loses its tightness, and
shouting does not act properly on it. It only
makes a confused and tiring noise. But the
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best
spot for perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-nerve
completely, or were bom deaf, we cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could do that, in spite
of some of the absurd claims made to-day. But if
you can hear the faintest sound, do not despair.
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people in
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night, and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time for Bs.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you must register it.
Those who suffer from
Piles find immediate
benefit and lasting
cure by using
PETERS’
PILE CURE
The Infallible Remedy for
Blind, Bleeding, Protruding
or Itching Piles.
A BONDI RESIDENT
writes“ The Bleeding Piles have en-
tirely disappeared. I only used three
parts of the ointment contained in One
Box.”—Mrs. Kennedy,
New Ocean St., Bondi, Sydney.
Peters’ Pile Cure is Easy to
Apply.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price 1/3.
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/ -
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
CONFID€NTI AL Letters
Retqaii) Private
when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying
Book is
used.
•NSC / 200
PATENT ZANETIC
COPY*NG BOO^
!&
3
You slip your letter
paper into the
holder, write your letter in ink, and the copy is trade
as you write. Letter shown no sign of copying. The
letter is ported and the hook put away. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 quarto, can be copied in
NSO/100, post free for 3/9; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
8. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road
LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Please send Money-Orders, not P.O.’s.


National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
ft i rC f d ' , . reec h' top le ver , full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
i ’ X ens, . on full) right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip,
wa n UC stock engraved, weight of 12-gauge about (iflb. to 71b.,
of ib-gauge eilb. to s DELIVERED,
Wp 1 t * is Gun . in 20-grauge, at 74/- e xtra.
lions anr! t hprcfnln A^e, '[ ,s lri N-S-W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our
i re can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
own specifica-
67/6
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-g aug e, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6ijlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Barrel Gun.
hfg
Ejector, 24/-; Non-Ejector, 21/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
Our
Special
Snaps.
Send for our Illustrated
Sports, Fishing and
Tobacco Lists, FREE.
THE MAINE
f?ifie
tSheu/inq P/He Apart.
“THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
126
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Riflle—l/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
15\-
ĥf
REMINGTON RIFLES, No. 6 Model,
22 Calibre R.F., 20in. round blued
steel barrel, weight 3^11).,
16,6
Or with Sliding Sights
21 /
Postage—l/6 N.S.VV.
2/8 Inter-State
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain; 197 Oxford St.,
Sydney; Church St., Parramatta ; 113 King St., Newtown. [1
DO YOU RIDE MUCH?
Yes? Well, you will know better than we
do the value of a comfortable saddle.
OUR QUEENSLAND PARR NO. 2
combines comfort for rider and horse. It is
only 151 b. in weight, and will answer the
purpose of stock riding, polo playing, or
hacking. It has a nice narrow waist for
grip, and a good sweep in the seat. The
flaps are soft kip leather and splendid for
grip, besides being light.
This saddle is fitted up with bevelled and
numbered leathers, solid nickel stirrups and
short double folded leather girths.
Freight paid to any Port in
Australia, if Cash is sent
with order, or any Railway
Station in New South Wales.
£5/15/-
(The same saddle sold in the Country for £6/15/-)
Write to-day for our New Illustrated Catalogue,
“ EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE. ”
120 Illustrations.
Edward Butler 8 Sons Limited,
Saddlers, 257 George St-, Sydney
ft/N
Matchless for Biliousness
A severe spell of biliousness, with the accompanying throbbing
headache, is the most wretched affliction; one feels so helplessly
ill and miserable. But there is one supremely effectual remedy,
but for which the world would have been a less happy one.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, honoured by inclusion in the British
Pharmacopoeia, have been prescribed by doctors all over the world
for more than a century, for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Loss of Appetite, Sick Headache,
and all symptoms of Constipation.
9
C7>
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOLND-BELLOWS.
Music, as you like it,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. Howto Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is -2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu
tionist, latest edition, 3s fid posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
28. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dit. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s fid. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is fid.
m
rii
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their phj r sici»n. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE- COMMONWEALTH.-!!
'GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder. Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ llandybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. HowMcDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The VVaybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 35 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVTT.
4
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How ro Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions .of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All Aiiout Incuuators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees,. New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (Id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest sotngs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is poet. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
uound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 101)6 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted. Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


FAMILY
OIGHSI
S 3
*Z3
\
o o
PEPS ARE INVALUABLE IN THE HOME.
COLDS have a habit of “ running thro’ the
house ” because of the germ origin
of these complaints'. The first sufferer
walks into the house and scatters broadcast
countless germs, which are then breathed
in by the rest of the family. Then brother,
sister, father or mother begin to complain
of a cough, and it is a piece of good fortune
if this does not leave behind some more
serious chest weakness. There Is no limit to the conse-
quence of a cough or cold, and no wise alternative
remains but to treat the first symptoms promptly
with Peps—the wonderful medicine which is breathed
from pleasant dissolving tablets into the cough-torn
breathing-tubes and lungs.
With a box of Peps always handy, coughs, colds
and influenza are banished from the home and kept
away. Their throats strengthened by Peps, the
children can enjoy the sharp, bracing winter air,
while old folks find in Peps a quick escape from that
old-age winter cough.
A MOTHER’S PRAISE FOR PEPS.
“My two children suffered from severe colds,” writes Mrs. Ethel Nyes,
of 54 McKenzie Street, Leichhardt, Sydney, “which were accompanied
with such fearful coughs that I became very anxious. My mother, who had
been cured by Peps of Bronchitis, strongly advised me to administer them
to the little ones, and after taking a few of the Pastilles, the cough eased,
phlegm was freely ejected, and a continuation of the Peps treatment com-
pletely cured them.”
Peps are an indis-
pensable remedy for
coughs, colds, bron-
chitis, sore throat,
chills, asthma and
other chest troubles.
Sold by all chemists
and stores at 1/6 and
3/- per box, or direct
from the Peps Pas-
tille Co., 39 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
Pens
"THE TRIE BREATHING CORE."
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS' SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your sßin and
complexion* If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the sßin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the sßin's health and beauty* There
can be no question about that*
PEARS has been maßing beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Bard and His Devils.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With various devils, black and blue,
My soul has been acquainted long,
And in hot moments not a few
I feel their breath about me strong.
The cloven hoof, the drooping tail.
The lean, abhorrent, horny head,
The eye of flame and visage pale
Have never filled my heart with dread.
Yet am I weary of their wiles,
And wearier of the thing they say,
I sicken at their brimstone smiles,
I hate the games they try to play.
With lunatic grimaces wide
They show their fangs and fume and rear,
Or with a ribald jest deride
The young imaginings of beer.
I scorn the gifts they love to bring.
I chase their antics from my dreams,
I rise in wrath and at them sing
Long cantos of my rhyming reams.
A sonnet makes them squirm and twist,
A ballad makes them rage and yell,
At lyric strains they melt in mist.
An ode can drive them back to Hell.
Hut sometimes in disguises strange
They seek a respite brief to win,
In forms of Bill and Tom they range
That they may lure me into sin.
They come as partners of the night
With glad, new tales upon their tongue,
And fill the moments with delight
Till dawn against the dark is flung.
Deceived, I bid them to the feast.
We eat of shell-fish and of Cray,
And juicy slices of the beast
Whose mother makes the dairy pay.
We drink of flagons deep with foam,
We mention gladly many things,
The chariot wheels that bear us home
Disturb the song the rooster sings.
0 night, that such a morn should be!
_0 morn, that such a night should fly !
What dream is this that comes to me
When all the wells of bliss are dry?
Blue devils whisper in my ear,
Red devils breathe against my cheek,
Hot sulphur drowns the voice of beer.
The morning finds my pocket bleak!
Then with a roll of thunder sound
I chant an epic to the light.
And all my fiendkins at a bound
Leap down to Hades with affright.
As witches dread the running stream,
TT Wade-ites fear the Speaker’s voice,
Hell s fading legions hiss and steam
To hear the music of my choice.
But sometimes in another guise
Their sinful hosts before me float.
With braided hair, and luring eyes,
And wealth of varied petticoat!
With dainty hand they spread the snare,
Their voices murmur in the dusk,
And all about me in the air
Are hints of violet and musk.
Ho. for the breezes down the bay
M hen night is jewelled like a crown.
The briny scent, the quiet way,
The pleasant shadows large and brown !
The she-fiend has a happy throat,
And happy are her parted Rds ;
On webs of laughing night I float,
Glad to my tingling finger-tips.
My gay soul spreads a happy wing,
Rapt with the wonder of the time.
And all my heart begins to sing
In slabs of modulated rhyme.
Straightway the living sweetness dies;
In dreadful dreams I seem to see
Blue horror flaming from her eyes—
A devil maid beneath a tree!
Within her gloves the talons grow,
Her shoes are cleft, her cheek is pale,
And drooping half an inch below
Her skirt, I see a ’horrent tail.
Ho. breezes blowing down the bay !
Ho, jewels of the evening’s crown!
In wrath I take my lonely way
Back to the lighted bars of * town.
All devils, yellow, black and red,
All fiends in purple, puce and blue,
On fancy’s hottest sulphur fed,
Through large experience I view.
I know by this same song I make
That if, like Lucifer, I fell,
Long e’er I touched the fiery lake
My happy verse had emptied Hell.
N.S.XV.
PAT O' MAORI.
Mallock's Luck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FROM where our boat lay mooted, I
looked up to the crest of the hill, and
saw the rocks and trees made magical
by the starlight. Mallock, sitting with his
back to the shore, could not see these things.
Perhaps that was the reason why he was
the first to notice the disappearance of the
bream.
“They’re gone, Mason,” he observed.
I came back from the tree-giants and
rock-castles, drew in my line, tested the
bait, found it intact, and re-cast it into the
water.
“It’s their habit,” I remarked. “At any
rate you have no reason to complain. The
luck was yours, as it always is.”
We had bagged a dozen; his share being
nine.
He laughed softly and handed me his cigar-
case.
“As it always is,” he said, repeating my
words. “Mason, men call me lucky. Do you
believe in luck?”
I puffed slowly, for a few minutes, and
thought what a sin it was to burn such a
good cigar in the darkness, where one could
not see the smoke. Then I replied :—-
“I am a fisherman.”
“Of course, of course ! ‘Fisherman’s luck !’
The saying is proverbial. But, since our shy
friends down below have left us in the lurch,
let me tell you the story of Mallock’s luck.”
“Hush!” I whispered warningly. “I felt
a nibble.”
he waited obligingly for the space of
four meditative cigar-putts, and then: —
"Well?” he queried.
“No good,” 1 replied. “Yellow-tail or
sweep, or something else of the rubbish
tribe. Go on with your yarn.”
“I knew it was no bream,” he commen-
ted with relish; “otherwise it would have
called on me first.”
“Proceed,” I replied.
“I proceed,” he said in tones that smiled.
“I suppose you do not know that until I
was five and twenty i had to work hard for
a bare living. 1 knew what it was to cut
cane on a North Queensland plantation till
the sweat ran down my body and tickled me
all over. I knew wdiat it was to follow sheep
or cattle on the outside tracks, with dust and
heat and flies to make life pleasurable. I
knew several other methods of capturing a
crust till suddenly the tide turned. It turned
in this way.
“I had a little business in Cairns. It
brought me in bread and meat, tobacco and a
trifle more, and that was about all. I tired
of it, sold it out, and went down to Bris-
bane. There I met a casual friend from
Cairns. ‘Let’s go to the races,’ he said. We
had drinks, and went to the races. I had
£50 —my only £5O, and I was prepared to
lose it. I did not know a soul in the crowd
except my casual friend from Cairns, and
presently he went off with a girl, and I was
left alone. It was then, while I stood there,
feeling altogether outside the picture, that
someone, something, beckoned me from the
throng, and I followed him —her —it —what-
ever pronoun best applies. That someone or
something was Mallock’s luck, and it was on
that Queensland racecourse that we first
met.
“At my luck’s instigation, I put all my
money on an outsider —a horse I knew
nothing about —and the outsider romped in.
“ ‘Never back another horse in your life,’
my luck seemed to say to me, and I never
have.^
“Well,” he continued, “two days after-
wards I met my casual friend from Cairns.
His name was Wharton, lie had done no
good at all at the races—had backed sure
things every time, but had gone down on
each event. I told him of my good fortune
and he stared. When he had finished star-
ing we went and dined together, and then
we parted.
“I didn’t waste the bookmaker’s money,
Mason —not by any means; although I as-
sure you I did my duty by my five senses
handsomely. I came to know that good,
sweet feeling which the ownership of money
brings—that consciousness of having pleas-
ure and ease and all things that are buyable
at one’s command. Of course, I knew that
the amount I had won would not last long;
but the end was still a considerable way off
when Luck tapped me on the shoulder again,
and whispered a word in my ear.
“ Travelling on the Brisbane to Sydney
express, I handed a man a cigar, and in re-
turn he handed me some information. You
remember the Red Crown Copper Mine?
Well, it was there I made my big rise. I
knew nothing of mining—know nothing of
it now —but the man in the train did. He
said that the Red Crown had promised as-
tounding things, but that the lode, which
was going to make its owners rich, had sud-
denly disappeared, and that Red Crown
shares could be had for next to nothing.
Next day I went down to Pitt-street and
plunged in Red Crown shares —-plunged
head, shoulders, ankles and feet to the last
financial inch of me, and within a week I
had the satisfaction of opening a morning
paper and of observing that the lode had
unexpectedly reappeared, making me a rich
man. I said (I suppose it was my luck) — !
Mallock’s luck —that inspired me to the
saying of it),* ‘l’ll never touch mining
again. I’m through with it once and for
all.’ ”
He paused, lit a fresh cigar, -nd then,
laughing softly, continued. “Mason, I can’t
tell you just yet why I am laughing; but
when I’m through with this story I think
that you too will be inclined to laugh—to
hold your sides at the humor of it. When I
had read the news I knew what I had to do
—to go straight away, and to find someone
to join me in drinking a libation to Mal-
lock’s luck. That someone I found in the
person of Wharton, my casual friend. He
was standing in the vestibule of the Australia,
with a rolled-up newspaper twisted in his
clenched hands. ; He did not see me till I
grasped his arm. Then he stared at me, re-
cognition dawning in his eyes as though I
were something amorphous drawing in from
space, and slowly assuming familiar shape.
“ ‘You —oh, yes, Mallock!’ and then he
gave me his hand.
“ ‘l’m in clover,’ I said. ‘Come and join
me in a pint of fizz.’
“ ‘And I’ve about got my nose in the dry
dust,’ he replied; ‘so I don’t mind. But
what bank have you broken and entered?’
“I told him, and the same 100k —the curi-
ous, uncomprehending stare—with which he
had greeted my story of good news on a for-
mer occasion, when we stood together on a
Brisbane street, strayed into his eyes.
“ ‘Mallock,’ he said. ‘You’ve got two
men’s luck—yours and my own. No, you’ve
got 10 men’s luck, and I’m one of the 10.’
“I filled his glass for him, but he never
shifted his eyes from mine till he had
finished what lie had to say. His mouth
twisted curiously as he said it.
“‘I was in the Red Crown, too, an’
you’ve got my all. It wasn’t much ; but it
was my all.’
“Then he came back to himself and drank
the wine.
“He went to dinner with me, and while
we ate together he told me that he was
going back to the land —to a bit of land
down in Southern Riverina that belonged to
him. It was all that remained of a big sta-
tion —Sunset he called it —that for 50 years
and over had been the property of his father
and his father’s father.
“ ‘He was a good man, the dad,’ said
Wharton, steady and sober and all that, but
all the same, he couldn’t hold on to it. Bank
and rabbit and drought looted him out of
it. A land and mortgage company owns
nine-tenths of it. I hold the other tenth —a
corner paddock or two.’
“We parted, and for a couple of years I
had some amazing fun, travelling up and
down the world in ships and trains. It was
somewhere in Southern Europe—in indolent
Italy, I think —that the desire to get work
got hold of me. I fought against it for a
while, but presently it ran me down to a
(Continued on next page.)


ARE YOUR KIDNEYS WEAK?
Thousands Have Kidney Trouble and Never Know It?
Weak and unhealthy kidneys are responsible for more sickness
and suffering than any other disease ; therefore when, through
neglect or other causes, kidney trouble is permitted to continue,
fatal results are sure to follow. Your other organs may need
attention but your kidneys most, because they do most and
need attention first. If you are sick or “feel badly," begin
taking Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, the great kidney and
bladder remedy, because as soon as your kidneys are well they
will help all the other organs to health. A trial will convince
anyone. dhe advice of friends, of neighbors, of Sydney people
is good, for Sydney testimony is easily proven.
Two Lasting Cures.
Mrs. S. May, 48 Newland Street, Waverley, Syd-
ney, says: “It is now 13 years since I told you that
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills had cured me of back-
ache and rheumatism, and gave you permission to pub-
lish this fact for the benefit of other sufferers. I can
say now that my cure was a perfect one, and I have
been well all that time. I had contracted a severe
chill across the loins, and for a couple of years suf-
fered with lumbago-like pains in the small of my back.
I also had a touch of rheumatism. But Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured me 13 years ago, and I am
still quite free of every symptom of kidney complaint.”
Mr. Geo. Hurcum, 63 Campbell Street, Glebe,
says : “I strained my back about 2i years ago, and
shortly afterwards caught a chill, which settled in my
back. From then until quite lately I have been suffer-
ing agony with backache. At times the pain was so
severe that it Avas impossible for me to bend or turn.
I consulted a doctor, but his treatment did me no good.
Hearing of cures effected by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, I decided to give them a trial. After taking a
course, I was perfectly cured, and I have had no re-
turn of the trouble. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are a boon to all who suffer with backache.”
"Gvery
Picture
Tells „
i J Story.
tv
N
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and
Stores, 2/9 per bottle
(six bottles , /5/j ) ;or
from Foster-McClellan
Co,, p 6 Pitt St., Sydney.
ship, and in a few weeks I was in Australia,
I landed during the Big Drought, Avhen pas-
toral properties were in the market at 50
per cent., and more than 50 per cent., less
than their good-season value. I bought a
vvho?.? > # st w lloU tba £ , liad belonged to
vvhaitons family—and I bought it without
remembering its association with Wharton.”
. 113 . the f L £ l3n , of Middle Cove a sudden
troume ot lisli began—a leaping, splashing
and floundering that told of bonito, shark or
Kingnsn at work on a wandering school of
mackerel or mullet. When the turmoil
at 11 i 1 * dld as suddenly as it had
begun, Mallock went on quietly:—
r oll . 13 d the station with the death-
lattie in its throat, and I set about reviving
, i: Knew nothing ot station management,
but I telt that I could not fail. Sheep were
a drug m the market. I relieved the market
ot 1 s drug. leopie called me a fool. Whar-
ton wus one of them,
1011 re up against a stone wall this time,
old man, with all your luck,’ he jeered.
Bell see, I said ; and bought his little
flock ot ewes. Within two months it was I
who wore the laugh. I am not so fanciful
as to say that it was my luck that brought
about tlie change. I only say that it was
m.v luck ivhich timed me to benefit by it.
1 , j at ollce the weather altered. Winds
wheeled around the compass, and before the
country whs well aware of (he fact the
North-West monsoons had laid healing hands
an steady, drenching rains began
to tall, drumming down on iron roofs, and
assuring man and bird and beast that Nature
was flerselt again. You know the soil-res-
ponsiyeness of our country. As the grass
grew I prospered; but, curiously enough,
my orosperity earned me not only envy,
which was quite natural, hut also hate.
I met Wharton in W 7 agga, and, looking
me up and down, from forehead to foot, he
S TT VeII, Mall °ek, battening on me again,
eh to How long is the game going to last?’
I saw the man had been soured by fail-
ure. I Put out my hand, and said to him:
Look here, W barton, don’t be a fool. Come
and drink with me. After all, I can’t help
my success.’
. hie stood back a pace or two, his head
side-slanted, a gleam of malice in his look.
No, no;- you can’t,’ he sneered. ‘Not with
the Devil’s luck to back you.’ Then he
turned on his heel. ‘Keep your cursed
dnnk, lie said, and left me.
Afterwards—perhaps a month after-
wards—l met Jane Winston.”
(I do not know whether Mallock’s tones
had suddenly altered, but I know that the
making tide_ along the rocks seemed to move
delicately, like Agag.) .
khe and I became friends. We were in-
{■reduced at a race meeting. I had known
her father tor some months a rough,
uncultured, gnarled old man. When she in-
vited me to her home I accepted with a
ready word. Afterwards, I visited her many
tunes without asking. And sometimes we
rode together, and on these occasions it
seemed as if someone in the nine scrub round
about us were burning incense.
“One day I met Wharton on the Albury-
road, and he looked me square in the eyes
and passed on without a word. A few
nights after, as I sat on my verandah smok-
ing, his brother rode up out of the dusk,
and, hitching his horse to the garden-fence,
came and talked with me.
“ ‘lf you don’t mind, Mr. Mallock,’ he
said, ‘l’d like to tell you how things are
going on down at our place.’
“There was a note of appeal in his voice
that touched me.
“ ‘What is it?’ I asked.
“He thrust a thumb in’ the armhole of his
vest and leant against the verandah railing,
‘“lt’s just this,’ he said—‘it’s just Hell,
and nothing else. My brother’s clean mad
with you. He doesn’t eat and can’t sleep.
He reckons that you’ve been up against him
enough, and that, if what people say is true,
he’ll do for you sooner than see vou land
this last trick.’ ‘What do people say?’ I
asked in surprise.
“ ‘Well,’ lie replied, ‘there’s plenty of talk
about you and Janey Winston. They say
you're going to marry her. He wants you
to say that it’s not true.’
“ ‘ls that all?’ I said, and he nodded,
“ ‘Well,’ I said, ‘tell him that I will marry
her, if I can.’
"The young fellow’s hand went up to his
moustache, and he twirled an end of it.
“‘I must tell you that lie’s got a six-
shooter, and there’s a drop of wild blood in
our family. Fighting blacks and buslirang-
ers put it there. We’ve been hard riders
and hard fighters since before Morgan’s
days.’ h
tt “‘l can’t help that,’ I said. ‘Good night’
He turned from me with a shrug of liis
shoulders, and slouched off into the dark
“Three nights afterwards the ffliniax
came. Gossip brought it about It came
in a belt of pine-scrub, where he had been
waiting for me.
“ ‘Now,’ said Whar lon, as I drew rein
‘you’ve had the luck all through, and pretty
monotonous luck it was—got out of Hell
no doubt.’
“I saw the gleam of his revolver in the
dark, and I felt dead already as he con-
tinned:—-
“ ‘lt stood to you in money and it stood to
you in love. Now let it stand to vou in
death.’
“I heard the click of the pulled trigger,
but remained amazed in mv saddle alive.
Once again the trigger clicked, and still
there was neither flash nor j-pport. Whar-
ton’s arm fell. I heard the thud of the re-
volver as it hit the ground. His face made
a pale patch in the darkness. I think he
said ‘My God !’ Then he turned and rode
away.”
Mallock fell silent, and I looked at him
and shivered. I think that he saw that I
shivered, for, with a laugh, he went on:—
“‘Oh, there was nothing miraculous or
uncanny about the business. Wharton’s
brother, fearing bloodshed, had manipulated
the revolver, so that it contained empty caps
in place of cartridges. But even there, mv
luck stood to me, didn’t it’”
I nodded. “Did he make a second at-
tempt?”
“No!”
The night was still windless and the
water calm, but by the strain on my line
aud the feel of a drifting weed, making con-
tact with it, I could tell that the tide had
turned. Presently Mallock said :
“She married Wharton.”
RODERIC QUINN.
A Masked Burglar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, . , . „ ,
MAS disturbed in the midst of one ot
those profound slumbers which proceed
from good health and a narcoticised
conscience by the sound of mv bedroom door
/ , n . , ~
opening, and someone stumbling heavily over
the mat. Simultaneously, the hall clock
struck three. I reached over and switched
on the electric light at the side of my bed.
Beside the clothes-press and over against the
spot where my boots stand on ttieir trees
like a regiment of short, squat soldiers,
lurked the Masked Burglar—or, at any rate,
one of him. My first impression of this
classic malefactor centred on the insignifi-
cance of his physique and the abnormal
magnitude of his feet. His wasted frame
was swathed, as it were, in an enormous
Norfolk jacket, whose bold check pattern
the grime of decades had not availed alto-
gether to dim. His worn grey trousers re-
ceded abruptly from a pair of huge shoes or
for g the Mogs oimsses°°p mUHiags P amd
forth of a hamper clime than ours His
mask, which had been fashioned, apparently,
from pink blotting-paper, was’ wedged to
his brow by an umbrella-like bowler hat. A
revolver trembled, aspen-like, in his right
hand. It needed no Sherlock Holmes to diag-
nose that the intruder was extremely ner-
“Yer money or yer life,” he stammered
naSf Jt Ca tb y ’ fi nd l POinted , his f weap .° a alter ‘
nately at the fireplace, and at a picture of
my grandmother which hung over the mantel-
■>!“=■ 'fhf i
often feels for a fellow-human who is making
a tragic ass of himself in a foreign land sud-
denly surged up in my heart. Why should
I, a reasonably affluent bachelor, with few
really urgent wants unfulfilled, be discourte-
ing IS “f d J and abSU a? d - l0 S ■
„ t a gii. Why adopt a mggaidly atti-
tude towards him? I could find no valid
S«S Sza.**"' *»
infernal n tb°ing ag ihop' tv Yu, q WagR ,| ln ( g I fllat
internal tiling about, my lad, and take a
about ” lld tell me wllat all tlie trouble is
e V ' u; n- U
Ditched Gocknev i til, £' llq i hl fn
pi tolled Cockney a oice, but tlie banal old
wenkh oPa IPP he sat
weak P 0 a cha ® ar “ y becb
Hi m a masked burglar, he announced,
after an embarrassing pause.
. 1 gathered, I answered encourag-
lugly-
He sneezed violently twice, and blew his
nose forlornly beneath his blotting-paper
disguise. .
( 4 gutter dreadful' cold, he complained.
Ibis blarsted colonial climate; naow ’ot,
naow cold uz nice, doiyn’t give a man a show
ter keep n elf.” He fell to brooding bitterly,
to all appearances, upon the infamy of the
iocal weather conditions
About the burglary, I murmured insin-
uatmgly.
“Ho, yus,” he replied gloomily; and then,
as one who gets back, with an effort, to a
distasteful business, “Yer money, or”
“It is yours, my worthy sportsman,” I
rejoined heartily. “Or, rather, such money’s
worth as is in this house ; for actual cash
barring a few paltry shillings, have I none
0Q the premises But all such things as
silver, books, pictures, plate, knives, fork*
anil similar oddments you may have to
the taking, and welcome.”
Through the roughly-hewn eyeholes of his
mask I could see him gazing at me as though
stupefied,
‘- D - Ve mean it? » he cried wild]y .
“I do,” I replied. “Where’s your bag or
sack—l mean the thing the members of your
craft carry* away the goods in?”
. •, ,? n tll p guvn ? r ’ fcr arf a mo.”
H mto ban d>
r h™ p. another second or two
m .g l HnukV\P^Pi' inS i . UP - le .® ta . 1 V s> p
p Pl m™t s i,o diaSS f nS u rV Va e
asnect 6 cail3e t-bag mid-\ ictorian
••wtom,.,. „„„ T ’ 1 i ,
lIJZ , tlke ' he
“ir< <w nhnl AhPaPih cii lolin d him.
to d?essinicise fit?his wUh^der
in them v” T as fed tnfpmi
bobortwo somewhere ’’ “
obediently into the wilderness of his bag
“ Tllose mantelpiece ornaments aren’t
cTaTlood ThatPi! t.m°h
w „rehouse a J ft- °Lm DUIIIUI S
Sy ThJ dock-as fou see an hen
s i ow .'to m „ flv is” As eaeb Vi? 1
d j,..itpd f,, 1’,:,,', lto
and cast int ]ds bold-all And so most
g? the room wSAu
oUnldncf muildn^nfrf 101 '
a pair uv ole blots, mister; er a soot of ca“t-
nfp ( q n tbes T sermUp?” 1
My look of annoyance cowed him and bo
slmmbled taH if the dire? ”’n of t
dining-room T following wit-h tW rovolvJ
ulfJ lfasterln woPbv T il;
t he four silver beer-mugs dven me bv mv
onnf two birtbdavs nrovfonflv ffrnmmL J
J™sor2ofthevilestsoTt*th?l7 on t of*
date°and hideous Sml/pto’tog/apK-wfflch
1 bad yearned for years to get rid of, yet
bad feared to destrov lest iWohv T
S?^athrf o adf„wS y theßgS
annia-ware teapot, the offering of a misguided
srod-oliild * and mnnv ntbpr wpll-lnat-hori
assets, it’ boots not here to set down. ’ The
approach of dawn saw my visitor, a stiff
whisky and soda under his grotesque Norfolk
nacket stafirfirerins* like some lnw-p»Amprlv
= (jSSf bSfeath orT of Ms
bulging carpet-bag, in the direction of my
front door,
“For the Lord’s sake,” don’t fall over the
roses,” I adjured him earnestly. “Unlike the
rest of my things, they’re not insured.”
“Trust me, guvnor,” he answered, a dog-
like gratitude gleaming through the eyeholes
in his now wilting mask. “Good-bye, and
Gord bless yer.” A brief, warm hand-grip,
and we went our several ways ; he, I take it,
to a “fence” ; I to my desk to compose a
document beginning :
T I=l t „ , . T
Blanke-Dashe Esq :- US6
(l) Jewellery, heirlooms, etc., valued at £250.
(2) Set of four antique silver cups (Georgian
period), value £5O.
(3) oil P aintin £ to Glauber Saltz, R.A., £lOO.
And so on, ad infinitum, or thereabouts.
J.B.D.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORS 1 PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 horse-power
WESTINQHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
—3f!
~2fZ
-W
Th e rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest .
* C ‘ e ” Cy ’ and P ro, °ngs the life of the chain. Drives of from %to
power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westiftghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
New £Sd A f ®" t !~ H “L mes & Brisbane, Q.
grents Philips & Pike, Wellington, N,Z.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES
and Most
Mid s
or
and
ir
* .
Sole Agents,
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
METZ CARS
cj'nW ‘ re a simpl f’ Econolni cal, Reliable and Moderately-tPrieed
4 Cvl ndf 4W S’",* 0 , “™ S ] igate thc Metz 82 - h -P- lotion Drive,
4 bytinder, \\ ater-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE, WITH FULL EQUIPMENT,
Sole Agents—
Write for Catalogue.
£175
Nett.
BROWN & HELLICAR LTD..
1 09 P»tt Street, SYDNEY.
"
pi
m
*
Write for full particulars to
ECONOMY
TIEBIWC MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space Economy in Labor—Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co..
34-0 Kent Street, Sydney; N.S.W.
Q
A Bold
Statement
When we say we have the world’s
Best Steam Engines, we are prepared
W our statement with un-
solicited Testimonials from 65,000
satisfied customers who are using
Marshall s British-built Steam Engines
many of these being in constant use frnm nn
ture special light and heavy pattern Tractors designed * larsh »ll’s manufac-
Marshall’s make the only successful OH Tractor & to f,“ stral , lan conditions,
to-day. Uses ordinary kerosene; cheaper' than houses. f d throughout world
NO DANGER FROM FIRE.
Horizontal and Vertical Stationary VerHeoi o
Portables, 1201 b. working pressure pvprvwiw° ei i %12 h.p. Marshall"
CHAMPIONS.” pressure, everywhere acknowledged the ‘‘WORLD’
Cash or Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
R L *C R UTT°N & CO.. Ltd.
161 Clarence Street. Sydney.
sc »
£ooK Well After Yourself
If you consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps healthwards the moment
you find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
your vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about yourself, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them. Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great number of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
Talfe
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all times you can confidently rely upon
Sold everywhere in boxes, price I Ilk (36 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
CHANGE OF ADDRESS . SPECIAL NOTICE.
THE BUSINESS OF
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED
is now conducted at
the banking house the Pitt Street Branch of the
■■WWW*-, bank OF N.S.W
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
——— FRED. MoWILLIAM, Manager.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Seii on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
STORES—Athlone Place.
E for Empire, the car for great fun,
M for Machine, it’s an excellent one,
P for Popular, the reason we will explain.
I for If you write us to ascertain.
R for Regular equipment we supply,
E for Empire, so why not buy ?
ROYW. SANDFORD, Ltd.
181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
105 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Chalmers and Empire Cars.
NION
MARINE
;ir*mg
Building for the past 30 years,
and now MOST POPULAR
MAKE ON THE MARKET,
Reputation UNEQUALLED for
SIMPLICITY and
RELIABILITY.
UNION ENGINES now supplied to run o
KEROSENE.
■’r;Yi v V'‘
’Phone
2548 Central.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
178 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire*P roo^»
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Electric Storage Batteries
for All Purposes.
Traction, Town, House and Train Lighting Cells.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY, LONGEST LIFE.
Supplied to the Governments of Queensland, New South Wales,
\ l New Zealand and Westralia.
107 BATTERIES INSTALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
Manufactured by the D.P. Battery CoLimited , Bakewell,
England.
Sole Australian Agent—
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
hfg
ĝf
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
porters:
h
West Circular Quay. Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
gfh
STEAM PIPE INSULATION,
with Newall’s Magnesia Steam Pipe Coverings,
MEANS THE MOST EFFICIENT AND PERMANENT LAGGING PROCURABLE.
LARGE STOCKS carried of Removs
Coverings, Bends, Flange Boxes, Plastic
Covering, the saving of heat
aver Unlagged Pipe is from
Write for Catalogues.
5
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt St., Sydney.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, ValvPs, Pumps, Fturning,
Patent “ Neh/amho ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Flaming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought iron 'ork.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
ELECTRIC
fli
VACUUM CLEANERS.
V.
ghƒgh
WARBURTON, FRANRI, LTD., 307-11
Kent
Street,
SYDNEY. 380 BourKe Street,
MELBOURNE
gh
Horse-power HOISTING WHIM
A Small, Light, Easily Handled and Durable Machine, well designed
for Mining Purposes or Raising Coal or Water from a Shaft. Will raise
five to seven hundred pounds, SO to 70 feet per minute. Drum carr/es
500 ft. or more 5/8 Steel Wire Rope. IWo piece weighs over
FULL PARTICULARS GLADLY FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURED by
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers 8 Machinery Merchants, 60 CIctTGIICG StS*GG"tj Sjf(l llGJf•
i m
m*
?r- :
~S|sr'
TO CYANBDERS.
OLIVER CONTINUOUS FILTER.
Power Consumption Reduced to a Minimum. f ■
Maintenance Cost Less than One Farthing per ton -
Saves Head Room and Floor Space.
Flexible Fitter for Variable Slime.
No Royalty to Pay.
Used in the Large Gold SVUnes in U.S.A.
Particulars to
H. (SUTHRIP6E LTP.,
263 George St., Sydney.
525 Collins St., Melbourne.
