

& THE GENIAL SPIRIT.
9
Machinery Merchants,
107 Stree ti, Sydney
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty: AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Secondhand Plants always available.
The Shopkeeper Needing Financial Aid
will exercise sound judgment by procuring the necessary loan from this Company—whose reputation for
fair dealing standi as sponsor for straightforward and business-like treatment. Small or large loans on
any reasonable security. LOWEST INTEREST IN AUSTRALIA!
N.S.W. Mont De Piete D. S I. Co. Ltd.,
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh St. 74, Sydney.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215=217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Genera! Manager.
a
r
a
w*
Williams’s, EEWhisky
HOBA.RT.
jjadley’s Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING;
•7 UUAItANTKKD
J. C. Ludowioi & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ƒdh
fdhf
Tahc it back.
I must have-
HUTTON
FinrAf pic Brand
dh
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTIN
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
Junket
dfh
f
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
g
BECK’S LAGER BEER
D. 5. EVANS,
Australasian Representative.
LAYING MALTHOID IS SIMPLE.
The picture shows the simplicity,
when properly laid is tl e most
agents throughout Australasia
MALTHOID is absolutely waterproof, and
satisfactory roofing in the world. Our
will gladly give you full particulars.
the: paraffine paint co.,
(Manufacturers of Amiwud), Ctiallis HotlSe, SYDNEY.
HBPPER WAGGONS.
NAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
h
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L 7O
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
jlioffat-Virtue C. d .
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 Kent St. (near King St.), Sydney.
net the best sheep-shearing machinery. Ihe points
that coun. ar. smooth easy running, efficiency,
economy of operation and durability.
You want sheep-shearing machinery that will
ensure maximum satisfaction at upkeep-
That means “ Moffat-Virtue ” every time.
Write for Catalogue and full particulars.
- •
VdS NOUI IdH
It is a dream of the Physician realised/' so says a medical
STARKEYS LTD.,
uh
Agents,
mrnmm
The Bulletin
V®1.34.—M0. 1726.]
[Thursday, March 13, 1913.
Registered at the General Pest Office* feyunej, Is.iS.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New Novels
at GEORGE ROBERTSON « CO. PROP!., LTI.,
238 Pitt Street, SjrilMy.
Cease Firing, by Mary Johnsten.
King-Errant, by Fl*ra Annie Steel.
The Harvestby J. M. Forman.
Windvriuge, by W. Riley.
A Oy in the Wilder naes, by M. E. Waller
(Author W«®«1 Carver #f Lympos).
Caviare, by Grant Itioiiarde.
Guinea Gold, by Beatrice Grimshaw.
Buck Peters, Kan eh man, by C. E. Mulford
Impossible She, by R. Ramsay.
Knocking the Keigbbors, by George Ade.
Mountain Girl, by Payne Irakine.
The Browns, by J. K. Buck rose.
Knight of Spain, by Marjorie Bewen.
PRICE S/6 EACH t POSTED, 3/9.
For the VOICE! THROATI LUNGS!
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic. Contains no Cocaine
or other poisonous drug. Suitable for old and young.
Unlike Cough Medicines “Eumenthol Ju-
jubes” do not interfere with the Digestion;
on the contrary, they have a beneficial effect,
as their Antiseptic properties prevent ab-
normal fermentation of the food, and thus
they prove helpful for sufferers from Indiges-
tion and Dyspepsia when taken after meals.
The Lakcet says; “Proved to be as effec-
tive bactericidally as is Creosote.”
Hudson’s Eamenthsl Jujubes are sold at
Chemists and Stores, tins 1/6. Forwarded
post free on receipt of stamps by the
Manufacturers,
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
fflr
y a
Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical CoLtd.,
B«x 1520 Q.P.O.
17 York Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
MENTOR AND PUPILS.
He warned of steps retrieved in pain.
“We have strength, we have blood, we are
young,"
Youth sows the links, man wears the chain.
“Shall a siceet lyric cease to be sung?"
The song is short, the travail long.
“Shall the morning brood over her grave?"
Forge weapons now to meet the throng.
“ There’s a bird flying white o'er the wave."
The torrent of the blood control.
“ ’Tis a steed bounding whither we will."
In more than name discern the soul.
“There is i^ r ve like a light on the hill.”
That light of Love is fleeting fire.
“In the deep sea of Love let us dive."
The test of Love is in the lyre.
“Give us Love, and the lyre is alive."
The chords are snapped by passion’s touch.
“She is there, by the tall laurel-rose .”
You sway the staff —you grasp the crutch.
“She is beckoning: who shall oppose ?”
Behold a giant in his prime.
“On her breasts are the beams of the day."
A cripple he. surprised by Time!
“She has loosened her girdle: give way!"
George Meredith, in “Letters of
George Meredith.”
Hardy
Born in 1840, Thomas Hardy, the last of
the giants of the Victorian era, still sur-
vives. But his work is done, and timely is
his appearance in the fine series of modern
biographies, published by Martin Seeker.
Laseelles Abercrombie, with already a repu-
tation as a poet, here, in Thomas Hardy: A
Critical Study (per Dymock’s Library,
Sydney), show's himself an admirable
literary critic. He is not here concerned
with biography; it is not the man but his
achievement that forms the subject of a
masterly analysis. His main division of
Hardy’s novels into those of epic form and
those of dramatic form is one that com-
mends itself to the critical mind. And his
simile of a Gothic church, formed by Hardy’s
works, with the pillared nave composed of
Hardy’s six principal novels, The Dynasts
forming the quire, and supporting, but not
intimately concerned in the chief composition
of the building, like side chapels, the poems,
the short stories and two of the minor novels,
aptly pictures the completeness and whole-
ness of general design in the work of this
giant. But Hardy’s Gothic church, though
informed with a spirit of grave dignity, is
not ecclesiastic; it is a temple to Pagan
sensuousness and Pagan humor, and his
God is modern scepticism.
Abercrombie makes the high claim that in
the Wessex novels fiction has achieved both
a style and a substance that enable it to ful-
fil the gravest function of art —that, for
example, enable this new art to take an
equal place with any great piece of poetry
or sculpture or drama, and to fulfil, at any
rate in English, this function for the first
time. And, granting for his critical pur-
pose the thesis of Abercrombie, that perfec-
tion of form is the chief criterion of judg-
ment, that claim may be accepted. But the.
author admits that if other criteria of judg-
ment are taken, Hardy’s claim must be con-
tested. Yet undoubtedly Hardy has made
the novel adequate for the high purpose to
which man has so lately elevated it among
the arts.
Here is an admirable statement of Hardy’s
sense of tragedy :—■
The general, measureless process of ex-
istence cares nothing, in working itself out,
for the ne-eds and desires of individual
existence; the only relations between the
two (but it is an utterly unavoidable rela-
tion) is that in the long run the individual
must obey the general. The main stream
of tendency has an ultimate power over all
the vortices within it. It is a state of
affairs which is, of course, especially un-
fortunate for consciously sensitive human
creatures who have the additional ill-luck
to be firmly persuaded that their desires
must have some creative value, some power
of modifying the worldly process. ... Human
desire must therefore be at best an irony;
when completely wrought into artistic form
it must anoear as tragedy. .. .The main,
ruthless stream of tendency, which the char-
acters must in the end obey, exhibits itself
not only around but in the characters them-
selves ; only thus could they symbolise the
basic conception of Hardy’s tragedy. They
have in them some weakness, disability, in-
herited instinct, or perhaps some error in the
assertion of their strength, which inevitably
becomes the chance for the power of the
world finally to assert itself against them.
As Abercrombie elsewhere says, the tra-
gedy is that of “personality for ever moved
to assert itself against the implacable, im-
personal drift of things.”
Of Hardy’s humor- —he had no wit: —
The epithet that is commonly applied to
Hardy’s humor is the best for it; it is
Shakespearian. In richness, in energy, in
absurdity, in disconcertingness, it comes
nearer to Shakespeare’s than any other ; and
especially is it near Shakespeare’s in keep-
ing. after all such lists of qualities have
been made out, its essential quality unana-
lysed.
And of Hardy’s use of Nature: —
Nature, in Hardy’s fiction, is neither an
abstraction nor a scenic setting, but a vast,
impassive organism, living her own immense
life, multitudinous but obscurely unanimous ;
and the strict formality of the art could
have no use for this enormous being unless
it was able to bear some part in the fable,
whose event becomes, therefore, an affair
only partially human.
As to the alleged pessimism of Tess and
Jude the Obscure, Abercrombie acutely says
that great art cannot ever be itself pessimis-
tic, however much pessimism may go to its
making. The pessimism is merely the mat-
erial out of which a work of art is made —
presuming that the result is a work of art.
For the art itself is not to be produced
without a vital exaltation in him who pro-
duces it. And the artist’s exulting sense of
life, the mastery of his formative imagina-
tion over the shows of things, and even over
the significance he draws from them —This
is the first and fundamental thing we feel
in any real appreciation of art.... So it is
with these two great novels of Thomas
Hardy’s. We may call their mood pessimis-
tic, but they themselves are nothing so; for
their art is altogether too shapely, too as-
sured, too masterful.
Yet, he admits, there are instances where
the mood escapes from the art, as in the
final paragraph of Tess. And apart from
the character of the mood, these passages
offend—but simply because the mastery of
the artist has temporarily broken down.
But Abercrombie goes further; he is the sort
of critic who, once mounted on his own meta-
physic, can go any length. He refuses to
admit that the mood of these two epic novels
is pessimistic.
A genuine pessimism must surely go fur-
ther than the conception of existence as an
evil; it must add to this a sad acquiescence
in the evil —-since what good can come of
anything else than acquiescence, if all things
end in evil? But tbe mood which governs
Tess of the D’UPbcrviUes and Jude the Ob-
scure is plainly not an acquiescence. It is
a fierce, burning revolt against the evil it
conceives.
J*
An interesting comparison of these two
masterpieces show's us Abercrombie at his
critical best.
If we may regard Tess as an epic state-
ment of the conflict between personal and
impersonal in its simplest and most general
mood, Jude the Obscure may be said to put,
in a very similar form of art, a special case
of the conflict.... The mere “will to enjoy”
(Tess) —the fundamental motive of per-
sonal existence —becomes the more complex
and more dangerous “will to power” (Jude)
.... While Tess only suffers her tragedy,
Jude deliberately courts his. She is pun-
ished simply for the sin of personal exist-
ence ; but Jude, with the 'more rebellious
consciousness of masculine nature, adds to
this the further sin of aspiration—he being
thus typical of his sex, as Tess is of hers...
It cannot be said that Tess’s opposition to
the power of the world is less brave or less
vigorous than Jude’s; but it is static....
And witho”’: absurdly forcing sexual differ-
ence, it set-ms justifiable to take these two
novels as giving a typically feminine and a
tynieally masculine embodiment to the same
tragic conflic- of personal against imper-
sonal.
(And how surprised must Thomas Hardy
be at finding out what unconsciously he has
done! One of the rare delights of fame in
old age must lie in finding the critic-explana-
tion for the inexplicable urge of creative
work. Be sure that Hardy did not deliber-
ately say to himself: “Now that I have
treated of the woman in the fell clutch of
circumstance, I shall round the matter off
by showing the man in the same toils. Then
I shall do for the race what I have done for
the woman and the man ; I shall get to work
on The Dynasts.")
&
Hardy’s poetry is written in prose. The
pattern is always ingenious, the metre al-
ways strict and accurate, but the words
have no “potential.” They are words used
as a scientist, and not as a poet, would use
them, words that cqrry with them merely
their “kinetic” energy.
With the scientist, the value of words de-
pends on their place in a sentence, their
individual obedience to a general purport;
with the poet, this logical value of words is
compounded with an additional value, just
as considerable, which is absolutely their
own, quite apart from any sentence wherein
they may be of use. And this additional
value does not embarrass the other, but on
the contrary gives it surpassing potency; for
the thought of a poet is not something that
can be stated precisely in words, and there
an end. . It shades off all round from the
precise into the indefinite and incommuni-
cable, into what can only be suggested. He
tries, therefore, to give his thought not only
a logical statment in words, but also to in-
fect his reader’s mind with the vague aura
surrounding his thought Such organisa-
tion of language will vehemently empower
the logic beyond anything that can be ef-
fected by the mere instrumental use of lan-
guage; but, most conspicuously, it gives
words that challenging and exciting quality
which they only have when they are used
as things existing for themselves as well as
for logic.
This division of the energy of words into
“kinetic” and “potential,” into their logical
force and their exciting force, suggested
first by Arthur Ransome, is a useful contri-
bution to criticism, and in his cohsideration
of Hardy’s prose and poetry Abercrombie
makes valuable use of it. Roughly speak-
ing. O’Dowd uses words in the “kinetic”
manner, and Hugh McCrae and Roderic
Quinn in the “potential” manner.
Of The Dynasts, the crowning product of
Hardy’s philosophy, Abercrombie lightly re-
marks that the easiest way to read it is to
skip everything printed in italics- —that is,
to omit the whole of the surrounding super-
natural drama and concentrate on the human
play within a play.
Abercrombie’s analysis of this tremendous
drama is greatly illuminative. One judg-
ment must here suffice :—
It is the biggest, the most consistent and
deliberate exhibition of fatalism in litera-
ture. The enormous tormented spectacle of
the Napoleonic wars has been represented,
not as a complex of human purpose gov-
erned by a presiding fate, but as a system
where there is neither being nor doing which
is not fate itself. No purpose, great or
small, moves through the mass of human
event, except the single purpose which drives
existence onward. Nothing whatever has
been, or ever could have been, attained, but
the continued action of the Primal Will.
The huge process of human agony and tri-
umph lias no function in itself; it is only
the eternal Will uselessly uttering exist-
ence.
On Hardy’s death there will doubtless ap-
pear the usual Life; but there is nothing
more to be said about his works. Abercrom-
bie in this book has done that duty.
Creature Life in Australian Wilds,
Cyril Grant Lane (Brane, per Dymock’s
Library, Sydney), ought to be a much better
book than it is. The author writes interest-
ingly of photography in the Gippsland bush
and somewhat ramblingly of the wild life he
met; but many of his numerous photographs
bear the marks of having been taken not in
the bush, but in some museum, not always
acknowledged, and not from the living animal
but from conveniently stuffed specimens. ' •
in many of his actual bush photographs Cyril
Grant Lane is the only “creature life” that
is in view. And Cvril Grant Lane’s adven-
tures in the wilds of Gippsland hardly seem
to an Australian as hazardous as he evidently
thought them. But there are many excellent
genuine photographs of Australian wild life,
snapped in its proper environment.
In the interests of Australian writers this page sent
for the prospectus of Andrew Melrose’s fourth prize
novel competition; and though the receipt ®f the
conditions governing this competition is too late for
the entry of Australasian writers, the chief condi-
tions are summarised for the guidance of future com-
petitors, as the event promises to become annual.
Anyone can compete. MS. must reach Andrew Mel-
rose, 5 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London, W.C.,
before April 30, 1913, and, presumably on that day,
for future competitions, in succeeding years. Novels
must not have previously appeared in any form,
must be typewritten on sheets measuring 10 by 8
inches, and should contain not less than 90,000, and
not more than 150,000 words. No indication must
appear of the author’s name or address on the MS.,
which must bear a pseudonym. The MS. must be
sealed in a wrapper, on which the pseudonym must
be the only writing. Over the wrapper a second
wrapper must be placed, bearing the pseudonym and
the author’s name and address, and stamne for re-
turn. The whole must then be placed in a third
wrapper addressed to the publisher, and marked
“Competition.” The MS., bearing no evidence
of the identity of the authors, will be sifted by a
special staff of readers, and the best submitted to
Mary Cholmondeley, Joseph Conrad and IV. .1.
Locke, who will award a prize of 250 guineas to the
winner. Each competitor must sign an agreement,
which will be forwarded by the publisher on the
competitor’s written request. It is this stipulation
which bars Australian authors from this year’s com-
petition, but it should be worth while writing Mel-
rose re next year’s' prize.
The Man Macdonald, by Kate Helen
We$ton (Holden and Hardingham), shows
no advance on her earlier Australian novel,
The Partners. That was a tale that, on its
rather commonplace plane, achieved an
effect. The Man Macdonald is merely the
f.a.q. novel for feminine consumption. The
pretentious preface sets the key of the story.
This deals with two marriages between, white
men and Eurasian girls, the scene being set
in Ceylon. In both cases the brown wife
conveniently dies in order that the white
man may ultimately marry the white woman
who wants him. The story of the meeting
between Helen Winter —the writer might,
with discretion, have avoided the likeness of
her own and her heroine’s name —and the
big, strong hero is told in slovenly style and
sicklied o’er with the pale cast of sentimen-
tality ; bpt in the development of the hero’s
entanglement with the brown girl the author
drops her heroics and writes simply and con-
vincingly. And in the relations between
this man and his Eurasian wife there is a
series of interesting situations treated natur-
ally and sincerely. The plot is worked out
with considerable ingenuity: and the novel
will doubtless have, and should have, a wide
reading from not too discriminating feminine
readers. But the book raises no hopes that
Kate Helen Weston is some day to write a
really fine Australian novel. The defects of
her undoubted qualities are here too plainly
protruding.
An Australian Literary Shrine
The first answer to this Page’s reauest-
"HaJf a Dozen Assorted y.Jf
rwy Shrines, is business-like:—
1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 Freetrade-street,
Sydney,
February 20 iqis
bear Sir,—Our town ambassador, “Sir Octonm
duly filed your order for Australasian Literary Shrine*
assorted.
There was a demand some time ago for Federal s. -
vice-regal shrines, but this is the first inquiry we h™
had for joss goods, other than gold and silver cm*
shields, tea services and ladies’ private wear w
have tried the trade everywhere, but cannot learn
anyone stocking exactly what you require, nor have
wc anything in our Birmingham department which we
could substitute.
We, ourselves, personally quite agree with you a*
to the necessity for genuine literary shrines, but we
might point out that they are an acquired taste We
must admit we feared the time was not ripe; other
wise we should certainly have included some literary
shrines in the new season’s goods.
We have, however, procured for you one-twelfth
of A.L.S., which we have had manufactured locally
to our own design, and this (carefully packed in sec-
tions) will be delivered to you to-day. .
At first sight it looks like a chunk of ordinary
Australian landscape. So natural is its appearance
one might think the Bush had been literally scalped
somewhere. A closer examination of the flora and
fauna reveals the fact that it is very representative
of the Dominion and Commonwealth, and remarkably
true to life. Human bones here and there speak for
themselves, as also do the burnt matches, the worn
boot and the rusty billy-can. The sand which forms
the tortuous track through the Bush is a mixed lot
from the various States, in the correct literary pit-
portions. The footprints are the leading features tf
the shrine, and special attention has been paid t»
them. They are those of Australasia’s great literary
blokes on the sands of Time. The cost of the whtle,
as per invoice herewith, is slight in comparison witk
most shrines, and the expense of maintenance, or ad-
ditions, would be trifling.
Our suggestion is that a suitable site be obtained
for the shrine, say, in the middle of Brickfield Hill,
Sydney, where it would be impervious to climatic con-
ditions, being, so to speak, at home. Here it should
be surrounded by an assorted fence, typical of the
bush. It should be called “The Wallaby Track, or
the Pad of* Literary Genius.” A brass plate near
where the track has been blazed might announce its
name. Small wooden semaphores could be employed
to indicate the authors of the footprints. As the office
blacktracker will doubtless inform you, provision has
been made for, as we say, a nice range of samples.
These include Kendall, “Bellerive,” Gordon, Marcus
Clarke, Daley, “Price Waning,” “P.J.,” “Scotty the
Wrinkler,” the McCraes, the “Cans,” Bracken, Sieb»B-
haar, Dorrington, Rudd, Dyson, Souter, Quinn, Bed-
ford, Boldrewood, George Reid, Willis, de Ron gem oat
and many ethers too numerous to mention. We ven-
ture to say the idea is original.
Whereas the garret and the squalid lodging seem
to have been the homes of most British and Conti-
nental literary genius, the same cannot be said of Aus-
tralasia. Even if it could, literary premises, mere
canvas, hessian or galvanised iron, with tired fvra-
ture and much-travelled wardrobes, we are afraid
would not have the same attraction for the tourist as
(say) Deeming’s cottage, the hulk Success, or any
waxworks carrying “the only and original Ned
Kelly.” It seems to us that to be popular a shrine
must appeal to all classes (and the driver of every
passing vehicle, at least, would worship at ours),
whether it be the temple of Thespis, Bacchus, Allah
or Ink. Convenience of situation is also a big factor
in the success of a shrine.
In taking the liberty of sending you this specimen,
we trust it will meet with your approval, and that we
shall be favored with a continuance of vour esteemed
orders, which are, at all times, a source of great
pleasure and satisfaction to us to execute to the best
of our ability.
We are, dear sir,
Respectfully yours,
McTag, O’Fancy and Emanbel.
Ironbark Splinters (Laurie), by G. Her-
bert Gibson (“Ironbark”), is now in its
second edition.
The fifth edition of Arthur W. Jose’s com-
pact History of Australasia (Angus. and Rob-
ertson, Sydney), enlarged and revised down
to the end of 1912. has appeared—the most
useful modern history of Us.
Already Meredith’s friends are realising
on his friendship. The Rev. Augustus .les-
sopp, whose name figures largely in the col-
lected edition of Meredith’s Letters, has sold
a series of these letters for £445. And the
novelist’s gardener got for three nutograp
MSS., portions of the French ißevolution
series of poems, no less than £287.
The extent of the Australasian contribu-
tion to the English language is graphica.il)
shown in the Australasian supplement to a
Modern Dictionary (Macmillan). In addi-
tion to many Australian and Maori names,
e.g.. of plants, which cannot rightlyw
classed as additions to the English languag e
we find many a Bulletin invention, suen
as Banaiialand, the Cabbage Garden ('»<-)•
Centralist, Crow-eater, Westralia and even
Wowser, though the last term comes
under the class of “slang, colloquial, o
polished English.” Words with special Am
tralasiau connotation include banker D
plied to a river in flood), belltopper, <
rack, block—in the phrase ‘doing the block,
board (in shearing), bottom (in mining;.
boxer- -the bat called in England a bowie ,
box (to mix up), bullocky, (to go h &
chyack, coast (to wander), •’ a u
tage (used here to denote a house ha g ,
the rooms on the ground flo 9 r— an
in England), creek—not as m
inlet of the sea, cronk, crutchmgs. «
this is only the A B C of the Australasian
alphabet.


Vi
<a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
ANTHONY HORDERNS’!
. . . FOR . . .
No. 4711 Lecina Toilet Soap
No. 4711 LECINA SOAP is a toilet Soap, possessing great HYGIENIC
PROPERTIES, and is made from the PUREST SUBSTANCES and BEST RAW
MATERIALS by a specially-adapted process.
The LECITHIN, the active ingredient in 4711 LECINA SOAP, possesses
the CHARACTERISTIC PROPERTY of making its way DIRECT into the
PORES of the skin, STRENGTHENING and INVIGORATING the latter, and
stimulating the ENFEEBLED blood vessels of the skin to RENEWED and
INTENSE activity. ALL IMPURITIES are IN THIS WAY REMOVED,
If 4711 LECINA SOAP is regularly used, the hands become soft and smooth,
and the complexion fresh and rosy. The circulation of the blood is also improved,
and the RESPIRATION THROUGH THE SKIN is PROMOTED IN A VERY
GREAT DEGREE, which improves the general condition and imparts increased
elasticity to the entire system. The increased activity of the skin takes place IN
A PURELY NATURAL WAY. WITHOUT ANY ARTIFICIAL STIMULA-
TION OR OTHER INJURIOUS EFFECTS.
No. 4711 LECINA is an IDEAL CHILDREN’S SOAP in the truest sense of
the word. It is FREE from all IRRITATIVE action, and is so extraordinarily
MILD that it does not in the very least degree INJURE the exceedingly sensitive
skin of the CHILD.
No. 4711 LECINA SOAP is UNEQUALLED FOR THE HEAD AND
HAIR. It supersedes other HEAD WASHES and HAIR LOTIONS, because it
is equal to them in quality and effect, but far more economical in use. The
LECITHIN, the most EFFECTIVE constituent of the SOAP, INVIGORATES
and FERTILISES the HAIR ROOTS and HAIR NUTRITION in an extraor-
dinary degree, and promotes the GROWTH of the Hair, leaving NO STAIN.
No. 4711 LECINA SOAP is very ECONOMICAL in use, is DAINTILY
scented, and forms a WONDERFULLY SOFT LATHER.
No. 4711 Lecina Soap
PRICE
9d. Cake; 1/6 Box of 3.
Postage -N.S.W., 6d.;
Other States, Bd. Box Extra.
fh
SEND FOR PRICE LIST OF TOILET REQUISITES, Post Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
... FOR .. ♦
ARDATH Cabinet Cigars.
WDIITHCAKSET
QWiUT* *• €.6*
Ardath Cabinet Cigars \
are justly popular, for the reason that they
are beautifully mild and aromatic, filled with
a delicious blend of selected tobacco, uniform
in quality, and contain only a minimum of
nicotine.
Ardath Cabinet Cigars
are distinctly in the first rank of medium-
priced cigars. They are made under perfect
conditions, and combine every point, of ex-
cellence demanded by the cigar connoisseur.
Ardath Cabinet Cigars, no. w and no. eee,
can only be obtained at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are
cigars that will be smoked with appreciation by the most critical.
recommend these cigars with confidence.
Ardath Cigars
are packed in artistically-prepared cahicctsCttedwnh
ZSk&SSSSJtt? £ “S'r a? prices wkick
offer absolutely the best value in the land.
BOX 25 50 100
No. 444 7/6 14/6 28/6
No. 666 10/- 19/6 38/6
Postage-Box of 25, N.S.W. |d; other
States, Bd. extra. Box of 50, N.8.W., «a.,
other States, 1/2 extra.
Write for Price List of Tobacco, Cigars and Smokers
Requisites, Posted Free on request.
ARDATH CABIRET
QUALITY «•
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
. . . FOR . . .
VALUE IN BOOKS
The World Library of Famous Books .
THE WORLD LIBRARY appeals to readers of every taste, and represents the last word in
luxurious and artistic production at a low price. Already 95 volumes of the WORLD LIBRARY
have been issued, covering a range of interests, including not only many of the MOST FAMOUS
works of FICTION, but several of the great epoch-making classics of RESEARCH and
PHILOSOPHY. . .
In THE WORLD LIBRARY the volumes are all WELL printed on GOOD paper, and are of
CONVENIENT size both for the POCKET and the BOOK-SHELF. The binding is STRONG,
NEAT and TASTEFUL, with richly decorated gilt-back, and the handsome end-papers, printed
in two tints, with the decorative title-pages, stamp the VOLUMES with a PLEASING distinctive-
ness that makes them TREASURED FEATURES of any LIBRARY.
Anthony Horderns’ Price: Cloth, //- ; Leather, 2j-
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature
Expanding Bookcase, to
hold SOvols., 21/-
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what its name
implies—a library for the professional man, the busi-
ness man, the young man, the student, and all lovers
of literature. There are 600 titles to select from in
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY, embracing the works of fore-
most authors in the realms of Fiction, Poetry, History,
Theology, Travel, Biography, and Essays of famous
writers. , ...
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is under the general editor-
ship of Professor Ernest Rehys, and contains the best
works that have been witten in all times and tongues,
from Epictetus. Cicero and Plutarch, down to Dickens,
Scott, Ruskin and other great Literary Lights of the
Victorian Era. „ .
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is uni-
formly bound, and printed in large, clear type on
specially made paper, and many are illustrated.
Anthony Horderns’ Price:
Cloth, 1j - ; Full Leather, 2\-
Postage, 2d. per volume extra. Full list
of titles post free. Send 2s. 4d. for a
sample volume of each Library. The
value cannot be surpassed.
Handsome Oak Bookcase (as illustrated), specially designed for Every-
man’s and World Libraries, made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with interlocking
device, to allow for extehsioii. Top Section, 6/-; Base Unit, 6/-; Book
Section (to hold 50 vols.)» 8/6.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
... FOR ...
PRANA Sparklet SYPHONS
We have completed arrangements which enable us to i present every Purchaser
nf a SPARKLET SYPHON with a bottle of SYPHONET FLAVORING COR
specially prepared tor use with SPARKLET SYPHONS. Syphopet Cordral
is made in four flavors —Raspberry, Lemon, Lime Juice and Ginger.
SPARKLET SYPHONS are Safe and Satisfactory. They are covered with
woven wire, and one SPARKLET BULB fully charges the Syphon, instantly,
producing fresh, sparkling, refreshing Aerated Water, which may be drawn off as
needed.
Sparklet
Syphon
B Size
(Reputed Quart).
Price, with
Bottle of
SYPHONET
CORDIAL,
4/-
Extra Bulbs,
1/4
Box of 12,
Postage Extra.
Bottle of
Syphonet Cordial
FREE with each
Syphon.
d
Sparklet
Syphon
C Size
(Holds *0 Ounces)
Price, with
Bottle of
SVPHONET
CORDIAL,
6/6
Extra Bulbs,
2/3
Box of 12.
Postage Extra.
SPARKLET SYPHONS ARE INVALUABLE IN THE COUNTRY.
cr»AT?TCT FT SYPHONS are simply operated: The Syphon is filled with water
from S Fbt^d T Sy S lu P pp^and e one Sp'arklet Bulb immediately produces fresh
Aera SPARKLET C SYPHONS hold 40 ounces, double the capacity of B size, and
effect £ further saving of 25 per cent, in the cost of Aerated Water.
ANTHONY HORDERN &. SONS Ltd.
rr x SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
providers.
New
Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill»


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE: CHILDRENS FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made!
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. 14;
For -22 Short li.F., -22 Long R.F., and ‘22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2flb.
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES —PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [4
The PIEPER BAYARD
Semi-Automatic Rifle
although small in calibre, does big work—this on account
of the LONG BARREL and PERFECT MECHANISM
USED IN ITS MANUFACTURE.
tliUi
To be had of all Storekeepers,
Gunsmiths and Merchants.
Write to W. A. Cox, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Booklet, post free.
r
*»
Underwear.
The all-Australasian-
wool underwear with
the softness of silk. And unshrinkable too!
The most delicate and tender skins will not be irritated by
It has the softness of silk at a fraction of the price. And
ygzLa
u ' f
%<tll
Aaig *».
s unshrinkable. No matter how often it goes to the laundry it
will retain its original size. If it doesn’t the makers will replace
L the garment. wear costs no more than the ordinary,
||j. and as it is so much better it is worth insisting upon.
"g^n,
Stockings, Socks and Underwear for Men, Ladie*
and Children. In all prices.
made Jerseys for Children are splendid wear.
Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers # Stores. If your dealer does
not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty, write for ‘‘Jason” booklet
aud name of nearest agent to —
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOR OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3 G.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anato my,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/- Post Free*
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
BOORS FOR HOME
BUILDERS AND
CARPENTERS
• Artistic
Homes, 250 Perspective
Views and Floor Plans,
280 pages (Bin. x llin.),
5/4; Artistic Bungalows,
208 Views, 5/4; Cement
Houses: How to Build,
5/4 ; Garages: How to
Build, 5/4; Cement: How
to Use It, 5/4; Practical
Carpentry, 2 vols., 600
pages, 400 illustrations,
10/6 ; Steel Square and Its
Uses, 2 vols., 600 pages,
10/6; Hand-saws and
Their Uses, 2/8; How to
Mix Paints, 2/8.
AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous !
S 3
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T w o - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;.
post free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magio, 2/6.
Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
QUIRK S AIR GAS
m
*' 11}
■ <>y w
••' '{4; *5"• " *
ix
SHEf»T':.“
s , ill /
J i.
•A/***: f’*»|
f \ - ?i
an
, i %
>
I *
sssr-
f
Hi *
V. V
• r
Interior of Quirk’s Factory, showing Machines In course of construction
W« Manufacture 2 Machines every day.
Over 1200 Machines already installed in Australia
ONE OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS: Talbragar, Dubbo, Jan. 6, 1913.
Dear Sirs, —It is now about four months since your Air (las Machine was installed in my
residence. Its efficiency has exceeded all expectations; for light, economy, cleanliness, as well as
for cooking purposes, it is the best that I know of. My 20-Light Machine provides sufficient
light for all purposes, in addition to supplying gas for the stove. To be able to do all cook-
ing by gas in a country home at a moderate cost is a convenience that must appeal to anyone
making a gas installation, especially when domestic help is at such a premium. Wishing you
all the success that your machine merits. —I am, yours faithfully, (Sgd.) F. C. WAKE.
Directors :
Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, K. 8., M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HAIN, Esq.
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
Write for Catalogue giving full particulars
Messrs. QUIRK’S LIGHTING
and ENGINEERING LTD.,
548-550 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
117 Pitt Street
SYDNEY.
116 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, Q.
68 Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
Dalgetv & Co.,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
fgh
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larpre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Price £l.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Orpran Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments. Watches. Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
The efficient disinfectant.
Izal is the pioneer of modern high-power dis-
infectants. It is a scientific discovery of vital
importance to national health. No disease germs
can live—no epidemic spread—where Izal is used.
It is death to all bacteria.
Izal costs a little, but saves a tremendous lot. Get a
gallon drum—sufficient for making 400 gallons of efficient
disinfecting fluid.
3»
■
_7
jTTT
crrnr
is the guaranteed disinfectant
of unrivalled strength. It has
been officially adopted through-
out the British Empire.
Write for Free Booklet, “ Practical
Disinfection.”
Agents:
T. K. STEANES,
37-43 Pitt St., Sydney.
Mixes equally well in salt,
brackish, or fresh water
VH CWAMK bs '


Good Blood!
Does your heart send good or
bad blood to your brain? If bad,
impure blood, then your brain
aches. You are nervous, restless,
cannot sleep. You are as tired in
the morning as at night. You
have no nerve power.
Stimulants will do you harm
What then? '
Ayer's
Sarsaparilla
SOLD FOR &60 YEARS
This is the medicine you need.
It removes impurities from the
blood, makes it rich in its life-
giving properties, and gives tone
to the whole system. Ask your
doctor all about this.
To have good blood and strong
nerves, your bowels must be regu-
lar. There must be at least one
free movement each day. Ayer’s
Pills quickly correct any tendency
to constipation. Just one pill at
bedtime, only one.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO.,
Dowell. Mas*., XT. 8. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to youf
Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
fh gfh
MODELJS
£3 m 10 to dS 9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AGENTS
wanted in each district. Write
at once, using sufficient postage.
for Free Art Catalogue and our
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Deot. 280. LIVERPOOL*
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurle*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
IB oae sine. IW6.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210, Lambeth. Road, Loudon, Eng.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.
CARTRIDG
g
(1
m
ii
m
55?
at*
111
m
an
r<
30
rfl
o
%
Eley Cartridgesi
ensure —as far
as any cartridge
can ensure
first-rate sport
and gratifying bags.
Among sportsmen and sportswomen
throughout the world, the accuracy
of Eley Cartridges is proverbial.
Make a trial of any or all of these:
Eley ‘Achilles’
Deep shell, gas-
tight, smokeless
(42-grain) powder.
Eley Pluto’
Grand Prix quality
cartridge, smokeless
(33-grain' rowder.
Eley ‘Zenith’— Deep-shell, gastight,
specially selected smokeless (33-gr.) powder.
THESE ARE ALL ELEY LOADED.
Sold by Ammunition Dealers & Gunmakers
Be very sure to see the name ‘ELEY’
on the tube or shell of each cartridge.
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON, ENG.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly— at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
•t either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
. . ln BT antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. -4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,' N. S.W.
y 1404.)
a
“Salt-Cellars” and No Bust
do great harm to a woman's appearance. You can increase
your vitality, build up your strength, develop your bust to
normal, and fill out the unsightly “salt-cellars."
A thin woman is not necessarily plain; in fact, many thin
women are admittedly pretty, but the admission is always
qualified with—“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.”
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect flesh builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenua-
tion and development, and will send same and a Free Sample
Treatment to you free of charge, upon receipt of a 2d. stamp.
All communications private and confidential. Write or call
for full particulars.
FALLIERE IXESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
Dangers of Varicose Veins.
Few people realise until too late, how very dangerous to their exist-
ence Varicose Veins are. If you suffer from these veins, or even have
them, let us send you a free book describing their dangers, and more
particularly the VECSEV METHOD of curing them. Hundreds endorse
it, as it is purely a home treatment, and does not require laying up, and
is entirely harmless. No one who has varicose veins or ulcers should delay
an hour in obtaining full information on the subject. We have treated
and cured hundreds, and can probably do the same for you, once we know
your condition
FREE BOOK.
FREE CONSULTATION.
Send 2d.
consultation.
stamp for free book of full particulars, or call for free
Very few cases are incurable. Write or call to-day.
MR. O. VECSEY.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street,
Sydney.
1410.
NEW SEAM SANITARY CAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
The Entire Top Open.
Sealed without Heat, Solder or Objectionable Fluxes.
IT OUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 ends hourly, and may be operated
by a boy. Our machines are made for all kinds and sizes
of cans. Will stand both retort and bath processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better. Send for
our Catalogue.
If The machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
If AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are not surpassed by any-
thing in the market.
We Furnish Complete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Ams Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
EUROPEAN AGENCY: C. CUELPA di L., Corso Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
Tobacco
x gf
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. . . . It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is, to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse. tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, mujer
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (XL CO.,
Dept. 0,
107 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
THE PIPE OF THE WORLD
WINNER OF ALL FIRST
PRIZES UP-TO-DATE.
Pipes
(GBD)
Pipes
No. 914.
TO BH BOUOMT FROM
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
INSIST ON
GETTING
(QBD)
h ƒghg
0
ft
OUR
PIPES
DEFY ALL
IMITATORS
THERE ARE
TWO THINGS
THEY CAN’T
PRODUCE
(1) ODR QUALITY
(2) OUR SHAPE.
WE CAN PROVE ALL WE ADVERTISE.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? E>o you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with railing steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Have You Ever
Y Blistered a
■ Horse with
dfgh ffggh
Mr. Alex. Stewart, of Rosebauk,
Wychetella, has, and he writes
“Having owned both draught and
light stallions for the past 22 years,
and having used many preparations
for horse ailments, I must say that
SOLOMON SOLUTION is the BEST BLISTER
I HAVE EVER USED. I have removed a
callous of longstanding (shoe boils or
capped elbow) on four different oc-
casions—and IT HAS NEVER FAILED."
I y arge Jars 5/- from Chemists, Stores
and Saddlers everywhere, or post free
for 5/6 froln
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne
L.H.W,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No Gas.
The large and dim policeman’s feet
In even cadence smote the night,
An 4r like a pale Khost down the street
Went Cissy clothed in simple white,
Ihe air was full of whispers fine,
Although the gas refused to shine.
All black and warm the shadows lay,
The hot air shuddered half-afraid,
And laws that rule the garish day
At hide-and-seek with gladness played;
VV e saw the long procession pass
Of lightsome joys that need no gas.
Pale candles at the casements shone,
And by a match’s fitful flare
The damsel put her beauty on,
And fixed with pins her evening hair—
Those tresses wonderful to view
As clouds with moonlight falling through.
Somewhere, with words profane and loud,
Beside his dark, unmoving wheels.
In wrath the fierce mechanic bowed,
And made his last forlorn appeals
To gods and devils in the mass
To stir a dead machine with gas.
Somewhere, in offices remote,
In stern official conclave met,
Grave persons all the darkness smote
With words of scorning or regret,
Discussing in the solemn night
The loss of profitable light.
Somewhere a politician nursed
A head whose brain was gone on strike.
Each plan of action seemed accurs’d,
.And weighted with the crowd’s dislike;
For in the stern affair of gas
He felt an overburdened ass.
Somewhere, amid dim pubs astray,
The gas-man swore above his beer
That, lacking one more bob per day,
The strike might last for half a year;
For why should he with toil illume
A world where cash refused to bloom?
But warm and black the shadows lay,
And like a pale ghost down the street,
Young Cissy took her pleasant way
On heedless, dainty, tripping feet—
No need of flarine gas was mine
Who saw her dark eyes closely shine..
Half-seen, the large policeman strode
Across the landscape of the dark,
The tall, black houses faintly showed
At certain points a tiny spark
But how should I a gas-jet miss ,
When shadows held a warm, sweet kiss."
N.S.W.
CUBSE O' MOSES.
Spring in the Black Forest.
Because you love me tenderly
You sent a flower across the sea.
And lo! it brings me near to thee I
How deep the forest heart is here,
With trunks that tower and pines that rear
Their tufted heads against the sky,
To catch the spirit winds that fly,
And underfoot the tender spring
In gold mist sweetly blossoming.
And down the vale the white roads wind,
And we who follow, far behind,
Hear the call, insistent, low,
“Follow, follow, where I go, .
Through dreams, of day and truths of night
Into the purple after-light.”
And like a ribbon, silverly,
The Rhine flows down to meet the sea.
Through banks bestarred with April s light,
Where mayhap many a gallant knight
Made such a vow as thee and me
Of love and faith and loyalty.
And oh, your face is close to mine,
And in my eyes your sweet eyes shine,
And all the lonely, saddened hours
Are scattered, e’en as petalled flowers
Are softly blown aslant the grass.
The grey mists creep, the gold mists pass. ..
And this is all that’s left to me,
A flower you sent across the sea,
Because you love me tenderly.
VICTOBIA
G. J.
Restaurant Music.
Amid the clash of knives and forks
And thud of waiters’ feet.
The earnest feeder loudly talks
While sawing at his meat.
The crash and rattle of good plates,
Flung down in rage or haste,
The watchful feed-boss agitates;
He cries as if disgraced.
And shoots away as if on wheels,
To fume behind the screen,
Whence come the dismal yelps and squeals
Of kitchen-folk unseen.
Meanwhile the band plays tenderly
(To make up for the meat)
The melting airs of Arcady,
At once so nure and sweet.
But though good Cornet with his hat
His bugle’s blanngs strains,
And Fiddle soothes the inmost cat,
Their music still contains
A hint of sou)), for all its grace,
While on Piano’s notes,
From cool, clear trebie to thick bass,
The tell-tale grease-flake floats.
Boiled opera they scrape and puff,
To drown the kitchen dm .
The feeder grunts, I hke that stuff,
\nd drinks the music in.
N.s.w.
KODAK.


Marcus Clark & Co. Ltd.
Combination Couches.
Famous
Patent
PATENT No. 12274.
A Cosy Bed or an Elegant Couch—can be changed from one to the
other without any inconvenience or loss of time.
We deliver in
City and
Suburbs in our
own Waggons.
Delivered to
Sydney
Wharves or
Railway Sta-
tion Free of
Charge.
*
SEND FOR SPECIAL PATTERNS AND SPECIAL ESTIMATES,
MARCUS CLARK & CO. Ltd.,
Central Square, Opposite Railway Station, SYDNEY.
gx ƒgfgĝ
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per 'day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and ill Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
SHI-NOLEUM '
Nothing Else
*
/;n
>\ . / 1
When you ask your Storekeeper for a tin
of Shi-Noleum, We firm and take nothing
else, as you may be sure that an imitation is
not offered for your benefit.
Shi-Noleum has a fine
reputation as the best polish for
Lineleums and Furniture, it is so
easy to use that it enables the busy
housekeeper to do her work in
half the usual time.
Sold in every State in
the Commonwealth.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Pbice Sixpence.
HORSE and CATTLE
SYRINGE=SHARPE’S.
THE BEST, Most Complete, INJECTION SYRINGE.
About 24 inches long. Brass, nickel-plated.
Has nickel-plated movable Foot Piece.
Valves cannot break, stick or corrode.
Fitted with 4 feet Best Tubing, with Large and
Small Nozzles. Gives Continuous Stream.
Used with ordinary Stable Bucket.
VERY USEFUL.
BEST QUALITY.
Vet. Advice Free—by our Vet. Surgeon.
WRITE FOR KNIFE and VET. LIST.
SHARPE & SHARPE,
18 Bridge St.,
SYDNEY.
h gf ğ
Post
Free
321-
Any-
where.
THe Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
ALBIRT'i
“BOOMERANG GRAND,” large size 6/6, small 3/6
“PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/•
“BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
“POCKET BOOMERANG,” 1/-, post free.
“ AROH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells
price 5/6 ; 80 ids., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/6!
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ” the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are onlv a weak imita-
tion of the “BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has not a “ BOOMERANG ”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “just as
good,” and get the “BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
I?
ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street,, Sydney
0
The
WATERSHED '*** OILSKIN
s
The design of the “Watershed” i s
entirely different to other oilskins, as a glance
at the illustration will show.
The finest grade of Egyptian cotton,
woven expressly for the purpose, is used in
the manufacture of “ Watersheds.” The
cloths are treated with a special combination
of oils that imparts a smooth, flexible, non-
sticking surface that is a very great improve-
ment on the old fashioned kind. The oil
is worked well into the seams, strengthening
pieces are put in around the buttons and
buttonholes.
“ Watershed ” Oilskins are thoroughly
matured before being offered for sale. After
being proofed with oil the materials are
cured by an improved dry heating process,
which renders them impervious to extremes
of climate and enables us to guarantee them
not to stick.
The “ Dugong-Watershed,” made of
finest Egyptian cambric, double throughout
and proofed with Watershed oil. Specially
recommended for general use. Average
weight, 4.1 b. Made in either black or yellow.
Price, 32/6. Carriage paid.
The “ Rainbow-Watershed,” made of
stout calico, double throughout and proofed
with Watershed oil, either black or yellow.
Average weight, 61b. Intended for rough
w’ear. Price, 25/-. Carriage paid.
Send for a copy of the “ Watershed ”
Booklet, ppst free on request.
“ Watershed ” Oilskins are obtainable from all leading storekeepers
throughout Australia, or direct from the patentees and manufacturers,
Rubber Co. Ltd.
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY; and at MELBOURNE.
Visitors to SYDNEY SHOW
r. ■ ■:/
Uk
&
;
WE extend to our
Country Clients and
their friends a most
cordial invitation to inspect
our exhibit at the forth-
coming Sydney Show.
Our stand is right IN THE MAIN AVENUE
(BETWEEN MESSRS. HANNAM’S & PANICS’.
Marshall’s
British
Built
Steam Engines
will be strongly represented, and in addition a
WOODWORKING MACHINERY SECTION
will form an important feature of our exhibit.
MARSHALL'S manufacture and sell more Steam
Engines than any other makers, and only one
quality is turned out, viz.,
THE WORLD’S BEST
Portables, Tractions, Oil Tractors,
Boilers specially suitable to Australian conditions.
See what we offer before deciding elsewhere. Cash or Easy Terms.
Catalogues, etc., from our Engine Specialist on the ground, or from
R. L. SCRUTTOIM & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at tVie General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0. 1726.
THURSDAY. MARCH 13. 1913.
P hick tin.
AFTER THE STRIKE,
JUDGE: "The charge against this man is that he underpaid his worsen, and was thereby the tirst cause a strike that inconvenienced
the whole city. What -ave you got to say about It?
WITNESS: “He’s guilty, your Worship! I tried it and wouldn't take the job on again for twice the money."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly . : .. • • 013 6
Quarterly.. .. .. • • 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin/’ is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these'
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for■ return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea', but
unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J/I/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, .San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph arid 'Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kon'g. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Apents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs;
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
1116 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, 6§in.
x Hin.. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postapc Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British Neiv Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz.. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and BJoz.
to lOoz., 21 d.; lOoz. to 12oz. Sd.; elsewhere, J/oz. Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 1913.
THE STRIKE AND THE NATION.
N. J. Sievebs, an Australian, who until
lately was drinking in Oxford culture at
New College, wandered down to Sydney
Trades Hall a few days ago and told the
P.L.L. and some sympathetic persons about
syndicalism. He described the new Euro-
pean movement, or disease, as a “policy of
strike, strike, strike until the wages system
was done away with.” As a summing up of
the ancient and evil thing which wears a
new and fancy name, the description could
hardly be bettered. Only a few years ago
the strike, as an industrial weapon, stood
condemned by its own failures and by all
the suffering it had brought upon strikers
and their families for an infinitesimal gain
or none. Labor leaders were determined to
find newer and more peaceful means of
securing to the workers the fruits of their
toil; and on all sides it was freely recognised
that the hope of the people lay in Parlia-
mentary legislation and the fair arbitration
of claims. Now a great wave of impatience
appears to have swept over the nations,
and the strike as an offensive and defensive
weapon has gained a stronger grip than ever
upon the imaginations of thousands of those
who lift the universal burden and do the
world’s perspiring. Doomed as most strikes
are to failure, faith in the things cannot be
crushed out, and the almost world-wide idea
seems to be that out of the multitude of
failures must come one grand success. Aus-
tralia has felt the outer wave of the change
of thought, and even here, where Labor
holds political power, the feeling grows
that the crude, early weapon wnich the
movement professed to throw away many
years ago may be stronger than all Parlia-
ments and more effective than any arbitra-
tion. In a word, Labor here as elsewhere ap-
pears to be split into two camps, and the
faction favoring threat, violence and a
general smashing-up of the more or less
settled order of industrialism is growing
and gaining in numerical strength.
Paradoxical as it is, Syndicalism owes its
existence largely to the movement for Inter-
national Socialism. International Social-
ists, in addition to faith in red flags and
similar emblematic ornaments, take the
ground that all workers the world over are
one in aim and spirit, and that mere national
and geographical boundaries must be broken
down in order that organised Labor may
come to its own. This view presupposes a
tremendous advance in universal education,
wipes out all notions of racial or tribal
animosity, and accepts the broad proposi-
tion that all men are wise enough and suffi-
ciently under self-control to live in perfect
peace and amity if only their fullest indus-
trial rights are conceded. Yet in absolute
contradiction of such a spirit as it alleges
to exist —such a spirit as alone might make
International Socialism possible—these
people adopt syndicalism and assert that all
this kindly brotherhood and love must stand
down for a while in order that their objec-
tive may be reached by constant strikes and
long-continued industrial bitterness. On the
face of things, it seems pretty evident that
the man who will put up a tierce fight for
the extra shilling a day, which he regards
as his due, will put up just as strenuous a
controversy over an extra two shillings a
day to which he may not be entitled, but
which he thinks by using the strongest
means in his power he may be able to get.
The fighting spirit, which is one of aggres-
sion all the time, is not yet bred out of the
race, and men will battle for an advantage
as readily as for a right. In fact, they will
battle for nothing at all sometimes and find
joy in the exchange of wallops.
Syndicalism takes us back to the time of
the first French Revolution. Then the
shout was for liberty, equality and brother-
hood, and through oceans of blood the first
Republic waded out, not into the promised
land of new order and beauty, but into a
large, open place where the people as a
whole, having liberty of thought, immedi-
ately made choice to live under a newer,
stronger and more glorious despotism.
Throughout all history the fact stands plain
that change and ’-'fform gained by violence
and by the wreckage of a social and eco-
nomic system can never endure beyond the
moment; the things which are really going
to count the day after to-morrow are those
which have been evolving since the century
before last. Unless the future is to belie
every lesson that men have been taught in
the past, the way ofit of the present evils
is not by means of constant industrial strife,
which will wreck nationalism, destroy even
the present attempt at order, and create an
anarchy whose prevailing features must be
hunger and suffering. The road proposed
by the syndicalists is an old, rough track,
often tried, but it leads only to the dogs or
the Devil or. something worse, and history
has written a large “No Thoroughfare”
across its wider end. Under modern condi-
tions the nation which is attacked at the
heart by. syndicalism must go down in the
struggle for existence with other nations.. A
community cannot earn its living by idle-
ness, and perpetual interruptions of national
work must in the end mean national
starvation. It is perfectly true, as N. Jc
Sievers declares, that it is unreasonable to 5
expect a man to be “patriotic about an
empire on which the sun never sets, when
he lives in an alley on which the sun never
rises,” but it is equally unreasonable that
the nation or the world should put back the
clock of time, and attempt to reproduce the
conditions which existed before the organ-
isation of the primal tribe, at the bidding
of those who only see human hopes and
human aims through the rank mists of the
sunless slum. Labor, in the present state
of the world, cannot afford to spread its
organisation beyond the bounds of nation-
alism. Even the dweller in a Whitechapel
court may be the envy of one whose home
is in a three-foot lane of Canton. Men in
Australia, earning eight or nine shillings a
day, have plenty of local sympathy in their
attempts to secure a better wage, but nine-
tenths of Asia and a big section of Europe
would be glad enough to rush their jobs at
half the present rates. In the nature of
things neither syndicalism nor any other
machine, process or devilment can produce a
universal result at exactlv the same point of
time; and it must follow as surely as
whisky follows thirst, or thirst whisky, that
the section of the world which achieves the
millennium first will have to fDht for its
reign of peace against pretty well every other
place that is a shade worse off. Leaving
out the age-long racial hatred altogether, the
law of the survival of the fittest in the
struggle for life is not sroing to cease because
a few thousands or millions of people some-
where have arrived at their industrial goal.
International Socialism may be a very
noble idea —though International Socialism
by way of syndicalism is about the most
blithersomely insane notion that has ever
entered a human mind —but International
Socialism, or any other sort of Socialism, for
that matter, can have no hope of ever com-
ing to birth except by way of nationalism.
Men are not built on a uniform pattern, nor
will the same sort of medicine cure all
diseases. In various parts of the globe men
are to be found in all stages of development.
Some races are still in the Stone Age; others
in the Bronze Age; many in a transition
enoch corresponding to the French or Eng-
lish Middle Ages. The best that can be hoped
for is a group advance; and the lines of
each advancing eroup are conveniently
marked by nationality. The person with the
large enthusiasm and the red flag fails to see
this: but the fact is patent enough to any
observer who hanpens to have a baby or two
about the premises and has a little resard
for the immediate future. Nationalism must
stand before industrialism. As the State is
more than the individual, so the welfare and
general progress of the State are of more
importance than an extra shilling a day to
a group of workers. Looked at fairly, the
nation is itself a group of workers with a
few idlers here and there who have discovered
a means of exploiting the;rest. The depre-
dations of the few can never be quite so dan-
gerous to the community as a whole, as the
idleness of the many. It rests with., the
nation to use its united intelligence in set-
ting crooked matters straight and getting
every man his just due ; but the nation which
knocks off work and lets the baby starve is
plainly just an insane nation and ought to
be put in a large lunatic asylum. Syndical-
ism proposes Ao starve all the babies in
order that when they grow up they may
have plenty to eat: but along the lines of
national development and intelligent reform
the babies can get something to eat all the
time, and a lot more for their own babies
in the time to cortie. Australia has her own
w T ay out of each and all of her troubles, and
that way is not by ceasing to do her work,
but by doing more work and attending more
intelligently to her own business. The
making of our laws is absolutely in the
hands of the people, if they will only use
their power. Industrial strife along the old
barbaric lines which has found a recrudes-
cence under the fancy name of syndicalism
only retards the nation in its work. While
the wheels stop and the furnaces are allowed
to cool for the sake of a shilling a day, the
half-crown a day which was on its road is
being delayed. . What, we need more than
anything else is an intelligent impatience
which will raise Cain over the things that
really matter, and whjle its agitation is
working towards success, will keep the
nation’s pot boiling by seeing to it that the
sum of national labor, which is the sum of
national wealth, does not decrease. The
disease of strike, which is really the disease
of loaf in a bado’orm, can kill the healthiest
nation deader” than all the guns of a pos-
sible invader.
PATENT MEDICINES.
Three letters from a corpulent bundle.
First, let a doctor have his say:—
“Backblocker’s” letter (B. 27/2/T3) contained
statements so wide that they should not go without
a reply.
The book of “Secret Remedies” which the Com-
monwealth Government has thought of sufficient
importance to issue as an official paper has been
subjected to the fire of criticism of a Royal Com-
mission, and has stood the test. The analyst has
had to put up with about the most severe cross-
examination of modern times, and the book stands.
In all cases where there is any element of doubt,
the chemist plainly says so. And the chairman of
the Commission finally says, “We may take it that
the analyses as printed in the book are as correct as
is humanly possible.”
“Backblocker’s” suggestion that the B.M.A. in
its opposition to “secret remedies” has some wicked
motive is quite on a par with the opposition which
the natives of a certain part of India recently-
showed to a resident doctor who found out the cause
of one of their filth diseases, and so prevented any
more cases coming his way. He eventually had to
shift or starve. Why? Simply because (and I speak
as a country medical man) a good deal of the
average doctor’s work comes directly from the habit
of self-drugging. It is a matter of common know-
ledge to the medical man that the ordinary citizen
has no more ideg of the anatomy of his own body or
any of its simplest needs than the domestic cat has
of syntax. At the present time I am attending (1)
a baby suffering from intestinal trouble, caused
by an affectionate mother administering a well-
advertised diarrhoea remedy; (2) a man, a highly
intellectual Government official, who is suffering from
poisoning, due io taking a “nervine tonic” ; (3) a
woman' who has uterine disease, due directly to the
action of a famous “female remedy.” Personally, I
think, with “Backblocker,” that the action of the
B.M.A. is most reprehensible. It is interfering with
both the liberty of the subject, and, what is much
more important, my living. I hope to get a good
many guineas from the father of the aforesaid baby,
the above-mentioned Government official, and the
husband of the woman. Right at the back of my
head I know that the maker of a well-advertised
“patent” is about the best friend I have, because he
eventually brings me work, and generally well-paid
work. But, all the same, as a more or less human
being, I think it is a shame he is allowed to do it.
The actual specimen taken by “Backblocker” is
unfortunate, because neither the B.M.A. chemist nor
the English Government ditto could unravel the mys-
tery of what else was in the well-known “line,”
neither could the man who made it, under the cross-
examination of the English Commission.
“Backblocker” says that it is a “useful remedy.”
So is lard, and lard is not so expensive. The parti-
cular “remedy” mentioned by the writer of‘the letter
is about the worst that could have been chosen by a
man calling himself by such a pen-name, presumably
living among the gum-trees. It is typical of a cer-
tain Australian attitude, which prefers eucalyptus oil
with an American label.
The drivel about chemists’ prices, and chemists’
apparent connection with the medical profession, is
pure nonsense. Almost any chemist will treat any
case “on his own,” as most doctors know very well;
and the B.M.A. has made it penal for any medical
man to have any pecuniary interest in any chemist
shop. As to chemists’ drugs differing as widely as
publican’s Her, possibly the writer has not yet heard
of the Pure Foods Act. This Act renders every
chemist liable to trouble if any drug does not come
up to a veryj’definite standard, as some chemists know
to their cost, even though dependent upon a whole-
sale firm.
No! “Patents” came before the B.M.A. There
were “patents” before there were legally-qualified
chemists or doctors, and the cause of their being is
not the rapacity of either, but the woeful ignorance
of the poor old public. Let “Backblocker”
try to find out in his spare time how many patents
are taken by either the doctors or the chemists when
they are ill. And these people are supposed to know.
If I get a pain in my back I go to the best man I
know for pains in this region, and pay him for his
advice, and do as he tells me. When I come to the
mental state of taking Somebody’s Backache Pills, I
shall get my wife to call in two other practitioners,
and discreetly put me away.
* * * *
Now for the chemist: —
“Backblocker’s” view of the Patent Medicine
case (B. 27/2/’l3) casts an undeserved slur on the
chemist. Instead' of pharmacists charging extortion-
ate prices, the complaint is that internal competition
has caused a lowering of rates, and that, whereas
almost every other trader has advanced his charges
during the past few years, dispensing prices are, if
anything, lower than they were 10 years ago. The
average pharmacist certainly does not earn more than
a bare competency It is rarely one hears of a chemist
being able to retire. Income tax statistics in v
toria, at any rate show that a large proportion of
chemists make under £2OO per annum. What win
internal competition and the inroads on the bus-
made by general stores, to say nothing of the ino'r" 683
ing scope of hospitals, free dispensaries and FrinnA
Societies, there is little chance of a pharmacist over*
charging. The trouble is that the doctors inch!
in a prescription a high-priced proprietary n renf , ra
tion. To dispense the prescription, the chemist
has to buy a whole bottle of this (costing from
3s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.). He uses (say) Jth of it i n the
prescription. The rest remains on his shelf as useles-
stock, since possibly this particular remedy i s only
a “fancy” of the doctor’s. Go to any good dispensing
chemist, and he will tell you that quite a number 0 f
the prescriptions handed in to him are for proprie
tary articles.
I agree with “Backblocker” that much of the
evidence put forward against patent medicines is
tainted. At the British Royal Commission inquiry
(now sitting in London) several witnesses have proved
that the analyses included in the B.M.A. publica-
tion, “More Secret Remedies,” are incorrect and
misleading. Besides, it is not a fair thing to name
the prime cost of an article, and nothing else. In
many industries the actual cost of the raw article
is the least charge on the finished product. Skill
labor, advertising, machinery and a host of other
charges soon send the cost up. In country districts
where often there are neither doctor nor chemist'
“patent” medicines are a veritable boon to the com-
munity. I am speaking now of the ordinary house-
hold remedy.
By all means close down on the “cancer fakir”
and the “consumption fiend,” and others of the
same class. Sift out the tares from the wheat, but
in doing so don’t spoil the whole crop.
* * * *
And, lastly, from the public, as repre-
sented by O. C. Beale :
Children’s teeth are often erupted in a half-decayed
state, and the deterioration goes on yearly from bad
to worse. Every chemist and most grocers sell
whilst every daily newspaper advertises, a most sale-
able drug which is a mercurial poison for soothing
infants. It does soothe them —for the time being.
Mothers administer to their babies, unknowingly,
subchloride of mercury and starch (the sole consti-
tuents) as a sort of regular evening meal. But the
subchloride, because of careless supervision—in spite
of “Backblocker’s” assurance—is often mixed with
(or becomes) bi-chloride (corrosive sublimate) —an
irritant poison. Yet every advertisement blares out
the words, and each packet is inscribed, “Contains
no Poison” ! The stuff is sold by tens of thousands
of grosses throughout the British Empire, Australia
especially, and Chambers of Commerce are always
there expressly to assist the traffic. I’m not myself
a backblocker, but a commercial man, and claim that
thousands of my class loathe and abhor, beyond all
means of expression, these respectable infamies of
quack druggery.
I hold a heap of evidence upon this wholesale
poisoning of children, and when amassing” it I ques-
tioned (amongst others) the editor of the British
Medical Journal upon the probable effects on the
unerupted teeth of infants of the continuous inges-
tion of calomel (subchloride of mercury). He
barked out indignantly: “I tell you it rots the teeth
in their heads! What more do you want?” The
editor of another, the oldest, medical paper—he
being also chief physician to a large London hospi-
tal for children—wrote to me fully on the same sub-
ject. But to poison for profit the nation’s chil-
dren by mercury, opium and even worse , is a part of
the glorious privileges of the British subject. Minis-
ter Tudor is up against the backbloekers of Com-
merce when he dares hand to Parliament authenti-
cated and authoritative exposures of gilded swindles.
Pity the suffragettes don’t heave a casual axe at
this form of criminality, for it involves more rob-
bery, damage and murder than is perpetrated by all
other criminals added together and multiplied manv
times! But the drug-scoundrels are respectable, and
so neither new glory nor kudos is to be won by ex-
posing them.
Your mention of cancer cures roused “Back-
blocker” to sympathy with the sellers of bogus
remedies, and to denunciation of the authorised prac-
titioners of medicine. Well, Charles Edward Ful-
ford, inventor of two of the most widely advertised
of the patent remedies, spent £300,000 (as he
claimed in court) to introduce his drugs into Eng-
land, made a large fortune, and died at Pennant
Hills, Sydney, on August 26, 1906, aged 36 years,
of cancer. He did not trust to his own or any other
quack drugs, but placed himself in the hands of a
qualified Sydney doctor, who, so to speak, lowered
him into his grave with the least possible suffering.
It was an early age, but cancer passed consumption
10 years ago as a successful reaper for Death, and is
bounding ahead, never again to be overtaken. Cancel
in our race occurs at ever lower ages, and in an
ever-augmenting ratio. Especially with women. Ant
our beautiful laws allow any rogue —with Chambers
of Commerce to protect him —to pack any trash,
harmless or poisonous, and to sell it as a sure ant
certain cure for cancer (or anything else) bv the
help of the great Australian and British press. At
the same time, such rascals outrage by circulars the
whole medical profession, which never ceases o
denounce the infamy of secret drugs. Yet these same
slandered doctors devote their best efforts, gratuitous y
in hospitals, to alleviate the hopeless agonies of the
cancer-quack’s victims, whose flesh drops from t eir
living bodies, as The Bulletin has described. - 0
wonder Minister Tudor kicks — God bless him!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Philippine Trouble.
The avowed intention of the new President
of the United States and his party to aban-
don the Philippines may bring a new set o
foreign complications very close to
lia’s door. A certain element of muclaie
philanthropy has moved the U.S. Demo-
cratic party to dream dreams
the cultivation of a brown nation
spirit, and about an uplifted hilipino
race which will run an uplifted imipin
republic, and serve as a burning &n
a shining light to its not-yet-uphitea
brown neighbors. True the Filipino p
never shown any notable lifting capacity-
Before the Spaniards came, some few ce -
turies ago, he consisted of some thousan
of village despotisms or anarchies, and n
had apparently never been any better, an
had seldom been much worse. Spain intro'
duced a certain measure of order. It sup-
plied religion and education, it made wra <
built cities, and shoved the brown man som
distance along the path of progress. -t
Americans happened later on, broke tn
Spanish power, and started the new uphtting
process already mentioned. They found®
a Filipino Parliament, hut having no tait
whatever in its capacity the American com-
mission—mostly American but partly f ll '
pino—had a veto on its acts and procee d-
ings. And then, in case two American mem-
bers of the Commission might be suffering


simultaneously frona stomach-ache, and in
their absence the Filipino majority might
do tricks calculated to make the angels
weep, a final veto was lodged with the U.S.
Governor-General, or failing him his de-
puty, or even his deputy’s deputy. So the
U.S. Government, when the Republican
party ran it, had plainly little confidence
in its uplifted brown Legislature. And even
to this day that Legislature only represents
a scrap of the native population. The hard-
fighting Morros in the South are not repre-
sented because they are a fierce Mohamme-
dan race and might kill the Speaker at
sight. The Igarotos of the North are not
represented because they are practically
naked, and might heave rocks at the Clerk
of Parliament. So the situation of the
white inhabitants is one of some anxiety.
The new Yankee Government —that of the
benevolent Democratic party —threatens to
hand over the islands to the comic opera
Filipino Assembly. Unless the white popu-
lation stands by that body and fights like
the very devil to hold it up, the Morro will
arrive cheerfully from the South and cut the
Assembly’s throat. If the white population
keeps off the Morro and holds up the Fili-
pino Assembly, that inflated institution will
probably play tricks with the white man’s
goods and chattels which will make con-
fusion worse confounded, for the Filipino is
the kind of person who would simply burst
with vanity and insolence at the idea of
having a White man for his subject. And
meanwhile the shadow of Japanese annexa-
tion and Japanese rule will come nearer and
nearer. The programme of the white resi-
dents —American, Spanish, British, French,
Portuguese and sundries —is to declare a
composite white man’s republic as soon as
the U.S. authority withdraws, to create a
militia with all possible haste, to sack the
absurd Filipino Assembly, and to put the
archipelago up to auction. It isn’t to be
auctioned on a cash basis, but is to go to
the Power which promises the biggest garri-
son and the best defence, accompanied by
some reasonable semblance of liberty. And
if the Japanese get on the spot before the
sale is effected then another outpost of the
white man will be obliterated, and the
Asiatic trouble will be so much closer to
Australia.
The Man with the Hoe.
Tile strike as an instrument of public tor-
ture is tolerably effective; as a means of
securing industrial rights or advantages it
is about as useful as a huge club with iron
spikes against the modern rifle. But the
public voice which howls down the striker
for his folly and his callousness is not pro-
ducing exactly the sane noise which pro-
ceeds from knowledge and understanding.
If Australia possessed 1500 Judges of the
High Court, and they elected to hold up the
community as, for .instance, the Sydney gas
strikers did the other day, every word of
scorn, loathing and abuse that could be
hurled against them would be far short of
expressing the real measure of their crime
against decency, sanity and law. But
gasmen are not Judges of the High Court.
They are men engaged in very rough toil.
Week in week out, in a temperature which
scorches and blisters the body, and may well
scorch and blister the temper and mind, the
men who supply light and fuel ply the shovel
and the coke-rake, earning their pittance
with bitter toil and black sweat. Outside
the retort-house, where the air is clear and
the temperature normal, are the Parlia-
ments, Arbitration Courts, Wages Boards
and Political Leagues, while up and down
the sun-bright streets the motor-cars carry
the people who draw dividends from gas
shares. The man with the grimy perspira-
tion pouring into his eyes may be pardoned
if he fails to see clearly the trend of the
greater industrial movements and the enorm-
ous advantages of Arbitration. His mental
vision is quite clear enough, however, to see
the urgent need of the missus at home for
a trifle more cash at the end of the week;
and if he adopts the most direct as well as
the clumsiest and most irritating method ot
getting what he w r ants, the action is in an
conscience natural enough. He has little
time to think of strategy, and a direct
frontal attack on the public certainly does
bring his case into notice as nothing else
could. In a civilisation which demands
countless conveniences and comforts, some-
body must do a lot of rough and dirty work,
and doing rough and dirty work does not
tend to produce fine feelings and hig 1
sideration for others. That when such men
have a grievance their kinder and v ..
course would be to hang on to their joos.
and insist upon means to secure arbitration
of their claims, no one who knows anything
of the history of strikes can doubt; but it
they choose a rough method, let us at least
remember in palliation of their off.ence I that
it is in keeping with the rough life they are
forced to lead ; and nobody has a light to
throw any particularly jagged rocks at
them.
The Worst Kind of Fatuity.
The strike of the Sydney gasmen for an
extra shilling a day produced, m tlie usual
places, that fatuousness without which no
war strike or other public unpleasantness
would be complete. The frog-braint 1
zen is eternal. Ridicule cannot squelch him ,
education appears to be merely a quae
nostrum for his mental baldness to show
him the error of his ways would have the
same unsatisfactory results as to
herd of belated bats home at noon-dav
is safe to say that this fatuous is
at its worst and post dangerous Perrod dim
ing a domestic disturbance, sue ‘ ‘ ! ,j
has been undergoing. Common sense could
not be heard for its last
patience gives out under its p know .
asperations. Large, over-fed P’,
ing nothing of the economic framework or
the position, splodged around and
wrecked chances of a reasonable solaUon o
the difficulties of P la « nin S a settlement.
Puerile parishioners, whose ’ lS th eir
visers to the commumU , j mI)0r t e d
ability to sell Payable qua t t som ' et hing
calico, or beer, or matene , vard-
else requiring life-long studie middle
stick or a band-PumP, boo d brainless
distance the phuosopni splutter
against’the pifbUc dice)
flames that sort of claptrap against the day,
and urges all right-thinking people to be
impressed, if not overcome, with tne loyalty
of its spirit. That it has nothing to do
with the important argument going on
round the corner is a mere matter of detail.
The loyalty of the economic cheap-Jacks and
jerrybuilders of the social edifice is mani-
fest, the Almighty Being has been specially
requested by the influential capitalists to
keep an eye on George V. at W indsor, and
the threatened fracture in the Empire is
secure in the strong, heroic grasp of place-
hunters. A few samples of the worst kind
of fatuity may be served up cold from the
meeting which was conducted the other
day at the Town Hall by Gaud Mayor
Cocks to enrol volunteers to man the for-
saken gas factories. H. Y. Braddon, presi-
dent of the Chamber of Commerce, can have
pride of place :
I say this, that if in a city such as Sydney is to-
day we allow a condition of affairs like this to
exist, then we are recreant to the traditions of the
race, and we don’t deserve to be called Britishers.
(Loud and prolonged cheering.)
Incidentally, in face of that flap-jack, it
may be presumed that the worst kind of
sweating of women and children which goes
on in Sydney under the degrading dividend-
gluttony of some of Braddon’s fellow-mer-
chants meets with his and his friends’ ap-
proval as Britishers, since they allow it to
continue. Next frog-boom came from
Hitchman, chairman of the Chamber of
Manufactures: —
“There must be light, and, by heavens, there will
be.” Pointing his finger to the disorderly section
he exclaimed: “Now, Mr. Interrupter, back to your
work.”
And Gaud Mayor Cocks himself. He re-
gretted that some scallywags at the meet-
ing had the audacity not to desire both sides
of the case to be heard. But when the
secretary of the Musicians’ Union desired
to move an amendment to the big-frog
motion, Cocks forgot all about that senti-
ment, and thundered forth that he and the
other patriots were going to work “for the
love of their country.” It was a crushing
retort, and the fatuous frogs boomed, the
Anvil Chorus or something. Nothing is to
be gained by that sort of puerility, and
much is to be lost. This dull-witted strike
of the gasmen in Sydney might have been
settled in 48 hours but for it. The strikers
had neither the sympathy of the Labor
Government nor the helpful support of the
Labor Council. Nevertheless, from the out-
set they had factors for much trouble be-
hind them; and to call tenders for that
trouble was just what the large -fatuous in-
competents of the community were doing.
The Yass Election.
The narrow margin by which the. Labor
candidate scraped through in Yass (N.S.W.)
seems to indicate that, little as the electors
think of McGowen and co., their opinion of
Wade is so awful that they dare not trust
him to take things over even after the ex-
periences of the last year or two. The
position is pretty hopeless. Beeby and his
third party are not taken seriously, yet all
indications point to such an even vote be-
tween the bigger contestants for office that it
is faintly possible that Beeby, with a follow-
ing of half a dozen, may hold the balance of
power after the coming general election.
On its wild borrowing policy alone. the
McGowen administration should be kicked
into the outer darkness; but the choice of
the electors is so curiously restricted that
the false Labor crowd, with all its State
Frights huddled upon its back, looks as re-
spectable as the poisonous parties which
oppose it. Beeby went out because the nar-
row provincialists with whom he was for-
merly associated were too broad for him;
Wade has a record that will take a lot* of
living down, and is such a helpless, floun-
dering person, and so prone to fall over his
own boots, that it is almost inconceivable
that the people would willingly return him
to power; and McGowen has a heavy
incapacity and Holman a thin capacity for
doing what doesn’t matter much, and leav-
ing the other things undone. The conse-
quences affect us more than a gas-strike.
In the most populous of Australian States,
where the majority of the people are found
to vote for the thing which looks most like
big Australianism at a Federal election,
there is not one local party or fragment of
a party that stands for the national ideals.
The one gleam in the murky situation is the
prospect that the dreadful choice will hasten
the time when stinging and venomous State
Parliaments will no longer be tolerated by
the Australian people. Meantime, the duty of
the Australian nationalist is plain. By every
means at his command he must extend the
cramped powers of the Big Australian Par-
liament; and he can strike the first prac-
tical blow to that end by whooping up “Yes”
votes at the forthcoming Referendum.
The Sinful Effects of Sabbatarianism.
Common-sense, in conjunction with certain
caterers who supply it with a long-felt want,
is appealing for the abolition of a Victorian
municipal by-law, whereby Sunday picture
shows may be prohibited at St. lvilda and
elsewhere. The excuse for enforcing the
by-law is “the annoyance caused by certain
shows to people attending churches.” It is
not pretended by the municipal autocrats
that a show situated far distant from the
nearest tabernacle can possibly disturb the
holy calm of any worshippers; but on the
ground that a rowdy audience might possibly
assemble next door to a church, the local
council puts its precious by-law into action.
The moral influence of the Sunday shows is
scarcely denied. The police everywhere give
them a testimonial for at the least negative
virtue. They serve to attract street idlers
and keep them out of mischief. They deliver
hot-blooded youth from temptation by offer-
ing an alternative to the ancient customs of
the beaches and parks. They thus make for
law’n’order and social decency, and undoubt-
edly they have saved many souls from that
very devil whom churchgoers are always
mentioning with horror in their prayers.
Within three months they -have done more
towards diminishing the Sabbath drink
traffic than all the temperance sermons have
done in 30 years. But because a few church-
goers in sundry places have suffered “annoy-
ance” from these salutary entertainments,
the local municipal councils would restore
the bad old order of things, even as the par-
sons in those States where the Totalisator
is legalised would re_store, if they could, the
pernicious system of bookmaker-betting
which the Tote has scotched. . Society at
large suffers all sorts of pernicious suppres-
sions and oppressions from the persons who
are always remembering the Sabbath Day
to keep it holy. They are really a small
minority; but their persistency in asking for
something to be put down, or shut up. gives
them a great advantage over the large un-
assertive body of citizens who usually take
everything as it comes, and grin and bear
it. Common-sense is a long-suffering animal
in most cases, but in this case, goaded by
men who have something to lose, it seems
likely that the gentle animal will stand up
and kick hard. Certainly, if it knows the
value of its own freedom, it will.
A Naval Policy for Maoriland.
“Kohutuknokawau” has a dream or a
scheme, or something :
Now that Maoriland has turned its attention
seriously to the consideration of naval matters, and
has had the pretty straight tip from J. Bulls lead-
ing naval authorities that it ought to be doing some-
thing better for its own sea-defence than finding the
interest on Dreadnoughts for use in other waters, it
is up to the people in charge of the Dominion s
affairs to throw a large eye round the local sea-
scape, and evolve a plan suited to the special con-
ditions of the Shaky Isles. A citizen army is
already in the making; but Maoriland has a better
chance than any other country on this planet ot
creating something of a novelty in the way of a
citizen navy. Owing to the peculiar configuration
of the Maoriland coastline and the numerous isolated
ports, sea connections are as vital to the national
life as the great continental railways are to Aus-
tralia. The main bulk of the coastal trade is in
the hands of a single large company, which, to its
credit, serves the country a great deal better than
a consideration of the big monopoly it holds might
lead us to expect. Not many bricks can be cast by
the Maorilander at his Union Steamship Co.; but it
is nevertheless quite evident that sooner or later
the whole matter of coastal shipping must be taken
directly into the hands of the State. Maoriland
cannot always afford to allow even the best sort of
Private Enterprise to control its mam highways ot
local trade; and even a person with the °Padue
mental vision of J. Ward saw this, and fo -
shadowed the taking over of the U.S.S Co. iock
stock and barrel, by the Government And it is just
here that Maoriland’s splendid opportunity to create
a citizen navy comes in. Let the Dominion build
ships of war by all means, or combine with the
Commonwealth to do so, but let it also t “ rn f
ships of peace into vessels sufficiently armed to form
a second line of defence, and train every sailor in
its coastal trade for naval service. By freeing the
men on the ships from their cargo-shifting duties
in port, and substituting for that work sea-drill and
gun practice, Maoriland might break a fresh record
by calling into being a large and well-trained flqet
actually capable of earning its own Irving.
That the ships of the coastal trade would not
be first- or even second-class fighting machines, may
be taken for granted, but there are few of the
vessels now owned bv the U.S.S.. Co which are not
in nrettv well all respects superior to many of the
gunboat J sent of recent years to the Australasian
station. That” such vessels could not engage with
success in a great sea-battle is plain enough, but it
is also tolerably plain that no nation could afford
to send much of its first-class ironmongery to the
Maoriland shores; and after the first smiting, when
the wounded Dreadnoughts crawl away f °r. repairs,
large things may still be done by a multitude of
weaker craft in the hands of well-trained and deter-
mined seamen. There are enormous possibilities m
the situation. Maoriland is able to produce as
smart a race of disciplined sea defenders as .any
nation has yet turned out, and there could be little
tr More 4 bTVn/at
the mihimum of cost and without in any way pre-
udictog Uie interests of trade or the regular pas-
.luuicnig creation of such a fleet
senger traffic. A » “ e Maoril and absolutely safe
against ifnv posLle tovasion, and do a heap towards
insuring the permanency of the white race at th
pud of the planet. Massey and Allen have their
g chance if they have only strength enough to rise
to a great occasion.
Germany is pricking the great I OU bubble.
Tt needs, or thinks it needs, £50,000,000 for
military purposes; and instead of lending
itself the money and charging itself interest
on its own loan, it proposes to do the sen-
sible, practical thing, and make a levy o
from 1 to f per cent, upon the total
value of property, exempting only fortunes
of less than £2300. Precisely the same
thing could and should be done m Australia
a = u to we are going through the farce of
from the local Bkown
that we will collect from Brown and
Tones and Smith. And as Brown and
Tones and Smith have the money in their
nockets now. it would be just as easv to
collect it to-day as it will be to-morrow or
next day—perhaps easier Andifwecol-
wL h trJSav and thus finished the whole
KmS we wo“d do away with a great
SiantitV of utterly unnecessary book-
keening etc., which costs money, which
money BROwk and Jones and Smith have
“ pay So the system of borrowing money
from ourselves, besides being idiotic, is
wasteful.
a tvottter Victorian manufacturer whom
Australia’s mongrel tariff has caught in the
midriff, so to speak, and who is
turning importer,, published the
stance last week. He has, or had, a boot
factory at North Melbourne. A fire visited
him in January, and when he had got the in-
surance money he sat down and considered
things. In the end he decided that if
effective Protection is presently introduced
he will recommence manufacturing; mean-
while he turns importer. There is far less
anxiety and worry in that line; there is no
need to keep yourself a a fait with the
latest improvements in manufacturing
methods; there is no need to lay out a
large capital on machinery, raw material,
etc. When you import somebody else does
all that. All you want is an office, a small
store, some credit and energy. Possessing
these requisites he will doubtless do as well
as he used to, if not better. But his 120 ex-
employees will do nothing of the sort. Pos-
sibly a dozen may find work as packers,
storemen, carters and drivers, though none
of them will be well paid; the others will
rest on the public offices’ doormats, and re-
quest the Government to find work for them.
♦
The gas companies can make good any loss
due to higher cost of production resulting
from a Wages Board award ; but they can't
make good the shrinkage in revenue caused
by loss of customers. And they will lose
customers all right through the recent dis-
location. There was a time when they
could sit back and smile because the only
opposition was the kerosene lamp and the
guttering candle; but nowadays the City
Council’s electric light and power cables are
spreading, and at least one energetic private
corporation is pushing out. The secretary
of this latter concern summed up the situa-
tion nicely the other day. Said he: “We
sympathise very deeply with the gas co.,
but, of course, we have to do our duty to
the public by connecting up as many new
customers as possible to minimise the in-
convenience.” Many shops and hotels which
had stuck to gas for lighting because of the
expense of installing the electric power and
the general upset howled loudly for electric
connection the Monday after the strike took
place; and every wiring staff in Sydney has
been working overtime for the last week.
The Australian (Sydney) Gas Co. is a huge
concern, but even it will not feel any better
when it overhauls its books and finds that
hundreds of good customers have gone never
to return; and the North Shore Co. won’t
feel any the happier for the demand which
is bound to increase in volume for the in-
stallation of electric-light works on the far
side of the Harbor. The greater share of
the blame in this trouble wasn’t theirs; but
they didn’t do all they might have done to
calm the waters when they became troubled,
and for that they will pay a stiff penalty
yet.
♦
“Te Ngakara” from Maoriland
The announcement is out that “Dahn” Fisher
(the alphabetical son of George Fisher), the young
Wellingtonian who has followed his father right
into the Cabinet room, is going over to Australia
presently to confer with Federal Minister Tudor on
Reciprocity. It is a big question for a young man
who hasn’t had half as much experience in commer-
cial life as he has had in tennis ; but, then, who else
is there to send over from the Massey Ministry now
James Allen is in London? Whatever else may be
done or left undone, there is one anomaly that Aus-
tralia and M.L. should fix up pretty soon, if not
sooner—that of the exchange of postal notes. It is
true the M.L. Government wi-ll not recognise Aus-
tralian coinage. For that there may. be the business-
like argument that M.L. may thereby get its own
mint. But what argument can hold in support of the
present most unneighborly and unsatisfactory lack of
facilities for and Maorilauders to remit
money through the post office? Take the position over
here in M.L. If I want to send a postal order for any-
thing under 20s. to England, it costs me only 3d.
For a similar order to Australia, I’ve got to hand Is.
over the counter. And to-day there comes to me a
postal note for 3s. taken out in Sydney, and payable
in any part of the Commonwealth of Australia, and
yet it cannot be cashed over here. Senator Pearce
and James Allen have already discussed Reciprocity
in Defence ; Tudor and our Fisher are presently to
Reciproconfer on Customs; and although Fraser
and R. 11. Rhodes have recently recipped on postal
matters I haven’t heard that the unneighborly dis-
ability referred to above is to be remedied.
♦
A Melbourne citizen with the seraphic-
name of Jasper Long is a victim of bad;
luck, as a result of which he will presently
receive 30 lashes of the “cat,” in two doses
of 15 each ; also, he will spend the next four
years in gaol—all on account of the ever-
lasting old 30 pieces of silver. Jasper was
charged at last Melbourne Criminal Sessions
with assaulting David Hearn, who dwells
in a lane off Little Lonsdale-street, and rob-
bing him of the sum mentioned. Hearn
identified Jasper, who denied the charge on
oath; but Hearn’s mother swore to having
seen the accused hanging around the local-
ity ; so, there being no other witnesses, it
was about one and a half to one against
him The jury seems to have considered
these odds hardly strong enough for convic-
tion. yet too strong for acquittal; so, after
pondering the matter for six hours, it in-
formed his Honor that there was no hope
of an agreement. Just here Jasper’s bad
luck began to hit him. Madden, C.J.. who
was on the Bench, curtly told the 12 he
wasn’t taking any disagreement, that to his
mind the evidence was plain and conclusive,
and that if they didn’t speedily discover
unanimity, he would lock them up all night.
Thereupon they speedily found a verdict of
“guilty.” Most Judges would have accented
the jury’s first conclusion —or want of con-
clusion—and sent the accused back for an-
other trial; also, most Judges, there being
no previous convictions against Jasper.
would have sentenced him at once and had
done with it. But Mr. Madden had other
ideas. He desired the police to attend later
on and say what they knew of Jasper (he
didn’t ask that person to bring his friends
along and say what they could in his favor,
but that was a mere detail) ; and of course
the police gave Jasper a shady character..
Then C.J. Madden informed the hitherto>
unconvicted Jasper that he was a scoundreF
and a bad egg generally, and had undoubt-
edly committed perjury, as far too
persons were in the habit of doing, ana 1
banded him the sentence mentioned. Doubt-
less, Jasper is of little use and less orna-
ment, and a spell of genuine toil would do
hiin good; but he had very bad luck. In
particular, he had the misfortune to strike
(1) a jurv whose missus strongly objected
to being left alone all night, and (2) a
Judge who seemingly was quite prepared to
punish him, not merely for the offence with
which he was charged, but for others with
which he was not charged, and which he
had no opportunity to disprove. And not
merely for his own offences either; but ap-
parently for those also of other people.
The Awakening.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The fact that the Warrenhtip Liberals have been
caught napping is not evidence of laxity in other
parts of Victoria, but it would be well for all Lib-
eral bodies to make a specially strenuous effort
between now and May 31 in order to avert possible
disaster. — Argus.
the task is always much the same,
A Sisyphean sort of toil —
To wake an interest in the game ;
The tough elector to embroil
In duties grim and struggles stout;
To cozen him by hook or crook
To put a sitnple Fisher out,
And reinstate a subtle Cook.
The papers shout with voices shrill,
The agitators beat the drum,
And over verdant dale and hill
The strident old campaigners come.
Thev veil in Voter’s blasted ears,
Thev ring the bells, and brag and bawl,
To find at length, when night appears,
He hasn’t been awake at all.
That’s how it looks to Tory scribes.
But sad their error is in truth.
Tt is not wise to waken tribes
That show the Fat Man little ruth.
’Twere best no kind of din to make,
But leave them Sleep’s untroubled
For Liberals who’re wide awake
Won’t vote for Lib’ralism now.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


fgh ĝ
POST
CARDS
fg fgh
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will
forward you 12 packets, each containing 6 of
our colored and high art POST CARDS, to
sell for us at 6d. per packet. When you have
sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you
may choose from the list of jewellery which
we forward. By continuing the sale of our
cards vou can earn a LADY’S OR GENT.’S
SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN, a PHOTO
CAMERA loaded for use, SILVER HAIR
BRUSHES,-GOLD RINGS. RABBIT RIFLES,
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, and other exqui-
site and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE
RISK. You can return the cards if not sold.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in
Australia, and import our jewellery, or we
could not make you this liberal offer.
RECAL POST CARD
126 BONDS? SYDNEY
NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
£
Of course, Sydney Harbor is all right—
But
Sydney’s greatest attraction is our beautiful Photo-play theatres in the
famous picture block'.., (George Street, from Bathurst Street to Kawson Place.)
Unsurpassed in the whole world, showing the pick of the world’s best
pictures, at popular prices.
Crystal Palace Theatre de Luxe.
Lyric, Colonial, Empress.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
“Old Soldier” : H. Charles Wood, writing
in the Fortnightly about “The Armies of
the Balkan League,” says of what has proved
the most efficient of them —that of Bul-
garia :
Not a single foreign military officer has been em-
ployed in Bulgaria since the year 1885. In that
year, and at a moment when the country was in a
most critical position, the Tzar withdrew all the
Russian officers, who, until then, held most of the
higher commands in the Bulgarian army. As a re-
sult of this, Prince Alexander was compelled to
undertake the successful war against Servia without
the assistance of any foreign military advisers.
Since then, while a few staff-officers have annually
been sent abroad for higher military instruction, the
very large majority of Bulgarian officers has been
•entirely home trained.
There can be no question that the Bulgarian
army during the war with Turkey has shown
itself vastly superior both to its allies and
opponents, and according to this writer it is
singular in never, for nearly 30 years, having
had the advantage (or handicap, which is
it?) of imported foreign advisers. If one
may judge by the facts of Bulgarian his-
tory, the foreign advisers may be a very seri-
ous handicap, since the Tzar had no sooner
withdrawn the Russian officers from the Bul-
garian army, thus depriving it of all its gen-
erals and staff officers (those, that is, who
could least easily be replaced) when Ser-
via fell with a wallop on the presumably
crippled kingdom. Yet the Bulgarian army
was victorious in every engagement, as if to
prove that the imported foreign commander
or staff officer, whatever merits he may have,
is not specially likely to help the army he is
attached to to win victories that it could not
win without him. The foreign officer, even
if he can talk the language of the country,
is necessarily ignorant of the customs and
mode of life of most of its people, especially
those of the peasants who fill the ranks.
Even when nominally in command, he must
depend on the native regimental officers and
sergeants to see his orders carried out. The
foreign adviser of an army is only a figure-
head. When he leaves he is not missed, and
his place is quite easily filled, or quite easily
left empty.
The N.S.W. State Labor party has got out
the mop and broom at last. Carmichael,
Griffith, Trefle, George Black, McGarry and
Lynch stand under the condemnation of the
party’s committee of inquiry on the ground
that they assisted (or, at any rate, didn’t
help to stoush) Beeby at the Blayney elec-
tion, and that they are unsound on the ques-
tion of leasehold tenure. The counts don’t
seem like skyscraping crimes, but there are
alleged to be a heap of other things that
could be laid to the charge of some at least
of the six. But as the still immensely influ-
ential J. C. Watson favors letting the
accused off with a caution or the rising
of the court or something, in order not
to weaken Labor’s chance at the next elec-
tion, nothing sudden js likely to happen ; and
anyway, to punish this six on these charges
would be straining at the gnats and swal-
lowing a whole carnivorous zoo.
An incident that happened at Fremantle
(W.A.), the other day, adds to the sus-
picion with which this paper views the Com-
monwealth figures relating to the allegedly-
dwindling Chow population of Australia.
When the Singapore boat Charon arrived, it
was boarded, as usual, by Customs officials,
who searched from keelson to binnacle for
opium and illicit Chow, and could find not a
trace of either. But it happened in this
particular case that a Customs man had got
a hint of something; so, as a long shot, on
the third night (after watching the ship
meantime) a disguised official took a boat
and made fast to the vessel on the riverside.
The net was well cast. After a couple of
hours one Ah Sin was carefully lowered
through a porthole to him, and Ah Sin was
followed immediately afterwards by six
others. When the boatman was satisfied
that all his likely passengers were aboard,
he rowed them ashore, and they are being
very well taken care of now.
Police Magistrate Tanner, who was ap-
pointed some time back as a Commissioner
to inquire into some astounding allegations
made in Vic.’s Assembly against the Queen’s
Memorial Infectious Diseases Hospital, Fair-
field, has satisfied himself concerning some
of the charges—these amongst them :
(X) The body of a patient had been allowed to
remain in the mortuary eight days after death, what
time relatives were being informed that he was
“still improving.”
(2) The relatives of another patient were told
that he was “just the same.” In a manner of
speaking he was, because he had been dead for some
time.
(3) Children with clean heads on entering the
hospital or kennel were discharged vermin-infested.
(4) Children had been allowed to run about the
grounds inperfectly clad and barefooted.
(5) One girl .child, aged 5$ years, was placed in
the same bed as a half-caste Chinese, aged four.
(6) Employees’ clothing had been sent out for
washing without first being fumigated ; and male
employees had repeatedly left the hospital or sty
without disinfecting the clothing they had worn
while handling infected matter.
(7) The incinerator attendant had meals, milked
cows, drove the ambulance and carried patients
without changing his clothes.
(8) Cows whose milk was used in the hospital or
stable were permitted to eat hospital refuse.
(9) Patients were frequently left from four tb
five hours in the ambulance, to the danger of their
lives.
All of which goes to prove how well.hospitals
may be managed when horrid Socialism is
not allowed to meddle.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
P' OYAI ' “The Sunshine Girl.”
Her Majesty's “Puss in Boots.”
Criterion “Bella Donna.”
Palace “Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
Adelphi “Under Two Flags.”
Tivolj Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric i
Colonial V dontinuous Pictures.
Empress ;
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia’!?! ’ ’'.‘'.f West’s Pictures.
Eden Gardens, Manly... The Dandies.
Belmore Markets Wirths’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Chocolate Soldier.”
Princess’s “The Monk and the Woman.”
King’s “A Thief in the Night.”
1 “Othello” (14th & 15th).
Royal > “Taming of the Shrew”
„ ) (17th & 18th).
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Arcadia. St, Kilda The Dandies.
Esplanade, St. Kilda. .. . Smart Set Entertainers.
Bijou The Grafters.
♦
The playgoer who desires to meet “The
bunshine Girl” will find her at Sydney
Royal, the lady having moved up from Her
Majesty’s in order to make room for “Puss
in Boots,” the panto, that has been lingering
prosperously in Melbourne. “Puss” will
jump off the lighted mark on Saturday even-
ing, and commence her long run. Nothing
can go so fast or so far as a well-trained
theatrical cat.
Walter Bentley will still continue to elo-
cute on occasion, but the curtain is down on
his last big production. Beginning in a gas
strike which kept the people at home looking
for. candles. and ending in a howling tempest
which shook the solid freestone wherein Syd-
ney’s roots are fixed, “Hamlet” at the The-
atre Royal had as much reason to complain
of his bad luck as when Denmark played it
low down upon him in the flesh. Still, there
was plenty of enthusiasm when the veteran
actor died his last spectacular death and
had a glorious resurrection to receive an
illuminated address. The audience out-
howled the wind in its applause, and then
waded home through the torrents with a glow
of sympathy and admiration warming its not
too numerous heart.
* :I; *
The public demonstration by Mrs. Nigel
Armine of her sugarrof-lead cure for super-
fluous husbands, made at Sydney Criterion,
may be witnessed for only a few more
nights. As far as can be seen from the
appearance of Mr. Armine, the treatment is
much more gentle in its action than lysol.
Julius Knight and his excellently-cast com-
pany white and brown, make the most of
this melodrama of poison.
“UNDER TWO FLAGS,” AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
(1) The horse refuses to go to the hero's rescue.
(2) The horse declines to be solemn while the
heroine passes away.
(3) The noble animal allows hunger to over-
come dramatic effect and devours a floral
offering.
“Under Two Flags” suffered a revival at
the Adelphi on Saturday night, after being
out of action for two years. Miss Ethel
Buckley is in her old place as Cigarette, the
vivandiere and pet of the French regiment
at Algiers ; and Miss Nellie Fergusson is, as
of yore, the gentle Princess Venetia. Other
than these the cast is new. George Cross is
Bertie Cecil Royallieu, afterwards Louis
Victor, the hopelessly impossible hero, who,
in the first act, smites two policemen and a
money lender, and escapes to Algiers,
where he serves as a soldier under
the French flag. In that capacity he
wears a pair of stripes and an army
coat that is too small for him, wanders round
the stage-fort in a casual way, looks home-
sick when the rest of the men have gone,
and carries on generally in a manner that
would earn him a court-martial anywhere
else. Cigarette’s ride through 20ft. of stage-
scenes and her subsequent self-sacrifice to
save the hero are, of course, the features of
the whole business, which, with the pos-
sible exception of “The Monk and the
Woman,” is the best thing the Adelphi has
turned out to date. T. W. Lloyd makes the
most l of a thankless job as Col. Chateauroy,
the Black Hawk ; and Gerald Kay Souper,
as Lord Rockingham, gets a bouquet for the
way he pleaded for the life of the hero.
“Under Two Flags” will show during this
and next week only.
** * *
“The Prince and the Beggar Maid” will
evacuate the Palace to-morrow night, and
General William Anderson’s flag will be
hauled down for the season. The following
night the theatre will be in possession of
the recently-recruited Hamilton-Plimmer
unit, which is officered by such tried stage
veterans as Mrs. Brough, Beatrice Day,
George Titheradge, and Harry Roberts.
“Dr. Wake’s Patient” is is on the general
orders for the occasion.
* * * *
The Tivoli’s newest arrival, Henri
French, billed as the “Intoxicated Gen-
ius,” combines nonsense, juggling and
trick cycling; and though he uncorks
some beer that is old and flat, there
is a sparkle in the rest of it. His best item
is a skating exhibition with bike wheels,
whereon he waltzes, describes figure eights
and does some daring speed business.
The Kremka Bros., who provide expert
tumbling and more nonsense, and wind up
with several spring-board items, are a pair
of clean and clever acrobats: Vaude and
Verne make another of their periodical visits,
and unload a bundle of venerable gags.
Others on the programme include the Lanca-
shire Opera Co. (last nights), Mr. and Mrs.
de Mario, Kitchen and Foy, and Welch and
Carbasse. Will Whitburn is promised for
next week.
AT THE TIV.
Max Martin, face-puller; Wilt Poluski, the
fallen fireman; and Rosie Lloyd, of the
naughty wink.
As The Bulletin goes to press, the Reli-
gious Editor is speeding towards the National
Amphitheatre (Sydney) to feast his eyes on
Van Camp’s educated pig, advertised as “the
only one in the world.” During the Reli-
gious Editor’s misspent life, he has collided
with many ignorant hogs disguised as mer-
chants, debt collectors, policemen and so
forth. Every one of them pretended to be
more or less educated ; but the pretence was
always too obvious. The timely arrival of
Van Camp’s cultivated animal affords him
a unique opportunity of comparing those
posturing razorbacks of the past with the
real Oxford article. The attractive Amphi.
bill also includes the Seven Heraldos and the
Lessos.
X sis Sic s:<
_ The Little Theatre, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, has recently been reconstructed and
refurbished, and has made a fresh start in
the life of pleasure. On Easter Saturday
Hugh Buckler and Miss Violet Paget, with a
company that reads well, will present “The
Man on the Box,” a dramatisation of Harold
McGrath’s book. People who wish to attend
the first night in comfort will find the plan
at Paling’s.
sic :|c Sic sic
Branscombe has a company of Dandies
comfortably housed by the sad sea that waves
at Manly. The situation is ideal; and both
co. and show are up to the Branscombe stan-
dard —which is to say, there is nothing else
so good in the way of open-air entertain-
ment in Sydney, except when Thomas
’Enley does a turn in Government ’Ouse
grounds. Branscombe’s Dandies are mostly
nine, whether they frivol at St. Ivilda or
take Adelaide firmly by the wool; and these
of Manly don’t worry the rule by departing
from it. Miss Linda Bradford, the con-
tralto, finds most favor in - the eye of the
gods; Walter Whyte, the tenor, appeals to
the goddesses; and Roland Henry, who sup-
plies nonsense at the piano and any other
old place, catches the sprat of the'infants
who will be gods and goddesses by and bye.
Leo Chateau stands at the receipt of custom
and says that the world goes very well
nowadays.
. Sp j mc f 1 r ’ s h at ft? Lyceum, are still earn-
ing dividends with the kinemacolor TV
week they have been screening “An Au 8
tralian Beauty Competition” in the natural
colors; but as the pictures were evident!?
taken in strong sunlight, the results don’t
speak glowingly for Australia’s beautv A
storm scene at Teneriffe was more success
ful, and though there’s no need to go as far
as Teneriffe for storms, the operator was i us
tified in making the trip. “The Dove in the
Eagle’s Nest,” a two-reel Thanhouser film
taken from Mrs. Yonge’s story of the davs
when the bad baron ruled Germany, was the
black-and-white feature. Next week
Edison film of Charles Reade’s “It’s Never
Too Late to Mend” will be screened.
“THE MONK AND THE WOMAN ”
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Enter —the Woman.
“The Resurrection,’’ a flickerised version
of Tolstoi’s work, has been Seeping the
Crystal Palace ticket-office busy during the
week. It takes four reels to tell the yarn of
the Siberian and other sufferings of the lady
on account of the man ; but, as Nella Webb
used to sing, “it all ends ri-hight.” The
best of the other J.D.W. offerings was “The
Smouldering Spark” at the Empress, a sea
story wherein an apparently harmless sailor,
after putting up with a lot from the crew,
asserts himself, and in the end marries the
skipper’s daughter, having meantime quelled
several mutinies, fought five of the crew at
one time, and quenched a fire on board.
(Loud applause.)
* * # *
For the 23rd consecutive year Wirth
Bros, will bring the “greatest show on earth”
to Sydney for the Eastertide. There will be
a new crop of actors just landed from
America, and a few cargoes of performing
wild animals from the uttermost ends of the
planet. Among the marrow-freezing novel-
ties is Madam Garcia, who drives an auto-
mobile down a steep chute and then up into
mid air, where the car with the lady in it
gracefully turns no less than three somer-
saults, and comes out undamaged—with luck.
There are cowboys of America and rough-
riders of Australia, beautiful divinities who
walk slack-wires, and other features too num-
erous to mention —all to be seen at Belmore
Markets on Saturday next.
Everything save death happens to every-
body during the visit of “A Thief in the
Night,” revived at Melbourne King’s for the
little while before Easter. Death is reserved
for Michael Pagani, his lady accomplice,
and the foolish husband of the last-named
person, whom she and Michael murder, more
or less, owing to complications arising from
the burgling of somebody’s diamonds. The
remaining characters live to curtain-fall, to
get whatever happiness is going at the time.
Michael and his doomed companions are
members of a Dago Red Hand Society in the
first place, but, later on, the gory organisa-
tion seems to peter out, so the plotters drift
apart in a mysterious way, whilst Joan, the
heroine, is doing seven years for stealing
those diamonds. Ere she was removed to
gaol she and her wrongly-suspecting husband
oersuaded a parson to christen their rag
baby in the name of the Trinity, and when
she returns from prison, in picturesque even-
ing dress, she goes to her long-lost home and
steals her offspring—who has emerged from
the rag stage into a precocious female
cheeild. The persistent Pagani thereupon
captures the fond mother, and imprisons her
in a garret until the populace bombard the
building, and everything is forgiven. Mean-
time, the misguided husband of Joan has
become a Cabinet Minister ; also, the comic-
relief characters have grown out of compre-
hension, and the poor wandering plot fre-
quently hides its diminished head whilst the
cheeild is folding her little hands in prayer.
Rege Robins painted some highly commend-
able scenery for this respectable perform-
ance of a curiously foolish melodrama. The
acting interests habitual patrons of the
King’s because the oast is entirely changed
from what it was three years ago. Roy Red-
grave, the Pagani of the original outrage, is
now the fatuous husband of the virtuous
child-stealer ; and Herbert Leigh is the Dago
who works his way through the whole menu
of crime. For the other parts there are the
ladies Remee, Florence Richter,_ Helen
Fergus and Lilian Wiseman, assisted by
Charles Taylor, Walter Dalgleish. Cannam,
Lester Carey and others. Better bellodjamas
have been worse played.
Her Majesty’s is just now recovering from
the after-effects of the departed panto. On
Saturday (15th) comes the Comic Opera
Co. with a revival of “The Chocolate Sol-
dier.” Florence Young, Talleur Andrews
and Reg Roberts in the principal singing
parts, with Celia Gliiloni, Sybil Arundale,


w
4
s
CHWEPPES
LIXION SQUASH
SCHWEPPES'
Lime Juice Cordial
made exclusively from Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice, by special arrangement with the
proprietors of Montserrat. Montserrat Lime
Fruit Juice is a most refreshing and thirst-
quenching drink. It is soft and palatable to
the palate, so unlike all other Lime Juice.
SCHWEPPES LIMITED,
Purveyors to His Mnjesty the Kins*
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. u
Insure
with tho
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
gh
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
•P.ioqs No. *236 General.
Settlements PROMpr and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWAKD POPE, Manager.
Percy and Victor Prince as the other parties
to this choice musical transaction, should
provide an entertainment of the first water.
* ♦ Jfc :Je
The Asche season is passing out in a blaze
of revivals at the Royal. To-night (Thurs-
day) sees the last of three reappearances of
Asche as the red-headed Jew of Venice, and
Miss Brayton as the Portia who broke’ him
up on a legal point. To-morrow and Satur-
day they will repeat, in “Othello,” the Bard’s
immortal warning against the mixing of the
colors in unholy matrimony; and two per-
formances of “The Shrew,” on Monday and
Tuesday, close the chapter.
“ THE MONK AND
THE WOMAN,”
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
VIVIAN
EDWARDS AS
PAUL, THE
HEROIC ONE.
The girl in the monastery continues to be
good for business at the Princess’s. The last
time this chronicler looked in to see “The
Monk and the Woman” he found the King
threatening to let Inman’s silent head fall
from the headsman’s block if the missing
female was not promptly restored to the
royal presence, and it set him thinking of
how Henry of Navarre had deteriorated since
the days of “Ma Mie Rosette.” The Henry
whom Wallace Brownlow introduced to Aus-
tralia was a fine, attitudinising profligate
with a silvery baritone and a blonde beard,
whereas his Majesty in the drama is a cleau-
shaved and comparatively unimportant
johnnie who couldn’t sing for nuts.
** $ *
A bit of quick-change swank endeavors to
conceal the moderate musicianship of Staley
and Birbecks, who turned up at the Opera
House on Saturday; while the polished
agility of the Maxini Bros., who also
arrived, served to throw limelight on their
fox terrier, Bobby. Robert is verv clever
indeed. For the rest, Bryant and Co. per-
sist in their poor sketch, showing what
"Katy Did” ; while Claire Romaine is in the
last nights of a triumph won by bawling am-
biguities to indifferent music.
* =;<
Melbourne Bijou is to get another chance,
and a good one at that, of recovering its
long-lost hold on the attention of local the-
atre-goers. _ The Oriental Amusement Co.,
of U.S.A., is producing next Saturday (15th)
an American Musical Burlesque crowd in an
irresponsibility entitled “The Grafters.” For
a ragtime songandance show of this sort, the
Bijou offers a congenial home, and there
never has been any solid reason why a live
management should not boost the place back
into notoriety. The management of “The
Grafters” appears to possess the necessary
liveness.
* *
Spencer’s list of offerings at Melbourne
Olympia last week included “The Long
Strike,” about half a mile of murder and
upheaval, interrupted by wireless telegrams
and blissful moments. The wireless memos
were the feature of the film, for had they
failed to apprehend an important witness,
the hero would have received an electrical
shock that he didn’t deserve, and never
would have recovered from. “The Model of
St. John” was a strictly pious contribution,
the picture filming the contrast between the
beauty of temperance and the ugliness of
blear-eyes. “Love Among the Geysers”
showed intermittent cuddling among the
waterspouts of the Yellowstone ; while “Ire-
land and The Oppressed” exhibited some
more of the woes of the most distressful
country that ever yet the showman turned
into good money.
** ❖ *
Melbourne "Majestic has been entertaining
its public on things ranging from “A Forest
Fire” to the dread “Mystery of the Seven
o’Clock Express.” The former had a fair
amount of pictorial interest, but the latter
got complication of the plot in its middle
region and finally fell to pieces. “Captain
Barnacle’s Reformer” retailed an average
yarn of a “Monty Peet” me'rchant and his
giddy son ; and “The Unusual Honeymoon”
told of a bridegroom who boarded a balloon
and inopportunely got his head in the clouds.
As regards the comics, like “Dupin in Search
of Quiet,” they were obviously designed by
curates for retailing to good young men.
“The Native Born.” the newest thing by
the “Albert Edmund” collaborators, has had
its first mainland trial at Adelaide Royal. It
is, in this critic’s judgment. All Right._ and
very nearly Bosht a r. Melodrama, certainly ;
but less on English than American lines.
That is, there is not a wedding in it. nor a
bedroom. The villain is not haughty, the
she-villain is his sister, and there is no sug-
gestion of anyone having been, or wanting
*? e ’ unmoral," from start to finish. On
the other hand, there is much assault with
violence. The virtuous people are not the
amiable idiots of London-built melo. On the
contrary, nearly every curtain falls on some
effective point worked by them —with fire-
arms, or jiu-jitsu, or legal subtleties, or even
magic—against the other side. The plot is
honest Australian—the dummied selection,
the fenced-off water frontage, the pastoral
~a £ . carries a reef “like a jeweller’s
shop. Omeo to Kiandra is the district,
simply to allow one unconventional scene
among the snows of Kosciusko. The comic
relief is not dragged in by the neck, but helps
on the plot. Bert Bailey has a great part as
a young travelling conjurer whose magical
effects pervade the whole story, and his un-
likely Temple of Mysterv. brilliantly electric-
lighted (in a backblocks barn!), is the best
scene of the play. Feminine character-draw-
ing is the weak suit of the authors. In par-
ticular, Miss Mary Marlowe has to play
about the most sneering and cattish heroine
on record. Treloar is sound as the villain, a
land agent (N. S. Wales variety) : so are Guy
Hastings as the hero, and Edmund Duggan
as his father; and there is much good work
in the support, notably by Alfred Harford
as an Irish policeman, funny without being
idiotic. The dialogue varies from fair to
brilliant.
•c •!* *c
Show Week in Adelaide is a good week for
shows. The King’s has a first-in-Australia
turn—Monty Walker, a Lancashire com-
edian with a strong accent, a rich, fruity style
and a fondness for addressing the audience.
The tuneful songs he sings are reputed to be
all of his own make. At this house, also,
are the Donatos, the Delroys, the Franklins
“THE MONK AND THE WOMAN,"
MELBOURNE PRINCESS'S.
C. R. Stanford
as Father
Ignatius (the
boss monk).
and other clever people—a strong bill. “Ire-
land To-day” has had crowded houses at the
Town Hall. The Pav. still stars the Panama
Canal series, and Wondergraph has dug up
Wilkie Collins’s “New Magdalen,” which
makes an effective picture drama. The
Empire relies on a wireless-telegraphy sensa-
tion, and West’s have a long and level bill.
The inevitable Sydney ferryboat catas-
trophe just missed ip the storm on Saturday
night. Some time is always wasted in Mos-
man Bay owing to the incoming and outgoing
Mosman boats being due at Musgrave wharf
at approximately the satne minute. The in-
coming boat has usually to pull up in the
middle of the bay till the other boat has
cleared Musgrave wharf, though sometimes
it manages to get there first. On Saturday
night the Iviandra was, as usual, loitering in
the bay for the Ivirrule to get clear of Mus-
grave, when a squall forced it towards the
other boat. Each signalled that it was going
to port; then each signalled that it had
changed its mind ; then one signalled it had
qhanged its mind again, and the other was
too busy attempting to prevent a colli-
sion to whistle any more remarks. Residents
of the harbor-front had then a one
ferryboat ramming another. The Iviandra
smashed bow-first into the Kirrule’s side. The
Ivirrule, which was attempting to slip be-
tween the Iviandra and Cremorne, had
enough way on to come within a few feet of
the rocks. Had it been driven those few feet
farther there would have been some corpses
to collect. But it backed in time, and after
manoeuvring, broadside on to the waves, man-
aged to slip past the Kiandra and proceed
with smashed side to the Quay. The Ivirrule
succeeded in getting into Mosman Bay whari
with a damaged rudder, and decided to stay
there for the night. So Svdney must wait a
little longer for its ferry catastrophe. Didn t
someone once say something about a tube or
a bridge or something?
AT POVERTY POINT
Melba’s son is causing mother some unhappy
moments. Six or so ago he was operated on
for appendicitis, and, when convalescent, was taken
for a trip to Paris. There he contracted pneumonia,
and at latest was seriously ill. George has had a
strenuous life. Though not yet 30, he has been
divorced twice—once from his wife and the other
time from his appendix. He got another wife; but
he’ll never marry another appendix.
When J. C. Williamson started his successful
career as manager he did so in partnership with
Garner and George Musgrove. Garner was the first
to drop out, and then Williamson and Musgrove
split over “The Belle of New York.” Musgrove
produced it in London with enormous success as a
speculation of his own; Williamson thought it
should have been secured for the firm. Garner has
long been unheard of; but a letter signed with his
name, and dated from Streatham, appears in a
late issue of the London Referee —a letter about
pantomimes and the changes they have undergone.
“THE MONK AND THE WOMAN,”
MELBOURNE ERINCESS’S.
GEORGE
DAWE, AS
JOHN,
APPROACUETH
A GIRL.
“Lud”: Mrs. Meyer, whom the Melbourne Divorce
Court has been talking about, is one of the daughters
of Mr. and Mrs. Kendal, the eminent theatricals,
whose name in private life was Grimston. Mrs.
Kendal often declared that none of her children
should go on the stage. However, three of them did
—a son and two daughters. The son was known in
Australia as Dorrington; the daughters acted o ,
as Grimston, the other as Kendal. Their father s
brother, Grimston, acted in England under the name
of Cawthorne. Mrs. Kendal was Madge Robertson,
youngest of 20 children of Mr. and Mrs. Robertson,
both thespians. Their well-known sons included Tom
Robertson, the dramatist, Craven Robertson, and
Shafto Robertson, who was accidentally killed bv
falling into the machinery aboard steamer on the
voyage from Melbourne to Bombay, the same day
that Walter Montgomery suicided.
Passed out at 67, J. W. Turner, head of one of
England’s most popular and prosperous touring
operatic cos. He made his operatic debut at the
Royal, in Melbourne, as Don Caesar de Bazan in
Wallace’s “Maritana.” On returning from Australia
to England he joined the Carl Rosa Opera Co., and
remained in it for a couple of years. Then he
formed a company of his own, and for a quarter of
a century he and they have been popular favorites
in the provinces and the London suburban theatres.
“Giovanni”: James Norrie (real name, James
Nutter), whose death is just reported, was, a few
years ago, one of the biggest draws in vaudeville.
He landed in Australia as a stowaway, and, later,
toured S’Africa and America with immense success.
In London, with Dan Leno as partner, he worked
three halls a night, receiving £lOO a week for his
end. But his greatest hit was made in Western
America. There, by singing simple nursery rhymes
in his beautiful treble voice, which never broke, he
could bring unfailing tears to the eyes of the Bret
Hartean miners. He retired, through ill-health,
somewhere about 10 years ago.
After four years of solid grinding at the problem,
the Edison crowd has perfected a machine which
takes pictures of men or animals, and at the same
time also records the noises they make. Of
course, that was done before on two separate instru-
ments ; but the trouble was that it was almost im-
possible to time the action record and the speaking
record so that the reproduced sounds suited the actions.
Thus the cow didn’t open its mouth and moo—
mooed first, and then opened its mouth. The strong
point of Edison’s new machine is that words and
actions coincide exactly. When Spencer, of oietu'
fame, was in Amurka recently he saw the first of
these perfected machines to hit the public eye. A
man strode downstairs, stopped at the bottom of the
screen, and, stretching out his right arm, com-
menced: “Ladies and gentlemen”- .Just then
dog dashed in, and with a noise between a bark and
a growl, seized him bv the calf. The subsequent re-
marks of the man and yells of the dog were all
beautifully timed. The next thing Spencer saw was
the interior of a zoo—and he also heard it. The
only thing missing was the smell. The name of the
contraption is the kinetophone, and when Spencer
had seen and heard the last record he hied him
round to Edison for all he was worth. When he
came away, he was about £lO,OOO poorer, but buoyed
up by the fact that he held the sole right for three
years in Australia and Maoriland. Thirty machines
are now on their way to the Commonwealth,
“Hermes”: When the amalgamation of the Austra-
lian film merchants was accomplished, the men who
engineered it looked forward confidently to the
abolition of what cut-throat competition there was,
and an equal distribution of the suburban and country
business. From the standpoint of the Combine
everything in the garden was lovely. The small
suburban men, however, became alarmed. Many of
them had not long started, and were still in debt to
the people who had supplied the machines, and a rise
in the price of films, however slight, would hit some
of them hard. In a few suburban shows the best
seats cost a shilling, but in the bulk of the picture
entertainments the choice seats bring only six-
pence for the whole evening, ahd to raise
the prices above sixpence and threepence
would mean a slump in the attendance. There
were denials that the Combine intended to increase
prices; but the suburban picture-merchant probably
felt that if he held a monopoly he would put the
screw on somebody, and he guessed human nature
was just about the same in a combine and a sub-
urban show. Both were out for all they could get.
The Victorian and Adelaide suburban and country
picture-showers took prompt action, and before the
Combine got itself properly shaken together they
had in hand a co-operative co. to supply themselves
with films from the Old World. The authorised capi-
tal is £30,000 in 60,000 10s. shares. Twenty thou-
sand shares are being issued to go on with, and a
buyer is said to have started for Europe. It is said
that a similar co. is about to be started in Sydney, to
do the same office for the Sydney suburban and
N.S.W. and Queensland towns. If these two concerns
get properly going, the Combine will lose about half
its outside customers in two swoops. To make mat-
ters worse, one of the greatest film manufacturing
firms on earth has announced that it will employ no
more agents, but deal direct with the buyers. The
strong point of the Combine was that it holds, or
held, the sole Australian rights to the films of a
group of the world’s best picture-makers. Whether
this group of manufacturers will stand to the Com-
bine in its hour of trouble no one knows; but there
are likely to be some interesting developments in the
picture business very soon.
“Harrison O.”: The dramatic possibilities of
Brother Binghi have not been properly exploited, but
Frank Brown (half-brother to Louis Esson), who
spent some time with Binghi in the Northern Terri-
tory, has written a one-act play, “The Spirit of Our
Ancestors,” in which the principal characters are
aborigines. The playlet is really an attempt to
justify the murder, by an aborigine, of a white
trooper. Brown, who knows his subject, evinces
much sympathy for Binghi. The play may be pro-
duced at the Australian Drama Night, which the
faithful in Melbourne are organising, in the absence
of the prophet Billmoore. Louis Esson, by the way,
has a new four-act Australian drama on the stocks.
“Uncle Tom” : Mummer Wilson Forbes, of the sil-
very mane, with the willowy and tragical Ella
Dodds, struck heavily on the rocks with their co., at
Walhalla (Vic.), in September last. There was no cash
in the crowd, so the co. took possession, and managed
by a couple of scratch entertainments to rake together
enough to get most of them back to the city. The
“old man,” with a wife and kiddy on his hands,
applied for work at the Long Tunnel, and there being
a shortage of hands there, was armed with a pick
and sent below on a timber-repairing job. Being
full of pluck he made good, and lasted until illness
seized him and drove him to a Melbourne hospital.
But he was by that time able to pay off all his debts
in the town, which naturally sent a “Better luck!”
after him.
“Fogged”: Mary Bronton, an Australian actress
who came into sudden prominence with Brough and
Boucicault, and did some very clever work under
Dot Boucicault’s tutelage, is still at it. She figures
as Mrs. Callander, the braw Scotch body in “The
Christian,” with Marcus Draper’s Dramatic Co. at
London Lyceum and in the provinces. Her son, Jack
Bronton, one time an Australian journalist, is now
an English author-actor-manager. He writes short
plays for the halls, acts them with his own co.,
and is kept going up and down the British Isles.
“Rosna” (from London) : Australian pianist Una
Bourne has gone with Melba a-touring over these
isles, about as good a piece of luck as could befall
a young piano-hammerer in Britain, where engage-
ments for pianists don’t grow wild on the trees
and hedges, but are mostly grabbed by the agents
and sold to the highest bidder.
IN PRIVATE LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I read the papers day by day,
And more and more I feel
Astounded at the vast array
Of knowledge that the actress may
To common folk reveal.
There’s Miss Le Starr, at Spoofkin’s show,
When interviewed last week,
Informed The Lance, with phraseful glow,
Her mission on this earth below
Was studying the Greek.
I knew, of course, she studied him —
I’ve seen her supping there
On crabs served by his seraphim,
On crabs and stout, as is her whim,
But I was not aware
That she had swatted ancient lore,
And knew that Argos grew
When Abraham was getting hoar,
The first Olympiad long o’er
(’Twas in the interview).
Another shock was Dollie Lee
(She dances at the King's).
She used to go to school with me,
Then grafted in a factoree
At making coats and things.
I read her story in The Chimes
A day or two ago:
She’d starred in leading pantomimes
In all the most exclusive climes
(Here, music sweet and low).
Her hobby in her hours of ease
Was study of the Church ;
Upon the ancient liberties
Of clergy and the laities *
She headed all research.
Next day I saw, with more amaze,
That Tottie Tartalotte,
Who sings the giddy song re stays
In that great comedy, “The Jays,”
A column space had got.
And there did recklessly admit
She didn’t like the stage.
Her heart was with the fowls that flit
About her farm, while socks she’d knit,
As in her convent age.
This thing goes on from year to year.
Maybe it’s stratagem ;
But if it’s not, it would appear
These actresses have missed their sphere;
Their hobbies seem beyond compeer—
I wish they’d stick to them.
N.S.W.
BILLY B.


The D.J.
Suit
Case
■
.-.'in. >»<?<■»»>•»
Easter
Travellers
Just what you want with the Holiday Season coming. The D.J. Suit Case is without exaggeration
one of the best values in Town for the price. We have our own factory, and know that every
part of these Suit Cases is genuine value and made of the best polished Cowhide, on a very strong
Steel frame, fitted with secure lever locks. The inside straps are high-grade leather. Handles
are strongly riveted. You can look as closely as you like at the stitching, the riveting and all
inside work, and you will find every part true. Apart from the good value of the article, can
you realise its usefulness? Many a week-end may be spent comfortably with the things you can
press into a Suit Case. The amount it holds will surprise you, and it does not crush the
contents unmercifully. It is easy to handle in tram, train or boat. May be had in the
following sizes:—
hgh
22
32/6
24
35/-
26 inches.
37/6.
Carriage Paid.
DAVID JONES, LTD.
Opp. G.P.O.
Sydney.
ml
GlgStf
MUt*
MOBILOIL
No one Lubricating Oil is best for all Cars. Gargoyle Mobiloil
gives you a grade for each type of motor. Use the grade
shown in our complete recommendations. Mailed on request.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
New Zealand Chambers, George St., Sydney.
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
An early reference to the Government
dockyard in Sydney, from the Gazette of
April 17, 1810
We had the pleasure on Wednesday, the 7th of the
present month, to witness the launch of the new
schooner built by H.M. dockyard, Sydney, by com-
mand of his Royal Highness the Prince Regent, as a
present for the King of the Sandwich Islands, and
named by his Excellency the Governor The Prince
Regent. She is a very fine vessel, her burden 40
tons, and will be dispatched to the King of the Sand-
wich Islands as soon as completely rigged and pro-
perly equipped for so long a voyage.
That’s all! Not one single curse-word about
the infamy of having ships built at a State
dockyard. Evidently grandfather didn’t
know what a desperate tiger Socialism is.
THE
FATHERLY
BRUTE.
" Of course, my dear, marry
young Stoneyton if you like,
and I shall make you a
wedding present of a nice , large mirror. ”
“ Why a mirror , dad?”
“So that you can watch yourself starving to
death, my dear!”
The S. Australian Methodies, sitting in
their annual conference, have just listened
to an unusual outburst. “Ah,” wailed one
of the saints, “what poor things we Metho-
dies are nowadays! And what good gnd
great giants there used to be among us!”
Thereupon one Catt’s tail bristled. “Non-
sense !” he spat out, and proceeded to tell
some plain truths to this effect: the better
Wesleyan a business man used to be, the
tighter other people buttoned up their
pockets when they had dealings with him.
He simply wasn’t trusted; he was, on ex-
perience, put down as a humbug who got the
best of you while he prayed loudly for your
immortal soul. “We don’t cant so much,”
said Brother Catt, “but the Methodist in
business isn’t any longer made to feel that he
is regarded as a sneak-thief.” And, the
family of Catts being long honored in S.
Aus. Methodism, the conference gasped at
the dreadful reflection cast on the sect’s fore-
fathers. Yet this brother merely repeated
the old and true gibe, that once upon a time
the better a Methody was the wickeder he
thought he could afford to be, because, being
so good, he naturally would get forgiveness
for more than an average dose of sins.
* * * *
An art note :
Bernard Hall hangs 54 pictures at Melbourne
Athenasum, and, as there are under half a dozen
landscapes, the walls look less like advertising
hoardings for real estate than they have done for
some time. Immediately opposite the door is “The
Quest,” founded on Omar:—
“I sent my soul through the Invisible,
Some letter of that After-life to spell.”
The artist spent some years over this work, which
is catalogued at 300 guineas. He pictures a draped
female, sitting on a floating sphere, sailing through
space. It is a delicately-executed piece of work;
but the lady evidently borrowed her right leg and
left arm from some other person, and they don’t
quite fit. “Sleep” (a reproduction of which, in
The Lone Hand, some years ago, caused a Maori-
land policeman to ring up the municipal destructor
and order out the Are brigade) occupies a prominent
place and exhorts admiration for its masterly com-
position, its beauty of line and the artistic color
contrasts provided by the stone wall, the flesh tints
and the bronze shield which hangs above the central
figure. “A Studio Shrine” is another artistic piece
of work with a bronze shield in it. Besides “Sleep,”
there are other nudes, nearly all posed with the ele-
vated hip which has become an obsession with Hall.
About the best of them is “Beauty and the Beast.”
A number of still-life subjects attract attention by
their artistic arrangement. In four interior views
of his own house the artist shows his skill in the
handling of textures and surfaces, but “The Old
Mirror” is spoilt by the introduction of a stiff
female figure. Two decorative panels, “Twilight”
and “Dawn.” are shown. (There is a touch of theatri-
calism in the careful pose of the “Twilight” lady;
but “Dawn”—a girl with roses in her streaming
hair, proclaiming the day with clashing cymbals—
is vigorous. Of the portraits, the most successful
are “Portrait of My Wife” (35), “The Spotted
Veil” (in which “my wife” again figures for the
manyth time), “Anglo-Japanese” and a beautiful
piece of pastel work, “Arab Head.” A drawing
(49) of a head, bearded, dank-haired and crowned
with thorns, merely invites disrespect. The artist
labels it “Christus.”
* * * *
The reward of firm but tactful
unionism came the way of the
marine engineers in the service of
that big and wealthy Maoriland
concern, the Union Steamship
Co., last week. For a couple of
years the men in charge of the
engines of the fleet have been
raking much discontent out of
their position, and when Justice
Higgins, of the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court, handed out his im-
proved award for operation on
the Australian coast, the Maori-
land engineers made up their
minds that their conditions should
be on a par with those of their
Australian brothers, or as near
par as possible. With little fric-
tion the co. was finally lined up on
deck and spoken to with a firm
Scotch accent (or what remains
of it in M.L.) ; and after being
“surprised that loyal servants”
should do such a thing, the direc-
tors said they would be
happy to alter the pay
sheet, time sheet and privilege
sheet according to the Australian
award, but the overtime claim
was too tall. On this detail
Premier Massey agreed to act as
referee, and he declared the
Institute the winner. So all is
peace, and travellers on the co.’s
ships will now turn in on a dirty
night knowing that the engine-
room staff is tackling its tremen-
dously important job in a happier
and more satisfied spirit. And
it makes a heap of difference on
board ship to know that.
The railway porter wandered wearily
down the Sydney suburban railway plat-
form, carrying in his oily hand a lamp,
which he proceeded to insert into the glass
box wherein usually flared the gas jet.
“What,” said the sympathetic passenger,
shifting his pipe to the other side of his
face, “no gas to-night?” “Naw!” said the
porter solemnly, “the Lud Mayor broke his
shovel-handle this afternoon, and we’re up
ther spout agen.”
“Montalex”: Remember well the record-
smashing Thermopylae, and have often won-
dered what had become of the one-time
world-beater. Turns out now that she has
been serving as a training ship for the
Portuguese Government, and that the said
Government—unwilling to sell or break up
the famous old flier —gave her a dramatic
send-off by having her towed to sea and
sunk by the fire of two warships. She was a
A CONDITIONAL SELECTION
HE : “ Would you like to share my little lot?”
SHE: “Weil, er, what’s the size of your little lot?”
comparatively small craft, but a picture to
look at —painted green, with a brass-sheathed
rail, and all her gear taut and trim as a
frigate’s. Her 61 days from London
(docks) to Hobson’s Bay has never been
equalled under canvas. That was in ’6B,
and though half a dozen years later a
Scotch ship, the Ben Veirlich, was credited
with 62 days, her passage was counted
from pilot to pilot, an estimate which would
have given the Thermopylae about 59| days.
The latter’s best 24-hours’ run, 342 knots,
was well beaten by my old ship, the Theo-
phane, with 388; but the Theo was a much
larger and more powerful vessel, and her
skipper was a demon for
South Aus. is still wondering what a
Judge and a gentleman should do. The case
came to the public through the Criminal
Court. A man of 25 admitted unlawful in-
timacy with a girl under 16. She looked
quite that age, and he swore that he
thought she was more; also he swore that he
meant to marry her, and would have done
so but for her foster-mother’s opposition,
and he would like to marry her, anyway,
“in gaol or not,” before the child was born.
The girl admitted her willingness; but the
young and austere Judge Murray remarked
that “no happiness could come out of such
a union,” and gave him two years. It is
a nice point. To let the man off on condi-
tion of a speedy marriage may possibly en-
courage the seduction of little girls. But
to punish him thus is to punish the girl as
well as an innocent baby that certainly
does not deserve punishment. As for the judi-
cial yarn that “no happiness could come
out of such a union,” the chances are that
it would turn out as well as most other
unions; and, anyhow, the question is
whether there was not the probability of
more unhappiness sticking out in the other
direction.
“Gordon G.” : Apropos of A. L. Gordon’s
line, “Life is mostly froth and bubble,” and
its inscription on public memorials in
Canada and Papua (B. 23/1/T3 and later),
I know of an instance nearer home. A
confirmed old boozer in a northern Vic-
torian country town had shuffled off. leav-
ing a fortune, in which a vast number of
long beers had bored no appreciable hole.
He had evidently made his last will and
testament in a state of semi-besottedness,
for when it came to light not one word was
there of his eldest son and best friend.
The surprised beneficiaries pocketed the
spoils and left the son to pay for the old
man’s funeral and. incidentally, supply a
tombstone. This duty the son performed.
But he let off a little of his feelings by
having carved on the stone, under the old
man’s name: “Life is mostly froth and
bubble.” And that beery innuendo is there
still.
More about the .mystery we hnv
Private Enterprise and give to baby L ° m
Sewerage milk? I should say so. The Bulletiv
gets my support for every remark it made (27/9/>io
Likewise it gets my sympathy, for I once serve, tJ'
members of its staff. I have never worked for VT
coastal dairy cocky, and know nothing ahnnt l-
methods, dirty or otherwise; but I do know tk
metropolitan cow-ranch. In the outlying <L-, e
suburbs there are any number of dairies where
animals are dryfed, and I worked at one of the
Passing by the place the other day I dropped in
and found that the same old septic methods were
in force. When a dairy owner and his employees are
naturally filthy, it needs very stringent regulations
and an inspector always on the premises to save the
public from sewerage milk. The inspector wasn’t
constantly on our premises.
We ran 140 cows in a small, bare paddock, which
was covered with the manure of ages. When cows are
thus herded together, it stands to reason that infec-
tion can travel through a herd much more quickly
than is likely to be the case in country districts
where the animals have space and freedom. At this
place when the somnolent, beasts were roused up off
the manure heaps and bailed, their udders were sel-
dom washed. Sore udders were common. Nor did
the milkers generally wash their hands. There were
no facilities to speak of for doing it —just a tap, and
the milking buckets. Once a driver we knew as “The
Dane” was rinsing out his shirt in a bucket, when
the casual inspector looked in. We had not ex-
pected him, but the Dane was equal to the occasion.
Casually emptying his washing into the big feed
vat, he emptied half a bag of chaff on top, and pre-
tended to stir the mixture vigorously. The inspector
peeped into the vat, but as the surface looked all
right he passed on.
We all slept (there were 11 of us) in a 36x10
loft above the stalls. This place was one vast bunk,
and we went straight from the insanitary hovel to the
milking. Once a week most of the crowd went in
for a spree. The spree wasn’t always hygienic. One
may understand how milk can get like sewage
when a man who has been drinking, etc. (etc.,
particularly) cleans his unwashed hands in it. The
only thing our crowd cleaned properly was the cans.
If we hadn’t done that, the milk would have soured
before delivery; and that in the boss’s eyes would
have been the one unpardonable sin.
BREEZY.
THE GIRL: “Isn't it lovely and fresh here?"
THE-ER-MAN: “Haw, yes, But there's
a beastly draught, you know.”
SOLEMN DIRGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(To be chanted , on the occasion of a mayor’s coro-
nation, by the nuisance inspector, to an accom-
paniment of muffled dustbins.)
During the last meeting of the Drummoyne Coun-
cil, an adjournment was made while the new Mayor
was invested in the mayoral robes which have been
purchased by the ratepayers of Drummoyne
Alderman Cohen, handing over the robes, said he
could not bear to see the Mayor of Drummoyne
without robes of office, when the Mayors of the
municipalities on either side were always able to
attend State functions attired in garments fitting to
the occasions. —Sydney D.T.
Cover ’im hup ! Now ’e is Mare
Without ’is vestments ’is soul is bare!
(Muffled chorus of council employees): Cover ’im
hup I
Cover ’im hup with cloth and skin,
Th’ Hoverlord of the Box and Bin!
Chorus : Cover ’im hup!
Cover ’im hup from dust and flies!
Hobscure ’is raygence from mortal heyes!
Chorus: Cover ’im hup !
Cover ’im hup ! Ho, grant ’e leans
Hunto ther righteous in fucher “scenes”!
Chorus: Cover ’im hup !
Cover ’im hup ! May ’e not de-fy lors,
Hand remove ’im—!
Chorus (thundering): HAND RE-MOVE ’IM!
In ’cordance with ’is Council’s By-Lors!
(Exeunt all in solemn procession, bearing the
newly-robed Mayor in a nickel-plated dustbin, de-
corated with the suburb’s coat-of-arms.)
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


EVERY
DAY
more people Are proving' thAt
X
K.U
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
r
zj, ~
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
RELIEF AFTER FIFTEEN YEARS.
“For 15 vears I suffered from constipation, and
could get no relief,” writes Mr. Frederick Fuller,
saddler. New Canterbury Road, Petersham (N.S.W.).
“Then I saw Chamberlain’s Tablets advertised, and
taking them according to directions found they re-
Heved meTfter the first dose or two At one time
I was completely doubled in two with wind in my
stomach hut I do not know what that is now, for
Chamberlain's Tablets have completely cured me.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
ĥ
COAT=SHIRT UNDERWEAR
For Comfort and Convenience.
The warm weather is likely to endure for some time yet, and during that
period the coolness and comfort of the coat-style underwear would prove
most appreciable.
The garments are loose-fitting. The coat buttons right down the front and
slips on and off easily. The trunks are cut to knee length.
Made of light white Zephyr of proven quality.
COATS, 4/= ; TRUNKS, 4/-
TRUNKS IN WHITE COTTON, 3/9.
State waist and chest measurements when ordering, and add 3d. per garment
for postage.
PEAPES O. CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
It was a pity the Melbourne divorce case
Bird v. Bird, wasn’t heard by Madden, C.J ’
instead of by Cussen, J.—it offered such an
opportunity to expatiate on the innate ras-
cality and general irresponsibility of the
average respondent. Certainly, the respon-
dent in this case was the wife, but it would
have been a pleasant change to hear Mr.
Madden impartially castigate lovely woman.
Bird’s narrative was that when he married
in ’95 he was a_London stockbroker making
from £3OOO to £5OOO a year; but the slump
in Kaffirs during the war ruined him and
he became a “broker” simply, and ulti-
mately came to Australia for the good of
his pocket. Here he ran a Gippsland farm
for a while, and presently sent his wife £6O
and a request for her presence, affection and
so forth. She retained the £6O but
ignored the other matter; so he went to
London to speak with her. She received
him coldly, and passed a few remarks about
the weather; and, after assuring him that
life on an Australian farm was no use to a
Society lady, mentioned that she had an
appointment, and departed. He had subse-
quently seen her on a ’bus or motor-lorry, or
something, when she gazed at him vaguely as
though she thought she had seen him before
somewhere, and that practically ended their
acquaintance. It was a tale with more than
half the chapters missing; but the desertion
by the wife was proved beyond doubt. The
only question was whether Bird was per-
manently domiciled here, and Justice Cussen
said he iwasn’t sure of that, and would think
the matter over. Thus was lost a great
opportunity to animadvert on the unwifely
conceptions, mercenary ways and selfish life
of a Society lady, and to call attention to
the pluck, energy and abiding affection of
the husband. There are times when Mr.
Madden has his uses, and it is a pity he
wasn’t privileged to hear this case.
Siberian plague, due to infected furs, has
broken out in tailors’ workshops in St.
Petersburg. Are the ladies listening?
* * * #
When all is said and done, the gas cos.
came out of the recent Sydney trouble with
the least credit. When the strike started the
men had all the curses flung at them; but
as mayors and other right-thinking persons
walked up proudly to volunteer for a stoker’s
job, and four hours later crawled back with
the story that the job was worth a heap
more than eight shillings a day, people began
to hunt up excuses for their curses. “The
men deserve more money,” said the right-
thinking citizen, “but they shouldn’t have
gone this way to get it.” And the right-
thinking citizen, for once, hit the bull’s-eye.
But why did he wait so long to find out for
himself' the sinful under-payment of
these men —an under-payment that the
men have been complaining about for months
and months? And why didn’t the right-
thinking citizen hold a few meetings to right
that wrong? When the srasmen did an in-
justice, the well-dressed crowd was quite
willing to kick. Why didn’t it kick before
at the other dangerous injustice? The fact
is that the well-dressed crowd has a habit of
thinking that Fat can do no wrong, and that
the grimy workman’s complaint is not worth
heeding. Perhaps for the future it won’t
be quite so cocksure about that.
TOO MUCH OF A RUSH.
ETHEL : “Did a man ever kiss you, Aunty?
Did you like it? What did you do? ”
LENA (reminiscently): “Oh, I forget -I don 't
know. How can I tell? (With emphasis)
You shouldn't ask so many questions at
once, Ethel.”
Judge Russell has been disappointed in
an attempt at a judgment-of-Solomon in an
Adelaide court. An Italian bird-dealer had
lost his magpie, whose strong point was
that it could say “Wakool”—the name of a
ship. By-and-bye he heard the familiar
word, and discovered the bird that said it
in a Chinese fruit shop. But the Chow
vociferated that his bird, bought and paid
tor, says “Nypor” (Chinese for mother),
t n< 7 the .other thing at all. Then the
Judge had his luminous idea. He sent for
the magpie, and let both sides “sool” it on
to talk. And the thing that was bound to
happen did happen—-the wretched fowl re-
fused to say anything at ail. Dago non-
suited accordingly.
THE FALSE ONE.
FLO : “Her diamonds are ail paste.”
FAN: “And even her alleged husband is only
an excellent imitation."
The N.S.W. Labor Conference threw eco-
nomics and general politics aside for five
crowded minutes to discuss the case of the
babe who on his journey to a cold world
misses the wedding ring through which all
children must pass or be damned. Mrs.
Lane, speaking on behalf of the Paddington
Political Labor League, suggested that the
Conference should whisper in the ear of the
Government that a natural corollary of the
maternity bonus would be an Act to make
the infant born out of wedlock the legiti-
mate child of his father. The Conference
carried the idea almost unanimously; and
the wonder is that the Wowser has not
already gone on the war-path. At the pre-
sent time the child has • to suffer for the
illegality of its parents; and the Wowser
declares it is the Law of Divinity. It is
also the Law of Divinity that Wowsers
should be born without trousers; but no one
has ever yet met a Wowser who refused to
wear trousers because Providence —or the
Devil —sent him into the world without
them. There is no earthly reason why the
child born out of wedlock should suffer on
that account as regards his share of his
father’s estate. Rather, considering how
much of home life he is deprived of, he
should be enabled by law to recover damages
from his old man , for the wrong he has done
him The attitude of the Labor Conference
is eminently sensible. The day will come
when the Illegitimate will be the special
ward of the State, and will sue his dad for
libel and for unprovoked aspersion on his
character, prospects, good name and re-
spectability. Come to think of it, it might
be worth while for a natural son to try a
case against a rich unnatural father in the
Equity Court even as the law now stands,
and thereby create a new precedent. Surely
Wowserdom would pass around a lavish,
not to say reckless, hat to raise the wind in
such a good cause.
* * *
Where is the writer who would dare to
stretch the bow of fiction as far as fact
pulled it lately at Eaglehawk (Vic.)? Three
men had charged a run of holes and lighted
the fuses; but, before they could clear out,
one of the charges exploded, knocking them
down and putting out their candles, two
had groped their way nearly to safety when
the third called to them that he was pinned
down by a splinter of stone. The two went
back —a piece of pluck that was all in the
day’s work—and were striving to release
their mate when they were knocked down
bv the second explosion. They scrambled
back to the plat; but by the tune they
reached it the remaining shots had fired, so
thev groped their way along the
order to pick up the fragments of their mate.
But a very-much-alive mate met them on the
wav The last explosion, instead of shat-
tering him, had shattered the rock that
pinned him, and set him free!
The prompt Australian again. An
eighteen-vear-old cadet was let off punish-
ment drill in a Melbourne court the other
“a ° becalm he had an engagement to get
married Now another bold warrior,
“ants exemption because he has to nurse
the baby !
“The Old Bold Mate of Henry Morgan”:
There’s a man after my own heart swinging
the axe for the Sydney Telegraph at the
Federal capital military camp. From his
last despatches:—
A ration of rum lias been served out to-night to
all hands. Everything is, therefore, in good
spirits,...
A ration of rum is half a gill per man, and this
has been ordered by the brigadier....
A rum ration was served out to the older hands...
It is hard to understand why the ration of rum
....should have been denied to the trainees....
There is no rum for anyone to-night....
The camp has relapsed into its former state of
cheerless quietness....
It is once more “dry camp.”....
The army service cart arrived with a supply
of rum from Queanbevan, and all retired to rest in
a merrier frame of mind.
Hooray!
* * * *
“Karee” in gentle expostulation:—
lie “10-2-4’s” lucubration (B. 13/2/’l3), I can’t
see how one can gauge the fighting capacity of any
nation by that of its
boxers; and I don’t
know that the French
are “such poor hands
at rearguard actions,
and lack fortitude un-
less winning.” What,
for instance, about the
sieges of Huningen,
Mayence, Paris, etc.,
or the earlier African
campaigns, where ham-
merings were not
lacking? I’ve seen
Frenchmen in active
service in the Moroc-
can and Madagascar
and Tonkinese cam-
paigns, and also Mar-
qu i s de Villebois-
Mareuil’s contingent
in the Boer war. I
can assure “10-2-4”
that their spirits were
never better than when
they were in a tight
corner. Despite the
French boxers’ aquatic
performances at the
Stadium, I hope
“10-2-4” will live to
see many incidents
similar to the Reis-
choffen charge handed
down to posterity by
the army of the Re-
public.
When February was dying, the grand old
problem or nightmare of the missing Mary
Ann was wheeled into the foreground by a
deputation of N.S.W. public-school teachers,
who waited on McGowen’s Minister for
Education, with a request for a Domestic
Science College as a means of gilding the
unrefined frying-pan and casting a glamor
o’er the deserted gas stove. One lady
champion of the scheme, by way of prelude,
asked indignantly why the domestic “help”
should be looked down upon? Of course,
nobody tried to supply an answer, the ques-
tion being obviously one of the oratorical
variety. But the plain fact is that Mary
Ann is no longer looked down upon, because
the place where she used to stand is unin-
habited. But she isn’t absent on account
of the down-looking, or evil-eyeing, or what-
ever it was. In her present factory or
workroom job she still has to endure the
scorn of the ruffling suburbanites. But her
troubles about that! Her hours of
work are limited, she gets her wages regu-
larly, she lives amongst her own people,
and she eats good food and sufficient of it.
Sad to say, the so-called “servant difficulty”
is to some extent a difficulty of poor food
and unpaid wages. Quite a number of
Suburbia’s well-dressed womenfolk have the
reputation of feeding their household ./Hur-
riedly and cheaply on sardine lines, and
putting the domestic surplus, on their backs
and heads. Mary’s wages are frequently
included, and that and the sardine diet
drive her to sudden resignation while the
missus is away in town afternoon teaing
magnificently amongst the local peerage at
a shilling per hat. The glory of social
climbers’ suburbs has to be paid for, but no
intelligent daughter of a Laborite is going
to willingly contribute her health and wages
to the cause. The weary old question is
almost as much a “mistress difficulty” as a
“servant difficulty,” and a Domestic Science
College won’t do much good unless its cur-
riculum includes the following as compul-
sory subjects: Cl) Manners, (2) Considera-
tion for Mere Hirelings, (3) Plain Honesty,
(4) Advanced Honesty, (5) Tact, (6) Care
of the Stomach. The honors course might
consist of three months’ scullery service in
a large household, under a person with some
such name as Jane Smith.
* * * *
The Victorian Government, pushing on
with the scheme for the electrification of
the Melbourne suburban railways, sends
Blazey, superintendent of the goods train
service, and Calcutt, signal engineer, to
America, Germany, France and England, to
study their lines; and Chief Commissioner
Fitzpatrick goes for a general brush-up. The
power station, Yarraville, will be quickly
started, but cannot be finished till the end
of next year. The first suburban lines to be
converted will be to Sandringham, in the
south, and to Broadmeadows, in the north,
passing through Brighton, Prahran, Mel-
bourne and Essendon. These should be open
under the new conditions in June, 1915.
The contracts now in hand include: Bab-
cock and Wilcox, power station, £258,230;
Parsons and Co., station equipment,
£122,235; Siemens dynamo works, plant,
up to £168,000; the New York Electric Car
Co., plant, up to £678,180. Other options
await Merz’s decision. The first job to be
locally put in hand is a siding from the
Williamstown railroad to the power house
site at Yarraville; and this should be started
in May.
THE FUTURE ACADEMY.
PRINCIPAL (to mother of prospective pupil).
“Yes, madam, the political course includes
Nihilism, Anarchy, Terrorism, Prison
Fasting and the Use of Bombs.”
A LAY OF A WORSHIPFUL SHOVEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“But I am prepared to work as a volunteer in the
interests of the community for four hours a day if
sufficient help to make this offer effective can be
guaranteed.”— Sydney’s Gaud Mayor.
The gasman put his coke-rake by,
And swore by all his grimy might
That none with gas should boil or fry,
Or see a gleaming jet at night,
Until they granted his demand
And paid an extra bob a day
To every wight whose toiling hand
Had taught the big retorts to pay.
The statesman came with visage grate
And promised all that reason might ;
He pleaded with the blokes to save
The public cove from rayless night.
’Twas vain! The gasman set his boot,
And vowed he would not bend or bow,
Or raise one single flake of soot
By perspiration of his brow.
He would not shift, he would not move ;
He let the furnace sink and cool
With keen and high desire to prove
His title to the name of fool.
The city lay in black despair,
Maintaining life on things in tins,
While through the darkened summer air
The candles twinkled like small sins.
The statesman in his zeal proclaimed
That there and then the strike must end,
That such wild doings must be tamed
And such stiff backs be made to bend ;
And some policemen wandered down
To help kind Peace to do her job,
Lest maddened persons sacked the town
In search of that elusive bob.
But still the heavy darkness reigned,
And still the half-starved public swore,
And every lightless thing remained
Exactly as it was before,
Until the splendid voice was heard
Thrilling the pulsings of the air,
And with a toil-compelling word
Stepped in the breach, my lord the Mayo*.
With rounded waistcoat in the van
He seized the shovel of his might,
And sweating like a common man,
Set to the task of making light.
Upsprang the jets in all the ways,
The household grills were wrapped in heat,
And flaring gas-lamps sang the praise
Of his high Gaudhead in the street.
The strike was dead (or should have been
If courage had its true return),
And splendid valor thus was seen
To teach that even coals will burn;
Yes, even coals and bits of wood
And scraps of paper leap in flame,
Inspired by such a hardihood
As heroes in their might proclaim!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


v The takings at the matinee
amounted to £385, the sale of
sweets and programmes added
£3O, while the street collection
brought the total to £535. Miss
Loraine sold one kiss at the Stock
Exchange for a guinea, and
another at the Oriental Hotel for
a similar sum.—“ Argus."
wmmmm
Hi
On beWf of Hje
oar heroic, da Ad —-
SxUnPAY
AO/^'SS' Or>l By, 1(/
Co,N W mt
Side
Oj- < Tfjre
r ~J\A£_ A\\n'or'ed T rut(j
■ ' r \ deStatio» oT^e^‘n^es.«d
i* the Vac* oo
Hilda waited on of by-
r“S a pToviding for the closing of
Taw 16, proviui g Cr . Hugh es
1 these places ™ ! ’"“ d y w ha( , been
k «xplained that annoyance
I ” r~»"
* ssiS'A—»•** .
<?HoW*V<\r4
: QJ
£e«He - Behold flow of silver Co”
into "ttje f>l*T e of ungodly! A 5 * cWtb goe*-
1 deeply Annoyed
o**Hey .S
\ to J>re^ent
iTisber
\wg|l j)cnn)i,o
"T 'jilv'ep
/ 'Trovsic.l at*
nine
°f to
. Vitt^
I One A ,
I Fourteen more youths were called
' upon to appear at the District Court, to
answer charges of having failed to sur-
render themselves to military custody
to complete their drills, as ordered by
the Court. Three of the lads were
ordered to proceed to Queensclilf In
military custody, for a period of 30
days.—News item.
'' Wt)*t so Vrebfj ?
KmK.O'/'AdJley —m before %o. ceremony
-fop ffer on myself.' "
Keeping the city clean.
THE HENNESSY BASKET
Melbourne is going to be a model city
for cleanliness. If Mayor Hennessy and
his aldermen can make it so. Another
step towards the ideal was taken by the ,
City Council authorities when wire-
woven rubbish baskets were placed
about the city streets.—•*Argus.”
* V u
»d«A would W 1© ioc.K 'fse. ])rill in •
\ Cell Oi Confront"
hre 3)«st~frol>]«**, *
MeH> C.ifi'jeir) ca*> now defy element
DOWN SOUTH.


The Household Disinfectant-
Carbolac ene
Cleanses and disinfects
in one act.
Used by Nurses in the sick room.
Instantly destroys all germs.
Tn the bath and for washing the
hair.
For washing floors, paint work,
sponging carpets, ete. Removes
dirt, prevents disease.
A wonderful healer of cuts and
sores and skin eruptions.
For Washing Animals. Destroys
all Vermin.
USED BY ALL HOSPITALS
ĥ
ħg
If not obtainable at vour Chemist op Storekeeper, send for trial
If not oDtal oint bottle—l /3 Post Free to any address.
SYDNEY:
Arthur Muston a Sons.
BRISBANE .
Moylan a Chancellor.
MELBOURNE:
Mitchell a Bellair
THe World’s Best.
PAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
■y-i
SUNSHINE Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &■ Adelaide,
Sole
[Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Silas Snell”: His name was Samuel
Ogden. His wife called him “Sam’l.” They had
a son named Thomas. They called him “Tummy.”
Sam’l wore very large, obtrusive booots, and “t*
ould lass” had teeth to match. They were looking
at Lockover’s land, with a view to purchase. “Ay,
lad,” said Sam’l, “yon isna gradilv good land, but I
reckon I can do summat wi’ it.” The land was at
Three Hills, and its chief defect was rabbits, a
defect Lockover could not hide from the cute cus-
tomer “fra Lancasheer,” as bunny was bobbing up
all over the place. Lockover was selling before the
rabbits ate his family. Sitting on any log on the
estate you might have hit 50 rabbits with a stick
in half as many minutes. A bargain was struck.
Sam’l Ogden would give seven-ten an acre for SO
acres. He had been gone about 20 minute" when he
drove back, and approached Lockover with marked
concern. “Mind, lad, you must let the rabbits go
wi’ t’ land,” he said.
SUMMER PASTIMES—TAIL-HUNTING AT BATHURST.
A local resident, writing to the press, says he has official proof that 295 dogs were shot by the police in
Bathurst during last year. He asserts that the animals were captured, each tail being worth 2s. 6d. to the
“apprehending” constable. — News item.
“Piccaninny” : Re the land explorations of
crocodiles (B. 20/2/’l3). I have seen the brutes in
Northern Queensland rivers quite 200 miles as the
fly crows from the sea, and the Lord knows how
many miles as the river serpentines. At Einasleigh,
on the Etheridge, they may be seen all the year
round —not big chaps, yet running up to sft. and
6ft. long. Brother Binghi of those parts is very
fond of baked croc. I was in Georgetown in 190/,
and, noticing a commotion amongst the blacks in
their camp in the river-bed, inquired and found they
had picked up the tracks of a croc, in the dry sand.
After two days’ hunting they got him in a big
waterhole, and for the next two days you couldn t
get a bit of wood chopped or a horse run in for love
or money. Every nig. had his equator full to the
limit of its capacity. I had intended to taste, but
the smell and the fact of Brother Binghi having got
his hand in first stopped me. All I can say is that
the flesh cooked as white as whiting or bream, and
looked tender and juicy. But the smell it was
worse than gidyea on a wet morning 1
“Jersey”: “Fax” (B. 27/2/’l3) kicked
over the milk bucket in his haste to deny my abso-
lutely truthful statement that the average cocky’s
methods of milk-production are hideously dirty.
I’ ve seen thousands of cows milked, without the
cow’s dirty udder being washed, and the filth accu-
mulations have been added to the strength or hum
of the milk. It is a common practice for the farm
hand to go to his work in the bails at “cow-time”
direct from the paddock, begrimed with sweat and
mire, don a dirty old sack, and fasten to the bull’s
wife. The sack is to keep his pants clean. Most
cockies imagine that the limit of cleanliness is
achieved when they comply with Government regula-
tions to cement milking bails. The stench and filth
of the yard (even when paved with cobble stones),
in which perhaps 30 to 100 cows are herded, is a
minor item. I intended to say several other things
about Private Enterprise, but it is easier and more
convincing to let Dr. Clubbe, Sydney’s well-known
child specialist, have a go. Here’s a fragment or
hunk from his evidence before a Royal Commission
recently:—
He had known a case where milk had been tested
after one hour’s sterilising, and found to contain
from two to eight million bacteria. When the sup-
plier learned of the results of this test he was
righteously indignant; he sent samples of his milk
for analysis, direct, feeling certain of its purity.
The analysis was simply appalling. His samples
were found to contain thirty-four million bacteria 1
And if that is the case of the man who is indig-
nant because he reckons he has a clean bill, what
about the man, bloke or fair cow who doesn’t give
a thingummy bob, or even thingummy sprat, whether
he has a clean bill or not?
» * * •
“Reka” tells the story of a de’il of a
fright:—
For years Maoriland fruit insoectors have kept
a vigilant eye open at Auckland for the Mediter-
ranean fruit-fly. Cargo after cargo of oranges
have been dumped into the destructor on suspicion,
until importers furiously asserted that what the
inspectors suffered from most was a diseased imag-
ination. Furthermore, all owners of orchards were
ordered under fear of awful penalties to spray regu-
larly with arsenate of lead, whereupon most sub-
urbanites. dispensed with orchards altogether.
Numerous inquiring babes had narrow escapes by
poison, and nervous old ladies chopped bits out of
themselves in the effort to annihilate the peach-tree
in the garden. Then the Department announced one
day that, owing to the thoroughness of its cam-
paign, not a trace of fruit-fly existed in the whole
province. It specially commended the noble co-
operation of the orchardists, who had spent hun-
dreds in guarding against the pest. Next day a
pleasant, chatty little man from the North Shore,
who didn’t want to make any trouble, but liked
to know things, called in at the office with a
couple of peaches off a tree in the back yard, and
said: “I’d like to know what kind of an insect this
is that’s eating my peaches. It’s bigger than a
codlin moth, and riddles the fruit more.” The
expert in charge investigated the insect, and gave a
blood-curdling shriek. All the staff rushed in.
They looked, tore their hair, and danced upon the
carpet. The insect was a particularly fine speci-
men of the fruit-fly, and the owner of the back-
yard peach-tree reported plenty more at home. In
less than an hour that tree was a pile of ashes, and
so were a few more trees belonging to inoffensive
neighbors. The fly was, nevertheless, expected to
have a firm hold next season ; but there was never a
sign of him. Now an extra-special expert an-
nounces that Auckland need have no fear of the
pest, as it would never survive the wet, cold winter ;
and the men who rooted up the back-yard peach-
tree, and the ladies who cut pieces out of them-
selves with the meat-chopper, don’t know whether
to be glad or mad about it.
“The Rager”: “Ginger’s” tally (B.
13/2/’l3) of 600 to 900 chaff bags sewn per day
round Ganmain and Coolamon (N.S.W.) is worthy
0 £ bbe mos (; enthusiastic disbelief. I’ve been at
WQrk for 12 yea rs, and sewed behind a chaff-
, . , ,
cutter once for nine months solid. The highet
tally for one day (10 hours) was 480, and my mate
taking turns with me was considered 'one of the
“guns” of the West. Anyway, neither of us were
such slouches as to be only half as fast as ‘ Ginger s
pals. And I want to tell “Ginger” that he is also
wrong when he says sewing behind a chaffcutter is
the solidest graft within four seas. Working on a
wheat-thresher is far more solid, as I can vouch after
five years at it. If “Ginger” knows anybody who has
done better than thresh and sew 312 wheat bags (the
old big bags) in a day (one man sewed the lot and
helped to stack them), I’d like a lock of his hair,
Never heard of 27 stitches in a chaff bag. Twenty-
four would hold wheat in an old malt bag well, and
18 in a wheat bag of to-day is considered close sewing.
THE DESCENDANT: “ Shay, ten ’ us thruppence till termorrer, wil’yer?"
“Te Babarantiko”: The “yam” of the
Northern Territory mentioned by “Mallarapoonie”
(B. 6/2/’l3) is probably a very close relation to
arum cordifolium (the pulvia of the Samoan dia-
lects and the babai of the Line Islands) of the atolls
of the Pacific. On these hungry coral islets, rising
but slightly above highest springtides, where the
bill of fare consists almost entirely of cocoanuts,
pandanus fruit in season, and fish —and often not too
much of any of them —the babai is widely culti-
vated. Lacking a swamp, large, more or less regu-
lar shaped trenches about 6ft. deep, are dug in the
sand. (Brackish water is found at that depth on
most atolls.) The edible is white, cone shaped, with
masses of fine roots growing from “pores” in the
skin. There are several varieties, and some are an
excellent substitute for potatoes. A tasty (for the
native potato) dish is made of grated babai, grated
cocoanut and molasses made of fresh palm sap,
mixed, kneaded and baked in a leaf. The arum
cordifolium (related to the taro) is a slow grower,
but, given time, attains to enormous size. The
lily leaves and stalks I have seen upwards of 15ft.
long, and the leaf large enough to completely en-
velope an average-sized man. At a feast given on
Funafuti in honor of the visit of the King of Nuku-
leilei, I saw one arum c. root which took two stal-
wart natives to carry slung on poles, and a root re-
quiring all of one man’s strength to carry on his
shoulder is not in any way a rarity.
* * * *
“Incas”: Persisting in an old habit of
speech, one of the “British Isles” tennis team talked
the other day of coming 16,000 miles to win the Davis
Cup. It is a hoary myth brought from the “British
Isles” to the “Australian Isles” (mainly Hobart
Town) in the days of sailing ships and passages tak-
ing 120 days. Here are the P. and O. figures from
Tilbury: Fremantle, 10,125; Adelaide, 11,478 ; Mel-
bourne, 11,978 ; and Sydney, 12,555. The place by
steamer route furthest from Tilbury is Yokohama
(by the Cape of Good Hope), 14,403 miles, Seattle
and Vancouver are 14,345 miles via Capetown. May
one hope this hie jacet will cover two dead stupidi-
ties —the other one being the expression “British
Isles.”
* * * «-
“L. Soup”: I agree with “Ginger” (B.
13/2/’l3), that the bloke who sews behind a chaff-
cutter deserves the Hard Graft Medal. All the same,
“Ginger” staggered me when he talked about sewers
putting in 27 stitches per bag. Never knew more
than 10 stitches (excluding lugs) to be put in, and
I have sewed behind Rowston’s, Evans’s, Logan’s and
Conway’s cutters, the chief ones round Coola-
mon and Ganmaiii (N.S.W.). The average output
was 400 to 550 per day; and 678 were the most I
ever sewed in a day. For that particular cutter it
was a record. No cutter in those districts can put
out a daily average of 600 bags, bar Mangelsdorf’s,
and there is a standing offer of £4 a week for any
single sewer who can sew behind it. But he wouldn’t
be asked to average 900 a day, as “Ginger’s” sewers
were. I’d like to have a look at that 900 a day
cove. So would Logan, at Ganmain, who has a
standing challenge of £5O for his sewer (record
tally was 712 sewed and stacked) to fight anything
in the country.
“Pick” : Here’s another of your decadent
Australians from the wheat country. He’s 14 years
old, and lives near Gundagai (N.S.W.). With a
three-horse harvester he took off 81 bags of wheat
between jackass and kookaburra. He then rode 18
miles to a dance, and commenced operations there
by fighting 10 rounds with a bigger boy. He danced
in his black eyes and bluchers all night, and next
day—Sunday—hunted foxes until sundown. Then
he rode home (18 miles) and was on the harvester
again in the morning. Incidentally, during the
week he heard from the “old man” that dancing and
fox-hunting were a (blank) lazy game, and that he
ought to have been home digging out rabbits.
SHOOTIN' AN’ FISHIN’.
“ Talk about s hootin’ and fishin! Shootin' all
day; cornin' home, spotted six big wood,
ducks siftin' on a limb over swamp. Used
all shot, so opened pocket knife and dropped
in barrel an' fired. Knife cut limb just
above their heads. Ducks flew up an' got
necks caught in closin' limb. Limb broke.
Fell in water. Waded in. flung limb with
ducks stickin on over me shoulder. Dash
me, when I got out outer th' bank, if the
seat of me pants wasn't full o' fish!”
BRINGING BACK THE BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bottles wreathed around each neck,
Bottles slung from every wrist,
Thus we save the beer from wreck.
(Beer is very dear.)
Midnight moonlight shining bright
Black the bush and silver-white,
Full the night of noise and fight,
When good-feeling we assist,
Coming back with beer.
Out at camp our cobbers wait
For their well-beloved whack.
Though the hour is somewhat late,
Beer is drawing near.
Shifting yards and yards of soil,
Long has been the time of toil
Until evening billy-boil.
Now we tramp the moonlit track
Through the bush, wjth beer.
Though at noon the dry miles are
Nothing but a dusty nark,
When we leave the cool bush bar
Toilward then to steer,
By the moon the miles are less
When with joyance we progress.
Knowing that the boys will bless
Us who, through the scented dark,
Campwards march, with beer.
Filing down the creek we come,
Near the finish of our tramp ;
Soon we’ll all be having some.
Hear the blighters cheer,
Echoing the row we make!
One cheer for ourselves we take;
Two are raised for beer’s own sake
As we swing along to camp,
Bringing back the beer.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


&
• ; V^V/;V/ rV-‘.“ / - !•: >v’-VVVTv -'r'-r-i*'' : AVvXv!--'r*:-:'.
125 tons of
lemons used every
year in making
LEMON
(Reid. Trade Mark "LEMOS")
Brooke’s Lemon Squash
has all the full flavour and
true aroma of the lemons;
and is quite free from j
harmful
ingredients.
ĝh
Sporting Cartridges .
w
KYNOCU MADE
"BON AX"
KYNOCU LOAD tD
The British
Standard of Quality.
BONAX
The Sporting Cartridge
with the largest sale
in the world.
Wholesale only,
Scottish House, 90 William St., Melbourne.
164 Pitt Street, Sydney.
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
bowels SneS The n v act * °l the stomach
Obta S i„ U aWe e°veSwheJe°* ÜbleS - PdCe ’ 104d ‘ and ls ' GlJ '
•wm Better* ry
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
“THIS IS TO CERTIFY
I have used Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea
Remedy, and found it to be a most valuable medi-
cine. I have not only used it for myself, but for
members of my family, and have recommended it to
dozens of friends. In fact, I cannot say too much in
favor of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.”
Arthur D. Beecroft, blacksmith, 487 Nicholson Street,
North Carlton (Vic.).*
m
'U
r>
* 4.
IK
m.
Foggitt, Jones'
Jellied Pigs’ Feet
make i delightful luncheon dish.
They are packed in tins ready for
service. For thoae who like some*
thing appetizing they are really
unsurpassed. Your grocer has
them—ask him for a tin or two.
Dear Bulletin.—Permit me to cross nibs
with “Nym” (B. 6/2/’l3) on the subject of certain
ceremonies practised by the natives of the Northern
Territory. As he says, the practise of circumcision
is almost universal with the tribes; but the custom
doesn’t carry the importance that “Nym” would
seem to attach to it. Any young native buck, be-
tween seven and 12 years, or just before the age of
is liable to be run down and summarily
circumcised upon the slightest provocation; and the
happening, beyond the enforced adoption of a loin-
cloth, doesn’t materially effect his standing in the
tribe. The initiatory ceremony of “man-making” is
quite another thing; and takes place some years
later iii life. I write of the tribes I know best—of
the Mootburras of the Victoria Biver basin and of
the Wogites of the tablelands behind Camooweal.
Among these, so far from the ceremony of circumci-
sion being a secret one, or performed at any given
time of day or phase of moon, it may be perpetrated
any old hour or season, though the Old People prefer
strong sunlight for any business connected with the
letting of blood. Any white man, or other person
interested, may attend this ceremony in the most
open and most cordial way. But the matter of sub-
incision, or what may be called “the race-suicide
operation,” is quite another thing; though it is
almost as universal as the other among tribes of the
far interior. So far, too, from “Nym” being correct
in his statement that the natives “keep a few of
the best type of blackfellow to breed from, but geld
all inferior males,” it may be said that no such rule
exists. To confound sub-incision in any way with
castration (or “gelding”) is wrong. A sub-incised
blackfellow may not only become a father at will,
but hundreds of him do so, and in a manner that is
absolutely beyond any necessity for proofs. Therein
lies the crux of the whole custom —the subject may
only become a father at will; and in regions where
food commodities are scarce, and where the necessity
of curtailing the population is more or less great, and
where, consequently, the custom is most often prac-
tised, the native husband doesn’t will with any great
frequency—perhaps once or twice in his lifetime he
permits himself a child. ■ No process of enforced
selection is in vogue among the tribes. Any native
may select his wife providing she is outside the pro-
hibited degree of consanguinity. That he has under-
gone some hideous “stone 1 surgery” operation seems
to make no difference to the woman. She is taught
to expect nothing else; and lucky is she, indeed, if
she has not undergone some dreadful mutilation of
her own; such as that unspeakable horror which is
so often perpetrated upon their young women by
the ghouls of more than one Central Australian tribe.
—Yours, etc., Mali.arapoonie.
HOLIDAY MEMORIES.
What the gentle hillside pathways become at last.
“Gouger”: The tree-fern nut is Binghi’s
flour, though the hairy yam and half a dozen
other such vegetables are almost as good. A large
quantity of the nut is picked and roasted on a flat
rock on the river banks. The nut is then cracked,
the kernel taken out, and crushed as fine as flour
between two rocks. The natives are very dexterous
and can crush an enormous quantity of nuts in a
very short time. The ground-up flour is then heaped
into a dilly bag, which is a beautifully interwoven
basket of a very fine fibre, and acts in the same way
as a finely made culinary sieve. The basket with its
contents is then placed in running water for about
twelve hours. This dissolves all the badness in the
nut, otherwise it would be uneatable. Only the
wholesome flour is left behind, and the natives mix it
up as we do a damper.
MANNERS BEFORE EVERYTHING.
DOCTOR (to new “case” holding end of his finger on): “Well! Here , take your hat off !”
“Copo”: In B. 6/2/’l3, Aldridge Evelyn
bolsters his case for a vegetarian diet by this argu-
ment :
If man was meant to be carnivorous he would
have teeth resembling those of other carnivorous
animals, which he has not.
Supposing that to be so:—
(1) If man was meant to be herbivorous, like the
cow, would he not have four hoofs and other facili-
ties for getting about in the paddock and eating
the nice fresh grass and vegetables ?
(2) If the cow was intended to be herbivorous,
like man, would it not have a gas stove, a cooking
pot and a box of matches to boil its vegetables
with ?
(3) If man is to eat like a horse, why do you
never meet the horse at the dentist’s, sitting up in
the chair and getting his molar filled? Also, why
can’t you tell a man’s age by his teeth, the same
as a horse?
(4) If man is intended to be a vegetarian, why is
it that the most notable vegetarian in the Scripture
only stuck to his diet of green-stuff while he was
mad ?
(5) Why is it that the meat-eating races boss the
earth, and the nations that eat green-stuff don’t?
There are other questions, but these are a few to
go on with.
* * * *
“X.P.D.”: “McNorth” (B. 16/1/’l3)
doubts whether the Papuan has a good ear for music.
First of all, I protest against the slumping together
of several entirely distinct races for the purpose of
discussing some characteristic or propensity that may
be strong in one lot and entirely absent in another.
Taking. British Papua alone: Round about the Fly
River the people look like bookmakers dipped in
soot, tall, with hooked noses, and speaking a lan-
guage abounding in s’s and k’s, using bows and
arrows and making sago in between times. About Port
Moresby they are skinnier, smaller in features, speak-
ing a lingo called Motu, and being kept by wives,
who are potters. From about the end of the Penin-
sula, adjacent to Samarai, to Goodenough Bay, or
thereabouts, they are like Samoans in appearance,
language and disposition. About Collingwood Bay
are the Maicin, who may, perhaps, have been of the
same stock as the Fly River and Kiwai people, but
speak a language showing little or no resemblance.
Further north again is a race of which the Binadeli
is a type, speaking a language so different in its
very fundamentals, construction and accent that
the southern boys seem to be unable to learn it. Com-
parisons of skull formation, customs, language,
carvings and some other things go to indicate that’
while a large section of the tribes towards the north
had Asiatic ancestors, the Samoan-like southerners
hailed from the other direction—the Pacific coast of
America, or Hawaii perhaps, and further back still,
from wherever the Aryan race had its beginnings. In
other words, the southern ’ Papuans are more nearly
related to the Anglo-Saxons than to the northern
Papuans. Which reminds me. I have heard a scratch
team of natives from about Taupota and Bartle Bay
—north-east coast —singing in church. Tune was
always kept, and the tone and individual voice-
quality were better than those of an average white
church choir. The women are inclined to sing
through their noses, but the voices of most of the
men are naturally musical, and from the chest all
the time. One of the sweetest bov-voices I ever heard
was owned by a Taupota lad. I don’t know much
about the musical abilities of other Papuan nations.
“Gouger”: In the N. Queensland forest
and scrub country you can gee more snakes when
you’re sober than you can in most places after you’ve
started a bad attack of Queensland rum-fever. In
many parts of the scrub the tiger snake abounds,
and when met on the narrow tracks he refuses abso-
lutely to budge. As his kiss means almost certain
death, a man gets a nasty shock now and then. But
there is one creature that doesn’t care, and he is
the wild pig. I have seen an old sow in the scrub
make a rush for an eight-foot carpet snake, plant
her front toes firmly on the reptile to prevent him
getting away, and then literally pull him to pieces,
meanwhile calling up a litter of fat young suckers
to partake of the feast. I spoilt the feast. I had a
gun. Also, I wanted pig for dinner. Snake bites
never seem to affect the pigs, owing probably to
their armor plate hide. I measured one lot that
was 2in. thick above the shoulders. And that wasn’t
anything special either. Shoot an old boar with a
cannon,-and when the ball rebounds you’ll get a new
light on the subject.
* * » *
“Stohr Ruddell” : The writer who doubts
the utility of barb-wire in fences (B. 16/l/’3) can
have had no practical experience of stock-keeping.
No number of ordinary wires will keep a fence taut.
A few months’ scratching and rubbing, and not only
the wires but the posts are loosened. I have seen
seven wires strained in August in a four-mile fence,
and when the grass has commenced to dry off, in
November, you could without difficulty make any
two of the wires meet. In an adjoining paddock,
holding as many head of stock, a small swag couldn’t
be pushed through a five-wire fence, with two barbs,
which had been erected 10 years-before. Where there
are cattle, and the feed is growing scarce or rank,
the barb is the only part of the fence that counts.
A bullock smells an object before attempting to
clear it, and the barb gives a restraining shock to
his sense of touch. Admittedly, numbers of good horses
have been ruined, but mostly through ignorance or
laziness on the part of the landowner. New settlers
in the Vic. and South Aus. mallee run up “light-
ning” fences (posts a chain apart and one barb) ;
then when stock has been turned into the unfamiliar-
surroundings nocturnal galloping has ended with
the majority of the horses tom from hock to neck.
Cases of serious injury where the fences are of five
or six wires with barbs are exceptional.
* * * *
“Karee”: Out on the Wide Bay Islands
_(Q.) the favorite method of breaking the Sabbath
is by going stingaree-spearing. In the words of some
bloke or other, it’s like beer—once a customer
always a customer. The operators carrv spears
made of cypress pine with fencing-wire points, and
wade on the sand banks towards the “beater” from a
small boat. It takes skill to hit a “sting” dashing
by at full speed, and some manage to get away in
deep water, in spite of perhaps five spears hooked
m their hide. When one’s cornered, with the killing
stake in his gizzard, the fun starts, as he lashes with
his tail, and the “hunters” must dodge and watch
their chance to collar him and wrench the sting off
the quarry is good eating, too, when properly
skinned and cooked. I’ve tried all sorts of hunting-
boar, stag wolf, dingo and ’roo—and I’ve shot lions,
tigers, buffaloes, Spanish-American and South Afri-
can farm-burners, but I back “sting”-spearing for
exhilarating sport and excitement. And there’s a
hn.tL 0 * d ; l T r ’, to0 ’ aS Sharks prey on these oth er
brutes, and the hunt sometimes ends in a very earn
est rush for the boats. y
“Leo Lear”: Has any Abotanist run i nto
strawberry clover, and can he tell me any bad points
about it that I have missed? I don’t know where
it was imported from; but, as far as I’ve got with
my investigations, it’s one of the few things that w
are the better for having. The vegetable is nJ
eminently suited to wet, swampy ground near th
coast, and flourishes along the Victorian seaboard 6
Where any other but swamp growth would be killed
out by water, the strawberry clover gets its roots in
and hangs on to life until summer happens along and
the liquid subsides. Then it starts to do things, and
its growth is swifter than the growth of sin. Farm-
ers drive their sheep off it at night, as the tendrils
grow through the wool and anchor the animals to
earth; and then only a meat axe can liberate the
jumbueks. I think it first appeared on the Gipps-
land River flats about 12 years ago ; now its pointed
leaf is found all along tae Victorian coast. I\ e
never heard of it growing far inland, but it gets as
near to the sea as any pasture, frequently occupying
with marram grass the last sandflats. In places I’ve
found it down at the water's edge; then Neptune
resenting the infringement on his sea-growths, hits
it below the belt with an extra-high tide, and there
isn’t any umpire on hand to call it a foul.
* * * *
“D.R.Y.”: What makes a herd of bees
leave its home without apparent reason? I
know that they will vacate their boarding-house if
they are attacked by ants, if strange knocks resound
on the outside walls, or if small boys or stock
unduly interfere with them, but in the case I am
puzzling over none of those things could have hap-
pened. Last spring, or there around, I unearthed
a colony of the honey merchants near the summit of
a huge box-tree near Albury (N.S.W.), and on every
occasion that I spied out the land they were still at
toil. Yet, when last Sunday three of us hewed that
vegetable down, nary a bee, barring two dead
drones, was there, despite the fact that each cranny
and crevice was full of honey. And the tree was
not infested by ants, boys or other noxious animals.
Did these honey-fowl hear us saying that we would
come to rob their store on Sunday, and quit on
Saturday night in consequence—shoot the moon, in
fact?
“D.McC.”: I don’t say Jim got a fair
deal, still he started the game himself. Mrs.
McCorkscrew kept a pub on the tinfields, and amongst
the admirers of her handsome daughter Nancy was
Hop Sing, who was stacking away a tidy fortune
by storekeeping. Now, Sing had a sporting chance
when Jim and Bill happened along, and, being white
(and occasionally tight) Australians, they were
naturally riled. So, recognising Nancy’s weakness
for wealth, they let it be known that they were big
station-owners from Queensland, and that they were
going to stay for a bit to spell the horses and do
some business. Things progressed (as they sometimes
do) and presently Nancy became Mrs. Jim. Then
she discovered that that sportive joint was a mere
drover, with no maddened impulse to leave ma-in-
law’s pub. The next performance was the arrival
of that interesting member of our native fauna, the
stork. We were all in the kitchen to hear the news
when old Dr. Moriarty, who had ridden 15 miles to
his patient, walked in. “What is it, doctor; a
boy or a girl?” was the excited inquiry. “It’s a
Chinaman,” he replied, as a wild shriek tore the
atmosphere. It came from the direction of the store,
and I took it that Jim was breaking the news to
Hop Sing.
A DREAM OF FAIR MEN.
“I've just been speaking to Wadgeree. He's
very white for a black fellow
“ Sure, an' shmall wonder, sorr. Wasn't kis
mother married to wan av th' fair sex?"
The root of the tongue is a pretty ghastly
place in which to get bitten by a snake, yet that is
where Henzenroeder, a locally-famous charmer of
Tanunda (S.A.) got it. Still, he had fairly asked
for it, for his favorite trick at performances is to
put a “tiger’s” head in his mouth. The trouble
came while he was rehearsing, away from home; one
sudden streak struck before he could close his teeth
behind its head to keep it quiet. He collapsed and
went nearly the color of Jack Johnson, but skilled
attention has brought him round.


THE SUFFRAGETTE.
JOHN BULL OTHELLO (to lago Asquith): “Silence that dreadful belle; she frights the isle from its propriety.”
OTHELLO , Act 2, Scene 3.


INTEREST AWAKENED.
Interest awakened everywhere in the marvellous
cures of Outs, Burns and Wounds with Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment. Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable
everywhere.*
Sack Specialists. —There are specialists among
doctors, dentists—in fact, almost every profession
under the sun. But the most uncommon specialists
ever heard of are T. Smith & Co., Ltd., the Sydney
sack specialists, of Sussex Street, Svdney. Smith’s
specialise in supplying- sacks for everv use, and
give the best value for money in the line. Every
sack is guaranteed, whether new or secondhand, and
Smith’s prices are the lowest on record. Send for
samples. T. Smith & Co., Ltd., Sack Specialists,
Sussex Street, Sydney.*
When you’ve been talking all day in a stuffy
room it usually results in a headache. It needn’t
last but a few minutes. Stearns’ Headache Cure
relieves it.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
F or
DURABILITY.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure yon pet the genuine with tie*
signature, Martin, ChemisL Southampton.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
THE RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF
THINGS.
In these days of our growing strength and leap-
ing revenues, the mere question of cost is too paltry
to be considered. Expense there must be in any
case ; and the sweating of local Governors to save a
few thousands does not appeal to Australians. If
we do the thing at all, we can afford to do -it well.
—Melbourne paper on the mooted abolition of the
superfluous State Governors.
Granny : “You horrid little beast! You don't
mind spending millions and millions on
ugly guns and arsenals and factories and
things, but when it comes to paying for
these imported and far more beautiful
and artistic and noble and inspiriting
ornaments, you start your growling and
sneering an' — an' —” (dissolves into tears).
Dr. “Jimmy” Graham, who specialised in
mankind s innards, was hit on his own strong
point last week, and died suddenly. Com-
mercially, he didn’t make much of a success
of his profession; he had too much public
spirit and too little “bedside manner.” But
he was very useful as a promoter of the
Women’s Hospital, and as Mayor of Sydney
he did more than anybody else to break the
city of its insanitary habit of spitting on the
pavements. In his latter days, not having
much of a practice, and being squeezed out
of both Parliamentary and municipal life, he
did some guinea-pigging, and, as a company-
director, was mostly regarded by the men
who worked with him as a conspicuous
success.
JUSTICE
MURRAY,
S. A.
SUPREME
COURT
Concerning an -
other Handcuff
King:—
Thief - catcher
McGrath, who
just been appointed
Inspector of Police
at Auckland
(M.L.), has been
on some of the big-
gest “jobs” in the
islands for the past
many years. He
has been a success-
ful criminal hunter
- —tireless, resource-
ful and bashfully-
daring, so to speak.
He would almost
apologise to a cor-
nered man for tak-
ing his revolver
from him and exam-
ining it as if he were
merely a gunsmith.
On one occasion, to
get a gang of whom
h e had one, h e
made a real deal
which was of con-
siderable importance
to the man. The
main difficulty was
that the man
couldn’t make u p
his mind to trust the “demon.” “Here,” said
McGrath, “take my revolver. If you don’t get clear
you can settle with me quick and lively.” That
impressed the crook. He took the ironmongery,
drew the hammer slowly, and then handed it
back. “I’ll trust you,” he said. He got clear to
France, but the rest hadn’t so far to go.
The original Watson, of Wat-
son’s Bay, Sydney, is recalled by
the death of his son, Charles, at
Bordertown (S.A.). This son was
born at the bay in 1836, or there-
abouts ; spent a long time on Vic-
torian goldfields, and finished up as
a farmer and stock-breeder. Those
fine jumpers, Coral, Isis and
I X L, belonged to him, and he was
generally as ready to lay against
anyone else l s horse as to back his
own.
One of Maoriland’s best-known
railway men, A. L. Beattie, is on
the eve of handing in his spanner
as chief mechanical engineer, after
about 36 years’ service. His early
training was given him at a big
railway foundry at Leeds, and,
after completing his apprentice-
ship, he became draughtsman and
assistant works manager there. Yet
he was only 22 when he arrived in
M.L. and joined the Otago service
as assistant engineer. From that
day he moved steadily up the lad-
der, until 1890, when he was
handed the iob he is now handing
back .in return for a pension.
Beattie was a conscientious public
servant and a good railway man,
although he never got the boom
that lesser _ abilities received in
M.L.’s Public Service.
L. M. Haul, who took office as Russian
Consul in Sydney soon after the close of the
(Timean War, has just retired from the
office, after serving in it for the record period
of 56 years.
Archdeacon Gunther, for many years at
the historic Church of St. John, Parramatta
has completed his 50th year of parsonhood’
He is the son of the Rev. Gunther, who
years ago, was attached to the aboriginal
mis |i° n at Wellington, and was afterwards
at Mudgee. It was he who gave the name
to Havilah, the Paget Bailys’ old home near
Mudgee. A picnic was held in the nlace • Mr
Gunther, fossicking for gold, found a color,
and instantly exclaimed “Havilah!” the
Biblical word for gold. Mr. Baily adopted
the name, and Havilah sheep soon became
well known on the market.
The wheat which won the champion prize
-j at the Adelaide Show this month was grown
s on the farm near Mt. Barker that pro-
duced the wheat which won the gold medal
for grain against the world at the Crystal
Palace International Exhibition (London)
in 1851. John_Frame was the exhibitor in
each case, but the present-day John is a
grandson of the farmer of 60 years ago.
A man in Paris tells of the new French
President and his election: —
It is at Versailles, in the large hall of Louis XlV.’s
stately palace, that the members of the Government
meet to elect the man who is to oe at the head of
the nation for seven years. The ancient streets and
grand old avenues were gaily decorated; every hotel
and restaurant had smartened itself; a special ser-
vice of trains had been organised between Paris and
Versailles. Paris was soon strangely quiet; every-
one of note and fashion, every visitor to the capital
eager for historic sights and scenes of local color,
went out to Versailles. The voting took place during
the afternoon. Three successive ballots were made.
The excitement was tremendous when, towards seven
in the evening, the final result was known. Cries of
“Vive Poincare!” rang through the palace, the
palace courts, the park, the city. The new Presi-
dent was escorted to the railway station by an
enthusiastic crowd. Another crowd welcomed him
on reaching Paris, and the retraites militaires —that
time-honored custom of soldiers returning to bar-
racks to the sound of the drum and the tambour, a
custom lately restored here in France —made their
retreat that night to cries in cadence of “Poincare a
I’Elysee, ton, tain; Poincare a l’Elysee, ton, taine!”
Very soon the cafes of Montmartre, the gay quarter of
Paris, were resounding with songs hastily impro-
vised.
Poincare is but 51 years of age, young compared
with the last two Presidents, Loubet and Fallieres.
And he means to be a more vigorous President than
his two predecessors. A man of character and
energy still in the prime of life, he will lead rather
than be led. “It will be a dictatorship,” say his
enemies.
A native of Lorraine, his birthplace is the little
town of Bar-le-duc. His parents belonged to what
is usually described as the upper middle class of
society; his father was an engineer charged with the
oversight of the roads and bridges of his country.
The deeply regretted Henri Poincare, perhaps the
greatest scientist of his day, was the new Presi-
dent’s first cousin. The President himself is a mem-
ber of the French Academy, and he has decided to
keep his name on the roll of barristers. His mother,
a proud and haopv woman to-day, is with him at his
Paris house, and will be with him at the Elvsee. He
is now no longer a practising Catholic, but he can-
not be said to be an irreligious man ; nor anti-
religious. And he is acknowledged by all parties to
be straight, upright, high-principled.
JUDGE
BURNSIDE,
State
Arbitration
Court (W. A.)
J. S. Horsfall, one of the wealthiest of
Australia’s squatters, has given £lO,OOO to
elect a chancel at Trinity College. Melbourne
Cni., in memory of his daughter, the late
wife of Rupert Carington. If Mr.
Horsfall had given the money to the Uni.
to endow a chair of Tropical Medicine, or to
the Workingman’s College to establish a
department where everything relating to
sheep and wool would be taught, or had
endowed a bursary for the study of veterin-
ary science at the University, this paper
would put more value on his generositv.
Hut to spend £lO,OOO on a tiny chapel of
ease in a church used once a week, merelv
makes it grieve.
Novelist Rider Haggard, a member of th
Dominions Commission, brings a «L?V he
with him to these parts. fi e Is
Carswell, and is something of a scribbler 8 * S
his own account. ULUer on
THE RIGHT CALIBRE.
THE KID : "Please gimme another bottle of
them pills. ”
CHEMIST : “Why, that's the second bottle this
week , son.”
THE KID : “Yes, they just fit me air-gun.”
Hugh D. Mclntosh, who went the other
day to Broken Hill to extend the liickards-
Mclntosh show circuit to the silver city, con-
fided that it wasn’t his first visit. He made
an early start in life as one of the Barrier
Miner’s first news-runners just on 25 years
ago.
J. F. McEachran, a Glasgow-trained vet.,
formerly in N.S.W. Public Health Dept,
and latterly Government Vet. and Chief In-
spector of Cattle in S.A., goes to the North-
ern Territory as Chief Inspector of Stock.
At his instance most of the States have
agreed to hold a conference, at which he
will propose uniform regulations for the
registration of stallions, with the object of
gradually starving out the weeds.
Madigan, with whom Mawson begins the
list of the five he expects will have to
camp with him for another winter in the
Antarctic, is a youngster that the leader
picked up at Adelaide University. A while
before Mawson asked him if he would like
to join the expedition, this fathom-and-
more of young Australia had won a Rhodes
scholarship ; but the wires were pulled, and
the trustees agreed to hang it up until he
got back from the ice.
Serving aboard Maoriland’s “gift” Dread-
nought, now en route to the Loan Islands,
is a sub-lieutenant named Battenberg. Ilis
Christian name is merely George, but on
State occasions he plants Prince in front of
it. . Incidentally, he is the son and heir of
Prince Louis Alexander of Battenberg, a
vice-admiral and sea lord of Britain, and
personal A.D.C. to Queen Mary’s husband.
Young George was born in 1892, so that he
is barely of age. Like the ship he is serv-
ing on, he is understood to be pledged, but
in his case it is to a lady.
Judge Gordon got back to work on the
S.A. Supreme Court Bench last week, after
being away more than a year. First he
was on the Sugar Commission : since then he
has been on Kangaroo Island, recovering
from a bad breakdown in health. His son-
in-law, “Jim” Anderson, K.C., is now in
hospital, battling with a desperately serious
illness, and,, on behalf of the local Bar,
Paris Nesbit, Iv. C.—who was formerly
partner to both of them—mingled congratu-
tions to the one with sympathy for the
other.
“O.K.’s” recollections of Dealtin the
barrister:—
Re Alfred Deakin and the Curse of Deeming.
Deakin did more than “help to prepare the defence
of the wife-slayer,” as stated in a recent paragraph.
He appeared in court as counsel for the murderer,
and made an ornate speech in which Ancient Greece
and other matters that had nothing to do with the
case were introduced. Deakin’s notion of what to
say on behalf of an epileptic sex-maniac struck me
at the time as being profoundly stupid. Ever after-
wards I thought of him as an unforceful person —a
feeble advocate of an 3' cause he took in hand. It
was not so long after his poor little attempt to gain
notoriety at the Bar by defending a sensational mur-
derer that Deakin sold his law-books and gave
himself wholly to politics.
Major Hinton, Adelaide’s 100-year-old-
doctor, celebrated his centenary on
March 7, told his friends on that occasion
that he would be satisfied if he lived another
five years. He held a reception of veterans
of different wars, and chatted about fights
and generals of 50 years ago, as though they
had been incidents of yesterday. The old
warrior fractured his thigh some months ago.
amd cannot take his five-mile walk daily, and
that is a great trouble to him. Hinton is
the oldest, member of the Royal College of
Surgeons in the world, and retired from the
Bengal army with a pension as long ago as
1868.
From the Oldest Inhabitant !- —
The S. M. Herald's special correspondent, in an
article on the new capital, the site of which belonged
to Robert Campbell, who came to Sydney from Cal-
cutta in 1796 (not 1799 as stated), mentions that
this pioneer had four sons, “two of whom, John
a ?^„Charles, were members of the Legislative Coun-
cil.” The “special” makes no mention of the most
notable son, Robert, who represented the City of
Sydney in the first Parliament, and was Treasurer
in the first and second Cowper Ministries (the
second and fourth under Responsible Government).
This Campbell died in harness from overwork on
March 31, 1859. John renresented Sydney Hamlets
and the Glebe in the first three Parliaments. Charles
was not in the Assemblv, but sat in the Leg. Coun-
cil from 1870 to 1888." He died in Scotland. All
the sons were born at “the wharf.”
THE DICE OF DEATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bathed in brilliant sunshine, St. Petersburg yes-
terday celebrated the tercentenary of the coming of
the Romanoff dynasty.
The streets were beautifully decorated
A lon g Procession, partly barbaric, and symbolical
ot the Russian Empire from its earliest days ac-
companied the Royal Family from the Winter Palace
to the Kazan Cathedral, the entire route being lined
by millions of cheering subjects.
The little Czarevitch was carried in the arms of
a giant Cossack.
At the end of the service the royalties returned to
the palace, once more accompanied by the rapturous
plaudits of their subjects.
—Cabled item of the week.
High on the air the banners swept their colors up-
ward to the sun;
The crash of music thrilled the hour; the shouting
crowds ; the booming gun ;
Over the arch the eagle proud ; the gleam of steel;
the prancing steed;
The walls of ancient streets and ways commemorate
of tingling deed.
The long procession threading through the rapturous
subjects of a Tsar—
This was a day of joy for him—the Ruler loved, the
Nation’s star ;
A March of Triumph for a Prince; a pageant for
a People’s King ;
The sharing of the Loving Cup; forgiving evil every-
thing.
Yet there came one with pallid lip, ringed round
with glow’ring men and armed,
Peering anon through Cossack ranks, furtive and
sad as one alarmed
Beyond repose. Nor once deceived by anthem swell
or rolling cheer.
Thus passed the fateful Tsar —the man who knew
that while there’s life there’s fear.
None knew so well, for close beside they carried
them his stricken son.
Before his eyes there rode the ghosts of Romanoffs
all foully done
By such as these that gaped, and cheered, and cursed
beneath a sharp-drawn breath —
This was no March of Joy to him : this was a game
of dice with Death!
Backward from Holy Church again, with Death
first loss upon the throw;
Once more the game of chance to play along that
open steel-framed row
That led to home, and fortress gates, and sullen
guns that hedge a Tsar
To hear the old dread words of Death: “You won,
but I shall not be far l"
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
HUGGER-MUGGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Loraine, principal boy of the “Puss in Boots”
pantomime, sold two guineas’ worth of kisses on
’Change, the proceeds of which went to the Scott
Memorial Fund.
The heroes die among the snow;
The fat man his respect to show
Invests a golden quid in kisses
From dimpled pantomimic misses.
On glory were the sailors set —
This the lip-service that they get!
VICTORIA.
S. S.


( r
gSS
I
y
\K
1 '-as
• .r.
mmM
mm
ff
*£/
X
ffrsi
7
m
m
r
n
M
I
L/i
PrWT.'T
0
8«il
r
Austral
Thin
v
-a Good
Again 1
UR ‘-AUSTRAL" SUIT is the P“blic's favente v'Sival. :1! ,he
O quality, finish and wear. We »>"• us busier than ever, although we
“Austral” Suits, 3 Guineas to £s|lo-
r i j Over one thousand materials to select from. Give us
Satisfaction fern* and catalogue of everyth,ng for m e„ s and
S„;?wGr" ct r rsGald“h„ughout Austraha. We do the rest,
GOWING BROS.,
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
, o c: 7 Q 11 13 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney
484 , 486, 488 & 490 Geor e e Street; and 3,5, 7,9, 11,


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Pans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons’ Type.
C. A. PARSONS 8 CO., Newcastle-on-Tync,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60.000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE. *
Sole Australasian
Agents—
WILLIAM
COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Pertly
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia :
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Aug., 1904.. 115,830 10 p.c.= 75,000 25,000 1,067,135
Feb., 1905.. 100,374 10 ~ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,082 509
Aug., 1905.. 100,767 10 ~ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,098,276
Feb., 1906.. 100,879 10 ~ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,114 155
Aug., 1906.. 152,251 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,151 4 0
Feb., 1907.. 227,904 14 ~ ~105,000 70,000 1,204,310
Aug., 1907.. 146,560 14 ~ ~105,0)0 10,000 1,235,870
Feb., 1908.. 145,188 14 ~ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,266,058
Aug., 1908.. 136,386 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,287,444
Feb., 1909.. 135,562 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,308 006
Aug., 1909.. 135,873 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,328,879
Feb., 1910.. 136,049 14 ~.,,105,000 10,000 1,349.928
Aug., 1910.. 141,454 14 ~ ~105,000 15,000 1,371,382
Feb., 1911.. 135,807 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,392,189
Aug., 1911.. 135,321 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1 J 12,510
Feb., 1912.. 145,257 14 ~ ~ 105,000 10,000 1:442,767
Aug., 1912.. 155,582 14 ~ ~105,000 1(493,349
For the first time for 33 years this bank has just
decided to increase its capital: not since 1880, when
it was brought up to £1,500,000, has any assault
been made on the shareholders’ pockets. In the
days of the boom, bank dividends ran up to 20 p.c. ;
but when people began to look more closely into the
figures of the cos. with which they traded, and State
banks and the like were talked of, prudent Aus:
tralian bank directors and managers set their faces
against running dividends up so high as to attract
hostile attention. If profits, grew, these wise men
decided that it was safer to let the shareholders
benefit by issuing to them shares either at par or
at. a very small premium. The Union and ’Asia,
being - directed from London, didn’t quite get the
drift of things, and pushed their dividends on past
10 p.c. Now, however, they have evidently seen the
wisdom of the other people’s policy ; and both Union
and ’Asia have announced fresh issues. The Union’s
little lot will consist of 20,000 shares, on which
£25 will be paid ; but, like all the other shares in
this bank, they will carry a liability of £5O, pay-
able, however, only on the winding-up of thebank.
And the winding-up of a bank whose reserves run
to nearly 11 mill'ons, protecting less than 17 mil-
lions of risks, seems a long way off. And it seems
still further off when it is remembered that for
years past the bank hgs been using large sums to
write down assets, and has, no doubt, accumulated a
very extensive internal reserve. Its premises in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland are valued now at only £392,293.
Fifteen years ago thev were valued at lust over
£600,000, and since then it is quite safe to say
that another £ 300,000 has been spent in new pro-
perties and additions to old ones. From this item
alone one would fudge that the position is stronger
even than it looks on paper.
And yet the issue of new shares is the right thin);
to do. Some figures in the following comparison will
help to drive in that point
Liabilities.
Aug.. 1911. Aug., 1912.
Notes .. .. £294,168 £188,949 Dec. £105,219
Hills .. .. 1,697,376 1,756,450 Inc. 59,074
Deposits .. 22,576,644 21,927,522 Dec. 649,122
biquid assets .. 10,605,996 bL *10,158,414 Dec. 447,582
Advances .. 16,454,910 16,302,674 Dec. 152,236
Premises .. 524,794 510,181 Dec. 14,613
The bank owes the public £23,872,921, and its own
visible funds amount to £2,993,349. Thus it has
nearly £8 of the public’s money at risk for every
£1 of its own; and that proportion is on the large
side—which, of course, points to the wisdom of
getting in more capital. Moreover, the bank
seems to be well able to distribute more
profit; last half-year it had £50,582 avail-
able to lay by after paying the 14 p.c. div.
The issue of new capital will kill two birds at one
shot; it will strengthen the bank’s position, and open
up a way for giving the shareholders a larger helping,
if the staff can get a larger helping, too, everything
in the garden will be lovely. The discontent of the
rank and file of the staff is the one smudge on a
fine bank. If the directors want proof of discon-
tent they should call for a return showing the num-
ber of men who have thrown up the service during
the last (say) three years.
There are no unexpected changes in the figures.
Deposits have shrunk a trifle, the natural result of a
tighter money market. Advances have kept fairly
steady; and the net movement is a shrinkage of
£447,582 in the liquid assets. Nevertheless the
liquid assets still represent 43 p.c. of all liabilities
to the public, and that is strong enough for any-
thing. In fact, it suggests that the bank, even
without the new money which will presently come
in from shareholders, is in a position to let out a
few more pounds when the right men come along
with the right securities.
* * * *
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance Co., Ltd., which is the Citizens’ Life Associa-
tion with the M.L.A. and the Australian Widows’
Fund grafted on to it, and is now generally known
as the M.L.C.: —
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1901.. £168,520 £34,282 £26,584 £107,654
1902.. 197,424 34,492 27,533 £245 135,154
1903.. 217,062 39,472 29,766 147,824
1904.. 239,820 58,450 31,894 1,531 147,945
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,545 20,572 136,051
1906.. 278,713 62,267 34,867 395 181,184
1907.. 299,001 83,803 24,190 12,925 178,083
(Amalgamation with M.L.A. took place at this point.)
1908.. 667,435 274,307 74,674 - 157,054 161,400
1909.. 692,089 321,484 58,392 1,745 310,468
(Widows’ Fund came in here.)
1910.. 941,605 481,526 84,252 2,524 373,303
1911.-1,047,150 534,801 95,864 5,275 411,210
1912.. 1,098,748 593,820 100,391 2,631 401,906
This is the other sort of office. Owing mainly to
the success of the A.M.P., which had the good
fortune to be born just at the right time, Australia
for many years believed that there couldn’t be any
but a mutual office —anyway, not one worth looking
at. That the mutual system could have weaknesses
wasn’t dreamed of. Wasn’t the success of the
A.M.P. evidence enough? Didn’t its bonuses carry
conviction? Then other mutual offices came along,
and that was unfortunate, because it proved that
success wasn’t inherent in the mutual system. There
were some mutual offices which paid miserable
bonuses; worse still, there were one or two whose
figures aroused a suspicion as to whether they could
even pay the face value of their policies. And that
suspicion set people wondering. A mutual office has
no capital. Policyholders cut up among themselves
whatever there is to cut up, be it much or little.
If there isn’t enough to go round, it is with the
mutual office just as it has been with a good many
friendly societies—somebody must go short. No-
P u ts up any money by way of guaranteeing
anything. The people who founded this co. be-
lieved there was room for an office which would
guarantee something; and its remarkable success has
proved that they were right. Of course there were
considerations Having their own capital at
. take® they claimed that they would be more vigilant
in management than would otherwise reasonably be
the case. They were never foolish enough to attack
the mutual system root and branch ; all they claimed
certainly all they had a right to claim—was that
they were strengthening those points in a mutual
office where weakness might show itself.
For a good many years the Citizens’ office was
j ® s , fran ' { as it might have been. It seemed
afraid to stand by its principles, probably because
it knew that those principles would not be gener-
ally understood. In return for its guarantees, etc.,
it asks one-fifth of the surplus' or profits divided as
bonuses. The mutual office divides all the profits
among policyholders. This office said that mutu-
ality gives you no guarantee that you will get anv
profits at all, and that five-fifths of nothing is not
much. The M.L.C. sort of office certainly doesn’t
guarantee bonuses either; but it alleges that if the
people who run the (Concern are directly and finan-
cially interested in earning bonuses, bonuses are
more likely to be earned than would otherwise be
the So these people are entitled to take one-
fitth. But formerly that one-fiftli, if taken, wasn’t
distinguished from the bonuses paid to policy-
hohlers; and in the table on top of this it isn’t in-
cluded among the expenses. Lately separate figures
have been , available ; so if you add the shareholders’
bonus to the expenses things look like this:-
Written To Re-
„„„„ Incomp - Claims. Expenses. Off. serves
1908.. £6f)7,43.=i £ ,6i 1,57 6 £86,405 £157,054 £161,400
1009.. 602,089 308,232 71,644 1,745 310 468
1910.. 941,602 1 464,638 101,140 2 524 373 300
1911.. 1,047,153 515.005 115.660 5,275 411’213
1912.. 1,098,748 571,030 123,181 2,631 40L906
Those expenses include for the past year £s23‘>
paid as retiring allowances. The first table shows
that two other offices have been incorporated with
rhe old Citizens’. Probably that has something to
do with _ these allowances. Anyway, it is a good
w hen ]t turns its old officers out, sees
that there is a bit of picking in the paddock If
you count the ordinary exes., and the shareholders’
bonus and the retiring allowances, the exes, amount
"? 4s. 2d. p.c. of the total income. But if
the shareholders’ bonus is included in that way
it has to be remembered that the policyholder gets
something in return which the mutual office can-
not offer and doesn’t pretend to —a guarantee of
the face value of the policy, plus all bonus addi-
tions This guarantee runs to the full amount of
the share capital. Assuming that the old or renewal
business cost 7 p.c. and the small annuity business
p.c., then the balance of the expenses (including
the shareholders bonus) would amount to 97 p.c.
of the new-business premiums.
But, satisfactory as these figures are, there is a
serious doubt whether it is fair to charge the bonus
JJfi tO , working exes, in this unconditional wav.
Ihe whole theory of the thing is that more profits
are earned because profits are shared by the men
who run the business; and a revenue account can’t
show those profits. The actuary’s report does
that. In all, £199,135 will be divided amongf
policyholders this year, and that is 25.4 p.c. of last
year s total premium income—a most excellent re-
sult, especially in view of the fact that large sums
have been set aside to strengthen reserves. The
bonuses include those paid on account of old M L A
and Widows’ Fund policies. The interests of the
holders of those policies are looked after by two
separate lots of trustees. The Widows’ Fund trus-
tees (who include the former chairman and man-
ager) report: “The rate of bonus represents, on the
average, an increase of 100 p.c. over the rate of
bonus distributed bv the Widows’ Fund prior to the
union.” The old M.L.A. trustees report to similar
effect, and add a most enthusiastic appreciation of
the co.—of “the sound investment of its funds the
economical management of its business, and’ the
careful and capable administration of its affairs.”
Now we come to the branch on which the society
perched to cut its teeth:—-
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds
1901.. £184,112 £43,649 £99,756 £42 £4O 665
1902.. 188,688 41,707 110,234 36’747
1003.. 192,491 53,543 103,560 35088
1904.. 201,166 58,169 89,596 53401
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55V15
1906.. 205,910 46,757 75,251 849 83’053
1907.. 235,086 55,770 82,8'0 _ 95496
1908.. 217,371 98,068 84,268 1734 33’301
1909.. 227,299 74,829 98,522 4746 49 209
1910.. 243,286 74,108 105,330 2755 61’093
1911. 264,235 65,6'>6 108,077 3916 86 636
1912.. 281,597 63,186 111,978 6196 101L237
Expenses (including interest on the guaranteeing
capital) run to about £39 15s. p.c. of the total
income; and considering the large proportion of
very small premiums which this society collects the
rate is satisfactory and much under the average
But it is poor business. Only two things can be
said m favor of it: but for it, thousands of people
wouldn’t have any insurance at all; and thousands
of others, having been got into the insuring habit
pass on to the much more desirable Ordinary branch
Last year in the Ordinary branch 12,573 policies
were issued, assuring £2,517,200. Thus the policies
averaged almost exactly £200; and when the £5OO
and £lOOO policies are remembered, it is pretty
plain that the society must have last year issued
a good many Ordinary policies for under £lOO
This system of giving the little man the benefit of
the much cheaper premiums in the Ordinary branch
is to be highly commended. And it makes the low
expense rate in that branch all the more creditable.
Finally, the newest branch—
Accident Branch.
Expenses
(including To Re- Re-
Income. Claims. Divs.). serves. serves.
1909.. £12,304
1910.. £20,098 £5,020 £6,500 £8,578 20 882
1911.. 30,164 9,052 10,994 10,118 31 000
1912.. 55,071 11,982 14,138 28,951
Practically, however, this has nothing to do with
either Ordinary or Industrial policyholders; and it
may yet be found advisable to dissociate the two
businesses. Canada, for one, does not allow a life
insurance office to carry on the more speculative
Accident business, and there is a good deal to be
said in favor of that stand. The life policyholders
in this ■■ case have a right to ask that the capital
shall be kept wholly available for guaranteeing
their policies, and shall not be jeopardised in any
other business. Up to the present, certainly, it is
in no jeopardy at all; but nobody can say what the
future of the business may be.
As hitherto, the investments of the whole busi-
ness are satisfactory. Public securities represent
45.40 p.c., mortgages 43.12 p.c., and loans on poli-
cies 8.02 p.c. of the assets. Those three items
account for 96.54 p.c. of the assets, leaving only 3.46
p.c. to represent freeholds, leaseholds, furniture and
fittings (written down to nil) , outstanding pre-
miums and uninvested cash. The average earnings
for the past year were £4 12s. 3d. p.c.—consider-
ably more than the rate for recent years, owing no
doubt to the general shrinkage in the supply of
money, and all so much to the good of the policy-
holders when bonuses are being served out
The Shamrock Brewing and Malting
Co. (Melbourne) :
Net To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1901 .. £7251 8 p.c. =£3612 £3639 £15,167
1902 .. 6644 8 „ „ 3612 3032 18,199
1903 .. 4377 8 ~ ~ 3612 765 18,964
1904 .. 5008 8 „ „ 3612 1396 20,360
1905 .. 4628 8 ~ ~ 3612 1016 21,376
1906 .. 1452 6 „ ~ 2709 20,119
Dec.,
1907 .. 624 4 ~ „ 1806 18,937
1908 .. 1608 4 ~ ~ 1806 18,739
1909 .. 3904 8 „ „ 3612 292 19,031
1910 .. 7293 10 „ „ 4515 2778 21,809
1911 .. 6817 10 ~ ~ 4515 2302 24,111
Transferred from Assets Realisation
Account, £BOOO 32,111
IQI9 17006 10 p.c. = 4515 2491 34,602
) Transferred to Capital, £33,373 1,229
This is one of the cos. in the Melbourne brewery
combine. That means that the Carlton and United
Breweries, Ltd., took over its business and shut up
its premises. In return, the Shamrock got shares
of a face value of £72,500 in the C. and U. 8., Ltd.
The difference between that amount and the value
of the plant, rolling stock and other tangible assets
transferred was put by the Shamrock Co. into an
Assets Realisation Account. In other words, a part
of that £72,500 was represented by nothing tangi-
ble, and to make the accounts balance, a reserve
was created on the other side. In the table, that
fund, being of course also intangible, hasn’t been in-
cluded with the reserves. As at December 31, 1911,
it amounted to £48,923. The amount has now been
cut into as follows: £BOOO has been transferred to
Profit and Loss account, £23,208 has been wisely
used to write down brewery and malt-house pro-
perty, and the balance ( £17,715) remains to the
credit of the account. The brewery and malt-house
now stand- in the books at» £16,000. The writing-
down is the proper thing, because, if the C. and
U. B. shares have any goodwill value, it springs from
the concentration of business and the closing-up of
superfluous beer-factories, with the consequent de-
tructiop of their value as beer-factories. The transfer
of any part of the paper item to the P. and L.
account is more questionable. But there was this
reason: the directors wanted to restore the Bs. 6d.
per share written off in 1897. and the other reserves
were a bit short of the necessary amount. With
the transfer, the capital becomes £78,525 instead
of £45,152 ; so it looks as though the shareholders won’t
get any more 10 p.c. divs. for a while. Still, that won’t
affect the hard cash distributed. For the past year
the revenue was £6514 from the combine, and
£lO6l from rents, interest, etc. ; and exes, absorbed
£568. In addition to the combine shares and the
brewery, the co., on December 31, had £4394 in
freehold pubs and £7687 in advances, deposits and
other assets. But the C. and U. B. lately issued
some 7 p.c. pref. shares, and as this co. took up its
proportion ( £7250 worth), it has, presumably, had
a word with its banker before this. And no doubt
he was affable, for on December 31 the co.’s total
liabilities were only £855.
Melbourne Co-operative Brewery Co. :
Trade Written
Julv, Profit. Bonus. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
1904.. £l9l
Jan., Reserves.
1995.. £8,858 £2,782 50 p.c. = £2,816 £1715 £1,354
Premiums on new shares. £6,094.. 7,448
1906.. 27,679 10,276 110 p.c. = 10,180 4000 10,671
Premiums on new shares, £18,084.. 28,755
1907. 32,325 12,567 761 pe. = 12,543 2347 33,623
Premiums on new shares, £299.. 33,922
1908.. 14,175 784 p.c. = 14,001 3703 38,197
Premiums on new shares, £473.. 38,670
1909.. 32,536 16,167 86§ p.c. = 15,640 2049 37,450
Premiums on new shares, £17,347.. 54,797
1910.. 31,6 >1 15,020 734 p.c = 15,679 1000 54,789
Premiums on new shares, £1,323 56.112
1911.. 48,849 18,778 90 p.c.= 19,006 6505 60,672
Premiums on new shares, £445 .. 61,117
1912.. 62,871 21,868 109 p.c.= 21,635 7703 72,782
Premiums on new shares, £27,021.. 99,803
1913.. 62,684 24,153 100 p.c. = 24,328 9037 194,969
The Labor party ought to get this co.’s annual
accounts republished and send a copy to every poli-
tician and alderman in the country, along with a
little dissertation on the advantages of doing things
for yourself. The Railway Commissioner who can’t
see the advantage of having his own coal mine
should also be presented with a copy. Wade, V.C.,
should get a special note reminding him that the
rule applies to bricks as well as beer. The position
was just this. Nine years ago various hotel-keepers
who poured a sea of beer into the mouth of Mel-
bourne decided that it would be good business to hr
their own brewer. Beer-making under average con-
ditions is good business ; but they figured it out that
it should be extra-good in this case, seeing that they
wouldn’t have to chase themselves at great expense
to get their own custom, and pursue themselves at
further great expense to collect the money from
themselves, and write off large sums for bad debts
through failing to pay themselves what they owed
themselves. Things turned out just as they figured.
As soon as a start had been made, other people
wanted to come in, and they were let in on payment
of a stiff nremium. As the business grew, and more
money was wanted, more shares were issued at pre-
miums that grew no smaller. The first lot of shares
issued consisted of 22,525 of 10s., subsequently cut
up into 45,050 of ss. There are now 108,082. and
the premiums have totalled £71,086, so the 63,032
issued since the first lot have cost on an average
275. 6d. apiece. The 21,476 sent to market last
year averaged over 30s. On that lot, of course, the
100 p.c. div. is really 16 p.c. Existing shareholders
had the sole right to apply for these shares. The
report says that nearly all those offered were taken.
This paper doesn’t doubt it.
Some more Co-operative figures:—
1905. 1910. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital .. £11,262 £21,399 £21,588 £21,651 £27,021
Debts, over-
draft, etc. 5,907 16,345 24,373 21,086 15,516
B uildin gs
and plant 15,597 68,322 77,182 79,460 102 790
Book debts 6,783 24,442 29,101 33,654 35’ 982
Slocks .. 1,424 8,664 10,087 13,074 18 634
Cash, etc. .. 317 894 1.240 2,233 4,598
Liabilities, which showed a tendency to run up, have
had the halter put on them; they don’t now equal
the value of the stock in hand. Depreciation seems
to be well provided for, and, altogether, the position
is excellent. As for profits, they are cut up as nearly
as can be into two equal parts: one part is divided
on the basis of shares, the other on that of trade
The distribution for the last quarter of the year has
had to he estimated, so the figures in the last line of
the first table may be a few pounds out.
Certainly a co-op. co., supplying itself with its
own beer, could show wonderful figures by the simple
process of charging, itself more than “the market
price, and repaying itself the extortion in the shape
of div. and bonus. A balance-sheet naturally throws
no light on such things-.. And The Bulletin doesn’t
know more than the balance-sheet tells.
FMily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (Syd-
ney) •’ — v -
Bonus to
Share-
Net Dividend, holders Re-
Profit. (121 p.c.). (in shares), serves.
1906 ..
1907 .. £40,885 £16,638 £16,900 63’433
1908 .. 36,946 18,750 15 000 66 699
1909 . . 44,074 20,625 16 500 73 578
1910 .. 50,374 22,687 83115
1911 • • 55,256 24,956 19,970 93’445
1912 .. 56,892 27,452 30,380 92 505
The co. was formed in 1884, but made slow progress
in its early years. With the '9o’s, its capital being
then £50,000, it started to pay 12* n c .n
that rate has ever since been "maintained, V
table shows, the dividend is now, howevpr „ , the
small part of the meal. In 1897 the pleasant y a
tice was adopted of capitalising profits • and tn prac '
table shows what has been done in that
figures indicate the amount of the capital afw
year s appropriation : ttl e
1897 .. ..£50,000 1900 ..
1898 .. .. 57,500 1907 ..
1899 .. .. 60,100 1908 .. "
1900 .. .. 66,100 1909 .. "
1901 . . . . 66,100 1910 . . ''
1902 . . . . 75,000 1911 .. "
1903 . . . . 85,000 1912 . . "
1904 .. ..100,000 1913 .. " oi’S
1905 .. '. . 110,000 ‘ U ’ ooo
So the capital has been multiplied by five in n-
years, and to the man who held shares in 1897 tv,
present div. alone is equal to 62$ p C On ton t
that he gets his bonus. Capitalising the bonus dis-
tribution for last year at 6 p.c„ it adds another m
p.c. to his original investment. Total for the voo,
188 i p.c. It isn’t so bad—for the man who mHn
at par prior to 1897. For the man who gets
now things are rather different. Present nrW Y,
about £64 for the £lO shares. If one share in
nine is distributed for the current year, dividend »,i
bonus will call for £59,030; and if the co does
that it will do very well indeed, in view of all
round increases in the cost of producing a news'
paper. The man who buys nine shares now navs
(say) £576 for them. His one bonus share wifi in
12 months reduce that to about £512. His div
will be £ll ss. So for the first vear his invest
ment will yield him about £2 3s. p.c. On his nine
shares he would have to get six bonus shares and
sell them for £64 each, to make his present invest
ment at £64 return him 6 p.c. This is discounting
the future with a vengeance.
As profits have been made and capitalised thev
have mostly been put on deposit; of the balance
£28.019 has been put into a freehold at the comer
of King and Castlereaedi streets. The lease now
held by the co. in King-street expires in 1916
and the co. will forthwith make a big hole in its
cash resources by putting up a skyscraper, some
of which, no doubt, will be let off. This shows
what the liquid assets are, and how they have
grown:—
, 1907. 1911. 1912.
Liquid assets .. £132,751 £236,373 £261,265
Liabilities . . 6,023 7,034 4,495
Surplus .. .. £126,728 £229,339 £256,770
Of that amount, about £210,000 was hard cash on
December 31. The future depends, of course, almost
wholly, on the future of the Daily Telegraph.
’There is no goodwill item among the assets ; but the
market valuation gives the co. a goodwill of about
£1,200,000, and that is a heap of money to de-
pend on anything so intangible and uncertain. It is
hard to imagine a well-known and established daily
paper suddenly starting to wilt; yet very well-
known London papers have wilted very quickly; and
though there is no sign at all of it in this'ease-
on the contrary, there are signs of a still greater
flourish—the risk is one for the investor to keep in
mind.
Hotel Metkopole, Ltd. (Sydney), which
began in 1905 with a deficit of £BB2 representing
preliminary expenses;-
Dividends.
Net Pref. To Ke- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1906.. £10,758 £lO5O fip.c. = £4,500 £5,208 £4,326
1907.. 12,891 1050 6,, ~ 4,500 7,341 11,667
1008.. 14,573 1050 7,, ~ 5,250 8,273 19,940
1900.. 14,400 1050 81,, ~ 6,375 7,065 27,006
1910.. 17,208 1050 Bs., „ 6,375 9,783 36,788
t'25,"00 transferred to capital .. .. 11,788
Profit on investment, £45,600 .. .. 57,.388
Bonus on ord. shares (37$ p.c.), £37,500 10,888
1911.. 18.465 1050 lOp.e. = 10,000 7,415 27,303
Bonus on pref. shares, £4377 .. .. 22,926
£20,000 transferred to capital .. .. 2,926
1912.. 21,152 230 10 p.c. = 10,000 10,922 131848
This is another concern whose historv ought to be
r.wd and digested by the public men of the country.
The business was run for many years by the Aus-
tralian Coffee Palace Co., of Melbourne; and it
wasn’t a brilliant success. The premises cost the
co. something over £138,000. To relieve itself
somewhat this co. helped a new co. into life, and
this new co. took the premises over at £lOO,OOO.
But as it didn’t have £lOO,OOO, and needed some
till-monev, it had to take a mortgage. The very
capable men who were at the back of things de-
cided that they would get the money cheaper if
they undertook to forego a solid amount of profits
mid apply the money to the reduction of the debt.
They, therefore, bound the co. not to pay more than
6 p.c. until the place was free. Business improved
under good financial control. Then, having money
in hand, the directors decided to invest a bit of it
in the Australia Hotel, whose ownership and con-
trol were just being transferred to this side. Out of
that deal the co. made over £45,000 —-something
like 110 p.c.—in about 12 months. These three
things explain the recent bonuses: (1) The taking
over of the valuable freehold at a low price; (2)
the foregoing of dividends in the early days and the
paying-off of debt out of profits; and (3) the fine
deal in Australia shares. One other transaction
calls for a word. To raise a necessary £17,000
from outside at the beginning, the promoters had to
offer a 6 p.c. preference. About a year ago an offer
was made to the pref. shareholders to buy them
out at a small premium. The table shows £4377
paid as a bonus on pref. shares. That reallv is the
premium paid by the co. to get rid of the pref.
capital; and the £230 of pref. dividend paid dur-
ing the year was the small amount of interest due
to March, 1912, when the capital was repaid. There
are now, therefore, only ordinary (“B”) shares.
On December 31 these represented £lOO,OOO of
capital; and another £20,000 is now added from
reserves. The business has been very profitable
during the year; but the figures are no doubt ab-
normal. Australia has been enjoying probably un-
precedented prosperity—a lot of it artificial, the
result of furious borrowing—and a travellers’ hotel,
such as the Metropole, gains as much from a burst
of national extravagance as almost anything. The
figures are. therefore, practically certain to be far
less favorable presently. The cheerful thing in the
shareholders’ eyes is, no doubt, that the profits can
wilt a lot before the 10 p.c. div. js- in jeopardy.
* * * *
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, 1905.. £llll 15 p.c. = £750 £361 £7,775
Dec., 1905.. 1205 15 ~ ~ 750 455 8,230
June, 1906.. 997 15 ~ ~ 750 247 8,477
Dec., 1906.. 1079 16 ~ ~ 750 H? 9 8,806
June, 1907.. V>73 15 ~ 750. 523 9,329
Dec.. 1907 . 1097 15 ~ ~ 750 347 9,676
June,l9oB.. 1216 15 ~ 750 466 10,142
Deo., 1908.. 972 15 ~ ~ 750 222 10,364
June,1909.. 1117 15 ~ ,’ 750 367 10,731
Dec., 1909.. 872 15 ~ ~ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910.. 1090 1 5 ~ „ 750 340 11,193
Dec., 1910... 412 15 „ „ 750 10,855
June, 1911.. 1081 15 ~ ~ 750 331 11,186.
Dec., 1911.. 851 15 ~ ~ 750 101 U-£B7
June, 1912.. 1174 15 ~ ~ 750 424 U,711
Reserves disappeared (apparently
distributed), £7982 .. .. 3,729
Dec., 1912.. 509 8 p.c. = 400 109 3 838
That is all you can get out of the published
accounts; but, then, gas cos.’ - accounts in 'N- S.
\\ ales are rotten. These cos. have had a good
thing on; they have lived in constant terror of
municipal competition; and they have, therefore,
practised a policy of smother so persistently that
now they hide things without rhyme or reason.


The Pacific Cable Board
(Ot which the Commonwealth of Australia is
' the largest part owner).
U.0.A., NEW ZEALAND.
RATESi-U K.. 3/
2/4; CERMANY, 3
Canada and U.S.A.,
FIJI, Bd. per word,
om 2/4; ’ ’
VIA PACIFIC ” (Signalled free of charge).
Cvdney the Hoard has its own offices
for dealing direcr, with the
at 40 Hpntrr * INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams ;
Public for Cable Terminus at Southport.
ffis office all Standard Code-Books may be
At this omce a , aces in Commonwealth
consulted. At . ~v , a PACIFIC ” are accepted
messages m^ rat ,h office New Zealand cable-
at ams St 4W per word. “VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
Cms, 6 Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
. Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
“Melbourne; or lo’u.hport, Queensland.
■
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
executor,
administrator,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £25,C>00,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Svdnev, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would" be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the Is. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, bv the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all'the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the 1 arnlev
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bells Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Svdney.*
* . * *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* 1-4
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices. *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE can be quickly connected
to anv existing lines. No caulking is required at
the ioints, and it can be tapped under pressure by
unskilled labor. Get priced catalogue from the
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd. ; Balmain, Sydney.
Economy. Scrap your old steam or gas plant and
buv new. This is good advice, for a modern plant
such as we can supply will pay for itself in two or
three years in fuel alone. Consult us about your
power propositions. Ilaes and Eggers, Ltd., 163
Clarence Street, Sydney.* # ,
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.* * » *
T w <5TYT.ES & SON, Machinery Auctioneer,
Ag J ents W and Sr 7aluers, < Tuckett Chambers 361 Colhns
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J- W. St, ,
24 years expert salesman.) *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* » * *
Menhan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, engineers,
etc of Melbourne, having completed their contracts,
eiC ’’ about £150 000, for the manufacture
amTsupplv of Lockinsrbar steel pipes, for Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, are now removing all
machinery to Melbourne works to manufacture similar
nines for the new (VShannessy water scheme for Mel-
bourne water supply, the cost of which will be over
£100,000. The work is to be completed within 1-
months.* # * *
Messrs. Babcock k Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.* # »
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
CoSSPJoK 483 Collins Melbourne,
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us tor
ventors’ Guide.*
ydney! and at Melbourne, for Particulars concerning
Sc 800 SSfMndwl” gclirdcr. to
• Stea sass “v'r
rain - weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
Xces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
Patents. —Consult W.SIGMONT Certificated Patent
ittorney (by exam.), Mech. and J^Hon^ree* '
lastlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
In this case, having something over £lO,OOO of a
liquid surplus in hand, the directors evidently took
alarm at the Gas Bill, and divided most of the
money —it may have been £7500 or it may have
been £8000; probably it was the latter. In other
words, without a reduction of capital, the original
shareholders got 15s. or 16s. of their 20s. back. They
might have capitalised their reserves, and made their
capital £20,000 instead of the old £10,000; but
they preferred the cash. And they will probably be
sorry, because, though the provisions of the Gas Act
as to standard charges and dividend don’t apply to
this co. (unless it has been very lately
added to the schedule to the original mea-
sure), there is no doubt that it would
not at any time have been put on a worse footing
than the cos. named in the Act. That is to say, it
could have been sure of being allowed to pay 10
p.c. on £20,000 if it brought up its capital to that
amount. Now it is probable that if it increases its
capital beyond £lO,OOO, unless it does it very
promptly, it won’t be allowed to draw more than
6 p.c. on the excess.
■* * * »
The Charters Towers Gas Co. (Q.) ;
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Oct., 1904.. £1375 10 p.c. = i 1050 £lOO £225 £2624
Apl., 1905.. 985 10 ~ „ 1060 2559
Oct., 1905.. 1438 10 ~ „ 1050 100 288 2847
Apl., 1906.. 603 10 ~ ~ 1050 2400
Oct., 1906 . 1345 10 ~ ~ 1050 100 195 2595
Apl., 1907.. 999 10 ~ ~ 1050 2544
Oct., 1907.. 1039 10 ~ ~ 1050 125 2408
Apl., 1908.. 930 10 ~ 1050 2288
Oct., 1908.. 1208 10 ~ „ 1050 200 2246
Apl., 1909.. 767 8 ~ ~ 840 2173
Oct., 1909.. 887 8 ~ ~ 840 47 222 >
Apl., 1910.. 337 Nil 337 2220
Dec., 1910.. 1377 Nil 597 780 3000
June, 1911.. 1340 Nil 650 690 3690
Dec., 1911.. 1308 10 p.c. = 1063 500 3435
June, 1912.. 1116 Nil 616 500 3935
Dec., 1912.. 1166 5 p.c. = 530 600 36 3971
In 1910 this co. bought out the little local electric
light concern; it paid £6500 for the outfit, and
had to go to the bank for most of the money. Two
years ago the overdraft was £4971 ; but the direc-
tors have kept their nose to the pick, and the debt
has been reduced to £BO4 —a very satisfactory per-
formance indeed. Considerable amounts, it will be
seen, have been written off against depreciation.
This is in addition to money spent on maintenance.
The future of the co. depends, of course, entirely on
the goldfield; and local mining prospects are not
bright. In fact, except in one or two patches, they
are very gloomy. Stock in this co., therefore, isn’t
for a man who wants to sleep on his investments.
* * * *
An unostentatious Sydney “float” is the
Coastal Tugs Co., whose leading spirits appear to
be directors or servants of Allen Taylor and Co.,
the North Coast S.N. Co., and other firms interested
in the Northern River (N.S.W.) trade. This trade
is depending on the services of tugs which are State
subsidised to the extent of £BOOO a year. The
tugs also, of course, earn towage money. In re-
turn for its subsidy the Government does not get 6d.
directly or indirectly. It seems that the timber
people are dissatisfied with the service provided,
and also don’t see why the rich subsidy should go to
outsiders. Hence they have put up £lO,OOO to buy
a few tugs which will cut in for the Government
contracts. Then the people alreadv in the trade will
control the tugs, pocket the subsidies, plus the tow-
ages, and have a still firmer grip on the North
Coast business. It is a good move, and the wonder
is that it was not put in train long ago. Still it is
a greater wonder that the Government doesn’t run
its own tugs instead of heavily subsidising some-
body else’s.
* * * *
The war over the picture shows, in which
a heap of public money is now invested, or specu-
lated, grows keener. The co-operative movement of
the leading city showmen has been naturally fol-
lowed bv a similar action among the suburban
ditto There is a scheme afoot in Melbourne for
the importation of vaudeville artists who will appear
in conjunction with a cinematograph entertainment
at a number of picture theatres—three or four a
night—drawing their salary from the management
of the circuit. This “combined-show” scheme is
onlv in the negotiation stage at present, but the
Co-onerative Film Exchange Co., Dtd., is already
on the market. This co. will cater for showmen
(outside the other combine) in Victoria and South
Aus. Capital £30.000, in 60.000 shares of 10s
each, of which 40,000 are offered .to independent
showmen and the public. Profit available after pay-
ment of a 10 p.c. div. is to go towards allowing
discount up to 10 P.c. to the film-hirers, so the show-
man shareholder will get a bit both wavs if the
business nourishes. And it is for the showmen to
make the business flourish. The prospectus is not
unreasonable in estimating a profit of £2500 a year
for shareholders over and above a discount of £1950
a vear allowed to film-hirers. Nor is the promoter
unreasonable. He wants 10.000 paid shares which he
can deal with as he likes in promoting and procur-
ing shareholders. The other 10.000 will be held in
reserve. „ *
* * *
Finney. Isles and Co.. Ltd. (Brisbane),
pay an interim div. Jit the rate of 8 p.c. P* a * #
T?e Skinner’s, TAd.. and apropos some
Bfllftin remarks of 27/2P13, “V.R.C.” points out
that the prospectus shows that £7500 is being paid
for goodwill. It is mentioned in the information
embodied in this prospectus in accordance with the
Companies Act 1910” that “£7500 of the above
amount Tto be paid for the business] livable for
goodwill ” The total amount navahle to the
vendors is £25.000 in fully-naid share* and
£16.500 in eash. But no valuation 0 . ,
assets is nut forward; and no „
statement of nrofits is made. This pnner.
therefore repeats that Hie p-msnectus is lust about
as bad as auv prospectus co-dd.be. The mm thing
to which “V R C ” draws attention, and which ma ,
or mar not mean somethin,,, is that two^wbo
hP o r n tbe ' directorate, though
Wilson’s name isn’t the prospectus. #
tJ vp „ r N. s. Wales produced
949 worth of minerals or £1,616/430
fidTSWer”' spelter, cooper
castle Wallsend’s dividend brought its toiai
£917,500 —the highest aggregate for any coal mine
in the State. The State’s output of coal and coke for
the year was valued at £3,660,015.
* * # *
Y Water Extended, Emmaville (N.S.W.),
operating on the Graveyard deep lead, has suspended
work at an interesting stage. A shaft sunk in the
middle of the pronerty struck a heavy flow of water
in the drift underlying the basalt. This, though a
favorable indication for good wash values under-
neath, was too much for the small pumping plant.
Funds also ran out, but a £2 call has just been
made. With good management and a reasonable
amount of capital this property still has a very
good sporting chance.
* * *
Grafton Copper Co. (N.S.W.) is jubilant
over a make of ore passed through in “A” level
crosscut. Not enough work has, however, been done
to prove its value to the mine. Some addition to
the reserves is very badly needed, as development
work is very far behind-hand. The new find may
help the co. over a critical period; but at
present its value is extremely problematical, as the
occurrences of ore in the lower level are erratic, and
show a nasty tendency to pinch out unexpectedly.
* * **• *
At the Vegetable Creek tin mine,.Emma-
ville (N.S.W.), the principal feature is the crosscut
from Allen’s shaft. This is just at the moment hung
tip, pending the installation of a more powerful
boiler. Water is making freely in the face of the
crosscut, and a very little more work will show the
value of the gutter at this point. At the Rock
shaft and Chandler’s shaft things are drab. The
former serves to keep the pot boiling, with the aid
of an occasional call. The latter has been most dis-
appointing throughout, extremely rich wash being
struck from time to time, but never an extensive
body. A good hole of wash at Allen’s shaft would
give the co. a lift that it is almost desperately fn~
need of.
* * * *
The cloud of witnesses in the B. H. Junc-
tion-Junction North Equity case has disnersed, and
now Justice Rich is to have his say. But no matter
what he says it won’t end the cat-fight. In view of
the heavy expense it was at an early stage suggested
that the Junction North should buv its neighbor out;
but the Junction North neoule have a much poorer
opinion of the Junction than the Junction people
have. In fact, their opinion of the show is even
poorer than The Bulletin's.
Chairman Herman Landau was not so
bullish as he was expected to be at
the Associated Northern meeting. With the
air of a man who had missed the market,
he said that some time must elapse before
it would be possible to tell whether the co. had
in the Victorious leases at Ora Banda a really large,
permanent property, and added: “I do not wish you
to run away with the idea that we have discovered
a Bank of England.” A dividend, he said, might
be expected this month or next. The Associated
Northern block at Kalgoorlie was terselv alluded to
as an almost worked-out property which had pro-
duced £1,649,042, paid close upon £BOO,OOO in
dividends, and provided a considerable amount of
cash to acquire and equip new shows and for invest-
ment in gilt-edged securities. As regards the co.’s
Mexican venture, Landau regretted to say that it
was in a state of “suspended animation,” and that
goings-on in its vicinity were still exciting.
Gimlet, at Ora Banda (W.A.). is again in
the market. Oroya Links had it under option for
a time, but after' spending a few thousands in hard
country, that co. came to the conclusion that for
a concern with over a million shares the show was
a bit on the small side, and regretfully withdrew.
Later on the late-lamented Gwalia South came
along, but left without making a deal. Little or
nothing was then heard about the property until a
few weeks ago, when a special report on it by the
State mining engineer was issued. Since then a
likelv buyer from London has been buttonholed, and
in the event of help not coming from this quarter
an eastern flotation will prohahlv be attempted. In
that case the most will no doubt be made of recent
develonments in the mile-awav Victorious leases
worked by the Associated Northern. #
Improved conditions are indicated in the
warden’s report on the Northampton lead field
CW A.) for 1912. For many years mining wai
practically down and out in this district: but a
revival which started a little over 12 months ago
has had great help from the rise m the price of
lead. Baddera—the principal mine—is owned bv
the Fremantle Smelting Co., and from it 11,000
tons were extracted and treated last year for a r -
coverv of 1927 tons of lead concentrates Several
neighboring shows are producing in a way.
On December 31. Great Boulder [W.A.J
was reckoned by manager Hamilton to have 062,916
Tons in sight, of an approximate gross value of
£2.025,299. Compared with the fibres of 12
months ago this estimate*£>
that a the partlv deleloned blocks of ore still to be
taken into account above 2500 ft. are now few, and
that pavahle ones below that denth are fewer still,
next year’s estimate is likely to show a much greater
falling off both in quantity
After the usual hitches and adjustments
Whim Well (W.A.) announces that its new Murex
is shaping well. Assuming it gets through its
stipulated 200 tons a day, profits, with copper at
£6O per ton, are estimated at £50,000 per annum.
Last year they totalled £23,683. #
Tdn H (W.A.) shares had something re-
sembling a flutter in London recently on a report
that prospects were improved at depth, that the co.
bad acquired an option over 3000 acres of oil land
in some outlandish locality, anJ that an alluvial tm
interest had been secured m Cornwall. me co.
stated on bad authority to also have its eye on a
skating rink in Trebizond and hop garden.
Greenbushes (W.A.) is livening up in
to make the most out of the present high
price of tin There is increased activity at a num-
ber of shows, while others are following suit on a
smaller scale Most of the wash is being treated
fry dredging and sluicing with remunerative results
one big man’s monthly income being put down at
csnn A new find recently located on portion of
fctoWVto also tnrninfrr, t oS'"-»d”. d 'hJ.M™
profitably mined for a width of 30ft. and a neignr o
from 4ft. to 6ft. # *
Afpekatharra (W.A.) has afforded further
of f/-st one of its mea
fAWenKetf * a^atioj
from which the owners have obtained most
and Oroya's th? «" in
formation on wMoh it is oprratimr.
Toora Tin (Vic.) is being introduced to
London by a leaflet, which says little but means a
lot. Capital is £ 75,000 in ss. shares, which are
started on the market at a premium of 25 p.c.
London prying people want to be told why on
earth the biggest sluice-pump in existence is being
put on a mine which does not tell its illustrious
ancestry in the financial puff-rags. Tom Birkbeck
and W. A. Mercer appear to be poling the mine in
Victoria, and, of course, one of the Robbies has a
hand in the float. How isn’t clear, but he is put
down as a vendor to take £4500 cash and £22,000
in shares. Mercer then trips in to get £28,000
cash, but there appears to be some sort of an
arrangement by which two London d'rectors each
take £9333 from Robbie and Mercer. Totting figures
up. the vendors’ cut runs into £32,500 cash and
£22,000 in shares. This is E. and O. E. If with-
out error, the vendors’ cut out of £75,000 is on
the big side. Wads of scrip go thus: 199,200 to W.
A. Mercer, 30,595 to H. F. Lockyer, 18,000 to J. P.
Anderson, 10,000 to A. P. Ash and 6000 to G. C.
Lush. This Gippsland venture is being handled by
the people who made the recent Oxide deal. Hence,
no doubt, Captain Richard's visit.
» * * *
Cain was raised at Bendigo the other day
because one of the brokers got in early and cheaply
over a parcel of Derby United shares. As he had
no competitor to face when tendering, he was allotted
the scrip. Very shortly afterwards the stock rose
100 p.c. on a mine development. Shareholders didn’t
quarrel with the way of things, but the Stock Ex-
change started to piay a hand. There was talk of
knocking the stock off the list for three months, as
if that would stop the public from buying and sell-
ing if it wished to indulge. The end was smoke,
and very thin at that, because the sensible men
wanted to know why any sane man should pick up
shares if he didn’t fancy there was a rise ahead.
Another London group is on the hunt in
Gippsland. This is the Mines Assets Purchase Co.,
which has for its head young mining engineer
Dyason. He has been out after the old Maude and
Homeward Bound mine, Glen Wills, which for so
long was one of the mainstays of Alec Peacock’s
office. Finally it drifted into the liquidator’s hands.
The resurrection is to take the place of a 50,000 share
co. Vendors and the London concern grab 20,000,
leaving 30,000 shares to be issued among shareholders
of the Mines Assets Co. as paid up to 15s. for Is. 6d.
cash —which will provide mighty little capital to go
on with. As to the Maude’s future it may be
remarked that the mine was a “stringer” for years,
but it had a crowd in it that didn’t care much for
calls, preferring to get their bit out of tributors.
Hansel Monday, alias the Great Chaf-
finch, is to be helped by £2500 from the Vic. Mines
Department. The co. (which started so sensationally
at Southern Cross, and then shifted to Bendigo) gets
the money conditionally on its pushing down the
shaft below where it stopped when Rutter Clarke
shut down on his development work on the Carshal-
ton line. The shaft is down 400 ft., so a fair start
has been made with the deep sinking work that Ben-
digo loves. The co. has about £lO,OOO in its pocket
and went to Bendigo because of some sort of promise
that it would get a subsidy. But Peter Mcßride
jibbed at fulfilling the half-promise, because he
didn’t think mining grants were intended for people
with funds. This policy nearly drove the Chaffinch
crowd out of Bendigo, which wanted the side line
tested at someone else’s expense. So a little come-
’ither has been used, and the foreigner gets his bribe
of £2500 to stop. Good for Bendigo—and good,
perhaps, for the Chaffinch. # #
The Cooktown (Q.) people, especially the
old-timers, hang on to their faith in the Maytown
reefs. They have raised £3ooo' as the nucleus of a fund
to re-open and try the Ida and Just in Time line ;
and the Government has promised £4500 towards
the same desirable object. The annual loss of in-
terest on the Cooktown-Laura railway is reckoned
to more than justify this Government outlay. A
co. is to be formed and a prospectus issued shortly.
John Darling, of S. Aus., who bought the
residuum of Stannary Hills, is punching away at the
Dead Finish. The Finish lode is, with the excep-
tion of the Lass o’ Gowrie, the best-defined in the
district. In fact, those two are the only tin lodes
opened, so far, that make any pretence to have
decent walls and length. The Lass also is lifting
her somewhat diminished head, as 60 tons of ore,
valued at 50 p.c., were recently shipped to the
smelters. * » *
The main shaft at the Chillagne Co.’s Ein-
asleigh (Q.) has been sunk 10ft. in ore, averaging
2 6 p.c. and improving towards the footwall. There ap-
pears to be a big make below No 4 level, and away
from the main lode. The new find is silicious, so
we shall probablv hear more about it as a concen-
trating proposition. The Einasleigh is still .supply-
ing Chillagoe with 5 p.c. ore. The reserves m sight
are however, very moderate. The mill at the
Etheridge gold mines is closed down, so the smelt-
ing return will not be helped , from that source
Cheaper coke from the new Mulligan mines will, of
course, be an advantage, but what is wanted more
than anything else is a regular supply ° re -
most encouraging news comes from Klondvke, a
copper mining district, 20-odd miles
The Chieftain, belonging to the Mammoth Co., is
crosscutting through a make of chalcopyrite ore,
assaving 10 p.c. copper. But for the present Chilla
goe won’t benefit, as the co. smelts its own ore.
The Beehive tin show (Q-), .latdy de-
scribed here, is on the market. Co. is to be n
ak nnn -Pi shares The vendors take £5OOO in
cash (half of it to come out of profits) and 22,000
paid £1 shares, so their bite isn’t excessive, as
things go. The surface dirt is unquestionably rich,
and there is a verv good chance of finding true lodes
(anart from the proved contact lode) on the pro-
perty. » * *
New* Queen Cross. Charters Towers, has
declared its first 3d. dividend frorn the Moonstone
reef Concentrates and. bronght un the
total value - of the crushing to £ 4078. wh,eh
to*'the
Pawn’s’boundary connecting with the latter co. s
No. 2 level. * * *
Pioneer Tin (Tas.) works at hi eh pres-
-1 1 -L-nt mine record being as follows
sure, the recent mine re g tr „ am Recovery
Cnb.vds. tin Per°"h\d-
(drift). Cost. (tons). (lbs.).
JunOOOn. to M96^00 6 . 794 d. 4,526 UB7B
5i 3076/-18 h8t ° 310,700 4’825d. 222*5 I’M
%712m 9to 417,300 4*715d. 245*85 1’32
This means that the hig Bo . ca lled pavable zone
ttvan rove t t
into a field that s much, despite a
as valueless. Costs na e * q{ a b j sser outlav on
wag* Sd dearer
h7l7y7ar dIV The a second string to the co.’s bow is the
east-coast Argonaut leases, which should he heard
from this month. As Cecil Ryan doesn’t take risks,
this show should send more shekels into the Gibbs-
Bright office, with, no doubt, an accompanying big
com. on the tin business transacted.
In spite of the tin boom and the mine s
reported improvements, the Vulcan (Q.) makes a
poor showing for the half-year to Feb. 10. The
financial result was a loss of £808. For this the
heavy battery charges are largely responsible: 3920
tons went through the Irvinebank Co.’s mill
at a cost of £3791, including £3239 for crushing
alone. The return was only £9936. Nor do the
directors say anything very cheerful about the look of
things underground at any point. Values nearly
everywhere got poorer as the half-year’s work went
on. ' The co. has £4675 of cash in hand, and with
that it will poke about.
In 1912 the Transvaal gold mines pro-
duced 9,124,299 fine oz. valued at £38,757,560, lick-
ing 1911 (the previous best year) by nearly a
million oz. in weight and 3J millions in value.


Under
Royal
Warrant
CHAMPAGNE (
Ciiaries Heidsierk
SHIMS
g
CHaMPAGWC
O^lesHddsiedc
Reims
rgy
.v.vlv;
v.
V.
FARMER’S
SYDNEY
SPECIAL
TncATDE Dinncp
tVEPY FRIDAY EVEnmO
TABLE D'HOTE 4/ s
cnrwricE * central pitt St doors «
ELEVATOR /e, FIFTH FLOOR
BUCHANAN’S
BlacK ®. White
3V
r ?’
m
A GRAND SPIRIT
Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, March 10. 1913.
My Dear Arini.—
The Chelmsfords have departed in a flood
of fulsome flattery. Lord Chelmsford has
been described as a kind of super-man, a
being of so great and lofty a .mind that he
must have blushed at the god-like attributes
ascribed to him in sundry after-dinner
speeches—if a Conservative peer can blush
to hear that he is more than mortal.
Mrs. Cocks, Sydney’s Mayoress, gave a
farewell tea-party to Lady Chelmsford. The
latter looked worn, and mildly weary of the
last fortnight’s adulation, but was, other-
wise, in a gentle, lamb-like frame of mind
at Friday’s crush. The Town Hall nest set
aside for the Mayoress and her feminine
mends and acquaintances, and the bun of
peace, was filled to the doormat. Aide
de Moleyns leaned up against the mantel-
piece and suffered the attentions of various
feminine admirers with cheerful resignation,
it was one of his final appearances, and he
beamed on the company over the fence of a
tour-inch collar.
A/r S^ me , of th ? S° wns worn at the Municipal
Mothers good-bye to Lady Chelmsford had
the hurried look of having been hastily
dragged away from moth-balls to meet the
exigencies of a sudden cold snap. Many of
the best frocks were taking their final sum-
ltk a f : dr to ease off the unex-
ct®d P hlll in the air A wing or two laid
on to the sides of small hats gave a hint of
millinery-to-be, but the floral wide-brimmed
headgear still buried the average female
tace to its eyelashes.
Captain Scott’s sorrowful widow, who left
Sydney with her brother, was to shelter
with the various inter-State royalties in the
L.-L. s homestead for a day or so, en route
or the other side. Lady Scott’s calm man-
ner, and the absence of any outward exhibi-
tion of emotion, is the visible sign of a self-
restrained nature burying its bruised feelings
2l n te i PUb i 1C i g f' . To the emotional
who shouts her joys and griefs over
the backyard fence, or in the foyer of a
theatre, this dull, numb suffering is as easy
to understand as a riddle in Sanscrit. Hence,
a section of the sightseers who watched the
fecott widow, dry-eyed and calm, walk down
dilapp°o r ffl ganBWas ' las * week ’ were mild1 -'’
tPn C<^i nder ,^ ans - R -N., of the ice-smit-
ten Scott expedition, has been cheering him-
S"P ™ th a f ew whiffs of “The Sunshine
t*irl. He married a Maoriland girl, I
h a S a deeply ‘ r °oted prejudice
against eating dog.
The gas-strike brought the lazy and in-
competent housewife into the foreground
with a whoop of misery. Too helpless to
snd tnn°mi° f with ° ut the help of a gas stove,
™ to o ° fl ldle . to S np a handful of chips and
start a fire in some sheltered corner of her
backyard, thus type of grumbler rushed the
restaurants, and raged furiously if she had
to wait five minutes for her food. Troops of
hungry children dragged wearily into every
city meal-house in the wake of their growling
sul,urba “ gas ‘ st ° 4
ia S ?p s Tn p cKSth w 7 c n w ki ”t g S t „ t „ hr ,Z5
countenances. Spirited tales of steamed
delicacies per favor of the washhouse copper
and epicurean banquets hot from the back-
ed fireplace, of grilled chops and girdle
make 8 W the SCOnes we n/ed to
make m the bush camp-oven, took the edge
ff- wJ hard-worked question, “When d’you
think they 11 turn on the gas?” y
Sydney’s Mayor Cocks tore aside his frock
coat, carefully removed his silk hat. dragged
on a pair of dungarees and snatched one gas-
striker’s billet for the sweltering space of
four hours or thereabouts. The big, burfv
frame of Mayor Cocks is soft from a sedem
tary life and good stabling; and he was eager
to admit, after his shift as shovel-man at the
wag'e.‘ hal "' as a mini?
v]J ydße ' Tsider u Wllo is J' ust back from
Melbourne says that no man envies Cham-
berlam Aevill his billet while the Gee-Gee
and his lady are away at the O’Malley chris-
tenmg party. During the naming ‘of the
absurd Federal baby at Canberra, Govern-
ment House will be stuffed with inter-State
minor-royalties To Lord Dick will fell
the delicate task of saying who’s who and
deciding the social weight that entitles one
lame to toss her diamond tiara an inch or
two ahead of another set of family jewels.
tn T de e em nha n P, 7 c b amberlain will also have
to decide who s Governor of N. S Walps
7 en .n he , the kniv es and forks
lands the Th? e C S h7 dS f a Dd the Strick-
lanos. _ ihe Chelmsfords are sticklers
Pdef heir ri n hts - of Precedence ; and if Ladv
Fdeline walks in to her evening meal ahead
IS in the same plight, they’ll probablv toss
for seats as Baron v. Knight y toss
Tasmania’s ex-Governor Barron and his
lady will help to thicken the precedence plot
in the Gilbertian situation. Will Sir Harry
Barron, pausing to eat a chop in the Den-
man domicile, be a salt-cellar higher than
? ir Jerald, who has sworn off Westralia,
t 0 which the Barrons are on the wing? Or
will Acting-Governor Stone wire from Perth
that he’s the top pusson in those parts for
the time being, and that neither Strickland
nor Barron are at the moment of any official
consequence whatever? The chamberlain is
expected to emerge from these comnlications
without a hair on his head.
Lady Macgregor, wife of Queensland’s
learned Governor, passed through Sydney
the other day, bound for Bananaland, after
a trip to Europe.
Ar? r \ dan^ s Graham, f or many years
iu.ij.A, m IN. S. Wales, passed out after a
short illness on March 8. He was a per-
sistent champion of the modern nurse, and
a strenuous battler against the bluff of the
untramed Gamp. He practically whipped
the Australian Trained Nurses’ Association
into form, and helped to shape its useful des-
-Dr. Graham married an exceptionally
able Australian woman, Miss Millard,' who
was not only a highly-qualified trained
nurse, but something of a blue-stocking
besides.
Ex-Speaker Maurice O’Rorke (M.L.) is
packing up his kit for the Old Land. He
is a fine, hearty old gentleman who has left a
big mark on M.L. affairs, as a Speaker who
spoke With ;-authortty — nr- HU [jiMiuul
perch, and with ease and grace on the hust-
ings. A knighthood is stowed away in his
locker. He goes to England mostly to see
his son, the well-known Teddy O’Rorke,
whose tame as an amateur jockey and cross-
country rider emerged triumphant out of an
occasional eclipse of bandages and sticking-
plaster. Teddy married one of the wealthy
Rhodes girls, of Christchurch, and is now
following the affluent occupation of fox-
hunting in England.
A Sydney girl who has been gadding in the
whirl ol Hobart dissipation, writes an infor-
mative line re the results. Items: stiff
joints from playing tennis most days and
dancing most nights, and an alarming crop
ot freckles on nose and arms.
One of Hobart’s nicest maidens, Miss Jean
(jribson, chipped her shell and came out in a
whirl of white satin during the recent
cyclone of gaiety in Tassy’s Isle. This blithe
young person went to eight dances in 10
?u yS iG playe , d l n a girls ’ cri cket match against
the Navy (which poured its brightest sparks
into the recent Hobart disturbance), and
was one of the six debutantes who got away
with small silver-bound books at Govern-
rnent House. The volumes were pressed into
their keeping by Lady Barron as farewell
souvenirs of her reign.
Pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith is just
back after 21 months scamper up and down
the face of the earth. He still wears his hair
short, and shows no signs of having grown
10 minutes older or fatter since he left Syd-
ncy* 1 Q Vienna he raked up reminiscences
with his old teacher, the famous Leschetizky
who i. I s now 85 years young. The
sprightly veteran recently married a
handsome young wife. She’s a Pole, and is
Mrs. Leschetmky !y. 0 r V. Laurence G.
bmith found the Jack London ranch (Countv
Sonoma) so pleasant that he stayed on till
a cruise in the Londons’ yacht finished a
sparkling American incident.
Theßoamer’s sleeping accommodation was
limited. So the skipper and the crew (who
were Jack London and two Japs, and the
bosn and general-utility Mrs. Jack) and
tffe ballast (which was Laurence Godfrey)
packed themselves away like tinned sar-
dines. _ When the ballast had crawled warily
down into its place in the cockpit, one of the
Japs, peered over the edge to see if it was
firmly screwed up in its camp. If it was, then
he carefully dropped the bedclothes on it
Eaurence swears he never slept better in his
life than in that mummy-like niche in the
Roamer, where he had no room to stir a
nnger, and no space for a single snore. In
the morning, the amiable heathen hung over
his recumbent form, and switched off the
blankets. Then the ballast struggled up to
the surface and had its daily shave.
A French-Canadian singer, Miss Eva
Gauthier, who landed here the other dav
from Manila and other cream- and coffee-
colored settlements in the very near Orient
is a pretty young woman with a pair of
sparkling brown eyes, a trim figure and a
vivacious manner. She was a youngster of
lL or when she competed for a student’s
place in the Pans Conservatoire, and won
it against heavy odds. The French Govern-
ment, by the way, cuts down the foreign
supnl.v °f brains in the Conservatoire to one
student for each subject, vocal or instru-
mental. Canadian-born, Eva had to be very
bri |nn° her cI^ m for a Pupil’s right,
as 300 other aliens to French soil were after
the same place. Later, Bouhy trained the
girl s mezzo-soprano for several years. Con-
cert work with Albani and ooera-trills (after
studying that elusive art in Italy) at Covent
Garden are incidents in the much Ravelled
M . ias ~"uthier’s stack of experiences. She
will uplift her voice in this citv on March 13
and 18.
F. S. Kelly, the sleek, black-haired young
Sydney man who can afford to give piano
recitals as a hobby, has a cosy crib on the
Thames shore, where he often shelters wan-
dering Australian music-makers. Last year
his recitals in London happened to coincide
with the Great Strike. In consequence, their
success was not of the crowded-treasury
order. F. Sep., who is one of the wealthy
“Tin” Kelly family, to which little Willie
also belongs, took a serene view of the frost,
and told a Sydney friend that his manager
had said: “Concerts are the first luxury the
public always give up on any reasonable
excuse.” As a musician, he has risen
superior to his handicap of independent
means, and counts as a pianist even in the
City of Gog and Magog.
The municipal claw is still reaching out
for huge rents for the Town Hall on holi-
days. N. J. Gehde pays £ll5 for his luck
in being the successful tenderer for the edi-
fice on Good Friday night. Rent of organ
(nicely furnished with stops), attendance,
artists, etc., are extras. With fine weather
and another streak of luck, the greatly-dar-
ing Gehde ought to clear at least ss. for his
trouble.
Mrs. Mayoress Cocks sat firmly at the
top end of last week’s meeting of the Bush
Book Club. Funds are in a precarious con-
dition, and a dash for £3OO to save the life
of the society will shake up the livers of
those who pledged themselves to pursue that
sum to the uttermost farthing.
Rosina Lion, M.A., who did herself credit
at the Sydney Uni. a while ago, is said to be
■edgaged to an Adelaide man. The learned
Rosina returned to Sydney a few weeks ago.
She’s a relative of one Prof. Bergsohn, whose
lectures on Plato and other heavyweight
ancients once stirred British duchesses to a
brief revolt against the Elinor Glyn school
of literature.
The Ewan Frasers, formerly of this city,
where the late pere Fraser built the family
fortune, are now living in Sussex. Their
palatial nest is said to include everything
necessary to the country-squire business.
The grounds are a landscape gardener’s best
dream, and an ornamental lake laps the edge
of velvet lawns.
Mr. John Marshall, one of Auckland’s
most eligible bachelors, has been winding-up
a tour of the world by climbing all the best-
looking scenery on the Blue Mountains. He
was chaperoned by a married sister, Mrs.
Macdonald, whose daughter was also in the
party. The triplet return to the Dominion
this week.
Politicians of all sizes are fluttering about
like bats. Dr. Buck, a clever Maori half-
caste who represents a native constituency
in M.L. Parliament, is expected in Sydney
some time in the near future. He’s a fine
sample of the educated Maori type.
Mrs. M. Forrest, the Queensland writer,
has been giving her hard-worked pen a rest
in the dull haven of Sick Bay. Brain fag
and other tribulations recently hurried her
off to a private hospital, whence she is creep-
ing slowly back along the road to recovery.
The Hattricks are over from Maoriland.
Their name is indelibly imprinted on the
Wanganui River, where they have a solid
stake in the tourist transport business.
Imperial Trade Commissioner Sir Alfred
Bateman, who has been vigorously prodding
the M.L. lOU Department, must be bulging
with statistics. Ever since he cut his first
whiskers he’s been sitting or jumping on
loss and profit accounts. A few headlines
from the story of his career ought to strike
terror to any witness who tries to dodge the
Bateman note of interrogation: Treasurer
of International Statistical Institute; Sec.
to International Sugar Conferences: Presi-
dent Royal Statistical Society; responsible
for Fiscal Blue Book; late Comptroller-
General for Commerce, Labor and Statistics
at the Board of Trade. There’s about half
a column more to his credit. In his spare
moments, when he isn’t rounding up tariffs,
or looking for a leak in some commercial
intelligence department, he plays golf.
Mr. Alfred Brown, a confirmed Quaker
from Bull’s Island, is hunting for flaws in
Australia’s Compulsory Training Act. The
local Peace Society fell upon the neck of
the non-combative Brown the other day, and
gathered him into its first 1913 meeting.
The man of peace _ expounded the beautiful
theory that Right is Right, and gunpowder
a snare and delusion, with a bad smell to
it. Might is still above ground out Janina
way, but the Hague Conference in May is
going to have another hack at the monster.
Singer Emilie Lambert writes from Lon-
don that she is due in Sydney on April 4
and remarks with a sigh that she hasn’t seen
the sun for weeks. When it did peer
through the gloom it was a dull round disc
like a chemists’ shop-light hung in the fog.
Somehow, a Londoner on his native climate
is reminiscent of “You ought ter’ve been
here last week.” When the Australian
complained of the behavior of last English
summer, the answer was, “Oh, but it’s the
wettest we’ve had for years. You ought to
have been here last June.” The Januarv
togs they dismissed as “the worst for ages.”
Astronomer Mary Proctor writes a line
about her January climb to the Ivodaik-
Ixanal Observatory, in Southern India:
. 1 reached my. destination after a fairly rouah
journey, mostly in a waggon drawn by oxen. Bv
the light of the rising moon, on the way ud. I had
a glimpse of romance in the festivities of an Indian
brides wedding at midnight, and heard the more or
less musical selections plaved in hnnm. *
The end of the journey we accomnli^ 0 !? eve nt
carried by coolies. Before being
we had some tea and toast at a 1 3 a.m
low. I was the lightweight of the partv' n nf bu “K»-
European women, so all the coolies nlJjWj o * three
honor of lifting my noble person om thf [ or
and depths of the track. Fortified hel * ht »
freshments, I took no part in the dispute *
excellent reason that none of our bearers „’J or the
a word of English—or pretended not ) u " derst °od
going a short distance, we were all left m Aft er
suspended in our chairs, while two e or k*
had a fight as to who was to lift my Cn ?° orts
The matter was settled by a heavy-S/
passenger banging the most quarrelsome V lad >’
the head with her umbrella. He seemed t^ le , on
stand this. Anyhow, hostilities ceased anH A, Under ‘
peacefully chaired to our destination. ’ e were
The Shakspeare tercentenary committee is
out for loot, and mentions £25,000 t
amount it hopes to collect in the nVw
campaign. The Cullen ladv presides Jl'
the Shakspeare ball committee meeting on
March 14 in Paling s upper chamber. S ° D
There seems to be no immediate need for .
hunger strike amongst successful writers in
L.S.A. According to a Sydney pianist wL
has been recently the guest of the LonS
pair, Jack London has just signed a contract
that will bring him in £5OOO a year (pounds
not dollars) for the next five years S
certain American magazines alone After
earning this decent living from mere maes
Jack will hold out his strong right hand for
royalties on his books, and will also get fane?
prices for his newspaper contributions, etc.
Mount Wilson, which . used to be a rich
mans residential fad, is now chiefly used ns
the summer resort of a few Svdney folk.
who hire furnished mansions amongst its
umbrageous forests. The MacCallums took
the Wynnes’ home for three months The
recent advent of the Lightoller baby (mamma
used to be Miss MacCallumt in those
clad heights gave Mount Wilson a thrill that
reminded ancient inhabitants of the palmv
days when many children played in the now
almost-deserted gardens. The habitual care-
taker probably knows his place, and has no
encumbrances”; anyway, the little moun-
tain school has been shut up for lack of
scholars
Mr. Marcus Clark has acquired the beauti-
ful old home on Mount Wilson that used to
belong (I fancy) to J. D. Cox. It stands in
velvet-grass plots behind a screen of chest-
nut trees. The glory of that redsoil patch
the tall tree-fern, makes a leafy vista of
feathery fronds. The bush horse up that wav
is still trying to diagnose the Marcus Clark
motor, which it doesn’t understand, and
objects to with its hind legs.
The fine racing yacht Thelma, which was
smashed up in Saturday’s wild storm, was
the property of Mr. C. Lloyd Jones. Mr.
W alter Moore, who was swept away when
the Thelma staggered under green seas off
Middle Head, was a well-known and enthusi-
astic sharer in Sydney’s great white-winged
gambols. The owner and the rest of the yacht’s
crew were saved from a trip to Davy Jones’s
locker by the prompt ossistance of the pilot
boat Barundah.
An Australian in London writes a line on
the Wattle epidemic that scattered tufts of
these yellow velvet blooms through wintry
streets, and whiffs of subtle fragrance across
the tables of innumerable restaurants: “Lon-
doners called January 27 Australia’s birth-
day, and many we met were so trimmed up
with sprigs of wattle (they generally call it
mimosa) that we quite expected staid
London policemen would arrest them for dis-
orderly conduct. .. .They eyed us with a
kind of bovine wonder as we crossed Oxford-
street. We were making fairly heavy weather
under armsful of wattle, and might have been
Suffragettes on the war trail (everything a
little out of the way here is suspected of
being a Suffragette conspiracy), with infer-
nal machines stowed away under innocent-
looking yellow blossoms. As there was a
letter-box just ahead, we ostentatiously
avoided it. No London policeman can re-
main calm when he sees a group of women
hovering near a pillar-box these militant
days.”
Fashions shown at the autumn displays
revive a drooping faith in the sairty of our
sex, for the big hat appears to be t< mporarily
dead. Small, sensible shapes that really
bear. some kind of relationship to the human
cranium which they are to cover bloom
mellowly on all the stands. “Mellowly"
means that curry tint. One sees it every-
where. When curry grows cold in the plate
a kind of yellowish green transfigures it.
That is the color I’m trying to get at the
description of. In frocks it is attained by-
placing a robe of yellow satin under a skirt
of green ninon. They do say that purple is
the ruling shade, and, of course, yellow is its
complement. It figures just now mostly in
the shape of yellow roses on white hats.
They are the craze of the month. The new
hats are of felt and velvet and soft fluffy fur.
On a very warm evening last week I saw a
woman with a fur c"n on, and yesterday
(Sunday) brought out many felts. There
was a pretty (though unseasonable) brown
shape turned up one side—they all are —and
finished with a feather duster. It really was
a duster of the sixpenny sort, and just that
golden brown shade. But it looked too sweet
for words.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


Your Money’s
Worth is in a
TRIUMPH
There’s no doubt about it, you get solid
value, pound for pound, in the “Triumph”
Motor Cycle. Large output and improved
manufacturing facilities keep the price
down, and enable the purchase- of such a
splendid machine for so little.
Just for an example, there’s the free-
engine Model, as good a mount as man ever
sat astride. It is strong enough to carry you
on any track. It has an engine with power
to force its way through sand, mud or slush,
over rut-cut, or stony tracks, and up the
steepest hills. It will travel at flying speed,
or “crawl” along, and the control is simpli:
city itself. Add to these sterling merits the
advantage of sitting in the saddle to start
it, and you have a motor-cycle that will
prove a great “satisfier.”
Get a “Triumph” Free-engine Motor
Cycle, and enjoy all the pleasure and re-
energising influence it affords its owner.
Come in and secure full information to-day.
Get us to explain the mechanism, point by
point, in language free from technical terms,
and that you can thoroughly understand.
The information gained will well repay you
for your visit. If you cannot come in dur-
ing the day, call Friday night before nine.
Further information will be sent free on
request.
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Agents for Triumph, Rudge-Whitworth
and New Hudson Motor Cycles,
Manufacturers of B. & B. Motor Cycles,
124-132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
TRIUMPH TRUTHS
“I cannot speak too highly of
the ‘Triumph.’ I have ridden it
every day, and find it extremely
comfortable and easy riding. It
is surprisingly fast on the free
wheel. Every part is beautifully
exact.”
F. H. SALISBURY, Sydney.
“I have had my ‘Triumph’ in
constant use, having travelled
1400 miles over rough and moun-
tainous roads, and very often
through uneven bush tracks. My
machine is as good now as when
I bought it, and I can honestly
recommend the ‘Triumph.’ ”
H. LIVERMORE, Newcastle.
“I have ridden 1000 miles on
my ‘Triumph’ over some awful
roads. The engine is a marvel of
flexibility, power and absolute re-
liability.”
R. J. FAGAN, Mandurama.
VICE-REGAL
ĝh
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
IVORY TOILET GOODS
We have a large stock of Real Ivory Toilet Requisites of the highest
quality. There are Ivory Shoe Lifts, Glove Stretchers, Buttonhooks,
Hand Mirrors, Puff Boxes, Trinket Boxes, etc. Although the articles
are high-grade, the prices are strictly reasonable.
Inspection invited.
Mail Orders promptly attended to. Selections of the newest goods
sent on approval.
.
Gentlemen's Ivory Brushes, with
concave backs, in Morocco Case,
&.5151- per pair.
Ladies' Flat Ivory Hair Brushes, in Morocco Case,
£5llO/- per pair.
Hardy Brothers, Limited,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
AND AT LONDON.
George Barr McCutcheon’s
Books—
HAV* been the talk of the world’s literary centres for many years, but their prohibitive prices have
made them luxuries to be indulged in sparingly. Now, however, our Australian readers have a unique
opportunity of sampling some of them, as the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., have arranged with the
American publishers to bring out
CHEAP EDITIONS at SIXPENCE PER COPY.
Post Free, 7(3. each. The first four books in this series published are:—
“Truxton King,” “The Daughter of Anderson Crow,”
‘‘The Man from Brodney’s,” “The Rose in the Ring.”
These Tiooks, which have been reprinted in Sydney, have all the freshness of new type first editions,
and will constitute a record in local publishing, being the cheapest productions of standard authors
ever known beyond England or America.
lottekply
w
\Si
»&5 £TC,j
“The Butterfly Man,”
and “The Alternative.”
By GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON. Price 1/-, Post Free 1/1
Here we have two books for the price of one, and both are equally
good. “The Butterfly Man,’’ indeed, ranks amongst one of the
cleverest things of its kind, and enhanced this author’s reputation
materially.
Essentially a book for young men, sisters and mothers, this work
draws such a pen picture of a selfish society butterfly that most people
will at once exclaim, “Just like young So-and-so.”
The young man’s awakening is swift, severe and uncompromising;
his downfall complete, and the conclusion of the story just as every-
one hoped for.
“The Alternative” is a delightful story in MeCutcheon’s best style,
and must be read to be appreciated.
“What’s - His- Name?”
By GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON.
Price l/=, Post Free 1/1.
By arrangement with the American publishers, Dodd, Mead & Co., of
New York, the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., are able to put this
famous author’s expensive book on the Australian market at the low
price of one shilling, and those who are not conversant with the great
American’s work should lose no time in reading “What’s-I-lis-Name?”
This is a charming story of a man who was always known as
“What’s-His-Name? You know. Nellie Duluth’s husband.”
Nellie was a favorite actress, whose profession permitted her no time
to attend to her home, with the results related in the book. An excep-
tionally interesting story, with a surprising finish of great power.
g
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
AND ALU
BOOKSELLERS.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NELSON
Soda
Fountains
Illustrated is the
“Princess,” suit-
able where shop
space is limited.
We have others
for the biggest
business. In fact,
no business is too
small or too large
for our goods.
fg
hfg
hfhg
We have fitted up A.B.C. Cafe, Sydney; Gaut’s Cafd, George Street, Sydney ;
Luna Park, Ltd., Melbourne; Bowen and Co.. Chemists, Melbourne; and most of
the big places in Australia that have Soda Fountains. This absolutely proves
the great worth of Nelson Fountains and Supplies.
We have secured the agency from the world’s largest Soda Fountain manu-
facturing company—of Chicago—-where all the shrewdest men of America buy.
NOW IS THE TIME FOR INDENT! We can save you an enormous sum of
cash by indenting for you. Take time by the forelock—act now!
BEWARE of shoddy-built machines (dear at any price). Come direct to
us and get a “square deal,” with a guarantee.
Our Glass Washers—THE “BOESSER PATENT” —are making a real hit
amongst “those who know,” viz., Commercial Travellers’ Club (2), City Tattersall’s
Club (2), Royal Prince Alfred Yacht Club (1), Sargent’s, Ltd. (1), Washington
Soul’s (1), and a large number of other users.
Let us tell you about them. Write to us at once and also ask for our
Illustrated Catalogue.
SEE OCR OP-TO-DATE EXHIBITION
AT THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW.
THE NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.
“ Australia’s Greatest Soda Fountain 8 Refreshment Suppliers,”
167 George Street (Circular Quay), Sydney.


Shirt Comfort for March Weather.
m
■Tr
Perfect
Fitting
Tunic Shirts
at FARMER’S.
To' the' man who, above all, desires comfort, yet also
wishes to be smartly dressed, Farmer’s Tunic Shirts will
prove most satisfactory. They are splendidly made, in
fancy stripe Zephyrs, on blue, green, mauve and grey
grounds. They have stiff cuffs and neckbands, and soft
fronts; are cut by experts, fit perfectly, and give satis-
factory wear.
Price 6/6 each; 3 for 18/9.
We Pay Carriage on Men's Shirts, Fashion
and Drapery Goods to any part of Australia.
FARMER’S SYDNEY,
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
FOR THE
RAPID RELIEF OF
Insomnia, Indigestion,
Weak Nerves, Poor
Appetite, Sluggish
Liver, Sick Headache,
Use
CLEMENTS TONIC
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES
SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
(2
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 10, 1913.
My Dear Yarrxe, —
Australian Cup Day struggled through
between splashing thunder drops and fearful
intervals of steam-bath. The Denman lady
had draped herself in a wonderful sheath of
shimmering sea-greenery tone. Unfortu-
nately, one of the nearest and dearest of her
household appeared wrapped in the same
color, and planked herself down beside her
aggrieved Excellency for the rest of the day.
The Fuller lady had borrowed hub’s limp for
the occasion. Perhaps it was just the
weather; anyhow, she moved with a distinct
dot-and-carry-one gait.
The Flemington Autumn rally finished up
on Saturday in furs. The Denman lady was
cosily swathed in the folds of a tail-less
ermine coat. An enormous lancer plume
fluttered from her black hat. The Fuller
dame had a' neat navy tailor-made under her
black sable coat. A strawberry pink hat and
pheasant feather made a top-dressing. The
two house-parties foregathered informally,
and whispered “moral certainties” to one
another. Most of the Helps and both Ex-
cellencies appeared in black boxers ; the sole
exception, Barttelot, was under a straw
boater. He had to hold on to the brim most of
the afternoon. Justice Barton strutted the
lawn with both Excellencies. Alf Dunlop,
tennis champion, looked almost heroic with
one bandaged wrist thrust into the bosom of
his coat in the St. Helena pose. Mrs. Alf,
in sables and mauve shot silk, did her best to
look like Josephine. Oscar Asche wore a
crimson buttonhole and a boxer hat one size
bigger than a thimble. Lily’s incomparable
nose was occasionally visible between the
wings of an immense hat. Lilian Birtles was
supported by Mr. Wiltshire, her fearfully
pale husband. There was an end-of-the-
season gush of cordiality all round, and lots
of people who are hurrying off to Europe this
month were kept busy good-bye.
By Friday the polo tournament had
reached white heat, and the players were so
engrossed that they could not spare time for
the usual chat with the girls, who wasted
their finery on the Antarctic blast and grew
blue-nosed to no purpose. The large number
of competing teams confused most newcom-
ers, and to them at least the day was a
series of blurred impressions of red-silk
jerseys, white sweaters, and the decided
stripes of Colac and Campex-down. An un-
broken ring of motors poked inquisitive
headlamps over the flagged line, and the Very
Best People, cosily snuggled inside amongst
the rugs, gossiped at top speed. Several
girls rode to the tournament. One pretty,
red-haired flapper was on a big chestnut, and
talked down from mid-air to spectacled Dr.
Springthorpe.
The Barttelot lady, in white cloth and
ermine, came out in a small, closed, plum-
colored car with Mrs. Franklyn. The Ful-
lers gave the game besf very early in the
afternoon, and whirled homeward in the
mustard car. A contingent of the children,
with fair hair blowing over their warm, red
coats, stayed behind in the care of Mrs.
Grimwade. The Staughton widow talked
politics earnestly most of the time. She
looks very well again after her illness. Mrs.
Everard Browne sat in a lawn chair as near
to the playing area as possible. A pretty
sister of the new Mrs. Charlie .Wallace came
down from Camperdown in a tricky blue
bonnet-hat. Manifolds, Chirnsides and other
Western District womenkind tucked their
feathers into shelter, while the men sat in
rows on the grass and used their
glasses. Mrs. Jim Purves showed off
Mrs. Rolls. a visiting sister from
Westralia. Captain Nutting, mounted on a
fresh black pony that see-sawed like a rock-
ing horse, acted as Umpire-General. The
motor-cars began to back away in shamefaced
fashion before play ended. The players
were the only ones who had managed to keep
warm; most of the watchers were frozen.
On Monday evening the Denmans gave a
sporting dinner, at which polo talk fairly
raged. The feeding was followed by an im-
promptu dance. At the dinner the
Macgregor lady, wife of the Bananaland
Excellency, who happened to be passing
through Melbourne, was guest of honor. The
big grey house sheltered mother, daughter
and aide Foxton for the night. Next day
the trio continued their journey northward.
Only half the ballroom at Federal Govern-
ment House was used for the dance. It was
a sweltering night, and the little G.-G. wore
a hot flush that went very well with his
gorgeous uniform. Her Ex. looked cool in
an airy lace garment, weighted with ropes of
pearls and a few odd diamonds. The fair
Fuller lady was in shades of wine red, re-
lieved with the family diamonds. The Mac-
gregor dame was unable to be present; but
the Macgregor daughter, a pretty girl in a
white frock, attended, and was in great de-
mand. The Whitburgh widow had her white
hair built up against a black background.
Daughter Sybil wore a rather creased ap-
pearance. Little Mrs. Arden Franklyn,
arrayed in the color of the droopy vioiet,
was surrounded by a mass of Helps, amongst
them Foxton, of Bananaland. The Bartte-
lot lady was inside a black dress that scin-
tillated. As regards chiffons, Ernest Bruce’s
wife bravely held her own, whilst John
Manifold’s wife looked suitably expensive.
Betty Moffatt’s mamma, in violet purple,
startled beholders at first glance; but closer
inspection revealed a barely distinguishable
covering of flesh pink. It is the latest craze,
and we shall get used to it. Dancing ceased
an hour after midnight, and all hands swept
off to a stand-up supper in the dining-room,
managed by the eagle-eyed Nevill, who kept
the cold duck in its place, and overawed the
trifle so that it remained on the plate.
Among the diners at Federal Government
House on Monday night were the Whitburgh
lady and daughter Sybil Bortliwick. They
are on their way to Maoriland. Algernon
Borthwiclc, the present Whitburgh’s brother,
camped with his wife at Mandeville Hall,
Toorak, for two years, and went on to
Maoriland in November last. They will golf
■ again hereabouts during the coming winter.
The Andy Fishers intend to hand sister
Christina to bridegroom-elect -Edwards on
March 19; The Prime Minister’s best front-
room will be used for the ceremony, which
is to be shorn of all fuss and frill. The
Irwin sisters have been inseparables for
years, and Andy’s roof has sheltered both
since Margaret became Mrs. Andy. As Mr.
Edwards’s hobby is sailing his own canoe,
the new home will be pitched as near as pos-
sible to the Albert Park duckpond.
The sun didn’t shine on the wedding of
Stella Macßobertson and Bert Brewer at
Scots’ Church. ,In fact, rain was falling when
the bride approached on the arm of her proud
parent, so the cinematograph picture ordered
for the occasion is likely to be somewhat
blurred. Papa gave the photographer a
chance by pausing for a moment in the
camera’s line of fire, but the elements showed
no consideration for his feelings. Admission
to the show was by ticket only, and a full
house included a number of comely lolly-girls
from the Macßobertson factory. These dam-
sels, in their ehthusiasm, plucked souvenir
blossoms from the bride’s bouquet as she
marched to the altar, and, presumably, took
their trophies home to put under their pil-
lows. The pretty little heroine was in the con-
ventional white trappings, with pink under-
skirt, whilst five bridesmaids in lettuce green
and mauve needed only a few raindrops to
complete the salad effect. Mrs. Macßobert-
son was a conspicuous success in. grey, and
the folks in the foreground made a harmoni-
ous color scheme. After the ceremony, the
party taxied to the Macßobertson home at
Fairfield, in the grounds whereof is the
bride’s future residence —a wedding present
from papa. The breakfast and subsequent
dance provided entertainment for some 300
guests, who mostly felt the blood of their
braw ancestors coursing madly through their
veins when the Scottish pipers arrived at
nine o’clock to serenade the bonnie, bonnie
lassie lately converted into Mrs. Brewer.
Potential heiress Isabel Horsfall has made
a Scotchman named Brian Lippe happy. The
two met in Maoriland, and fell in love at
first sight. The girl hurried home to break
the glad news, and the man sped to Scot-
land to set his affairs in order prior to laying
them before the wool-wealthy father of his
lady. In his feverish haste, he fell off a
horse on to a mountain, or off a mountain
on to a horse. I forget which. At anyrate,
he broke his leg, whereupon Isabel gathered
up some clothes and a chaperone and sped
to Scotland to see that he was being well
looked after. Now they have father’s bless-
ing, and a lovely farm at Macedon. A beau-
tiful house is being dashed together,
and the minute the last lick of paint has
been put on, the pair will be married and
start to live happily ever after. The cere-
mony is booked for April.
Joan Innes-Noad, whose mother was a
Howard Smith, and who is as well known in
Melbourne as in Darling Point-road, has
murmured “Yes” to Billy Williams, a de-
lightful young man and cousin to Surgeon-
General Williams, of our own brown-clad
army.
Tall lawyer Kiddle is going to marry a
slight little girl who almost reaches to his
elbow when she stands up very straight
beside her type-machine.
The second son of the Ranfurly Knoxes
is engaged to the Murray Jones bud —
Hilda, by name.
Miss Maidie Henty has received a signifi-
cant diamond ring from young Ronald Cum-
ming, of the Mount Fyans clan. Ronald is
the hero of a hundred polo scrambles, and the
grandson of “Bill” Cuniming, one-time of
Toorak.
The Southern Cross Bazaar, to help the
Neglected Children’s Aid Society, has come
and gone at the Athenaeum Hall: but the
raffles —the all-important feature of the con-
cern —will invite ticket-buyers until April 4,
or thereabouts. Prizes range from a' £450
motor to a sewing machine; and a diamond
pendant (£125) and bangle (£45) glitter
among them. Tickets may be purchased for
a “bob” from Mrs. Percy Russell, or Mrs.
Hallenstein, at the addresses stated in the
advts.
Violet Loraine engineered a successful
matinee last week in aid of the Melbourne
stall at the Easter Bazaar. The Gaud
Mayor lent the council chamber for the
frivol, and Violet herself spoke a piece from
the dais which supports the mayoral throne.
She was garbed in white with an ermine hat
decorated with ospreys. Most of the visi-
tors (at 3s. per hat) wore white, and stewed
gently in the earthquaky atmosphere. Three
hundred chairs were ranked across the crim-
son velvet carpet, and each held at least one
woman. Pantomime girls doled out tea and
smiles at half a crown. Some of the most
excruciatingly lovely ones sold programmes
on the stairs and at other strategic
points. Mayoress Hennessy waved won-
derful blue feathers above a very neat
black frock. Fair-haired Mrs. Davey
was under a rose-wreathed hat. Mrs.
Godfrey, who is about to take her two
daughters travelling, said good-bye to various
people. Mrs. Hennessy congratulated the
trio, and murmured plaintively; “J have
every hour crammed with engagements up to
the end of April!” And yet men in gas-
works strike ! By the way, Mrs Hennessy’s
final job at this function was to hand a
boomerang-shaped bouquet to the Loraine
charmer, Now, I ask you. do you know of
any harder employment than handing bou-
quets?
Strong-man Clarence .Weber gave his
muscle-display in the To>vn Hall last Thurs-
day, and people had to be pushed away from
the doors before half-past seven. His
physical-cultured girls were billed to show
themselves —and they did. There were wild
gusts of excitement when Clarence played
Petruchio literally, and walked on the well-
trained shrewlets that lay littered about on the
stage. They “placed their hands beneath his
foot,” only it wasn’t their hands he walked
on. The best Canadian-frocked pupil stood
on the pedestal and posed, and Clarence
played circuses, making all the light-footed
girleens jump over his cane and go through
their tricks. Chief Justice John should have
given out the prizes, but either the doctor
had vetoed the outing, as his letter stated,
or Mrs. John had wisely withheld him from
temptation. He might have wanted to pinch
the lady dux of the school. Dr.
Bryant stepped into the breach, and said the
•nice things the occasion and the girl called
for.
Dorothy Grimston slipped quietly away
from Melbourne after the conclusion of the
divorce case. She is bound for the family
roof-tree in London. Mr. Meyer’s two chil-
dren follow this week, consigned to his
mother in England. He intends, nUis said,
to give up farming and go back to the show
business.
Dr. Oswald Shields, Of the recent Meyer
divorce case, is likely to go to England—
alone. Douglas Shields, his wealthy medico
brother, who gof: a. fine boost in fashionable
circles by a Government House call, is open-
ing a hospital in England, and Oswald may
have a post in the new venture.
Melbourne’s Atlienseum Hall was moved to
further exertipns by the prospect of Tafts’
new concert hall on the opoosite side of
Collins-street. The old Ath. has been cleaned
and repainted. -Vents in the roof, which for
years were stuffed up (in one instance the
ventilation was found to have been a fraud
from the time the roof was built), are now
in good working order, and the hall’s atmo-
sphere is breathable again. The revived
Athenaeum means business, and invites
tenants. Faulkner Smith has booked it for
Easter time. On. Good Friday night- young
Ruby Sainton-Dolb.v, niece of the Sainton-
Dolby of yore, gives a concert. Next
night Mblly Carew starts her farewell
season of songs and opera at the
piano. Molly will have a reciter, a
couple of men singers, and harpist Barker
to help her venture along, and she should do
very well.
Thorold Waters, the tenor warbler who
was a pressman on the Age ere he went to
England to go into business as a vocalist, is
back in Melbourne for a little while. The
gentle Thorold will give a few song recitals
under the Faulkner Smith management.
Thrqe musical youngsters are combining
for a recital on April 9. Rita Hope will
man fhe piano, Violet Somerset will sing,
and Jjohn Amadio will mock the birds of the
air with his flute.
One evening last week, Mrs. John Sander-
son hired a groaning board at the Oriental,
and fed a score or so of people. Frankie
Stuart Murray, a great pal of Mrs. John’s,
bearhed in smart clothes nicked up during her
wanderings. Some of the Manifold clan were
thef'e, also the Norman Brookes pair, and
Byron Moore’s pale daughter.
Exchange-officer Major Manser, who bowed
himself off the Kirkpatrick staff because he
objected to something or other, is not to leave
Australia, after all. The Department for
Wounded Pride has offered him a post within
Brother O’Malley’s jurisdiction, and he has
accepted. So the furniture of the Toorak
villa has been unpacked, and the Major and
his Australian wife have burned their P.P.C.
cards.
McKay, of the Sunshine Harvesters —
generally referred to as “Hugh V.” —lately
suffered a painful setback in his Ballarat
electioneering for the House of Reps. An
acetylene motor-lamp exploded in his face,
and, although his eyes escaped permanent in-
jury, he got a few cuts to remind him of his
narrow escape.
The widow Staughton, a most persistent
doer of good, has been elected president of
the Toorak Try Society, in succession to the
late Matthew Davies.
A sentimental relic of the '4o’s was a rubv
ring which accompanied Miss Jane Barker’s
“Bless you. my children !” at the wedding of
Dr. Youl Nankivell to Nell Woinarski The
circlet was bought by the late Coroner Youl
of happy memory, and presented to Miss
Barker’s mother on his wedding day, as
token of gratitude to Mrs. Barker for having
introduced him to his bride—Miss Martin
a belle of the period. And now that Coroner
Youl, his wife and Mrs. Barker have all
passed away, the ring has come ' into the
family of the late medico’s grandson to be
converted into an heirloom.
The motor accident that befell the Har
pers’ son Colin in the Macedon district
turned out to be not so verv disastrous after
all. The first newspaper reports placed the
16-year-old Colin at death’s door, and sug-
gested that his young cousin, Margaret Nav
lor, was bruised to a pulp. Also, the prayers
of the congregation were desired, in a casual
way, for a damaged “shover.” The eatas
trophe was greatly exaggerated. Colin
Harper is now as right as the proverbial
ninepence, and the damsel and the “shover”
are merely remembering their upset with a
smile.
One of the big chiefs of the A.N A i s
going to feel very annoyed with himself
when he gazes upon a film showing a recent
vice-regal visit to the Exhibition. First the
big, grey flight of steps that rise to the side
entrance flickers on to the screen Then
several fussy senior Natives issue from the
portal, hurry down the steps, and wait ex
pectantly. The G.-G.’s carriage can almost
be heard approaching, so anxious are their
faces. Just before the equipage slides into
the foreground, the most august person in
the welcoming group furtively wipes his per-
spiring right hand on his ceremonious coat
tails. The slight action of a nervous mo-
ment has been caught by the infernal re-
cording machine and converted into some-
thing like a social catastrophe. •
Perhaps there are more; but Melbourne
certainly holds one very angry woman
Coming in here, she wanted to bring two
dogs with her. Quoth the Customs man
firmly : “Any dog arriving from the United
Kingdom must undergo veterinary inspec-
tion and then be detained in quarantine for
three months. From any Continental port
or Janan or China no dog is allowed to
land.” After a few minutes’ fuming the ladv
settled down to it philosophically, and had
got to think it was quite a good law until
she saw two white Pomeranians brought off
from one of the Jap wafsliips. Inquiring
she found out that it didn’t happen once or
twice, but that the two little beasts had. the
run of Melbourne. Then the explosion
occurred. But it don’t disturb the Customs.
They were too busy being affable, like the
rest of them.
My Adelaide correspondent writes
The cheerful Melrose-Lewis wedding-, at St. Peter’s
College chapel, was followed by a recention at Ben-
acre, Glen Osmond. Miss Nellie Lewis and Miss
Lilv Melrose wore panniered bridesmaids’ frocks of
pale biscuit color, with relieving touches of pink
and blue, and picturesque black hats. A Lewi's
and a MacFarlane were groomsmen. The Chief
Justice Ways, Higham Wiggs, Walter Duncans, Miss
Lea, the Stanley Murrays and Mrs. and Miss bother-
ingham were among the guests. Mr. and . Mrs. Mel-
rose left on Friday by the Otway. Mrs. John Lewis
arrived from England by the mail-boat a day too
late.
Miss Herring and her niece, Miss Horn, who have
been in England for some time, are returning to
Adelaide.
Mrs. Woodham—she used to be Isabel Beresford—
has arrived from India, and is staying with her
folks at North Adelaide. With her is Mi'ss B. Scott,
who has been for a brief visit to her in the miscalled
“East.”
Mrs. James Martin, who has lived for some time
in Westralia, is at present with her daughter, Mrs.
Harry Dutton, at Victor Harbor.
Fruit-growers are mournful. Within the last few
weeks we have had two violent storms, which have
played mischief with vineyards and orchards. Both
currant and grape crops have suffered badly, and the
aggregate loss will mount high.
Inter-State cricket commanded a fain amount of
attention, despite the vile weather, and the well-
fined stands showed that the game is once more
ontolling interest of the world and his wife.
His wife turned up in force to glotv in the winning
of the Shield bv the local team, and motsly she was
well- and freshly-dressed. The Adelaide girl usually
does score in the summer.
The engagement is announced of John, son of that
“Christie” Bagot who for so many years ran the
Adelaide show, to Miss Ive, of Woodville. For
some years the Bagots have lived in America, and
Mr. Bagot returned here pnly a few weeks ago. He
is on the land near Clare.
Mrs. Kettlewell (Agnes L. Storrie for. verse pur-
poses) is making a short stay in Adelaide, on her
way to England. She was the guest of Mrs. J. H.
Svmon on Wednesday afternoon, when members of
the Poetry Society were invited to rhleet her at the
May Club rooms. A few responded to the invitation
to “bring a greeting in verse.” Lady Bosanquet
sent a basket of exquisite flowers instead.
The Autumn Show has filled hotels and boarding-
houses with the usual throng of couptrv visitors.
To get food between one and two at any of the tea-
rooms is so nearly impossible that regujar customers
go philosophically home and leave, the countryman
in proud and noisy possession. Both entries and
attendance at the show are another ,notch above
those of a vear ago. '
General Gordon was the guest of Mr. .J. W. Bake-
well at Mount Lofty for a few days Mrs.
E. IT. Bakewell and her daughters leave fir England,
bv wav of South America, early next week. The
Depledge Sykes conn l " are "nine bv the j=aikie boat.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


isSf
A-
S
■ .
VS
W.
<4
*
m it i
v
/■
:
m
*r
m
m
h
m
:'.-V
8sl?w
as*
■:
*;«■
.>• ..
1
a:
&
i
,
.
K
.
r
II? A**'
\
*
I
w. m
’-ggßggw
Swe.49,fMLt WIIL.LOND
ĝ
Made from Fresh Lemons.
Mixed with Schweppes* Soda Water or Lithia Water,
maKes a most Delightful and Refreshing DrinK.
Purveyor* of Mineral Waters to His Majesty the King.
Head Office 2 49 Pall Mall, London*
Agencies throughout
the World.
99
€6
The New DrinK, bottled by SCHWEPPES”
LIMITED. Sarto is a most refreshing drinß,
and contains most excellent tonic properties.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Injunction for passing off other drinks as -SARTO,” see report - Sydney Morning Herald,” December 7, 1912, Schweppes v. McKenzie


HIGH-GRADE TAILORING
AT PRICES TO SUIT A MODEST PURSE.
Hand-made Sac Suits, 95/-, 100/-, 105/-, 110/-
PEPPER'S LIMITED,
310 GEORGE STREET, near Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
KEEP HIM IN PERFECT ORDER.
“For the past seven years I have kept my system
in perfect order by the occasional use of Chamber-
lain’s Tablets,” writes Mr. W. McWilliam, J.P., Wai-
mana (N.Z.). “Whenever I feel dull I take a dose,
and find that two tablets taken at night leave me a
fresh man next morning. Chamberlain’s Tablets are
particularly good, as they neither gripe nor purge.”*
Eat hearty and enjoy it. Stearns’ Wine of Cod
Liver Extract creates an appetite, helps digest food,
assists in the body nourishment and strengthens
broken-down tissues.*
<2
Our large stock of the
latest Trusses for all
kinds of Hernia is a
real boon to sufferers.
Denyer’s Special Elastic
Truss, fitted to size,
ends all trouble, dis-
comfort and fear.
Call or Write.
g
Single 17/6, Double 22/6.
Others from 3/6.
DENYER BROS..
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 George St. (o PP . Hunter St.), Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
IN TOPHET.
INTERROGATES : “Who are they that pursued
the wandering Jew?”
REPLYUS : "Only the State Premiers after a
loan.”
The stout heart of Britain has been
deeply moved by recent suffragette proceed-
ings. The cable reports that some men
who caught a woman painting “Votes for
Women” across a seat at ’Ampstead
’Eath pulled her hair down and smothered
her face with green paint. The Lion is fairly
roused. We shall presently hear that a
strong force of “Territorials” has stormed
a suffragette meeting and torn the chair-
woman’s hat to pieces.
The Vie. Labor party won the Warren-
heip seat, and its stock goes up for the next
general election. Certainly there was a
majority of only 37 ; but, then, Warrenheip was
regarded as a safe Liberal seat, and if a “safe”
seat can be stormed, unpleasant things
are likely to happen to quite a crowd of seats
into which the Liberal has hitherto only
managed to claw. The fact is, Victoria
is beginning to grow rebellious against its
dull, foolish House of Fat, and realises at
last that there is no hope of bogus Liberal-
ism shifting the obstruction.
PROTECTION AND THE FUSION.
Mr. Watt spoke sensibly enough, and with his usual force, about the true meaning of Federalism,
but what he said on the fiscal position was not so creditable. Liberals are not bothering about the fiscal
question.... not being quite blind to the relative importance of things, they know that if once Social-
ism gets a firm grip on Australia—as it assuredly will if the anti-Socialists allow themselves to be
divided—it will not matter a rush what kind of a tariff there is.— ARGUS excitedly.
THE ONE UNDERNEATH : “Strikes me I'll be here a long time if I have to wait until
this one comes to his sober senses and says good-bye to his pet jim-jam."
Nielsen brought back one report, anyhow,
which has set a lot of Australians thinking
hard. It was in connection with the open-
ing of the Panama Canal, and its probable
effect on the Australian export of coal to
the Pacific Slope. There was a time when
Australian coal was supreme on the west
coast of America, and the trade is still very
large. But Nielsen points out that when
the great canal is opened, Alabama (U.S.A.)
coal will be available at 13s. 6d. per ton,
with an average haul of 3370 miles, as
against Australian coal at 11s. per ton, with
an average haul of 7200 miles. So the
chances of Newcastle holding out against
Alabama look blue; and the thousands of
people who are interested in N. S. Wales
coal mines, and have barracked for foreign
trade instead of helping to build up coal-
consuming industries at home, are begin-
ning to wonder what sort of fools they have
been.
In 1910 Australia exported
£456,000 worth of hides, and
its own tanners had to bid
heavily against the foreign
demand to get a bit of tbe
ox’s overcoat to make Aus-
tralian boots with. In one
recent year Australia ex-
ported £1,007,000 worth of
hides to supply Bull’s growing
population, and as the local
supply hadn’t increased its
own tanners had to offer sky-
high prices for the cow’s vest
in order to get boot material
for their customers. Natur-
ally, the price of boots is going
up. You can’t both sell your
hide and have it, and nothing
save a heavy export duty on
hides is likely to alter the sit-
uation. If this country con-
tinues to sacrifice everything
on the altar of commerce it
had better wear clogs. Or it
might make silver or zinc boots at a push,
after the fashion of the brass cothurn of the
old Carthaginian soldier.
One Herford, of Rhodesia, dropped into
the Sydney papers the other day with a hint.
The Northern Territory of to-day is much as
Rhodesia was 20 years ago, he says. But —
and this is where the hint comes in—Rhodes
didn’t reckon Rhodesia was of no account
because the climate of Beira, the port, wasn’t
of much account; and he didn’t set to work
to make Beira the capital or boost it into
importance simply because it had saltwater
on its whiskers. The Portuguese had the
Australian habit of squatting down on the
coast and trying to make the tadpole grow
its head there. Rhodes, when he came,
aimed at the heart of the country, and re-
fused to regard the coast-place as anything
more than a forwarding depSt, and that
policy has done more for the country in two
decades than the other did in two centuries
—or could have done in two aeons.
The Scaddan Government of Westralia is
still busy knocking holes through the old gibe
that the Labor party doesn’t worry about
anything except a bob a day for Bill. At
latest, it was considering the farmer and his
handicaps; and when it had satisfied itself
that one of his stillest handicaps is the price
he has to pay for some of his implements, it
took off its coat, and is now proceeding to
build State works for the manufacture of
the goods at Fremantle.
THE TRAIN-WRECHER.
Trouble threatened last week in connec-
tion with the Sydney Ferries, whose em-
ployees were exasperated because a case of
theirs had been five months before a Wages
Board and was still unsettled. Five months
is a long time for a case to drag through a
court, and the Labor Government should
find out what causes such gradualness ; but
before they throw over arbitration on that
score, Laborites had better think over a
matter or two. When employers know that
strikes are to be the weapon, they prepare,
too; and then the strike isn’t a matter of
days or weeks—it is a matter of months.
And even if the actual strike is a matter of
a few weeks only, the preparation is a
matter of months or years. That fine old
patient patriarch, W. G. Spence, who better
deserves the title of Father of the mine and
bush workers’ unions of Australia than any
other man, could tell tales of how he and
his executive sat down and prepared for a
solid four years for a strike. Arbitration
is slow and ought to be expedited ; but it is
a streak of lightning compared with the
other method.
From a newspaper correspondent at c
berra: — an ’
When the horsemen returned to camp Paf ,h
with begrimed faces and almost choked with
red dust, they were grateful even for the
water, not only to bathe in bwt to drink.
Good old Cotter !
No sooner does an infant industry
some dimensions begin to walk upon th«
market than the middleman chips in ana
demands his cut. Sometimes his portion
is Doth ends as well as the middle On
evidence produced concerning the timber
trade, it seems that the middleman there
takes hold of the saw-millers, pockets 7 i
p.c. for orders, and 5 p.c. for collection' and
is so influential that he can guarantee the
miller who refuses to deal through him en
tire immunity from buyers. In all m
of the gross goes to me agent for done
work that a printed list issued by the
bush millers should do quite as well Mean
time, as every unthinking person knows'
the building trade in Melbourne is slack
just now because of the malignant exactions
of —labor !
Brother Barlow, who represents the Den-
ham Government in Bananaland’s Legisla-
tive Council, has been telling the guileless
Maorilanders how Federation has ruined
Australia, particularly since Labor sat in
the seats of the rulers. The state" that
Barluw was in is suspected from the follow-
ing outburst: —
If I went down to your station here to go to
Auckland, and I saw a chimpanzee driving the engine
a gorilla doing the firing, and a blue-tailed monkey
in the guard’s van, I would get off that train and
come back to this hotel.
A hotel isn’t exactly the place The
Bulletin would recommend in the cir-
cumstances ; still when a person finds his
train crowded with things like that, even
a pub would be safer, especially if one could
get the housemaid to dust the blue snakes
.if the bed posts and shoo the piebald spiders
up the chimney.
The Sydney Telegraph seems deter-
minded to speak the truth and shame its
policy about Yassberra. Three indepen-
dent departments of the paper have des-
patched reporters to the place where K.
O’Malley is going to pour lakes upon the
landscape and import some river for the
Cotter dust-bed, and each of them has ex-
nosed the swindle that has been worked.
The first exposure came from the fishing
expert, the second was handed out the week
before last by the political writer, and the
third appeared on Feb. 5 from the pen of
the military reporter on the spot. He wrote
from the Federal site camp:—
The brigade was completed this afternoon by the
arrival of the western and southern troops of Light
Horse, who detrained at Yass Junction, early yester-
day morning, and marched across country... .At
Joir, where the bivouac was formed for the night,
Mr. Johnston placed the large woolshed at the dis-
posal of the party, accommodated the horses in the
sheep and stock yards, and provided man and beast
with water, which is no inconsiderable trifle in these
days of drought.
Presumably the Governor-General will fill
a kerosene-can with the necessary dampness
and take it along with him on Christening
Day in case the friendly Mr. Johnston has
none left.
T. E. Way, chief sur-
veyor in the Northern Ter-
ritory, drops in with his
opinion of the empty land
after 12 months’ residence
in it. “A white man’s
country with a . good
future,” he says, and takes
his wife and family back to
share it with him. Of
course, these certificates or
testimonials are very grate-
ful and comforting; but
there isn’t much practical
value to them. In fact, to
yell the virtues of a land
we are not making serious
efforts to occupy is a good
deal like attracting possi-
ble rivals’ attention to a
girl we want to marry by
sounding her praises before
definitely attaching her.
Quite a number of scraps
of information have been
supplied to this country as
the result of the American
mission which got that in-
convenient Labor politician
and ex-Minister, Nielsen, of
N.S.W., out of the road
for over a year at £4 a
day for “expenses,” and his
full Parliamentary _ salary.
One just published is about
how the San Francisco
private - enterprise ferry
boat runs into a sort of
dock, drops a gangway
equal to the whole width of
the boat, and discharges its
passengers with amazing
velocity. The San Francisco ferry boats have
been doing that for 30 years or so, to the
knowledge of everybody who has happened
that way, though to a raw, untravelled sort
of person the business might seem wildly
new and worthy of an excited and jcostly
report. If Nielsen had been sent to Egypt
at £4 a day 7 he might, in like fashion, have
discovered the pvramids and reported in
great alarm about them.
THE UPRISING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How much more will Australia be expected to
calmly endure? In N. S. Wales last year we had an
act of rank disloyalty in the eviction of the Gover-
nor-General. .. .Lately we have felt ashamed every
time we have sent a letter outside the Common-
wealth at the hideous stamp we have had to use. .. .
The latest insult. ... etc., etc. — A rabid long-sufferer
in the Argus, 27/2/’l3.
How long, good losh! how long shall we sit calmly
and endure
Before we rise, and for Australia’sh ills arrange a
cure?
How long from padded chairs shall we be satisfied
to snort
“Dishloyalishts!” and “Traitors!” or some out-
burst of the sort?
A kangaroo upon our stamps, inshtead of George
[hie] King?
Oh, this is ’orrible! Le’sh [hie] arise, ’n’ shtop
the thing!
When we, awake-arising, come to reckon up our
wrongsh,
We know to whom the chief [hie] shame, the final
blame, belongsh.
Who threw the Guv’nor’s pots ’n’ pans out on the
Noo South mat?
Who gave us holy men of cash our beashly name
of Fat?
Who took the House o’ Reps, ’n’ filled it up with
anarchists ?
Traitorsh ’n’ rebelsh did it, boys, ’n’ blank dishloy-
alists 1
Yet what can we expect from those who curse Aush-
tralia thus
When there is vim in them, and little vigor left
in us;
While in [hie —beg y’r pard’n!] seats, we nation-
pillars sit
And curse, inshtead of gettin’ up to throw things
round a bit?
Up, then! Awake! Rise up! The time hic-deed
is ripe, I shink,
To rise and shplash around anuzzer blanky pint of
ink !
It is a truly shplendid thought, if not entirely new,
That, right or wrong, these knaves are wrong, what-
ever they may do.
So let us then rise up and do our duty without
fear !
Come, get the flag out, lads, and wave [hie] —wave
’er round ’n’ cheer!
Hooray ! Hoor —oh, le’sh rise up, men—le’sh ’wake-
rise, ’n’ be
Loyal some more—’n’ down with kangaroosh ’n’
anarchy!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
WHAT MOTHER ASKS OF US.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To exclude all but the locally born from the six
State Governorships would not be generous. Aus-
tralians were a generous people, and understood more
and more every day the material advantages of be-
longing to the great British Empire, but surely they
did not wish to enjoy all the advantages in a one-
sided manner.— State Governor Strickland.
The great advantages we gain
Just by belonging to
The Empire, must to ev’ry sane
And loyal citizen be plain ;
And we will nothing do
That’s calculated to thereby
Cut, snap or strain the Crimson Tie.'
And in return for all her care,
What does our Parent ask?
A grievous burden, hard to bear,
She begs of us that we should share.
It is our humble task,
Lest kinship’s thread should be destroyed,
To help Ma with her unemployed!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


Raster Visitors to Sydney
ft
7A
S
,
l
k 4
*
-3?
are specially invited to visit Palings
magnificent musical warehouse,
where the largest, best selected and
most up-to-date stocks of Pianos,
Player - Pianos, Piano - Players,
Organs, Band, Orchestral " and
Musical Instruments, Music and
Talking Machines and all Musical
sundries, in Australia, are dis-
played in commodious and well-
lighted Show Rooms.
CATALOGUES FREE.
• IT
ere i
...
The Cabinet CLAVIOLA
attached to an ordinary
upright piano.
PALING’S RELIABLE PIANOS
The Superb
BECHSTEIN
Grand Piano.
PALING’S FOR VALUE..
PALING’S have a reputation that is known over the length and breadth of
Australia for honourable dealings and reliable goods, and PALING’S prices
offer wonderful value for your money. Does it not appeal to you, then,
that it is only a wise thing to do, to PURCHASE YOUR PIANO and ALL
YOUR MUSICAL REQUIREMENTS FROM PALING’S—the house who
guarantee perfect and positive satisfaction? If
you have already made up your mind to purchase
a new piano, do not decide on any instrument until
you have inspected PALING’S CLAVIOLA
PIANO.
EASY TERMS
And at
NEWCASTLE,
LISMORE,
0
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
THE CLAVIOLA.
This glorious instrument which, with the CLAVIOLA MUSIC ROLLS,
enables those without the least piano-playing ability to play like accom-
plished artists, thousands of pieces of beautiful piano music after half an
hour s practice, stands absolutely unapproached as the finest and most
Piano it is possible to buy—THE VERY REST PIANO
INVESTMENT. We have the CLAVIOLA PIANO, also a Cabinet
Ciaviola for attachment to your present piano.
You are specially invited to visit PALING’S
CLAVIOLA SALON, and see, hear and play these
excellent instruments. Their wonderful powers of
expression and great musical possibilities will all
be cheerfully explained. Art Booklet post free, if
desired.
CATALOGUES FREE.
BRISBANE, and
TOOWOOMBA.
STEWART DAWSON 8 CO.
(AUSTRALIA) LTD.,
Strand Corner, 412 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
In originality and beauty of design, in skill of workmanship, and in
durability of service, Stewart Dawson's Electroplate and Silverware
stand unequalled.
First Cost Prices bring within the scope of a moderate income goods of
far greater value than you would expect for the money.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL GOODS.
■ 11l i
sTE WA«T ofivvsa Ni
LONDON
Mia
E 3682. —Best Quality Silver-plated PIE
SERVERS, in Morocco Case,
25/-
02407. —Child’s Silver-plated KNIFE, FORK
and SPOON,
5/6 a Set,
1882.—Best Quality Silver-platedand Mother-of-
Pearl BUTTER KNIFE and JAM SPOON, in
Morocco Case,
14/6-
,13070. —Six Best Quality Silver-plated
CAKE FORKS with CAKE SERVER,
180
STEWART DAW SON * C e
LONOOM
&
No. 30UA. — -Silver-piaied
KNIFE, JAM SPOON. PICKLE
FORK, SUGAR SPOON and TONGS,
in Case,
Write for our Beautifully Illustrated Art Catalogue,
sent Post Free on request.
■
I
UltlGN
Sin-
THIS CAMERA at
ONE GUINEA is
the Best Value
Obtainable in
Daylight Loading
Roll Film Cameras.
The li B FOLDING ENSIGN CAMERA
Takes Roll Films for Pictures x 3^in.
This beautifully-made Camera easily slips into the pocket, and is fitted
with a splendid Lens and Shutter, and is better-looking- and better
finished than any Camera that has ever been offered at such a low price.
PRICE COMPLETE,
with Book of Instructions,
211-
Of course, there are some bigger models in this series: For pictures
2^2in. x 4%"in., 30/-; for pictures x in., 37/6; for pictures Post-
card size, 42/-. Our 400-page Catalogue describes them all. It is free.
fg
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND (N.Z.),
and WELLINGTON (N.Z.).


SCIATICA.
AN OLD LILYFIELD RESIDENT
HIGHLY COMMENDS DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
“I am a great sufferer from Sciatica,
writes Mrs. Emily Carr, of O’Neill-street,
Lilvfield, “and believe I could not rise from
my bed if it were not for Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills, which I have found most
effective in combating this bad complaint,
and recommend them to my friends. I am
a Lilyfield resident of 20 years standing,
and you have my consent to use this testi-
«JHE QUFEN
OF
M°
m
aP*
Table waters
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
ĝ
E. RES CM’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
hfgh
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fgh
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
gh
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The victory of Almissa in the Australian
Oup race raises a question as to what is meant by
the word “interference” when it is used to fore-
shadow a probable “reversal of forrt)” by a horse
that has run very badly., Almissa, the original
favorite for the Australian Cup, started for the
Essendon Stakes three days before the big event, and
the running of the English horse was supposed to- be
a i test of his unprqye-n capacity to stay a longer
He ran prominently for a while, and then
dropped back, finishing' seventli in a field of 10.
This poor performance seemed to put Almissa out of
reasonable calculation for the Australian Cup,
although he was going to meet his conquerors—•
Piastre, Cadonia and others —on better terms in the
long distance race. The daily papers published
vfigue statements of “interference,” without attempt-
ing to explain why a little accidental jostling or
cunning jockeyship could cause a horse that was
always running second or third for the first mile to
drop back and remain in the background for the last
half-mile. The interference couldn’t have gone on
for, say, 50secs., and if it was a very serious sus-
tained injustice to Almissa, how came it that the
public was not fully informed of the business?
Beyond a brief statement that one of the riders in
the Essendon Stakes had been suspended by the
stewards for three months, the public saw no reason
to suspect that it was not a fairlv run race. As for
the “interference” story, evidently the bookmakers
didn’t see how Almissa could have been so com-
pletely knocked out of the running without being
actually injured. Thev lengthened their odds from
3 or 4 to 1 against Almissa for the Australian Cup
before his Essendon Stakes performance, to 10 to 1
on the day of the race. But when the race came to
pass, Almissa reversed his previous form in a most
remarkable way. Instead of running prominently
at first, and dropping back when “interfered with,”
he ran in the rear for If miles, and then rushed to
the front, and stayed there. And the stipendiary
stewards, seemingly, took it as a matter of course.
* * * *
Strange that the stable which had brought
off the Almissa coup should have missed the chance
to make a big win on Aleconner in the Bourke
Handicap, an hour or two later. Aleconner, like
Almissa, belongs to the Baillieu brethren, and the
stable companions were backed in doubles for the
Newmarket and Australian Cun. The 3-vear-old son
of Malster performed ignominiously in the Futurity
Stakes, and the stable must have accepted the run-
ning - as a public trial. For the Bourke Handicap
an apprentice jockey was mounted on Aleconner, and
starting at 20 to 1 the colt won from the legitimate
favorites, Volsloane and Kirn, even as Almissa had
won from Piastre and Cadonia.
Tittle Almissa, coming away from the field at the
business end of a long Cun race, reminded one of
the recently-expressed expert opinion that “EnoHsh
horses are superior over all distances to Australian
horses” —hist at present. Hallowmas, a horse of no
class in his own country, was treated as a duffer bv
Australian handicanpers. vet he was nearly good
enough to win the Melbourne Cun under a light
weight. Almissa, sold in England as a poor little
thing, touched in the wind, has already won three
good races un to miles, after running second in
an important mile sprint. On the o+her hand,
Eudorus, the Fnturitv Stakes winner, has hardlv
run un to his English form, but he is now a 7-year-
old stallion with a temper. The imported horses
nre certpinlv nervous, uncertain beasts in many
oases, and not one
longdistance race under a weigrh f .
* * * *
When Piastre had duly won the Champion
face, punters asked themselves how it happened
that this consistently good performer had seemingly
been fairlv beaten by Cadonia, at a difference of
4lb. only, in the 2-} miles Australian Cup. True,
there was a difference of 51b. the other way—or
9lb. in all—when they met in the three miles , test
race, but this time Piastre was lengths ahead of
Cadonia from start to finish. The latter’s reputation
as a “great stayer” is apparently founded on the
fact that he’s a very backward beginner if the pace
is good from the jump. In the champion journey
Cadonia made a remarkably poor show of speed
until he was asked to give a start of, say, 10
lengths to Piastre in the last mile, with the result
that he never got near enough to prove whether the
Melbourne Cun winner was all out, or otherwise.
- The time (Srnin. 26sec.) has been beaten only thrice
in 38 years, and the going, although not soft, was
not favorable to record-breaking.
* * * *
The backers of Booligal had a couple of
sad experiences at the V.R.C. meeting. In both the
two-mile and the three-mile steeplechases the tear-
away son of Carbinier went out a warm favorite,
rushed to the front 'at an early stage of the argu-
ment, and then settled his hash by running off.
The horse that goes astrav when he is in the lead
is always expected to win next time, and maybe
Booligal will run up to expectation—if he doesn’t
run amok—in the Onkaparinga Steeple.
Kirn was a eonsoicuously unsatisfactory
performer at Flemington. The mare, coming with
a late rush, finished third for the Newmarket (six
furlongs), and was third again for the Bourke Han-
dicap (seven furlongs), after getting badly away.
On this form she looked likely to make amends
in the Farewell Handicap (one mile), but this time
she failed even to get a place behind Gillamatong,
whose victory, bv the way, was strikinglv incon-
sistent with his failure to see out the finish of the
Bourke Handicap four days earlier.
“F.C.”: When, a year or two ago, the
V.R.C. handed over Footscrav Hill, across the Salt-
water Riyer and overlooking Flenr'neton racecourse,
as a public park and nicnic ground, - most people
suspected something behind the niece of generosity.
The something has now materialised into a grant,
by the Watt-Weary Government, of the right _to
charge for admission to the Flat. The non-naving
“sports” will be pushed across the river, and the
club will acquire considerable revenue—for which it
does not give, and can never, in the nature of things,
give, much return—from the bob-a-head Flatites.
But it is just possible the parties to the deal have
bitten off more than they can chew. Footscrav
council, sundry Labor leagues and the A.N.A. have
voiced strong protests. Both Caulfield and Fleming-
ton courses were originallv set aside for public use
ns “sporting and recreation” grounds. The “flat”
on the former is still reserved for public traffic, etc.,
except on race days, while Flemington Flat was re-
served for public use on anv and every day. Then,
a few years back, the V.R.C. grabbed the excuse of
danger from horses in training to close it except on
race days. Now it reaches out a<ra ; n and practically
steals a block of public land worth many thousands.
With rain drifting in waves across Syd-
ney on the wings of the wild south-easter on Satur-
day, cricket and every other sport were Quite im-
possible. Certainly, a yacht race was attempted,
but it ended in disaster. It was a dreadful after-
noon and a still more dreadful night. Ferry traffic
was paralysed; tramlines were washed out; a cab-
man was drowned at Petersham while attempting to
drive along a street with Bft. of water in it; at
Cook’s River people had to be taken off the house
tops in boats. And in one suburb three reporters
were blown clean through the door of a public
house into the bar.
To come back to cricket. As play was
impossible the 10th round had to be decided on the
figures of the previous Saturday, and some queer
results eventuated. Chief among them was the
miraculous escape of North Sydney from a bad
hiding, and the retention of its place at the head of
the competition on a draw. Redfern beat Central
Cumberland, Gordon did the same to University,
and Burwood found itself definitely on top of Peter-
sham. North Svdney-Glebe, Waverley-Paddington,
and Balmain-Middle Harbor games were counted
drawn. So North Sydney leads with 17 points to
Redfern’s 16, University has 12, Burwood seven,
Gordon four, and Central Cumberland two. Below
that are seven clubs with less than nothing.
The wintry week-end in Melbourne de-
stroyed the chances of those cricket teams whom the
loss of the toss had relegated to the second day’s
play. At Victoria Park ’Wood promptly closed at
214 for six wickets, x - an ’Varsity in and out again
for 77 (Pitcher, five for 18, Ryder four for 28), and
then set about demolishing it anew, in the attempt
to gain a three-point victory. Curiously enough
Uni. again vanished for 77, so ’Wood won by an
innings and 60 runs. South, with 335 runs for two
wickets, naturally closed, and told ’Cote to get busy.
’Cote did its best, but that only amounted to 132
runs for the first innings, and there was no time for
a second. North made a valiant effort to match
Carlton’s moderate 227. but only raked up 193 for
eight wickets. St. Kilda virtually dropped all its
nennant chances when it lost the toss to ’Pran. The
latter had piled up 313 for two wickets, and then
left the Saints a sodden wicket and about two hours
of decent weather to beat the figures. St. Ivilda
could only scrape up 118, and so retired definitely
from the turmoil.
The N.S.W. XI which drifted over to
Tasmania walloped the apple-landers by an innings
and 289 runs. Colt H. L. Collins made 250, scored
for Ma. Other inter-State smiters of more than
250 include Murdoch (321), H. Moses (297 n. 0.),
and Trumper 292. N.S.W. called on only three
bowlers; Massie took six wickets for 76, Scott six for
84, and Hordern seven for 124.
Corner men—the comic relief of the noble art.
Roy Kenny (defeated by Clarke) being
titivated by the gentlemen-in-waiting.
Analysis of the Sheffield Shield averages
throws no limelight on the young bloods. The only
batsmen to scramble through with figures above 40
per innings were Macartney, Trumper, Barbour, Bards-
ley (N.S.W.) ; Mayne, Crawford and Hill (S.A.) ; and
Matthews and Armstrong (Vic.). All of these, bar-
ring Barbour, are of the old school. In bowling
Whitt.y (25) and Crawford (21) gathered 46 wickets
out of 72 for S.A. ; Massie (N.S.W.) took 22 wickets,
and the only other Ma State bowler to take more
than five was Minnett, who got away with six ; while
Ryder’s 22 wickets for Vic. overshadowed the rest
of the trundlers of that State.
* * * *
After all, S.A. has not grabbed the Shef-
field Shield out of its turn. Since 1892-3 the Shield
has hung in its gilded halls but three times: ’93-4,
’O9-10 and ’l2-13. The rest of the time it oscillated
between Ma and Vic. However, there is a lot of
promising young talent in S.A. just now, and the
Land of the Crow is going to water that young talent
assiduously.
* * * *
Another remarkable bowling performance
was put up in the Brisbane A Grade senior competi-
tion match between Toowong and Nundah on a
recent Saturday, R. K. Oxenham taking six of Too-
wong’s wickets for eight runs. This is a perform-
ance to be placed alongside G. Duffin’s six for seven.
Rain took a hand in the finish of the last
Sheffield match of the season, played in Adelaide.
Victoria, battling to make an unlikely 381, stopped
at just ovex 200. The honors were with the old
crowd, though Hill and Gehrs failed. Matthews,
Armstrong and Ransford did most of the work on one
side, Crawford, Whitty and Mayne (now one of
Australia’s best batsmen) on the other. Ryder was
away, and Moves and Baring did little. S.A. takes
the Shield with three wins, to N.S.W.’s two, and
Victoria’s one.
Harry Trott has been lecturing the Maori-
landers on their lack of cricketing style. He slings
no mud at Maoriland cricket; in fact, he hands
out bouquets, remarking that he could even now
pick a Maoriland team which would make a good
fight with an Australian State XI. But it would
have to be on Maoriland pitches, he adds, dryly.
He says the Maorilanders adopt the English method
of protecting their stumps with their pads, and on
the fast Australian wickets the ball would be upon
them before they had time to get the bat in action,
and the whole team would be out l.b.w. Some-
body retorted that it was W. Carlton, an Australian,
who introduced the practice; to which Trott imme-
diately replied that Carlton never learned it in Aus-
tralia, where he was busy unlearning it as a member
of North Melbourne. Trott also pointed out that in
a match in which Carlton played against a team
with which Trott was associated, he was given out
l.b.w. in both innings, the pace having utterly
beaten him.
The race in which the deep-keeled old-time
yacht Thelma came to grief on Saturday in
Port Jackson should never have been run.
Neither should the 18-footers who threw spume
on the beard of Providence have been allowed
to bullock over the mountains of water to
the Sow and Pigs. The water police launcn
Argus practically put in the afternoon rescuing
capsized and swamped crews. There’s no fun in
this sort of thing, and people will realise it one of
these days when a whole company vanishes for ever.
The wreck of the Thelma was a very sad business,
the only bright gleam in it was the heroic effort
made by the others on the yacht to save the man
who had been washed overboard. The sea was
pouring in through the Heads in gigantic waves,
topped with blinding rain. The Thelma and &>ayo-
nara had crossed from Watson s Bay to round the
Manly buoy, and had started to thresh back against
the howling sou’-easter. The Sayonara § lacing was
carried away, and she ran into North Harbor for
shelter. Thelma held on magnificently, and ap-
parently would have come through all right but
that a giant sea swept W. Moore, the mam-sheet
hand, overboard. Mr. Lloyd-Jones never hesitated
a second ; one of his crew was overboard, and if it
was humanly possible he was going to save that
man. Realising the danger, he ordered his crew to
throw off their oilskins, and then gibed. The people
on the steamer saw the yacht rise on her beam-
ends and vanish. They waited breathlessly to see
the white hull reappear. But her mast had carried
away, thousands of tons of booming waves poured
down on her, and remorselessly drove her towards
the rocks. Moore, the lost man, drifted out
of sight across the Manly bombora. It looked as
though the Thelma would be swept there also, and
she would have been had not the pilot steamer
Barunda succeeded in reaching her. After she had
been dragged to an anchorage off Dobroyde, the
crew was transferred to a Watson’s Bay steamer
and brought on to Sydney, mighty lucky to be alive.
No trace of the missing man could be seen ; but at
least his skipper and mates did all that could be
done, and more than many would have risked, in
the attempt to save him. All the same, if they
had not been there, there would have been no need
to try to save him.
The Sydney Yacht Squadron held a race
for the eight-metre class, and of five entrants three
faced the starter in spite of the wild weather. Petrel,
perfectly rigged for the day, was the obvious winner,
although Magic made an excellent showing under the
difficulties. The skipper of the third boat, Sunbeam,
showed more sagacity than the other two rolled into
one, for when he got a v'ew of the Heads and the
sea that was pouring through them, he promptly
remarked, “No good to Gundy!’’ and retired. Petrel
won with over 40 minutes to spare.
The result of the 18-foot open-boat race on
Port Jackson on Saturday afternoon proves the wis-
dom of the ancient adage, “An old sea dog for a
hard blow.” Only seven were mad enough to start,
and of these but one got through, the ancient Don-
nelly, skippered by the ancient George Holmes, now
somewhere about 70. Eunice lost her mast on the
way to the line; Pastime’s gib blew out as she got
away; Quibree’s mast went by the board off Brad-
ley’s ; Sunny South lost the mast at the Sow and
Pigs : Mona, like the light of other days, vanished
utterly; and Scot was swamped. Donnelly alone
remained afloat, triumphant and soaked.
The N.S.W. eight-oar crew for Adelaide
is a verv queer basket of fish in one respect. Not
one of the men who visited England and Stockholm
has a seat —probably they’ve used up all the leave
of absence they are likely to get for some time.
Still it is good to see the young bloods have a show.
** * *
The W.A. rowing rumpus has subsided. At
a special meeting of the association a motion was
adopted that, in the event of the controlling body
being unable to secure a representative crew, the
offer of the W.A. Rowing Club to despatch an eight
be accepted. So, whichever way it goes, W.A. is
likelv to have a finger in the pie at Adelaide in
April. The squabble has stirred up the old-time
votaries of the sport, including the Bishop of Perth,
Frank Parker (Crown Prosecutor) and Gawler,
M.L.C.. who did a good deal towards clearing the
atmosphere.
In the U.S.A. the rule of the road is quite
the opposite to our own, and the vehicular traffic
keens always to the right. The result is that when
ordering a Yankee-made car one has to be particu-
lar to specify which side of the machine he desires
his steering and other gear. Incidentally, there is
something to be said in favor of the left-hand seat.
The time the motor driver has to exercise caution
is when overtaking and passing another \ c '+ fle,
which mav decline to make sufficient way. and for
this the left-hand seat is ideal. It has this great
drawback, however: the controlling levers must be
either worked bv the left hand or placed between
the passenger and the driver in a place where they
are liable to accidental manipulation when 18« t.
squashes in beside the driver. But in spite
of this obvious disadvantage, it is said that fullv 35
per cent, of American-made cars have the driver’s
seat placed on the left hand.
Rananaland will control the Australian
amateur cvcling championships in 1914, N.S.W. in
1915, and Vic. in 1916. If any of the other cycling
bodies can be fished to the surface in the other
States at the end of three years, they will be granted
a share in the draw for 1917. The cycling confer-
ence, which decided these things in Sydney last
week, evidently reckons it is here for some time.
N.S.W. cyclist Stanley Burtenshaw added
another gem to his already over-jewelled d : adem by
wmning the One Mile Australian Amateur champion-
ship at Svdney Sports Ground last week. The other
championship, Five Miles, drifted to the plate-chest
of A. Beck, a vastlv improved whirler who will be
found in the front of manv future races, if the gods
do not snatch him to themselves. The riders from
Queensland and Vic. had a cheerless time, and nary
a crumb or the price of a drink fell their way. It’s
a cold world.
D. Campbell and Bops Soden go on the
warpath at an earlv date against G. G. White’s Svd-
motor-car record of 19hr. 47min.
Their proposed schedule is 18hr. 29min., and
arrangements are being carefullv organised to arrange
for a clear run through. The opening of railway
gates is a big factor in a record run between Svd-
ney and Melbourne, and if that can be arranged for
so as to avoid delav, and the roads are no worse
than usual, White’s figures will probably be smashed.
Sneers. who won the Melbourne Six-I>av
Race, comes from Re+hurst (N.SW.). His team
partner was Don Kir’-ham. the Victorian crack. The
same nair was second in the. Svdnev race, and,
curiously enough. McNamara and Corrv, who were
second in VeiUnurue. werp first in Svdnev.
Both Pans and Berlin have seen the ,•,
of the ’roo exalted. A. J. Clark won the b,•
Six-Day Race, while Goullet got away wits J?
first prize in the Paris event. Clark won his the
easily, simply bolting from the field in the wT" 1
His team mate was Hill (U.S.A.). They divides ~ p ’
man coin worth L 500 between them. The Pari U er "
was the first of the six-day species there and f- n ?n Dt
(who won both the Sydney and Melbourne races'!/
year) got home in record time, he and his mate cover
ing 2/7 5| miles, about 55 miles better than the we"
vious best. Goullet’s team mate was Pogler #
America. They had a mighty rival in Schneider
late of Sydney. At 1000 miles he was well in id’
vance, having lapped the field again and again h
was a certain winner, barring accidents; but if
partner came a smasher, and had to retire’ s c w s
der kept going for eight hours in the hope his mate
would recover; but his mate didn’t, and the rule
forbade Schneider staying any longer on the track
So a certain winner, with plenty in hand, was outed
“Condamine” : Re The Bulletin’s re-
marks on Jerome after his fight with Balzac Tii
speak of Jerry in the same breath as the “smokes’'
from the other side is an insult to the genial abo
from Warra. His style may not be orthodox but
what can be expected, seeing that he learned the ar
through sparring with casual backblock “shrewdies’’
who knew as much of boxing as Jerry does If
algebra ? Then, in his favor, look at his career as an
athlete, foot-runner, rough-rider and steer-thrower
and the fact that he can put up such scraps at ail
age when most pugs are down and out shows that he
has at least led a clean life. A more unassuming
fellow, or one more averse, as a general thing to
hurting his fellow man never put up his hands. ’
Roy Kenny and Jack Clarke, who met at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night, were unlucky
The terrific downpour ruined the gate, and the hous'
was probably insufficient to pay their training e .x
penses. Still, there was one incentive to fight—the
winner could look forward to a couple or three good
mills in the near future. So they fought. But what
sort of a fight was it! An entirely new brand of
scrap, in which there was much loud stamping of
feet, the combatants smiting alternately, and both
standing stiffly to take the wallop. Occasionally
there were rushes, alarums, and weird happenings, out
of which one bruiser would emerge with the other
lying across his shoulder, or with his nose buried in
the other’s back hair. It was wildly grotesque, but
whether the burlesque was accidental or subtly
intentional, Heaven only knows. At the end the
referee declared Clarke the winner—as good a verdict
as any other he could have given, if not better.
N.S.W. Rugby Union has received a batch
of alterations in rules from the English Union, and
the N.S.W. body, being a baby in the cradle, will
swallow ’em all without question. Only one really
matters, and, by some miracle, it is for the better.
It provides a penalty for wilfully heaving the ball
into touch, or kicking out of bounds. Of course,
that makes for faster and more spectacular play, and
was one of the reasons of the success of the Rugby
League in Sydney. When the N.S.W.U. proposed to
introduce this reform some years ago, the “Home”
authorities lumped on the proposal with both feet.
But evidently things have been moving in England
of late. And yet the use of the touchline was not
altogether bad. Against a heavy crowd it gave a
light, skilful team with a few good kickers a chance
that would be impossible under the new arrangement.
The eight entries for the Davis Cup—in-
cluding the “British Isles,’’ the holders —will neces-
sitate a big batch of preliminary rounds. The first
draw is: America v. Australasia, Germany r.
France, S’Africa v. Canada, and Belgium a bye.
England, being in possession of the pannikin, sits
quiet till the semi-final is played, and then meets
the winner, who by that time will have played
three distinct matches—that is, provided no one
drops out. Wilding, A. B. Jones and S. N. Doust
will look after Australia’s interests, and the first
round, against America, will be played in England.
Airmen have to go up, safe or otherwise,
when it suits the interests of the firm, according
to evidence given at the inquest on Geoffrey Eng-
land, one of the pilots of the Bristol School on
Salisbury Plain (Eng.). His firm had made four
aeroplanes to the order of the Roumanian Govern-
ment, which presumably thought they might come
in handy against Bulgaria if that truculent princi-
pality kicked too hard over Silistria. Prince Can-
tacuzens, the Roumanian agent, was anxious to see
the . machines fly, and the firm .sent word the
machines must be tested by a certain date, “good,
txid, or indifferent weather.” On the Monday England
wrote to his mother, “They don’t care if our necks
are broken, so long as the prince is satisfied.”
Nevertheless, he obeyed orders, went up on Thurs-
day, turned turtle at an altitude of 600 ft., and was
dashed to death. Now there’s going to be a row.
* * * *
“Oh. yes,” said the man from Mont
Blong, “we have plenty of fine athletes in Switzer-
land. The reason the outside world knows, so little
about them is that we have no professionalism. We
have, of course, nominal prizes, which are highly
valued, but there is rygyer any money in the game,
and if a Swiss atlieWe takes part in a money-com-
petition abroad, he is barred ever after from home
competitions. You see, we are. so far. as free from
the man who makes a trade of athletics as we are
from the bookmaker, and all the other parasites of
sport, and we intend to remain so.”


HOW WILL YOU GET ON
WHEN IN A TIGHT CORNER?
1
I
i
1
i
1
*
i
I
1
l
l
1
i
i
i
I
I
1
1
1
i
I
1
I
«
1
1
f
1
i
i
i
Will you come out with flying
colors, or will you be sick, sore and
sorry in the bitterness and humility
of defeat?
Remember, prevention is better than
cure. And if you want to make sure
you’ll be able to take care of your-
self, then the sensible plan is to be
a skilful Boxer. Don’t wait until
you get a hiding. Be a scientific,
hard-hitting boxer, and give one.
This is your opportunity to learn —to
learn in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
and teach it so efficiently that you’ll
readily acquire a sound knowledge of
the noble art.
Here is how my pupils appreciate
my postal instruction :
“You will be pleased to hear lam makinggood progress. Each lesson is so complete,
plain and easily understood, that it can be mastered with surprising facility.”
W. H. L., Townsville, Queensland.
You’ll make equally satisfactory progress.
You’d better write for my booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which
gives full particulars and fee. Please send 3d. in stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
163 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Make
your
own
Cigarette^
If is
twice
as good,
CIGARETTE
PAPER
arvd VmST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros, li? 255“ George S? Sydney
L. W. DODGE U CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODGE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Cane and Rubber Spliced Harviles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
VictorTrumper& Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTopsandSteel Shod,
6/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg: Guards. Wicket-keeping: Caunt-
lets, Batting: Cloves, Matting:,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
517 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
gh
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6S£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
‘SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
POLO
The Season is
here, and Polo
Players want;
to know where
best to get
their require-
ments. For
the last 12
years we, as
C.H.Walther
8 Co.,
have special-
ised in this
sport and have
supplied
saddles to the
special orders
of
gh
.Ac/acKhj
_g«od
/tJufn.
Messrs. Carvan. White, Mackay, Roberts,
Campbell and Hordern.
Write for our NEW POLO BOOK, TO-DAY,
Post Free to any address.
N.B.—Large Consignment of INDIAN
POLO STICKS, Just Landing.
Edward Butler §S ons Ltd.
THE POLO SPECIALISTS,
257 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Brisbane & Warwick, Q.
gh
PILES BANISHED
Thousands of people have reason to remember the day they
first heard .of Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills. These people
had suffered in varying periods of some form or other of
Piles and their lives had been made one continual round
of pain, worrv and anxiety. Murphys Pile Pills quickly
gave them relief and a lasting cure. They will do as
much for you if you will give them the chance.
Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills relieve all swelling, purify the
blood stop congestion and heal the affected parts. They
are non-aperient and perfectly harmless. full directions
and testimonials with each box.
Sold at all chemists and storekeepers at 3/- per box DOst
free- or direct from the S6le Proprietors: ANDREW
MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
Murphy’s Pile Pills
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
ĥg
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
ĝh
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Rigney’s New Shoe Store!
The Rigney Shoe is so well known and appre-
ciated, not only in New South Wales, but in the
other States also, that we have decided, for the
convenience of our clients in the Northern State,
to open a store in that conveniently situated
centre, EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
The Store will be well stocked with an extensive
assortment of Gent.’s high-class footwear in all
shapes and sizes.
The Boot here shown is a choice Tan Russia
Derby Boot, kid lined, very'stylish and dressy.
Also in Black.
23,6, 25/- and 27/6.
Can be had with or without
punching on cap.
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write for our Catalogue.
ĥgh
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Men's Exclusive
High-grade Shoe Stores,"
305 GEORGE STREET and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at CITY BUILDINGS, EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
Miles
in ONE DAY
on
This record performance has just
been registered on Victorian roads by
P. J. O’BRIEN, who added over 50
miles to the previous best figures.
In a ride of this description, TYRE
RELIABILITY is the main factor,
wndj as is always the case, “ Dunlops”
were not found wanting.
For STRENGTH, RELIABILITY and
WEAR these Tyres absolutely stand
IT PAYS TO USE THEM.
WHEN ORDERING TYRES BE SURE AND
SPECIFY “DUNLOPS.” :: ALL AGENTS.
&
!
*
I
m
DUNLOP RUBBER CO, OF AUST LTD.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH. BRISBANE.
WELLINGTON and CHRISTCHURCH.
The gall (or something) of these Women s
Fashionable League orators is paralysing.
Mrs. Robert Morton assured a meeting in
Melbourne, the other day, that “Mr. Cook,
the leader of the Opposition, was respon-
sible for the initiation of the present de-
fence scheme.” Cook, the man who con-
demned compulsory military training as “the
worst form of continental conscription,
and denounced the idea of an Australian
navy which, he alleged, would one day be
turned against our poor old Mother, to
whom he wanted to present “scores of
Dreadnoughts!” Has Mrs. Robert Morton
the remotest idea of what she talks about,
or is she just a plain, unvarnished
“Liberal”?
Having long disregarded the demands
from various parts of the State for adequate
school accommodation, Victoria’s Education
Department has at last bumped against the
machinery of the law. Recently a Woome-
lang parent was summoned for not sending
his youngster to school. He pleaded that
he was justified in declining to endanger
his child’s health, the school having floor
space for only 40 scholars, whereas 90 were
in attendance. The Bench —a P.M. presid-
ing—agreed that his plea was valid, and dis-
missed the case. So the Weary State must
now either provide adequate school accommo-
dation or let its children grow up ignorant.


257-
fern POT, pure silver-plated
handsomely embossed and en
graved, 4sin. high.
21/-
TEAPOT, pure silver-plated, hand-
fluted, engraved bands.
21/-
DINNER CRUET, pure silver-
plated, crystal glass bottles-
SENDS YOU FREE
12/6.
BUTTER DISH, pure silver-plated,
nickel silver, hand-embossed, cut,
crystal glass.
25/6.
Handsome CHINA TEA SET,
40 pieces, handsome floral de-
sign, decorated gilt. Postage
extra.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
10/6
SUGAR BASIN, pure
silver-plated, nickel sil-
ver, richly burnished.
A Magnificent New Silverware Catalogue of 200
Pages—each page filled with delightfully up-to-
date designs for Wedding or Birthday Gifts,
high in quality and wonderfully low in price.
A'H 7/6.
HOT-WATER KETTLE & STAND,
pure silver-plated, rustic stand, richly
embossed.
12/6.
FISH SERVERS, pure silver-plated, hand-engraved blades, xylonite
handles. Ivory handles, 30 / -
307-
vegetable DISH, pure sil-
ver-plated, on nickel silver,
highly burnished.
10/6.
EGG FRAME AND SPOONS,
silver-plated, nickel silver.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
10/6 Pair.
SALT CELLAR AND
SPOON, pure silver-
plated, nickel silver,
rainbow glass.
A
25/-
BISCUIT BARREL, polished Eng-
lish oak, silver-plated mounts, por-
celain china lining.
25/-
CAKE BASKET, pure silver-
plated, nickel silver, richly en-
graved.
■
12/6
PRESERVE DISH, pure sil-
ver-plated, crystal glass dish.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1®
m
a
f
At
S\
A
%
ms
vS-
ilk
'M
X«p®i
m
■■■ -■
1
' *
m
1
:earn
re
aO
C
We exhibited 24 Head of Cattle at the Bris-
bane Show, 1912, and secured 25 Prizes,
including Champions.
Last year we exhibited 27 Head of Cattle,
.«■ ' ",»» <■>»'■■"»
and secured 34 Frizes, including Champions.
t
“NESTLE’S COWS”
i MAKE —*
“NESTLE’S MILK”
Proving Purity and Quality go hand in hand.


gh
PATE NT
SHEEP BRANDING
LIQUID
M
t
B?
'-»v'
*
/
f
✓
t
*
»■ •’
>
&
'-
#
v>y
i
4
w*
w«»*a
•.. =u
m
■
ae**
BLACK,
RED and
BLUE
KEMP’S PATENT .
''SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
BLACK,
RED and
BLUE.
IS NOT AN OIL, AND WILL
NOT INJURE THE WOOL.
Cases containing two 4-gallon Tins,
4/6 Gallon ; or eight 1-gallon Tins,
5/- Gallon.
AGENTS IN MELBOURNE (Dalftety (Q> Co. Ltd.).
~ SYDNEY (Dalgety CSb Co. Ltd.).
„ ADELAIDE <D. <SL J. Fowler Ltd.).
KINGSTON. S.A. (Dalgety (Kb Co. Ltd.).
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich (Kb Co. Ltd.).
AGENTS IN ROCKHAMPTON (Dalgety (XL Co. Ltd.
tJ ~ TOWNSVILLE (Dalgety (XL Co Ltd.).
„ FREMANTLE (Dalgety (XL Co, Ltd.).
~ ~ HOBART (Wm. Crosby (XL Co.).
~ „ LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell (XL Co. Ltd.).


Throat & Chest
trouble relieved by
GENUINE
scons
EMULSION
week, year after year, let-
ters arrive telling how
To Youth and Age
SCOTT’S brings
strength.
And these letters, from all parts
of the world, provide indisputable
evidence of the health-giving value
of SCOTT’S Emulsion. Thus
Miss Frances J. Kelly
wrote this letter.
“ Scott’s Emulsion I cannot praise
too highly. I suffered with my throat
and chest, also I had a cough I could
not get rid of. After the first bottle of
Scott’s Emulsion my throat and chest
were greatly relieved. I wish I had
tried Scott’s before, instead of wasting
money on other preparations. ”
Miss Frances J. Kelly, 160,
Dowling Street, Darlinghurst.
30.5.11.
One trial of Scott’s Emulsion will
convince you. That is if you really
get genuine SCOTT’S EMULSION
as known by this Trade Mark.
x
This is not only a Trade Mark.
It is a guarantee of SCOTT
purity, genuineness and
strength; put on the package
so that you may know you
really have got genuine
SCOTT’S EMULSION
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
ANT IN EUR AST MIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard, No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle ; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street, East Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales bv H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
hĝ
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indeteetable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, ported 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
AIR PALLING OUT?
Troubled with dandruff?
Did you not know that
Ayer’s Hair Vigor stops
falling hair, destroys dandruff?
\ CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemists.
Rowlands
Macassar
Oil
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Restores it. Closely
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which nature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this property.
Without it the hair becomes dry, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect ol
a beautiful face. Good hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND'S,
67, Hatton Garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
Last 18 Days
MARCH 31st! The last day—absolutely the last
day—for getting new Edison Records for old
ones. Sort through your collection to-day, and
put aside all the old, disused, worn and defectivg
Records you have. Take these to any recognised
Edison dealer, and he will make you an allowance for
them as follows :
Threepence (3d.) for one old Edison
Standard Record.
Fourpence (4d.) for one old Edison
Amberol Record.
The only condition appertaining to this offer is that
one Edison Amberol Record be purchased for each old
Record returned.
New Records
for Old Ones
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. B, 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
hg
SMOKERS and
NON-SMOKERS
find Pebeco Tooth Paste the best remedy for any disagree-
able taste. It makes your breath sweet and fragrant and
restores tinted teeth, without injury, to their natural color.
Pebeco is a complete and ideal health course for the mouth
and teeth.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with useful Book and interesting
test, Pree for three penny stamps, on application to the
Sole Agent,
O. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). [4
ON TNE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wbicb excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis bas been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No other soap possesses
tbese qualities in sucb a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion#
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
Constant K.: (1) A lawyer certainly
•ught to be put on to hunt up the statutes and
authorities. The Prayer Book alleges that marriage
with the former husband of a father’s sister is
illegal. (2) It would be physiologically dangerous.
(3) Don’t know; ask the Dept Alison H.: A
few colors, but not a payable proposition.. ..Blithers:
Try again. But, above all things, say something....
Bellbird: Certainly there’s hope... .Damon: Neither
suitable, though there are bright gleams in the
prose... .Grace B.: The Religious Editor was last
seen pasting your gas-strike prayer to the topside of
the empty rum-barrel which he calls his “study.”
It has a most soothing fragrance, that study, and
the owner’s busted boots may De seen protruding-
from it during the hottest part of the day.... Belle-
rive : Very suitable for a time of murk and gloom:
THE ASSASSIN’S DREAM.
A stern and silent warder
His moody watch did keep
O’er a grim and death-doomed convict
Who muttered in his sleep.
The slumberer from a dream awoke
With a loud and hideous yell.
I’ve been haunted in my sleep, he gasped,
By the horrid imps of Hell.
My victim’s shrouded form arose from
The deep and awful grave.
O God! ’Twas a fearful Dream
The wretched man did rave.
Condemned by judge and jury
For the murder of my Wife
For which I’ll pay the penalty
Upon the gallows with my life.
. ...Rox: Unsuitable. .. .J.M.D.R.: Matter and style
too young, but your handwriting is admirably clear.
. ...Bilma: It can’t go the distance... .R.M.C.:
Both gladly rejected. Story is the record untidy
manuscript of the week. If it is your aim to avoid
print, continue to send in carelessly scribbled matter
which is calculated to weary the eye. It is worth
noting that most successful writers send in tidy
MS. A select few of the first-rankers are careless;
but that is not why they succeed. Occasionally,
owing to blots and smudges, a puzzled sub-editor
or reader guesses wrongly, and the masterpiece is
ruined—in the author’s opinion, anyhow. Then is
seen the harrowing spectacle of a genius cursing
bitterly in a dark pub and vindictively biting beer..
Wye: A bit below print level and a good way above
postcard standard. Should suit the latter purpose
J.H.H.: Careful work, but somewhat thin. . . .K.
(Q.) : Splendidly shrieky poem..A.J.H. (Q.) : Rough
work... .C.C.: An idea buried in it... .S.S.M.:
Made according to grandma’s literary recipe....R.
Leslie: Du 11.... Murray Pine: What hamlet is this
you are cursing in verse? A better plan would be
to paste the manuscript curse on the front door of
the shire hall ; then the councillors would be sure to
see it... Charles C.: No, Charles... .Jack J.: Dreary
production. .. .Concertina: Machine-made mist....
Camerant: Aye, we hae put it in the wee bit basket,
ye ken. (P.S. —That’s as near as we can get to the
foreign language you write in.) ... . G.H.: Your
touch is not strong enough. .. .Forbes D.: Amateur-
ish work. .. . J.A.A.: Unsuitable. .. .W.: Ode to
deceased cockatoo is one of the most banal things
that have blown in this year.... J. D. Cordalba:
! All quite true, but none quite new; and we like
j things to be at least a shred of both... .Temporary
Insider: Would need complete re-writing. .. .0.:
Don’t think you’ve got much of a grievance. You
I wanted the guarantee of a separate cabin, or of a
four-berth cabin with only one other person in it,
j and you naturally had to pay for it. _lt was
merely your bad luck that, the ship not being full,
you paid the extra money unnecessarily... .H. Pat:
Want to know a bit more about it first. ... Sandal-
wood: Inquire of Burns, Philp and Co Weka:
Not up ; try again.
“Temple Court” considers his stomach :
Having practised vagrancy in many lands, this
glutton and bibber wishes to complain that we Aus-
tralians don’t value our local food and drink at any-
thing like their true value. So far, no start has been
made to create an Australian school of cookery. No-
body has invented a national dish, not even a national
sauce. We copy our daily meals from cold countries,
where bacon and eggs have displaced blubber and
crude oils as a breakfast delicacy. We use only one
bread made of wheat, and know nothing of maize,
rye or oats. Living in a country covering 30deg. of
latitude and 40deg. of longitude, we look upon fruit
as a luxury, and prefer that which comes from old
and cold climes before our own luscious tropical and
sub-tropical products. You could as easily prize out
of an Australian his great-grandfather’s fondness for
carrots and cabbage (ideal cow food) as you could
pull out of a Presbyterian his love for his Shorter
Catechism. Verily is an Australian’s diet mostly
made up of beef and mutton and onions and cabbage.
And he knows nought of the hundred salad plants and
vegetables of the Latin peoples living in a region like
his own. In the way of green stuff he
has little else but lettuce, and likes it
better for being stale and limp and not over-clean.
Australia imports more fish than it catches, and
what local fish is caught is cooked in one way in a
frying-pan. If the limited choice of badly-cooked
food upsets my patriotism, it nearly vanishes when
contemplating the drink question. We make as
good beer as is made anywhere on the planet, and
most of us prefer to buy imported muck because it is
imported. Once on an N.D.L. steamer I had been
drinking the ship’s draught lager beer copiously for
breakfast, luncheon .and dinner, also for supper, anc
before getting up. and just before lying down, and
every time the forecastle bell was struck. I told th<
chief steward I was deadly sorry 1 could not gei
such good German lager in Melbourne. “Ach nein!
he replied. “It is of Sydney!” Then I started to
investigate the beer question, and _ found we brew
here just as good beer as they do in Milwaukee, or
Pilsen or Munich, and often better. I had a South
Australian burgundv at dinner last night fully equal
to any Romanes Conti, at half the price of the
foreign wine; and habitually I drink a N.S.W. hock
as fine as the best Johannesburger, at a quarter the
cost.
“F.C.”: It seems to me there is something
wrong about these alleged 00-, 60- and 80-
miles an hour records by motorists. I was
perambulating South Yarra (Melb.) at an un-
civilised hour the other morning when a large
motor came down Toorak road at a smart
pace. In it or about it somewhere were four
men, while a fifth bestraddled the bonnet
and explained to a bottle in his hand that
he “wash jolly good f’low.” His prominent
position seemed to harass those behind, and
while endeavoring to persuade him into the
car someone grabbed the steering wheel, and
the machine ran smash into a telegraph post.
The post was well and truly sunk and of
good blue gum, and stood the shock well,
better than the imported car, which was—
well, it just wasn’t anything, only a sugges-
tion of something which had once been. It
took four of the occupants half an hour to
realise the details of the earthquake, while
the fifth only took up the burden of mun-
dane matters again some hours later in a
hospital. (He wasn’t the bonnet-rider, by
the way.) But what bothers me is that
each and every one of these four maintains
that the car was only going a “moderate.”
between* 15 aad 20 aides an hour.


•£*ZMV
t —x_
m
Q
y[\
I
X
There’s Rubber for you!
The very finest rubber grown, pure Para, is the only kind trom which
Michelin Red Rubber Tubes
are manufactured.
Para Rubber owes its exceptional durability and elasticity
to the chemical treatment to which it—and it alone—
can be subjected. That is why Michelin tubes never
harden and are more durable than any other make.
You should always use the Michelin
Bolt Valve,
because, by dispensing with the necessity for using security
bolts, one avoids much trouble and annoyance—besides
obtaining the great advan-
tage of being able to fit or
detach cover and tube at
the same time and with no
other assistance than that
afforded by two simple levers
Michelin Tubes
and Accessories
can be obtained
from all the
Leading Garages.
THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles.
Price 6d.
THE “ODDESSE” RAM PUMP
HEAVY PRESSURE PATTERN
1000 ft., and Steam Pressures up to 1801 b. per square inch.
For Heads up to
V’-m
m
•5.
The Steam End shown in the illustra-
tion is of the “Oddesse” High Pressure
Pattern, fitted with “Oddesse” Valve
Gear, with cut-off valves, but where greater
economy in steam consumption is required
we can quote for these pumps fitted with
Compound Cylinders.
All parts of the Pump End are Sub-
divided as much as possible, so that if any
part is broken accidentally, the whole of
the water end has not to be replaced, as
is often the case with cheaper pattern
pumps. The valve boxes are provided
with separate doors for access to each box.
In the smaller pumps each valve box con-
tains a single gun metal valve and se*t.
and in the larger pumps we fit gun metal
group valves.
The steam and water ends are coupled
together with mild steel stanchions turned
and polished bright, and the whole forms
a very substantial arrangement.
REGULAR FITTED PUMPS have valves
and seats of gun metal, rams of hard,
close-grained cast iron, and piston rods of
steel.
GUN METAL FITTED PUMPS have gun
metal cased rams, gun metal valves and
seats, and steel piston rods.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


Continued to Spread. Itching Intol-
erable. After Using Cuticura
Soap and Ointment Three Weeks
Eczema Quite Healed.
Bellevue Hill, Sydney, N. S. W. —“A
number of years ago I contracted a salt
water boil on the ankle just above the boot;
?
when it healed up it left a
hole like a bullet wound.
About a year ago I notices
that it was getting very
inflamed and a scaly patch
forming. I tried several
remedies but the red scaly
patch continued to spread
and the itching was so in-
tolerable I could not keep
from scratching and tearing it.
“I concluded to try the Cuticura Rem-
edies so I got a sample tin of the Cuticura
Ointment. I bathed the part affected three
times a day with Cuticura Soap and warm
water, afterwards applying a little of the
Cuticura Ointment very gently and cover-
ing it with a small' piece of clean linen to
stop chafing. After using Cuticura Rem-
edies for three weeks the eczema on the
ankle which was at one time the size of two
five-shilling pieces and spreading rapidly,
had quite healed up leaving only a little
tinge of red. My ankle is now quite well,
the red spot having entirely disappeared,
thanks to Cuticura Ointment and Soap.”
(Signed) R. J. Willis, June 18, 1911.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment do so much
for poor complexions, red, rough hands, and
itching, scaly scalps with dry, thin and fall-
ing hair, and cost so little that it is almost
criminal not to use them. Sold everywhere.
Liberal sample of each mailed free, with
32-p. book on the skin and scalp. Address
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
r -
c.
, 'A
An Interesting-
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S. A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s cu.s.a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of— Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
FTAHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6a.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatment with
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
di z z me s s.
Purely vege-.
table, never'
fail.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
hgfj
gf
g
n
The above clearlv shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hafr-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
.itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound, prepared. I did this a few days later. 1
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street. Svdnpv.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
1/I}, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
sw ervf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on
Face plait, and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
FOWWTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, IS Waltham Building, 24 Bond St., Sydney.
gbn
V 4
<JIA
F IC2 NZ
Benger's is the most easily
digested of ail foods*
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
b
for Infants, Invalids, and the Aged, enjoys the
universal recommendation of Medical men in all
cases of severe or temporary illness, and durin
convalescence.
bo
ñb
Food
two?]* f re . < r^ t 0 aII who have the care of Infants and Invalids, a 48-page
Booklet, Bengers Food and How to Use It.”
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, MANCHESTER, ENG
„ , 117, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
The Inky Way
“Senior”: Blundell, M.L.A., discussing (8.6/2/’lS < )
“Wus’s” castigation of the Adelaide Labor Herald’s
treatment of its staff, meanly says that the Herald
had a hard row to hoe because “rejects” were un-
loaded on to it. Also, he says that the majority
of those who were with the’paper at the start are
with it still. Let me tear Blundell to pieces, and,
incidentally, show how this paper has broken the
hearts of the enthusiasts who wanted to make it a
success. The Daily Herald, when it started, had a
literary staff consisting of Wedd (editor), Burgoyne
(associate), Whitehead (chief), Chamberlain (sub.),
Kneebone, Watson, Martindale and Young. These men
had to do the whole of the work for an eight-page
daily, with a 12-page issue on Saturdays. Blundell de-
scribes them as a fine lot of “rejects.” The facts
are that Wedd was induced to take his position after
Blundell, and other members of the board of manage-
ment had chased him up for at least two months,
despite repeated refusals of the job. He was editor
of the Adelaide Chronicle, and before that had been
in the chair of the weekly Herald, so the Board
knew his work. He is the only member of the orig-
inal team left with the paper. Burgoyne had been
editor of the weekly Herald for two years. Blun-
dell, M.L.A., must have known all about his work.
He left the Herald' to become leader writer on the
West Australian, and is still there. Whitehead,
persuaded by the editor to leave the Advertiser,
stepped from the Herald to the Argus. Chamber-
lain got so sick of press work that he left it altoge-
ther. Kneebone was appointed publicity expert in
London for the Commonwealth Government. Wat-
son, who was brought down from the Barrier Miner,
was taken by the Melbourne Herald. Martindale
went to the Advertiser, and was presently promoted,
Young was sacrificed by the Board because two or
three officials of the United Laborers’ Union threat-
ened to boycott the paper unless he was discharged.
This action was taken against the advice of the
editor, and it nearly caused a strike of the staff. By
the way, the paper devoted many columns last year
to castigating the union officials it had previously
grovelled to. So much for the first team. Surely
not a bad record for a crowd of “rejects”! But
there is any amount more. Daly, chief of staff on
Hobart Daily Post, found Herald conditions so
uncongenial that he remained there only a few months.
Clarke, Shanahan, Maxted, Letcher—these and many
others have quitted the Herald, and their subse-
quent appointments show that they are reckoned
good men. And I would sooner accept the judg-
ment of Schuler, Cunningham, Davidson, Hackett,
Sowden and Bonython in regard to pressmen than that
of Blundell. If the Board will make some inquiries
from impartial journalists it can easily find out
where the weakness lies. They will tell him it is
in the board of management. When the daily was
established the Board consisted of Blundell, M.L.A.;
Styles, M.L.C.; Coneybeer, M.L.A.; Thompson
Green, M.L.A. ; Macgillivray, M.L.A.; Senator
Guthrie and Memmler —a tobacco-twister, a shop-
assistant, a boilermaker, a wharf-laborer, a sailor,
a collar-maker, and a laborer; all excellent men at
their jobs, no doubt, but with not much knowledge
of newspapers. This board, including as it did six
legislators, made all the capital it could for these
politicians. A speech delivered in the House by one
of them, and published fully in one of the other
morning papers on Wednesday or Thursday, has been
re-published in the Saturday issue of the Herald.
This was the board’s method of serving readers
with red-hot news. Interference with the inner
working of the office caused more friction than I have
ever seen in any other office. So bad did this be-
come that a meeting of the staff was held at the
Aurora Hotel, in 1910, and an ultimatum was issued
that there would be a general cessation of work un-
less the practice was discontinued. Whether it was
discontinued or not I don’t know. I left soon after-
wards. But judging bv the number of others who
have left since, I shouldn’t say that things had im-
proved much.
“Jack Hardgraft”: More politicians have gradu-
ated from the Kalgoorile Sun than from any other
paper of its age in Australia. Vosper, Hugh Mahon
and Wallace Nelson, successive editors, won the
Parliamentary haven. Then Tommy Walker, a one-
time Ma State member, beat Labor-leader Hastie at
the selection ballot, and left the chair to represent
Kanowna in the Perth State House. About the only
Sun editors who never got into politics were Jack
Drayton, who did a month in Perth gaol for alleged
contempt of Parliament; and Andrew Hayward,
whose vices are poetry and cricket.
* * * *
From H. C. Coghlan, president of the Australian
Writers and Artists’ Union (N.S.W.) : “Nightowl”
(B. 13/2/’l3) says it’s about time country press-
men got a Wages Board. I don’t know what State
“Nightowl” writes from, and a Wages Board is a
State tribunal, but I can tell him that the Writers
and Artists’ Union (N.S.W.) has already taken pre-
liminary action in regard to country pressmen in that
State, and intends to follow it up as soon as pos-
sible, the union’s Wages Board to be invoked if
considered necessary. At present, the union’s Wages
Board, after sitting once a week from October 14 to
December 4, and hearing evidence upon our first
batch of claims, is resting or something; but it will
have to re-sit and issue an award. Other city
writers and artists and country writers and artists
will be covered by the union’s next batches of claims,
and the union will unhesitatingly submit all these
to the Wages Board rather than accept those “amic-
able (?) agreements” and “honorable” (?) “under-
standings,” which generally prove so unsatisfactory.
* * * *
“Vulcan”: Astonishing the penchant of the ancient
and ponderous London Times for startlingly youth-
ful editors. The recently-retired G. E. Buckle was
only 29 when appointed. He held the job for 28
years. His predecessor, the “great Delane,” took
the reins at the still earlier age of 23, and continued
his grip till he was 60. Two other pre-Delane
guides, Barnes and Ohenery, died in harness at a
comparatively youthful 66 and 68 respectively. Now
Buckle’s successor, Geoffrey Robinson, wtat. 37, car-
ries the infantile tradition a. further stage.
* * * •
“H. 0.”: Re “Nightowl’s” remarks (B. 16/2/’l3),
anent roundabout sentences and stencilled phrases, I
will be pleased when somebody informs the great
dailies that a gun doesn’t explode, whatever the
charge inside it may do. Furthermore, explosions
don’t happen gradually; yet the newspaper scribe is
continually writing of a “sudden” explosion.
MY INKY MAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear girl of my dreams, who has never existed—-
Except in my dreams, or,’ in verse, as a theme;
(Whereas you have often most ably assisted
In earning a crust, as the price of a dream).
The verse is the guinea stamp—nothing can bar that,
1 Though poets seek vainly for gold in the bar—
You, you are the gold, girl, for a’ that and a’ that —
A queen for a sovereign—you’re worth it, you are.
Dear versatile girl, of all sizes and ages,
You serve many turns, and you play many parts;
We serve you up daily, in shrines or on stages,
As mistress of hearts or as Master of Arts.
It goes without words that I love and adore you ;
And yours is the luck that you never have been,
For, sure as I live, I’d neglect you or bore you,
And make you my drudge, while I called you my
queen.
Ah, Queen of Variety—Angel of Purity—l
, Nymph of wegk tea, or of Pommerv Sec,
You are along bbtli the cash and security, '
A stimulant draught, or a sobering check.
Dear girl, that need nought but to live in my ink
pot,
And twinkle at will in a verse or a blot,
Do I want you, for keeps, by my side? Well, I
think not.
I trust you, my inkling, you’re safe in the pot.
MAJORCA.
WAIF.


k'i\k
...
■ .
>sp
t»
v * v^;
JSA
-
ft
; -' f^M
'iMmk
sJEsgßw?’,
19I&!
.^asa
V t
hsi
7NJ
» V
mss
• ■■ ‘ ■
's' ' ' - s v /; s" s< ' ‘ ' *
* ,
f
! . -z
'/
&\Y
rv
.« sp
.* /.!••.. 'A .., *• « J
ass
pa®, v
U^d^'xn'
mZ:
U i«>
i «»fc» *
-i
p p ;
WKK»M
1
m
r* s/
v>;s7/
ifV>v
NT
r
/>
fe
iV-
\ h
j&mM.
. ■?..
f
r f
Eii!
!3s in
a »
m it
<b-'
mm
r rare
- {
•k
■v
w l
v. ‘if.
uw &«
ge -. .'■ '
' >«•••• . . -Vs.fe,-,
T 1
\
m
n
O
\
n
PUT a few things in your Suit Case
and take a run up to Mt. Victoria
this week end. A short train
journey lands you at this ideal Mountain
Resort, 3424 ft. above sea level.
At the Imperial Hotel handy to
station—you will be as comfortable as
in* your own home. Every convenience
and comfort equal to the best city hotels
will be found here, whilst the fresh, crisp
air and beautiful views add immensely to
your enjoyment.
Daily trips are made to the Jenolan
Caves by luxurious “Itala” cars. Return
Fare, 30s.
TARIFF:
£3 3s. per week; 10s. per day.
Intending visitors may obtain full
information from City Office,
18 IMPERIAL ARCADE
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Shipping;.
P.
and
O.
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw. fCalls Hobart.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £lf 135., £15155. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide'and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LI NIL
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN E>.
fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric i Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi,ace, Sydney'.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 115 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to 5500-
INTEREST— % from £1 to 5500,
and 3% on excess of £5OO.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
Bank of f)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital . . . . . . £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves . . 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Comer of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FOUSYTII, Esq. (Burns, l’hilp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, ' AMERICA,
and THE EAST. •
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian flank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE-2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir Wii.lum P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches Throughout New South Wales Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world!
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO.OOO o 0
Capital Paid Up 413,590 14 6
Reserve ...- 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum; 2
years ar.d over, at the rate of 4$ per cent, per annum
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance C 1,4.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Races.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH : 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Min’-NKtt & A. E. P'Ahcv, J inr. Managers.
CARBIDE.
For First*Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants disrributinsr it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENT+t AL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
Shipping:.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Svdney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
ROMPAEY &%Co., Melbourne;
H. MLECKE A CO., Adelaide ; *
L. RATAZZI A CO., Perth and Fremantle:
I HOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd.. Brisbane & Townsville.
Bank of |)eui Z ea land.
SYDNICY BItANCII :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-jj-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
+ Omits Cap-town. t Triple-screw Turbine.
*Third-class only. All steamers fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: PARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown And Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable
with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-Class Return
and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with P. & O.
Branch Service.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. &e., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Ltd.
Howard Smith Co. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Fast Passenger Steamers
* s.s. COOMA,
*S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
* Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Leave Ports as follows?
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday
and Monday.
MACKAY every Thursday and Sunday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
New Express Passenger Steamer, T.S.S. WANDILLA
(7785 tons) sails for SYDNEY ONLY.
From FREMANTLE, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19.
From ADELAIDE. TUESDAY, March 25.
From MELBOURNE, THURSDAY, MARCH 27.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Forts.
An Island Cruise
is tiie ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the! Burns, Philp Line,
occupying three weeks to two months, and
costing £5 to £25.
vn
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,000,000
£2,150,000
£3,000,000
£8,150,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
Jl'he Hon. Edmund AV. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliffe Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Mjlson, Esq.
Head Office-Gcorge St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle st, EC
With 335 in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua. Agents and Corres-
pondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, . Limited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£1,739,553 2 6
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,580,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,069,553 2 6
niRRCTORS:
George J. Cohen, Issq . . . . Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
v Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manage:': F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock). . 76,500
MEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ■
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND, E.C.
Agents and CorresDondents throughout the 'World.
The Colonial fflutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Ai.nuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales: :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
the lion. C. J. lloberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
i A. BOSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Choice of Rail Routes through America, via Grand
Canyon. Yosemite, Niagara Falls, etc.
Around the World Tours In connection with all lines.
Around the Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
' via Honolulu, Suva and Auckland.
Steamer.
AOKANGI
’TAHITI ..
MOAN A ..
Leave Sydney
at 3 p.m.
Leave Wellington
March 22
April 19
May 17
March 28
April 25
May 23
And EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER. "
The largest and finest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD
259 George Street. SYDNEY. ’’
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,”
"Riverina,”
"Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
1* itted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET,, .S*J^Etf u
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDESTEAMSmPCO;
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and front
West Australian, South Australian
Yictorian and Queensland Ports. *
FOR MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping* at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports. J
T 'm S ' Y anlda (7713 tons),
March 15, April 12
T.S.S. Wandilla, April ■;
and April 30.
Fitted WirelessTelesrraphv
Carrying Three Classes
1,2, o and 4-Berth Cabins
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, March 22.
S.S. Wollowra, March 29.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable
the first Port of call with other inter-State Compare
on all services subject to conditions, which can h
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
C. S. YUILL Si CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
—♦
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
gnj
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab ; ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool
(Via Hobart, Colombo and Suez Canal).
T.S.S. WILTSHIRE.
12,600 Tons. B. G. HAYWARD, Commander.
Will be despatched from—
BRISBANE, APRIL 8.
SYDNEY, APRIL 14.
HOBART, APRIL 18.
MELBOURNE, APRIL 22.
ADELAIDE, APRIL 26.
Th.! Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious!
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE, leaving Sydney May 16,1913.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to j
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHAItN & CO. PTY„ Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS: also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction witn
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumban,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 ‘2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
m-.
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5/'
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. » nte
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Aroade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; als °
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
- v [Mention This Bulletin.] ™


LJJi
MX
mm
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
wmrmL
mtwmrni
Unique Situation —overlooking the
charming park-like Russell Square,
surroundings quiet and secluded,
yet within easy access of West End
and City shopping centres and all
principal London attractions.
Dainty yet substantial cuisine.
Bedrooms sunny, airy and delight-
fully furn i s h ed. Apartments,
Suites, Winter Garden and general
appointments unsurpassed for re-
finement and comfort. Moderate
Tariff. Special terms to families
and visitors making a prolonged
stay.
Telegrams: Hotel Russell, London.
’Hinging for More! i
™
/a
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
V Over 70 years ’ success.
II
il I I I
• V‘
;/*»
■■■
mnM
MALT
VINEGAR
...
CHAMPIONS
" :
fg
Commonwealth ?|f|| Bank of Hustralla
°* )en *° r th * transaction of General Banking: Business throughout Australia
New South Wales-S.vdney and Canberra. Victoria-Melbourne. Queensland— Brisbane and
Townsville. South Australia -Adelaide. Western Australia-Perth Tasmania— ilobart
And at Egypt House, 36-38 New Broad Street, London
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the
Commonwealth, United Kingdom and foreign countries.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Agroncies are open in practi ally all Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian
Commonwealth and Papua.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected for sums up to £lO at any Office within the Commonwealth
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
ZOiu Jakuakt, 1313
3°/ 0
Rat® of Interest on
all Deposits up to
£3OO
DENISON MILDER, Governor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful olthe Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and fo the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars <
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. A. MESTON, Looal Director.
THE PLUM RAZOR
COMMENDS
ITSELF.^
IS*
For a quick, comfortable shave no other razor can approach it.
Made of the finest steel, its keen blade slips through the toughest
stubble without scraping or pulling
Order one to-day, and we’ll keep it in perfect order for two years, free
of charge.
PRICE 10/6, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Free Illustrated
Price List.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Razor Strop Dressing, 1/-
Tube. Gentlemen who shave them-
selves should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 TEARS.
The Fx 8 « WATCH
“ IS THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY
WATCH OF THE AGE.”
The movements are on the lever principle.
They have brequet overcoil balance springs.
They are f-plate levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand rough riding and
knocking about.
They keep time to within 10 seconds a month.
They are guaranteed for 15 years and kept in order
free of charge (breakages excepted) for 2 years.
They are made in every style of case.
Write fox Special Watch Catalogue.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH.
Gent.’s
Open-faced,
Oxidised,
Steel Cased
Lever
Watch, with
15 Jewels,
33-
I
/
s?
S 3
With 7
Jewels,
•.•.v.y.v.;.;.;.-..;.;.;:.-;.:
m
Scotch Whak
r
:v.
J&r
4,
M
- Ok
t
®n
!
V»|\V
!lM
K
lllrf ftfl
i//f4
A TOP-NOTCH DRIVE
THE
TOP-NOTCH
OF SCOTCH
Oh ! the joy of beating bogie! So rare!
so exhilarating!. Come one, come all
to the 19th hole and
in a bottle of “King George IV,
the “Top Notch” Whisky,
worthy of so great an
occasion.
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
MODEL L*
E 0
THE HEART OP THE AUTOMOBILE—
The..
Famous
Schebler Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
CASTINGS!
In All Metals and Alloys
(excepting Iron and Steel).
At our NEW and WELL-EQUIPPED FACTORY
we are prepared to execute orders for the above.
SINGLE CASTS can be made up to 8 CWT. EACH.
GEAR CUTTING IN ALL METALS.
QUOTATIONS GLADLY GIVEN.,
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd., 304 Pitt St., Sydney
Factory—Lambert Street. Camperdown.
jfg
Fits “Wonder” has
No "Bromide of Potash.”
Safe, Certain Cure—
-6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. li. MERSON,
229 Collins St., Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
Unclaimed money & property.
nOUGAL’B REGISTER to NFXT-OF-KXN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac., &c., price
3/-, 480 pages. Robertson’s,booksellers,Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
DOUCAL&CO.,ISI. STRAND, LONDON, EHCLAND.
{ Kstablished over 60 Years.)
{jJEEE®
buy direct
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12years
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SANDON & STEEDMAN,
76 Finsbury Pavement. London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N S W.
iVV SAVYOU POUNDS.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
hensive ; and
our T weeds
and Costume
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
signs. We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutler is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
jfg


HORSESHOE
™ SALMON
A can of Horssshoe Salmon means an inviting,
sustaining meal at a minute's notice. No need for the
lighting of a fire to prepare Horseshoe. It is
ready to serve direct from the can, and makes a
delicious meal. One never tires of Horseshoe
A Meal in a Moment.
The “AERO”
FOLDING HAT.
RESTS
LIKE
VELVET
Tis a far cry from the heavy
™ " ter *ur hat to the light,
folding, “ ounce-or-two ” model.
It has a fur finish. Conveniently
neglige, it may be worn to almost
any shape.
THE SHADES—new and distinc-
tive Iney are—Venice Blue,
Elephant Grey, Pool Green and
Fawn.
Please send lor one on approval.
There’s no obligation to purchase.
tm
Limited
BRISBANE
15/6
Write for Price
List, Post Free.
IN BANANA LAND
The Brisbane Standard (Labor), fling-
ing a brick at Joe Cook, points out that
Hughes has appointed three Conservatives
to the High Court. This may successfully
demonstrate that Cook is a man of no ac-
count ; but it’s a very back-handed compli-
ment for Hughes.
A strong disposition towards cannibalism
has been evinced of late in Brisbane. Re-
cently a holiday-maker accused a fellow
rioter of having bitten off his ear in a rail-
way carriage, and attempted to devour his
"blanky nose.” Ear produced (Exhibit
A). Two days later a lady charged her
husband with having chewed off one lobe,
with earring attached. Said fragment of
ear also produced, but in so smellful a condi-
tion that the magistrate was compelled to
order immediate application of boracie. But
this husband was a humorous soul: he had
merely attempted to prove, so he said, that
‘‘she was good enough to eat.”
‘‘Kuscobin” on the dairy farmer and co-
operation :
The Government employs experts to grade butter,
and give scientific instruction in modern dairying
methods; but it supplies nobody with a license to
kill the dirty dairyman. The Queensland Health
Act applies to dairies in rural districts; but while
prosecutions lie, and are very properly taken, against
the retailer who waters his milk, has anv convic-
tion ever been recorded against the slovenly farmer
who mixes microbes with it by the million? Some
day some M.P. will call for returns showing how
many prosecutions of this kind have been taken and
how many have been suppressed by political influence
* c Prosecution has been advised by the inspectors
of the Department. If that information is given
truthfully, it ought to make somebody blush. In
Denmark, where the co-operative principle is thor-
oughly applied, the conditions are different. There
are creameries there every five miles, and the most
distant supplier has to carry his milk no more than
half that distance. Here, on the other hand, home
separation is the rule, and the cream is taken in
bi-weekly, or tri-weekly, rarely daily, to the fac-
tories. Under any proper system of regulation the
home separator would 'be thoroughlv cleansed twice
a day. More often now it is only cleansed once
a week. And the factory manager has no redress.
Many of him start out with good intentions; but
the enthusiast soon loses his zeal—it seldom lasts
oyer a twelvemonth—and finds that letting things
slide is the course to ease and affluence. And
things do ■ slide! That there are quite a large
number of co-operative factories grading their
cream is admitted, but the managers of these con-
cerns themselves admit that the standard is too low,
and it is this fact that accounts for the altogether
disproportionate quantity of second-grade butter" com-
market, particularly in summer.
“W.C.M.”: The Queensland Labor
party is good Australian all right.
Even in the disputed matter of im-
migration it declared that it wants
liberalised land laws so as to attract
newcomers; what it objects to is the dump-
ing of men in Brisbane, where admittedly
most of the Denham immigrants remain.
Then, as to other things, at the recent Labor
Conference the following plank was incorpor-
ated in the general platform: “State land
bank, co-operating with Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank, with a view to extending and
liberalising the principle to persons engaged
in primary and other industries.” What
other Labor party has even suggested
that the State Savings Bank should be
turned down in favor of the Commonwealth
Bank ! I urther, it was unanimously decided
to support the Referenda proposals, and for
some weeks past State Labor members have
been taking the platform in support of the
Commonwealth Government. Nor did any
conference have to coerce the members, as
was found necessary in N.S.W. The State
h rights microbe simply can’t exist in the
Bananaland Labor party.
THE TOWN TRAVELLER.
MILK: “'Edo, Fred. Goiter job?"
BOTTIES: "Yes, blime. I'm town traveller ter a marine store."
The wraith of Mcllwraith still flutters
over Brisbane occasionally. For many years
an intermittent “fund” has been hawked
round, the object being to provide a memorial
of some kind to the deceased Scot. The
committee met again last week, and found
that the fund, with interest, stood at £872
10s., so one of the squatter Collinses put up
£127 10s. to round the figures off to £lOOO.
Next, the committee considered the Father
of the Boom and the manner of man he was,
and decided that the most appropriate
memorial would be an Engineering scholar-
ship in the baby Brisbane Uni.
“Politicus” : So Andy Fisher asserts that
Australia has no time for a third party in
politics. How the Radical of to-day betrays
the cloven hoof of the Tory of yesterday—
and to-morrow ! Some 20 years ago Queens-
land had two great parties—Liberals and
Conservatives —and the Liberal and Tory
journals bellowed from the housetops tha\
the new Labor party was an absurdity, as
Australia had no time for a third party in
politics.” To which Fisher and Co. retorted
valiantly that Queensland had a right to a
dozen parties if the people chose. But note
politicians who entered public life to inaug-
urate a new era say the country has no time
for any more new eras, and therefore bid the
sun stand still to suit their convenience.
According to A. H. Barlow, “the Labor
party is disloyal at heart to the Throne and
the British flag, and wishes to cut the
painter.” Then the journeyman Acting-
Premier went on to say that he was “out
for separation from the Commonwealth
as soon as separation was practic-
able.” If a man wants to separate
from Britain he is a disloyalist. But if he
wants to cut off from the Australian Com-
monwealth, and precipitate a civil war, he
is a loyal citizen of the uttermost respecta-
bility. However, when “separation is prac-
ticable,” Barlow (an octogenarian! will no
longe ; r be practicable : so it doesn't matter.
Rockhampton has an aldermanic aspirant
with a record that gazes over ike shoulders
of most others. At a recent council election
the ratepayers rubbed his name out so per-
sistently that he occupied the tail-end of the
list —a throne he has graced no less than
seven times. Still he threatens “to come
again,” and no doubt will unless somebody
throws a steam roller on him. Nothing
short of a steam roller has a hope of stop-
ping that sort of candidate.
From a man in the coastal trade:—
hiterim report has been issued by the “Boats
t n l^l ltB u c( i m ‘ lutt ] ee appointed in Britain, and it
ould be hard to dredge up anything more loose
and lunatic Although the committee is British it
naturally affects us here, as its conclusions will be
- Ce^K e f , as / ki "<?, oi standard. The report leaves
the boats for all question where it was —in the
air—although that is about the one subject the
travelling public is aching to have tackled and fixed
U P; . , sysgests that “pontoon rafts” might be sub-
stituted for some of the boats “not carried tinder
fn Vlt o’f; P rovl ded that in deep-sea boats not more
than 25 per cent, of passengers should have to depend
on the floating hen-coops. The general public
hasn t much notion what a pontoon raft is, or of the
multitude of rubbish rafts 0 n the market. Speaking
liberately and with some knowledge, I’d almost a”
soon trust myself in a collapsible boat as on any
pontoon or patent raft, and I’d rather sail in a
pair of snow-shoes than a collapsible. The report
discusses these rafts at length, and mentions that
they ought to be of a shape and size to allow of
their being handled, and, if necessary, flung from
the deck. It does not mention whether the passen-
gers are to get a strangle-hold on the raft, and go
snooung the chute and doing other circus acts along
with it when it is hurled overboard, or whether the
Taft should do the high dive first, the passengers
leaning after it and chasing it over the ragin°-
•i,T S - • I , n , ei , th . er case 1 h °P e manning the rafts
will be included m the regular boat drill. It would
be so interesting, and would provide more thrills on
a monotonous voyage than all the egg-and-spoon
races and deck golfs ever invented. Finally, I hone
the committee is made to test usefulness of the
rafts and get aboard them and afloat in a nice
rouch sea.
Northward Ho!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Phenomenally Severe Weather in Melbourne and
Sydney. —Newspaper headline.
Now the sun has lost its sting and the
South has had its fling,
So they’re packing up their boxes to
return
To their kindly northern State, ere for sea-
trips ’tis too late,
Where the sunshine still has warmth
enough to burn.
Though the Autumn gale will pass, still the
early morning grass
Bears the footprints of the Winter done
in frost.
So it’s pack your bags and go, for the cry is
Northward Ho!
And there’s little time remaining to be
lost.
By the Manly cove and cliff you hear pack-
ing strangers sniff,
And Sorrento waves good-bye to ev’ry
boat.
When the black Antarctic screams, they see
Brisbane in their dreams,
And amid the river’s water-lilies float.
Up from Hobart town they speed for the
sunshine that they need,
While the vicious gusts pursue across the
Strait.
To escape the coming wrath, all the truants
stumble North
Where the long-deserted sunny home-
steads wait.
Oh, by steamer, train and car, caked with
mud from near and far,
They are coming—they are coming home
again,
Muffled thickly to their throats in new
wraps and overcoats,
And the chilly South may call to them in
vain !
For the Winter they will rest in the State
they love the best,
Yes, and bank the dizzy cheques for hides
or wool,
Till the Southern waters’ lap draws them
swiftly down the map
•Tust to keep hotels and boarding-houses
full.
BANANAbASD,
BARRIE REEF.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 8 191 a
My Dear Tiiargomindah, ’ ' '
Lady Macgregor and the Vision W,
Panied by the Paget child, an aide’S
maul, arrived by mail train to-night Tv, ll
Excellent met them at Wallansarm „ j
bundled them into the vice-regal
Roma-street. Thus the home-comers escarp
the large supply of boresome hand-shake'tKU
was on tap at the central railway depot
Our new Mayoress made her first -mihli»
appearance at the Oriental ball commiti-C
meeting the other day. Unlike most of X
females present, she neither whispered w
grew excited. As a rule, a women’s meeting
is a cross between a secret society murder
ballot and a Carrie Nation axe-hurling cele
bration. Brisbane’s Mayoress seems inclined
to set a better example.
May Lahey, a Queensland girl who is
carving her way to a legal career at th!
Southern California (U.S.A.) College
Law, is keeping up the reputation of Aus-
tralian women. She beat all the male per-
sons at the last exam., and topped the score
with 100 per cent, of marks in one subject.
Two of the members of the firm of T
Borthwick and Sons floated into Brisbane
per Otranto this week. One seems to be a
peer, and the other is an honorable, which
is only l-50th of a peer. The whole peer is
Lord Whitburgh; the l-56th is Algernon
Borthwick.
Another visitor is Methodist minister
Bromilow. The rev. tourist missioned for
some time in Papua, and is an authority on
the unpleasant ways of Australia’s colored
subject thereabouts. The Governor’s hospit-
able roof covered the holy pilgrim during his
stay here. Macgregor and Bromilow were on
more than speaking terms in Papua many
years ago.
It was quite in keeping with the fitness of
things that the lady swimmers’ contingent
from N. S. Wales should have arrived m a
wet week. Your Fanny (it ought to be
Finny) Durack is the star attraction, and
her crawl stroke is the marine rage. Last
night Mrs. Morry Baldwin and the members
of the Excelsior Club gave a theatre party
in the visitors’ honor, and to-night, at the
Cafe Eschenhagen, the festive scone and
sandwich are being mangled at the expense
of the Commercial Club.
The proprietor of a city cafe is searching
madly for a mislaid wedding party. The
usual three-tier indigestibility, fluids and
edibles were ordered for 3.30 p.m., but the
sun had been put to bed for quite a while
when I saw the agitated purveyor of vic-
tuals, and the wedding party had not then
materialised. No explanation has been made
public; but, then, so many things are not
made public, my dear, that one more or less
need not make our curiosity dow’n-hearted.
Railway-Commissioner Evans was about
to leave Brisbane the other day to inspect
the Northern and North-western sections,
when, to his carefully-concealed delight, a
determined female aopeared in his strongly-
entrenched office and coyly pressed into his
hands a subpoena to appear and provide a
legal tribunal with some information to help
her win an action she has brought against
his department. Aloud, he said: “Thank
you, madam; very well.”
Lylia Fegan was the star performer at a
recital in the Pianola Hall on Thursday
night, when old Omar was roused out of his
tent and wound up to some purpose. Tessie
Mulcahy and Leonard Francis tunefully filled
in a too-short gap. Francis is an artist in
every sense of the word, and Tessie Mul-
cahy’s rich, creamy contralto would be hard
to buy at an auction sale.
Little Mrs. Bob Bell, the winner of several
soprano championships, is round at the Em-
pire. singing with Dan Llewellyn. She has
a delightful voice, and in these times of the
midnight dog and the daybreak bottle-oh a
delightful voice.is something to be appreci-
ated.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Bananaland’s Liquor laws are in a beauti-
ful state of uncertainty. The other day
Le Yaux, a Cairns solicitor, was charged
with Sunday drinking in a pub. The magis-
trate quashed the case on the grounds that,
although Le Vaux had a glass of spirits in
his hand, it had not been shown that he had
swallowed any. An analysis of the Sun-
day drinker’s stomach will be a necessary
part of police prosecutions if this sort of
thing goes on.
The Liquor Act, which comes into force
on April 1, throws the old honorary magis-
trates clean overboard, and a fine old bag of
corruption goes with them. The Stipendiary
Magistrate alone will now adjudicate on
licensing matters, and the old spectacle of
the country J.P. (who was often intimately
connected in business with the local Bung)
sitting on the Bench in cases wherein
that same publican was concerned will no
longer be seen. Neither will Spoofkins,
J.P., any longer give 24 hours without the
option to a poor devil who was only half
as drunk as himself the nisrht before.


X
\
: ■ r:
0
r
m
Wm s
i
!•• 1
<*3F
sJP
I#
4Volt> TDll
By nS??lt
Tyres
THEY fIVE
/II7EATEST MILWtt
fIHB
Ld5T
L6HCE sT
in fin
4UL '


ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
18th to 26th MARCH, 1913.
£6OOO PRIZES £6OOO.
GREAT SHOW of LIVE STOCK and AGRICULTURE.
MACHINERY IN MOTION.
MANUFACTURERS OF THE WORLD.
EXCURSION FARES FROM ALL PARTS.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
THE EMPIRE
Absolutely the best
Cinematograph i n
Australia to-day.
And it is likely to
be so for all time.
WE KNOW THIS—
YOU SHOULD KNOW
IT.
A Demonstration
will prove its great
superiority, and will
leave you convinced.
Cali or write to us.
The Money Maker.”
Biograph
WE ARE AT ALL
TIMES READY TO
SHOW YOU THIS
PICTURE MACHINE.
We have in Stock a
few Complete Tour-
ing Plants—Engine,
Dynamo&Machine.
DO THESE
INTEREST
YOU?
YOU KNOW THE
FIRM.
JERDANiS,
393 George St.* Sydney,
Cinematograph Specialists.
Nothing like this Steel
Barrow for Goal, Coke, Hot
Ashes and Rough Work!
You can verify this in scores of Australasian Mines, Foundries,
Coal Yards, and in hundreds of Steafirn Plants, where Tubular Steel
Barrows stand the strain of stoking and general rough work.
In ''Gas Works, for removing red hot coke just from the
retorts, the Steel Barrow simply ca?ft be done without.
The trays are pressed from a
solid plate of steel, without
or rivet, and have much greats,
strength, and are more durable,
than riveted iron trays of same
thickness. The flange of tray is
turned over a five-sixteenth steel
rod, which passes entirely -aroufid
tray, giving a smooth finish to the
edge of the bowl, preventing break-
ing, and stiffening and strengthen-
ing it. The wheels revolve on- a
fixed shaft or axle bolt, similar to
a buggy wheel, and run ' .true and
evenly, and the axle shaft serves as
a brace to the handles. The tubu-
lar iron handles are not pierced at
any point by bolt or rivet. All
other tubular barrows have bolt or
rivet holes through handles, and
are thereby materially weakened.
Note how the tubular handles pass
round in front and protect the
wheel when “dumping.” •
No. Canacity.
10. 4001 b. to 5001 b. coal, etc. 60/-
4£. 3 cubic feet coal, etc, . . 45/-
4. 3 cubic feet coal, etc; .. 33/-
Duplicate Parts in Stock.
Come to Headquarters for
Engineering Supplies !
Get acquainted with our big engineering service. We supply from
stock anything from Pin Drills to High-speed Lathes, from a handful of
Waste to a 6ft. Pulley. Engineering Catalogue will be ready
soou. -Write us on your letterhead for a’hopy. gratis.
“THE ENGINEERS’ DEPOT,”
554-66 and 582-88 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ESTABLISHED 52 YEARS.
jfg
FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
Every prospective purchaser of a bicycle should
study the question of wear.
The quality, design and construction of the
component parts entirely govern this—and upon
them depends all-round efficiency of your mount.
B.S.A FIT I INGS have been—are—and will always be
the essential factors of the Perfect Bicycle, their wearing
qualities are recognised as being of the highest possible
standard, and have acquired a reputation which is world-
wide. A machine built of B S.A. Fittings once ridden is
appreciated:—its many points of superiority become
apparent, and as others have done, you will say—
“ There are none JUST AS GOOD.”
Copy of B.S.A. Handbook sent free.
D. Y. RENNIE (Repress nting B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN (& SONS LTP.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
R-C-H “Twenty-Five
99
EQUIPMENT.
WHEELBASE—IIO inches.
MOTOR—Long-stroke; 4 cylinders cast en bloc;
3 : j-inch bore, 5-inch stroke. Two-bearing
crank shaft. Timing gears and valves en-
closed. Three-point suspension.
STEERING—RIGHT SIDE. Irreversible worm
gear, 16-inch steering wheel. Throttle con-
trol on stering column.
CONTROL—CENTRE LEVER operated through
H-plate, integral with universal joint hous-
m g just below. Hand-lever emergencv
brake at driver’s left. Foot accelerator in
connection with'hand throttle.
SPRINGS—Front, semi-elliptic; rear, full ellip-
tic and mounted on swivel seats.
FRAME—Pressed steel channel.
AXLES—Front, Lbeam, drop-forged; rear
semi-floating type.
TRANSMISSION—3 speeds forward and reverse-
sliding gear, selective type.
CONSTRUCTION—Drop-forgings wherever prac-
ticable; chrome nickel steel used throughout
ail shafts and gears in the transmission and
rear axle; high carbon manganese steel in
-.a l -1 parts requiring special stiffness.
BOD! —Full 6-passenger English type; extra
wide seats.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Non-Skid Tyres—32 x 3* inch.
12-inch “Hall” Bullet electric headlights, double
parabolic lens.
6-inch “Hall” Bullet electric side lights, with
parabolic lens.
“Exide” 100 ampere-hour electric battery
Bosch Magneto.
Warner Autome'ter.
Demountable Rims.
Extra rim and holders.
Trllv-ho horn.
Jiff.v curtains—Up or down ips’antaneously.
Top and top cover,.'/.-,
Windshield iv
Rear view fnirror.
Tool-kit. jack, tyre repair lavWmp.
Robe rail.>-, f
2-Seater, £230
5-Seater, £295
ONE of the best proofs of R-C-H
value is the number of buyers
who heretofore have been
driving cars costing from jQa°° t 0
iCs°°-
And there’s a good reason for it. Yon
get in the R-C-H the utmost in comfort,
in looks and in strength. You get power
sufficient to take you and your family
wherever you want to go, and faster
than you’ll ever want to drive. You get
an economy of operation impossible in
the high-priced car. You get complete
equipment of the best quality. And you
save from £lOO to £2OO.
The easiest way to prove these things
is to let us demonstrate the R-C-H to
you. We’ll do it whenever you’re ready.
And we’re perfectly willing to abide by
your judgment.
Correspondence invited from
responsible dealers in any
vacant territory.
HARRY W. COOPER MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Agents for Australia and Tasmania,
Crystal Palace, SYDNEY.
MOTOR CO., 408-18 Latrobe Street, Melbourne, Sub-agents for Victoria.
AYLOR, Ltd., 253-259 Elizabeth St., Sydney, Sub-agents for New South Wales.
„ FOSTER & WELLS, Davey St., Hob;irt, Sub-agents for Tasmania.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., Hay St., Perth, Sub-agents for West Australia.
R-C-H CORPORATION, Export Department,
170 LYCASTE STREET, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
. 1 ROBOHOORP DKTROITMICH.” CAISLE CODES : Western Union, Lieber's,
1, and ABC 4th and sth editions, 2 in 1 code condenser.


Shoot the Cartridges that make Champions
Follow the lead of the holders of all important World’s Records
J. W. HESSIAN,
World’s Champion Rifle Shot.
WHY do
these
champion shots
of the world and
many others
who make re-
cord-breaking
scores year
after year, use
J, R. GRAHAM,
World’s Champion Trap Shooter
Remington - UMC Cartridges?
Because this old reliable ammunition answers the
trigger unfailingly under all conditions:
because it is accurate to a hair’s breadth:
Because every cartridge is like its brother in uni-
ANNIE OAKLEY,
Champion Lady Fancy Shot.
formity — no
missfires, no
erratic shots.
There is a Remington-
UMC Cartridge made
and guaranteed for
your rifle, revolver, pis-
tol or shotgun—of what-
ever make or calibre.
Remington-UMC the
universal ammunition.
REMINGTON ARMS
-UNION METALLIC
CARTRIDGE CO.
(M. Hartley Co.,
Export Agents)
299 Broadway, N. Y.
A. P. LANE,
World’s Champion Pistol Shot.
a
m
rH&
fills Hs
1
R»egula
British
la5K.
elf.
tturc
THE MAN WHO TRIES TO KEEP HIS
BUSINESS IN HIS HEAD CAN’T KEEP
AHEAD IN HIS BUSINESS
k
?Sr
I
rv
&
Jr
AICOV* r
/
l»M,l
3is brain can’t stand the strain-it’s built to remember
acts not figures. The human mind is never completely
iccurate. The National Cash Register thinks with a brain
)f steel It keeps track of every detail, of every sale, stops
eaks losses, mistakes, prevents carelessness and dishonesty.
A. store using a National Cash Register is a good store
if. run on system-it’s bound to give you ‘‘money swonh.
A merchant should be as sure of getting all the MONEY for
the goods he sells as the customer is sure he gets the goods
for which he pays. A National Cash Register enforces
CORRECT record which cannot be lost, changed
destroyed. A National Cash Register safeguards each
sale AS IT TAKES PLACE and assures you of gettin,,
all your money for the goods you sell. It will pay you to
investigate. Nearly a million-and-a-quarter merchants are
using National Cash Registers.
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia Ltd.
335 PITT ST., SYDNEY
343 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
281 MURRAY ST., PERTH
50 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
117 a RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE
MACQUARIE ST., HOBART
j
g
DON’T leave your arrangements for
this trip till the last. Enquiries
are pouring in from all parts of the
Commonwealth and New Zealand. Bris-
bane is to have the carnival time of its
existence.
The Brisbane Cup is the big race —another
Melbourne Cup, as great a social event, but
delightfully different to Flemington.
Write now, to-day, for full particulars to
C. DYSON-HOLLAND,
Sec. Q.T.C.,
Creek Street,
BRISBANE.
jngf
It is the man with the strong, masculine face who gets the job
with the big money. Then, rid yourself of that boyish look. Let
CAPILLARINE
give you a fine moustache, and see how improved your appearance
will be.
Capillarine has a 30 Years’ record of success. Test it to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free.
Craig & AitKen,
654- Georgre Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
THE UP-TO-DATE FISHING TACKLE
Bull-Dog
Hook
c - * 5
25
Four-Joint 12 feet Maple Rod,
with Brass Reel Seat; Good
Brass Click Reel ; 25 yards of
Fine Strong Tan Line ; Lull-Log
Hook _ Sure Catch ; Luminous
Float for Night or Day Fishing.
The Lot for 10/6, Carriage Paid.
THE angling season has once more come, and fishers who care to be right
antedate will buy this outfit. The articles are of excellent quality. lhe
Bull-Dog Hook is very ingenious, yet quite simple. It is set as shown
in the engraving, and when the fish pulls the hook spring, jhnrplj; open, never
failing to catch securely and holding on like a bull-dog.
arrangement of the twin hooks, the one covering the other, also saves much of the n»
of entanglement in weeds, etc. Every fisherman has experienced he want of a flea
- V* u;™ Luminous Float can be distinctly seen in mi
rtwssertsas:
&
UNION
MANUFACTURING & AGENCY COMPANY,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics Is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L’O'U’l'S
The First Successful Self-Filling Fountain Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
n
Every shop should have our line of Automatic Self =
Filling Fountain Pens. “ The A. A. is the one
pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling
feature is unique and so far superior to any other on
the market that it is the pen for all.
Fitted with 14IU. gold pens, any style or size, in plain, chased
or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree, gold-
filled and mother of pearl —handsome and serviceable.
The cut herein also shows the newly patented “A.A.”Clip
attached to the cap of the pen. It holds perfectly firm, and
can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure "The A.A.” Automatic Self-
Filling Fountain Pen, with the “ A.A. ’ Clip at your shop,
write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS (SL CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Cojlins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY, New York, U.S.A.
not connected with the l. e. waterman CO, [1


Government Notices.
Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Railway.
•teel Hopper Ballast Waggons.
TENDERS will be received until 11 a.m.
on TUESDAY. APRIL 8, 1913, for
the manufacture, supply and delivery of
Ninety (99) Steel Hopper Ballast Waggons
and spare parts.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Condition*
of Contract and Drawings can be seen after
MARCH 17, 1913, at the offices of the Com-
monwealth Railways, 84 William Street,
Melbourne ; Works Director, Customs House,
Sydney; Commonwealth Works Registrars.
Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart; and Common-
wealth Public Service Inspector, Perth.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is. and ss. a copy for each plan,
which must be paid before the documents
can be handed over.
■Tenders, accompanied by the necessary
deposit, should be endorsed “Tender for Steel
Hopper Ballast Waggons,” and addressed to
The Secretary, Department of Home Affairs.
Melbourne.
(Signed) KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Railway.
65ft. Car Underframes.
will be received until 11 a.m.
on TUESDAY, APRIL 8, 1913, for
the Manufacture. Supply and Delivery for
Sixteen (16) Sixty-five feet (65ft.) Car-
Underframes.
. Forms of Tender. Specification, Condi-
tions of Contract and Drawings can be seen
after MARCH 17, 1913, at the offices of the
Commonwealth Railways, 84 William Street,
Melbourne ; Works Director, Customs House,
Sydney; Commonwealth Works Registrars,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart; and the Com-
monwealth Public Service Inspector, Perth.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is. and ss. a copy for each plan,
which must be paid before the documents
can be handed 'wer.
Tenders, accompanied by the necessary
deposit, should be endorsed “Tender for 65ft.
Car Underframes for Kalgoorlie to Port
Augusta Railway,” and addressed to the
Secretary, Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne.
(Signed) KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY.
Spring Washers.
TENDERS will be received up to 11 o.m.
on TUESDAY, APRIL 8, for the
Supply and Delivery of about 2,000,000
Spring Washers for |in. Fishbolts.
Full particulars at the Offices of the f'om-
monwealth Railways. 84 William 'Street
Melbourne; Works .Director, Custom House,
Sydney; Works Registrars, Brisbane, Ade-
laide, Hobart; and Public Service Inspec-
tor, Perth.
Tenders, accompanied by the necessary
deposit, should be endorsed “Tender for
Spring Washers,” and addressed to the
Secretary, Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister for Home Affairs.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 27th February, 1913.
APPOINTMENT OF EDITOR—“COM-
MONWEALTH MILITARY JOURNAL.”
Applications will be received by
the Secretary, Department of Defence,
Victoria Barracks. Melbourne, up to and
inclusive of Ist APRIL, 1913, from persons
desirous of appointment to the position of
“Editor of the Commonwealth Military
Journal.”
Salary—£4oo per annum, including all
allowances except travelling allowances.
Forms of application and particulars of
appointment may be obtained on Application
to the Secretary, Department of Defence,
Melbourne; or to the Military Command-
ant, Military District, Headquarters, Syd-
ney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, and Hobart.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Treasury,
Melbourne, 28th December, 3913.
COUNTERFEIT COINAGE PLANT.
£lOO Reward.
WHEREAS certain imitations of silver
coins have recently been passed into
circulation at Sydney, in the State of New
bouth Wales : Notice is hereby that a
reward of One hundred pounds will be paid
by the Government of the Commonwealth
for information leading to the apprehension
of the coiners and the discovery of the plant
used in the manufacture of the coins referred
to. The Commonwealth Government will
request the State Government to extend a
full pardon to any accomplice Avho will give
the desired information. This offer will
remain open for thre months from this
date.
ANDREW FISHER,
Treasurer.
COLORED POST CARDS, by- Harry J.
Weston —“ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted fret, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
Amusements.
H
EB MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE THEATRE COOL AND BEAUTIFUL.
NEXT SATURDAY, MARCH 15.
1. C. WILLIAMSON announces the “Greater-
achievement” Extravaganza,
PUSS IN BOOTS.
PLANS AT PALING’S
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Leases : J. 0. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
A BRIGHT BATCH OF NEW NUMBERS
n«ve put an extra glow on the face of
'l'Jlli SUNSHINE GIRL.
Sonp Hits from Paris, London and New York.
PLANS AT PALING’S
THEATRE, BYDNE Y.
. mi euLioii and Management, Gicokue Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE DRAMA OF DRAMAS.
KMPHATro, GIGANTIC, UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS
ot the Great Dramatisation of “ Ouida’s ” World-famed
Novel of London and Algerian Life
UNDER TWO FLAGS.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/..
DAI, A C E THEA T R E. SYDNEY.
Direction : ALLAN HAMILTON.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 15.
, A MEMORABLE OCCASION.
HAMILTON-PLIMMER COMEDY CO.
will present the Most .Successful Comedy,
DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
BOX PLANS,AT PALING’S.
PRK !ES : 5/-, 3/- & 1 /
|M VriONAE AMPHITHEATRE, SIDNEY.
M EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FTJLLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
VAN CAMP'S EDUCATED PIG.
THE SEVEN HERALDOS.
THE LESSOS, Sharp-shooting and Juggling Act.
VAUGHAN & BERRY, Acrobat Contortionists;
EVA MUDGE, the Charming Military Maid.
MORRIS, SHAND & KITTY.
JOE CHARLES, MARJORIE DAW, HALL RAINE.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6,1/-, Saturdays & Holidays, 3/-, 2/-, ]/-
"I" H E LYCEUM, SYD N E 17.l 7 .
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
the premiere picture house in
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
QLACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALB.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GRQEN'S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
THIRTY-THIRD ANNUAL VISIT
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
400 PEOPLE, HORSES, PONIES, FREAKS,
AND PERFORMING WILD ANIMALS,
Just Arrived, Direct from America,
Per S.S. Sorioma.
NEW ARTISTS AND PERFORMING WILD ANI-
-i MALS FROM ALL PARTS OF THE AVORLD,
Will make their first appearance in Sydngy for short
season only,
OPENING IN BELMORE MARKETS,
ON SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 15. ,
EVERYTHING NEW, NOVEL,
ORIGINAL.
AND SENSATIONAL THIS YEAR.
A MAMMOTH PROGRAMME OF FEATURE ACTS
Far Bigger and Better than all the other Shows in
Australia combined.
ALL THE OLD ARTISTS IN NEAV ACTS
ART BODEN’S AVILD WEST SHOW.
WIRTH BROS.’ MENAGERIE
Per A°M^ i lWp^ L m^ MALS ’ 1 the firs t two
AMERICAN BISON ever landed in Australia.
PRICES: Evening Performance, Reserve Chairs,
half-price Pa " at Palln S s > 4/-, 3/-, and 2/-. Children^
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY
AND ALL HOLIDAYS. >
R p° K VV 0 ®’ TIV ° EI T H T kI;
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BENI ZOUG ZOUG ARABS, l'6i Whirlwind Tumbrels
THE KREMKA BROS., Novelty & Eccentric Shms
THE GREAT HEXRI FRENCH, present ‘•TI E
INTOXICATED GENIUS.”' °
rVnv ER ’ Fea,llri ' Isf Ker Novelty Songs.
DE MARLO & LADA , presenting ”, A Frog’s Paradise ”
MDLTjE. RENEE, WELCH & OARBASSE
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 1/-
O R ° V s ME LB O UR N E
w Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D„ McINTOSH.’
STALEY & BIRBECKS. Mysterious Musical Blacksmiths
MAXINI BROS. & BOHBY. Droll Acrobats and Balam ers
THE TROUPE of Continental Acrobats."
MOZZETUO, Juggler and Coin Catcher
ALEXANDER PRINCE, Concertina Soloist
GEO. BRYANT & CO. in ‘‘Katy Did ”
NRWMAN & HUGHES, Comedy Trick Cyclists.
Plan at Allan’s. jg“PRICES—3s„ 2s„ Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY)—
MERCHANT QF VENICE
FRIDAY & SATURDAY, MARCH 14 &15 . OTHELLO
MONDAY & TtJESDA Y, MARCH 17 & 18—
THE TAMING OF THE SHREAV
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 7/6.
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
T H ® ? INGS THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY.
Revival of Carlton Wallace’s Success,
A THIEF IN THE NIGHT.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
* j Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
In the Great Controversial Attraction,
THE , MONK AND
W 0 M A N.
Prices, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, I/-. Plan at Pianola Co.
H ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 15.
Grand Revival, for a Few Nights Onlv
of
The Popular and Fascinating Comic Opera,
THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
THE
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
■TOLLIES THEATRE, ST. HILDA.
r EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE SMART S E T.
(Direct from London.)
WALTER GEORGE’S ORIGINAL MUSICAL
COMBINATION. ALWAYS ARTISTS.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EVERY FRIDAY.
PRICES: 2/- (reserved), 1/6, 1/-, and 6d.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Lily Brayton Floral Studio, St. Kilda
’Phone. H. J. BEACHAM, Manner.
g I J OB T H E A T RE, ]>l E L B O V R N E.
B “ # Lessees: Orikntal Amusement Co. Ltd. of U.S.A.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MARCH 15.
• AMERICAN
MUSICAL BURLESQUE COMPANY.
A complete American Company of 40 Arti-ts,
ip the Musical Burlesque, in Two Acts,
TH E GRA E T \i RS.
ONE CONTINUOUS LAUGH.
■VI R. ED YVA R D Kit AN SC OMK E’S
FIVE COMPANIES OF
DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE, at 8.30.
“ARCADIA” (late Royal Yacht Club), opp. the Pier,
ST. KILDA, at 8.30.
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY, at 8.5.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
PRINCESS CO T ’RT, ROCK HA f ■ ,V P()N. NIGHTLY.
I YRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Praliran, Vic.
" EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTORAYS
on the Marvellous’ “Mack" Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. fid. to 2s. Plans at
Allan s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
kIBECTION AMALGAMATED
LTD.
PICTURES
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Q L Y M P I A. OLYMPIA^
w L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30,
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
PALACE, MELBOURNE.
JEST’S
the best WEST’S PICTURES THE BFST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. .West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinfies Wednesdays, Saturdays,
apd All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tufAVorld
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
f'v.erv week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glm’s
ROLL
E2IRCH & CAR
(Queensland),
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies “managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
—r~Z —77
[a card.]
Mr. Faulkner-Smith has completed arrangements
for the Musical Festival at the PRINCESS’S
THEATRE on GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT, 21st March,
to be contributed to by . Leading, New and
Favorite Artists, and confidently asks for a continu-
ance of the support hitherto accorded these popular
entertainments.
TREN.LUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Ta card.)
On GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT, at the ATHENEUM
HALL, the talented young soprano, Miss RUBY
SAINTON-DOLBY, niece of the famous English Con-
tralto and Composer of “Out on the Rocks,” will
appear, supported by a full company.
Direction » . „ .. Faulkner-Smith.
THENAUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
[A CARD.)
Mr. Faulkner-Smith invites attention to the
FAREWELL SEASON of Miss MOLLY CAREW the
charming Australian Entertainer, in “Songs ’ and
Opera at the Piano,” commencing on EASTER
SATURDAY NIGHT, at the ATHENEUM 11 ALL*
She will be supported by Mr. Horace Jno Book Mr
Ambreuse McMahon, Mr. E. Napoleon Boffard and Mr’
VV. T. Barker.
ñ
dedcert
Kills
Cockroaches.
CEORCE COUGH & SON LD., Agents. A!b ßrt
*
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTTa un
for Grey Hair, the best and cheapest T 4AiN 'HENNa,
(Observe signature, Alfred ArdW V" d ? s -M.
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case ’ snm°' J 4lO -)
Genuine obtainable:— ®’ same bottle),
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS ™
ASSOMTJLL and Stores. DEMISTS, w.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S COTF’s
LELLAN’S, ALL CHEMISTS,
CONFIDENTIAL
• F l r, R
mar
XX-X
>4
/XTTERS
COPIED _
IEJVORT '“ZANETIC C( book G
remain Pmate when the Z, netic
N.S.C. Copying Hook is used
You slip your note paper intothu
holder, write your letter, and
copyia made as you write (in ink)
Letter shows no sign of Copying
The letter is posted and the book
P"f awa v- «0 Octavo (Am. b, f>
WtOT or 200 Quarto can be copied
ln ?nn'S' ,20 °’ J3 ° st Free tor 3/9'
o B 2P , octavo Or 400 Quarto i*
N.S C./400, Post Free, lor 5/
ppecial Small Octavo Book. m»k
ing 200 copies, for P.O. 3/. p mt
Free; or double capacity 4/3.
Zanetie Pens, 3d. doz., 2/- gross. Zanetie Writing Parer
8 * «. 1/- pkt., 10 xB, 2 1- Sample of the Zanetie Ink paper
produces this result. Free, if stamped envelope sent to :
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetie Works, Welford Road, LEICESTER Enjlaod
Box 1281, G.P.0., SIDNEY.
a*#n ft it as
»r®
IW 1
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARFITFS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Couchs
Catairh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immedintely
Ss3£ INDIAN CIGAR
HIM RODS
ASTHMA POWDER
gives instant relief.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
' Every Lady Her Own Dressmaker
Simplified DRESS CUTTING & FITTING!
No persona) teaching needed Save half
the cost and yet baf/f double the
number of better fitting new dresses.
Designing and cutting ladies' and children’s
dresses and garments by measurement is
quite simple and easy with these
Charts and Directions. You can follow
the latest fashions adapted to your own
taste and style, can reproduce any costume
you admire and run no risk of seeing some-
one else wearing a dress exactly like your
own. Complete Set of Five Charts and Directions
on heavy plate papeT mounted on canvas, practically nn-
tearable, with 60-inch Tape measure, for only 3/6 (half
the usual price) we pay postage Obtainaule only from
The Union Co., g 99 Eliza bet h Melbourne.
bnvb
Pictorial Postscript Stamps]
Say more in a square inch than you can write
in a long letter. Stick one on envelope like a
postage stamp or on letter. It attracts
more attention than any written message
and is more highly valued than a post-card.
These stamps impart special interest to let-
ters because of the surprise evoked, and the pithy
mottoes and apposite little colored pictures com-
plete the distinctive impression Sold in sets of TwolVO
all different. Suited to all sorts of correspondence:
friendly, dunning, comic, sentimental and business. Kn
envelope fastened with ooe of the stamps cannot be
opened without detection. They are selling like wildfire in
America Send Sixpence for two dozen samples.
Agents wanted everywhere; a real money-making bonanza.
TTr»**>r* Co M 299 Elizabeth St M Melbourne.
nbv
What
You Want is Lessons
in Elocutio n.
BY POST.
is that those who have something to
rhtest trouble to learn how to make it
IDSTONK.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
— of World-Wide Fame -
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
ELOCUTION
“One of the strange mysteries of life
say worth hearing do not take the slit
properly heard.”—William Ewart Gl,
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at ihe College or by letter. -
"jr 301A PITT STREET,
J* SYDNEY, N.S
DINNEFORDS/
Magnesia
vn
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Bheumatic Gout
ami Qr^vel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
magnesia
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.


LY CEN
u
v w
DUBL' m
DottJeA Corked & Capsided ty •* j]
fch AbaoluUly T™ at worth/ l
~Jf AHI Quality throuchouj tnt vy °^ rl .
Rr JOHN BU^ l L '* ° U$ _
Demand
Burkes
£r £r Irish
Yyhiskey
The World-wide
Whiskey
Exquisitely mellow,
delicate in flavour,
light and digestive.
E. & J. Burke, Ltd., Dublin.
Capital £1,100,000. Est. 1849.
By far the largest Shippers
of Bottled Whiskey
from Dublin.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. for Life Assurance on the Mutual Princiole.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Prooerties, or o
J a
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand SJBg- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowintr Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M 1,.0. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
Esq., K.C.; Alex. MacCormick, Esq., M. D. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
Clean it from the Breech !
HPaen
vb
The New “REMINGTON”
22 hammerless, take-down, repeater, fires 15 short, 12 long or 11
long rifie cartridges, without adjustment. Its accuracy is won-
derful, and it weighs but Price 4:2/6 ; inter-btate
postage 3/9.
Bayard
Automatic Pistols.
TRONG,
IMPLE,
SAFE ! !
45/-
A “ handy ” thing to have!
V' 1
■
The “BAYARD”
SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE
uses the recoil to eject the empty shell, open the breech and cock the firing mechanism.
Its strong points are accuracy, ease of operation and rapidity of fire. '22 Cal.
Price only 18/6. Ask for Booklet.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
Gun, Rifle, Revolver and Cartridge Makt>s,
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Our Illustrated Lists are interesting reading. Ask for them—NOW I
nv
u
Drink Wisely
MONtser .
Lime-Truit Juice.
I don’t care two straws for any
MONTSERRAT Lime Juice.
but
It’s a fine healthy, cooling, and refresh-
ing drink, and keeps me fit in the hot
weather. montserra t is s»id by
all Imm Mg Storekeepers,
When Weaning Baby
The Best Food to give is
The ‘Allenburys’ Milk Food No. 1.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
sSllenburgs Foods
l WF* PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT FREE
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SIDNEY,
1.. %
The “LISTER”
Petrol Engine
BRITISH BUILT.
lb 2b 4, 6. 8 & IO h.p.
Stationary and Portable.
Fitted with Bosch High Tension Magneto
Ignition and Automatic Lubrication. _
STARTS INSTANTLY AND EASILY.
SAFE :: ECONOMICAL :: DURABLE.
Agents —
•DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., SYDNEY.
WINCHCOMBE CARSON, LTD., BRISBANE.
HUTCHINSON HUNT, MELBOURNE.
MALLOCH, BROTHERS, PERTH.
LEVIN & COMPANY, LTD.,WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SOLE MAKERS:
H. A. LISTER & Co., Ltd., Dursley, Eng.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense. Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can
e<9
&<?
07
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
▲
A
«4
WHEN ORDERING
(Mum
—ALE
Insist on
FOSTERS
‘Bugle
Brand’
The ORIGINAL Bottler*
of Bass’ Ale.
STILL THE FOREMOST.
bn
Fop
Household
Use—
To use it is the
best, most simple
and most comfort-
able way of ironing.
Independent of
stove and gas, it
can be used any-
where. Non-in-
flammable fuel with-
out noxious fumes.
No risk from fire;
healthier and safer
than any other iron.
For light work and
travelling only. The
“dallinette.”
a smaller “Dalli.”
For general hou p ehold
woik use the Dalli.
Woman of all Nations
USE THE DALLI
Of all Storekeeper*.
Hordern <S*S( . .
. Co.. Ltd.. Sydney.
Bemart of worthless imitations.
Of au
*<x*f Ho'dern &


b
TROUT and PERCH TACKLE
We are the Leading and Largest importers in Australia of High-class Fishing Tackle.
It doesn't matter whether
you have shillings or
pounds to spend, we will
fit you out better than
any other house. SEND
YOUR ORDER—NOW.
RODS.
The “Perfection” Split Cane Fly Rod, n feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, waterproof lock joints, best agate bridge and
end rings. Highest quality £7/10/-
No. 1. Split Cane Trout Rod, lOi and 11 feet, 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, lock joints, agate bridge and end rings. This
rod is very closely whipped £5/10/-
The M.S. Split Cane Rod, 10J and 11J feet, 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, solid winch fittings, serrated ferrules, snake rings,
etc £2
Same as above, but with Steel Centre £2/10/-
Our M.S. Specialities are absolutely the biggest value obtainable.
No. 7. Split Ciane Rod, IQ£ feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
nickel-plated mount.ngs, spiral guides 7 /g
No. 8. Split Cane Rod, 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
best fittings, snake rings, welted ferrules, two-color silk whip-
pings, put up on flannel-covered wood form 22/6
No. 10. Split Cane Rod, 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
nickel-plated fittings, welted ferrules, snake rings, etc. 17/6
No. 12. Finest Greenheart Rod, lOi and 11 feet, 3
joints, 2 tops, cork grip, best lock joints, serrated ferrules, rev.
end rings, best fittings, stained olive green £2/10/-
M.S. Guinea Greenheart Rod, 101 and 11* feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, snake rings, best fittings. A first-class rod,
suitable for any of our trout streams 21/-
REELS.
No. 1. M.S. Perfection Reels, made of best hardened
aluminium alloy, patent brake attachment —
xr o ,_ . 3in., 25/-; 3% in., 30/-
-NO. o. Fly Reels, made of best hardened metal,
optional check, oscillating line guard—
3in., 25/-; 3Min., 27/6; 3%in., 30/-
Hardy Bros.* Renowned Specialities.
Hardy s Patent Contracted Perfect Keel, with ball
bearings and regulating check, specially designed for dry fly
and general trout fishing, 3% in., 42/6; 3 % in., 45/-
liamy s “Corona Superba” Double 't'aper Trout Fly
l ines, made from highest-quality silk, a beautiful, soft and
pliant line, suitable for wet or dry fly fishing, Length 35
„ yards 1.D.1., 20/-; 1.C.1., 23/6; 1.8.1., 28/-
Hardy s Improved Halcyon Spinners, very certain in
hooking—
lMin., 2/-; I^4in., 2/3; 2in., 2/6 3in., 3/3
LINES.
“Kingfisher” Double Taper Trout Fly Lines a High-
class Line—
-30 yards No. 2, 10/-; No. 3, 11/6
40 yards .. No. 1, 11/6; No. 2, 12/6; No. 3, 13/6
42 yards .. No. 4, 22/6; No. 5, 25/-; No. 6, 27/6
I erfect Waterproof Plaited Silk Lines. A good-quality
level line, put up in coils of 25 yards connected —
No. 40, 2/6; No. 30, 3/- per 25 yards
LANDING NETS.
No. 1. M.S. “Perfect” Collapsible Trout Net 16/-
Xo. 8 - ‘‘Q uicksure ” Collapsible Trout Net. 30/-
No. 9. X.L. Collapsible Net, telescopic handle 14/6
CAST CASES CSL BOXES.
No. 1. Palley’s Cast Case, parchment pockets ... 3/6
No. IC. Hand-sewn Pigskin Cast Case, with dressed
castdamper 7/6
No. 2. Japanned Round Cast Box, 4in. diameter 1/6
No. 5. Aluminium Round Cast Box, with Felt
P ads 1/6
FLY BOXES.
No. 1. Best Eyed Fly Boxes, with spring clips, mounted
to Xylonite—
-51 clips. 4/6: 85 clips, 5/6; 119 clips, 7/-
No. 6. Aluminium Fly Box, fitted with 69 Spring
cIi P s 9/6
We have absolutely the largest and best assorted stock of High
(Mass Fishing Tackle in Australia to select from. Get our List—
It will save you money.
fishing bags
N °diohab^ S ;aS^ n ! made *“ ** canvas, with
No. 2 “Perfect” Fishin^B^ma^^oL^S*u {'
cloth. Has an expanding net on front ung ’ lg^
No. 3. I.X.L. Fishing 1 ? 7 ,, 6
cloth, with detachable, rubber-faced cloth linintr *
pockets on front for carrying tackle— two
gaffs’ 14/6; Large ’ 16/6
*• One Sli(le Telescopic Gaff
°‘tector W ° 81ide . TeIeSCOPiC Gaff ’ With Point p^o
No. 3. Best Two Slide Telescopic Gaff very 3 {f
SUNDRIES. 17/6
w *£ss »“rx: a”tJr.. be “. c “ h ”' mlte
Brogues, leather, with canvas upper, all sizes o ~ / PlUr
Trout Flies, all the latest and standard patterns, from 2/
Perch Flie •, very best quality ’ ,L~ ° 7 ''
Others, from 1/6 each
Spinning Head Flies, for Trout and PeVchZa wry succeTfm
bail last a,‘aeon. Perch size, I/O; Trout size 1/T.S
Spinning Head Halcyons— “
... 1 «”, 1/4;^ 2 i n V> V 6; 2^in -i 1/9; 3in., 2/-each
Flying Waterwitch Baits, highly successful—
-1 Ik in., 2/-; 2in., 2/3; 2% in., 2/6; 3in., 3/- each
Rouke Spinners, a good trout bait qa p„
Invincible Spinners, a splendid bait
THESE ARE ONLY A FEW OF THE LINES
WE STOCK. For a FULL ILLUSTRATED
DESCRIPTION OF ALL FISHING TACKLE
SEE OUR SIXTH EDITION TACKLE CATA-
LOGUE, containing a page of colored flies. The
Biggest and Best Book of its kind published.
Write now posted free anywhere.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
HEAD
The Premier TacKle House of Australia
DEPOT; HAYMARHET, SYDNEY. N.S.W
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BO L.ND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
Music, as you like it*,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home—one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free
SOLE AGENTS '
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
RAM
RIFE
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies
Cardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc!
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
If WRITE SoMWITnS a W „d h Koi' 6 -
RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
Xt
&
r Ts
»
U
Waterman's
Ideal)
Fountain Pen
THE WORLD’S
BEST FOUNTAIN PEN
Makes writing a positive
pleasure. Nib just suited
to your hand, a steady,
sufficient flow of ink to
the point while writing,
no leaking, no splutter-
ing, no faltering. Lasts
a lifetime ; every pen
guaranteed.
In 4 types —
Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6 and
upwards; Safety and Pump-
Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers a?id Jewellers everywhere.
L & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD.,
Koh- i-noor House* London, England.
Australia—3so, George Street, Sydney.
i
Richardson Cushion Frame,
Bearing: Roller Skates.
reed exdiiMvely in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America
SS- A^o a i l the , ? J ha "'Pi? n * ot the w °r>d. fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue
lells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
Anti-Jar Ball-
RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE!
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
108 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals)
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. y Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. ’Nkw
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d!
vbb
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
fltri Ure aS r• C eXl '! tS - Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
wWeh thev feel^H 1 i° CCUr t 0 the m | nds of youn - and old - but about
y Jt a dellcacy ln consulting- their physician. Chapters
a , d , C fl Co interesting subjects concerning mar-
WMien both'in k^i t a supe . nor - uide the action of men and
,' n a " d out of marriage. No man or woman who
fuStsense wish . eslo enjoy married lif e in its
in its covers’ TV,/ * 1 o°n?u S R enBe ' wth the information embraced
m its eo\ ers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived
Pir,fh A Ji SPA^T^ N GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
f«v C jj edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE!
bookseller to the commonwealth.
-m
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working eor Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River., 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Evepy
Man His Own Carpenter, is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Kecipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Dori.’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. wm~ Established, to Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s Bd.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History” Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvassfi’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. lOONkw
Recitations and Readings, Is. 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
uound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY-


/
y
5*
From M. and May Moore, Photo.
MISS ELWYN HARVEY
The Talented and Charming
Young Artiste . . .
PRAISES
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY.
I wish to tell you how much benefit I have received from the use of Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery. In my work my throat often becomes irritated from
strain and theatre dust, and often it would be impossible for me to go through
my part if it were not for the benefit I get from a dose or two of Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. Also, on two occasions I have been so unfortunate as to con-
tract a heavy cold, and on each of these occasions Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
helped me at once, and soon rid me entirely of the trouble.
I think there is nothing like it, and always have a bottle at home, for dur-
ing the coming winter I look to it as my safeguard against the throat chills con-
tracted so easily when leaving the heated dressing-room, and going into the
chilly night air.
I assure you I will always recommend it to all my friends.
Yours sincerely, (Signed) ELWYN HAR\ EY.
SAFEGUARDS from WINTER’S ILLS.
Dr Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds is an unequalled preparation for
the immediate relief of all diseases of the Throat,' Bronchial Tubes and Lungs, including
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult
Respiration and Pains in the Chest. When used according to directions is a sure pre-
ventive of Pneumonia and Consumption. Every bottle guaranteed. Price, 1/6 and 3/-.
D? Sheldons
bn
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
HOL LOW AY’S
Pills (Q. Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues 'in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that 'you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late, 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Spring Song of a Bloke.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ri'lirEJ world ’as got me snouted jist a
’ I 1 treat;
Crool Forchin’s dirty left ’as smote
me soul;
An’ all them joys o’ life I ’eld so sweet
Is up the pole.
For, as the poit ses, me ’eart ’as got
The pip wif yearnin’ fer—l dunno wot.
I’m crook ; me name is Mud ; I’ve done me
dash;
Me flamin’ spirit’s got the flamin’ ’ump!
I’m longin’ to let loose on somethin’ rash. . .
Aw, I’m a chump!
I know it; but this blimed ole Springtime
craze
Fair outs me, on these dilly, silly days.
The young, green leaves is shootin’ on the
trees,
The air is like a long, cool swig o’ beer,
The bonder smell o’ flow’rs is on the breeze,
An’, ’ere’s me, ’ere,
.Tist mooehin’ ’round like some poor, barmy
coot.
Of ’ope, an’ joy, an’ forchin’ destichoot.
I've lorst me former joy in gettin’ shiek,
Or ’eadin’ browns; I ’aven’t got the ’eart
To word a tom; an’, square ’n’ all, I’m sick
Of that cheap tart
Oo chucks ’er carkis at a feller’s ’ead
An’ mauls ’im....Ar! I wisht that I wus
dead!
Ther's little breezes stirrin’ in the leaves,
An’ sparrers chimin’ ’igh the ’ole day
long;
An’ on the air a sad, sweet music breaves
A bonzer song—
A mournful sorter choon thet gits a bloke
Fair in the brisket ’ere, an’ makes ’im
choke....
Wot is the matter wif me?. .. .1 dunno.
I got a sorter yearnin’ ’ere inside,
A dead-crook sorter thing that won’t let go
Or be denied —
A feelin’ like I want to do a break,
An’ stoush creation fer some woman’s sake.
The little birds is chirpin’ in the nest,
The parks an’ gardings is a bosker sight
Where smilin’ tarts walks up an’ down, all
dressed
In clobber white.
An’, as their snowy forms goes steppin’ by, •
It seems I’m seekin’ somethin’ on the sly.
Somethin’ or someone —I don’t rightly know;
But, seems to me, I’m kind er lookin’ for
A tart I knoo a ’undred years ago,
Or, maybe, more.
Wot’s this I’ve ’eard them call that thing?...
Geewhiz!
Me ideel bit o’ skirt! That’s wot it is!
My ideel tart!. . . .An’, blime, look at me !
.Tist take a squiz at this, an’ tell me can
Some square an’ lionist tom take this to be
’Er own true man?
Aw, Gawd 1 I’d be as true to ’er, I would —
As straight an’ stiddy as....Ar, wot’s the
good?
Me, that ’as done me stretch fer stoushin’
Johns,
An’ spen’s me leisure gettin’ on the shiek,
An’ ’arf me nights down there, in Little
Lons.,
Wif Ginger Mick,
Jist ’eadin’ ’em, an’ doin’ in me gilt.
Tough luck ! I s’pose it’s ’ow a man is built.
It’s ’ow Gawd builds a bloke; but don’t it
’urt
When ’e gits yearnin’s fer this ’igher life,
On these Spring mornin’s, watchin’ some
sweet skirt —
Some fucher wife —
Go sailin’ by, an’ turnin’ on his phiz
The glarssy eve —fer bein’ wot ’e is.
I’ve watched ’em wrnlkin’ in the gardings
’ere —-
Cliners fruth orfices an’ shops an’ such ;
The sorter skirts I dursn’t come too near.
Or dare to touch.
An’ when I see the kind er looks they
Gorstrooth ! Wot is the use o’ me, I arst?
Wot wus I slung ’ere for? An wot s the
good
Of yearnin’ after that ideel tart !
Ar, if a bloke wus only understood.
’E’s got a ’eart:
’E’s got a soul inside ’im, poor or rich.
But wot’s the use, when Gawd ’as crool d
’is pitch?
I tells meself some day I’ll take a Pull
An’ look eround fer some good, stiddy
An’ cut the push fer good an’ all; I’m full
Of that crook mob.!
An’, in some Spring the fucher olds m
store,
I’ll cop me prize an’ long in vain no more.
The little winds is stirrin’ in the trees.
Where little birds is chantin’ lovers lays;
The music of the sorft an’ barmy breeze
Aw, spare me davs!
If this ’ere dilly feelin’ doesn t stop . ,
I’ll lose me block and stoush some flamm
cop!
VICTORIA.
DEN.
Managin’ Women.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE chops were so cold they stuck in
their own frozen fat, and the subdued
sobbing of a woman came from the
sleep-room. The husband sat with his chin
in his palms, while the lodger played with
the burnt end of a cigarette and looked
SU “T.knew you two wuz raisin’ trouble,” he
said. . , ,
“’Ow?” asked the dejected one.
“Too much smoodgin , spoke the * odg T T P
striking a match on his trousers S-
did not light up, however The husband
made no reply, but resumed his dejected at
titude. For a full minute only the sound ot
the sobbing woman w r as heard. ~
“You ironumkers are all the same, said
“Whir do you know about women?”
rapped out the ironmonger.
“I’ve not worked in a boot factory for
nothin’,” replied the lodger.
“You want to be married to know’,” said
the husband.
“P’raps I have bin married,” spoke the
lodger, bitterly, striking another match and
lighting his cigarette.
“I never ’eard of it,” said the one who
was married.
“Nobody ’eard of it. I didn’t mention it.
I wasn’t married long.”
“Who d’ you marry?”
“Little piece worked at the pointers.”
“How d’ you come to marry her?”
“Oh, she got me by the wool, somehow.”
“Couldn’t you agree, Tom?”
Tom again lit his cigarette, which had
gone out.
“Things was a bit slack at the works, en
the whisper w r ent round that a few of us was
due for the bullet. I went ’ome a bit wor-
ried-like. Seemed ’ard on Daphne to marry
a joker just when he was gettin’ chucked
from his job.”
He threw his cigarette end away and relit
another, which he let go out before he spoke
again.
“Don’t want to make a long tale of it.
When I got ’ome she chucked the teapot
over me ’ead.”
“Not because you was goin’ to get the
sack?”
“No. I didn’t tell her me suspicions.
S’pose I wasn’t as cheerful as usual.”
“So you separated?”
Tom nodded and lit up again, and after j
another two puffs he said: “When I’d
cleaned the tea leaves out of me ’air I went 1
out for a walk, and at the corner of Park
an’ Castlereagh I said : ‘Strike me if ever I
go back again.’ En I didn’t.”
“What became of her?”
“Back at the pointers.”
“Seems a bit ’ard on you, Tom.”
“It all comes be way of experience. It’s
let me know a bit about wimmen, my oath!
This is the first time I’ve spoke about it.
Daphne en me made it up to say nothin’
about it, so’s not to spoil her prospects if
she gets another chance. So you needn’t
make a song about it, Dick. I wouldn’t ’ave
mentioned it only you’re so cock-sure that
this is the first barney a joker’s ever ’ad
with his missus. Wimmin takes upder-
standin’. They’ve got yer beat. every time.
“Rose ’as me beat,” said Dick, despond-
ently.
“It’s yer own fault.”
“ ’Ow?”
“Well, I wouldn’t ’ave promised to take
’er to the plumbers’ picnic, and then come
’ome en stalled her off by saying you’re goin’
to see Glebe down the Darlingtons.”
“Why not?”
“Well, yer don’t think she’s howlin be-
cause you chipped her about the chops, do
yer?”
“Well, that’s wot set her goin .
Tom waved his arm oracularly.
“Wimmen don’t always raise a row about
the real thing ‘wot’s at the back of their
heads. They always make the most row
on a side-track. You en me would come
straight, but with wimmen you don’t want
to listen to what they say to know what
they means. For the matter of that, it
wasn’t the disappointment about the picnic
either, though no doubt she’s bought a pair
of open-work stockincs en a new blouse to
go in. Fact is. she thinks you’re givin her
a bit of the push in yer affections.”
Dick suddenly stood up.
“If I thought that I'd go in and square
things.” „ ,
“Go in en make a d —d fool of yerself, yer
mean!”
“Well, what am I to do?
“If yer feels called to go in, go in en give
her one on the sidc« of her lug, en then come
out again.”
“I’m not that sort of bloke, Tom.
“Well, put on your cady en let us go en
see Glebe come out on top. en forget yer
troubles in a bit of barrackin’.’
“I can’t go and leave Rose like that, said
Dick, pointing to the bedroom.
Tom lit up his cigarette and puffed a few
times. _ , ~
“You know Snowy Rogers? he said.
“But yer don’t. He was one of us when I
used to knock about with the old Gipp-
streeters. I useter lodge with him when
he first married. She was a bit of skirt who
follered the tailorin’. I was just thinkin’ of
his first row (something like you en. Rose),
en he was all on for doin himself in same
as you are. but I got him out. en we went
to see a cricket match. Snowy was fair
miserable. All the time he thought his own
little lot would be throwin’ herself into the
’arbor, or cuttin’ her throat with a pam of
scissors. It was all dark when we got ome,
en when Snowv saw it he was afraid to go
in, en I had to drag him. We struck
matches all over the place, en lit no, but
no sign of Liz till we come .to the bedroom,
en there she was, souattin’ in the middle of
the bed, ’uggin’ her knees. ‘Oh, Snowy.’ she
says, ‘I thought something dreadful .’ad ap-
pealed to ver.’ They’ve got on snide ever
since.' What would .’ave ’anpened if Snowy
had tried to make it up?”
“What?”
“Well, one evenin’ Snowy would aye come
’ome and found a bloke with oily ’air en in
his Sunday duds, named Jones, avin tea
with them," en after tea Liz would say, Mr.
.Tones has kindlv promised to take me to a
dance to-night. Snowy. If you’re ome first
don’t wait up. I’ll let meself .in.
“T’d break his jaw.” said Dick.
“O’ course you would. But take, my ad-
vice en there won’t be any oily- air jokers m
the case. Come along,” he said. Lets go
to the football match.”
Dick let himself be led outside, but sud-
denly shook himself free. “It’s no use, he
said! “I can’t leave Rose breaking her
heart like that.” . ~ , ,
He went inside and straight to the bed-
room. Tom sat down and smoked five cigar-
ettes. Then the bedroom door opened and
Rose and Dick came out.
“Tom ” said Rose, “do you mind eating
the cold chops, or would you prefer just
bread and jam? Me and Dick aregoing to
the Plumbers’ Picnic at Clifton
“Oh, bread en jam will do, Rose,
mumbled Tom. ~ ~ u
“I’ll make some fresh tea, said Rose,
and went out to the kitchen.
When she was out of sight Tom rose and
walked up in a mincing manner meant to
represent & woman, and said. Die ,
.Tones ’as kindly promised to take me to a
da “Tf you don’t shut up I’ll break your jaw,”
said Dick viciously.
ROBERT BROTHERS.


MISHAPS r OUTBACK
//I the Homestead, Settler's Hut, Shearer's Shea
and Bushman's Camp, Zam-Buk is Invaluable.
pXPOSED constantly to painful accidents and minor mis-
haps, a handy pot of Zam-Buk is the bushman’s trusty
friend. Perhaps a flying “ chip" inflicts a nasty
wound on his leg whilst “ splitting " or wood-
cutting, or his foot gets a smarting scald while
lifting the billy off the camp fire—but whether
following his occupation or in the camp at night,
cuts, bruises, burns, scalds and numerous other
mishaps are ever ready to step in and cause pain
and inconvenience, and the way to make and keep
the Injured part thoroughly clean and “ sweet,"
and quickly heal it with new, healthy skin, is to
apply Zam-Buk, Ploughing, fencing, branding,
shearing, cooking and carpentering each contribute
their share of minor dangers, but whether in the
homestead, the settler’s cot, the bushman’s hut,
or the shearer’s shed, Zam-Buk is the one perfect
and reliable healer to keep on hand.
UW'
Mr Geo. H. Orchard, of Abbermain, Newcastle, NSW gars- “Sir v«r« ,
2o C otWne S aßd a Y quick hea a ier.” Uk ’ “ d time With SUCCeBS * and always found, it very
EVERY HOME NEEDS A POT.
The home th«t keeps a pot ol Zam-Buk always handy Is furnlshTwith the ever-ready healer
m,d skin-cure, and with a reliable remedy for cuts, bums, bruises, scald* abr«U«
eczema scalp sores, piles, bad Ups, festering and swelling
horn blood-poisonlngjand any burning, Irritating, itch Jar
sores. Zam-Buk is obtainable from ail chemists and stores,
#
RUB IT IN
1/6 Mi
3/6
PER
POT.
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
meone nas died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
, especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
. phvsician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
(kf.
a
rt(W
Qof
a
V.
For eight long years Chamberlain’s Tablets have been the
means of keeping from me those terrible bilious attacks to
which I was a martyr. For years before your wonderful
tablets were recommended to me I lost many hours of rest
with vile attacks of biliousness, but now when an attack is
apparent one to three tablets ward off the horrible suffering
and restore me to perfect health again. My doctor told me
I could only obtain genuine relief by taking voyage, but
thanks to Chamberlain s Tablets I was saved the time and expense
of this trip and now need no other medicine to keep me well.”
MR. WM. E. GOODE,' 107 Victoria-st, .Christchurch, N.Z.
A Grimy Industry,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Sydney man, wkilat walking; along a lonely road,
was recently accosted by two ramshackle men, and
implored to buy a £ 1-note for 18s. or 16s. He
noticed that the two capitalists had a bag stuffed
full of paper money, and refused. The police think
it has been manufactured somewhere in the lonely
Middle Harbor hills.
FROM the back window I look o’er the
hills—
The lonely hills that shimmer in the
sun:
They hold a manufactory of bills:
In some dark cave the villainy is done.
I picture dossers with a printing press
That clanks and shudders o’er each bogus
note:
They take it tenderly like priests that bless.
And o’er its new perfections softly gloat.
But when the printing’s done, the work be-
gins
Of making it like all the filthy rags
That fill the honest banker’s wooden bins.
And draw red gold from out his money-
bags.
They clean their boots with notes. Their
abject dog
With eager teeth to edges then attends :
Then afterwards they’re left upon a log
To fade and soak in rain the good Lord
sends.
A week or so of that, and then they’re
brought
To be anointed with old mutton fat.
(The banker, if he gives the thing a thought,
Says honest human sweat accounts for
that. )
Lastly, a day or so beneath a weight
(lives them the pocket creases that they
bear;
Then go two dossers and a dog in state
From the dull world some hard-earned
cash to tear.
Last week, our old and honest Mary Ann
Rose from her scrubbing with a floor-
cloth rank,
And, on a message to the teller man,
Invaded the adjacent Savings Bank.
She laid her floorcloth on the counter wide;
Ere she could speak, he grabbed it up.
“Yes, Miss !”
(The inky thing he indolently eyed.)
“Will you take gold or silver now for
this?"
N.S.W.
KODAK.
A Discolored Melodrama.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T TE entente cor diale between Society
and Henry Thompson was ended.
Thompson had been obliterated.
A wise man would have shaken hands
with himself. The drop of discolored blood
in Thompson impelled him to melodrama.
It is hard to feel like Julius Knight when
you’re “scutching” at a flaxmill for a living.
And the scenery was altogether wrong.
Though Thompson cursed the picture post-
cards which had lured him to the kainga
and the simple life he wouldn’t quit. Ro-
mance died, but Thompson thrived. In
time he acquired a taste for dried shark and
mussels. As the crack euchre-player of the
kainga his status was second only to that of
Mita Pouro, the, decrepit and mendacious
chief. His beauty gained him the not-
always-desirable admiration of the Maori
ladies. When Romance seemed perma-
nently dead these things counted. Thompson
had become a Pakeha-Maori.
Occasionally Thompson’s aunts wrote em-
Bjoring him to return to grace and the
*-M.G * 1 Then .Thompson would curse the
Y.M.C.A., likewise grace, and go over to
Taare s whare, where bad whisky was re-
tailed at an astounding profit to Big
Charley. But most of all would he curse
the boss of the A.S.C.
The Amalgamated Shipping Company
came into existence on the Boss’s 21st birth-
day, and with him _it grew to maturity.
From its inception it was a slave-driving
concern. Amongst the generals of Private
Enterprise it was tacitly agreed that the
A.S.C. owned the waters which surround
the three islands. When obtuse persons, be-
lieving that competition was a healthful
stimulant, started in opposition they were
suppressed. It was either a case of elimina-
tion or assimilation—and assimilation led
by a short head. Thus the A.S.C. grew.
The Boss’s repertoire was extensive. In
the public eye he appeared as a benign poli-
tician whose kindly desire it was to deflect
the misguided lumper from such sordid aims
as a living wage. With the Best People he
was a genial soul. To the underlings at the
office he was a coarse-minded martinet with
a low faculty for the recognition of incom-
petence. As a sideline the Boss was a
family man. _ Numerically the family was
small, but aristically she was flawless. Her
name was Rosamond. Until Henry Thomp-
son propelled himself within her vision
Rosamond’s mental activities were restricted
to clothes, confectionery and her own
beauty. Thompson made good on sight. To
Rosamond’s excited fancy he seemed to be a
cross between the Bully Hayes of fiction
and the Apollo Belvedere of old Rome. She
thought he might be an earl, faintly dis-
guised. Between their first dance and 2 a.m.
Rosamond capitulated. It was during the
latter function that the Boss found them.
He was sustained by ten whiskies and the
recently acquired knowledge that a promis-
ing _ liaison had gone wrong. Next day
Society had lost an ornament and the A.S.C.
its assistant freight clerk.
At the back of Te Haupiri was a long
line of man-eating savages. They had done
credit to their diet in the sanguinary tribal
wars and Te Haupiri’s mana was that of a
very great chief. From Gisborne to East
Cape he was the boss dago. The mission-
aries, recognising his prospective value, had
captured him when young. In England he
acquired knowledge and some plain vices.
On the European continent he gained more
knowledge and many fancy vices. Then he
returned to the hapu and chased the mis-
sionaries away with curses in three lan-
guages.
It was ,no slouch’s job to vermilionise
the coast in the pristine days of the Bays
district, when methylated spirit was con-
sidered a lifueur and kerosene tested a man’s
drinking capability. When the joy god
entered into Te Haupiri he collected his
forces and swept down the coast leaving in
his wake a bottle-oh’s harvest and the rem-
nants of disrupted law’n’order. Those who
were side-tracked during the jaunt were
promptly struck off the pay-roll. Thus Dar-
win was vindicated. The Bays took off its
hat to Te Haupiri.
At Arahura Bay Te Haupiri had built a
castle. It was the product of a brainy man
and a ton of gold. Nature had supplied the
necessary setting with a lavish hand.
Naturally, Te Haupiri paid heavy tribute
to the A.S.C. The freight rates to the Bays
were framed on a sumptuous scale. Be-
tween refreshments Te Haupiri brooded on
this serious loss of beer money.
One day the snub-nosed steamer swung
into Arahura Bay and landed on the beach
a young man and a battered portmanteau.
The stranger climbed cautiously to the
grassed slope and headed for Te Haupiri’s
bush-embowered castle. That night in the
great dining-hall which boasted neither
table nor other appurtenance of pakeha
dwellings he saw Te Haupiri’s girl-sister,
Arini, whose beauty was like that of no
brown girl whom he had seen. Then Ro-
mance lived again in the heart of Henry
Thompson.
Next day Thompson, who. was now To-
moana, talked with Te Haupiri. Theii
korero was of business, but Thompson’*
thoughts were ever with the beauteous Arini
Since hastiness is not an attribute of Maori
character the korero extended over many
days, and Tomoana, who had come with one
motive, found that he had two. When Arini
smiled upon him he almost forgave the Boss
of the A.S.C.
Some time later the little steamer picked
up its former passenger and carried him
northward. As Thompson watched the re-
ceding bay he thought complacently of his
pact with Te Haupiri. That he would suc-
ceed he felt confident. And success meant
the winning of a prize on which he had set
his heart. The prize was Arini.
There was consternation at the head
office of the A.S.C. when the Gisborne mana-
ger’s report came to hand. Rumor had pre-
ceded the report. It appeared that Te Hau-
piri’s chartered steamer had annexed the
trade of the Bays to the detriment of the
purse and prestige of the A.S.C. In the
past the co. had contemned the supplication
of the white settlers for a better service.
The worm had revolved.
Thompson toiled strenuously with a light
heart. Each week-end was made glorious
by a letter from Arini. In his leisure
moments he prepared the nest. Arini had
expressed a wish to live near the city where
she had been educated, and her lover had
found an ideally-situated cottage overlook-
ing the waters of the harbor. For a space
Henry Thompson was the happiest man in
Auckland.
Came a letter, blotched by haste and
marked with fear. It told a tale of Maori
treachery. Unheralded the Boss had arrivec
from Wellington. Though ostensibly on a
shooting expedition, he had spent long hours
in conference with Te Haupiri. For the
delectation of the great pakeha there had
been hakas and poi dances; and, since the
Maori eats when he is glad or woeful, there
had been much feasting. Te Haupiri had
drunk deeply of the waipiro. Then he had
spoken to his assembled people. He told
them that an enemy of his great-grand-
mother, Titoki, had sent an evil spirit called
Henry Thompson to lead him astray. But
the pakeha ran-gitira, returning good for
evil, had hastened to his assistance, and the
taipo had been cast out. Now he, Te Hau-
piri, would make reparation. The people,
being filled with food, had assented joyously.
There was worse to tell. Te Haupiri looked
with approval upon the nakeha’s admiration
for Arini. Arini was much afraid.
Te Haupiri’s steamer was at the wharf.
In the teeth of a savage gale Henry Thomp-
son, manager .of the new company, drove
her south. When her crew protested he
cursed them. When they talked of mutiny
he backed his curses with a badly-handled
fire shovel.
The sun, just risen, contended with a
heavy bank of clouds as the steamer dropped
her anchor in Arahura Bay. Thompson
stood at the rail and looked shoreward,
whence came a sound that filled him with
uneasiness. It was the tangi wail.
He was the first into the surf-boat, and
the first on to the beach. Here he was re-
ceived by a solemn-faced deputation. With
many verbal embellishments and appro-
priate gestures they recounted the tragedy
of the day before. The pakeha rangitira
—otherwise the Boss of the A.S.C.—had
gone, unaccompanied, to shoot wild pigeons.
When he did not return search had been
made, and his body found. A double-bar-
relled gun makes a mess of a man’s features.
Thompson heard them in silence. Then he
went to have a reckoning with Te Haupiri.
Te Haupiri received his partner effusively.
Thompson accepted the greetings without
prejudice. The potentate, having set out
the glasses and waved his retainers away,
began to talk. His explanation was entirely
satisfactory. When its accustomed quiet
had settled down on Arahura Bay Thomp-
son again went northward. He was escorted
to the beach by Te Haupiri and the peerless
Arini. Thompson had made good. The
wedding had been fixed for a month later
Thompson neglected to ask who had fired
the gun that ended the Boss’s career.
He received indirect information that
Rosamond’s affections might still be his for
the asking, and that he might thus be him-
self Boss of the A.S.C., but he heeded not.
Incidentally, he consulted a doctor about
some obscure symptoms. The doctor seemed
deeply interested, and diplomaticallv drew
from him much information about the life
he had led—about the Maori ladies, and the
flax mill, and the kainga , and the dried
shark and, the joyous life in the castle of
±e llaupin. He was a non-committal doc-
tor, but he must have said something in
haste to some one in authority, for thimrs
began to happen in haste. 8
Henry Thompson fought the men who
tried to arrest him, and put up a magnifi-
cent scrap on general principles. When he
learned that his destination was the leper
station he wished that he had made the
scrap even more heroic than it was
MAORI MAC.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORSE PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
ñb
n
ñbb
130 HORSE-
WESTINGHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest
eff,cie"cy, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from Xto
1000 horse-power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents— Holmes & Church, Brisbane, Q
New Zealand Agents-Philips & Pike, Wellington, N.Z,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
The High-water Hark
...IN ...
Woodworking: and
Sawmilling: Machinery
BO LINDERS
Ballbearings throughout, with consequent
Reduction in Power to Drive.
No Bearing Troubles.
High Speed and Large Output.
VE CARRY STOCKS OF PLANERS, MOULDERS, JOINTERS, RESAWS, Etc
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
METZ CARS
If you require a
Simple, Economical,
Reliable and Moder-
ately-priced Car, it
will pay you to
investigate the
METZ 224. P.
Eviction Drive,
4-cyl., Water-cooled
Roadster.
£lB5 Nett.
THE SIMPLE CAR
FOR THE COUNTRY^
Write for Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycles.
Twin-cyl., 7 h.p., Free Engine Clutch,
Two-Speed Gear.
the Waverley
THE DOCTOR’S
IDEAL CAR.
British built, 4-cyl.,
12/J4 h.p., Bosch
Magneto, Zenith
Car b u retter, 9ft.
Wheel Base,
£350 Nett.
_***ja&i-BR OWN. 0 WN. 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 Kent Street,
SYDNEY. [2
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINTS MEDICATED OIL
’ttg&g. 25
-» hou “
C» I—* 1 —* FLINT", Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
the lone hand
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
vnb
: t.-:
Write for Tall particulars to
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking ait goods to
any height limited by sire of machine .
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 K*&t St., Sydwy. Editable Bcildiiis, Melbttne.
AFTER YOU
1
Wvfl
m
C.
gg-
with
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
' I '•
BUILDERS, CABINET MAKERS and JOINERS
There is only one way TO SUCCESS
by installing
KIRCHNER’S
High Speed 8 Modern Labor Saving Machines
Write for Information and Advice
to the MANUFACTURERS,
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
HIGH-SPEED MACHINE TOOLS CUT OUT
THE WASTE AND BRING IN THE PROFIT.
To meet the force of modern competition you need to install
efficient, fast machine tools—tools that will deliver the kind
of work you want when you want it. The slow-going, old-
fashioned tools were good enough in their day, but that is past.
Profits are dribbling away as long as you put up with them.
Speed and efficiency is the order of the day, and that wav lies
PROFIT. J
HIGH-SPEED MACHINE TOOLS BY
HENRY BROADBENT,
J. STIRK,
POLLOCK AND McNAB.
DRUMMOND BROS.
The U.S. Electric Drills and Grinders.
The Genuine Morse Drills and Cutters.
such tools more than pay for themselves, and help to
build up a sound, remunerative business.
We are also agents for the famous Janos Sheet Packing, and
are ready to quote for all Engineering Requisites. Why not
get in touch with us on these matters?
T. M. GOODALL CO. Ltd.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-305 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack partitions
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYBNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Electric Storage Batteries
for All Purposes.
Traction, Town, House and Train Lighting Cells.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY, LONGEST LIFE.
Supplied to the Governments of Queensland, New South Wales,
New Zealand and Westralia.
107 BATTERIES INSTALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
Manufactured by the D.P. Battery Co., Limited, BaJcewell,
England.
Sole Australian Agent—
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY . [3
DICKS PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADk.
nvb
MAf
The STRONOEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
ftp.*.™, James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A THE
msEir
HE
!<
MACHINES
Dalgety’s Machinery Department.
Miller’s Point, SYDNEY—and all Branches.
AGENTS FOR—
“TANOYE”
Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steaaa
Vertical Boilers, Irrigation Plants aad
of all descriptions.
— y;
" CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines, etc.
“GANE”
MILKING MACHINES, with Patent Automatic
Milk Releaser.
NICHOLSON & MORROW
“UNION" Harvesters, Cultivators, Drills, Ploughs, etc.
*• TANGYE ”
Portable Oil Engine.
m
m
■CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH
Traction Engine.
%
-
vnb
THE ORIGINAL
PICKERING” PATENT GOVERNOR
We are Sole Agents for this State for the above, and
call particular attention to the new BAXX SPEED RANGER
with which this Governor is equipped, which readily secures
a wide range in adjustment of the Engine speed, and gives
equally close regulation at either extreme or intermediate
points.
This Patent BAEE SPEED BANGER will enable you to
vary your Engine speed approximately 50% from the mini-
mum without any change in the Pulley.
We carry stocks of all sizes up to and including 6in.
In ordering specify if you want with, or without. Valve;
with, or without, stop motion.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
h
Mfe£££rSH{AßtlKi
From the standpoint of both efficiency
and economical upkeep the “ Lister ” admits
no rival.
For genuine satisfaction Lister duplicates
are your best assurance.
All parts interchangeable with the
“ Wolseley.” Why not write for catalogue ?
Sole Agents
DAN6AR CiEDYE ft C®. Sydney
BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, ADELAIBE.
Country House and Station
Electric Lighting
Plants.
nb
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving Chafifcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Vic . Adelaide Brisbane Sydney Melbourne ,
Road-making &
Stone Breakers
Crushing Rolls
Screening
Elevating
Conveying and
Loading Plants
Rock Drills
Quarry Bars
Explosives.
N.GUTHRIDGE
LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY
525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
