

3
s» i
Machinery Merchants
Mining and Contractors’
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
-FOK-
■r>
Specialty
Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales.
New and Secondhand Plants always available.
Ld
X
o
Ul
L/
a
ft
bJ
*
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILL'S DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO., LTD.,
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. Telephone: No. 225 Central.
And at
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 ■=2l7 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
SFlMltlM *BB 2 Hi
N >v SOUTH ill IWA IfeS 1 fWOOTPC PICT^
ilril
l.i
BEQBARX.
Ijadleys Orient jjotel.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
•f six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney. -
PI O NEED
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantrkd
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
wM&nm
SAMS
bacon
u
H.P
BB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
Ju
irnEEQCSa
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
TYRES
THE SILVER! OWN ROBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE-NEWCA3ILE
t
f
i
t
Royal
Dutch
;
I
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY*
wmm
R mfJ
r-M)
Hull’ ,
IBlUhi'm
a
IH
The Laying of a MALTHOIP Roof is an easy job.
Anybody with a knife and a hammer—and an ordinary set of brauis— can lay Malthoid.
It almost lays itself. You can see by this illustration how simple. And it is a* inex-
pensive roofing—doesn’t cost much in the first place, and lasts a long time. May we send
you spme booklets showing it in use? We’d like to send samples, too; just send
your address and we shall.
The Paraffine Paint Co.,
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
CHallis House, Sydney.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
SCIENTIFIC FARMING
The “Big 4” Thirty Tractor
Reduce your farming: to a scientific basis, increase
efficiency, swell your profits, save time, trouble
and money by adopting a good Tractor-the
“810 4” THIRTY. Hauls like a locomotive, and
is Guaranteed.
For the story of the “ 810 4 ” and much valuable
farm information send for free book.
Jlioffat-Virtue fii
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 Kent St. ( ear King st.), Sydney.
HELIDON SPA
•* It is a dream of the
of HelidonSpa.
Physician realised/' so says a medical man
HELIDON SPA is Nature's Eliminant:
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
V01.34.— K0. 1753.1
Thursday, September 18, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post; as a Newspaper.


THE HANDYMAN (Postages shown in Parentheses.)
Workshop Makeshifts, by Cassal, illus., 3/- (3d.).
Mission Furniture: How to Make It, illus., 3 parts,
2/6 (2d.) each.
Townsend’s Carpentry and Joinery, illus., A.S.C.
Series. 5/- (4d.).
Maire’s Easy Methods in Wood-Finishing, illus.,
2/6 (2d.).
Motor Mechanics' Handbook, illus., 3/- (3d.).
Practical Motor-Car Repairing, illus., 1/3 (Sd.).
Metal Work and Etching, illus., 2/6 (2d.).
Hodgson’s Complete Modern Carpentry and Joinery,
2 vols., illus., 10/- (1/2).
Wood-Working for Amateur Craftsmen, illus., 2/6
(2d.).
Alderton and Baily, Light Woodwork, illus., 3/-
(3d.). Write us. We welcome your inquiries-
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y, LTD., 25* PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR. THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic. Contains no Cocaine
or other poisonous drug. Suitable for old and young.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike Cough Medicines “Eumenthol Ju-
jubes” do not interfere with the Digestion;
on the contrary, they have a beneficial effect,
as their Antiseptic properties prevent ab-
normal fermentation of the food, and thus
they prove helpful for sufferers from Indiges-
tion and Dyspepsia when taken after meals.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be as effec-
tive bactericidally as is Creosote.”
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are sold at Chemists and Stores, tins 1/6.
Forwarded post free on receipt of stamps by the Manufacturers,
Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd.,
[S Box 1520 0.P.0. 17 York Street. SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Dress
The chief business, or job, of the female
of our species is to dress. Some of hey, it is
true, find time for a rather fascinating
hobby, that of bearing and nourishing
babies at infrequent intervals; but the
majority wisely recognise that when a hobby
conflicts with one’s business, the hobby must
be given up. Some philosophers hold, how-
ever, that this hobby really extends the
female’s trade, since she can dress the pro-
duct as well as dress herself, thus getting an
added pleasure out of her profession.
The reason why the female dresses is in
order to appear beautiful. It will thus be
apparent that the female does not recognise
herself as inherently beautifuli —else no
police regulations would stop her from
shopping in a fig-leaf. The difference
between the female and beauty is that beauty
needs no adornment. The female recognises
that she was not designed by Nature to be
the beautiful sex. In every other kingdom
of zoology it is the male whom Nature pro-
vides with adornment: the human female is
like every other female in the animal king-
dom in lacking aesthetic adornment. But
the female of our species was early pro-
vided with a brain, and by the use of it she
soon set about remedying her deficiencies.
Thus she got a long start on the domestic
hen. The fowl may have regretted that she
had no comb and no tail-feathers and no
crow; but She had not the sense to pin a
lump of red meat beneath her chin, add to
her skirt a train of discarded rooster-
feathers, and get her tonsils cut. But the
female human recognised that unless she
got a move on she had no chance in a beauty
competition with the human male.
Acknowledging that her figure, with its
excessive development of hip, its short legs,
its long back, and its diminutive size, han-
dicapped as she was by her enforced special-
isation on the birth-rate problem, had no
chance aesthetically with the lordly male, she
applied her brain to the task of covering up
and transforming her nakedness. Cunningly
she argued that if she succeeded in disguis-
ing herself, the male, in a few generations,
would see her not as she was, but the
gorgeous, if grotesque, being she had made
of herself. Her short legs she concealed
with a skirt; her height she added to by
high heels, arguing that though her walk,
as a result of this disturbance of the balance
of her figure, became a waddle, the male in
time would regard this waddle as her
natural gait, and even find a sexual beauty
in it. At the other end of her body she
built up her height by fluffing out her hair
—that vegetable form of life that linked
her with such lowly forms of life as the
seaweed and the foliage of trees. And on
top of her hair, or pad, she piled a hat, and
on the top of the hat she grew some more
vegetables. Thus in time the male accepted
her as of practically his own height, and
did not consider that by longitudinal
measurement every female was resolved
into this algebraical formula: 7 inches,
vegetables and wire -f- 2 inches pad -f- 1
inch hair -f- 4 foot, something, female -j-
-2 inches leather heel. She next turned her
attention from her longitude to her* latitude.
At first she decided to call attention to her
hips by bisecting her body in the manner
of the ant; but about the beginning of the
20th century she lost interest in hips, and
eagerly relinquished her waist and flattened
her hips in order to get the straight line of
beauty—the line so like that possessed natu-
rally by the male.
Having thus, so to speak, put in the
foundations, she proceeded to build on them.
Recognising that, as a sex, the female has
less variation from the normal than the
male, she aimed in her attire to make up
for her painful lack of variation. She set
to work to compress and bulge portions of
her fluid figure in order to differentiate her-
self as much as possible from the mass of
females. She added color and differences of
texture. These adventitious aids gave her
outward semblance the individuality of
which as a member of a normal sex she felt
conspicuously lacking. And here she is to-
day, sefrenely confident that she had built up
from her naked foundations a structure
unique and beautiful.
But though her whole attention has been
absorbed in this long task, though she has
taken dress as her special trade, or job, it is
here precisely that the female has failed.
She has been forced to recognise, for in-
stance, that all her care will not keep her
beautiful, say, up to 40. All her care will
not keep her lovely through 24 hours. By a
special effort, and by elaborate labor, she
can brilliantly “fake” an appearance of
beauty. When going to some function she
produces, by a laborious alchemy, an appear-
ance that is momentarily beautiful; but it
depends on so many adventitious aids that
the lack of one will ruin the whole elaborate
edifice. Dressing is to her a sacrificial rite:
her dressing-room is a torture chamber at
which a rashly prying Wowser would faint
with horror. Her dressing-table, when a
female is “dressed,” is a grim array of the
discarded instruments of the rack. And the
effect thus heroically achieved lasts only a
few hours. Before she starts on her return
home the beauty is wearing off. It is not
meant to last.
Her complexion, her chief care, is her
chief weakness. Take any healthy male and
compare his complexion with that of any
healthy female. The male has never given
his complexion a thought: the female gives
hers every second thought. Which, on the
average, is the more healthy, the more
beautiful—the complexion shielded from the
sun and the wind and the rain, or that ex-
posed to every buffet of the elements? The
male, with his larger wisdom, chooses for
his beauty doctor Nature herself. The
female, by taking too much thought,
secludes her complexion from the sunshine,
the air, the rain, for which Nature, with
her long experience, has expressly prepared
it. And, with all her care, the complexion
of the female is ruined long before old age.
Compare any healthy old female with any
healthy old male. Here again Nature shows
that she meant the male to be the beautiful
sex. For she covers the wrinkles in
the male face with a beard. Occa-
sionally Nature takes a belated pity
upon the old female, and starts in
to provide her, too, with moustache and
side-whiskers. But the effort is only half-
hearted : Nature soon loses interest in old
females.
Jt
But, though the female cannot disguise
her face, she has an unlimited choice of
disguise in her clothing. Yet even in this
woman’s department she makes the most
grievous mistakes. She leaves exposed the
ugliest part of her anatomy, her elbow. The
male covers it up. Many of the female’s
dresses are expressly designed to expose
that sharp and ungraceful bone. The
trouble is that the female is not vain enough.
With dress as her chief business, how is it
that every female is not beautifully, that is,
simply and artistically, dressed?
The male is wiser, more vain. He dares
not make experiments in hue and material.
He puts himself into a uniform. He makes
no sartorial mistakes, because he has no
chance to make mistakes. No man in even-
ing dress, however absurd that dress now
is, offends against the laws of color. His
black and white do not clash with his com-
plexion, nor even with the complexions of
the females adjacent. What the female has
not yet learnt is that her sense of color,
like thpt of most males, is as yet too rudi-
mentary for her to experiment in costume.
She must put herself into uniform. A lot
of her have already done so, with pleasing
results. The nurse, the waitress, the capped
maid, the black-garbed shop-girl, the girl in
the ballet, the office girl, with her invariable
blouse and skirt —each of these is an object
lesson in the artistic improvement of the
human female.
„ t
But if the female must experiment with
herself, here is a valuable little book that
will teach her the rudiments of her job of
being beautiful in attire. Color in Dress,
by G. It. Audsley, LL.D. (Low, Marsden),
is “a manual for ladies on all matters con-
nected with the proper selection and har-
monious combination of colors suitable for
the various complexions, based on the indis-
putable phenomena of color.” There are
two harmonies of color, harmony of con-
trast and harmony of analogy, either of
scale or of hue. Tables of each are given.
But most valuable is the author’s elucidation
of the phenomena attending the simultaneous
contrast of color, the law of which is: “In
the case where the eye sees at the same time
two contiguous colors,- they will appear as
dissimilar as possible, both in their optical
composition and in the height of their tone.”
“If a strip of primary red is placed in
juxtaposition to a corresponding strip of
the primary blue, the red will appear to
incline to the orange scale, assuming to the
eye a scarlet hue; this is caused by orange
—the complementary of blue —being cast
over, so to speak, the red color. The blue
will, in like manner, incline to the green
scale, by the complementary of red —green —-
being cast over it.”
One practical lesson to be got from this
law is, for example, that if a purchaser has
for a considerable time looked at yellow
fabrics, and she is then shown orange or
scarlet stuffs, she takes them to be amaranth-
red, or crimson, for there is a tendency in
the retina, excited by yellow, to acquire an
aptitude to see violet; accordingly all the
yellow of the scarlet or orange stuffs
apparently disappears, and the eye sees red,
or a red tinged with violet.
Also, if a customer is shown, say, 14
pieces of red stuff, she will consider (he last
six pieces less beautiful than those first seen,
for her eyes, having been tired by a succes-
sion of red, acquire a tendency to see the
complementary of red—green. This green-
ness enfeebles the brilliancy of the red. The
remedy is to refresh the eye by the sight of
a pi&£.e of green hue.
The colors a female should wear depend
upon the tints of her complexion. The keyv-
tint of her complexion must be considered in
reference to the colors placed in juxtaposi-
tion to it, with special care not to injure it
by the formation of discords, or the casting
upon it of objectionable complementary tints,
by simultaneous contrast or by positive re-
flection. The author provides a scale of
complexion tint, ranging from blonde to
brunette, thus: Fair blonde, ruddy blonde,
pale brunette, florid brunette. But there is
a fifth note in the scale, between blonde and
brunette. This is the muddy blonde, though
the author prefers to term it the semi-
brunette. The fair blonde type has as sub-
divisions the cool blonde and the golden
blonde. The ruddy blonde has as a minor
type the Titian blonde. So there you are,
all nicely classified. The author proceeds to
indicate, not by his personal preferences of
taste, but by the laws of color, what each
tinted female should wear. Thus the fair
blonde must wear a color that will warm her
skin, deepen her eyes and enrich her hair.
So for her green is the only wear, for green
will impart to these three its complementary
red. Light blue, imposing its complementary
orange, will enrich flaxen hair, and by posi-
tive reflection add richness to blue eyes.
But the fair blonde must never wear red,
orange, yellow, purple or brown. Full de-
tails are given of color harmonies that will
suit the fair blonde. So Audsley runs
through the gamut of female complexions,
striking the right color chord for each.
Purple, last season’s only fashionable
wear, is the least satisfactory color for
beautifying its wearer. Any blonde who
wears purple will look sickly, yellow and
sallow. “No scientific argument can be
advanced in its favor for ordinary daylight
costume; and, as its beauty and color value
are positively lost in gas-light, and are
greatly injured in all other systems of arti-
ficial lighting, it is evident that it is un-
desirable for evening dress.” For purple
cannot be effectively neutralised by a suffi-
cient amount of orange-yellow, its comple-
mentary color, without producing a too pro-
nounced effect in any light. Still, if fashion
tells the female to wear purple, what is the
poor thing to do? But if you must have a
hat of violet velvet, you must line it under-
neath, adjoining the face, with some dead
cream-white material.
These few examples are given out of a
host of dicta furnished by the kindly author,
without, of course, any hope on this critic’s
part that they will be acted upon.
The Real Shakespeare
The Elizabethan Stage Society is an
organisation that produces the Elizabethan
drama as nearly as possible under Eliza-
bethan conditions upon an Elizabethan
stage. This is no antiquarian fad, but an
artistic attempt to restore Shakespeare to
the stage from which he has been so long
banished by the scene-painter, the Shake-
spearian “producer” and the Shakespearian
“star.” The presentation of these Eliza-
bethan plays has been in the nature of a
revelation to all modern students of Wil-
liam ; and the society during the last 10
years has given a long programme of suc-
cessful Elizabethan plays.
The founder and director of this society
is William Poel; and his Shakespeare in the
Theatre (Sidgwick and Jackson, per Dy-
mock’s Library) is, as may be imagined, a
mine of information and of brilliant dra-
matic criticism. In “The Stage of
Shakespeare,” Poel iconoclastically points
out, that Shakespeare’s plays were “in most
cases compositions hastily written to fulfil
the requirements of the moment and adapted
to the wants of his theatre and the capa-
bilities of his actors.” Just as plays are
written to-day. “Their plays were shaped
to suit the theatre of the day and no other.”
Shakespeare did not find his theatre inade-
quate to his needs; and Poel tells us how
workmanlike London’s theatrical representa-
tions then were. There is no evidence that
in order to indicate a change of scenery in
any Shakespearian play a board was hung
up with the name chalked on it. Nor was
there any need for such a device, since
Shakespeare himself considered it to be the
business of the dramatist to describe the
scene, and to call the attention of the audi-
ence to each change in locality; and, more-
over, hq does this so skilfully as to make
his scenic descriptions apnear as part of the
natural dialogue of the play. “The naked
action was assisted by the poetry; and much
that now seems superfluous in the descrip-
tive passages was neteded to excite action.”
And the construction of the stage, narrow
and projecting into the yard, concentrated
upon the\actors, surrounded on all sides by
spectators, the attention of the audience,
and brought the action into prominent re-
lief, deprived of all perspective. What aid
would scenery give to such acting?
J*
In modern representations of Shakespeare
we get only two-thirds of anv play, yet the
whole of such a play as Hamlet was spoken
in btiatcspcjire s time 1 a space of two inrt
a a \ t ll(Jlirs - Wow was uiis possible? First
the Elizabethan actor spoke blank verse with
a remarkable rapidity, “trippingly on thd
tongue. -The modern actor mouths Shake
speare. Then, only a few of the plays were
divided into acts, and even in the case of a
five-act drama there were no intervals
Shakespeare's plays in the early quartos had
no divisions to suggest where pauses were
made, it any during the representation
while in the first folio the editors began to
make divisions, but got tired. Rowe in
1709. was the first to divide the plays ’into
scenes and acts. Yet all the plays, with the
exception of The Tempest, were so con-
structed that characters who leave the
stage at the end of an episode were never
the first to reappear, a reappearance which
would have involved a short pause and an
empty stage; nor, even, does a character
who ends one of the acts marked in the folio
ever begin the one that follows. Poel claims
that a slavish adherence by the actor to
these unfortunate divisions for over 200
years has caused the representation of "the
plays to be in most cases unintelligent, while
also having been the means of misleading
scholars as to Shakespeare’s dramatic con-
struction. And every modern edition of
Shakespeare presents the plays neatly
snipped up into scenes and ’ acts—the
arbitary divisions of post-Elizabethan
editors!
“The comedies were written to be acted
without break, and gain immensely when so
given It cannot be urged too often that
Shakespeare invented his dramatic con-
struction to suit his own particular stage...
An Elizabethan audience was absorbed by the
story of the play, and thought little about
lapse of time or change of place What-
ever information Shakespeare wished the
audience to have on these matters, he put
into the mouths of his characters.”
Poel states that during the last 10 years
of Shakespeare’s life in London the dozen
plays he wrote were far in advance of the
requirements of the day, “since few of
them were printed during the poet’s life-
time.” Some of them, he infers, had only
one performance. Even Shakespeare had
his failures. Pie had outgrown the theatrical
taste of the day, and now cared only for
plays that were “well digested in’ the
scenes,” meaning well constructed.
Jt
As to the plays themselves, Poel has some
acute criticism. Thus The Merchant of
Venice, now played as a tragedy, was “The
Comicall Ilistorie of the Merchant of Ven-
ice,” and in it the story of the three chests
was regarded as of equal interest to the
pound of flesh. Nowadays we get little
about the three chests. Henry V. was “os-
tensibly a ‘Jingo’ play, written to open the
Globe playhouse with a patriotic flourish of
trumpets.” In Hamlet the first quarto stage
direction brings Ophelia on with a lute, and
not vegetables, in her hands ; the Ghost in the
Queen’s chamber wore a dressing-gown, and
not armor ; and Ophelia’s body was followed
to the grave merely by villagers and a soli-
tary priest, instead of the gorgeous funeral
procession we are so familiar with. So in
the Balcony Scene in Romeo and Juliet, the
dialogue in that place of danger must be
“rushed”—whereas nowadays stage Juliets
go through their billing and cooing as de-
liberately as they do their toilets. So to-day
we do not get Shakespeare; we get the
actor-manager’s wrong idea of Shakespeare.
Shakespeare’s plays are mutilated because
they are acted as five-act dramas, because
they have interpolated pictorial effects, and
because actors do not speak the verse with
the wondrous rapidity of the Elizabethans.
All these mutilations are the result of the
invention of the act-drop, the necessity,
which Shakespeare never felt, for a “cur-
tain.”
“How many realise that the art of
Shakespeare’s dramatic construction differs
fundamentally from that of the modern
dramatist? In fact, Pinero would no more
know how to set about writing a play for
the Elizabethan stage, in which the char-
acters appear in the course of the story in
26 different localities during 26 years, than
Shakespeare would know how to make 26
persons live their lives through a whole
play in one room or on one day.”
♦ '
A book of delightful drawings by Pamela
Colman Smith arrives at the right time. It
deals with The Russian Ballet ( Sidgwick
and Jackson, 4s. 6d. out here). The letter-
press, by Ellen Terry, is of the nature of
mere uninformative rhapsody. In England,
she says, the Russian dancers have perhaps
been acclaimed with more whole-hearted
fervor than elsewhere, because before their
coming the land was barren. For its draw-
ings, and for its drawings alone, the book
is worth while.
Science Progress, for July (55.) has a
valuable and common-sense article for the
layman upon Scientific National Defence,
stressing the need for conscription in Eng-
land, and the same review finds room in its
test tubes for such curious things as vol-
canoes, enzymes, phosphorescence, woman,
and the soul.
Just too late for Sydney comes How to
Diagnose Small-pox, by W. Wanklyn, a
manual for general practitioners (Smith,
Elder, 3s. 6d.).


(litijjoayftofdetasfoje
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for ANSONIA CLOCKS.
The King Ansonia, Black Wal-
nut Eight-Day Clock, Ilalf-hour
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
24in. ; Dial, 6in. With Alarm, 20/-
Without Alarm 18/6
m
The Windsor Ansonia, Black
Walnut Eight-Day Clock, Silvered
Cupids, Plate Glass Mirrors, Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
21iin. : Dial, sin 23/-
Octagon Drop, Rosewood,
Gilt, Eight-Day, Half-hour Strike.
Height, 21in. : Dial, lOin. .. 21/-
The Venice Ansonia, Eight-Day Iron Clock HalDhour
Height, lOiin. ; Width, 16iin, Dial,
" 357-
Strike, Cathedral Gong.
siin. With Visible Escapement
The Vienna Ansonia, Black Enamelled Iron
Clock, Eight-Day time, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong, sin. Dial. Height, 10jin. ; Width, 15hn. 31/-
mm
The Bright Ansonia, Fancy Gilt
Clock, One-Day Time. Height 61in. ;
Porcelain Dial, 2in.... 10/*
The Berlin Enamelled Iron
AllSOnia Eight-Day Clock. Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height, .
; Width, lliin. ; Dial, sin. 24/- I
The Dover Ansonia, Enamelled
Iron Eight-Day Clock; Half-hour
Strike; Cathedral Gong. Height,
; Width, 9Jin.; Dial 5
ANSONIA CLOCKS set a
standard of accuracy the
world over.
Only the best material and
the highest skilled labor are
employed, and the finish of
every clock is faultless.
The Assortment of Marble,
Bronze, Wood, Nickel and
Enamelled Iron Ansonia
Clocks offered at the New
Palace Emporium is greater
than that shown at any other
Establishment. Write for
Illustrated Price List, post
free on application.
The Elf Ansonia, Gilt Clock,
Eight-Day Time, Height, 7fin.,
2 in. Dial 20/-
We are Family Drapers,
Manufacturing Jewellers,
Complete House Furnishers
and Universal Providers, and
our immense stock of the
World’s Choicest Commodi-
ties offers attractions not to
be found elsewhere. Con-
sult our Illustrated Depart-
mental Price Lists, and reap
the full measure of economy
only to be found in
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
The Beaver Ansonia, Black
Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour Strike,
dral Gong. Height, 22lin. ; dial,
Walnut
Cathe-
6in.
12/0
The Norte Ansonia, Marble Clock,
Eight-Day time, Half-hour Strike, Cathe-
dral Gong. Dial, sin 75/-
The Brook Ansonia, Fancy
Gilt Clock, One-Day Time. Height,
s|in.; 2in. Porcelain Dial, 10/*
The Unique Ansonia, Black
Enamelled Iron Clock, Eight-Day
Time, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong, sin. Dial. Height, lOiin. ;
Width, 9iin 24/-
| The Barco Eight-Day
! Ansoilia, Marble Clock, Half-
' hour Strike. Height, 12iin.;
'Width, 9in. ; Dial, sin.. . 42/-
iSH
The Andes Ansonia, Black Walnut
Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour Strike.
Height, 22in.; Dial, 6in 11/6
re
The Parisian Ansonia,
Black Walnut, Eight-Day Clock,
Half-hour Cathedral Gong Strike.
Height, 23in. ; Dial, 6in. 18 /-
m
The Triumph
nut, Plate Glass
Eight-Day, Half-Hour
Gong. Height, 24Jin.
An SOI) La, Black Wal
Mirrors, Silver Cupids,
Strike, Cathedra'
Dial, 6in. 27/"
The Chopin, Eignr-Day Marble Clock, Half-Hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
9 Jin. ; Width, 15Jin.; Dial, sin 50/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Winchester
.22 Caliber Cartridges
Different makes of cartridges look very
much alike but you don’t buy cart-
ridges for looks. What you want is
efficiency. That’s why you should
buy Winchester Cartridges. Win-
chester .22 Caliber Cartridges, either
black, “Lesmok” or smokeless pow-
der, are loaded by automatic machin-
ery. This insures uniform charges of
powder and properly seated bullets,
which are essential for accurate shoot-
ing. Winchester smokeless cartridges
are loaded with Greaseless bullets,
which are clean to handle and
prevent loss of powder strength.
It is easy to be a pdnny wise and
a pound foolish in buying cartridges.
Buy The W Brand And You ,
Will Get The Kind You Want.
Trade Mark
w
»^^SiaiinnW‘
ZiIUIHIBI
Real Sporting Lines in a Gun
YOU won t put looks before real solid shooting
ability, of course. But where workmanship
and reputation are equal, the gun with the
clean trim lines is your choice.
Thousands of sportsmen the world over have
first chosen a Remington for its looks and have
. been delighted to find that they had an arm that
was a little faster —a little closer shooting—than
any rifle or shotgun they had ever owned.
The thoroughbred lines of a Remington are
the result of —perfect balance—-the elimination of
the protruding hammer—the closing of the breech.
Both these last are safety points, too, which are
well worth a shooter’s closest study.
We will be glad to send a booklet that explains
simply these and other technical points of gun
construction. Just send your name and post-office
address to-day.
Remington Arms ■ Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Australian Agent, D. D. Bryant, P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
New York London
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Prise Medals.,
Works ( Birmingham
England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
, over the roughest
| paper with the ease
of a soft lead pen .ii.
Attention ts also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
7
m:
TO
*/<&■
jfV ' . v w/f/y'/(;lj
&w
s
Single Shot S Repeating Rifles
are the most complete line made.
For hunting, sporting and target pur-
poses STEVENS are SUPREME for two
generations.
Ask your Dealer, and insist on STEVENS.
Latest Catalogs—full information, etc., sup-
plied on request to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for
J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
C.P.O
Box 86,
ADELAIDE,
SOUTH
AUSTRALIA.
[4
II
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FountamPen
THE WORLD’S
BEST FOUNTAIN PEN
Makes writing a positive
pleasure. Nib just suited
to your hand, a steady,
sufficient flow of ink to
the point while writing,
no leaking, no splutter-
ing, no faltering. Lasts
a lifetime ; every pen
guaranteed.
In 4 types —
Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6 and
upwards; Safety and Pump-
Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and we tiers everywhere,
L & C. HARJDTMUTH, LTD,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
Australia—3so, George Street, Sydney.
JL
*!»
S-,
GENTLEMEN,
The beautiful MISS VIOLET
PAGET, the Anglo-Australian
actress who has just completed
a very successful six months'
season at the historic 44 Little
Theatre/' Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, writes her emphatic
opinion of the curative value
for weak nerves and mental
exhaustion of the great medicine
CLEMENTS TONIC
I cannot speak too highly of the benefit I derived from the use of
your Clejnqnts Tonic, I sleep well and feel strong again. I recommend
it_to^any°n e suffering from loss of strength and poor appetite. It is a
wonderful health restorer
“(Signed) VIOLET PAGET.”
Hus medicine is without equal for the relief of Insomnia, Brain-fag, Acute
Neuralgia, Palpitation, Nerve Weakness, Depression, Indigestion or Constipation.
It gives (lie nerves new force.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL IT.
OET IT and GET WELL!


d 3?
BENGER’S
Food
for
Delicate
Children .
When children
are weakly from
birth or through illness the
digestive strength is naturally
sub-normal, and, as there is
failure to extract full nourish-
ment from ordinary food,
malnutrition results.
Eenger’s Food is specially
recommended for overcoming
the ill effects of malnutrition
in growing children.
m
fttKs
Food
For CHILDREN ,
INVALIDS, and the AGED ,
& druggists, etc., everywhere .
Benger s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids and the
Aged will be se.*t post free on application to:
BENGER S FOOD, Ltd., Manchester, Eng*.
Branch Ojffice<— \EW YORK (U.S.A.) 92 William Street.
SYDNEY (s.S.W.) ti 7, Pitt Street.
Canadian 'gents— National Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd.,
34, Bt. Gabriel Street, Montreal, and Branches
throughout Canada.
JZZ-4
MILNERS' SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
i
mm
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
.MELBOURNE ; Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rer>.—T. Nieholls, '-/o Sydney Ageef®.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received Irom Himrod’s
As' hma Powder and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
Famed for 40 Year*.
Best remedy oi Asttimi,
Hay t-ever, Kose Co.d or
ord nary Cough.
Scui in Tim by all Chtmuu anu litres
throughout Australasia.
r
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
YOU begin to
A look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp ; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
OURCAT
ALOOrUiC
illustrated
'throughout
-will be
posted free to those desirous of
( shopping by mail. We sell, carriage
Ipaid, Jewellery. Watches. Grnmo-
iphoues, Ouns, Novelties of all kinds,
'many unobtainable elsewhere,
Rubber Stamps. Music Musical In-
struments, etc., etc. Sole agents for Wilson's Ear
Drums for Deafness Ramey's Medicator los Catarrh
Write, mentioning this paper to: —
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY, 229 Collins Str-t. Mtlbmm*
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAUITS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAUI.T <fc Co's INDIAN CIGAK-
ETTES. Sold bit all Chemists.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly, I'rice, 6d.
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Boimington's Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for ' BO NN I NGTON’S"
1/6 & 2/6
QRUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the
ot either sex. It total’y eradicates all craving for stimuli
...... . >ng antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases ar
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE
THE GOI.DEN SPECIFIC CO.. DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET,
at home. GOEDEN
most delicate person
nits, creating a last-
e cured in a few days
and full particulars.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
te 1
t
THIN WOMEN !
Would You
Like a Well Developed
and Well Proportioned
FIGURE?
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the one essential
that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow
cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from a woman the bloom and fresh-
ness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in so far
as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct
your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and have
been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting disease, your
bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased to normal....
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat bosomed,
in.ilow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects of
anaunia and defective digestion, who are now for the first time in their ives
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
, *>R. falliere’s flesh-food.
rl< sli-t 1 ood is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its use is
no demand upon the subjects time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week and an
increase in bust measurement up to eight or ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers relief
aim development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever possessing
n presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food-treatment that adds weight and permanent
dev iopment to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
WE HAVE HUNDREDS OF LETTERS DIKE THIS:
Manager “Flesh-Food” Co.. Cympie Queensland, May 5, 1913.
Dear Sir, As a nurse, I was very interested in your Flesh-Food treatment, and was greatly
surpr.sed at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote to you I was only skin and
bone, and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote you for a free sample, for I feel certain
now that I am one of the very best advertisements you could possibly have, as I am developed in
every way satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in
its effect, and I am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you
claimed it would, my weight and measurements being ample.—l am, yours gratefully,
Mrs. E. Wingrove.
Let us Send
You a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE,
We publish ar; interesting book on the
Subject of attenuatiun and development,
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications are
treated as strictly confidential. Call if convenient. 1817
FAELIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.. 1103 Ahll STREET. SVDNEi.
i No Motorist can afford to overlook
\ the exceptional merits of
MDNET GLASS
MOTOR TYRES
1 Produced bu the Founders of
j? Australasia's Rubber Industry.
| BARNET GLASS RUBBER C o^
* 231 Clarence St., Sydney
T
is goarsaf^ 5
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face With Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Pane Farm. Jericho. Tas-
mania, saiis: “I was a hard smol.-er for JO
years, hut since takinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. [3 _
“Coaguline,” “Ivlinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cem('nts for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
LAMENESS IN HORSES
LAMINOL will
cure the worst
cases of Sprung
Tendon, Curb, Bog
Spavin, Sprung
Hock, Thorough-
pin, or any other
kind of Joint or
Bursal enlargement.
No need for the ap-
plication of a lted-
Hot Iron, when the
trouble can be
cured much quick-
er and more
humanely with LAMINOL.
LAMINOL can be applied quite easilv, and
further, you can work the horse all the time.
LAMINOL cures by absorption.
PRICE—IO/6 ner laree tin. posted
anywhere 9d. extra.
INFLUENZA AND STRANGLES IN HORSES.
SAL A DINE will quickly remedy this
trouble. Posted anywhere, 7/6.
SOLE AGENTS:
H. WILLIAMS CO.,
349 Collins St*f Melbourr e,
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centime*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use t>mce 1596.
CURES
AuSt al ; an Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aok your chemist for its history— the book is free—or writu
K GRtEN. 210. Lambeth Hoau, Loudou, E u *
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Gladness of Spring and Some
Explanations.
There is a languid softness in the air;
All day a little wind among the leaves
lias brought me whispers of things strange
and fair
I iom that rich North where tropic beauiv
weaves
Her lairest cloak to hide the old, brown
world.
Now the red sunset droops, her banners
furled
I pon the staff of evening, and the bare
A ide reddened sky waits tremulous to wear
Aight s diadem upon her cloudy hair.
(Which means that after the cold days we
had,
There is a sort of feeling everywhere
lhat things in general are not too bad,
that, so far as I am now aware,
If nothing serious happens before night,
the stars will probably give out some light.)
tt is the happy springtime, rich and free.
All life is powdered with a dust of dreams,
And through that golden shower there wakes
in me
The hidden music of the thing that seems,
b aint magic breathes as with desire to cheat
ihe voice that ever sobs about my feet
Its echo of each day’s reality,
And the wide sweetness of air, sky and sea
Laugh to the lilt of eldest melody.
(Which means that, as the spring is now’ on
tap,
I feel the job at which I earn a crust
Is precious little use. Who cares a rap?
iVe only do our graft because we must.
v\ u ow we’d chuck it quickly if we could,
\\ hile the bright sun outside is shining good.)
Now memory wakens from a winter's sleep.
All hanpy with the tender light that grows
• )ver the distance when the new days keep
' r .vst with the perfume of some faded rose
lhat once delight had worn against her
heart.
All things remembered seem of jov a part,
And in old meadows dreaming hands can
reap
Rich sheaves all ripe for binding. Ghost
hopes sweep
Clear winged as dawn out of time’s purple
deep
(Which means that when you think of how
you snent
Some of your time a year or two ago,
You feel that even paying cent, per cent.
Upon the simple debt of life you owe
Is really not too much for what you got
When pleasure, youth and health were on the
spot.)
Young spring, with perfumed days and silver
nights.
Sweet with warm stars, or murmurous with
doves,
Grows like a vintage kept for new delights
Pressed from the rinened grapes of elder
loves.
The happy skies remember to forget,
And in forgetfulness remember yet
The wonder songs, the glories and the lights
Of that air-builded palace on the heights
Whose door of golden fancy still invites.
(Which means that this peculiar time of
spring
Arranges things to keep our spirits gay.
We pick and choose at wall, and anything
Not worth remembering we may chuck away :
But kissing Jane beneath her small, pii.k
nose
Brings back the taste of Madeline and Rose.)
N.s.w.
PAT O'MAOEL.
The Treason of Truth.
Now damn the thing he told me,
And damn the ears that heard!
May night and death enfold me
if I believe his word—
I low red and sweet the thing I sorely miss,
The hourly dear surrender of her Ins.- !
His story hangs together,
I piece the parts with care—
But, oh, in golden weather
I kissed her falling hair,
And underneath a silver moon we went
When youth and pleasure yielded cent, per
cent.
A thousand memories thronging
Clive force to all he says—
Oh. bitter-sweet the longing
For old joy-careless days !
I feel the wonder-darkness of her eyes
As when their softening made my hot soul
wise.
So simple in the telling,
So plain his story seems :
But false hope still is dwelling
Amid the old sweet dreams.
And shall I care if what he says be true,
Remembering all the glad young truth I
knew V
To all his clear words spoken
Shall I give thought or heed
Who hold the golden token
Of each remembered deed?
I let the traitor thing he spoke go by,
And give his truth, if it be truth, the lie.
For what are truth and lying
But tricks of time and chance?
And this were time defying—
The memory of a glance
So full of that dear thing that has no name,
Beyond the scope of chance or wrong or
blame.
And if the tale he told me
From her own lips I heard.
May night and death enfold me
If I should hold that word
Against the thing I should no longer miss,
The sweet surrender of her new love kiss!
N.S.W.
D.M.W.


The Improved “New Century”
Cfj;rui:V
K
ky
\
■i't
4
s
k
4
s«
si
fir
The Neatest, Handsomest, Most
Practical, and Best Finished
Sewing Machine at any price.
USING IS BELIEVING —you do
not have to take our word alone
for it.
The Host Up=to=
date and Handiest
Hachine before the
Australian Public.
Experience has taught thousands of pleased customers that the above remark is
perfectly true.
The “NEW CENTURY” is ball-bearing, drop-head, light and silent-running, and
is equipped with the famous TOOF Metal Case Foot-adjusting Attachments. There
is no RUFFLEIi manufactured that can compare with the TOOF.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICE LIST—FREE.
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
“The Firm That Satisfies,”
CENTRAL SQUARE, Opp. RAILWAY, SYDNEY.
Dinnefords]
Magnesia I
■ —^
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
'•DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Keep Your Garden
Fresh 8 Green
by watering regularly
with a length of
WATERSHED
RED RUBBER GARDEN HOSE.
The hose you hear so much
about. Made in 60ft. coils.
i^x3-Ply ... 9d. ft.
x 3=Ply ... 1/- ft.
1 x 3-Ply ... 1/5 ft.
COIL DISCOUNT.
We allow a special discount
of id. per ft. on all 30ft. or
60ft. lengths.
Obtainable from all leading
Storekeepers, or direct from
the Manufacturers.
asHEO
mwm
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Also MELBOURNE &. ADELAIDE.
IsfCelta*
The Accordeon with
MELLOW TONE
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music
and Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments
is attained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-
fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, post free. |
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-. post free
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 1 5/-. post free
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/-
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to —
276 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendigo and Geelong.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE NAND
The National
Honthly, 6d.
Tubular,
Candle or
Frosted Bulbs
if desired.
% to 1000
Candle-power
S■ ■:
/'WI
li ■ I
! I
Regular
Bulbs—
in voltages from
2 to 250.
“W OTAN”
Electric Lamps.
51 “ Wotan ” Lamps have a long life and give a brilliant
white light of highest efficiency.
51 The filament is made of pure drawn Tungsten metal—
unusually strong, and capable of being burnt in any
position.
51 To obtain the light given by a 16 Watt “ Wotan ”
Lamp a Carbon Lamp taking about 60 Watts would
be required. The saving is obvious.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works Ltd.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
U'-t
Vclt-CLD f
Jt
:
.. .* , r ,
COMMER MOTOR LORRIES
l
Again Victorious
At the 7th Annual Motor Parade of the Commercial Motor Users’ Association, in
London, on May 12, “Commer” Lorries won high distinction. The 10 principal
makers of petrol chassis were represented by 201 vehicles of from 30cwt. to 5 tons
capacity. Of these “Commers” totalled 41 cars —aft average of over 20 per cent.
The other nine makes ranged from 30 lorries down to 7. Fifteen “Commers” were
awarded prizes—a higher proportion of honors than were received by any other
make.
Commer Driver Wins Championship
The Championship Prize of £lO was won by the driver of a “Commer.” This car
has run over 7000 miles without mishap of any kind, and without a single replace-
ment. Petrol consumption averaged no less than 15£ miles per gallon. The gross
ton miles per gallon averaged the extremely high figure of 82.
“Commers” are specially adapted for Australian needs and conditions. Anyone
interested in road transport should make early investigation of these cars. The
point of greatest significance is that “Commers” have gained their awards in the
country where they have been longest used.
JUST LANDED—3Ocwt. AND 2-TON MODELS
Full particulars will be sent post free, on request.
Agents also for Halley Motor Lorries. Capacity : 1 Ton to 6 Tons
DALGETY ®. CO. Ltd.
Motor Garage : 136=138 Phillip Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: Bourke Street.
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-
Belleville, Napier, Bulck, Opel, Cadillac,
Lacre Lorries and Halley Lorries.
BRISBANE : George Street.
Agents for Dafmler, Austin, Delaunay-
Belleville, “F.N.,” Cutting, Halley
Lorries and Lacre Lorries.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper
Vol. 34.—K0. 1753.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18. 1913.
Price Gl>.
THE STATE TREASURER’S TOPHET.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for Tiie Eulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street. Sydney, New Suuili
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
IHLEriiONES: City ”389.
City 3390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . £1 (> 0
llalf-jmarly .. .. .. 0 El 0
Quarterly 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
.1/ anager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy)’ Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say.: tOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the addiess is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch. Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4%1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros.. Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A, — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A. ; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego,
Cal.: Bay City News Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
News Co.. Philadelphia; U.S.A.: W. E. Lenehan. 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria. West Australia. Queensland. Tas-
mania and New 'Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
-'if6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6'iin.
x Bin., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Bates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji. British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to lOoz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz.,
Id., and id. each additioanl 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1913.
DECENTRALISATION AND
SUNDRIES.
One of the few bright spots of N.S.W.’s
present Government (the spot hasn’t actu-
ally materialised yet. but there are hopes
that it will do so) is the proposal that
Victoria should push some of its sft. Sin.
railways a little way into the Riverina dis-
trict, and give that country access to Mel-
bourne. And but for the fact that Vic-
toria has got the congestion misery quite
as badly as the Ma State, and won’t give
reasonable means of transit to such places
as Portland and Western Port, which are
many miles and a thousand years ahead of
Melbourne as harbors, the new idea would
be even better than it is—but that isn’t the
fault of the X.S.W. Government. If Vic-
toria spreads certain of its lines into
N.S.W. it will be, so far as these extensions
are concerned, simply a form of Private
Enterprise—that is to sav. that certain
lines, owned by 1,300.000 odd of Victorian
shareholders, will butt into N.S.W. for the
ournose of earning profit. The Private
Enterprise aspect of the business is to be
regretted, but apparently it can’t be helped.
Part of the district which it is proposed to
attach to Melbourne might be more logically
connected with Adelaide, but something has
gone wrong with the logic. Part of it might
possibly be served by a connection with
Twofold Bay. in N.S.W., if Twofold Bay
w r as developed on the same generous lines
as Sydney; but Twofold Bay is anathema
in Sydnev. just as Portland is in Melbourne.
Yet whatever may be wrong with the details
of the scheme, it has one supreme merit. It
is a recognition of the fact that the dog-in-
the-manger policy doesn’t pay. The old idea
was that, if any part of a State was too far
from the capital to trade profitably through
that capital, it was better to make it an
unneopled desert and a rabbit haunt and a
waste of cactus than to let it trade any-
where else. And thereby the State lost
population, revenue, defenders, land values
and all manner of assets.
The unwise old Congestion party has
raised a shriek, as might have been expected,
the loudest element of the shriek up to date
being a green pamphlet by one C.
Churchill Tucker, of London, apparently
an exported Cornstalk. In his herb-colored
document he sums up the case for Conges-
tion and parochialism in this mad fashion: —
In conclusion, I would say that why we want our
southern country friends to deal with us instead
of Melbourne is because we want our railways to
carry their produce and their purchases.
YVe want our stock and station and commission
agents to have the disposal of their produce.
We want our carters and wharf-laborers to handle
the produce.
Our clerks to do the clerical work.
Our port to get the dues; also outward and
inward wharfage, etc.
Our shipping to have the freights.
Our banks to hold the proceeds of sales and tran-
sact other matters of finance.
We also want our country friend? to buy from us
direct or from storekeepers who cfeal with N. S.
Wales firms, because we 'want our manufacturers
and merchants to supply the goods required, such
as furniture, agricultural machinery, boots and
clothing, hats, blankets, tinned meat, jams, and, in
fact, all necessities that are not locally produced.
We want our factory and store hands employed
in the supply of these necessities.
YVe want the profits of trade kept in N. S. YVales.
YY r e want the money made in N. S. Wales spent
in the State that has to bear the cost of State gov-
ernment
YY’e want to draw our people closer together, for
there is nothing like trade influence to achieve this
end.
We want N. S. Wales to be not only one of the
largest, but to continue to be the most prosperous
State of the Commonwealth.
To do this our legislators must give their first
attention to collecting the trade to N. S. Wales
ports, not to divert it into the ports of other States.
* * * .
It is a fair statement of the Congestion
party’s case—that is to say, it is a very
foolish statement of a very foolish proposi-
tion. For “our banks” (ie., N.S.W. banks)
don’t necessarily get \the business, even
though all the trade is dragged to Sydney ;
plenty of Sydney traders keep their accounts
in Victorian or Queensland or English
banks, and plenty of Melbourne and Ade-
laide traders do their business with N.S.W.
banks. .And “our stock and station and
commission agents” don’t necessarily handle
the produce because the trade comes to
Sydney; a whole lot of it goes to outside
firms with branches in Sydney, and a whole
lot of Melbourne and Adelaide trade goes to
N.S.W. firms with branches outside. Then
N.S.W. has such a tremendous faith in the
importing disease that, even if all the for-
eign business of the State is dragged
to Sydney, the chief result will apparently
be to increase the influx of foreign goods, to
the greater profit of trading firms which, in
a very large number of'cases, have their
headquarters and divide their profits in
London, or some other remote spot. The
statement that we “want to draw our people
closer together” is midsummer madness in
the case of a State which has drawn its
people so closely together that its one big
citv is now getting more than half of the
new population that comes to the country,
either by birth or importation. The
“profits of the trade” are not “kept in
N.S.W.” under the present arrange-
ment ; in fact, the profits are exported on
such a huge scale to pay for foreign goods
that even the most tremendous foreign bor-
rowing on record can’t prevent a steady de-
cline in the local stock of cash. And the
nlea that all N.S.W. trade should come to
Sydney, or be killed dead if the distance to
Sydney is too great to be profitably nego-
tiated. so that “our shipping” may “have
the freights” is a strangely moonstruck in-
spiration. Exports for foreign lands are
carried away from Sydney by British.
French, German, Japanese. Maoriland, and
occasionally by Swedish. Austrian, United
States. Chilian and other vessels, and the
Burns-Philp firm, which is mostly a
Queensland concern, does a lot of foreign
business. But “our” ships, in the purely
N.S.W. sense, are very, very scarce. Th°v
don’t even have a monopoly of the N.S.W.
coastal trade, or anything dimly resembling
one. In fact, you can meet about as much
of “our shinning” in Melbourne harbor as
in Sydnev harbor, and other States’ ship-
ping is similarly mixed.
This pamphlet is quoted because it em-
bodies in about the smallest possible space
the whole gospel of Parochialism. And the
author, who wants to keep all the profits of
N.S.W. trade in Sydney, is spending his
own profits in England. He didn’t even
give a Sydney printer whatever profit was
to be made out of publishing his narrative
about Sydney. It bears the imprint of a
London firm.
The inference drawn is that, except in the
matter of crowding an undue share of the
population into one bloated city of many
slums and exaggerated rents, the Congestion
policy has been a failure. It hasn’t kept
the supply of goods in the hands of N.S.W.
manufacturers or even in the hands of
N.S.W. importing firms. It hasn’t kept the
shipping business in the hands of N.S.W.
owners; in fact, the Australasian shipping
firms which _haY 7 e struck out most notably
into the foreign trade hail from Queensland
and Maoriland —-States which have in a
great measure avoided the Congestion dis-
ease. Sydney is overrun with banks, life
insurance offices, fire insurance offices, pas-
companies and other enterprises which
distribute their profits outside the State. The
number of absentees and outsiders who own
propertY" in Sydney is very large. The num-
ber of foreign bondholders who collect their
interest from the Treasury at Sydney is
enormous. Plainly the policy of crowding
as much as possible of the State’s trade and
as much as possible of the State’s popula-
tion into one centre, all by reason of a de-
ranged variety of local patriotism* hasn’t
produced the benefits that were expected.
In two cases N.S.W. has departed
to some small extent, from the Con-
gestion policy. Despite the invention of
dmeientiai railway rates to drag the trade
to Sydney, and despite the fact that the
break of gauge at the border gives Sydney a
distinct advantage, the dwellers alongside
the Sydney-Melbourne line and the Sydney-
Brisbane line have some sort of a chance to
trade with the most convenient market.
There is no reason to suppose that either
Sydney or the rest of N.S.W. has
lost through this partial departure from the
Great Local Superstition. Those railways
pay, while a very large number of dead-
end lines which connect only with the local
metropolis and drag goods needless and un-
conscionable distances to get there, don’t.
During the financial year which ended on
June 30, 1912, the State had 33 bankrupt
railways (or sections), and the aggregate
loss on them was £357.000, a great part of
which burden Sydney had to carry. It is
practically certain that the list is
longer now and the loss greater. Whether the
scrap of commission (largely collected by
foreign firms) which Sydney got by taking
the few goods which these bankrupt lines
carried off' the trucks (really owned by the
foreign Cohen), and putting them on to
foreign-owned shins, was equal to Syd-
ney’s share of the loss, it is impossible to
say. Most likely it wasn’t.
As already mentioned, N.S.W. owns
two railways which represent some
slight departure from the Congestion dis-
ease, and they pay their way. Apart from
parasitic suburbs like Parramatta, health
resorts like Katoomba, and mining towns,
which are liable to spring up wherever min-
erals are found, the most prosperous country
centres of the State are situated beside these
lines. When a district is dependent on its
soil, and has no natural advantage over a
thousand other districts, it seems that the
best luck is with the place which has man-
aged to get furthest away from the Paro-
chial complaint. Albury and Wagga cer-
tainly do a lot of their trade with Mel-
bourne, and Armidale and Glen Innes have
an alternative outlet at Brisbane. Yet these
towns are more prosperous, and supply the
Sydney Treasury with more revenue, and
furnish the Sydney banks with more busi-
ness than all manner of dead-end places like
Day and Hell and Booligal, which are as
much as possible cut off from their nearest
exits in the supposed interests of the Ma
capital. The only counties dependent on
railway communication outside the metro-
politan area .and outside one or two mining
districts, which show any progress or any
population worth mentioning, or which con-
tribute enough to the Treasury at Sydney
to pay for their own axle grease and for th«
arrest of the local drunk, are those situated
on the routes which represent the two nota-
ble depai fures from the old narrow-minded
misery. They are very mild departures, yet
suggest that there are possibilities in
the business, and that a larger outlook mav
pay an even bigger dividend.
The proposal of the Holman-McGowen
Government to give certain parts of the
Riverina access to Melbourne is only a
small beginning in the matter of decentrali-
sation The great need is to develop everv
nrst-class deep-water port in Australia and
to connect with it the lands which natur-
a uu? on , g it: - Australia is, and will
probably be lor many years, an exporting
country in the matter of w T ool and when* -
and other produce, and it will be a great
gain to Australia if its wheat and wool and
other produce can take the shortest road (o
market. That historical benefactor who
made two blades of grass grow where
one grew before wasn’t in the same cate-
gory with the benefactor who made a bale
of hay—which is dried grass—travel one
mile where it travelled two miles before.
However small and preliminary it may be
the proposals- of the N.S.W. Ministry em-
body the recognition of a great principle,
ft is that a great State doesn’t live for the
sake ot one big citv. and that in a State of
144 counties the 143 which don’t happen to
contain the capital have still some claim
to consideration. There have been countries
in which the whole nation was supposed t<»
be of no account if. its interests conflicted
with those of the king (as in monarchical
h ranee i. or of the nobility (as in Poland),
or of the clergy (as in the old Papal terri-
tory ). The idea of a country in which the
interests of a nation are of no account as
compared with the porno and pride of a
single bulky centre is a similar develop-
ment. It. doesn’t seem much better than
some previous developments.
the resurrection,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Liberals were hopeful of a joyous and general re-
surrection at the next political call.—Jot; Cook.
Now, Gabriel, whose name is Joe.
Blew loud his trumpet o’er the laud,
And they who long had slept below
Rose from their graves on ev’ry hanu.
And over-ran the earth in crowds,
With grave-clods clinging to their shrouds.
The ponderous old Tory gent,
Whose spaciou,s fat had long been dust,
Distributed where’er he went
Effluvia of mould and must,
And fainted at his second birth
To note such Change upon the earth,
A resurrected Socialist
Gazed sadly round and shook his head :
“The same abuses still exist.
Reform is very slow,” he said.
And close behind the Labor man
There stalked a Red Republican
Poor old Freetrade, whose grave-clothes
hung
In rags upon his wasted frame,
Wept loud to find himself among
Old friends who now denied his name,
And sought a champion fruitlessly
With Reid’s Dry Dog for company.
The dead Black Labor Advocate
Arose and promptly threw a fit
To find the land in such a state;
Its color pleased him not a bit.
And. with a heavy heart, forthwith
He sought to interview Bruce Smith.
An old Conservative whose law
Was, ‘‘Keep the worker in his placp ”
Grew purple at the things he saw
With horror on his ancient face'
He gave one snort of wild disdain
And clamored for his grave again.
A dead Protectionist arose,
And, as he scanned the imports list
He swore aloud and tore his clothes
And madly shook a bony fist.
“They haven’t got it yet!” he cried
‘■’Twas promised long before I died!’
A Hempire Booster just reborn
Waved high a flag with loud “Hip hips”
And noted with an eye of scorn
Australia’s new array of ships.
“Our battles will be fought,” said he
“And won upon the Northern Sea!”
And represented in that band
Was ev’ry Party ever seen :
Wreckers and saviors of the land,
And all the shapes and shades between •
Statesmen of ev’ry kind and hue.
Indeed, it was a motley crew.
And 10. amongst the grisly crowd.
Conservatives and Democrats,
Arose a conflict shrill and loud.
Pike to the noise of countless cats.
“The w\ rid would be at peace to-day.”
Each said, “if they had gone my way !”
And then, with measured tread and slow.
His famous trumpet in his hand.
Came Gabriel, whose name is Joe,
Unto the resurrected band.
They saw him ; and. with one accord.
“Brother !” the whole assembly roared.
“My friend !” exclaimed the Freetrade man.
“Mine!” yelled the staunch Protectionist!
“Mine !” cried the Red Republican.
“Nay, mine !” declared the Socialist.
And all along the motley line
The echo ran : “He’s mine ! He’s mine !”
And once again ’midst the reborn
Arose another wild affray.
Halos were twisted, shrouds were torn.
Forgotten oaths rained thick that day.
“Hold! Hold!” cried Joe. “Attend to me.
Let me disclose my policy !”
Then on a tombstone mounted Joe,
And there expounded his Great Plan.
But, as he spoke, ’midst those below
A small, disgusted whisper ran:
“Ah. what’s the use? It’s just the «ame!
Office !. .. . The old, old Party game !”
A Tory was the first to go.
“I’ve heard all this before.” said he.
“I’d honed for something fresh from Joe.
That’s always been our policy!”
One more disgusted snort be gave.
Then snuggled down into his grave.
And one by one they slunk away.
And sought their divers cemet’ries.
And one by one each turned to saw
“We hate such silly tricks as these.
Don’t blow that thing again, we pray.
Until you’ve something fresh to say.”
The evening lirht came dour and grey.
And 10, a sodden silence fell
Upon the resurrection day.
And not a soul was left to tell
rr hat sorry tale of graveyard woe.
But Gabriel, whose name is Joe.
VICTOKIA.
DEN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hezekiah anti “The Bulletin.”
This paper hates to speak lightly of the
dead, even when the dead are as dead as
Hezekiah, one time king of Judah. Still
it_ feels bound, in self-defence, to take notice
of a sermon recently delivered at the Ly-
ceum Hall, Sydney, by a certain Rev. P. J.
Stephen. The following are some extracts
from the Sun’s report:—
THRIFTLESS YOUTHS.
ONE OF AUSTRALIA’S SINS.
THOUSANDS DODGING WORK.
CLERGYMAN’S FIERCE INDICTMENT.
The sermon preached at the Lyceum Hall on Sun-
day night by the Rev. P. J. Stephen would have
done a lot of young men good had they heard it.
It would have hit them right where they lived.
The story of how Hezekiah, King of Judah, faced
tremendous odds which beset him and eventually
won out was told. His father, Ahaz, was a vicious
and worthless man, and the task of the son to lift
Judah out of political and moral bondage was enor-
mous. The words of the preacher as applied to
Hezekiah were the basis of remarks to young men
who lived in Sydney. The handicap which Heze-
kiah had has proved the ruin of many a promising
life....
“A man of wide culture, but notorious for his fits
of passion, said, when someone rebuked him, ‘lt’s no
use talking, my father was just so, my boys are just
so. We cannot live at peace, and never could. We
are all possessed of the same devil.’. .. .
“Now listen ! If anyone says ‘That’s me,’ I want
him to remember Hezekiah. He won out in the end
despite his handicap. He mastered himself, and
self-mastery is essential to making life a success.
Another thing about Hezekiah was that he was not
afraid to work. The open road to success has
always been work. If young men think they are
going to win in the game of life without the sweat
of brain or body they are mistaken. Industrious
work is a prime necessity of life. ...
“The young fellow whose intellectual wardrobe
consists of The Bulletin and a few betting lists
will never make good.”
The Bulletin asks, with all seriousness,
what it has done that it should be classed
as lower than Hezekiah. What is wrong
with this parson, and what is the excite-
ment about, and why has Hezekiah been
dug up so suddenly? It isn’t on record
that that king did much for religion, sav*'
that he broke up the brass serpent of
Moses and called it “Nehushtan,” which
simply means “brazen,” and everybody
knew the old thing was brazen. It is said
that he made things unpleasant for the
Philistines, but they were a mere handful,
and it isn’t mentioned that Hl v ekiah ever
put on his armor and risked ius own pre-
cious life in the field, as did bad
Scriptural characters like Jehobam and
Ahab —picturesque old Aiiab of the
drought and the idols, who is said to have
knocked saucepans out of 33 kings who
came up against him. and made the great
Assyrian monarch see stars at the battle
of Karkar, and who is last heard of like a
strenuous warrior in his chariot, mortally
wounded but still refusing to lfe down.
When an enemy of size came up against
Hezekiah he stripped G n, '’s house of n s
riches to buy him off. When the enenu
came again Hezekiah the shmibl have been


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1913.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 13, 1913.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contribulions from foremost
Australasian writers.
The Illustrations will he supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artistic
world.
The Ordinary Issue of THE BULLETIN
will be published on the usual date.
Agents are requested to note
that, as the Christinas Number of
“The Bulletin” is now going' to
press, the orders that reach us from
now on will be treated in order of
priority.
called Hesitation) didn’t fight; he prayed
and vvept and tore his clothes. He made a
great fuss when he had a boil. It is set
forth in Holy Writ that he “made a pool
and a conduit and brought water into the
city” (Jerusalem), which may be quite
accurate, for the pool is there yet. It is
very small and very dirty, and it smells
badly—this writer has smelled it. (The
water, by the way, must have been
brought uphill.) Also, when Hezekiah
was told that, by reason of his own
fault and his own bumptiousness, his
kingdom would be wrecked soon after
his death, and that his sons should be
“eunuchs in the palace of the King of Baby-
lon,” the selfish old Hebrew gentleman said :
“Is it not good if peace and truth be in my
days”—which was the same as Louis NV.’s
theory that “Things will last my time.”
Furthermore. Hezekiah seems to have
really been a kind of heathen, for the Law
of the Lord was re-discovered by accident
in the days of his grandson Josiaii ; and it
had been lost so long that the community
was utterly staggered to find out what the
Law of the Lord really was. Apparently
even the Oldest Jew Inhabitant hadn’t
heard of it. Taking one thing with another,
the much-advertised son of Ahaz and father
of Manasseh appears on the yellow old
leaf of history as a futile, selfish, but well-
meaning person—no soldier, not much of a
statesman, and very much afraid of death.
A narson ought to know Scripture history
better than to dig him un as a hero. Even
poor old Hoshea, of Israel, who held
Samaria during a three-years’ siege, when
his kingdom was at its last gasp, looks more
heroic. The next cleric who quotes Heze-
kiah to the detriment of this paper will bo
sued for libel to the uttermost twopence of
the statutes.
The Mystery Called Trade.
One Ernest Braby blossomed forth one
recent day in Sydnev Telegraph under the
heading: “Is England Decadent Under
Freetrade?” He said that it wasn’t, and
this paper doesn’t propose to contradict
him. because the matter isn’t really worth
while. But he quoted these (among other)
figures re “trade”—and “trade” is a poor
thing at the best —as evidence, and the evi-
dence is not quite convincing:—
Exports in 1910.—United Kingdom, £ 430,384.772 ;
Germany. £367,506,000; United States,
£356,267,000.
It seems to be largely a matter of how the
accounts are kept. There are four great
States in the world’s eye—the British Em-
pire, the Russian Empire, the United States
Republic and the German Empire. The last
is a small thing compared with the other
three, but it bulks large by sheer energy
and aggressiveness. Britain began with the
British Islands, and grew. Russia began
with the Grand Duchy of Moscow, and
grew. The United States began with a
small scrap of territory in the north-east
coast and an indefinite claim to some empty
regions beyond. But Russia doesn’t include
in its trade returns the dealings between
the old Grand Duchy and the later acquisi-
tions —Russian Poland. Novgorod, Lith-
uania. the Crimea, the Ukraine, Bessarabia.
Siberia, Russian Turkestan, etc. Finland
is the one scrap of Russ territory which is
regarded as foreign in this sense. Nor does
the United States include in its trade re-
turns the exchange of goods between the
original republic and its later Continental
additions —Florida. Louisiana, New Mexico,
Arizona, California and some sundries.
Prussia was the basis of the German Empire,
but when Prussia sells a pair of pants or a
bottle of gum to Bavaria or Hanover or
Wurtemburg, that isn’t included in the
commerce figures. These exchanges are re-
garded as a matter of local shopkeeping,
just like the trade which Poplar (London)
does with Wandsworth (London). But the
British trade which looms so large includes
even Bull’s buyings and sellings with the
Channel Islands, which are almost in sight
of his own coast and have been his property
for more than 800 years. And it includes
the vfflue of every scrap of commercial in-
tercourse with every other fragment of the
British Empire, including even (figures for
1912) the £5OOO worth of British products
sent to Ascension, the £lOOO worth sent to
Swaziland, and the £2OOO worth sent to Bri-
tish Somaliland, as well as the £85,000.000
worth sent to Australia. It is really a mat-
ter of classing as external trade what some
other countries define as internal trade. If
Britain kept its accounts as Russia does, in
the year 1912 fully £350.000.000 worth of
alleged commerce would have vanished out
of the category. This would have made Bri-
tain neither richer nor poorer, but it would
certainly have altered the appearance of
things.
The Futility of Treaties and Great
Powers, and Tripe of that Sort.
When some peaceful and non-resistant Aus-
tralians began to rage, a few years ago,
against local defence, a very common theory
of theirs was to the effect that this country
might in some way be declared neutral. The
Hague Peace Conference, which doesn’t
own a ship or a regiment or even a police-
man, was to be approached, and the Great
Powers were to be beguiled by some un-
known method into guaranteeing Australia,
at their own risk and cost, against attack
and against an inrush of colored immi-
grants. Recent events should convince
these harmless folk that the Great Powers
are a broken reed, and that the Lord only
helps him who helps himself, and even then
only provided he helps himself -harder than
the other fellow does. The integrity of Turkey
was guaranteed by several Great Powers,
and has been so ensured for a long time.
When the small Balkan States fell upon
Abdul Fez, these Powers didn’t move, but
they warned the small and angry States
that they wouldn’t be allowed to annex
any of Abdul , Fez’s territory. The plain-
tiffs annexed the defendant’s territory just
the same, and the Powers didn’t shift- in
fact, they presently lielned to fix up a treaty
by which almost all European Turkey (in-
cluding Adrianople, which went to Bul-
garia) was divided among the Confederates.
Then the Confederates started fighting
among themselves, and the Great I owers
warned them in a loud and terrible voice to
stop. They didn’t stop, and the Powers
only loafed. Turkey seized its opportunity,
and tore up the treaty of London, and re-
captured Adrianople. The Great Powers
gave it short notice to leave off, and it re-
plied to the effect that if the Powers didn t
like it they could lump it. The Powers
considered their rotten little antagonist
and regretfully lumped it. Bulgaria said it
would rely on the Powers to enforce the
-treaty of London and make Turkey hand
the lost city, but the six big nations
tell asleep. Nobody supposes that the Brit-
ish or I rench or Germans or Austrians or
Russians are a whit less brave or less fond
ot fighting than they were. But war has
become so vast and elaborate and so ruin-
ously . expensive that no nation goes cam-
paigning nowadays in any other nation’s
quarrel unless it can see a very big dividend
tor itself in the business, or unless its own
existence is seriously threatened by some
side issue of the disturbance and it has to
take up its gun in self-defence. It takes
000 years or so to pay the bill for a year’s
campaign; wherefore the Great Powers
look on while the most beautiful treaties
and guarantees—some of them even more
beautiful than the Anglo-Jap. arrangement
which is supposed to protect Australia —
are used as pipe-lights by tenth-rate
Governments that any really serviceable
nation could lick before breakfast, or at
least before lunch. The staggering appari-
tion of the bill has got the richest Govern-
ments down, and each one of them feels as
if it was a fallen horse with a pawnbroker
sitting on its head. International politics
have become, to all intents and purposes, a
game in which every State plays its own
hand. The casual old days of cheap war,
when even Norway didn’t mind sending a
few troops to help Greece, and Venice gave
Scotland a hand in a moment of stress,
are quite gone. Nations can no longer
afford to be affable and casual. This is
one reason why Australia should take its
defence system in earnest —which it can
hardly be said to have done up to date.
*
“Loyal” Ulster.
A great manv people have been moved, on
one or two occasions, to remark that the
Unionist or anti-Home-Ruler or “loyalist”
of Ulster (Ireland) is a fraud and a weari-
ness, a three-card trick, a small and adul-
terated beer, an undersized egg, and a
cheap cotton imitation of an umbrella that
doesn’t know when to come in out of the wet.
To-day that bumptious public swindler is
looming up so largely in the cablegrams
that they are incited to repeat the observa-
tion. Ireland is divided into four provinces,
and except for the fact that Dublin Uni-
versity is allowed to return two members,
and that, in accordance with old University
tradition, it elects a pair of Tory lawyers,
there is no anti-Home-Rule person returned
outside of Ulster. Leinster, Munster and
Connaught are solid for Irish Nationalism.
At last election 48 Home Rule members
were returned by these provinces unopposed.
In 17 cases a Home Ruler was returned
after a battle with another Home Ruler, but
the Unionists didn’t even put up the sorry
pretence of nominating a candidate. In
exactly three electorates outside Ulster
(apart, of course, from Dublin University)
did the Tory party think it worth while to
nominate a “loyalist” to carry its tattered
banner, and in each case the downfall was
memorable. In Ulster, however, there was
the usual battle. Ulster returns 33 mem-
bers, and 16 of those chosen at last general
election were in favor of Home Rule, while
17 were hostile. Eighteen out of the 33
were unopposed, and the 18 were equ-
ally divided; so there were actually
nine constituencies in allegedly Unionist
Ulster in which it wasn’t good enough for
Unionism to set up a competitor. In the
contested electorates —-15 in all —Unionism
scored 50,048 votes and Home Rule 42,925.
Even the city of Belfast returned one Home
Rule member out of four, and in London-
derry, where the great siege was, the Union-
ist only scraped in by 2415 votes against
the Home Rule man’s 2310. Ulster threat-
ens to rise and break things, and tear the
heavens asunder, and make a general smash
of facts and circumstances, if Ireland gets
the same measure of self-government that
is granted to the Isle of Man (about half-
way between England and Ireland), and to
the Channel Islands (off the south coast.
of England). Among these remarkable
Channel Islands <7O souare miles in all),
Jersey has a Parliament of its own, Alder-
ney has another, and Guernsey and Sark
have a Legislature between them, yet all this
Home Rule (for 70 square miles of country)
brings about no overwhelming disaster.
Ulster, as already mentioned, just contrives
at present to maintain a majority of one
against Home Rule (there was an occasion
when the majority was the other way
about), and in the other three-quarters of
the island no anti-llome Rule member can
get a footing, save the pair that are re-
turned by the 4997 hobbledehoys of the Uni-
versity. And the bare half of Ulster which
is “loyal,” according to its own definition
of “loyalty,” is the half which is occupied
bv foreigners, just as the very small scrap of
Italy which remained partially loyal to Aus-
tria in the Garibaldian days was the bit
that was occupied by Austrians, and the
fragment of Bulgaria which stood bv Turkey
in 1877 and ’7B was the fragment in which
the Turks predominated. Also, the “loyal”
speck of Ulster is the speck which objects
about equally to the prevailing religion of
Ireland and the established religion of
England. Many of its people view
George Y. as a disguised emissary of
Rome, Anglicanism and Romanism being so
much alike to the really solid Presbyterian
that it is hardly worth while to draw dis-
tinctions between them. One way and an-
other, the upheaval of “loyal” Ulster—the
place where originated the conspiracy to de-
throne and possibly murder young Queen
Victoria, and put that violent Orangeman,
the Duke of Cumberland, in her place—is
something of a jest.
A Disloyalist.
Norman Bayles, membah for Toorak,
where the best inotah people come from,
was responsible for a vain discussion in
Vic. Leg. Assembly re the utterances of
labor membah Webber on the subject of
King George and the British monarchy.
Webber has no boundless opinion of
kings and thrones, and in his other
capacity as mayor of Richmond (Melb.)
he dropped the toast of his Gracious Ma-
jesty’s health from his speech list.
Thus Bayles got an opportunity to drag
Webber’s “disloyalty” into Parliamentary
light, by moving that the House “emphati-
cally condemns” any conduct derogatory
to its royal figure-head. The remarks of
Bayles seemed more foolish than the
tilings young man Webber had said and
done. The “disloyalist” in question merely
reiterated the eternal truism that
monarchies are losing their hold on super-
stitious reverence. The fact that in Par-
liament he took an oath of allegiance to
the reigning Sovereign as nominal head of
the blessed Constitution should perhaps
have kept his mouth shut, but his opinion
that a Constitution could get along better
without a King was not an emphatically
condemnatory opinion anyhow. And
Webber hadn’t taken an oath to make the
King a subject for chronic drinking, or to
get on his ear under the table in an excess
of loyalty. Nor is it pretended that even
if Webber had beered and wined and
whiskied himself into an earlv grave or an
inebriate asylum over the King’s health the
King would have been one iota more
healthy. Norman Bayles’s speech in pro-
pounding the motion (which was bound to
be carried) voiced all the piffle that might
be expected of the chosen of Tooralt. He
said “the present King showed a kindly sen-
timent to the poor and was a cordial Eng-
lish gentleman.” Also Bayles made the
astounding statement that it is not right to
refer to any King as a possible “nincom-
poop.” Considering that Bayles’s great-
grandfather lived at the time of a George
111. who was often insane, whilst his eldest
son, the Regent, was a drunken black-
guard, who made sport of his royal and
“dotty” parent, the reference to nincom-
poopery was absurd. And as for George
the Fifth being an English gentleman with
kindly feelings for the poor, the chances
are that Victorian Labor member Webber
is more kindly disposed to the poor than
Norman Bayles. In any case, the fee'ings
of George. Webber or Bayles have
nothing to do with the monarchical prin-
ciple.
A Gerrymander.
The Redistribution of Seats Bill brought in
by the L j eake Government in S. Aus. is one
of the most brazen samples of gerrymander-
ing this generation has known. Whatever
the intention, the result of the redistribution
is to cut out all Labor strongholds and segre-
gate them from the other parts of existing
districts. Thus Port Pirie has been sliced
from the district of Stanley, which now re-
turns three Labor members, and is given
two members of its own, while the rest of
ihe constituency, being warranted to swal-
low Liberals, is also given two. There is a
clear gain of two to the Ministerial cause,
and a clear loss of one to the Laborites. The
same thing is done at Jack Verran’s cita-
del in Wallaroo, which with the mining
centres of Moonta and Kadina has been
chopped off from the surrounding district of
Yorke Peninsula: so two more good Liberals
are provided for, and one Labor man is
turned adrift. Then the metropolitan area,
which now sends to the Assembly 10 Labor
members and only two Liberals (these two
got in by a fluke at last election for Tor-
rens), is to be so dissected that there will be
no chance for tile Labor crowd to work its
wicked way in that wholesale manner. That,
at least, is what the Liberals hope, although
the experience of Westralia, where “sure”
Liberal seats were swept by Labor candi-
date* owing to popular indignation, may be
repeated in S.A. The ruthlessness of the
whole gerrymander can be judged from the
fact that the metropolitan quota for a mem-
ber is over 7000 voters, while the country
quota is as low as 2600, and the cunning
of the scheme is shown by the other fact
that in Barossa, where the country vote
swamps that of the town of Gawler, there
has been no attempt to cut the town away,
because that would have the effect of giving
the Labor party a seat which it cannot
capture at present. As the Government
has a bic majority in both the Council and
the Assembly, there is no chance to _ stop
the political swindle unless public opinion
can be aroused. “We are not willing to
submit the scheme to an independent Elec-
toral Commission : we intend to stick to our
Bill,” is the latest pronouncement.. Inci-
dentally the Bill increases the Council mem-
bers from 18 to 20 and the Assembly mem-
bers from 40 to 46. and all the new men
are confidently expected to be obsequious
Liberals.
Guff, Plain and Fancy.
“The Snake” writes a fragment: —
I sidled into the annual dinner of the New South
Wales Chamber of Manufactures one evening last
week at Aaron’s Exchange Hotel, Sydney, and
had a rare blow-out of plain and fancy guff. ihe
principal guests were representatives of the British
Parliamentary party, now being rushed through
a few acres of the continent, and the way they
scooped up the fried, boiled and scalloped gun
before passing the dish back to the Australians who
were waiting to wallow in it themselves was the big
thrill of the “dinnah,” as Lord Emmott (Under-
secretary of State for the Colonies) rightly chris-
tened or designated it. It was a dinnah; in tact,
you could, without being unduly charged with
perjury, say it was a Dinnah. But the low-minded
person that snarls at the Australian, \ ah, dis-
loyalist!” he would have been prosecuted, with the
utmost bulldog of the law, for bearing false wit-
ness. All the old stock gags that have made the
Hempire’s fame at the National Amphitheatre, the
Pavilion and other Saturday-night temples of the
nation were hallelujahed to breathlessness ; and bare
mention of the “dear ole mother-land” was the sign
for jackjohnsoning the table with forks, sauce-
bottles and assorted crockery. I came very near to
doing in a 71b. cruet myself, but that was when
president Pratten was tickling the welkin with
the lost chord of Australia. If I hadn t discov-
ered in time that I was making a Sheol of an uproar
just when the company had suddenly decided that
to whirl crockerv was vulgar, that cruet would have
come back to Aaron’s in splinters.
Pratten and Admiral King-Hall, when the cnance
came their wav, gave the Australian national note
the good, sturdy twang that should have dominated
the night’s chorus. “We are doing the best we can
to build up a young nation,” said Pratten man-
fully “strong to defend, and even to help if neces-
sary.’ We believe that the Imperial umbrella covers
the whole of John Bull’s numerous family, and we
are going to help Bull to hold the umbrella up.”
That went great with the assembly. Then he pic-
tured how it was to be done —partly with warships
built in AUSTRALIA, in AUSTRALIAN dockyards
capable of cradling Dreadnoughts, by AUSTRALIAN
workmen, from AUSTRALIAN steel, paid for with
AUSTRALIAN gold and manned and officered by
AUSTRALIAN citizens. Hereabouts his luck pet-
ered out. The crowd rose and howled that direful
drivel of our fathers, “Rule Britannia.”
It was then that Emmott arose and opined they
were at a dinnah —a very good dinnah—a dinnah
at which the food, drinks and smokes were, he
understood, Australian-made. Well, he didn’t think
he would be any the worse for that when he woke
in the morning) (Shrieks of laughter!) Here was
British wit right off the Imperial stove! None of
your d—d up-country touch there! For minutes he
stood, thin, straight* and cold of countenance, while
the tumult of annreciation raged round him. When
the last howl had been turned off, the noble guest
proceeded to produce proof of Iris official association
with Dowuing-street by referring to “this great
colony.” It he hadn’t looked like a British Minister
that would have made even a Melbourne detective
aware of his identity. Then, referring to the ques-
tion of Freetrade or Protection, he swatted the
admiring crowd in the fifth rib again by saying, quite
as if it were dead easy, he did not agree that the
manners and customs of Australia were the same as
those of England. He thought there was a little
difference in the customs. [Here the reader is
invited to cast his sparkling eye back to the gag
about the effects of an Australian-made dinnali for
what followed. The shrieks were deafening.] After
that, came Australia’s Minister for Customs, Groom,
who nailed himself to the British flag and .fluttered
in the applause. Ex-Premier Jambs McGowen
arose, wept on the shoulder of the dear, ole mo-tli-er
la-nd, and gave it as his imperishable opinion that
to the grand ole fa-th-er la-nd we owed everything
(not a dashed word about how much we owe Uncle).
Then one Greenwood, M.P., became vertical, and
made a popular hit (as the vaudeville advts. say)
by disagreeing with any suggestion that Australians
should think of Australia first. No! It should be
the Empire first and Australia second (great
applause, in which fully two waiters, in addition to
myself, did not join). We three had been so fed up
with fancy guff that we didn’t care a tinker’s palace
for anything but plain Australian any more that
night. So we unanimously went next door and
encompassed a plain Australian beer. It was the
best part of the Dinnah !
Concerning Wills and Bills.
From one of the crocodiles:—
The Vic. State Government is about to consider
a Bill introduced by Macke \, concerning the Con-
struction of Last Wills and Testaments. The pro-
posed law is based in common sense as opposed to
hidebound precedent, and deserves a smooth passage.
It will enable the Courts to give effect to a testa-
tor’s intention (if expressed clearly enough for
ordinary apprehension), instead of compelling them
to adhere to a rigid interpretation of teennical words
and phrases which have been used by the unwary
deceased (or his wretched solicitor) in unblissful
ignorance of their strict meaning in law. To exem-
plify : At present, if a person plainly expresses his
intention to devise property to (.say) Jones during
Jones’s life only, and then in a subsequent clause in
the will refers to such devise as being to Jones “and
his heirs,” the mere fact that he has used the
technical word “heirs” —although in obvious error as
to its legal significance—will result in the aston-
ished Jones obtaining an absolute estate “in fee
simple.” That is just one out of hundreds of instances
of the sort of farce Mackey is asking his co-legisla-
tors to put an end to. Practically the only people
who have known anything about such follies are the
horsehaired crocodiles, and hitherto they have not
thought it worth while to offer any very strenuous
objections, as their pockets have been filling through
the enormous amount of consequent litigation.
Wherefore, God speed the present tardy reform move-
ment.
And, while they are on the job, could not
Mackey and others strike out on another and no
less important tack? What is the objection (from
a national, as opposed to a horsetail standpoint) to
making it compulsory to file all wills before death?
Look at a few of the advantages:—
(1) About three-fourths of the thousand and one
species of fraud which are at present incidental to
the making and proving of wills would be done away
with. The instances of fraud (usually in pretty big-
estates) that have come before the Courts are appal-
ling, and the number of cases compromised or aban-
doned because the parties have not had the where-
withal to satisfy Costs, Esq., can best be left to the
imagination. Partly because dead men tell no tales,
tinkering with wills is one of the easiest crimes to
perpetrate and the most difficult to detect. It is
true that even now a person may file his will,
but very few people outside Gent. One are aware
of this fact, and Gent. One hardly ever sees tit to
exercise the power. Admittedly, the mere fact of
filing would have little direct effect on that branch
of fraud which is known in legal circles as Undue
Influence, but it would prevent disappointed benefici-
aries and others from indulging in interlineations,
obliterations, destructions and similar little amuse-
ments. That in itself is no small item.
(2) The testator’s intention is often utterly de-
feated in consequence of an unwitting non-compliance
with some technicality connected with (say) the
execution of attestation of his last farewell. Such
difficulties would be obviated by the Registrar seeing
that formalities were complied with. This would be
a boon to a man who had hired an erring lawyer, or
had chosen to dispense with professional services
altogether.
(3) If frauds and technical omissions were to the
above extent swept awav, there would be a vast
saving in the matter of Costs. It is indisputable
that wills have been bv far the most fertile source
of litigation, and it is equally indisputable that
solicitors do not as a rule spare expense where there
is money in an estate.
Naturally enough, people regard their final dis-
positions as more or less private, but they need have
no fear that the act of filing (or registering, if you
like the name better) would occasion any unwanted
publicity. Unlike (say) a registered mortgage,
which must be brought to light with every successive
transaction, the innards of a filed will * would not
be known until after the testator’s death, when the
usual search could be made on the usual conditions.
The only outsider who would be aware of the con-
tents would be a disinterested public official, and
appropriate penalties could be fixed for transgressions
on his part.
Probablv it will be urged against compulsory
filing that a dving man might have just sufficient
strength to sign the document, but not quite enough
to prolong h ; s last gasp till such time as the will
had been filed. It would be hard, it might be said,
if the objects of his bounty were told that the will
was a nullity simply on that account. But the
snb’tarv lesson would soon h" learnt that the best
policy was to get in early. Consider the analogv of
person who Raves it till too late to take out a
life insurance policy. Where’s the hardship?
“Red Tape Junior” :
The marriage rate among the elderly bucks in
N.S.W. public service is going to boom if Premier
Holman can manage to cram his new Superannua-
tion Bill through Parliament. According to the pro-
visions, every contributor who dies leaves some-
thing for his widow. If fit work wfeeu he does a


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
Estab. 1768
Estab 1742
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE,
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . . and . . .
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
“THE BUTTERFLIES.”
“Something new under the sun —■_
Something out of the common run —
Something witty, something pretty —
Something made of the stuff called fun,"
LITTLE THEATRE. In Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
EVERY NIGHT AT B—HATINEE EVERY THURSDAY.
THE SYDNEY PAPERS SAID OF THEIR “FIRST NIGHT” PERFORMANCE:—
S. M. Herald.—“lt was a delighted house that received in the Little Theatre on Saturday the
potpourri of good things offered by ‘The Butterflies.’ They had the crowded house in a tumult
of laughter.”
Daily Telegraph.—“ ‘The Butterflies’ should pack the Little Theatre during their sojourn in this
city!... .the shrieks of laughter and boisterous applause that followed most of the turns were an
indication of the excellence of the entertainment.”
Sunday Sun. —“A good show has come to town. Everybody who went last night felt happy. a
vaudeville show the performance is unique so far as Sydney is concerned.”
Sunday Times.—“ Humor and art are delightfully blended, every item wa3 received with rounds of
applause.”
BOOK YOUR SEATS EARLY.
Popular Prices : 3/-, 2/-, 1/.. Reserved 4/-
Plan at Paling's.
perish, his relict gets half his eligible pension. If he
dies a pensioner, the lady draws half the pension
(minimum draw £26) for as long as she lives, while
each child draws £l3 per annum until 16 years of
age. This is calculated to be an expensive racket;
also the business of the Adventuress may expand.
For instance, old Hunks, aged 65, may be taken in
by a Designing- Minx, and find himself dead one
morning of arsenic, or something, in his toddy the
night before. Then the Designing Minx will whirl
a free leg and a pension simultaneously. The scheme
refuses pensions to widows who re-marry, which is
the only fly in the Designing Minx's ointment. Anybody
remotely resembling a public servant is provided for,
and, one way and another, Holman’s Bill is suspected
of being more or less bait for the general elections.
Perhaps it is. That sort of thing has happened
once or twice before. Meanwhile, has anybody seen
a balance-sheet of Wade’s railway servants’ super-
annuation fund? It was a prize jest in the way of
reckless promise and impossible performance.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Arcadians.”
llnit Majesty's Adeline Genee.
Palace “The Ninety and Nine.”
Criterion “Within the Law.”
Adelpiit “Married to Wrong Man.”
Little Theatre “The Butterflies.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer's Pictures.
Lyric I
Colonial - Continuous Pictures.
Em press I
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia 1 ~,
Glaciarium } West s Pictures.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (fiiinlan Opera Co.
Princess’s “The Parish Priest.”
King’s “The Coniession.”
Royal “The Fortune Hunter.”
Bijou “Bobby Burnitt.”
Majestic “Whose Baby Are You?”
Opera House. Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace Vest's Pictures.
Olympia Spencer's Pictures.
VVIRTHS’ Hippcdrome. . . Wirths’ Circus.
Auditorium Clara Butt Concerts.
Athenjsum Melbourne Repertory Co.
Bert Bailey conducted a Band of Hope
meeting at the Palace (Sydney) on Satur-
day night, when a Great Moral Lesson, en-
titled “The Ninety and Nine,” was Sankey
and Moodied amidst the tearful approbation
of the brethren and sistren. As a Moral
Lesson the piece is as simple as it is Great.
Tom Silverton is a Fine, Manly Guy or
Bloke (it is an American story localised),
who falls in love with a rag and bone and
r bank of hair, and reckons that she is be-
yond compare, a Kiplingistic vampire fair,
who cleans him out and picks him bare,
and poisons . his heart with dank despair,
then gives him the frigid, glassy stare and
does a bunk with a millionaire, or some-
thing like that. But before she lets up on
Thomas she urges him to murder a parish-
ioner who has annoyed her. Thomas does
his best, and suffers all the remorse of the
"•uilty, although, as it turns out about 10.30
p.m., he hasn’t killed the parishioner at all.
Anyhow. Thomas gets up against Things in
General and fades to a secluded village
where he takes to the Cursed Der-rink. And
he makes no Error about it. The village peach
is so horrified that she decides to Save him.
She waits outside the pub for him, pleads
with him and croons Chapzander buck-up
hymns Where thev are calculated to do the
greatest quantity of good. No dividends.
She whispers a portion of the Lord’s Prayer
into his disreputable ear, and the Wretch
'•enlies with a whisky breath that can be
distinctly heard in the back stalls. She
ofifprs him Water to cool his internal fires
and he says it is the worst-looking drink
he has ever seen. Ned Duggan, who is
masquerading as her father, calls her Low,
and threatens to wallop her unless she gives
no, trying to save the ruin, but she says
she’ll bring the animal into the Stockyard
or • forfeit the gate-money. Finally, she
offers herself to the Outcast as a sacrifice
to , Spiritual Duty, and the staggered Out-
cast skies his thirst. He immediately cele-
brates the occasion by heroicallv driving a
railway-engine through a bushfire inferno
to save the cut-off people of the village that
formerly held their noses when he reeled
n ast. After that they know he has amt
Salvation, and they wrestle mightily with
the Lord for his desnaired-of life. When
bq corrms round, he finds himself safe within
the fold alongside the ninety and nine, and
there isn’t a jimjam on the horizon of the
future.. What trouble there is comes the
way of the Hypocritical Villain; which is
natural and nroper. Everybody is glad to
know that there isn’t enough love and
Christian L'ndness about to allow of any
being wasted on that base hound.
“The Ninety and Nine” provides Guy
Hastings with the first opnortunit.v since he
was imported by Bert Bailey and Co. to
show his true skill as an actor, and he
fastens to it as a good pro. starving for a
chance generally does. Few, if any. better por-
trayals of a man. drunk and down and out.
have been seen in Sydney. It is Hastings’
play entirely. The other main feature is
the dash of a railway-engine through a
seething bush fire, and as a stage sensation
it ought to attract every follower of the
drama.
John McCormack, good showman as well
as good artist, hit Sydney so hard with his
three punches—his Hibernian punch, his
popular punch and his operatic punch—that
he only dragged himself from the ring as
the train-guard’s whistle was sounding. The
earlier concerts were in the Town Hall ; an
extra extra was crowded in on Monday
afternoon at the Adelphi Theatre. And as
Sydney’s demand for John’s well-mixed
punch hadn’t even then been anything like
exhausted, the Taits, in a fine spirit of
resignation, said they supposed it must be
done, and booked their sweet acrobatic tenor
for four xxxtra Sydney concerts in October.
Polite vaudeville invaded the Little
Theatre (Sidney) last Saturday; and
tnough there were dull moiiit...s in the pro-
gramme presented by “The Butterflies,” the
entertainment was refreshingly novel and
of a high musical quality. Judging by the
hilarity of the audience and the surplusage
of encores, the new organisation is in for a
big success. Miss Cecilia Gold, a charming
comedienne, in her realistic “Cat Court-
ship,” with Mr. Waller, succeeds in miauw-
ing so musically that this critic is consider-
ing the question of dismissing the cat that
at present pervades his backyard and offer-
ing her the job. Also, she makes love so
seductively at certain occupants of the front
stalls that the manager might contemplate
the advisability of raising the price of these
seats. The usual balladists may be passed
over, without objurgations, however, since
such accidents happen even in the best-regu-
lated variety programmes. In Miss Marion
Armitage the company possess a comedienne
with a broad sense of humor and a voice of
12-inc-h calibre. Mr. Waller is a burlesque
actor and singer whose slight tendency to
clown does not disguise his real cleverness ;
and Mr. Watson shows himself as a com-
edian of slighter tonnage yet of consider-
able ability. But it is in the high musical
quality of the entertainment that “The
Butterflies” distinguish themselves from
similar organisations. In the pianist, Mr.
Dennett (who played Lizst’s “Rhapsodie
Honerroise” with brilliance and fervor), Mr.
Waller (violin) and Mr. Watson (’cello),
the company possesses a trio of musicians
worthy of any concert-platform. Their
burlesque of a Hungarian Orchestra was an
astonishingly ludicrous and yet artistic
musical turn. It could easily be the star
item on any variety programme. The bur-
lesque melodrama furnished sufficient excuse
for the existence of melodrama ; for if there
wasn’t any melodrama, such a burlesque
could not have happened. And that would
have been a distinct loss to the world, the
community, the population, or whatever you
may call it.
Arcady will be removed from Sydney
Criterion this week to the Royal, to allow
“Within the Law” to introduce itself at
the former establishment Saturday.
The new Sombra, Miss Hilda Vining, con-
tinues to gain friends for her quiet, artistic
performance, and her well-trained voice.
The Sydney Repertory Dramatic Society
will make its first appearance, on
October 2, at the Repertory Theatre,
Grosvenor-street, which has the dis-
tinction of being the handiest theatre
to The Bulletin oflice. Shaw’s “The
Devil’s Disciple” will be played for a season
of six days, by a cast predominantly pro-
fessional. This play Shaw terms a melo-
drama, and modestly mentions that it con-
tains the finest dramatic situation in modern
drama. Anyhow, it has got a gallows; but
Shaw does not hang a single dramatic critic
thereon. The play is a costume one, and the
costumes have been designed by Souter. The
scene is set in America at the time when
General Burgoyne aftd his British troops
were busily occupied in losing that portion
of British territory, amid the great smash
and surrender of Saratoga. The leading
part of Judith will be taken by Miss Aggie
Thorne (Mrs. Deery), whose reappearance
on the stage is a noteworthy event. Though
subscribers will have priority of booking, the
public will have the Opportunity to book all
other seats, on any night of the season.
The way of Bung gets no easier—in fact,
the ways of Sydney are bad for anybody’s
feet, but the feet of Fillemup are specially
tender. His latest cause for grief is the
doing away with the Tivoli interval. Still
our friend Blewrewin is the only one who
is hurt about it. And, in any case, a patron
who badly needs lubricating can miss one or
two turns —there are always one or two
worth missing. The latest item that is not
worth overlooking is that of the Eight
Saxones, purveyors of rag-time noises and
dances; and they also cut out all tedious
waits by doing their clobber-transformations
on the stage. Other turns that shouldn’t be
sacrificed to Beer are Tiebor’s Seals. Willette
Whitaker, Frank Parish and Williams and
Rankin.
The indefatigable villains at Svdne.v
Adelphi will be finally counted out on Friday
night, and the guerilla war that has been
voing on between them and the unconquer-
able representatives of Ria-hteousness will
come to a sudden stop. More trouble is nro-
mised for Saturday night, when “Married to
the Wrong Man” will be resurrected for a
short season.
:1c * * *
“The Pit and the Pendulum,” a condensed
version of Edgar Allan Poe’s yarn of the
good old Inquisition days, is the latest in
Sydney picture thrills, but, beyond being
stocked above the average with horrors, it
is nothing out of the way. A brighter enter-
tainment is provided at the Crystal Palace
by Max Linder in “The Last Laugh,” a
lengthy but very cheerful comedy. A supple-
ment to the Topical Gazette. “The Aus-
tralian Navy at Portsmouth.” supplies a
good idea of what our own land is getting
for its Defence money.
By the time The Bulletin takes its
weekly walk abroad Ben Beno, the aerialist
at the National Amphitheatre, will have
concluded his season, and the “Chair of
Death” act will be no more. Also, there
will have departed from the Brennan-Fuller
co.’s Sydney house Marcell and Bell and
George Rowley; while the Dentines. Mac
and Maree, Karno and Francis, and Carl
Merlyn are under the identical orders that
the John Hop vave to Poor Joe. On the
word of the management the vacancies will
be filled with distinction, refinement, etc.
The etc. will include rag-time ; no etc. would
be complete without it.
West’s big summer season at the Sydney
Glaciarium will commence on Saturday
nieht. and the honorable occasion will be
marked by the production of “The Battle of
Waterloo,” one of the most ambitious at-
tempts to date in the art of cinematography.
Two thousand soldiers, 1000 cavalry arid
gun horses and 50 cannon were employed in
preparing the 116 scenes of Bill Adams’s
great victory.
“ THE ARCADIANS," AT THE SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Simplicitas (W. S. Percy) and Peter Doody
(Robert Whyle , jnr.), two simple Arcadians.
Three weeks ago there were six cases of
small-pox in Sydney, and the dailies howled
about the matter over columns of valuable
soace. As The Bulletin goes to press
this week 12 cases are reported, and the
fact is mentioned by the papers in the
merest whisper. Analogously, when Genee
first danced in Sydney these same sheets
went absolutely mad about her. Yet to
those who knew her she was a disappoint-
ment. She had strained one of her legs,
and was “going short,” as the horse-coper
hath it. At the time of writing she is at
her best. And in “La Camargo,” the fam-
ous ballet which was staged at Her Maj-
esty’s for the first time in these parts
on Saturday night, she gets a unique oppor-
tunity to show her extraordinary skill.
However, the shouting and the tumult are
stilled to all intents and purposes. The
press-agent, his eyes bright with mercenary
veneration, has apparently moved on to
another show. It is enough to make any
man with a fragment of sense of propor-
tion about his person turn misanthrope.
The unsatisfactory feature of the “Cam-
argo” ballet is the king. A more insen-
sately wooden admirer has seldom been
presented on any stage—and in the role of
lover Louis XV. was a notable enthusiast,
unless all the memoir-writers are shameless
liars. An interesting example of intelligent
anticipation, or something of the sort, is
provided by the mixing up of Louis Seize
furniture with the furniture of the period
in La Camargo’s boudoir. When the writer
discussed this play last week he hadn’t seen
the Hunting Ballet. All is as he suspected.
The Meet in an environment of mid-summer
roses; the misplaced spurs; the outrageous
drag-hounds; the bluff hunting men in red
flannel yachting caps—all the traditional im-
becilities are there. Having delivered these
few carps, the writer hastens to mention
that, in other respects, the show is beautiful
and interesting.
The Waller-Titheradge season, at Sydney
Royai, ends on Friday night. The fi
robbery at Broken Hill has happened iSS
too late to be used to advertise Devereux’*
•A lair Highwayman,” the brisk wig and
gunodrama with which the co. is toppmg ,j]f
“Rutherford and Son,” the latest venture
of Adelaide Literary Theatre, is a first-plav
by Githa Soweiby, and introduces about
the most consistently unpleasant family vet
seen on any stage. Old Rutherford is “never
questioned, never answered back ; like Rod ”
The daughter and family drudge has at
i*U gone astray with Martin, an old and
trusted woi-Kinan, driven to “sin” by sheer
mouotony. Both of them, seemingly, are too
scared to suggest matrimony. The feeble
and querulous son has a wife, Mary, allowed
in the house solely because she has produced
a Rutherford heir, but herself treated as a
stranger. Now, this John, though a fool
has somehow stumbled on a discovery which
will put the declining glass-works, “Ruther-
ford’s,” the family fetich, on its legs again-
and, being pressed to explain it, he asks his
price. That should, presumably, be a part-
nership. Yet, though the old man has no
aim in life except to keep the business going
and hand it on to his son. he incomprehen-
sibly bullies Martin into divulging the trade
secret —and “sacks” him! John then bolts
with the cash-box, as a slight payment on
account; and the curtain falls on Mary
driving a bargain—a home for herself and
the infant, who shall in due course be sacri-
ficed to the Moloch of “Rutherford’s.” The
Literary players include three or four who
could probably get a professional engagement
at any moment. Wilfrid Neill was sound
and striking as the rugged Northcountry-
man, Douglas Walsh as the employee, and
Mrs. Geoffrey Burgoyne (a new and strong
recruit) as Mary, though hardly the “com-
mon little workgirl” that the author had in
view. Miss Robin was as artistic as ever
in the character of the lovestruck spinster,
and Mrs. Bastard brought down the house
in a too-brief appearance as a dram-drinking
gossip.
& * * *
Adelaide is settling down to its new
arrangement of theatres. The planting of
the new and sumptuous Tivoli, just opposite
the Empire, gives the Central Market dis-
trict a fresh prominence. Now Mr. “Snowy”
Baker announces that he is going to rush
up a new Stadium right alongside, with
which to galvanise Adelaide’s spasmodic
boxing-interest into real life. The new
Wondergraph, opoosite the Royal, shows pic-
tures all day. So does a new Star enter-
prise, in the old Tivoli house; and so, of
course, does, the Rundle-street Pavilion,
which had till now a monopoly of that
branch. It is too early yet to say whether
all these filmers can find patronage. Agri-
cultural Show week has supplied a public
for all of them, and West’s and
Wondergraph find their most popular
pictures at night are the snaps showing
Dad and the whole Wayback family, as
seen on the unprecedentedly crowded
showground during the day. The Roval has
taken a jump from pantomime to melodrama,
and the long succession of Williamsonian at-
tractions stops for a bit: which means the
moving-on of manager Hazlitt. who seemed
to have become an Adelaide citizen. The
Marlow Co. —shortly to become a Willoughby
Co., it seems—starts with a “Beggar Girl’s
Wedding.” The King’s relies on TTuxham’s
tuneful Serenaders for its First Part, and
some new-come Japs, said to be specially
clever, are on the doorstep, so to speak.
At Melbourne Princess’s Allen Doone cast
oft the glad rags of romantic circumstance
and got himself up as an ancient light of
the R.C. Church, administering spiritual
comfort and Scripture quotations to the
scattered population of “a small town in
America.” In this unknown district the
shamrock gets equal cultivation with the
cabbage, and all the villagers are gently
brow 7 beaten by Father Doone into graciously
tolerating the shortcomings of their neigh-
bors. In such surroundings, where the
only excitements are the rent and the
weather, nothing ought to happen—and
nothing really does happen but the matri-
monial venture of Dr. Edward W T alsh. who,
mounting Vaulting Ambition for a win or a
place, conies a frightful cropper at the last
fence. Edward, it seems, wants to resist
the claims of the swmtest colleen in all the
wurruld and marry a lady embarrassed with
cash, but his Reverence neatly baulks the
project and persuades Ned that the colleen
is the prize for him. This is practically the
whole story of a play wherein Misther
Doone does nothing more than play the
rble of a peregrinating Father causing souls
to bloom like lilies undefiled, the while he
drops soothing homilies into every ear. His
vaunted “performance” is much in the
nature of an artless elocutionary recital
carried on in a minor key. Save Clive
Farnham, who is better than the bulk, all
the others are unimportant portrayers of
characters endowed with personalities of
milk and arrowroot, and apparently so polite
that thev couldn’t think of dving without
an apology. The scenery is only middling.
Harry Corson Clarke, supported bv Miss
Margaret Dale Owen and a number of
other people, gave a riotous answer to the
inquiry, “Whose Baby Are You?” at Mel-


The World’s Best.
PAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY-
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Driva No Chains.
m
-ms S:
vWy
'Swiss
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &■ Adelaide,
Sole
Agents.
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, g. j. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
gOORD & SON
LONDON, ENGLAND 1
FINEST DRY GIN
__ &. OLD TOM
%
DT
j
■SWIKT &• COMPANY, AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS. OCONNEIX ST 'SYDNEY -
bourne Majestic on Saturday. At times
the row resembled a railway accident and
there was hardly a moment when the loud
smile that betrays a mental cavity was nor
encouraging the disorder on the stage One
“scene,” three doors, and an assortment of
baby and grown-up furniture are em
ployed to. unravel the plot, and the long
?T rm^°f^ o T ld^ nCe IS i Work all the time
H. C. Clarke, in explaining the appearance
of a baby and getting horribly confused in
the explanation, dodges in and out of the
doorways, while all the other characters are
kept at active service in a more or less
aimless manner. Two or three infants of
render years are pushed in to add to the
complications, and a German Baron (he
looks like a Dutch Amurkan hobo disguised
as Uncle bam) deepens the Yankee color of
the piece. H. Corson Clarke, as the man
who is not a father, but only a suspect, is
the Master of Disturbances. The measure
of his success can only be estimated by the
amount of energy expended in travelling in
and out of the holes in the scenery ; ’tis not
the miles he travels, but the pace that tells
Miss Margaret Dale Owen, as Abbie. the
slavey, is a rather stolid exponent of do-
mestic economy, while Miss Kathleen Law-
rence as Gladys Penfold, the model,
wouldn’t be recognised as an escapee from
artistic Bohemia. Gus Franks, in an in-
credible make-up, conducts himself more
like a fizzy drink than a peer of the Holy
Roman Empire. (He doesn’t profess to
belong to the Holy Roman Empire, but the
term sounds well.) Misses Enid Bowman
and Bertha Gordon are pleasant but un-
distinguished. and the impersonations of
Leslie Woods and John Fernside are mild
efforts.
* * * *
Clara Butt and Ken. Rumford, not for-
getting the rest of the concert co., will be
back at Melbourne Auditorium next
Saturday, and three nights in the Show week
following. Which nights are duly specified
in the advt.
* * * *
George Wirth just now is contemplating
the approach of Melbourne Show week with
the air of a man who would rather turn
noodle away than be prosecuted for over-
crowding. The Circus makes a special fea-
ture of the Dantes who Defy Death by biking
round a suspended saucer track, in the centre
of a large unstable cage, whilst two or three
anxious lions are barking below r . Which
seems a safe defiance to offer to animals that
evidently expect the saucer track to fall on
them, and are very annoyed wilh the tamer
who prevents their escape. Anyhow, the
writer suffers no terrors on the Dantes’ ac-
count. The only thing that thrills him at
the circus is the smile of the beauteous
Spanish girl, who stands on the swinging
slack wire with the easy assurance of an
angel seated on a cloud.
# 5?
Of the seven Quinlan operas that kept the
money rolling into Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
last week, five were repeats, the “Faust”
revival being noteworthy for its change of
prima donna and tenor. The occasional
Felice Lyne appeared as a suitably young
and exceptionally petite Marguerite, whilst
Spencer Thomas was a pleasing representa-
tive of the duped old man who sold his soul
on her account, and got only a short term
of rejuvenation for his foolishness. Miss
Lyne sang always brightly, though some-
times rather nasally, in her Marguerite
effort. She looked an adorable little : "l.
but her gracefulness was somewhat wanting
in simplicity, and she showed less natural
feeling for her part than when she was
Gilda in “Rigoletto” a fortnight previously.
“Madame Butterfly,” on the Wednesday
night, stood the test of comparison with Mel-
bourne’s fond recollections of other produc-
tions of the Puccinian tale of love, even as
“Boh&me” had stood it —or even better. The
Quinlan production, many people will re-
member, leaves the Williamson setting of the
first act. to be desired. Butterfly’s entrance
with her wedding party, across a bridge in
the background, was more effective than the
Quinlan way of bringing her along. In all
other respects the revival is satisfying.
Jeanne Brola, the versatile soprano-of-all-
work, does well in the name part; Parker
makes an admirable American Consul: the
Suzuki of Mabel Dennis is distinctively
effective; Sydney Russell, Gladys Ancrum :
the men in minor parts make the most of
their opportunities ; and Maurice D’Oisly. as
Pinkerton, puts some emotional force into
his warble. Moreover, he almost succeeds
in being a debonair lieutenant in a white
linen suit.
It was an off-week for Perceval Allen, the
plump Wagnerian prima donna, and for
Francis Costa, the bnlkv tenor, will sings
English with difficulty. They are not wanted
in “The Rhinevold,” the first of the operas
in the revived “Ring” series, which came to
pass last Friday, before the least numerous
audience of the season, and thus falsified
the allegation that General Desire had been
nining for another “Rinv” cycle. Those
long-rested artists were hilled for two bouts
of strenuous exertion this week, however.
Again, on Monday, they will appear in “The
Twilivht of the Gods.” the drama that
records the decease of Wotan behind the
scenes, and shocks Siegfried’s widow by
reouiring her late husband’s corpse to raise
its rigid arm. Between the last two chap-
ters of the mystical Ringmarole a one and
?, D - performance of “Carmen” will happen
this Saturday (20th).
Quinlan attraction last Saturday was
■ Manon Lescaut,” for the first time in Eng-
vr iv° a st uge, and for the only time in
Melbourne this season. The opera was
produced as carefully as “Louise”
(which had two performances), though
the elaborate dressing of the chorus
in the second act was more gaudy
than neat. Some of the choristers,
and even Maurice D’Oisly, as the hero,
looked as though they had fallen into their
wigs and garments by accident rather than
design. “Manon Lescaut” adds no laurels
to Puccini’s wreath. The music, richly
melodious in the second act, seems mostly
out of touch with the story, and the story
is a Bland Holt drama perversion of WAbbt!
I’revost’s naughty but tedious old novel —
Manon as the artless, amorous maiden elop-
ing with her impecunious Chevalier; Manon
living luxuriously with an elderly gent., and
wanting to elope some more; Manon singing
like a bird in a convenient prison on the
ground floor, where her lover can kiss and
play handies with her between the bars of
the cage; and the escaped Manon wandering
with her lover on the theatrical rocks, and
dying dismally. The last act is short and
weak, the previous three acts short and
lively. Brola took the honors for her diver-
sified creation of the gentle minx; D’Oisly
labored, under a deplorable outfit; and the
emphatic W. J. Samuel, as Manon’s brother,
asserted himself undulv, as did the orchestra
when the individual voices were doing their
loudest.
Two more nights of “Arrah-Na-Pogue” will
bring Maggie Moore to a conclusion at Mel-
bourne King’s. The circumference of Maggie
in the disguise of Arrah is one of those
anomalies which Melbourne accepts for
friendship’s sake, and her modern rendering
of “The Wearin’ of the Green” is infused
with the sentiment of “Auld Lang Syne.”
Roberts, Max Clifton. Brown, Beckett, John
Forde and Miss Wilton are on the commit-
tee of this time-honored institution. Next
Saturday (20th) Euvenie Duggan and co.,
with Roberts included in the co., will appear
in “The Confession,” whereof the manage-
ment remarks that it is up to date. Also,
it has the blessing of the clergy, whose up-
to-dateness is usually more honored in the
speech than in the observance, as Hamlet
would suggest.
Saturday’s event at Melbourne Bjiou will
be “Bobby Burnitt.” an American comedv-
drama by the author of “The Fortune
Hunter.” Meanwhile “Fanny’s First Play”
is commending the Denniston-Buckler ven-
ture to public notice.
“A ID AT AT HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
The Egyptian
King's
daughter
somewhat upset.
That great Cap-
tain of the Egyp-
tian Guards ,
Radames (Maurice
D'Oisly).
The Golden Troupe of Russian Dancers
are the latest arrivals at Melbourne Opera
House. Both sexes are about equally repre-
sented in this numerous party, and their glad
raiment makes a favorable impression when
they open the proceedings with a chant.
Subsequently their clothes are even gladder,
and their twanging of Russian equivalents
for the mandolin excites favorable comment.
After which they dance and spin in a
national manner —singly or in pairs, or all
together —until the house, in a manner of
speaking, is brought down about their ears.
Then they smile breathlessly and retire.
Twenty minutes of the Golden Troupe are a
great assistance to the bill. The other
principal ingredients are the Hoboes, and
Diamond and Beatrice, and the De Bruns,
the drawing-room dancers, having strength-
ened their attraction by waltzing up and
down a staircase, as though it were of no
consequence.
At Melbourne Athenaeum Hall next
Saturday (20th), Gregan McMahon starts
his tenth Repertory season with Galsworthy’s
“Strife.” This is the Capital v. Labor play
that worries the Fatman in his arrogance
and the worker in his wrath. Galsworthy
stands with one leg in the Trades Hall and
the other in the office of the Employers’
Lnion, snorting at stupidity on both sides.
Strife” is to be repeated on Monday. On
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday the ques-
tion of man’s salvation (which is a burning
question if you miss it) will be discussed in
Shaw’s “Major Barbara.” The scene of the
heated conversation is mostly a Salv’army
Shelter, where aching souls are saved by
cymbals, and conscience is awakened by the
earnest exhortations of the drum.
“MADAME BUT-
TERFLYAT
HER MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
Robert Parker as
Consul Sharpless. A Jap parson.
At Melbourne Olympia Edison’s Kineto-
phone is now giving speech to the speechless
picture-show. The new invention is a great
advance on the chronomegaphone with
which Spencer formerly surprised his pat-
rons. This is the ham of the per-
formance. The usual silent pictures which
precede and follow the Kineto. recitals are
the bread. “The White Slave,” the yarn
of an octoroon, was first favorite on Satur-
day, but “A Gentleman’s Gentleman” was
loudly supported by the sixpenny rush.
“Bloore” : What price the air of resigna-
tion about this communication regarding a
vacant postmistress-ship:—
Dear Sir, —Not hearing from you with regard to
the position of postmistress at Doodlepumpkin Creek,
I beg to inform you that I have got married.—Yours
obediently, Melinda Gargoyle.
“Chink” writes: —
The little one-horse township of Dunolly (Vic.)
has no remarkable claims to Fame—other than the
possession of the tinsmith’s shop in which Agent-
General Peter Mcßride was born and the little slab
hut in which Mrs. Peter—the lady who was pre-
sented at Court the other day—began her acquaint-
ance with this tiresome old globe, it (the township,
I mean) has not so man}' goats and geese as many
another Victorian village; neither has it as many
mullock-heaps and jam tins as various mining ham-
lets, but there is one point on which Dunolly can
show the way. This is in the supreme suitability
of most of its citizens for their respective billets.
There is a carpenter and builder whose name is
Wood ; the leading baker and cake-maker is one
Raison; the blacksmith is Strike; a near-by pub
bears the announcement “H. Berandie, licensee” ;
and to finish matters off nicely the coroner is Berri-
man. All we require now to make the circle com-
plete is a grave-digger named Shovel and an under-
taker named Christian Berrial.
“Inver G.”: “Jack" Meehan, Labor
M.L.A., N.S.W., is finishing in character-
istic style what is probably his last Par-
liament. During the censure debate the
other night he, for long, silently surveyed
and considered the Opposition. Having
made up his mind he delivered judgment
thus : “Well, you are a lot of dashed mon-
grels.” When he was pulled up for that he
said: “All right, Mr. Speaker, they’re not
what I said, but—they ought to be.” The
night after it was announced that Wood,
deputy-leader of the Wade party, had been
refused nomination by one of the suburban
Liberal leagues, the shearers’ representative
oftered his consolations across the floor:
“Never mind. Willie.” he said, “we’ll form
a lost dog party. There’ll be you, Willie,
and me, Willie, and —(uproar)-—and you
can be Premier. Willie.” In the sleepy
hours of one of the recent all-night sittings
the silver-headed Scobie was snoring with*
a pronounced’ Scotch accent in one of the
easy chairs at the back of the chamber.
John, himself newly waked, became annoyed,
and made his way to the sleeper and landed
him on the ear a flat-handed wallop that
resounded through the building. Scobie
leaped 10ft. When he descended he found
Meehan awaiting him with the brief expla-
nation : “You shouldn’t snore so hard !”
AT POVERTY POINT.
After all, “Jimmy” Nunn isn't going to quit the
stage. He has only made up his mind that it’s up
to some younger man to take on the arduous job of
stage-managing the Anderson productions.
“T. 0.1.”: Jonathan Dewhurst, an actor who
appeared in Australia in 1881, lately died, at the
age of 76 years, at Chorley, in Lancashire, where he
had been keeping an hotel. Very few playgoers will
now recall him. Brewer, in his Music and Drama,
says: “On August 22, 1881, an ‘eminent tragedian,’
Mr. J. Dewhurst, placed his Hamlet before a Sydney
audience. It was good, but without any originality.
A fine presence and a clear voice were of great use
to him.” In his younger days Dewhurst was fre-
quently associated with Henry Irving (1864), then
playing juvenile lead in the provinces, and he made
his first success, a little later, at Drury Lane play-
ing with Phelps in “Ivanhoe.” He retired from the
stage in 1886 —27 years ago. So he didn't die in
harness except in the sense that he died in beer
harness.
“Melb”: Nunn’s benefit was the worthy recogni-
tion of a worthy man. He is absolutely the most
modest actor 1 ever heard of. For 14 years he has
cast the parts for Bilanderson, and has always cast
himself beneath his ability, as evinced by his good,
intense rendering of Shylock at his benefit. If
happened to be a bad part in a drama at the
King’s, Nunn would clothe himself with it and turn
it into a good one. Indeed, when the good actor is
feeling good, he exults in a bad part. I remember
Cathcart. who had plaved the whole lead with C.
Kean, casting himself for the few lines of the Gaol
Governor in “Youth.” No play abounds more in
bad parts than “Measure for Measure” ; yet three
of them made the fortunes of three actors. John
Emery, father of Sam and grandad of Winifred, both
known in Australia, made the half-dozen lines of
Barnardine stand out more than anything else in
the piece; Hoskins, as Lucio, hit harder than any-
thing else in it at Sadlers Wells; and Pompey, the
clown, gave the eminent Webster his first start, after
he had been onlv a member of the orchestra.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Melb. Royal Agricultural Society
has refused space for side-shows, other than merry-
go-rounds and swinging boats, at its next annual
gathering, and the whiskered visitor from Dog Flat
will be robbed of much excitement. Incidentally,
the Society will miss considerable revenue in ground
rents. Presumably, the idea is to prevent the
swindling of Dad by shows such as even the immor-
tal Barnmn would have shied at, and it must be
confessed Australia has a vast selection of attrac-
tions warranted to swindle. Instance, “an oyster
that smokes.” observed at AVagga Show t’other day,
and the Wild Man eating red meat, prosectrted for
false pretences recently, but still continuing his
career of cannibalism. It is now a difficult matter
for respectable showmen (such do exist) to per-
suade a country crowd that they are not unmitigated
frauds, and it is up to them to form an association
that will do what the country agricultural societies
won’t do, viz., clear the gambler, the imnossible
hoop-la game people, and the exhibitors of indecent
and offensive shows off the face of the grounds.
German municipalities, which make money out of
annual fairs (purelv amusement concerns), control
their carnivals admirably. No “swank” advertising
is permitted. A giant of 7ft. must not ascend to
Bft. in the advts.. nor must a gentleman of 6cwt.
expand to 7ewt. Illusions must distinctly s f ate that
they are such, and there are. in most towns, strict
regulations regarding the exhibition of children.
Announced that Miss Fortescue, the beauty-actress
of a generation ago, is about to publish a book of
reminiscences. The £lO,OOO she got for “breach"
from Lord Garmoyle (profanely known as Lord
Gumboil) was a record until Daisv Markham got
£50.000 from the Marquis of Northampton the
other day.
(Continued on page 2ft.)
The alleged holding-up of the Broken Hill
express by armed and masked brigands, who
got away with Ll4O or so, wasn’t the sensa-
tional thing of the newspaper headings. As
with the “Central” fraud at Sydney, the
principal Broken Hill station is fixed on
the outskirts of the town, whence the express
crawls up through a narrow, tree-lined
reserve into the centre of the village. There
wasn’t any holding-up of the train. The
supposed brigands appear to have just
stenped on to the sluggish caterpillar, and
collared the day’s takings from the wooden
central booking-office, and stepped off again
before the caterpillar had reached the prin-
cipal station, where it begins to be a more
or less real express.
CURSING THROUGH BRASS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Four trombones in unison played the curse motif
with impressive effect. —Grand opera criticism.
The flute is a weakling ; it chirps and trills
And laughs like a stream in the ferny hills.
The brown violin is the slave of sin ;
It sobs and whispers all women to win ;
It shrieks, and hurries, and fidgets and quakes;
When anything's doing it giggles and shakes;
It quivers with passion and shivers with fear,
And plays up at once with the heart and the ear ;
While big brother ’cello and Pa Double bass
Are groaning and grunting with rather less grace.
The clash of the cymbals, barbaric and loud,
With savagery startles the chattering crowd.
The summer-day buzz of the dreamy bassoon
Flows quietly in like the light of the moon ;
But the cornet comes shouting ahead of the brass.
(His clear trumpet note makes him first in his
class.)
But when someone’s curse must be stressed in the
score,
Clear the musical deck and bring forward the Four !
bet them snort, blast and roar
Like wild elephants penned in a strange forest trap !
How wild is their force! E’en the drum’s thunder-
clap
Cannot deafen and daze like the blare of the “slide"
When it’s let loose to curse with three friends by its
side!
When enraged, don’t use words, or in court you’ll
atone;
Blow your sentiments splendidly through a trombone !
N.B.W.
LANGUAGE.


SOUTH AMERICAN
PANAMAS—
THE NEW SHAPE,
Widths of brim, from 2%in. to 3
Fine even plait—and extra good
quality. Sweat-proof leathers.
The latest
«r ir
ld/0
Other qualities — 21/-, 25/"* 30/-,
35/" *° 5 Guineas.
David Jones Ltd.,
Opp. Q.P.0..- SYDNEY.
f,
42
, A
mrk
-mi
4,
Kugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeeper
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State,- to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per retun
triaily
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The Bulletin has received, and hereby
thankfully acknowledges, a picture post-
card from an enthusiast of sorts in the
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.). On one side it
states: —
AN EMPIRE FOOD IN PEACE OR WARTIME,
also
RICE, DATE, OLIVE AND NUT CULTIVATION
IN NORTHERN TERRITORY.
And on the other side these observations
are specified :—-
THE NEW AGE !
THOUGHT INITIATION:
STRIKES OBSOLETE.
LOCKOUTS OBSOLETE.
Small increase of Wages to Earners (all round)
symbolical of Humanity’s Unity.
Goodfellowship and a hearty hand-grip to start in
this the New Age or Era.
TUBERCULOSIS OBSOLETE
(CONSUMPTION, Term onlv).
FOOD POISON ERADICATION.
Abolition of Bovine and Swine as Human Daily Food
THE TAP ROOT OF SUBLIME HEALTH,
HAPPINESS and CONTENT.
The Cost of living need not exceed 7d. per day.
Altitude Captive Balloons on Hospitals and Parks.
It is difficult to say exactly what it is all
about, but the intention is obviously good.
On general principles this paper hails the
sender as a brother.
By “Henry Horsecollar” :
It isn’t every day that, in the middle of a big
city, some £70,000 worth of premises and contents
double up and fall with a crash. So when Beard,
Watson’s great Sydney furniture warehouse suddenly,
in the dead of night, put both hands on its stomach,
and said it wasn’t feeling well, and then dropped
in, burying the magnificent carved oak sideboard,
and the vase, and the eight-day clock in the ruins,
there was some astonishment. Still there will pro-
bably be more astonishment later on. The place
that has gone down isn’t a patch on the places that
are going down. During the last few years of boom,
Sydney has been crazy in the matter of reconstruc-
tion. The architect came along, and looked at the
old building, and certified that the foundations
would stand the weight of another Storey, or two or
even three more storeys. Then, presumably, he got
the job. If he didn’t certify—well, probably some-
one else did, and someone else got the job. Build-
ings had the innards torn out of them and new
bowels put in till there was nothing left of the
original work save an outline and a smell of onions
from the caretaker’s premises in the basement. It
wasn’t so much a case of rebuilding as of throwing
a whole pyramid on top of the original hatbox.
There are two structures in my mind’s eye which 1
regard as among the next to go—two tall concerns
which some cheerful person piled on the top of an
aged next-to-nothing, and let in haste to the fleeting
financial agent, and persons of that sort. It is a
sign of the breaking of the boom when the boom
buildings begin to sag.
* * * *
From the Oldest Inhabitant: —The Wool-
pack, the much-paragraphed old pub which
is now being demolished at Canterbury
(N.S.W.), is not 80 years old, as alleged;
70 is nearer the mark. Canterbury is one
of the oldest Sydney suburbs as Sydney
suburbs go. There was a settlement there-
abouts away back in the 1790’5. Robt.
Campbell, among others had a grant there.
In 1036 the place commenced to have a
commercial value. Messrs. Edward Knox,
Child and Kemble had come to Sydney for
the purpose of starting a sugar refinery.
They fixed on Campbell’s grant on Cook’s
River as a likely spat for operations.
Through Samuel Lyons they purchased 60
acres, and on this site in 1841 they com-
pleted their building. It is now used as a
bacon-factory. “A.S.C., 1841” is or .but
lately was to be seen cut into the stone
upon the front. A township soon grew up
around the sugar works. One Murphy
built the first pub ; it was in Unwin-street
—named after Solicitor Unwin, who in-
vested a fortune in sugar. The next was
the Hardener's Arms. Samuel Miller kept
this; he came from the Blue Bell, on the
corner of Erskine and Sussex streets, still
standing, and now the Sydney YYharf Lab-
orers’ i Union Institute. In 1847 Thomas
Kelpey kept the Gardeners’ Arms under
the name of “The Yorkshireman’s Coat of
Arms” ; but after George Hill and Frederick
Clissold had established woolwashing on
Cook's River, the name of the ancient pub
was again changed, and became the Wool-
pack.
A PANKHURST ITEM FROM
ENGLAND.
PRESSMAN (to Womans Rights agitator):
“ And do you honestly believe that a woman
should get a man's wages? ”
AGITATOR (grimly humorous): "It depends
upon whether she's married to him or not."
Asquith’s friend, Robert Bridges, the
new Poet Laureate, has at least mentioned
Australia. Here is the reference, in the
new man's typically rocky verse —if it is
verse
Came from the swarming counties accoutering,
And misty highlands of Caledonia,
With Cambria’s half-Celtic offspring,
And the ever-merry fighting Irish ;
Came too the new world’s hardy Canadians,
And from remote Australia, champions
Like huntsmen, and from those twin islands
Lying off antipodal beyond her.
It reads like the last possibility in the way
of wooden or leather struggle.
THE MODERN MAN.
M.M.: 'Ms my wife going out, Jane?" JANE : “ Yessir."
M.M.: “ Am I going with her?"
“Red Tape Junior”: Two members of
the N.S.W. Public Service recently retired,
after long service, on a pension, as per regu-
lations, and each was granted a gratuity of
£5OO by Parliament. One officer was once
Comptroller-General of Prisons; the other
was a messenger in the Legislative Assem-
bly. The Comptroller got his little bit be-
cause for a few years he sat on N.S.W.
Public Service Board as a temporary hand';
the old messenger got his because members
of Parliament, who knew him well, felt like
giving it to him. It has. transpired that the
well-known Public Service rule which pro-
hibits a public servant drawing a pension
and a gratuity at the same time has been
applied to the messenger, but a hole has
been found which allowed the ex-Comptrol-
ler-General of Prisons to pull off both
pension and £5OO. The messenger can only
get his £5OO when his pension lapses— i.e.,
when he is dead. The other can enjoy his
while he is alive. I read a moral in this:
It is better to be a Comptroller-General
than a messenger.
* * * *
“Kangarookaburra” writes this :
The authorities of the Sailors’ Home, Melbourne,
are puzzled as to what to do with a veteran who,
having been an inmate for over two years, has .just
been discovered to be a woman.
Jerry Philpott, as she is called, states that she
changed her sex 50 years ago, though by what man-
ner of means she managed to accomplish it she can-
not be induced to explain.
“I have been a sailor, rouseabout, Church of Eng-
land curate and chauffeur,” she remarked ; “and
though efficient in everything I tackled, my pay
throughout has been wretchedly inadequate.”
Strange that the mistress of such a craft as the
ability to change one’s sex should never have put it
before the world as a money-making scheme. Think
of the vast possibilities! Take, for instance, the
case of a wealthy squatter who has an only daughter.
Isn’t it quite obvious that a man in his position
would be prepared to pay the very highest figure in
order to satisfy his craving for an heir?
Then what about the English suffragettes? Votes
would be immediately in easy reach of all of them,
and, I suppose, where such a large body is con-
cerned, the translation of Mary into John William
could he effected at wholesale rates, a much cheaper
proceeding than in cases where only individuals are
concerned.
Indeed, the opportunities seem to be endless, but
especially perhaps in regard to the bachelor to whom
a daily interchangeability of sex would be the great-
est blessing.
In the early hours of the morning he could, as a
female, both cook and lay the breakfast, interview
the butcher and cut out shaving altogether. Then
he could put back the sex-button to masculinity in
the hall prior to running to the station, and, if the
train should prove to be crowded all he’d have to do
would be to “female himself” again, and some bald-
headed old lunatic with a white beard would be sure
to get up and give him his seat. Again, he could,
if he wanted to, “re-male” on arriving at the citv,
only to get thoroughly unmanned at four o’clock so
that he needn’t pay for his afternoon tea.
And then the Spring Catalogues with their pretty
pink and white covers, their pale ribbons and curious
gold letters.
What a problem will now present itself. Sale-
time! Oh, Sale-time! “Which will I buy? Pyja-
mas or nighties?”
Conjure up the cry on board of the burning shin
when everybody is preparing to leave it. “Women
and children first!!” How many men would reach
for their sex-buttons?
Not 0ne....1 don’t think.
Yes, Jerry Philpott has a fortune in front of her.'
According to a cable. George Reid had a
narrow escape from death on leaving Lon-
don for Australia. While he was posing
for a photographer on the railway plat-
worm, his train moved out, and a scramble
ensued. Several heavyweights propelled the
heavier weight into the carriage ; but then
it was found that the children had been left
on the platform. After much trouble the
train was stopped and the family was re-
united. It seems to have been a badly-
managed exit altogether—quite as bad as
the sensational exits Barton used to make.
Barton, when he left for Brisbane or Mel-
bourne or Adelaide, was usually dragged by
the hair into the guard's van as the train
moved out, while his cab-horse denounced
him bitterly for infuriated driving, and
swore by its nose-bag never to have any
further truck with him.
HE MEANT WELL.
B ERT: “I say, Freddie, we're getting up a
little dance next week, and want men. Can
we count on you as a partner for some
unfortunate girl?"
“Mr. .Tames” published this advt. one
day last week : —-
WANTED—A Competent AUSTRALIAN LADY
TYPISTE, to travel Europe and the East. Must he
educated, healthy, of smart appearance, thoroughly
good tempered, and bright, cheerful disposition.
Applicants are requested to supply full particu-
lars of experience, age, height, personal appearance,
religion, family, references and a recent photo-
graph (returnable), when an interview can be
arranged in Sydney upon advertiser’s arrival.
A native servant, first-class travelling and hotel
expenses and a complete outfit provided.
Address in confidence to , , India.
If the S. M. Herald ever heard of the
Indian nigger potentate’s penchant for a
white miss it probably sniffed when it re-
ceived that advt. But the ten shillings
worth went in all the same. Now, in case
there should be any replies to the call from
India, it is up to somebody in a uniform to
inquire who the advertiser really is and
what lie- wants the healthy, good-tempered,
smart, brisk typist for, and why he is so
confoundedly particular about her age and
personal appearance.
THE POINT OF VIEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
St. Paul found occasion to refer to the matter.
It wou'd appear that it was not the clothes they
put o> so much as what they left off that the
apostle found fault with, and so it was in the pre-
sent day. The fashionable attire of some women
was almost outrageous. No matter who the man
was, there was nothing he admired so much as a
modest woman. —Dean McCullagli, at Bendigo.
Upon the whole I do not mind
These fashions of the freakish kind;
For all I care the modes may freak
Morn, noon and night and all the week;
And some I like to see.
A woman in an X-ray frock
My finer feelings doesn’t shock;
A maiden in a clinging skirt
My sense of fitness fails to hurt—
With thoughts of tragedy.
In fact, I often do the Block
With eye alert for some quaint frock.
To see some other fellow’s girl
Caught up in Fashion’s giddy whirl,
Leave off a thing or two
Does not appear to me unfit.
I truly do not mind a bit
When she lays bare her shapely arms
And otherwise displays her charms
For men like me to view.
Dear me! Where is the harm, I ask?
Why should we take a maid to task
Because she sails along the street
Appearing ravishinglv sweet
In sheath-skirt and a ring?
I vow she looks a perfect pearl—
Provided she is not my girl.
I’ll not have any girl of mine
Adopting fashions in that line!
That’s quite another thing.
There’s quite enough of this work done
By others; and my fancy one
Should surely dress, it seems to me,
W'ith some small show of modesty.
Nor argument nor pelf
Could e’er remove my stern ukase
That to no idler’s vulgar gaze
Shall she reveal an ankle trim.
These charms of hers are not for him ;
I want them all myself.
Men like a modest woman. Yes
Here is a truth, I must confess.
I trow, if she belong to me
I’d have her dote on modesty,
And be a very nun
To other men, but, all the same,
1 offer no excuses lame;
I own to flat hypocrisy ;
When others freak I cannot see
That any harm is done.
And when I toddle down the street
I love some shapely maid to meet
Arrayed in clothes that, on the whole,
Imperil one’s immortal soul.
As pious men have shown.
It’s very wicked, I suppose,
But when a girl leaves off some clothes
I have to own she beats the band ;
Provided, you will understand,
That she is not my own.
VICTORIA.
*
DEN.


\>ild s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs
Sydney Arcade,, George and King Streets, Sydnev, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
0.30 : Saturday close at 1 o'clock.*
d
Gd
gg
pl^ll
Underwear.
You cannot knew how comfortable under-
wear can be until you have worn Jason.
Immediately you put it on you realise the difference from the
ordinary kind. It is beautifully soft and siik like, and so
perfectly fashioned that it fits easily and comfortably. The
perfectly knitted all-Australasian Wool fabric forms an imper-
vious armour against changes of weather and makes for
good health.
And Jason is absolutely unshrinkable any garment that
shrinks will be replaced.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices
Jor men, ladies and c 1 ild’en. Infants' pure while
wear in li ht and medium weights. Jason Jerseys
for children wear splendidly. If your dealer does
not stock Jason insist upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty, write
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, England.
¥
Light Underwear
IN INDIA GAUZE.
The Summer weather is now so close that it is advisable to
select lighter underwear at once.
Our Summer-weight undergarments in Bengal Cotton are very
comfortable for Summer wear. Being made from cotton they
are unshrinkable, and cannot possibly cause discomfort to the
wearer. We have featured this line for many years, and can
strongly recommend it.
38
3/6
5/-
40
3/9
5/3
34 36
SHIRTS 3/_ 3/3
PANTS 4/6 4/9
Short Trunk legs, 6d. less.
When ordering, please state chest and waist measurements.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
44
4/3
5/9
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY-
“Vic”: The feature of Australia which s 0
fn- has interested the British Parliamentary
visitors the most is the pathetic old
Speaker’s Chair, preserved at the National
Parliament House in Melbourne. It was
presented, with due ceremonial, bv Governor
Manners-Sutton in 1873. and there were
even tears shed on the occasion. His father.
Speaker Manners-Sutton, sat in this con-
traption in the first Reformed (British)
Parliament in 1833-4. Parliament House
was burnt, but people rushed in where
devils feared to tread even with their cast-
iron hoofs. and dragged the ancient bit of
furniture out of Gehenna’s bosom. It is
nov kept in the Melbourne Parliamentary
Library, being too big and heavy to be em-
bezzled and taken bv intoxicated members
to a House of Flossie, as allegedly happened
to the poor old Mace. Every visitor insists
on sitting in it, and consequently it has had
to be re-covered twice. Therefore it is not
exactly the same thing, but the old wood-
work gives the right kind of groan when a
20st. Toorakian dame plumps down. En-
HER ONLY HOPE.
“Here it says io per cent, of women die at
73. You’ll never reach po unless you
hurry up and get of the 32 mark. ”
thusiastic visitors have even kissed the place
where the great Manners-Sutton is sup-
posed to have sat —only supposed, remember-
ing the two re-coverings. Strange to add, there
is an Impostor, claiming to be the very
same chair, in a Freemasons’ Lodge, at
Sunderland : but ours is the real Maginnis,
or the Parliamentary Commission wouldn’t
come all the way to see it.
Phe Old Soldier” on a military matter:—
siasm "wh^e 0 ?' APH . co^ ld hardl .V control its entliu-
exoOTtPri frn ‘ f A ou ? d , tha t the kilt was not to be
glad cry:— Austral,a after a]] - Listen to this
are G thlv° U nc? S m t the of the British armv,
ated witt, !lot ,. l l I . St T. lcall - v and unforgettably associ-
Watch thl nf ln n tlv j e regiments like the Black
a hundred y G ,T dons ’ the Dublin Fusiliers and
vrv? * . ther Rallant companies of fighters.”
‘ None tlf-f/T" 4 is kn ? wn as “the Gay Gordons”?
cal comedy le acquainted with, outside the musi-
—meaning lbere was ’ of course, a Gay Gordon
ballad “I!* 6 ? ent leman who is mentioned in the
Gordon wheT’ 6 D “ ndee ;” He was that Duke of
•fames IT tJ° r i, a t '"'c ll<dd Edinburgh Castle for
tions ” tho }?£ chin * t l ns ,na tter of “glorious tradi-
ments w P f ? ct is that since British rejri-
desie-natinns! V to he numbered, and territorial
blln made K h be ™ substituted, every effort has
tion The rt tho f ’ ll ..authority to abolish tradi-
poin’t In Dublin fusiliers is a case in
point, in 1858 it was one of the East India Co’s
When™? regiments enlisted for service in India.
.”" e “ the Territorial scheme was started it was
found there was no Dublin regiment and’ so this
Indian corps was used to fill the gap
when In' nr o" be kllt goes, there was never a time
it K black HU most ’ °J the Scotch regiments wore
nf ~rh ac kllt was adopted as part of the dress
a f noli re we C ? nSeqUe ?tlj called the Black Watch—
fand« fc battaho " raised for service in the High-
And W, t nt f Co ' vn Jacobites and cattle-thieves,
T 6 -^ 0 t,me other Sc °tch regiments have
ba? P P r« h »i bne t sar .™ Rnt that goes with sporrans.
Cmfl ” ? p ,A a'a A never was the “garb of old
Gaul Rather did the early Scotsman favor what
mvader termed breaccas, or, as a Scotch-
Tnwlana U say, breeks. There are a great manv
Lowland regiments in the Army List. At the head
hst ° f , h ? e infantry is the Roval Scots,
which, as Mackay’s regiment, had been serving in
Willit tn”’ and went.'over to England with
njl -r? Orange. They were dour refugees to a
man. Jhe Cameromans represented Presbyterian
fanatics raised in the south-west corner of Scotland
among the most uncompromising Presbvterians in
country. Some of them would not hesitate to
shoot or stab a Hielandman at sight. And breeks
were the mark of all their tribe.
* * * *
Nobody in the community gets less svm-
pathy when he is alive or is less inquired
about when he is dead than that soft-footed
jackal or financial agent of the parks who
is called a “tout.” Presumably he makes
at times something more substantial than
abuse and personal injury out of his “call-
ing. ’ else he would hardly follow it. yet it
is an intensely precarious job. When Bill
is discussing with Lizzie the prospects of
getting married and acquiring a cottage and
some time-pavment furniture, the reckless
apparition snuffles up out of the darkness
and demands the deposit that was being
saved up for the tables and chairs and lino-
leum as the price of that insanitary thing
he calls his “silence.” He has immense
quantities of silence about him. and if ; s
all for sale. Then if he has selected his Bill
wronglv he is either clubbed or shot. By
reason of the prevalence of the tout quite
a, number of Bills go armed to the evening
rendezvous with Lizzie. A supposed mem-
ber of the tout clan was found dead a few
days ago on some scrub-land a few miles
from Sydney and the amount of lack of
interest taken in his case is the same as
usual.
It was chiefly at Car-
rington’s suggestion that
the British Home Secre-
tary transferred the pre-
rogative of mercy in
capital convictions from
the N.S.W. Governor to
the Government. Under
the old system it was
largely a matter of luck
or liver whether the con-
demned person swung or
lived. Loftus, while
sending one man to the
gallows, calmly told a de-
putation that he believed
that if the man had been
properly defended he
would not have been con-
victed. Twenty-six were
to be sent to the gallows
in Sydney on one black
day; but the Governor
cut the number down to
19, chiefly, so far as could
be seen, because 26 made
such a lot. On another
occasion six assigned ser-
vants of Major Moodie
were duly hanged : but
the Governor learned
something uncomfortable
about the evidence after
the execution, and as he
could not revive the vic-
tims he removed Moodie's
, . name from the list of
•f’s.P. Prisoner Samuels was hanged three
times, but when the rope broke the third
time the Governor cried, “Oh, let the beggar
off.” And let off he was —a fair sample of
the caprice which formerly governed the
matter.
“Hamer” supplies a few statistics:—
There are 49 youths and 35 girls under 16 years
drawing- money under the Fisher’s Government’s
Invalid Pensions Act. Far the most interesting of
them (in fact, in his class he may be said to be
unique) is the permanent invalid wtat. 16, who is
also a “married man.” The most ancient of the
old age pensioners is 90. By the way, one Aus-
tralian mother who got off the maternity allowance
mark with extraordinary punctuality by weighing in
with an infant on October 10, 1912 (the day on
which Fisher’s Act came into force) earned another
fiver on August 24 last. Strenuous work, forsooth !
ALONG THE ROAD.
THE OTHER ONE: “Meat's the hurry ,
George! 15 there work behind or beer
ahead? ”
The sturdy backbone of this great country
is also about its sturdiest cadger. The
above somewhat trite reflection is prompted
chiefly by the recent case of Hans Irvine,
M.P., who was set upon by the Maryborough
(Vic.) P. and A. Society, and asked for a
donation. He demurred. Whereupon the
free and independent toilers reminded him
of the horses, vehicles and things they had
lent him in order to secure his election, and
reiterated their clamor for cash. Irvine re-
plied that he had imagined, in his ignorance,
that what they had done was in the cause,
not of boodle so much as of Liberalism.
Also, he pointed out that he could not legally
give anything during three months before or
after an election —a circumstance which was
liable to happen at any moment almost. At
the time of writing the self-respecting agri-
culturists had not thought of a new move in
the game of cash-extorting. But they will.
They have an absolute gift in such things.
The dairy inspector in the N.S.W. North
' Coast cowland gets poor encouragement in
his laudable task of converting Cocky to
habits of cleanliness. Owing to the iarge
area which he has to cover, he is able to
visit most localities but once a year. To
make matters worse, his coming is heralded
by a system of bush telegraphy, which isn’t
far behind wireless in effectiveness; and
when something goes wrong and an insani-
tary milk-squeezer is caught, this is the
brand of encouragement the inspector re-
ceives from the Bench :
At the police court, Casino, M. J. Seary was
charged under the Pure Food Act with having a
dirty dairy. The case for the prosecution was that
the bail floor v/as covered with manure, and fowls
roosted in the bails. There were heaps of manure in
the cowyard. The milkroom floor was dirty, and the
vat stand was covered with stale and mouldy curd.
The utensils were only partially cleaned. Close to
the milk room was a kerosene tin containing the
viscera of a calf, being boiled for pig feed. A cream
can contained a rope halter, and holes in two cream
cans were plugged with sour-smelling rag. The
accused pleaded guilty, and the Bench fined him £l.
Having been rescued from the manure of the
milk-room, and given a swill in the partly-
cleaned vessels, and permitted to stand
awhile alongside the bubbling, steaming
calves’ innards, the milk is separated and
dropped into cream-cans plugged with sour-
smelling rags. Then, being made into butter,
it is shipped to Europe, whereupon Europe
turns up its nose and buys margarine, made
of closely-inspected materials in closely-in-
spected factories. So the margarine trade
booms as few others have boomed in modern
times, and the butter trade is seriously
threatened, and the cow cocky yells to the
State to “do something.” And when the
State proceeds to do the very best thing it
can do, and hands the job over to some fool
of a magistrate, he finishes it in the absurd
manner above-mentioned.
A tale of Hob
Cunning:—
Those simple inno-
cents, the Liberal
leaguers, especially
the Women’s National
Leagues, might learn a
few points from the
Never-Toueh-Its. The
other day the Wear.
State Government took
an alleged local option
poll as to whether an
hotel license should be
granted to the bay-
side suburb of Chel-
sea. The law says
that the vote must be
taken over the whole
licensing district—
which in this case in-
cludes far-away places
like Dandenong, Chel-
tenham, etc. and
that at least, one-third
of the electors must
vote. The far-away
places naturally didn't
care a shandy whether
Chelsea got a pub or
not; if they had any
interest in the matter
they would rather
keep it publess, so it
was left to Chelsea,
Carrum and Aspendale
to roll up and decide
the issue. The Recha-
bites, having wrestled
valorouslv in prayer
for a space, first pla-
carded the district
with the device,
“Don’t Vote” ; then
they passed round
quiet hints that all
who did vote would
be assumed to be fav-
orable to a license
being granted, and
would be bovcotted
as far as possible bv
them ; and they wound
up by picketing the
oolling-booths, note-
books in hand, and
significantly record-
ing the names of all
those who voted.
Which explains why,
of 800 persons who
signed the petition asking for the.poll, less than 50
per cent, exercised the franchise. If these sainted
tricks are persisted in, the situation will have to
be met by an amendment of the Licensing Act, mak-
ing voting compulsory. It is not Local Option, but
No Ontion,. and No Option of that sort means No
License, which in a populous district merely means
Sly Grog.
■"’**■*
“C.E.”: The substitution of oil for coal
in the British Navy is more important than
was that of steam for sail. While Britain’s
advantage through coal is palpable, oil places
it on only an equal footing with most rivals,
and inferior to some. Five of the greatest
battleships being built in England will use
oil only, and the new cruisers are to be
oil-ers. Five other battleships, forming
this year’s programme, are to burn coal,
with oil as auxiliary. The reason is that
oil is only required for ships of exceptional
speed and quality. The oil ships will thus
CONSOLATION.
TENANT: "The house is cornin' down."
LANDLORD: “I don't know so much about
that. But I'll tell you what IDO know.
The rent is going up!”
form a division by themselves. Yet the oil
ship will become universal, partly because
it will be speedier, partly because oil takes
only one-third the space of the coal that
is necessary to do the same work, partly
because the stokehold staff will be much
reduced, and partly because a supply of oil
can be got-in much more quickly than one
of the other brand of fuel. As for the re-
duction in crews, mostly in the stokehold,
the Navy estimate puts the saving at about
one-third —most important in these days
when there is such trouble to man the
monsters.
SECOND-HAND SIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Unless respectable people love sin, how is it nnc
sible that there is such a large outnut nf r»rl' ? OS '
novels f— Rev. William Newbolt, Canon and Ohm?
cellor of St. Paul's Cathedral. London ° h
“Did ye read of that sin in a book?” he said
And Tomlinson answered, “Av.” au *
Ballad of Tomlinson
tthy need the clergy plead about
Respectability?
The kind of sins we read about
(The scarlet ones decreed about)
Are not for you and me.
We walk the way of narrowness,
Hut still it keeps us gay
To read of how a Baroness
Went giddily astray.
It interests devoted wives
To speculate and guess
Just how they would conduct their lives
Were they the Baroness.
Vicariously we play the game,
And lapse by proxy thus;
While printed people bear the blame
Without involving us.
So why need clerics prate about
The kind of books we read ?
'Tis thus we juggle Fate about,
And safely grow elate about
The lives we'd love to lead!
VICTORIA.
ROMAN COLLAR.


My agents in England and America
respectively are Mr. George Dunning
(editor of the London "Sportsman")
«M Mr. Charles Hatwey (secretary to
the Boxing Commission in New York),
Their tlrst thought, when engaging
_ men, is as to the social standing of such
men in the boxing world. It is neces.
sary for them to be not only champion
boxers, but also men of good type in
every way.
—Snowy Baker in Melb lately JAm*
Imported
" M r B^KayVi, I roust -
to 'figlt' tfeTs |> er^ a
H»S i$ 2k %Yoc*.r /c h>s |
is Sm» . I»1 our I
S&T we. nevati liaye. fi
wfttj~ Common /jjP
j>eo|>!e- | _ \
It Is obvious that censure motions do
not conduce to the Alt >rney-GenernlN
placidity of temper. 1., the House of
Representatives yester '.y he accused
Th ® Age ol having deliberately mi-
represented him.—News item.
The present Ministry did not believe
Tliat the laws of the country should be
itdded to unnecessarily.
—Joe Cook, (n a tired voice, lately
Tho liorrf Minor is not impressed
with the nrooosal emanating from the
orehardists’ conference at Diamond
<'reek that a .lay in March should be
set apart as “Apple Day." The Idea is
that such a day should be observed on
similar lines to those which distinguish
Wattle Day.— -Melb. paper
brie \re
ftvttevj'ly
o* /
• * /
Station x 'jf
j
As of
JfoT i s
only °ne. '^^o*
A u ytf&J ‘ V>
is Thursday,
ewav'y vrgfcK. y^i
|rvine —" If - I were
oj' 'jour Adopted S on S >
| Should C2\H jou li^r.'
f "
He said frankly that for many years
past the atmosphere of the Melbourne
University had been rathei agnostic
and men had had to tight for tlieir
faith.
frofessor Lyo Jsfov/ > looK lie re ,
M r S|aurrs you Always mixing
ajl “to noe.
Vet if it me .“how wowla
pvsons I ive \
'' Willie, you
me ■youv ithmiptraiTon
in |ohdor», V|?
trouble- Vo ur in
no ■Time'' '
Beery One ” Ere, I w&nt
l t> Sheeps 'ead -
I Burlier:-" Cev'+mly v
l E>otHe4 or & rv*gVt
Though It does not accent the re-
sponsibility of arranging marriages, the
Immigration Department has often
undertaken some of the work of a
matrimonial agency. Almost every
week letters are received by the De-
partment from young women in Eng-
land and America who desire the names
anil addresses of eligible young men.
—Melb. paper
/A, /^e \\>QUrYl<L
l?atclier been
j'on Selling beer
witboMT"2v lice«se-
POLITICS AND DREAMS.


AN ADVERTISING VISION.
CIRCULAR QUAY (SYDNEY) BY NIGHTMARE.


AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for vears
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name of
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
easily get it for you.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
BROUGHT TO BAY
Are those enemies of civilisation, Indigestion and
' vhe " Dr - Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are
everywhere.* B a " 2s ‘ 6d ' P6r tin ' obtainable
Mr. Miller, the success of many large American
manufacturing concerns is the beautiful appearance
of their goods. The appearance means the carton
or bag, in which these goods are “put up.” Take
any two similar articles, put the one up in a smart
wrapper, and the other in a cheap-looking affair
and the one with the smart wrapper will sell first
every time. _ Now, Smiths make Calico and Hessian
Bags. Print any number of colors. Give anv
guarantee, and will be pleased to exchange a ba'°*
with you, so that you can judge their work. Write
SYDNEY* 6 ' T ' SMITH ’ LTD ” SUSSEX STREET,
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
f
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLBNS.
LEVER BROTMCRS
LIMITED. SVDNEV.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A MATTER OF DRESS.
fuscon, Arizona, Monday Evening.—Accused of
wearing an X-ray dress, Miss Claire Simpson, when
arrested, demanded to be tried by a female jury.
As the Court was unable to secure sufficient jurors,
the Judge discharged the accused, holding himself
incompetent to decide whether tights worn under-
neath a dress were really immodest.
United, States cablegram.
“Now, Judge, tell me honestly, is there any-
thing wrong with that ? ”
“Waal, Miss, Ptn hardly competent to decide,
but I guess it looks ail right.''
Arthur Percy Douglas, who died in Eng-
land last week as the outcome of injuries
received in the Aisgill railway smash, was
Lnder-Secretary for Defence in Maoriland
from 1895 to 1901. He was born in Devon-
shire and educated for the navy, which he
entered in 1858. He was a lieutenant when
he flew. out. He then pushed the barrow
as an instructor to naval artillery volun-
teers at Liverpool, but skied the heartbreak-
ing job inside three years and departed for
Maoriland. In 1885 he came into pro-
minence as naval staff-officer (Providence
alone knows what a naval staff-officer had
to do then in M.L.) during a war scare,
and thence passed to the positions of sec-
retary to. the Council of Military Educa-
tion, major and staff-officer of artillery,
commander of the permanent force at
Lyttelton, and, finally, Under-Secretary.
After retirement in 1901 he went back to
Britain. He was 68 years old when a whole
express train fell upon him simultaneously;
also and incidentally, he was the fourth
baronet of his tribe. Being a mixture of
Percy and Douglas he kept himself in the
picture by meeting a violent death not far
from the snot where two verv remote in-
dividuals of that name bangrd each other,
with fatal results to one. at the battle of
Otterburn.
THE APOTHEOSIS OF POUTJCAL
AUDACITY.
John Sands is the oldest business name
left in Sydney. There are one or two older
houses, but they have changed their names.
John Sands opened his shop in 1837 —the
place still stands in George-street, opposite
Lassetter’s. In 1847 he removed to
premises near the General Post Office, and
part of the business is still carried on on
that site.
The Bulletin receives this letter from
M. E. Kozminsky, of the Austral Hat Mills,
Melbourne: —
With reference to H. Kozminski, Adelaide (in
“Answers to Correspondents” column, Bulletin
of the 28/8/T3), 1 would like to point out that
H.K. does not belong to our clan, nor did we know
that anyone else bearing such an illustrious name
was to be found in Australia outside of Victoria.
People are many, and names are few, and
even if you are called Gad Borndrunk you
may find yourself duplicated. When Walter
Besant invented Uncle Bunker he seemed to
have struck something fairly improbable. Yet
there is a small tribe of Bunkers in Mel-
bourne and another in Sydney, and doubt-
less some of these Bunkers are uncles. Pro-
bably if you threw 10 big rocks in the
Strand, London, at a busy hour, the ninth
one would hit a Bunker and the tenth would
brain a Kozminsky. This comes under the
heading of the cussedness of inanimate
objects.
Died recently at New Norfolk (Tas.),
Thomas Allen Shone, whose memory carried
him back over some rough bits of early
history. He was born 91 years ago on the
patch where he died, his father having been
one of the. first to hold land in the New
Norfolk district. Shone remembered his
father taking part in the famous “Black
Line” of ’3l, when a futile attempt was
made to round up all the Tasmanian
natives. The drive resulted in the capture
of a lame man and a boy ; all the rest got
into inaccessible country. The fastnesses
of Mount Dromedary, near New Norfolk,
became 10 years later the stronghold of
Cash’s bushranging gang (Cash, Kavanah
and Jones), who once stuck up the Shone
homestead. Cash, the Claude Duval of
Australian ’rangers, told the story in his
memoirs. . The . conclusion of his yarn, by
the way, is quite in the best style of the
"'fllDnt; —
I was obliged to superintend the business in con-
sequence of the great number of prisoners we had in
charge, as upon all occasions we were obliged to
look after Jones [Jones was a notoriously rough
hrutel. He borrowed a valuable gold watch from
Mr. McKay, a silver watch from Mr Shone, together
with rings, purses, etc. ; also, miniature nortrait. of
a young lady from Mr. Ferguson, which I told him
to return to that gentleman, as he apneared to set
some value upon it, remarking that, although I was
fond of looking at a pretty face, yet I did not wish
to indulge this weakness at the expense of another.
He expressed his regret at seeing such men so un-
fortunately situated, and observed that he wished
he had the power to take us out of the colony. The
young ladies as well as all others in the house,
seemed quite at their ease, well knowing they would
not be insulted.
Young Tom Shone turned up at the house
just when the “stripping” was in progress,
and had the honor of looking down Kav-
anah’s gun.
Colonel Stephen Mallarky, recently dead,
aged 65 years, was a Sydney native, son of
Stephen Mallarky, a cooper, and Mrs.
Mallarky, a milliner, both in business in
Pitt-street. The boy entered the Govern-
ment Printing Office in 1864, and while
there joined the volunteer forces, and toiled
up to be commandant of his regiment. Tom
Itichards, Government Printer of that day,
was an enthusiast in soldiering, and many
of the stall' served under him.
A letter from the Apple Island :
The retirement of John McCormick from the posi-
tion of Chief Engineer in the Lands and \\ orks
department of rasmania has removed a striking
personality from the public service of the Apple
speck. McCormick, who was Engineer for Existing
Lines at the time, succeeded the late Hudson as
manager of the State railways when Hudson went
from Tasmania to join Tait in Victoria. But
McCormick’s luck was rotten. A succession of
bad seasons and worse counsels, coupled with local
prejudices and political interference, topped with
an unfortunate run of ill-health, settled his railway
prospects and relegated him to the engineer’s branch
of the Works Department. Tnere his atrocious luck
stuck to him, till Parliament and public clamored
for an imported commissioner, and McCormick, a
big-hearted, stocky man, passed out from the service
for good.
Died in S. Aus.: (1) Charles Kimber. of
Clare, in his time mayor, miller, first
grower of currant grapes in that now vinous
district, M.L.A., and many other things.
At 88, with an incurable and agonising dis-
ease, the veteran refused to be tortured fur-
ther, and strangled himself with his pyjama-
strings. (2) T. W. Green, “chief clerk”
since 1890 in the Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ment, and trusted adviser of many politi-
cians holding that office. It was his life’s
work ; he joined at 16, and died at 57. Ilis
place is filled by Ilari'y Blinman, a member
of the Board of Cricket Control, and pos-
sibly the best batsman who never got into a
test-match.
Mrs. Jean Lees, Adam Lindsay Gordon’s
first love, died lately at Holly Bank, Wor-
cester (Eng.). There is a good deal about
her in a chanter of the collaborated book
by Douglas Sladen and Mrs. E. M. Hum-
phries—“Adam Lindsay Gordon and His
Friends in England and Australia.” Mrs.
Lees inspired several of Gordon’s poems,
but refused his offer of marriage. She may
have suspicioned that poet’s wife is not
a happy one, and that the stream of sonnets
to her charms might dry un after marriage,
and, be replaced by “Ballads on the Bonnet
Bill” or “Songs of Sadness on the Stringy
Steak.” She was a Miss Bridges, whose
father gentleman-farmed at Broughton
Hackett, near Worcester. A sister. Sally,
married one of Gordon’s pals, Charley
Walker.
The Blacks of the Western District
(N.S.W.) have just put up stained-glass
windows in a local church, in memory of four
departed members of the clan. They have
been a luckless family. The old man built a
braw new hoose at a cost of £16.000, moved
into it, and died three months later. Then
Neil, his son, ( built an £lB,OOO house, and
sailed to England in the Waratah. He never
lived in his new palace. About 18 months
ago, A.J., the eldest son. while motoring on
a fine road from Camperdown to Terang,
turned the machine over and passed out.
Only one son. Stewart, is left; and at time
of writing he isn’t feeling too well.
A MELTING MOMENT.
The Attorney-General is known all over Aus-
tralia as “Iceberg” Irvine. To-day he belied his
reputation, for he was as warm as anyone could wish
him to be. —S. M. Herald, on Marconi debate.
Thawing the iceberg.
■Dr. Watkin, Methodist minister of St.
Kilda (Vic.), is reputedly the oldest Aus-
tralian-born clergyman in active work. He
is 74. His father lived to be S 3 and his
mother 94. His eldest brother is 83. His
father was one of the earliest pilots in Wel-
lington (M.L.).
One of Maoriland’s most noted seamen
hauled up his earthly anchor last week at
Wellington after S 3
years on the tide of
Time. That was Cap-
tain Edward Wheeler.
He first went down to
the sea in 18-14 in the
ships of T. and W.
Smith, trading out of
London. lie served
hi s apprenticeship
with them, followed
the _ long routes to
India and China as
second and first offi-
cer, and was mate of
the old Lord Ashley,
in 1858, when that
steamer arrived in
M.L. and was subsi-
dised by the baby
Government of the
hour to run mails
along the coast.
Twelve months later
he w r as master of the
ship, which belonged
to Pearson and Cole-
man, of Hull, the firm
that afterwards
merged into the Inter-
colonial Royal Mail
Co. Wheeler com-
manded most of the
vessels in that line,
and when the co. sold
out he joined the
M.L. Steamship Co.
From that flag he
transferred to the
Union Steam Ship Co.,
and, as one of the “star”
skippers, remained
with it for about 20
years. The old man
told the writer once
that no accident had
ever happened to a
vessel under his com-
mand ; and there was
nothing handy in the shape of evidence to
confound him.
TREASURER
CANN (N.S.W.).
Died recently out West, among the
N.S.W. mulga, Mrs. Kelly, aged 73, widow
of the late “Stockwhip” Kelly, journalist
and Parliamentarian. She and her hus-
band were among the pioneers of Bourke.
the river town that you reach (if you want
to reach it. which you probably don’t) by a
railwa" that shoots dead-straight for a
longer distance than any other railway in
the world save a rival concern in Argentina,
and a Russian line which starts from St.
Petersburg and makes a beeline south-east
to a place that sounds like a sneeze and a
pair of hiccups.
James Newton, who once represented
Balranald in the N.S.W. State Parliament,
died at Hav on Sunday. lie was elected
as a Laborite in 3891, and sat through one
Parliament. At the next general election
he was beaten by James Ashton. He was a
saddler, and it was the Carriers’ Union that
pushed him into politics. It took a good
deal of pushing to get him in, but he got
out quite easily. Strenuous campaigning
wasn’t in his line.
Died at the comparatively early age of
48, H. C. Hinder, one of Sydney’s leading
operating surgeons. Twenty-two weeks ago
he pricked his finger while performing a
sentic operation, and blood-poisoning set in.
Then ensued a tremendous struggle witli
death, in which Sydney’s leading profes-
sional men joined. At an early stage am-
nutation might have averted fatal results,
but the eminent surgeon, who would never
hesitate to recommend an Imroic operation
on a patient, and perform it successfully,
stood out against losing a limb of his own.
The fight la«ted five months, with a verdict
for the Old Reliable on September 14.
“David Jones,” of Sydney chiffons, is
celebrating a jubilee and a half. The
. original David was a Welshman, who, land-
ing at Hobart Town with his family, opened
a drapery business there in 1834. The fol-
lowing year—in September—Appleton and
Jones came on to Sydney, and commenced
business in Pitt-street, where Farmer and
Co.’s original short stood. The partnership
was dissolved in 1838, and Jones re-
moved to premises on the corner of Pitt-
street and Barrack-lane (now Barrack-
street). In 1857 he retired from business:
but his successors, Thompson, Symonds and
Co. not being successful, he returned in
1800, and started to build up again the
business of the firm. He succeeded, and
after seven years’ hard work again retired,
lie died in 1873. aged 80. The third genera-
tion of Jones is now in management. The
second was killed in the big Redfern rail-
way accident some 20 years ago.
THE WOWSER'S TART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
in view of the great moral and spiritual peril
attaching to dancing, theatre-going, and other amuse-
ments of a questionable character, the members and
adherents of the Church are strongly urged to ab-
stain entirely from such amusements, and not to
allow themselves or encourage others in any prac-
tices, however alluring or fashionable, which tend
to lower the tone of their Christian experience or
lessen their influence for good.— Resolution passed
at a recent meeting of the leaders of a Melbourne
Methodist Church.
James Meekling is a Methodist,
A Wowser cold and slow ;
He never gives his girl a twist,
Or takes her to a show.
For naught could be improperer
Than going to the opera—-
His pastor told him so.
He shrinks from questionable joys,
Avoids all social snares ;
To dissipate, like other boys,
James Meekling never cares.
They oft are jesting giddily
Or waltzing Merry-Widowly,
Whilst he is reading prayers.
But though he feeds upon the Word,
And humbly serves the Lord,
His fiancee is sometimes heard
Suggesting she is bored.
In tones a little querulous
She doubts if pleasures perilous
Should always be abhorred.
Last night I found a chance to speak
Of worldly things to May,
And when I pinched her blushing cheek
She did not say me nav.
Methought the maid seemed pleasable,
For when I termed her “squeezable”
She whispered “Go away.”
I’m sorry for the Wowser’s “tart”
Whose passions are repress’t;
The yearning to be gay and smart
Must wither in her breast.
But drab and dreary piety
Has spared her much anxiety
It may be for the best.
Kind Providence, I often think,
Ordains that godly wives
Shall nag the brutes who swear and drink
And lead them awful lives,
Whilst May, the would-be anarchist,
Gets married to a Methodist,
And wears the Wowser’s gyves.
VICTOHIA.
O.K.


mii
-3005
%
W
sac
F-
■ - // ; %? / >/.,/
/ '/ / //„■' Z ’/
n
*?**-•*'
i
m
i i
CLASS I
THE breeding may be there, but there is something more required —“ Class ! ” So it is with
your Suit. Unless the cut and quality are there you might just as well wear shoddy and
be out of the race. We have in our Austral Suit reached the happy combination of Cut,
Quality, Finish and Wear.
The Spring Carnival will be here shortly, and we will have your Suit just right if you order
early and leave the rest to us. A post-card will bring you patterns, self-measurement forms and
a 120-page catalogue of everything for men and boys’ wear. We quote our famous Austral Suits,
as follows : —635., 70s. and 755. ; hand-made, 845., 905., 955., 105 s. and 115 s.
GOW ING B ROS„
PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street ; & 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
ALL ORDERS CARRIAGE PAID IN AUSTRALIA.


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock ?
Write to use for prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumns
with Brass-lined Cylinders. ’
AGENTS in every State. Tf not in stock in your State, apply to—
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32—34* Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED.
“SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISROL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Victoria General Insurance and
Guarantee Co. (Melbourne) :
Added to
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1902 .. £ 4801 20 p.c. = £ 4000 £3Ol £12,280
1903 .. 3957 20 „ „ 4000 12,237
1904 . . 3736 20 ~ „ 4000 11,973
1905 .. 3334 15 „ ~ 3000 334 12,307
1906 .. 3534 15 .. „ 3000 534 12,841
1907 . . 3845 15 „ ~ 3000 845 13,686
1908 .. 4216 20 ~ 4000 216 13,902
1909 . . 3340 15 „ „ 3000 340 14,242
1910 .. 2799 10 „ „ 2000 799 15,041
Reinsurance fund disclosed . . 2161 17,202
1911 .. 3971 15 p.c. = 3000 971 18,173
1912 . . 2685 10 „ „ 2000 685 18,858
1913 .. 3251 15 „ ~ 3000 251 19,109
In 1889, when the Vic. Life and General —which had
been mostly life and very little general—decided
that it was no use attempting- to get life business
any more, this eo. was formed to take over such
other business as there was. No new shareholders
were got in; the Life and General just formed a
second co., put the old shareholders down for as
many shares in the new as they had had in the old
co., and paid up their shares to 10s. apiece for them.
No new organisation was attempted. Already on
the same premises there was a fire and marine co.,
composed of very much the same people, and they
probably thought that if they pushed business it
would be only a case of robbing Paul to pay Barna-
bas. And in that spirit the co. has lived and moved
and had its being. There was plenty of room for
it. Its canvassers, had an active lot been put on,
would probably have got business for the other Vic-
toria instead of taking any from it, just as un-
questionably the activity of the Queensland Insur-
ance Co. has won business for other Australian
offices, or as the campaign of the Citizens’ (now
M.L.C.) made it easy for the A.M P. to quickly
build up an Industrial business. However, the Vic-
toria General apparently didn’t want to do busi-
ness. So it grabbed what profits there were, and
starved the reserves; and thus it frightened off
business that might have come to it without being
dragged. Hence, while other Australian offices have
doubled and trebled their premium income during
the last 15 years, this one actually has less now
than it had in 1900: —
Pre- Ex- Expense Loss
miums. penses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1900 ..£11,324 £2864 £6387 25.4 p.c. 56.4 p.c.
1905 .. 9,443 2973 4429 31.5 „ 46 9 „
1908 .. 8,971 2783 3331 31.1 „ 37.1 „
1909 .. 8,648 2843 3805 32.9 „ 44.0 „
1910 .. 7,324 2007 3814 27.3 „ 52.0 „
1911 .. 8,127 1920 3521 23.6 „ 43.3 „
1912 .. 8,125 1920 4523 23.6 „ 55.7 ~
1913 .. 8,388 1897 4661 22.6 „ 55.5 „
The expense rate is low, but that is nothing to its
credit. Any office could achieve a low expense rate
if it didn’t hunt for new business. The paid capital
is £20,000; and this and such reserves as there are
find investment in real estate ( £21,273) and cash
and public securities. The real estate is in at
‘•book values,” which may mean anything. Nobody
seems to care much what it does mean. Probably
somebody would revalue it, only it would be a
bother. And the Victoria General and Guarantee
is obviously a co. that detests bother.
* * * •
The Victoria Insurance Co. (Mel-
bourne) ;
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1902 ..£23,923 27 p.c. = £13,481 £10,442 £69,088
1903 •• 28,195 36 „ „ 17,975 10,220 79,308
1904 . . 28 068 36 ~ „ 17,975 10,093 89,401
1905 . . 27,571 36 ~ „ 17,975 9,596 98,997
1906 . . 28 330 36 „ „ 17,975 10,355 109,352
1907 .. 22,762 36 „ „ 17,975 4,787 114,139
1908 .. 14,723 36 „ „ 17,975 110,887
1909 .. 23,058 36 ~ „ 17,975 5,083 115,970
1910 .. 16.351 27 ~ ~ 13,481 2,870 118,840
1911 .. 29.049 36 ~ „ 17,975 11,074 129,914
1912 .. 24,097 36 „ „ 17,975 6,122 136,036
1913 .. 29,776 36 ~ „ 17.975 11,801 147,837
This ought to be the biggest fire office in Australia.
It started 35 years ago with a heap of money and
pursey influence behind it. Ever since then it has
depended on its money and its pursey influence —the
influence of the Millers and the Paynes and the
Knoxes and the McCrackens. It has been too re-
spectable to take off its coat and slog in; too re-
spectable also to yell at the top of its voice that it
was an Australian office and claimed the business of
Australia on that ground, backed up by its own vir-
tues. But if it hasn’t hustled for business it hasn’t
minded hustling for dividends. It even paid 36 p.c.
in a year when there wasn’t enough profit to pay 30
p.c. Now, the shareholders have their reward ; they
don’t get a penny more dividend to-dav than they
got 20 years ago. If instead of paying 36 p.c. divs.
20 years ago (they paid even more than that some-
times in the ’Bo’s and early ’9o’s) they had paid a
reasonable 10 or 15 p.c. and had put 10 p.c. by and
spent the other 11 p.c. in pushing for new business,
the premium income would now be perhaps five
times as big. and the profit £129,000 instead of
29,000. The South British was formed in the
'7o’s, like the Victoria, and didn’t have half the
latter’s pull. For many years its paid capital was
less than that of the Victoria. But it kept its divi-
dends down, and it showed some enterprise, and to-
day its premium income is more than three times
that of the Victoria, and even if it didn’t issue a
single poliev the interest earned by its accumulated
profits could pay a dividend twice as big as the Vic-
toria’s. Further, the shareholders have got in the
past three years, in dividends and bonuses, as much
as the Victoria’s have got in the twelve! That’s
what a little self-denis! celled with a lot of intelli-
gent hustle means in fire insurance.
Mere, in brief, i< the Victoria's underwriting his-
tory since 1895: —
Net Ex- Expense Loss
Premiums, penses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £66.4T-2 £15.997 £35.437 23.0 p.c. 53.3 p.c.
1900 .. 82.217 19,080 46.405 23.2 ~ 56.4 „
1005 .. 82.276 22.544 36.710 27.4 „ 44.6 „
1909 .. 90.619 24.016 48.835 26.4 „ 53.9 „
1910 .. 94.870 o" i7l 58.192 26.8 „ 61.3 „
1911 .. 104.006 96.-15 54.332 25.7 „ 52.2 „
1912 .. 111.6°“ 90 .>nq 64.345 26.2 ~ 57.6
1913 .. 122 813 32.389 67.283 26.3 ~ 54.7 „
The Bui,i.' t v entertains som° doubts about that
low expense rate. In the Published accounts pre-
miums are shown on one side: on the other “rein-
surances, discounts and commissions” are lumped,
of course the reinsurances and discounts must be
deducted from the premiums; but in doing that the
commissions are deducted also. This means that the
commissions, or some of them, are not included
among the expenses. Other offices show their pre-
mium income reinsurances and discounts onlv;
commissions are then reckoned as expenses. No fair
comnarison can therefore be made betw°en the ex-
pense rate of this and other offices. As for the
funds, they are, on the whole, very satisfactorily in-
vested. Approximately £170,000 is in deposits or
public securities. All round, from the policy-
holder’s point of view, better things couldn’t be de-
sired. The less the business is pushed—that is to
say, the fewer the risks taken —the greater, of
course, the policy-holder’s security; and the more
of the funds that are kept liquid, the surer he is of
getting his money. It’s all right for him ; it’s the
shareholders and not the policy-holders who suffer
from the Victoria’s large capacity for eating its
cake and then going soundly to sleep.
* -if- * * ,
The Victoria Life and General Insur-
ance Co. (Melbourne): —
Funds
(a par;.
Ex- Dividends, from
June, Income. Claims, penses. etc. Capital).
10d2.. £13,1)68 £0,1,9 £lllO 25 p.c. = £lO,OOO £292, 82
1903.. 12.434 10,146 1535 25 ~ ~ 10,000 t
Written off securities, £20.000 * " “’
1904.. 11,976 9,776 14-6 25 p.c = 10,000\ 9 .„
Written off securities, £l<*,ooo f “ ’
1905.. 11,587 14,294 1330 25 p.c. = 10,0'0 229,573
1906.. 12,270 13,193 1540 25 „ ~ 10,000 217,'10
1907.. 11,468 9,525 1281 25 ~ ~ 10,000 207,772
1905.. 11,478 10,490 1308 25 ~ ~ 10,000 197,452
1909.. 10.869 7,876 1286 25 ~ ~ 10,000 189,159
1910.. 10.253 *2.9 6 1186 371 ~ „ 15,000 170,320
1011.. 11,330 11,783 1191 621 „ ~ 25,000 143,676
1912.. 7,893 8 2'6 1071 371 ~ „ 15,000 127,212
1913.. 6.777 10,240 1094 371 .. .. 15,000 107,655
It’s beautiful while it lasts, but it can't last much
longer. Twenty-three years ago the co. gave up the
idea of chasing life or any other sort of policies.
The public had got too well used to another kind of
office —the one which offered policy-holders the pro-
fits by way of bonuses instead of collaring them for
the fattening of shareholders So this co., which
consists largely of the “money” Millers, sat down
comt'ortablv to wait for the death of the last policy-
holder, and ever since has been praying hard that
he will live a long while, because the longer he lives
and the more premiums he pays the better it is for
shareholders. Fortunately the co. didn’t have to
keep up an elaborate establishment of its own. There
are three “Victoria” offices, including one that
handles fire business in a pretty large way; and
since this Life remnant needs only the corner of the
manager’s eye, the expenses are small. The reserves
now consist of assurance fund, £97,701 ; contin-
gencv fund, £7314; unappropriated, £7640 ; less
£5OOO to be cut out of one or other (or the lot)
for the half-year's dividend. In theory the assur-
ance fund is the right amount accumulated against
policy liabilities ; but clearly it is regarded as more
than sufficient, because a part of it is regularly col-
lared for shareholders. How much more can be
divided in this way there is no telling. Besides the
reserves there is £40,000 of capital; and in pre-
paration for the last trump the total funds have
been gradually drawn out of fixed and put into
liquid investments. There is £14,439 in mortgages
and £6848 in house property, but practically every-
thing else is in cash or securities that can be
promptly converted into cash.
* * * »
The Wellington Woollen Manufac-
turing Co. (M.L.) :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Julv, £ £ £ £ £
1902 . .10,773 8 p.c. = 5137 2500 3136 22,437
Premiums on new shares.. .. 1413 23,850
1903 ;;y 9,065 8 p.c. = 5604 2500 961 24,811
1904 9,130 8 „ „ 6273 1000 1857 26,668
1905 . . 3,950 6 „ „ 4800 2000 23,818
1906 .. 5,200 5 „ „ 4000 1000 200 24,018
1907 . . 6,708 6 ~ „ 4858 1500 350 24,368
1908 ..11,190 0 „ „ 5353 2000 3837 28,205
1909 .. 6,277 6 „ ~ 6114 3000 25,368
1910 ..13,653 7 „ ~7957 5500 196 25,564
1911 ..11,685 7 „ ~8074 3500 111 25,675
1912 ..14,735 7 „ ~8074 5000 1661 27,336
1913 ..17,150 8 „ ~ 9228 5000 2922 30,258
Thirty years old, and reserves of £30,258. A few
minutes ago this writer was growling at a Vic-
torian fire insurance co., of much the same age
as this, and with a good deal less capital, because
it hadn’t accumulated more than £147,000 of re-
serves. And to show that co. how ashamed it ought
to be of itself, he had quoted a Maori land insurance
concern which, though but a few years older, had
£603,000 of reserves. Further, while the insurance
concern has its big money mostly in cash or securi-
ties that can be converted quickly into cash, this
Wellington co. has most of its poor little lot in
machinery (which would be worth very little if the
business shut down) and in merchandise stock.
Meantime the insurance co. is paying a 36 p.c. div.
and the successful manufacturing co. is not too sure
of its 8 p.c. There is something radically wrong
with a system under which such anomalies exist.
A good many insurance offices die in childhood, and
that is alleged to be the justification for big profits
when one does pull through. But an even larger
proportion of manufacturing enterprises fail ; yet
when one lives on, there is a yell about robbery as
soon as it makes 10 p.c., and a shrill cry goes up
to Heaven to pull the tariff down so that the robber
may be torn to pieces by foreign comnetitors. To
earn its poor little £9228 a year, and lay bv its
poorer little £2822, it is safe to say that this co.
has to think harder, and sweat harder, and ri.-k
more than a financial concern making three times
the money. It is all wrong, and it will go on being
wrong until people don’t explode in horrified sur-
prise at a Protected manufacturer making even 15
p.c. in good times. And it’s not only the cus-
tomers who will have to leave off being explosives.
Workmen are the same. As soon as a concern shows
a decent profit, it’s cut, cut, cut for more monev.
Mostly they ought to get more money (and, inci-
dentally, do a great deal more work for it, as a
rule) ; but if they are going to fill their own
pockets and empty the boss’s—well, there’s going to
be even less inclination to put money into manufac-
tures than there is to-day. And Heaven knows
that’s little enough. Here is this co.—this success-
ful co.—with an overdraft and other liabilities
amounting to, £48,788. not to mention deposits
against contingent calls ( £6828). Not one balance-
sheet in the past 12 years has shown the co. to be
out of debt. With manufacture properly regarded,
there would be no need for this persistent plaster:
Capital would come in sufficient to enable the co.
to trade on its own money.
linney. Isles & Co.. Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane:—
Towards
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£17.566
1905 .. £4.179 6 p.c. =£1,768 £2.411 15,155
1906 .. 5,323 6 „ „ 1,909 3,414 11,741
1907 .. 9,457 6 „ „ 2,189 7,268 4.473
, „„„ _ Reserves.
1908 .. 12,767 6 „ „ 3,929 8,838 4.365
1909 .. 13,898 6 „ „ 3,983 9.915 14,280
1910 .. 11.694 6 „ „ 4,037 7,657 21,937
1911 .. 19,863 8 „ „ 6,815 13.048 34.985
Premiums on new shares. . 4.062 39,047
1912 .. 16.856 8 p.c. = 13,057 3.799 42,846
1913 .. 14,617 8 „ „ 12,861 1,756 44,602
Until lately this co. didn’t issue printed statements
showing how it stood, and no two copies of the
audited accounts available were in the same form.
Also, the management had a good habit of paving
bonuses to the staff and a bad habit of mixing them
up with the dividend totals ; and as the capital was
constantly varying it wasn’t possible to separate
them by computing the exact amount of the divi-
dend. However, the foregoing is probably pretty
close to the facts of the case. The position at the
outset was unusual. It amounted to a struggle on
the part of the two very junior partners in the old
firm to carry on the business when senior-partner
r mnev died. They did it, these two verv junior
partners, Coakes and Ivilroe, helned by the Queens-
land Trustee Co., which left £50,000 of the Finney
money in the business on debentures. Chairman
Brentnall, of the Trustee Co., had a seat on the
Board to watch the interests of the estate; and
when, a couple of years ago, the last of the debentures
were paid off, they had got to like him well enough
to invite him to stay where he was, and he had got
to like them well enough to accept.
Of course, this wholesale removal of debenture
debt hasn't been accomplished wholly out of profits,
especially as the co. has been doing a lot of other
things besides. This comparison will show that
aspect better: —
1905. 1910. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital .. . .£29,462 £67,293 £85,193 £151,993 £153,193
l>ebt to Finney’s 42,704 27.45 b 24,407
Other liabilities 6",962 133,795 126,b98 128,798 120,900
Stock .. .. 6 >,S7B 89,119 106,6il 386,940 130.213
Real property.. 7,665 84,332 87,671 D 9.078 112,469
Book debts .. 25,550 45,122 51,631 54,874 60,010
Other assets .. 25,648 34,649 31,535 29,129 27,801
In eight years £123,731 of new capital has been
got in, and the co. now owes £23,234 more. This
big sum of money has been supplemented by over
45 62,000 of earnings in excess of dividends; and the
lot is represented by additions of approximately
£70,000 to the stock, £105.000 to the freeholds
and over £30,000 to the book debts. Calculated
on the capital, in the early days of the co. the pro-
fits were almost phenomenal; but the shareholders’
risks were also very large, partly because of the very
heavy liabilities, partly because nearly everything—-
capital and borrowed money alike —-was in perishable
stock and the like. To-day more than the entire
amount of the liabilities is represented by city free-
hold property, leaving the stock, book debts, etc.,
to represent the shareholders’ interest in the vigor-
ous concern. The goodwill and other hypothetical
assets, which originally stood at £17,566, have been
swept off the balance-sheet, and reserves of £44,602
(after paying the current dividend) have arrived.
Certainly whether there is 20s. in the £ of the
capital, reserves and liabilities depends on the valu-
ations ; hut everything that it seems at all reason-
able to charge to working expenses has been charged
—such as the transfer to new premises and in the
past year the re-wiring of the buildings for extra
electric light and power. Also, depreciation (amount
unspecified) is charged direct to profit and loss; and
stock is taken at landed cost or under. On the
other hand, there is very little lay-by now after
paying the 8 p.e. div. If there have not been very
considerable non-recurring expenses, the margin
would certainly be perilously small in view of the
fact that Queensland —and especially Brisbane—has
been enjoying a prosperity which to some extent is
fictitious, and which in any case cannot be ex-
pected to continue at quite the recent pitch.
* * * *
The Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1906.. £1046 10 p.e. =£2ooo £11,735
Premium on new shares . . 262 11,997
June, 1907.. 2022 10 p.e. = 2000 22 12,019
Dec., 1907.. 2069 10 „ „ 2000 69 12,088
June, 1908.. 2838 10 „ ~ 2199 639 12,727
Premium on new shares . . 4979 17,706
Dec., 1908.. 2110 10 p.e. = 2400 17,416
Premium on new shares . . 152 17,568
June, 1909.. 2022 10 p.e. = 2518 17,072
Premium on new shares . . 13 17,085
Dec., 1909.. 1879 7$ p.c.= 1875 4 17,089
Premium on new shares .. 16 17,105
June, 1910.. 5 Nil 5 17,110
Dec., 1910.. 780 5 p.e. = 1250 16,640
June, 1911.. 567 Nil 567 17,207
Dec., 1911.. 1975 10 p.e. = 2500 16,682
June, 1912.. 2669 74 „ „ 1875 794 17,476
Reserves transferred to capital, £12,500 4,976
Dec., 1912.. 3348 74 p.c.= 2335 1013 5,989
June, 1913.. 2922 7| „ „ 2344 578 6,567
As one-fifth of the capital was transferred from
reserves a year ago, the 74 p.e. div. is really 9 p.e.
on the capital apart from premiums. Premiums
have, however, amounted to almost as much as the
reserves that were capitalised. From the published
accounts it is imposible to tell much about the cur-
rent history of the co. Practically everything de-
pends on the amount written off profits to counter-
balance the depreciation of ships. If too much is
written off, the net profits are under-stated ; if too
little is written off, they are over-stated. All that
can be said is that “ship properties” stood at prac-
tically the same in December, 1912, as in June,
1910 (there was only about £5O difference),
although during that time the Lady Denman had been
added to the flotilla. From this it seems that in 24
years the co. made enough, in addition to the pro-
fits shown, to pay for the Lady Denman, less what-
ever it got for one ancient ark which dropped out
of the fleet. The boats certainly seem to be written
down pretty well: there are 16 of them, besides a
launch and a cargo Dreadnought, and the lot stand
in the hooks at £47,298, which no doubt includes
some payments on account of two new ferries. With-
out swearing to it, this paper is, therefore, of
opinion that the true profits, on the whole, have
been quite equal to the profits shown in the table.
In addition to its collection of floating odds and
arks, the co. has £33,735 in freeholds, wharves,
etc., and £3559 is owing as a secured debt—the
latter probably money coming due on land sold. The
bulk of the freehold consist's of Middle Harbor fore-
shores, which are being got rid of as opportunity
offers. There may be money in these properties
some day; meantime they produce taxes and in-
terest bills, along with a small revenue in the shape
of picnic traffic. Also, they come in handy for
raising the wind now and then. Three years ago
the co. owed £12.380 on mortgage. This was re-
duced as at December. 1912, to £BOOO. Now, pav-
ments having been called for on the new vessels, the
plaster is again £12.000; and there is an old dpht
of £3OOO or so to the bank. The co. is probablv
as good as it looks; which is to say after it has
pumped out its 74 p.e. its nose is very little fur-
ther above water than it was after the same opera-
tion six months previously.
* * * *
The Mutual Store Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Written Tn Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
19''5.. £1,884 3 p.e. = £2,916 £2,277
Julv,
1906.. 6,313 5£ „ „ 5,000 £1313 3,590
1907.. 8,498 5 „ „ 5,000 3408 7,088
1908.. 10,373 5/8/4 ~ „ 5,417 4956 12,044
1909.. 10,618 5/16/8 „ ~ 5,834 £l4OO 3384 15,428
1910.. 19,655 7/8/4 „ „ 7,083 2-148 3124 18,552
1911 .. 14,123 7/18/4 „ „ 9,233 1076 3864 22,416
W 12,. 16,936 9/11/8 „ „ 11,'79 1813 3144 25,560
1913.. 17,451 10 „ ~ 12,500 1500 3451 29,011
The co. decided a year ago to take stock and pub-
lish accounts only once in the 12 months ; therefore
the foregoing table has been recast, and the figures
are given as though yearly accounts had been the rule
all along. Capital is now £125,000; but as
£103,625 of this is represented by shop premises,
the business has to be financed by loans, etc., to
the amount of £67,769. Of this, £45,000 has been
raised on mortgage. Seven years ago the liability
on this account was £67,500. The reduction has
not, however, been brought about by applying pro-
fits that way, but by raising another £25,000 of
capital. This is poor business; it simply means
that, instead of paying (say) 4 pc. for the money,
the co. is paying 10 p.e. As the security
for the principal is good, 8 p.e. would
be quite a reasonable dividend. If that
instead of 10 n.c. were paid, the di-ectors could
apply the £2500 thus saved to the reduction
of the mortgage. As it is, the dividend has been
jumped up from under 8 p.e. to 10 n.c. in two
years without reducing the mortgage hv one farth-
ing. Shareholders are really missing a great oppor-
tunity. If the property were unencumbered, the
return would be magnificent; very few cos., with
four-fifths of their capital in solid city fr'ehold, can
show from 12 to 15 p.e. The cheapest way to get
it unencumbered is to forego some of the present
dividend; the dearest way is to raise capital to
wipe it off and then pay 10 p.c. on that canffal t,
the security was good enough for others to lend
it at 4 p.c., it is simply gluttonous on the nart P
the shareholders (who ought to be the people 1
interested in protecting the co. against gluttonvlT
require 10 p.c. on money put up for the same nur
pose.
The Union Building Society nr P i
bourne): — v lcl '
t Added to R e .
July, Prohts. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900 .. £9191
1906 .. £lOlO 5 p.c. = £560 £450
1907 . . 1040 6 „ „ 1555 85
1908 . . 2204 6„ „ 1654 610 gajm
1909 .. 2410 7 „ „ 2008 342 3« u
1910 . . 2848 7„ „ 2251 597 40, J
1911 .. 3629 7 „ „ 2517 1112 sgon
1912 . . 4317 74 „ „ 2975 1342 0069
1913 .. 4/14 74,, ~ 3130 1554 8246
The Union, which grew out of a Starr-Bowkott
Society eight years ago, has apparently been doin<*
very well. But it is a bit early to say how or what
it has really been doing. When you lend a man a
fiver for 10s. a month interest, it may seem <viod
business until you try to collect the interest. When
he tells you that he has just bought a dog for £]o
and you’ll oblige by adding the 10s. to the loan’
and if he doesn’t pay lithe £5 10s. and interest you
can have the dog, it may still seem good business
until you learn that the dog is dead and the man
is broke. “Ours are all live loans,” this society
says, “and we have no foreclosed securities, nor
any properties in possession.” Of course not.’ The
dog isn’t dead yet. But he isn’t nearly as healthy-
looking as he was a while ago; and, anyway, the
market value of dogs is slumping, and so the s’ecur
ity isn’t what it was. Quitting the kennels, the
general Australian position is that property values
have been sharing in a boom that has been due to
a largely-artificial prosperity. We have been boom-
ing because we have been borrowing hard and spend-
ing recklessly ; and when the borrowing ends and the
repaying begins, values are liable to go as much
below normal as lately they have been above it.
And the co. that is likely to be hit hardest is the
one tbat has lent the most while the boom was on ;
and this society has done the greater part of its
lending in that period. Here are some figures:—
Liabilities Assets.
on , A.
Deposits. Loans, Liquid
July, Overdrafts, etc. Mortgages. Assets
1906 .. £17,825 £47,749 £136
1907 .. 25,041 56,394 43
1908 .. 33,529 67,818 29
1909 .. 35,284 72,428 52
1910 .. 44,348 86,109 6
1911 .. 46,239 93,158 21
1912 .. 63,490 115,148 36
1913 . . 54,565 110,290 10
Certainly the figures have moved the right way dur-
ing the past year. Apparently the new advances
have been small, and the old advances have been
reduced by instalments, so that the total outstand-
ing is less than it was in 1912. If values hold up
for a year or two, so that the old advances may be
still further reduced, and if wide margins are de-
manded between present values and new advances,
things may come out all right. But the society has
been taking risks. Not the least of them is the
maintenance of a practically empty till. No doubt
it has an understanding with its banker and can
overdraw. But suppose anything Jvappens to its
banker and a few depositors drop in for their
money, what then ?
Albuky Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1906 .. £516 10 p.c. =£375 £l4l £1431
Dec., 1906 .. 508 10 „ „ 375 133 1567
June, 1907 .. 488 10 „ „ 375 113 1680
Dec., 1907 . . 543 10 „ „ 375 168 1848
June, 1903 . . 673 10 „ „ 375 298 2146
Dec., 1908 .. 613 10 „ ~ 375 238 2381
June, 1909 .. 672 10 „ „ 375 297 2681
Dec., 1909 .. 731 10 „ „ 375 356 3037
June, 1910 .. 779 10 „ „ 375 404 3441
Dec., 1910 .. 719 10 „ ~ 375 344 3785
June, 1911 .. 663 10 „ „ 375 288 4073
Dec., 1911 .. 512 10 „ „ 375 137 4210
June, 1912 .. 445 10 ~ ~ 375 70 4280
Dec., 1912 .. 645 10 „ ~ 375 270 4550
June, 1913 . . 618 10 ~ ~ 375 243 4793
The new Gas Act didn’t hit the country cos. as hard
as it did the two of Sydney and the one of New-
castle. So far, only those provisions relating to
pressure and purity apply to the country cousins.
But if they overstep the mark the Government is
at liberty to add their names to Schedule 1, and
that means a standard price and a maximum divi-
dend. Till then, however, their most likely trouble
will come from the municipalities. Already several
towns are supplied with Socialistic electric light
and power, so tbat cos. which are still the only
pebble on the local beach are moving cautiously, which
will most likely mean a tendency to think twice
before going beyond 10 p.c. or indulging in bonus-
share distributions. This co. is sticking to the 10
p.c. rate, and meantime is strengthening its posi-
tion very considerably:—
1903. 1912. 1913.
Liabilities.. .. .. £5229 £5255 £5354
Liquid assets . . . . 897 3884 4315
Excess liabilities .. £4332 £1371 £1039
During those 10 years the co. has, moreover, been
making pretty numerous extensions, as witness the
growth of the sale of gas and by-products from
£1566 as at June, 1903, to £2165 for the past six
months. Also, it has apparently not neglected re-
pairs and renewals. On a capital of £7500 it is a
highly satisfactory performance—from the share-
holders’ point of view, anyway.
-*--*- * *
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
June,’o6.. £5083 £B/17,9 p.c. = £4620 £463 £8,687
Dec., ’06.. 5242 8/17-9 ~ ~ 4620 622 9,309
June, ’07.. 5238 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 618 9,927
Dec., ’07.. 5903 8/17/9 ~ ~ KUO£3OOO 8,210
June,’oB.. 5432 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 812 9,022
Dec., ’OB.. 5690 8/17/9,, ~ 4620 1070 10,092
June,’o9.. 5633 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 1250 9,855
Dec., ’09.. 6211 8/17/9,, ~ 4675 500 1036 10,891
June, TO.. 4571 8/17/9,, ~ 4675 - 10.787
Dec., TO.. 6688 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620 500 1568 12,355
June,’ll.. 6678 8/17/9,, ~ 4620 I'o > 558 12,913
Dec., ’ll.. 6617 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 1500 497 13,4<0
June,’l2.. 6662 8/17/9., ~ 4620 125 > 792 14,202
Dec., T 2.. 6612 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 1500 492 14,694
June, T 3.. 6027 8/17/9,, ~ 4620 1000 407 15,101
When the Hydro-Electric Power and Metallurgical
Co. got into difficulties, it made a bargain by which
it transferred its Hobart reticulation scheme to this
Gas Co. It was a good stroke for the Gas Co.
Though a heap of trouble has been met by the
Power Co., so much money has been spent, and the
scheme on which it has been spent is so excellent,
that sooner or later the work must be completed.
and when it is completed gas for light and po' ve j’
would have just about as hard a struggle in Hobart
as it has in Launceston, where the co. pays only 4
p.c. and begins to find difficulty in rising even to
that height. The Gas Co. has been for years supply-
ing current in a small way. Npw,, however, the pity
council has turned gas down and takes electricity,
and the co. has had to do some hustling, and rusn
in more plant. When the Hydro. Electric scheme
is completed this co.’s business will probably take
on quite a different character ; and past figures are
probably little good to judge the future by. Oniv
this can be said: the co. is very firmly established,
and its contract gives it a still bigger and surer
pull for the future. Hitherto it has financed its
electric light business by overdraft; during the past


Expert Knowledge and
Sound Financial Experience
Are Essential Qualifications of Your
Executor, Trustee or Attorney.
The PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
is specially constituted by Act of Parliament
to act as
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS,
ATTORNEYS UNDER POWER, AGENTS, Etc.,
and, having: had over 25 years’ experience in
Trust matters, offers advantages not
possessed by private individuals.
LOW CHARGES.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
Write for Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
trust funds to lend on approved
SECURITIES AT FROM 5 PER CENT.
nct^Jk
stasssßwii
DO YOU REQUIRE POWER?
IF SO,
Kynoch Cas Engines & Producer Plants
WILL GIVE YOU
HICHEST Efficiency with LOWEST Costs.
HARK
90 William St., Mel-
bourne ; 277 Clarence
Sr., Sydney. And at
Adelaide, S.A., and
Perth, W.A.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and ,J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concerte construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney;
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yds. of
road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
vd., and the cost of the spalls per cub. yd. averaged
2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub. yd.,
broken and spread. Their last contract under the
hand-breaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per cub.
yd., stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a sarinrj of 2s. sd.
per cub. yd. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stoneerusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [3
* * * *
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911 : “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has proved its adapta-
bility to Australian conditions, which are often a
very severe test of a pressure pipe’s wearing quality.
It is used largely by the chief mining cos. of Aus-
tralia with the greatest success. Catalogue from
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York
Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
Mr. R. O’Hara, Glen Innes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that I have now used the
Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for the
nast eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average 168 J per man. During the whole time I
have had the engine in use it has never given the
slightest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have never experienced
such a smooth-running engine.”—R. HORNSBY &
SONS, Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Gr ffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
The H.M.A.S. Australia, about to arrive on our
coast, is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers. Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth's assay halances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight ; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicles; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
few months, having- had to launch out it has con
verted the overdraft into debentures which stood on
June 30 at £12,000. Apart from that it owes onlv
a trifle on current account, and its liquid assets are
more than enough to meet all its liabilities The
capital is in 5500 shares of £2O paid to £lB.
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway
Co. (N.S.W.) : A '
Profits. Dividends. Reserves
Dec., 1905 .. £3615 2* pc. *= £1250 £41758
n Une ’ tone ilff „ „ 1250 4i\’Jg
Dec., 1906 . . 6515 5 ~ ~ 2500 arr
June, 1907 .. 2189 5 250 JS'SS?
Dec., 1907 . . 6863 5 ~ ~ 2500 to’-ns
June, 1908 .. 2812 5 „ „ 2500 50 030
Dec., 1908 .. 4700 5 „ „ 250(1 y.oc
June-, 1909 .. 1321 5 „ „ 2500 r.l’osi
Dec., 1909 .. 5431 5 „ „ 9500 v «
June, 1910 . . 1797 5 „ „ 2500 53 070
Dee., 1910 .. 6808 5 ~ 9500 V-’co-
June, 1911 .. 2049 5 „ ” 2500 57 130
£25,000 of reserves transferred to capital 39 1««
Dec.. 1911 .. 7676 5 p.c. = 3125 36 687
June, 1912 .. 2385 5 „ „ 3125 35 947
Dec., 1912 .. 5066 5 „ 3495 s-’sqs
June, 1913 . . 2450 5 „ „ 3125 37^3
Cos. like this, that depend almost whollv on the
wool clip, have their off-seasons, much the same as
nubs, housebreakers and cold feet. The Jan -June
half-year is this co.'s dull time, except when an extra-
dry spell happens along, and then the whole 12
months is a dull time. But to be ruinous a drought
lias to be nowadays a more serious thing than it was
when the country was under-improved and over-
stocked, and the possibilities of “dry” farming hadn't
been developed. Besides, the co. has got itself into
such a solid position that it can pull through a
moderate drought with no great inconvenience- and
unless things change very much in the Deniliquin
district, it looks as though it may have to do some
of the pulling-through this year. The financial posi-
tion has been wonderfully strengthened of late:
. , _ t 1903 1913.
Liquid assets .. .. £9,793 £23 64“>
Liabilities . . . . 30,693 20,976
Excess liabilities . . £20,900
Excess assets . . . . £2 666
Of that £20,976 of liabilities, £20,000 is repre-
sented by 4 pc. debentures; ten years ago there
were £30,000 worth. During that' period the eo
has no.t only paid off £lO,OOO of debentures, but
has added £ 13.000-odd to its surplus of liquid
assets, and has meantime spent an average of about
£2OOO a half-year in renewals and maintenance.
But the co. has a dry spot to deal with, and one
that doesn’t attract the closer-settler to any extent;
so it has poor hopes of anything brilliant in the way
of dividends. Deniliquin's wheat crop last year ran
to only 4546 acres and Moama’s to 9929 acres ; and,
in spite of all the temptations offered by good wheat
seasons, there isn’t much in between except sheep
and big landlords.
The Mirror Ltd.—There is plenty of
room lor a second afternoon paper in Melbourne, and
the promoters of the Mirr r propose to occupy
that room. Their prospectus asks for appii-
cations for 100,000 shares, 8 p.c. prefer-
ence ; another 50,000 will be offered as soon
as the paper comes out. As their bite the promoters
take 20,000 shares, which will be entitled to two-
thirds of all the divided profits in excess of the 8
p.c. above mentioned. The Melbourne Herald
showed a profit in the last 12 months of £42,839.
Assume that the Mirror presently makes a divisible
£30,000. Then the prefs., who put up all the money
and take all the risk, would get £lB,OOO, or 12 p.c.,
and the ordinaries, whose holders put up nothing
and take no risk, would get £12,000, or 60 p.c. on
the shares for which they have paid nothing. Fur-
ther, though the prefs. put up all the money, and
though there are 150,000 of them, they are to col-
lectively have only the same say in the co. as the
holders of the 20,000 other shares who have put up
no money ; with this proviso—that if at the end of
three years the prefs. are not getting their 8 p.c.,
then each of the whole 170,000 shares will have the
same voting power. In addition to getting 20,000
fully-paid shares carrying these extraordinary privi-
leges, the promoters are to receive in cash' £3500
to pay them for the work done up to and including
the registration of the co. Moreover, the managing
director, who is one of the four provisional direc-
tors, is to receive £5OO a year “and a commission
of 15 p.c. on the total advertisement revenue.” To
be any sort of a paper at all, the Mirror should
have an advertisement revenue of at least £25,000
a year. This will mean £3750 a year commission
for the managing director, plus, of course, his
£5OO. On an advertisement revenue of £25.000
a year it is not at all certain that the co. would pay
any dividend at all ; but the managing director
would still be entitled to his commission. With an
advt. revenue of £15.000. or less, the paper would
be a rank failure. Nevertheless for being managing
director of the rank failure the fortunate man,
unknown to The Bulletin, who is appointed in
advance to the job, would still be entitled to £2750
a year, taking the revenue at £15,000. As before
remarked, there is room for a second afternoon paper
in Melbourne, and there should be good money in
it. The Mirror may be the paper that is wanted ;
but the terms and conditions upon which the public
is invited to subscribe the money to establish it are
so bad that the present prospectus should be immedi-
ately withdrawn and another substituted.
Talking of metal-market prospects at the
B. H. Prop, meeting, Chairman Darling said that
the unexpected return to what he considered a high
nriee for lead was due to (11 low stocks, and (2)
“the unsettled conditions in Mexico, which are esti-
mated to result in a reduced output from that
country at the rate of about 50,000 tons per year.”
_ITe couldn’t sav how long this reduction would last.
The chances, as thev aopear to The Bulletin, are
that mining in Mexico has received a knock from which
it will take some years to recover. After putting up
with a state of anarchy for many weary months, a
number of European and Australian engineers are
giving it best A prohabl.v-typical case is that of V.
Bennett, a Broken TTill-trained man, who, after six
or seven years in Mexico, has at last got tired of
running a fort as well as a mine, and is on the way
home. Still, the Broken Hill people don’t expect the
high prices to last, and, says Darling, “ we must do
our utmost to keep our output at its highest, so that
when the decline takes place we shall at least have
realised as much as possible at the full rates.” As
for 7,l'ne, a decline (from £2l 2s. 6d.) seemed to
some experts more probable than any improvement;
while opinions expressed as to silver favor no
material alteration.
a, lle B£s!t ‘ ui the drought which is giving
)*l l “i .A esc 01 *''• vtalti > me worst tlllie It ..as
, ‘ years can be suinmtd up noin the face
liill i,Q Om J , a “\ Ito the ln *ddle of September, Broken
Cn > a it I ' 6Bin - o£ rain . fortunately me Water
(lie f L!T° lr at te phens Creek was full when the
- „ * e b<J S an ’. so t..e mines face the summer with-
inontL ? UL , Cln T l !' at respect. Out of the winter
whofi fJune ’ July a »d August the district got a
"hole majestic 15 points.
-Underlay”: In B. 4/9/’l3 "lodide 1 ’ asks
mwt ?tOrS of the Mlneral Hill (lodide) why they
,‘,”, t "“‘re ° n th e good shoot of ore at the 90ft.
itvei. uad he seen the workings he would know
i at a winze nas been sunk from 90ft. to 190 ft. on
mLr .1T 1 (banging) wall, which is on the good
lain t^a f lodide" talks about. A drive is now
L’y Pushed along from the 190 ft. level to connect
' thls wmze. Another winze has been sunk in
T ;‘ at £he Eastern drive to the same depth.
. " , also be connected with a drive from the
•LI r , ?L el shoiHy- Either winze would fulfil
. ~u . , wishes. Until lately the management
> lev ed that the good shoot of ore was underlaying
south-east, but recent developments would seem to
ave shaken that belief. Were “lodide” to make some
Lin 11 remarks ?!' the neglect to put up smelters
ti r r eJe , s of tle mine have been gouged out (and
mat at an alarming rate), he would be saying some-
nmg really worth while. The heavv freight
charges on this good ore, and part of the smelting
charges, are lost to the shareholders: in addition, if a
tumace was in blast on the spot, this really tip-top
ore would be valuable in working a large bulk of
low-grade ore. If smelters are not erected till the
ugh-grade shoot is worked out, the returns must
necessarily be erratic. Or probablv no smelters at
all will be erected, in which case the low-grade stuff
wUI not be worked. The management has now
decided to send the shaft down, and a pump is being
fixed to compete with the heavy flow of water lately
struck. With the sinking of the main shaft going
forward, either development work at the 190 ft. level
must cease, or the output of shipping ore must be
considerably reduced. For the future good of the
mine it is to be hoped the latter “misfortune” mav
come to pass.
In 1- months the Gibraltar. Adelong
(N.S.W.), has obtained 67850 z. of gold from 6040
tons stone crushed and 5540 tons battery products
evanided. The profit w T as only £6035, which spells
high costs. One reason for that is that the reef, though
wide in places, is cut up bv mullock bars. At the
9-00 ft. level a crosscut picked up the reef 50ft. north
of the main winze, and proved’ a make 30in. thick,
97ft. in length, and worth 36dwt. The ore from
this level has to be hauled hv winch to the 700 ft.
level, and then trucked to the ‘haft. A new
shaft is badly required to open up the levels below
900 ft. at a reasonable cost.
estralia’s gold output for the eight
months ended August was 15,2050 z. more than for
the same period in 1912. Returns from Bullfinch,
tictorious, Corinthian North. Queen of the Hills,
Edna May and one or two other plants brought into
operation during the expired portion of the year were
responsible. Several of the old-established mines
are also looking a bit better/ but unless other new
sources of production materialise very soon, another
backsliding is inevitable.
Myrtle Central, at Weston’s (W.A.). re-
cently turned down by Edna May, is being nibbled
at by a Melbourne syndicate headed by stockbroker
Mere and others. It is proposed to give the owners
cash and shares in exchange for the show.
Lupton’s (W.A.) shutters are up and
tenders are being called for the purchase of its
belongings.
* * * *
Yuanmi (W.A.) is putting 10.000 tons a
month through its newlv-installed sulphide plant,
and things are officially stated to be looking up.
Advances made in gas-producer practice now permit
of the plant being fed with 6ft. lengths of wood, and
this saves a few hundreds a year in costs.
Oroya Links (W.A.) has started to
deepen the Croesus Prop, shaft, in order to get at
the good values met with in winzing. Much open-
cutting has lately been done in this part of the co.’s
holding, and an immense amount of ore, mostly low
grade, has been exposed. Shares are low, and, on
the whole, the outlook is fair.
*** ' *
Like the man behind the wheelbarrow.
Chaffers (W.A.) reckons that it has everything ahead
of it. Ore worth £6 7s. 6d. per ton is alleged to
have been driven on for a length of 85ft. at No. 16
level, and a big tonnage of highly payable stuff is
declared to be on view in other parts. The show is
being billed as one of rich deep level possibilities, and
already some of its admirers are talking of dividends.
Time enough, however, to enthuse over the prospects
when the proposed new plant is running and assays
are confirmed by mill returns. Even then, if every-
thing turns out all right, a lot of money will be
needed for deep development, and shareholders will
most likely have to wait a long time for their cut.
Marvel Loch (W.A.) has taken a further
4260 z. out of the Comet lease, and now has nearly
50 men employed on the show. If the co. wants to
acquire the property, £l5OO will have to be paid
on account before October 1, and a similar sum six
months later. Meantime, strenuous efforts are being
made to tear out as much gold as possible.
Geologist Malcolm Maclaren thus sum-
marises the position at the Ivanhoe (W.A.): —East
lode enters porphyry dyke at 1970 ft. in section 1 on
the north boundary, and at increasing depths down
to 3630 ft. in section 15 on the south boundary. The
porphyry zone is not necessarily barren or poor, but
the ore body will be erratic. He anticipates that the
lode below the porphyry bar will be the same as
above, and recommends a shaft being sunk continu-
ously to 3470 ft. level. In other words, this very
reliable expert believes that the poor zone now being
tackled in the present bottom workings of the mine
will pass away, and that good continuous values will
be again encountered at depth. Maclaren is now in
the east, but returns west in about a month’s time
to look at the Associated on behalf of the London
Board. * * *
Mararoa’s new leases are expected to
infuse new life into Norseman. They once formed
portion of a big area worked by the defunct Norse-
man Gold Mines, Ltd., which started with a capital
of £60,000, extracted £200,000, and died without
leaving shareholders anything. Portion of the pro-
perty was then let on tribute, but most of it has
never been touched. Attention was recentlv directed
to it bv the discovery of rich ore at 600 ft. in the
adjacent Viking lease, and the exhibition of rich
specimens did the rest.
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) is still paying
out. At the outset it was inferred by press reports
that values would average from 40s. to 50s. per ton,
that profits would approximate £l5OO a month, and
that generally the outlook was golden. Then came
a time when the co. found it had made a few mis-
calculations, and was obliged to stir up shareholders
loi more cash. Latter!,v it has, by the aid of calls
and revenue won from battery plates, just about man-
aged to make ends meet. Now it confesses that “in-
trusions are affecting values,’’ and that “it is a diffi-
cult matter to come to any conclusion respecting ore
reserves. Which apparently is a roundabout way
ot admitting that the mine is not nearly as good as
had been represented.
* * * *
Tindal’s (W.A.) has decided to have
another go. 1 resh capital has been obtained, and
work is about to be resumed on lines recommended
by 1 aul, well-known in connection with the flotation
processes. Past obstacles in the way of Tindal’s
success have been its short and rapidly hipping shoots
and its hard ground. Costs swallowed up more than
the receipts, and the small amount expended in
development landed the co. further in debt. Share-
holders used to be told that profits were assured, but
when the annual day of reckoning came the accounts
told a different tale. The Bulletin never had much
hope that it would pay, and has no more now.
Bullfinch Prop, will be in a position to
pay a shilling by the end of next month, but will
probably wait until the end of the year and then dis-
tribute 2s. Developments continue satisfactory in
the northern series, and the mine is still two years
or more ahead of the mill.
Sons of Gwalia (W.AA is substituting
gas for steam. Two big charcoal gas-generators are
being fixed in position, and are expected to bite
£250 off the monthly fuel account. A 660 h.p. gas
engine is on order, and should be in operation early
next year. This engine will do the work of the
present steam mill-engine, and will also supplv
power for sliming the mill product. Generally the
mine is looking well at depth, but its value is shrink-
ing visibly.
Black Range West (W.A.), which has
been sky-rocketting on specimen stone, has now left
off talking champagne and got down to its beer,
samples taken for 28ft. along the reef, which varies
J" width from 3ft. 6in. to Bft., have averaged 38s. 3d.
This is exclusive of the specimen stone. Values are
extremely erratic, but they haven’t got below 21s.
anywhere. On position, the B R. West always did
look good ; and the shareholders, whose patience has
been much tried, may yet get their reward..
Wallaroo and Moonta sounds a rather
more cheerful note in the interim report prepared
tor next week’s meeting in Adelaide. In the Wallaroo
the 2310 ft. and 2430 ft. drives from Taylor’s shaft
have opened up good blocks of ore (expected, of
course) ; and drilling from Young’s, though it hasn’t
gi\en anything striking, has proved ore which may
come in all right for the flotation process. This
process is the really big thing that has happened to
the co. of late years. The Bulletin in past half-
years poked mild borak at the ponderous old parties
who didn’t visibly stir a muscle as they reported
that the process was “being tried.” It knew that they
knew (and said so in April, 1912) that the experi-
mental flotation unit, when compared with mill con-
centration, was making a product three times as rich
in copper and leaving less than one-third as much
the tailings. Now they go as far as to admit
' , the great success which has accompanied the
methods of ore-dressing through flotation at Wallaroo
has led to the adoption of the process at Moonta ”
What flotation means is that, not only will more
metal be got out, but the concentration costs are
low, and. the concentrates being so much richer,
the smelting costs will be reduced, it being obviouslv
much less expensive to smelt one ton of 22 p.c. than
three tons of p.c. copper. There have been some
ore developments also at the Moonta mine, hut it is
noor stuff. Still, there’s the flotation process waitin'*
for that too.
Wallaroo and Moonta doesn’t publish accounts at
the half-vear. hut it furnishes a statement of liquid .
and semi-liquid assets and liabilities. The surplus on
June 30 was £149.102. On Dec. 31, 1912. it was
£165.888. Meantime a couple of 2s. dividends have
been paid. In view of the outlay on the flotation
plants and the pretty strenuous prospecting, it is
satisfactory that the liquid assets were drawn upon
onlv to the extent of £16,786 to pav these divi-
dends. Still, copper having had a temporary slump
since the half-vear ended, for the current quarter the
directors pay only Is. There are 160,000 shares.
A careful examination of radium from the
Radium Hill Co.’s works has been made in Pro-
fessor Rutherford’s laboratory. The tests prove it
to be free from the cheaper radio-active substances
which, according to the expert, can easilv be mis-
taken for radium. The next thing shareholders would
like to hear of is the sale of a good-sized parcel at a
remunerative price. A large increase of capital is
asked for, so the directors presumably consider thev
are through with experiments, and can produce
radium by the gram. A gram mav he worth £15.000
when bought in very small quantities for experi-
mental purposes: hut if dividends are to he forth-
coming on a capital of £BO,OOO. a sizeable lump of
the stuff will have to be not onlv produced hut
marketed. An enthusiastic estimate is 12.000 milli-
grams per annum, or 1000 per month; but such com-
mercial results are still miles away.
Vulcan Tin fN.Q.), which got back to
the div. list the other day, made only £562 net
during the half-vear to August 19 ; but the mine is
shaping for much better things than that. As already
noted, the co.’s development work gave verv satis-
factory results from 900 ft. downwards, a new shoot
worth from 2 to 4 p.c. having been proved there;
and an aerial ropewav is now being put in between
mine and mill to reduce costs. At the end of the
half-vear the co. had £5493 in cash, beside stores,
and owed less than £5. People who expect big
things out of 4 p.c. ore at Ardlethan mav he in-
terested to learn that the Vulcan recovery last half-
year was 3.6 p.c. black tin, and the net profit was
an almost exact 3s. per ton.
Woodlark Island, the interesting dab of
dirt outside Samarai (Papua), is feeling very good.
The King, one of the small claims on the local reef-
ing field, lately got down to the No. 4 level, and in
three weeks knocked 120 tons out of a good 4ft.
reef. This parcel gave 14920 z., worth £5147. From
the upper levels the yields have been: No. 1 level
and stopes (30ft. of ground), 300 tons for 810 oz. ;
No. 2 (12ft. of ground), 240 tons for 848 oz. ; No. 3
25ft. of ground), 630 tons for 42500 z. At No. 4
”the reef is still good underfoot.
Apropos the dispute at Mount Morgan
over the virtues of brigalow as a mine timber, the
local warden, who has been holding the official in-
quiry, has decided not to agree with either party.
He adjourns the case till March, 1914, and meantime
a test is to be made in a stope chosen for the
purpose.
Oxide Creeks have had a flutter in Sydney.
Contributing shares (2s. paid) have reached about
13s. ; fully-paid shares were at the same time quoted
at about 3s. This was good proof that the market
value of the shares had no connection with the value
of the mine. It seems that a few contributing shares
were sold by foolish people who didn’t have them;
and when they were called on to deliver the scrip,
the scrip wasn’t available. Presumably it had either
never been issued or Was locked up, and the people
who held the paper were able to demand their own
price. The Bulletin has no sympathy to waste on
the people who sold what they didn’t have; but that
does not end the matter. What ought to be probed
is whether the co. was ever really floated. If the
thing isn’t a mere peg on which to hang a gamble,
it ought to be easv to show that the money for the
shares was actually paid to the co., and that the
co. has it. The mine may be as good a
one as reports allege that it is; but there are
other things of first-rate importance. For instance,
(1) Does ti,e co. own the mine? (2) Has it paid
for it? (3) If it does own the mine, and has paid
for it, how many shares were applied and paid for,
and how much money is there to the credit of the
co. to open up the property ? Investors should get
a satisfactory answer to these questions before they
touch the shares.
Although very little is being said about
it, good progress is being made at Cock's Pioneer,
Eldorado (Vic.). The cutting of a deviation of the
creek to protect the paddock is well under way, and
a barge site has been holed out. The old machinery
has been dismantled and a new site for the outfit
has been pegged at the bottom end. of the leases, ft
is understood that electricity will continue to be used
to work the new plant. .Jack Dane, who actually
pulled off the deal in London, will deserve more than
a vote of thanks from the old shareholders when the
wheels commence to move and grind out something
better than exes.
The Shell Transport and Trading Co.,
the big tnostly-English concern which has got a
grip on the “Eastern" oil trade, has given Maori-
land best. It has been spending a good deal of
money to get a Maoriland supply on a commercial
scale, but with such poor results that it “does not
propose to do any more in that direction.” Last
year, by the way, this co.’s profits ran to nearly
1+ millions, and a div. of 30 p.c. was paid on the
capital of L 3,000,000 The co. is now probably
about the biggest individual employer of Javanese
and other colored labor in the world.
Zebra: Sorry, but can’t undertake to ad-
vise regarding the investment of money.... P.M.S.:
'1 he engineer who knows his business includes among
ore reserves only such ore as has been exposed on
three sides.


ZANETIC ink paper is so wonderfully sensitive
that, when placed under writing paper, it produces
by the act of writing with pen and ink a perfect,
permanent copy. No copying-press required. Each
Zanetic sheet makes many copies. All Stationers, or
from Makers, S. B. ZANETIC, Welford Road,
Leicester, England. Sample sheet 2d., post free.*
Heelings -g
Copen/iatfen
a x> «
heerihg
ERRYBMP.
BOUGHT A BOTTLE.
“I had pains in my legs, which the doctor said
was rheumatism,” writes Mr. Robert Cochrane,
builder, Waimiha (N.Z.). “His lotion did me no
good, and I suffered misery. I saw a friend using
some liniment, which he told me was Chamberlain’s
Pain Balm, and offered me his bottle to try it. It
did me so much good that I bought a bottle myself
and was soon free of all pains.”*
WORLD
RENOWNED
BRAND
STUHR.
r
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD B RANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 15, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
The British politicians and their female
relatives have finally fled south on their
way to Britain. A few of their motor and
other excursions were apparently arranged
on the assumption that every day contained
about 36 hours. Meals were served with
the profuse hospitality that feeds its vic-
tims on 17 courses or so of solid food every
three hours, and keeps them going with
light refreshments every half-hour in be-
tween. The flight to Yanco and Canberra,
with a wild gallop round the rim of Burrin-
juck was part of the 36-hours-in-every-day
itinerary. One of J. Bull’s innumerable
breakfasts on one consecutive morning was
to have occurred in the McCaughey’s shear-
ing-shed at Yanco. Luckily for the travel-
lers, the shearers happened to be finishing a
clip. The Emmott lady collected nothing
but a frilled-lizard in her up-country trek.
Surgeon Critchley Hinder, of this city,
who died of blood-noisoning after a long
fight with the Shadow, was known and es-
teemed as one of the most unselfish men in
the profession. He loved his work much
better than his fees —a curiously uncom-
mercial frame of mind which was often im-
posed on. Mrs. Hinder, who used to be
Miss Enid Pockley, has been for the last
seven or eight weeks her late husband’s de-
voted day nurse. A trained Nightingale
took the night watches. The medical pro-
fession here fought for Surgeon Hinder’s life
with everv remedy known to modern science
-—but the Light went out at last.
Dorothy King, the youngest grand-
daughter of the late Mrs. Thorne, of this
village, is. or ought to be, here as I gum up
this missive. She hurried home from the
U.S. to be present at brother Roy’s wed-
ding in November. The bride will be Mabel
Preston.
Mrs. Marcus Clarke has just passed
through Sydney on her way home to Oak-
leigh (Vic.). She is widow of the man
who wrote “For the Term of his Natural
Life.” A trip to see a married daughter,
Mrs. Ro«e Bradley, who lives at Lithgow,
brought Mrs. Marcus to this State.
Brewer E. Resell sends a postcard to a
friend in this town, which bears the dates
1863-1913. Lie says. “I am at the present
time here in Wusseralfingm. Wurtemberg.
It is this day, August 5. 50 years ago.
Uat I left bpre for our beautiful, sunny
Australia.” So the brewer has done a con-
siderable absence.
Journalist J. D. Fitzgerald drops in.
“Have been leading a strenuous life in
Europe and in U.S. A. Join family in Paris
on August 9, then Switzerland for a rest.
Daughter has made wonderful strides with
Burghi. of Milan. She makes her debut
next March as Gilda in ‘Rigoletto.’ ”
The horticultural Miss Brace strode ashore
on the Maheno gangway the other evening,
after doing 18 months’ hard labor in M.L., on
Hawke’s Bay soil.
T. E. Sedgwick, a wandering Londoner,
left his foggy port for Melbourne in the
Port Lincoln. He is in charge of 200 boys,
who are to be planted on the soil by the
Victorian Government. Sedgwick is an
industrious globe-trotter. He has scam-
pered throuah Maoriland twice, and once
across the Canadian frosts. This trip he
is "oing to stuff himself with facts con-
cerning the attractions of Australia for
British immigrants.
Arthur Rees, formerly of Melbourne Age,
has had his recent M.L. novel. “The Merry
published in London and the
U.S. Gordon and Gotch have arranged for
the Australian issue, which strikes this con-
tinent immediately—or a week later.
The last English mail brought a few
informative remarks from Grace Watson.
She says in extra-large type : “If you want
domestics, fares must be advanced and re-
paid out of wages.... Sydney has a most
undeserved reputation here (London) as a
place for immigrant women to stay away
from. This is largely due to the inadequate
provision for them on their arrival in your
port.” Grace adds in parenthesis: “If the
women electors of Australia could form
any idea of the deplorable conditions for
women workers in Britain, they would
never rest till thev had done their level best
to help thousands of them to emigrate.”
Widows and waitresses. I understand, are
being carefully collected by the Common-
wealth. Steady instalments of husbands
and mothers-in-law may follow.
C. C. Reade, an ex-Maoriland journalist
now in the Fog. is booked for a lecture
tour in our island. “Garden CitPs”
will be the floral trimming of his dis-
course. It is to be delivered here, as per
invoice, in 1914.
Skipper Harrassowitz. who used to steer
one of the German liners alongside Aus-
tralian wharves, is now at the wheel of the
vast Atlantic craft, Berlin. This steamer,
which would make the Ark look like a bath
tub. cuts through the green seas between
Noo Yark and Bremen. Miss Harrassowitz,
a niece of the above mariner, went off to
the Fatherland in the Zieten.
A well-known M.L. stethoscope, Dr.
Hogg, passed this way the other day on the
long, wet road to Europe.
Commonwealth banker Dennison Miller
has torn off the necessary cheque to buy
Cliffbrook. This overlooks the tumbling
surf and the mixed bather at Coogee. An
acreage large enough to support several
cows and a herd of goats goes with the
house.
Mrs. Eisner, a heavily-gilded N’Yoi'ker
(do you notice how German the American
married lady is?) recently swept out of
these metropolitan premises with a few
mountainous Saratogas. She’ll unpack
some of her baggage in Colombo. A month
in Ceylon’s dusky isle is included in this
traveller’s gallop round the globe.
John Spencer Brunton, who recently
bought Glen Yarrah (Double Bay) won’t
enter into possession till March. Pending
the arrival of the new owner, a dining-room
and other alterations will be added to the
harbor views and picturesque gables of the
leafy homestead. The present name is to
be wiped out with a fresh coat of paint.
The old house will answer (if you call loud
enough in 1914) to Gladswood. It is to be
called after an ancient property in Scot-
land, where the Bruntons once lairded it
gaily ove’’ local rustics amid the screech of
bagpipes. Perhaps it’s Oledswood, which
has a more of a plaid accent than Glad-etc.
After two months’ ski-exercise on Kosci-
usko’s snowy pate, Norwegian Consul Fay
has torn himself away and returned to his
Melbourne office.
The King’s School’s Headmaster, Stacy
Waddy, who is away on leave of absence, is
going to cut his trip to Europe short. This
will give him a month or so in Ceylon, while
brother E. F. Waddy and the N.S.W. team
are cricketing in that island. These two
parsons, cricketers and pedagogues follow a
strenuous triangle of occupations. They’re
both as keen at bat and ball as the average
girl is about a new hat.
Some Sydney folks will recall the little
Count de Marzac, who was in these parts
awhile ago. His countship is of the genuine
vintage, and grows on the banks of the Dor-
dogne. In a French chateau, covered with
green whiskers and earwigs, the owner has
stuffed hospitality down the throats of any
wandering Australians he met on this side.
The last batch to be whirled off to the de
Marzac country lair were the R. H. Todds
and Violet Ross-Johnson, of this town. They
put it on record that French roads are too
polite to bump you twice in the same place.
Miss Weigall, a daughter of the late head-
master of Sydney Grammar School, is culti-
vating poultry and the home-grown egg out
Hurstville way. The place is roomy enough
to hold some of the Horticultural dames who
are scratching round for a temporary plot
of earth. If these ladies can all agree to-
gether for five minutes, they may make up
their minds to do a little spade work in the
Hurstville acreage.
The Fred Walkers, of Chatswood, are
coming back in the Otranto. He is some-
thing moderately tremendous in the frozen
meat trade.
The most edifying entertainment next week
will be the conversazione in the Sydney
’Varsity Medical School. This sociai con-
flagration will blaze with information, which
is to be turned on to the parents, sisters and
best girls of grads and undergrads, free
of charge.. Every department in the learned
pile will bristle with facts, specimens (in and
out of glass cases), and microscopic details.
Spectacled guides will gently lead the visi-
tors up to bottled science (beautifully pre-
served in spirits), and fill them with as much
knowledge as they can hold at one sitting.
Dipsomaniacs who attend in the hope of
getting a chance to drink the spirits and then
pawn the preserved lizard, and further dissi-
pate on the proceeds, are solemnly warned off.
Governor Strickland has notified his inten-
tion of being present. Either the hon. gradu-
ate sec., Dr. Schlink, or the hon undergrad,
sec., B. C. Pockley, will answer any inquiries
from ’Varsity boys re this reunion of the
Bolus Brotherhood.
Though the wattle, or most of it, sold here
on September 1 wasn’t worth buying, being
in the sere and yellow fluff, it was quite
worth selling. The Free Kindergarten
people got about £9B Is. llfd. for the lot
they coaxed a soft-hearted public to take
from them. Mrs. Devereux, the playwright’s
wife, was a most persuasive assistant in the
cause. This will bolster up the £4OO deposit
on the purchase of a Kindergarten Training
College. Hilton, which the painter and the
paperhanger are going to smarten up for this
purpose, used to be the home of the late
John Rae, a one-time Under-Sec. for Lands
in N.S.W. He went to live in the now con-
gested suburb of Darlinghurst at a date when
it was regarded as rather reckless to dwell
so far from the city, and he lived to see blue
metal take the place of mud and bushrangers,
and the kangaroo fleeing in horror before the
tramcar. Some of his sketches are useful
contributions to the records of Sydney vil-
lage in its querulous infancy.
Supposing the antemic city clerkess should
carefully inspect the basement of the Town
Hall this week, she will be stunned at the
enterprise of her own sex. Women who
are making cash in out-door pursuits are
going to demonstrate the right way to bully
fowls into laying eggs at 2s. a dozen. The
What-to-do-with-our-Girls’ Exhibition, which
opens with a terrific flow of oratory before
this meets your eye, is also responsible for
110 different schemes for keeping us out
of mischief. The Farran Sisters, of Moss
Vale district, have reached the scientific
phase in their attack on the fruits of the
earth. They will evaporate an apple while
you wait, and lay out a baby orchard as
an evening pastime.
Bessie Knight Brown, of Mount Irvine,
is in charge of the dairy section of the
What-to-do Exhibition. Bessie knows the
artful cow in all her moods and muddy
tracks, and, when Strawberry tries to hit
her with the clod of soil at the end of her
tail, the said Bessie can dodge with the best.
She is going to demonstrate everything that
can happen to milk, except the rain that
suddenly falls into it when it bangs against
the suburban back fence. Assisting dairy-
maids, gowned in lavender muslin and white
aprons, will be as unlike the real thing as
possible. Blucher boots and cornsack cos-
tumes are reserved for Mrs. Mooly’s private
At Homes.
Mrs. Beryl Ireland’s miniatures and
water-color sketches are on view in Anthony
Horderns’ Fine Art Gallery. A few oil
paintings in small allotments are included
in this moderately-good show. The minia-
tures are the best examples of the artist’s
work. Mrs. Ireland knows how to dress
her subjects. A Marguerite type of girl
with fair plaits and a brown dress is an
effective pictorial portrait. An attache
militaire with a crescendo moustache has a
becoming dash of red over his left ribs. The
Duke of Wellington looks as mild as a
drawing-room swain in a miniature in-
dexed “copy on paner.” But the work in
this, as in another copy, “The Last Phase,”
is good. The Portrait of Gen6e bears a
general family likeness to that muscular
sylph. A few charming portrait studies on
ivory—notably a dark-haired damsel with a
scarlet blossom in her hair, and a small
Danish baby named Olaf —and a generous
helDing of mediocre work of no startling
interest, make up the exhibition. The land-
scapes are too ladylike. Westminster
Bridge (London), with a smoke-grey atmo-
sphere, escapes this fate. I
The Sydney Repertory Society intends to
form a Ladies’ Committee, to advance the
interests of the society, on the lines of the
Ladies’ Committee of the Melbourne Reper-
tory Theatre. A meeting will shortly be
called at the Australia. The first perform-
ance of the Society will take place on Octo-
ber 2, when a six days’ season of Shaw’s
“The Devil’s Disciple”—one of his “Plays
for Puritans” —will commence. Miss Aggie
Thorne (Mrs. Deery) will appear in the
leading part.
Crowds attract crowds. If the police
would allow 50 men to stand in Martin.
Place in a group for five minutes, 2000
would fight to join them. The sub-conscious
influence of a small, noisy section of a con-
cert hudience works up the encore into a
public nuisance. The McCormack man-
agement has been able to truthfully advertise
a fair guess at the numbers turned away at
the nightly stampede outside the Town Hall.
John McCormack draws like Melba. But
the audience on Saturday night reached a
frenzy of excitement that would have en-
cored an organ-grinder, and demanded the
frequent reappearance of his monkey. The
choir seats were chiefly filled with young
women and girls. Those of the front row,
being mostly in the flapper stage, almost
foamed at the mouth with excitement when
the mighty tenor fled from their outstretched
hands. John may have escaped with his
coat tails intact, but at one or two crises
in the evening it looked as if he would be
lucky to get away with his life.
John McCormack is probably sitting on
the highest Alp in his vocal career at the
present moment. Until the rabid encore
fiends had hounded him into singing himself
husky on Saturday night, the unrivalled
beauty of his voice floated, tone-perfect, over
an enraptured crowd of adorers. The male
section, towards the back of the hall, re-
lieved its feelings by standing up at intervals
and snapping out a clamor like short, sharp
barks. Many warblers have given us Lan-
don Ronald’s “Down in the Forest.” Only
two. Melba and McCormack, can sing the
final bar with the exact reproduction of the
sweet, high note of a skylark—“ Only a bird.”
Vincent O’Brien, at the piano, began to show
signs of encoritis, at the end of the uproari-
ous evening. John’s mouth was also falling
down at the corners with sheer fatigue,
when some genius discovered that turning
off the lights would be the only way to get
rid of the audience. The youthful May
Huxley will have to watch her breathing
more carefully. She was obviously short in
the wind, and red in the face in consequence,
both in “Spring’s Awakening,” her best effort
on Saturday night, and in some of her trills
in “Lo Here the Gentle Lark.” The flute
obligato, by Schienpflug, was the most artis-
tic end of the gentle lark’s sotto voce
remarks. Fiddler Donald Mcßeath was de-
lightful when he fiddled the music that once
hummed in the brains of Schumann and
Saint Saens.
Now that “A Fair Highwayman” is col-
lecting her popgun and riding breeches in
order to depart from this town the average
woman realises that she was not built to
carry firearms. A good, plain kitchen poker
that won’t go off is our best weapon when
the cat is again mistaken for the burglar
Madge Titheradge as a toy highwayman
makes a fair attempt to shoot the nearest
star, by aiming straight up in the air when
she ought to be slaughtering at least one
robber on the stage heath. Lizette Parkes
is far more convincing as a mere girl
Charles Quartermaine is an English-French-
llighlander. Red ribbons dangle on the
Highland part of him —his legs. The French
part has a fine Cockney flavor. He gambols
through several acts as playfully as a
tame elephant—that’s some more of the
French part (as Vicomte de Chamerolles)
bubbling over the top of his Hieland socks.
From N’ York comes a p.c. of the fiercely
Deadwood Dick order of illustrated
matter. It shows a fake scene on (or al-
leged to be on) the old Success. The
“prisoner” looks like an early Moody and
Sankey convert except that he lacks the
furnishment of a hymn-book. His eyes are
roiled up to Heaven, and his hands are
meekly clasped across his stomach. There
are the usual accessories—heavy chains, as-
sisting convicts, and a warder with ex-
tended arm (a warder in these bad old days
spent his whole time with one arm ex-
tended. furiously ordering some criminal to
receive two lashes without the option, and
his arm got fixed that way. and
when he was buried the extended hand ap-
peared above the grave and pointed to-
wards Heaven). This great effort is lab-
elled “The British Convict Sjiip Suc-
cess, oldest ship afloat, launched at Moul-
mein, Burmah, 1790.” An American
pressman writes across the back : “You will
see by this that Australia is being adver-
tised in our Harbor; but not, perhaps, the
sort of ad. you would prefer?” This re-
minds me of the question a little girl asked
Prof. W. James. “Is a skunk smell better
than no smell ?”
The Actors’ Association of Australasia is
putting on its grease-paint for a great cor-
roborree in this humble but important
spot on September 19. The programme
for this matinee is almost terrifying
in its length and importance. All
the highest-priced mummers in this city
will give their assistance. For the first time
on any stage “The Bishop and the
Buns,” a comic interlude, written by Kodak
O’Ferrall (of The Bulletin) will sniff the
footlights. It must be a bath-bun, for
Walter Bentlev is to appear as his Gaiters
of Bath
The long-legged beauty-actor, Herbert
Clayton, is now writing sketches and play-
lets amid the fastnesses of the Thames. He
was out here about three years ago in the
“Ivin" of Cadonia” and was something of a
matinee pet. A recent cable flashes the
news Clayton’s success in a comedy
sketch. “A Cold Douche.” This was pro-
duced at the Empire.
From “Rosna” (the lady who was once
this paper’s Adelaide Chatterer), in London:
Kate Rooney’s departure for a three years’ warble
in Uncle Sam’s land was a lightning-change act. She
accepted the U.S. offer, let her house on the
Thames for seven years, stored her household gods
away from moth and rust, and departed—all within
a fortnight. Mr. Kate, whose name is Kirkham, and
whose calling is the collecting of things artistic, has
removed himself to the New York office of his firm
meanwhile.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.
Hungary, where the bands of music come
from, is an exciting country for the poli-
tician. Count Tisza, the Premier, has
fought three duels this year with members
of the Opposition. He would probably
silence a want-of-confidence motion with a
Maxim gun.
There is a bright Maorilander amongst
the scientists who are to journey from
Britain shortly to attend the Conference of
the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science in Australia. That is
Ernest Rutherford, F.R.S., who has made
a specialty of research in radio-activity.
Forty-two years ago he was born in the
small town of Nelson, and was partly edu-
cated there, partly at Christchurch, partly
at Cambridge (Eng.), and. generally, where
fitting opportunity offered. In 1892 he
lifted his B.A. and a senior scholarship at
Canterbury College; in 1893 he added
M.A. to his assets, with first-class honors
in mathematics and physics; next year he
was B.Sc., and collected a notable scholar-
ship ; then he went to Cambridge and piled
up research degrees and studentships until
his old masters in M.L. leaped like the
jubilant angora. In 1898 he was ap-
nointed a professor of physics at the McGill
University, Montreal, Canada, and his re-
putation grows as he progresses.


TINKER
TAILOR
SOLDIER
SAILOR
RICH MAN
POOR MAN
BEGGAR
THIEF
CS
cv
V
m
.SEKsfii
iSI
p&£
&
§F
wSwafc&SW
SF
*«<?
P:
■Sr”
4g
1^
•y \
m
WM
>a#
pplll
a
SSlf
,TS>-^
»
tm
W
■*tr
WM
*<:
x
Vj O O 0
&
&
' /
ill
X
»
l&rs
t
J Jn
*j^
&
£>.
K
.aZs
\'S
M
/^/ f \\
tfef'M
jf|>X..
fefcW-JV- v
r»o
?/>■
.)
i
.1 .
te';a
'Q
*-s
£|U
.IX
re#
£ ti
i*
»r £
i v^}
M
'■-- " /_J7
<X
it (M
o
/'■
yy*
■y '■'
fj *
11
%
\s
BSIS
• .^y;4y^ri
Ik^SsSs
£|§
ili
,1/
int
f \ k
yx
X
PfW
L.»:#s'' i-'•?xX N ’ sr >v •,«$'
L /
• X'V^iV--'
#
Jr/,
f ? ’?
K,h
kVX'.X'/X*'
*|k§g
- \
m
■isn J
f !
m
■yy&
X*
#
y^'
y\
•v
•«£2
<u
€X#
w
%%£&&
■<&Xor*
yom-> : -
X.i
&
mm
mm
'&mw
.^:i
0:
<CXD
O
i-A
;a-^
m
m
>:>
•• •Xlss^?P\
/
k -T?' •F-Xv'
#
ots-^
K
«»
>
V
" ri
Vr\v»
■as#i
A
.H*^
> ; v
gjjfe.
V)>
•^'i 1
rJi'Bu
*B*^3*|
<c
“ Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo
Is as rich as
Rothschild too.
Stocks and bonds
And gold has he,
Mines on land
And ships at sea.
Tho’ he’s worth
A vast amount,
With his riches
You must count
Tins of “COBRA."
In all weather
Wealth and polish
Go together.
IN ext week Poor Man, l


FARMER’S PANAMA HATS
&$■
i lif s
Put the Crowning Finish
To the Summer Attire
Farmer’s F’anamas are marked at the lowest prices
possible with the upkeep of excellent quality. The
new assortment comes direct from South America —-
the centre of the Panama Hat industry. It comprises
1 the smartest styles in every desired shape, including
the New American Telescopic Crown. For dependable
service and true comfort in Headwear the Panama
featured is difficult to surpass.
Widths of brims, 2i, 2t, 2-J inches.
PRICES FROM
21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 42/-, 50/- to 5 Guineas
CARRIAGE PAID THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
FARMER’S SYDNEY
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
(r
■
9
The Cost
per Mile
for running your
Car, Motor Cycle
or Cycle is less
when you use....
DUNLOP
TYRES
It’s the high quality of
rubber and fabric used
(and plenty of it) com-
bined with scientific
and thorough work-
manship that ensures
“Dunlop” users the
extra satisfaction that
makes them permanent
supporters of “Dunlop ’
quality. That’s our
aim—to gain customers
and keep them.
Always specify Dunlop Tyres, it s
the cheapest in the long run.
ALL AGENTS , GARAGES, &c.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States N - z -
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 15, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The All Australian Exhibition, which is
to advertise our industries for a whole two
months, had its beginning on Saturday, in
the Exhibition. The general public were
admitted in a plain, commercial way at
1.30; but that being lunch-time in the Best
circles, the G.-G. was not programmed to
declare the show open until 2.30. Until
the functionary arrived, no one took the
slightest notice of the drifting flocks of
visitors. Exhibitors in their shirt-sleeves
tinkered away distractedly and abstractedly
with hammers and let the crowd go by.
One high functionary was overheard to say,
“Oh, when we get this opening fuss over,
we’ll be able to show things.” At one en-
trance a couple of cleaner men, with enor-
mous brooms, shoved the last of the dust
out of the way. At the other door a band
lolled about in the midst of instruments
carefully bagged in green baize. Before
the magic hour of 2.30 this same band,
neatly uniformed and arranged in a circle,
was standing to attention and playing up-
roariously. The neat little G.-G. and tall
Help Burnham whipped out of the purple
motor and waded through an east wind.
They were received in stately manner by
the Gaud Mayor, Prime Minister Cook,
secretary Ashby and a regiment of commer-
cial headmen. The G.-G. made some appro-
priate remarks, after which a rush was
made for the feasting marquee out in the
oval. Here more speeches flowed pleasantly,
until a sudden rainstorm drummed fiercely
on the canvas roof and almost drowned the
talk. By the time Thomas Hogg got up to
propose a Commonwealth toast he had to
shout to make himself heard, and the un-
easy congregation opened what umbrellas
it had to ward off the drops from the wet
canopy. And while they were “opening” it
outside, the opened show inside was getting
along drily without talk. The timber ex-
hibits are very striking. South Australia
has a big show of woods, and there are
Tasmanian timbers on view that are as
beautiful as any in the world. In particu-
lar there is a Tasmanian oak that has been
burnt off in the old, blundering way, and
roughly condemned as “no good.” Prejudice
and stupidity are fearful drawbacks. It is
on record that one of the oldest Tasmanian
squatters, with this and other beautiful
timbers growing all round him, imported a
whole shipload of cedar to build houses with !
After the speeches the organ had an up-
roarious innings—much to the delight of
the Hennessys. Good musical programmes
are advertised for the days and nights of
the Exhibition, and sports are to rage in the
open air.
The Ice Carnival that served to farewell
the two German instructors was not the
absolutely last glide of the season. The
management of the rink were induced to
hold one more slither on Saturday, Sep-
tember 13, when all the fancy dresses of
Society were aired once more. The season
was closed regretfully, for the lively patron-
age of the G.-G. was worth a lot to the
business. The two flattered German in-
structors departed by boat for the Father-
land loaded with presents. The G.-G. per-
sonally presented “Fraulein” with a bouquet
and a trinket or two, and told her how he
had enjoyed the sport while following her
lead. Nancy, the picturesque daughter of
the Frank Maddens, won a prize for skim-
ming about as a dragon-fly. Clarence
Weber was picturesquely unclad as a
Roman gladiator, and collected a prize for
looking “perfectly lovely.” The manage-
ment kindly allowed the revel to whirl until
long after the discreet 10.30 closing bell
had tolled the end of the season.
The Ladies’ Kennel Club Show, in the
Guild Hall, was all pow-wow, bow-wow and
staccato excitement. Two exhibitors, Mrs.
Keep and daughter Heather, arrived laden
with two poms and two blue Persian eats,
named respectively Mona Lisa and Napo-
leon. Napoleon, the Persian, suddenly
glimpsed a chance of escape from his ever-
lasting satin cushions, and dashed down an
unhallowed lane off Lonsdale-street in search
of the adventures any healthy cat desires.
Heather followed at top speed, clutching
Mona Lisa, and mamma and several she-
attendants rushed after her. All the plain
and colored youngsters of the district
gathered like a ragged army and joined in
the chase. Puss at last took cover in a
store, and when the proprietor had re-
covered from the shock of being charged, he
captured the harried brute and restored
him to his panting mistress. Later on the
recovered Napoleon, with a sullen glow of
resentment in his eye, carried off the prin-
cipal cat prize. Edith Hope-Campbell, a
great dog-lover, took the money at the door.
Her collie, Derryboy, a consistent winner of
champion prizes for years past, met with an
accident some time ago. and had to be
destroyed ; so his bereaved owner turned her
back on yelping dogdom and attended to the
cash that dieth not. Louise Pinschof, being
secretary of the show and a busy girl,
scarcely had time to acknowledge congratu-
lations on the prizes attained by her Gordon
setters. Mrs. Charlie McEvoy was cata-
logued as the owner of a great sleepy cat
or half-lion that weighed 14 pounds and
would be heard bounding on the roof of a
seven-storey warehouse, if he were allowed
to do such things, which he isn’t. Audrey
Chirnside showed a champion terrier bred
by Mrs. Aberdeen, wife of the Viceroy of
Ireland. Mrs. Lauchlan McKinnon ex-
hibited her beloved fox terriers. Two Swiss
dogs with pasts were stared out of coun-
tenance. Though worth enormous sums,
they were recently stolen and sold for a few
shillings. Some dishonest people have a
ridiculous idea that one dog is as good as
another, and that no dog is worth much. It
is about time that someone invented a com-
pletely new type of dog—for preference a
toothless dog that will only howl once a
night and then subside with a rattle.
The Sandringham golf outbreak wound up
last week, and the enthusiasts are blaming
the rival sport of horse-racing for some of
the G.-G.’s absence. Popular Ivo Whitton,
who is adored by the girls, won the Open
Championship, and Ben Lempriere got away
with the Amateur —decidedly the most popu-
lar win of the meeting. President Scobie
McKinnon, the big Scot who wears a tam-o’-
shanter with an air—gave a tea party to
mark the conclusion of the devotions. Some
rain fell, but it was borne in a hardy Scotch
spirit, and host Scobie beamed hanoily at
a marquee full of cheery people. The rain
made the steps of the club house very slip-
pery, and one pretty girl had a nasty fall.
However, she showed some nice silk stock-
ing and a very neat pair of ankles, so the
accident had its compensations. Mrs. Dr.
Bird gave a big tea to the visiting women
before the finals.
The British Parliamentary visitors are
invited to the Zoo, on Wednesday afternoon,
September 24. President Dr. Charles Ryan
and his wife will receive the guests, overawe
the hyena and monkey, and superintend the
refreshments.
The final important charity dance of the
winter will be the Newsboys’ Ball. These
brisk trading kids have always been pat-
ronised by vice-royalty, and the Best People
attend their benefit sprees in myriads. The
best and cleanest of the craft always attend
the gaudy show and present bouquets; but
thev are commanded to take off their hob-
nailed shoes before they trespass on the
smooth Town Hall floor. The function will
happen in October: meanwhile, befeathered
committee meetings are filling the upper
rooms of the Town Hall with shrill discus-
sion. After the first week or so of October
has gone, the Best People will have time
for nothing but horse-races and dress. In
November. Faith and Hope (as regards
puntings) put poor Charity into the back-
ground.
The Lilydale Hunt Club had its race
meeting at Moonee Valley, last week. G.-G.
Denman went out unofficially and saw his
gentleman rider, Highett, on Noogah. win
the Hunt Club trophy for brewer Mc-
Cracken. Mrs. Arthur Syme brought
her two girls up from Lilydale. One
daughter wore a wreath of roses for a hat,
and looked pretty enough to eat. Mrs.
Norman Fenner supported a feather like an
oriflamme, and Milnes. Millers and
McCrackens competed brilliantly in the
Best-Dressed Ilardicam
An unusual and finely dramatic feature
in connection with a Melbourne social dis-
turbance that culminated in divorce was
withheld from the public. The accusing
wife and the very fair co-re. were excellent
friends up to the point where the domestic
pot boiled over. Only the day before they
had foregathered for four o’clock tea at a
popular Collins-street feedery, and on that
occasion May, the wife, opened wide her
heart to Clara, and confided to her that she
had succeeded in entirely reforming John.
“You know he was something of a rake
before our marriage. Well, dear, he is now
as circumspect as a man can be. He lives
for me alone. He is content with our simple
home life, and his great love for me will
always keep him straight. I’m certain.”
Then followed a long, confiding, heart-to-
heart talk on the influence for good a true
woman can exert upon the life of a bad
man. Revelations came within 24 hours,
and now May admits that nothing in con-
nection with her divorce inspires so poignant
a bitterness as recollection of that tea-table
confidence.
The daughter of Hat Mills Kozminsky is
receiving congratulations on her engage-
ment. The fiance is Dr. Leon Jona, of the
Lister Institute, London.
The Hore-Ruthvens, who were here _ in
the time of G.-G. Dudley, are advertising
the arrival of a baby—quite an event in a
household which has hitherto been absorbed
by cats and fox terriers. The head of the
house is now stationed at the Staff College,
Quetta. India. Sister Mrs. Malcolm has
been staying in the vicinity. Mrs. Mqlcolm
is the exceedingly smart woman who swept
through Melbourne like a beautifully-dressed
meteor at the time of Kitchener’s visit.
Dodo Chenery (her mother was a lovely
Watson of the big clan of Riverina
daughters, and her aunt is the beauty of
the Chirnsides’ sons’ wives) had very strong
stage leanings, and was encouraged to per-
sist with her footlighting by Titheradge.
Dodo got her chance when the star she was
understudying fell ill, and she did so well
that she was fairly well started on the
London boards. Now, however, a man has
intervened, and she is booked for matri-
mony with Mr. Wilfred Newbury. The
fiance is a son of the late Cosmo Newbury,
of Melbourne, and manages a gold-mining
company in West Africa. The two woolly
clans are buzzing the news about. All are
delighted that “dear Dodo” is really going
to settle down and drop the grease paint.
Mrs. Harper, the widow Staughton and
the widow Wrixon lately presented the
officers of the cruiser Melbourne with a set
of flags. They firstly had an idea of making
the banners with their own fair, patriotic
hands ; but they found that charity bazaars
and so on ate up too much of their time,
so the work was passed on to experts. The
finished products were placed in a box of
mountain ash, carved decoratively with
blossoming gum branches by Miss Birch.
All the dames, followed by a man humbly
carrying the casket, boarded the grey
cruiser while it was drily in dock at Wil-
liamstown. The captain and the com-
mander, with their respective wives, were
waiting to receive them, and presently there
was a little flag-flying exhibition, which was
folffiwpd bv tea and chatter.
Eileen Payne (affectionately known as
“Bluie”), daughter of Charles Atkins, was
the star lady at Christ Church, South
Yarra, last Thursday evening. Thomas
Duncanson Kay, with three bunches of
University letters trailing after his name
like a kite-tail, was the lucky leading man.
The bride’s reverend uncle played the
clergyman’s part, and, at Goodrest, where
the wedding champagne was poured, he
proposed the health of the happy pair. Big
Major Mclnerney said complimentary
things about the parents of the bride, and
Charles Atkins answered him back, as it
were. A fine assortment of mayors was in
attendance, and the Gaud Mayor spoke for
the bridesmaids, two sisters of the bride.
“Chips” Adamson, of Brighton, best-manmd
the bridegroom, who paid dearly for being
popular at college. A batch of Scotch stu-
dents carried him on their shoulders from
his dressing-room to the waiting taxi, and
the new wife had to wander after him by
herself through the storm of confetti.
Eleanor Cameron journeyed to Sydney
last week to heln the Liberal cause. The
smiling lady will be missed hereabouts,
though she wasn’t quite Tory enough to
suit some of our most expensive Wimmen’s
Leaeners. Eleanor prides herself on being
“Liberal or nothing.” And she certainly is
something.
Aida Rebottaro became Mrs. Gargurevich
last week. The knotting was done at St.
Francis’s, in the presence of a family party.
The Rebottaro women are among the
frockiest in Melbourne, so the gathering had
seme of the glory of a draper’s spring show.
The bridegroom is assistant secretary of the
Victoria Amateur Turf Club, and there was
a distinct sporting flavor about the names
on the presents. The pair hurried off to
Adelaide for the honeymoon.
Rose Seaton, quite an identity now on the
Repertory Theatre stage, is giving a show
of her own, in October. She will have the
assistance of Miss Hallenstein, a hard-
working amateur of this city. Miss Seaton
is putting on trimmed recitals of old-time
plays.
Miss Thea Proctor has descended on Mel-
bourne, from Sydney, with an armful of
exquisite fans she has painted. They will
be on view at Gill’s, Centreway, for a fort-
night from Thursday, September 18. Miss
Proctor belongs artistically to Sydney, but
has been working for several years with
George Lambert, in London.
The Sisters of Charity, who manage St.
Vincent’s Hospital, have done handsomely
out of their, last appeal. The sum of
£6040 looks well by itself; and the simple
fact of having it entitles the hospital to a
special Government grant of £2OOO.
The Repertory Theatre Club is much con-
cerned about Shaw and his views. Lawyer
Morris Phillips recently discoursed, in the
Austral Salon, on Shaw’s view of women.
Some of the Club members really listened,
and others dropped into a sort of thought-
ful trance, becoming animated again about
coffee time. Phillips’ view of Shaw’s view
is that Shaw puts women on a high plane.
“He laughs at men but never laughs at
women,” says Phillins. Certainly Shaw
never absolutely guffaws at women ; but he
contrives to make the Sex look absurd —
and women can’t bear that. No woman can
be quite convinced that she ever deserves to
be satirised, and, if she were convinced, she
would hate the satiriser none the less.
Last Thursday’s revival of “Tales of Hoff-
mann,” the Quinlan goods which always draw
a crowd, introduced a Melbourne girl, Eda
Bennie, as the doll that snared the affections
of the impressionable German youth. Eda
left for foreign parts some years ago to have
her voice boiled and polished, and was for a
time with Marchesi. As Olympia, she soon
got over her nervousness, and her pleasing,
although by no means robust, voice was
heard to advantage in the “Song of My
Heart” number; while her comedy business
was capital. A good barrow-load of sweet-
smelling vegetables rewarded the lady, who
took her call with nervous reluctance.
By the way, Edna Thornton, who used to
dress the giddy Guilietta in yellow, now
wheedles Hoffmann into making her a present
of his immortal soul in a noisy green gown,
distressingly proper as regards cut. The
green outfit, coming into collision with her
Titian wig, causes a sustained crash, that
drowns the softer passages of the barcarolle.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Children’s Hospital was forcibly dragged sev-
eral paces farther from the precipice of insolvency
last week, the motive power being a fancy-dress revel
for infants. Mr. and Mrs. Correll were the organisers.
It began at eight o’clock, and about 200 children
were there, ranging from small atoms four years
old or so to large, boisterous and wolfishly-hungry
boys and girls. There were Scotchmen and Dutchmen
and Japs, small policemen, some diminutive Oscar
Asches and Lily Bray tons, and an excellent Tiny
Town set. Also, I regret to state, there were a few
unfortunates in the velvet suits and golden curls of
the dreadful Fauntleroy lad. I wonder if the parents
who force their innocent offspring into these banal
garments appreciate, however dimly, the wrong they
are inflicting on their dear ones. Presumably not.
After all, human nature is rarely all bad. Ladv
Bosanquet was there in pale blue, with a red-cloaked
daughter. Likewise Mrs. Mayoress Bonython, in
smartly-designed black.
The Lady Victoria Buxton Girls’ Club held its
annual meeting during the week. The Dean of
Adelaide was in the chair, and Lady Bosanquet read
the report. Finally,there was tea, and nothing but
the imminent possibility of a collection being taken
up prevented the excitement from rising to the pitch
of delirium and straining the self-control of the com-
pany to bursting point. Amongst those present were
Mrs. McCulloch, Mr. and Mrs. Pope, Mrs. Water-
house, Miss Pe.icock and her sister, Mrs. R. Rvmill
Mrs. VV. B. Wilkinson, Mrs. Howard Davenport ami
the hon. secretaries, Mrs. Charles Todd and
Hornabrook. ®
Dudley, the second of the Charles Angas sons has
gone back to England. Mrs. Ryder, the only Aneas
daughter, arrives soon with her two babies. Thev
are to be settled with their grandparents at Lindsa'v
Park, while Mrs. Ryder goes to India and joins her
husband.
The Governor was at Morphettville on Tuesday
accompanied by a daughter and guarded with splendid
zeal by a brace of aides. Chi-Chi gave his backers
a dividend of £22 9s. Otherwise there were no
sensations.
Glenelg’s Mayoral Rail was the usual howling
success. Mrs. Rounsevell wore a frock of ivory sati-i
with touches of lace and Asiatic embroidery, ami
Lady Bosanquet’s gown of Limerick lace had reliev-
ing touches of black. Her daughter was in softlv-
toned peach-color. Mrs. Lavington Bonython wore
pink moire—veiled with white lace and black ninon
Among the representatives of our old Glenelg nobilitv
present were Mrs. Charles Irwin, Mrs. Soward anil
her daughter, Mrs. Fowler Stewart, Miss Coles and
her sister, Mrs. O’Leary, Mrs. Dawson, Mrs. Ralph
Mrs. Walter Stuart and Miss Kingston.
Mrs. Martin has arrived from W.A. She is stay-
ing with Mrs. Pollock at St. Peters.
Mrs. Oswald Hoad left by Monday’s express for
Melbourne. From there she sails for Canada and
Captain Hoad.
Show week is on. The hotels are packed. I know
of one woman who counts herself lucky that she
shares a bedroom with three strange women and a
baby ! Everyone seems to be rolling in money, the
result, I take it, of years of Labor domination and
the st'-adv ecress of Capital from the country, by wav
of protest against Socialism.
Sincerely yours, JOHANNA.


LIGHT, COOL and EASY WASHING SUITS
Ready for instant Service .
..
HU
/
if
.
i
B.P
15
X
• r
o
f;
o
I : :
m
0
n
I
I
S?
Q
Clean-fitting, hand-
finished, decisively-
draped Garments
that hold their shape and shine
out of the usual like a beacon
light. They are correct in every
little detail.
The Coats have fashionable lapels
—patrol collars or Prussian style,
just as you prefer.
The Trousers drape correctly. The
“ slop=made ” garment of yester-
day has been dethroned. Its place
has been taken by well=fitting
clothes that express the trend of
to=day’s fashion in a subtle, con=
vincing way. They have a
“tailored” air within the lines
of good taste.
Absolutely unshrinkable.
They may be washed time
and again with impunity.
PLEASE SEND
FOR PATTERNS
AND PRICE
LIST . . . THEY
WILL COME TO
YOU— by Return.
Any of the fabrics
mentioned here may
be obtained either in
Single- or Double-
breasted Styles, Norfolk
or Patrol Shapes, with
Trousers to match.
Your exact size is here.
Style No. I—Single-breasted.1—Single-breasted.
Style No. 2 —Norfolk shape with Prussian
Collar.
Style No. 3 —Patrol shape with two-inch
stitched stand collar fas-
tened with studs.
*
INDIAN WHITE. DRILL
Soft, Washable, Unshrinkable * * i s
Coats, l^'/O
CO T™, 25|- Trousers, 10/6
INDIAN “RAJAH” TWEED
Grey, Pepper and Salt Color,
Washing Fabric. Unshrinkable.
Coats,
Coat and
Trousers,
30|-
Trousers,
Splendid
17|6
12/6
‘BUNCO” SILK
Beautifully Light.
Unshrinkable.
Washable,
Coat and
Trousers,
52|6 Trousers,
30 1-
22/6
WHEN ORDERING IT IS NECESSARY TO GIVE
HEIGHT, CHEST MEASURE, WAIST MEASURE
AND INSIDE LEG MEASURE.
Townsville
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Outfitters for Gentlemen,
BRISBANE
T oowoomba.


For Chronic
Indigestion
TAKE
NOlsinw
a 3 ionV
■
CSSnft
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/Q and 4/6.
Angier s Emulsion lubricates and soothes the mucous
membrane of the stomach and intestines, arrests fermentation,
and promotes normal healthy action of the bowels. It is a
splendid tonic to appetite and digestion and it builds up health
and strength. Doctors prescribe it for chronic indigestion,
nervous dyspepsia, stomach and intestinal catarrh, etc. It has
cured many obscure and obstinate digestive troubles.
Send for free Sample ; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., "7 Barraelc St.. Sydney. N.S.W.
Don’t run away with the idea
■ A
✓ ?
chat “ SPARKLETS ” are only valu-
able in the summer. For instance,
whiskey is in season from January 1
to December 31, and the best of
whiskey is still better with the
addition of
“SPARKLETS”
TRY IT.
C. Syphons, 6 6.
B. Syphons, 4 -
B. Bulbs, 1/6 dozen.
C. Bulbs, 2 3 dozen.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
DISTINCTIVE NAMES.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER : “In olden Scrip-
tural times boys were given names because
ot their meaning. Do you know of any
boys to-day who are. given names because
of what they mean?'"
SCHOLAR: “ Yes, Miss. Ginger and Skinny
and Stinker, and whips of’em."
“Lagani-Namo”: Until recently every
European menage in Papua depended entirely on its
“shooting-boy” for everything in the way of fresh
meat. Wallaby, wild pig, cassowary, ducks and Goura
pigeons are fortunately to be had for the wanting
almost anywhere in the country. I dropped in on a
friend inland once, and his “shooting-bov” and several
others were sent out to get our dinner. An hour
later they staggered in with a twenty-five foot python
for the larder. The remarks that the boss sent hurt-
ling through space must have resuscitated the defunct
“gi-gi,” and he must have swallowed his captors, for.
when the atmosphere cleared again, neither was to be
seen. Judging by the noisy revelry over at the
natives’ quarters that night I think the long piece of
food may have somehow found its way there. As
for us, we had a meal of the usual old galvanized bull.
“Nuki": I was returning-officer at Te
Waimahana for last Maori election, and had two
strenuous days of it. The Maori votes by declara-
tion, and frequently changes his mind at the poll, or
comes back later and wants to vote for the other
man. When he comes to the booth he comes for the
day, and usually all the family come with him, and
if the election lasts for two days they stay the night.
On my first day an old lady roved in about 12
o’clock and inquired my luncheon hour. I told her
returning-offieers had no time to eat anything. She
nodded pleasantly, and returned to the camp out-
side. I noticed that the booth was very silent for
a time and minus all voters, when in walked a
procession—old lady, carrying cakes; her husband, a
teapot; little boy, in charge of bread and butter;
another little boy', with sugar ; two small girls, bear-
ing milk and tin of jam ; another wahine, with plates,
etc. 1 was escorted to the feast with ceremony, and
the booth was closed. Outside I heard a party of
voters arriving, and then the old lady’s voice: “Te
pakeha take te kai. Taihoa te Maori.’’ They
taihoaed all right, and not until one o’clock did my
old lady re-open the door. The voters sat round out-
side and waited with the greatest amiability. I’d
like to see the pakeha do it.
* * * ♦
An un named special correspondent of the
English Westminster Gazette (26/7/’l3) gives a
long description of the utterly different conditions
Australia may offer: Irrigated area, cattle-station,
priokly-pear belt, and so on. His great point is that
Australians talk of things as all rose-colored, and so
get the easy, enthusiastic person we don’t need in-
stead of the real grafter that we do. “1 firmly
believe that success is possible in every State in Aus-
tralia, even to the settler with only a few hundred
pounds; but success is not easily won. All the
agricultural banks in the world will not enable an
easy-going man to succeed. The sine qua non is
Character, and the less capital a man has the more
character he needs. My first word and my last is
that 1 am convinced that Australia will not gtt the
right sort of immigrant until it advertises the ditti
cutties as well as the opportunities of life on the
land, and ceases to paint everything rose-color.” His
advice to the new-comer is twofold. If with money,
buy land already proved, and partly developed; if
without, work in the country for a year or two
before committing himself to anything. And, any
way, “he must make up his mind to work harder
than he has ever worked before.”
* * • *
“('hang": Will back the Western Divi-
sion native of Papua to get a larger and more varied
assortment of food into his pantry than any other
human being'. A short while ago, in
company with some natives, amongst
whom was a Bamu River boy, 1 jaunted
into the hills, taking victuals for the
journey. From time to time the larder
was supplemented by birds, beasts and
reptiles, of which there are plenty in the
hills, and the boys were given almost a
free hand with the tucker, being allowed
to help themselves. The Bamu boy
always took in rice more than double the
amount any of the others did, and also
received his due proportion of meat, bis-
cuits, etc. Also, I found that whenever
a bird was killed which was not consid-
ered fit for eating, Bamu would bag it
for future use. Every evening meal, too,
Bamu used to keep his eye skinned to
see where the remains of my meal would
be thrown, so that he could make ends
meet, in a manner of speaking. When-
ever a snake or lizard was killed, Bamu
secured him and stowed him away with
his rice. One day a 12ft. python was
killed. Bamu got him, too, and ate him
—bones and all—the same evening. On
the return journey I tried him out by
giving him a mat of rice for himself to
eat. He finished it in two days, and
then came and told me he was hungry.
This about broke me up, so when I
reached the Government station I bought him two
herds of dogs, so that he could have a square feed
for once. When 1 left, he was buried to his chin in
bones.
“Machete”: The Papuan Government
Gazette is not more interesting outwardly than
others of its kind. Occasionally, however, there is a
story, perhaps a tragedy, hanging to some item or
other in its pages. In the notices of Intestate
Estates a month or so ago, appeared the item: “Bi.
Native woman. Samarai. 16/9.” The “16/9” was
the value of Bi’s estate. Not so many years ago.
when the Milne Bay rush was giving fair returns. Bi
was Lady of the Manor for a storekeeper on the
field. Gold was fairly plentiful, and so was poison-
ous liquor. One night the storekeeper was on a
spree with several of the diggers, who came and
went during the evening. Next morning his store
looked like a shambles. He had been beaten to a
jelly with his own pick handle; and Bi was also
badly knocked about. When she recovered, she
accused two local diggers of the murder, and told a
fearful tale of butchery. No corroboration could be
got, however, and, though the accused were arraigned,
they could not be convicted. The authorities felt it
was up to them, though, so they charged poor Bi
with perjury, and gave her a thumping sentence
in Samarai gaol, where she died. She had a little
hand-sewing machine, on which she did odd jobs.
Hence the intestate estate of 16s. 9d. The two
accused have long left Papua, and now that Bi has
followed her quondam lord and master to the Shades,
it looks as if the matter won’t be sifted out until
the Great Bang-Tail Muster.
“Pick": Spencer, Gillan. and “A.1,.P>.“
(B. 28/8/’l3) notwithstanding, 1 still assert that,
except when drawn together by the scent of a feast
or a family wrangle, the dingo is an animal inclined
to solitude. At Slapuo cattle station, in the Jingera
country (N.S.W.), I once saw the manager secure 13
dingoes by trickling strychnine into the running
blood of a wild horse he had shot. We watched 11
of those dogs trot up, and they came singly and at
intervals. Had “A.L.8.” seen them carousing around
the corpse, he would have made his affidavit that
they were hunting in a pack. And he would have
been wrong. Regarding the ability of the warragul
to scale dog-proof fences, as stated by “A.L.8.,” I
have never waited long enough on a fence to see
whether a wild dog climbed it or not, but i know
that the sheep-men of Monaro have had no trouble
from the wild dogs of the Nunnick forest since it
was cut off by a rabbit-proof fence with barbed
wire on top.
* * * *
A member of the British Government has
introduced a Bill to prohibit the importation of the
plumage and skins of wild birds. The United States
had previously taken action in the same direction,
and even in Europe, where the “latest fashions"
originally come from, the women who trim themselves
with portions of deceased fowls of the air are pretty
certain to be left presently without, a feather to fly
around with. Why (lie Customs departments should
be dragged into this movement, for the preservation
of handsome birds the Lord only knows. If Australia
wants to join in (lie movement the easiest way of
doing so will lie to extend the operations of I tie
belated hatpin regulation to the feathered adorn
merit of hats. If a woman can be prosecuted for not
“guarding” her ornamental hatpin in the interests
of human public safety there is no special reason why
she shouldn’t be summoned in the interests of gaudy
bird-life for wearing wings and tails. Men are-fined
for shooting protected birds, which is a difficult
offence to deal with. Why not punish their women
kind for flaunting the dead remains of protected
birds in the streets and theatres?
A SAVING CLAUSE.
COY SPINSTER: “I want a boat and a man; but I hope yen'll understand that this isn't a
proposal . I'm engaged to Threadpaper , the vegetarian lecturer , and we re to be
married next month.”
There is a tiny centre in Gippsland. given
over largely to the grand native industry of ’possum
skinning, which is glorified with the name Anno-
domini. One night a few weeks back a meeting of
the local debating society was broken up through a
bitter dispute over the origin of the name. The large
majority held that Annodomini was an aboriginal
word. A fierce minority insisted that it was a cor-
ruption of the pet name of one Annie the Demon, who
ran a grog shanty when the alluvial was being wbrked
at Pie Creek. There were three fights, but no de-
finite agreement.
A FRAUD.
REV. COADYD ALEXANDER (the new parson):
“Mow did you like Mr. Holm , the last
clergyman?"
NUMBA JIMMY (showing the parson to next
station): “Mine bin tinkit dat phelta
plurry rogue. Bin tellum me always how
hidem road longa Heaven. Yabber very
hard place get to. And , by Cripes, dat
phella bin gettem lost all night just gout
over here longa Jiggi."
“\\ . I>.<: hast week a slab-sided COW-
S’^”l’ strayed into a North Coast (N.S.W.) store and
asked for a pair of boots. On ascertaining the size
a pair of heavy bluchers were produced and closely
examined. “Ain’t yer got er pair with studs in ’em?”
the gazob queried. A hefty pair of beetle-crushers
with steel-shod heels were forthcoming. “Yairs,
them s orlright—on’y I see er pair larst week with
iron in ’ere”—pointing underneath the instep, “oh
yes," said the salesman, “for using a shovel.” a
pair of the armored cruisers were dragged out
“Them’s orlright, too—l dunno which to ’aye.”
“Well, what kind of work do you want them for?”
asked the salesman. The gazob made a weird noise
in his throat, “oh 1 I want ’em fer a weddin’,” he
said.
* * * •
“A M.”: To Mitchell township came the
R.O. Bishop, who held a reception. A week later the
Anglican Bishop stepped in and held a reception.
The third week the manager of pugilist Sam McVea
announced a reception, cordially inviting ail local
notables. A staunch Presbyterian, living out on Ilia
pear selection, hearing of another reception to a
gentleman named McVea, naturally thought the
Presbyterian Bishop was getting his turn. He rode
in 13 miles to do homage. On arrival he made
some coarse and unseemly remarks —but not U
McVea.
“Billy T.” : The Age discusses the degra-
dation of football, and thinks its knell is ringing. I
have heard Benno express a similar opinion for
different reasons. Said Benjamin: “Do Igo t’ foot-
ball now? Nort much. Eootie ain’t no good t’ me
these days. Th’ gime’s rotten, that’s what. They
ain’t no sap in it, see. It’s all right fer toffs V
goo’eys but gi’ me croquet. Why, there was the
Planet and the Ramblers cornin’ home after their
match lars Saturdee, singin’ a hymn, a hymn
mindyer— ’n’ in the same van!”
(Continued on page 24 .)
LONGING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 hate the screeching trams that screech like demons
Babel-led ;
1 hate the turmoil of it all where Mirth and Madness
wed—
It fills my brain with ghastly thoughts, and loads my
heart with lead.
I hale the city's surge and shame, its dregs of all the
earth,
Its humor that is Tragedy, its pathos that is Mirth,
Its Pharisees and platitudes, its faiths of little worth.
1 want, O God, the Open Life, the wideness of the
plains ;
I want to ride across the land with loosely-dai gled
reins—-
Out, out across the verdant vast, where Silence yet
remains.
1 want, O God, but leave, to walk where neither
dross nor din
Encircles me, nor creeds and castes, relentless, hem
me in,
And where no lamp-lit street parades each night its
scarlet sin.
1 want, O God, surcease of strain from counter,
press and loom.
Oh ! lead me where the dreams I dreamed might find
fruition-room
Out somewhere in a valley where the nodding blue-
bells bloom.
Out somewhere in a valley where the roads are clean
and long,
And where the magpies fill the air with sweetness of
their song
(lot where the legimental gums are half a million
strong.
1 want, O God, to dally where the anodyne of ruth
Kails like a benediction on the after-pain of youth -
I want, O God, to wander in the Commonwealth of
Truth 1
N.S.W.
K. J. CASSIDY.


¥
W/h
m
m\
ll
ivff r I ■
ms\
111
k-jilfl L>r
18
«SSS
■S* -=3 ~
KM
CHIEF OFFICES AND PART OF FACTORY
ANNANDALE NEAR SYDNEY N.S.WALES.
R
W';
his is to Certify jl/Ms
Sl/lp 7
UZ/'l
t/vut
r
Ur.
Au/s/f/'riAy t // r > 1 /As >ry/>->r , Ay
Mr// Ayer A ,/r //sr/’) erAA/e/eo/', u:A<r
AAs/Au/irAAs-r/'er/Ar?A jA'J
uAtlt/y /Ar rs/ >4 er/ry^syA aA> AmAiruA eAet/esA MAAt& Vrxy .r?'f // Az/s/A'
yu/r/AAs/re/y.eA cA/AerrA/AAe/zrieS-sA'/ „ »TM y- y*^ ‘C // MrS
Surrey/ rsir/yArtre > y/ A/rrrA uA u/z/uA ruAAr "m-r/ir-*' Ar>//y/s// // L eAAyt/rtr, As
y/rMrrS MeArrrrzrAty u/S AArtAjAArzAe/yy''' A/zsrz strAy/ zyAAe ret / A - Atuzetur/x //At// /
Syt/yytn^ertAurr/tuerrcz/riAu^ cMr'trSu^ryA y/tt leAtzree
uM „
MAruceeAAy A/AAerzA urr/rAMArey/utt/yMMtruArAyA//t / Met/y r/A^//Ate/yrt/y/rSiAAtrrA,
rsArirtrr/nMiAry' /tea#/ cMt/eA/tee/', ryim/yMr/t/Ar/AttAer A/e) rAty ryA__ -
AMM # n // Ms/n
A/ /
S&Z' uzet rSut/r Sr//a~
rsn
>?y?
/?„
eM
/ArsSS>.
) //Ss
FREE LIFE
INSURANCE.
FUTURE purchasers of Beale
Pianos may obtain upon
application a free insurance
certificate as per illustration, so
as to set aside, as far as may be,
the financial effect of dire mis-
fortune. The intent is to relieve
the mind of the breadwinner
from anxiety lest a much desired
acquisition for his family, of
permanent value, and saleable,
might become a burden if not
fully paid for. Seventeen
thousand Beale Pianos have
already been sold.
BEALE & CO. LTD.
136 a & 136 b LIVERPOOL STREET (opposite Mark Foy’s), SYDNEY.
273 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
127 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A. 839 HAY STREET, PERTH. W.A.
90-92 QUEEN STREET, opposite Pike Bros., our new and ON LY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W. ; Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie. W.A.
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR STREET, AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
25 Years’ Guarantee. Cash or Easy Terms. Repairs and Tuning. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufact
'rers.


TfIRRfINTS
MELBOURNE.
The BIGGEST & BUSIEST MOTOR HOUSE in Australia.
Enormous Stock of Accessories always on hand.
Builders of the Best Motor Bodies.
MOST UP-TO-DATE REPAIR WORKS.
T
ARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
Agents in Victoria for Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Austro-Dalmler, Sunbeam,
Adler, Commer, Thornycroft,
104-112 Russell St., and 186-192 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
’Phones—3o3o, 2942, 6280, 5534, 3100.
A
I
Moving pictures will one day be perfected and
the characters not only move, but speak, and all
the accessories and effects of the stage be faithfully
reproduced. This of course will not be done as
well as on the regular stage, but its standard will
be approached. The masses will thereby find an
inexpensive and improving way of spending the even-
ing, and some doubtful forms of entertainment
disappear. Phillips Ormonde & Co., patent attorneys,
17 Queen Street, Melbourne.*
REXONA.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals with
remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashione
ments, which are very slow in their action, o_ni;ca. 0 _ n i; ca .
speedily effects its relief after a very few PP
tions. Sold in triangular pots at Is. da. ami
Obtainable everywhere.*
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHIOTY, Melbourne and Sydney. p
“Lagani-Namo”: The natives occupying
the foreshores around the Gulf of Papua have lived
in dread of the “Kuku-Kukus” from time imme-
morial. The latter, a nomadic, marauding people
inhabiting the hinterlands, are accredited with super-
natural powers. It is believed of them that they
can make themselves invisible, can kill with a
glance, can transform their bodies to those of pig
or cassowary, are able to see as well in darkness as
in light, can travel through impenetrable scrub
without disturbing a leaf, and so on. “S’pose white
man he shoot Kuku-Kuku, bullets he can’t do” (mean-
ing that they’re invulnerable). A prospector got
close enough to see a few of them, and they put an
arrow through him by way of certificate for the
achievement, but he brought away some interesting
information. According to his observations, they
are lighter hued than any other known Papuans.
They paint their faces with vivid ochres, and with
the exception of a small tuft on the poll, shave all
their hair. Both sexes wear kilts of ramie strings,
but long cloaks of beaten bark, looped over the fore-
head and hanging low behind, are also common co
both sexes. For ornament, women have cane-plaited
rings around the arms, neck and waist. The males
wear a boar’s tusk through the septum of the nose,
and varied decorations of thigh bones. Weapons are
spears, bows and arrows, wooden swords and stone
clubs, with shields of light, tough wood bound with
rattan. The dead are wrapped in leaves and held
upright by sticks. No cooking utensils were seen,
other than sections of bamboo in which green stuff
was being boiled. Probably everything is cooked on
hot stones. Sugarcane, sweet potatoes, bananas,
yams and tobacco are cultivated. Pigs and dogs
are domesticated, and always accompany their owners.
Wide streams are spanned with suspension bridges
built entirely of cane, and dams with movable gates
are thrown across streams for fishing purposes. No
big villages have been seen. In such as there are,
the huts are quadrangular, with either conical or
gable roofs, and made of the leaves of the sago palm.
* * * *
“Celt”: It was just after Long Valley and
before the Criffel rush broke out that, to keep things
moving, we took a contract fencing on Timaru
(M.L.). There was no word then of Antarctic ex-
ploration, but the Timaru merinoes were keen to
move in the direction of Mount Gook, and the man-
ager reckoned a fence along the Manuka Spur would
act as a deterrent. Feed was scarce near the snow-
line, and the paclchorses made heavy work of shifting
chaff along the frozen hillsides. Fritz could swing
a shovel with the best, but where horses were con-
cerned, it seemed safer that I should do the leading.
The first horse got across safely, but a projecting
point of rock made all the difference to the second.
Swung outwards, he missed his footing, and after
that there was no hesitation or delay. He reached
the creek boulders, 400 ft. below, and the thud of
his arrival cracked the silence of the hills. Then
out of the painful stillness, and across the snow-
grass and the heather, came the quavering Teutonic
call: “Vos—vos he hurt?”
* ♦ * *
They’re just the same in God’s Own
Country. A North Island school inspector, in his
annual report, mentions that one of his school com-
mittees, by a majority vote, lately decided against a
proposal to establish a school library “because it
might interefere with the milking of the cows.”
WAITING FOR ORDERS.
THE DREADNOUGHT: " H ' m ! They were a
different species of bird that followed in
the wake of my ancestors.”
“Ginger”: The carrying of an injured
bush or mine mate long distances (case cited by
“Gouger,” B. 7/8/’l3) in "dreadful difficulties is not
uncommon. A notable case was that of Russian Jack,
a Murchison (W.A.) celebrity. He wheeled his sick
mate 700 miles into Cue Hospital on a wheelbarrow,
doing the trip in a month. The exploit hit the Cue
people fair on the solar plexus and they wanted to
make a fuss over him. The battler, however, said he
was in a hurry to get back and have a “weight” or
two from Dead Bird Gully before things petered out
there. Next morning he got between the shafts of
the barrow and lit out on his 700-mile trail back to
camp. If the Czar has many soldiers like Russian
Jack the next enemy who tries to take Moscow will
be sorry for himself.
CONVINCING EVIDENCE.
MRS. SMITH: "Julius Barrett Smith , you have"
MR. SMITH: " My (hie) dear , I”
MRS. SMITH : “ Don’t dare deny it! You’ve been telling people what baby said again!
I can smell it on your breath even here!”
“T.H.M.” : Was working at a M.L. saw-
mill a few weeks ago, on the breaking-down bench.
We were cutting a big rimu, full of knot holes,
when the saws went fair through the middle of a
hive of bees. Three of us flew for the virgin bush
so rapidly that we heard only the echo of the boss’s
yell as he urged us to take no notice of the useless
things. Ten seconds later something like a rocket
shot past as though we were standing still and dis-
appeared with a crash into the underscrub. It was
the boss. The
“slabby” was the
only member of
the mill popula-
tion that came
out of the massa-
cre unmarked. He
crawled into an
iron tank and
blocked the en-
trance with an old
sack. After about
three hours, a vol-
unteer hurried cau-
tiously back and
discovered that the
invaders had
swarmed on the
driving - belt. So
far as I am con-
cerned, they may
be there still. It
appears that the
tree, when falling,
had crashed into
swampy ground,
and mud had
sealed the inouth
of the hive. That
was why the bees
were still in it. And every half-minute they
remained in it they grew angrier, till at last they
became as mad as an alderman who had been found
taking tips from the garbage contractor.
“Macko”: Sam was a puny squib, yet
lived always in the belief that his strenuous Sandow
exertions had expanded his chicken chest marvel-
lously. He was also a horrible liar, and his affaires
du coeur (illiterately related by himself) were much
scoffed at in the smoke-room of the boat on which
I was returning from Samoa. Sam was a bad sailor,
and I, being the only medico on board, used to look
after him when he took to his bunk. One hot day
as he lay there, with his pyjama coat well open, I
noticed a tiny blue spot on his chest. “What’s that,
Sam?” I inquired. “Oh, that spot,” said Sam.
“Oh, that’s a girl’s name.” “A girl’s name?” I
asked. “Is it a joke? Does her name happen to be
Dot?” “Certainly not,” answered Sam, the un-
truther. “Yer see, I’ve been livin’ in Samor fer
some time, and when a little Samoan girl gets shook
on yer shape, she just tattoos her name on yer.
But I’ve got ter inflate me chest before ye can read
it with the nood optic. Her name’s Elizabeth.”
“P. Jeff Wallace” : Some 40 years ago
there was a fairly numerous tribe of aboriginals in
the Burragorang Valley (N.S.W.). They owed alle-
giance to a sovereign called Solomon, who in early
life had been annexed by a local sett sr and taught
to read and write a little. Solomon always carried
with him a well-thumbed prayer-book and a few
sheets of “copy paper,” and was proud of being the
author of several “budgeree corroborees” written in
approved Anglo-abo. When I struck Solomon’s camp
at the Oaks (a few miles from Picton) in 1862, I
had a “cobbawn yabber” with him, and found him a
very interesting individual. With pride he produced
from a little koala-skin bag, for my inspection and
criticism, his latest literary effort—a eorroboree
written on the soiled leaf of a school exercise book.
It consisted of about five “verses,” each one ending
with the following refrain: —
Mister Cordoo, Mister Cordoo,
Gib plenty tobacco and white money, too,
Budgeree you, Mister Cordoo—
Wuh ! Wuh 1 Wurra —man —-yuh 1
The singing of Solomon’s composition by about 30 of
his subjects was something to dream about. It had
reference to Mr. Cordeaux, of Bendooley, near Ber-
rima, who had the wide reputation of being “good
to the blacks,” some of whom occasionally worked
for him, stripping bark and otherwise making them-
selves useful about the station. Solomon had another
encomiastic eorroboree, dedicated to the Wild family,
of Vanderville, who were also esteemed as “cobbawn
budgeree friends belonging to plackfeller—baal
plurry gammon!”
“Norseman”: To the mountainous pile of
evidence concerning the cow-slavery of the child in
New South Wales let me waft this precious document,
which was sent along to me the other day:—
Mr. D , Sir, —Please don’t give Gertie any home
work, as she has no time, and is too tired after turn-
ing the seperrater.
Youres truly,
I’ll say this for the blighter—he was no liar !
“Eddyson”: Crotty is a pleasing little
Gippsland township hung on a hill—a township that
is white-washed because glue is cheap, and the pi De
clay slurry from the Red Feather puddlers over-runs
the lowlands. A nice assortment of twining vines
gives it a verdant, vegetarian aspect. There is an air
of peace, also a hint of poesy, about Crotty if
you strike it in one of its sober moments. I found
it on a mild, spring day, and was delighted with its
greenness and whiteness and sweet simplicity, it
suggested one of those aerial Italian villages brood-
ing over the Mediterranean, with which I am so
familiar in the living pictures. At half-past eight
that night I walked abroad with the moon, and all
was calm and bright. The quietness suggested that
Crotty was indeed what it looked, the ghost of a
hamlet. Presently, however, I came to a structure
rather more spacious than the rest, with a formal
semi-official front. From this issued a murmur as
of innumerable bees. The murmur swelled, and
becoming interested, I sat on a stump to await de-
velopments. The murmur became a clamor, the
clamor broke into uproar, with a great battering as
if weatherboards were being beaten or butted off.
Then with a crash, the double doors broke outwards
and about 20 men fell into the road. On looking
more closely I discovered that the 20 men were
engaged in an altercation. Some were biting, some
kicking; the others were content to punch. All were
contributing to the concert; even those who were
busy biting made noises. The inhabitants of Crottv
came forth, and looked on with an air of splendid
impartiality. Unfortunately the fight spread about
the township, and I only saw sections of it at the
finish, but it was a very excellent fight conducted
with great spirit and fine party feeling, and when
the struggle was over, and the combatants assembled
in Cameron’s bar, not a man of them was without
some distinguishing disfigurement. “What did it all
mean ?” I asked a distinguished citizen. “That,
sir,” said he impressively, “was a meeting of the
district Mutual Improvement Association.”
* * * *
“Rex” : Is there any particular reason (ex-
cepting to annoy a person cursed with idle curi-
osity) why there should be such extreme color-differ-
ence in the eyes of Australian crows? Lately I
have been employed ploughing on a mallee farm,
accompanied daily by a flock of the birds gorging
grubs and worms from the up-turned soil. The bulk
of them (the crows) have white eyes, while the
optics of the remainder are nearly black. This is
not peculiar to any one part of Australia. Various
observant blokes and even scientists have noticed it,
but, so far as I know, none of them have provided
an explanation. Which leaves a great chance for
whatstheirname to rush in where thingumbob fears
to tread.
“Tekelo”: The white man got an extra
share of his burden when dysentery made its appear-
ance on Gilorua estate, Papua. The conditions were
ideal for the scourge to spread rapidly. The season
was dry and hot, and the only water supply a puny,
sluggish creek. From this a hundred boys took
their drink, and in it they washed. The isolated hos-
pital was simply a fly thrown over a ridge pole,
finishing within 18in. of the ground. Both ends
were open to allow any breeze that might be stir-
ring to blow over the fevered sufferers. A per-
manent structure was impossible, because the boys
refused to stay in a place where Death had visited,
so the establishment had to be frequently removed.
The sufferers lay nakedly on beds of kura-kura grass
strewn on the ground. Sometimes there were as
many as 20 of them. At the foot of each bed a
small hole was dug, beside which stood a tin of lime
for antiseptic purposes. Many of the patients,
through superstition, refused diet. A favorite dodge
was to empty the food into the bed and lie on it.
Some, just on the road to convalescence, suddenly
saw “devils” or visions, and bolted into the scrub.
These cases helped the death-rate. No boy died who
reported early and who kept his bed. A constant
watch had to be kept on the healthy boys.
They had wild ideas about diet. Oppor-
tunities were taken to hurl fat, green lizards, bush
rats, juicy cassowary and other titbits into the
sick camp. Often, at 2 a.m. or thereabouts, I
would be attracted by a bright fire hospitalwards,
and, sneaking over, I would surprise a weird group
of naked skeletons cooking the forbidden tucker. Is
it any wonder that, out of 60 boys that were at-
tacked, 20 lie buried in the scrub?
THE PRODIGAL CALF AND THE
FATTED SON.
“Hock”: I was present at a scrap, one
moonlight night, between a wild and a tame slut
that beat anything in dog warfare I'd ever seen.
Jealousy on the part of the domestic flea-breeder
was the cause of the disturbance. Her mate, a fine
big kangaroo dog, had been away on his usual spring-
time jaunt and brought home her wild ladyship wit 1
him. That night there was the mother of all dog-
fights in the camp between the new and the old love.
They stuck to it until the warrigal lady got a sig t
or a sniff of me, when the hussy bolted. I examine
her opponent in the morning, and she bore the ap-
pearance of having been cut and slashed about wi i
a butcher’s knife. I poisoned the wild bitch a nig
or two later, and she had scarcely a mark on er.
I’ve had a lot of experience of the dingo, and tan
confidently contradict those who say the beast is a
coward. It is true that he promptly scoots from a
man with a weapon, but that does not prove him 0
be a cocktail by comparison with other wild annnu s.
It merely shows that he follows their almost unner
sal example.
THE RECONCILIATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Arrangements have been completed for a 20-rounds
match between Sam Langford and Jack Johnson, to
take place at the Cirque de Paris. It looks as though
a reconciliation had been effected between Johnson
and Langford, formerly the bitterest of opponents.
— Melb. paper.
They quarrelled—why, I quite forget—
And drifted far apart;
Each had his colored brother “set,”
Cold hatred filled each heart;
Sam would not liquor up with Jack,
Jack would not drink with Sam ;
Each on the other turned his back
In church, or pub, or tram.
Their bitter hate
Nought could abate —
Not e’en the prospect of a gate 1
But now, it seems, sweet amity,
And friendship’s priceless boon,
And faith and love and charity,
Exist ’tween coon and coon 1
Sam is not now by Jack reviled,
For brotherhood (or cash)
Has triumphed. Being reconciled,
The two will meet to bash,
And wallops rain
With might and main,
To prove that they are friends again 1
VICTORIA.
*
HARRISON O.


:v
mm
-
r
v
h
mm §
-■ :
■
A
: ;...
■
-
" ? '' ,'' __ '> ,V ' "
•* ? -
The Mellow
Magnet.
It is the u Thorne '' Flavor that
is so attractive —so magnetic —to
the appreciator of good Whisky.
“ Thorne Flavor ” is the ripe
product of 80 years. It is its
uniformity of excellence the
unvarying mellowness, smooth-
ness and purity that have elevated
this fine Glenlivet spirit to a
pinnacle of high public favor.
“ Toast your Successes or
Solace your Defeats” in Thorne's.
It will add a rosier flush to Good
Fortune —and soften the sting of
a Reverse.
The Whisky provided for the
regalement of the King's Guests
at the Garden Party during the
Great Delhi Durbar was
mmkk-
Wim
7 '
im
Incomparable
Thorne’s
Old Highland Malt
WHisKy.
■
r
\
K
ft


Sanatogen Brings New
Health and Nerve Force.
I have used Sanatogen with extra-
ordinary benefit. It is to ray mind a true
food tonic, feeding the nerves, increasing
the energy, and giving fresh vigour to the
overworked body and mind.”
These words by Sir Gilbert Parker, M.P.,
the well-known author, have a helpful
meaning for you —if you need real help in
one of those crises of life when your health
is giving you anxiety.
They echo a sentiment of gratitude which
is expressed in many different ways in
thousands upon thousands of letters from
men and women who owe to Sanatogen new
strength and vitality.
The Rt. Hon. Sir John Gorst, member of His
Majesty’s Privy Council, writes: “Sir John
Gorst wishes to say he has long been acquainted
wish the great merits of Sanatogen -has taken
it with excellent results, and when necessary
will certainly take it again. It was also used
by a daughter of his with great benefit.”
To you who are run down, nervous or
weak—to you who are less than yourself
Sanatogen will bring new health. To you
whose nerves have gone wrong, and whose
appetite or sleep or capacity for work are
impaired, Sanatogen comes as a rescuing
sustainer, a revitalising force, a feeder of
nerves and tissues.
Write to-day for a Free Booklet, entitled
“ The Art of Living,” to Messrs. A. Wulfing
& Co., 17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Kindly mention this paper when writing.
All Chemists sell .Sanatogen, price 2s. 6d.,
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. per tin.
m
•-'"»i
%
U
“Harrison O.”: What is “Billy T” driving at
when he alleges (P.P. 21/8/’l3) that “it really looks
as though old-fashioned melodrama were going to
pieces in Australia”? “During the last 12 months,”
says “Billy,” “public interest in the bad ass and
the good idiot, the imbecile, angrv father and the
fatuous, gentle one, has shown itself shattered” ; and
he quotes “Within the Law” and “On Our Selec-
tion” as examples of the “new” drama which have
caught the public fancy. The assumption that there
is anything specially new in either of these shows
is unwarrantable. “On Our Selection” is novel
merely through being Australian, but this class of
play is as old as “Struck Oil,” and older. Also, I
can’t detect any essential newness about “AVithin
the Law,” in which the angry, idiotic father, who
demands that his son shall give up the girl or be
cut off with a dollar, is a leading character, as are
also the good but imbecile hero, the wronged woman,
and others. The most unusual thing about the two
shows was the first-class acting, which appears to
have deluded “Billy T” into the vain belief that he
was witnessing new ideas.
“Screen”: An Australian-made biograph gives the
story of “Moondyne,” by O’Reilly, embellished with
the histrionic talent of Redgrave, Bryant and others.
O’Reilly was a Hussar, exiled to Westralia for auda-
ciously spreading the gospel of Fenianism in his
regiment. “Moondvne” was penned long before the
discovery of AVestralian gold, and only has vitality
now because it made fiction out of what was sub-
sequently fact. O’Reilly did not believe in the “non-
sense” about gold, but only took it as a good Active
base. Yet natives from the Vasse gave him the
idea, and he worked it up so well that Hargreaves
was actually sent over from N. S. AVales to prospect
for the sordid metal. He reported that there was
none, but of course he never reached the Golden Mile.
Necessity was lately the mother of a simple inven-
tion at a Brunswick (Melb.) picture “palace.” The
Lyric had leading place in the photo-play business
thereabouts until a rival establishment, fitted with a
stage for vaudeville purposes, started to mix song-
and-dance with its flickergraphy. Then, for the
moment, the honored name of the Lyric was changed
to Mud. There was sufficient platform space in front
of the back wall, where the plaster screen is fixed,
and something had to be done to convert the plat-
form into a stage. The “Fraser Folding Proscenium”
met the difficulty. It is a light structure of wood
and steel, with hinged sides which swing forward, and
are bolted to the floor. Also the two parts of the
proscenium-top, with curtain attached, swing for-
ward and fit together in the middle. Twenty sec-
onds only are required for converting the Lyric pic-
turey into a vaudevillery, and now the management
mixes the entertainment, with novel effect. AVhen a
vaudeville turn is ended the wings of the proscenium
are swung back to their original positions, the top
disappears, and the back scene, being removed, leaves
the screen exposed for film reflections as before. This
Fraser Folding Proscenium device (duly patented)
should commend itself to picture-hall proprietors
wherever it can be adopted.
“Absalom Jones”: Maud Williamson also once
made a play out of the doings of Joseph of Canaan,
and staged and acted it with Alf AVoods as the
Pot. She wrote most of it while living retired in
Orroroo, a little S. Aus. town with a greater leaning
toward church than beer, and it was produced with-
out camels or other expensive Asiatic adjuncts. I
recollect that Judge Pharaoh inquired of plaintiff
Potinhar: “Do you ad’ere to this acquisition ?” Maud
AAHlliamson also wrotu “Barabbas,” a dramatisation
of Marie Corelli and the New Testament.
“Norbell”: Referring to Beerhobrii Tree’s forth-
coming production of the Bible play, “Joseph and
bl " s . !h'e’ln'(mu a London contributor to “Poverty
Point” says it will be a more elaborate affair than
the Rev. George AValters’s olav, produced bv Rignold
in Sydney in 1895. AVell, Tree’s will have to be
very elaborate to be more so than Rignold’s. I was
in the original cast of the latter, and declare it to
have been the most carefully elaborated of all the
productions of that past master of theatrical elabor-
ation. And most certainly the story was treated
with reverence and dignity. We rehearsed “Joseph”
continuously for nearly two months, and to support
its dignity Rignold during that time ruthlessly
eliminated every line or word suggestive of humor
or levity, and inexorably blue-pencilled Whole scenes
of comedy which Mr. Walters had evolved. One
character in the prologue had to say: “Kill a kid,
and dip the coat,” etc. Rignold promptly altered
“kid” to “young of a goat,” because “kill a kid”
meant a certain laugh from the flippant gods.
Also Rignold caused carpets’ to be laid down all over
the place to deaden the stamping and shuffling, and
to bring holy calm to the theatre. Then he had
incense burnt in the “house” to help out the dim,
religious idea with unconscious suggestion. Talk
about “atmosphere ’ ! As for technical elaboration,
one scene of Itignold's play lasted 20 minutes, and
not one word was spoken. It was merely a specta-
cular blaze of sacerdotal ceremony in the Temple of
Osiris, at On. Then recall the scenic wonders and
glories of that artist, the late Brunton! It was
indeed a notable production. Rignold himself had
been very keen on the play for over a year, and on
the first night he was worked up to a pitch of ner-
vous tension that we trembling underlings had never
seen before, not even on first nights of “Henry V.”
or “Caesar.” I will not soon forget the scene where
Rignold, as the promoted Joseph, second only to
Pharaoh, received his long-lost brethren. The breth-
ren (I was one) were wild, woolly-whiskered shep-
herds from Pooncarie, on the Jordan, or the Northern
Territory of Judea, or some other part of the Never-
Never, and on our entrance some city-bred and
irreverent god softly whistled “Get yer ’air cut!”
Someone said, “Lie down!” Rignold, overwrought,
stopped dead ; then he left his throne, walked down
to the “foots,” and said: “I should say, take the
law into your own hands and pitch him out of the
theatre.” Then he went back and resumed —“Can
it be that thou art Benjamin ?” Ah, he was a
Good Australian and a Big Chief 1
“The Immature Male”: Smith was unmarried,
and, being a man who took things slowly, he did
the next worst thing, and bought a gramophone.
“It’ll be company for me,” said Smith, by way of
apology. Brown was Smith’s drinking partner, and
when Brown arrived at Smith’s lodgings, intent upon
the usual Saturday-night’s spree, he found Smith
hanging over the instrument in an ecstasy. Brown,
who was a Philistine by nature, stood it as long as
he could ; then he entreated Smith to “shut th’ dam’
thing up, an’ comandavadrink.” Smith reluctantly
switched off the music, looked wistfully at the heap
of untried records, and went. After a protracted
interval they issued joyfully from the corner pub,
and, armed with a couple of crays and a sheaf of
pigs’ trotters, started to pilot each other home.
Arrived back, Smith inveigled Brown inside, “an’
we’ll have (hie) a quiet li’P musical evening.”
After clawing their way unsteadily upstairs, and
after Brown had been proudly shown the intricacies
of the instrument, and instructed how to grind out
the tinned melodies, Smith left him in sole charge
of the concert, and fell into a peaceful slumber.
“A mos’ wonnerful (hie), wonnerful invention,”
remarked Brown, and got busy on the winder. Every-
thing went joyously until a sudden horrible change
in the music disturbed Smith’s dreams; and, as he
sat up, he beheld Brown furiously turning the
handle, and endeavoring to mince a crayfish. Smith
almost foamed at the mouth at this sacrilege. He
rose up and smote Brown on his bald head with a
pig’s trotter. “Wha-what did y’ do that for?” de-
manded the startled Brown. Then the full igno-
miny of the insult burst upon him, and he grabbed
Smith by the hair and scrubbed Smith’s face with
the remains of the Cray. Smith looked wildly
round for some more ammunition, and his eyes
shone with unholy joy as he pounced upon the pile
of gramophone records. Pa orose. a a —*■—„
10-inch projectiles, and, with a horrible grin of
triumph, caught Brown in the pit of the stomach.
Brown doubled up like a burst dirigible, and,
smartly executing a flank movement, swooped down
upon the enemy’s arsenal, and gave Smith a thick
ear with the “Anvil Chorus.” Smith retaliated
with “Abide With Me,” and got “Evervbody’s Doin’
It” in return. The now maddened Smith, driven
from his base of supplies, and wearing a sort of
helmet composed of crayfish shells and wax frag-
ments of Harry Lauder, got busv with a rocking-
chair and a full-sized Webster’s Dictionary; while
Brown tore the horn of the gramophone out by the
roots, and, casting it at the battered head of Smith,
precipitately fled. Anybody who wants to buy a
gramophone, slightly damaged, can have same, cheap,
by applying to Smith.
“Dr. Nil”: There is a new disease. It is called
cinemitis. Symptoms, being subjective, I omit. The
patient rolls the eyes mechanically from side to
side when passing along the street; struts, stares,
stops and starts at nothing. When conversing with
anyone (particularly if there be onlookers) he (or
more frequently she) mouths, mops, mows and
generally chews the atmosphere, producing one or
more separate contortions of the face for each syl-
lable. The body is thrown into melodramatic atti-
tudes and the arms and shoulders into shrugs, shakes
and shudders. The hands are carried to the breast
whenever the patient refers to himself. When he
refers to his companion there is a corresponding
indication. At other times the unfortunate smites
the air, shakes his fists over his head, and waves his
upper limbs about the four points of the compass.
Female patients cultivate a smile of gradually-
expanding sweetness. Males assume as often as
possible a semi-sardonic grin accompanied by a
slow rhythmic nodding of the head. Portentous
sighs, sidelong movements of the arms, with flapping
of the same, and stabbing actions with the index
finger are often noticed. Laughter is always accom-
panied by a holding of the sides. Modesty is in-
dicated by covering the face with the widespread
fingers of the hand and passing the glad eye
through them. The cause of this complaint is too
frequent visits to the cinematograph—especially
American films. There is no treatment. It is in-
curable. P.S.—The correct name of the ailment
is cinemania, but the other is more popular.
Clifton Clarke, newly appointed general manager
of the Mcßickards vaudeville business in Australia,
has leaped considerably since he joined the house, at
Sydney, in 1908. He was brought in as accountant
—a sort of mere corporal under ’Arry Napoleon
Rickards. Next year he was aide-de-camp to the
boss during a triumphal march on England and the
adjacent continent. He accompanied the big chief
again in 1910. In 1912, Rickards having died, and
the business been floated into a comjiany, Clarke was
ushered into the chair of the general secretary, and,
while he is still g.s. he has been given another
stripe as general manager. Curiously enough, he
was trained for the law, and browsed on its arid
surroundings for 13 years in Sydney, Melbourne and
Wellington (N.S.W.). At the last-mentioned town
he added a little variety to things in general by
acting, in his spare time, as auditor to the munici-
pal council, agricultural society, Starr Bowkett
Society, School of Arts, and swimming club ; as in-
structor at the Technical College of shorthand and
typewriting; and as correspondent to the National
Advocate, Bathurst, and Evening News, Sydney.
“8.J.H.0.”: Until the production of the big Eng-
lish “East Lynne” film a short time ago, no moving-
picture drama of any importance had been manu-
factured in the Cold Country. Now the industry
appears to have got a move on. Within a few weeks
film-pictures were made in England of “Hamlet,”
“Ivanhoe” and the Battle of Waterloo. Forbes-
Robertson, who is at present retiring from the stage
at great length, strutted for the “Hamlet” picture,
and the actors were taken to four different villages
to secure suitable backgrounds. The film cost
£lO,OOO to produce. The Waterloo scrap was stage-
managed in Cheshire, 2000 men and 1000 horses
participating in the business.
Edwin Brett, who took “principal old man” parts
with “The Hook of Holland” Co. of yore, is return-
ing to Australia to paint his nose and play the dame
in “The Forty Thieves,” the Combine’s coming panto.
Brett, by the way, was a somewhat original sort of
dame in Meynell and Gunn’s “Cinderella” panto, five
years ago, and his humor will be acceptable. The
strangers coming for “Forty Thieves” are Barrv
Lupino, Regan and Ryan, and the Three Rubes. As
for the principal boy, who is almost invariably a
girl, the shemale in this case will be Miss Jessie
Lonnen.
Mark Hambourg has been telling some B tori o . «
Ins world-wide experiences. One is about fk° ne 0
cal culture of Sydney. At a recital there LT'a'
two pianos on the stage, back to back. He bLnlSl
the one m front; somebody else manipulate,? ?. d
other. The latter was so far back „ *
the audience could not see him. Mark had tn \
playing for a few bars, while the other fellow
to keep on banging. Thereupon one of the cultured
‘‘lsn't he wonderful? Just look at him now
has taken his hands off the keys and is ,
the pedals.” Still, that’s not half so cruelso!^
of the stories Australians told of the way
fed himself on the way out to Sydney ambour S
The massive and beautiful Maxine Elliott wh
was in Australia with Nat Goodwin—her less n™
mental sister Gertrude married Forbes-Robert?™
afterwards, and has thus had the bigger ehancl
has the part of Potiphar’s wife in Tree’s London pro-
duction of Joseph and his Brethren.” The Es-vnHa,,
was a small woman and built on limited sDeoifl™
tions. If Mrs. Potiphar could arise from her mmninv
and see Maxine thundering in a multitude of beef
as her representative, she would probably cry out •
cuneiform characters: “Who is this elephant?” Ana
then she would fall down dead again, and draw the
counterpane of her pyramid over her ami refuse
be disturbed any more.
From London : Rupert Clarke and partner Mevnell
jointly interviewed here, say that, as an immediate
result of the passing of J.C.W., the Bart, and J a
E. Malone (of the London Adelphi, and lonv'
time the late J.C.W.’s representative) join the hoard
of J.C.W., Ltd.; but Tallis, Ward and Meynell will
continue to be managing directors. The co. is (mind
to spread to S’Africa and absorb all the “Wheeler
theatres” of that Dominion. “We are putting u p
a new , theatre in Melbourne, right opposite Her
Majesty’s,” said Rupert, “and we have acquired i
fine site for another theatre in Sydney.” The new
Melbourne house is to “give a better chance to the
higher comedy than has hitherto been the case in
Australian theatres.” Most Australian theatres were
designed for large, spectacular productions. The
with a view to giving Australia what the increas-
ingly-serious Bart, calls a “rollicking revue-time ”
the firm has arranged to transplant the whole of
the “Come Over Here” production from London
Opera House. The next panto, is to be “The Forty
Thieves” ; and “I’m collecting for it all the attrac-
tions I can discover in England, the Continent
America, and —and everywhere.”
“Norbell”: A recent Bulletin par. mentions that
moving-picture-man Carroll, of Bananaland, has dis-
covered “Wild Australian Cannibals” on exhibition
at Chicawgo (U.S.A.). Carroll might have discov-
ered a similar exhibit on tour in his own Queens-
land, as a side-line chiefly at agricultural shows. I
first encountered the Wild Man at Roma. He was
chained by the leg, and was reclining at the bottom
of a “pit,” constructed of half-inch pine. There was
a wire-netting screen over him, possibly to prevent
his escape, and obviously to stop admiring patrons
from pelting him with peanuts and pricklv pear.
He had a raw shin of beef beside him, and wore a
ferocious wig, a beard of tangled horsehair, and an
old bag. I noticed that whilst his chain was mas-
sive enough to tether an elephant or an M.L.C., it
was attached to his leg by a tin anklet and a piece
of string. Altogether, he was an unconvincing kind
of cannibal, and he winked at me when no one else
was looking. However, the unsophisticated West-
erners took him seriously enough, and sparred up
their sixpences. Wire-whiskered Druids from way-
out gazed. in awe, and speculated as to where they
“cot ’inn” One sunburnt relic whispered that they
“locked ’im up in Maloney’s shed at night.” Whilst
travelling from town to town I got to know this
wild man and his partner, the spruiker, in their
private capacities. As side-showmen they had tried
everything, from five-legged sheep and Indian giants
to the petrified woman and the performing flea, but
they assured me that the Wild Man was the winner.
Said the spruiker: “And, mind you, it’s no take-
down. All the banners and placards read, ‘The
Travesty Wild Man.’ And you’ve heard me spruik-
ing.” I had, and his spruik was: “Come and see the
false pretender wild man,” etc., and so da capo. So
this par. can hardly give the show away.


The Points of Merit
of EDISON Lamps
LAMPS are the
most extensively used
lamps in the world, exceeding
by millions the sale of any
other make of lamp. Write
for Price List and Catalogue
No. 333.
Vi trite glass button forming
moisture proof cap.
Accurately sized, machine made
stem" or “mount" for fila-
ment. Insures accurate center-
ing of filament in bulb and pro-
vides a strong support.
Filament “clamps” or joints of
[specially prepared carbon
cement. Hold filament ends se-
curely and avoid ” hot clamps ”
! an d broken connections.
Strong, uniiorm high grade fila-
ment free from spots or disco-
lorations. Note the oval form of
filament a symmetrical shape,
which conforms to the lines of
the bulb.
First class vacuum uniformly
effected by the chemicalmethod
of exhaust. Reduces blacken-
ing—maintains candle power —
ensures reliability.
220
I 6j
co'iso**
Uniform and strong cap —sym-
metrically centred and firmly
fitted on bulb. Secured with
special waterproof cement,which
prevents loose caps.
Platinum wiressecurelywelded
to ‘'leading in ” wires with weld
knot clamped into the glass, re-
lieving the platinum from any
strain.
Nickel led iron anchors support-
ing filament, preventing droop-
ingandcheckingvibration. Note,
anchors are in an unobtrusive
position where they do not cast
shadows
Uniform bulb blown in moulds
and gauged to exact and uniform
size, carefully selected free from
flaws and blemishes.
Small, strong, securely made
tip —reduces tip breakage which
destroys many lamps.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC C°:
217 Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
AGENTS
—Unbehaun & Johnstone. Ltd., 100 Currie Street,
puprrri Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd., George Street.
Vu 'x77, 4 tkins & Co * (W.A.), Ltd., 20 Queen Street.
_ z * jA,j AND.—National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Auckland, Dunedin i
Wellington.
It
tfSil
ija-topj uojr SuiSui'j^j
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years ’ success.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Tbomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/" Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Superb Virility of Man-
hood, by Bernard Mac-
fadden; simple home
methods for curing
weaknesses of men, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts
for Life; life's greatest
pleasure secured by ob-
serving highest human
instincts, 5/4 ; Macfad-
den’s Building Vital
Power, 5/4; Health,
Beauty, Sexuality, 5/4 ;
Strength from Bating,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Devel-
oping Muscular Power,
5/4 ; Science of Muscu-
lar Development, 5/4 ;
Superb Womanhood,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Physi-
cal Culture v. Consump-
tion, and Value of Air in
Strength-building, com-
plete. 2/2. AND ANY
CHEAP CONJURINm TRICKS.
Marvellously simple ! Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T wo - from - Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post fi ee, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post, free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
StamDS or Postal Notes of anv Stare will hA
Above prices include postage to any address.
Cct talogues
EtiEE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.,,
r "PHE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
1 LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’SIPILE pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all casea
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- PER BOX, or 8 BOXES £l,
Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices. 115 High 110 l
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
TTIIE Australian Magazine—THE LON.
HAM). The National Monthly. Price, 61.1
We are SOLE AGENTS for
BROWH-BOVERI TURBO-BLOWERS
We arc supplying six of these to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd., Tasmania.
Pig. 4. Motor-driven Turbo-Blower, supplied to the Skinningrove Iron Co., Ltd.
The Blower is for a duty of 24,000 cubic feet of air per minute, at a pressure of 71b. per
sq. in., aud is driven by a three-phase motor rated at 1000-li.p., 440 volts, 40 cycles.
Australian Representatives t
MESSRS. BROWN, BOYER! were among the first to
realise the inherent advantages of turbo-blowing and
compressing machinery, and in the early days devoted
a large amount of time to research and experiment in order to
P' rfect the design of this class of plant. As a result, the
machines constructed by them are not only designed along the
lines which experiment has shown to be correct, but they
embody the results ot a very wide practical experience in the
operation of turbo-blowing and compressing machinery under
all conditions of working. Up to January, 1912, they had
•nstalled over 80 machines, representing about 47,500 h.p.
Their experience has enabled them to eliminate the
features of design which have been found to affect the satisfac-
tory operation of such machines, with the result that the
turbo-blowers and compressors now constructed are flexible,
efficient and absolutely reliable in operation even under the
most severe conditions of service.
HAES & EGGERS I™
163 Clarence Street, Sydney


HAPPINESS HAS AN
ACTUAL CASH VALUE
The k odak Happy Moment Competition is the
biggest and jolliest competition that ever was. Be
sure you go in for it.
In the Kodak Happy Moment Competition nothing
counts but happiness.
for being happy. Won’t you try
“ Think for a moment what is meant
by this offer. It means you may win a
J j j
small fortune just by being happy.”
London Magazine.
This is a great game of Happiness. Come, let us
see you smile ; let us hear you laugh.
Children have a genius for Happiness, and any child
can take jolly little snapshots with a Brownie. A child
may win the first prize of in th£ Happy Moment
Competition.
m
-•v*
Ask us or any Kodak dealer for a copy of the “ Happy Moments ” Booklet. It’s free.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Colliixs Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: East Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
IMi
■ii
What a difference stropping makes!
Only those who have used an Auto Strop in comparison
with a non-stropping safety can tell just how much difference
there is—not only in the smooth, close shave which the
sharp stropped blade of an Auto Strop ensures, but in the
simplicity of its use also.
It takes far less time to strop an Auto Strop blade (and so keep it in the pink of condition)
than to put a new blade into a non-stropping safety razor. The Auto Strop is the only razor
that strops itself and consequently
SAVES CONSTANT EXPENSE FOR BLADES.
Auta&trop
Standard Set, containing self-stropping
Auto Strop Safety Razor, one dozen
improved rust-proof “ Valet blades,
and genuine horsehide strop, complete
in leather-covered case.
Price in Australia - - 22/6
Price in New Zealand 25/-
ObtainuLle of all high-class Dealers
throughout Australasia.
Sole Depot for Australasia :
PARTRIDGE—ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.


15/6.
“Mare and Colt” Bronze
ment. Height, 8$ inches. Ditto,
bronze finish, 20/-
Orna»
in real
10/6.
1-Day Bedroom Clock, inlaid
mahogany case, bold dial, accurate
timekeeper. Height, 7$ inches.
Postage
Extra
LUCKY 8-HOUR ART UNION
TICKETS, 1/- each, post free
AUSTRALIA’S GREAT CLOCK HOUSE!
AUNDERS
I he House with the largest variety of Handsome Bronzes
and Reliable Clocks. Write for our beautiful 52=page
Free Catalogue of Clocks, and order by mail —
you’ll be pleased.
10/6.
Solid Marble Bedroom
Clock, 30-hour, lever move-
ment, fancy dial. Height,
20/-
30-Hour Bedroom Clock,
with alarm, dull brass case, with
inlays, enamel dial. Height,
inches.
1
A ■ s
mmm
m
tgf-
HK
mm
15/-
Bedroom Clock, solid silver-
mounted, fancy dial, extra heavy
case.
7/6.
Nickel Alarm Clock,
small size, repeating alarm,
accurate. Others, 2/6, 3/6.
4/6.
8-Day Enamelled Iron Clock gilt decora-
tions, chimes hours and half hours, on Cathedral
tone gong. Height, 10 inches.
8/6.
Carved Oak Bed-
room Timepiece, 30-
hour lever movement, bev-
elled glass. Height, 4$
inches.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
8/6.
“Mustany” Bronze Ornament.
Height, 71 inches. Ditto, in real Bronze
finish, 10/6.
32/6.
8-Day Antique Clock, inlaid
mahogany case, specially adjusted
French movement. Height, 11 h
inches.
Postage
Extra
LUCKY 8-HOUR ART UNION
TICKETS, 1/- each, post free
'* I am so sorry I cannot go with you.
I am feeling so weak and ill. 1 haven’t
slept for two nights, and am thoroughly
worn out."
“ My dear, you should take ' Wincarnis.’
It is splendid ! It will give you new strength
and vigour. You will be delighted to
find how quickly it will restore you to
health again.”
This is the Wine that gives New
Life to the Invalid renewed
Strength to the Weak —increased
Vigor to Brain-worKers and
a wealth of Health to Everyone.
"It ts nice tc see you out agatn.”
" Yes ; thanks to you l took ‘ Win-
carnis,’ and it has given me a new lease
of life. It is splendid to feel so strong
and well again. It is almost incredible
to think that 1 Wincarnis’ has restored me
to health so quickly. I can now sleep
soundly, enjoy my meals, and altogether
I feel <j|Uite a different woman.”
The sufferer need suffer no longer. The weak need be weak no more.
Because “Wincarnis” (the wine of life) creates new health, new strength,
new vigor, new vitality, and new life. Every wineglassful of “Wincarnis
makes you stronger, healthier and happier than you w r ere before. From e\en
the first wineglassful you can feel it doing you good, hou can feel it sur-
charging your whole body with new energy. You can feel the rich, revitalised
blood dancing through your veins. And as you continue taking “\V incarnis
your ailments will completely disappear, and in their place you will have an
abundance of renewed health, strength, vigor, vitality and reserve strength.
Don’t suffer needlessly.
Commence taking “Wincarnis” to-day. Remember that “Wincarnis’ is
recommended by over 10,000 doctors, and that it has an unrivalled reputation
as the world’s greatest life-giving restorative in cases of Anaemia, Weakness,
•Sleeplessness, Exhaustion, Brain-fag, Lowered Vitality, Depression, Fatigue.
Loss of Appetite, Nerve Troubles, and for speedily regaining strength after a
long and exhausting illness. Will you try just one bottle of “Wincarnis”?
You will be surprised and delighted with the renewed health, vigor and vitality
it will give you. You will feel much stronger, healthier and happier this time
next week if you commence taking “Wincarnis” to-day.
-
To-day Is the best day to commence taking " Wincarnls. Buy a bottle to-day tram your Wine Merchant
or Licensed Chemist or Grocer, and test its Marvellous Strengthening Properties.
Australian and New Zealand Depots
COLEMAN <St CO.,
FASSETT (SI JOHNSON, 5 (SI 7 BarracK Street, SYDNEY.
Wincarnis WorKs, NORWICH, ENG.
[5


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
i.
SCOTCH WHISKY.
UNRIVALLED THE WORLD OVER
FOR ITS
QUALITY AND FLAVOR.
APPRECIATED BY ALL WHO DRINK IT.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Adelaide Outer Harbor is to be lengthened
by 200 feet at the inner end, and by 800
feet at the outer end. The latter section is
to be dredged to a depth of 36ft. at low
water, a suggestion to make it 40ft. being
laid aside for the present. But the Ceramic
draws 35ft. when fully loaded, and there
are bigger things to come. Some of Aus-
tralia’s harbors are cutting things altogether
too fine.
Each political party in South Australia
has a new leader. On the Labor side John
Verran’s star is quite eclipsed—chiefly by
reason of his indiscreet tongue. If some
thoughtful friend had presented John with
a bag of profound silence on his last birth-
day he would have given him the thing that
John most wanted. Crawford Vaughan has
taken the Opposition leadership in Par-
liament, and now his younger brother “Jim”
has been elected President of the Political
Labor Organisation. They are sons of the
Government photo-lithographer, fluent
speakers, and well educated. J. H. Vaughan
worked his way up on scholarships from
Norwood State School to Prince Alfred
College and the Adelaide University. He
is a lawyer-, a member of the Leg. Council
and not 34 yet. The new President of S.A.
Liberal Union is a lawyer, too —contrary
to recent custom. A. J. McLachlan, who
takes the place left emnty by Vardon’s sud-
den death, was C. C. Kingston’s junior
nartner, and has worked up a good position
ss a commercial and constitutional lawyer.
He is without Parliamentary experience,
having had no luck at elections.
THE PREVAING BUOYANCY.
“We are,” he said, “a State in the very heyday
of a vigorous and buoyant youth.— Holman.
THE VICTIM: “ Well, I don't see anything to
skite about in landing a feller into this
predicament !"
There was nothing impressive about the
attitude of the Senators on the Chinn in-
quiry who professed to be insulted by Ice-
berg Irvine’s suggestion that their chair-
man’s examination of the glib Mr. Chinn
was a “frame-up.” De Largie had prac-
tically invited the insinuation by fluting,
previous to the event, of the pro-Chinn facts
which were going to be revealed. He was
an obvious political partisan in this inquiry
from the inception of it. As far as Irvine’s
comments on the chairman reflected on his
chosen colleagues, they were the victims of
circumstances, to say the least of it. But
why attempt a denial of the circumstances?
China has a lot of troubles on hand just
now, and in the course of one of the many
scrimmages one or two Japanese, who
wouldn't keep out of the way of the bullets,
were shot. When a strong nation falls into
a trouble like that it possibly hangs the
shooters if it can find them, and pays a few
hunured pounds in compensation. When a
weak nation meets the same sort of trouble
it is called upon to hang the offenders, to
pay more compensation than the dead men
and all their families earned since Creation,
to apologise abjectly, to salute the enemy’s
flag, and to hand over a fortress or two or a
province or something like that. It is also
warned not to do it again. Moral: Be a
strong nation, otherwise your whole Northern
Territory msv be seized because some brown
alien fell into a drain at Townsville and
broke his neck.
The Westralian Farmers’ or Country
Party had a conference the other day, and,
after pondering whether it should advocate
“the revision of the tariff downwards,” de-
cided to be frank about it and go straight
out for: “Abolition of Protection in favor
of a Revenue Tariff.” In other words, the
fool-farmer of Westralia proposes that he
shall pav as much Customs taxation as he
does to-day. but shall pay it on goods which
can’t possibly be produced in this country,
so that the tax shall not assist in adding
to the local population. Apparently the
fool-farmer’s idea is that the further away
he keeps the consumers of his wheat the
better. This year he paid 50s. a ton to
ship his product to Europe. That is to
say, he got Is. 4d. per bushel less for his
wheat than he would have done if the con-
sumer had been on the spot. Apparently he
likes getting Is. 4d. per bushel less for his
wheat than he would get if the local con-
sumption were equal to the local supply.
If it is good for the farmer to have to cart
his wheat great sea-distances to find a
market, why isn’t it good for him to cart
it great land-distances? And in that case,
whv does he howl for handy railways?
There are times when this paper feels a
trifle tired even of the Commonwealth
Bank, and thinks it might get more of a
move on it. The editor of The Bulletin
advocated a ten-shilling Government note
many years before it came into existence,
and he tries to live up to his creed by using
the article in place of the lamentable, pallid
half-sovereign. One day last week he sent
£5O of good currency down to the Common-
wealth Bank in Sydney to be changed into
ten-shilling notes, with a view to putting
them in the safe for the maintenance of the
house and the family and the dog till fur-
ther notice. The emissary learned that the
bank couldn’t supply its own notes at the
moment —presumably they were locked up
somewhere and somebody was out —but some-
thing might be done in the afternoon. Feel-
ing interested, the emissary tried elsewhere,
and the Bank of North Queensland panned
out for 60 pieces of the desired paper. Later
in the day, when the Federal institution had
got its second wind, it yielded up the other
forty. But it was a slow process, and sug-
gested that the Commonwealth Bank wasn’t
pushing its paper on J;he market with any
great vehemence.
“G.V.”: The dispute over the efficacy of
the Powellising process for preserving tim-
ber grows monotonous. While
Westralian officials are sound-
ing its loud timbrel those of
Maoriland have just reported
that the process is not a suc-
cess, and that they do not in-
tend to recommend its further
use. To people who have trav-
elled on the Manawatu line the
failure seemed to be pretty
patent long ago, thousands of
sleepers having been thrown out
after being at work only two
years. Certainly the report
adds that the powellised tim-
ber built into Government
House four years ago is sound
in every-way. But four years!
Why, timber sawn out of a
three-year-old poplar would last
much longer than that under
cover! Anyhow, so far as
Maoriland is concerned, the field
is again open for the holder of
some other process to pull the
official leg; and there is vast wire- and leg-
pulling capacity concealed about some of
these “process” people.
Seeing that the N.S.W. Government pro-
poses to start a new Superannuation Fund
for State civil servants, how about doing
something decent for those who subscribed
compulsorily to the old Fund—the one that
came to such awful grief? It was robbed
in the most heartless fashion to pay com-
pensation to men who were sacked in the
retrenchment days of George Reid and others.
When it became bankrupt, officials were
told that they might stop subscribing, and
get back, in their old age, when they left
the service, the money they had actually
paid in, with 3 per cent, simple interest —
not compound interest. Many accepted the
scandalous offer because they feared that,
if they supplied any more contributions,
they would simply be subscribing to a dead
or repudiated horse. Even men who were
transferred to the Federal service can’t get
their money back out of the old fraud of
the old Freetrade party.
A Parliamentary Handbook, compiled
under the direction of Hibbert Newton,
clerk of the Vic. Legislative Assembly, will
serve as a pocket treasury of knowledge to
the local politicians of Watt’s State. A
table of all the Vic. Ministries that ever
were is included in this handy book of
records and up-to-date departmental direc-
tory. Also the constitutions of the
two Houses are interesting, for they re-
mind the reader that the undemocratic
character of the House of Rich Landlords
begins in the fact that no man under the
age of 30 has the suffrage for it, nor any
man of any age, nor any woman what-
soever. A schoolboy can gather the dates of
the accession of every British sov. since
the Conquest from the Handbook, and the
anxiety of Leg. Councillors to retain an un-
interrupted tenure of their blessed seats
for a long term of years is explained under
the heading of “Title of ‘Honorable.’ ”
When they have been there for not less than
10 years continuously, their Gracious Maj-
esty is pleased to approve of them remaining
Honorable evermore. The little volume is
blue covered, and the color holds fast.
From the strangers’ gallery:—
Speaker Harry Morton, of the N.S.W. Assembly,
is not nearly so imposing a figure as his interesting
predecessor, Henry Willis. The latter's visage
seemed to indicate that its owner was not only
something of a lawyer (and what Willis doesn’t
know about Parliamentary law is hardly worth know-
ing), but also something of a dictator. To see
Henry deal with W. H. Wood was a joy. He was
always as placid as an oyster. Morton, on the other
hand, seems to be uncomfortable in his millinery.
When a member moves, he watches him as though
in fear of a flying water-bottle. And his jaw is not
of the Caesar-Willis species. When he is called
upon to check disorder, he doesn’t speak with the
fluent ease of Willis; he may even be found guilty
of being without visible power of pronouncing the
right word. On the whole, however, Morton is a
good Speaker, though it is doubtful whether he
would seem half so good if there hadn’t been a
better one before him to teach the House much that
it had forgotten or never knew about table manners.
It was in the days of Henry Willis that the N.S.W.
Assembly learned not to eat politics with its knife,
not to drink its public beer out of its hat, not to
put its front extremities in the trough, not to bark
during divine service, and not to deposit its feet
on the cruet at dinner-time. These were all valuable
lessons. Incidentally, it learned not to put a whole
water-melon in its mouth at once.
THE RIVAL LIFE-SAVERS.
Splintery Wood, deputy-leader of the
Opposition in N. S. Wales Assembly, has
achieved a record. He has been “removed”
by three Speakers—McCourt, Willis and
Morton, all of them taken from his own
side of the Plouse. It seems about time that
Wood was chopped up.
The State Liberal party in N.S.W. has a
leader who puts both feet in it, and a deputy
whose capacity for being ejected, even by
Speakers belonging to his own party, is
something over the odds. Within the last
few days the combustible deputy has been
ejected again, and the clumsy leader has
gone down on a censure motion once more.
Wade’s charge was, in effect, one of corrupt
land-jobbery—the sort of charge that
should be investigated before a Parlia-
mentary committee and supported by wit-
nesses on oath. The idea of hoping to get
any sane Legislature to convict on such a
matter merely on the strength of some
loose and casual speeches was too absurd
for words.
One of these days the present system of
selecting candidates by Liberal leagues and
Labor leagues will strike its well-earned
sheol. Each party is so hungry for the
“bob” which helps to keep the funds afloat
that it is ready to take practically anybody
into its League. Sooner or later, in some
electorate where things are pretty evenly
balanced, it may happen that two really
brilliant organisers will clash, and as the
result of their efforts everybody will join
both Leagues. Then Labor will bring along
an incurable drunk from some outside
town, and dress him up nicely, and keep
him sober long enough to prevent the jest
being discovered, and its block vote will
make him the selected Liberal candidate.
And at the same time Labor will find itself
saddled with an unknown but selected can-
didate, and discover when it is too late that
he has just finished his seventh term in
gaol, and that an enemy has done the deed.
In consequence of these happenings selec-
tion by leagues will fall into disfavor, and
some improved form of preferential voting
will take its place.
THE SPENDTHRIFT PREMIER'S
TOPHET.
BLACKIMPUS : “Punishment a bit stiff, eh?"
KNOWUS : “I don't think so. He made it all
himself. ”
Panua’s only newspaper, the Times
(Port Moresby), / is working three shifts to
get an amendment of the Constitution to
allow of the election of four members in an
otherwise nominee Parliament of 10. The
barrackers for the ourelv nominee House
allege that they object to the franchise in
the interests of Brown Brother. But the
Australian in Papua is very much the same
kind of man he was before leaving Aus-
tralia, and if he’s good enough to govern
himself in a State he’s not too bad to partly
govern himself in a dependency or a Pos-
session.
A plaster bust of Charles Windeyer, an
early P.M. of Sydney, for many years occu-
pied a bracket in the Old Central Police
Court in George-street, as a memorial of a
good and upright magistrate. Before com-
ing to Sydney he had been the first reporter
to take notes in the House of Lords. When
the new police court in Liverpool-street
was built a niche in one of the court rooms
was provided for the bust. Last week the bust
was taken down and refurbished, and looks
all the brighter for it. Windeyer came to
Australia in IS2B with a view to settling
on the land, but persons of legal experience
being needed he was induced to rush into
official life. He was Mayor of Sydney, and
grandfather of the late Justice Windeyer.
PARTY GO VERNMENT.
THE WEARIED ONLOOKER: “Yes, keep on
like that an' it's only a matter of time.
You’ll both fall in. An' I dunno that it
won't be the best thing that could happen
to all concerned .”
The ribald person who edits London Daily
Herald permits this to appear in his paper’s
description of the Commonwealth building
ceremony:—
Arived there, Herr George Von Wettin was cheered
by the usual select mob of leading citizens, includ-
ing the one and only George Reid, Iv.C.M.G. —Knight
Commander of the Monkey and the Goat.
This seemingly is a playful reference to
George’s disposition to do monkey tricks and
act the goat in the course of his public ap-
pearances. It is a terrible thing for a man
to have to live up to his reputation as an
“amoosin’ cuss.”
APPLE DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the annual fruit-growers’ conference held in
Victoria, it was agreed that March 20 be proclaimed
Apple Day, and that the executive should interview
the Mayor of Melbourne to arrange its organisation
on the same lines as Wattle Day.
To turn loose in the city street
A squad of pretty rangers,
Attacking all the men they meet
With apples sour and apples sweet,
Suggests a heap of dangers.
The wattle mess was bad to start;
Oh, save us from the apple tart!
Good Mr. Hennessy, forbear!
Don’t touch this matter lightly!
Remember what a world of care
Resulted in that garden fair
When Eve, so spruce and sprightly,
In partners with a snake, they say,
Inaugurated Apple Day!
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


Ctxr
Gossip
O frPGOY(. e
•iff.
I=l—
Refineries provide
Spirit to Owners of
1,300,000 Motor Cars
who need
Economical Motoring
Every drop of Pratts is concen-
trated power, requiring only a
properly adjusted carburetter
to liberate it.
PRATT S economy is recog-
nised by motorists who de-
mand efficiency.
Over a million motorists use it.
We have an interesting booklet as below—tells
all about carburetters and their adjustment
You can have a copy free by dropping a
card to Department “H" at any of our
branches.
tV 1
\*°
&
fc*
c°
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the
Commonwealth and
Now Zealand
F ootwear
Post Free this Month!
YOU will be thinking of buying Boots or Shoes, just at
this time, in preparation for the many coming events
this month. Take advantage, therefore, of this splendid
opportunity of securing even the smallest order, without
THE EXTRA COST of postage. From our Warehouse
to your Home —DIRECT.
LET US POST YOU OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE NOW.
This Stylish Boot
No. 210
17(6
Reduced from 20/-
Men’s Box Calf Bals. in latest shape. Well-
lined and finished, strong welted soles.
Guaranteed throughout. A really com-
fortable and stylish boot —and, remember,
FOR THIS MONTH POST FREE.
DON’T FORGET TO
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUE—NOW.
Country Order Department,
Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
VALUABLE TEXT BOOKS
ON SPECIAL SUBJECTS.
On our shelves are many other Books on important
industrial matters. Tell us what Book you need, and
we will describe its contents to you. Catalogue post free.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
PR ,^9 TICAL SHAFT SINKING, bv F. Donaldson,
M.E.
EARTHWORK AND ITS COST, by H. P. Gillette,
1912, with a chapter on Ditching and Trenching
Machinery
REFRACTORIES AND FURNACES, properties, pre-
paration and application of materials used in the
construction and operation of furnaces, bv F. T.
Havard, 1912
THE PRODUCTION OF MALLEABLE CASTINGS,
by Richard Moldenke
HARDENING, TEMPERING, ANNEALING AND
FORGING OF STEEL, by J. V. Woodworth, 1911
AMERICAN TOOL MAKING AND INTERCHANGE-
ABLE MANUFACTURING, by J. V. Woodworth
MECHANISM, by R. McArdle Keown, 1912 . .
THE NEW METAL WORKER PATTERN BOOK.
A treatise on the principles and practice of pat-
tern cutting as applied to Sheet Metal Work, bv
Kittredge, 1911
THE MODERN PLUMBER AND SANITARY EN-
GINEER, by 16 specialist contributors, in 6 vols.
This valuable work treats on Plumbing, Sanitary
Work, Ventilation, Heating, Hot-water Service,
Gas Fitting, Electric Lighting, Bell Work, Glaz-
ing, etc., 1911
RIVER DISCHARGE, by Hoyt and Grover. Meas-
uring Stream Flow and Interpretation of Data . .
FLOUR MANUFACTURE: Processes and Machinery,
by Percy Amos (1912). Copiously illustrated,
and deals fully with the subject
HANDBOOK OF MEAT INSPECTION, by Dr.
Robert Ostertag, with 260 illustrations and
colored plate: This a very comprehensive text-
book, indispensable to the expert man
MOTOR-BOAT HANDBOOK (American), in Four
Volumes. (Issued by The Motor-Boat Publishing
Co., New York), 20/-. Offered at . .
TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK OF RECIPES,
FORMULAS AND PROCESSES, by Hiscox. Con-
tains nearly ten thousand selected Scientific
Chemical, Technical and Household Recipes, For-
mulas and Processes . .
SELF-HELP MECHANICAL DRAWING, an Educa-
tional Treatise, by N. Hawkins
ARCHITECTURAL DRAWING AND DRAUGHTS-
MEN, by R. Bloomfield, A.R.A., 1912, with 103
illustrations
THE ALTERNATE CURRENT TRANSFORMER in
Theory and Practice, by J. A. Fleming, in 2 Vols.
Formerly 25/-, offered for . .
38/- lOd.
16/- Bd.
15/- 7d.
10/- 4d.
12/6 sd.
18/6 l/-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
<€>
<3Bs^*
mmi
Held in
a Girl’s
Hand!
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
EVERYTHING NECESSARY, EXCEPTING ONLY THE SCREEN,
IS IN THE MACHINE AS THE GIRL IS HOLDING IT.
Pathe’s Home Cinematograph.
Makes its own light. Fig. 16 is a small magneto. As the handle that
projects the picture is turned, sufficient light is produced in the magneto to
throw a moving picture of startling distinctness on the screen. Anyone, in
any place, town or country, can have Moving Pictures in the Plome without
the use of gas, electric light, or oil. No outside light is necessary. You
cannot get this advantage in any other cinematograph.
The Films will not burn.
Pathe Films are non-inflammable. There is absolutely no danger. In
Victoria the Fire Underwriters’ Association charge no extra premium if a
Pathe Home Cinematograph is in the home. You cannot get this advantage
in any other cinematograph.
Large choice of Films in Pathe’s Circulating Library
not obtainable for any other cinematograph.
PATHE FRERES,
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
27 Alliance Buildings,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
HOME CINEMATOGRAPH & AGENCIES PTY.
LTD., 48 Queen Street, Melbourne;
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLING & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth;
orC. W. FRASER & CO , 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRINGTONS (N.Z.) LTD.,42 Willis
Street, Wellington, N.Z.; W. PARK, Sta-
tioner, Palmerston North, N.Z. ; C. R. FORE-
MAN & CO., Napier, N.Z. ; WILKINS & FIELD
HARDWARE CO. LTD., Nelson, New Zealand ;
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERA-
TIVE ASSOCIATION OF CANTERBURY LTD.;
PATERSON & BARR LTD., Dunedin, for
Dunedin; The Arts and Crafts Depot,
Masterton, N.Z.
Please send me particulars of Pathfs
Home Cinematograph.
Name
Address
27.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
SJAW
E. RESCH’S LIMITED, Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor- General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
A FAMILY REMEDY.
SAYS A COBAR LADY WHO FOUND
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
EFFECTIVE FOR INDIGESTION
AND HEADACHES.
No remedy ever placed before the public
lias ever been so fully taken into the confi-
dence of all classes as has Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills. They are essentially a
Family Remedy for the little Ills of Life,
and if taken when feeling out of sorts many
of the big Ills will be kept away. Mrs v R. A.
Dunn, Bloomfield-street. Cobar, N.S.W..
writes: —
“Some time ago, being a sufferer from
Indigestion Headache arising therefrom.
I decided to give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills a trial. After taking a few pills I
found a decided improvement, and can re-
commend Indian Root Pills for a speedy re-
covery from that complaint. I have found
them also a good family medicine for com-
mon ills with children. You have my con-
sent to use this testimonial.”*
CIGARILLOS
The Shilling-Quality Cigar in aSmallSize
Owing to an unexpected demand
for mv Cigarillos, I have been
temporarily out of stock of one
or two of the sizes, but am now
pleased to be able to announce
that a new shipment
has just arrived, and
that 1 have full, stocks
of Cigarillos in all
three sizes, and all
packings.
Try a sample lot of
my Cigarillos, and you
will always smoke
them.
In three sizes—
all one quality.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2 - 1/9 1/6
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
4/9 4/3 3/9
In Cedar
Boxes of
100 :
No. No. No.
] 2. 3.
9/- »/• V-
Postage
Kxtra.
Write for «
Copv of mv
] 1 i u s t rated
C-i talogue-
Post Free.
/
m
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The exact meaning of George Gray’s
challenge to the English pro. billiardists (he left
r red Lindrum out oi ic) was made clear by Reece’s
acceptance. Reece stipulated for three matches. He
proposed that after playing with bonzoline balls —Gray
to give 2000 in 18,000 —they should play a second
game with ivories. The man witn the highest aggre-
gate in the two matches is to have choice of halls
tor the third struggle, and if Gray gets the bonzoline
choice, he is to concede 2000 points as before, whereas
if Reece gets the choice with iyories, they will play
on level terms.
N.S.W. Bowling Association annual re-
port is a mixed sort of document which breathes of
financial success, but admits defeat in the inter-State ’
matches. The inter-State struggle was peculiar, how-
ever. Five matches were played, and N.S.W. lost
three and won two. But although the Ma State lost
the majority of the matches, it scored 475 points as
against the 429 scored against it. So that although
it went down, the N.S.W. Association wks 46 points
ahead. The worst defeat was that sustained at the
hands of South Australia, when the Crow-eaters rolled
up 103 points to the N.S.W. 94. The best win was
that over Tasmania, when Ma clawed out with 120
to 72. Victoria just won by 96 to 93. Queensland
by 80 to 79, while Westralia was convincingly, but
not overwhelmingly, defeated by 89 to 78. Nine
inter-association matches yielded four wins, three.
defeats and two unfinished games. In this case
N.S.W. scored 881 points to the 828 of the Victorian
and Queensland Associations, and so had a point
majority of 52. This season saw the Rawson Cup
pass into permanent possession of the City Club, that
lucky crowd having won it three titnes. The Rawson
Cup competition thus comes to an end. St. George
was runner up. As regards finance- —otherwise splosh
—the Association is on velvet. It started the season
with a credit balance of £lB6 14s. 9d., and winds
up with £233 18s. 9d. to the good. It proposes to
invest the money in Government debentures as a pro-
vision for its old age.
* * * *
Among the mannikins who pervade a big
Melbourne course, the stipendiary stewards are known
as “the three blind mice.” “D’ye drop?” says one
of the weeds. “The club’s put ’em there to ‘see
how they run.’ ”
Mclnsplosh of Australia blew up with a
loud bang in Britain the other day, and raised much
dust with a proposal to raise £5OOO in connection
with the next Olympiad. Exactly what the cheerful
Sydneyite was aiming at is not quite clear. At first
it looked as though he proposed to create a sort of
Imperial fund from which Imperial Olympians would
be sustained, cherished and organised. The Briton
looked at the idea with a cold and fish-like eye after
his papers had roared themselves hoarse with enthu-
siastic approbation, and remarked that as each part
of the Empire was a separate nation in the eyes of
the Olympian Immortals, Mclnsplosh had better con-
fine his activities to Australia. Whereupon Mac rose
magnificently to his feet and the occasion, and re-
marked with a loud roar that he never intended any-
thing else. Well, the idea is a good one. It’s a sad
but patent fact that a sporting success on a big
scale at the Olympiad would he a better, advertise-
ment for this country than the abolition of total
abstinence, or the production of a new Buddha, or
the discovery of another Twelve Apostles. But it is
so, and that’s an end on’t. It will take every bean
of £ 5000 to properly train and equip an all-round
Australian Olympian team; and it is worth the
money.
Summer baseball has been placed on its
feet in Sydney, and the competition will begin to
roll on October 4. Grounds have been successfully
bartered for, and there is sufficient vim behind the
new side-show to make it a serious interloper in the
domain of other summer sports. The number of
players liable to be drawn from the cricketing ranks
is particularly large, and enough to make some of
the bat and ball authorities shiver in their shoes.
Talking about cricket: Uncle Sam’s cricketers are
evidently very small fry, as the Mayne team re-
cently smote an All-American crowd to smithereens,
and won bv an innings and 47 runs. In the Aus-
tralian tally of 402, Macartney biffed 186. The
significant point is that the United States is a land
where baseball flourishes all the year round.
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association has
not earned any peacocks’ plumes for its head-gear with
the management of the season’s long-distance events,
which have been spread over three successive week-
ends. The 10-Miles Cross Country premiership hap-
pened on Victoria Park Racecourse; the 12-Mile
Marathon on the roadway round Manly, and the Five-
Mile on Randwick Racecourse. Could a worse pro-
gramme be devised ? No wonder there were only 30
starters. If amateur athleticism ever dies in this
country, it will be due to the bungling of the
bodies which control it.
* * * *
J. Dalgleish and H. Hayden have had some
rare tussles in the N.S.W. long-distance events thi3
year. In the 10-Mile Championship, Dalgleish had
Hayden for runner-up. In the Manly Marathon,
Hayden won, with Dalgliesh second. And in the
Five-Mile Hayden ran third.
The big road race from Murrurundi to
Newcastle, which the N.S.W. League of Wheelmen
intended to run off next month, has been abandoned
and dropped overboard. The reason for this drastic
action is given as “lack of support.” Whether it
meant lack of prize contributions by traders and
others interested in the game, or just lack of support
by wheelmen themselves, is not quite clear; but it
is strongly suspected that it was the hole in the prize
list which caused the structure to collapse. Manager
Sherwood of the Dunlop Rubber Co. had donated £25.
He has notified that the race shall be run next season,
and that he himself will take on the heavy task
of providing an attractive prize , list.
E. Childs and A. D. Fraser left Goulburn
(N.S.W.) at 7 a.m. on Monday morning to break
the motor-bike record of shr. lomin. for the run of
133 miles. At Mittagong, Fraser had to retire owing
to a smash, hut Childs, on his 3A-h.p. Continental-
shod James machine flew on alone, and
succeeded in cutting no less than 30 minutes off the
record. He ran through in 4hr. 45min. This is an
average speed of 28 miles an hour and is- regarded as
a good performance. Still, it is a remarkable thing
that a motor-bike should he only about 7-J miles an
hour better than a foot-driven jigger. That’s how
it works out according to the time put up in the
Continental Goulburn to race.
The preparations for Henley-on-Parra-
matta are being pushed on, and a big bill of fare
prepared for the afternoon, in which 11 races will
take place between 3 p.m. and 4.30. This is some
crowding, a» Wailingiord would say. Tlie only
handicap the atiair iauors under is mat all Sydney
nus nad a little too much Henley-on-Parramatta
already. It has fodnd Henley, the loud politician,
who has brooded over the Parramatta for ever so
long, a trying circumstance, and is likely to regard
the function called after him as a great weariness.
“0.K.”: Re the Cups: The least unwise
punters are waiting for the A.J.C. Spring Meeting
to give them a line of reasonable comparison between
Sydney and Melbourne gees for the coming Cups,
'iliuslar in the new season there is no saying whether
the strongest Victorian fancies—r-Sea Prince, Uncle
Sam, Andelosia, Abdieator, 1 eramorz, Sheriffmuir,
Anna Carlovna, etc., etc. —are worth haciting against
the “good things ’ of the Ma State, it is certainly
up to the three-year-olds to assert themselves in the
big handicaps and w.f.a races during the next two
months. Since Prince Foote’s days of glory there
have been no brilliant three-year-olds, and the possi-
bility of a Poseidon or Prince Eoote coming from
this season’s batch is very vague at present. Ande-
losia is believed to be the best of the young Vic-
torian crop. All going well with this fine colt up
to the first Saturday in October, he will meet Rad-
nor, Marculfus and the rest of the N.S.W. lot in the
Sydney Derby, and put their form to the test. Not
many Vic. horses are going over for the Epsom
and Metropolitan, apparently, but the few that try
their luck may suffice to indicate the probability, or
otherwise, of the Sydney trainers picking the plums
out of the Melbourne carnival pudding. Meanwhile,
all provincial tips are mere guesswork, based on
provincial form and private gallops. The value of
Sea Prince’s erratic performances, or of Uncle
Sam’s masterly victory in the Memsie Stakes,
t’other Saturday (when Audacity and Sea
Prince followed him home) cannot be gauged.
The best of the Sydney veterans might have
been equal to winning the same race as easily
as Duke Foote could have won it a year ago. The
one thing certain about Sea Prince is that he runs
like a six-year-old stallion of uncertain temper, who
is likely to do his worst, rather than his best, in a
crowded field. With Uncle Sam, on the other hand,
there is no question of his gameness, but there is
a grave doubt concerning his nerves. Given a cooler
temperament, the slashing chestnut would be every-
body’s choice for the Cups. Last year, with light-
weights up, he won the Caulfield and finished third
for the Melbourne after being much bumped and
blocked. It isn’t the extra weight that can stop the
big fellow this time. He can carry Bst. 71b. with
ease if he can be got as fit as he was in October last.
But there were no first-class three-year-olds in the
handicap competitions at that time. Some that were
moderate then may have developed into solid four-
year-olds, as in Piastre’s case. Anything may happen
to spoil the chance of even an Uncle Sam at his
improved best. And until after the Derby and
Metropolitan at Randwick nobody can say what this
season’s form really is.
The N.is.W. Rugby Union team in Maori-
land continued its disastrous career on Saturday,
when it went down to the Maoriland team in the
second test by 25 points to 13, in the presence of
9000 delighted Islanders. The match took place in
Dunedin, and though the day was fine, the ground, as
usual, was heavy. The Australians are said to have
made the better display, but the dour Dunedin Scots-
man went for points instead of appearance—and got
JERK Y'S NULLIFIED NULLA.
After surrendering to Pat Bradley , A ho.
Jerome displays his fractured hash-weapon to
his Australian brothers.
’em. Still the invaders had the better of the first
half till just before the interval, when a lucky field
goal made the Maoriland score nine to eight. After
the Athol brose in the pavilion, Australia went to
pieces in the forward division, and though the backs
put up a great struggle, the team was overwhelmed,
and with wild shouts of “Scots wha’ ha’e!” from the
audience and mixed shouts from the charging players
the Maoriland score was carried upward till it
wanted only one point to make it double that of Aus-
tralia. But there is stuck, and there it was when
the whistle blew. Still it was a bad defeat. So far,
the Australian team has done shockingly, having lost
five games out of the six played. Yet, curiously
enough, the single win was against the formidable
Taranaki crowd —always one of the toughest of Maori-
land gatherings since Maoriland history began.
On the other hand, the N.S.W. League
Rugby team seems invincible, and is stalking through
the Maori islands as it likes. So far, it has won the
whole eight matches played, and scored 272 points
to 77. It has smashed up Auckland, Taranaki, Can-
terbury and Wellington among the provinces, and an
All-Maoriland team was routed by 33 to 19. The
victim on Saturday was Wellington. Quite 7000 people
stood in the mud of the sloppy Basin Reserve and
saw an amazing thing—a first-class Maoriland pro-
vincial team ending its first half without having
scored a single point, while the enemy had kicked up
18. Nothing like it was ever viewed in Wellington
before; and an angry audience howled threats of
murder at its spanked representatives. The Maori-
land team knew that if it wanted to leave that
ground alive it had to do sorhething. It played
with frantic energy and temperate order in the second
spell, and scored exactly 18 points. But while it did
so the Australians a' l 'led another 16, and so won by
34 to 18. The progress o c this League team is unique
in the annals of Maoriland football.
* * * *
The struggle for the Soccer State Cham-
pionship still drags its weary way in and around
Sydney, although the weather is far too hot for goo' 1
football. The end is not yet. Newtown, which blew
out the shining light of Granville by two goals to
one, qualified for the final on Saturday last, but will
have to wait a fortnight before it can play, as the
match between Sydney and Annandale which was
to supply the other party to the final on Saturday,
ended in a draw —four goals each. So Sydney and
Annandale must play off their draw, and the winner
will battle with Newtown on Saturday week. If
there is another drawn game, presumably the con-
test will rage into next month.
Melbourne followers of League hoofball
have had poor luck in this year’s final games, and
on Saturday the 43,614 who stood in the rain during
the ’Wood-’Roy discussions mostly wished they had
stayed at home by the fireside and saved the £1587
thev “parted” in the aggregate. In truth, there was
little football save in the first quarter, when the two
eighteens played smartly and cleverly, ’Hood to
somewhat better purpose. Then the rain fell and
poured pretty steadily to the end. The crowd saw
little through the forest of umbrellas, and the players
slid about like skating novices. What cleverness
there was lay mostly with ’Roy, which got a six-
goal lead in the third quarter. It was hopeless to
try and overtake this advantage on such a day, and
though the Magpies reduced it slightly, the later
stages of the discussion were void of interest, and
few were sorry when the bell rang. Scores: ’Roy,
11 goals 14 behinds; ’Wood, six goals seven behinds.
This leaves ’Roy and St. Kilda to battle out the
final, and a joyous scuffle should ensue if the day he
fine, which it probably won’t be. The following is
Show week, and it is always wet at Show time.
The prelude to the big game was the Met.
Ass. final, between Leopold (South Melbourne
Juniors) and ’Wood District, a soothing, harmonious
spectacle, in which the Leos. always had a trifle the
better of the Junior Magpies. The latter ultimately
made the identical score that their seniors subse-
quently accumulated —six goals seven behinds—as
against Leopold’s 10 goals six behinds; hut the ’Wood
Juniors, as leaders in the first round, still have
another chance to see if they can do any better.
Though a few accidents have occurred,
this year s games have been comparatively courteous
and innpcuous happenings. Melbournians who saw
the Yankees play—when the U.S. fleet was here
—their curious, deliberate, weariful game, in which
the players seemed to be sprawling on the ground
over the ball most of the time, will recollect the
prominent position of an ambulance on the ground.
It wasn’t needed that day, but —last season 10
players were killed outright on U.S. football
fields, and 185 were injured, many seriously. And
that was the lowest death rate this century. The
season of 1909 was a record, 30 being killed and 216
injured In the last dozen years 217 players have
been kUlod and 2426 iniured ! What with his simple
baseball and his deadlv football, the Yank is a
curious animal in his games.
When Mayne proposed to take an Aus-
tralian cricket XI to the United States, the idea was so
new that the thing was done before people got a chance
to grasp what the new development meant. Last week
came word via London that Mavne’s team was
stranded owing to poor gates, and likely to start
for home overland, per boot. Just before the news
of the stranding came it was found that the Rev.
E. F. Waddy hnd made arrangements to take a team
to Ceylon. Then someone—this world is full of
Someone, and he is a near relative to “A Voice,”
who interferes at public meetings—asked where the
thing was going to end. If Mayne and Waddy could
go galloping off on so-called holiday jaunts and
taking the cream of the plavers with them, it meant
that sooner or later the holiday-team would become
a boodle team pure and simple. Already there seems
to be evidence that the Mayne team has become a
business proposition, for when Mr. Arnott cabled to
Mavne asking if he wanted money the reply came
back that no cash was required. The tour had been
such a success, in spite of mountainous expenses, that
another had been arranged for next year. The holiday-
team gag is not taken seriously. It was the be-
ginning of a burst of Private Enterprise in cricket,
in which the various associations of Australasia would
train players who, immediately thev became worth
watching, would jump into good places in Private
Enterprise teams going abroad ; and then after a
while we should have the Rev. E. F. Waddy running
N.S.W. cricket and Mayne doing likewise for South
Australia, with a third entrepreneur in charge of
the Victorian game. Obviously the time has come
for the axe. Out of respect for his cloth, presumably,
the N.S.W. Cricket Association didn’t use it on the
Rev. Waddy, but it gave him a backhander to go on
with. It reserved the right to tear his team to pieces
at the last moment if any of the members were
required for Australian cricket. The rev. gentleman
squealed loudly, hut, if he had only known it, he
was lucky not to have something much more drastic
to squeal about. It is safe to bet two to one his is
the last team of the kind that will get a permit.
* * * *
The half-caste Maori boxer Ruenalf, who,
some years ago, made some considerable dust, came to
an untimely end in the Bombala district of N.S.W.
A fight had been arranged, the ring properly pre-
pared and the floor padded. The local constable
acted as referee. Everything went well till near the
end of the 12th round, when Ruenalf suddenly
stopped fighting, walked to his corner and sat down.
He remarked that he didn’t feel too good, and next
moment he collapsed and rolled to the floor. He
does not appear to have received visible damage, and
as the medical evidence was that he died from
meningitis—which is inflammation of the membranes
of the brain or the spinal cord, and is usually caused
by tubercular infection —the verdict was death bv
mischance, and the men who had been lumbered in
connection with the unfortunate affair were released.
* * * *
Ilolberg, the Dane, is eminently unlucky
in his fights in Australia. Against Mehegan he had
absolutely no chance, and was practically fighting out
of his class. Then he met McCoy, of Melbourne, and
failed to get the decision. Now, in Brisbane, he has
been disqualified within half a minute of time for
hitting in “holts.” Apparently, over eagerness to
score a win caused the plucky little Dane, who in
Sydney fought a most gentlemanly scrap always, to
lose his head, and probahly he was so excited that
he did not hear referee Marre’s order to step back.
Neither Jerome nor Bradley apparently heard Scott’s
orders in Sydney the same night, and referee Scott
got one or two while struggling to tear them apart;
so perhaps the baresark spirit was very much abroad
in the land iust then. The Brisbane battle was a
very close affair. Ilolberg by his eagerness practi-
cally gave Thomas the verdict, which was otherwise
very doubtful.
* * * *
Patrick Bradley, the Unbeaten, is 27
years of age, and on Saturday night he consisted of
exactly list. lib. of thoroughly trained, hardened
meat, muscle and bone. He consisted only of material
useful in fighting. He was at the Sydney Stadium
by appointment with Dave Smith, to fight the battle
of his life. His chance was to have arrived that
night, qnd he was there to make the best of it and
rise magnificently to the occasion. But Smith was
down with tonsilitis, or something of the sort, and in
his place came the 44-vear-old Jeremiah Jerorqe, of
Queensland. The Prophet had been leading the lazy
life for a week after his hattle with Mansfield, and
had stepped into the breach at practically no notice,
untrained and unprepared, a man whom Smith had
already beaten. He weighed list. 111 b., of which at
least lOlh. was a burden and not an asset. Small
wonder men who were asked to bet against Bradley
demanded four to one on. In his fight with Mans-
field, Jerome had won easily enough, hut he had
given the Hebrew warrior many opportunities to right
cross him. and nobodv dreamed that, in his un-
prepared state, he could last more than a round or
two with the perfectly-trained, hard-hitting; clever
Pat Bradley. But Jerome is like what
didn’t sav about his wife —all things to all men.
The scrap he fought with Bradley was as different
from that with Jerome as a grindstone is from a
cheese. Bradley got the verdict, it i s troc-
he acquired it by the unusual method of tit- ’ i:t
such a walloping that the Prophet broke hi= h"
on the side wall (or perhaps it was the roof 1 of
enemy. Had Jerome been in condition Patrick n ,
ley had certainly been knocked out. Even as'it 1 '
this writer firmly believes that, had Jerome’s h!
not been injured, Pat would have gone the ll
the floor. He certainly could not have stood anon, 0 *
battering like that Jerome served out to him h,^ 1 ’
sixth round, when he was beaten to his knees Ji
glad to take nine seconds. Of course it is n '
possible that Jerome was too exhausted to lot#
such another blizzard at such a speed But 11
writer saw him after the fight, and is stromrlv f
the opinion he could have blizzarded again. M ‘ V °‘
Bradley rushed into the fight with vim Jerom ■
commenced, as usual, with elusive tactics, and in in
seconds had roused Patrick to unholy anger u
objected to being fooled with, and made an unhoiv show
of, and he went after Jeremiah with evil intent
But it took two minutes of fearsome rushing to catch
the Book of Lamentations, and when he succeed?
Bradley probably wished he hadn’t, for he a Is!
caught two terrific wallops about the head that must’
have made him see fireworks. After that for several
rounds it was a fierce scramble of infighting. Jerom
more than held his own -till the end the third
round. Then Bradley began to hold and punch and
before he could be stopped he did some damage hi
this unfair method. Jerome gave all that and a bit
more back in the fifth. But Bradley was made of
iron. He came again, and again, and’ battled grimlv
for a chance to let loose his grisly punch. He hail
no hope. When he did get a chance to let it go
Jerome wasn’t there; and when he was there his
presence was to such purpose that Bradley would
possibly as soon have had his absence. In the sixth
the now desperate Bradley came in like lightnin-'
and roughed Jerome into a sitting posture between the
ropes. Jerry sprang up and let go an awful bom-
bardment that brought the house roaring to its
feet. Bradley was smashed and driven right across
the ring. In vain he tried to hang on—he was
beaten off. He had no time to hit, as he was literally
smothered under a shower of blows. Some whizzed
up and caught him on the face; some crashed from
east and west and caught him on his ears and the
head generally; some came whirling downward and
caught him across the back of the neck; and some
crashed in straight from the shoulder, and sent him ,
staggering. He was hard as iron, but steel would
have given way under that battering, and Bradley
was beaten to his knees, where he was glad to take
nine seconds. Jerome had temporarily exhausted
himself, and, although he rattled Bradley again, the
other managed to get into a clinch, and reach the
respite of the bell. The seventh saw Jerome go
slower. He was gathering force for a fresh out-
break : and when it came Bradley could hardly hope
to weather it. He was in a dire plight. But he
still strove to attack his elusive enemy, and for a
while seemed to be getting the better of it. In the
eighth .Terrv drove in a heavy right, stepped back, and
sent the left in quick as lightning. As Bradley came
forward again to the attack Jerome stepped back
and held out his hand, and the towel was thrown
in.
It was a wonderful battle on both sides, but under
the conditions the glory of it easilv rests with Brown
Brother. One of the things the Boxing Conference, 1
which commences at the Hotel Australia on October
3, might consider is whether a boxer who has broken
a bone should have the decision given against him
because he is unable through the injury to go on.
Although Bradley fought on with a broken no^e —it
was eminently unwise to do so. And. obviously, it is
quite impossible under modern conditions for a man
to fi'riit on with a broken band. Why, therefore,
should be be penalised for what is either an Act or
Oversight of Providence?


abridged prospectus.
Amalgamated Insurance
(Australia) Limited
(To be Registered Under the Companies Act 1910.)
Authorised Capital = = £250,000
in 1,000,000 Shares of ss. each
Of whic^y°°J h Now Offered to the Public, Payable 2/6 on Appli-
cation, and 2/6 on Allotment. No Free Shares are to be Issued.
COMBINING:
ini-f OFFICE* nMITFD FIRE OFFICK LIMITED -
BRISBANE FIRE OFFICE LmiTED FER ™ r FIRE OFFICE LIMITED.
LMtIED. lASMANIA FIRE OFFICE LIMITED.
„ Provisional Directors:
CHARLES ATKINS (Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd) THOMAS Pcsspirrn m „
FRANK BUCKHURST (Mutual Store, Flinders Dr F R p?v r Road ,’ Cobur K>-
Street, Melbourne). nnaers Dr. E. R. PAYNE PHILPOTS (Collins Street,
SYDNEY MEARS (Bondi Junction, Sydney) C E TOwTcPnlUn „ IV .
GEO. A. M. NANIvERVIS (President Country W II PORTFR tPorf ’l ¥. elbourn e>-
Storekeepers Association of N.S.W.). ' ' ' IUKIEK (I ort Adelaide).
Bankers: THE LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Solicitor: ARTHUR PHILLIPS, 60 Queen Street, Melbourne.'
Auditor: E. D. CRELLIN, Queen Street, Melbourne.
Offices of the Company: 47 QUEEN STREET, Melbourne.
dS ft STVife Ft. •&*
ment the Company’s Business should Quickly Develop nsurance \\ ork, and under his Manage-
The Provisional Secretaries. Mr H P Oonvip at a v aa t „ T .
who will be of material and valuable assistance in the kderests’of the Company. 316 th mCn
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY:
sr4s»
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To AMALGAMATED INSURANCE (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED.
47 Queen Street, Melbourne.
’,L eq ,Tf th<lt y ° U allo t me 'o)r sh , ares > of of- each, in the abovenamed Company, and I enclose
fnm oTm 'on 'allotment a ™ licati ™’ and * undertake to pay a further
/ agree to accept the said, shares, or any less number that may be allotted to me, and I authorise uon
to Place my name on the Register of the Company in respect of the Shares allotted to me, and I agree to
be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company. 9 ™
Dated this day of
~ ms.
Name in full.
Address
Occupation
Usual Signature
COPIES OF THE FULL PROSPECTUS WILL BE SENT ON APPLICATION.
, Subscription List Will Close in a Very Few Days, and Applications
should be Promptly Lodged.
&0 Q
We Invite You to Call at Show-time
Make our Warehouse your first point of call, when starting out to make your
Clothing Purchases for Show-Wear. We carry what is admittedly one of the
largest stocks in the Commonwealth, of all Classes of Apparel for Men and
Boys—Travelling Accessories of Every Description—Tailor-made Costumes,
Skirts, Blouses; Overcoats, Hats, Hosiery, Gloves Underwear. Footwear for
Ladies; Manchester Goods, Folding Go-Carts, etc., etc. Our PRICES are
uniformlv MODERATE, and Everv Article we sell is Sold under our
"GUARANTEE OF SATISFACTION.’’
OUR SHOW-ROOM AT THE GROUNDS
(tinder the New Stand) will provide an interesting display to Out-of-town
Buyers. Either here or at our Warehouse you may HAVE YOUR MEASURE-
MENTS RECORDED free of charge, and leave instructions with regard to
your future requirements, etc. In any case, inspection of our goods places
you under no obligation, and it will “COST” you nothing to "PAY” us a visit—
so CALL.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
“ Tailors and Outfitters,"
Flinders Street (opp. Railway Station), MELBOURNE.
Learn to Defend Yourself!
You may have all the qualifications; but
strength, determination and pluck, without
skill, will not avail you against a Scientific
Boxer.
The Scientific Boxer is cool, calm and col-
lected. He is constantly drawing his opponent
into position. Puts the weight of his body
behind his blows. Plants his punches where
they are most felt. Confuses and bewilders
his opponent, by evading and countering his
attempts to “land.”
You would surely like to become a Scientific
Boxer. Now is your opportunity to learn.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
The instruction is practical, simple, and
easily understood. It thoroughly explains
and illustrates every serviceable move in
Scientific Boxing.
Here is what one pupil reported;—
“I find all lessons remarkably inter-
esting. They are so thoroughly ex-
plained that anyone can catch on to the
meaning. 1 am beginning to feel some
confidence in myself already.”
W.M.R., Malanda, Q.
Full particulars of my methods, and fee for
tuition, are given in my interesting, 32-page
Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.”
Write for your copy. Send three penny
stamps for postage.
Reg. L. rsnowy”) Baker
234 Belmont Building's, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Uf>e RIGNEY SHOE for Men
A
mm
K3SS
s
—the shoe that gives generous and general
satisfaction. The fine leathers, workman-
ship and smart styles have brought the
Rigney Shoe into favor as the shoe for
careful dressers.
The illustration is a Tan Willow Calf,
Three Button Shoe, Smart American Shape,
Brown Cloth Tops. “Non-Thread-Over”
Brand, Best English manufacture,
Also, in Patent Leather....
32/6, 35/
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
379 George Street and 179 a Pitt .Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
mm
.
&
£6
10s.
for
Uhl’s
Anglo-Australian.
The Saddle that will give you many years of
comfortable riding and excellent service.
Made on Special Tree, Hogskin Seat and Pads,
Skirt all round, extra long Flaps, solid leather
Panel, short folded leather girth (short or
long as ordered) ; mounted with Crupper, 4
Bar-Irons, and Leathers and Surcingle.
L. UHL & SONS LTD.,
PETRIE BIGHT, BRISBANE.
BUSHMEN (and others)
when “ Out of Sorts ” take
GOLCRYST
Consisting, of Epsom Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla
Dandelion, Liquorice and Ginger, Golcryst has
become, to Australians, the National aperient.
Bv their purifying action on the blood the
crystals relieve Rheumatism and Gout and keep
the liver and other organs in healthy action.
Boils and pimples, constipation and all its
troubles disappear, and gaiety takes the place
of depression. Packets 3d., 6d. and Is.. Cost
(including postage), small packets, sd. ;
medium, lOd. ; large, Is. Bd.
Proprietors: ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO.,
MELBOURNE.
[4
ANOTHER WIN for
SHELL
Automobile Club of Australia.
ECONOMY TEST.
Held on the 9th August, 1913,
From SYDNEY to MEDLOW BATH.
FIRST PLACE —19.71 h.p. \’a,.-xhall,
27.2 miles per gallon, on “SiiE^L”
BENZINE.
SECOND PLACE—I 2 h.p. Talbot,
28.6 miles per gallon, on “ SHELL”
BENZINE.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
Remit amount with
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Re
turned in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli-
cation. Only address—
M QUEEN ST.. MELBOURNE
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) tinder-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches, Surveillance.
40 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
DRADY, CHRISTINA, daughter of late .1 AMICS and
LJ CHRISTINA BRADY, of Dublin, last heard of
January 8, 1877, at Logan Village Hotel, Queensland :
afterwards understood to be at Queen’s Hotel. Towns-
ville, Queensland, will hear something to her advan-
tage by communicating with her sister,
MRS. ANNE COEN (n6e Brady),
Tenterfield, X.S.W.
Any friend of hers please communicate.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” of to ears
proven efficacy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.


k€^l==Q
04654—Fine Quality Pearl
and Aquamarine, Set 9et.
Gold NECKLET,
105/-
STEWART DAWSON
8 CO.
(AUST.) LTD.
Write for a Post Free Copy of Our Illus-
trated Art Catalogue. A study of its pages
will be an Excellent Guide to economical
Jewellery, Watch and date buying. You
will recognise just how Great a Saving is
effected by purchasing at Stewart Dawson’’s
FIRST COST PRICES.
ns
09541 —Neat Design 9ct. Gold BROOCH,
set fl'ith Garnets and Pearls,
21 -
€9420 —Solid Silver and Enamel Souvenir
BROOCH,
2/-
We Pay the Postage to any
address. Goods are despatched
by registered post the same day
as order received.
We are open till 10 o’clock
Friday Nights.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
7SrG
NEW
REXOPHONE
Disc Records.
September List Now Ready.
12-inch Double-sided, Price 4/- each (New Zealand, 5/6).
The Rexophone Grand Concert Band.
4001. ■ William Tell Overture: “At Dawn.”
’I „ ~ ~ “The Storm.”
/ William Tell Overture: “The Calm.”
I ~ „ „ “The Finale.”
4003. / Prelude 3rd Act Lohengrin (Wagner)
( Ride of the Valkyries (Wagner)
The Rexophone Military Band.
4010. / T ’ le Thistle Selection Scottish Airs;
( The Shamrock Selection Irish Airs
Miss Jessie Broughton, Contralto.
4011. /O, nr y Those Tears (Del Reigq):
\ A Summer Night (Goring Thomas)
Robert Howe, Baritone.
4012. / The Bandoliero (Leslie Stuart );
l The Trumpeter (Airlie Dix)
10-inch Double-sided, Price 2/6 each (New Zealand, 3/6 each).
Royal Regimental Band.
-„ 7 .) ) Church Parade (with chimes) ;
i Bells of Hope (with chimes)
Rexophone Concert Orchestra.
5383. ' Princess Caprice, Part 1 CFall) ;
l Princess Caprice, Part 2;| ~
Bosnian Ist Infantry Band.
v .o fi ) Staunch and True March;
l Pride of the World March
Angus McCulloch, Violinist.
5390. J Highland Scottisehe;
(Duncan Cray Medley
Phillip Ritte, Tenor.
{Take Me Back to the Garden of
5393. , Dove:
(Beautiful Garden of Roses
5395.
Rexophone Military Band.
(Everybody’s Doing it Now Two
j Step;
I Waiting for Robert E. Eee Two
l Step
5396.
Harry Cove, Ragtime Artist.
/Wedding Glide (Hello, Ragtime);
1 How Ho You Do, Miss Ragtime?
5398.
Rexophone Military Band.
f Pleasureland, Part 1 (Popular
I Songs) ;
I Pleasureland, Part 2 (Popular
l Songs)
5399
Savoy Orchestra.
/ Nights of Gladness Waltz;
L Charming Waltz
Stanley Kirkby, Baritone.
5400.
j It’s a Lon*: Way to Tipperary;
t Hello, Susie Green
Rexophone Records are sold by all Reputable Talking Machine
Stores in Australia and New Zealand. Ask to hear some of these.
The NEW Rexophone Catalogue is now ready. Ask for a copy.
Jackson 8 Macdonald,
457 Kent Street (corner Kent and
Druitt Streets), SYDNEY.
JLime
Brings to
FruitJ
your
[uice.
the
of the lime fruit .
juice
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love .it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Lar?e supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
/VNTISEPTIC THROAT
l m m
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to
a formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading Singers throughout the world. The
celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes: —“I thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Sole Manufacturers —
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
EVANS SONS LESCHER 8 WEBB LTD., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS’ ” Pastilles, and see you fret them.
CA
Celebrated
Cascade
Ale
ft
IN BULK
and
BOTTLED.
urn
&XXX Al||
1«4
, J °p (^
m a
CALL
FOR IT
on ALL
Occasions.
Head Office:
156 Collins St., Hobart
AGENTS:
.Melbourne:
Taylor, Ferguson *
Co., 127 King St.
Sydney:
IFArcy & Go.
Brisbane: ’
Burns, Philp & Go.,
Etd.
Maryborough:
Corser & Co.
Rockhampton:
Walter Reid & Co-
Townsville:
Burns, Philp & CO,l
Rtd.
aims: _
Burns, Philp * Co '
Etd.
Somebody says lie lias this alleged wisdom
to spare:—
The good rich man who gives largely to charity
does not let his left hand know what his right hand
has done. He just tells the hospital secretary in a low
voice that he need not mention his name, “unless it
is absolutely necessary.” Hence the case of a deacon
who read out in the list of subscriptions, “Anony-
mous (myself), 25.”
The wise rich man makes dead sure that his wife
has got all the things she can think of at the
moment before he starts out as a public benefactor.
Most public benefactors have been bachelors, or
widows, or widowers. Those who didn’t belong were
probably very sorry for themselves before they were
dead. Anyhow, even the loneliest benefactor must
have a few relations growling somewhere.
No woman ever had all she wanted. The fact that
she can’t think of anything else at the moment
doesn’t indicate that there is “nothing else to-day.”
The full requirements of two flappers would pro-
bably exhaust the resources of the earth.
No woman is ever satisfied. No man is ever quite
satisfied. But it is only the exceptional man who
frets and fidgets and kicks about it to the same
extent as his sister. You have to worry at him to
get his ideas for the perfection of the universe. The
woman is throwing it at you all the time.
There comes a time in the life of every husband
when he can no longer thank his wife convincingly
for a burst of indifferent song.
Every wife retains some shred of confidence in her
“posf“ Why ‘ hoUld *™‘ “» «. letters
iJ” b“'L™sL*“ m “ r lr “ •» «* «* 11 a,
Concerning Papua’s latest horror-bv a ,
ex-official who lias seen a few of them •-!_ a 1
News comes that one Warner, a too-eager ee 'oW .
who was on a radium quest in the glst ’
of Goodenough Bay, has been killed b v jL countr . v
heathens of those parts and duly eatm a ft Kent , le
custom of the country. They waited till h’i« „ the
tion was exhausted, and then winged him I?™,™ 1 '
range with their slings. After that ong
mained but the culinary rites. Brown Broth B re '
that north-east part of Panua has been for s'! ln
time under missionary “control,” but has 1 ° ng
borne an ugly reputation. In 1903 at 1 l n ays
called Peiwa, he was so ill-advised as to attnil® 86
large party of the Armed Native Constabulary ~„a a
a white officer. The A.N.C. got into him with the
bayonet, then newly issued and much annr ( v.J„!
by the Black Guards. The resultant butchery
a howl which penetrated to Exeter Hall ' un f lsed
suited in the official being carpeted. Ho’wever re '
the A.N.C. of those days would swear S’h “
two-inch board for their white officers all mA 1
well. ’ en aed
The Goodenough cannibal is a careful and econnm
ical individual. In this Warner case, having broker
both their unfortunate captive’s arms, they tied hi
to a tree until dinner-time. As a rule,' when th
Papuan raider has captured more prisoners than h
can cat at a sitting, he takes the game home w
to a pole by the feet and hands. That portion „r
tbe bag which is dead is at once cut up if th
weather is warm), cooked and wranped in neat little
leaf-covered packets. This refreshment is eaten on
the road, if the journey is long. Before starting
both thighs of the live prisoners are carefully broken
by being held over one log while they are struck-
with another. This prevents any attempt at escape
and ensures the meat keeping fresh until the return'
ing raiders arrive at the Old Homestead.
An outstanding characteristic of the Papuan can-
nibal is the absence of all hypocrisy. When asked
why he eats human flesh, he will tell you frankly that
he eats it because he likes it. Other flesh food is
plentiful in most parts of Papua, but this does not
prevent a taste for one’s brother man. Of course all
“civilised” Papuans will avow their disapprobation
of the custom, but there is little doubt that most of
them would tackle a human steak at the first safe
opportunity. An old Northern Division constable of
the A.N.C. who, in his ante-police days, had helped
to butch' r Magistrate Green and his' party on the
Mamba Hirer, told me that young women made the
best eating. They were very tender. He added,
reminiscently, that white men were reallv not as
good as Papuans. They carried too much fat, he
said, and when you put a slice on the coals, it went
“too much s-s-s-s.” That ended his reminiscences—
for the day, at least.
THE DISAPPOINTED PRODIGAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His money in riotous living spent,
Home to his father the prodigal went.
“Good-day, my son,” said the dear old dad ;
“I guess it’s a weary time you’ve had!”
“O Dad,” said the prodigal, weeping hard,
“Having sinned, 1 return to the old back-yard:
You must welcome and kiss me and make me laugh ;
Do your duty and murder the Fatted Calf.”
The veteran waggled his old bald head:
“But it can’t be did, my boy,” he said.
“We can give you mutton, or bread and lard,
But Calf is not on the menu card.”
The prodigal frowned, and flashed his eyes;
“I’ve a mind to go back to the pigs and sties.
The Fatted Calf is the recognised thing;
Despatch the butler the beast to bring.”
“I repeat that it can’t be done,” said Dad;
“You know I would give you all I had.
But they’ve confiscated that youthful cow,
To be made into lymph for the doctors now!”
VICTORIA.
BILL.


IN STRICT CONFIDENCE
WE CAN TELL YOU
THE “MARSHALL”
STEAM ENGINES
ar e acknowledged “The Highest
'Trade manufactured throughout
Great -Britain, and as a consequence
command
The Greatest Sale of any
Engines in the World!
For over 60 Years Marshall’s have
maintained this reputation, and to-day
their Engines are more popular than
ever.
Light, and Heavy Pattern TRACTIONS.
Single Cylinder, Double and Compound PORTABLES, all sizes.
OIL TRACTORS, using Kerosene or Benzine.
Vertical and Horizontal Stationary.
Colonial and \ ertical Boilers, 2 to 12 H.P., 1001 b. working pressure.
Write for Catalogues. Cash or Liberal Terms.
The World’s Latest Wonder.
IMPORTANT TO
OIL ENGINE BUYERS.
Before placing your orders elsewhere,
inquire our prices for the MOST
UP-TO-DATE OIL ENGINE yet
seen in Australia, viz. :
“The Big Chief "
Equipment includes “ WIZARD” MAGNETO, EXTENDED CRANK,
REGULAR PULLEY. ALL SIZES (Stationary Type, 1 \' 2 to 12 8.H.P.)
Our Prices are Certain to Tempt You. Discount for Cash. Easy Terms.
catalogues free.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Automatic Electric Light Plants
STARTS ITSELF!
STOPS ITSELF !
lISTU-B
LjSTIRHBRUSTON
M
SB
C
The LISTER -BRUSTON
Automatic Electric Light
AS USED BY PlaiVt
J. V. Tarte, Esq., Taviuni, Fiji.
J. Jj. Currie, Esq., Earra, Camper-
down.
O. J. Syme, Esq., Bolobek, Macedon.
J. Clee, Esq., Spray House, Bel-
larine.
H. B. Howard Smith, Esq., Sor-
rento.
C. F. Fairbairn, Esq., Calimo, Den-
iliquin.
Hospital for the Insane, Mont Park,
Melbourne.
And many others.
W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD., 2T9 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SUTHERLAND 8 ASHMAN, 379 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, BRISBANE.
■" ■ - >
, V
. ■
■
s
.
s
mm
* -
wM%
■
m
\_y U6?-, -y, ''iL'/ % ' ■.' i,,\ y
■■Hi # :
* •
X 'M
v 1
;
Cleaning the teeth with
tooth=powders or tooth=pastes can never,
under any circumstances, preserve them
from destruction.
That follows from the simple fact that
the parts most exposed to injury the backs
of the molars, the cavities in the teeth and
the interstices between them are the very
parts which remain untouched by either
powders or pastes.
And therefore mischief, once started in
these places, advances undisturbed.
But Odol, being liquid, can penetrate
the minutest crevices, and, as it has a real
antiseptic effect, destroys all bacterial and fer-
mentation processes injurious to the teeth.


A Copy of this Prospectus has been filed for registration with the Registrar-Gen eral as required by Section 87 of the “Companies Act 1910 ”
Pr «THE MIRROR LIMITED
(TO BE REGISTERED UNDER TIIE “COMRAN lES ACT 1910.“)
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - £200,000
OIV.DED INTO 180,000 Preference 8 Per Cent. “A ” Shares of
£l each, and 20,000 “ B ” Shares of £1 each.
Present Issue of 100,000 “A” Shares of £1 each, payable as
follows 2 6 per Share upon application ;2 6 per Share upon
allotment; 5 - per Share two months after allotment; and the
balance as required in calls at not less than ten days’ notice.
IN ADDITION" to £8 cent. “A” Shareholders will be entitled to one-
third of any profits distributed by the Directors, and “B” Shareholders will
receive the balance. The voting; power of both classes of Shares, except as
hereinafter provided, will be equal.
I**' A.E.M. SYNDICATE, who are the Promoters of and Vendors to the
< oinpany will be allotted the “B” Shares as fully paid in consideration of the
transfer to the Company of all rights, option to purchase building, contracts, and
;‘n.V other benefits arising from preliminary work in connection with the
>usiness. Ihe C ompany will also pay to the Syndicate £3500 in consideration
of the said Syndicate defraying the whole of the expenses in connection with
the promotion up to and including the registration of the Company.
The following gentlemen have consented to become the first Directors:—
w (Solicitor). W. H. QUICK (Broker).
, r , t 77. f (Boot Importer). M. F. KING (Journalist), Managing Director,
om, o? additional Directors will be hereafter appointed to represent the subscribers of the balance of
w* „f, aus ; IJle hh rectors will have the valuable assistance of an ADVISORY BOARD, composed of the
Manage: s of various departments of the business.
Bankas: THE BANK OK VICTORIA, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Solicitors. Messrs. MADDOCK, JAMIESON & LONIE, Queen Street, Melbourne.
Auditors. Messrs. YOUNG A OUTHWAITE, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bioker. S. B. BAGEEY, 408 Collins Street, Melbourne, and Stock Exchange.
Secretary (pro tern.) and Registered Office: H. BRAUND, Flinders Buildings, Melbourne.
controniL ob nr?nt,W AA* 1 Vr Company has been formed is primarily for the purpose of owning.
iS s ;C ln „a n i P u bbshmg_ an Evening Newspaper in Melbourne, upon lines formulated by the
paper has been tlem und f r the title of “ihe Mirror.” An advance copy of this
Melbourne all nf °, heartily approved of by a number of prominent persons in and around
welcome place the l haVe expressed the opinion that “The Mirror” will speedily establish for itself a
The Conmanv aL !,ui ° f th< T Vlctorian Public and remote corners of the Commonwealth.
gJUBP t »ui
matted and the has been devoted to preliminary work in connection with the
substantiil sncce« Th IClte< i en 'b°lderi the Directors to predict for “The Mirror” immediate and
immtfh!. ii A r c ai > on for this confidence is found in the fact that every section of the com-
women (youngamUkb l ,. o ''m V hat i each . day P?g es will contain something of interest to men and
shops and slfoppirs Llc 'H.'rf worker, politician and elector, pulpit and pew, rostrum and dealer.
may reali f, e a ' closeness to “The Mirror” not usually found with the dailv
will hi u ole 4 , men and women will be invited to control certain pages on certain days. Thus Scott
Poltics i sportsmen, Trade by leading-merchants, Religion by prominent divines, whßst
•cad the wholp SU - Ch a nlanne . r as tp constitute a free public platform from which electors may
oloh section win h e ? ncermn S l every phase of political thought. Liberal, Labor, Independent, Socialist—
Vffrior” hi U b p ? I , n v < ' qual opportunities of placing their views before its readers. In short, “The
Mirror will be a Public Newspaper, its policy being dominated only by a spirit at once “just fearless
no"! iTTcHfi” i Ad t d t 0 , thi V the faCt that 11 will be profusely illustrated, ‘that Us news 'columns w i
im,rnih a ffe i fi M d for . advertisements, that its permanent staff will comprise men and women of great
fucce^wnib^'apparen 1 ? Motherland ’ apd th * basis li the Directors’ confidence^
that ttefr I MLt r Jfno g nireetnr’p nCerni " g ' CableS and other . news are being made, and the Directors consider
that their Managing Directors experience as master printer, newspaper and magazine proprietor, as well
as a Director of special news supply agencies in London, will be most valuable to the Company
Company proposes to purchase Minders Buildings, which are right opposite the Parcels Office of
linders Street Station. This structure is admirably adapted for present and future requirements of the
a n Wh f n - f tl f e - r ! ecess , ary . alterations are complete, and the plant installed, It will easily be
the best building of its kind in Australia. Here will be not only the birthplace and home of “The Mirror ”
but also a meeting place, a home, a club for its readers from distant cities and towns. “The Mirror ” in
tact, intends to take a prominent part in the future prosperity of this great continent ’
r Vfn n 1 ’nw al °n Utlay 18 r, :J at ) iv< ; ly smalL The freehold property will cost £65,000', alterations about
£20°250 P „L 1 An non nth A S AA 3£5 ?’, 2 ? 0 ’ Preliminary expenses £3500, working capital
onlv m fl^l ota !;, it f°r’ ?' 8 ! le fieehoiders will leave £50,000 on mortgage at 5 per cent., £lOO.OOO
only may be requued for two or three years, unless the Directors hereafter decide to pay for the buildings
m full. Of this sum of £lOO,OOO, a large portion will not be needed for several months
this comparativlv moderate capital is capable of earning large dividends, as appears from complete
details, which may be inspected at the Solicitors’ office. All that can here be is that the figures
following aie based upon an intimate knowledge of local conditions and requirements. The weekly net
receipts should be not less than £2038 19s. and the weekly expenditure £1645, or a net profit of £393
19s. per week equal to £20,485 Bs. per annum. As Flinders Buildings are fully let, producing a rental
1 °7J A°l P A annu f n \ and as only a portion will be required by the Company at present, there" must
be added to the total a further sum of £2OOO, making a grand total of £22,485 Bs. These figures bv no
means represent the possible earning power of the Company, and are considered by the Directors to be a
moderate estimate.
In this connection the Directors would like it to be known that Mr. T. L. Taylor
the popular and successful advertisement canvasser of the “Herald” durin«- the
past 17 years, has recently severed his connection with that paper, and” his
services have been secured by “The Mirror.”
When the contemplated issue of 150,000 “A” Shares has been subscribed, the dividend payable thereon
vyouid be £12,000 per annum, so that the balance available for dividends on the “B” Shares", and further
dividends on the “A” Shares, Reserve Fund, Sinking Fund. Depreciation Fund, Bonuses etc should be
£10.485 Bs. Should it ever be necessary to issue the reserve balance of 30.000 “A” Shares thev will be
offered to original Shareholders at par, although the market price may be higher.
„ Special attention is directed to the fact that “B” Shareholders will receive no dividends until the
“A Shareholders have received 8 per cent. The promoters receive their remuneration in “B” Shares and
it will therefore be understood that good results are confidently expected bv them.
The Directors feel that brief reference only need be made'to the large' field available for “The Mirror ”
and it should be sufficient to point out that whereas other cities in the Commonwealth support two ’if
not more, evening papers, a large and prosperous city like Melbourne has only ore.
The Directors propose to offer 50,000 “A” Shares to the public in the form of Readers’ Shares such
issue to be made during the first week of the publication of “The Mirror.”
The voting power of both classes of shares will be equal, but, if at the expiration of three vears
from the date of the first issue of “The Mirror,” the Company shall not be on a satisfactory basis as
hereinafter provided. “B” shareholders will surrender their right of equality and everv share of each
class shall then become entitled to one vote.
The minimum subscription for shares on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is 75.()00
the promotion a
cm, anu a i e ein.ii.ieu iu me o issue ut snares: —Messrs, neroert Braund, Kobert Henry Morlev
May Deehan, Peter Frank Frowlev, J. H. Maddock, W. S. Stott,'A. B. Mason, B. E. Johnson, E. Cockine
\L 11. Strong, Arthur Uglovv, William Deeming, Joe Taylor, M. F. King, Harold Bickford, Henrv Buck
I>. C. Fisher, A. H. Outhwaite, and A. M. Louie.
Brokerage commission of 3 per cent, will be paid by the Company upon the shares allotted in respec
of all applications made by members of the recognised Stock Exchanges of Australia, or such othe
agents or persons, whether interested as directors or officers of the Company or not, as the Directors ma
approve.
Applications for Shares may be lodged with and cheques paid to the Company’s Bankers, Broker, or a
the office of the A.E.M. Syndicate, Flinders Buildings, Flinders Street.
Where the amount of the application money is greater than the number of shares allotted, the balanc
will be returned.
Payment may be made in full if desired.
Information embodied in Prospectus in accordance with the “Companies Act 1910.”
COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES.
Memorandum of Association of The Mirror Limited.
1. The name of the Company is THE MIRROR LIMITED.
2. The registered office of the Company will be situate in Flinders Buildings. Flinders Street, in the
City of Melbourne, or such other place as the Directors of the Company may from time to time determine.
3. The objects for which the Company is established are:—
(1) To adopt and carry into effect with or without modification an agreement which has already
been prepared and is expressed .to be made between the A.E.M. Syndicate of the first part,
Mathias Farmer King of the second part, and The Mirror Ltd. of the third part, a copv
whereof has for identification been endorsed with the signature of J. H. Maddock, Wm.
Deeming, and E. Cocking, three of the subscribers thereto.
(2) To start, acquire, print, publish, and circulate, or otherwise deal with anv newspaper or
newspapers, journals, magazines, books or other literary works or publications, and generally
to carry on the business of newspaper proprietors and general publishers.
(3) To bold or promote competitions of anv description authorised bv law which mav be calcu-
lated to increase the business of the Company, or to advertise or promote the sale of am-
plification issued by it. or in which it is interested, and to give prizes in connection with
such competitions or otherwise, consisting of cash, life or other annuities, scholarships or other
terminable payments, shares or other choses in action,-gifts in kind, or any other description
of bonus or reward, or any rights, privileges or advantages which it is in the power of the
Company to confer. .
(4) To carry on all or any of the businesses of general printers, stationers, lithographers, type-
founders, stereotypers, electrotvpers, photographic printers, photo-lithographers, chromo-
lithographers, engravers, die-sinkers, bookbinders, designers, draughtsmen, paper and ink
manufacturers, booksellers, publishers, advertising, agents, engineers, and dealers in or manu-
facturers of any other articles or things of a character similar or. analogous .to the foregoing
or any of them, or connected therewith.
(5) To undertake and transact all kinds of agency or business which an ordinary individual may
legally undertake.
(6) So far as in law allowed to provide for and furnish or secure to any members or customers
of the Company, or to any subscribers to or purchasers or possessors of any publication of the
Company, or of any coupons or tickets issued with any publications of the Company, anv
chattels, conveniences, advantages, benefits, or special privileges which may seem expedient,
and either gratuitously or otherwise.
(7)
(8)
(14)
(15)
(18)
lo pay all costs, charges and expenses incurred or sustained in or about the nronrnti,
establishment ot the Company, or which the Company shall consider to V r reW l ""'
lnclinhng therein tne cost of advertising, commissions for underwriting, brokerage
and stationeiiand expenses attendant upon the, formation of agencies and local boirrt P nntlni!
L pou any issue oi shares, debentures, or other securities of the Company to employ hmi-
coinini>sion agent>. and underwriters, and to provide for the remuneration of such
t ieir -muces by payment in cash, or by the issue of shares, debentures, or other securities 7
■ Q . ~ph e Com l )all y, or by the granting of options to take the. same, or in anv manner allowed bv law
(9) lo purchase or otherwise acquire all or any part of the business, property, and lkhilitii i
any Company, Society, partnership, or person formed for all or anv part of 'the purposes wdh
Inriiiess 01 * of thls Company, and to conduct and carry on or liquidate and wind up any
tioj lo purchase, take on lease, or otherwise acquire for the purposes of the Company, am o s r-n»
lands, buildings, easements, or other interests in real estate, and to sell, mortgage let'on '
nn other 'Vise dispose of or grant rights over any real property belonging to the Company
(11) w!rt U t C ? aSe ’ °n oth , envlse acquire, erect, maintain, reconstruct, and adapt anv buildings' office,
workshops mills, plant, machinery, and other things found necessary or convenient for the
poses ot the Company. ‘ u,t l Jur .
(12) lo apply for and take out, purchase, or otherwise acquire any patents, patent rights or in.-,,
tions, copyright or secret processes which may be useful for the Company's objects ami t
grant licenses to use the same. J ’ anu ll
(13) lo sell, dispose of, mortgage, let on lease or on hire the whole or anv part of the real ami
sonal property of the Company on such terms as .the Company shall determine. P
io draw, accept, and make, and to endorse, discount, and negotiate bills of exchange and
missory notes and other negotiable instruments. ,
Io borrow or raise money by the issue of debentures, debenture stock (perpetual or termin
a de), bonds, mortgages or any other securities founded or based upon all or any of the nr,,
perty and rights of the Company, including its uncalled capital or without anv such security
m Ul ’°” su , ch terms as to priority or otherwise as the Company shall think fit.'
(16) lo acquire by subscription, purchase, or otherwise, and to accept and take bold or sell share,
or stock in the Company, Society, or undertaking the objects of which shall either in whole or
part be similar to those of. this Company, or such as may be likely to promote or advance th,.
interests of this Company. 1
(li) lo establish agencies and local boards in the Commonwealth of Australia and elsewhere and t,.
regulate and discontinue the same. ’
7° provide for the welfare of persons in the employment of the Company or formerly engaged
m any business acquired by the Company, and the wives, widows and families of such persons
bv grants of moneys, pensions or other payments, and by providing or subscribing towards
places of instruction and recreation and hospitals, dispensaries, medical and other attendance
and other assistance as the Company shall think fit, and to form, subscribe to or otherwise aid
benevolent, religious, scientific, national, or other institutions or objects which shall have anv
moral or other claims to support or aid by the Company bv reason of the locality of its onern
tions or otherwise.
(19) From time to time to subscribe or contribute to any charitable, benevolent, or useful object of
a public character, or to assist the same by collecting or otherwise.
(20) To enter into and carry into effect any arrangement for joint working in business, or for sharing
ot profits, or for amalgamation with any other Company or any partnership or person carrvine
on business within the objects of this Company. ” *
(21) lo establish, promote and otherwise assist any Company or Companies for the purpose of fur-
thering any of the objects of this Company.
(22) Lo sell, dispose of, or transfer the business, property, and undertaking of the Company or anv
part thereof for any consideration which the Company may see fit to accept,
io accept Stock or Shares in or the Debentures, Mortgage Debentures, or other Securities of
any other Company in payment or part payment for any services rendered, or for any sale made
to or debt owing from any such Company.
( 24) Fo do all or any of the matters hereby authorised either alone or in conjunction with, or a>
factors, trustees, or agents for any other Companies or persons, or by or through any factor*
trustees, or agents. 6 J
(25) Generally to do all such other things as may appear to be incidental or conducive to the attain-
ment of the above objects or any of them.
4. The Liability of the members is limited.
5. The Capital of the, "Company is £200,000, divided into 180,000 Preference 8 per cent. “A” Shares
°. ,v\ ea u ’ 3I1 ? “B” Shares of £1 each The said “A” Shares shall confer on the holders the
right to be paid out of the profits of each year a dividend for such year at the rate of 8 per cent, per
° n the capital for the time being paid up tfidreon, and in addition thereto the holders will be en-
titled to one-third of any profits disbursed by the Dineetors. The “B” Shareholders will be entitled to re-
ceiye the remaining two-thirds of such profits. -fife-holders of “B”’ Shares shall in respect thereof be
collectively entitled to as many votes as the holders of the “A” Shares, and each of the “B” Shares shall
vearftvr! 1 .if a ßateable proportion of such votes. If at any time after the expiration of three
.veais from the date of the first issue of “The Mirror” the profits of the Company shall be insufficient to pai
tme§to e Si al vo« V „g d 8 P6r CCnt ° n the “ A ” ShareS ’ “ A ” and " B ” Shares thereafter beV
We, the seyeral persons whose names and addresses are subscribed, are desirous of being formed into
of in pursuance of this Memorandum of Association, and we respectively agree to take the number
oi anares in the Capital ot the Company set opposite our respective names.
(23)
Name, Address and Description of Subscribers.
J. fir HADDOCK, Queen Street, Solicitor
H. L. CARROLL, Manager, Collins House
lolT’^iv^<SfrnaJi«t>* 1 o 1 T’^iv^ < Sf rnaJi « t >* Flinders Buildings, Melbourne
THOMAS LORD TAYLOR, Canvasser, Hinders Street, Melbourne
A. H. OL'l NAVAITE. Accountant, Collins Street, Melbourne ..
K. COCKING, Merchant, Melbourne
HENRY STEAD (Journalist), T. & G. Buildings, Svvanston Street, Melbou
No. of Shares taken by
each Subscriber.
One
One
One-
One
One
One
One
..-DafeJhthfi Twenty-sixth dav of August, 1913
and Henr eS Stead SiBnatUreS ° f J ' Maddock ’ **• L - Carroll, M. F. King, A. H. Outhwaito, E. Cockins
..... >.T. L. TAYLOR, Canvasser.
Witness to Signature of T. L. Taylor, ‘
J. li. MADDOCK, Solicitor.
the qualification fixed by the Articles for each Director is to be a holding of at least 500 Shares,
ine Articles wiil provide that the remuneration of the Chairman of Directors shall be £250
, and that the other Directors shall receive £2OO per annum. Anv Director mav receive a<
inerarion tor .. Vr— .. . . , . ■ ....
nuni
remuneration for
per an
, . . „,iditional
n;.... , • . J . n - V ext /a or special services as may be determined by the Directors. The Managing
° , ? , 0 receive, £ooo per annum and a commission of 15 per cent, on the total advertisement re
IlvUo 'a • ' commission is to include commission, but not salaries payable to Canvassers and other agents
employed in connection with the Advertisement revenue.
r !he names, descriptions and addresses of the proposed Directors are:—
**• MADDOCK, of Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor. »
»-U'H A w H ' Q UICK > °f Ludstone Chambers, Collins Street. Melbourne. Stock and Share Broker.
LEEMING, 1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne, Boot lmnorter.
rp , MAIMJAS FARMER KING, of Flinders Street, Melbourne, Journalist, Managing Director.
-l e ™' mr " Uln subscription for shares on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is 75,000 paid
n P dd P er . share, and 2s. 6d. per share shall be payable on allotment.
the Bank of Victoria Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne, is the Vendor of the property to be transferred,
an option to purchase the same being held by J. H. Maddock, on behalf of the A.E.M. Syndicate.
Ihe purchase money payable by the Company to the Bank of Victoria Ltd. is £65',000, £15,000 of
which is payable in cash, and the balance extending over a period of five years.
~ N° amount is payable for e-oodwill, but the sum of £3500 is to be paid by the Company to the
•VK-M- syndicate j n consideration of the Syndicate defraying the preliminary expenses, Le., the whole cost
ot the, formation expenses up to and including the registration of the Company.
No amount has been paid or is payable as commission for subscribing or agreeing to subscribe for any
shares other than ordinary Agents’ brokerage expenses, amounting to 3 per cent.
Ihe estimated amount of preliminary expenses is £3500.
The only material Contracts are:—
, Ihe Contract dated the 23rd July, ipi3, between the several persons who have signed their names
and affixed their seals thereto, viz. : —Herbert Braund, Robert Henry Morlev, May Deehan, Peter F. Frow-
sy’ "• H. Maddock, W. S. Stott, A. B. Mason, B. E, Johnson, E. Cocking, R. 11. Strong, Arthur Uglow-
'"J: Leeming, Joe Taylor, M. F. King, Harold Bickford, Henry Buck, D. C. Fisher, A. H. Outhwaite, and
A. M. Lome, and which has for the purpose of identification beeri subscribed by J. H. Maddock;
f 2) An agreement mentioned in both the Memorandum and Articles of Association, and made between
the A.E.M. Syndicate of the Ist part, M. F. King, of the 2nd part, and The Mirror Ltd., of the 3rd part,
and which has been subscribed for identification by J. H. Maddock, Win. Leeming and E. Cocking, three
of the subscribers to the Memorandum of Association ;
(3) An agreement dated the 26th day of August, made between M. F. King, of the Ist part, T. I-
Taylor, of the 2nd part, and H. Braund, of the 3rd part:
(4) An agreement dated the 26th day of August, made between the A.E.M. Syndicate, of the Ist part.
M- F. King, of the 2nd part, and T. L. Taylor, of the 3rd part;
H hich Contracts may be inspected at the Office of the Company’s Solicitors, Messrs. Maddock, Jamieson
and Louie. Queen Street, Melbourne, for two weeks from the date hereof, between the hours of 11 a.m-
and 4 pin. on anv business day except Saturday.
Jhe first'Auditors of the Company are Messrs. Young and* Outhwaite, of Collins Street, Melbourne.
Directors of the 'Company will receive the remuneration : as above stated under the provisions of the
Articles, also an interest (if any) in the “B” issue of share® as a party to the Agreement of 23rd July •
1913, hereinbefore referred to. and further, as a member of: the A.E.M. Syndicate, a proportion of the
amount provided for preliminary expenses.
The holders of “B’’ shares shall, in respect thereof, be collectively entitled to as many vote- as the
holders of “A” shares, and each of the “B” shares shall confer bn the bolder a rateable proportion of sue
votes. If at any time after flic expiration of three years from the date of the first issue of “The Mirror,
the profits of the Company shall be insufficient to pay the preferential dividend of 8 per cent, on the A
shares, “A” and “B” shares shall thereafter be entitled to equal voting power. . ,
A copy of this Prospectus has been filed for registration with the Registrar-General as required C
Section 87 of the “Companies Act, 1910.”
The Articles of Association may be inspected at the office of the Solicitors.
DATED this 29th day of August. 1913.
Win. Leeming, J. H. Maddock, M. F. King, W. 11. Quick.
THE MIRROR LIMITED
(To be registered under the “Companies Act 1910.”)
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR PREFERENCE 8 PER CENT. “ A ” SHARES.
To the Directors o] The Mirror Limited.
Gentlemen, —
Herewith I hand you the. sum of £.. ''j
being a deposit of 2s. 6d. per share on. . . . . .- Preference 8 per & •
Shares of £1 each in the above Company. 1 request you to allot me that number, and agree to accep ■
*\me or any smaller number that may be a'lotted to me upon the terms of the Company s Prospo
dated the 25tli day of Ay gust. 191.1. and to pay 2s. 6d. per share upon allotment, and ss. per ■ re n i ! i er
months after allotment, and the balance in calls as made by the Directors, and I authorise you to
me as the holder of such shares, and 1 agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Associ
Name (in full)
A ddress
Description
Date
Signature
If the Deposit is paid by cheque please draw the Cheque to Bearer and cross it.


'
b-v
S.
ABBEY
SHOES
assure you an absolute, perfect fit,
with ease and comfort —no foot
burning—and a style that is never
lost as long as your shoes are in
service.
The boot illustrated is a Glac6 Kid
Derby Bal., 22/6. In Special
Quality, Leather Lined, 27/6.
Also in Box Calf, 27/6. And in
Tan Willow Calf, 25/-, 27/6.
Postage extra.
In half sizes and quarter fittings.
Write for a Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Be Ever Youthful
The greatest
enemy to a
youthful
appearance
is
Grey Hair.
This can be
overcome by
using
MARIE Permanent
HAIR STAIN
( Registered) '
The latest and best scientific discovery for
restoring prey or faded hair to its natural
color. Guaranteed not to washj wear or
rub off. Is not affected by sea air or surf-
ing; proof against humidor damp atmos-
pheres. Is not greasy_; never varies in .
shade or goes patchy; is non-injurious; leaves hair so ,
silky and brilliant; aids growth, and is permanent.
PRICE 10/6 ; Postage 6d. extra. Sold in four shades.
Light Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
Free Test given to all who call at my Salon. Money
returned if hair not permanently stained.
Prepared and Sold only hy
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL, Ladies’ Hair Specialist
Only Address: 46 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY
Register all Letters. (Opposite Hotel Australia).
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
Wb SuppLr—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIG
6S$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Brunches in all pari* of the world.
I
a
m
2
10
9
8
BIG
BLN
8
7
5
e
is
Big Ben keeps regular hours
Big Ben is an alarm clock
that’s on the job every minute of
the day. He rings on time, he
runs on time, he stays on time.
He weighs three times as
much as the average alarm
clock —he rings three times
as loud —he lasts three times
as long.
He has a great big dial you
can easily read in the dint morn-
ing light a cheerful, deep-
toned voice that will wake you
on your sleepiest mornings —
large, strong winding keys that
are a pleasure to wind —selec-
tive alarm calls that ring just
when you want and either way
you want, steadily for five min-
utes or intermittently for ten.
He’s punctual, lasting, handsome,
and the best insurance against over-
sleep that’s ever been heard of. His
work doesn’t end with the morning
call,.he’s a good reliable time keeper
for all day use, and he’s good look-
ing enough for any surroundings.
Big Ben is made in La Salle, Illinois,
U.S.A. , by Westclox. His price is 12/6,
postage 1 1- extra. If you cannot find him in
your town, send a money order to the makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt Street,
Sydney. They will have one mailed to
you by the nearest jeweller.
We sell the kind
of presents most
appreciated by
Bride and Bride-
groom—presents of Quality.
We have plenty of items at
small prices, but quality is
there all the time. We pay postage on all
Advertised Specials. Complete Catalogue Free.
9*B
■
&
Special Money-Saving Mail Order
Offers. Money back if not approved.
Half-dozen Choice Fancy Pattern
Tea Spoons and Sugar *y\r
Tongs, best Silver-plated, / Q
in neat case, * I v
Sterli/g Silver-plated Entree
Disl/es, very neat English thread
pat/ern. jS’ew style, with .* ,
side handles to convert A|lj_
into two dishes, * v /
Choice Manicure Sets of Sterling
Silver and superior steel, | O £
in Strong Case, lLrjv
Choice Jam Spoon and Butter
Knife, in Case. Each -
article one piece, Sterling hi.
Silver-plated. Only v I
Very neat Inkstands of cut glass
in best Sterling Silver-
mounted frames,
151-
Handsome New Designs in First
Quality Silver-plated Ser- _
viette Rings, any quan- /In
tity, each "*/ v
flolMaMessell
WATCHMAKERS @ JEWELLERS
98KING ST.
.SYDNEY!
Branch at 421 Pitt 5t
• near Railway) •
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Butxettn size. Price, 21s.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Porangi”: The Massey (M.L.) Government has
taken advantage of the small pox scare to adjourn
from month to month the sittings of the Native
Land Courts and Boards. Meantime, long-suffering
tradesmen (Henare applies the “tailioa” clause to
his debts with enthusiastic persistency), solicitors,
native agents, interpreters, money-lenders and the
Henares themselves are cursing the Government, the
Boards and the sinall-pox with a very large and
red-hot brand of anathema. Henare’s rents (long
overdue) are still in possession of the Board, or they
may probably be helping the good cause in some of
Ihe other departments, where the same opportunity
to handle other people’s money dops not occur.
Meanwhile, the Board has intimated that, by Octo-
ber, it may have got sufficiently over its scare to
do a little of the business it is paid for. Of course
members of the same Board mingle freely with the
brown landlords and ladies at picture shows, races,
pubs, tram-cars, and any Other old place—except
where Henare’s money has to be paid to him.
“8.J.H.0.”: “Dodge’s Geography” (which is used
extensively in Uncle Sam’s Gardamn schools) reveals
some interesting information in regard to this part
of the Sufferin’ Hemisphere. It would seem that the
eastern mountains hereabouts “receive an abundance
of rain on their coast or windward side, but the rest
of the continent, which is a great plain, is so cut off
from moisture by bordering mountains that it is
desert, or nearly desert.” No mention is made of
the fact that this desert grazes something like
92,000,000 sheep and 12,000,000 cattle, and yields
about 95,000,000 bushels of wheat annually! Also:
“The largest city is Melbourne. This city has about
nine-tenths of the commerce of the continent.” Mel-
bourne’s inward shipping is only 5,000,000 tons annu-
ally ; Sydney’s is 7,000,000, and other leading ports ac-
count for about 20,250,000. Finally: “The continent
has few good harbors.” But this blunder is excusable,
as there is no special reason why the compilers of
the book should ever have heard of Portland, Twofold
Bay, Westernport, Port Darwin, and other splendid
harbors which have been sacrificed by far-seeing
statesmen to uphold the great and glorious gospel of
Bloat.
» * * *
It was possible to do 60 years ago what cannot be
done to-day on the Murray. Captain George Johnston,
one of the pioneers of the river traffic, in the early 60’s
of last century took a pretty big trading steamer,
the Albury, right up the stream from the mouth to
Albury. Nowadays, even when the river is in flow,
steamers seldom get further than Echuca. Captain
Ritchie, an old river skipper, told the S.A. Parlia-
ment, when talking about the locking scheme the
other day, that modern river steamers can get along
with 2ft. of water at a pinch, of such light draught
are they built. A 2ft. 6in. river he seemed to
think would be quite sufficient to enable a limited trade
to be done. This shows how little is being asked
for by the advocates of navigation. Yet poor S.A.
can get no satisfaction at all from the Eastern
States, so far as Murray waters are concerned. They
say and say rightly, that irrigation must come
first You can get a substitute for river haulage;
but no artificial water has yet been discovered.
* * * *
How these drapery and clothing businesses last!
Bourke-street, Melbourne, between the G.P.O. and
Swanston-street, contains at least four big “stands ’
that originated in the golden ’so’s, and have grown
with the times. The latest to be rebuilt on palatial
lines is the Leviathan, on the “Block” corner of Swan-
ston-street. This was founded in 1853 by Lewis
Levey and Lewis Sanders, the respective progenitors
(now deceased) of the two present heads of the
firm The old men were full of tales of their early
money-making days. The “cost of living” and the
price of clothing had no reasonable limits, and shop-
keepers slept under their counters at night, with
loaded revolvers at hand, lest their ugliest customers
should return by stealth to burgle the stock. It
was a tradition of the old Leviathan Clothing Store
that a truculent bushman once rode his horse into the
shop and refused to go out until he had been served
with duds. Levey and Sanders had been nearly 30
vears in business when their corner block (originally
sold for £3O) was put up to auction, and they tried
to buv it The late J. B. Watson outbid them with
an offer of £35,000. Thirty years later they bought
it from the Watson estate for £96,000, and then it
was time for them both to die, and so the rebuild-
ing of the premises was left to their sons. The new
Leviathan building is worthy of its site. It has five
storevs and abundant breathing space. The shops and
workrooms are splendidly lighted from the windows
of the two frontages, and the flat roof is the happy
lunching ground of the toilers. And all this has
been done by civilisation, as it were. If there were
no civilisation nobody would want any of the artificial
necessaries that are sold at the Leviathan and other
places in the Bourke-street neighborhood.
A MATTER OF HOUSEHOLD BILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Give me a simple lettuce and a fork,
A cheerful bird to sing upon the bough,
A bright, wet promise underneath a cork,
The happy prospect of a distant cow;
Forbid the German band to make a row,
And happiness might flutter down to me
Out of the branches of the nearest tree.
I should lie all the morning on my back,
And all the afternoon upon my side,
And when the homing wheels came down the track,
And evening spread her mantle grey and wide,
My pride of leisure would not be denied,
For, resting still, I should but turn once more
And settle down the way I was before.
But when the hour of midnight deep should chime,
1 should arise, and grasp my trusty knife,
Feeling its keen, bright edge that knows to rhyme
With the forgotten law of life for life ;
And I should wander forth with slaughter rife
To slay a creditor before the dew
Of morning washed the waking world anew.
Days spent in peace and nights in laying low,
The butcher, baker, grocer and the rest
Would be a tonic for the mortal woe
That works a fever in my toiling breast;
Life would renew for me her ancient zest,
And I should find the forest shades as good
As when Maid Marion robbed with Robbing Hood.
I have exactly five-and-eightpence here,
And, judging by these bills before me laid,
It will be many and many a sunny year
Before my present creditors are paid.
How cheerfully these small accounts would fade
If 'twixt the sunset and the dawning light
I slew one trembling tradesman every night!
George, with his splendid faith in chance and beer,
Declines to worry o'er the grocer’s threat,
The butcher’s menace moves him not to fear,
The milkman’s pleading brings him no regret;
If Friday happens to be wild and wet
The wages that he carries home to me
Vary from four-and-six to twelve-and-three.
I want a holiday, but not from toil;
I long to lie beneath the greenwood shade,
To smell the freshness of the dun-less soil,
And view the sweetness of the bill-less glade;
Much opening doors has made my soul afraid ;
I long to be where I need never speak
The unkept promise of some coin next week.
But most I long for vengeance sharp and dear,
To settle urgent matters with a knife,
And thus emancipate from bondage drear
The reputable sisterhood of wife.
I know the sanctity of human life,
And knowing that, 1 long to drench in gore
The supercilious smiler at the door.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


m and
BRANCH SERVICE,
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless ins ailed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £1 6, £18 & £20.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £13 13s., £15 15s. <te £17 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £4 9 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., Ill William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E. N GLAN D.
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw
ORVIETO . .Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY . . „
ORSOVA . . „
ORONTES .. „
OMRAH . . „
OPHIR . . „
13,000 Regd. Tons.
12,1.30 „
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 „
9,023 „
8,282 „
6,814 „
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteadsSingle Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Minimum
Deposit.
The Bank with
a Record.
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
is not necessarily an old Bank, although this
Institution can poirit to over 40 years’ satisfac-
tory service to the public,
funds now total over £20,000,000, behind
which is the Government guarantee.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
116 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
31 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
The Bank has
no Agencies at
Post Offices.
Head Office :
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
J. H. Davies, Secretary
3 Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
™°i|ank of [jortti Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370’000
HEAD OEEICE - - BRISBANE.
»T. MACKENZIE EEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian [)ank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1009 under the
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ..
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913)
RESERVE FUND
Companies Act.)
.. £2,000,000
. . £1,198,534
. . £1,195,398
£25,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets. Svdnev.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly. Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. H.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
w,,rld - A, P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up 413,418 0 0
Reserve 142,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,609 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected
Directors— Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) : John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS
3 2 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum * 2
years and over, at the rate of 4 j per cent, per annum
HEAD OFFICE - . . . B/ilSISAjv£,
Hi anches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland,
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.’
The Colonial mutual Cite
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liabilityalso
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
619 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,4 45,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
. 28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
Jim Hon. C. .T. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
I'be Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipoing
VI ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
10 COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA AT OTFT?<3
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, ANI) R» RS '
From Melbourne ?, days
later. From Adelaide
6 days later.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-- II £4O
TIL, £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-• II
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/ ‘ '
LOHMANN arid CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
J H ROI Glf BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
'CERAMIC, 18,500 tons, about SEPT. 24
Largest vessel trading to Australia.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, about OGT. 22.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, about NOV. 12.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Fares—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0i:24 3 n
London .. . . 19 0 oto 30 0 C
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Atrents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(*Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).;
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for j
S.A. and W.A. ports).
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 20.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept 24
Leaves Sydney Sept. 27
BOMBALA (4 000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oct. 1
Leaves Sydney Oct. 4
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 20.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 27
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS!
To PAPUA
(Via the Queensland Coast),
A CHARMING COMBINATION
TOUK.
S.S. “MATUNCA,”
SEPTEMBER 22.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Yule Is and,
Samarai, Woodlark Island.
£2O.
d
W .4UL V
THE SOLOMONS!
For UEST and HEALTH.
S.s. “ MINDINI ”
OCTOBER 18.
Brisbane. Tulagi, Aola>
Qizo, Falsi, Quad aicanar,
etc., etc.
£2O.
BURNS, PHILP & CO , Ltd., Head Office, Sydney
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817,
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
#3
DIRECTORS:
£3,253,540
£2,250.000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
.Richard Binnie. Ksq.
The 1-lon. Sir Xorinainl MacLaurin, Kt.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Thejlon. Kdniund W. l-’osberv, C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
M.L.C.
_ AUDITORS: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.. Alfred George MiEon E^o
" ea !f 0^ ce- Ge°rgc St . Sydney London office 29 Threadneedlo St, EC
330 Branches and Agencies m the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London Ao-ont.'
and Correspondents throughout the World. P 1 L,onaon > Agents
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE TllßOl'r mi t ■ rnr
WORLn - J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General' Manager
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up ..£1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,630.000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq... .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Bircli in-Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of [jeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 600,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up • . • . 600.000
Uncalled Capital .. ... .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking- business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up £538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. .. 159 054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 76^500
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Oannrn Street London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and throughout the World.
FpilE Ilest Stories writien by Australian
I- Wri ers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots
Glassed 100 Al at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
VENTURA
SONOMA ..
I Sept. 20 Nov. 15
I Oct. 18 I Dec. 13
Jan. 10
Feb. 7
Mar.
April
l in e 29 hl i)’! I^i 1 tr ' l L t 0 Kng l <nd can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco
RETURN TICKETS GOOD RY P. &0., ORIENT LINE
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co. ’
Tel. 2282 Gjty. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
T HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
larTv e to C — lf>anyS magnificent Steamers trade regu-
TWEED, RICHIIGItp, CLARENCE. BELLINGER,
Rm- , n« tCA r t MA iPv. KAV ANU MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA. b 11AK ’
tv,5 :0 M lb c nat w»T^ i o kets J are issued 'in conjunction with
tke . N - S - WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE’
thence to iweed Heads— steamer to Murwillumbah’
rail to B.vron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers’
there connecting with one of the Company’s up to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa 3 P *
=teanwr NTD £6 I Bs CE fil'~ FirSt a Cla 1 SS raii and sa,o <* on
on a steameE A S ’2s 6d. d daSS rail a " d Steerage
For Guide and ail particulars apply ■
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
KOBLRI A. BELL, Managing Director.
I *
fo/ncs
r AN 1 PB'niN A PATENT?
Jhe quickest wav to ascertain
. .. A , this, WITHOUT EXPENSF is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of draw nS
is not essential ; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA. 1
* , at °" ce inform you whether the idea is
For' further' pFoc’ed[,re°’ neCeSS3ry inStruction *
Persons desirous of obtaining reallv reliable advice
anv il 0 ,-r/r resra r linfr Patent matters arl cordi
a ,[ ’ n '' ted t 0 consult me personally or by letter In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans’ an
S£«r"” on ' ,n '' * "»ly m.>' to
CJHt A * J R C I fJr L,NAN ’ Paten t Attorney,
Citizens Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
_ ■ ■ 'igi
THE AOELAIOESTEAMSHIP CO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and f rons
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Quae island Ports, '
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping’ at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
T-S.S. WANT)ILLA(BOOO
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday
■September 27 and
October 25.
T.S.S WARILDA, (8000
tons), fitted Wi M le S 8
lelesrraphy a»».—
- P fT Ticket. are interchangeable after
the fir.t.Fort 0 f call with other Inter-State Com pan i
on all services subject to conditions, which can bl
on application at the Company’s Office
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab'ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
I nil particulars and pamphlets from
UNION ST HAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Adelaide to London In 34 Days,
VIA SUEZ CANAL.
T. S. S. WILTSHIRE.
12,500 Tons.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
CAPTAIN HAYWARD.
SEPTEMBER 25, 1913.
OCTOBER 2, 1913.
OCTOBER 7. 1913.
OCTOBER 12, 1913.
FARES TO LONDON.
Saloon. Third-Class.
£4O to £45. £l6 16s. to £lB 18s.
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two berth
cabins on the Upper Deck, situated amidships. Wt 11-
lighted and ventilated Cabins, and spacious Decks
third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez route. Prepaid passages arranged.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
Successful vaccination certificates and signed sur-
veillance forms must be presented before passengers
from Brisbane or Sydney can be booked.
I* or illustrated pamphlets and full information,
applv—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney.
BIRT & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ llimaroa,” “Wimmera.”
"Riverina,” “Victoria
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphv.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMON WEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST.
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Me bourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
*T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
*T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”... 7000 tons
*T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
*T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
5.5. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
*Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Winter Tours to Cairns and Fiji are highly recom-
mended for the salubrious climate and beautiful
scenery, and Tourists will find that the A.U.S.N.
Ooy.’s steamers possess all up-to-date arrangements
for convenience and comfort, making travel safe,
easy and pleasant. After first port of call First and
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with all
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. Coy. »
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on applica-
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers. Ask
for a Printed Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITER,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Hotels, &c.
EO
it
Georoe hotel
St. Kilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13 - per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOMIS DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
,T. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gent.’s
Aertex
Cellular
Combinations.
SINGLET and
TRUNK DRAWERS.
White 6/6 Free
The most comfort-
able form of
Underwear, and,
being of Aertex
Cellular, the
most healthy.
Made also in other
plain and fancy
Cottons, Lisle
Threads, Woollens,
and Silks.
When ordering
state height and
size of chest.
AO 5 N s T w - DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
16 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next door to Farmer's.)
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
IMAMS
Your chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
Hill
iintiiPf
lUHiinJ
r m«“i
<iii nliil
wpH
llir
lII' '((
' mil,
*»
i* Ilk'
•illlin. 'lv
■■lllllllllllllllJ
IkILLCOCKRQACHEsI
PROCURABLE FROM:
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
H. H. Groth & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. R. Smith, Townsville, ~
Lomas & Co., Warwick, ~
Jack & Co., Dalby, »»
Bryant & McLean, Roma, ~
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, »
Newbery & Shambler, Gympie,,,
Peak & Co., Toowoomba, »
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, ~
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, ,»
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, ”
And all reliable Storekeepers
throughout Australasia.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Bank of HustraUa
SYDNEY
Branches are open fof the transaction of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
New South Wales Sydney. Federal Capital Canberra. Victoria Melbourne.
Queensland —Brisbane, Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia —Adelaide.
Western Australia— Perth Tasmania— Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills irjgotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad Interest paid on fixed deposits.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street, Sydney; 317 Collins Street, Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange. 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Tetrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street, Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); amt 1900 Agencies
at Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth anu
Papua, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily, and noon Saturday.
All Branch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at an> office within the Commonwealth.
V- Minimum Deposi r . 3% Rato of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor Apgust, 1913 DENISON MILLER, Governor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST, BUREAU, Brisbane.
V T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
RACING MEN
We have never had a complaint
about the celebrated
Fx.sß. CHRONOS
The movements are on the lever
principle.
They have brequet overcoil bal-
ance springs.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and ad-
justed balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are self registering to one-
fifth part of a second.
They are guaranteed for 15 years
and kept in order, breakages
excepted, for 2 years.
They are a marvel of value.
B
Gent’s Heavy 18ct.
GOLD Jr-Hunting
Fx. & R.
CHRONOGRAPH,
£2l.
In Solid Silver
Case, £lO/15/-
Plain Figures
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 &25 Hunter Street.
LET US TALK OF EMPIRE!
The SILENT EMPIRE BIOSCOPE is UNBEATABLE.
This statement is easily borne out by the
numerous delighted reports we receive from users.
Being British made with all-Steel Sprockets,
possessing Maltese Cross in Oil Bath, improved
gate and masking device, the Empire is the
Bioscope of To-day.
Showmen !
Our faith in our Machine is so strong that we
will instal a model in 3 r our show, and make a
comparison with the machine you are at present
using, and we ill stand or fall by the result.
'
U!
\A
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
We issue a Special Booklet dealing with these Machines. SEND FOR ONE.
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE KELVIN GENERATING SETS.
“EVERYBODY IS USING THEM.”
JERDANS LTD.,
3,93 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A SATISFIED USER OF ECKERSLEY’S
AERATED WATER MACHINES
s
WRITES :
Mumhil, 18th August, 1918.
RAILWAY HOTEL.
J. Forrest,
Prop.
“I am more than satisfied with my Aerated
Water Machine, purchased from you some
time ago, and the Waters which it produces
are excellent. The cost of production is only
a trifle. , . , ,'
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) JACK FORREST
No Hotelkeeper or Vendor of Aerated
Beverages can afford to be without an
Eckersley Aerated Water Machine or
Soda Fountain. We are the only manu-
facturers of these superb Machines, and
in purchasing from us, middlemen’s
profits are eliminated.
ECKERSLEV’S,
Canada Building, 822 George Street, SYDNEY.
Clarendon Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
the lone hand
for GOOD STORIES 8 BRIGHT ARTICLES.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
The “Dudley” Accordeon
fen
Dudley Accordeon, No. 3.
lOjin. x sjin., Black polished Case 3 turned
Wooden Stops, 3 rows Bell Metal Reeds, 10-
fold, triple divided Bellows, 10 Bone Keys, 2
Nickel Basses, Leather handles. Post free, 25/-
THE
“Rozella” Mouth Organ
OQQ .O O Q. <SE.. ■■& **
THE QUEEN OF MOUTH ORGANS.
Plates of the finest non-corrosive alloy.
Reeds of Bell Metal, fitted and tuned by a
new process, ensuring accuracy of tune and a
rich, sweet tone.
Prices, Solo Model, 20 Reeds, 1/-; Solo
Model, 20 Reeds, Nickel Mouthpiece, 1/3;
Solo Model, 20 Reeds, Nickel Mouthpiece and
Metal Case, 1/6; Concert Model, 20 Reeds,
Nickel Mouthpiece and Metal Case, 2/-; Pro-
fessional Model, 40 Reeds, Nickel Mouthpiece
and Metal Case, 3/-.
SEND TO-DAY.
Post Free to any address in the Commonwealth.
A. P. SYKES,
272 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy -about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and com tort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them* they
rest the ear nerves by taking; the strain off them—-
the strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What
a relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. 1' or the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts ot the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds. „,
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration ol
one as it lies in the ear. \ou will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural
drum Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt
the ear. It fits the ori-
fice of the ear with pre-
cision and comfort. Ihe
division that runs across
the mouth is to allow the
removal and insertion of
the Ear-Drum, and to
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lo>t
the he a r ing-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to day. But
if you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. \Ve have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without
the least danger. -v •
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, ancj; also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you jnav pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order Form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as yon
can. •
<?<?
>=>l?
fV
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit ...containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price l/- and 2/fi.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


iffie (Pnotoawea
—nofnkatfe
O *ic is fountain pei
M .hat never leaks. The Onoto is the pen
W f° r simplicity, durability, and conveni-
■ *nce. It has no complicated mechanism
■ to go wrong at the critical moment; it
l requires no filler, no apparatus whatso
| ever. It fills itself in a flash from any
inkpot without any mess. It is like a
k.yless watch, and needs even less atten-
tion. The Onoto is British made. It
is designed to last a lifetime; and is
guaranteed by its makers.
ONOTO
The Self filling
Safety f ountain
Pen
Price ia/* and upwards, of all Sta-
tioners, Jewellers, and Stores
Booklet about the On to Pen free
on application to 'J'hos. De La
Rue & Co., *l5, Bunhill Row,
L London, E.C., or the Austra-
lasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst .
50 York Street, Sydn'
[J
A MARTYR FOR YEARS.
“For years I was a martyr to liver complaint,”
writes Mrs. Corlett, 112 Clyde Street, Ballarat
(Vic.). “I would get dreadful sick headaches and be
unable to eat. I consulted a doctor, but he was un-
able to do me any good. Eventually I tried Cham-
berlain’s Tablets, and derived such benefit from them
that my health is now perfect.”*
DIABETES.
This highly dangerous disease will in its earlier
stages be remedied by prompt treatment with Dr.
Sheldon s Gin Pills. Take them in time. Price.
Is. 6d. and 2s. fid. Obtainable everywhere.*
This Smart
PANAMA
17 16
Posted to Your Door.
This is a thoroughly bleached,
evenly plaited and carefully made
Panama, light, cool and shapely,
and practically unbreakable; will
give good, honest wear, and retain
its goodness to the end. In every
width of brim from 2}, 2i to ~j
inches.
Price, Post Free, 17/6.
Better Qualities. 21 /-, 27/6,
32/6 to 42/-
Have you a copy of our General
Catalogue? We’ll send you one
Post Free.
FINNEY’S,
The Big Block, BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
The formation of the new “Country
Party” in the Assembly leaves Premier Den-
ham as the head of onlv the third party, in
point of numbers, in that body. Rankin, of
the Burrum, has been elected chairman of
the new faction. The Fourth Party is
bossed by Murphy, of Croydon, who is his
own leader, follower, whip, caucus, policy-
moulder and knock-about, and keeps bis fol-
lowing in a state of truly admirable dis-
cipline.
Said Labor-Leader Ryan, supporting the
toast of “The Visitors” at the British Par-
liamentary Party function : “If the British
investor was not willing to renew our loans,
the Queensland Parliament would seriously
think about paving them off.” You have
to remember that Queensland has never bad
the. spirit to start an effective sinking-fund,
while its indebtedness swells by over two
millions per annum, to appreciate the
cynical humor of the remark.
.With the passing of T. B. Cribb, of Ips-
wich, the fourth of Philp’s Ministry of 1002
left this sphere, the others being Leahy,
O’Connell and Dalrymple. As a politician,
poor Cribb was handicapped by almost
every possible disqualification. He was
slow of speech, suffered from some vocal
impediment, and was extremely deaf into
the bargain. No hostile interjection conse-
quently ever upset his equanimity, and his
native gentleness prevented him from ever
insulting even an enemy. A kindly, honest
soul was T. B. Cribb; but what he was
doing in politics was a marvel to everybody
who understood him as well as to the bivger
crowd who heard him but couldn’t under-
stand him.
A speaker of much tonnage at the Great
Corroboree of Bishops in Brisbane remarked
cheerfully that “the Church in the Old Land
led the way to a United Kingdom; the
Church in Australia led the way to a Fede-
rated Australia!” Likewise the Church
( Anglican) dug out Sydney Harbor, and
the Church (Primitive Methodist) intro-
duced the orickly pear. The Church (Wes-
levan) will polish brass beautifully, and the
Church (Presbyterian) built the Tran«con-
tinental Railway. The Church (Cala-
thumpian) will also mend broken crockery.
But what if it didn’t do all these things?
If the Church attends to its own job well,
the Bishop needn’t trouble to claim other
marvellous performances for it. Nobody
really expects it to do outside business, any
more than one expects surgery to make un-
sinkable ships or astronomy to invent a
street tram that won’t make a racket.
The passing out of Peter Macpherson,
M.L.C., removes almost the oldest Gent. One
in practice in Queensland. Born in 1841. at
Arbroath, Scotland, he reached Sydney in
’55, and there served his apnrenticeship in
the pursuit of Costs; but within a few
months of his admission he hung out his
shingle in Brisbane. That was in ’65, and
in Brisbane he remained until the end-
something over 48 years. Twenty years ago
there was little legal work worth having
that Macpherson’s firm did not have a finger
in. But, though he always maintained a
substantial practice, in later years he lost
his long lead. Since ’Bl he has been in the
Bananaland House of Fossils, and for the
last six years was Chairman of Committees.
He was a good specimen of the most respect-
able type of lawyer, and leaves no loud, or
even audible, enemies to rejoice in his de-
parture.
TOTALLY LNADEQUATE.
SMUDKINS : “And do you think for one moment, my dear friend, that that horrib! stuff
is going to quench your thirst?”
SAM THE SOAK : “ Wot! This ere one glass! The Lord forbid !”
The Denham Government’s horizon is get-
ting still cloudier. The farmers’ reps, have
now been told by the conference of their
Association that they must not cling to Digby
or anyone else- —they must go entirely on
their own at the next election. It was
hoped by the Government that they could
be snared, and several farmers’ reps, in the
House badly wanted to be snared; but the
cockies are emphatic in their instructions.
They probably won’t be able to make much
of a third party in the next Parliament;
but they will spoil a lot of the prospects of
the Produce Agency Government.
Sunlight is death to germs ; and the germ
which breeds sectarianism finds the climate
of Northern Australia too much for it. In-
stead of having half a dozen one-horse bun
struggles this year, Croydon launched out
with a United Children’s Picnic. The com-
mittee had a Roman priest as chairman, a
Methodist minister as vice-chairman, an
Anglican rector as secretary, a Salv’army
captain and a second Roman cleric as other
members. Every kiddy attending either a
State or a Sunday school in the district got a
ticket for a free train-ride and admission to
the picnic, and 285 rolled up. The picnic
was such a huge success that a number of
toys and a cash balance of several pounds
remained in hand, and the Methodist parson
and a Roman priest were appointed to hold
the balance in trust for a similar entertain-
ment later on.
“W.L.8.”: Yet another friendly agree-
ment ; and this time the Bananalander will
get ft fair in the neck. The suppliers of
this State’s beer have come to a working
arrangement, whereby the wholesale price
of ale and stout will be “regulated.” Occu-
piers of brewery houses are ’twixt the devil
and the ocean. If they raise the price re-
tail. .they’ll lose custom, and that means
handing over the keys. If they don’t raise
the retail price, there’s bound to be some
scratching to make ends meet, and there
they are again. The yarn is that increased
labor and other costs have compelled the
cos. to take action; still I don’t know any
Queensland brewery that wasn’t making
very fair profits before this action was
taken.
Bread.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brisbane, Thursday.—A deputation from the
Operative Bakers’ Union waited on the Minister for
Works to-day to ask his assistance in bringing about
the abolition of the night baking of bread.
Mr. Barnes, in reply, said he would like to have
the views of the masters, and he would then consider
the matter. He could not hold out the hope of legis-
lation this session. —Daily paper.
When all the trams have gone to bed
And cold roofs gleam beneath the moon,
I smell to-morrow’s baking bread.
And wish that breakfast would break
soon.
It is a sweet and hungry scent
That one they make with fire and dough ;
It hangs like some night sacrament
Above the sleening roofs and low.
The hidden baker at his toil
May sweat and curse. I only smell
The lovely whiffs of food that coil
About the night, and wish him well.
The hot, delicious scent of dough
That sweetly haunts the silent street
Cheers me immensely when I go
Towards home and bed on weary feet'.
It is a promise of new life.
And cheer and plenty for next day.
(Can you not see the keen-edged knife
Slicing the snowy food away?)
It. is a sign that Life survives,
When all the world seems dark and dead,
And Silence holds in thrall the hives
Where small bees earn this fragrant
bread.
Yet Operative Bakers would
From Night subtract the scent of dough
That cheers wayfarers, bad and good—
Would cease to make the ovens glow.
The poetry of Life goes out
Before the unions’ dull demands.
When there’s no smell of bread about .
And no man by an oven stands.
No cheer athwart the night will blow.
And hearts will be like half-baked dough.
QUEENSLAND.
HALF-A-LOAF.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 13. 1913.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
The British Parliamentarians and the
accumulated Bishops have been the chief
dissipations of the week. Some of the Brit-
ish people moved on to Bundaberg, some to
the Downs, and the remainder stayed in the
city and, on Monday were turned loose
upon the University lawns. There they
were induced to graze upon light refresh-
ments. Amongst the herd were D. R. Hall,
Minister for Justice in N.S.W., and Mrs.
Flail (who certainly gave points to the Bull
ladies in the matter of frocking).
On Tuesday the Bishops, accompanied by
all the domesticated curates, and trailed up
by. some prime church stuff, were rounded
up on Government House Gardens, which
dressed themselves in great style for the
occasion.
On Monday evening the Premier and
Premieress gave a party to the British poli-
ticians and their wives. Lady Emmott was
the best-dressed woman of the party. She
wore some sort of a white gown, with hand-
painted adjuncts on the skirt. (Keep these
details secret, or some of our cold-blooded
suburban dames will copy the expensive
model.)
_ The Bishop of Melanesia was to have
given an At Home this afternoon on the
stout little vessel in which he travels round
the Islands. But the Bishop was busy
fighting an old enemy (malaria), so the
guests wandered round on their solitude,
and made friends with the fuzzv-headed
crew.
A perfect orgie of garden fetes broke out
this afternoon. H. D. Maerossan, with the
aid of his wife and infant, opened one at
Wilston. Mrs. Digby Denham uncorked
another at Corinda. Archbishop Duhig
was busy with yet a third at Red Hill. All
this happened on top of a particularly viru-
lent Hospital Tag . Day. Every suburban
station was infested with coin-cadging fe-
males, and each tram terminus was swarm-
ing with (hem. Bilanderson’s “Grafters”
were busy in three motor-cars, and, stopping
at all hostels, penetrated profitablv even into
the furthermost recesses of the bar, where
the she collector could never hope to tread
in these days of Chadstigginspeckbandsniff-
heepuriah.
On Wednesday night the Exhibition looked
like a parsons’ refuge home. The Chief
and Lady Macgregor sat on the platform,
and the aide-de-camn’s uniform, and a red
nightgown, thoughtfully worn by St. Clair
Donaldson to distinguish him from the visit-
ing Bishops, were grateful spots of color.
After our Archbishop bad delivered himself
of a long address the audience was revived
with hot tea. and comforted with acquiescent
buns, administered in the Museum gardens
by various devoted ladies.
The Bishop of Itiverina opened the
Queensland Art Society’s Exhibition on
Thursday afternoon. Tlis Nibs of Riv-
erina delivered several upper cuts to
the cubist and post imnressionist puzzle
drawings that one sees about nowadays, so
P e may have dope art a good turn. Now.
if Norman Lindsay can be persuaded to
address a representative fathering of clergy
on. the modern choir erirl as an art model
we 11 call the deal square.
Two weddings happened this week w,
Markwell was the willing sacrifie K ‘ 6911
Wednesday, when she changed ho* e 0,1
Heaslop, at St. Andrew’s Church^ t 0
House of Mysticism was bea nf 'i J The
rated, Mrs. E. ,T. Holmes /n „ ] ?• dec °-
the bride’s mother, being ’ resn r ?nsin nend of
tor Edna was bridesSd. » Si,,
and white, and solicitor R o y Gill an!? Plnk
a very self-possessed bridegroom
the way, has quite enough money to sun by
himself with. ' t 0 su PPort
Next day Gladys Markwell « „ .
married Joseph Drake, an America Q ? S^;
?h ain K tS .;r an d.; here are man y Of them U A
the bridesmaids and most of the guesD w AII
white, and the effect, though ,! l Wnre
was. rather chilly. The four maids Z?'
Louie Earwaker, Cherie Plant Fin, P
Mactaggart, and one of Robert 1 pi,"?
daughters. They are all Mp„l ar and X'
first two are counted among our nM I- e
Eirls. So are the other two I>rettlest
Another quiet little wedding
this morning, when a son of gJX
M.L.A., was married to Miss Gladvs p'lk- n '
son. of Sandgate. ys Robln '
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Two months ago Denham called three
fat and elderly citizens to the Leg. Council
~ I om-pom” Forrest; Collins, of Tamm,,
kum; T. B. Cribb, of the big and weaUhv
Ipswich trading firm of Cribb and Foote
and Philp’s Treasurer in the early ’9o's
Within a week or two Collins was dead''
now Ciibb lias gone, and only Forrest re
mains This , sudden jerking of tired od
men into politics ought to be stopped.
“Caber”: Destroyed by fire the other dav
the oldest building on the Darling Downs-
the bachelors’ quarters at Cecil Plains. It
must have been in the latter ’4o’s when the
place was built, as the slabs were loop-holed
for musket practice on the aggressive
aboriginal, and history lias it that the
Darling Downs abo. from 1850 onwards was
as harmless as a dyspeptic rabbit. When
Captain Henry Bmart8 mart Russell took up Cecil
I lains in 1840, the niggers were trouble-
some, and when he built himself the first
mansion it seemed a good plan to prepare
tor a siege.
In the matter of a big co. and an attempt
to dodge the stamp tax:—
The crowd which has taken Mount Morgan in hand
no doubt had the French market in its eye when it
promoted a Bill the other day to amend the law-
relating to stamp duty on scrip transfers. The idea
was that Mount Morgan (or any other co.), might
issue warrants in place of scrip, paying stamp dutv
an amount equal to three times the face value of
the share, the warrant being thereafter transferable
without paying any tax at all. In England the
stamp-tax may be compounded in this way, and
when it is intended to unload on the poor Frenchman
it invariably is compounded. For the Frenchman
doesnt like scrip. If he holds scrip and sells it,
tne paper has to be sent to London for transfer,
and that means expense and delay in payment. A
share or ‘bearer warrant” carries 'numbered coupons;
when a dividend is declared, the proper coupon is
torn off and sent to the office, and back comes the
money. Also if the holder wants to raise a loan,
the warrant doesn’t have to be transferred: the man
who holds it is the man who owns it. Of 150,000
Mount Elliott shares it is said that no less than
125,000 have been thus converted into warrants —the
preliminary to the unloading of that stock on to the
Frenchmen. The cost in England of converting a
share into a warrant, and thus compounding the
stamp-tax for all time, has for years been reckoned
absurdly small; it amounts to only Is. 6d. a share
in the case of, say, the Mount Elliott or Cobar, and
would be about is. in the case of Mount Morgan.
But under the Queensland Bill it would have been
smaller still. The stamp-tax in the Northern State
i 3 ss. per cent., and the Bill proposed that the co.
should pay three times that much, calculated on the
face value of the share ( £1), and be done with it.
On 100 shares the charge would therefore be 155.,
while in England it would be somewhere about £5.
The Mount Morgan office may be shifted to London,
as. was threatened if the Bill didn’t pass; but the co.
will probably be mighty sorry for it afterwards.


tj
p
c r 03
iTrr,
rj>
HP
Kii
' ■
p 5 • <
ft
L
WATS OHS
fine
ery
jucroß?
i
A
8u SH Et>
1 8(5
OF SCOT
\m
"AGE WITH HONOUR.”
WITS ON S
N ? iO


Anaemia
This
mark
is on
the cure.
Anaemic girls, weak chil-
dren and jaded mothers
get new life and vigour by
taking SCOTT’S Emul-
sion. Medicine and food, it
fortifies the blood, pro-
motes appetite, and brings
back the roses and the joy
of health. But be sure to
get SCOTT’S —no other
has the approval of the
world’s doctors.
scorns
Emulsion
has a 37 years’ record
in the curing of illness
and disease. Insist on
SCOTT’S and start to-day.
ANTINEURASTHIN
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD TABLETS are the
scientific result of the research work of the world’s
greatest authorities and specialists. They build up
the nervous system by a process of natural nutrition,
and the benefit gained is lasting and permanent.
Antineurasthin as a NERVE FOOD gives wonder-
ful results in physical and mental overstrain and, ex-
haustion, and on account of its beneficial effect upon
THE BLOOD is invaluable in cases of Anaemia, Rheu-
matism, etc. Antineurasthin shows remarkable
effect upon THE PROCESS OF NUTRITION, and
marked and immediate benefit in complaints arising
from weak digestion, dyspepsia and malnutrition.
A FREE TRIAL
vvjlj be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to pay post-
age by the wholesale distributor, H. A. Goddard, No.
3 Australasia Chambers, 406-414 Queen Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney ; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen
Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No. 810.*
An Excellent Field Glass
THE KEW
is a very high-grade
English - made Field
Glass of excellent
power, splendid defini-
tion, large field, achro-
matic lenses, solid one-
piece aluminium body,
Morocco Leather cov-
ered. KEW certificate
with each glass.
Solid Leather Case, X* £*
Post Free,
A. P. GREENFIELD ff CO. LTD.,
OPTICIANS,
189-191 George Street, Brisbane, Q.
“AUSTRALIANS YET.”
By
CRANT HERVEY.
***
■r
Verses of Vim for Full-sized
Men and Real Australian
Women !
“Grant Hervey, the
ardent Republican leader
and most characteristic
of Australian poets, voices
the aspirations of a
strenuous democrat in a
wav that would have de-
lighted the heart of old
Walt Whitman.” —London
Book Monthly.
Get These Ballads of a
Bigr Australian !
Autographed, with National 1 latform and
Literature of the Young-Australia Party, 4/6
post free, U.S.A. $1.25. From
THF YOUNG-AUSTRALIA BOOK STORE,
Box 81 P. 0.. Casterton, Victor a. Australia
Established 1847. _
Allc©cß!s
Plasters
Eagle Mark.
The World!s Greatest
External Remedy.
tr
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs
Allcock's Masters act as a preventive
as well as a curative.
Preventcoldsbecomingdeep seated
Rheumatism in Shoulder
Relieved by using Allcock’s Plasters
Athletes use them for
Stiffness or Soreness of muscles.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A Brandreths Pill
For Constipation. Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Kte,
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING Co., Birkenhead.
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
THE
FIRST TUBE
of Pebeco you use will clearly demonstrate its merits to the
full._ The taste is totally different from that of any other
dentifrice; not fiat, but <iuite distinctive and agreeable, a
taste remarkably clean, refreshing and purifying, a taste
which, once accustomed to, you will not willingly miss.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Tree
for three penny stamps, on application to the Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street,
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Sydney
tiunyadi Janos
For such troubles as Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion,
Torpid Liver, Hemorrhoids and kindred ills, Hunyadi Janos
is of great value. It promptly and thoroughly cleanses
the system of all effete matter if taken regnlarly in doses of a
wine-glassful each morning before breakfast. Its free action
upon the intestines has the happy effect of giving relief in an
almost instantaneous way.
Purchase a bottle of Hunyadi Janos to-day. All chemists sell it.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water.
8-Hour Demonstration, Sports 8 Art Union
MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1913.
Drawn November 1, 1913 (under the sanction of the Attorney-General).
3^*
ou
Might
Win
This
P'TC A FIRST PRIZE:
X 1 v V Diamond Tiara.
2nd Prize, value £4OO
3rd Prize, value £250
and 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The first prize last year was won by Mr. J. W. Walker, Bi
fast Creek, Cowra, N.S.W., /"IMP CHI I I lN(l.
for the modest outlay of V/iNEr 1
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1913.
LEST YOU FORGET—SEND TO-DAY.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this papei on
November 6. . i; s t
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, j:
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from g
in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
LOOK A MAN!
Your appearance counts for a lot, both in business and social life. « ' ou
look a mere boy, you’ll not command the respect of your fellows.
You can grow a moustache—one that will make you look a strong, character
ful man—by using
CAPILLARINE
at night before retiring. Will soon make the hair grow long and strong-
Been in use for 30 years and never failed yet.
D„- Irt/fi I-- d 4 U The C. &A. Moustache Trainer, worn at nig .
PriCC 10 6 Jar, Post Free. shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, 1 05
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 Georgre
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
iarily submitted ; and no .VS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
LXXX: Well, if we do call Maoriland
the Great Loan Land, you can’t accuse The Bulle-
tin of “hiding the facts” about Australian indebted-
ness and the drift to leeward. We’ve had a dozen
articles on the subject this year—on February 20,
April 10, and June 12, to begin with. .. .It.D.A.:
Too ragged.... Elsie: “The Lucky Man” too weak;
try again.... J. McC.: Unable to oblige you
Breid Dhu: Afraid you haven’t got a h0pe....8el
lerive: A bracketed number:—
A DOMESTIC PET.
Our tabby cat won’t tackle a rat
As he used in a manner bold
He'll coil on a chair before the fires flare
Poor tabby is growing old
our tabby cat like our neighbor’s dog pat
Is the wreck of a warrior bold
He’s weary and slim, his eyes are dim,
Poor tabby is growing old.
STRING.
Only string a piece of string
And by jove ’tis very tough,
A ’handy thing is a piece of string
To tie a meat passel up.
.... Barabbas: Merely words, and we’ve already got
two heavyweight dictionaries. ... H.D.A.: A grove of
words. .. .W.8.L.: Amateurish stuff, and you write
on both sides of the paper. . . .Nota B.: If gardening
is your job, stick to it....W.E.: Your sentiments
are good, but your verse is too crude, and your
language too torrid... .F.H.: It isn’t worthy of the
gir1....M.8. (Q.) : Very old theme, and you don’t
attack it with freshness or force. .. .E.J.G.: Wrong
sort of story.... Gwen C. F.: Traces of humor, but
sketch too slight and labored.... D.C.: River poem
flowed out. . . .8.N.F.: Three fathoms below print
level. .. IW.H.H.: Ugly yarn told without 5ki11....
H.J.: “Vision” isn’t sufficiently alluring.. . .Bert
R. (V.) : Not worth powder, and your powder is
damp, anyh0w....G.W.8.: Sorry unsuitable......
H.H.: Feeble attempt. .. .M.M.: You can’t hop in
verse. .. .John M.: A dull type of poem, and you
don’t to it well W.L.D.: “To the North! To the
North!” Not at all! To the basket! E.M.C.
(Launceston) : The verses are younger than the sen-
timents. .. .J.K.W.: It was a fine thing of its kind
and did not deserve a kick. .. . J.H.M.: We hear you
coo-ee, but can’t let down the sliprails. ... Eastern:
Scrambling production... .R.N.C.: No Utter:
It staggers along and collapses softly... .J. 8.: This
same question was raised some time ago, and the
re Ply given then was that the Editor was some kind
of a Presbyterian and the Associate or Joint Editor
some kind of a Congregationalist. The chief Sub-
Editor, if you must know, is something between an
Anglican and an inveterate bridge-player. Inci-
dentally, you are something in the way of a nuisance
and an ass.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Burnie J.: Joke old and unpleasant. It used to
be “spitting.” You haven’t brightened things up
by changing it to “scratching.”.... Flynn: Small
boy holding his lower waistcoat after his first cigar
is hereby cast out. .. . H.T.P.: Two unwholesome-
looking characters, one of whom is making a de-
cayed observation to the other. .. .Art: For age that
sore toe joke is about the dead end, and it was
always objectionable. Incidentally you label it
“original.” So it was once, but once isn’t often....
L.A.: The joke isn’t so utterly horrible as to call
for unlimited condemnation or boundless cursing or
anything of that sort, but you only draw two per-
fectly ordinary figures, and one figure is mentioning
the matter to the other. ...F.G. (M.L.) : The gag is
old, and the drawing isn’t so good that we want to
sit down and search terribly for something to fit it.
•. . .Stan O’R.: Thin, scratchy line, and thin, scratchy
jest. . . .Woodicus: If you are not quite certain where
to put your lines, the less lines you use the better.
....F.G.: It is never too late to begin learning,, if
you are prepared to study hard enough. Some of it is
merely rough, and some of it is dreadful.. .E.W.M.:
Too young for anything but Aunt Mary’s column.
“0.K.” : After all. a Gov.-General is a gen-
tleman of no importance to one’s memory.
Recently, owing to the cricketing achieve-
ments of his son—two or three Melbourne
journals referred to Lord Tennyson as a
former Gov.-General of Australia. Was
lie? I happen to remember that he was a
Governor of S.A. long ago, but for the life
of me I couldn’t swear to him as an ex.-
G.-G. or otherwise, although Federation is
only 13 years old and I’ve lived in Aus-
tralia all the time.
Richard Hardy, of Nabiac (N.S.AV.),
sticks to it that he will be 110 years old in
November next. Ilis father was ship’s
carpenter on Nelson’s Victory at Trafalgar ;
and Captain Hardy, who caught the
one-eyed admiral as he fell, was his
uncle —unless the old man’s yarns are
utterly obfuscated. It was of this
Captain Hardy that another ancient
mariner related a tale. Nelson fell into his
arms saying, “Hardy. I am wownded.” “Not
morshally, my lord, I hope,” said Hardy.
“Yes, morshailv. in the stummick,” said the
hero. “Kiss me, Hardy.” “I cannot, my
lord,” said Hardy; “I have been eating
onions.” * v
A. T. Saunders, one of Adelaide’s most
persistent letter-writers, lias been digging up
some facts about the brief S. Australian
career of “Bully” Hayes, the late Louis
Becke’s old buccaneering boss. Hayes, who
lobbed into Port Adelaide in a vessel that
was seized and sold from under his feet, was
married in a suburban tabernacle there to a
Mrs. Amelia Littleton, who kept a small
shop in Queenstown, which is just outside
the port. He paid the parson £lO and a
roll of grass-cloth. A few months later a
Portuguese ship, the Estrella, was seized by
Hayes’s agent for a bottomry bond, and
once more the buccaneer had a command.
That was in December, 1857. Immediately
Hayes cut another dash; he got the
Estrella’s gig manned by a crew “consisting
of the elite of Pt. Adelaide,” and won the
Ladies’ Purse at the New Year’s Day
regatta—the purse itself made, by the way,
by Governor Macdonnell’s wife. The “elite
of Pt. Adelaide” won. Of the crew only one
member is now alive —C. H. T. Connor,
in these latter days manager of the Adelaide
Milling Co. “Handsome” Hayes’s subse-
quent career in S. Aus. was brief but rapid ;
he rushed into insolvency, and then
ousl.v flitted before the Court had time to
ask him any questions.


Australian
Established lS4b.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Princiols.
has money to lend
On Seeurity or Freehold or Leasehol i
city or Suburban Prooerties. or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and ' 7+
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock ~ ri^ ultural Lands or on the Security
tralian Slates or New Zealand ."gK~ AT LnwcsT a^m n qills of ar,y ° f the Aus-
Our new Mortsrasre Deed contains a condition »n n » ,f ST CURREIV,T RATES OF INTEREST,
up to 20 per cent, of the ioan during am- vear whh Borrowers the privilege of renavinsr
lurkctors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C.. Chi.iin.R„ • t „ not ’? eor Payment of any fine.
Hon. Jaints Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J Black Mir- ti 6T ’ VValke '- Denutv-Chairman : The
Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MaoCormiok, M. 0. General ' I,J Hon - F. F- Wmcncombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
HEAD OFFICE :87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ~ er and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F. F.A. FS S.
H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale.
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
full list of
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS.
astounding value.
iilining over wii>> money-saving possibilities.
Fatroiiised by Royalty and the Nobility.
Bankers:
London County & Westminster Bank
Camberwell Branch, London.
w E X?o‘ml !'■ I ST"'T
own convenience, in your own home and if von are nnt rf ar , llc f s " ,ay ctloose at your
high quality and exceptional value return t em m de , - h f ea an(i fullv satished with the
immediately return your deposit ’ e ‘ U t 0 US w,,h,u slx moluhs and we will
May we solicit a trial order P Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS.-Any Article Sent on Approval, Carriage
Free, on rece.pt of rem.ttance. Cash refunded in full for goods
not a nnroved and returned us within six months.
Read what “The Christian Age” says—
"DAVIS A Co., of ‘26 Denmark Hill, liave gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices. We gather from
their latest bargain List that great savings can he
effected by purchasing a second hand article of
jewellery which has just had enough wear t:> test
Its value at about one-third the original cost price.
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
the finest m dters in the world.”
Read what “Great Thoughts” says—
voi cann . otl ex .i«t much doubt as to the intrinsic
alue of any advertised article when such advertisers
aie willing to send the goods advertised on the
T,lis astern is adopted bv
Jlessis. JJAVIS <b Co., and is a singular proof that
JiSiiT 8 ' f DA Y IS & Co * lmve every belief in their
a )i ity to please their customers and prove the
genuine nature of their announcements.”
12/6
U/fi Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
/U £3/t/- Military Binocular (by Lefaier),
as supplied to officers in the Army and Navy
10 achromatic lenses ; 50 miles range ; shows
bullet mark at 1,000-yds.: saddler made case ;
great bargain; sacrifice, 14/6.
Q 1 j m Powerful £4/4/- Binocular Field
/mil Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10 lens
magnification power, brilliant definition, er
60 miles range, great depth of focus, large
held of view; adjusted to the hia'-e-r degree
of scientific accuracy; in 'add' . made sling
case; tremendous bargain; sacrifice, £l/1/-
07 /C Powerful £B/8/- Double Draw Bino-
UI / Q culars, 12 lens magnification power
(by Lumiere), as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
Prince of Greece; most powerful glass made;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick focus, brilliant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power ; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£l/17/6
Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Lever Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years’ warranty; absolutely perfect timekeei er;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached ; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
-I n/C Lady’s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
\JLIO Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., London); exact timekeeper: 10
years’ warranty; also 1 ng Watch Guard, elegant
design, same quali y; together, sacrifice, 12/6.
1 IC (Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
Ils/O Rich, dark sable brown Fur, 8-ft.
long; Granville Stole, deep shaped collar,
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and heads; large
Granny Muff matching; together, 15/6.
00 /if? (Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
jZjL/Q Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with head and tails at
back and on shoulders : also large animal Muff,
with heads and tails hanging: in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £l/2/6.
"I O/C Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
I 4/0 18-ct. Gold (stamped) tilled, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrifice, 12/6.
1Q f? La< *y’ s £4/4/- 18-ct. Solid Gold, hall-
I 0 0 marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doublet Half-hoop Ring, claw setting, large
faultless stones; sacrifice, 18/6.
7fl / Lady’s £l3/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
IU/ and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness and three beautiful sapphires of
richest quality: sacrifice, £3/10/-
Of? (C Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
ZO/D Tweed Jacket Suit (bv Stroud,
High-class Tailor) ; splendid quality, latest
w est End cut and finish, never worn : breast
39-in., waist 36-in., length 52A-in.; £l/6/6.
Oft /ft Judy’s £5/5/- Solid Gold English,
hall-marked. Keyless Watch, highly
finished lewelled movement, exact timekeeper
richly engraved; 12 years’ warranty; £l/6/6.
7ft/- Magnificent Gent’s £l3/13/- Single
lU' Stone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
fine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
OQ/fi Lady’s £6/5/- Solid Gold long Watch
L* %J/ Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed, in faultless
and new condition ; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
RR/_ Gent’s magnificent £ll/11/- Solid
du/ Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
l.ever, Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Russell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month ; 20 years' warranty ; 6 months’
trial; great bargain; sacrifice, £2/15/-
RQ £1 Lady’s magnificent £ll/11/-Diamond
UvJ U and SapphireClusterßing,lB-ct.Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and faultless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire of
richest quality ; to appreciate'the full beauty of
| this Ring it must be seen ; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
QQ/C Baby’s Long Clothes, superfine
U quality, magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 ariicles, everything required; beautiful
garments; the perfection of mother’.s personal
I work; never worn ; great sacrifice,'£l/9/6.
OO / C Valuable Violin (worth £lO/10/-),
o.£/U perfect condition,labelledStradjyarius
I Crempna, 1721 ; rich mellow tone, witlrißow
and Case, suit professional or soloist; £l/12/6.
■JQ/C (Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
10/0 Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased ; 6 months’ trial; sacrifice, 13/6.
■J Q/Q (Worth £l/15/-). Eightsuperfinequality
I Jm/ tJ Chemises, Knickers, ami Petticoats ;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
OQ/C Spoons and Forks. (£lO/10/- Set).
03' O A 1 quality, silver-plated on nickel
silver, stamped maker’s initials, Queen Anne
pattern ; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Jporks; Service 5-doz.;
wonderful bargain, £l/19/6; Half-Set, £l.
1 ft/ft F asllio ' la Me Curb Chain ~Padlock
lU/ O Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
links, 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12'6.
Oft/ft (Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
i£o/U quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, &c.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
6Q Pretty Necklet, with Heart Pendant
/U attached, set Parisian pearls and tur-
quoises; elegant design; 18-ct. Gold (s a tuned)
filled; in velvet case ; bargain; sacrtlice, 6/9.
DAVIS & CO.
( D " T )
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL
LONDON, ENGLAND
Time spent using
Calvert's
vToofh fowder
is time spent well .
Local Chemists
and Stores sell it.
Makers :
F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester. Eng.
For the cleaner the teeth
are kept, of course the
longer they will last and
the better they will look.
The
Lapointe Broaching Machine
amm
The Belt Tightener on this Machine eliminates lacing to take up stretch. This
Lapointe Broaching Machine uses only one belt, and that can be an endless belt.
Constant speed pulley drive. Enclosed, silent gears. No countershaft necessary.
Ball-bearing thrust, driving nut removed in four minutes.
Capacity up to 2in. keyways, and up to 3Jin. broaching square holes.
BENSON BROTHERS
(SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA),
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen Street, Melbourne
WE CARRY A FULL STOCK OF MACHINE TOOLS.
Mr JOHN McCORMACK
SINGS EXCLUSIVELY FOR
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE” RECORDS.
The great tenor sings only for these records, because he knows that
they alone are capable of reproducing his wonderful voice in a manner
strikingly true to life.
These are but a few of the John
McCormack records:—
2-052028 Salve dimora, “Faust.”
2-052024 Tu chi a dio Spiegasti,
“Lucia di Lammermoor.”
G. C. 4-2072 Annie Laurie.
G. C. 4-2076 I Hear You Calling Me.
G. C. 4-2219 I Know of Two Bright
Eyes.
G. C. 4-2221 The Rosary.
02327 “In a Persian Garden.”
(Complete list on request.)
Mr. John McCormack.
Hear John McCormack through the medium of these records. You
will readily accord liberal praise to the excellence attained in repro-
ducing the celebrated tenor’s voice.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest dealer on
request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CARBIDE
For First-Class
Results use
Best
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing- it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
HEALS ANY WOUND OK SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON'S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 116, posted 119. J. WiLKiNSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
THE FIRST TEST
'TW\
Vi
of a “Plum” Razor will prove its worth. You’ll have a skin like
velvet after the PLUM has shaved you. This razor never drags or
pulls, even with the' roughest, strongest stubble.
We guarantee to keep it in first-class shaving order for two years free
of charge. Send your order TO-DAY,
ALL POST FREE.
Single Razor, Vulcanite handle 10/6
Pair, in double case . 21 /-
Single Razor, Ivory handle 15/6
Pair, in double case. This line makes a very handsome present. 30/-
Plum Razor Strop 10/6 & 7/6
Other good kinds, thoroughly reliable, from 3/6
Plum Strop Dressing makes keener blades. Tube 17-
Stick of Shaving Soap that lathers freely 1/-
Razors ground and set with care 1/-
Safety Razors, hand.v and efficient, from 5/6
C. & A. Moustache Trainer, shapes the moustache, worn at night—
Send for our Illustrated Price List. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.


Amusements.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction ,1. 0. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
PROGRAMME OF NEW & FASCINATING FEATURES.
ADELINE GENEE,
THE WORLD’S SUPREME DANCER.
ALEXANDER VOLININ and the Celebrated IMPERIAL
RUSSIAN BALLET.
PRICES: D.C. and O.S. (b ioked), 7/6; at door, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7.60, 2/-; thereafter, 1/-
PLANS AT PALING’S.
K O Y A L. SYDNEY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF A FAIR HIGHWAYMAN.
-T- 11 E A T R E
Direction
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 20.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
THE ARCADIANS.
PRICES: D.C. and O.S. (Reserved and at door), 6/-;
Stalls. 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7.60. 2/- : thereafter, i
S Y D N E Y.
AI) EI,P II i T HEAT It E.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
Last Two Nights of QUEEN OF THE WHITE SLAVES.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT.
FOR TWELVE (12) NIGHTS ONLY.
Frederick Melville’s Wonderful Soldier Success,
MARRIED TO THE WRONG MAN.
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S.
PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and I/-
Earlv Doors fid. extra.
A I, A C E T II E A T It E. » Y D N E 1
INSTANTANEONS SUCCESS.
A BRILLIANT ARTISTIC TRIUMPH.
THE BERT BAILEY POPULAR DRAMATIC COM-
BINATION, in Ramsay Morris’ Great Masterpiece,
TilE i\ I N ETY AM) MM'.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
POPULAR PRICES : Dress Circle and Orchestra Stall
4/-(No B lokiiuc Fee); Back Stalls. 2/fi ; Gallery, 1/-: Earh
Doors,fid. extra (except on Saturdays at d Holidays)
IVI IT lON A I.
* ” Marta gin
AM Pill Til HAT It I'l. SVI)N ICY
Director: BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FORD & DAVIS, Musical Comedy Sketch Artists.
PERCY CLIFTON, English Character Comedian.
THE FOUR BREVES. WINNIE BOND.
SLAVIN & THOMPSON.
ESMA DUO. LILY THOMPSON.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-
Saturdays and Holidays, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
QLACIAKIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICT l RES, LTD.
”11 PST OF ALL.”
FA MILY M ATIN E E—SA TU RDA Y.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
PENCE It’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
CHARLES DICKENS’
LITTLE DOIUItT.
A Faithful Adaptation of the Immortal Novelist’s Most
Humane Work.
THE KINETO PHONE.
TALKING PICTURES, ALL NEW SUBJECTS.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
M P
E It I A L It O L L E It
Foot of William Street.
It I N K,
A REFINED KINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN.
THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
GORDON GRANT,
Manager.
R 1 t) KAKI> S’ 1 IVOLI Tllli A T KE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
8 SAXONES, in a Brilliant Musical Entertainment.
WILLETTE WHITAKER and F. WILBUR HILL,
featuring their world-famed Darkie Folk Songs.
WILLIAMS & RANKIN, the Yankee Doodle Duo.
JULIA GONZALEZ, Graceful Trapezist.
FRANK PARISH, Sensational Novelty Athlete.
TOM DAWSON, IRMA CARON, VAUDE & VERNE.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and ll-
l* EuA II OUS E, MEEIiOU It N K.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
SIX HOBOES, in “On the Road.”
THE DE BRUNS, Famous Continental Dancers.
MARTYNNE, the Electrical Surprise.
A. G. SPRY, the Cute Cosmopolitan Comedian
GREAT GOLDEN TROUPE OF RUSSIAN DANCERS,
SINGERS, AND INSTRUMENTALISTS.
DIAMOND & BEATRICE, Instrumental Musical
Specialty Artists.
JACK PRINCE, RAGTIME VIOLINIST.
Plan at Allan’s. 4s., 35., 25., Is,
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the Irish Singing Comedian,
ALLEN DOONE, in his New Play,
THE PARISH PRIEST.
ADMISSION: 5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction .T, C. WILLIAMSON. T to.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), SEPTEMBER 18.
THE QUINLAN OPERA CO. in
BARBER OF SEVILLE.
To-morrow (Friday), September 19, SIEGFRIED.
Saturday, September 20, CARMEN.
Monday, September 22, TWILIGHT OF THE GODS.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats and Dress Circle,
10s. «d. and 7s. fid. (at doors). Balcony and Stalls,
ss. Pit and Gallery, 2s. 6d. Early Door, Is. extra.
wants
INVAA-
WofßAVgyg
MIW
It is easy to make and re-
quires no cooking, and its re-
sults are marvellous.
As a liquid Health Food
and Drink in one, it is un-
rivalled.
Thousands of Australians
are taking it, and find it gives
them health and vigour. It is
delicious to taste, and inex-
pensive and easily digested.
All ages take it, and hud it
gives and maintains health.
Ask lor Horlick’s at the
» . Soda Fountain. . .
KORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of FRED NIBLO, supported by a
Distinguished Company, in
TILE FORTUNE HUNTER.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
TilK KING’S THEATRE. MELBOIKNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 20.
Reappearance of the Favorite
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN,
Supported bv
11. R. ROBERTS,
In the Modern, Up-to-date Drama,
THE CONFESSION.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Majestic theatre, Melbourne.
Lessees: AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HARRY CORSON CLARKE
and his American Comedy Co., including
MISS MARGARET DALE OWEN,
In the Sparkling Comedy,
WHOSE BAITY Allh YOU ?
Prices: 45., 35., 25., Is. Plans, Allan’s & Menzies’.
UOU T II E A T R E. >1 E L I? O I R N E.
Lessees .. Messrs. BRENNAN & FULLER.
Sub-Lessee REYNOLDS DENNISTON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 20.
HUGH C. BUCKLER and M7SS VIOLET PAGET.
Supported by a Brilliant Comedy,
In the American Comedy Drama,
B OBEY HU II N [ T.
Prices: 55., 35., 25., Is. 6d. & Is.
Plans: Allan’s, Grand, Menzi s, Oriental.
Melbourne repertory theatre
Direction: GREGAN McMAHON.
at the
ATHEN.EUM HALL.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 20, 1 “STRIFE,
MONDAY, SEPT. 22, / By John Galsworthy.
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, I “MAJOR BARBARA,”
FRIDAY, SEPT. 24, 25, 26, f By Bernard Shaw.
BOX PLANS AT PIANOLA CO. & BOOKLOVERS’
LIBRARY. No seats guaranteed unless reserved.
The auditorium,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
FAREWELL MELBOURNE SEASON,
Of Madame
CLAUA BUT T
And Mr.
KEN N EI \L E Y Jl U M FORD
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
TUESDAY EVENING, 23rd.
THURSDAY EVENING, 25th.
SATURDAY EVENING, 27th.
BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Reserved Seats, 10/6 and 7/6.
Unreserved Seats, 5/- and 3/-
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
OLYMPIA. O L Y M P I A.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
UIEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
i iiE best WEST’S PICTURES T ii E best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictouiai. Entererise in t:ik World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Aloving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
pvitv week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
IA/IRTH BROS., LTD., GREATEST SHOW
»* ON EARTH.
CIRCUS, HIPPODROME & ZOO.
WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT 8. DOORS OPEN AT 7.
THE GREATEST SENSATIONAL ACT EVER SEEN
IN MELBOURNE.
THE DEATH-DEFYING DANTES
MOTORING AMIDST A DEN OF LIONS.
And a Colossal Programme of Thrilling and Daring—
Rislej, Trapeze, Acrobatic. Wire-walking Equestrian
and Wild Animal Acts.
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
IMS MEbICWE CHEST
SHOULb BE IM
YOUR HOME
For the Bush
Home, where the medical
man may be miles away, a
Medicine Chest is o(ten the means
„( saving life. H certainly does away
V with calling in a doctor for minor ailments, we
r p,ck . ches"«,ntainlng. remedy
IHnesses and accidents ot Hie. prepared by a legally
qualified chemist according » '=
leading ™ ,or *^, ing and Brulus:
Ointments to? external application ; Medicines A Pojwdm
lor Internal taking, with toil supply ot Lints. Plaswa
Bandages, etc. Mind there Is no quackery atwut this
r |f , . . nv ooen nunded doctor to whom ym*
£ Ihow » will approve it. Packed care.ul.y and
sent to any address in the Commonwealth tor .
Carriage
Paid
Free Otter. —" The Home Medical
Book " sent Post Free to any
address. Write tar It.
mi MEbIQINE. SUPPLY
FWfcTsorl nnntkC.E.R
4SO QUEL'I hR^EANE.
We are the Only Manufacturers of
Scientific Glassware in Australia.-*
1
y
We make Scientific Instruments for
every class of Trade, Industry or Pro-
fession in which they are used—
Medical, Chemical, Dairying, Agricul-
tural, Brewing, Meat Works, Bakers,
Vignerons, etc.
We repair every class of instrument,
too. If you want instruments for any
special purpose, write us ibout it.
Our Booklet is Free; shall we send
you a copy?
WILSON NAFIS 8 CO. LTD,
Wharf Street, Brisbane, Q.
V
ft
m
'■
i\V^!
&
SSfi.
Msks.
v*
I
vs
>V
sv®
r «~s
FI
g*
:.V?s4£
kose
s»"5
7." n
> &*•
Si
Powder
!
«S«£
s
AvyEsm
a®LOOK PRETTY?
: Yes! But can you—
without a Pretty Skin.
: Hunting, motoring, golf,
; cold winds will all do
their part in reddening
. and roughening your face.
; Do your part with - - -
“ Kaloderma ” Soap ....
Kaloderma" Jelly, and
“ Kaloderma ” Face Powder;
you may then snap your
fingers at wind & weather.
C Ihe IVlysteries o\ beaulys I oilet—spelL*
Kalodcrma
Perfume Distillers tl
Ftney Soap Makers.
Karlsruhe. Germany
Mr. Edison’s
8 Years’ Work
After eight years’ constant work Mr
Edison is satisfied with the Edison
Storage Battery, and not until it had
met more exacting tests in the
laboratory and more strenuous prac-
tice than the consumer will ever
demand of it, was its public
announcement permitted.
Made from iron and nickel; it totally
eliminates acid; improves upon its
initial efficiency; and combines with
this necessary factor of reliability
light, rugged strength so necessary if
electric vehicles are to become
popular.
These Batteries have been tested
under severe conditions with heavy
loads for a period of three years
which in itself should be sufficient
guarantee of their dependability.
Write us stating purposes you need
Storage Batteries for, and we will
promptly supply all particulars.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
Dept. 8., 364=372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
iff NOTE the SLOT
h'i':-'. The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
Jewsbury&Brown's
||| Oriental
flooth Powder
6d IS/ ,n
-fa \r United Kingdom
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY
Messrs. EHiotT Bros. Ltd.
. . F.H.Faulding & Co.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
it has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro
teeting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepv” seat. -tin. kneepads, nickel-plate
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. T e
price complete is £3/1 0/* Mention of THfc
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtaine
from .T. Tobv. 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava yon grown tired of we * rlD og,{“ 0 g ,{“ vOU
and cumbersome bpring trusses ? jjo y
want to obtain an Appliance that
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, °U°
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we win
Bend you particulars and testim
regarding our Patent ..aiCE
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried
else. This is sometbiiig ENTIIIEL
it is, in fact, 1 HE BEST RUPrURE APPUANir
YET INVENIED. It does away
with tailing steel springs
leather understraps. The l >at * ’ NT . p vfi(
soil rubber, which exerta AorrT SPOT.
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPUO
To show what we think of *Ue APP
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL n
in every instance. The P‘‘£ e . or «?
th reach of all. Can you ask niTV
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and StLUM
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. WOII I an c „n FREE
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FRE •
THE WINSLOW CO-.
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, __
“Linseed Compound,” Trade Mark
Compound Essence of Linseed for Cougn
of l va ' s
and Colds.


CRUST LIKE SCALES
Irritation Unbearable; Itched Fear-
fully, Hair Came Out, Was Quite
Bald. Used Cuticura Remedies,
Now Cured. HairThickerThanEver,
Mays Cottage, Gallants Lane, East Far-
leigh, Maidstone, Eng.—“l was a sufferer
from a kind of skin disease. My head came
covered with a thick crust
like scales of a fish and the
irritation was unbearable.
My head itched fearfully
and my hair came out so
that I was quite bald. I
had suffered for years with
this scalp irritation espe-
cially in the spring and
autumn when it was almost
unbearable. If I scratched
It became a running sore. The spring of
1910 it came on worse than ever. My head
■was completely covered with a thick brown
crust and I was so distressed I did not know
what to do.
“I began to use Cuticura Soap, Cuticura
Ointment and Cuticura Pills. After a few
days the irritation stopped and the crust
peeled off like scales. I continued using the
Cuticura Ointment and washing my head
with Cuticura Soap. My hair began to
grow again. In three weeks my head was
clean. The crust came off in flakes as big
and thick as a sixpence. In another three
weeks my head was thickly covered with
hair. Now lam entirely cured.” (Signed)
Mrs. E. Marsh, January 15, 1912.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment do so much
for pimples, blackheads, red, rough skins,
itching, scaly scalps, dandruff, dry, thin and
falling hair, chapped hands and shapeless
nails, that it is almost criminal not to use
them. Sold everywhere. Liberal sample of
each mailed free, with 32-p. Skin Book. Ad-
dress K. Towns & Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.
Violent Cathartics
Injure Health
Don’t take purgatives —their harsh action
is liable to injure the bowels. Why not use
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, a purely vegetable
remedy that has been
successfully used by
millions for half-a-
century. Acts
gently but surely
and not only
quickly re-,
lieves but
for ever
ends the misery of constipation. Use them for dizzi-
ness, indigestion, sick headache and all liver troubles.
Small Pill, Small Dose. Small Price.
Carters
•ITTLE *
IVER
PILLS.
The
GENUINE
must bear
Signature
9
Youtfe\
rb-AtLEN’J
I (V.S.Ak)
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent awJ really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
and stores
ALL CHEMISTS
FOR A FAIR DINKUM GO
.. . TRY THE •• •
MEZON
Accordeons
Best
The World
63
90
42
35
Agent
Sole
N
O
Bourke st.,Melb.
“Linseed Compound.” The ‘‘Stockport Rem
edy for Couehs & Colds. Of 40 years proven efficac.
edy for Coughs & Colds
'u r/i
<r
5*
SiP
Vi*
Will"
MJhf,
!1M
New Preparation
Causes Big Scare Among Hair Specialists.
My True Hair Grower has a most wonder-
ful effect upon the hair glands and tissues
of the scalp. It is the only remedy for the
hair ever discovered that is similar to the
natural hair foods or liquids of the scalp.
It penetrates the pores quickly, and the
hair soon shows the effects of its wonder-
fully exhilarating and life-producing quali-
ties.
Besides being a True Hair my
preparation quickly removes DANDRUFF,
and stops FAGGING HAIR and ITCHING.
It is known the world over, and I have in
my consulting-rooms upwards of 3000 grate-
ful letters from men and women who have
derived so much benefit from the use of my
True Hair Grower as to compel them to
write and thank me.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES!
Having such complete confidence in this compound, I am offering a
trial box to anyone interested. Send in your name and full address, to-
gether with three penny stamp s for postage, etc.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH
(Dept. 7), 192 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
a;
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
111111111111111II111111111111 h
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original ant! Only Genuino
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6
. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks ot
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
•he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acta like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others ha\e
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic ' recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
’ b “SWAN SAFETY
s
i
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE^
Can’t Lrak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Sold by all Stationers
Branches. and Jewellers.
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co.,
St. Louis,
U.S.A.
Combination Harness and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing Outfits (power
or foot). Easily operated.
non=royalty.
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without
N “ CHAMPION ” Outfits.
j , W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.,
Sole Australasian Agents,
ml
j>-
CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE O/V APPLICATION. [:
The Inky Way.
Senior-reporter H. S. Baker, of Hobart Dailt
Post, is the latest capable ink-slinger to swear off
the duty-book and proceed to turn himself into a
lawyer. He recently acquired his LL.B., and now
seeks his articles in the office of a leading Hobart
law-foundry. The local A.J.A., of which body he has
been treasurer since its inception, threw a fine
travelling rug and some excellent speeches at him
the other day.
“Gip”: It was an article in an American maga-
zine that suggested to me an easy way of making
money. A nice man sat at a barn door and ob-
served the life around him, and wrote six and a half
pages about it in a dear, two-syllabled sort of way
that made you love him. Woodchucks came hesita-
tingly ; chipmunks skulked, then hurried ; red squir-
rels jerked and snickered, and a rabbit paused
amongst the weeds. Also, a rat, a high-hole, a hawk,
two song-sparrows, a Phoebe bird, a blue bird, a
snow bird, and even crows did frightfully interest-
ing things. “That’s just luck,’’ I sneered. “But,
anyhow, I shall go out and observe, and I won’t take
my gun. I’ll take paper and pencil instead and
make some money.” I crossed a paddock and paused
to stare at a hare crouched beside a tussock. She
held her breath and watched me with an alert eye.
“Sixpence,” I remarked to her, and passed on. Be-
fore I reached the fence and crossed into the scrub
at the foot of the mountain from which I intended
making my observations, I passed eight rabbits
waiting to be shot. “Five skins to the pound, I
calculated. “One-and-eight a pound. One-and-eight
and three over. That’s two-and-eight. Two-and-
eight. Two-and-eight and the sixpence for the hare,
3s 2d.” The scrub was thicker now —gum and
wattle, and here and there a low-growing bush It
was still winter. The sun shone hotly, but the
wattles were only budding and the swallows that
vesterday besieged the woolshed and greeted me in
my garden had not yet returned. A thrush threw
out a few lovely notes, and round my head the tiny
goldfinches twittered and chirped as unafraid as
house flies. I had gone slowly and noiselessly, the
spirit of the observer who observes for lucre strong
within me. Nine infant rabbits, all of an age,
peeped from a big hole, and one by one emerged
cautiously. They watched a few seconds for some
movement on my part, then proceeded to feed. Some
nibbled at nettles, others scratched for roots, but
one was just a wee clown. He butted his fellows,
turned somersaults and looked round for applause,
then rushed for the warren in a pretty show of ter-
ror The others tolerated him, but did not J oln m
his game. Beneath in the gully, a doe tore at a dry
tussock, taking the broken pieces in her teeth and
carrying them to her nest. During this wet, mild
winter with but two snow showers and very little
frost her nursery has been full all the time—a hap-
nening hitherto unknown since bunny discovered us
10 o/ll yefrs ago. It occurs to me that I might as
well sit down and take a few observations. So I
and look
a low shrub, with the sun full on it, a ? lis “®ing
golden object is curled. Is it an outsize in hares
What is it? In my excitement I snap a twig- and 1
raises its head. Heavens, it s a fox. twelve smi
lfngs’ worth. It has not noticed me, and listens and
blinks lazily with uplifted head. I remember that I
olmks aziiy wu 1 In a rus h of heat I emit
a a Ta e va°ge “Shoo"’ and it streaks up the mountain
Three-and-twopence and twelve shillings,
15s 2d So! I move on. The ‘cuckoo-burroughs,
as the man who writes Australian yarns for the
asr rrs.'S: trs***^
The fam is mostly untouched, though here and there
t J a tinned rabbit. On and always upwards, and
1 - e L t rtn observe. Rabbits, of course—grey
migh y j b j ack and piebald rabbits scuttling
a " d y inis and warrens. NOW and then a domestic
into logs and warr proportions slinks
zir ifrs
crows" are"shrieklng maniacally and darting at^ome-
sk "zf r jxssr Be 8
had a C hp a C n of’carcases I fox half crouches With
SldC flattened and nose defiantly upturned he snaps
ears flattened ana n Thp erows discover me
at the attacking birds. ine The f ox has
standing beneat |l d d da inbilly at the skinned
n °l-t een nd e ioit?rs do™ towards me, examining logs
rabbits and loiters b himself from the waist
at his leisure, a " d 1 " S nner As he comes he
in the most conceite obviously only curious
Sni ,f S ? e at a all S su p cious When he is" within a few
ami not at all suspicio egted in a log, I begin
yards of me a " a fn aee g j - ftpen . an d.two and twelve sink
again to caloilate. I « naturally very much am
lings =£l ' s - , „ ke mo ney. So I decide to
noyed. 1 f Ca T a t the l fo™ "He doesn’t wait. At my
throw a stone at the • the lly and calmly re-
slightest movement he him and alight, yell-
garding me. the n . but t his time they
ing, on tb e Rarest
do not attack mm. observing Kosciusko s dis-
tain top and sulk ly - p ists the deep-hued hills,
tant snow. Ihe loveiy g and the golden sun-
the red road, the re t e b : P beauty , but I won’t enjoy
light are there in a, ' th throat lies
them. A little mother PO^ h ™ n another fox ap-
dead ac T r , OSS "fin the’least excited. I shouldn’t be
pears. I m not in the * {QXes . No mo re observ-
surprised now >? Isa L climb that mountain I
' te m,Jt, “
money for the writing.
NEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We 1 have harried all the highways of the North
Where swarthy people throng the narrow streets,
In ports where many junks go to and forth,
And plethoric the pulse of Asia beats;
Tilt we captured it to send across the seas,
For profit, or to startle, or amuse —
So we hurled it down the seas to the very furthest
quays,
For the printing press to turn it out as News.
We have sallied out and over to the East,
Through mighty ocean reaches locked in calm,
To seductions of barbaric dance and feast
On islands of the mangrove and the palm ;
Till we found it by the mountain or the flood,
Where Yankee pirates snare their blackguard
crews —•
fly the sluggish-moving flood, that is opiate to the
blood,
We raked it out, and sent it home as News.
We have ranged the vacant spaces of the West,
That draws the battered rover to its ways;
Where Love and Life ate but a passing jest,
And Time is but recurring nights and days.
But here we could not light upon the spoor —-
It was wary of the artifice and ruse —-
Like a ghost or shade obscure, it defied the subtlest
lure,
It was wholly incompatible with News 1 ,
And therefore have we harbored in the South,
To gather up the nerve-ends of the race,
Fearing not the searing blizzard, nor the drouth —-
The gleaner* of the whisperings of space 1
We are watchful, in a lazy sort of way,
Of many means that many nations use —
In a lazy sort of way we reflect upon the play
Of all the phantom prodigies of News!
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


The Recognised Leading House for all
fSMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
H
I
a
H
PIPES
G
R
A
D
E
S.N.L. Pipes, made .from finest quality old
i* root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
PIPES EVER
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/6, 10/0, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
QVM.m'Bt U.
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/C; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free). ,
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/0 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
jHREEWITCH^i
VI
&A
TOBACCOS.
‘Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug' or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
‘Lonus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches
H
A
N
D
Y
mmm-
mt
t£>Zs
m
a-ws
m
Rffiil
G
0
M
P
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Fplit Calf 2/9paoh
~ „ Real Morocco .. 3/6 „
„ ~ Calf Crocorlilc .. 4/0 »
„ ~ Gazelle 5/- >•
„ „ Velvet Calf 6/0 „
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
shoiiM have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out, of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Hoi tiers, silver rim,
in ease, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING
■SETS.
N
O
I
H
I
N
(i
rnm-mm
*=*l
B
E
T
T
R
R
Shaving' Nv*ts, comprising 1 renowned C.B R
Ifazor, 1 C. 8.8. liuzor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap-
-18/6 (post free),
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced bv experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years
free of charge—-
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle .... 10/6 each (post free)!
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free)!
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
I CUE
The First
Successful
Self-Filling
Fountain
Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
THE “A.A.” AUTOMATIC SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN
is the pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling method
is exclusive. It is filled by simply twisting the button, holding the
pen point in the ink, and, bv a reverse twist, the pen is filled. As
the ink is held in a durable reservoir, the pen cannot leak. No
soiling of fingers or any annoying “filler” necessary to keep
The “A.A.” ready for service.
Fitted with I4kt. gold pens, any style or size, with plain,
chased or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver
filigree, gold filled and mother of pearl. They are for sale
at all shops.
The cut herein shows the newly-patented “A.A.” Clip attached
to the cap of the pen. It excels by far any fountain pen clip yet
produced. It holds perfectly firm, and can be attached almost
instantly.
If you cannot secure The “A.A.” Automatic Self-Filling
Fountain Pen with the “A.A.” Clip at your store, write for prices
RYAN, LEWIS ®. CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins .Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN & CO., New York, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO. [2
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of jay Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETiIe. q. uO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
JAY
f/y
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1013 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkriue
England, (id. Uow to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's SILENT FRIEND, Is 6d. NUD DONN ELLY’S ART
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
llow to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horsk, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, is id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop llandykook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling iiy Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty's
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahombts Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris. Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Kng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s (id. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
m.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
UMBRACme
THE POPULAR 11 PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
N ature as it exists. Here are answered, in piain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a dehe-acy in consulting' their.physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes st a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
!•“ bookseller to the commonwealth.^
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- I oVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards. Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated ’is 3d
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for aH Games), ’ is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River 4s
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is • post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new) 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDo igall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
orh rs, all at 2s 6d < ac.h posted. Lee's Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets. Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne. Is nosted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t Ice fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Ktsiabiished 25 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP \IY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write lor my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY I
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT
How to Mark Ut, Illustrated Guide to the sta » e ’
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genu 1
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d nose. 1)r. Milford s.
wire’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, ts
Aristotle, 3/0. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, comp •
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions
King, Is 3d. Guide to auctioneering, -s. ou. .
History Court op England, Is 3d post, l j.j
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, i» -
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key '
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. \ KST . )OHt ,
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, <» ,|L dS
Ingersoll s Works, Bd, 3s. How to R k a“ 0 a
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. _ Chevassk s Ad
Wipe, 3s Bd posted. Wonderpul Bui ■
Book, over 3(K) latest sours, Is 3d P fl |
Bknnarr Macpadden’s Works, all at tKr
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers an- ■_ •
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wifes H ■ :|<f
is 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy. Is post.
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Kkrvou
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Wkbsters
abridged Dictionary. 1700 pages, lwOi ‘ an d i
L,ound, my price, los postpaid (why pa p TNI .
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, is •
MOS and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore. - - |ot|)
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, loin " £ vo Vanc«.
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op j ■ co , n .
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and mu.
plet.e), Is 6d posted. The Age or Rms >
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOG UK Id


\
Vrr
Vr
V
MR. PUTT, who was
cured of Piles by \
Zam-Buk.
%
0
Man’s Itching, Agonising Complaint
Soothed and Cured by Zam-Buk.
Mr. Isaac Putt, of 24 Nightingale Street, St.
Kilda, Melbourne, says: “Four years ago I was
attacked by blind piles, which were exceedingly
painful. The itching was indeed dreadful, and it
was agony to get about, while this was intensified
if I attempted to sit dow r n. I tried all the many
ointments and salves that were recommended to
me, but not one of these brought the desired relief.
“A friend who had great faith in Zam-Buk
persuaded me to try this balm. I did so, and was
so pleased with the mild, soothing and cooling bene-
fits I derived that I decided to persevere. In a
short time I realised I should soon be free from
my affliction. Zam-Buk released me from pain
and irritation, banished all congestion and inflam-
mation, and completely cured the piles, for which
I am very grateful.”
Every Home Needs Zam-Buk.
PIITPLES, BOILS, SPOTS, RASHES AND ALL SPRING
SKIN TROUBLES YIELD PROMPTLY TO ZAM-BUK.
At this season, blotches and pimples about the face
and neck; boils, eruptions and irritating rashes on the chest
or back ; and greasy, ill-conditioned patches of skin on various
parts show the almost universal need for Zam-Buk. Spring
skin-sickness is the result partly of increased vitality. Zam-
Buk is unsurpassed for these seasonable eruptions. It soaks
into the tissues without clogging the pores, and a<ts
as a tonic cleanser. The result is that impurities are
quickly dispersed and the skin
made clear and healthy.
SOOTHES & HEALS.
Zam-Buk is won-
derfully effective
for the treatment
of eczema, run-
ning sores, bad
legs, ringworm,
scalp sores,
cuts, burns,
sea ids, sprains,
rheumatism,
poisoned wounds,
ulcers, sore hands,
Spring eruptions,
etc. Obtainable
of all chemists and
‘ stores at 1/6 and
3/6 per pot, or
direct trom
Zam - Buk
Co., 39 Pitt
St r e e t,
Sydney
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years,
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
A Ballad of the Fleets.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
tL battleship Australia, flagship of the Australian
,vy. twill shortly arrive at Sydney, New South
ales, I where Governor Phillip landed with his first
W'B'ueut of British convicts 125 years ago.
—Noose item.
Mr *E swift propellers swing and beat —
If .JHnidst the ringing cheers
r ► member now the Ancient Fleet that
■ bare the Pioneers!
fj, nging rhymes of olden shame! —I sing
r „4i carnal pride
vu rd song of Men who came forth from
gallows-side!
■rnameless Thieves who builded Rome!
who sings of England's “stain,”
'lie pirate ships that had their home upon
¥ the Spanish Main?
liese Stains shall be Australia’s pride—up
from the gloomy Gaol
>ur Nation climbs, and on the tide the Gou-
. vict-Vessels sail!
All hail!—
' ustralia’s star in days afar gleamed o’er
the Convict’s Sail!
hear the chains of Felons clank, I see the
swinging Noose.
,he ships are by the Mother Bauk with
i anchors deep in ooze !
‘eneath their decks the Convicts lie, the
makers of the land ;
see the old Blue Peter fly—they leave
Bull’s cursed strand !
.or these are England’s children born, the
offspring of her laws ;
•t England bow ’neath Austral scorn—who
hath the greater cause?
r in this Land no shameful thought for all
the olden yetyjs.
ilhey were the Felons England wrought—
-1 hail to the Pioneers!
y Three cheers !
.r they were made as England bade —the
i stubborn Pioneers!
S
see the gleam of ancient sails- Bull’s
: transports bear their freight
’ >rth from the gloom of England's gaols
li unto the Southern gate!
fcfito a Land of shining days, this future
' Commonweal
v hoso battleships in coming frays shall
answer steel with steel !
), hear Bull’s anchors plunging down—O
3, Land of treasure trove,
■ iou art the glory and the crown of ancient
Sydney Cove!
“ hat feelings in the captains’ breasts? What
* thought of Days to Come?
3 ad Phillip in his coffin rests —I hear the
Nation’s Drum !
in The hum
y voices brave rings from the grave, stirred
by Australia’s Drum!
Ive me the Birthstains and the Guilt! —I
will have pride in these,
ill's English slaves who toiled and built
old Sydney’s walls and quays!
will have pride in Humankind! —when
... Convict-Voices call.
'link ye of helpless souls and blind, gaol-
fettered thief and thrall !
ley were the men that England made in
Georgian days of shame—
-te taught them well their Felon's trade
| and made them halt and lame!
| bad old Land, upon whose head the guilt
uncounted lies —
hear the Younger Nations tread, and
slow!v England dies!
Thieves’ eyes
Brill sadly stare in dumb despair whilst Bad
Old England Dies !
Jack England of the whip and lash, of gang
w and gallows-noose—
Lie passes, whilst propellers thrash and
1 drive Australian screws !
ho sees an humbled England rise, the sup-
I pliant of these States.
ocked by the ancient Convicts’ cries flung
_ forth from Britain’s gates?
see an England born again, mayhap in sad
travail;
ew heart and soul and hand and brain —
new strength when foes assail!
he primal strength of Younger Lands, of
Nations brave and bold —
’ho brings her These? Our Convicts’ hands
(wrought well in days of old !
Long cold —
|'hey mock the Land beneath whose brand
they writhed in Days of Old !
hese Younger Lands grown over-seas hear
' down the Empire’s scale;
Jur Fighting Ships swing by the quays—
I our marching Legions hail!
lie guerdon of an hundred years bears fruit
in Standards new ;
temember now the Pioneers—puissant heart
and thew!
'ho sees this Land in days to come front
fearless to the sea?
'Vho hears the Nation’s Inward Drum?—
throb. Hearts, in ecstasy!
(This is Time’s Isthmus where the Past with
brave To-morrow blends —
I/O, from this Land all fair and vast the
Song of Faith ascends !
She bends
" ith loving lips unto Her Ships—Her Song
of Pride ascends!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
On the Adavale Common.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ADA VALE is a little place, devoid of
attractions to the sober traveller. I
put in a fortnight there for the
benefit of my horses. The common was
mastered one morning, and a mob was being
bell near my camp by a greybeard of angry
aspect, while the herdsman rede off to look
for more. My two old stagers, both in
hobbles, were among them, and I hurried
U P to catch them.
Ihe ancient objected. He informed me
that I would have to go to the yard, and
there would probably be something to pay.
My financial statement, as usual, showed
a dfficit. so I determined that my live stock
*ho|ld not be impounded.
A footman had taken up a residential
lease close to my selection. Calling on him
with much haste. I presented him with a
plug of vile tobacco, and requested him to
hurry round to the far side of that mob and
make a disturbance.
This he did. and while the ancient was
expostulating with him and turning back
the runaways, I got my property safely to
camp.
Another footman had arrived —a very big
man he was, with a cast in one eye. and a
sour expression.
‘ These are your horses if any questions
are asked,' I informed him. tying them up
where lie was boiling his billy for dinner.
"Bight,” he agreed. “Pass out the
saddles. Won’t do for them to be in your
tent.”
As I had expected, the ancient one rode
up soon after.
Are these your horses?” he asked me.
"No,” 1 answered, “they belong to that
man.”
"Where’s yours?”—with suspicion.
“Why. in your mob.” I replied, as though
surprised at such a question. “Didn't you
just stop me from catching them?”
He rode round the tethered animals and
inspected their brands.
“How long have vou been here?” he
asked the sour-visaged person.
“Just coine.”
“Which way did you come?”
“Thargomindah.”
“Along the road?”
“Along the road.”
“Strange thing I didn't see you?” with
increased suspicion and some irascibility.
‘”Tis strange,” the traveller agreed.
“Must a been lookin’ some other way.”
The old chap rode off then. I smiled
audibly as I watched him go; but my com-
panion looked as serious as a koala.
We had dinner—on separate plots, he
having declined to share my frugal meal.
Immediately afterwards he began to saddle
up my horses.
“What are you doing?” I inquired re-
spectfully.
“I’m goin’ on,” he said. “Seems too risky
to turn my nags out 'ere.”
“Your nags?” I half shrieked. “Look
here, mate, if you don’t want to get your-
self into serious trouble, you’ll drop that
silly joke right now.”
"No joke,” he said serenely, adjusting the
saddle with a practised hand. “Ken pro-
duce witnesses to prove my title to this
turnout.”
lie put on the pack-saddle. “Karn't say
as this gear's up to much,” lie remarked.
“S’pose that’s why yer give it to me.”
He was about to fix his swag on when I
made a grab at the reins. Rut he grabbed
me almost simultaneously, and ran me into
the waterhole.
The water was cold, but I came out of it
boiling. Then I rushed at him. and we fell
over the firewood. We erected unanimously,
and I remember jobbing him hard in the
mouth; but when I came to my senses he
was gone. The horses and gear had likewise
evaporated.
I sat down to meditate.
“Strike me lucky!” I said, sorrowfully,
addressing some disjointed remarks to my-
self. “I thought yen were a person of some
sense and experience.... You’re a whole
complete darn fool!”
After a while I beat round like a dog look-
ing for a scent. The tracks led townwards.
I followed, promising the thief an uncom-
fortable time in the near future, and now
ard again driving mv fist into the atmo-
sphere as I pictured the resumption of hos-
tilities.
In front of the hotel I saw my horses,
tied to the rail. The fellow was in the bar.
drinking, and relating to an arnus d crowd
what had happened to a smart joker down
on the common.
I decided, in the interests of peace, not to
interrupt him. I threw his leprous pack
into the gutter, mounted quietly and rode
away. I reckoned there would be more
hilarity when they came out on the veran-
dah. and it wouldn’t be all on the side of the
big chap either.
Reaching my camn. I oacked up with
orecinitation. mounted again, and headed
for Thargomindah. 210 miles down the
Rulloo. I never saw any more of that in-
dividual. but sometimes amid my dreams I
hear him swearing in thp d : stance.
E. S. SORENSON.
The Send-off.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TT was my first job on the Booringa
Mail, and when I saw the paragraph
the editor sent out to the composing-
room in place of my column narrative I
knew it was my last. Thus ran the revised
version
Office-bearers and members of the Boorinjra Town
Band met last night at Smith's Royal Hotel to isiv
farewell to Mr. A. B. Jones, who has filled the posi-
tion of Band Master for many years. After partak
ing of a generous cold collation, a presentation of
a medal, suitably inscribed, was made to Mr. Jones.
The presentation was made by his Worship the
Mavor, Aid. E. T. Brown, who, as President of the
Executive Committee of the Booringa Town Band,
presided.
Messrs. F. B. Robinson, A. T. Harriss and other
representative men spoke in support of the presen-
tation, to which Mr. Jones feelingly responded.
I read that over and resigned on the spot.
Also I heard the editor tell the advt. can-
vasser that I was a Socialist, and later on I
learnt that the editor’s wife told the parson’s
wife that I was an Atheist.
And my account of the proceedings was
mild!—much milder than the tale I’ll tell
you now.
There were 50 or 00 there —a dozen with
brass instruments, which weapons of misery
and destruction they stacked against the
wall while they ate. After a ham and
ginger-beer interlude the Mayor rose, brush-
(Continued on next page.)


“KEEP YOUR KIDNEYS WELL, AND
THEY WILL KEEP YOU WELL.”
There is not a drop of pure blood in the body until
it has passed through the kidneys.
For the kidneys are the blood-filters. From birth
to death the blood is constantly flowing through them
to be filtered. The heart pumps the blood, but the
KIDNEYS purify it. They strain out the uric acid
poison and waste water, and dispose of it through the
urinary system.
Every twenty-four hours the kidneys remove about
500 grains of urinous poison and three pints of
water from the blood. But when they are weakened
by a cold, overwork, or excess of any kind, they begin
to lose their power of separating the urine from the
blood.
Then the poisonous waste they leave in the blood
begins to make you feel heavy, dull and drowsy: you
suffer from, headache, sick headache, dizziness, or
rheumatic twinges. The water left in the system
collects under the skin and causes the swellings of
dropsy.. There are urinary disorders and gravel.
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills have a quick, sooth-
ing, tonic, and strengthening effect upon weak
kidneys, gently leading them back to health and
activity.
/
“ Every
Picture
Tells a
Story
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold
by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per
bottle (6 bottles, 15/3), or posted
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Backache & Kidney
Trouble.
2 LASTING CURES.
3 YEARS CURED.
Mrs. G. Gavin, 57 Stephen Street, Camperdown, sap
“For about five years I suffered a good deal from backache
and kidney trouble, and only those who have been a fine tea
in this way will have any idea what I went through. pi
pain in my back was so severe that I could hardly move,
especially in the morning, when it was often almost an mi
possibility for me to get out of bed without assistance.
Other symptoms of kidney trouble were bad headaches a
dizzy attacks, both of which were very trying. 1
treated by a doctor for some time, and also tried ditteie
kidney remedies I saw advertised, but nothing dul me ai
good.' Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were at last brougnt
under my notice, and they proved to be the very thing
wanted. After taking one bottle, I felt ever so much bet < •
and nine bottles of the pills cured me completely, ant
have been free from pain ever since. It is three years
I took Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so my cure has o
well tested.”
8 YEARS CURED.
Mrs. E. Thompson, 194 Pittwater-road, Manly, Sydney,
says:—“For years I suffered agony from I3aekache
Lumbago. I was so bad that I could scarcely get £ ’
and always felt tired, languid and depressed,
symptoms which clearly showed my kidneys were veij
out of order were headaches, dizziness and irregulai s
tions. I tried many different remedies, which were -
posed to cure kidney trouble, but derived no bene
them. At last I decided to try Doan’s Backache
Pills, and only wish I had got them long before; the 0 f
have saved me a lot of pain. After taking aco I j )p
bottles, I felt ever so much better, so I continued ta s j
pills until I was quite cured. Considering how w
was, I think it marvellous that Doan’s Backache j
Pills have cured me so thoroughly. It is eight yea
was cured, and I have been well ever since.
Ki
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
ing crumbs from the boundless desert of his
whiskers, and spoke, and this was the tenor
of his spoke: —
“Gen’l’m’n, we what are gathered ere are
verv pleased to be -so gathered, seein’ that
it siggerlies that we’ll have ter getta noo
han’master.” (This amazing “break'
passed without notice.) “I noo Bert Jones
when there weren’t no hand at all, an' I’ve
known ’im all along, though there’s a many
’ere present who’d never ’a' heard of Bert
Jones if it ’adn’t been for the Booringa Town
Band. I do’ know nothin’ about music me-
self, and I do’ know if Bert does either, but
when yer see Bert a-sloshin’ round with that
stick o’ his, ’e looks as if e did.
“Now I wanta say that Bert’s 'ad a uphill
fight, an’ I ’ope he’ll be able to ’ear a better
band where ’e’s goin’ than ’e did ’ere.
“Want yer ter charge yer glasses, and
drink the health of the Mayor and Mayoress
and the Aldermen of Booringa —an’ —an’ —
an’ the King, an’ then I’ll call on Mr.- —er
er — you there —the seketerry bloke—the
seketerry of the Booringa Town Band. ’
The secretary sprang up as though under
pressure, and winking both eyes rapidly,
delivered himself at great speed :
“Unaccustomed as I am to this —this —
this —this —this sort of thing, and being
taken by surprise an’ all that sort of thing
—er —yes —where was I'? —I just thought
I’d like to give a short ’istory of the Band.
Thirteen years ago Billy Turner an’ Josie
Coni on followed the Foresters playing a tin
whistle an’ a mouth-organ, an’ from that
small beginnin’s we have the Booringa Town
Band. Mister Mayor” (Earnest Prompter:
“Say y'r Worship, damn yer”) “ —oh —ah —
yes —sorry —your Mister Worship—l think
it’s great pity the business people —some of
them that is—don’t support the band better
—and —ah- —yes—nearly forgot, 10 years
ago we ’ad a cornet an’ a drum, an’ from
that small beginnin’s we ’ave the Booringa
Town Band, an’ ’ere to-night we ’ave his
Mayor—the Worship—well, you know the
bloke I mean —wishin’ our first bandmaster
goodspeed. an’ many of them.”
He sat down breathless, and with a thud.
The Mayor upheaved himself and said:
“Call upon Mr. Sucketery.”
Up shot the biggest storekeeper _ of that
town —Codd by name, short, stout-, irascible,
and not so bitterly sober as he might have
been.
“Y’r Worship and gentlemen —going to
have a row with our friend' the last speaker.
Row first thing, say nice things afterwards,
lie wants business people s’pport band.
Whaffor? I don’ want band. You don’
want band. Other business men —they don’
want band. An’ I say we do s’pport band,
an’ proud to do it. If I s’pport band, can I
sell things ’s cheap as ’nother man who don ’
pupport stand —I mean s’pport band? Wha
—what ’m I ’ere for? S’pport ban’s? NO
—your Worship. ’M here sell things—sell
tons o’ things, make blanky pile an’ get out
blanky place blanky quick. Besides, man
says I don’ s’pport band’s liar. LIAR!”
(Immense confusion, during which the
speaker subsided, and the pale voice of the
secretary was heard exnlaining that he
didn’t mean him AT ALL!)
Presently the Mayor raised from the
strife the figure of Mr. Shickerton, who sped
to propose the pale secretary’s health. At
the Mayor’s behest, several bottles of whisky
had been introduced, and the tone of the
meeting rose as when one tightens a sound-
ing banjo-string. Mr. Shickerton had to
shout occasionally.
“Your Worship an’ gentlemen —pleased to
have pleasure of tellin’ our worthy seke-
terry what I think of ’im.” (“Speak up!")
“The Boo” (“Can’t Hear Y!”) “Boo-
ringa Town Band ’as ’ad its upsan’downs.
Sometimes it ’as been—lT ’AS BEEN with-
out a drum, sometimes without a cornick,
sometimes without a bob.” (“808
WHO?”) “But it’s alwiz ’ad a sekeferry,
an’ I say that to our seketerry, an’ ’im
alone, is doo the ’igh an’ honored place wot
the Booringa Town Band ’olds.”
There was great applause, in the midst of
which Mr. Jones was seen to flourish his
medal and heard to ask in anguished tones
where HE came in. He demanded to be
heard. The Mayor’s whisky, acting on a
disposition at once noisy and embittered,
caused him to yell in the Mayor’s ear until
he was called upon to reply.
“Yous blokes,” he began, “think yer
pretty blanky smart. I know what yer got.
Yer got 25 bob. An’ yer push this —this —
this —thing off on me. What’s it FOR? I
can’t wear it, I can’t sell it —blimey, I can’t
even POP it! Whatayer done with me
money, y’ cows. I ’eard yer, Teddy Brown,
sayin’ you might ’ave a decent band when
I’m gorn”
“Order, ORDER,” shouted the Mayor,
very purple in the face. “I never said noth-
in' o’ the sort.”
There was nearly a riot.
“Yer did.”
“Course ’e did.”
“I ’EARI) HIM.”
“I never.”
“’E’s a Blanky Liar.'"
Here the bandsmen got. their instruments
and gave a wavering imitation of part .of
“For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow.” The riot
was hushed into a fitful, nervous truce.
Mr. Jones, refreshed with more whisky,
rounded on Mr. Shickerton :
“You too, I ’eard yer, sayin’ little Billy
Howe knoo more about a band than me.”
Mr. Shickerton gave an anguished howl
of, “Bert, Bert, ’ow could yer—an’ me and
you fren’s since boy—-boyhood's days. Bert,
I never said no such a thing.”
“Yer did”
“I never”
“Yer a bald-’eaded, stinkin’ liar.’
the band ploughed heavily
through a mutilated fragment of “Annie
Eaurie.” Shouts and yells strove for mas-
tery with the bewildered instruments.
Smith, the bootmaker, had his own audi-
ence and was delivering a speech near the
door: “Thaswass I says —I says, jus’ like
that —’M I here ’r am I not, I says—man
to man, I says—AM I?”
“My oath,” murmured his hearers, but
Bert Jones’s yells of rage and baffled greed
tore the air: “Stinkin’ thing like that —
twen’t-fi’ bob —all my money—see my loryer
fust thing to-morrer morning.” He turned
to find the room empty but for a sad police-
man. who beckoned him away as the clock
struck 11. It was pub-closing time.
BRONSON ELLIOTT.
Our Institutions, Etc.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Interesting and important speeches were delivered
at the luncheon of the Millions Club in Sydney by
members of the British Parliamentary party....ln
a few minutes the train had pulled up at the siding
of the company’s factory. Here the party were
entertained hospitably by the management. ... the
party then proceeded to the Masonic Hall, where a
civic banquet was tendered to the visitors.... Ihe
party was entertained at a luncheon provided to-
night by the directors of the company . ...
The visitors were accorded a civic reception by
the Lord Mayor, and were entertained at dinner at
Parliament House in the evening....
The visitors were subsequently entertained at a
garden party by the Mayor and Mayoress, and in
the evening were the guests of the Governor.
-—News items.
I'M HEY were Parliamentary people, on
their travels round the States,
And they started hale and hearty,
Did that most distinguished Party—
Thank the Fates!
They had come (they said) desiring —
With minds open and inquiring—
To learn all about the Country—its resources,
methods, freights
Features, institutions, aspects, taxes, all that
indicates
What the Herald designates
As the future that awaits
This, the MA of all the States—
Which some quaint folk gauge its “pro-
gress” by the smallness of the rates.
They were welcomed with a luncheon and a
banquet and a ball,
And with speeches dull and witty,
In the Most Congested City
Of them all!
And they felt (they said) the pleasure
In unmitigated measure
Of the courtesies extended to them, here in
our Town Ilall!
They were more than glad to find their lines
in pleasant places fall;
Though their trip was somewhat tall,
They had heard the Empire call,
And they meant to stick to duty just like
Jonathan to Saul!
In the morning, bright and early, they were
brought big cups of tea.
And they swallowed them with gusto;
They were glad to lay the dust-oh,
Just as we!
For they liked (they said) the notion —-
An improvement on the potion,
Such as salts, or seidlitz-powder, they were
• used to, oversea !. . . .
So they dressed and went to Breakfast with
considerable glee—
Every baron and M.P.,
Had an appetite, you see,
And the Breakfast was most noble, as a
Breakfast ought to be !
Ere they started their inspections, per the
usual motor-car,
On behalf of this great Nation,
Came a cordial invitation
To the Bar !
And they guessed (they said) a snifter,
As a bracer and uplifter,
Was the sort of thing that went with a
matutinal cigar!—
And their cicerones told them they were
going rather far;
So, of course —Well, there you are!
Some took fizz and some Three
’Tis surprising how a morning drink w HI 1
often make or mar! J
On arriving at the soap-works—somewhat osA
the beaten track — /
Which had been the first place listed,
The proprietors insisted
On a snack!
“Just a bite” (they said) “to stay you
For the long and trying day you
Have to face, with all its speeches and its
toasts, ere you get back!”
Here a baron looked disheartened as he heard
the bottles crack;
Courtesy he did not lack,
But, as he surveyed the stack
Of refreshments and good liquors, he
seemed taken right aback !
The proceedings at the soap-works occupied
an hour or so ;
Then their guides began to worry,
Saying, “Really, there’s no hurry,
But we’ll go!
Otherwise” (they said) “that function
We arranged at Bondi Junction
Will be upset altogether—and this clock is
rather slow :
You will miss the mayoral luncheon, and
that wouldn’t do, you know!’.’
Seven motors in a row
Made a most imposing show
As they whirled that well-fed party out to
where the sea-winds blow!
Where they stowed the mayoral luncheon is a
secret to this day! ■. ;
Sure it is that after luncheon
Each M.P. looked like a puncheon,
So to say !.. . .
Though it often changed its venue,
It was much the same old menu —
Food and drink, cigars and speeches, rose like
lions in the way—
Afternoon tea made a slight change when
they got to Watson’s Bay! —
But they didn’t care to stay
At a garden-party gay,
With champagne and chicken-sandwich and
wine-trifle in full play !
Then the ultimate ordeal that awaited them
in town —
Dinner with the high Gaud Mayor,
A retired chicken-slayer—•
Got them dowm!
There were twenty-seven courses,
And they buckled-to like horses
For the honor of the Empire and their
Country’s just renown,
Loyalty to Throne and Person, and devotion
to the Crown!
Till an alderman named Brown,
In a necklace and a gowm.
Said — “Youse blokes don't seem much
'ungry! Wot you're drinlcin' wouldn't
drown
A muskeeter —look at Me now!" They
were beaten by a clown.
And Our Greatest Institutions in our Most
Congested Town !
N.S.W
R. McGED[?]


ous
;
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
m, j
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention—
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing, with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
„ mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that, electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS PROM
The Wesfinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zeala.net Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Sir.'
Fairbanks-Morse
Marine Engines
For Pleasure and Work Boats
Start without cranking, run smoothly, de-
velop full rated power. Simple, compact.
All parts interchangeable. Remarkable for
their reliability and economy. High Speed
Engines, 3*4 to 24 H.P. Slow Speed
Engines, 7 % to 15 H.P.
Ask for Catalog
CY 1939.
Fairbanks-Morse Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or Distillate.
Stationary and Portable sizes, 2 to 200 H.P.
Ask for Catalog AL 19^9.
Fairbanks-Morse Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, .especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery.
Simple, compact. Two sizes. Will operate
windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939
VR.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.,
Chicago, Hi., U.S.A.
AGENTS—
c. H. Relph, Webster 8 Co. Ltd..
Sydney, N.S.W. Brisbane, Queensland.
F.
ype
7^H.P.
Perth, W.A.
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar-
anteed Results, v
ALSO AGENTS FOR—
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
Dewrancs Steam Valves.
Write us for our Complete Catalogue of Engineers’ Supplies.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
331
DIAMOND DRILLING CO
STREET, MELBOURNE.
Melbourne.
■-
Pty.l
COLLINS
Ot/Jrvu.
twMSKuosnn
RUMELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
THE MEDICINE TO BE RELIED OH
is a term which tersely expresses the reputation that has been
achieved by Beecham’s Pills. For upwards of sixty years they have
been highly appreciated by all classes of the community. Multitudes
of men and women in every walk of life ungrudgingly acknowledge
them to be a really reliable remedy for disorders of the stomach, liver
kidneys and bowels. A vegetable preparation skilfully compounded
of tbe finest ingredients, Beecham’s Pills are uniform in standard and
their beneficial effects are invariable. They strengthen the stomach
regulate the action of the liver, eliminate impurities from the blood
and keep the bowels properly regulated. Health and happiness,
vivacity and vitality, a clear head and a good appetite attend those
who, from time to time, take
BCECHAMS
puts
Sold everywhere in boxes, price l/l£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
... AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM. Manager
crs
9S
IS « ’
20th Century Band Saw.
KIRCHNER’S
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS-
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
Where is the Car to Equal
The METZ “22” at £185?
Where'is the car at any price that can do nearly as well? Think of the
economy of it! Think of the saving in cost of running! Think of the
satisfaction of running a car that leaves your mind free to enjoy the pleasure
without bothering about “mileage cost and upkeep.”
Its simplicity captivates everyone who knows anything about thoroughbred
motor-car construction. It certainly will appeal to you, from considerations
quite apart from the price. It is stylish, comfortable and durable —a car
that delivers the maximum of economy and efficiency.
'*■ Investigate. Get the facts, so that you may compare it with cars costing
even twice as much. Details on request, and trial trips to prove it. Price,
£lB5 complete.
BROWN $ HELLICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 4352.
„ o
>■
CO
o
o
<c
o
>
3
as
I Ul
U I <
SUFFERERS from that cruel, stubborn, nerve-
racking, skin disease, ECZEMA, need no longer
face its terrible pangs with doubts or misgivings.
“ISO,” the remarkable Eczema Ointment —the remedy
which has cured scores of cases—is within easy reach
of all. The inventors are Chemists of wide reptile,
practising in your midst, They use “ISO” daily in
treating patients. Write them at once for a free
sample" of “ISO,” enclosing three penny stamps, to
partly cover postage and packing. Their address is:
J. S. BRACK & SONS,
Smith Street, Collingwood, Vic.
Kriischen
/ Salts
Now sold by Chemists tnrougnout cue commonwealth. I
Wholesal3 importers:
H. &W. GREAR, 287, Street, SYDNEY. I
*s . 4 ;{*Y
Band Saws
Circular Saws
Panel Planers
Chain Mortisers
Sanders
3 8 4 Cutter Planers
Spindle Moulders
Tenoning Machines
Dove Tailers
Spare Knives
Spare Parts
\Etc„ Etc.
Only those who live at full stretch can appreciate the
full beauty of a regular recurring idleness. It’s the
busy man who makes the most of his holiday. It*s
the busy man who gets the most out of life.
Same with machinery. Have a full-powered, high-
speed, woodworking machine, and you get infinitely more
out of it than out of the old fashioned variety. And
the same wage-sheet, the same overhead expense will
carry the bigger-profit machine.
If you had your life to live again, you’d cut out some
of the idle hours. You can’t live over the past, but
you can profit by the experience. In the same way you
can start now to get the best out of your business.
Talk the high-speed problem with our experts, and you
will see how easy it is for you to make the change.
i
T. M. GOOD ALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 RENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
A SAVING of W- in ELECTRICITY BILL
WE CAN IMPROVE the Electric Lighting of your store fay 50%,
and show yota a saving of the whole cost of the alterations in J 2
months under the usual conditions of lighting stores.
ALSO, WE CAN GIVE YOD A LIGHT WHICH EXACTLY MATCHES DAYLIGHT.
SEND FOR OUR PAMPHLET ON THIS SUBJECT.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd*
MELBOURNE: 33 William St.
•Phone-City 5117.
SYDNEY: Wynyard lane.
’Phone—City 3520.
BRISBANE: Roma St
’Phone—Cent. 3676.
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walts, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARP IE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
. s
>uS<
WOLFES
a®
m
CONSIDERATION
tw
STEAn ECONOMY
A
A
Sfei -i'-V-
NEWALL’S riAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAH PIPE & BOILER COVERINGS
Ensure the Maximum
Efficiency,
Showing a Saving of nearly 50%
over ordinary coverings.
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PERTH .
NIEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work ,
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Modern Machine shop Equipment-
Sometimes it would be convenient to change the Stroke in your Forging, Welding and Swaging
Work, instead of a long, slow stroke you may need a short, rapid one ; and one of the
exclusive features of
THE ROCHESTER HELVE POWER HAMMER
allows of the LENGTH AND FORCE OF THE BLOW BEING CHANGED INSTANTLY
WHILST THE HAMMER IS RUNNING. This gives complete control, and is indispensable
to the shop where work of various kinds has to be handled on the same machine. NO
OTHER HELVE HAMMER HAS THIS FEATURE.
There are other advantages, too, which our Catalogue fully describes. Write to Sole Agents—
%
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
THfCK SLIME DISCHARGE
I
THE DORRTHICKENER
The only approved mechanical device which will continuously decant
a liquid in a clear state from finely divided material, such as slime or
fine sand, held by the liquid in suspension, and will deliver at the
same tipie the thickened material as fast as it is formed, either
continuously or intermittently as desired.
advantages of dorr thickener.
Small cost of operation and installation—larger capacity and higher
extraction—reduced head room and economy of water.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
N. GUTHRIDGE L™,
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE.
