

THE GENIAL
R. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
KXI ‘LOS 1 V ES, ]', [J ] I J>ER S’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
The HOUSEWIFE WHO NEEDS MONEY
1? r °J er temporary financial troubles will find a loan from us of real convenience. We make conditions HELPFUL
iTTOTPiTTA Prompt advances are made under fair and clearly-defined terms AT THE LOWEST INTEREST IN
Aii a Lioans from io upon >• urmture ("without removal). Jewellery, Deeds of Land, Interests under Wills, etc.
Ail correspondence is treated personally and confidentially by our manager. Write or call for particulars.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. 8 I. Co. Limited
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street 74, Sydney
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
ĥ
Doctors Recommend
CILBEY’S DRY GIN
HOBAR.T.
fiadleys Orient fiotel.
lONEE
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantkkd '
d. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ħ
Pine Apple Brand
**
Take it back.
1 must have—
HUTTON’S
HAMS S
BACON.
BS
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSEN’S
J
unket
h
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
h
BEHSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
to
7
J
m
Would you like a
Home like this ?
It is possible with a White Malthoid Roof. Malthoid
lends itself to artistic treatment and at the same
time is the most dependable roofing made. We have
agents in ail States—get in touch with them.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
CH ALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EX TP. A
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
JKoMVirhie £«
MACHINERY MERCHANTS
352 Kent Street (Near King si) Sydney. n.s.w
Stationary Type/ 1
infflflu
Pfflttn
Reasonable
in Price
Portable Type
Blackgtffngines
All Types & S/z£s kept//v Stock I
HFI mnN SPA
Three reasons whyHELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water:
<- 1.: — 3ai_jtaaid^Baiaaliate
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
o w ‘ - ■
The Bulletin
V01.34— N0. 1723 ]
[Thursday, February 20, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BUSINESS BOOKS.
Practical Publicity, the Art of Advertising. By
Truman A. Beweese, 91- (4d.).
Theory and Practice of Advertising. Bv Walter Dj
Scott 7/6. (4a.).
The Psychology of Advertising. By Walter D. Scott,
7». (4d.).
Practical Salesmanship. By N. 0. Fowler, 5/- (3d.),
Secretary’s Handbook. Edited by H. E. Blain. 4/6.
(3d.).
(Postages are shown in
parentheses.)
Modern Business Training, and the Methods and
Machinery of Business. By J. K. Greeby, 4/6.
(3a.).
Men /q! 1 ? Sell Thinffs- By Walter D. Moody, S/6.
(3d.).
The Power of Advertising. By A. O. Richardson.
7/0. (4d.).
Business Organisation. By L. R. Dieksee. 61- (2d >.
Psychology of Salesmanship. By W. W. Atkinson,
o/- (3d.).
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO, PROP., LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DEATH TO FLIES The New Non-poisonous Powder
I
KILLS
FLEAS
BUGS
FLIES
COCKROACHES
Sold at Chemists'
and Stone,
Tins
9d
forwarded on receipt
of Stamps by tbe
Sole Agrents ‘
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., Limited,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY
T he Red Page
Meredith’s Letters
Despite the reverential worship of the
critic-crowd, the truth is that there is much
that is tedious in any collection of aay man’s
letters. At the best, such a collection is
but a selection of letters; there is thus but
a partial glimpse of the man. And in the
letters selected there is much that requires
explanation, much judiciously omitted. One
has to wade through two volumes of Letters
of George Meredith, collected and edited by
his son, W. M. Meredith (Constable, per
Dymock’s Library, Sydney), to discover
amid their redundancies and surplusage
what the editor has left of Meredith.
But out of the commonplace of correspond-
ence one occasionally has a glimpse of the
man behind the discursive pen, the man at
his ease with his friends, speaking out, care-
lessly and uncouthly, his inner convictions.
But this wheat has to be diligently sought
for among the two volumes of chaff.
Meredith, it has been hinted, had a grave
disagreement with the son of his first mar-
riage, Arthur. The letters that might have
explained the causes of that rupture are not
given. All we have are his letters to his
son while the latter was a school-boy, then
a long silence, and a letter offering recon-
ciliation. So, too, the tragedy ©f his first
marriage is merely hinted at. Not one of
his letters to his first wife is included,
though it is possible, of course, that such
letters had been destroyed. If a volume
such as this is necessary it should he as
complete, as frank, as is compatible with the
fear of libel. The editor anticipates hhis
blame in his preface,' by stating that they
have been printed first and foremost for his
friends, which fact must explain whatso-
ever appears illogical, superfluous and ob-
scure. But the book is not privately printed.
It must be judged from a public standpoint.
So much having been said, it may be
admitted that the letters were worth the
printing, and that from them one may
glimpse, however imperfectly, certain facets
of a remarkable mind not implicit in his
novels or poems. One of these aspects of
Meredith the letter-writer is his love of fun,
his “chaff” for his friends, his riming jests,
his delight in nicknames. Of his love for
Nature, his understanding of Earth, his de-
light in walking, these letters are but con-
firmatory of his works. But his judgment
off contemporaries, delightfully frank, his in-
terest in the world, his love for his friends,
his bitter contempt for his critics —all these
give a new interest to Meredith the man.
And especially is this book valuable in
affording materials for his biography, in
showing us the inner side of his long struggle
to win recognition, and, in his later period,
in indicating the hope he cherished for
humanity and the genial philosophy of his
resignation. It is the picture of a lovable,
straight, fearless man. And the student will
find here Meredith’s private opinion of his
works, and the elucidation of many a point
of obscurity.
From Meredith's Letters
Of His Second Wife.
It is time that your friend should show
you a clean breast. He loves a woman as
he never yet loved, and she, for the first
time, has let her heart escape her... .1 can-
not play at life. I loved her when we were
in Norwich... .1 believe that Ido her good.
I know that she feels it. Me she fills with
such deep and reverent emotion that I can
hardly think it the action of a human crea-
ture merely. I seem to trace a fable thusfar
developed by blessed angels in the skies.
She has been reserved for me, ray friend. It
was seen that I could love a woman, and one
has been given to me to love. Her love for
me is certain. I hold her strongly in my
hand....
My friend, I have written of love, and
never felt it till now. I have much to pass
through in raking up my history with the’
first woman that held me. But I would pass
through fire for my darling, and all that I
have to endure seems little for the immense
gain I hope to get. When her hand rests in
mine, the world seems to hold its breath, and
the sun is moveless. I take hold of Eter-
nity. She is intensely emotional, but with-
out expression for it, save in music. I call
her my dumb poet.
Of Tennyson.
Byron—he’s abused, so I take to him;
and I’m a little sick of Tennysonian green
tea. I don’t think Byron wholesome —ex-
actly, but a drop or two so—eh? And he
doesn’t give limp, lackadaisical fishermen,
and pander to the depraved sentimentalism
of our drawing-rooms. I tell you that “Enoch
Arden” is ill done, and that in 20 years’
time it will be denounced as villainous
weak, in spite of the fine (but too conscious)
verse, and the rich insertions of tropical
scenery....
The “Holy Grail” is wonderful, isn’t it?
The lines are satin lengths, the figures
Sevres china. I have not the courage to
offer to review it, I should say such things.
T© think! —it’s in these days that the fore-
most poet of the country goes on fluting of
creatures that have not a breath of vital
humanity in them, and doles us out his regu-
lar five-feet with the old trick of the vowel
endings—the Euphuist’s tongue, the Exqui-
site’s leg, the Curate’s moral sentiments, the
British matron and her daughter’s purity
of tone: so he talks, so he walks, so he
snuffles, s« he anpears divine Why, this
stuff is not the Muse, it’s Musery. The man
has got hold of the Muses’ clothes-line and
hang it with jewellery.
But the “Lucretius” is grand. I can’t
say how much I admire it and hate the Sir
landarus public which has corrupted this
fine (natural) singer. In his degraded state
I really believe he is useful, for he reflects
as much as our society chooses to show of
itself. .. .Do you care to find the Holy Grail,
Fred? Twenty years ago it would have
excited me. This your foremost poet is 20
years bfchind his time Isn’t there a scent
of damned hypocrisy in all this lisping and
vowelled purity of the Idylls? Well, just as
you like. It’s fashionable; it pleases the
rose-pink ladies, it sells. Enough.
Of His Poems.
As to his poems. I don’t think the age
prosaic for not buying them. A man who
hopes to be popular must think from the
mass, and as the heart of the mass. If he
follows out vagaries of his own brain, he
cannot hope for general esteem. “Modern
Love,” as_ a dissection of the sentimental
passion of these days, could only be appre-
hended by the few who would read it many
times. _ I have not looked for it to succeed.
Why did I write it? Who can account for
pressure?....
As for my poems, I have lost the ardor for
publishing them.... The conditions of sale,
which frown on collections of verse not
offering themselves as appropriate gifts for
the innumerable curate and his bride, are, I
fear, adverse. Poetry in England is required
to have a function of a practical kind, and
t© exercise it. . ..
As to publishing books of verse, I have
paid heavily for that audacity twice in
pounds sterling. I had for audience the bull,
the donkey and the barking cur. ...
Truly, the pass-ion to produce verse in our
region is accursed. I ask myself why I
should labor, and, for the third time, pay to
publish the result, with a certainty of being
yelled at, and haply spat upon, for my pains.
And still I do it. At heart, it is plain, I
must still have a remainder of esteem for
our public; or I have now the habit of com-
position, which precipitates to publishing.
I scorned myself for my folly. Where he can
get no audience a spouting Homer would
merit the cap and be 115....
I read in a critical review of some versed
of mine that I was “a harlequin and a per-
former of antics.” lam accustomed to that
kind of writing, as our hustings orator is to
the dead cat and the brickbat flung in his
face—at which he smiles politely; and I
too; but after many years of it my mind
looks elsewhere.
Of Prose.
Few Englishmen can write a resonant
prose dialogue that is not blatant; and when
avoiding those alarms, they drop to flabbi-
ness. It is merely to say that Style is
rarely achieved here. The prose in Shake-
speare and in Congreve is perfect. They
have always the right accent on their termi-
nations. Apart from drama, Swift is a
great exemplar ; and in his mild,
tea-table way, Addison, follow. Johnson
and Macauley wielded bludgeons; they had
not the strength that can be supple. Gibbon
could take a long stride with the leg of a
dancing master; he could not take a short
one. Matthew Arnold was born from the
pulpit and occupied it, and might have ser-
monised for all time, but that he conceived
the head of the clerk below to be the sconce
of the British public, and that he must drum
on it with an iterated phrase perpetually to
awaken understanding.
From “Letters of George Meredith ”
(2 vols. Constable, per Dymsck’s
Library, Sydney).
—-+
The first number of the British Review
(Williams and Norgate), incorporating the
Oxford and Cambridge Review, gives good
value for its shilling. Compared with the
courageous modernity of the English Re-
view, this rival has a conservative air—the
taint of the universities is still faintly ap*
parent. Its contributors include Tolstoy,
Belloc and the inevitable Chesterton.
Lieutenant-Governor J. H. P. Murray
furnishes in his comprehensive work, Papua
(Unwin, per Lockley Library, Sydney) full
particulars of our great Dependency. His
view-point is that of a tolerant and sane
administrator, equipped with something more
human than the usual official understanding
of the native. The conclusion of the reader
is that in such efficient hands Papua hasth ‘
best chance of development. Also, th. i..
Australia is quite able to breed her
own Their Excellencies. The task of
civilising the hotch-potch of races that in-
habits this section of New Guinea, however,
is a hard one, as may be seen from this
statement of the problem : “When a man has
to hold himself in readiness to fight for his
life at a moment’s notice, and when in addi-
tion he has to get a livings out of the earth
with the aid of tools made of sticks and
stones and shells, supplemented by any fish
or game that he can procure by weapons
made of the same material, and when his
chief amusement consists of head-hunting
and raids on other villages, he is likely to
grow into a rather strenuous person of active
habits; and then, if he is suddenly told that
his life is perfectly safe, and is presented
with implements which will enable him to do
as much in a day as he could do before in a
week, but is told that he must never go on
any more raids and never collect any more
heads, he is likely to fee] a void in his ex-
istence, for his chief occupations will be
gone, and unless something is given to him
with which to fill the void he and his de-
scendants will suffer. This is the case of the
Papuan; we have taken away his old ideals
of war and bloodshed, and it is our duty to
put a new ideal in their place—to substitute
the activity of labor, for that of fighting, and
to transform the tribe of disappointed war-
riors into a race of more or less industrious
workmen.
Gissing in His Books
One who has enjdyed the art of Gissing,
and found fascination in the glimpses it
givea of his personality (surely .better than
full revelations), may be permitted to doubt
whether Morley Roberts was justified in
stripping the corpse in quite .the way de-
scribed on the “Red Page” of January 30.
Since the Roberts book has done this, how-
ever, it is perhaps worth while to indicate
a few of the directions in which one has
often guessed at the relation of the novels to
the character and experience of the man.
(I haven’t seen Roberts’s Private Life of
Henry Maitland, but I have read and re-
read nearly all that Gissing wrote, whether
collected or scattered.)
The heroine of The Unclassed, Ida Starr,
is apparently an idealisation of Gissing’s
first wife, the street girl whom he thought
to reform. Yet so do his portraits mingle
and merge that the awful Harriet Smales of
the novel may be the same woman in cold
reality, older and degenerate. A ‘repetition
of Harriet appears in the short story called
“A Lodger in Maze Pond,” and, like Gissing,
the man who is freed from her by death
rushes soon after into another foolish mar-
riage, this time with a girl who is “respect-
able,” but who is also utterly unsuited to
him. Why ?
“Listen, and I will tell you about it. I
am a fool about women. I don’t know what
it is—certainly not a sensual or passionate
nature; mine is nothing of the sort. It’s
sheer sentimentality, I suppose. I can’t be
friendly with a woman without drifting into
mawkish tenderness —there’s the simple
truth. If I had married happily, I don’t
think I should have been tempted to go
about philandering. The society of a wife I
loved and respected would be sufficient. But
there’s that need in me—the incessant hun-
ger for a woman’s sympathy and affection.
Such a hideous mistake as mine when I
married would have made a cynic of most
men; upon me the lesson has been utterly
thrown away. I mean that, though I can
talk of women rationally enough with a
friend, I am at their mercy when alone with
them—at the mercy of the silliest, vulgarest
creature. After all, isn’t it very much the
same with men in general?”
&
In The Unclassed, Gissing seems to use
Various sides of himself in Osmond Way-
mark, and in the love for classic lands and
lore of that hero’s friend, Julian Casti.
Waymark has that way of making a mess
of his love affairs of the usual self-reflecting
Gissing hero. He has been an atheist and
socialist of the early ’Bo’s (like the respec-
tive heroes of Born in Exile and Demos, and
also like their author), and rails in tne
usual style of Gissiug’s garret heroes and
their parent at the plight of intellect with-
out money, and without the solace of female
beauty and worth :
“Money means virtue; the lack of it is
vice. The devil loves no lurking place like
an empty purse. Give me a thousand pounds
to-morrow, and I become the most virtuous
man in England.... The moneyed man is
the sole king; the herds of the penniless are
but as slaves before his footstool. .. .Even
death he faces with the comforting con-
sciousness that his defeat will only coincide
with that of human science. He buys cul-
ture, he buys peace of mind, he buys love. —
You think not? I don’t use the word cyni-
cally, but in very virtuous earnest. Make
me a millionaire, and I will purchase the
passionate devotion of any free-hearted
woman the world contains!”
A common- note this in Gissing’s novels,
and to appreciate it one must have lived
lonely and poor in cities of wealth, or have
otherwise walked in Hell. Perhaps you have
never been there? What wonder if the in-
tellectual man who has should have his
thoughts turned towards one way of escape,
even pretence? I noted years ago the curi-
ous way in which a number of his plots
turn on the pretences of a sympathy-starved
or money-starved man of intellect, the sell-
ing of a soul for some advantage in life or
love. The hero of Our Friend the Charla-
tan exemplifies this in party politics. And
Godwin Peak, of Born in Exile, takes steps
towards becoming a clergyman, though
really an unbeliever, for the sake of winning
a woman of beauty and refinement; only to
find when too late that her beliefs have
gradually been turning from orthodoxy.
(This, remember, was when Darwin was'
still thought shocking.) Richard Mutimer, of
Demos, uses socialism for his own advan-
tage. Jasper Milvain, of New Grub Street,
turns literary journalist really with a view
to scoring by “what the public wants,”
though with a pretence at giving the real
thing. But, after all, Milvain is the only
one who benefits to the end, so, if 'you like,
you can consider that the working out of
the pretence plots is moral.
Every reader of Gissing must have noticed
how often he brings in food; others before
Roberts have mentioned it, but the food re-
frain is not surprising from a man who had
known what it was to be glad to dine in
London on twopenn’orth of pease-pudding
(vide Ryecroft, The Nether World, etc.),
or in “Troy, U.5.A.,” on peanuts m
Whelpdale, of New Gruh Street)
Well, I’m afraid this hasn’t told l
about Gissing’s books to those who alt?
know them. There are so many more than
those named, and all have so many sides i
them. Even his two or three potboilers
worth half a circulating library of averse
novels, and at least nine of his books a
masterpieces. Read, for a start, Will Wn
burton, The Odd Women, Born in pJv"
New Grub Street, In Jhe Year of JuUle
Henry Ryecroft, Human Odds and Ends—ff
the bookseller can find them for you. “TIT
Day of Silence,” a story in the book last
named, is one of the greatest things in
tragedy ever written. Forced into the slums
he found such pearls in the gutter. ’
NORMAN LILLEY.
The Wowser as hero has arrived in fi c .
tion. John Scarlett, Ganger (Hodder and
Stoughton, per George Robertson, Sydney)
by Donald Maclean, the author of that well-
wrought Australian yarn. The Man from
Cur die's River, is a Y.M.C.A. youth, who
quotes Bunyan, and looks a weed, but he can
swim well enough to rescue the heroine—
for himself, and, according to the author:—
His strength was as the strength of ten
Because his heart was pure. '
However, he is not as bad as that. By the
mistake in a name this innocent clerk is
engaged by the Y.M.C.A. to take charge of
the souls of the navvies at the Seventeen-
Mile Camp while the railway to Powlett
River State coal mine was being hurriedly
built. Though scared by the task, Scarlett
sticks to it, and by a combination of good
luck and doggedness contrives to make good
and, of course, collar the girl. The life at
tlie camp is admirably done, ahd good fic-
tional use has been made of the Australian
environment. But the book is obviously built
on the formula of Ralph Conor, for whose
novels both hero and heroine naively express
a deep admiration. The humor, in so moral
a book, is inevitably strained and false; but
the author’s sincerity and his belief
in Australia strike the right note. The
plot, with its obviously dragged-in res-
cue scene, is trite, and the writing
decorously dull. For Scarlett’s sermon gets
an unabridged report, and Alexander’s
alleged hymns are reverently quoted. Even
Judson appears. But there is a public for
these things ; and the book has its other in-
terests. A fair work-a-day Australian novel.
An admirable Australian novel, built, it is
true, upon the conventional formula, but
accurately “placed” in its Australian en-
vironment, is Mrs. Daskein’s A Desert Rose
(Heinemann, per Dymock’s Library, Syd-
ney). This first novel displays a clear
ability to write the popular novel —the
female of its species. ‘ln this sort of novel
the heroine, who loves one man—usually of
the big, strong, lean, masculine brand—con-
sents under financial pressure to marry the
other man. But the reader is comforted by
the knowledge that the last chapter will do
the fair thing for hero and heroine. In this
novel, the “desert rose,” the adorable Betty,
sacrifices herself, for the necessary number
of chapters, to save her father, a squatter,
from ruin. But, apart from the bare effron-
tery of such a shop-worn plot, A Desert Rose
has claims as a real Australian novel. The
feeling is Australian, the life in the back-
blocks is sincerely pictured, without the
usual exaggeration of pessimism or the
equally ' usual hilarious optimism, the
characters are real human people, limned
with many a deft touch of observation, and
seen through shrewd but genial eyes, and the
sentiment, though occasionally slopping over
from the characters into the author, is not
frantically feminine. Here is a picture of
the bush that is really rather like the real
bush. Mrs. Daskein may go on: she has
started admirably equipped.
Dugald Ferguson, of M.L. (author of
Castle Gay and Other Poems, recently re-
viewed on this page), writes: —
Sir, —I perceive the moral ethics of the “Red Page"
of The Bulletin have undergone no change : for the
better, since—-not sufficed with the vilification of my
colonial novel, Bush Life— and few more popular
works of the kind bear the imprint of eolonial author-
ship—its editor had the cool audacity to cast an
aspersion on my own personality. i.
In the present instance, the sneering reference of
“commonplaces” to the contents of a volume among
which are such poems as “The Lambs,” “The Flag of
Scotland,” “The Battle of Lutzen,” proves you to be
far gone in a bad form of cynicism. And that the
high moral picture of the leading poem must, there-
fore, be alien to your taste I can as readily imagine as
must be abhorrent to your Philistine soul the senti-
ments in the eighth verse of the fourth chapter of St.
Paul’s epistle to the Philippians.
Your knowledge, by your reference to “The Two
Sisters,” that from a* condition of manual toil I have
produced the other works mentioned in mv title
page, and which knowledge seems to give additional
zest to your flippancy, demonstrates that there is not
a particle of true manhood in your composition.
It was only on a friend’s assurance (for I seldom
see your paper) that the former blackguard comments
upon me in your “Red Page” had been succeeded
by a more respectful mention of my name therein
that I again courted the risk of unenviable notoriety
from your coarse lampoons.
But, henceforth, I will simply regard the Sydney
Bulletin as but an unmanly Bully.
Unfortunately the poems mentioned by the
author are too long for reprinting in
and selections therefrom would not be quite
fair to the author.


JL
v
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
ECONOMY IN ELECTROPLATE
tuujts-
No. 1022 —Oak Biscuit
Barrel, mounted Elec-
troplate on Nickel Silver,
Chased Lid, 21/-
m
No. 979 — Toast Back,
Electroplate on Nickel Sil-
ver, 12/3.
Butter Dish, Electroplate on
Nickel Silver, Ohased Design.
8/3.
No. 1072— Flower Vase,
Electroplated on Britannia Metal.
Engraved Glass Vase, 8/-
No. 1024— China Bis-
cuit Barrel, Mounted
Electroplate on Nickel Sil-
ver, Choice Design, 10/6.
No. 1010— Single Jam
I) is h, Electro-Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver
Frame, Colored Glass
Dish, 8/6.
No. 1047 — Oval Entree Dishes,
lOin. Electroplate on Nickel Silver.
56/- pair.
1049 —Oblong Entree Dishes,
Electroplate on Nickel Silver, 10in., Ele-
gant Design, 75/- pair.
ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
... ON ...
Anthony Horderns’ UNIVERSAL Bicycle
Built of B.S.A. Parts and Fitted with Duinlop Tyres.
FRANCIS BIRTLES, the overland cyclist, always rides Anthony
Horderns' UNIVERSAL BICYCLE on his long-distance
journeys all over Australia. Pioneering a‘ route round the
continent — \ 6,500 miles on the one machine—he demonstrated
that the UNIVERSAL BICYCLE is the best bicycle built.
The Universal
Bicycle,
built by Anthony
II ord e r n s’, of
B.S.A. parts, as
ridden by Birtles,
with Eadie Two-
speed Coaster
Hub, free wheel on
both gears, back-
pedalling and
front rim brakes.
Fitted with Dun-
lop Tyres,
£l2/10/-
FRANCIS BIRTLES on the UNIVERSAL Bicycle.
Built at ANTHONY HORDERNS* FACTORY.
The Universal
Bicycle,
built of genuine
B.S.A. parts to
order, or stock
models.
With
Tyres,
Oceanic
£lO.
With
Tyres,
Dunlop
£ll.
With Eadie
Coaster Hub and
Dunlop Tyres,
£ll 10s.
Ladies’ Models,
20/- extra.
Cyclists all over Australia ride the UNIVERSAL Bicycle because it
is a roadster that may be relied upon to give perfect satisfaction.
Write for Bicycle and Sports List—Posted Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR THE
GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor
THE GEM JUNIOR solves the Shaving Problem for the man with a tender
skin or strong beard. It cannot be excelled for easy and luxurious shaving.
There is no risk if you buy a GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor; it makes every
man an expert barber, and is the apex of Razor perfection. Easy, velvet-like
strokes —never a pull, never a scratch, are features of the GEM JUNIOR, which
assures a clean, safe shave.
THE GEM JUNIOR is always ready for use, with a fresh blade for every
day of the week. It is so simple that a novice can use it.
GEM JUNIOR BLADES are as thin as an edge-holding piece of steel can
possibly be rolled. They can be sharpened time and time again, because they’re
tempered to receive an edge and to hold it when they get it. ... ~.
THE GEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new bar feature, which carefully
spreads the skin, so that the stubble is forced out far enough to give as close a
shave as can be secured by going over the face twice with any other razor.
THE GEM JUNIOR SAFETY RAZOR is made and finished in the best
stvle, of the finest materials, and by the Highest Skilled Labor. It comprises
Nickel Plated Frame, Extra Handle for Stropping Blades, and SL\ LN Keen-
edged Blades. Complete in neat Leatherette Case.
Anthony Horderns*
Price
51-
Post Free all over
Australia,
mm
H'nJVMJJE
1
EXTRA BLADES, 2|l per Packet of 7,
Post Free.
Gem Palace Safety Razor
An Edition de Luxe of the Gem
Junior. Handsomely finished, triple
silver plate, with twelve special blades
for heavy beards. The GEM PALACE
makes an ideal present for any man.
Price 12/6; By Post, 13/-
Extra Blades, 2/3 per Packet of 6 ;
by Post, 2/4.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
For Watches and Jewellery
Send for Illustrated Price List of Jewellery, post free on
request. It will prove a Saver of Sovs.
_ THE CELEBRATED UNI OPEN-FACE
WATCH, with f-plate, Keyless Lever move-
ment; ten jewels, and compensation balance.
The UNI is specially constructed to stand
hard wear, with a dust-proof case. It is
thoroughly accurate and reliable, and is the
best value for the money south of the Line.
KEYLESS WATCH,, J-plate, compensation
balance; fully jewelled; perfectly timed and
adjusted. Enamelled dial, dust-proof case.
Guaranteed.
PRICE 25/-
*T“v
£
N
fyM?
THE UNI SIRDAR
is a good, strong,
knock-about keyless watch. It has a non-
magnetic, keyless movement; fully jewelled ;
compensating balance. It is a thoroughly
dependable and accurate watch. Guaran-
teed.
All Watches are timed and adjusted before
being despatched from our establishment.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
vm
Q
n
“New
■ t
Shotgun
Rival”
Cartridges
There is economy in making cartridges out of paper, but
paper cartridges are liable to be affected by so many condi-
tions that great care should be taken in their selection. You
are perfectly safe in buying Winchester “New Rival” shot-
gun cartridges, as these cartridges are made according to
correct principles. The paper is manufactured specially and
made into cartridges by automatic machinery, which insures
correct size and compression. They are then waterproofed
by a process which absolutely excludes moisture of whatever
nature. The loading is all done by automatic machinery,
infinitely more certain than human hands, and only standard
brands of powder, shot and wadding are used. The primer
is sure and quick, and that corrugation around the head —a
patented feature allows for expansion and prevents the head
from pulling off. “New Rival” shotgun cartridges are
made in various gauges suitable for all kinds of shotguns
and are blue in color. They are made strong to permit reloading.
FOR SAFE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE
1
ft
%
S'**
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
• tHat is all
that is needed
to start or stop the patent
I . Pi
AUIOMMief ELECTRIC LIGHTING aw/PUMPING
INSTAELATION
SIMPLE - EFFICIENT
NO COSTLY ACCUMULATORS
PRACTICALLY NO ATTENTION
FOUR
HIGHEST
AWARDS
So/e Makers.
R.A.Lister‘Cvl t p
Durslev. Glos.
3
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System—Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessary; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas, acetylene, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights,
fans, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and other
machines.
Is absolutely safe and reliable; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS.
r/ AGENTS—
New South Wales: W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD., 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Victoria: SUTHERLAND 8 ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
When We Say
we have the best Steam Engine on Earth, or for that matter anywhere
else,
WE KNOW WHAT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT.
Marshall’s Steam Engines
represent the WORLD’S STANDARD MANUFACTURE.
60,000 satisfied customers say so, and, bear in mind,
“THEY’RE NOT ALL FOOLS.”
4
Light and Heavy Pattern TRAC-
TIONS.
OIL TRACTORS for dry districts.
MARSHALL’S World-famed
PORTABLES, 2 to 40 h.p.
Horizontal and Vertical STA-
TIONARY.
Vertical and Colonial Type
BOILERS.
Cash or Liberal Terms.
Catalogues Free.
WASTING TIME.
ill
m
Probably more time is annually wasted with
faiulty Oil Engines than with any other
power.
“Time is money”—so why waste time in
using an unreliable Engine.
Let us send you a catalogue explaining fully
the merits of
The “Big Chief”
Everywhere Acknowledged
“America’s Champion.”
T, hi l E T^ i^ 1 h °P?® r *® ooled J fitted with Wizard Magneto Extended Crank
Shaft, Double Fly Wheels and Muffler.
USES KEROSENE OR BENZINE AS FUEL.
Write to us for advice before placing your order elsewhere
Catalogues Free. Very Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
l6l Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
Gerald Longson and “Van Eck” Parks have drawn
out of the proposed Adelaide theatrical monthly.
However, Lipman, who is financing the venture, wll
go through with it. The title is to be The Call-
Boy.
*** * .
A new Socialist weekly is coming out in London,
with Bernard Shaw and Sidney Webb as its leading
pen-pushers. The name proposed is the Statesman,
long the style and title of a leading Indian journal.
Its price is to be 6d., and it will specialise in litera-
ture as well as Fabian politics.
* * * »
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s poems are everybody’s pro-
perty now, their copyright having expired. One
London publisher already announces an edition in
336 pages, with “12 stirring illustrations in color by
Capt. G. D. Giles” —ss. in buckram ; 7s. 6d. in
Persian velvet.
* * * *
Isidore Kozminsky, of Melbourne, who is some-
thing of an authority among archeologists and anti-
quarians, has lately achieved a book dealing with the
ancient values Of words and letters. William Rider
and Sons, London, are the publishers. The author’s
method of applying this knowledge to the nam» «
persons, cities, ships, etc., is interesting and :
O’Malley puts a title to the Federal capital befnw 5 s
has studied Isi. Kozminskv’s book, he will r |n il
unmade city a grave injustice. uo ttlat
* * *
They are fond of little journalistic jokes in Pa •
Paul Clandel scored a big success there with a Ch • '
mas play. Thereupon one of the papers announced
that it would next day print “some selecting
one of the recent literary productions of pi
Olandel.” The selections duly appeared all ahi
the prices of leather, hides and tallow The 0 ,,„ ou
ful playwright is a French foreign consul who S
just pushed in a report on the state of trade ,
little bit of the earth which France pays hfint
watch. n t 0
* * * *
The new Governor of the State of New York Wi
liam Sulzer, dispensed with all the customary ’nnm
at his inauguration. He quietly walked to the Wi?
lative Chambers, took the oath without any show f
millinery, and then addressed his old newsnano 01
reporter colleagues this way: “There has been wl
much circumlocution as regards the relationshm
the State’s Chief Executive to the Press and* th
public. I want you boys to regard my room as on®
to you at all times, because you are really repress
tatives of the people. It will be unnecessary to reaoh
others before reaching me ; the door will be onen at
all times for the reporter. I will answer all th
questions that I can. There may be some that I m
find it inadvisable to answer; if so, I will sav «
and will not be evasive about it.’’ Then he went ™
into personal matters, and concluded with the remnrL
that his name was still Bill.
* * *
“J.F.H.”: At the last moment the Times and Daiiy
Telegraph fell into line, so that for the first tin,
within the memory of living man. London had nn
newspapers on sale on Christmas Day, and the new,
agents had their shutters up. It is true the Tim
was printed as usual, but it was not on sale tk
proprietors felt themselves under an obligation ti,
produce a paper for the regular subscribers, and thw
posted it to them; but doubtless next Christmas thi
limes people will discover that their regular s,ih
scribers can manage to survive without a paper
Christmas Day. The Federation of Wholesale New?
agents carried a resolution strongly in favor nf7£
reform, and although they did not say so point blank
they hinted pretty broadly that they would not
handle any newspapers on Christmas Day for th*
future No doubt it was this that brought about
lJn , anu V! ty - Now the Rev. R. J. Campbell
of the London City Temple, says: “I hope in future
years the concession will be extended to Boxing Dav
as well, so that editors, writers and printers mav also
have a rest on Christmas Day itself.” y aBO
* * * *
“Looking Backward”: Among some early Maori
land records 1 find a copy of a Sydney Government
order which seems to have interfered with a pro
mising industry. It was issued from the Colonial
Secretary s Office on April 16, 1831, and states that
steps are to be taken to prevent the “inhuman and
disgusting traffic in human heads at New Zealand”
The Excellency of the time (the gentle Ralph Dar-
ling) expressed a hope that “those possessing human
heads recently brought from New Zealand by the
schooner Prince of Denmark will immediately deliver
them up, to be restored to the relatives of the
deceased parties to whom the heads belonged.” But
t °° 1 k a lot niore than this proclamation to kill the
head-hunting profession. When Samuel Leigh went
on his Methody mission to Maoriland one of his
earliest experiences was a visit to a head-shop in a
Maori village. The intelligent and obsequious shop-
walker informed him how much per capita his
wares were, and offered him a reduction if he took
a quantity. Leigh did no business, so the goods
were sold later to a ship captain. It does not
appear that any white men were punished for their
part in the trade. The heads were embalmed in a
style described as perfection, all tattoo marks being
preserved. It is alleged that prisoners were treated
to special courses of tattooing, and kept until the
marks were healed. Their heads brought high prices,
this kind being regularly recognised on the market
as A 1 grade. You can still see some of them in
respectable museums in Europe and ’Murka
WHEN MIGGLES ALSO SPOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Miggles, M.L.A., also spoke.
—Newspaper report.
He rose up in his place, to talk—he got up, and he
spoke....
For all we know, when he began applausive thunders
woke
Loud echoes, with a burst of cheers —we cannot
vouch for that.
Perhaps his hearers yelled at him: “Yer torkin’
through yer hat!”
It may be that he belted Truth home with a master-
stroke ?
We do not know —we simply learn that Miggles also
spoke.
Perhaps he gained in speed and force, and bounded
as he went
Clean up among the rosy clouds of platform-senti-
ment ;
It may be that, with rhetoric disguising simple guff,
He bore his audience along on floods of bounce and
bluff.
He was impressive, hey ? Or p’r'aps a gaudy plat-
form-joke ?
We know not. Yet we know enough—that Miggles
also spoke.
Perhaps his hearers cheered; perhaps the speaker
merely flung
Bright pearls of flashing language unresponsive pork
among;
Perhaps in clear, compelling tones he got it off his
chest,
Or, pallid, mumbled out his piece, by platform-fears
possessed ;
Mayhap he raised a mighty voice, or merely rose to
croak ?
Can’t say! Dunno! We simply learn that Miggles
also spoke.
He also spoke—and it is not for kindly souls to gaze
Upon the orator next mom ; to note his grim amaze,
And with the eye of faith to see the unreported one
Just go off pop like any other wrathful Adam’s son—-
To watch him rive the rag in twain and wish its
owners broke
Which dams his flowing speech with “Mister Miggles
also spoke.”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR -
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
h
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sol* Agent*. ALLAN V CO., P'ty. Ltd.. 276 8 Collin* St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
A GREAT riUSICAL INNOVATION.
ijf2>Sy2l2JSfi
IKTEBCHH« e * OLE fS/\ND
parts
ALBERT’S SYSTEM
MAI, » filed
Reeds
Two more (new) “Boomerang”
Mouth Organ Types, the “ Boom-
erang Grand ” (48 Reeds), Price
6/6 (New); the “Miniature
Grand ” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New)
—Post Free to any address.
These two new types possess already the great superiority of the “Boomerang” Mouth Organ
tonality, but being tuned to the grand concert pitch, and provided with extra reeds, they at
once raise their bewitching harmony above the best reed-combination. The sweetness and body
of resonance emanating from the “BOOMERANG GRAND” can only be equalled by the tuneful
combination of the Harp and Flute. Try one, and the “BOOMERANG GRAND” will become your
inseparable companion. Try the 6/6 one for preference.
Wholesale and Retail from J. ALBERT & SON, 137 King Street, Sydney.
(Remit by Australian or N.Z. Postage Stamps.)
\\\ \ \//SS'
m
Lime -Fruit Juice.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by til loading Storekeepers.
ĥ
REMINGTON
UMC
Why You Should
Use THIS BRAND
OF CARTRIDGES.
REMINGTON
UMC
They will not ** lead up ” or damage your rifle*
Shoot with extreme accuracy and uniformity*
There is no wastage due to misfires.
Every cartridge in every box a good one*
They cost no more than inferior makes.
Remington-UMC '22 Long Rifle “ Lesmok ”
for Outdoor Target Practice.
Remington-UMC ’22 Long Rifle “ Lesmok " or
Smokeless,
for Indoor Long Ranges.
Remington-UMC '22 Short “ Lesmok ” or Smokeless
for Short Ranges.
Remington-UMC 22 Short, Long or Long Rifle
Hollow Point “ Lesmok ”
for Rabbit or Small Game Shooting.
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Australian Representative : D. D. BRYANT. Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
T NSULATE your foundation against the dampness of the soil by coating
the walls and floors with Congo Damp Course. This dense, waterproo
fabric can be buried in wet ground without the slightest danger of deteriora-
tion. It will keep the walls perfectly dry and will also repel vermin, ants, etc.
Any man can apply it properly. It is made in seven different widths to suit
all sorts of conditions. Sample on request.
Australian Agents Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Melbourne),
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Reid & Co., Ltd., Rockharnp ,
Elder Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide; Millars' Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth; William
Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jnr., Hobart.
_ « • II If " 11 *1
I
Congo
Damp COURSE
THE Best Stories written by Australian
Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
WOLF
Patent Superheated Steam
Semi-Portable Locomobile
: 4 . , / !v, I ■ j -h
Two WOLF Tandem Compound Condensing Superheated
Steam Locomobiles, each 215=320 h.p.
The Coal Con-
sumption of
Standard Engine
is 078911). per
B.H.P. per hour
—the World’s
Record in
Economy.
■
V-
j :
13»
MM
£iS£
m wr
Official Test of a WOLF 800 h.p. Compound Condensing
Superheated Steam Locomobile.
these plants has been in use for over SO YEARS, and one in the Commonwealth
has been working for over 20 YEARS, both still giving excellent results.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue to the Australian Representatives—
LTD.
&
HAES
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GOOD, STRONG. CLOSE SHOOTERS. Guaranteed for Quality.
STEVENS
SINGLE BARREL
SHOT CUNS.
h
Choke bored for nitro powder.
Case-hardened frame. For any standard make of
ammunition. Made in 12, 16 and 20 gauges in standard lengths and weights.
Ask your dealer. Insist on STEVENS. Every gun tested.
Write for Catalogue and detailed information to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.
Box 86 C.P.0., ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA. [1
ĥ
ħ
STONEHENGE
suggests vast strength
and solidity, qualities
which have been evinced
in a remarkable degree
in the Tyres manu-
factured by The Avon
India Rubber Co., Ltd.,
and which explain the
origin of the Avon
trade mark.
Their great factory at Melksham, near
Stonehenge, in Wiltshire, England, is
unexcelled throughout the world for
modernity and perfection of equipment,
and every tyre produced is an embodi-
ment of the finest skill and experience
applied to the highest grades of material
AVON TYRES
The British tyres that rule the road and give sound service longest.
1U
AVON
Trade Mark.
Other
Specialities
of this Firm
include :
Mechanical Rubber
for Railways.
Avon Buffer and Draw-
bar Springs, Brake
Materials, Body
Fittings, Valves, Hose
etc., specially adapted
for use in the tropics.
Contractors to the
principal State Rail-
ways.
Cycle and Motor
Cycle Tyres.
With special rubber
treads in several
grades, made specially
to withstand the effects
of hot oiimates.
For Motor Cycle Cover*.
Clinched-on. A special
combination of Rubber
and Steel Studs placed
alternately round the
tread. Hexagon
rubber-studded, round
rubber - studded and
fluted patterns. Thick
tough treads and extra
strong casings.
Solid Tyres for Motors, So.
Avon Band Tyres for
passenger ’busses and
other heavy vehicles.
Clinched-on sections
from 2s-in. to 5-in.,
suitable for the lighter
type of motor vehicles
up to a-ton vans. Solid
tyres for Carriages,
Cabs, Rickshas, &c.
Qoif Balls.
Made up on a special
centre which forms the
nucleus tor the winding
of Para tape. This
arrangement produces
a ball which dies very
true and is especially
suitable for expert
players.
Avon Ball, 2/« each.
Nova Ball, 1/3 each.
AVON INDIA RUBBER CO., LTD.,
MELKSHAM, ENGLAND. =
Branches at London, Bristol, Birmingham. Manchester and Glasgow.
Cable Codes: " A.B.C. sth Edition ” and “ Western Union/'
Stockist:
H. 0. PANNIFAX, Melbourne.
h
MARK
Hade in
England
Underwear
AR
3avaj.
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and uEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE * BIRD MARK * MERINO UNDERWEAR
QUIRK’S AIR CAS
Interior of Quirk’s Factory, showing Machines in course of construction
We Manufacture 2 Machines every day.
Over 1200 Machines already installed in Australia
ONE OF HUNDREDS OF TESTiMONiALS : Talbragar, Dubbo, Jan. 6, 1913.
Dear Sirs, —It is now about four months since your Air Gas Machine was installed in my
residence. Its efficiency has exceeded all expectations; for light, economy, cleanliness, as well as
for cooking purposes, it is the best that I know of. My 20-Light Machine provides sufficient
light for all purposes, in addition to supplying gas for the stove. To be able to do all cook-
ing by gas in a country home at a moderate cost is a convenience that must appeal to anyone
making a gas installation, especially when domestic help is at such a premium. Wishing you
all the success that your machine merits. —I am, yours faithfully, (Sgd.) F. 0. WAKE.
Directors:
Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, K. 8., M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HAIN, Esq.
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
Write for Catalogue giving full particulars
Messrs. QUIRK’S LIGHTING
and ENGINEERING LTD.,
548=550 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
68 Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
117 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
116 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, Q.
Dalgety & Co.,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6.
New. 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/” Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
BOOKS FOR HOME
BUILDERS AND
CARPENTERS
• Artistic
Homes, 250 Perspective
Views and Floor Plans,
280 pages (Bin. x llin.),
5/4 ; Artistic Bungalows,
208 Views, 5/4 ; Cement
Houses: How to Build,
5/4; Garages: How to
Build, 5/4; Cement: How
to Use It, 5/4 ; Practical
Carpentry, 2 vols., 600
pages, 400 illustrations,
10/6 ; Steel Square and Its
Uses, 2 vols., 600 pages,
10/6 ; Hand saws and
Their Uses, 2/8; How to
Mix Paints, 2/8.
EOt~ AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous
ĥ
Multiplying-and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Pull In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T wo - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d,;
post free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
ħ
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s Birmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Pitman’s Commercial Encyclopaedia
and Dictionary of Business.
Edited by J. A. SLATER, 8.A., LL.B.
(London), assisted by upwards of 50
specialists, as contributors. Profusely illustrated. In 4 vols., each 450 pp. Grown 4to, Cloth 30/-
net (7/6 net per vol.) ; half-leather, 42/- net (10/6 net per vol.).
Complete prospectus post free of all principal Sydney booksellers.
London t SIR ISAAC PITMAN & .SONS, LTD., 1 Amen Corner, E.C.
Use a Disinfectant daily
in hot weather.
Disease germs breed at a most prolific rate in hot
weather. Fever will seize a whole family before a doc-
tor can arrive. How much better is it to observe
hygienic laws and prevent the growth of infectious
bacteria by using an efficient disinfectant.
The guaranteed
disinfectant of
unrivalled strength.
is inexpensive— one gallon makes
400 gallons of efficient disinfecting
fluid. It is the pioneer high power
germicide. Officially adopted
throughout the British Empire.
Writ# for Fro* Booklet: “Practical Diiinfection.”
Agmts 1
T. K. STEANES,
37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Mixes equally well
in salt, brackish,
or fresh water.


Ayer f s
Hair |
Vigor 1
I What does it do? It makes
the hair soft and glossy, pre-
cisely as nature intended. It
cleanses the scalp from dan-
druff, and thus removes one of
the great causes of baldness. It
makes a better circulation in
the scalp, and thus greatly pro-
motes growth. And it stops the
hair from coming out. But it
never affects the color. Consult
your doctor; follow his advice.
Falling hair is sometimes caused
by impure blood or weak nerves.
Then constitutional treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is necessary.
This local and constitutional treat-
ment will surely bring prompt results.
Prepared by SB. J. C. AYER & CO..
X>oweii. Mass., XT. S. A.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210. Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
A&?
#
Demand
%
as
Burkes
a£f tx IRISH |
U/hiske
I
The World-wide
Whiskey
IY CENUj
HLM B(AKIf
OUR
V'-i
m
ur
A.WV
:\?IAL c
Fine Oid IrishWh ISK'EJf
Bottled, Corked & Capsule bjj' “ T
fy> Ab*olwUr/ \i
~ 7-94 HE QUAUTV THIKK/CMOUT *** W
eo WMOBrJWIH t »f 0^ p
£if Exquisitely mellow,
W delicate in flavour,
light and digestive.
I E. & J. Burke, Ltd., Dublin.
| Capital £1,100,000. Est. 1849.
H By far the largest Shippers
of Bottled Whiskey M
from Dublin -
best
NATURAL
h
aperient
WATER
Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
, ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.' N.S.W.
(1405.)
«w
THIKT WOMEN *
A thin woman is not necessarily plain, let alone ugly. In
fact, many thin women possess very pretty, “sweet faces,” but
this is usually admitted with the qualifying phrase, “but,
poor thing, she is so dreadfully thin.
A woman’s chief charm is a well-rounded figure and a full
bosom. With these, thin arms and hollow cheeks are a rarity.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages of ill-health have
sought and accepted this advice, and to-day are models of
womanly development and examples of perfect health.
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Palliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect flesh-builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week.
We want you to know just what “Flesh-Food” is. and will
gladly give you a free sample. Send 2d. stamp, and let us
k forward a free trial sample and our instructive book. “Flesh-
P Food” is put up in tablet form, and can be secretly taken if
desired. All correspondence is confidential and private, and all
our literature is sent closely covered and free from observa-
tion. Write at once. It is absolutely Free.
FAEEIERE FI.ESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street Sydney (rear Equitable Fife Building).
f
MR. O. VEC SET.
Fatal Varicose Veins
Varicose Veins cause a great deal more misery than is generally
suspected, and frequently their presence proves fatal when they look the
least likely to give trouble.
THE VECSEY METHOD
of treatment quickly
and permanently elim-
inates the worst cases, and cures permanently the various symptoms pro-
duced by them. A home treatment, to be used without laying up, its
action quickly overcomes the trouble, and makes old legs as good as
new.
FREE BOOK. FREE CONSULTATION.
Send 2d. stamp for our free book, which gives full particulars, or call
for consultation. Diagnosis and advice FREE. Send, write or call to-day.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street . Sydney.
ĥ
It is so easy to
get exactly the
colours you want.
Simply ask the painter which of Berger*
Paints is best for your purpose—get free
colour cards from the local Berger Agent
—and the colour you select from the
card is the colour that goes on the
work. Order the same name or number
again next time and you get the same shade
Neither in colour nor in quality
is there any variation in
MS
ti
On sale throughout the Commoncjeaffh..
For name of Focal agent send a post card to
ti? Lewis Berger & Sons (Australia) Ltd.,
W 18, YOUNG STREET. SYDNEY.
(WHOLESALE ONLY?
ħ
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. 0,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY :• John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, anil SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women dr children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE
THE WINSLOW CO..
349 Collin»-et., Melbourne, Vic.
Big Stocktaking Sale.
GREAT REDUCTION IN PRICES.
D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock, 12-gauge. Usual price, £3/17/6.
SALE PRICE, £2/17/0. COMPLETE
WITH CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
Special D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, fitted with
Greener patent crossbolt, top lever, automatic
patent safety treble grip. Usual price, £9.
REDUCED TO £7. COMPLETE WITH
CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
5.8.8. L. Gun, with top lever, choke bore, nicely
figured walnut stock, pistol grip. Usual price,
£2. SALE PRICE, 25/- COMPLETE
WITH CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
Special D.8.8.L. Pigeon Gun, with bar and rebound-
ing lock snap action, left barrel full choke, right
modified, nicely figured walnut stock, hammers
below line of sight, fitted with Greener patent
crossbolt. Usual price, £6. SALE PRICE,
£4/4/- COMPLETE WITH CLEANING AP-
PARATUS. TRIAL.
Mauser Principle Rifles, to kill at 200 yards, to take
22 long and 22 short cartridges. Usual price,
£l/1/-. SALE PRICE, 15/-
All orders for Guns or Rifles delivered CARRIAGE
PAID to any address in the Commonwealth.
SEND FOR OUR SPECIAL PRICE LIST.
Small Arms Co.,
IMPORTERB,
242-244 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6&.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Ballad of Triumphant Indigence.
P inancial complications dog my steps;
■My creditors are numerous as flies;
W ritters and suchlike legal demireps
I ervade my haunts with shifty, avid
eyes;
Mishaps encompass me about like smoke,
Intolerable griefs are always near—
Chiefly because I was so very broke
I lost the girl whom I adored last year.
There was a ghastly period of pain
When all of me seemed one vast aching
heart;
W T hen Sleep, the anodyne, was sought in
vain,
And women, drink, the drama, books and
Art
All failed most signally to bring me peace.
Each jealous surmise, ev’ry racking fear
Proved true before my anguish had sur-
cease.
I lost the girl whom I adored last year.
I do not sorrow now by day or night.
Far from it. Passion’s blinkers being off
I view the lady in another light.
I am enabled cheerfully to scoff
At my past miseries. Dull, selfish, vain
And hard she seems that once I held so
dear,
And I am glad (Illusion being slain)
I lost the girl whom I adored last year.
L’Envoi.
Poverty, people talk of you with blind,
Insensate hate, and shun you like the
deuce;
Yet are you often harsh but to be kind.
Plach deadly shaft you level has its use.
What though the world refuses you your
due!
To me, henceforth, a friend you will
appear.
If only for the reason that, through you,
I lost the girl whom I adored last year.
N.S.W
10-2-4.
On the Mash.
Lulu’s laughter fills her throat;
Lulu’s on the mash ;
Lulu knows the game by rote —
Thus she “makes a splash.’’
Wears her cheap but stylish clothes
With a queenly grace;
On her breast a scarlet rose,
Matching lips of scarlet, blows
’Mid soft folds of lace.
Lulu wears her big, hat
When she’s on the mash,
Big bows on her shoes, and that
Black and amber sash.
Making eyes and dimpling cheeks
Every now and then,
White teeth gleaming when she speaks,
Brown eyes dancing while she seeks
Eyes of captive men.
Lulu keeps her beaux at bay
When she’s on the mash ;
Frowns and pouts red lips when they
Grow too bold and rash!
On the Block at Manly Beach,
Lulu smiles aside
When bold eyes of men beseech,
When they murmur, “She’s a peach—
Bit ov style ’n’ pride!”
Lulu’s full of mystery;
When she’s on the mash
Lulu’s charm and modesty
Boldest men abash !
Youth and love of conquest blent
Brim her heart, a-flood
With a fugitive content,
And a dash of devilment
Tingles in her blood!
Lulu’s dreams are all romance;
When she’s on the mash
Love may come her way by chance —-
Fix her in a flash !
In her eyes a wistful smile
Challenges the men,
On her face no trace of guile—
“ She’s a pretty bit ov style!”
Greets her now and then.
Never doubting God or P ate,
When she’s on the mash
Lulu seeks her destined mate —
“Don’t she cut a dash !”
In her cheap but dainty clothes;
Lure of men’s desire,
In her heart, red as the rose,
Wildly, passionately glows
Love’s compelling fire!
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
The Love of Life.
As a dead man, cold and pallid.
As a drowned man shoreward borne,
They took me from the sea’s grip
In the red, angry morn.
It was little that I thanked them
As I lay agasp for breath ;
I had rather that they left me
To my cold, wet death.
Then they piled a fire of driftwood,
And they made my body warm ;
But my soul was chilled with thinking
Of the night’s black storm.
Oh. they did not guess (how could they?)
Why I trembled so and paled ;
But they soothed me softly, saying
’Twas my hurt bones that ailed.
Had they seen it as I saw it, .
Would the sight have made them wise?
With my fist-bruise on its forehead,
And its wild, wide eyes.
For the Love-of-Life is cruel.
And ’twill fight a selfish fight,
When the howling sea is hungry
In the pitch, black night.
Oh I wish it were my dead self
That the sea had shoreward borne,
When they took me from its wet grip
In the red, angry morn.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE SEWING MACHINE THAT SATISFIES!
The “ NEW CENTURY.
The
Improved
NEW CENTURY
————— —
The Machine of the Day.
Strong, Durable, Light=running, Silent, Highly Ornamental as well as
Extremely Useful.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS OR FOR SPOT CASH.
The 44 NEW CENTURY'' is the most up-to-date of American Machines—hence the name “NEW CENTURY." Expert Machinists
state they do not know of one thing that could be added to improve either the sewing or enduring qualities of the “NEW CENTURY"
Strong Enough to Last an Averag'e Lifetime.
Machine.
It is impossible for you to do better! The best repays you in the end, and the “New Century” is our Very Best.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE and BOOK OF INSTRUCTION AND INFORMATION.
Marcus Clark & Co. Ltd.,
Central Square,
George Street, Sydney.
TO DISCRIMINATING SMOKERS.
The Famous POT POPRRI
For Pipe Smokers—POT POURRI TOBACCO
’ The Finest Blend ot Tobacco
Produced in the World.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; lib. Tins, 8/-
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
For Cigarette Smokers—POT POURRI CIGARETTES
TURKISH— SO for 4/6, postage 4d. extra; 100 for 9/=, postage 6d. extra.
VIRGINIA— IOO for 4/9, postage 6d. extra ; 1000 for 45/=, postage 1/6 extra.
r * Send for my Illustrated Catalogue, post free
A A, MARKS 376 George Street, SYDNEY.
inis
BEftVJTIFiJL
riETAL (
• wunKßLscn
CEILING
>2B
&
■
rn,ir,-,T^
r-
i
/
=k
ft
St
f
E/?
rOR THE DlMiriO - ROOM
THE Dining. Room —probably the most used room in the house —
merits exceptional care in treatment. Select Wunderlich Metal
Ceilings and Wall Linings and you ensure a Beauty, Comfort,
“ Convenience and Economy not obtainable with other materials
—a beauty due to the supreme attractiveness of the Wunderlich designs
—a comfort that results from the fireproof and hygienic qualities of
Wunderlich Metal—a convenience in that they are dust-proof and easily
kept clean—an economy both in first cost and in maintenance cost, for
once installed Wunderlich Metal will last a lifetime without repairs.
Catalogue on Request. Estimates on receipt of size of rooms.
Wunderlich Metal Manufactures for Building Purposes include Metal Shopfronts,
Letters, Signs, Nameplates, Metal Roofing, Skylights, Ventilators, Turrets!
Dormers, etc., Verandahs, Awnings, Balcony and Bay Windows.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
HOBART, LAUNCESTON; and at WELLINGTON, N.Z.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
HALL EY
Motor Lorries
Save Time and Make Money
Because they are much faster than any other form of road transport—
because they reach the market, and the individuals so much quicker—“ Ha-
lley’s” improve your business. Fast delivery often means better prices. It
certainly means satisfaction to all concerned.
Halley Motor Lorries are cheaper to run per mile than horse teams.
And when not in use they cost nothing ‘for keep, and need the least possi-
ble amount of looking after.
Carrying Capacity: 1 Ton to 6 Tons
They are SIMPLE, ACCESSIBLE and EASY OF CONTROL. They
enjoy the greatest freedom from breakdown. Special Award and Gold and
Silver Medals have been granted the “Halley” for these all-important
features.
Any Type of Body Fitted
Write for fullest details-posted free. Any trial or demonstration
arranged.
i
DALGETY ®. CO. Ltd.
Motor Oarage : 136-138 Phillip St., Sydney.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-
Belleville, Napier, Bulck, Lacre Lorries
and Halley Lorries.
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE:
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-
Belleville, F.N., Cutting, Halley Lorries
and Lacre Lorries.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi» 34.—N0. 1723.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1913.
Pkicb 60.
AT THE POLE.
THE WHITE MEN WHO DARED, AND
AND THE BROWN PERSONS WHO DIDN’T.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . .. . . 013 6
Quarterly. . . . .. . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques., Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Mapager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin/-’ is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Pfilitical, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 5 85
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon.- — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
j/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, 6%in.
x llfinand gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) :-—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands. 10oz.. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bioz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 12oz. 3d.; elsewhere, ioz. Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
jTurfyxzlleZx/ri.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1913.
FRENZIED FINANCE AND MAD
FINANCIERS.
This maddened country is still following
the downward track as regards its finances,
and though the Jew at the other end of the
deal is steadily putting up interest rates on
the spendthrift at this end, there is no sign
of returning sanity. In fact, there is rather
a tendency to put on an .extra spurt as the
animal turns into the straight and the win-
ning post of insolvency comes in sight. These
days there is a sense of loss and vacancy—
a feeling as if an old friend had vanished
from his usual haunts —when the morning
paper doesn’t mention that some fool Trea-
surer! or another has applied to his ancient
ally, 'Bull-Goiienstein, for a little more
accommodation, and is getting it at 4 per
cent, subject to a heavy discount. The day
of 3 and per cent, loans has passed away,
and this country’s rocky credit is back
where it was in the earlier times when it
was little known and consequently little
trusted. Now it is well known, and conse-
quently not too well trusted. During the
last financial year—the one which ended on
June 30, 1912 —the six States got through
£16,325,177 of loan money, and including
Maoriland the aggregate Australasian I O U
was over £20,000,000. This was heroic in
its way, but it is nothing compared with the
prospective total for the current financial
year. New South Wales supplies the most
exciting element in the case. It is blessed
with a Government which clambered pon-
derously into office on its solemn promise to
reduce loan expenditure, then standing at
the comparatively moderate figure—at least
it looks comparatively moderate now —of
3| millions per annum. It was as absolutely
committed to this as to any other feature of
its programme. Last financial year the
same gang of political pirates ran the loan
outgoings up to £5,491,103, and this year
they bid fair to reach £9,000,000. And the
McGowen Ministry shows no shame for this
monstrous fraud and deception—possibly
because it doesn’t know how. Quite a num-
ber of people don’t know how.
* * * *
The interest bill of N.S.W. increased by
£1,101,545 per annum between June, 1901,
and June, 1912, and at the latter date it
reached £8,531,528. In the same period the
interest bills of all the other States put to-
gether grew by only £1,190,707. By next
June the yearly Cornstalk tribute to Cohen
bids fair to reach nearly £3,900,000, which
is a hefty burden and requires a lot of
carrying. On the other hand, N.S.W.’s ac-
cumulated sinking fund is only about half
that of Victoria and one-fifth that of Wes-
tralia. Out of £5,843,542 of sinking funds
which had been got together to counterbal-
ance over £273,000,000 of debt —in the same
way as a beetle partly counterbalances an
elephant the Ma State owns about
£653,981. Certainly the present Ministry
has taken its solemn oath and covenant to
see that the Ma profligate establishes a
genuine, honest, upstanding sinking fund of
liberal dimensions, and some sanguine per-
sons imagined that it might do so, even
though it had promised, but the results so
far are not apparent. Nothing is very ap-
parent with the McGowen Cabinet except
the heavy stodge of its chief, the agility of
the second in command when it becomes a
matter of dodging awkward explanations—
and the ever increasing expenditure.
There are, of course —and it is consoling
to remember the fact —the permanent and
reproductive works, mostly railways and
tramways, as a set off against well over
£100,000,000 of Cornstalk debt. The gross
earnings of the railways and tramways in-
creased during the first half of the present
financial year (30th June, 1912, to 31st De-
cember, 1912) by £214,484 as compared
with the corresponding period of 1911. But
in the joyous process of buying popularity
for Ministers with public money, the work-
ing expenses were run up by no less than
£384,351. So, despite an enormous increase
of business —and the increase was enormous,
the number of passengers alone being nearly
22,000,000 more in the second half of 1912
than in the second half of 1911 —the amount
available to meet the interest hill was
£119,867 less, and the interest bill that had
to be met was a very great deal more. When
the year’s accounts are made up it will pro-
bably be found tnat the biggest of the per-
manent and reproductive works have become
a dead loss. And the means wherewith to
meet the loss are disappearing fast. At
June 30, 1912, the cash in the hands of the
Treasurer was nil, and there were over-
drafts—presumably kept afloat by borrow-
ing from trust funds amounting to
£1,448,230. At January 31, 1913, the Trea-
surer’s legitimate cash was again nil, and
the overdrafts—presumably kept afloat by
borrowing from the trust funds —had risen,
despite heavy borrowing and a great in-
crease of revenue, to £4,600,139. The ordin-
ary revenue for the first seven months of the
financial year (to January 31, 1913) was
£115,637 more than for the seven months to
January 31, 1912, but the expenditure of
the wonderful Mad Ministry grew in the
same period by £1,390,086. The ordinary
revenue promises to be over £16,300,000 for
the year, which is a handsome sum to have
at command, considering that £10,200.000
sufficed and left a decent surplus in 1900,
and that the cost of naval and military de-
fence, invalid and old age pensions, patents,
census, postal and telegraphic charges, etc.,
have in the interim become Federal instead
of State burdens. Yet the deficit for the
seven months to January 31. is £1,251,189,
and the McGowen combination will have to
swear off a good deal of sack and live much
more cleanly if the shortage, when the finan-
cial year ends, isn’t to approach £2,000,000.
It is worth noting just here that, though the
income for the whole seven months shows
an increase, the income for the last month
of the seven (January, 1913) revealed a
serious drop of £92,518, as compared with
January, 1912. If this is the beginning of
a general shrinkage the position is even
worse than it looks, and Heaven knows it
looks bad enough.
Under these conditions it is not surprising
that the cash reserves in the N.S.W. banks
were £2,417,341 less on the last day of 1912
than on the last day of 1911. The propor-
tion of cash, including Government naper,
to liabilities fell with a crash from £26 9s.
7d. per £lOO to £2l 18s., which is a rather
scant guarantee against another panic. In
Victoria the decrease in the cash reserves
has been only £54,317, but then Victoria,
with all its disadvantages and drawbacks,
hasn’t a McGowen Ministry in office.
William Watt may be something of a
political fraud and Murray may be a heavy
sleeper, but neither of them is quite mad.
In both States it is notable that the banks’
holding of Federal paner money has fallen
heavily, and the combined decrease in gold
and paper is over £3,100,000. This is a
very serious weakening of the position, and
it is accompanied by a disastrous slumn in
the gold output of the Commonwealth. Last
year the gold dug up was worth about
£900,000 less than in 1911, and in 1911 it
was worth £1,000,000 less than in 1910, and
in 1910 it was worth £1,050,000 less than
in 1909, and in 1909 it was worth £450,000
less than in 1908, and in 1908. to cut the
story short, it was worth £3,200,000 less than
in 1903. The number of sheep in N.S.W.
has been diminishing of late- —it was smaller
in 1911 than in 1910, and smaller in 1910
than in 1909 —which is not a cheering cir-
cumstance considering how much the public
depends on its woolly product. The esti-
mated wheat yield for 1913 is less
than that for 1912: and 1912 was a
poorer year than 1911 ; arid 1911 showed
up worse than 1910. In 1912 the
oversea imports of the Ma community in-
creased by £4,939,816, while the exports,
which are supposed to pay for them, only
expanded by £809,234. The two, in fact,
are now about equal, and N.S.W. depends
almost wholly on foreign borrowing to pay
the interest on its foreign public and pri-
vate debts, and dividends and rents to ab-
sentee investors.
* * * *
Outside N.S.W. there are no very joyous
happenings to counterbalance the great lack
of joyous happenings inside. The Common-
wealth’s only business undertaking of any
size is the post and telegraph department,
and it is expected to show a deficit next June
for the first time in many years. These are
the figures:—
(Profit) Balance of Receipts over Working
T Expenses.
June,
1907.. .. £438,211
1908 366,261
1909 339,557
1910.. 500,543
1911. . . . . . . . • • 343,203
1912.. 84,126
Estimated Loss.
1913 51,410
Yet, in these years no less than £4,700,000
was spent out of revenue on new works.
This money had no interest burden to carry.
Whatever it earned was clear profit, and if
it earned only 2 per cent, there should have
been a visible return of £94,000 per annum.
There is no visible return whatsoever. Cer-
tainly there was great need to improve the
conditions of the postal and telegraph em-
ployees, and a need —not quite so great —to
give concessions to the public. But when
the department becomes a sort of pauper in-
stitution working at a loss it is difficult to
avoid the impression that, in the aunt for
popularity, concessions have been carried
rather far. Then the Australian Govern-
ment, while giving every possible encourage-
ment to the policy of pushing up wages, re-
fuses to imperil its job by improving the
tariff, so more and more cheap labor and
nigger and non-union goods climb over the
barrier to imperil the Australian worker’s
job; and Australia is being drained of
money to pay for them —drained to an ex-
tent which threatens a huge disaster. The
Australian Government feels good in its own
casual thoughtless way over these huge im-
ports, because it collects revenue duties upon
them. But except for the frenzied finance
of the State Governments it wouldn’t col-
lect half these beautiful duties, for the suffi-
cient reason that nobody can gather in the
money that isn’t there any more than he can
get beer out of a tree. The Commonwealth,
by reason of its rail-sitting tariff policy, is
living on loans just as much as the States
are doing, and if the loans give out Com-
monwealth and States will do the Gadarene
swine act together. An incidental side
issue of the case is that States and Com-
monwealth have, among them, 4308 miles
of railway under construction, and 1200 more
miles authorised. So they have a gigantic
liability ahead, the liquidation of which de-
pends mostly on Bull-Cohen’s affluence, or
his trustfulness, or his dislike to take ad-
vantage of a small and shattered relative.
The situation is one that can’t last. The
halo is going to blow away, and the rainbow
to crumple up, and there will of a certainty
be breakages of some sort. What the Aus-
tralian nation in general can do about the
matter is to impress on its hesitating Fed-
eral Government that it must make up its
mind to tariff reform, and that the rail isn’t
a commodious place to sit upon. What the
people of N.S.W. in particular can do is to
tear up the shameless McGowen Govern-
ment root and branch on election day, and
to make sure that no single member of it
ever again gets the nomination of the party
whose principles he has so grossly repudi-
ated. If Labor again gives its official sup-
port to any individual of the gang now in
office at Sydney the only possible inference
will be that the party is itself a liar and a
hypocrite, and that the plank re honest
finance which it put into its platform was
inserted merely to get votes under false pre-
tences. The many votes which the
McGowen crowd secured by its promises of
honest finance were acquired under false
pretences—no political Judas or Parlia-
tary Barabbas ever pretended more
brazenly. And unless the Laborites throw
the unclean thing off the premises they will
deserve all that is coming to them, and more.
No party with a reputation to maintain can
afford to be found dead along with
McGowen and Co.
THE GHASTLY ERROR OF W. M.
HUGHES.
On Friday last a shriek of derision was dis-
tinctly audible, in legal circles, from Port
Danger right through to N.-W. Cape—Friday
being the day on which the Government’s last
two High Court appointments were an-
nounced. Powers and Piddington, regarded
as High Court Judges, are not so much mis-
takes as grim tragedies. The S. M. Herald
is not a journal which is given to
over-plain speech. It mostly dodders
cautiously .round its subject, and leaves
the matter, ultimately, swathed in a
thick inconclusive haze of verbiage. The
Powers-Piddington affair scandalised it
into very pointed protest. So far as Pid-
dington was concerned it neither praised
nor blamed. It damned a friend of years’
standing by dead silence instead of with
feeble and mendacious cheers. As regards
Powers, it mentioned definitely (14/2/T3)
that he lacked “some of the most necessary
qualifications for the position,” and that “in
respect of the necessary equipment of legal
knowledge and professional experience,” he
fell “far short of the reouired standard.”
Those objections apply equally to both the
new appointees. Let them be judged on
their records. Piddington was, till W. M.
Hughes discovered him last week, a more
or less obscure junior, with a modest, in
fact, insignificant practice. Setting aside
the K.C.’s, it would be easy to name half a
dozen men at the N. S. Wales Bar, and many
at the Bar in other States, who are immeas-
urably his superiors. His personal character
is, of course, unimpeachable. On the other
hand he is one of the last whom a colleague
would select as the possessor of a judicial
mind. He possesses no sense of legal pro-
portion. His intellect is, forensically speak-
ing, of the perverse and pedantic order. He
was a “coach” for years, and the mark of
the schoolmaster is still on him in plain
figures. His experience of public affairs
(that experience which the Lord Chancellor
of England wisely remarked at the last
Guildhall Banquet, was “an essential in the
case of good judges”) has been meagre to
put it mildly. He beat Dibbs, on the Free-
trade ticket, in 1593, and for a few months
battled for low-tariffism, in company with
W. M. Hughes and others. Then the elec
tors turned him down, and he went out of
Parliament for life. Incidentally, he was
associated with Hughes as one of the joint
secretaries of the Anti-Federal League
Powers was for six years a Bundaberg
solicitor, and Bundaberg is a fourth-rate town
in Queensland. (The name is said to signify
something about a dog, and some people call
the place Towzer.) Powers got himself
struck off the rolls and became a barrister
The venture was so hopelessly unprofitable
that he presently went back again to the
Gent. One business. He got into the
Queensland Assembly in the ’Bo’s, but did
nothing sensational there. He jumped at the
job of Queensland Crown Solicitor at £6OO
per annum, and. a while later, he fairly
bounded at the Federal Crown Solicitorship.
He has been a useful Crown Solicitor. None
better than Powers to handle a Chow Cus-
toms case, to deal with an unlawful traf-
ficker in opium, or put the acid on a pro-
hibited immigrant. It is possible that he
has been helpful to Hughes in Constitutional
points. The latter, being no lawyer him-
self, is driven to denend almost entirely on
careful “devilling.” However, the probabili-
ties are that Garran, a really sound Con-
stitutionalist, has done most of this work.
These, then, are the men whom the Austra-
lian Government (or rather the Attorney-
General) has delighted to honor to the detri-
ment of the standing of the highest Court in
the land.
* * * *
The evil effects may not be felt by the
nation at once, but that they will be felt,
ultimately, is as complete a certainty as the
human imagination can conceive. Chief
Justice Griffith departs on a nine-
months’ leave of absence in March.
It is more than likely that he will
not return to Australia as a High
Court Judge. The British Parliament re-
cently passed an Act providing for the ap-
pointment of three Law Lords from the over-
sea Dominions. Unless these billets are
handed out on the W. M. Hughes principle
(that is to say, to the most flamingly un-
suitable characters available), Chief Jus-
tice Griffith must get the first offer that
is made. His passing would have gravely
weakened the High Court Bench at its best.
With O’Connor gone, Barton ageing, and
Powers and Piddington on deck, it is no
exaggeration to say that this jurisdiction
will be dragged down to the level of a Dis-
trict Court or thereabouts in many respects.
No sane litigant, with faith in the merits of
his case, is likely to appeal, say, from
Cussen, Hodges and Hood, of Victoria, to
Barton, Powers and Piddington, of the
High Court. It would be like going for
information regarding the Antarctic regions
from Amundsen to one of the Jap “ex-
plorers” who recently braved the horrors of
a Sydney winter at Parsley Bay. It would
be an appeal from an ironclad to a Balmain
ferry boat. The inevitable result must be
that, in a multitude of instances, the High
Court will be passed by. Litigants will pre-
fer to go straight to the Privy Council.
That is a lamentable prospect for a country
which has for long had good cause to be
proud of its State Judges, in the main, and
which has had an admirable High Court
Bench, take it for all in all, during the past
decade. It is also deplorable from the
merely commercial aspect. The men who
were fitted for this big job stand out like
beacons. The names which occur most
readily are Patrick McMahon Glynn, B.
R. Wise. Josiaii Symon and Irvine the
Iceberg. They have all had that public train-
ing, to again quote the Lord Chancellor,
“not merely as lawyers or jurists, but as
nublic men, knowung something of public af-
fairs, which should be insisted on in judges.”
Glynn is a sound Constitutionalist, and a
man of high mentality. Wise is one of the
few members of the Australian Bar
to-day who would be an ornament,
intellectually and otherwise. to any
Bench. Symon and Irvine, whatever
views one may hold concerning their poli-
tics, are indisputably what is known as
“first-rate men.” It is a scandal of a shriek-
ing description that such bright lights should
have been disregarded in favor of mediocri-
ties, not to say incompetents.
* * * *
The explanation of the calamity is to be
found chiefly in the fatal yearning—increas-
ingly observable of late on the part of a sec-
tion of the Fisher Ministry—to win hon-
eyed words of commendation from the Tory
press. That tendency did a lot to afflict
Australia with Yass-berra. It led to the
incompetent bungle about the Federal note
issue. It has now given us an emasculated
High Court. The Conservative attitude on
this question was tersely put bv the Sydney
Telegraph, last month, as follows: —
There is no need to go to militant politics, either
in or out of Parliament, for Federal Judges. Other
things equal, the less prominently a man has figured
in political strife the better his qualifications. _
History, alike in the United Kingdom, in
America and in Australia, proves that pro-
position to be utterly idiotic. We have not
had one really satisfactory Judge in this
country who has been a non-political. Ana
all our big men, from Griffith and Martin
downwards, have come from the ranks ot
“militant politics.” The same applies to tne
U.S. Supreme Court. Rake the
the glittering names which have adorned tne
English Bench during the past century witn
a fine comb, and you will not find halt a
dozen belonging to men that have shunne
public affairs. As a matter of policy merely,
and apart altogether from the question o
common justice, it is the wildest folly °“.t?
part of any Government to bestow the hie ■
est gifts at its disposal, “other thing
equal,” on citizens who have not thoug
their country so well worth serving as tn _
banking accounts, or who have not snot
sufficient capacity to be able to stay tor a -
length of time in the service of the »»_•
Such a procedure amounts to discourse s
the patriot, and putting a premium on s
fishness and national indifferentism. it
impossible to believe that, had either ot
new appointees been in what the t-E
GRAPH calls “militant politics,” he wou
have stood any earthly show of acfiie .
a High Court Judgeship. That is m , ;
another way of saying that they are w


they are because no one knows them. It is
considered, seemingly, in official quarters,
that because they are obscure, and in the
matter of character and achievements wholly
negative and colorless, their selection wiil
prove inoffensive. It may be so in the case
of the paltry few who take their views
ready-made from the reactionary press,
but if the Government considers that
the Commonwealth, as a whole, thinks
this way, it is perpetrating the mis-
take of an aeon. The High Court is
one of those Federal institutions in which
Australia has, for years, taken a particular
and justifiable pride. The administration
which from a desire to truckle to its enemies,
or from mere ignorance or stupidity, so acts
as to weaken this Court, must automatically
weaken itself. The best that can be said for
the man who was primarily responsible for
the disaster that befel last week, is that he
knew no better. W .M. Hughes is not a
practising barrister himself. He is ignorant
of the reputations that are being made and
lost in the Courts year by year. To him,
apparently, Brown, K.C., is on a par men-
tally and so forth, with his junior, and the at-
torney who instructs them is as desirable an
acquisition to the Bench as either. In brief,
he is about as well equipned to choose a
judge as he is to box the discolored horror,
Johnson, or to steer a Grand National fav-
orite. It is, indeed, a misfortune that the
destinies of a great Court should be in such
hands.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Ghost.
A certain spectre, of which little has been
heard during recent years, recrudesced in
Sydney last week, when a procession of un-
employed clamored at Premier McGowen’s
door. These visitants wanted work and
wages and friendly consideration. To them
Premier McGowen spoke kindly, but held
out little hope. He said that his Govern-
ment was already borrowing more money
(with more and more difficulty and at an in-
creasing rate of interest) than any previous
Government. It was doing this to find more
artificial employment on public works than
any previous Government (said works being
mostly additions to a railway system which,
so far as profits are concerned, is most lam-
entably on the down grade). Still he prom-
ised to see —not the Australian Prime
Minister about the tariff, but the Minister
for Works about the building of more ill-
paying railways, with very costly borrowed
money, that is increasingly difficult to get.
It is altogether a curious position. Aus-
tralia is a fairly rich country, and, as it has
only about 14 persons to the square mile, it
offers more chances to its people than any
other habitable land on earth. On the mere
question of land and space the prospect here
is 412 times as good as that in England.
But unfortunately something seems to have
gone wrong. The tariff being absurdly low
as compared with the high wages inside the
Customs barrier and the low wages in some
countries outside, or the wages being ab-
surdly high inside as compared with the
wages outside and the ridiculous baby ob-
struction between the two —it may be put
either way—work in Australia —and especi-
ally in N.S.W., which has a greater faith in
high wages and low tariff than any
of its neighbors —threatens soon to be
very scarce. No community can find
work for itself at making its own
boots and hats and clothes and iron-
work and a thousand other things, while it
insists on importing its boots and hats and
clothes and ironwork, and a thousand other
things from niggers and other foreigners for
the sake of alleged cheapness. The propo-
sition is too obvious to require any lengthy
dissertation or exolanation. During 1911
Australia imported goods to the value of
nearly £65,000.000, which was. in proportion
to population, more than the imports, of anv
other country in the world either in that
vear or in any previous period of recorded
history. That is to say, Australia, which is
Australia’s alleged Labor Government, de-
liberately threw away £65.000.000 • worth of
profitable work by following the advice of
the Tory S. M. Herald and Telegraph and
Argus and Courier, and the Tory Bruce
Smith and William McMillan and
Joseph Cook and their kind. Its sub-
servience to these papers and . people
was disgusting. In 1912 even this very
bad record was surpassed. The country,
under an alleged Labor Government, im-
ported £75,000.000 worth of goods, and
threw away £75,000,000 worth of ~ood,
profitable work, because its wretched alleged
Labor Government insisted on maintaining
the low tariff policy of the Tory papers above
enumerated, and the Tory politicians herein-
before mentioned. New South Wales sup-
plies the principal Tory and Freetrade or
Low Tariff element in the Federal Labor
party, and if a section of the New South
Wales people suffers from lack of work it
is only what it has been looking for. It it
is starving it is onlv what it has been asking
for. It has voted for hunger, and clamored
for hunger, and it seems likely to get hun-
ger. There is nothing to be gained by
complaining about lack of work while the
country insists on giving away most of
its work (as shown b;- the £75,000,000
worth of imports) to foreigners. No amount
of processions, deputations and demonstra-
tions will alter the case. It is based on the
simple proposition that nobody can spend his
monev and retain it; that nobody c ‘
his cake and have it; and that nobody can
be in two places at once. .When a com-
mnnitv has resolved to commit suicide it u
difficult to see what can be done save to let
it commit suicide. There is no power strong
enough to stop it from committing suicide.
Plugging Away at the Old Invention.
Prime Minister Fisher tried it on the dog
at the turning of the first sod of the K
goorlie-Port Augusta railway, by
his hearers that the line from to
Port Darwin was not the best connection
between North and South, and that the
“shortest and most economically sound idea
was to build a sort of coastal road f ora
Darwin into Fisher’s own State of Queens,
land. So Andrew apparent y nPmds to
break faith with South Austrahaifitseems
safp to do so and is sending up .vernal or
jaw balloons to find out how the wind blows.
fliere is something magnificent about this
effrontery. Adelaide is nearer to Port Dar-
W1 j tk an Melbourne, Sydney or Brisbane,
and almost as near as Rockhampton, though
it is farther away in a straight line than
lownsville. . But Townsville and Rock-
hampton are small places on wretched har-
bors, and it is no more possible to build a
transcontinental line from Darwin to either
of them than it is to build a transcontinental
from Sydney to Manly. A direct line from
1 Jarwin to Rockhampton would travel for
400 miles on the seashore, and a direct line
from the same place to Townsville would
travel for 400 miles under water. As for
Brisbane, in addition to being more remote
than Adelaide, it is a smaller city, and is
also far up a very hopeless and awkward
river. The proposed deviation involves: (1)
The practical abandonment of the large sec-
tion of transcontinental line already built
to Oodnadatta and bought from S.A. with
good Australian money; (2) the practical
abandonment of the whole transcontinental
idea in favor of what is much more like a
coastal line; (3) the practical abandonment
of the ideal of a line which will be federally-
owned from sea to sea, in favor of one
which will be largely State-owned; (4) a
great increase in mileage before connection
is made with a decent port, and a big centre
of population; and (51 a shameful breach
of the terms on which S.A. handed over the
Territory—a breach which may be held to
nullify the surrender of that province. But
against all this extra expense, and all this
sacrifice of big ideals, is to be counted the
satisfaction of Andrew Fisher’s parochial
greed to annex the railway for his own
State. The advocates of the eastern devia-
tion stick doggedly to one wooden-headed
assertion —that their route is the shorter.
If it is a question—as presumably it is—of
connecting the Territory with Australia’s big
ports and big centres of population, then the
statement is a glaring falsehood. The map
proves it to be one. The measured dis-
tances, as shown in the map, have been pub-
lished often enough, and as the evidence
can’t be refuted, the deviation crowd simply
ignores it and refuses to sneak about it.
It plugs away with its old invention, and
leaves things at that. Great and wonderful
is the art of plugging away with an old in-
vention.
The Land of Foreign Capital and
Blood.
“Monterey,” on a country which holds 600
millions of foreign capital
Who would believe me if I said that the present
trouble in Mexico is due directly to the Standard Oil
Co ? Few outside Wall-street probably. The unre.t
may be said to have started with the discovery of oil
in vast quantities in the regions then dominated ab-
solutely by Porfirio Diaz. He gave an °Pti° n °X® r
the wells to Sir Weetman Pearson —now Lord Cow-
dray (The size of the proposition may be gauged »
the fact that a few months ago Reuter reported that
20 oil ships were being built for the trade.) The
Standard Oil made its bid for the property, but too
late. As always, it next proceeded to threaten. The
coercive methods which are successful in 99. P ( T cent t '
of cases in U.S. would not have availed in Mexico
under all the circumstances. The Standard Oil put
it in plain terms to Diaz that he must either turn
Peahbon down or face a revolution. . (Three-quarters
of the South American revolutions originate in Wall
street that is to say they are financed there.) The
old man told the giant Trust, in effect, .to go to
Hades However, he made provision against what
promised to be the sharpest and heaviest snag of his
career, bv sending £1,000,000 sterling to P ar 'k.
Then the unpleasantness began. Pearson
took UP his stand beneath the folds of the
Union .Tack, so to speak. He mentioned that any atf r
temot to deprive him of his legally, acquired property,
whether on the part of the revolutionaries, or of any
possible Mexican administration, or of the. United
States would be attended to by Great Britain
In Monterey there lived a brilliant and ambitious
voung man, of considerable wealth and a Parisian
education, named Madero. To him.it was intimated
that if he wished to save his bleeding country from
the yoke of “the oppressor” (meaning the amazing
man who in 30 years had raised it from the status
of a stone-broke, robber-infested wilderness, to that
of an affluent, solvent, and more or less law-abiding
country) the necessary cash would be forthcoming.
The army was bribed on a scale of unexampled splen-
dor Anyone who was worth his salt as a. fighter got
a big price to desert Diaz. A land reform policv
was promised (a measure on something the lines of
lustraH™s graduated land tax) and a free and com-
pulsory education system. These' things however,
were mere gags—padding of an obvious description
The New York share-riggers had long since made back
all they were ever going to spend in fomenting and
prosecuting th* revolution, bv the operations they had
conducted in Wall-street in Mexican stocks. There is
nothing like inner knowledge in this variety of
gamble. In due course, since no man is so great as
to be able to hold his end up, with the pick of a
national army against him, old Porfirio Diaz made
a graceful “get away.”
Madero has been a failure. He is a useful soldier,
and would be a successful administrator in a normal
country. Mexico is not normal just now. It requires
a hand of iron enclosing a weapon of precision—
likewise absolute ruthlessness. Madero is too finick-
ing—in a word, too civilised —for the situation he has
created. During the couple of years that he has held
the fort, the country districts have suffered such a
recrudescence of outlawry as they have not known in
the memory of the oldest inhabitant. None of the
promised reforms have materialised. In a few centres
bull-fighting and cock-fighting have been suppressed,
and that has exasperated the districts affected as
much as Manly would be exasperated if surf-bathing
were prohibited. At the time of writing it seems as
though Felix Diaz, the old champion’s nephew, is a
certainty for the spiky presidential chair. It is too
early yet to say what particular section of Wall-
street capitalists is financing him. All that is abso-
lutely certain is that in various dark offices, some-
where within hail of Fifth Avenue and the Holland
House and the Statue of Liberty, numbers of anxious,
dyspeptic-looking men in loose clothes and absurd
boots are furiously at work tearing grotesquely large
fortunes off the multitude in connection with his
efforts.
What a splendid game it is! If you back a horse
for £lOO, although you may have personally stiff-
ened all the others in the race, the infernal animal
may fall down dead and lose you your money. If you
run a revolution, and are sufficiently affluent to do
it properly, no power on earth can upset the good
thing. No method of betting on a certainty has ever
been discovered to touch it. Of course, there are
the unpleasant incidentals of carnage and assassina-
tion, loot, rapine and general misery; but what are
these to a captain of industry living many thousands
of miles away?
V
Patent Medicine Rogues.
The Australian Government has risen above
the pressure put upon it, and exposed the
“secret remedies” of some of the world’s
notorious quacks as analysed by the British
Medical Association. And extremely stag-
gering is the reading thereof. One of the
popular catarrh fakirs advertises that “over
20,000 people died in the United Kingdom
last year of consumption caused by catarrh.”
To stop the fatality, he is rushing to the
front with a solution containing a trace of
carbolic acid, a pinch of common salt and
water. The cost to him, as the manufac-
turer, of 2i fluid ounces is one-thirtieth of a
farthing; the ,cost to the public is Is. An-
other catarrh (alleged) cure costs the manu-
facturer id. for lioz., but the purchaser is
relieved of 4s. 6d. before the remedy
becomes his. Another specific costs
one-tenth of a penny to decoct and
4s. to swallow. A whooping cough
remedy, stated by the maker to be so com-
plicated that he could trust nobody to make
it but himself, was found on analysis to con-
sist of milk sugar only. No other constitu-
ent was detected. One of the most brilliant
cheap jacks was the maker of a consump-
tion “cure.” He sold two liquids, which
were little more than colored flavored water.
The gull was expected to take a month’s
supply at a time, and it was obtainable at
the modest figure of £2 10s. A kidney dis-
ease “cure,” consisting of ordinary white
sugar pills, cost one-thirty-fifth of Id. per
bottle to make. In the selling shops the
price was one shilling. One of the most
widely advertised ointments for sores,
sprains, open wounds, sore breasts, ulcers,
burns, scalds, eczema, corns, rheumatism,
sciatica and 478 other troubles costs Is.
per three-fifths of an ounce. It is made up
of 14 p.c. oil of eucalyptus, 20 p.c. pale
resin, 55 p.c. soft paraffin, 11 p.c. hard par-
affin and a trace of coloring matter. To
produce three-fifths of an ounce costs the
English manufacturers Id. Here is the un-
lovely description of a patient after a quack
with a cancer “cure” had Been on the job :
In the case of one woman who had been informed
that the cancer had been cured, and that she only re-
quired some tonic medicine to complete the cure, the
surgeon who was called to her when she was in ex-
tremis said that he never beheld anything like it
in his life. The whole breast was a necrosing mass,
black and stinking, the ulcers extending up to the
collarbone and down to the margin of the ribs and
across the middle line. The hand could have been in-
serted under the margin of the dead part all round.
This was a result of the misuse of caustics
(the main standby of this kind of quack),
and is quoted for the particular benefit of
those who may be allured by the big adver-
tisement headline, “Cancer Treated Without
the Knife.” One of the worst: curses is that
known as “female medicines.” It is at once
a most profitable and harmful curse —profit-
able in that boxes of pill mullock which cost
practically nothing to manufacture are sold
at 10s„ 21s. and often more, and harmful in
that many of the nostrums, while useless for
the purpose in view, contain highly danger-
ous irritants which are best _ calculated to
place the quack’s victim within reach of a
neighboring undertaker. The question now
arises in view of the decision of the Govern-
ment of Australia to officially distribute the
disclosures of the B.M.A. regarding these
“patent” medicines: What is to be the next
move? If the proposal is to do no more
than hand copies of the papers to “members
of Federal and State Legislatures, public
libraries and other public institutions, it
doesn’t seem much of a proposal for the
proper protection of thousands of ignorant
and foolish folk. In fact, it seems about as
e-ood an idea of health protection as the
Fisher Cabinet’s idea of a Protective tariff .
Which is darned triffinsr.
— ♦
The Unwisdom of the Tactics of the
Sharper.
Liberalism has been frankly baffled, _for a
long time past, in the attempt to find an ex-
planation of why it is so widely unpopular.
There are several reasons: but, undoubtedly,
one of them is the party’s congenital ina-
bility to play the game It tells too many
lies, and it doesn’t even tell them well. A 1
the world loves a liar (that is to say, a good
liar) for a time—a strictly limited time.
But a wild, reckless, blundering liar —the
sort who supplies a flaming mendacity and
its complete disproof practically at one and
the same time —inspires nothing but exas-
peration. Anti-Socialism was slain at
birth, half a dozen years ago, by maladroit
inaccuracy. George Reip, his followers and
the Conservative press calmly submitted the
proposition that the intensely law-abiding
WATSON-ites were Anarchists. This conclu-
sion was arrived at by the following line of
argument: Many of the WATSON-ites are
Socialists; but some Europeans who call
themselves Socialists are really Anarchists ,
therefore all WATSON-ites are Anarchists.
The Deakin party was in sympathy with
the Watson crowd in those days. Accord-
ingly all DEAKiN-ites were proclaimed to be
no better than Anarchists. On what the
gydney Telegraph termed the Day or
Power,” Reid came out with a shrieking
appeal to the electors wherein they were
asked to vote for him and his nominees, and
against Anarchy! The constituencies re-
sponded by turning the unreliable old man
down in all sorts of unexpected places. It
amounted, in a sense, to a solemn registering
by Australia of its aversion to having its leg
pulled. But liberalism has learned nothing
from its past troubles. It still trafficks in
the most intelligence-insulting goods. For
example, Beuce Smith, M.P., supplied the
following to the papers last week: —
If the Australian people are watching a great
cricket or football contest, upon which their own
national welfare depended, and the members of the
losing team raised a cry to “Kick the umpire off the
field,” the onlookers would have no hesitation in
writing down those who raised that brutal cry as a
gang of hooligans, who had no desire to play the
game, but only to use brute force, in order to get
their own way. Yet that is the present political
situation
The chief Labor organ of Queensland heads one of
its latest leading articles in the following swash-
buckling language: “The High Court Must G 0.”....
The Australian people ought to know what sort of
men, and what sort of journalism we should have to
navigate our ship of State if they should again re-
turn the Labor-Socialist party to power.
Obviously, the above, if it means anything
whatever, means that in the event of the
Fisher Government being returned to
nower, the High Court will be wiped out.
But who is likely to credit such imbecility?
This Administration had a chance, the other
day, to do itself a particularly good turn as
regards the High Court. A vacancy
occurred. The appointment of a Judge of
known Babor sympathies would have done
away with all excuse for talk about abolish-
ing this Court. The Ministry handed the
seat to F. Gavan Duffy, a Liberal of the
starkest brand. Of its last two selec-
tions, one, at least, is as resolute
an anti-Laborite as there is in N. S.
Wales. The public fully appreciates these
facts. It understands just how much rela-
tion there is between the views advocated
in “the chief Labor organ of Queensland,”
and the views held by the present Australian
Government. That is to say, it knows that
Bruce Smith’s latest effort to confuse
Labor with Anarchy is utterly dishonest.
♦
Can Australia Ride?
Frank Brown, who should know, swells
with indignation:—
“Cavalryman’s” (B. 6/2/’l3) ideas of horseman-
ship are upside down. He holds that the European cav-
alry man is the ideal horseman, whilst the Australian
is little better than the Jap. It is true that the
average Australian is not a good horseman; neither
is the average man anywhere. The European expert
can ride a well-schooled horse over a fence, but does
this constitute horsemanship ? How does he get on
with a rough horse? He can’t get on one without
assistance. He can’t sit a buck. He is unable to
manage a bad-mouthed horse without a martingale
and curb bit. He rides on a horse’s mouth, and uses
the curb bit as a remedy for all the shortcomings in
his mount. How would he get on chasing a steer
through scrub, with or without a curb bit ? The
result in either case would be disastrous for him.
An Australian horseman would get three times more
work out of his mount than a Britisher, because the
one rides easily with the motion of his mount, whilst
the other sits like a poker, and is a dead-weight on
the gee’s back. The Britisher has only one sort of
seat in the saddle; the Australian rides his horse
according to its humor or action.
Not long ago, whilst I was in England, I saw
cavalrymen, grooms, farmers, etc., trying to ride the
rough horses in the Wild Australian Buekjumping
Show. In not one instance did one of them gain his
seat without assistance. In not one instance did the
riders last two bucks. The newsboys of Sydney or
Melbourne woulcl have made an infinitely better at-
tempt. When the show was touring India, the
different buckjumping contests, held for soldiers,
were invariably won by stray Australians who hap-
pened to be members of the British army.
The shortcomings of British cavalrymen lie in their
riding schools. They are not allowed to ride natur-
ally. If “Cavalryman” would see horsemanship,
let him go to the back country, where riding is still
in the day’s work. He will see men draft their
horses from a wild, galloping mob, in the big stock-
yard, ride them, mouth them, and next day muster
cattle, crashing through scrub, or tearing over broken
crumbly ground on their half-tamed mounts. That
is horsemanship. The outback Australian does with
a wild, green horse what the British cavalryman can-
not do with a well-schooled, quiet one.
To which “Cavalryman” makes answer: —
The trouble with Frank Brown, in this matter,
is that he knows a little —a very little —of what he
writes about. He has probably ridden a quiet sta-
tion hack, now and then, and, when in England,
hired one of those pathetic saddle-horses which one
sees in all their spavined and wind-galled misery at
places like Margate and Brighton. Of course the
European cavalryman (British and Continental) does
not get on well with a rough horse —meaning an
unbroken one. But no one expects him to. The
making of cavalry horses is the work of professional
rough-riders. These gentry did their work so rottenly
for our Australian cavalrymen and gunners the other
day that a number of horsemen were seriously injured
at Victoria Barracks and an official inquiry was insti-
tuted. The Court did not delve into the question of
why the men fell off. All it wanted to know was
why the horses weren’t sufficiently docile and well-
mouthed to be safe conveyances for horsemen of
average ability. No cavalryman is expected to sit
buckjumpers, any more than members of a cycle corps
are required to be able to ride their machines back-
wards, or perform on them the various other tricks
to which music-hall performers have habituated us.
War is not so much a vaudeville show as a business.
As regards steering horses through scrub, most, for-
eign cavalrymen would be about as good at this as
Australian soldiers. Not one Australian soldier
in 10 is a scrub-riding expert. The German, French
and Belgian troops specialise in galloping through
forests and narrow forest “rides,” and are particu-
larly skilful thereat. Of course, none of them would
be as useful at this game as the expert local cattle
man. But then he represents only about 1 per cent,
of our, population, if that.
Fr\nk Brown’s view's about the European cavalry-
man sitting “like a poker,” and hence having only
“one sort of seat in the saddle” and being a dead-
weight,” and a mug generally, betray an abysmal
ignorance of the subject which I had thought was
confined to a few travelling Yanks and suchlike.
The “regulation” seat which cavalrymen practically
all over Europe have to adopt while on parade and
so forth, is well known to have no influence whatever
on their individuality as horsemen in other respects.
I remember seeing Hon. R. Ward (a brother of
Lord Dudley), riding with his regiment, the Blues,
in the regulation style. And a week or so later I
saw him land his horse, Cathal, second in the Liver-
pool Grand National. No one negotiates that course
who can’t ride his horse “according to its humor or
action.” It would not be in the least difficult to
cite 500 well-known Germans, or Irishmen, or Italians
(especially Italians) who are competent to steer a
cavalry horse of fair class over four miles of stiff
country anywhere —which is one of the Drime tests
of a cavalryman’s value to his native land. How
many well-known Australians are capable of that
feat 9 How many squatters, or others who can afford
it go hunting, "or ride at shows, or ride steeple-
chases as we find amateurs doing in other parts of
the world’ In other words, how many of our poten-
tial defenders are educating themselves in an art
which is an essential factor in the winning of battles?
The fact that Frank Brown, .while m England,
saw cavalrvmen. grooms, etc., being flung off trick
horses in the Wild Australia Buekmmping Show
has as aforesaid, nothing to do with the case. Nor
is there anything relevant to the question in the fact
that he saw struv Australians win buekiump con-
tests Buckjump riding is as much a trick as shoot-
ing breakers on a surf beach. With nra-’t'ce any
fairly good horseman of courage can learn it: with-
No Stone Unturned.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We leave no stone unturned to try and discover
offenders and bring them to .justice.— Sub-inspector
O’Donnell, in defence of Melbourne police force.
If only criminals were crabs,
And had a smaller stock of brain,
The Nemesis that flies in cabs
Would not turn over stones in vain.
The rocks of Reason in their way,
’Neath which Crime’s lurking foxes sneak,
Defy their efforts night and day:
Their mental muscles are too weak.
They fill their clothes, hut not their hats;
like high-speed bloodhounds do they hop
In fierce pursuit of Bourke-street “rats” —
An avalanche of flying cop.
But sool them on to something big,
The eager pack is halt and blind,
And in a sad, sore-footed jig
Goes baying failure down the wind.
Night’s draggled cats vacate the streets,
And where their frightened, sad eyes
burned,
A dog unto a hound repeats :
“ They’re noin' ter leave no stone un-
turned!"
They turn whatever stones they may,
And canture legal grubs and ants.
While Crime’s rock pythons coil away,
Or meanly bite them in the pants.
With three dull pounds or so ner week
’Tis vain to bid for mental light
That will on rocky problems wreak
The rage of Thought’s pure dynamite.
The pebble-turner, half-afraid,
Goes down the track by Custom led,
More futile than the scared old maid
Who turns and looks beneath the bed.
Crime flies and burrows, swims and scoots,
And from high mountains drops its bones ;
It can’t be killed with outsized boots;
It isn’t always under stones.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA"
. . .and . . .
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.”
A GRAND DOUBLE.
1 E5t0b.1766
Estab 1742
ĥ
ħ
L jgs^LcrCoHl/ 0 ictus'
,v a
\
2$
EuRYVOOt
“As good as a trip to
the Isthmus,” declared
hundreds.
Isn’t it a wonderful
science that brought
this great work to
thousands —who other-
wise would never have
been able to see it.
The Picture habit is an
enlightening habit.
out practice an Arthur Nightingall or Roddy
Owen would be defeated in short order.
Frank Brown’s suggestions that- I should go to
the back country to learn about horsemanship, and
that I should visit cattle stations to see green horses
well handled are both beside the point. In the sheep
country, notoriously, 90 per cent, of the inhabitants
never see a horse that a child couldn’t ride. Mostly
they either drive in sulkies or buggies or use bikes.
Putting aside the exceptional brilliant rider who is
chiefly to be found on a few remote cattle stations,
and in travelling buckjump shows here and there, I
say seriously that Australians are poor riders. It
is bad patriotism to shut one’s eyes to the fact.
Since the art only comes intuitively to a very few,
and since, also (owing to the way our young men
are swarming into the big cities) opportunities even
for these marvels are becoming increasing difficult,
it behoves the Government to get.busy in the matter.
Our trainees should be systematically taught riding
by practical men. They don’t need to learn to head
off cattle, or subdue outlaws. But they do need to
be able to urge a fairly well-broken and sound horse
over an average line of country—the sort of country
that the soldier is liable to encounter in war-time.
Failing this, they will make a dreary show when the
hour of trouble strikes.
“P.X.”: It is not necessary to call an
honest egg-laying hen a peacock in order to
say that it is a good and useful fowl; and
one doesn’t reflect on Scott’s fine human
qualities when one says that nine-tenths of
the stuff with which the newspapers have
been pulling the public’s leg is ridiculous
guff. “These,” says jthe newspaper leg-
puller invariably—“these are the men who
have made the Empire what it is.” They
may have done a bit; but men of the very
opposite qualities have done vastly more—
the men who stay at home, and keep their
noses to the grindstones of trade and manu-
facture and social reform. Germany is
great, too —how? Where are its Polar ad-
venturers? Obviously, from their absence,
these men are not essential to greatness —
modern greatness, anyway. One spectacled
scientist, stewing in a garret over a new
process for extracting wealth from some
old form of dirt is of more consequence
nowadays, from the national point of view,
than a "score of seekers after the bubble re-
putation of finding a Pole whose discovery
won’t fill one hungry citizen’s stomach or
add a pound to the strength of his arm. If
the possession of men who can make heroic
dashes to the Pole or the sea-bottom and
such-like leads to national greatness. Nor-
way ought to be about the greatest nation
in the world; for it can still produce its
Amundsens and Nansens, who appar-
ently do this kind of job bettter than
anybody else in the world. But Nor-
way isn’t a “great” nation in the sense the
nublic’s leg-pullers mean when, they maunder
about England’s greatness; in fact, it is
largely because it is best fitted, to do the
Amundsen roving job that it isn’t great.
And a nation of Scotts, while no doubt it
would be picturesque, would be of still less
account, seeing that it would just fail where
the other easily succeeded.
Nielsen, the inconvenient, not to say hos-
tile, colleague whom his brethren of the
N.S.W. Labor Government sent to America
with £4 per day for “expenses,” appears to
have submitted a sort of. final report. He
states that he attended a dry-farming con-
gress somewhere, but few details have been
published. Still, he remarks that dry-farm-
ing is important because more than one-half
of the earth receives less than -20 inches of
rain per annum. Seeing that much more
than three-fourths of South Australia re-
ceives less than 10 inches per annum, and
most of the balance less than. 20 inches, and
yet S.A. manages to be a big wheat-raiser,
the statement doesn’t look like surprising
news. Nielsen was also instructed (at £4
per day for “expenses”) to inquire about
the possibility of getting farm immigrants
from the U.S. His verdict is that they can
be got if Australia (1) pays two-thirds of
their passage money to an Australian port;
(2) pays all their travelling expenses in
Australia; (3) guarantees that suitable
land in sufficient quantity will be waiting for
them on arrival; (4) guarantees that one-
third of the said land shall be cleared and
fenced. Whether the land is to be a free
gift or is to be oaid for by the dry-farming
immigrant doesn’t clearly appear. . Anyhow,
all this seems a very poor proposition to pay
£4 a day “expenses” for.
A crowd of silly women (there were no
less than 35 signatures to the letter) wrote
to the Sydney daily papers last week clam-
oring to the effect that the alleged increased
cost of living during the last year or two
was due to the tariff duties —which have re-
mained practically unaltered since 1906 save
by the reduction of duties on British goods.
The 35 wild ladies assured the community
that Freetrade would put everything right.
And, curiously enough, in that same issue of
the Telegraph appeared the cabled sum-
mary of a Board of Trade report stating
that in England fl will now only purchase
as much as 16s. 3d. did a few years ago.
Why on earth doesn’t Freetrade keep down
prices in England? Isn’t that country sup-
posed to be a bright and shining example of
Cobdenism in all its glory?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Sweet County Kerry.”
Her Majesty’s “The Sunshine Girl.”
Criterion “Bella Donna.”
Palace “The Bush Girl.”
Adelphi “Beggar Girl’s Wedding.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric 7
Colonial V Continuous Pictures.
Empress I
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Glaciarium (-West’s Pictures.
Olympia (
Eden Gardens, Manly... The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Puss in Boots.”
Princess’s “The Monk and the Woman.”
King’s “Queen of the Highway.”
Royal “Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Dandies.
Esplanade, St. Kilda.... Smart Set Entertainers.
«
“The Wickedest Wife in Egypt,” a Melo
Donna or Belladrama, or something rather
similar or vaguely thereabouts, was pro-
duced by Julius Knight and his company at
the Criterion last Saturday evening in an
atmosphere that caused a fall of 10 inches
of perspiration on the Sahara in three hours.
Spectacularly, “Bella Donna,” adapted by
.Tames B. Fagan from a novel by Robert
Hichens, is worth seeing, but though the
setting of the last three acts is magically
effective, “the spell and the smell of Egypt”
are fortunately missing. The only smell is
the smell of Turkish coffee, and the spell
does not spell success. For Saturday’s fail-
ure —from a critical standpoint, for the audi-
ence was generous of applause—two persons
were responsible, James B. Fagan, the
adapter of the play, and Miss Irene Browne,
who puts the sugar (of lead) in her hus-
band’s coffee.
» » * *
In extenuation, it may be conceded that
to adapt a play from a popular novel is
difficult; but this adaptation is of an inad-
missible clumsiness. The whole of the first
act is flat and dull. In order to tell the
audience that Dr. Meyer Isaacson is a doc-
tor, Fagan introduces a patient, who has
nothing whatever to do with the plot; and
the act closes with the bare information
that Nigel Armine is going to marry Mrs.
Chepstow, a woman with a variegated and
much-darned past. All this could be easily
indicated in Act Two, at which point the
play should commence. Things certainly
“ BELLA DONNA,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Ophthalmic histrionics. The evil-eyed hus-
band poisoner (Irene Browne) comes within
range of the penetrating virtuous eyes of Dr.
Julius Knight.
begin to move then. Mrs. Armine, whom
Nigel married to reform, but who married
him only for a title which he didn’t get,
is bored by her dull husband, and has be-
come infatuated with a brown man, Mah-
moud Baroudi, a Sphinx-like personage
whom she rapturouslv embraces. Appar-
ently Baroudi keeps something Solomon-
like in the way of harems, but Mrs. Armine
evidently fatuously believes that on her
appointment to the position of chief concu-
bine, or chief wife, the rest of the ladies will
be sent straight back to their mothers. That,
however, is not the brown man’s, or any
brown man’s, way. In order to save him-
self trouble, Baroudi suggests that Bella
Donna, the name under which the lady had
become notorious, should gradually poison
her husband. The idea appeals to her, and
on the dahabeeya lent them by Baroudi the
poisoning is carried on through a brown ser-
vant formerly belonging to Baroudi. But
the celebrated Jewish physician, Meyer
Isaacson, Nigel’s greatest friend, arrives.
His suspicions are aroused, and in a series
of stirring melodramatic scenes he pits his
will against that of the desperate Lucrezia
Borgia. Isaacson has to fight her, an in-
competent local doctor and Baroudi’s ser-
vant, and in the end administers the knock-
out to them all. Three weeks later, under
Isaacson’s treatment, Nigel is cured, and the
desperate wife defiantly confesses, to her
husband her plot as the only way in which
she can free herself to go to Baroudi. But
this arrangement does not suit the brown
person, whose policy is to remain in the
good graces of the English. Calmly he turns
the white woman down, and goes back to his
harem. And Bella Donna, in a charming even-
ing gown, goes out by the back gate. The
people who have not read the novel are left
under the impression that she went into the
kitchen garden to cull onions or something
for supper, but those who have had
Hichens’ version of it assert that she wan-
dered away into the desert and was bitten
to death by wild camels or undomesticated
hyenas. If so, Fagan should either have in-
dicated in the dialogue in the creaking third
act that the hyenas were waiting for her
under the second palm tree on the right, or
put up a signpost in the garden, with “This
Way to the Desert. Tourists are warned not
to prod the Hyenas ; they are WILD.” Then
the audience could go home comfortably.
* * * *
Miss Irene Browne, possessing all. the
charm necessary for the part and a highly
satisfactory framework on which to drape
the sort of gowns that bring a heart-felt
“Oh!” of admiring envy from three-fifths
of any audience, lacks the personality for
such an exacting character as Bella Donna.
She cleverly indicates, in the unnecessary
first act, the unstable and voluptuous cha-
racter of Mrs. Chepstow, but in the big
scenes with Isaacson she so over-acts tha.t
the secret which a woman engaged in deli-
berately poisoning her husband must be able
to keep is too preposterously obvious. And
from her first encounter with the doctor she
keys her emotion up to a pitch that leaves
her nothing in reserve for her climax. Thus
her gestures became mechanical, and her
tricks of elocution familiar long before the
end of the third act. Miss Irene Browne
fails, too, to express that variegated and
much-ventilated past of hers. She presents
Bella Donna as a spoilt child. The part is
too big for an actress of her present experi-
ence, despite her present charm. Julius
Knight, finely made up as a Jew, plays the
part of the Hebrew physician with convinc-
ing artistry. Martin Lewis, as the poi-
soned husband, plays this straight part with-
out an error. His dry manner, probably
natural to himself, is well placed in this in-
terpretation of a dull, decent, unsuspicious
husband. As a brown personage, Hugh
Buckler keeps his dramatic powers in
commendable restraint, stressing the inscru-
tableness of this modern Rameses. Hamza,
the accessory to the crime, says “Yes” 38
times with dramatic effect, but Victor
Tatnall, as a brown Cook’s tourist guide,
fails to suggest the smell and the spell of
Egypt. Misses Grace Armitage, Noble and
Dorothy Cumming have little to do, but do
it. But the finest piece of character-acting
in the piece is given by that sure artist,
Leslie Victor, as Ibrahim, the brown ser-
vant of Bella Donna. This degraded figure
will be readily recognised by anyone who
has seen his kind. His grace, his insinuat-
ing tongue, his fawning gestures, are por-
trayed by this fine artist without more than
the necessary suggestion of his hideous
character. It is a triumph. The other
characters require no brick of censure.
❖ v
The combined picture showmen of Sydney
will join forces to further the hysteria
(which characterises the British people and
their descendants at odd times) aroused
over the Scott catastrophe. Next Satur-
day at the Town Hall they will provide a
special show in aid of the general fund, when
some moving pictures (doubtless taken on
the spot) of Scott and his party at the Polar
base will be shown. Professor David and
Lew. De Groen will assist.
** * *
William Anderson’s boy scouts, in odd
sizes, are still holding the fort under Gen-
eral Eugenie Duggan at the Palace (Syd-
ney) against the representatives of law and
order and of villainy, who are working toge-
ther to down virtue and trample on its ear.
Last week The Bulletin expressed itself
as being doubtful that the scout foolery had
been in the original script of Jo Smith’s
“Bush Girl.” As a matter of fact, it was;
and this paper hastens to say so before sus-
picion has time to undermine anybody else’s
security.
i'fi sfc
Everybody is flocking to see “The Sun-
shine Girl” and her talented and, in many
cases, beautiful associates at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), and Nobody has a complaint to
level at her or them. When Nobody raises
objections to a show the management is as
delighted almost as though it had been
assailed on moral grounds by one of the
churches. Either phenomenon stamps the
production as a success.
The National Amphitheatre is staging a
sort of pocket bellowdrammer hight “The
Counsellor.” It is of U.S. origin and fea-
tures two of Amurika’s best-known stage
products, viz., a Bowery gyurl and a strong
resourceful lawyer. Miss Bessie Slaughter
is back again, with her vast contralto voice
in good working order. De Lea and Orma
continue to pervade the premises to the
great diversion of the crowd, and Schepp’s
Circus is still making good.
** * *
Except to get him to add a few minor
items, the Tivoli hasn’t worried the printer
this week; the programme is much the
same as it was when the world was a fort-
night younger. The new turn offered by
Newman and Hughes doesn’t cause this
writer to feel like spilling much ink. As
for the rest, Maxini Bros, and Bobby,
Staley and Birkbecks, Will Poluski and the
Lancashire Opera Co. are inviting the usual
attention ; while the Patti Franks and Mo-
zetto the juggler are making their final dash,
and are therefore inviting a bit more than
usual.
o'
“The Kerry Gow” (the programme calls
it “Cow”), now flicking at the Crystal Pal-
ace. is identical with “Sweet County Kerry,’’
at the Sydney Royal. At the Royal if you
want to dodge Allen Doone’s songs it is
necessary to go outside, and then you may
miss something. At the Crystal Palace
there are no songs to dodge. So the film
gets the verdict from that great jury which
prefers a quiet life and wants to get the
thing through under the hour. There are,
of course, other things at the Palace —“topi-
cals” and “comedies” and the usual little
love affairs ; but the Cow from Kerry is the
pick of this week’s herd.
* :js $ *
To date George Cross, at the Adelphi, has
swallowed five gallons of poison, yet, on ap-
pearances, is still able to take other nour-
ishment ; T. Lloyd, the villain, has already
been sentenced to 375 years’ hard; and Nel-
lie Fergusson should by this be the most ex-
pert chloroformer in Sydney. And as no
mention is made of a successor to “The Beg-
gar Girl’s Wedding,” it is safe to assume
that these and the rest of the co. will con-
tinue their various careers for another two
or three weeks.
* * *
The first Australian-made kinemacolpr
films were shown at Spencer’s Lyceum this
week. They comprise scenes in and around
Melbourne,' including the scurrying crowds
at the railway stations, with other views of
the Botanic Gardens, Albert Park and St.
Kilda, the last mentioned showing a receht
regatta. The films are realistic; and it is
only a matter of time when the railways
will complain of lost custom. The Cowes
Regatta and “From Carnarvon to Conway
Castle” were also shown in color. “Aurora
Floyd,” the chief item on the. general list,
was a flickerised version of Miss Braddon’s
yarn of the rich banker’s daughter who
eloped with the groom, and was, of course,
unhappy ever after. The thing was done
quite as well as it deserved to be.
** * *
After a highly successful season at the
Palace (Sydney), Allen Doone and his assits
(which, curiously enough, include his fet-
ing abilities, to say nothing of his singing)
moved up town to the Royal, onenin" a
season tlmre on Saturday night with “Sweet
County Kerry.” This is the third time the
piece has been put on in Sydney within a
brief period of time by Doone (once at the
Adelphi, once at the Palace, and hoW at the
Royal). It looks much better on the Royal
stage than it did on that of the Palace, and
the farm scene in the first act on Saturday
was a good and artistic piece of work. Since
the original production there have been
some changes in the cast, but there is little,
difference in the acting, or little acting in
the difference; if there is, it cannot be dis-
cerned with the nude eye. Doone sings
again. Apparently nothing will stop him
but death, and then the fellow who. wrote,
“Oh, grave where is thy victory?” will have
a light break in upon him.
On Saturday afternoon there will be a
colossal mixed bill at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
in aid of the Scott fund. J. C. Williamson
and Miss Ethel Ivnight-Mollison (Mrs. T.
TI. Kelly) will re-appear in “Kerry.” They
made close on £lOOO by acting this playlet
for a charity ten years ago. Negro Min-
strelsy has suffered a revival of late at the
London Palladium, and Sydney will follow
faithfully in London’s wake on Saturday
with a show in which Miss Grace Palotta
and Miss Billie Barlow will bash the up-
roarious tambourine, and Miss Blanche
Browne and Miss Jessie Lonnen sound or
rattle or gnash the bones. The interlocutor,
the fatuously eager person who asks the pal-
pably faked questions, is to be Leslie
Holland.
* sS * * ~
The Marlow version of “East Lynne,
which happened at Melbourne Princess’s on
Saturday night, lacks so much of the possi-
ble grief that even the weepiest of its watch-
ers is heartbroken with difficulty. The
pathetic touch is most obviously lacking in
the death of Lady Isabel, who fades out
comfortably in a nice pink nightie; and
there is also something plain untradi-
tional about the demise of Little Willie, wlm


ENGLAND’S Latest Light
STONEEEIGH
'Weight of
Chassis, llcwt.
slle „« Knight Daimler Eng.nn. Det.th.bin Wire whn.l., W.rm fc, «.c
SUNSHINE Motor Cars P’t’y, Melbourne
svdner Adelaide]
Agents.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged.
•Phone No. 236 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY,
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
PLATE GLASS, Etc.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
Ijufi's his last breath in so apologetic a
manner that it is not until he appears in an
apotheosis, striking a Christmas-card atti-
tude among a clump of stage angels, that the
spectator suspects he is really dead. Those
lapses from Marlowdramatic decorum, how-
ever, are not inappropriate to the tameness
of the piece, for wnich Bob Inman gives the
keynote by playing his part with deadly
dreariness and solemnity. Robert's Archi-
bald Carlyle is a spectacle of mid-Victorian
priggishness, . with just sufficient humanity
to feel huffed when his missus levants with
another man. As Lady Isabel, Miss Guild-
ford is fairly successful, playing the fond
wife pleasantly, and reasonably subduing
her chest notes when her Sin has left her
with a drear outlook and a lung complaint.
Vivian Edwards is a forceful Francis Levi-
son, with a habit of orating the decollete
speeches that a seducer snouid wliisper in a
shell-pink ear. He seems to mistake his
victim for a large public meeting. Miss
Marie d’Alton’s Barbara Hare leaves this
writer uninterested ; while Miss Ethel Buck-
ley, as Afy llaliijohn. reckons that the death
of a parent calls for high soprano howls and
gesticulation. Of the others, some of whom
would drive a strictly teetotal critic to the
consolation of beer, I’. V. Scully (Lord
Mount Severn) is most in keeping with
what might be called the drama’s esprit de
corps. Scully, however, has a great mom-
ent when he has to remark, “An’ you, Isabel,
an earl’s dorter!” Next Saturday “The
Monk and the Woman” appears on the
scene.
* * * *
“As You Like It,” as we don’t like it,
showing a fat Rosalind with a puckered
chin, transpired at West’s, Melbourne, last
week, and received the cold Antarctic eye.
Shakspeare is not too suitable for biograph
production, and the presentation of one of
his classics with a waving arm or a rolling
eye trying to convey the sense of the spoken
word, ought to be near enough to irrever-
ence to count for sacrilege in the eyes of the
numerous adorers of the Bard. A pleasant
subject, however, was “What Happened to
Mary,” apparently an instalment of a serial
story wherein Mary, a stage aspirant, tries
to arrive at affluence with strict regard for
her virtue and uneasy avoidance of a liber-
tine’s kiss. An instructive picture also was
the film displaying the amputation of the
Panama Isthmus —an operation involving
much machinery, cuss words and perspira-
tion.
v 9K * *
An astounding medley of Indians, cow-
boys and matrimonial results the latest
Andersonian drama at the King’s (Melb.).
It’s title, "The Queen of the Highway,” re-
fers to a lady clothed in Turpinesque gar-
ments, who appears to be abiding in the
neighborhood of the Wild Horse Tavern,
Western States of Amurka, together with a
gold-mine promoter or wild-catter, who stole
her from her husband 15 years previously.
At the time of her elopement, she deposited
her infant daughter with the landlady of
the pub aforesaid, but the circumstance
faded from her memory, and now she is sur-
prised to learn that Jess the Prairie Flower
is her own lawful offspring. Incidentally,
she makes red-hot love to Bob, the 1 ony
Postman, a virtuous young man who has
won Jess’s virgin heart, but, as a rule, she is
busy robbing the mail coach. To the Wild
Ilorse Tavern comes the long-left husband
of Bell Diamond (the Matilda Turpin in
question), for the purpose of running the
mail-coach robbers to earth. This gentle-
man was a baronet when the lady bolted
from him. Nowadays, he is merely Roy
Redgrave, dressed somewhat like an eques-
trian pierrot, and known to fame as Ihe
Dude Detective. He shouts drinks for the
cowboys whilst planning detections, and
in the course of concealing himself, he dis-
covers the identity of his wife and child.
Finally, he ambushes in the mail coach with
a brother sleuthhound of the law, who shoots
the fair Turpinette next time she holds up
the vehicle. Also, the same handy-man de-
stroys the paramor, # and all peace.
Apart from the professional duties and
private family affairs of the Dude Detective,
a lot of awful bellow-dramatic interest at-
taches to Bob, the Pony Postman, and a
jealous half-bred spinster, who wears wig-
wam skirts and sometimes wishes to murde
Bob’s best girl. Also, there is a full-bred
Indian with a criminal weakness for “ re ‘
water, and a dismal Jew pedlar, and others.
Two of the others —Helen Fergus and
Charles Taylor—impersonate a pair of orth-
odox Western characters in an easy, natural
way, wfflereas all the rest are creatures o
absurdity, Dalgleish, as the postman, being
the least’ incredible. Half a dozen scenes
are a credit to Rege Robins and the mail
coach and equestrian parts of the
ance have never been more effectively man
aged outside of a circus. In point of horse-
manship. “The Queen of the Highway is a
commendable show. As regards mechanical
construction and grace of form, it compares
unfavorably with the common, or boarding
house, sausage. __ #
The experiment of giving a Repertory
Theatre show as a Saturday matinee at a
full sized theatre has been tried and found
nrnfitable Shaw s Man and Superman,
previously produced at the Athenaeum Hall.
filled the Princess’s, and pleased the crowd.
The larger stage gave Gregan McMahon and
co. a chance to spread themselves in a
thoroughly interesting interpretation of
Shaw’s wordy comedy. They talked and
taught with good confidence and discretion
all along the line of characters, and nothing
of the author’s philosophy was lost in the
performance. True, the Noo Yark accent of
Hector Malone (Helton Daniell) suggested
"A MIDSUMMER NIGHTS DREAM,”
AT MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Oscar Asche as Bottom.
any country on earth except Amurka, and
the Cockney dialect of ’Enry Straker was
only a painstaking copy of a crude imita-
tion, and the Ann Whitefield of Miss Isabel
Handley had none of the compelling force of
the lovely liar whom Shaw drew. On the
other hand, Mrs. Fowler, Miss Jolliffe, Gerald
Carr and Kingsley Norris put in some ad-
mirable work, whilst Gregan McMahon, as
the tireless Tanner, reeled off his hundreds
of lines without a hitch, and almost suc-
ceeded in presenting tlie Sturdy, alert theor-
ist and helpless victom of sex attraction to
the very life. McMahon’s Tanner is about
as possible as the book permits him to be.
The Repertory Co. has now got “The
Madras House,” by Granville Barker and
“David Ballard,” by Chas. McEvoy, in re-
hearsal for production in April.
Half an hour has been cut off the first-
night prolongation of “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream,” but the waits between the acts
and scenes continue to be gloomy features of
an otherwise bright entertainment. Oscar
Asche’s prodigal display intervals is
widely commented upon. “Kismet,’ An-
tony and Cleopatra,” “The Shrew” and now
the “Dream” have tended to get the public
mind obsessed bv a sense of impending cur-
tain at the Royal, and in this case the ‘rag
seems to be the one and only subject of sus-
tained interest in the performance. Nothing
else hangs together, as it were. The im-
mortality of “A.M.N.D.” lies in its com-
plexity, of course. Nobody wants his Grace
the Duke of Athens and his Court followers
to be less unreal, or the alleged Athenian
boobs to be less Elizabethanly English, _or
the Fairies to give a reasonable explanation
of themselves on supernatural grounds. In
this democratic age it could be wished that
the fairies had come tripping to Athens for
some larger cause than the nuptials ot a
Dook, but their perfervid loyalty can be
overlooked. If they were less frivolous, they
would be less convincing, perlmps. Under
present conditions, they are quite convinc-
ing—thanks to Shakspeare —which is more
than one can say for the prehistoric asss
head that befalls Oscar Asche in the third
act.
** * *
The Arabs, Alexander Prince’s concertina.
De Mario’s wonderful contortions, and Kit-
chen and Foy are the most notable Renas at
the Opera House these hot nights. The two
last named will drop out of the bill on I ri-
dav. Cassie Walmer’s chief claim to con-
sideration is a song about one Anna Maria,
and George Bryant and co. are repeating a
burglary sketch which they introduced to
Melbourne at another vaudevillery, higher
up the street, some time ago.
*# * *
Next Saturday’s matinee will begin the
10th week df “Puss in Boots’ at Her Maj-
esty’s, Melbourne. * # *
Adelaide Roval remaining obstinately
closed, Mabel Hardinge is having the chance
of her life at the Tivoli, where she is busj
handing out chestnuts— East Lynne,
“Camille” and “Uncle Tom.” At the Kings
there are Les Rinches, daring and graceful
Leonard Nelson, immensely popular, and
Violet Black and co. in a tabloid thriller.
Branscombe’s “Dandies,” at the Exhibition
are a strong team this year; Dampier, a
versatile comedian; his wife, less slim but
not less clever than of old; George Morgan,
graceful and agile; Gavin Wood (bass), and
Griffiths at the piano; with Peacock, Miss
Lane and Miss Ward to warble. Among
the pictures, the Empire (“Path of Des-
tiny”) and West’s (“Spectre of the Sea,” by
a new Danish actress) rely on strong
drama. Wondergraph stars 20 local Lady
Bathers; and the Pavilion just sails along
all day and every day.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Sarah Bernhardt’s accumulated years seem to
have hit her suddenly in America, like those of the
f rozen Pirate that C. Russell wrote about. She
knocked up completely in Chicago, and (the pathetic
farce of it all!) apologies for the performance on
account of ill-health were made on two occasions.
The promoters of the tour, who disgorged heavily in
advance, were looking mighty sick at latest accounts.
“Hullo” : In “Bella Donna,” Turkish coffee is made
on the stage. The present scribe has seen and drank
Turkish coffee made in the bazaars of Constantinople
and Smyrna, and it was not made that way. Yet Mah-
moud Barondi was looking on and seemed satisfied.
In Turkey each cup is boiled in a separate pot; in
“Bella Donna” one pot serves for three cups. On
the stage the roasting of the beans —the most neces-
sary part of the process —is not shown at all. And
in Turkey each cup has a thick layer of coffee
grounds, which, of course, is not swallowed. In
“Bella Donna” the grounds are not poured into the
cup. Mahmoud Baroudi evidently didn’t know
everything, though, perhaps, that is the way Turkish
coffee is made in Egypt.
“A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM,"
AT MELBOURNE ROYAL.
R. F. Anson as
Flute, the bellows-
mender.
Herbert Grimwood (as
Quince the carpenter)
speaks the Prologue.
“Circle”: Leslie Victor’s clever character-sketch of
Ibrahim, the coy house nigger who fawns round
“Bella Donna” and the Robert Hichens play, at
Sydney Criterion, makes it clear to me why the
white man has never got out of the habit of kicking
niggers. Ibrahim droops and shuffles round the
poisonous premises with a rose depending from his
mouth, and his discolored head tipped at a languish-
ing angle. His sticky drawl, “Everything my lady
wants she must ha-ve!” would infuriate an elderly,
self-respecting sheep. I guess that a nigger ot the
Ibrahim brand, on being violently kicked from be-
hind, would immediately fall on his knees and
gratefully lick some of the polish off the kicker s
footwear. Still, one needs to be quite sure ot his
nigger before one has a shot for goal. . One ot the
most shaken men I ever met was a frail little Eng-
lishman who had, years before, gone out to repre-
sent the dominant Power in India in the calico line.
One day he reckoned the time was ripe to boost the
dignity of the Empire by booting a too-clamorous
nigger. He booted with a will; but, unfortunately,
the concussed turban happened to be one of the few
unkickable types. He was an Afghan or something
of the sort, and you might as well kick a boa-
constrictor. The Englishman was rescued in time by
the police; but what he had already received made
a twisted man of him for the rest of his life. But
I guess Ibrahim would be a safe target.
“Way Verley Penn”: Mabel Hardinge, bossess of
a dramatic co. at present perpetrating ‘‘East Lynne
and other atrocities at the Adelaide Tiv., gave her
own treasury a knock one recent evening by deciding
upon “No show to-night.” Seems that, a few
minutes beforfe the curtain was due to go up, one or
two ac tors demanded cash in advance, or we won t
play to-night.” The treasury was quite sound, but
the hold-up was too much for the raven-headed
manageress; so she promptly closed down, and next
day filled the places with other people.
“Melb.”: Concerning Rignold’s “Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” and the “correction” with which
“Valentine Day” favored me (B. 13/2/’l3). Who
talked of the Sydney production? I didn t. 1 re-
ferred specifically to Melbourne, and gave the cast in
that city accurately. It was considerably better
than the original Sydney one, though that is raising
a new point.
“S.S." : De Biere, in a chat with the Argus on
the art of conjuring, showed himself as expert as a
prominent politician in the kindred art of talking
without telling. What De Biere did not tell was the
fact that the art and mystery of his business are
based on the capacity of transfer attention. If you want
to do something with your right hand, inveigle
public interest to your left. Fool the crowd into
believing your tricks are depending on all sorts of
appliances and means but the very ones that are
necessarv; trick them with fakements and shapes
that really don’t belong; bother them with boxes
and bits of string that are not in any sense the
essence of the mystery. The quickness of the hand
deceives the eye, but does not do it half as well as
the glibness of the tongue. An illusionist must set
his audience thinking—but thinking the wrong
thing.
Olive Berkley, remembered in Melbourne as a
good little Lord Fauntleroy over 20 years ago, has
apparently concluded the theatrical career which she
had fitfuilv pursued in America until she was biffed
bv Adversity and counted out. According to a New
York journal, she was recently in trouble in connec-
tion with a few trifling trinkets, allegedly taken
from a local department store. “When arrested
she said she had slept in Bryant Park for three
nights, and had been without food for three days.
And, having no stockings worth mentioning, she
had painted her legs with blacking—a shadow, so
to speak, of the vanity of the profession of which
she was a plump, pert ornament in the long ago.
Apropos the elevation of the music-hall. Recently
two New York gunmen were sentenced to be electro-
cuted for the murder of a notorious Hebrew person,
and the Judge had hardly committed the pair for the
fatal shock before William Hammerstein was offering
their wives 250 dollars a week each for a vaudeville
stunt. He reckoned that the pronounced homicidal
tendencies of the husbands gave the ladies some title
to public favor in ’Murka, so he waved his roll of
bills in their faces and expected them to close. The
females, who, by the way, are known as “Mrs. Lefty
Louie” and “Mrs. Gyp the Blood,” said it was
“really too much.” and indignantly refused. What
they meant, of course, was that Mr. Hammerstein s
offer was really too little; they couldn’t let their
feelings be lacerated for less than 500 dollars a week
each. When the last mail left Hammerstein was
considering their suggestion.
“J.F.H.” : Negro minstrelsy has been revived on a
colossal' scale at the London Palladium. There
are no less than 120 burnt-corked coons in the first
part. Twelve corner-men —bones and tambourines —-
address the old-time conundrums to the “interlocu-
tor” ; and 40 banjoists ping-pang like 750 hives of
infuriated bees. The oldest member of the com-
pany is “Little Thomas,” a corner-man with a tam-
bourine. He is 75, and he joined his first minstrel
troupe in London 60 years ago. For 27 years he
was with the Mohawks at the Agricultural Hall ;
then he joined the Moore and Burgess Minstrels, at
the now-vanished St. James’s Hall, and was with the
combination until it finally disbanded.
“Tony”: Despite the dictum of those who persist
that the picture-show will see eternity in and out,
1 assert that its day is waning already. A visit to
any Melbourne picture-house will bear this assertion
out. The audiences are small and cold, and often
obviously bored. The struggle to warm them up
with new matter is evidenced in strained efforts
after effect. Industrial and films still attract
attention, but the glassy optic is turned on the
eccentricities of Asshead, Tweedlefool and others,
while the cowboy drama barely gets a hand. One
show invites custom by giving its patrons a pot of
tea; so far beer has not arrived, but the time is
near when it will be needed to lure the jaded citizen.
And beer mav do the trick ; for beer will take most
people anywhere —especially if it looks like free
beer.
(Continued on page 36.)
State Minister Trefle of N.S.W. got a
peal of thunder off his chest last week when
he declared that sheep were developing into
a curse, and were keeping Australia empty
of people. It is a wonder he didn t class
sheep and wheat as the twin curses of the
country, and recommend that they be both
obliterated on the ground that they take up
too much space. When Trefle has got his
second wind, it may perhaps dawn on him
that it certainly isn’t because of sheep that
there are no big city populations alongside
Port Stephens, Jervis Bay and Twofold
Bay. Asses are the cause of the trouble.
SOAP! SOAP!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A grievance of chorus girls and others, which
unionism is expected to wipe out when it has secured
a little firmer footing in the profession, is the pre-
sent necessity of wearing extremely insanitary and
disagreeable costumes, which become “painfully evi-
dent” to the wearers and those associated with them
towards the end of a long run. —Daily paper.
These intimate complaints arouse
Great sadness in the Johnnie’s breast.
We’re not a class inclined to Wowse,
But such a state as this allows
Occasion for the fierce request
That Totties in the singing rows
Be given frequent change of clo’es.
That pretty little girl in blue
We’ve oft declared to be a dream,
She dances with the chosen few,
And looks “too sweet.” Alas! how true
Things are not always what they seem !
The lightsome fairy and the fay
Are short a weekly washing day.
VICTORIA.
STALLS.
Exit Becke.
A once-brilliant writer passed out when
Ivouis Becke died at a Sydney hotel last
Tuesday morning. He was not an old man
in years, being only 55 (one biographical
volume made his age about 10 years
more, but that seems very improba-
ble), but by reason of prolonged ill-
health he looked Very old and weary
long before his exit. His birthplace
was the peaceful town of Port Macquarie,
one of the old, dead places of New South
Wales, but he left it early, and never ex-
pressed any great desire to go back. It was
among the Pacific islands, where he served
variously as trader, pilot and Kanaka re-
cruiter, that he accidentally found his real bus-
iness in life. Or, rather, it was found for him,
for though he returned loaded to the gun-
wale with tales and legends of brown islands,
and brown girls, and brown sins and brown
gods, it had not yet struck him to put them
on paper. It was at the invitation of J. h.
Archibald, then editor of this paper, that he
besran to blast his reminiscences out of him-
seif—at first slowly and painfully, but after-
wards with ever increasing facility. Becke
was a born writer, but, curiously enough, he
lmd no small chance of going to the end ot
his earthly pilgrimage without finding it out-
lie began his public career with the Poet
and Palm” series in The Bulletin. \ery
earlv he went to England, where he rushed
out * many books, ranging from works ot
genius to pot-boilers, but though he made
much money, very little of it stuck to .him.
Coin departed from him casually, and the
exact track it had taken he seldom remem-
bered. When he returned to Sydney a year
or two ago, he was in poor circumstances
and miserably broken in health, and ill his
latter days very little good luck came his
way, or in the way of his wife and two chil-
dren. In his strenuous period his _ favorite
recreation was whale-fishing. It isn.t the
kind of sport that can be met with every
dav, but Becke whaled as opportunity
offered, and no man can whale much oftener
than that. _


Xshe
Simplex
fn'M
Safety
Razor.
Complete
WitH Six Blades.
Price 5/-
It seems almost incredible that vou can buy a Safety Razor for 5/- The “Simplex” Safety Razor
is that price, and it does the work just as well as a much higher-priced razor, and its life is just
as long.
The “Simplex” outfit includes the Razor, six superior Steel Blades, finely ground and set ready for
immediate use, enclosed in leatherette case.
The frame of the Razor is nickel-plated, and the poise of the handle perfectly balanced. An
outstanding virtue of the “Simplex” is that the blades are quickly and easily adjusted, so that any
man can shave himself in a few minutes. The “Simplex” is indeed wonderful value. As
illustration, PRICE, 5/-, sent carriage paid.
Extra Blades can be supplied ready for use at the cost of 1/6 per packet of 5. Post free.
The Simplex Stropping Machine, 12/6.
Will resharpen any make of Safety Razor Blades again and again,
make of your Safety Razor
When ordering please state the
l2/6
LTD,
Opp. G.P.O
SYDNEY.
38
■
■ •-
. a® ■'->
«§1
, Mis
■
H
Ha
a-
Rug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“ Beauty's Aid.”
Free sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELfIANN & CO.,
.Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; P « Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENSACOLA'S
WINES
THE TEMPTATION OF ST. ANTHONY.
NEW YORK, Saturday.-—Rev. W. H. Selleck, of
North Yakima (Washington) objected to seeing in
shop windows corsets mounted on what he called
voluptuous female forms, these being the dummy
wooden busts generally used. Mayor Splawn said
that the clergyman should not let a mere wooden
form excite him so.
Melbourne Age has burst out with some
time-worn suggestions for making the best
of the city’s tramway system in its three
remaining years of life. The marvel has
ever been that these suggestions—offered in
The Bulletin long ago —were not adopted
as a matter of course. Everyone knows
that the cables of the Melbourne Tramway
Co. could have been profitably worked at
greater speed, but the question of increased
power is not worth discussing now that the
co.’s lease is nearly run out. Ways and
means of saving time, and getting more
journeys out of each car under present cable
conditions, are still worth considering. Cars
on all the lines stop at the bidding of any
individual at any point of the route save a
steep incline or decline. There are no “sta-
tions” on the line, but at every intersection
the car stops twice —before and after it has
crossed the other line —and stops, as a rule,
an absurdly long time. “No haste and less
speed” has been the motto of the M.M.T.
Co. from the beginning. The cars are run
on the go-slow-and-stop-often principle for
the convenience of old women who can’t be
bustled. Apparently the management is
composed of old women who can’t be
bustled.
On Saturday, last week, the postal and
money-order service of Melbourne was par-
tially suspended in order that a small min-
ority of the postal employees might go pic-
nicking down the Bay with a number of
non-employees who also took the “day off.”
The usual speeches by the usual officers of
the Department were reported in the same
old press, and the public said “D—n!” as
of yore. Also, a host of employees who
couldn’t go to the invaluable picnic and
wouldn’t have wanted to go if they could,
were bitterly satirical on the subject-of Jhis
annual foolishness. The authorities and the
Lord only know why post offices should be
closed, and an ordinary delivery of letters
be denied to the public on this particular
Saturday. Railway employees have their
periodical excursions, but the train service
is not stopped to make a station-master’s
holiday. If the Government supplied the
Melbourne Metropolitan Gas service, as it
should, the community would not have to
go gasless for a time on account of a de-
partmental function. It may be argued that
the G.P.O. issues warnings to letter-posters,
whereby those who read the warnings can
avoid possible calamities that may befall
the unwarned, but everybody, without ex-
ception, is threatened with the chance of
having to suffer in mind or estate from the
unpardonable picnic.
It isn’t drink that makes the N.S.W.
Ministry look like that, but the struggle to
decide what to do with Federal Government
House. The Ministry was pledged to abol-
ish the State Governor, and it wasn’t
pledged to do anything at all to the Federal
Governor. With its amazing capacity for
doing anything except what it has promised
it proceeded, of course, to get into a condi-
tion of wild applause over the State Gov-
ernor and to eject the Federal one. And
now it wants to show that it threw out the
all-Australian Excellency, not because of a
mean desire to be nasty to the Common-
wealth, but because his premises were
wanted for a high public purpose. Already
about 25 public purposes have been sug-
gested, ranging from a monkey-house or
something of the sort to a conservatorium
of music, but none of them look quite high
enough to be feasible. Also, the Cabinet
can’t agree within itself over the monkey-
house or anything else. Probably the best
idea would be t© pull down the house on the
ground that it is aged and out of date, and
add the gardens to the Domain. Then a
great load of building material would be off
the Ministerial chest, and the argument
would have to end for lack of any place to
argue about.
* * * *
A cheerful casual, irrelevant person, who
transpired lately at the North Melbourne
Court, indirectly poured mud on Willie
Watt’s announced intention or threat' or
promise to introduce a Bill that would put
the charities of the State on an amalgamated
and financially sane basis. He came to
court at the request of his wife, who desired
him to give her something to live on, and
genially explained that he wasn’t able to do
hard toil, but was just then engaged in
“running what was called the Relief Mis-
sion.” He was the secretary, and “had col-
lected about £3 last week.” Inquiry about
this precious mission elicited the statement
that defendant’s wife “was one of the com-
mittee, but did not attend regularly; in fact,
no meeting had been held yet.” Of course,
there were no books, vouchers or anything
of that sort, and a cold, sceptical P.M.
ordered the blessed secretary to hand some
relief to his wife or go to chokee.
“Henry H.” writes :
The final verdict upon the Scott expedition to the
Antarctic will probably be that it was a muddle.
Scott was brave and in deadly earnest, but there is
no evidence that he was specially fitted to stand the
Polar temperature. Of the two men whose break-
down delayed the expedition on its return from the
Pole, and led to his complete obliteration, one was a
naval seaman with a Welsh name, and as his Majesty’s
bloated ironclads seldom go to the Pole, he probably
had little experience of the conditions. The other
was a captain of the Inniskilling Dragoons. The
dragoons are not addicted to charging the bear in
Greenland, so his qualifications are also doubtful.
His epitaph set forth quite truly that he was a
gallant English gentleman, but if he had been a
Siberian fisherman or a Russian whaler from Arch-
angel—-well, he might have seemed less picturesque,
but he might have struggled through, and the great
thing is to struggle through. Apropos, almost the
only man in the outfit who doesn’t get special bou-
quets thrown at him for his courage, and who isn’t
called “captain” or “doctor” or even “Mr.,” is
Dimitri, the Russian dog-driver. Yet it is men-
tioned quite casually that, when the biologist and
the dog-driver reached One-ton Depot (it was 11
miles from here that the Polar party perished) the
Russian was quite willing to go sledging into the
blizzard and the unknown single-handed, and carry
provisions to the returning wanderers, if by any
chance he could find them. Possibly he didn’t know
that he was proposing anything very special, but
to the ordinary person his idea looks marvellous. It
was people like this obscure doggist to whom Amund-
sen owed his success, and it was probably to brilliant
and gentlemanly amateurs that Scott owed his
death. The episode vaguely recalls that of the Burke
and Wills expedition across Australia. Its leader
was an imposing Irish personage who had seen ser-
vice in the Austrian cavalry, and afterwards became
a police official in Melbourne. His cavalry experi-
ence didn’t help him to find kangaroos to eat, and
his police experience didn’t furnish him with a clue
in the search for water, and his city experience was
wasted among the immeasurable distances. So,
one way and another, the show came to grief.
Count de Fleurieu, who was in Australia
a year ago, to look for traces of old French
navigators, has “made good” with the S.A.
Government in one matter of little conse-
quence. Just a century ago Baudin (just
too late) and Flinders (just in time) met
at Encounter Bay; and the name commem-
orates the meeting. The Frenchman, as he
THE. OBVIOUS.
FOOLISH G LADYS (ringing up): “Is that you, Evelyn? I’m speaking through the telephone !”
strolled along the coast, had given names to
most things; Fleurieu, whose ancestor was
Minister of Marine at the time, has traced
about 250 of them. Many of the features
have struggled along since without any offi-
cial name at all; and Fleurieu asked that in
such cases the French labels might be used.
The Government, reckoning up that it would
cost nothing, smiled sweetly and agreed.
The consent applies in eight or nine
cases, the most important being that
of the peninsula which stretches out below
Adelaide towards Kangaroo Island and ter-
minates at Cape Jervis. S. Aus. never real-
ised that this solid slab of territory, was a
neck of land almost surrounded by water;
but the Frenchman can have his way, and
henceforth it is to be Fleurieu Peninsula.
♦ * * *
Minister Thomas’s weakness in the case of
Mrs. Hop Poon Gooey, who, by the way,
has not yet, as far as is known, returned to
her beloved Flowery Land, has naturally
brought him a crop of similar applications
or disasters. The latest concerns the two
small daughters of a Chinkie wearing the
shocking name of O’Hoy, of Hongkong and
Bendigo. O’Hoy, it appears, was born in
Bendigo, and is, of course, entitled to dwell
here if so minded; but he went to China,
captured a “responsible position” in a ship-
ping office, married an almond-eyed damsel,
and presently acquired two replicas of him-
self and his wife. Last year, O’Hoy seems
to have discovered an idea that the climate
of Bendigo would suit his children’s health,
so he sent them thither—they being then two
and three years of age respectively—in the
care of an aunt. There doesn’t appear any
visible reason why they should have been
allowed to land at all, but they were, on an
exemption of three months. Before that
time was up, the usual interesting event
happened to the aunt —these Chinkie ladies
seem to be whales for interesting events —•
and a further exemption was granted. Now
the Department wants the three —who are
now four —to return whence they came, but
O’Hoy has announced his intention of com-
ing to dwell here permanently, and wants to
know if he is to be separated from his be-
loved children —whom he hasn’t seen for
nearly the half of their lives. Also, he
wants an exemption granted to his wife
with the usual interesting event to folloAV,
presumably. The time has arrived, or is
ripe, or something, for Minister Thomas to
brace up his backbone, stimulate his White
Australian principles, fan his zeal into flame
and say “No” with such emphasis that not
even to the subtlety of an Asiatic mind can
there be found one trace of “Yes” in the
larsre negation.
Another strike is threatened in Maoriland
■ —in fact, it may be in progress at this
moment for all this paper knows to the eon
trary. The Christchurch General Laborers’
Union is responsible. Two lads having been
fined for refusing to attend drill, that union
passed an ordinance urging upon citizens
“to do all in their power to lessen the birth
rate until the Defence Act is repealed.” On
the whole, The Bulletin is inclined to
agree with the Christchurch General Lab-
orers’ Union —anyway, to the extent that
its members should practise the principles
of St. Anthony. The man who won’t under-
take the defence of the country, and is pre-
pared to use what influence he has to keep
other people from learning how to defend
the country, shouldn’t have any children.
The Koreans were men of that kind, and it
would have been better for a whole lot of
young Koreans, by reason of their awful
fathers, if they had never been born. But
as a guarantee that they believe in what
they say, mightn’t something more than a
mere resolution be asked of the members of
the Christchurch Laoorers’ Union?
THE PRESS HITS BACK.
MELBOURNE SATURDAY. —At a conference of coun-
try newspaper proprietors, held last night, it was de-
cided, in view of the serious restrictions placed on
the press by the Commonwealth Parliament, to make
a charge of Is. an inch for the publication of ad-
dresses by all Parliamentary candidates,, irrespective
of parties.
POLITICIAN: "Ugh! That's playing it a bit
low down, ain't it?”
THE SUFFERING SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As was anticipated by the departmental officers,
the shipment of bananas from Fiji by the Levuka
proved on its arrival on Friday night to be unfit for
human consumption, and 19,000 bunches and 8000
cases, representing another 16,000 bunches, were
thrown overboard in the bay. —One news item.
The passengers by G.M.S. Scharnhorst, which ar-
rived in Sydney yesterday from Bremen and Ant-
werp, via Southampton, had a unique experience
whilst crossing the Indian Ocean. The Scharnhorst
had crossed the line, and was about half-way to
Colombo when she ran into a submarine disturbance,
which caused her to quiver from stem to stern.
-—Another news item.
The Sea, white-handed, to her washing jobs
Rolls on, and like a washerlady sobs
Her old, old sorrows to the sun and stars,
And falls like thunder on the sandy bars.
Maudlin and grumpy, with the Wind’s wide broom
She scours the cliff-face and each rock-bound room,
Or spreads her suds upon the tilted sands,
And croons old ditties no one understands.
When grey and drunken with the Winter’s gin,
She rages hag-like till some ships fall in
And swell the dreadful litter on the floor,
So like the washerlady’s home ashore.
They heave decayed bananas at the sea;
With ancient powder, too, they’re very free.
She takes it all because she has no choice;
But you can trace resentment in her voice.
What are the wild waves saying? Why, the Flood
Complains about your rotten fruit and mud !
About the ashes that the liner leaves
The old dame too continually grieves.
She shudders sometimes in her ancient bed,
And shakes the vessels passing overhead.
Not one fleet Second passes by but we
Pour some sad rubbish in the suffering Sea !
V.S.W.
KODAK.


Half the
Trouble
Mrs. L. Whitney. , of Enmore , Sydney
writes :
“ Washing isn’t half the
trouble it used to be now I
use Sunlight Soap. I don’t
have to boil the clothes at
all, yet they look whiter and
newer than if I boiled them
for hours with the
fashioned kind of soap.
“ And what is more, Sun-
light Soap doesn’t , crinkle
and chap my hands.”
COOD
Sunlight
laundry soap
BABY JUST LOVES IT.
“When my little son shows the first sign of cold I
always give him Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,!und
he is soon bright again,” writes Mrs. J. F. M
104 Rundle Street, Kent Town, Adelaide (S.A.). In
fact I would not be without a bottle of Chamberlain s
Cough Remedy in the house. It is splendid for colds
and croup, and baby just loves it.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten*
tion Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
o
(Summer - weight
Coat Sweaters.
Being light in weight, these sweaters are essentially for
use on warm days, when, after vigorous exercise or pastime,
the need is felt for something that will maintain the bodily
warmth, and so prevent a chill.
The attractive style and refined appearance of these garments
render them appropriate for neglige and holiday wear.
White or Grey, all wool, button to neck, turn-down collars.
12 6, 13/6 and 14 6.
Vest style, 1/- less.
Postage, 1/- ; 1/3 for out-sizes.
Mention chest measurement when ordering.
New catalogue on request.
Peapes &. Co., Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
309-11 George Street, SYDNEY.
PROMPT ACTLON.
G LADYS: "I told him he must not see me any
more."
GEORGE: “What did he do?"
GLADYS: “Turned oust the light.”
“Quipster” : In spite of Bakespeare, there s
a world of force in a name. The Indian
adepts chant the sacred word “om,” and its
vibratory power is immense.. In “Toorak,
too, quite a world of vigor is probably hid-
den, and awaits discovery by vibratory
analysis, whatever that may mean. I
shouldn’t wonder if a man couldn’t cure him-
self of paralysis by properly intoning it.
Toorak! Notice how suddenly it termi-
nates, suggesting the crack of the horsewhip-
power again. Oh, it’s a magical name.
Even magistrates are influenced tay it, as in
a recent case at Prahran (Vic.). A chim-
ney-sweep named Winter sued a Captain
Somepumpkins for 255. for work and labor
done, the work including tlie “curing” of
smok .Y Hues. To anyone who knows the
arin( >yance of smoky chimneys, the price
won se em exorbitant. The captain, more-
over, admitted that he agreed to pay the
price, but lie defended the claim because tlie
sweep took advantage of his inexpert know-
ledge. The work occupied only two hours,
and the idea of paying a mere chimney-
sweep 255. for two hours’ work was mon-
strous. The captain might pay a surgeon
50_ guineas for half-an-hour’s work—one
guinea for the work and 49 for knowing how
to do it—but that is a different matter alto-
gether. And, anyway, Captain Somepump-
kins lives in Toorak ; and the blessed Gon-
stitution would peter out if Collingwood
were permitted to triumph over Toorak. So
the Court said that 10s. was a fair tiling ;
and Toorak breathes heavily again. Still!
next time Toorak talks about the shameful
way the laboring classes dawdle at their
work, somebody ought to be on hand to
remind it of the evil consequences of hurry-
Is hnhi'tl* T*' S *‘/ se .‘ Foaling
a vicious nabit but Toorak is resnonsi-
51e for jt ag weU a ’ Col l ingwood . P °
* » * »
“Rebra” : The Maoriland J.P. is very
liable to be a nice benevolent old soul witii
fhe 1 van kies" "of 1 a h - terr h ° r f
The oth(l ,. day tv ‘ u of ° the m a t Whanglrei
beheld with sorrow the son of an old friend
arraigned before them on a charge of theft.
Th ( ; young man proved himself not guilty to
their satisfaction, but there was not a doubt
that he had consorted with coves of
doubtful reputation. Wherefore, having re-
gard to their old-time friendship with the
young man’s parent, the two magnificent old
jays held a long discussion, and finally de-
ejded to fine the prisoner £1 for “induscree-
tion.” The victim paid the money and
escaped gladly, and eight lawyers chased
him along the main street to have the plea-
sure of calling him an idiot.
* * * »
Miss Adela Curtis, the latest caterer for
wealthy cranks in London, has the audacity
to palm off the ancient custom of the Mahat-
mas as a new medical religion of her own.
The Mahatmas sit all day brooding on Vir-
tue for the immediate salvation of them-
selves and the gradual regeneration of man-
kind in general. The cult of Miss
Curtis is the “Silence Cure,”
whereby the patients are supposed
to fill their minds with good
thoughts, and thus banish diseases
from their bodies. The initial
weakness of the theory is in the
assumption that a patient who
tries to think of “charity” or “be-
nevolence” for 15 consecutive silent
minutes is bound to acquire a de-
sire to practise what he tried
to think of. Churchgoers can
hardly avoid a measure of silent
meditation on Christian endeavor-
ing, but their endeavoring in 99
cases out of 100 doesn’t produce
two pen’orth of Christianity. Fifty
average churchgoers are less kindly
in disposition and less healthy in
physique than 50 godless citizens
who devote their Day of Rest to
gardening, mixed bathing and
swapping yarns with their friends.
The Church, considered as an in-
ducement to silent curative medita-
tion. is an admitted failure. It
benefits only the fractional propor-
tion of worshippers who crave for
religion as boozers crave for alco-
hol. In the others it makes no real
difference unless it makes them
dangerous hypocrites. What the
old Church has failed to do no
modern Meditation Cult will ac-
complish. The Church does get a
fair chance to put in some go- <
work, inasmuch as most people are driven,
coaxed or attracted to Divine Service at
one time or other in their lives. But
silence-curing, like faith-healing, interests
only the spiritual-minded and crankily dis-
posed minority, even as a temperance lec-
ture interests teetotallers only.
Melbourne City Council, although a slug-
gard for useful work, moves a lot faster in
ornamental work than the State Govern-
ment. anyhow. The demolition of the awful
old Immigrants’ Home, adjoining the Alex-
andra Gardens, off St. Kilda-road, which
had been delayed for years by the Public
Works Department will be no sooner com-
pleted than the City Council will have gar-
deners on the job of beautifying this new
reserve. Where the old Home lagged super-
fluous the Council will erect an artistic
superfluity in the form of a statue of Ed.
VII. The City Fathers can rush things
when they like. But the State Govern-
ment! Many months ago Premier Watt an-
nounced that the stolen corner-piece of the
South Yarra Domain had been restored to
the public, but up to now it has remained as
private as ever. The boundary fences and
sub-divisional fences are still there. Not a
move has been made towards giving back
this large tract of original park land to its
rightful owners. Horses and cattle are
grazed on the land, festive gatherings are
held within its gates, and the vast enclosure
is practically the private estate of a care-
taker.
* * * *
The narrowness of Chapel-street and the
impossibility of cramming more wheels into
it, is worrying the councillors of 1 ran
(Vic.). One genius has propounded an idea
remindful of topsy-turvey Chester (Eng-
land). Chester has its shop windows on the
first floor, and the sidewalks are on the roots
of ground-floor premises. The proposal in
P’ran is to reverse the order of things and
shift the shop fronts back 10 feet, thus allow-
ing the first floors to project over the street
as they did in the Cold Country in the times
of the Saxon Heptarchy and later. The
weak spot about the notion is that, while it
roofs in the pedestrian Public during wet
weather, it takes no account of ngbt,*]
air and safety from fire. Also, there is the
chance of the projecting upper storey col-
lapsing on to the pavement below, and rais-
ing Cain.
PURSUING ART.
HERCULES HAMFAT (of the Hamfat Dramatic
Company): “ Yes, sir, at Yak Yak we ran
for two nights."
SALTBUSH SID: “Cripes! Couldn’t they catch
y’ on their 'orses? ”
The other evening Sydney Sun printed
this telegram:—
Mrs. Scott, who is on board the R.M.S. Aorangi
bound for Maoriland, has received a wireless message
conveying news of her husband’s death.
But that wouldn’t do for a community which
had been worked up to hysterics in the in-
terests of a great circulation; so the Even-
ing News presented the thing in this form :
Mrs. Scott has now learned of her bereavement.
The wireless operators, after many attempts, suc-
ceeded in getting in touch with the Aorangi, on
which Mrs. Scott, unconscious of disaster, was speed-
ing to Maoriland to meet her husband.
Through the air the message quivered, and over-
took the vessel.
The dread words were rapidly deciphered, and the
news conveyed to Mrs. Scott.
The quivering message that overtook the
vessel and the dread words that were rapidly
deciphered are all quite Marie Corellish, not
to say Charles Garbage. But what an un-
healthy idea it is that this sort of heated
and bounding slop is what the community
is craving after. #
“0.K.” writes from a common-sense point
of view:—
The pathos of ill-fated Captain Scott’s farewell
letter to the British public is in its egotistical appeal
to egotism. He and his companions were meeting
their death, he wrote, in the attempt to complete a
task “which has shown that Englishmen can endure
hardships, help one another, and meet death with as
great a fortitude as ever in the past. ...Hau we
lived, I should have, had a tale to tell which would
have stirred the heart of every Englishman. . . .but
surely, surely a great rich country like ours will see
that those who are dependent on us are provided for
properly.” A fair claim, forcibly expressed, from
the point of view of every individual egotist. A
Polar explorer, fully conscious of the dramatic
heroism of his position, turns the limelight to his
death scene. He demands proper provision for the
dependent ones because they were dependent on Ins
conspicuously plucky self and equally plucky com-
panions. Every man of some importance personally
thinks that his nearest and dearest are entitled to
special consideration on his account after his de-
cease. They must be properly provided for. Ihe
millions of persons of no financial importance don t
hold this belief, or only in a very modified form, dur-
ing their life or when they are passing out. Society
has not allowed them to flatter themselves so much.
The great and wealthy country which poor Scott was
able to address in the mass, is mostly populated bv
strugglers and starvers, whose sufferings -heroic
sufferings in many cases —are commonplace occur-
rences to which Wealth and Influence pay no heed.
Even the obscure people who get into the news-
papers after death by having sacrificed their - lives m
the attempt to save life, rarely leave their families
“properly provided for” by public subscription Or
else it is that the public considers a very small sum
of money a very proper provision for a commonplace
widow and five commonplace children. For the toil-
ing millions in the mass there is no egotistical hope
that anything they can do will ever be worth any-
thing worth mentioning to their families. Ihey die
in battle on land or sea, and nobody notices that the
widow’s pension—if she gets one—is a miserable
pittance In short, the life and death of the average
impecunious Englishman is pathetic, because he ex-
pects nothing from his “great and rich country, and
[s made to feel the unimportance of his fate, whereas
the pathos of Captain Scott’s letter to the nation
is in its admission of his sense of his fate s im-
portance. .
From The Bul-
letin’s Old Sol-
dier :
The Balkan allies
should begin to feel
the pinch badly from
now onwards. So far,
those in high places
have concealed the
real losses from the
general public. They
must have been tre-
mendous. For ex-
ample, in the case of
the Bulgarians, they
may be set down at
anything up to a third
of their total force
(say) 130,000 men,
killed, wounded, and
dead of disease. In
the heat of battle the
full weight of the
tragedy is not felt.
It is when the units
come to be reorgan-
ised that the extent
of the horror is
brought home to all
hands. It is some-
times an advantage
for a general to com-
mand an army of red
raw recruits, who have
only learned their
marching drill. Know-
ing nothing of the
war game, they will
advance in the face of
a deadly fire till half
of them are down,
and then, if there is
an officer still on his
legs to lead them,
the}' will continue
rushing forward till
those who are not shot
fall exhausted. The
demoralising result is
only seen when the
fragments are gath-
ered up next day.
The reducing of Ad-
rianople—to which the
Allies are pledged—-
is a stiff proposi-
tion. No doubt the
ring of forts, thrown
up by Blum Pasha in 1877, is too close to the
town to protect it from bombardment, but no amount
of damage done to the town will do much good or
harm to the men in the bomtr-proof shelters under
the ramparts of the forts. Firing on the town hurts
no one but the civil population, and everyone of
them who is killed will be simply one useless mouth
the less to feed, and one more daily ration for the
soldiers. Since the best chance the Allies have of
entering Adrianople is by starving its defenders, their
bombarding tactics are about the worst possible.
Meanwhile, with Indian, and possibly African, Mo-
hammedans subscribing to Turkish loans, and some
of them volunteering for service, the Unspeakable
One is looking a good deal cheerier than he was last
month.
“Montalex” supplies a millinery note: —
That “dejected kangaroo” item (B. 30/l/’l3) encour-
ages me unto disrespectful remarks about the Com-
monwealth Flag. In the first place, a disastrous
chromatic effect is produced by breaking-up the red
field with so many little scraps of white (stars).
Also, if the stars of the Southern Cross had been
arranged decoratively— i.e., straightened up so as
to form a perfect cross —the big white star under the
union might be tolerated as part of the decorative
scheme. But, since the cross is pictorially pre-
sented in all its askewness, the aforesaid big star,
not being in the actual celestial picture, has no right-
ful place in the composition. I notice that the Com-
monwealth device appears occasionally now upon a
blue ensign, but, though this gives a vastly better
color-effect, it is unfortunately not the official Com-
monwealth ensign.
LYING LOW.
“Aren't you coming home. , old chap?"
"Too early yet. I want to give the landlady
a chance to get to bed."
ELECTRIFIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Nikola Tesla recently startled the New York
Board of Education with a proposal to make dull
children bright by saturating them with eleetr’Vitv.
—News item.
The lightnings of the gods are oiled and curled,
The thunders tamed and taught to be polite
\\e send them on their errands round the world
Linking the dawn to dark, the day to night.
Thor’s loud electric hammer mostly deals
Its blows on instruments that buzz and click,
And Jove’s fierce anger turns the busy wheels,
Or learns of sage Marconi some new trick.
The everlasting tinkle of the bell
Invokes tall curses on the telephone,
The phonograph with nasal bleat and veil
Our gladness to the evening stars makes known.
Known to the planets on their silent way
Are all the lights that glitter on the wire,
Where beer or baking-powder loves to spray
The darkness with its advertising fire.
We press a button, and, with trembling zeal,
The potent voltage answers to our call ;
Unseen, unheard, its spirit loves to steal
Across the insulators on the wall.
Our cabbage gardens we electrify,
We stimulate the cauliblossom white
With that same power that erstwhile shook the
skies
Before Ben Franklin caught it with a kite.
No more the dullard and the strait-browed fool
Shall ignorance with fetters cold restrain,
We galvanise to life the laggard school,
And pour electric knowledge in the brain.
Soon may old Venus clutch her filmy skirt.
Call back her Cupid and her ancient doves,
While ordered currents teach us how to flirt,
And coils intensify our various loves.
Ami e’er the brief year has grown obsolete,
Dynamic force may spread a wider wing,
And, framing golden verse of even feet,
Teach some ecstatic poet-wheel to sing.
Till shod at last with patent rubber shoes,
The world, in non-conducting fabric drest,
May find conditions suited to its views,
And let the lightning work and take a rest.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


Just now, '’fr\ Cool? said, he had
only two planks in his platform.
One of those planks was to get the
present Government out of office. The
other was to maintain the solidarity and
N, unity of the great Liberal party. /
\ —’‘Argus.”/
•fro
]wo*
3k^
1 , . f £>2\cK View of
(outur-j —— N 1
Site %tsm.
MELBOURNE,
I The report Of the Royal Commission j
| which so patiently and thoroughly in- j
I quired into the causes of the fire at the
North Mount Lvell mine in October last,
makes it abundantly clear that the tragic
disaster was a pure mischance, and that
consequently no one was to blame.
—‘‘Argus.’’
ĥ
A rtijt' Softer 'f° r our 3
Ov> Itje Argus o-
f-1 S*yi*iP Good Bye "t© PrerrjieK W&H"
decided d 8 dr**/ a? of Sa//>n^
" Qo4 bIeSS ! " 4o Premier /Aurr*^
The new chief commissioner of police
will be appointed on April 1, the day
after Mr. O'Caßaghan's retirement.
’"Tei'tTn'JoniaJs
ability retiring
. CWf"
\o[ Police will
received aft"
%o. office t*b
.to M re * 31 '
%r*
«*]<> of w, f >,n J* >
out WVfiTfe
Wit’ £un.
He told us quite feelingly of Jap-
anese printing houses which are em-
ployed on mural printing for the
Australian market, paying their
workmen at from lOd. to Is. per day,
and competing against Australian
printers who are receiving from 10s.
to 13s. a day. He has studied the
hoardings of this city, and seen for
himself how much of this Japanese
i work is here.——News item. >
PLANKS AND SUNDRIES.


Car bolace ne
Blocßettes
Ptirify and Sanitize 4Re Air
ħ
LAST
REQUIRE
FOB MONTHS
NO ATTENTION
For use in Rooms and all places where
a Fragrant, Sanitized and Pure
Atmosphere is desired.
<£.2/6
SOLD EVERYWHERE
u
Without
Cages
evaporate an* give off an active and delightfully pleasing vapour
They slowly
WHOLESALE
Only :
ARTHUR MUSTON & SONS, 17 Bridge St., Sydney
SPARKLETS
A
'■ -i
fi&aaFrr
‘ X/.« < ♦
*W
mz
rv
1 •
fa
b -£
hot weather wisdom.
If you arc ever thirsty in the hot weather—
if a cool, sparkling drink appeals to you—re-
member that with a Sparklet Syphon you can
make delicious aerated water IN-
STANTLY, from your ordinary
water supply. Your home will
be happier all the Summer if
“Sparklets” are kept ready at
hand.
C. SYPHON, 66. C. Bulbs, 2/3 do i.
*B. SYPHON, 4/- B. Bulbs, 1/6 do
A Soda-Fountain on a ‘Tea-Fray
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Shorthorn”: Giving evidence before the
Royal Commission on Sydney’s food supply, M. A.
O’Callaghan, the Government dairy expert, made it
clear that practically all the South Coast and Cam-
den districts were infected with tubercular bacteria.
It is cheerful information, as most of Sydney’s “pure
country milk” comes from these localities. But,
apparently, O’Callaghan is not anxious to make much
effort to stamp out the horror. He admits that the
tuberculin test is absolute, but would only apply it
to suspicious cattle—whatever that may mean—be-
cause if it were applied generally, and “30 per cent,
of the cows reacted, the economic loss would be
about £1,000,000, if the animals were destroyed.”
So it is more humane, in the expert’s opinion, to
kill off infants and infect health v men and women
than to interfere with the beastliness of Private En-
terprise.
A LONG DISTANCE EVENT.
Recently near Roma (Q.) a selector sent in
eighty-odd miles for a parson and other mar-
riage requisites. Herewith the emissary re-
turning triumphant.
“Eryander” : Duke Kahanamoku’s experi-
ence with a conger (B. 6/2/’l3), will surprise no-
body who knows the brute. The British species,
C. vulgaris, has really some sea-serpentish claims,
reaching sometimes 12ft. in length and weighing
well over the cwt. It is a very powerful and savage
fish, and, when one is hauled aboard an open fishing-
boat, great is the circus. The colossal eel darts
around like lightning, snapping viciously in all direc-
tions, while the men are tumbling over each other
in the endeavor to keep their feet clear of the jaws
and to get in a blow on his tail. It’s no use hit-
ting at his head, but a comparatively slight bash
on his back premises knocks all the fight out of him.
THE MARK OF THE FEAST.
NEW P ARSON: “I called at your lent
yesterday and lett a few tracts. Did
you see them?”
OLD BILL: “Ho, yes. I see yer tracks all right, but I thought they was the pleeceman's."
“0.K.” : This week ends the close season
for wild duck in Victoria, and in a day or two the
gradual extermination of the State’s most toothsome
feathered race will be advanced another stage. A 14
days’ extension of the time during which youthful
ducks may cultivate their flying powers, has given
great offence to rhe “sporting” gunsters of the Vic.
community, but it has hardly served to remind the
public in general that the birds are becoming fewer
every year. Probably the fact that there is no close
season for the sale of dead N.S.W. ducks in Mel-
bourne, accounts for public ignorance and indifference
on the subject. One of these
years Victoria —and N.S.W. a
while later —will be surprised
to learn that the local supply
of “game” food is utterly ex-
hausted. The spread of human
population diminishes the
number of unprotected breed-
ing and feeding grounds for
wild fowl, nor are there any
protected enclosures where
they can increase and multi-
ply, and be periodically mur-
dered in moderation. Wild-
fowl seem doomed to disap-
pear from the face of the less
uninhabited States of the Com-
monwealth, though they will
presumably get reasonable
measures of Government con-
sideration in Queensland and
the Northern Territory ere
“sport” can do its worst.
Even this hope will be blight-
ed if fashion should decree a
craze for wild duck and goose plumage in women’s
hats. It is up to all good Australian gourmands, who
love birds for their flesh’s sake, to keep a jealous eye
on the millinery of expensive womankind, and refuse
to shout a luncheon for any such as may be guilty of
wearing wild-duck-wing trimmings.
“Eryander”: Re “Jamtin’s” inquiry about
moon-blindness (B. 30/l/’l3). He may be easy'; he
isn’t at all likely to have his eyes obliterated by the
moon, because moon-blindnes3 (selenopia) occurs
only in persons constitutionally disposed that
way. I have known three cases —all in tropical
waters. In one instance, our boatswain, coming
aboard, “tanked,” at Sourabaya, fell asleep on the
deck under the full moon. In the morning he was
nearly stone-blind, and called himself every kind of
objurgated idiot for having risked the “blinkers.”
“Always get ’em,” he said, “if I sleep in full moon-
light. Three bloomin’ davs before I get my sight
properly back!” The effects, however, stuck by
him for a week, and many old Columbuses believe
that the sight is not fully restored until the moon
is full once more.
“Sluice Box,” from a place where the
mails go at odd times: Either “Wal” (B. 5/9/’l2),
or the bloque who gave him the informa-
tion that the stone pestle which was unearthed at
the Lakekamu goldfield (Papua) weighed over 201 b.,
never saw it, or he is a better judge of the weight of
tinned bulamakau than stone. Its weight is 7-jib.
This is not the first stone pestle that has been un-
earthed in Papua. A few, similar in shape though
not so large as the one found at Lakekamu, have
been unearthed by miners on the Yodda Valley and
Gira goldfields. Beneath about 14 ft. of earth and
wash, and resting on the conglomerate bottom of a
small terrace, situated about 60ft. above the present
level of Ironstone Creek (L.G.F.), a carving from
diorite, representing a bird’s head and neck—simi-
lar to a swan’s—was found. Then from beneath
about 12ft. of wash, and lying on the conglomerate
bottom of another terrace on the right bank of the
same creek, a diorite club-head was unearthed. In
shape it could be likened to a large napping-ham-
mer with the ends sharpened. It may have been
used for adzing out sago pulp from the palm stem.
At any rate it was not used by the present race of
natives who inhabit the hills behind the Lakekamu
—-known as Kulcukuku. The latter do not use
clubs of any description, so far as is known by the
few white men who have as yet come in contact
with them or visited their villages. \
“Chloe”: Apropos the note on “Some
Musics” (B. 23/l/’l3). The Hebraic type of islander
mentioned by “S. S. Severn,’ is conspicuous in the
Western Solomons, and is intensely musical. The
voices have a flute-like, yet very melancholy, quality,
and there is the pleasing combination of full tone,
fine range and perfect ear. The village sing-songs are de-
lightful. No matter how spirited and fierce the air
may be, it will have a chorus or cadence in a mourn-
ful minor key, the whole giving an effect of finished
artistry. At Rubiana, some children in the mission
school have been taught to sing from a numerical
notation ; and though I have taught choral singing
for many years, I have never witnessed anything like
the quickness of these little savages. Three and four
“part” harmonies were read perfectly after a few
minutes’ scale-practice, and all with a fine apprecia-
tion of nuances and of delicate and difficult intervals,
which would only be attained by the brighter members
of an ordinary school choral class—and never, never
by the bulk. It was after meeting the Western
Islanders that Mendana, the discoverer, named the
island group. He assumed that these islanders were
descended from Jewish slaves, and that in the island
ranges would be found the mines from which Solo-
mon drew his wealth. And perhaps the old navigator
is right. One has only to see features and gestures
to know that Semitic blood is there, and even the
speech betrayeth it. And they can certainly make
music which would charm away a madness worse
than that of Saul, the old farmer-king of Israel.
THE OLD PUSH AND THE NEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You will find, when over forty, man was made but
to repine,
And I sadly sit reflecting on that sinful past of
mine ;
W’hen the trade that I’ve forgotten paid far better
than the pen,
And when I too, for a season, was a leader amongst
men:
When in townships on the Mountains, in the nearer,
dearer Bush,
/ —bv virtue of my “writin’s”—was a captain of a
push.
Then the city pushes flourished—lived ancj flour-
ished as they ought,
For they blanked the world they lived in, and they
worked, and loved and fought;
And they worked for carcase butchers; “blanked”
and worked the whole day long,
Or they worked in iron foundries, they were big
and they were strong:
Feel them bleedin’ muscles (blimy!) , black with
grime and red with rust —
And they belted out their clobber and they belted
out a crust.
They were faithful to a clinali, they were loyal to a
pal,
And they stuck to their old Geyser, and they stuck
to their old Gal:
She must have the splosh (Gorblimy) and his sledge
goes clonk-and-elonk —
For the (bleedin’) rest is married, and the old ’un’s
pins is cronk.
And right here I’ll have to tell you, though it pains
and grieves and shocks,
That the old Gal and the Geyser were his parents on
“th’ Rocks.”
\nd perhaps he’d tell you proudly, as he wiped away
the grime,
That the old ’un was a grafter and a tough ’un in
his time.
That he did his share of scrappin’ and he’d won his
share of scraps,
And he took his share of “tangle” (and his “gruel,”
too, perhaps),
And he worked for his “old woman” when her
“lamps” was gettin’ dim,
And he stuck to his own old ’un when his pins went
crook on hipi.
And —well, what can man do better e’er he joins the
married ranks,
Than be loyal to a cobber and to deal it out to
Blanks ?
(And his clinah on occasion—when it might be good
for her)
And to work for his old people and their sacks of
“furnicher” ;
To be good to his “old woman,” who has suffered for
his sins,
And to battle for his old ’un when he’s shaky on his
pins?
When the push fared forth to battle —when their dig-
nity was hurt
Over Stinker’s bit of muslin or the Captain’s bit of
skirt—
Then the cobbers got off early from the workshop
and the dray,
And they togged, and took in “ballast,” and they
hurried to the fray ;
Then the fringed and bustled Helen found the purest
kind of joy
Where blue metal flew like blazes underneath the
walls of Troy !
Oftentimes the Sunday picnic, by the bay or river
reach,
Heard the howl of many demons from the cliff and
from the beach,
And they ran and screamed and fainted, and maybe
they said their prayers,
But their buns were not the object, and the danger
was not theirs ;
And the Sunday-school conductor found his courage
when he knew,
It was but “the Rocks” descending on the serried
ranks of “ ’Loo” !
There were anxious eyes, my brothers, watching
every ferry boat,
On the day when “ ’Loo” and “Redfern” had the
Rocks push by the throat;
When the sullen Glebe was neutral, and when Water-
loo turned tail,
And the Push, by misadventure, had embittered
Annandale —-
Watching from the scrub at Clontarf —and they did
not watch in vain—
For belated “Stinker” Blucher, and our Allies from
Balmain.
Those were lively days (Gorblimy!) as compared
with days like these —
And the old push? Some are fathers of respected
families!
For a sign of what they had been it would be in
vain to search,
For their boys are steady tradesmen, and their
daughters go to church:
And they little think that Father, sitting smoking,
in the past
Was the captain of a push and wore the clobber of
his caste l
Bob-tailed coat and bell-mouthed trousers, wire-
rimmed hat of long ago,
Boots, with stern-posts well amidships, that were
laced up from the toe.
Biled-rag Sundays, with no collar—a red riband for
a tie—
And a fringe well oiled and plastered! That was
Dad in days gone by!
Brand-new uniform on Sunday, and the old one all
the week, ' Mfe
Worn to show he was rib “manker,” worn to show
he was no sneak.
What is this? Ye gods fishes—weedy—-more
than undersized ;
Weak and humped and bottle-shouldered— Man’s
descendant realised !
Neither cripple, dwarf nor midget, nor trained ape,
though, be it said,
Dressed to ape the latest fashions: with a straw
pot on its head.
Seemingly for ever idle, still its clothes are new, and
yet,
From its mouth for ever dribbles the eternal cigar-
ette.
Cuffs and collars mostly spotless—clothes well made
and shirts well “done”—
Say! what mother bore and keeps it ? Say, what
father owns it son ?
See it hiding from the sunlight, see it hiding from
the stars ;
See it, with its fellows, drinking ginger-beer in
public bars !
Magpie minded: yet they’re harmless, though you
meet them one to ten—
Only fit to flock and gibber, after hours, at drunken
men.
’Tis the newer “Push,” my masters, shaming you and
shaming me,
Born of newer times and cities and our blind pros-
perity ;
Only gathered where our critics peer in at Aus-
tralia’s gate—
Reason, they, why Foster Frasers think that we
degenerate.
There’d have been a screech and scatter, ruined
togs and mended ways,
Had a Blanky Bloke met fifty, in the old, Gorblimy
days. .
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


WHERE THE MOTOR BUSINESS BOOMS-
TARRANTS’,
104=112 Russell Street,
. . . MELBOURNE.
No. 2 Garage .. Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
No. 2 Works Department .. Lygon Street, Carlton.
Body Works Lygon Street, Carlton.
No. 2 Store .. South Melbourne.
The BIGGEST MOTORING BUSINESS in Australasia,
SOLE AGENTS IN VICTORIA for Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Adler, Sunbeam, Commer, Thornycroft.
TARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
Telephones:
3030. 2942, 6280, 5534,
104-112 Russell Street, Melbourne.
“About 1820 I saw a wonderful new public con-
veyance. It was a long bodied thing with seats on
both sides and a door at the back. It would accom-
modate quite a dozen people inside and was called an
‘Omnibus.’ The inventor was named Shillibier. One
of the party began to pity the poor man, saying, ‘lt’s
sure to be a failure.’ ” Extract from the Rev. Ber-
thon’s “A Retrospect of my life.” Phillips, Ormonde
& patent, trade mark agents and consulting en-
gineers, 17 Queen St., Melbourne.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, whic
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them
trial. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Obtainable every
where.*
FOGGITT, JONES’
PORK BRAWN
If you have not tasted f oggitt* Jones’,
Pork Brawn, you haven’t tasted,
of the finest delicacies made in their
factories. Might it be suggested tha
you buy a tin or two and see hov
nice® it is for luncheon, tea or picnic
Your grocer sells it at a reasonSC
h
Christopher Mudd, travelling botanist,
writes wrathfully about Meiklejohn’s new Geography,
published 1909, on which young Australians are
being fed up into contempt for their magnificent heri-
tage. Meiklejohn, who does not appear to have ever
been in Australia, writes that Australia is mostly
desert, the most desolate and inhospitable part of
the globe. Wrong! shouts Mudd. He insists that
there is no desert at all, and he has been pretty well
all over the continent. Prairies, steppes and downs
are not desert —not Sahara. Forty years ago all the
now-fruitful Victorian mallee could have been bought
for a song. And even the Ninety Mile Desert Mudd
found a botanical par? lise. Like thousands more,
Mudd believes that whole armies of people have
been scared off Australia by the infernal lies told
about it. First the desert began at the Blue Moun-
tains. Then it was pushed back to Dubbo and Coon-
amble. Then it receded to the Darling. Then—
where the devil is it ?
“Billy T.”: They told me that the only
accommodation at Tallow Flats was with Andy Fel-
lows, at Oak Homes. There seemed nothing wrong
about that; and I resolved, if the tariff was right,
to stay a week at Oak Homes. The coach put me
down at Willowbank, where there was no bank and
no willows; consequently I was almost prepared to
find, after a walk of 91 miles, which seemed
I9i, that there were no oaks at Oak Homes.
But I really was hurt to find that there
was no home either. That is to say, no home
in the ordinary civilised sense. There was a large,
stringy-bark humpy, divided' into two small rooms,
and these were inhabited by Mr. and Mrs. Andy
Fellows, five Fellows children, and a lodger named
Whittle —an immigrant who was looking for good
potato land with a rich quartz lode in it. Before
evening another lodger arrived. He was carrying a
swag and had two dogs. Fellows had three dogs,
13 pigs and a cow. The cow did not want to live
in the hut. It had a roof of boughs on four sticks
all to itself at the back. I slept in one compart-
ment along with the two other lodgers, and most of
the dogs. Mr. and Mrs. Fellows slept in the next
room. What became of the' little Fellows and the
pigs I cannot say. We had mushrooms for tea and
supper. We had mushrooms for breakfast. At about
11 o’clock another stranger arrived, looking for
lodgings. lie was a prospector representing a city
syndicate, and pegged out the north-west corner of
the kitchen and dining-room at Oak Homes. There
was yet another lodger to help us with the mush-
rooms at dinner, and the four corners and the middle
of the kitchen were appropriated. When the fifth
man arrived Fellows rubbed his hands, and said:
“Cripes, if things continues looking up like this I’ll
have to sell the cow.”
OUR GREATNATURAL. RESOURCES.
The Imperial Government has appointed a “Do-
minions Royal Commission” to report upon natural
resources of every kind.
MULGA BILL: “ An ' this, gents , is the Great
Westeru fantod."
What does a wombat eat? Professor
Stirling, of Adelaide Museum, is asking. He says
that the natural history books mostly credit it with
eating roots; but he has doubts. He does not want
mere information, but “authoritative evidence.” So,
if anybody can send along a wombat with a big root
in its mouth, let him not delay, but leap into the
breach like Hen. V. at Harfleur or thereabouts, in the
year thingumbob, as shown by the late George Rig-
nold on his big white horse at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney).
A QUESTION OF
RELATIONSHIP.
“Friend or yourn? ”
"Naw, only me brother."
“Montalex”: In view of “Te B.’s” lively
item (B. 6/2/’l3), I rise unwillingly to demolish a
very common error. “T.B.’s” porpoise is not a por-
poise. He is a dolphin—not the so-called “dolphin-
fish,” but a cetacean ( Delphinus delphis). The por-
poise’s scientific label is Phocmna communis; and,
though he is a cousin of the dolphin, the two differ
widely in appearance and habits. The porpoise has
neither the pig-snout nor the pace of the dolphin;
his teeth, unlike the other’s, are few and far between ;
and, being presumably of a “sayrieus” disposition,
you never catch him frivolling about a vessel’s fore-
foot in mid-ocean. He is essentially a “coaster,
and lays to his book.
“Iverango” : Allow me to have a round or
two with “Stingaree” (B. 14/11/’l2) re the crane
being the natural guard of the ’gator. I have, many
a time, in the vicinity of Cape York (N.Q.), sur-
prised ’gators basking in
the sunshine of the smile
of white cranes: and al-
though the birds screeched
and jabbered, and kicked
up Tophet in general at
my approach, the ’gator
did not make a streak for
safety, but just muttered
a few remarks re feath-
ered reprobates, and turned
over on the other side and
went to sleep again. It
seems to me that the ’gator
relies on his own ability
to guard against the at-
tacks of Binerhi with a
spear, small white men
with big guns and other
carnivora. Anyway, I’m dead-sure he takes no noisy
tips from the crane family.
* * * *
“Vigilans” deposits some crocs, from N.
Australia: —
During a big flood I have seen crocodiles at the
telegraph station on the Katherine River, 200 miles
from the sea. They have been shot over 13ft. in
length there. In a deep waterhole four miles further
up I have shot them 7ft. and Bft. in length. To all
appearances these are the estuarine species. In Kim-
berley there are some very large crocs, in the billa-
bongs. These are harmless as far as I know, because
I have often bathed in the lagoons where they have
been seen sft. in length. When the dry season comes
on and the water disappears, the reptile -buries itself
in the mud and remains there until the next rains.
I have seen crocodiles on the Fitzroy River (West
Kimberley) 12ft. in length, as far up as the cross-
ing, 210 miles from the ocean. They get in the
deep waterholes when the river gets low, and remain
until next flood. It is a good job the baby croc, has
a few enemies laying for him; first, the birds as
he runs down the sand after being incubated, and
then the fish as soon as he takes a header. Other-
wise, Australia’s northern waters would be so thick
with crocodiles that the animals wouldn’t have room
to turn.
“Mallarapoonie”: It has been said that
the camel is the one dumb brute in creation that can
count. I believe it is true, though I don’t know the
elephant, and ought, perhaps, to exclude him. The
camel gauges his load with a critical eye while you
are putting it on. If it is the same old load —the
load of yesterday, or the week before last —there
isn’t much complaint; but if there is the slightest
addition to its bulk, or the least increase in its
weight, his language is terrible. He gauges the
loads of all camels kneeling in his vicinity, and
compares them with his own. He counts the pack-
ages that go upon his own back, and those that go
upon the backs of adjacent camels, and the Just
and Rightful Burden of the Adjacent Camel should,
in his mind, be always heavier than his own. Bulk
and weight are synonymous with him; but, if any-
thing, he prefers weight. Bulk looks more appalling.
At Lawlers (W.A.) one morning, we had completed
loading a string of camels, and were preparing to
“uplift” for the day’s march, when I discovered an
unpacked hurricane lamp. As I stepped across for
it, every camel-optic in that kneeling train was
turned upon me. Each beast knew that the lamp
had to be carried; and not one of them but was
devising an excuse for shirking the exertion of hump-
ing it. The camel to whom it rightly belonged
pretended not to be looking. The candle-box in
which it was usually packed was already firmly
strapped on, and, as I did not wish to disturb the
load, I walked, with an air of finality, toward
another camel, which was comparatively lightly
loaded. He bubbled like fury when he saw me
coming in his direction. I tied it on his pack,
and though it made an additional weight of only
about 200 z., that camel was peevish and upset for
the rest of the day.
* * * *
“Mallarapoonie”: I can tell “Inchiquin”
(B. 2/l/’l3) something about those “runaway
holes” he mentions. When a small kid in Western
Victoria I, too, used to marvel at the amount of
water swallowed by the subterranean intake holes
that occur so plentifully along the basalt belt to-
wards Mount Gambier. Since then, however, some
of the mystery of them has been cleared up. The
spare fluid is generally wholly absorbed by porous
strata, or is engulfed by subterranean cavities that
are practically without limitation; or it has direct
outlet, by way of fissures and underground channels,
to the sea; or it may issue again at some lower
level in the shape of spring-water. A remarkable
thing is that it is always gravitating, always circu-
lating, in abeyance to some hidden natural law.
Probably the greatest region on earth for “runaway
holes” is the ancient coral formation of Papua.
Porous, fissured, hollowed into a million caves, there
are places there where whole rivers may be swal-
lowed up, and the rumble of waters falling into the
bowels of the earth may be heard afar off in the
dead of night and other occasions. Many and
marked are the instances of intake holes in Aus-
tralia, from the limestone cavern country behind
Camooweal, where an extensive subterranean lake
was recently discovered at about 300 ft. below the
level of the plains, to the quaint cave-region
near Cape Leeuwin. Numbers of Australia’s inland
lakes—especially those of North Queensland and the
Northern Territory—are nothing more than intake
areas for the artesian water supply.
“Pick”: Besides gradually exterminating
all ground birds, the fox is responsible for a notice-
able decrease of the rock wallaby. This interesting
and acrobatic little chap at one time inhabited the
Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) gullies, the ranges of the Mur-
rumbidgee, and the Snowy River valley in thou-
sands. His domicile was the caves and fissures of
the cliffs, and when startled from adjacent feeding
grounds, he would reach home by the shortest cut
even though he had to make a hurried descent of a
perpendicular wall of rock hundreds of feet high.
At the Bungonia Look Down, I have seen troops of
them bouncing from ledge to ledge down the face
of the precipice, where apparently there was not
foothold for a cockchafer beetle; but I never saw
one fall, though the limestone was smooth as a Wow-
ser’s tongue from the constant friction of their feet.
Even in those days they were much preyed upon by
the fur-hunter and the dingo; nevertheless they mul-
tiplied exceedingly until the advent of the Cold
Country curse. Nowadays they are rarely seen, and
their homes are plentifully occupied by the sneaking
wretch with the brush. Taking it for all in all, the
man who first liberated the fox in Australia was a
fair cow.
“Vigilans” : The latest southerner to throw
up his job in the Northern Territory is Mr. J. T.
After a year there he finds the place climati-
cally intolerable. White men cannot work there, he
says; in fact, it is cruelty to animals to work horses
in such a Sheol-like hole. To one of Ramsay’s type
and antecedents, this no doubt seems sufficiently like
sober fact. Before going to the Daly River he was
connected with the agricultural branch of the Educa-
tion Department in Victoria. He had had no more
tropical experience than a Scotch immigrant. The
man who has spent a number of years there, or who
is a native, does not notice the things which horrify
the Ramsays of this world. I, for example, spent my
young days in India and China. Later, I was for a
few years in the southern States of Australia,
and then I put in six years in North Australia.
Although I had malaria fever in Asia, I never had an
attack in North Australia. I consider the Territory
climate far and away healthier than that of either
tropical India, China or Malaysia. To say one cannot
do more than 50 per cent, of the work that he could
do in a temperate zone is absurd. But it is absurd to
commence farming when you have no market. The
one and only way to develop the country and to test
it is to build the Transcontinental railway and de-
velop the metalliferous areas. Whites will go there
fast enough then and to stay there. We do not require to
be retold that white men have been navvying on the
Pine Creek railway and mining for over 20 years
without leaving the country. Mr. Nieman, a chemist,
spent six years in the Daly country with his wife and
family. Although a southerner he speaks well of the
climate. Moreover, Mr. Nieman had never done
laborious work prior to going north. He worked at
mining and prospecting on the Daly River, and lived
for two years at the old French mission station on
the banks of the Daly. Speaking from experience, I
reiterate that I never had better health in my life
than I had during my two years in the coastal areas
of the Territory.
HUMANE
CORRECTION.
“ 'enery, come in
at once and get yer
hidin'. An' bring a stick with yer, and
mind it ain't got no nails in it."
“Leichhardt”: If “C.G.F.” (B. 23/1/13)
asks any bushman from the Flinders or upper Dia-
mentina to identify his red-bellied snake, the reply
will be: Tiger. This may not be the correct name,
but the bright-hued land eel is known from Winton
to Hughenden and Richmond, and all the open plain
country out to Cloncurry by no other name. The
black rings that “C.G.F.” speaks of are visible only
for a short time after the snake has shed its skin.
When they disappear the back is left an even black
color all over. I have never met the variety away
from open downs country. He seems to have an
objection to heavy scrub, preferring to make his
home in the black soil plains. During a big flood in
1899 on Eastern Creek (Flinders Water), I saw more
of these snakes than any Outback run ever produced.
Every limb that was above water-level had at least
one snake perched on it, and four or five of us ac-
counted for 43 reptiles in one day within a quarter
of a mile of the homestead.
THE BOVINE DEITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Constable Dobell said that defendant was eccentric.
A Salvation Army officer had informed witness that
one day he saw defendant minding cows and read-
ing the Bible. The cows commenced to run, and de-
fendant threw away the Bible and pursued them. —
—Evidence in Vic. police court.
Beside the gentle cows he stood,
His Bible in his hand ;
The Book referred to as the Good
With half an eye he scanned —
So much was given to St. John ;
The rest were fixed the cows upon.
Quite suddenly one quadruped
Rose up and bolted fast;
Upon its track the herdsman sped,
The Good Book from him cast.
With heavy thud it struck the sod,
While he pursued the living god!
VICT OKI A.
HARRISON O.


Tiiis is the Tariff wait
that, blit btilit to keep BUt.
ctiestß labßt- goods.
This is the wage that Bili
Wanted on his side of the
wall.
this is the wage the other
teliow got on the other side
of the waii:
Jurlu are * he KOOds ,h «f
wall. “ CamC ° VCr ,he
This is the pawnshop that Bill visited
to borrow the money to pay for the
goods that lie didn't get a chance to
make.
These are, as a reasonable
consequence, the goods that
Bill didn’t get a chance to
make.
This is Bill's baby that
got the lOT left on his
hands.
» K
This is the unemployed procession of
Bill when the Jew wouldn't lend any
more money, and the cradle wouldn't
hold any more lOU’s. and he had no job
of his own because of the immense heap
of goods that he didn’t get a chance to
make because of the rush of imports
over the Tariff wall.
THE UNEMPLOYED.


DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES
are a positive cure for Indigestion, Flatulence, Heart-
burn, Acidity of Stomach, and all Stomach Troubles.
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
everywhere.*
After strenuous outdoor exercise take Stearns’
Wine of Cod Liver Extract —invigorator and energy
producer. It feeds the broken down tissues and
makes you feel like new.*
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you yet the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The 04d Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
F or
DURABILITY.
NURSE LINNDENBERG,
of Perth, West Australia,
writes—
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.—
“As a nurse I have seen CLEMENTS
TONIC DO SO MUCH GOOD AMONGST
MY MANY PATIENTS that I feel it my duty
to make those facts known. I have prescribed
it often, and in every case it has done what I
expected of it. It SOOTHES THE PATIENT,
GIVES SWEET, REFRESHING SLEEP,
CREATES A DESIRE FOR FOOD, and not
only that, it HELPS THE FOOD TO DIGEST.
Patients become bright and cheerful after its
use. As a health restorer I decidedly say
CLEMENTS TONIC HAS NO EQUAL.
“(Signed) NURSE LINNDENBERG.”
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL
CLEMENTS TONIC. Get it 8 jet well.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Amundsen, the finder of the South Pole,
has turned sea-wanderer again. He now
proposes to blow the dust off the old Fram
and have a try for the North Pole. If he
finds it the world will probably be much in-
clined to hail him as the original discoverer,
and then the wonderful Norwegian will have
a pair of Poles to his credit. Dr. Cook is
blown out. Peary’s claim has always lain
under a big shadow of suspicion. That
United States hustler deliberately left the
last of his white companions behind him, and
went on accompanied by only a few Eskimo,
who probably didn’t know a Pole from an
elephant. He returned to his white com-
panion with his own deafening and unsup-
ported assurance of success, but a compari-
son of times suggests the curious circum-
stance that if he reached the Pole he travel-
led more than twice as fast when he had no
white man to audit his figures as he could
when his figures were audited. And that
discrepancy hangs round like an embittered
ghost to this day.
BUCHANAN, South Australia's latest Judge.
Sussex-street, the narrow lane down which
the soldiers of Sydney’s early garrison used
to scamper for a morning dip. in the salt-
water, is going to see big changes in its
best-known business. Long ago, when pro-
duce agents were even more ravenous than
they are now, a hard-working youth called
John See got up from his father’s farm on
the Clarence and said he would go to Sydney
and act as agent for his plundered kith and
kin. The venture succeeded, and soon John
See’s boats ran between the Clarence and
Richmond rivers and Sydney, and year by
year increased in size and frequency. Then,
having conquered the local world of pump-
kins, John determined to also conquer the
world of politics—and did it so far as to
become Premier of N. S. Wales. A little
later the end arrived, but he left several
well stuffed bags of money behind him. Now
it is notified that the old association of John
See with the Northern Rivers trade will end
with March 31 next. The firm will go on
doing a railway commission business, but
the little boats and the big boats that
whistled at the river banks for the bulging
sacks and crates will pass into other hands.
From London; —
The “Romance of the Rothschilds’’ is just out
EDWIN SMITH , the
G.O.M. of Adelaide.
here. These wealth-
iest people in the
world, and the con-
trollers of high fin-
ance in every Euro-
pean capital, have,
according to the
author, amassed
£400,000,00 during
the last 100 years.
The founder of the
family, Maier Ams-
chel, was born in
Frankfort in 1743.
He was a bank clerk
who became a bank-
er, using as a shop-
sign a red shield —
hence the name
Rothschild. This Jew
had five sons, and
he sent them to
establish banks in
five great cities, in-
structing them to
act jointly and con-
sult each other as
far as possible. The
third son, Nathan,
the one sent to Lon-
don, was the great
financial genius of
the family. Lord
Rothschild, the pre-
sent head of the
London house, is his
grandson. It was
Nathan who eagerly
watched the fight at
Waterloo, witnessed
the defeat of Nap-
oleon, hurried back
to London as fast as
he could, found ' a
panic in the Stock
Exchange and a
crashing fall in
securities owing to
a rumor that Wellington had been defeated, and
netted a million sterling in 24 hours.
Herman Milford, the new Paymaster of
N.S.W. Works Department, is a grandson
of the stately but somewhat atrabilious Mil-
ford, whom Lord Stanley appointed to the
Supreme Court Bench of N.S.W., and whom
he made personal bearer of the documents
which conferred a political constitution on
the Ma State.
W. E. Smith, the big Sydney printer, went
lately to a better land, leaving a huge pile of
money. And though he had lived 33 years
in Australia, and had made his money here,
the British officials at Somerset House claim
to collect duty on the whole estate. By a
brilliant after-thought they say that- even
Smith’s 33 years absence from England
doesn’t affect his “English domicile.” If
this tale holds good, the position seems to
be that every person living in Australia who
chanced to be born in the Bull islands will
be liable to pay probate duty, and probably
income tax as well, to the Bull Government.
Apparently there are strenuous times ahead.
Premier Watt’s embarrassing lady cham-
pion lately hurled another letter at The
Bulletin’s Melbourne office. This terrible
missile embodies a suggestion as to the true
inward meaning of Willie Watt’s trip to
Fogland:
You miserable, unchristian brutes, you couldn’t let
the Honorable Mr. W. A. Watt away to England
without descending to -low cruel abuse, but he is
above you things, and if he gets a title your jealousy
will know no bounds, you pro-Boers.
So it seems that Watt’s devoted lady ad-
mirer expects to greet him as Sir William
on his return.
Died in Adelaide, at 93, John Carr, farmer
and pastoralist. and member of the S.A.
Parliament as long ago as 1865, when he
had Adam Lindsay Gordon for a fellow
member. As Minister for Public Works in
the . third Hart Cabinet, and Crown Lands
Minister under Colton, he had a lot to do
with settling farmers in the previously un-
considered North, and also with the con-
struction of railway lines, notably the first
section of the transcontinental north from
Port Augusta. He was a strong and early
pro-Federation man, hut was out of harness
by the time the fight became practical. Lat-
terly, as a voluminous letter-writer to the
papers, he has been chiefly notable for driv-
ing the teetotallers frantic. It jarred them
terribly to have the loathed vigneron and
brewer supported by this God-fearing patri-
arch, who insisted that he stood for Temper-
ance, and was always ready with texts to
support his dicta.
There is at least one humorist in the
Commonwealth public service. In the Gov-
ernment’s official telegraph code the Pie
Commissioner is labelled Clackdish.
A couple of years ago J. M. Macadam,
for very many years manager of the Atlas
Insurance Co. in Sydney, was thrown out
of bis stride. An uncle, Sir Theodore Mar-
tin —a friend of “the old Queen’s” and
chronicler of the Prince Consort—died and
left him a fortune of £60,000 or so. Mac-
adam, of course, gave up his steady job in
the city, went to England and mixed with
new people without getting any comfort out
of it, returned to Australia, found himself
steadily feeling no better, went to Maori-
land to recover after some extra-strenuous
excitement with a daughter’s wedding in it,
and died there last week. He was a good
insurance man spoiled. For years he was
chairman of the Underwriters’ Association,
and for probity and sound judgment stood
on the top rung of the ladder.
Henry Wrixon, the gilded ex-President of
the Yic. Legislative Council—the gilt came
from his wife, a daughter of “Money” Miller
—has just turned out another of his strag-
gling, heavy-footed political novels in Lon-
don. It is called “Edward Eairleigh Frank-
fort,” and is published by Macmillan at a
fabulous six shillings. The thing is evi-
dently intended to be a satire upon the State
of Excelsior —the Australia of to-day—but
the characters are mere lay figures, and, as
in all Wrixon’s elephantine work, the
human interest is, ;spothered.
“Territorian”: Re ' the Ramsay person
who says the Northern Territory climate is
too terrible for white men. Mr.' Stretton,
now in Melbourne, has been 32 years in the
Territory. At 65 he finds the South no place
for a whjte map, and returns to Darwin as
Chief Protestor of Aborigines. William
Marsden, of Pine Creek, is a resident of
over 30 ypars, and is verging on four-score
and ten. J.'Cobp, now in the South, was 35
years in the North, and at 81 goes merrily
round the Globe on a holiday trip. And if
it ’’were worth while extending the list, I
could tell you of French missionaries who
lived on the Daly River for 16 years and
felt no inconvenience from the climate.
“Jeames” tells of one who is No Wowser:
According to the current London papers the un-
defended Divorce Court list contains the cause Coun-
tess Cowley v. Earl Cowley, a petition for restitution
of conjugal rights, and Buxton v. Buxton and Earl
Cowley, a husband’s petition for divorce. , Lord
Cowley bolted with Mrs. Buxton the other day from
the neighborhood of Market. Harborough, where they
were hunting the uneatable fox. Hence the above.
He has crowded a heap of incident into his, brief
career. He began early by having £lO,OOO torn off
him for breach of promise to marry a Gaiety girl.
His only objection to making an honest 1 woman of the
lady lay in the fact-that he had become enamored of
another. After a perfect herd of thrilling and danger-
ous experiences in the field of Eros, he suddenly- de-
cided to wed and settle down. His wife presently
taxed him with excessive affection for one of her
friends. Divorce proceedings were started. To save
the lady’s name or something, he gave facilities for a
successful suit, with one of another class as co-re.
However, his wife was embittered, and insisted on the
original home-burster’s identity being disclosed. De-
cree nisi. A few years later Sir Charles Hartopp,
who had married one of the Tranby Croft Wilsons,
assailed defendant in the usual spot. After a trial of
unprecedented length and costliness, the Hartopp fac-
tion went down. It lay low for a while, and ulti-
mately had the satisfaction of seeing Lord Cowley
drive to his town house from a restaurant'With Lady
Hartopp, at 12 p.m., or thereabouts, and remain
HENNESSY. Melbourne's
new Gaud Mayor.
within for a couple
of hours. ■ A second
suit was instituted,
'and this time the
Earl had to pay
costs. The citation,
by the way, was
served on the noble
co-re. as he walked
up- the steps of
White’s, one of his
many clubs. He im-
mediately landed the
unhappy Yid pro-
cess-server on the
jaw, knocking him
into St. James’s-
S f reet, down half a
dozen steps. (Moral:
Never serve an un-
pleasant legal docu-
ment on a sporting
. nobleman when he is
at the top of a flight
of steps.) He mar-
ried Lady Hartopp
'in Colombo, in 1905.
I have heard it said
repeatedly, in the
servants’ hall, that
he can ensnare any
woman he tries to—-
and he is undoubt-
edly a hard trier.
Withal, he is, and
. always has been, as
plain as the side of
a house. He is small
and slight, with a
face of iron, care-
fully ' dressed and
taciturn though
with a good deal of
dry and bitter wit.
He was a highly sue-,
eessful steeplechase
rider till his 30th
birthday, when one
of his ■ many loves
persuaded him to
give the perilous
game best. He still
goes with the first
flighters in Leicester-
ular member of the king’s* chT
also of the Turf, which distinction he shales with
his whilom enemy Hartopp.
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Some of the parties to recent or pending m»i
bourne marryings are linked interestingly with old
GEORGE DANKEL ,
prominent in S.A.
Labor circles.
days. First there
is the wedding 0 f
Dr Nankivellf
Cohuna, and one 0
the Zichy-Woinarsk
girls. The ’grooms
great- grandfather
was John Youl, one
of the earliest Aus-
tralian reverends a
little chapel wherein
he ministered still
stands on the banks
of the Hawkesbury
Dr. Richard Youl
who sat on the
corpses of Melbourne
for 50 years or so
was a son of this
clerical pioneer. The
youngest daughter
of the late J. p
Purves, K.C., is to
marry a Mr. Black
of the P. and 0’
Maloja. This Black
is of the Western
District (Vic.) fam-
ily founded by Neil
Black, who had W.
E. Gladstone for a
partner in his early
squatting days. a
third wedding will
interest—Miss J en .
nie Clapp and Hec-
tor McDonald, who
is something in the
law. Nearly 60
years ago, F. b
Clapp, the bride’s
father, started in
business as an im-
porter of light Yan-
kee buggies. The
goldfields were then
booming, and money
was plentiful. He
prospered, and with
one or two others
presently promoted
the Melbourne Om-
nibus Co. In time
Melbourne outgrew
that, and the omni-
bus business was merged in the Tramway Co., of
which Mr. Clapp, became, and for Very many years
continued to be, general manager.
At a Sydney Harbor outing last week a
group of ancient mariners, 17 in number,
were photographed. The oldest of the party
was Captain A. W. Jack, aged 84 years.
Captain J. M. Banks came next, with 83
years. Then followed Captains W. Jack,
Napier and Sheed. each SO years. A ’long-
shoreman, Alexander Kethel, was 80, too;
and J. Johnston, the sole survivor of the
Dunbar wreck (August, 1857), acknow-
ledged the same span.
A. B. Piddington, w r ho has just got the
surprise; of his life and a High Court judg-
ship at the same time, is the son of an
Archdeacon whom The Bulletin remem-
bered for many years as Turkey Pidding-
ton. It happened this way. When George
Dibbs represented Tamworth in the Assem-
bly he invited the Archdeacon to one of his
meetings ; but the cleric replied that he had
a very fine turkey for dinner, and he thought
he would enjoy the bird more than the
speech.
J. E. Warburton, a grandson of the ex-
plorer Warburton, is in Melbourne, looking
around after 20 years spent on Erldunda
station. His nearest touch with the world
when he is at home is by way of Charlotte
Waters DepQt, on the overland telegraph
line. Of course he is going back ; meantime,
he has been trying to convince Defence Min-
ister Pearce that there is no place in the
world better fitted for the breeding of the
indispensable war-horse than the neglected
heart of Australia.-
“Cog.” recalls some duels: —
Bulletin (13/2/’l3) says that when Madden be-
came Chief Justice, Frank Gavan Duffy took his
place “in rivalry to Purves.’’ That rivalry was en-
tertaining, to say the least of it. It was the rivalry
of the blusterous bulldog and the teasing terrier, the
savage and the suave, dignity (with lapses) and impu-
dence. While Purves was bellowing forth an argu-
ment .with more or less offensiveness, Duffy sat
watching his Honor’s countenance, twirling his own
mo. (a Maddenette), and giggling in light ripples
to himself on general principles, and to keep the
Bench on its guard against the blizzardous Q.C.
When he rose, it would be with a delightfully ar-
tistic impersonation of A Small Barrister Almost
Speechless With Laughter. Sometimes Purves would
sit growling personalities through Duffy’s laughter-
splashed reply. Often he slipped outside pro tern.—
presumably because he required all outdoors to hold
his thoughts.
Now we come to the most affecting part
of the story—where the hero has to say
“Good-bye”:—
There was a clamor of farewells when the steamer
began to move away. Late-comers rushed to the
side of the pier and shouted their good-byes. Then
cheers were given, with much waving of hats and
handkerchiefs. Tears welled in his [the hero’s] eves
and ran unchecked down his cheeks. He turned his
back and buried his face in his handkerchief until
the cheering ceased.- When he- turned again his lips
moved, but he could not even shout his thanks,
with a forlorn smile, he fust waved good-bye.
No, it is not an extract from the latest
novel bv C. Garvice; it is merely a para-
graph from a report An .Melbourne Argus.
And the emotional bloquo was not bora
Ronald Blownipe, overcome with grief at
his severance from the Lady-oQlara. hut Vic-
toria’s Strong Man, Premier Willy Watt,
who was just leaving for a" four months
jaunt to the Cohen Country, to interview his
uncle regarding a little matter connected
with a loan.
THE HARNESSED HUSBAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Melbourne Divorce Court Chief Justice
Madden said there was urgent need of judicial power
to administer imprisonment or the lash upon hus-
bands for gross rascality and brutality. —News item.
Firm is her grip upon the lines
The parson gave into her hand ;
His legal harness winks and shines
As he goes trotting through the land.
Convention’s winkers bound his sight;
He cannot shy or look askance;
And, o’er his back, by day and night,
There cracks the Whin of Circumstance.
The leather chafes his patient back;
The white froth flies from Honor’s bit;
But he must keep the heavy track,
While in the family coach they sit.
The brakes squeal going down the hill,
For nothing’s left to evil chance;
She drives him with uncertain skill,
And cracks the Whip of Circumstance.
When at the wayside trough he drinks
The cool, sweet beer, his lawful load
Pulls on the reins, The driver thinks
He should not want to leave the road.
Reluctantly, with dripping mouth,
He turns like some departing ship
To brave once more the high-road’s drouth,
Urged on by that infernal Whip.
But now, beside the driver, see
A Judge with legal fervor grafts,
Flogging with splendid savagery
The animal betwen the shafts !
Ilis nine-thronged whip is raising weals,
As with hi? strong right hand he hits!
(LOOK OUT. That horse has got two heels.
He’ll kick pour dashed old coach to hits.)
N.S.W.
FOE.


t- ?■>*
V-*
rnsm
vx
{■;■:
m
* SW,
*1
t‘ :
KS
u
■i
;:-'n>
4
. G ’’C-' W 4 •'
5 K h S$ :V '
.«v *,■»
*:■
bram
t.if !>.’ <■;? C»' v,
.* c.
. -
\m
Wm
< •. '
'Y-
‘w:
•,.;sS>h
40
Zfi
v;
mj
m
'-■:
M
V -
'V/W.
mm
1
wm
«w
iPPgStt
m.
4* T‘
•'• • -.' ■■■"
V '
f
■ ‘
11
B*B
II
4
o
v W' ■***■
m
m
imp
mm
■*si v.
»
«v
I'tfv
(■ 'jw£-yC m’-s^4#^
x' lcV '*«,»sss
4W %<£*•<
.;•;:..", Wy v Vv.'Jv
-A
:V;
• w, * ■,- «.,*• x- -r- p -v - ’w/ ivmmt&mf*
. : , v .' 4; 4V'V;-.>a44- AWiiV \’cM\
il
i
V'
V?:
mm
all
4 •■
TO
mmmm
imsm
i, 4 .-4 vt*9
Wt *8
Msms
_>---
sags
'4;
.•
i 1 a
# :«
Ss&i
3gKSaK@S
mMWJm*
&ty*£
m
mm
wmm
.
.
4?
r-lkpA
'
4fc;
.
; V !■■*■
-4''’x ft?
44 :-■ : 4:-f
BfflSfcl
<;•-
Wms
*sK
'/ r’ ■'
■%s?
HSSP
te
•• r .-
H
ItfW®
§*#!#!
HP”
111
«n
4*
the winning
i U/c ic rirrlrt- In the of life the successful
„, m » lh «, r Austral Stuts.
' N B —Austral Suits from £3 3 s. .0 £ S ■ S s- Send for our pattern books-ov,
ms to select from ; also tape and self-measurement forms.
- 1 1 . L A 1 1 r»+-4-n I 1 O
ks —over iooo
Carriage paid on all orders throughout Australia.
We guarantee satisfaction or money refunded.
COWING BROS.,
4, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, !5 & I 7 Royal Arcade, Sydney


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply^
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
“SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
"SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St. f Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The New Zealand Insurance Co. :
Written To Re- Re-
Nor., Profits Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£i ££>£>£/
1902.. 65,526 16 p.c. = 30,000 25,526 320,693
1903.. 73,443 15 ~ „ 30,000 4,354 39,089 359,782
1904.. 71,829 15 „ „ 30,000 41,829 401,611
1905.. 69,375 15 ~ ~ 3(1,000' 39,375 440,986
Profit on purchase of N.Z. Accident 17,696 458,682
Loss.
{ 167,435 10 p.c. = 25,000 266,247
Premiums on new share issue.. 25,485 291,732
Unearned premiums reserve .. 30,000 321,732
Profit on sale of securities .. 15,054 336,786
Profit
1907.. 91,711 10 p.c = 30,000 61,711 398,497
1908.. 78,619 10 „ „ 30,000 3,231 45,388 443,885
1909.. 41,134 10 ~ „ 30,000 11,134 455,019
1910.. 71,745 12J „ ~ 37,500 5,157 29,088 484,107
1911.. 112,417 12i „ ~ 37,500 17,654 57,263 541,370
1912.. 109,956 15 ~ ~ 45,000 8,932 56,054 597,424
This is one of the institutions that Maoriland is
proud of, and ought to be. A co. which in five years
puts by £198,927, besides writing more than £30,000
off its Consols and other securities, while it divides
but £lBO,OOO among its shareholders, is for that
fact alone entitled to great respect. Its business is
practically world-wide ; and that, of course, while it
may mean big figures, is also liable to mean heavy
losses. In 1906 it had a bad knock through the
’Frisco disaster, which cost it well over a quarter of a
million ; but the reserves are already £150,000 greater
than they were before that trouble happened. The
speed with which reserves have been accumulated is
largely due to the fact that the co. has done very
little in the way of capitalising profits; hence a very
fair dividend has not swamped a tremendous amount
of money. Now, however, with reserves equal to
twice the amount of the paid capital, it is proposed
to give the shareholders a plum. The capital is
£1,500,000 in 150,000 shares of £lO each, of which
only £2 has been paid. The directors’ proposal is
to capitalise £1 per share ( £150,000). The effect
will be to reduce the shareholders’ liability by that
amount. Still unless some tremendous succession of
disasters happens, that really means very little;
the trouble that would wipe out the reserves and
compel the co. to call £6 per share would leave
shareholders too dazed to notice that it wasn’t £7
per share. A more practical consequence will be that,
without putting up the dividend beyond 15 p.c. and
attracting the hostile attention of the insuring public
and others thereby, the directors can put 30s. in-
stead of 20s. into shareholders’ pockets.
It is to be hoped, though, that the directors will
not rush up the dividend precipitately. As a matter
of fact, the business has grown so fast that the risks
in proportion to funds are pretty large, notwithstand-
ing the comparative modesty of the dividends hither-
to. This little table tells that tale: —
Funds in
Proportion to
Premiums. Funds. Premiums.
1895 .. £267,917 £449,551 168 per cent.
1900 . . 342,036 481,485 141
1905 . . 425,991 640,916 150
1909 . . 608,283 755,019 124
1910 . . 605,509 784,107 129
1911 . . 638,007 841,370 131
1912 .. 676,097 897,424 132
The figures have thus steadily improved during the
past few years; but 132 p.c. is still below the
standard. To reduce the risks by reducing the busi-
ness is not to be thought of; and to get in more
capital from the shareholders would probably be un-
popular, though there is no earthly reason why it
should be, seeing that under precisely similar cir-
cumstances bank shareholders respond eagerly to such
calls. If shareholders don’t put in more money, the
only thing to be done is to keep it in by sitting hard
on dividends and laying up the profits.
The next table shows the progress of the business
in some other respects:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64‘2p.c. 29‘6 p.c.
1900.. 342,036 195,804 95,651 57‘2 „ 27’9 „
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64’2 ~ 26‘2 „
1906.. 565,1491129,361 111'9 „ 22’9 „
1907.. 616,417 406*578 144,765 65‘9 „ 23’5 „
1908.. 620,425 409,358 159,323 65'9 „ 257 „
1909.. 608,283 433,964 161,898 71’3 „ 26‘6 „
1910.. 605,509 391,321 172,593 64-5 „ 28‘5 „
1911.. 638,007 368,520 192,447 57 7 „ 307 „
1912.. 676,097 408,521 190,314 607 „ 287 „
’General. fSan Francisco disaster.
Premiums have practically doubled in 12 years—a
very fine performance. And if there is any increase
in the expense rate it is almost microscopic. It is
now distinctly under the average, while the loss rate
is a bit above it —no doubt the combined result of
a big reinsurance business. The funds produced last
year £37,723 in interest —more than enough to pay
p.c. on the old capital of £300,000. Of the
underwriting profit of £77,262 (charging all ex-
penses against underwriting), only £7277 was divided
among the shareholders: the balance was retained to
strengthen the co.’s position. Things like that are
not likely to escape the notice of the big insurer;
and they ought not to escape the notice of any in-
surer, even the little one. Finally, it is to be hoped
that the increase of capital by the mere transfer of
reserves won’t incite the directors to adopt any other
policy.
* * * *
Life Insurance Co. of Australia:—
Total
Nov., Income. Expenses. Claims. Outgoings. Deficit.
1912 £10,989 £18,918 £3715 £22,633 £11,644
The co., incorporated in Sept., 1911, commenced busi-
ness in November; but the first few months were
spent in compiling tables and buying the office door-
mat. The figures cover probably nine months’ busi-
ness-getting. Early in the proceedings the co. took
over the National Provident Life Assurance Co., a
small concern which had been hunting in the by-
ways. For the goodwill the co. paid £8000; what
it got for the money isn’t at all clear. Neither the
directors’ report nor the chairman’s speech at the
shareholders’ meeting threw any light on the subject.
Apparently, after being “successfully carried on for
many years,” the National Provident had 5615 con-
tracts, representing an annual income of “over
£10,000” ; but there is nothing whatever in those
figures to suggest that it was worth paying £BOOO
to get the business. More information should cer-
tainly be g'ven about transactions of this nature;
and, incidentally, the new law ought to see that it
is given. For this reason. An insurance co. is
formed, and the interested people put up, say,
£50,000. With the bait of that paid capital they
attract insurers. But presently, while not wanting
t(j abolish the bait, they want to get their money
b3f?k. They therefore establish a new co., or two
or three cos., and presently sell the goodwill of those
concerns to the parent co., for £30,000. They thus
get the £30,000 back; but the paid capital in the
original concern is not affected —on the surface.
The only difference is that the capital, instead of
being represented by cash, is thereafter represented
by probably worthless paper. It is, of course, not
for a moment suggested that anything of this kind
has happened in this case. But the supposititious
case suggests that managements of insurance offices
should not pay large sums of capital for goodwill
or other paper assets, without disclosing the whole
position, and showing that they got value for their
money.
The expenses for the first year are naturally very
heavy. And it ought to be kept in mind that, in
view of the purchase of the Provident Co.’s outfit,
this can scarcely be regarded as a first year’s busi-
ness. The fact that, notwithstanding the purchase,
expenses absorbed the whole of the income and
£7929 into the bargain—making a total of .173
p.c.—is something of a reflection on the purchase;
and for the same reason the chairman was not
entitled to compare this co.’s first-year’s business
with that of various other cos. which didn’t buy
other people’s goodwill, etc. The whole of the re-
marks made under that heading may therefore be
ruled out as inapplicable.
The paid capital is £44,000, represented by
143,000 shares of £l, paid to 55., and £8250 calls
paid in advance. Of that £44,000 the co. has
£23,867 in liquid assets and investments; it has
another £930 in stationery and furniture. The
other £19,203 is either represented by paper (good-
will), or has gone in exes, during the year. The
prospectus, by the way, said that 10,000 shares paid
to 55., plus £5OO in cash, would go to the pro-
moter. Presumably this £3OOO is included with the
“preliminary and establishment exes.,” charged to
revenue account. It is doubtful whether it should
not have been shown as a further goodwill item —
the shares, anyway. It is too early yet to speak
of the future. At least one Australian proprietary
or semi-proprietary insurance office has done
remarkably well; and the Life Insurance Co.
of Australia has power to take for its
shareholders the same 10 p.c. div., plus 20
p.c. of the profits. The thing, of course, is to make
the profits; and in competition with purely mutual
offices it has to show intending insurers that 80 p.c.
of its profits, available for policy-holders’ bonuses,
amount to as much as 100 p.c. of the profits in the
mutual office. To do that it will have to work at a
very low expense rate; and whether it can do so
remains to be seen.
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Written off: Capital, £73,384 ; Reserves, £44,909 £16,427
Dec., 1 04.. £6,011 6 p.c. = £5503 £5OB 16,935
June,’os.. 3,977 Nil. £l3OB 2,669 19,604
Dec., ’05.. 7,127 Bp.c. = 3669 3,458 23,062
June,’o6.. 6,999 8 „ „ 3669 3,330 26,392
Dec., ’06.. 7,897 8 ~ ~ 3669 4,228 30,620
June,’o7.. 7,546 10 „,, 4586 -- 2,960 33,580
Dec., ’07.. 6,287 6 „ 2752 99 3,436 37,016
June,’oB.. 5,635 6 ~ ~ 2752 99 2,784 39,800
Dec., ’OB.. 4,996 6 ~ „ 2752 2,244 42,044
June,’o9.. 6,458 6 ~ „ 2752 3,706 45,750
Dec., ’09.. 4,627 6 „ „ 2752 1,875 47,625
June. TO.. 12,230 12 ~ „ 5504 6,726 54,351
Dec., TO.. 12,125 12 ~ ~ 5504 6,621 60,972
June,’ll.. 11,449 12 „ „ 5504 5,945 66,917
Dec., ’ll.. 14,145 10 ~ ~ 7338 6,807 73,724
Transferred to capital, £55,038 .. 18,686
June, T 2.. 25,252 10 p.c. = 8164 17,088 35,774
Dec., ’12.. 14,165 10 ~ ~ 8164 6,001 41,775
The reserves are composed of these items: Redemp-
tion fund, £23,813; fund for renewals and contin-
gencies, £11,795; ditto, equalisation of divs.,
£4500; unappropriated profit, £1667. Now, some
of these may not be very good reserves, and the pro-
fits added to them may not be true profits. For in-
stance, if a machine is being worn out in producing
a certain profit, then the amount put by to presently
replace that machine must be deducted in order to
arrive at the true profit. But in this case it is pretty
certain that some profit is written off apart from this
fund. This supposition is supported by the fact that
whereas freeholds, leaseholds, plant, etc., stood in
the books on December 31, 1911, at £114,123, six
months later the item was down to £111,338. At
present the figure is £117,699, or £6361 more;
but as the very profitable ice plant has been enlarged
and cold-storage additions are in progress, it is pos-
sible that a good deal more than £6361 was spent
during the half-year, the excess being charged direct
against revenue.
A further view of the co.’s progress may be got
from these figures:—
Dec.,’o4. Dec.,’ll. June, T 2. Dec., T 2
Liquid assets £45,090 £78,761 £100,755 £105,201
Liabilities .. 29,949 20,091 21,386 26,194
Surplus.. £15,141 £58,670 £79,369 £79,007
Thus, in eight years the business has (1) paid the
dividends shown above; (2) provided for all ad-
ditions to plant: and (3) added £63,866 to the
surplus of liquid assets. On the surface it looks
like an excellent performance. The thing we don’t
know is whether any of that £63,866, and if any,
how much, ought to'be regarded as a set-off against
depreciation of plant, leaseholds, etc. that is to
say, a set-off additional to the undisclosed profit
which may have been put into new plant, etc. Some
years ago (1904), it may be remembered, a re-
valuation of assets was made, and over £llO,OOO
was written off. At that time the whole of the re-
serves went, and, moreover, capital was cut down
from 20s. to 12s. per share; but things improved so
much later on that 6s. of that was written back
again (1912). And if the Mort family felt that
way, values could be either written up or down again
to-morrow. Whether it is an advantage or not for
one family’s interests to be able to dominate a co.
the investor can think out for himself. Certainly he
ought also to reflect that, in this case, the family
with the big interest doesn’t belong to the market-
rigging persuasion.
* * * *
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic
Power Co. :
Written To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1900.. £16,498 10p.c.= £11,250 £lOOO £4248 £1.193
1901.. 10,058 10 „ „ 11,250 2,385
1902.. 13,140 10 ~ „ 11,250 1890 495
Reserves
1903 . 13,499 10 „ „ 11,250 2249 1,754
1904.. 13,889 10 ~ „ 11,250 2639 4,393
1905.. 13,260 10 „,, 11,250 2010 6,403
1906.. 14,187 10 ~ „ 11,250 2937 9,340
1907.. 13,092 10 „., 11,250 1842 11,182
1908.. 12,636 10 ~ „ 11,250 1386 12,568
1909.. 11,268 9 „,, 10,125 1143 13,711
1910.. 12,300 8 „,, 9,000 3300 17,011
1911 12,909 8 ~ ~ 9,000 3909 20,920
1912.. 13,145 8 „ „ 9,000 2469 1676 22,596
Profits have, apparently, improved a bit more; but
it is doubtful whether there has been any real im-
provement. It will be noticed that for years past
nothing had been written off. There was a Plant
Renewal and Contingency account; but nothing was
debited to it. If renewals were made (and after over
20 years there must have been some renewals) the
cost was debited to Profit and Loss ; and the visible
profit was reduced accordingly. Now, it seems, another
practice has been adopted, the cost of renewals being
debited to Renewals account. The effect, of course, is
to first puff up the visible profits, and deflate them
afterwards. This shows the gross revenue for the
June-December half-year:—
1906 .. £12,975
1907 .. 12,161
1908 .. 12,352
1909 . . 11,429
1910 .. £11,852
1911 .. 12,129
1912 .. 12,089
There is not much comfort to be pot from that list,
especially in view of the immense number of new
premises that have been built, and the great number
of old premises that have been re-modelled, in Syd-
ney during the last few years. Evidently hydraulic
power has found a keen competitor in electric power.
Five years ago the assets apart from plant,
freehold, water supply and rights and conces-
sions ( £15,000) were valued at £9846, and the co.
owed £1143 ; net liquid assets, £8703. Now the
liquid assets are £11,337, and the liabilities £4076,
leaving £7261 net, or £1442 less than five years
ago. Meantime, however, £12,732 has been put into
property, plant, etc. —mostly into converting the
Waterloo water-supply into a freehold. On the one
side, then, we have this: the co. has distributed its
dividends, paid for current renewals, and put £11,290
net into assets. On the other side there is so much
of five years’ general wear and tear as is not covered
by current renewals. Probably the lay-by more than
covers that general depreciation; but the surplus
can’t be anything very substantial for a co. with a
capital of £112,500. Certainly, on those figures, one
wouldn’t be justified in expecting an increased divi-
dend, though, on the other hand, there is no reason
to expect a reduction.
* * * *
The Brisbane Gas Co. :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
June, 1905.. £10,309 lljp.c. = £8,452 £1857 £33,823
£20,000 of reserves transferred to capital .. 13,823
Dec., 1905.. 10,898 lOp.c. = 8,400 2498 16,321
June, 1906.. 10,768 10 „ „ 8,400 2368 18,689
Dec., 1906.. 11,227 10 ~ „ 8,400 2827 21,516
June. 1907.. 11,223 10 „ „ 8,400 2823 24,339
Dec., 1907.. 12,011 11 „ „ 9,240 2771 27,110
June, 1908.. 12,253 11 „ „ 9,240 3013 30,123
Dec., 1908.. 13,032 11 „ „ 9,240 3792 33,915
June, 1909.. 13,800 12 „ „ 10,080 3720 37,635
Dec., 1909 . 15,345 12 ~ „ 10,080 5265 42,900
June, 1910.. 13,453 12 „ ~10,080 3373 46,273
Land sale profits .. .. 2400 48,673
Dec., 1910.. 16,533 15 p.c. = 12,600 3933 52,606
Land sale profits .. .. 2700 55,306
June, 1911.. 15,694 16J p.c. = 12,915 2779 58,085
Dec., 1911.. 18,914 12 „ „ 10,080 8834 66,919
June, 1912.. 14,561 12 „ ~10,080 4481 71,400
£31,841 of reserve transferred to capital) „„
£5B premiums on new shares / ou,oj /
Dec., 1912.. 17,902 12 p.c. = 13,104 4798 44.415
So far as the transactions of the past six months are
concerned, that is as near to it as this paper can
get. After the manner of gas cos. this one didn’t
give much information about its new issue of capi-
tal. All that is quite plain is that the paid capital
has been increased from £160,000 to £208,000, that
£5B in new-share premiums has been received, and
that £31,841 or thereabouts has dropped out of the
reserves. Six months ago “applications for shares”
stood under capital for £15,933. What has ap-
parently happened is that of the £48,000 of new
capital, £16,000 represents money paid by share-
holders, while £32,000 was capitalised; in other
words, the shareholders got a bonus representing two-
thirds of the new issue. The few pounds of premium
capital apparently came from people who were
prepared to pay £lO or thereabouts for the few odd
£5 shares represented by fractions. This being so,
the 12 p.c. div. is really as good as £l4 4s. p.c.
would have been six months ago. Or if the £20,000
capitalised seven years back is taken into account,
the present div. is equal to a shade under 17 p.c.
The shareholders certainly have nothing to complain
of. The time may, however, come when the con-
sumers will rebel; and then probably the recent
N. S. Wales legislation, or something more drastic,
will be repeated in Queensland.
Brisbane has had money to burn these last few
years, and this co. has had a fine time in conse-
quence. This shows one aspect:—
Dec., 1905. Dec., 1912.
Liquid assets ..£41,673 £60,022
Liabilities. . . . 3,967 6,373
Surplus .. ..£37,706 £53,649
Meantime, apparently, £16,058 of cash has been got
in from shareholders. As the liquid surplus has
grown in seven years by £15,943, it follows that
practically the whole amount of new capital is still
in hand. In other words, all extensions of plant,
mains, etc., effected during the past seven years have
been paid for out of surplus profits. And what those
extensions have amounted to mav be roughly judged
by the fact that in the second half of 1905 the
revenue from gas, etc., was £23,435, whereas last
half-year it was £38,734, or more than two-thirds
greater. It is evident from this that the co. has
worked itself into a very strong position to meet any
turn of the tide. And in Queensland, with its erratic
seasons, nothing is surer than that the tide will turn.
Broken Hill Water St t^v . Ltd.: —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June,'os.. 15,622 10p.c. = 10,000 5,622 42,765
Dec., ’05.. 16,197 10 ~ 10,000 6,197 48,962
June,’o6.. 21,579 10 ~ 10,000 11,579 60,541
£50,000 (one-fourth) of capital returned.
Dec., ’06.. 21,796 10p.c. = 10,000 11,796 72,337
June,’o7.. 35,119 10 „„ 7,500 37,698 62,258
Dec., ’07.. 40,660 10 „„ 7,500 4,355 28,805 91,063
June,’oB.. 27,422 10 ~ „ 7,500 2,291 17,631 108,694
Dec., ’OB.. 25,283 10 „ „ 7,500 17,783 126,477
June,’o9.. 14,609 10 „„ 7,500 7,109 133,586
£lOO,OOO (one-half) of capital returned.
Dec., ’09.. 21,954 30 p.c. = 7,500 99,811 48,229
June, TO.. 15,499 30 „ 7,500 7,999 56,228
Dec., TO.. 30,287 30 „ „ 7,500 22,787 79,015
Bonus (80 p. c.) paid to shareholders .. 39,015
June,’ll.. 25,460 30p.c.= 7,500 1,155 16,805 55,820
Dec., ’ll.. 30,309 55 „ ~ 13,750 1,785 14,774 70,594
June, T 2.. 30,070 120 ~,,30,000 70 70,664
Dec., T 2.. 32,412 120 „ „ 30,000 960 1,452 72,116
The co. has still six years to go; then it must hand
over its works to the State without payment. Its
capital during the greater part of its life was
£200,000; the table shows that £150,000 of that
has been returned, and as there is already more than
enough cash in hand to pay back the other £50,000
the directors’ plain policy now is to distribute prettv
well all the profits as they are made. The past
couple of years have been extraordinarily profitable,
the result chiefly of a very big consumption of water
in the concentrating works at the mines ; and that,
again, has been the result of the development of
new zinc processes, coupled with a natural rush to
make the most of the boom in metals. This paper
doesn’t know how long the boom will last; hence it
doesn’t know how long the rush and the inflated profits
will last. Then there is the Government water ser-
vice now under construction at Umberumberka, a few
miles on the other side of Broken Hill; that ought
to be supplying its wet goods in a couple of years
at the outside. Though this co. will retain most of
the mine custom—which is vastly more important
than the town custom—the competition naturally
won’t do it any good. However, though 120 p.c.
divs. (on the reduced capital) may for the above
reasons be out of the question, something very solid
should still be paid; even £15,000 per half-year
means a div. at the rate of 60 p.c. p.a. on the shares
written down to ss. And even if no further assets
are acccumulated—that is to say, if all the profits
are divided as they are made—there should be some-
thing like 10s. or 10s. 6d. per share at the end, be-
cause in addition to the cash and liquid assets ( 6s.
6d. per share), there is about 3s. 6d. or 4s. per share
represented by meters, stores, property and machin-
ery, which will be available either for sale to the
public or to be taken over by the Government at a valu-
ation. It is possible, no doubt, that the co. may have
to cut into current profits to effect some renewals
during the next six years ; but one can be sure that
the co. will not spend a penny more than is neces-
sary to see its term through. If half the div. paid
last year is averaged for the next six years, the
total will be £lBO,OOO. Add £BO,OOO available
for final distribution. Total, £260,000 =£l 6s per
share. But on the present value of shares (225. <sd )
5 p.c. interest will call for £67,500 in six years =
6s. 9d. per share Therefore, the man who pavs ~
6d. must expect either more than a fin “2s-
( £30,000 a year) or that the assets availaki' dJv-
the final cut-up will exceed £BO,OOO Th 6 or
tenance of the present div. ( £60,000 a main '
give him £1 17s. per share in addition to 5 r , WouW
present purchase price. Of course it is a J?'i, on
but the maintenance of 120 p.c. na seems ® mD «;
likely. P Beems v «y un-
* * * ♦
The Southland Fkozen Meat and
ducb Export Co. (Invercargill, M.L.): - E() '
Dividends. Writ- To
Dec., Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. serves
1902.. £10,535 5 p.c. 2* p.c. £1602 £2400 £6 533
1903.. 9,332 5 „ 2* „ 1580 2480 5 272 K
OS i:: 3 SS IS $ g
’°' l34 OnAHShires. 2065 « S
1907.. 15,571 6* p.c. = 2711 3580 9,280 30
1908.. 13,326 6„ „ 2714 5889 4 723 «•$£
1909.. 13,190 6 „ „ 2729 6530 3 931 47'n
1910.. 21,101 8 „ „ 3641 6057 11,403 Min
1911.. 22,593 8„ „ 3642 8128 10,823 69Z
£22,761 of reserves transferred to capital 47’ifiQ
1912.. 15,443 8 p.c. = 5462 7913 2,068 I9®
In the bad times of 1893-4-5 the co. lost monev am
had to write off some capital; and the recent distri
bution of bonus shares is put forward as a sort of r
fund. There were already 5 p.c. pref A sham/ re J
ordinary B shares ; this last lot, known as C sham
only come in for a bite after both the other S
have had 5 p.c. ; also, they come in last in the eve,
of liquidation, and they don’t carry any vot,W
power. ’They are a cautious lot down at Invercargill
The modesty of the dividends in good times counleH
with the size of the amounts written off and of the
other amounts put by to visible reserves, is further
proof of the same thing. This shows some other
movements in detail:—
1902. 1909. 1910. 1911 ]9l ,
Capital .. £42,880 £45,482 £45,517 £45,522 £6ftm
Liabilities 33,561 28,657 24,279 22 584 "i'm-
Works .. 72,708 102,336 105,431 120,339 ]9 R ’fii7
Stock 6,374 12,934 10,103 7,760 "7794
Other assets 11,070 9,253 17,009 13,579 1/714
But though capital is £25,403 more than it was’lo
years ago, the money put up by shareholders amounts
to only £2642. Meantime liabilities have been re
duced by £11,976; a further £53,909 has been put
into freeholds, works, etc.; and another £46 577
has been put into plant, but has been written off to
cover wear and tear. The dividends in the same
period have been only £25,968. And, besides the
profit shown above as written off, considerable sums
have been put into repairs and renewals and charged
direct to working expenses. Even allowing that
plant of this kind depreciates quickly, the co. appears
to have made ample provision for every reasonable
contingency ; and the whole thing reflects most pru-
dent management. Given average conditions, the
dividend on the increased capital should be available
without causing the co. any discomfort at all.
The Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
1901.. £1905 5 p.c. = 4.1000 £905 £2 397
1902.. 1818 5 „ „ 1000 £715 103 2 500
1903.. 1464 4 ~ ~ 800 664 3’164
Unclaimed dividends .. 20 3 184
1904.. 1517 4 p.c. = 800 476 241 3 ioc.
1905.. 1537 4 „ „ 800 737 4*162
1906.. 1665 4 „,, 800 865 5027
1907.. 2792 6 ~ ~ 1000 1792 6 819
1908.. 1895 5 „„ 1000 - 895 r’lli
1909.. 3568 8* ~ ~ 1700 1868 91582
1910.. 4114 10* „ „ 2100 53 1961 11,543
19U.. 4853 12j „ „ 2893 i 960 13,503
1912.. 5346 10 „ „ 2600 2746 16,249
That looks better than it is; as half of the capital
of £40,000 was written off in 1897 or thereabouts,
the i 0 p.c. div. is really only 5 p.c. to the old share-
holders. In 1911, some new buildings being re-
quired, another 12,000 10s. shares were issued- so
now the capital is £26,000. Thus far the ’new
buildings have cost £18,396, or £12,396 more than
the new capital. Ten years ago the mortgage and
io« oTo ebtS , t .?, t oi ed £23.788. Now they are
£46,970, or £3182 more. There was practically the
same small amount of liquid assets then as now. Con-
sequently in the past 10 years the surplus profits
have provided towards the new buildings £12,396
if 318 K’ ° r j 9214 ’ along with any additions
fnr,,if!,r Ve T ei \ made the original property and to
furniture, plant, etc. Those additions, improvements,
etc., probably don t amount to very much; but thev
seem to be quite enough to cover the general depre-
ciation of the outfit. The result, while respectable, is
not at all gaudy ; and the size of the liabilities (mostlv
mortgage) suggests strongly that 10 p.c. is quite
enough to pay, and that the excursion above that
figure was a mistake. Bad times cut into the
revenue of a business like the Victoria Coffee Palace
so as ln t° anything, because it depends
so much on the country visitor; but the interest on
sunshrne ga wu go f 0n JUSt as * ail - v in ffloom as in
a - °re a mortgage is a good thing for
revenue allows 0/it t 0 Whittle down whel > the
* * * *
The iN.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) ;
Writ- To
„ . ten Re- Re-
Tnno ions nc o J!™ Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
TW ’ ’■ £s< ?° 6 49 p.c. = £3723 £BOO £lOB3 £25,283
Tune 1QO« " ! ™ 40 ”” 3726 94 650 25,933
Dec 1906 " ”” 3726 - 672 26 - 605
V ec -» 1906 .. 3/23 10 3726 k, 6 60 9
June, 1907.. 3730 10 „„ 3730 - _ 26 602
Dec., 1907 .. 4568 10 ~ 3733 035 97 437
June, 1908.. 3938 10 3734 _ 204 27 641
Dec., 1908 .. 4077 10 ~ ~ 3740 337 27 978
June, 1909.. 4110 10 , 3740 _ 370 98 348
Dec., 1909.. 4937 12* ” 4683 - 254 X
Premiums on new shares iq 99 r,9i
June, 1910.. 4687 12* p.c. = 4687 - _ $621
T>pn iQiT lUm poc2 new , shares -- .. 3095 31,716
Dec., 1910.. 5858 12* p.c. = 4859 999 32,715
Tl ,_ o iT 1 e r n,uma T > n new shares .. .. 12 32,727
Dec ’1 oil " 12 *p.c. = 4881 1200 33,927
?nne mil ' ' ccol I2 * ”*> 4881 HOO 35,027
i“ ne ’ lojo ■' 6024 42 £ » » 4882 1142 36,169
Dec., 1912 .. 6468 12* „ „ 5410 _ 1058 37,227
mlnmn P /i n / / he flgures at the top of the “Profits”
those at the bottom, it has to be re-
whTre/ d tha -i ’. n 1905 the paid captial wa5£74,469,
£87 > 939 l and meantime £3126 of
-, Ac U^ A capita i , ha ? also been got in. The capital is
m £1 shares; 75,000 of these shares are
fully-paid, and the other 25,000 are paid to 10s.
’ Wl tn one eye on the expanding business and the
er on the expanding profits, authority is being got
l n °^ er 10 P.000 shares. No doubt this lot,
iiKe the first lot, will be sent out by degrees. Times
are supposed to be good, and, in theory, moss should
be growing on the “Monty Peet’s” doorstep. But it
doesn t work out that way in practice. The borrow-
ing disease is infectious. The State borrows and sus-
tains a boom. In the artificial prosperity thereby
created, Brown does extra-well, and thinks he will go
on doing extra-well. He discounts the future, there-
iore, by borrowing to buy a motor-car. He isnT
earning up to motor-cars; but Jones’s wife doesn t
know what Brown is earning; she only knows how
he is living. So Jones has to borrow, too, and plunge
into a motor-car likewise. The community becomes
permeated with the spirit of drawing a bit on next
y*? r f expected prosperity. The “Monty Peet” proves
this by its figures. In 1905, when things were just
beginning to look up and when borrowings ought to
have begun to look down, the co.’s advances were
£82,949. At the end of 1909 thev were £99,732.
On December 31 last thev were £130,222. Seven
years ago the co. owed £7785 to depositors and
others, and had £7452 in the bank. To-day, W


In Choosing an Executor
it is most important to look for
EXPERT KNOWLEDGE, SECURITY AND
ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
These can only be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited).
It has been established 26 years, and has
administered thousands of estates.
The Security is undoubted, and
the Charges Fixed and Low.
Write for Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
TRUST FUNDS to Lend on Approved
Securities at from 5 per cent.
ħ
Gas Engines.
Suction Gas Plants.
EFFICIENCY. ECONOMY.
kyimoch ltd.,
Melbourne.
Brisbane.
Sydney.
Perth.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
* * * •
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Svdney.*
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
* * * *
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is cheaper than iron or
steel pipe; is very light, which keeps down freight
expenses, and little labor is required to lay the pipe
or keep it in order. Write the Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, for priced catalogue.*
* * * *
Working for 50 years and still going strong—not
man or beast, but an engine—a Wolf Steam Loco-
mobile, built in 1862, and still keeping up its
economy. One in Tasmania has been working for
over 20 years under strenuous conditions, with re-
markable economical results. See page 3. Haes and
Eggers, Limited, 163 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Oil. —Options over likely oil areas in any part of
Australia wanted by George D. Meudell, 36 Temple
Court, Collins Street, Melbourne.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney.* [1
* * * #
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
Patents. —Consult W.SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
spite of the increase of capital, it owes £28,711 and
has no credit bank balances. This is all right for
the co., but it indicates a very unhealthy condition
outside.^
Sydney Taxi-Cab and Motor Import
—Six months ago shareholders in this concern
got their third div., at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. ; up to
t hat time every half-year had produced its divi-
dend. This term they get something else. The
previous half-year ended with a credit balance of
£1348 at profit and loss. The div. absorbed £593;
the net loss on the past half-year’s business was
£1152; so the current half-year started with £397
on the wrong side of the sheet. The position looks
bad. The loss on cars plying for hire was £439;
to that, of course, must be added a proportion of the
heavy administration exes. ( £1556). Even then it
is doubtful whether enough is charged to cover de-
preciation. The running plant was valued at
£5759; from that £385 is written off, being less
than 7 p.c. for the half-yea?'. Few car-owners would
regard that as enough. If it isn’t enough, then the
co.’s real loss was greater than that shown. The
co. is also in the motor import and time-payment
sale business. On this account there is £9635 owing
to the co. Add land and building (Kent-street),
£7072 ; running plant, £5374; and stock, etc.,
£5136 —a total of £27,217 for these four items
alone —and it will be seen that the paid capital of
£12,717 is inadequate. The balance is owing on
mortgage, overdraft, and to sundry creditors. The
co. certainly has had a good many law-troubles during
the half-year, and these may have interfered with
the organisation; but it is pretty plain that the
whole thing wants overhauling and putting on a
better basis.
* * * *•
Shareholders in Tooth and Co., Ltd.,
Sydney brewers, now know the exact quality of the
plum that was promised them at the last half-yearly
meeting. The revaluation of the assets, which was
then proceeding, has been followed by a decision to
issue one 6 p.c. cumulative pref. share for every two
ordinary shares now in existence. Part of the
£550,000 thus called for will come out of reserves ;
the balance will be represented by written-up values.
The share market has already • discounted this bonus
—too heavily, in fact. Recent quotations have been
about 555. The 6 p.c. cumulative pref. shares will
be worth, no doubt, 245. Halve that = 12s. Deduct
that from 555., and 435. is left to represent the value
of the ordinary share. And 435. for a 20s. share,
carrying a 10 p.c. div., means a return of only £4
13s. p.c. which can scarcely be regarded as sufficient
in view of the fact that this hop plant can’t be ex-
pected to yield a further crop of plums for many a
day. The investor who wants a 5 p.c. return all
round could afford to pay 525., plus 9d. or so to
represent accrued dividend-earnings. The half-year
ends in March.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Bank has shifted
some of the privately-owned banks in one small par-
ticular already. The P.E. institutions charge ss.
half-yearly on all accounts, big and small, but the
Federal bank announces that no charge will be made
on credit accounts of over £5O, and on advance ac-
counts. This idea has been adopted by a few of
the other institutions ; and there is very little doubt
that the rest of them will have to follow suit.
* * * *
The underwriters (John Darling and his
friends) will have to take up the whole 100,000
Broken Hill Prop, shares to which they put their
names. In connection with the iron and steel pro-
position, 240,000 were offered; and the public ap-
plied for only 74,511 in London and 43,208 in Aus-
tralia. The trouble was the doubt in the public
mind as to whether the State will not presently go
into the business; and if it does, by far the biggest
customer will be at once lost to any private pro-
ducer. And, unfortunately, the co. was not at liberty
to report the conversations which General-manager
Delprat has had with various people on this subject.
*’ * * *
The B. H. Prop, is losing no time over its
iron and steel enterprise, and already has the founda-
tion of its works well in hand. Meantime, there is
a little trouble in S. Aus. over the co.’s proposal to
build a new railway from the quarries at Iron Knob
to the coast of Spencer’s Gulf. Port Augusta has
had the trade hitherto (so far the stone has been
used only as flux), and naturally it is kicking. But
the Government is not disposed to interfere.
* * * *
Understood that the Grafton copper mine
(N.S.W.) is suffering still another change of man-
ager. There seems to be something wrong some-
where—probably in the direction of undue interfer-
ence with the managerial plans. According to re-
cent information, development was sadly behind-
hand ; and that may be the cause of the trouble in
this instance. If it is it can be taken for granted
that it wasn’t the manager who put his foot down
on the more energetic opening-up of the mine.
» • * •
There re-appears from Oblivion, into
which it slipped two or three years ago, the inches-
wide copper show at Lobb’s Hole, some miles in the
wilds beyond Tumut (N.S.W.). At one time it
had unbounded confidence in its ability to produce
copper at £33 per ton, landed in Sydney. For
though the ore was only in a ribbon, it was almost
pure chalcopyrite. Unfortunately, in a very brief
period, the premature furnace chewed up all there
was to chew, and debts rapidly mounted. The mine
has been under water since last August; the last
work done was by tributors, who gouged out a few
tons of 25 p.c. ore, The aforesaid reappearance,
however, is only to make a request for another
six months of quietude. A report about good ore
left in the winze at the 200 ft. level will make a
handy yarn for some hoary-headed oldest inhabitant
at some far-off date.
• • * •
Lloyd’s Copper (N.S.W.) is getting back
to its old stride. The concentrating mill is run-
ning, and two out of three furnaces have been
warmed up. And the copper market chooses this, of
all times, to slump badly.
* * * *
Westralia exported £271,617 worth of
minerals other than gold in 1912. Copper and tin
contributed most. The aggregate export to December
31 was £3,168,166, of which £1,113,142 repre-
sented copper, £1,051,155 tin, £283,848 silver,
£40,587 silver-lead ore and £679,434 miscellaneous.
* * * *
Next to Associated Northern, Edna May
and Kyarra loom larger than anything else in the
eyes of the speculative West. Barrackers for the
Edna May are saying that shares will see £4. But,
when a treatment plant is placed on the property,
and the tonnage estimated more carefully than it
was in the case of the crushing on which scrip was
boomed, the average value will probably be found to
the P 80s- T arket more than discounts
bilitvTf Fl n tS m Up date ’ And then possi-
reckonpH lilt, &el A snuffin S out in depth has to be
fFr "r d "1 th ' As regards the Kyarra, the outlook
velournem-s thJ 1S Pausing I nevertheless, on de-
dizMly. * ’ th market ln this stock - too, is soaring
*
The recent rise in South Kalgurlis( W.A.)
6s "per T 4ained ; T he . co - has decided to distribute
the P n • Kha r e out of its accumulated profits, absorb
into al™ ! by mut V al consent, and reform itself
new »TnnlTS ° f 3 ?°’ 000 10s ’ shares - In the
ir 200 >0?° shares (one for one) are to go to
fhreJt I^ lg T l 1 shareholders; 50,000 (one for every
and nnn t 0 H h v nd ? d to Hainault scrip-owners,
d 50,000 are to be held in reserve. A working
Ka P Wli° f £25,000 is to be found by the South
Kalgurli. Both mines, especially Hainault, are in
the sere and yellow; but, combined, they may linger
on for some years and pay a little now and then 4 *
* * * *
Hainnult (W.A.) has shut down until
pleted ** ° f absorption b y South Kalgurli is com-
* * *
Associated Northern’s profit for January
exceeded £7OOO, and from now onward monthly
and l £7ooo re expeoted to fluctuate between £6OOO
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) showed a
profit of £6548 for November, and the local paper
whooped accordingly. Nothing was said about the
drop m the December surplus to £2768; but when
the January figures revealed a loss of £3OO, it was
recognised that it was up to somebody to explain
things. Hence it is announced that unpayable stone
was mined against the instructions of the manage-
m®. • u Tlle real facts probably are that the co.,
which has next to nothing of a bullion reserve for
sweetening, unexpectedly got on to a rich patch in
November, and hasn’t had a similar stroke of luck
since.
* * * *
“Bar None”: Re Great Boulder, “Bar
One (B. 23/1/T3) proves nothing except that he
doesn t know what he is talking about. Blown out
as regards costs and sundry other contentions, he
tries to bump the management for its alleged in-
capacity and sloth. Well, here goes with the second
barrel. In a little over 17 years the co. has done
nearly 22 miles of underground development and
nine miles of diamond drilling at a cost of about a
million sterling. As a result of this work it has
recovered about 8} millions sterling and distributed
nearly half of it in dividends. If there is any mine
in “Bar One’s” stable that can beat this record, let
him name it or hereafter shut up. Now, a word or
two about (1) the 3600 ft. x 500 ft. “untouched” area
east of the main workings, and (2) Hamilton’s bore-
hole development. As a sort of last resource, both
may ultimately receive attention, but so far the co.
has found plenty to do with its money elsewhere.
All the work done to the eastward tends to prove
that the country in that direction is as poor as
Lazarus; and as for the “6ft. of 9dwt. ore,” cut
east of Hamilton’s shaft, which “Bar One” says
ought to be worth more prospecting, the drill core
showed this formation to consist of veins of quartz
and schist embedded in granitic rock, and to assay
B*dwt. The fact that it is 512 ft. from the shaft
and 1800 ft. from the surface, has deterred the man-
agement from getting into closer touch with it for
the time being. No doubt “Bar One” and his
friend, the Man in the Street, would rush it like a
bull if they had charge ; but, fortunately for share-
holders, such an awful calamity is never likely to
happen.
• * * •
Emeralds of a kind have been discovered
at Poonah (W.A.). Some of the best stones have
been sent to a London gem expert. Meantime, one
weighing 32 carats has been tested by the Govern-
ment chemist, who reports that one-third is value-
less and the remainder so fissured that the largest
gem that could be cut would weigh only a fraction
of a carat. Three other stones, under two carats,
had a much better aDpearance, but were defective
through small internal fractures.
* * * *
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : Great Unknown, at
Marda, has gone the way I said it would, and “Peg-
matite” and other interested persons said it wouldn’t.
By a mere coincidence, no doubt, the shaft was sunk
on the richest part of the shoot, and a drive was
put in along a floor of good stuff. Beyond and
below these workings values have dwindled.
* • * #
State Mining Engineer Montgomery re-
ports that recent developments at 370 ft. in the
Associated Northern Co.’s show at Ora Banda (W.A.)
are pleasing to the eye. He says the rich shoot
exposed at and above that level has a permanent
look about it; and as telluride of gold is about the
only mineral likely by oxidation to produce the
spongy gold showing in some of the specimen ore,
he thinks there is every chance of telluride being
found among the sulphides. These, he estimates,
will be reached in the next 50ft. in depth.
* * * •
Under the stimulus of high prices* Queens-
land is rejoicing over an enormous increase in its
mineral output. The quarterly return to December
31 shows £751,931 for minerals other than gold,
coal and precious stones, as against £419,885 for
the last quarter of 1911. Copper output increased
from 5296 tons to 7503 tons, silver from 143,1200 z.
to 217.6960 z., lead from 445 tons to 1458 tons, wol-
fram from 142 tons to 185 tons, and alluvial tin
from 191 tons to 200 tons.
* * • *
Owing to the expansion of copper mining,
the figures of the Townsville-Cloncurry railway (Q.)
are racing. The earnings last year were £496,471, or
£93,116 more than in 1911. There used to be a
long slack season on the line that creeps back from
Townsville; but, owing to the transport of metal,
coke and stores, the wheels are very seldom idle
now.
• * * *
Gilmore, the N.Q. tin mine, which six
years ago started a meteoric career by paying
monthly dividends out of the sink of the prospecting
shafts, has come to a rocketty end. At the last
general meeting of shareholders the chairman inti-
mated that the mine had been let to tributors. The
first thing the tributors did was to clean up the old
145 ft. level, and they got enough metal in the pro-
cess to start a rumor that they were on a 3ft. lode
of rich ore. The patch, however, was only the drip-
pings from the truckings of the early-day 25 p.c.
crushings. The chairman mentioned at the meeting
that sulphuric acid in the water corroded the pipes
of the pumping gear very rapidly. This, coupled
with the presence of copper in the tin, argues the
proximity of a sulphide body. The main shaft is
down 400 ft., and shows a splendid footwall that has
never been broken into —and now probably never will
be.
* * * *
Died last week Lewis Thomas, who did
more than any other man to open up the Ipswich
fQ.) coal mines, now the most prolific in the State.
It was an almost desperate struggle, and the old man
used to say that for 14 years, though he slaved at
the job, he drew less than the poorest-paid man on
the wages sheet. Then things turned his way. A
gTateful district rewarded him by electing him its
M.L.A.; but he did not care for that, so the Leg.
Council swallowed him.
* * * *
Mount Cuthbert (Q.) sends good news
i Kalkadoon mine. The crosscut at the
150 ft. level has struck the lode at a rich spot;
assays give 25 p.c. copper over 3ft., and the bore
shows ore of fair grade for a width of 6ft. A
crosscut is also being driven on the Warwick Castle
formation, and as the shoot is a strong one near the
surface good prospects will probably continue for
a while. Mount Cuthbert itself is, however, a warn-
ing not to go too much on values near the surface,
for its deepest level carries stuff that would merely
make good feed for a concentrating mill.
* * * *
Charters Towers has secured two State
subsidies—£2ooo for Pfeiffers’ Day Dawn and
£3OOO for Brilliant Block. But as work at
deep levels mops up a deal of money, it is practi-
cally certain that fresh capital will be required, if
only to conform with the conditions of the loan,
which are that Pfeiffers shall spend £ for £. The
conditions with regard to the Block loan are not so
clearly stated ; perhaps the heap of money spent in
fruitless driving and crosscutting has been con-
sidered. If, in extending No. 4 level to the south-
west, the Brilliant Deeps follow a good reef beyond
their boundary into the Blocks, there will be no
difficulty in raising fresh capital, for the Deeps are
proving that payable stone lives down, and are also
sinking below No. 5 with a view to opening a still
deeper level. The developments at the New Queen
Cross lease, on the Moonstone reef, continue good,
and the crushing going through (about 200 tons)
is looking well.
Last month Mount Morgan saved 94650 z.
of gold in 631 tons of blister copper, or 15oz. per
ton. The previous month gave 13oz. Probably en-
couraged by improved smelting practice, manager
Magnus is throwing more silicious gold ore into
the furnace. In all 16,480 tons from Mount Morgan
and 3629 tons from Many Peaks were treated; total,
20,109 tons ore, from which was got a return of
£77,329, or £3 16s. lOd. per ton, taking copper at
£6O.
* * * *
A race to find petroleum by boring has
been started in Papua by C. H. Locke, representing
the Commonwealth, and F. Griben, of the British
New Guinea Development Co. The latter co. was
formed in London by J. G. Jenkins, ex-Premier of
South Aus., and others, to exploit Papua, as Burma
and Borneo were exploited by London corporations.
The Commonwealth Government having decided to
prohibit boring for oil in Papua by Private Enter-
prise, Griben and his drilling rig were sent to Yalaila
River, 125 miles N.E. of Port Moresby, by the Gov-
ernment. C. H. Locke’s boring plant, built by the
Goldfields Drilling Co., at Melbourne, can go to
2000 ft., while Griben’s is limited to 1000 ft. Locke
has reported to his department that he is sure to
get oil at depth, the geological surroundings being
favorable. To make quite sure of this, the Govern-
ment has asked India to lend it an oil expert from
Burma to visit Papua and report on the geology of
the Valaila field. The main conditions are identical
in Burma and Papua, viz., tertiary rocks, saddle
reefs, limestones, sandstones and shales, while oil
has been found oozing from joints in the surface
rock, and brine is also present. If oil be struck in
Papua, it will most likely be also found across
Torres Strait, in the Northern Territory. On this
assumption, an American oil-man, named Halley,
has formed a small syndicate in Melbourne with
£5OOO capital, to explore the Territory for oil.
Three members of the Victorian Cabinet hold shares,
and the enterprise is being backed by a wealthy
newspaper proprietary. But £5OOO won’t go far;
in fact, it is unlikely to go much farther than the
wharf at Darwin. However, it’s a beginning—the
genesis of a new industry for Australia, perhaDS.
People who were in the ill-fated MacArthur River Co.
are likewise putting up a few pounds to test the
Victoria River country for oil.
* * * *
“Geology” Herman sends out a glowing
report on the possibilities and prospects of Victorian
brown coal. His predecessor, Stirling, was thought
to be barmy on brown-coal, whereas what he did was
to foresee that the power-gas engine would change
everything. In Germany and Russia brown coal
drives many a mile of train, and provides fuel for
a multitude of factories. Victoria, with Newcastle
just by, giggled over Stirling’s enthusiasm; but it
started to get serious when a group of German Jews
proposed to gobble up the best bit of Morwell. If
Herman be right, their presence wouldn’t matter
much —provided the State doesn’t let them put their
greedy paws on to a monopoly of electricity in Mel-
bourne. Herman figures out that Victoria has be-
neath its onion and cabbage plots a brown-coal area
of 2000 square miles, containing 3,000,000,000 tons
of mineral. Some of the seams aggregate 750 ft. ;
others are as thin as a bar sandwich. Averaging
them at 50ft., the foregoing total is arrived at. Then
discarding three-quarters of their contents, and giving
a value of 4s. per ton to the balance, a national asset
of £200,000,000 appears. Yet there are stinking
fishites who allege that little Victoria hasn’t a
mining or an industrial chance left. Peter Mcßride,
thinking the reverse, does his last big administrative
act by preventing the alienation of any more coal
land.
* * * *
H. E. Rowe, when president of the Cham-
ber of Mines of Victoria, hit the miner pretty hard
over gold-stealing. The Bulletin now asks him to
retain his attitude as a purist, and say if he is doing
the fair thing in pushing on the liquidation of the
Long Tunnel Co. The Pearsons and the Firebraces
having carefully squeezed every bean they could out
of the Long Tunnel, is it not their duty to
put a little cash into the field? Dare he say that
to deliberately throw Walhalla into poverty and idle-
ness, when (vide Herman) it is far from worked
out, is a worse crime, in view of the dividends
reaped from it, than for the individual miner to
now and then nip a bit of gold? Let the Pearsons
and the Firebraces keen out of the voting re the
liquidation, and see which way the majority of the
shares will go. Can Rowe think it is worth fighting
to get such people a final dividend out of a sale of
plant, seeing the stacks of divs. they have raked in?
Is it compatible with the high interests of mining
(which Mr. Rowe, as a leading spirit of the Chamber
of Mines is pledged to support) to jump a co. of this
kind into liquidation? Mr. Rowe, as president of
the Chamber of Mines, would have known it wasn t.
* * * *
Austen: Both speculative; but the Tas-
manian proposition will probably see the other out.
.D.A.: Don’t know anything about the show ;
but do know that the development of these metal-
lurgical processes is generally a weary business for
the men who put up the money #
The quaintest thing ever seen in prospec-
tuses was issued lately by the New Caledonia G. M.
Syndicate, N.L. There are three names on it, in-
cluding that of “George Stevenson (late mining
warden of N. S. Wales for the past 30 years).
“The lode,” says the quaint prospectus, “is about
half a mile wide. The length of lode is about
eight miles. The lode consists of ironstone gossan.
The average yield of 14 samples is loz. 15dwt.
Samples cannot be picked—lode all the same.” And
all that the syndicate asks is that the public
shall put up £l5O to obtain titles and bring one
ton to Sydney. For that £l5O the public can have
one-third' of a mine with a lode half a mile wide
and eight miles long, and all of it going loz. 15dwt.
gold to the ton. The Bulletin’s own idea is that
this is the identical propertv from which the rich
uncle in Fiji gets all his millions. #
“Mallarapoonie” : The nrtesian well-bprer,
who gropes down into the innards of this whirling
globe of ours with about a ton of steel sinker on the
end of an amazingly long wire rope, is finding things
in North Queensland. Besides water and coal seams
and bedrock (which mostly leads to curses) and other
items, one of him while boring in the vicinity of
Lake Yarrowmere—which is also known as Lake
Buchanan, and is merely a large salt marsh, the be-
loved home of nearly all the pelicans west of the
148th meridian—lateiy punched a hole through what
seems to be a very fine stratum of salt at a not-too-
great depth beneath the surface. This is the first
true salt-bed gone through in Australia, as far as
writer knows. Speaking of well-boring, there pro-
bably isn’t a more monotonous job on earth than that
of an artesian well-driller. Right round the clock,
month in, month out, he and an asthmatical engine
are mostly occupied in lifting a ton or so of steel bar
and letting it drop dismally again in the same place.
Still, even he gets his surprises. To say nothing of
the unexpected, though enlivening, arrival of boiling
water on the scene, a borehole may go off suddenly
at any time and blow the roof away. Also, it may
take, unaccountably, to exuding inflammable gas;
so that, when the monotonous person, who sits drear-
ily near the top end of the indefinite hole, attempts
to light his gradual pipe about 2 a.m. of a slow
morning, he is liable to get a lot of tardy whiskers
and dilatory back hair unexpectedly singed.


CudVlntwiirt^
HEERING
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
WORLD
RENOWNED
ĥ
brand
STUHR.
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E,C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, February 17, 1913.
My Dear Arini.—
It is not likely that much banging of the
big drum will be needed to bring in subscrip-
tions to the fund now being collected in re-
sponse to Captain Scott’s last appeal. The
whole nation appears to be responding with
a rush. We in Sydney feel a more intimate
connection with the lost explorer from the
fact that this was the last patch of civilisa-
tion worth mentioning visited by the deceased
Pole-finder before he left for the ice. Many
of us met him and Mrs. Scott when they
were staying at the Australia, and she was
deservedly popular with her own sex. Rather
fragile in appearance, and reserved in man-
ner, Mrs. Scott, when here, managed, with-
out effort, to convey the impression that she
was Somebody, whereas so many people im-
press you as being half of Nobody. Her
personality crystallised itself into sculpture,
and, after much diligent probing, the lady
was induced to show photographs of some of
her work to those Sydney acquaintances who
knew she used to be Kathleen Bruce. Two
years ago that was. She seemed strung up
to a high pitch of endurance even then. The
shadow of the coming tragedy lay in her
sombre eyes.
Mrs. Wilson, widow of the perished scien-
tist, is in Maoriland, whither she journeyed
to meet the Terra Nova. Having, like most
scientific folk, a contempt for fashion and
display, Mrs. Wilson took a second-class
berth, and, expecting to meet her husband,
had not even a return fare. Of course, that
is not worth mentioning, for the want of
money will certainly not be felt by any of
the women and children connected with the
lost party. But it serves to show in what a
confident spirit Mrs. Wilson set forth, and
how cruelly that spirit has been disap-
pointed. Mrs. David point blank refused
to go to Maoriland to meet the expedition in
which Professor David discovered the South
Magnetic Pole, because she didn’t wish to
tempt Fate. She felt that had she gone to
meet him he would not have been there to be
met. When you are playing against Fate it
is best to take no chances.
The visiting Jap warships fill up Farm
Cove nicely at present—and the favorite
viewpoint to see the smoke-belching grey
fighters is from the grounds of ex-Govern-
ment House —the old mansion that lost its
job. It looks really queer to gaze on the
scene from the Manly boat. Instead of
British ships lying foreninst green lawns
sacredly reserved for vice-royalty, and empty
of humanity, which was the spectacle pre-
sented by our naval station aforetimes, now
the ships fly the flag of the rising sun, while
Hoi Polloi roam at will over the verdant
swards, and recline at ease under the shadow
of the sacred pines planted by royalty itself.
Jap senior officers and those of flag rank
bear a Pooh Bah air of proud exclusiveness,
but the junior officers and middies, or cadets,
or whatever they call them, mingle' freely
with the throng, and apparently extract as
much fun out of the visit as the band of
crepe on the left arm, denoting mourning for
the late Mikado, will allow. On Saturday
a party of youthful officers went to Manly,
armed with kodaks, and had a real good
time snapshotting the surfing girls and being
instructed in all the arts of life-saving,
running out the reel and other aquatic
sports. The boys from far Nippon were not
shocked at the surfing girls at all, because
in their own country they sensibly leave off
their clothes while they bathe. Only, they
don’t bathe in the sea. Their sense of
cleanliness can be appeased by nothing less
than parboiling themselves in one of their
numerous public baths after the fashion of
the heated old Roman of Imperial days.
Some of the North Steyne Life Saving
Club posed for the Japs on Saturday, and
were photographed standing behind their life-
reel. These sun-tanned heroes looked as
brown as the Japs themselves, only a differ-
ent kind of brown. The Nipponese is a
yellow brown. The Sydney surfer is a red-
dish burnt umber shade. However, Japs
and Australians made a happy party, the
visitors apparently giving the Japanese equiv-
alents for “eulogistic remarks” on the life-
saving display. There was a beastly surf
running under the strong nor’easter, and the
man who was to be subsequently “rescued ”
swam far out into the Pacific. It all looked
most heroic, and obviously impressed the
strangers immensely.
Sometimes the Department of Public In-
struction feels that it needs interpreting.
Then it issues circulars and other literature
easily understanded of the people, explaining
why it does things. One has just been put
forth with the appealing title, “A Word to
Mothers.” Feminine parents of girls who
have successfully wrestled with their qualify-
ing certificate examination are urged to
send these girls, or others who sufficiently
resemble them to pass muster, to learn house-
work at the new Domestic Superior Public
Schools. This leaflet is as persuasively
worded as the patent medicine ad. which is
thrown over the garden gate by the peri-
patetic distributor. “The fear of dirt is the
beginning of housekeeping”—so runs its un-
written law, and on that it bases its plea to
the girls who have obtained their Q.C. to
continue for some years at school, learning
how to make home happy in after years.
Almost the last appearance of Lady
Chelmsford on a Sydney platform will be
her promised attendance at the annual meet-
ing of the Benevolent Society, which is billed
for Wednesday next week.
Captain Arthur Webber, hon. sec. of the
League of Ancient Mariners, had a goodly
muster for the annual outing of the League
on Saturday last. Actors, for a holiday, go
to the theatre; in the same spirit, sailors
invariably go to sea for a pleasant change.
So the League foregathered at Fort Mac-
quarie, and voyaged to Rushcutter’s Bay,
where it had a luncheon in the Naval
Dep6t, by the courtesy of Commander
Brownlow, R.A.N. (please don’t omit the
“A.”) Then the Ancient Mariners cruised
around the harbor, and each one aired his
own _ particular pet scheme for effectively
lighting the same. It was a very jovial
gathering of genial souls, although two very
sad events of the nautical year were per-
force honored in silence —-the loss of the
Titanic and the death of Captain Scott and
his mates.
Mrs. W. A. Holman was in Paris at latest
dates, _ waiting for her “Will,” along with
her sister, Una Kidgell. W. Holman was
to meet them from Australia, via Marseilles.
The Kidgell girls are all born inkslingers.
They have a family paper, the Co-operator.
First Ada (Mrs. Holman) had it, then she
handed it to Una. Now Una has passed it
on to Stella, who still holds down the job at
No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Mrs. Piddington, wife of the new Justice
of the High Court, has been staying for
some time at Endsleigh Gardens, London,
but will soon leave England with her hus-
band for Australia. At Christmas and New
Year, Mrs. Piddington’s friends were pleas-
antly reminded of her existence by receiving
very prettily-done little water-color sketches
of various spots visited by her on her travels.
This is quite the newest thing in Christmas
cards, being more individualistic than the
ordinary affair, and for those who can ac-
quire the art of water-color, it is a much
more distinctive way of complimenting a
friend.
A Lenten announcement gives forth the
engagement of Miss Maisie Ebsworth, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Ebsworth, of
Ocean-street, Woollahra, to Mr. Hutchinson.
This gentleman comes to see his bride-elect,
braving all the horrors of the tunnels on
the Southern railway line, for he lives down
South. Miss Ebsworth, whose father can
afford a handsome dowry, is quite a young
girl.
News was received by cable on the 12th
of the sudden death from heart trouble of
Mr. James Martin Macadam, in Dunedin.
Many years business manager of the Atlas
Insurance Co., chairman of the Fire Under-
writers’ Association, and member of the Fire
Brigades Board in Sydney, he filled a con-
spicuous position in the business world. A
Scottish elder, he was a prominent member
of St. Stephen’s, Phillip-street. Most people
know that the Macadam family is related
to the late Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.8.,
K.V.D., a much-esteemed personage in the
estimation of the late Victoria and her con-
sort. Sir Theodore was Mr. Macadam’s
mother’s brother. His father was an Edin-
burgh banker. As a young man Mr. Mac-
adam had an adventurous life. He went to
sea with an uncle, Captain Martin, was ship-
wrecked, turned prospector in North Queens-
land and in this State, settling at last in
Orange. Thence he came to Sydney. One
daughter was recently married to Dr. C.
Wallace Weihen, of Macquarie-street, and he
leaves another daughter and two sons. Mrs.
Macadam, who had gone with her husband
for the Maoriland trip, returns this week
by the Ulimaroa. The deceased was a keen
bowler, and every afternoon saw him at the
City Bowling Green.
A letter comes to me with the heading
“R.M.S. Orontes” on the way to Colombo.
One of the passengers is Premier Scaddan,
of Westralia. Lest anybody should forget
that he is such a high and mighty much-
ness, this is the inscription on his deck
chair: “Hon. J. Scaddan, M.L.A., Premier
of West Australia. Passenger to Naples
via Orontes.” The letter doesn’t state
whether the chair was extra strong in order
to bear all that glory without breaking
down. Scaddan is of huge stature, and is
followed by a tame sec. in the bantam class.
Dr. Mary Booth is very angry with some-
body, the same being Mr. P. Board. Her
anger is justified by events. Dr. Mary is in
Sydney, having arrived from Melbourne per
motor-car. She travelled with some friends.
They took four days over the trip, and Dr.
Booth says she is so glad they did, because
she saw N.S.W. in a new light. The scenery
all the way from Albury was simply en-
chanting. If such a lovely route existed in
the United States there would be reams of
literature written about it, and folk would
go all the way from Australia to see the
beautiful sights, but as it is just south of us
along the Illawarra-road, nobody marks it.
But the scenery has side-tracked me from
the plain tale of Dr. Mary’s indignation.
The reason is that Dr. Gertrude Halley was
not given the new billet of schools medical
officer, which has been handed over to Dr.
Willis, although Dr. Gertrude has to her
credit good work in the same job under
another name. She was, up till her resigna-
tion, schools medical inspector, which means
practically the same thing in the way of work,
plus extra kudos and salary. Dr. Booth
says, and she is not the only University
woman to say it, that professional prizes
open to both men and women invariably go
to men in this State, although in other coun-
tries, including some of the Australian
States, women are far preferred before men
in work of the kind done by Dr. Halley. It
is a very antiquated, moss-grown, medieval
opinion to hold now. In some ways, our
own dear mother State is right away back
in the Dark Ages. “Now, be a good little
girl and don’t come bothering me to be a
school inspector or anything, and you’ll have
a bun and a dollie,” is the way in which
our officials talk to medical women.
Mr. Board believes in educating women
where his own feelings are concerned. His
daughter Ruby, M.A. of Sydney University,
is now a distinguished member of the Tilley
Institute in Berlin, a most up-to-date estab-
lishment, and one that stands out even in
that city of enlightenment, where education
is treated seriously. There Miss Ruby
did marvellous feats, studying for and pass-
ing in six months an exam, in the Ger-
man tongue which usually takes stu-
dents a year or more to prepare for.
The Tilley Institute is run by an Australian,
brother to Mrs. Donohue. It aims at teach-
ing German language and literature. _ Stu-
dents must board and lodge in the Institute,
and take a vow to speak, read, write, think,
dream, swear, in no other language than
German. Another Sydney girl now in-
carcerated willingly and to the tune of £3
per week therein, is Miss Annette McClellan,
who occasionally sends a pleasing screed to
the S.M.H.
The Dorset Men Beyond the Seas have a
strong contingent in our city. They had a
festive gathering lately on the Lady Hamp-
den. Miss Amor, Mr. J. Amor and Mr. Weir
made music for the party. Lady Chelms-
ford is patron of this society, which boasts
as its energetic hon. sec. Captain H. Caines
and Messrs. Edward Thorpe, Leonard Last,
and on the ladies’ committee Mesdames
Hare, Warren, Waygood, Ward, Brierley
Hunt, Caines and others, none of whom
could be classified by old Middlewick in
“Our Boys” as “Inferior Dossit.”
“Bella Donna,” the new play at the Cri-
terion on Saturday night, revealed Miss
Irene Browne in some clothes and a dust
and desert atmosphere recalling the best
suburban gardens in this present dry spell;
Mr. J. C. Williamson in his box;
and a bad man, Mr. Hugh Buckler, in even-
ing dress and a fez. A dusky Semite (I
suppose he was a Semite) in faultless even-
ing attire and a fez cap topping all gives a
thrill to the most hardened playgoer, for the
costume means something in playland. It
stands for a real scoundrel. The correct
black suit shows the outward culture and
polish of the Asiatic who has been at Eton
and Oxford, and swallowed the veneer of
Western civilisation at every pore. (I am
writing in haste, and if there is something
wrong about that, I can’t help it). Clap a
fez on his head, and you have his black,
hard, age-old savagery beneath it all. In the
present case, the man is an Egyptian, but
it’s just the same. The fez fits him all right.
Then he adds a cigarette loaded with opium
and other drowsy syrups, and he is the worst
ever. You know what to expect, and you
are not disappointed. The fezzed cigarette
smoker never goes back on his tracks, but
keeps straight on from crime to crime till
his path is strewn with dead, and you would
think a motor-car had just passed.
“Bella Donna” (for plot of which please
see “Sundry Shows”) has a most convincing
touch in the second act, a touch which every
dweller in sunny Sydney recognised as quite
local in color. The scene is a drawing-room
in Mrs. Chepstow’s villa in Egypt. A desert
wind suddenly arises. A door slams. The
lamp is blown out. You can often get the
same effects when a warm westerly blows
abruptly into a kerosene-tin shanty at Water-
loo. A woman who saw the play on Sat-
urday night, having witnessed the London
performance, with Geo. Alexander and Mrs.
Pat Campbell in the cast, declared that that
puff of wind made her feel homesick. They
don’t have much wind in London, not enough
to blow away the fogs.
“Revealed” is the right word to apply to
Mrs. Chepstow (Irene Browne) in the play.
She is the type which men always say women
describe as a “bold cat,” Mrs. Chepstow has
to take many tickets on herself as an ex-
tensive fashion displayer. But present
fashions are revealing, don’t you know. The
woman who saw the play in London de-
clared Miss Browne to be much more cov-
ered than Mrs. Pat Campbell, who, on a sur-
face measurement of satin to the square
inch, was very sparsely disguised. It-is the
fashion now to wear one leg outside the
skirt, and Mrs. Pat wore it so. Mrs. Pat,
whose eyes are still dazzlers, has grown
very stout. Her costumes in “Bella Donna”
would pass muster with a Bondi alderman,
as they were strictly neck-to-knee. but he
would not allow her to loiter on the beach
and’ take a sunbath in them. Miss Browne
was really clad. Her clothes covered her all
over.
These facts about “Bella Donna” at St.
James’s, London, were told me by Mrs.
Percy Hunter, who left Bullopolis in a pea-
soun fog on December 20, to return to An
ti-alia with her two boys, in preferencef
going for Christmas .to the chilly
Grindelwald. in Switzerland, whither tl
ski-ing, bobsleighing, skating and such '
drawing many Australians. Sometimes +£!
white drift of joy is 14ft. deep at Grinds
wald.
About the new fashions Mrs. Percy Hun
ter had much to tell me, but the worst nf
up-to-date fashion copy is that, unless it is
censored until it is, as news, valueless as 8
Balkan war cable, it is unfit for publication 4
“I saw some hair-raising styles in Hvde
Park,” she said. “There was a woman
there one day dressed in Gobelin blue satin
which was wranped as tightly round her
from her bust to her knees as a sausage
skin on a sausage. Over this she wore a
tunic of the same color ninon, which was
absolutely transparent, showing her chest
shoulders and arms. The skirt was split im
one side and her stockings were quite visible
to her knees as she walked. She was typi-
cal of the most advanced modes. Both in
London and Paris there was a craze for
grey hose —silk, of course. Nobody could
fail to see that they were grey, because
there was hardly any skirt covering them!
Sometimes the skirt buttons all the wav
down the back from waist to hem, and half
way from the hem upwards it is left unfast-
ened. Low-necked frocks are always worn
Collars are seldom to be seen, and in cold
weather furs of the most priceful descrip-
tion are piled on over flimsy ninon and lace
gowns.
The oft-quoted contrast between riches
and poverty in London, struck Mrs. Hunter
nowhere more forcibly than at Epsom last
year, when she went to the Derby with a
coach-load of Australians, including Mr. and
Mrs. Denison, Mrs. J. S. Brunton and
Harry Gullett. Many others “also ran.”
As a Society par. this is rather belated, but
as showing the cleverness and agility of the
London pickpocket, who, as Mrs. Hemans
would say, “has all seasons for his own,” it
is worth while. The party were all on top
of the coach, high up from the ground. Just
after the race, during which all eyes had
been fixed on the course, Mrs. Brunton
missed her bag, a velvet, gold-clasped affair,
containing much coin and some trinkets.
She had had it on her lap, and only lifted
her hand off it for a minute. But that minute
was enough for a prowler to leap on the
wheel and make a haul. Mrs. Denison had
a brooch snatched from her lace collar at
the same time. She was quite unconscious
of her loss, until in the fuss made in looking
for the handbag, somebody told her that her
lace was dragged away from its moorings.
The unerring hand of these invisible thieves
was what impressed the Australian women
most. “We noticed then the people who were
lurking around the coaches. Such awful
creatures they were, they made me
shudder, hardly human they seemed in their
utter filth and degradation. It was a sight
that brought the tears to my eyes, and made
me thank God we don’t have people like the
London submerged tenth in Australia.”
The King, gently but firmly taken in
charge by the Queen, was. at that Derby.
“George and the Dragon,” the Londoners
call our Sov. and his purposeful spouse.
Another bit of royal news purveyed by the
same traveller is that the Princess of
Prussia, only daughter of the Kaiser, a
gentle-looking girl of 18, is deaf and dumb.
This is according to common report in Ber-
lin. The same affliction sits on little Don
Jaime, second son of Albhonso of Spain.
Baritone Charles . Rolfe goes to Europe
in May. He proposes to spend a year or so
abroad, picking up hints from other song-
birds in foreign aviaries. The inevitable
complimentary concert will be hurled at him
some time in April, unless he. dodges very
actively or defends himself with the thick
end of his umbrella.
Kate Rooney sends a postcard, which deals
out a sepia-tinted nicture of the modern
uses to which the old Pump Room at Bath
has ascended. Here, where Beau Nash
once drank the waters and aired his finery,
the first orchestral concerts in England
were given in the 18th century. In January
Kate sang in this domed music reservoir, at
two concerts, all the Tschaikowsky Lieder.
The orchestra digressed into solid helpings
of Wagner in the intervals —and great was
the applause thereof. In Bristol the Sydney
contralto uplifted her organ tones at a Sun-
day concert, in the presence of 3000 per-
sons, who had obviously wandered away
from the evening collection elsewhere.
Pianist Florence Menkmeyer. who used
to be known here, frequently digresses into
song with considerable success. She has
been giving double-barrelled exhibitions or
her prowess in both arts to Parisian audi-
ences.
Concerning infantine faith in Santa Claus,
a London ha’penny paper has industriously
snapped the envelope a small child dropped
in a pillar-box. It bore the wild and whirl-
ing superscription : “To Dady Christines w
Heven Bank of Englend please put it down
the cleanest chimbley.” A callous G.PM
official marked it “insufficiently addressed.
Yours, pro tern.,
CLEO.


. : -\4
-m
mm.
5S
r-
*
*f
i-:
C
at
m
(b.
\
s
??:
* V ~<*
I >&b-'
y^.'^' J • I''
V
3kws»& i
VX'“
?3?
S3*.
r-/.
/-■>■ J,<S
/v /.
j' J'S a
■tf:
a
■f'M
m
C?
m\
.JRt-
;#py
t"p /
V\ A .
SV ‘V' *•■>!'*
mm ,
-S><:
/ v
sw
V
N.L.
P3**
C-O-B-R-A Sfte Boot Polish!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Round the world
At boot-time due,
Hitches up
His team and drives,
Ev’ry morning
He arrives.
He has time
And cash to spare.
“COBRA” takes
Him ev’rywhere I
All the other
Sorts he loses !
“COBRA” is the
Stuff HE uses 1


Style and Service Combined.
Men’s Smart Stetson Hats
AT FARMER’S.
Farmer’s Stetson Hats for men are particularly
stylish and comfortable, besides being decidedly
serviceable. Made in natural colored furs, they are
of splendid quality and do not fade.
Moreover, they can be cleaned and re-blocked
from time to time, thus giving wonderful wear.
The assortment includes the latest styles in hard
Mack felts and soft felt lounge hats; also, the new
styles with wide, flat brims and low crowns.
STETSON LOUNGE HATS,
in Fawns, Greys, Browns and Cedar.
PRICES, 25/-, 27/6 and 36/- EACH.
STETSON HARD, BLACK FELT HATS,
in all Shapes and Styles,
PRICES, 25/- and 27/6 EACH.
CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA’
MEN’S HAT SECTION—PITT STREET ENTRANCE.
FARMER’S, Sydney
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
k\
F . %
\-%G
§
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE..
Lasts
for Years
DOES NOT
KINK or BURST
All Leading Stores
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
"ALL STATES &N Z
h
ĥ
USE
DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRES
It pays—their strength and quality
ensures a big mileage, and every
satisfaction
Obtainable all Carafe*, but
see you g-et -DUNLOP&*
UNLOP RUBBER CO..
V
>
jg> ® e
DUNLOP
RUBBER
HEELS.
...F0R....
COMFORT
and WEAR
All_Boot_Shops.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
L All States and N.Z,
L
' .±"
DUNLOP
GOLF BALIS
ALWAO GIVE 3ATI3TACTION/
COLFISTS say that the
“ Dunlop * plays longer
and better than any other
ball procurable.
Obtainable from all
PROFESSIONALS and
SPORTS DEPOTS at—
2'6
EAOH
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED
PRICE UST.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Mel bourn*, Sydney,
Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane
Wellington, Christchurch
ħ
0T
%
7
DUNLOP
TYRE-S
%\#s% % .*
Ware easily the ...
STRONGEST and
BEST WEARING
in Australasia*
/ STOCKED IN STUDDED.
'“HEAVY" STUDDED.
GROOVED*RIBBED Patt»n»
Obtainable all AgtnU.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 17, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The select Kooyong gathering rejoiced
loyally, on Wednesday, when the Melbourne
team, headed by the G.-G., beat Camperdown
at polo. Caps soared into the air, and ex-
pensive parasols waved hilariously. Help
Burnham did a lot for his side ; while Secre-
tary Wilberforce, from State Government
House, and Ernest Bruce occasionally re-
minded the spectators that they were not
there merely to decorate the ground. The
Denman lady, clothed in white, drove her
own car to the scene at an early hour. The
Barttelot couple sat behind her as passen-
gers. State Governor Fuller, accompanied
by a pale blue lady, supplied applause at
appropriate intervals. Fair-haired Mrs.
Percy Chirnside petrolled down from the
Werribee manor house to watch hubby war
unsuccessfully for the Camperdown side.
The watching crowd included McArthurs,
Gnmwades, Staughtons and all the local
nobility.
The Denman lady intends, later on, to in-
vite owners of antique treasures to send
them along to an exhibition which will in-
clude her Ex.’s own hne collection. Her
chief hobby is collecting the odds and ends
left by past generations. She has a keen
eye of the intrinsic value of any old thing,
and is reputed never to make mistakes about
periods. Federal Government House is
scattered over with tapestries and other
ancient things harvested by her Ex. She is
convinced that there is a lot of good stuff
stowed away in Australia, and this she
hopes to tempt from its hiding places.
The little G.-G. looked pale and tired, on
1 uesday, when he journeyed to flat and
gritty Port Melbourne _ to farewell Auntie
I hipps. He was officially chaperoned by
Chamberlain Nevill. Quite half a dozen of
the Best People oiled or trained down to
wave to the pretty traveller, who was almost
completely obscured by a mass of flowers and
three golden-haired Fuller nieces frocked
gorgeously in purple. The Fuller nephew,
with hatless head, broiled in a vivid green
wrapping. Maggie Stirling’s girleen snap-
shotted Auntie and her group in a cosy cor-
ner of the deck. The voyageuse finally faded
away amidst a tangle of bouquets and
novels. All her friends seemed to have plun-
dered the bookstalls for their parting gifts.
The soldier brother in India, towards
whom Auntie Phipps is now steaming, could
not agree with the conclusions of some mili-
tary examiners, and there was, in conse-
quence, some doubt about the trip. How-
ever, at the last moment, a cable arrived
instructing her to come along, the warrior
having secured his bungalow for the pro-
jected six weeks’ visit. Perhaps the ex-
aminers saw their error and backed down
like those of a medical student I once knew.
Having come into violent collision with an
irritable old professor, over some trivial
point, my friend coldly remarked: “Well,
sir, that may be your opinion. It isn’t
mine!” The professor reeled in his chair.
Then he busied himself with his papers, and
muttered in a choked voice: “Well, well! I
suppose I’m wrong as usual.’’ The grudg-
ing apology pacified our fourth-year friend ;
but when the lists came out, he was annoyed
to find that the foolish and vindictive old
gentleman had omitted to pass him.
Motors whirred round town on Monday
morning, carrying the newly-arrived Empire
Trade Commissioners to hospitable enter-
tainment. The three days’ rest before the
departure of the Maoriland boat was to be
filled in with a round of receptions and
amusement. Serious work begins when they
return. Federal Government House dined
them on Monday evening; Tuesday was
occupied with motor trips, and a theatre
party in the evening; and the University
booked Wednesday up to the last moment
before the boat cast off. Chairman Sir
Edgar Vincent gained a few extra hours by
expressing overland from Adelaide. He
secured a bed at the grey-towered Govern-
ment House. With him came Mr. and Mrs.
Tom Garnett, who motored right away to a
family party with daughter Mrs. Geoffrey
Syme. The rest of the visitors arrived in
more leisurely fashion by the Medina, on
Monday morning.
Emma Sugden, daughter of the master of
Queen’s College, was married last week in
England to Pierre le Couteur, cricketer and
Rhodes scholar. The young man has been
to Oxford, and is to fill a chair at Perth
University. Emma was one of the first
pupils of the University Conservatorium.
She can work both ’cello and violin with
facility, and must be accounted a good, all-
round fiddle sawyer. If she tried, she could
probably get a tune out of a crosscut saw
and an ironbark log.
Mrs. Colonel Sellheim lately gave a fare-
well party to Mrs. Legge, who goes to join
her colonel husband in England. He is
beginning a four years’ appointment as Aus-
tralian military representative at the Brit-
ish War Office. The energetic Australian
soldier lately expressed a wish that there
were 48 hours in every day, so I anticipate
there is plenty of work. Mrs. Uegge, a cool,
auburn-haired, brown-eyed vision in white
lace, seemed very concerned about taking her
10-year-old son away from Melbourne
Grammar School. Mrs. Ferguson, Mrs.
Legge’s mother, joins the departing party.
She hails from Sydney, and, for this cere-
monious occasion, inhabited a handsome
black lace frock. Mrs. Parnell, wife of the
V ictorian Commandant, shed smiles on the
gathering. Mrs. Pethebridge brought a
striking-looking daughter in blue. Mrs. and
Miss Wallace and Mrs. Coxon represented
their respective military men-folk. Mrs.
lork Syme spread purple draperies and
fashionable feathers in a window seat.
Hostess Mrs. Sellheim, who is used to the
tropics, and knows how to help people enjoy
life on a hot day, arranged a sit-down tea-
party. Mrs. Dodds, Mrs. Wanliss and Mrs.
Forsythe came along from Toorak. Pro-
fessor Elkington’s lady talked Bananaland
gossip with Mrs. Carroll, who hails from
the far north of the State, yet owns a peach
complexion. A string band played suitable
comic opera accompaniments to the conver-
sation.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme is giving a party on
the 27th, to introduce her pretty mother to
Australian friends. Mrs. Garnett came out
with her husband, who is one of the six
members of the Trade Commission from
Great Britain. She intends to stay here
while the Commission progresses through
Maoriland, and will go to Sydney with Mrs.
Syme at Easter. The Commissioner will
take them both to the horse races that rage
over there at hot-cross bun time.
Melbourne last saw the dead explorer
Scott at a glittering mayoral ball, which was
held the night before his departure for the
Antarctic. He had every waltz with his
wife, who was very bright-eyed and flushed,
and seemed excited. He only spared time
from her for the necessary duty dances.
Mrs. Earle has just returned from a
sojourn with her brother, Dr. Pardy, of
Launceston. While she was on the Speck,
16 matrons of Launceston (how solid that
sounds!) gave a bridge party which knocked
feathers ofE anything the rival village of
Hobart had ever done. She did a good deal
of motoring over the smooth, convict-made
roads, and collided with the Gerald Buck-
lands in quite a friendly way at an awkward
cross road. The impact resulted in nothing
worse than a smashed lamp glass. The
Bucklands were then off to collect daughter
Helen, a bud of last Cup season.
Artist Bertha Merfield is just recovering
from a breakdown brought on by overwork.
Country air and a thoroughly lazy life have
set her up again, and she is now busily col-
lecting material for a show later in the year.
Bluie Atkins, an active member of the
Goodrest Atkins family, who has lately been
bidding for concert-platform fame in Tas-
mania, has added a diamond engagement
ring to her other assets. Senior-Master Kay,
of Scotch College (a. triple scholarship win-
ner), is the lucky giver. The engagement,
by the way, is a dead secret.
Colonel Stanley, who sailed by the Morea
to India, is on more than a health trip. In
his baggage is a commission from Defence-
Minister Pearce to inspect time-expired In-
dian officers and secure the most likely ones
for our new army. Stanley, who worked
his way up from the ranks, should know the
marks of a genuine warrior when he sees
them. The habitues of the Vienna and Col-
lins-street generally will miss his tall
familiar figure.
.The eyeglass and Asiatic turban of
Major Griffiths are to pass from Melbourne’s
sight in March, when the Anglo-Indian war-
rior, with his wife and polo sticks, will steam
back to his colored regiment. The dreadful
news has produced an exclamatory chorus,
tor everyone thought the nice exchange man
was to stay for at least another year.
Captain Buchanan, an attractive mer-
chant , service . sailor, was hitched up, last
ihursday, with Annie Mackinnon, second
daughter of squatter Godfrey, of the Corrie
clan. The joining was celebrated by a
strictly family circle gathering at Cousin
Angus Macinnon’s place in Toorak.
The • love of some women for a warship
passes all unuerstanding and meets it coming
back. A cheerful young widow who re-
volves in squattocratic circles had arranged
a party on board a visiting ironclad, then
lying in the stream. The appointed day
arrived, and with it a gale. Hut the widow
was undaunted, and duly arrived on the
windswept pier in a fetching rig-out which
displayed her silken ankles. A launch, with
an officer in charge, battled through the
wave tops and took off the shrinking party.
Half-way to the ship, the whole shore crowd
tell sick. The gale started to whistle louder,
and by the time the ship was reached, they
found it was too rough to get alongside. But
the widow declined to turn back, and the
launch stood by while a cutter was lowered
and rowed across to them. Six visitors ner-
vously transferred themselves to its depths.
That done, the sailors “gave way” with a
will, and, as it shot alongside, the dangling
tackle was hooked on and brawny arms
hosited boat and all to deck level, where the
reluctant, skirted voyagers were politely
helped out by waiting officers and assisted
towards stiff whiskies and sodas. The re-
turn voyage, later on, was the same ordeal
reversed. Those adventurous females now
giggle and brag about the adventure, mur-
muring : “We had just the loveliest time, my
dear! You should have seen how the officers
fixed our skirts.”
People who love gossiping about other
people are going around with gloomy faces.
A divorce suit which looked most promising
is to go undefended, and the expected shocks
will not happen. Socially, the local atmo-
sphere at present is that of a power house
in which the main dynamo has just broken
down.
Just as this epistle is tearing to press
arrives the news by cable of Mrs. D’Arcy
Osborne’s marriage to Mr. Theo. Marks in
London. He is the big Sydney architect and
sportsman of that ilk, and she is one of the
N.S.W. Osbornes, but they are both as well
known in Melbourne as they are in Sydney.
He is Australia’s heaviest backer of horse's,
and I don’t think he has missed a Cup for a
decade, or more. She divorced her squatter
husband last year. They should be on their
way bactc to these parts shortly, as he has
the extensive job before him of superin-
tending the building of the Sydney Tele-
gkaph office.
A recent cool evening provided sufficient
excuse for a jolly telephone dance at the
club house near the Gisborne golf links. It
was a purely impromptu affair, and was
started by Mrs. Ross Watt, of Macedon.
Mrs. Oswald Syme petrolled over from
Woodend, and the Best Macedonians hurried
along with all the guests within their fences.
The supper consisted of what was left of
the cold fowl after tea, some fresh salad, and
as many bottles as would go into the motor
hampers. A pale young moon, just .waning,
lighted the dancers home in the early hours
of next morning.
The Women’s Hospital bazaar was lately
under discussion at a meeting in the council
room of the Town Hall. Mrs. Hennessy, in
neat navy blue and with mignonette in her
hat, sat at the head of the table, and let
M'‘ s - James, hon. secretary, do the talking.
Mrs. Hood, wrapped in tussore, and wearing
a serious air, sat at her right hand. Mrs.
Hughes and Mrs. Maloney occupied other
seats; and Miss Mackenzie, a wealthy lady
from Toorak, figured among the leading
spirits. Eager feminine helpers sat in rows
and drank in the remarks, now and then leap-
ing up to edge in a suggestion. Into this assem-
blage of women strode big Oscar Lyon, of
the Bank of New South Wales, who is act-
ing as treasurer. His boots were very yel-
low, and he wore a double-width smile. An-
other lone hero sat surrounded by ferocious-
looking hats. He was brave Mr. Carroll,
and those about me whispered that he had
undertaken to keep the books in order. The
British race need have no fear while it can
produce dauntless spirits of his calibre.
By way of helping the Women’s Hospital,
principal boy \ iolet Loraine is arranging a
song matinee for March 3. The matineers
intend to use the city fathers’ council room
m the Town Hall. The apartment seats
.>OO, and that leaves plenty of spare space
for the corridor lingerers who want to flirt
and whisper on the lounges, and still be
within earshot of the music. The dais,
which, on ordinary occasions, is occupied by
the Gaud Mayor’s chair, will be utilised as
a stage. There is also a crimson carpet, and
the panelling is of rich dark woods, so the
prettily froeked stars will have a choice
setting.
Gregan McMahon and his Repertory The-
atre people filled the Princess’s, on Saturday
atternoon, with Shaw’s “Man and Super-
man” The cautious McMahon has always
held that, for repertory work, one should
muster an audience before attempting to
yard it in a permanent theatre. He has
been patiently rounding up his intellectual
some time now, and yarding? it in
odd halls, waiting for the time when it would
be numerous enough to comfortably fill a
full-sized olayhouse. After a few more ex-
periments like that of Saturday last, he will
begin to see his own playhouse looming be-
fore him. The stalls were one mass of well-
groomed feminine heads, while the boxes
overflowed with feathers and frills. An odd
man showed his cropped head here and
there. Society filled the dress circle and
stewed amiably for the good of its brain
refreshing itself during the interval with ice-
creams and oranges. When a sudden shower
of rain tell through the open roof on to the
bare heads in the stalls, there was a merry
laugh all round the sheltered perch. One or
two family brollies blossomed on the floor
°f fhe theatre, before the half-moon slices
or sliding ceiling came slowly together and
shut out the T, '^ather.
On the stage, Maude Joliffe, as Violet
Robinson, and Isabel Handley, as Ann Whit-
field, stewed heroically in heavy furs during
an indoor scene. The skins were horribly
handsome, and simply had to be shown off •
yet in the next act, which takes place out of
doors, and so promptly that the seasons have
not time to change round, the pair clad
themselves in light summer raiment, and
went off tor a motor run wranned in thin
dust coats.
From my Adelaide correspondent: -
The Duttons’ yacht A dele picked up a fresh cara-o
of guests at Port Adelaide last week. The new con
signment consists of the John Downers and their
three-year-old son. The Julian Ayers Miss Thnmal
and Miss Winnie Short, who ilye ’ been cmS
round Kangaroo Island, were disembarked. The AdMe
has gone to Port Lincoln, which is a perfect mass of
fashionables just now. The Leonard Bakewells A
L“others nd MiSS HenderS ° n are ffiere, amongst
We never mention the weather now, except with
violent expletives. We are not captains of our res
R C is V poisonoul lt thC th‘ athel ' *i under disc ussion.
. lb poisonous. It is the very limit. In fart it
PirnT H - t .‘ e / orth there has been a heat wave
Birds dropped dead, and mere human beings drooped
dead dnmk. The consumption of alcohof has P
passed that of the corresponding week in the great
Beer year of the latter part of last centY,rv g a*
teetotaller was threatened with assassination in
fid^worth’of't - h .t d t 0 !t y ’ ¥ avil ?S his umbrella, 3s.
hi™- Then came a changt
aro*iw Wheel i ha o rrows adie Th h e a re
are few sights more distressing than a Perfect Tam.
cetat. 65 in a barrow. Younger females and dy
were carried to their variouf destinaDons y strona
and willing arms. Those who could not afford bar
rows and were not alluring enough to attract volum
teer carriers, removed their footwear and waded
And yet some people say bitterly that the age of
adventure is past. 01
The Warrens have let their house in Walkerville
for a year. Miss Warren goes to Japan and 6
Hilda Warren to England. P ’ and Mlss
Mrs. Wells and her daughter are also off. America
ro P r Tt ' u d J he fP arria ge of Miss Freda Wells
to Mi. Guy Hardy the excuse for a visit tn
great land of Trusts, dyspepsia and Fried Blacks
Mr. R. J. Phillips died on Sunday
North Adelaide. He had lived here shieT w? at
and was a figure in the commercial world Doylloo <i,
It has been a week of tragedies. A flat We
boat turned over and drowned a man atu° me,)
Beach, and a notable case of child-murder ana 6 *
cide is reported from Prospect. The daili V u
absolutely dripped blood on the subject thi l , *
days. wst few
The late John Oarr was a picturesque ficn,,,, „
was bom in 1819, and came to South Aiwt™v
’59. (He just missed joining the Admelk hv\i n
way, on the trip which finished on the rJit ttle
Robe.) He first settled in Dashwood’s Gullv u,
hills district close to Adelaide, but moved 1“ the
the West Coast and started business at Port .j to
laide. He was an M.P. from ’65 till the early -sn'
and was Commissioner of Public Works when A*’
Burra railway was opened, and when the Bill
pasesd authorising the construction of the line * s
Port Augusta to Beltana. With Alexander
Ebenezer Ward he helped to open up the North
farming- purposes. He managed his own biiLL®
affairs until a week or so before his death ® 8
Miss Amy Lea is back from N.S.W., and is
ing at the South Australian Hotel. Another™
turned wanderer is Miss Violet de Mole whn if*"
drifted back to us after a year in Paris ’ has
The Mayoress opened the South Terrace Cnuw
Club on Saturday. She is president or
something of this institution. It is on the corner nf
South and East Terraces, and aspires to have
gorgeous garden in time.
“Jim” Anderson, K.C., whom two out of even,
three people would probably mention as Adelaide’s
most popular man, is lying dangerously ill pw
some days the doctors regarded the case as just about
hopeless. He is a son-in-law of that other pomZ
man, Judge Gordon, and, as a lawyer, is the fine r
cross-examiner we have.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


REXOPHONES
Bring the Living Singer into Your Room
SEND FOR CATALOGUE OF MACHINES
AND RECORDS.
Storekeepers are invited to send
for Trade Lists.
m
3
DOVER
CAMP
BU I E
SYD
YORK
KENT
It is not alone the price that
makes the KEXOPHONK attractive.
The quality of Tone it possesses; the vast
amount of permanent satisfaction it gives—after
years of use —make it a lasting treasure. The unequalled
sweetness of reproduction lifts these machines to a plane of
excellence not approached by others. KEXOPHONES are dra°--
n( ; ts whu ' h search the whole musical world and bring you the absolute
best of the finest vocal and instrumental artists.
THE “RINGER”
DOMINION ACCORDEON
Ttie brass trumpets of the “Ringer” are a
feature found in no other, and thev help to
give it that wonderful tone that has made it
such a favorite.
M
23/-
23/-
With Steel Reeds, 28/-; larger model, 29/-
Larger model, steel reeds irrfwood case, with
lock, 40/-
CobberMouth Organs
tr i r— ■
Eg m trs na rr? r? rse
No. 1. The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case ... 3/-
No. 2.—The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case 27-
No. 3.—The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case |/q
No. 4. The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box |/»
The Cobber Mouth Organs are renowned for
their melodious tone. Every care has been
given to the free production of sound. Thor-
oughly seasoned material is used in the manu-
facture, and we guarantee to replace if on
receipt any one is in any way defective.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
456 Kent Street, Corner of Druitt street ' Sydney.
NO MORE BUSH FIRES
An Absolute Safety
Wax Vesta Match.
THE “ BRYANT AND MAY, BELL AND CO.” NEW WAX
VESTAS STRIKE ONLY ON THE BOX, perfectly com-
bining the advantages of both the ordinary wax vesta
and wooden safety match, without any of their disadvantages.
These matches withstand any climate, are of uniform
quality, readily strike, and give a strong, good light
whatever the weather may be.
All Stores Stock
These Safety Vestas.
ASK FOR THEM.
or;
Q
air<
ill
>J;£;
"v:
ns
!
.
- ''
*
siJS&WW
m
i-ms
$-};
[
A
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LOME HAND
The National
rionthly, 6d.
llllllillllllllllllH
l
The Rendezvous
of the
Fashionable
ssaxr-
wm
h
ĥ
ħ
h
RUN on strictly Continental Lines, newly and luxuriously renovated, this
up-to-date Cafe provides you at all times with the Best in Luncheons,
Dinners and Suppers —a treat for every epicure.
The cuisine and dining-rooms are under the personal supervision of L. R.
HOSSEN-LOFF (Diplome d’Honneur, 1889-90), who, as manager, has firmly
established his reputation amongst people who know “how to live.”
The Kitchens are always open for inspection, and only the choicest of foods
are employed in the difficult task of providing an ever-attractive and varied bill
of fare.
The Courtesy and Enterprise of the Management are well known to all who
patronise The Savoy; and to give the ever-increasing clientele new pleasure, an
entirely up-to-date system of ventilation has been installed, providing on the
hottest days delightful, cool, fresh air, rendering fans and other draught-making
systems unnecessary.
A Splendid Orchestra adds pleasure to your visits by supplying selections of
the latest and most popular music, while special artists have been engaged to
entertain you during supper time.
Banqueting Halls and Private Rooms have also been added to this already
extensive establishment.
All that can be done has been done to ensure every luxury and comfort to
the patrons of the one and only “SAA OY.”
The SAVOY,
304-306 Little Collins Street,
PhOM i2 JL MELBOURNE.


IF YOU WANT TO KEEP ON BUZZIN’ AROUND
YOU'LL DRINK
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER BEER
AND
Hackerbrau Dark Lager.
REFRESHING AND INVIGORATING.
PAHI HOTELKEEPER BAD WITH COLIC.
Mr. Joseph Ryan, hotelkeeper of Pahi (N.Z.), was
very bad with colic, and tried many remedies, with-
out results. Then the Honorable Mrs. Scotland ad-
vised his wife to give him Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. He says: “I was sceptical and
refused to take it; I reckoned such things were no
good. At last I got so bad that my wife prevailed
upon me to try it. After two doses I was right, and
have been so ever since. I was in a bad way, I can
tell you, but now I swear by Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy, and always keep it handy.”*
SKIN DISEASES,
including Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils, Chilblains,
Ringworn, Shingles, Ulcers, Old Sores, have their
remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Sold in trian-
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.^
fiPTORE
Our large stock of the
latest Trusses for all
kinds of Hernia is a
real boon to sufferers.
Denyer’s Special Elastic
Truss, fitted to size,
ends all trouble, dis-
comfort and fear.
Call or Write.
Single 17/6, Double 22/6,
Others from 3/6.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 George St. (Opp. Hun ter St.), Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
C. G. Wade, of N. S. Wales, informed the
Brisbane press that he “did not fear any en-
croachment on Australia from Japan, which is
too crushed financially through the war with
Russia to plunge into another conflict.”
Only a few years ago neither Russia, China
nor Korea had the slightest fear of attack
from Japan ; yet what happened ? Has
Wade ever read contemporary history—or
anything?
Freetrade Britain is a wonderful place for
the working man. The Labor party in the
House of Commons recently tried to fix 205.-
a week- —a whole quid every seven days-—as
the minimum wage of the udult railway em-
ployee. The Liberal majority sympathised
with the idea, but its hair stood on end with
terror at the size of the proposed undertak-
ing, and the subject was dropped. A 12s.
minimum might perhaps have been carried,
but 205., according to English ideas, was cal-
culated to stagger humanity.
THE FINAL VOLLEY.—A TRAGEDY
OF R.I.P.
Nazim Pasha was wounded in the side, and then
shot through the head while lying on the ground....
A public procession followed his remains to the in-
terment at the Suginanieh Mosque. All military
honors were rendered in order to show that Nazim’s
death was due to accident. —Latest version of a recent
happening.
Being a prophetic portrayal of the only kindly
and agreeable feature of a most regrettable
accident—the result of a slight territorial over-
sight which occurred about 19 2- A.D.
“Ruru,” from Maoriland :
Ever since a mob of Maori chiefs came together
and set their strange and unhandy marks to the
Treaty of Waitangi, there has "been a big idea in
the minds of Maoriland administrators that the brown
person should be saved by law from his own childish
innocence and the raoacity of white exploiters. Hori
Grey carried things further, and tried to conduct wars
without hurting the enemy much; a business which
the said enemy so greatly appreciated that he
exalted Hori to his Pantheon, and has ever since
worshipped his memory. The most important sort of
protection, however, that the Maori has been given
was the land legislation which prevented his selling
his reserves of soil for tobacco or beer. Now the
Massey crowd threatens to change all that. Minister
Ilerries told a deputation of native landowners at
Hastings that the Government would endeavor to
have “the same law for the pakeha as for the Maori.”
Which means that a rapacious mob of speculators
have still a new kingdom to exploit, and that Massey
will help them to its exploitation. Of course, the
Maori will cry “Kapai te new Act.’ Why should
he stick' to his land if it can be made to provide
whisky, and motor-cars with loud horns, and concer-
tinas and weedy thoroughbreds and more whisky ?
When he hasn’t” got anv more land to sell, and the
car is worn out and the whisky bottle empty, he
will learn in sorrow that he hasn’t got a darned
thing to live upon except the sweat of his brow. It
might be good for the Maori to have some sweat on
his brow, but he won’t like the moisture, and his
howl aaginst Massey will be great in the land.
The ten-sliilling note is to be on the Aus-
tralian market shortly in place of the dreary
old half-sovereign which you give away in the
dusk in mistake for a sixpence. Just here The
Bulletin would like to mention that the
ordinary Australian note is a clumsy con-
traption and should be altered. A note
isn’t intended to be a mustard plaster for
an elephant or a covering for a haystack.
The Philippine Government note —which,
by the way, is issued for as little as 2s. —
will go into a small pocket-book if folded
once, and the Italian note will go in an
ordinary-sized pocket-book without folding.
After a little experience with them the
affair that looks like a pamphlet seems ridi-
culous. It is also announced that the nickel
penny and halfpenny will soon be on deck,
and that as nickel is white like silver they
will he differentiated from silver coins of
the same size by having the edges “scal-
loped.” A much more effective device is to
have a blow-hole or breathing-hole in the
centre of the nickel, after the Belgian
fashion. That renders a mistake practically
impossible. Even the drunkest person can
tell a nickel from a franc by pouring beer
through the hole.
From a persistent Laborite: —
The recent N.S.W. P.L.L. Conference capped its
other foolishness by appointing an inquisitorial com-
mittee, with headquarters at the Trades Hall, to
summon Labor members and Ministers and catechise
them as to their doings in Macquarie-street. Confer-
ence will reassemble a little later to receive the
committee’s report. The inquisitor-general is Paddy
Clara, Jtvho performed so well himself that he failed
to hold the Labor constituency of Ashburnham
against a hopeless Tory like Eden George. It is safe
to predict that few M’s.L.A. will tie a millstone
round the neck of their dignity and sink themselves
to the depths of this tribunal, .in which case they
may be recommended for expulsion. In which case,
again, it will be interesting to see what will happen.
A Labor member who pleases his local league and a
majority of his constituents is liable to give soli-
darity a bad bump if solidarity doesn’t bring along
a little more horse-sense to its next meeting.
Customs Minister Tudor ought
to be hunting up replies to
hand to the numerous out-of-
work “snobs” among his Rich-
mond and Collingwood constitu-
ents who will soon be asking
him unpleasant questions. Prac-
tically every boot factory in the
district has either shortened
hands or is working short time
since the New Year. Imports
of boots and shoes into the Com-
monwealth jumpeeb £163.881 in
the year. The importer has got
a strangle-hold on the industry,
and is increasing the pressure
all he knows. Why, in the
name of common sense, a com-
munity should import £546,377
worth of goods which it is quite
competent to make, is the ques-
tion which the pseudo-Protec-
tionist Laborite must face. The
employees have been granted a
measure of Protection by the
Yic. Wages Board and the Fed-
eral Arbitration Court, and the
manufacturers have not. They
cannot pay the minimum wage
of 545., as against the for-
eigner’s average of from
14s. to 275. on an alleged protec-
tive duty of 30 per cent, ad
val. And that is all there is
about it.
Pi ■ime Minister Fisher, at a recent Mel-
bourne A.N.A. scrimmage:—
With regard to shipbuilding, I recall the sentiment
to which I gave expression in this hall at a similar
gathering when the demand was made: “What will
we do in answer to a declaration of war?” I replied
that bur answer would be the clang of 5000 hammers
on the anvils of our country.
But wouldn’t it be rather late for anvil-
clanging then? What is needed is some-
thing substantial in the hardware line now.
For example, the ring of 1000 hammers on
the dog-spikes, and the creak of 1000 span-
ners on the fish-bolts of the straight Oodna-
datta-Pine Creek transcontinental railway
would be something to go on with.
“Hamer”: While Fowler, M.H.R., was
having his innings over the Brother Chinn
case, Melbourne Paunch had a cartoon in
which King O’Malley was credited with ex-
plaining that the reason he wore. a beard
was because he was ashamed of his Chinn.
It wasn’t paralysing humor, nor in specially
good taste, even if Fowler had made his case
good, but as things have gone it looks as if
Paunch and Fowler and a lot of other
people ought to be ashamed of their face,
cheek and every other feature, including
their front generally.
THE DERELICT'S RETREAT.—A BID
FOR CUSTOM.
Liberalism is free, open and broadminded, and in-
vites those of every class and shade of opinion whose
sincere desire is to, etc., etc.
Frequent press announcement.
“Well, ’n’ wotter yer larfin’ at, yer imperent
young brat? More'n likely several old
friends of yo'rs are lodgers uv mine!”
For the Yass vacancy in the N. S. Wales
Assembly two candidates only will face the
by-election. Labor’s man is Gregory
MeGirr, born in Parkes (N.S.W.), who is
by way of being a chemist, farmer and
printer. He appeared for Labor at the Sen-
ate election of 1907, and made a valiant at-
tempt to biff out Fitzparrot, at Orange, last
State elections. Paddy Bourke, a stock
agent, is the Liberal hope and pride. He
was born in Yass and, if he can convince the
free and enlightened about nothing else, that
is something to go on with.
Maoriland is wearing
peacock’s feathers in its
tail because its trade re-
turns show that last year
its exports exceeded its
imports by £795,167 —im-
ports, £20,975.076; ex-
ports, £21.770,243. It is
a better result than 1911
showed, certainly, for
then the imports actually
exceeded the exports. All
the same, Maoriland had
better remember that the
interest bill on its public
debt alone is £2,400,000 a
year; and the exports
must exceed the imports
by that amount before the
Ricketty Islands can af-
ford to wear any feathers at all.
The Tas. Liberal caucus has decided
that “Jacky” Evans, one-time mariner and
five years Premier of the Isle, shall be the
next Speaker of the Assembly. The captain
is a C.M.G., or something of the sort, and
gets his opportunity by reason of the fact
that the K.C.M.G. who last held the job has
had enough of it to make him tired. Ancient
Jonathan Best, who lost his seat to Cameron
last April, and recovered it last month, is to
be the Liberal nominee for the Chairman-
ship of Committees. Both the new Speaker
and the new Chairman are liable to call
“Horder” on the slightest provocation; and
both will up’old the dignity of the ’Ouse
with heloquent, not to say ’orrid, persist-
ence.
STILL ON THE WALLABY!
The party was the same “going- concern” as it was
when Mr. Wade left three months ago on his health
trip abroad. — Wood, M.L.A. (N.S.W.).
THE HOMELESS ONE (bitterly): “Oh, yuss!
I'm alius goin', but it seems a bloomin'
long time GETTIN' anywhere!”
Last Monday, either by premeditation or
coincidence, the Sydney Telegraph and
Herald both broke out in defence of the
N.S.W. Government’s loan madness. The
Telegraph opined that even the borrowing
of £9,000,000 per annum wasn’t necessarily ex-
cessive, and considered that the chief danger
was that the Government might not borrow
fast enough, so that one loan might be ex-
hausted before the next one was raised. The
Herald was more cautious; still it held that
if N.S.W. hadn’t borrowed “we might still
have to be content with a railway as far as
Parramatta, or thereabout.”
This pathetic faith in the theory
that no country—not even one
that has dug out £600.000,000
worth of gold, can have any
money save what it bor-
rows from another, sets one
wondering what country Eng-
land borrowed from when it
'started building railways. Per-
sia perhaps, or Greece, or
Morocco. As a matter of fact
the Parramatta railway is an
unlucky illustration. New
South Wales paid off its earli-
est loans out of revenue. That
was before the great financial
madness struck the country.
And the amount it paid off out
of revenue was rather more
than sufficient to cover the cost
of the original Sydney-Parra-
matta railway. Just at the be-
ginning of things the Ma State
demonstrated that the building
of railways out of revenue was
possible. Then depressing asses of the Tele-
graph and Herald variety got hold of its
unsophisticated and bowl-like ear, and poured
evil counsel thereinto, and the awful results
are visible to this day.
Now it is the Attunga (N.S.W.) branch
of the Farmers and Settlers’ Association
which has mistaken the ravening Socialistic
tiger for an affectionate milch cow. At its
last meeting it decided that the time was
ripe for the State to “grant concessions on
the railways and provide tent accommoda-
tion for country dwellers who want a change
at the seaside.” The Farmers and Settlers’
Ass. is pledged now to oppose the Socialistic
Labor party; all the same, there is hardly
a branch that can open its mouth without
asking for another helping of the curse.
THE SHIRKER'S POINT OF VIEW.
....Members of Parliament are servants —servants
of their constituents, and, in a larger sense, servants
of their country.- D. Telegraph, pompously.
The newly-manufactured Laborite is securely tied
up, branded with the union label, and installed in
Parliament, where the zealous eye of the boss watches
him, always prying for any eccentric movement which
may suggest the necessity for overhaul, replacement,
etc., etc. —Same paper, scornfully.
THE UUNRELIABLE AND UNEMPLOYABLE ONE:
“Bah! You poor miserable slave! I'd
sooner be without a job than work under
orders like you! ”
“Rule Nisi” : Having assisted
to howl down the six-hours’-
graft-a-day proposal of the La-
boring Bloke in New South
Wales, I now desire to draw the
mob’s attention to the coves at
the State’s Law Bench. A
study of the position shows that
the Courts are shut up for a
third of the year, but not be-
cause they are not busy. Last
term didn’t finish the list, and
litigants, being already aware
that Easter will be around be-
fore the Courts get nearly
through the work in hand, are
howling for extra Judges. It
may be true that Judges require
longer spells than most men.
but it is nonsense to say that
they must have four months
holiday per annum. Nobody re-
quires four months’ holiday per
annum in fair conditions, and if the eminent
Horsetails that decorate the Bench are not
being fairly treated, it’s time they mentioned
the matter.
RIPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The- time is not yet ripe. —Any Liberal publica-
tion, any issue.
I sat up late some halting stanzas making;
The night wind came in little; fretful puffs;
Loose flooring boards, from ghostly footsteps quaking,
With stealthy creaks excused thfe housedog’s
“wuffs.”
The lamp burned low. . A bough with peaches laden
Rubbed on the woodshed roof when swayed the
tree;
It sighed, and squeaked, and rustled like the maiden
, Who falls unto the villain in Act Three,,
I thought: “The fruit is ripe enough for picking.
Was it this evening I saw boys run,
And wait, far up the street, their pink chops lick-
ing ?”
BANG! RUMBLE! BANG It sounded like a
gun!
Two heavy thuds upon the garden grasses ; . .
Then silence as before. With martial frown,
I settled on my nose my foggy glasses,
And mumbled to the larhp, "Two peaches down ! ”
My flagging nib, like some Pole-finder tracking
Across the paper’s blank and snowy waste,
AVent on its way, to little purpose blacking
A wav’ring line to Nothing in fierce haste. .. .
The Fist of Doom upon the woodshed thumping
Jerked up again my leaden, nodding head.
I heard more windfalls on the back lawn bumping.
“Yes, yes!” I sighed, “the time is ripe for bed.”
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


ħ
d/Pe Present <r tdhture
running ofjgjur car
depends on o@)cf lubrication.
Your Grease Cups, Axie Arms,
Gears, and Differential require the same care
as your Cylinders in choice of lubricants.
Mobilubricant
A pure compound grease of the highest qualily;possib!e
to manufacture for the gear box, differ-
ential, or axle arm lubrication Sold in 5
or 1 01 b. sealed square cans, 9d. per lb.,
or in 251 b sealed cans, B|d per lb. 5
and 101 b, tins can be had in cases of
6 tins- Refuse package if the seal is
broken
| v»~
ffi36*dX2av,
Mobilubricant ts of the same high quality as
Gargoyle Mobiloils.
h
i IfjJour dealer iuon't atoch itfortiou f
] |order direct Vacuum Oil : Qo. (Pw.Xt'dl l
BOORS FOR
Sanitary Inspectors.
increase your earning power by studying the best
available text books on these subjects. Call and see
them before you buy.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPOT,
476 George Street, Sydney
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS).
SUIT FOR
Complete
Suit-Satisfaction at a
Savina of 20 — _— =
That is the sum total of this offer You
"ive nothing away for the saving in
hird cash effected by the offer—there is
nr falling off in quality to accord with the
r:duction in price.—Everyone of the 500
“ 70 /- for 50 /-” materials at your dis-
posal is quite equal to any 70/- Suiting
you have ever seen-Each “70/- tor
50 /-” Garment is right up to our. usual
impeccable " Perfection at the Price 7 j-
Standard, and covering the whole trans-
action is our now-famous Client-Protecting
guarantee —•
We Refund Money if
We Fail to Satisfy
But if you are dubious as to our bemf?
able to give such good value, you can Test
and Try before you buy
Write for Patterns
NOW —Remember there is only one way
in which to be disappointed, and that is
by being too late for the
Offer Holds for Three
Weeks Only
cs
kIRv
564
Lincoln, Stuart
& C«? Pry. Ltd.
FLINDERS 5T MELBOURNE
<4>
c
M
*
Held in
a Girl’s
Hand!
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
EVERYTHING NECESSARY, EXCEPTING ONLY THE SCREEN, IS
IN THE MACHINE AS THE GIRL IS HOLDING IT.
Pathe’s Home Cinematograph
Makes its own light. Fig. 16 is a small magneto. As the handle that projects
the picture is turned, sufficient light is produced in the magneto to throw a
moving picture of startling distinctness on the screen. Anyone, in any place,
town or Country, can have Moving Pictures in the Home without the use of
gas, electric light, or oil. No outside light is necessary. You cannot get this
advantage in any other cinematograph.
The Films will not burn.
Pathe Films are non-inflammable. There is absolutely no danger. In Victoria
the Fire Underwriters’ Association charge no extra premium if a Paths Home
Cinematograph is in the home. You cannot get this advantage in any other
cinematograph.
Large choice of Films in Pathe’s Circulating Library
not obtainable for any other cinematograph.
These are three advantages. Write for Booklet telling you more about this delightful
Home Entertainer. Send the Coupon to us or any of our agents.
PATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Building's,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
C. W. FRASER & CO., 139 York Street,
Sydney ; BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street,
Brisbane; S. SPURLING & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street. Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO, 672 Hay Street, Perth;
HARRINGTON (N.Z.) LTD., Willis Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
Please send me particulars of Pathe's
Home Cinematograph.
Name
A ddress „
27.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Do you travel much? Any headaches? Slip a
box of Stearns’ Headache Cure in your pocket or
travelling bag. Simple, easy to take, but effective.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ANDREW MEIN (Guildford, Vic.).—
Estate business, your advantage, re-
quires attention. Write GERALD NL*
MAN, Solicitor, 66 Elizabeth Street, Mel-
bourne. -
[ARY WARD.—lnformation is required as to the
- 1 whereabouts of MARY WARD, wife of vv
LIAM WARD, formerly of Redfern, Sydney, >
Engineer, or her husband or children, who will *
something to their advantage by applying to
Solicitor of The Public Trust Office, Wellington,
Zealand.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
When Truffier went into the ring at Syd-
ney Stadium last week against Jimmy Hill, it was
the palpable intention of the Frenchman to knock
the Australian’s head off. All evidence furnished by
the set of his jaw and the wind-mill swinging of his
arms went to show that he was still in the same mind
at the close of round 20. But Hill had use for his
head, and what was much more important, made
much use of it, in avoiding the bull rushes of his
opponent. Again and again the Frenchman, who
looked much the bigger, though there was nothing
to choose between the men in actual weight, seemed
as if he must score a knock-out, but Hill was as slip-
pery as a piece of fugitive memory pursued by the
duns of remorse, and ducked, dodged, glanced,
skipped, side-stepped, did the orange-peel and
banana-skin act, and hung on in a fashion which
rendered every effort of the man who carried the
punch null and., void. In the intervals between his
fortunate escapes from sudden destruction he was
peppering Truffier’s countenance with light, little
pussy-taps which could not seriously hurt the French-
man, but piled up points against him, and bathed
him in gore. At last the final round arrived, and
referee Arthur Scott pointed to the Australian as
the winner, amid tumultuous cheering. It was an
interesting battle between a born fighter and a clever
and tricky boxer, who does not carry a punch, and
the boxer kept his end up with plenty of pluck and
determination. Once when the referee wasn’t look-
ing br something, Hill appeared to , hit the French-
man'rather low, but no foul was claimed, and prob-
ably the tap didn’t amount to a smite within the
meaning of the Act.
* * * *
The battle at Sydney Stadium between
Jean Poesy and Herb. McCoy had enough thrill
about it to satisfy any patron who is contented
with plain bash without the gore which
so often paints a well-fought contest. For 10
rounds McCoy had all the best of the struggle, and
Poesy took any amount of mild disaster about his
countenance. On the appearance of things the Vic-
torian was outboxing and outfighting his opponent,
and a section of the crowd began to look for an
unsatisfactory finish. It seemed odds on that the
Frenchman would lie down somewhere or develop a
broken hand or something, and once or twice he
seemed pretty groggy and tired. Still, the crowd
has a deep and abiding love for Poesy, and he had
plenty of supporters who still thought he might pull
through. He did. In the middle of the eleventh
round he gave them all that they were looking for,
and, incidentally, supplied McCoy with as much as
he required, and enough over to put him to sleep.
The Victorian dropped his guard, and the half-
beaten man opposed to him saw his opportunity, and,
suddenly waking up, waded in with a supply of soul-
stirring wallops which set the crowd yelling like the
hosts of Tophet when they had suddenly been rein-
forced with the flower of Attila’s army. McCoy hit
back with all the cordiality he could muster, but his
blows lacked the tremendous force of those of his
rival, and a right to the jaw sent him down and
relieved him of the necessity of further strenuous
effort. It was a good go while it lasted, and if the
whole 11 rounds had been like the last, the Stadium
roof might have required strengthening. Poesy’s
punch is a thing of great virtue, and such articles ap-
pear at the present moment to have a higher market
value in Australia than anything else we manufacture
or import. They even beat all the products of our
boundless natural resources.
The boxing business in Adelaide is down,
taking nine seconds at the very least. One leading
promoter has dropped it; one or two alleged fighters
have disappointed the public; and the newspapers,
desiring to do full justice to some very ordinary bouts
at the Exhibition, put in such realistic touches about
eves and teeth and gore, that the infernally strong
Wowsing element in Adelaide has persuaded the Gov-
ernment not to let that hall for the purpose any
more.
* * * *
As a race, the struggle on the Parramatta
River for the Australian Sculling Championship, be-
tween Jim Paddon (challenger) and Alf Felton
(holder) wasn’t great, but the title has been apt to
go cheaply these latter days. For a mile and a half
the race was a break-neck affair, and after that
Paddon pulled away and won with plenty to spare.
He had 200yds. lead at Cabarita, and increased it
to 400 at the finish, but he could have improved his
time (21min. 12sec.) if there had been any point
in doing so. The crowd was not too sportsmanlike
when Felton began to fall back, and dropped his
head on his chest. “Get on Felton, yer wet,” they
yelled to the well-licked favorite, who was bravely
struggling behind the giant, but Felton was done
and there was no hope of bustling him.
BIFF!
Australia shows the Southern Cross to France.
After a twenty-round argument Truffier
(France) is convinced of their beauty by Hill
(Australia).
James Paddon, the new Australian scul-
ling champion, is one of a family of burly watermen
from Evan’s Head, between Richmond and Clarence
Rivers (N.S.W.). In heavy boats, Paddon was well-
nigh unbeatable—winning nine races in nine efforts ;
and in the outrigger he gives the impression of being
the hardest nut to crack on the sculling horizon.
(This is a feat which can only be accomplished with
two sculls hinged scissors-fashion on a person with
a reach of arm like a comet’s tail, and the strength
of a good young bull elephant.) Paddon sculled
cleanly and evenly in his big race with Felton,
except about the mile post, where he had to exert his
enormous strength and splashed a bit. How the frail
craft contrives to carry his weight of brawn and
grit is a mystery which science must be left to ex-
plain at leisure; but the new champion, with plenty
of time before him —he is only 26 —may balance his
6ft. 4Rn. to some purpose on the sliding-seat before
he meets his Waterloo.
* * * *
“Ru”: Sculling matters are moving.
Pearce has got away after the world’s championship,
and the very last remark he made as he left was
something about leaving no stone unturned. As long
as he stirs the mud of the Thames up to some pur-
pose all will be well. Meantime Dick Arnst is anxi-
ous to get busy again, and the moment Paddon was
acclaimed as Australian champion he slapped a de-
posit into the hands of veteran Beach, and called
on the giant to defend his new-won title. There is
now a prospect of something like a real revival of
the sport, for there are four men in the game—
Barry, Pearce, Paddon and Arnst —whose wrestlings
upon the waters might call forth the enthusiasm of
the whole earth. Any one of the four might be
champion of the planet, and to lick any one of the
four any other of the four must row the race of his
life.
* * * *
“Clam”: The Trumper match settled the
claims as to who is the most promising colt of the
season. Young Jack Ryder, of Victoria, wins out as
the article. Moyes, of S.A., is perhaps a better bat,
and Massie, N.S.W., a more dangerous bowler, but
all round Ryder’s superiority is undoubted. In cold
fact his batting figures are better than Moyes’, and
his bowling better than Massie’s. Victoria badly
wants a first-class recruit, especially in the face of
the temporary eclipse of Ransford, and Ryder seems
Pkely to fill the bill. He is a batsman of the forcing
tvpe, and a fastish bowler, especially dangerous on
fiery wickets.
* * » *
Queensland’s first innings in the inter-
state match at Sydney Cricket Ground was mostly
Thompson and Thomson. Out of a total of 276 runs,
of which 27 were credited to sundries, C. Thompson
made exactly a century, and J. Thomson supplied 62.
Massie’s bowling (6 for 73) was moderately deadly
against the Northerners, and six out of the eleven
failed to reach double figures. N.S.W. responded with
483. Macartney went in when threp wicketo were
down for 123, and in his first hour’s batting had
knocked up only 25 runs. After lunch he began hitting
in great style all round the wicket, and parried his
score to 154, when Bolton stumped him off "Rowe’s
bowling. The innings was fautless except for two
very difficult chances. Tozer’s 78, n. 0., was the only
other performance of magnitude put up by N.S.W.
Queensland’s second innings was a sorry affair, though
again Thomson (the one without the p) shaped well
for a few brief minutes. The last wicket fell for 115
and the home team were left victors by an innings
and 92 runs. Massie captured four wickets for 33,
and Scott three for 47.
Charles G. Macartney, the big, little man
who plays the deuce with all sorts of bowling, on all
sorts of wickets, is easily the top-notch Australian
batsman of the season. He has belted the ball to
this effect: 125 and 96 v. S. Aus. ; 94 and 74* v.
Vic.; 91 and 10 in the Trumper benefit, and 154 v.
Queensland—a total of 644 runs for six completed
innings, which yields an average of 107.33. In
many of the matches Macartney almost threw his
wicket away in his ardent desire to smash, burst or
otherwise destroy the pickets of the Sydney Cricket
Ground; and it is probable that his very tall average
might have been still more elongated had the ques-
tion of averages been uppermost in his cricket soul.
* * * *
In Sydney grade cricket last Saturday
there was some respectable scoring. T. H. Foster,
E. P. Barbour and H. Cranney all reached three
figures and over, while J. A. Randell (eight for 48)
and J. F. Bowden (seven for 50) made the best
showing with the ball. Middle Harbor put up 141,
to which Glebe responded with 131. Uni. reached
288 against Sydney, and the representatives of the
place where the landlord is glad had only time to
knock together 119 for a pair of wickets. Balmain
failed miserably for 87, and Central Cumberland, in
reply, compiled 231 for four wickets. Seven Red-
fern batsmen accounted for 290 runs off the Pad-
dington bowling. Against Gordon’s 134 Burwood
made 123, and the men from Wade’s constituency had
two wickets down in their second innings, at the
close of the day, for 48. Waverley responded with a
poor 120 for nine wickets to Petersham’s 264. North
Sydney still leads in the competition, but Uni. and
Redfern have a sporting chance of pulling off the
premiership. On Saturday the seat of learning was
short of some of its best men, who were playing in
the inter-State fixture.
* * * *
A couple of cricket performances worth a
corner among local records happened last week in
N.S.W. At Bathurst batsman Edwards smote 100
(retired) out of 126 —which left little limelight for
the balance of the team. The other effort was that
of a lad named Harris, who caught seven batsmen
out of the 10 in an innings.
* * * *
The ninth round of Vic. Pennant Cricket
commenced on Saturday, and the —er—monsoonal
disturbance of the previous night mostly spelt vic-
tory for the man who won the toss. In every match
the lucky coin-spinner put his opponents in, but
several of these got out in time to put the others in
and out also, on the sodden wickets, so their hopes
depend on next Saturday’s weather, and that lies on
the knees of the gods as yet. The chiefest encounter
was between the leaders in the competition, ’Roy
and ’Varsity, and the former, being sent in, acquired
the distinctly moderate total of 99. Then the
Students started. The wicket had grown worse, and
with seven down for the awful total of 29, ’Varsity
declared, in the hope of breaking the back of the
’Roy batting, while the game was still all in favor
of the bowlers, and having their own second turn
on better ground next Saturday. Little success
attended the strategy, for ’Roy contrived to scrape
51 for the loss of three wickets, and on present ap-
pearances ought to make good. The third-place
team, ’Wood, rushed North through the mill for 84,
but found the conditions a little better when it took
the bat itself and contrived to gather 108 for six
sets of timber. Northcote polished off Richmond
for the painful total of 43, and, with four wickets
down for 128, made fairly sure of its first victory
this season. Essendon managed to put together a
moderate 125 before its bowlers began skittling
’Pran, and then they couldn’t do as much as they
hoped, their opponents making 98 for five wickets.
’Don hasn’t won a game this season, but ’Pran has
only won one, so there is little satisfaction to either
whichever comes out on top. East, against South,
made a genteel 142, but as inter-Stater Baring
scored 93, not out, his 10 mates did little to brag
about. Of course, the bowlers got all the limelight
or laurels —Plant, of ’Cote, five for 31, and Lugton,
four for 11 ; Hartkopf, four for 30; Cannon, three
for six; Rogers, of ’Pran, six for 50 ; Pitcher, of
’Wood, four for 31, and Scott, of South, four for
28, being in the forefront. It was a day to test
a batsman, and Baring, aforesaid, withstood the acid
like pure metal.
Ward Prentice, who kept wickets for
N.S.W. in its struggle with Queensland last week, is
a good, all-round sport. He captained the Rugby
Union band which roamed through America last
year, and was also part of the tail of the Wallaby
team which fell heavily on the brisket of J. Bull a
couple of years ago. R. J. Massie (N.S.W.) S.
J. Fennelly (Q.) have also won their rep. caps in
the game of the hoof as well as in cricket.
Over £l7OO was taken at the gates and
on the ground during the Trumper benefit match at
Sydney. Probably the gross amount of the fund will
reach £3OOO.
* * * *
A case which has been. interesting the
“sports” has at last moved on a stage. A Sydney
bookmaker had an agent in the Randwick Tramway
Sheds, who, according to the evidence, accepted a
bet from three employees there on the double, Epsom
and Metropolitan, run at last Spring meeting of the
A.J.C. The double came off, and, in due time,
Noses was presented with the ticket and asked to
cough up £250. He did not seem overcome with
satisfaction, and, at the time, kept the ticket as
well as the boodle. Next day he handed back the
(or a) ticket to the bettors, who remonstrated that
it was a “ring-in.” Noses replied that it was, but
that the “ring-in” was their funeral. The upshot of
the argument was the arrest of the three punters on
a charge of conspiracy. ' Now a Quarter Session jury
has returned a verdict of not guilty, on the ground
of inconclusive evidence. Part of the £250 will go
to pay the costs of the defence —provided, of course,
the bookie decides to part with it.
* * * *
Racing at Caulfield last Saturday indi-
cated that the gees from N.S.W. are likely to make'
small potatoes of Victoria’s best at the V.R.C. Autumn,
although some of Vic.’s best were certainly not out
for glory on this occasion. For instance, The
Parisian, Ireland and Flavian ran unbacked for the
St. George Stakes, wherein Cider emphasised the bad
luck of his V.R.C. Derby defeat by beating Wolowa
at even weights, the distance (nine furlongs) being
all in favor of the latter. In the Bond Cup (if
furlongs) Bari os and Didus were too good for the
local opposition, which included Wallalo, Uxbridge
and Golden Point. Sprinters trained at Caulfield and
Flemington did no better in competition with visit-
ing horses. Burri took the Oakleigh Plate a bare length
ahead of Mala and Borrosov, who dead-heated for
second nlace. Burri mav be counted out of the New-
market Handicap, so Mala, on the Oakleigh showing,
has a chance to repeat his victory of three years ago,
but Borrosov will meet him on lib. better terms
anyhow. And there are others from the Sydney side. If
Popinjay is as ripe as his stable companions Cider
and Barios, he will have a great go for the six-furlong
flutter up the Flemington straight on March 1.
* * * *
The Futurity Stakes next Saturday should
prove a true trial gallop for some of the Newmarket
fancies, as it was last year. Popinjay, though
penalised, is not out of the hunt, but if Eudorus be
in his Spring form, or better, he will carry the
' opes of all who know what a flier he is when the
spirit moves him.
* * * *
It doesn’t appear at all likely that aged
horses will make history or cash or anything re-
markable in the coming Doncaster and Sydney Cup
events at Randwick. Of 110 prads in the Doncaster,
only half a dozen are over six years, while of 88 in
the Cup only four have acquired an equal amount of
antiquity. Evidently the old horses are considered
in their proper place on the macadamised highway,
or the sandy ruts that the shire council doesn’t
member to fill in, while the young ’uns have a more"
and more complete monopoly of the green sward and
the company of Moses.
Australia has promptly sent along a chal
lenge to England’s mighty tennis players to stand mi
and defend their right to the Davis Cup which thev
have just won. The battle is to be fought some
where about the end of the Fogland summer. Cham
pion Norman Brookes cannot go, but the Maorilander
A. F. Wilding, who fought side by side with Brookes
in the early struggles for the Davis utensil, is Dre
pared to lend a hand if needed. The choice of the
Australasian team is likely to give the selection
committee a deal of worry and anxiety.
* * * #
Adelaide tennis season, closing early
showed the tightest finish on record. Parkside (Roy
Taylor, Reid, Geoff Thomas and Homburg) had been
unbeaten till the last day ; Hyde Park (R. V. Thomas
Whitelaw, Mitton and Ponder) had lost to them only’
Then the two met for the return match. It was
three rubbers all, so sets had to be reckoned, and
Hyde Park had nine to eight. So the match counted
as its property, and the two clubs tied on the season
Then the whole season’s play had to be raked over
and Hyde Park proved to have won 45 rubbers to the
other’s 44. The win is popular, Parkside or Glen
Osmond (bad 3rd this time) having held the pre-
miership for years past.
* * * *
A light, unsteady breeze shook itself
through the atmosphere, or shook the atmosphere or
something over that part of the Pacific Ocean nearest
Sydney, when eight yachts strove in last Saturday’s
ocean race for the Basin Cup. Rawhiti pulled off
the event, with Culwulla 111. second and Thelma
third. Sayonara carried away her bowsprit and had
to drop out of the race, or the finishing order might
have been more keenly contested. As it was, allow-
ing for the handicap which the winner had to con-
cede to the second craft, the victory was only by
3min. 12sec., with 17min. 39sec. separating second
and third.
If Oscar Dickman, the one-time profes-
sional State swimming champion and holder of
the world’s pro. record (24min. 34 4-ssec.) is
a sport, and as such will take a little use-
ful advice, he will lay hold of the man who
manipulated the megaphone in Saturday’s League
Swimming Carnival at Sydney, and tread very
heavily on his ear. Dickman set out in the mile
race to lower his own figures. At 220yds., he was
3sec. inside his time, and evidently in good health.
At 1320yds. he dropped level with his time, and the
megaphone reminded the crowd that Dickman had in-
fluenza. When he got behind his time, the influenza
became serious (so said the megaphone), and when
he got home 30 sec. to the bad, the megaphone
poured forth excuses, either on behalf of Dickman or
on his own responsibility. For the sake of Dickman
let’s hope it wasn’t on his behalf. Anyway, he won
the championship with about 150yds. to spare.
Misses Tate and .Hooper dead-heated for the 50vds.
ladies’ championship, and Miss Tate got a question-
able decision over Miss Meads for the diving. C.
Scott, of R. and C., didn’t leave the blokes diving
in doubt. The 500yds. teams’ championship, after
much excitement and admonition to “Siddown in
front,” went to Balmain. Last year’s winner, Waver-
ley, was second.
* * * *
Longwortli continued his gathering of
Australian swimming championships at Hobart last
week. In the middle of the week he tore from his
rivals the 220yds., and on Saturday he left them all
behind in the mile. He has succeeded in hanging on
to every “free style” championship of N.S.W. and
Australia which lie collected last year.
At Ipswich (Q.) Frank Springfield burst
the previous Australian three-mile swimming record
by covering the distance in 70inin. 40sec. Although
he went through the water faster than anybody here-
about had ever gone before, his performance was not
great enough to win the race. Which presents a
problem that handicappers might lie awake and think
about.
* * * *
T. E. G. Smith, secretary of the newly-
formed Glenbrook and Nepean District Swimming
Club, has been interesting himself in a project which
may bear fruit or grow up to be famous or some-
thing. The Olympic swimming tests are to take
place in fresh water, and when the world’s cham-
pions gather in Australia the Nepean River will
offer, within reasonable distance of Sydney’s con-
gestion, a quantity of liquid of the desired sort, or
near enough to the desired sort to pass for the
genuine article. Long-distance swimming is a fairer
thing if conducted in open water where little or no
turning is necessary, and it is argued that three-mile
races and big breast-stroke struggles would be higher-
class events if decided in the broad, long, and some-
what fresh waters of the Nepean. There may be
something in the idea, and it is at any rate worth
consideration by those who have charge of arrange-
ments, and want the swimming branch of sport to
develop the best that is in it.
* * * *
In order to conduct with perfect success
that appalling waste of human energy, known as a
six days’ cycle race, it is considered absolutely neces-
sary that the thing should be run on a small lap
track under a roof. Bikarena, Limited, is out after
some such innovation for Sydney, and Alf O’Brien, who
directs the concern, has been holding earnest conver-
sations with Rosseau about the shape the track and
building should take. The idea is to put a swim-
ming bath and skating rink in the centre, and
arrange the snectators in three tiers all round. Then,
if the weather is cool, those who are dead sick of
watching the everlasting procession of wheels, can
do a little skating, and if the evenings are uncom-
fortably warm they can get into the water and keep
down their rising temperature while they occasion-
ally cast an eye in the direction of the riders.
* * * *
In view of the six-days’ cycle race to be
held in Melbourne next month, on the Exhibition
track, it is interesting to note how the mileage was
eaten up at the recent event of the same brand in
New York. Rutt and Fogler (the German-American
team) won with a total of 2661 miles. At the end
of the first 24 hours, 532 miles had been left behind;
at 48 hours, 998 miles; at 72 hours, 1445 miles; at
96 hours, 1874 miles; and at 120 hours, 2299 miles.
And through all this appalling whirling, maddening,
perspiring ride, J. Clark, the Australian rider, pushed
his wheel into third place, only a length behind the
winners. Other Australians at the finish were Hehir,
fourth, and Grenda, fifth.
* * * *
Paul Didier, a French racing cyclist, has
succeeded in flying a distance of 10ft. on a bicycle
fitted with planes, rising more than Bin. from the
ground. Didier got £BO for the stupendous per-
formance, which, after all, was rather a hoD than a
flight. Seeing that the record long jump is ° v "
24ft., it is pretty certain that Didier could have
flown much higher and about twice as far, if he haa
left the cycle out of the proposition. All the same,
if bikes can be taught to jump, a few steeplechases
might add much-needed zest to cycling sports.
* ♦ * *
Figures of the football tour in
Britain: Won, 24; lost, 3 (Newport, Swansea ana
London). Points scored, 403; opponents
96. The team beat England nine to three: Ms*”;
three to nil; Scotland, 16 to nil; Ireland, 38 to n
—altogether an amazingly fine performance.
In that tremendous branch of sport
known as throwing the hammer, the Australasia
record has been smashed at Wellington
Mclliilm caused the implement to hurtle through t
air to the vast distance of 143 ft. Bin.
THE FALLEN GLADIATOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where salt sea wavelets kist
Australia’s sandy toes,
I met a pugilist
With plaster on his nose,
A man of selid fist
Whose eye wa3 like a rose.
The day was bright and clear,
The air with pleasant sound
Blew sand into my ear,
And whirled my whiskers round;
And people far and near
Sat on the cheerful ground.
The person with the eye,
Whose nose had known repair,
Heaved a tremendous sigh
And swallowed quarts of air.
He said: “I cannot lie,
He licked me fair and square.
“Within the hempen ring
He showed his hairy might.
The people came to fling
Roses at me that night,
To hear my straight left sing
A lay for their delight.
“Sweet is the young lark’s song,
And sweet the sounding sea,
Young Clara’s voice is strong—-
But what are these to me ?
The punch that wrought me wrong
Held richer melody.
“He got all over me
With wallops hot and sweet,
He gave me stars to see
And slabs of dirt to eat,
And very frequently
He bashed me off my feet.
“Alas, for mortal hopes!
Alas, for fistic pride,
When one large punch elopes
That erst was deified ! ——
He chased me round the ropea
And scarified my hide.
“I went to sleep at last,
Such sleep as valor knows,
Amid the red gore cast
From a dismantled nose;
The count of ten was past
The war was at a close.
“And now beside the sea
I wander all the day,
And feel the loud winds free
Blowing the sand away,
And oft on bended knee
To various gods I pray.
“With frequent words and vain
I ask them to restore
That gift of tempered grain
Which nerved my arm before,
That I may find again
The splendid punch I wore.”
The day was bright and clear,
The air with pleasant sound
Blew sand into my ear
And whirled my whiskers round,
And at my feet a tear
Splashed on the heedless ground.
The person with the eye,
Whose nose had known repair,
Heaved a tremendous sigh
And swallowed quarts of air.
He said: “I cannot lie,
He licked me fair and square.”
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


MARSHALL Shoes
are natty stylish models, that make
foot prettier, and add greatly to the
ance of the less dainty foot.
a pretty
appear-
Every pair is named “MARSHALL” by the
makers to YOU it means satisfaction to
the last degree—LOOK FOR IT.
In FULL and HALF SIZES.
+ * ■
W
a®*:
>
r
Women’s Patent Colt Court Shoes,
dull or grey kid collars, bow or
ornaments, welted or pump soles
“Kismet” toe
PRICES
range from
15/6.« 21/
h
MARSHALL SHOE CO. Ltd, Richmond, Vic.
ĥ
ħ
BOOK the first week in June for a stay
in Brisbane. The climate just then
is delicious —soft, genial days,
cool, clear, perfumed nights, the palm and
banana clad hillsides a blaze of rich, sub-
tropical greenery.
The Brisbane Cup is the Melbourne Cup
of the North —and so delightfully different!
No other carnival in all Australia like it.
The whole city en fete for the week !
Arrange for the trip, and write for full
particulars to c dysoN-HOLLAND,
See. Q.T.C.,
Creek Street,
BRISBANE.
■ v :
DinnefordS]
.Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford&Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
V
Don’t handicap yourself any longer. Grow a moustache, and look
a man that can shoulder responsibility.
CAPILLARINE
will grow a fine, full moustache, quicker than you expect. Has
a reputation of 30 years’ success to back it up.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, S/6 each, Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Craig & AitKen,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
EXERCISE MAKES the HEALTHY
HEALTHIER
Because il; is the natural stimulant for replacing the waste tissue
of the human system.
Every effort you make causes the destruction of a greater or
less quantity of tissue, in proportion to the exertion involved
this process is going on every minute of the day, and unless
■^°' 1 ., e f e , rcise judiciously, the accumulation of waste tissue will
debilitate your system.
By performing a few simple, yet scientific, exercises such as
those comprising the Baker Course of Health Exercises, you
immediately expel the destroyed or worn-out tissue, and con-
struct new tissue to take its place.
The benefits to be gained are illustrated by the results others
are receiving :
“I feel much stronger and better in every way
since / started your Course. I thank you most sincerely
for bringing me better health. I will always recommend
your postal course to my friends — H.L.S., Warwick, Q.
Very full information respecting my methods, fees, etc., is
given in an interesting 18-page folder. Write for a copy.
Kindly send three penny stamps to cover postage.
vr
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Bftker
153 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney
00 (double‘o')
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODCE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 6/6
each.
Cane and Rubber Spliced Handles
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Viotor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WICKETS—Brass Tops and Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/3, 8/6, 10/6, 1?/6 per set.
Leg: Cuards. Wicket-keeping Caunt-
lets. Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
h
Murphy’s Pile Pills
Cure Piles 1
They are beyond all question a boon to suffering mankind, giving almost instant relief
and assuring a speedy, lasting cure in practically every case of Piles, no matter how
long-standing or severe, and whether internal or external.
They expel impurities from the system, banish the distressing itching and congestion, heal
the ulcers, giving renewed health to the affected tissues, and help the other organs of the
body to health. They are purely herbal, non-aperient, and perfectly harmless.
Chemists and storekeepers in all parts of the Commonwealth sell Murphy’s Pile Pills at
31- per box. If not obtainable locally, post your order to the Sole Proprietors: ANDREW
MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bcu.ktin size
Price. 21s.
You Have the Satisfaction
When you buy Rigney Shoes you have the pleasing
satisfaction of wearing shoes made for men of taste
and culture, shoes that are smart in style, distinc-
tive in appearance, comfortable, and decidedly well-
finished.
The Boot illustrated is a very fine patent walking
or dress boot—the latest style-
PRICE—
-27/6 and 36/-
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Send for a Copy of
Our Catalogue, FREE.
I
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
-THE MEN'S EXCLUSIVE HIdH.aRADE SHOE STORES,”
305 GEORGE STREET, AND 179 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


NEW EDISON RECORDS
ARE NOW ON SALE.
The Barcarole, from “The Tales of Hoffman,” is one of the New Edison Amberol
Concert Records for March. It is splendidly rendered by Marie Rappold and
Thomas Chalmers, both artists of international repute, and will be much sought
after by lovers of high-class music.
Another Record of exceptional merit is the Amberol selection, “A Night in
Venice,” by Elizabeth Spencer and'Charles W. Harrison; also, the I ather Rhine
March” —“Miss Loreley,” by the Edison Concert Band. Harry Lauder con-
tributes a highly amusing item, “Just a Wee Heoch and Doris.
There are twenty-five other Edison numbers issued for March, comprising a varied
and well-selected range of vocal, instrumental and band numbers. Check off on
the list below the items you think you would prefer, and call on the nearest
Edison dealer, and have him play them over for you. If you do not know the
address of a dealer, write direct to us, and we will tell you, and also send latest
lists of Phonographs and Records.
Amberol Concert Records for March.
(FOUR-MINUTE.)
. Christine Miller
28020 —Annie Laurie rwirs Haekett
28024—Barcarole—“The Tales of Hoffman” Mane Rappold and Thomas Chalmers
(Owing to shipments of the above Concert Records not arriving, they will not be available for
about a fortnight.)
Amberol Records for March.
(FOUR-MINUTE.)
817—Alexanders’ Ragtime Band. .Billy Murray
893 —That Mysterious Rag. .Premier Quartette
1079 A Night in Venice
Spencer and Harrison
1080 — Movin’ Man Don’t Take My Baby
Grand Murray and Chorus
1081— Passing Review —Patrol
National Guard Fife and Drum Corps
1084 — Embarrassment
Mildred Graham Reardon
1085 — Romance from “L’Eclair”
Venetian Instrumental Trio
1086— Please Don’t Take My Lovin’ Man Away
Anna Chandler and Chorus
1087— Shall You? Shall I ?
Edison Mixed Quartette
1088 — Where the' Silvery Colorado Wends Its
Way Irving Gillette and Chorus
1089— Black Diamond Rag
New York Military Band
1096-
1097-
12338-
12469-
12470-
12471-
12472-
12473-
12474-
12475-
-Father Rhine March —“Miss Loreley”
Edison Concert Band
-Favorite Airs from “Robin Hood”
Edison Light Opera Co.
-Drink, Boys, Drink Stanley Kirby
-Just a Wee Deoch and Doris
Harry Lauder
-On the Prom Florrie Forde
-Will You No’ Come Back Again?
Archie Anderson
-II Bacio (Cornet Solo)
Sergeant C. Leggett
-All the Silver from the Silvery Moon
Billy Williams
-Oh, Sing to Me the Auld Scotch Songs
William Davidson
—Angostura, the Belle of Boulter’s Lock
Billy Whitlock
Standard Records for March.
(TWO-MINUTE.)
10667 —Oh. Mr. Dream Man
10568 —Hear the Pickaninny Band
10569 —The Roses, the Robins and Yoli
14155 —Bom, Bom, Bom-bay
Ada Jones
Walter Van Brunt and Chorus
. . .Hinderm.ver and phalmers
Florrie Forde
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD,
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364 372 Kent Street, Sydney.
- j*!
'
w•: t
•• . *
m
A cool
shave with
stropped
blade.
You don't throw Auto Strop
blades away —
you strop them —and they last.
Simpler, too, than changing a blade —takes only
12 seconds to strop ; and the perfectly sharp
stropped blade gives a perfect shave —you can-
not strop it wrongly.
The effect of buying a self-stropping razor is to obtain shaving
satisfaction for a lifetime. .
The makers of the Auto Strop rely on your recommendations.
The effect of buying a no-stropping razor is to be kept as a
“ tied house ” for blade renewals. . .
The makers of such razors rely on the profits of their blade-
renewal business.
The Auto Strop is the only self-stropping razor. Enough said.
AulO'Sirop
kAzoR
. i
Read this Auditors ’ Certificate :
"We have examined the Books of the Auto Strop Safety Razor Compajj,
Limited, from the commencement of the Company s business to the
September, 1912, and certify that during the year ended that date the " u
of renewal blades sold was on the average less than six blades for every
sold during the period prior to the above-mentioned year.
Nov. 20th, 1912.
(Signed) BLAKEMORE & CO.,
6, Old Jewry, London, E.C.
Standard Set, comprising razor, strop, and 12 improved
rust-proof “Valet” blades, in handsome case (as illustrate ).
Price in Australia
Price in New Zealand
Sole Depot for Australasia :
22/6
257-
PARTRIDGE —ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
York CharjSera, Market Street, SyJnqy*
A recent statement of Hume Cook’s tliat
“while Protectionist United States imported!
goods at the rate of £3 6s. 9d. per head,.
Freetrade Britain imported at the rate o£
£l5 Os. 6d. per head,” moved one Freetrader
to exclaim hysterically in the Argus that
“the inference drawn was absolutely vicious,
and a lot more to similar effect. The obvious;
inference drawn was that America, desiring;
to see its citizens employed, kept as much!
work to be done in the country as it could,,
while Britain gave the foreigner at least 11-
worth per head of work that it might have
done itself. The inference that Freetrader
drew, however, was that it was intended to.
show that Britain is getting deeper into,
bankruptcy every year, wherefore he pro-
ceeds to quote Lord Avebury’s figures (from
his work on Freetrade), declaring that,
though, from ’95 to 1900 Britain imported
an average of £180,000,000 worth more than
it exported, yet it simultaneously earned an
average of £90,000,000 by its ships and an-
other £90,000,000 as interest on foreign and
colonial investments. That,, of course, im-
plies that the Cold Land is still solvent,_ but
it in no wav afiEects the fact that it might,
notwithstanding, have kept £l2 worth per
head of work for its own people instead of
giving it- to the foreigner. Which lesson
applies with still greater force to Australia,,
which hasn’t any foreign sea carrying trade
worth mentioning, and whose foreign invest-
ments wouldn’t buy a week’s refreshment for
the; present population of the Northern Ter-
ritory.
How these absentee landlords do howl! One
of the most vigorous kickers against the
absentee clauses of the Federal Land Tax is
Howard Spensley, whose father, an old-
time politician in Vic., had the good luck to
marry a Miss Staughton, of the squatto-
cracv, and got the Royal Arcade in Bourke-
street as a wedding present. The Arcade
yields a princely income, which has a ten-
dency to become kingly as leases fall in and
the incessant demand for rooms for small
tradesmen near the shopping centre of Mel-
bourne grows more insistent. Spenslet
condemns the wickedness of the r ederal
Land Tax all the while he is asking bigger
renfs. The absentee clauses of the tax
vielded only £62,757 during 3911, or a mere
fleabite of 44 p.c. of the whole tax. During
the same period the customs preference to
goods of British manufacture was worth
£1,070,823 to Howard Spensley and other
Britishers. Yet this petty sum of £6A<s<
is used by the ungrateful absentee as an
argument why people should not invest in
Australian dividend-paying stocks, and why
immigrants should avoid the country as
though it were a pest-house.
♦
A line from “Rosna” in London ;
The most fascinating thing at the Children s Wel-
fare Exhibition, at the Olvmpia, is a Magic City,
built bv E. Nesbit, England’s best and brainiest
writer for kiddies (and a near relative of[Adelaide s
KC Paris Nesbit, by the way). This Magic City
grew out of the exhibitors’ book called by the same
name, and has developed a certain dark educational
significance in the new craze for games to stimulate
the infant imagination and enterprise. It is built ol
all the things an average youngster can commandeer
| from an average home, from the kitchen pepper
caster to the drawing-room ornaments. Thus the
pillars of the Grecian Temple are made of a pennv
broomstick, painted white and cut in lengths- the
corner stone of the Elephant Temple is a Hf e 0 f
Johnson, and its marvellous carved gateway is J
old ivory fan. Brass and silver candlesticks make
gorgeous pillars, and an inverted spittoon and brass
bowl a round tower of great magnificence. The tomb
in the desert consists of a kitchen mortar, two pud
ding basins and an inverted egg-cup; while the
Silver Temple is built of kitchen tins. I don’t haD
pen to know whether every ma will give every pre
cious pet the run of her ivory fan, and I have an
idea that cook will give notice if she has to hunt
more than once for the pepper pot among the ruins
of a temple ; but the interest in the exhibition sue-
gests, anyway, that the modem precious pet j s
having a good time. She (or he) may not be a
numerous pet; but what there is of her (and him)
is made to feel glad it came. '
There has been a tremendous row over in
Tasmania about a tombstone. After the holo-
caust in the Mount Lyell mine a semi-pubii c
monument was put over the grave of one of
the victims, and thereon was carved the
dreadful words, “Sacrificed on the Altar of
Dividends.” Authority in the Queenstown
mining camp stood it for a few weeks. Then
the mining warden, or some other potentate,
ordered the obnoxious words to be scored
out, and the local council said “Hear, hear.”
“May be true,” remarked one alderman, “but
think of all the shocking allegations it might
lead to.” That s* so. If the habit of tell-
ing the truth on tombstones was not nipped
in the bud, so to speak, the alderman of
Queenstown might yet read over the grave of
a victim to typhoid: “Killed through the
neglect of the town council to mind its own
business and attend to the drains.”
“0.K.” : A few days after the production
of “Man and Superman,” at a London
theatre, Bernard Shaw prepared a list of
questions to be distributed amongst the
audience in circular form :
Are you aware that you would get out of the
theatre half an hour earlier if you listened to the
play in silence?
Have you noticed that in all good plays tears and
laughter lie very close together, and that it must be
very trying to an actress, who is endeavoring to keep
her imagination fixed on pathetic emotions, to hear
a burst of laughter at something she is supposed to
he unconscious of ?
Have you noticed that people look very nice when
they smile or look pleased, but look shockingly ugly
when they roar with laughter, or shout excitedly, or
sob aloud? (And so on.)
The last-quoted question seems the most
likely to induce silence in the audience and
thus* make Shaw happy—if silence is what
he wants. But there are other questions
which might be submitted to Shaw himself.
Is he aware that an audience that is quite
convinced and wholly enthralled by the
realism of a stage-play does not interrupt
the performance by applauding, roaring with
laughter, or sobbing aloud? The fact is
that devoted barrackers for intellectual
comedy can’t see a subtle joke, or perceive
a deeper meaning without proclaiming their
mental alertness in an aggressive manner.
And it may be that if they are not suffi-
ciently “held” by the pathos of a scene to
refrain from guffawing at a ludicrous casual
incident the dramatist is to blame. The
audience at a funeral doesn’t laugh aloud if
the undertaker’s tall bat happens to fall
from his grasn and roll into the open grave.
It smiles noiselessly. The real mourners
don’t even smile.


VICTOPIA
PAPK
PACI NO
CLXI6
SYDNEY
' 3 - W
■SW****^'
-
% ii
ft*
■
m
£flsS*
«*. c
4
-i
N
a
tT
w
3
1
rN *<Vs%^
W
«'lt- „
. „f\.r
S
X *
Keep Next Wednesday
for VICTORIA PARK.
ENJOY a pleasant afternoon’s
sport at this popular Race-
course, which is noted for its
closely contested events.
Victoria Park is one of the finest
and best laid-out courses in Australia
The grounds are dotted here and there
with flower-beds, presenting a very
pleasing picture, whilst the well-kept
lawns add considerably to your
enjoyment.
The racing tracks are oval in
shape —every detail tending to
improve the racing being attended to.
Zetland trams take you direct to
the course —a run of i 2 minutes.
If you -wish to spend a really
enjoyable afternoon, come to Victoria
Park next Wednesday.
First Race 2 p.m.
Band in attendance and first-class
refreshments obtainable.
\ ■ • - - ■* ‘ •
Full particulars, programmes, etc.,
from
H. COBCROFT, Secretary,
Victoria Park Racing Club,
2r Imperial Arcade,
SYDNEY.


Mother’s best friend
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Experience, the mother of wisdom, has
proved that of all the thousands of
remedies for childhood weaknesses and
ailments, there is none to equal
SCOTT’S Emulsion. These are ex-
amples of thousands of letters received
from mothers:
COUGH BANISHED
"My daughter had a very obstinate
cough; was unable to retain food and
had become weak and thin. After the
first bottle of Scott’s Emulsion she made
splendid progress, and now, thanks to
Scott’s she is a fine, healthy child.’’
Mrs. Gibson, 16, Mitchell Street, Glebe,
Sydney, N. S. W. 23.6.11.
A NEW CHILD
“ My baby boy was so delicate, l doubted
whether I should be able to rear him.
Now, through taking Scott’s Emulsion,
he is a new child, full of life and vigour,
and his health and condition are truly
remarkable. ” Mrs. K M. Bullock, 158,
Dowling Street, Sydney, N.S. W. 4.8.11.
A MOTHER’S REGRET
“ My son George was always susceptible
to chest colds. He obtained relief from,
the first dose of SCOTT’S Emulsion. 1
regret I did not try Scott’s Emulsion
years ago ; I would have saved a lot of
suffering and anxiety. ” Mrs. L. Langford,
22, Walter Street, Paddington, Sydney,
N.S.W. 4.8.11.
This Trade Mark is your guarantee
of SCOTT quality, purity
and strength. Imitations
do not bear this
mark.
It must
be Scott’s
Emulsion
ĥ
afid must
bear this
Trade Mark.
ANT I N EU RASTHI N
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard, No. 3 Eden's Buildings, George Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle ; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street, East Auckland.
Serial No. 810.—Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
J
m
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
Any of the children pale,
thin, delicate? We strongly
recommend Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Makes rich, red blood.
Gives strength to the mus-
-1 cles. Improves the appetite.!
A CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
nL always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
The Queen of Table Wafers
QUARTS, PINTS AND SPLITS.
It Pays to Ask for the
“ABERDEEN"
(Regd.)
Brand of Horse and Cow Rugs.
They cost no more than the average kind, but are
infinitely superior to any. The workmanship of
ABERDEEN brand of Horse and Cow Rugs is splen-
did. They give extremely long service and give
great comfort and warmth to the beasts.
Write direct to us if the ABERDEEN brand is
unobtainable locally.
SMITH, COPEL4ND 8 CO. LTD.,
ħ
SHOWROOMS : 204=206 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
FACTORY : 33 =37 REGENT STREET (opposite Central Railway Station).
AGENTS :—VICTORIA— J. Bartram & Son, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—H. I. H. Ross, Edward Street, Brisbane.
aV S. AUSTRALIA—C. D. Whiting & Co., Adelaide.
TASMANIA—Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, Hobart.
WEST AUS.—A. Balharry, Perth.
I'l
An
Odorless Breath
is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco
provides. Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer,
healthier gums, and a high standard of mouth
health, all inevitably follow its night and morning
use.
OBTAINABLE ALE CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with interesting hook and
test papers, free for three penny stamps, on appli-
cation to the Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
[1
h
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co.,
St. Louis
U.S.A.
Combination Harness
and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing
Outfits (power or
foot). Easily operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoo Repair Shop Complete without ** CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.,
Sole Australasian
Agents,
Circular Quay East, Sydney, N.S.W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
[1
unclaimed moneys property.
no[IOAL'S REGISTER to NEXT-OF-KIN.
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac., &c„ price
5/-, 480 pages. Robertson’s,booksellers,Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal A Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
DOUGAL* C0.,161. STRAND, LONDON, ENCLAND.
(Established over 60 Years.)
vjfotZ
£p|l£ p T
Fits “Wonder” has
No “Bromide of Potash.
Safe, Certain Cure—
-6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
229 Collins St., Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
The “Fxflß” WATCH
is the Most Extraordinary Watch of the Age.
The movements are on the lever principle.
They have brequet overcoil balance springs.
They are f-plate Levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are dust-proof, as the cases screw together, or
they may be had closing in the usual wav.
They are specially made to STAND ROUGH RIDING
and KNOCKING ABOUT.
They keep time to within 10 seconds a month.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
free of charge oreakages excepted) for 2 years.
They are made in every style of case.
They are given to the Tram and Railway Guards by
the Railway Commissioners.
With 15 jewels in Oxidised Metal Open Face
Case .: 3R/-
In Solid Silver Open Face Case .. . . 45 / -
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Gent.’s O.F. Oxidised Steel Case, with
15 jewels. 33/-
With 7 jewels, 28/-
"to
EASY
Our Emasculator combines best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions. _Colis.
Bulls, etc
Sharpe’s Perfect Emasculator
Crushes' before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL
Has just the proper power, and being made of best
Sheffield Steel will give perfect satisfaction for
many years EASY TO USE
ĥ
FREE
Post 45 1 m
anywhere
Satisfaction or Money Back
Write for Knife and Vet. List
Veterinary Advice Free
SHARPE&SHARPE
18 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
H. Schutz: Don’t know who discovered or
first explored Australia. There is an ancient wooden
globe in Paris which says that Terra Australis was
found in 1499; but Marco Polo, somewhere about
1300, referred to Java Major, and he probably meant
Australia. The Dutch did some exploration on the
north and west coast in the early years of the 17th
century. But probably some long-bearded Arab
pirate stumbled on it in the name of the Prophet
centuries before that. Dampier came along in 1688
and Captain Cook lobbed in during 1770... .F.N.L.:
You had better consult a reputable patents agent;
one or two tell you in this paper where they hang
out their signboards.... F.L.Y.: Well enough writ-
ten; but the subject's done to death.... Buckley:
Better write to the Agricultural Department for
that information.... Hori Hori: Now, is it Anglo-
Chinese, Anglo-Maori or Anglo-Aborigine ?... .Ulti-
mus: Snake full of live mice? Phoo! Now, if you
had said live alligators we. might almost have dis-
believed y0u....01d Teacher: Take your word for
it that not one of the six inspectors appointed by the
S. Aus. Director of Education comes from Moonta;
also, that no headmaster of any big Adelaide school
was transferred from that dreary region. But even
that doesn’t get rid of the other correspondent’s
allegation that discontent is rife in the service. . . .
Aiwa Den: You take a quip too seriously.....
Eurowie: Mere statement that you knew a man who
suffered from moon-blindness doesn't add a peanut
weight to the general shortage of information on the
subject.... Tym : Tired transcriptions of daily-paper
pars, are no good to us....Kedge: Thin and hag-
gard little yarn, its plot having been so dreadfully
overworked... .C. 0.: Dunno for certain; but quite
likely we misread part of that writer’s screed. .. .
E. Jackson: Insinuate that you stole the poem? Cer-
tainly not! We merely insinuated that it wasn't a
poem... .Jonquil: No use sending us large, solid
slabs hewn from English papers. “Gallefy” will be
dealt with in due course. .. .Sir 0: “Bush Bloke”
fairly ingenious, but not well enough done; and
don't, care for the idea, anyway.... G.C.Y.: The
matter has had a par. already ; and your verse isn't
good enough to justify double-banking.... Conn:
Don't share your enthusiasm re “Mvola" as a
Federal capital. It is the sort of pretty-pretty little
name that the boarding-school miss confers on the
heroine of the immortal work of fiction of the
moated grange variety, which she secretly writes in
her bedroom by candlelight. And when she is
found out and spanked, and the immortal work is
confiscated, it is a fitting end to Myola. .. .Jessie
S. Litchfield: The reason why your various verses
have been steadily rejected is that, though the versi-
fication is correct and pleasant, the sentiment in
them all is trite. All you have to say is ; an echo of
something already better said G. Washington:
Quite right, and “Pariah” was quite wrong; Colac
isn't, and never was, on the Gippsland line.... Bo-
njour: Quite hopeless. .. .The Hager: In enumerating
the infamies you have witnessed in foreign parts, you
say, “This scribe has tasted the sweets of the Moulin
Rouge and Folies Bergeres by starlight and under a
cloudless sky.” When The Bulletin was in Paris,
the other day, the Moulin Rouge was an imitation
mill which did not admit the starlight, no matter
how cloudless the sky, and the Folies Bergeres was
a stoutly-roofed music-hall. These things make us
suspect that you are a bogus Rager, and that your
experiences have been much less dreadful than you
represent.... Benno: The one-time celebrity you in-
quire after went under long ago. He looked on the
wine when it was red, and on the ruin when it was
blue, and on the lady when she was golden about the
hair, and now he is dead K.G.: Disquisition
about the alleged alarming increase of weather dis-
turbances in various parts of the world carefully
noted. This writer’s theory is that somebody—not
necessarily J. D. Williams—has found out a method
of making glass bricks out of atmosphere, and is
consequently using up the air at a rate which is
bursting all calculations. The best thing would
be to hunt out the miscreant, and dissolve his store
of bricks. .. .Ken New: “Up the river” is something
in faint pencil on tinted paper. It may be worth a
lot: but we reckon our eyes are worth more. So
back it goes. ... J.G.M.: Received, one stamped en-
velope with “Cock-a-doodle-doo” on it and no further
explanation whatever. The stamp will come in
handy, but for the cock-a-doodle-doo we have no use
whatsoever. Beside, we never doodle in office hours.
. ...Nimos: This paper has to try to interest the
man in Thursday Island and the woman in Albany.
Do you think the small talk of any in-between ham-
let would interest those two people? H.M.K.:
“Freedom” is neat, but monotonous and strictly
Tory. Why not gladden the heaving bosom of the
Australasian with it?... .Omega: Clumsy work....
F. : Verses floated out. . . .R.F.8.: They break-
no new ground.... Skiralugh: Another bard swooped
down on that topic. Yours wasn’t much of a swoop,
anyhow. .. . J.S.H.: We observe you throwing yourself
round and trying to rhyme “scores” with “more.”
Get up and slap the dust out of your garments. . . .
8.P.C.: They would have a better chance. .. .N.S.:
Very crude.... Glen W.: As a topic, the Prince of
Wales’ bagpipes were exploded last week. .. .Errant:
Some promise, but your work is rough. Practice
may help, but we decline to issue any prophecies.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Roy C.: Didn’t you hear the thud as it struck the
bottom step? 8.R.: You said: “If unsuitable,
please destroy.” It was so unsuitable that we de-
stroyed it twice. .. .Will H.: Three very moderate
drawings. Three jokes, each as old as Brutus’s
mother-in-law. .. .Lo: Whatever other sins you may
commit, don’t write your gags in faint, dim pencil.
It would be a more venial sin to denv the existence
of George Reid Julius G. L.: 8.0’C., W.T.C.,
W.J.C., W.R.H., Cyril Penn, U.C.A., Spud, H.H.8.:
Unsuitable, mostly on account of the infirmities of
old age... .C. 0.8. (Perth): Promise in the draw-
ing ; but there isn’t a trot left in the gag
J.D.G.: Not a ripple in the lot Roy: Drawing
might suit a Puzzle Department if we had one. Glad
to say we haven’t. .. .Mere Scratching: It is mere
enough in all conscience, and it doesn’t scratch
gravel to any appreciable extent.... Why: A poor
thing, but your own. It couldn’t be anybody else’s.
. ...A.S.: Picture of a man who resembles nothing
on land or sea, buying lollies from a shapeless
female. No, thanks!.... F.N.: Passed out for good
and sufficient reasons. .. .Bert R.: If the pig wasn’t
any bigger than the preacher, then it wasn’t any
great circumstance of a pig. ...A.J.; Three shape-
less girls declined. One shapeless horse standing on
three legs ditto.... H.C.L.: Picture rushed down a
steep place into the Sea of Incapacity, and was
drowned... .H.R.D. No address, no stamps, no gag,
no explanation. Only a picture of a drunk hanging
on to a fence... .F.W.F.: The Hebrew whose fire
wasn’t due till next week appeared in The Bulle-
tin when it was quite young and not half so tired as
it is now. (N.B.—lt is people of your sort who
make us feel tired.) ... . J.M.P.: The point is hard’ to
find.... Nono: Our grandmothers got weary of that
jest about the small boys who fished on Sunday. And
their grandchildren are still more weary.... Jim:
Far be it from us to be unduly rough on anybody’s
horror, bat your horror doesn’t appeal to u 5....
H. 8.: If we owned a child like the one you have
depicted we would put it out to nurse... .R.R.: Dim
pencil sketches have taken the back track for home.
If re-drawn with different characters by a capable
artist, and supplied with new jokes, they might be
all right.... Dobson: The stock-rider is a creature
out of the old melodrama. Don’t know what the other
man is out of, except that he is out of drawing....
N. Thomson: The gall of a man who tries to sell us
a lot of execrable copies of Norman Lindsay’s work,
taken from our own paper, passes all reason and
understanding... .Percy T.: Plain rotten.... Bath-
urstian: Well, doesn’t the richest litigant generally
win? In the courts the top dog is usually the dog
with the bottom dollar.


Public Opinion and
Beale High-grade Pianos.
The gieat majority of our Pianos are sold on the personal recommendation of users, and we are constantly receiving letters from our
customers praising the Beale High-Grade Pianos. Our instruments are in use in every part of Australia; in Hew Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New
Caledonia, Mauritius, South Africa, India, and on the Continent of Europe; and everywhere they give the same unbounded satisfaction.
Below we give a few (greatly condensed) extracts from unsolicited testimonials from buyers of Beale High-Grade Pianos.'
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. FRED L. GOODMAN, Mascotte, Hardy
Street, Ashfield:—
“Splendid, and the tone is perfect. Pro-
fessional musicians have highly commended
it. You are quite at liberty to refer any in-
tending purchaser, desirous of independent
testimony, to me.”
Mr. WALTER BAXTER, Sen., Albert Street,
Wickham:—
“Entire satisfaction. Keeping up its splen-
did reputation.”
Mr. RAYMOND WALKER, Coolalie:—
“Very pleased with piano in every way.
Neighbors admire very much.”
Mrs. T. A. HAYNES, Alandale, Cockamid-
gera:—
“Very much pleased with piano. Entire
satisfaction in every way.”
Mr. F. WELLS, Wattamolla, Berry
“Piano gives every satisfaction. Neighbors
and friends all speak of it in the highest
terms.”
Mr. F. A. McGINLEY, Sale Street, Orange:-
“May mention that we are thoroughly
pleased with the instrument. Beautiful rich
tone.”
The PRINCIPAL, Cook’s Hill Girls’ Superior
Public School, Newcastle: —-
“The two Upright Grand Pianos supplied
to the school four years ago have been in con-
stant use. They have given entire satisfac-
tion, and are well adapted for school pur-
poses. The tone is sweet and mellow, and the
pitch is fully maintained, necessitating little
attention in the way of tuning.”
Mrs. GRACE E. BROOKS, Yetman, via In-
verell:—•
“Very pleased with the piano. Splendid in-
strument, with a lovely tone.”
Mr. FRANK BELFORD, Hon. Sec. Comboyne
Union Hall Trustees, Comboyne:—-
“Pleased to say piano purchased from you
for the hall is giving every satisfaction.”
QUEENSLAND.
Mr. N. GOODFELLOW, Mount View, Mus-
grave Road, Red Hill: —
“Very pleased with the piano. Tone is ex-
cellent, and remains in tune wonderfully
well.”
Mrs. M. M. MARKS, Clifton Station, Mor-
ven:—
“Piano is excellent, and has stood this
climate exceptionally well. Has only needed
tuning once since I got it.”
Mr. J. PIDGEON, Klienton, Crow’s Nest line,
via Toowoomba:—
“Should like to say that I am very pleased
with the piano. Tone is really beautiful, and
seems to improve with use.”
Mrs. M. CARTER, Fernberg Road, Rasalie:—
“Satisfied with the piano in every way.”
Dr. L. M. McKILLOP, Blackall (Q.)
“It is undoubtedly a magnificent instru-
ment, and your firm is to be congratulated
upon being able to turn out such splendid
work.”
Mr. W. H. SIMPSON, Huelva, Gilliatt:—
“Although this is a very trying climate for
pianos, my Beale is as good as the day it
arrived.”
VICTORIA.
Mr. J. H. BAYNE, Carnavon Street, Auburn:
“A superb instrument with a magnificent
tone. Friends admire it greatly.”
Miss GLADYS WAITE, Norong, via Ruther-
glen:—
“The piano has given me entire satisfac-
tion.”
Mrs. G. M. GOULD, Thomson Street, Hamil-
ton
“Will never cease recommending your
pianos, as I think so highly of them. Mine
has given nothing but satisfaction.”
Miss L. LOVERING, State School, Kerang:—
“Thoroughly satisfied with the instrument.”
Mr. J. H. ROGERS, Woolocot Street, Co-
burg:—
“Must say that everyone who has been to
my place has nothing but praise for the
piano.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. H. J. ARMITAGE, Public School, Hough-
ton :
“Piano, which I have had for three years,
has been in constant use, and tone is as good
as when I got it. Pianists often remark on
its great purity of tone.”
Mrs. H. WALKER, Wandilo, Mount Gambier:
“Must express my satisfaction with your
beautiful, sweet-toned instrument.”
Mr, JOHN 0. WHITEMORE, Dunoon, Victor
Harbor:—
“Much pleased with the instrument in
every way, and gratified with the opinions of
several friends who are professional musi-
cians.”
Mrs. ROSE A. HUNTER, Fairview, Eu-
dunda:—
“May say that I am more than pleased
with the piano.”
Mr. WILLIAM J. HOCKING, Kingston:—
“Everyone agrees that it is a splendid in-
strument.”
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Mr. G. A. BEECK, Katanning:—
“Self and family are more than pleased
with the Beale High-grade Piano.”
Mr. J. A. MILLS, York:—
“Quite satisfied with piano in every way.”
Mrs. C. POWELL, Linden Villa, Stirling
Street, Perth: —
“There is not a better instrument in Perth.”
Mr. T. WARD, Wagin, Western Australia: —
“Greatly satisfied in every respect.”
Mr. W. H. BROWN, Kalgoorlie:—
“Very pleased with the instrument. Much
better than I expected.”
TASMANIA 8 NEW ZEALAND.
Mr. C. J. HINE, 28 Hillside Crescent, Laun-
ceston :
“Instrument is all that could be desired.”
Mrs. J. ANDERSON, 19 Burnett Street,
Hobart: —
“Can highly recommend to anyone re-
quiring a first-class piano.”
Mrs. J. HARVEY, Hamilton:—
“Excellent piano. Many have expressed
their delight at hearing an instrument with
so mellow a tone.”
Mr. A. O. WOODS, Liverpool Street, Hobart:
“Tone is even better than when we first got
it. Can recommend strongly.”
Mr. EDMUND ANSCOMBE, 134 Princess
Street, Dunedin, New Zealand: —
“All who have tried it have expressed
themselves as being delighted with its beau-
tiful tone and appearance.”
We have literally thousands more
such testimonials, from almost every
part of the world. The immense suc-
cess attained by the Beale Pianos is
due solely to their high-grade quality.
From the very first we have given our
utmost endeavor to turn out only thor-
oughly reliable, soundly constructed
pianos, embodying the very best musi-
cal qualities. We have created a won-
derful factory organisation, and we
pay the best brains and the best skill,
so as to ensure a perfect result. We
realise that an Australian-made piano
is subjected to much closer scrutiny
in Australia than any imported piano,
and therefore we make —we are
compelled to make —our pianos much
better than those of our competitors.
At the same time, by making pianos
in Australia, we are in the position to
make them much better suited to Aus-
tralian conditions. Any competent
cabinetmaker will tell you that timber
seasoned in the cold, damp climate of
IQurope and America cannot be ex-
pected to withstand Australian ex-
tremes of dry heat as well as timber
which is seasoned in this climate. This
is a most important point in piano-
making, and is one good reason why
so many foreign pianos develop cracked
sounding-boards, split tuning-systems
and faulty casework soon after arrival
in this country. But no man can say
he ever saw a Beale piano with a
cracked sounding-board. We abso-
lutely guarantee that the sounding-
boards of Beale Pianos will never
crack in any climate, because our spe-
cial system of construction renders
cracking an impossibility, a* the same
time that it greatly enhar<- i the tonal
qualities of the instruir >■. Beale
Pianos contain the only p iv ucal steel
tuning-system in the world —-so there
can be no question of splitting of the
wrest-plank. And then our patented
system of cross-plied woodwork en-
sures permanence for the outside case
of the pianos.
Be sure of this: the better musician you are, the more you will delight in a Beale High-Grade Piano.
We have always on hand a number of good second-hand pianos, taken in part payment of Beale Pianos.
Call and inspect the Beale Pianos now. Inspection does not put you under any obligation whatever. You suit yourself entirely as to
whether you purchase.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we will be pleased to send post free.
BEALE CO. LTD.,
MAKERS OF
B£A L E HIGH-GRADE PIA N O S
“ The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details-*'
CARL VADER PIANOS.
Prices: £49, 55, 60, 65. 70, 75, SO, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
839 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
_ t?t>c T7VPRVWTTFRF WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
TRAVELLERS e office and Factories . . TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
C\SH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


YOU GEX BEAUTY, VARIETY, AND QUALITY
£B/10/-
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and Tour-
malines.
• £4/10/-
9ct Gold-chas-
ed Curb BRA-
Safety
chain attached.
A. SAUNDERS
Never before were our Jewellery Designs quite so lovely, so rare and exclusive
as NOW. We ask YOU to send for our free Catolog. It contains over Two
Thousand illustrations of Delightful Ideas. THE BOOK IS FREE.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds, Pink Tourma-
lines, and Peridot.
25/.
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS set
Pearls and Aqua-
marines.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, or Sap-
phires.
17/6
loct Gold,
set pure
white
Pearls.
£4/10/.
Set Gold, Heavy “Trace” MUFF-
CHAIN, £4/10/. £5/10/.
I^/6
Set Gold 2-bar BROOCH, set Pearls
and Red or Blue Stones or Tur-
quoise.
12/6
Oct Gold, set Pearls and Tur
guoise.
£2.
Ladies’ Gold Open Face
Keyless WATCH, Fancy
Dial, perfectly timed and
adjusted; guaranteed 2
vears’ free repairs.
Set Gold
CHARM, get
Pearls aDd Red
or Blue Stones.
£3-
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamond.
12/6
9ct Gold SEAL PEN-
DANT, Arrjethyst or
Topaz.
18ct Gold, set
5 pure double-
cut Diamonds.
£5/10/.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Rubier
21/.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Green
Tourmalines or Rubies.
ħ
£7/15/.
£7/15/.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and
Tourmalines or Rubies.
15ct Gold WED-
DING RING,
15/; 18ct Gold,
Set Gold
CHARM, richly
embossed.
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamonds.
20/-
oct Gold LINKS; 15ct
Gold LINKS, 40/.
to
and
, set Diamonds
Tourmalines.
Gold
15ct
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
WB
PAY
POSTAGE.
18et Gold, set
5 pure double-
cut Diamonds.
£4/10/-
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Ruby.
27/6
15ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, set Dia-
rnond and 2 rubies or Sapphires.
18ct Gold, set
pure double-
cut Diamonds.
22/6-
15ct Gold,
set pure
Diamond.
Oct Gold CROSS,
nicely chased.
9ct Gold Bird and Spray BROOCH,
Pearl set Bird.
£5/10/-
15et Gold, set 11 Diamonds, 1 Pink,
and 1 Green Tourmaline.
20/
6ct Gold BROOCH,
Pearls and Amethysts.
set
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, hand chased, 10/;
Gold Filled, 22/6
£3-
9ct Gold Fancy
Basket Pattern
BRACELET,
strong Safety
chain attached.
20/.
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Keyless Lever
Timekeeper, full jewelled, non-magnetic
time spring, patent adjusted balance,
dust and water proof cases, accurate, re-
liable, 20/- Guaranteed one year’s free
repairs.
20/.
37/6
9ct Gold PEND A XT,
get Pearls and Tur-
quoise.
36/
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, Safety Chain
attached.
Ki ..XV
r~.-
. S L, ».
£4/4/-
Ladies’ Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet WATCH,
Full-jewelled, 3-plate, Compensation Balance, > strong,
Keyless Works.
32/6
Set Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Turquoise.
Solid Silver Double ALDERT, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6; 14ct.
Gold Filled, lfl, 20/, 25/; 9ct. Gold, 55/, 60/, 70/.
Solid Silver Double ALBERT, 8/6, 10/G, 12/6, 15/;
9ct. Gold, 60/, 65/, 70/, 80/, 90/, £5.
Gent.’s Patent 10 years’ guaranteed gold-
cased Hunting Keyless Waltham WA'ICH,
full-jewelled Compensation Balance, ac-
curate, reliable,
50 /•
Guaranteed 3 years’ free repairs.
50/.
50/.
SYDNEY’S
LEADING
JEWELLER
r 2
807, 809, BH,'Bf3. 615. 617, GEORGE. ST fOpposite Railway Station) SVDNE.V N.S.W.
MITtl
SILVE
O
TJ
N
a
T
ER
CLO
«jti


The Message of Sanatogen
No preparation of its kit d has ever achieved such
a reputation as Sanatogen.
Many causes have contributed to this unpre-
cedented result. r
Pre-eminent among them is the constant prescrip-
tion of Sanatogen bv the medical profession which
as a body, has awarded it the highest praise. More
than fifteen thousand doctors have written in the
most enthusiastic terms to describe the benefits they
have obt lined from the use of the preparation
which The Medical Press >uid Circular states "has
strengthened the physician’s hand a hundred-fold.”
Everyone knows now that it gives
To the Sick —Health
It does this by its power of revitalising the
nervous, vascular, muscular, and digestive systems,
which it rapidly restores from a condition of depression
to one of normal action. By virtue of its composition
—nure milk casein in chemical combination with
organic phosphorus, an essential constituent of the
brain and nervous system—it feeds the brain and
ne ves, it improves the condi ion of the blood, it helps
the stomach todi jest other food, and it therebv develops
and strengthens the muscles. In this way it gives
To the Weak —Strength
and that dePghtful feeling of returning vitality which
tells the sufferer that he has conquered th disease
whic > had conquered him, and is once more on the
road to health, and the possibility of taking up his
life again where he had laid it down.
Sanatogen, however, does even more than this.
It has its message for those whom disease has not
touched. Everyone is capable of increased vitality and
vigour. By feeding the vital centres Sanatogen gives
To the Healthy —Vigour
so that work becomes a pleasure, toil becomes enjoy-
ment, and the whole system takes on a feeling of
buoyancy, alertness and energy which is as delightful
as it is unusual.
Sanatogen’s merits have not only been eulogised
by the medical press, and by the medical profession,
but have also been endorsed by hundreds of the bes «■
known men and women who have testified to the
cures it has wrought in their cases.
Sanatogen may be obtained from all chemists.
Write to-day for free descriptive booklet by Dr.
Andrew Wilson. Please mention this paper, and
address:
Messrs. A. WULFING 8 CO.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
m
:
*4#
«*
i
1
v
ms
m
as*
R
.7 S /
n.
i
e
n
yr
; u*
M °©
"If it isn’t an
EASTMAN, it
isn’t a RodaK.”
The Vest-Pocket Kodak
;lt srSJSS SMS ‘si A?™ ;sM
attempt; so efficient that the most experienced amateur will find pleasure
It iffined with a carefully selected Lens, Ball-bearing Shutter Brilliant
Reversible Finder, and Auto-time Scale. Takes pictures lfm. x 2*m.
PrirP lIOS.
All the Fun of Picture-Making
with None of the Bother.
There’s the fun of pidture-making at home, on holidays and on
tour, the interest of daylight development and printing, and the
imperishable joy of the pictures themselves—pictures with the added
value of having been made by yourself—a permanent reeoid of
happy days.
Come in and let us talk Kodak with you—let ns show you how
beautifully made these little cameras are, how simply they work, how
easy it is to make rattling good pi&ures at the first attempt, how there
is no need of the dark-room, how everything is pleasing, instructive
and fascinating in Kodak photography, the greatest because the most
universal of all pastimes.
We’ll be glad to show yon Kodak Cameras from 21/- up, or
Brownie Cameras—they are little cousins of the Kodaks—from 5 /- to
50/ = . Price List sent- at your request.
The No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak
is the most popular of all Cameras, and takes the full-size postcard
Its equipment includes double Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Kodak Ball-
bearing Shutter, Automatic Focussing Lock, Brilliant Reversible Finder,
and Tripod Sockets. Covered with fine quality black seal-grained
leather, nickelled fittings. Top-coat pocket size.
Price £4 lOs.
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop
SYDNEY* 370 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “ The Block,” 284 Collide Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Randle Street.
BRISBANE : 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA * Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL* 34© Argent Street.
AUCKLAND : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: © Mercer Street.


Don’t Miss This
If you are interested in any form
of RIFLE SHOOTING you
should lose no time in writing for
.. a copy of the latest ..
B.S.A.
RIFLE
CATALOGUE
It contains full descriptions of all
the celebrated B. S. A. Match
Rifles, Sights, Sporting Rifles, Air
Rifles, Shotguns, etc., together with
a deal of valuable information that
you will find very interesting and
instructive
Write now for free copy, giving name of
your gun dealer, to
D. Y. RENNIE
Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE
tm
A
SERVICEABLE
STOCK SAPPLCS.
When a Stock Saddle you natur-
ally want to know if the saddle is the correct
shape and properly made.
We have pleasure in recommending our
Saddles because they are made under per-
sonal supervision. The leather we carefully
prepare at our own tanneries. The mount
ings are A 1 quality. Our Saddles are the
correct shape and comfortable to ride in, and
they are made to give long-wearing service.
THIS SADDLE is built on our Special
Tree, with sin. knee pads, with extended
facings and solid leather point to panel.
Mounted with split girth, crupper, surcingle,
4-bar irons and stout stirrup leathers.
£5 15s.
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd
Petrie Bight, Brisbane.
h
Good, Cheap
At Id. an hour, At-
moslite Air-gas gives
5-60 C.P. brilliant
white lights, restful and
soft to the eyes, and
absolutely clean,
healthful and safe un-
der all conditions.
The plant is auto-
matic and easy to
install. Write for
literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Box 1281, g.p.0., Sidney.
nwmtvwi km**-*#
«r©
m ■owg®m%+*pM »r*
±@so^
JASON
I ImaU mi m I# Ul
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
... SfUKtTmSXK™
T,E®/E>S
H.OXO
>:
n
/'
o
t-L
HEAL'
W
7mm
7
V'\
s
#«
Hi*
I «
pfc;
2 ,: »
S'?
i... -. V
■
V B
Jj'Vy
• . r-*v
v
S^SSpS^s
Pi Parrot
—Jr Brand
RICISTERED
BOSISTO’S
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND”
... EUCALYPTUS OIL
The Great Australian Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS and COLDS.
FINE DESIGNS
AT STEWART DAWSONS
These Dainty Goods, of modern design, sterling workmanship, and
refified and charming effect, are sold direct to you by the manufac-
turers at FIRST COST PRICES, which places within the scope
of your means goods of much g?-eater value than you would expect
to obtain for the money. Write for our Beautifully Illustrated
Post Free Catalogue.
WE PAY POSTAGE TO ANY ADDRESS.
H 6 4 1. 1 8 c t. .
GOLD DIAMOND
CLUSTER RING,
£.7/10/-
0547. —Swallow Design BROOCH,
Set with Real Pearls and 9ct. Gold,
13/6.
Mail Orders dealt with
same day as order
is received.
01534.—501 id Sil-
ver and Dark Blue
Enamel LINKS,
a
7/ or m
i
<Q
D 4 1 6 2. —F i n e
Aquamarine and'
Pearl Set loct.
GOLD NECKLET,
£B/10/-
GBs46.—Fine Pearl and Turquoise Set 9ct. GOLD
BANGLE,
47/6.
C 1 1 2.—F i 11 e
quality Diamond
s?t 18ct. GOLD
RING.
£.lO/10/
C 7007. —9ct. GOLD BROOCH, set
with Fine Amethysts and Pearls,
21/-
Money refunded if goods
do not open up
satisfacto riiy.
JBs73.— Solid Silver
and Enamel LTM
O/O a P a ' r '
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
(AUSTRALIA) LTD.,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
jj
The all-day-long' snaring of the oof-bird is to be
attempted by the frenziedly-financed Greater Won-
dergraph Co. in Holy Adelaide, where hitherto the
continuous picture-show wicket has been batted upon
only by West.
Michael Ford, one of the original “Two Mikes,”
the leading knockabout comedians of the London
halls of two or three decades ago, who got £5O a
week, plus travelling and hotel expenses, for a pro-
longed tour through America and Australia, has been
re-discovered. Ford retired from the business and
sank his money in a Covent Garden hotel. Now he
is shining boots for coppers in a London street.
When the “Ireland To-Day” picture show was at
Colac (Vic.) an aged Hibernian lady enlivened the
interval by dancing a jig in the gangway of the
hall. As long as the lights were down her friends
had held the excitedi old girl in her seat, but when
the interval came she had to dance or burst. The
Vic. country tour of the Shamrock show is drawing
ancients who haven’t been to an entertainment of
any sort for years and years. They come 20 miles
in buggies, some of them, and stump to their seats
on crutches after paying their respects to the ship-
ment of Ould Sod in the entrance way.
Sarah Bernhardt gets £6O for her performance in
a cinematographic drama, which lasts, perhaps, 40
minutes in action. The fee for preliminary rehear-
sals is not more than £6 or £B, but then the stage
directions are very explicit, and can be learned with-
out any study to speak-of. A cinedrama theatre has
salaried advisers, artistic and literary; and stage
managers (from other theatres) who drop in when
they are at liberty and earn a fixed salary of £l5 a
week each for hanging around. And who wouldn’t
hang around at the figure?
“J.F.H.”: Mrs. Adelaide Billineton, the grand old
woman of the English stage, entered her 90th year
in the second week of 1913. She was continuously
on the stage for <57 years, and is still astonishingly
vivacious and able to read and do fancy work —her
favorite occupation now —without the aid of glasses.
As a girl of 14 she saw her first play, “The Green
Bushes,” was stage-struck on the spot, and resolved
to become an actress. Years later she was the
original Mrs. Gregan in “The Colleen Bawn,” the
long-time popular Irish drama with the cave and
the diving scene that Boucicault, sen., constructed
out of Gerald Griffith’s story of “The Collegians.”
Among those she was associated with were Macready,
Joseph Jefferson, J. L. Toole, Madame Celeste and
Mary Anderson.
“0.K.”: Asche’s venture with “Midsummer Night’s
Dream,” at Melbourne Royal, has everything in its
favor, for there is 'no counter attraction to speak of
except the panto., and the panto, is wearing out its
Christmas welcome. The beautiful production of the
“Dream” that Musgrove imported 10 years ago had
cruel luck. After running for two or three weeks
to great business, gathering reputation all the time, it
got a terrible blow in the stomach of the pay box. The
enginedrivers struck. Train service was practically sus-
pended for a week or so. Then it was only partly
resumed. All the theatres suffered, but the “Dream”
(at the Princess’s) was the principal and most ex-
pensive attraction, and had most to lose from the
strike. People talked of nothing but the strike.
The “Dream” boomed no more whilst lingering on
for .some weeks. The next production, “As You
Like* It,” was a mild frost from the first, although
(he ! scenery was beautiful and the youthful charms
of Nora Kerin and Dora Rignold might have made
the fortune of a cheap and frivolous show. The
luck was against Musgrove’s opening season of his
first and only Shakspearian co. in Melbourne.
In “The Taming of the Shrew,” which appears to
be partly Shakspeare and largely otherwise, Petru-
chio gives two conflicting accounts of his roaring
self. Firstly, he introduces himself to notice as a
greten Johnnie who has just come into his father’s
money, and is anxious to see the world outside of
his native town. Soon afterwards, when his friends
warn him against the danger of catching a tartar
in Katherine, he speaks of the perils he has braved
in his previous career —the battles he has fought,
the lions’ tails he has twisted, and so forth. He
professes to have rivalled Othello in his moving
accidents by flood and field. He poses as the very
devil of an adventurer. And nobody knows —not
even the learned Shakspearian commentators —-
whether Petruehio is supposed to be a swaggering
liar, or whether the inconsistencies in the text are
the result of mosaic composition and careless editing.
“0.K.”: Of all the arts of entertainment that are
practised on the vaudeville stage the art of “bluff-
ing” the audience in an unfamiliar manner has my
deepest amazement. The wonderful juggler, acrobat
or gymnast commands respect for the infinite pains
and sturdy self-denying determination expressed in
the achievement of extraordinary feats. Many of
the “mixed turns”—comedy, dance, song and eccen-
tric fooling—show great ingenuity in their arrange-
ment. Also, some of the music-cnm-comedy turns
are very cleverly constructed. But the bluff solo
artist, whose work is commonplace in detail, yet
curiously effective in the complete turn, is as in-
teresting as any of them to a tired critic. What is
the secret of, say, Nella Webb’s popularity? She
calls herself a diseuse, which means that she talks
little rhymed pieces—of cheap sentiment and crude
human interest—giving musical endings to some of
the lines. Many a serio-chronic performer patters
as intelligently, sings as acceptably (or more so),
dresses as showily, and is quite as attractive in ap-
pearance as Nella Webb, whose occasional attempts
at dancing are far below the highest serio-chronic
standard. An analysis of Nella Webb’s turn reveals
nothing that couldn’t be as well done by a hundred
other fully-equipped descriptive songstresses. Pro-
bably a Fanny Powers imitation of Nella would be
a more finished performance. All the same, the
diseuse aforesaid “gets them” with exceptional suc-
cess. She is curiously popular. The strength of
her personality, which does the trick, is not strik-
ingly apparent, but it is generally felt, and it
bluffs 90 per cent, of the audience into the belief
that the artist is a remarkably gifted diseuse, where-
as she is merely doing nothing in particular in an
unremarkable way.
THE LAST STRAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A. E. Martin, the cheerful “Petramos” of many
Australian press contributions, has developed into
the most notable animal-hunter in Europe.... He
has got together a show that contains nearly every
beast on four legs. . . .There is a donkey with a col-
lege _ education, and a troupe of melodrama dogs
playing “The Bloodstained Hound.” They are to
open in Adelaide in February.— “Rosna,” B. 30/l/’l3.
Farewell, a long farewell, to my profession,
For mumming I shall practise never more!
To the dogs the Drama’s making swift progression.
It’s a wheeze I know that’s oft been cracked
before;
But it’s gospel truth by latest information.
The time is ripe to pawn my wigs and togs,
When a donkey with a college education
Gives a show with mumming melodrama dogs?
I’ve appeared in plays where corpses took the centre,
And ev’ry bit of limelight (sinful fact!) ;
I’ve “supported” in a six-months’ old tormenter,
Aye, a babe-in-arms who starred in ev’ry act.
But, beshrew me! are my name and reputation
To be ruined quite—are actors lifeless logs?
No, sir! A moke with college education,
I will not stand, or melodrama dogs!
I’m used to playing seconds to the scenery,
Which gets more space than I do on the bill;
But though my optic may be touched with green’ry,
Too much to swallow is this latest pill.
So to the whole d —d animal creation
I leave the stage! Let loose your frogs or hogs,
Your donkey with a college education,
And, last not least, your melodrama dogs!
N.S.W.
EARDLEY TURNER.


Wtt ISItY
THE fine, foil, mellow flavor of THORNE'S OLD HIGH-
LAND WHISKY has won it the whole-hearted approval of
the man of taste. There is no purer, wholesomer spirit—no
whisky which is more uniform in high excellence.
At the Garden Party, during: the historic Delhi Durbar,
THORNE'S was provided for the regalement of the King's Guests.
Pi
v *T
» -
.
• ’ ial
V,
5
VV>
w;
P
c
:7i
- *Vt>:
■:
M
1%
u . 7
7?
>«3
r
Supplied
• TO THE *
House of commons
HO^fcoQLxSxoxru
/Jp Pfc?
A
m
\
r OLD 7|
HIGHLAND
t *t MAL > T jj A
■i?
Mi
>
m§,
‘ia
K/ V v ' / Xi?
KWH IS KYJ
nm
,
R.Thorne sons. Limited
. • Greenock Distillery-
m
' o >oP ol£NUVEr ' o 'sr/i /
u and ' l ie,
Lion House . Tower Hill . LONDON L.C
an
; • ■
v A#.; .
;
m
y
i
IN SCOTLAND
tS fill ARAN TEfD r Q [^7 m
ABQUICNf
CAtJ gy
t *6
;
>■*
M
>'
W.
V<
4 ' " - p.
.
Kg


HORSESHOE
SALMON
HORSESHOE affords the greatest variation
in hot weather diet. It is delicious used
direct from the can. It can be prepared in
many excellent forms. HORSESHOE is
indispensable to good Lenten catering.
Canned from Selected Fish.
yoi >
ii\
CJllp
p\sUior\
/
IT 1 5
WR/TTE.
fnr/nty's
//THE FOUNTAIN
XJrilT
rut
THIS applies to men, as we
as women* and as our neW
Autumn and Winter Cata-
logue is now available, a copy
will be sent post free on request.
Name
Address
FINNEY’S,
The Drapers of Queensland.
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
“J.R.”: He J. F. Hogan’s par. (B.
23/l/’l3), anent Gordon’s lines —“Life is
mostly froth and bubble,” etc., Canada may
have “been the first to engrave them on a
public memorial; but Papua wasn’t far be-
hind. The lines are to be found on the monu-
ment erected in Samarai Park, to keep in
mind that good but unlucky man, Judge
Robinson, the Commonwealth’s first Admin-
istrator of its nigger Possession.
THE WEAK SPOT.
THE WIFE: “And you wouldn't advise an
operation? ”
THE S PECIALIST: “My dear madam, in the
present weak state of his hank balance it is
quite out of the question."
Archbishop Donaldson, of Brisbane, has
just celebrated his 50th birthday. He is a
son of Stuart Donaldson, first Premier of
N. S. Wales. Donaldson, sen., carqe to Syd-
ney in 1840, made money, married (in 1854)
“Amelia, seventh daughter of Frederick
Cowper, of Carlton Hall and Unthank, in
Cumberland,” and spon afterwards went
back to England to live —and presently die.
The family never heard the wolf howling on
the doorstep.
A Political Nightmare.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Night and a mortgaged moon!
The borndrunks go in the back;
The note of the importoon
Is shrill on the trailing track.
Woe to the manufack
Who seeks for her vanished eggs!
The importoon has a silver spoon
And shell on his trousered legs!
The moan of the freetripe owl
Floats down from a blasted limb ;
He’s an old and sickly fowl
And we know what’s wrong with him !
Through glasses large and dim,
He peers at the corse of Time.
Yes, yes, he saw! But his whiskered jaw
Is locked on the needless crime.
Hark to the importoon !
The manufack sees him now !
She proves him by silver s'mon,
By invoice and forthright vow!
Now for a futile row!. .. .
The borndrunks gurgle and roar;
The forest wakes and the reed bed shakes
At the old, time-honored war.
A poltish whisked through the grass !
Whisked backward! An omen dread !
And a fiscal-sinking ass
Stood slowly upon its head ;
A tariff died in bed ;
A wage fowl put up its crest,
Then it said “Here’s luck!” and swiftly
struck!
{The nest egg hurst in the nest!)
Xiedit on the tradling track !
The sandshifts dig with their wings;
'The hands of the clock whirl back
And the borndrunk wakes and sings.
’“Warrer!” it pipes, and clings.
While the wowsit flops for rain.
Hut there comes no spate to its thirsty plate,
For the Dry Ghost walks again!
'QUEENSLAND.
COFFEE & CRAYFISH, LTD.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 15, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Governor Macgregor, who has been in the
country doing a few vice-regal jobs, is due
back at the city to-night to put in the
week-end. On Monday he will move on to
Allora, where he will be called upon to fix
his jaded eye on the prize pumpkin and the
creamy fruit of the cow what time he whis-
pers official nothings in the back ear of the
local mayor, or whoever is told off to lead
him round the paddock.
Death called round for Felix Clewett,
M.L.C., the other day. He was a Sydney
boy, born in 1836, and, by the death of his
parents, was forced into life’s battle at a
very early age. After a strenuous time, he
came to Queensland, where he engaged in
mining and sheep-and-cow pursuits. In the
Barcoo and Springsure districts he made a
good name and many friends for himself.
About 22 years ago he was persuaded that
he might help to bring the Leg. Council into
a state of enlightenment, but the people who
did the persuading evidently didn’t know the
Council. Three sons and two daughters sur-
vive their father. r
Popular “Billy” Norton also passed hence
on Tuesday night at the Gympie Hospital.
Pneumonia followed blood poisoning, the
latter being a memento of the late Bunda-
berg floods, where he worked hard, with
other rescuers, dragging population and
beasts out of the bosom of the deluge. Old
members of the Yacht Club acted as his pall
bearers when the body was brought to Bris-
bane, and the burial was at Toowong on
Thursday. In the 80’s of last century
Billy played football for N.S.W., and, later,
captained the Queensland team against his
old comrades. The saddest feature of his
departure is a widow and three children.
v Pretty little Hilma Ohman is ill in a pri-
vate hospital at Southport, suffering from
typhoid fever. Another invalid is Mrs. For-
rest, whose short stories and poems are well
known in Australia. She is in the Victoria
Hospital, where a surgeon had to take a
hand.
Parnell, M.L.C., with his wife and son
will depart from Rockhampton next week,
and will thoroughly inspect England, Scot-
land and Ireland before returning to Aus-
tralia.
Solicitor Tom Green and his well-liked
wife are likewise contemplating a trip to
England. They will sail next month, and
will go the long way round (via the Cape),
since the he partner’s health requires a sea-
voyage tonic.
The pretty Sydney Jones sisters, who are
at present in the Cold Country with their
mother, Mrs. J. T. Bell, will leave for Singa-
pore at the end of this month, on their kan-
garoo-ward way.
Mr. and Mrs. G. F. Scott and their daugh-
ter Mrs. Elmslie expect to leave on Monday
for Sydney, where they will join the Scharn-
horst for London. They were farewelled by
the Wharf-street Congregationalists (a sect
made up of 60 p.c. Christians, 20 p.c. Wes-
leyans, and 20 p.c. Sal’army) on Wednesday
evening, and on Thursday they in their turn
farewelled numerous friends at Mrs. Kerr
Scott’s pretty home in Brunswick-street.
Clergyman Mursell and his wife intend to
leave for England on a six-months’ holiday
early in March.
Schoolmaster Greer, of Southport, and his
wife have already left for Europe. Their
doctor son and his good-looking English
wife are to join them in London, but not
until Japan and America has been visited.
“The Monk and the Woman” began their
chequered career here to-night. The house
fairly bulged with an audience that, ex-
pecting to be shocked, was swindled. Seven
Wowsers were raving at the box-office for
their money to be returned when I left, but
I haven’t heard that they got it. In vain
shall the heathen rage, Thargomindah. The
cleric and his tart will sojourn here but one
week.
During the week Mrs. Swinburne-Taylor,
of North Toolburra station, crossed the great
divide. She was a daughter of the late John
Davies, one-time Postmaster-General in N.
S. Wales, whose name goes down to poster-
ity as “Jannery.” The deceased married,
first, Charles Swinburne, a wealthy young
Englishman, who was killed on the station.
The widow consoled herself with Dudley
Taylor, a popular Warwick dentist,._ who
forthwith retired from the tooth business,
and devoted himself to jumbuck pursuits.
Yours in the neap tide of things,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Condamine”: Denham’s assurance that
his Government is not in need of money is
quaint reading to those who know that the
building of the Miles-Taroon and other lines
is practically at a standstill. Earthworks
are lying unfinished and unfenced, and are
being steadily cut away by stock and rains;
salaries of an almost-idle staff keep on; and
the interest on the unfruitful money already
spent is growing day and night. Denham’s
one reasonable excuse for all this would be
want of money; and as he says he isn’t short,
he can take his choice —he is either a mud-
dler or the other thing.
“Northern Democrat” :
Re “Boswell’s” (B. 6/2/T3) assertion that the
“Denham Ministry isn’t half as strong as it looks on
paper.” It may be true, but this scribe regrets to
have to say that Liberalism in the Assembly is so
strong (owing to Labor foolishness last election) that
it can put out the Denham crowd to-morrow, re-
instate Philp or Macartney as head of a new Glovern -
(merit, and still present an invincible front to the
enemy. As to “Boswell’s” other assertion that
“Bananaland Labor is Big Australian to the core, he
should glance at the State Labor platform and note
that State-aided immigration is to be abolished, and
then ask himself what kind of a Big Australia we
are going to get under this absurd prescription. If
he likes to read up the Worker and other Labor
organs, he can find immigration cursed, stock, lock
and barrel. And no immigration means no efficient
Defence, and no efficient Defence is hardly a Big Aus-
tralian policy—at least, not of the white kind.
“Don Q.’s” case for the prosecution: —
Permit me to draw attention to the expensive
folly to Bananaland of Railway Commissioner
Evans’s importing craze. He has just landed from
the Land of the Wooden Ham five McKeen petrol
motor railway carriages at a cost (according to
Brisbane Telegraph) of £4600 per car, exclusive
of duty. Putting the duty at a modest 25 p.c.,
brings the cost of each car to £5750, making a
total of £28,750 for five carriages, each seating 69
passengers. This struck me as being a bit too steep,
so I made some inquiries. A man in the railway
workshops figured it thus: The ordinary carriage
turned out in the Government shops cost between
£l5OO and £2OOO. One only went over the £2OOO
mark. That was the Governor’s conveyance (burnt
about three weeks ago in the Wallangarra Are), and
known as “the £3OOO car.” In fairness to Evans and
the McKeen co., it is, admitted that the new petrol
cars are all steel. But allow a handsome margin of
£5OO as the difference between steel and wooden
bodies, and the difference between the State-built car
(at, say, £2OOO net) and the imported one is
£3250. Next, I got hold of a motor man who
knows his job, and he made no bones about saying
that if Evans knew how easy it Was to construct
petrol engines he would, in the circumstances, pro-
ceed to lay Violent feet upon himself. With the
plant and "staff in the Ipswich workshops, petrol
motors could be turned out by the dozen, and the
cost of the vehicles would be nearer £lOOO than
£3OOO. A 90-ton locomotive is made in the shops
for £3500. If you hear no more about this busi-
ness (or whatever it is) in the meantime, there will
be some anguished remarks when Parliament meets.
JUDGE LUKIN, Rockhampton (Queensland).
Died at the early age of 48, at Longreach,
Charles Barroineo Fitzgerald, who was At-
torney-General in Anderson Dawson’s short-
lived Labor Ministry—the first straight-out
Labor Government in Australia, in which
Andrew Fisher was Minister for Works, and
Turley, President of the Senate, was Home
Secretary. Fitzgerald was Rockhampton-
born, but was educated in France, and prac-
tised as a solicitor in several towns of
Bananaland. His connection with the
Labor movement ran back to ’92, when he
was defeated by James Dickson at Bulimba.
During the ’9l strike Fitzgerald was ordered
West, and on his refusal to obey, was com-
pelled to resign his commission in the De-
fence Force. Subsequently he represented
the Mitchell in the State Parliament, until
knocked out by grazier Cooper. Fitz. was
a brilliant scholar, a sound lawyer—and a
sadly imprudent fellow.
AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for years
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nieholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name of
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
easily get it for you.*
Shooting recently at the Northcote Miniature
Range, Mr. A. J. Dalton, of the Collingwood Rifle
Club, put up the extraordinary record of 67 con-
secutive bull’s-eyes, using a B.S.A. Martini .22
calibre rifle, fitted wtih Aperture Sights. This con-
stitutes an Australian, and possibly a world’s, record,
and was done in actual competition under miniature
rifle club rules. The bull’s-eye was the regulation
one of half-inch diameter, which will give some idea
of the accuracy of the modern small-bore rifle. It
is noteworthy that the individual miniature rifle
championships of Victoria and New South Wales
were recently won by Mr. J. Mues and Mr. H. Mot-
ton respectively, each of them also using a B.S.A.
Martini rifle and Aperture Sights.*
Any Cycle cover which seeks to be popular must be
a combination of many virtues, and all appreciable
defects eliminated. It should be as resilient as pos-
sible, so that the rider may derive comfort from his
cycle; but, at the same time, resilience should not be
secured at the expense of durability. It must also be
reliable and able to withstand all the adverse condi-
tions under which it may be used. The cycle cover
which appears to attain this end closely is the
“Ordinary Roadster,” marketed by the Michelin Tyre
Co., Ltd. Its foundation is constructed of a material
which ensures the maximum amount of strength with-
out loss of resilience. It combines, as fully as pre-
sent-day skill in tyre manufacture will admit, all the
above-mentioned qualities, and, for every-day use it
is confidently JoVgivp the maximum
amount of satisfaction. Miew&WlMotor-Cycle Tyres
are of the same high standa,r<i‘!»jfir (indeed, are all the
products of this famous firm, ah'd are eminently suit-
able to withstand the strenuous conditions which
motor-cycling’ in this country necessarily imposes
A graveside sermon :
The death of our departed brother Feliv ™
suggests one of the big reasons whv n Uewet t,
should vote “Yes” when the Referenda ' Ueensli “Hl
are presently put. Speaking generally „ .Questions
side Blackall knew Felix Clewrtt He OM ‘
done anything that John Smith or WillVm ? ever
might not have done. He had merely ma 1 u' ones
money as a storekeeper in Blackall, and hn ■* blt oi
a useful local person so far as roads arid 1 '"f been
ALBERT HINCH-
CLLFEE, M.L.C.,
QUEENSLAND.
(he had
engineering in N * me
Wales), he was call!i
the Legislative Coul
“• was 99
years ago, and he ht
been a member e v
since—one of the nomi
nee crowd of more L
less amiable nonenth
ties who have th f
»ght to emasculate
the people’s propo a
and say “No’’ to fh
A s s e m b 1 y’s “Ye s «
The Commonwealth
Parliament doesn’t pro
yule a niehe#for the
Clewetts. There i sn ' t
a man in either Fed
eral House who hasn’t
been put there by the
rnen and women of
Australia. And the
whole gist of the Ref.
erendum proposals i s
the removal of a
grain or two of the
power which (contran
to the intention of the
People) was left with
the Clewetts who were
nominated to the State
Parliament 22 yeam
ago, and its transfer to
the men who are chosen
directly by the people
of Australia to-day, or
not more than three
years ago. Wherefore,
beloved, choose. If yon
think that the man
who was called to the
Council because he
was a useful shire
chairman and a suc-
cessful storekeeper on
the Barcoo 30 years
ago knows litter
what you need to-day than you know yourselves,
you will vote “No.” But if you don't think so, you
will vote “Yes.” And the Lord have mercy on you
if you don’t!
Australia produces a lot of things of value
and delight, of which her average citizen
knows nothing. The other day some enter-
prising Bananaland growers sent to Mel-
bourne a consignment of that delectable
fruit, Monstera deliciosa , which had to be
sold for less than would pay the freight
simply because few knew what it was, and
others didn’t care to risk buying. It is the
same with many other tasty northern fruits.
There are perhaps three city fruit shops
where you can get the luscious mango, and
one where custard apples and pawpaws are
on sale in their season, while you would seek
in vain for Jack fruit, mangosteens or gran-
adillas.
Further testimony regarding the fact that
the North is no place for the white man who
is tired of life. The medical officer of the
Proserpine district hospital is explaining, in
his annual report, the dull time he has had:
This circumstance affords the strongest evidence of
the rarity of ordinary disease and the excellence of
the climatic and hygienic conditions of the district.
.... This is a matter of prime importance in regard
to future close settlement in the canefields of Queens-
land.
Later on, he remarks that he has had only
three funerals during the year, and these
were due to troubles “not curable by any
known method of treatment.”
How widespread are the evil effects oi
Republicanism! Hitherto, when there have
been floods in the banana-lands of the North,
dozens of Chows have been rescued from the
raging waters through the, agency of then
pigtails. Now the Manclm has gone, and
with the Republic has come the close-cropped
head; and simply because they have lost
their old life-line, many a Pong was swept
to glory during Queensland’s recent severe
wetting.


*■*!*?? ''r'- 1 * ■•';<■"
.
9
'-4-'
-
* V
<
» -
%
>
i
•Trim
'
mk
m
4
v<*
3&£S!
,/
St!
m
6
•v
wm
m
X
. ■;’~;fS-Xv
&SB9
,
\>
i S
?f#3f'
fti
H
1
ME
ggS
3S£ V
4v
4
V
l
p,s
1
/■
*
£m«
s
1%
&
mg
**
'X
? *
1
if
• -
o
.


Shipping.
P m and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw. fOalls Hobart.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 115 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £5OO.
INTEREST— from £1 to £3OO,
and 3% on excess of £5OO.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of lieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE,
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART. General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. ;. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,590 14 6
Reserve .. .. .. .. 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,069 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years and over, at the rate of 4J per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance Cu).
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, Joint Managers.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
HT’“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Shipping.
N.D.IL.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MAN3LA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECIvE & CO., Adelaide:
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
Bank of |)eui Z ea l ai) d-
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . .. . . .. 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking: business.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ĥ
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, about February 20.
SUEVIO, about March 12,
PERSIC, about April 9.
RUNIC, about May 7.
'And Four-weekly thereafter.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. . . 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and-all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Ltd.
Howard Smith Co. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Fast Passenger Steamers
* S.S. COOMA,
♦S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
♦Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Leave Ports as follows:
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Monday and
Wednesday.
MACKAY every Sunday and Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
New Express Passenger Steamer, T.S.S. WANDILT.A
sails for ADELAIDE, ALBANY and FRE-
MANTLE—
From SYDNEY, MARCH 5.
From MELBOURNE, MARCH 8.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
An Island Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
. changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line, •
occupying three weeks to two months, and
costing £5 to £25.
ħ
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
DIRECTORS:
WALES.
£3,000,000
£2,150,000
£3,000,000
£8,150,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Norinand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James T. Walker.
Thomas Buckland, Esq. I JThe Hon. Edmund W. Fosberv, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliffe Laidley, Esq. ; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 335 Branches in all the Australian States, N*ew Zealand, Fiji and Papua. Agents and Corres-
pondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up. . . . £1,739,553 2 6
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,580,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,069,553 2 6
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: IS Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen Man.. Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man. :E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial (Ijutual Qife
assurance society limited
pop.
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
-Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA Or EUROPE.
Choice of Rail Routes through America, via Grand
Canyon, Yosemlte, Niagara Falls, etc.
Around the World Tours in connection with all lines.
Around the Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
via Honolulu, Suva and Auckland.
And EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
" COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). u '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.'
FOK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Anri GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhippinjr at; Fremantle
to all North Western Ports. ,
T H™K: a 5,!/?“■*
t "m s ' A, w a , r L lda (7713 10 »8).
March 15, April 12.
Fitted VVirelessTelesrraphv
Carrying Three Classes
1, 2, o and 4-Berth Cabins,
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North bo o»irns.
S.S. Wollowra, March 1
S.S. Grantak (Wireless
Telegraphy), March s
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable oft
the first Port of call with other inter-State Conmanul
on all services subject to conditions, which can I
ascertained on application at the Company's Office '
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN -AUSTRALASIAN RM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railwav.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS:
♦New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab:ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London, Liverpool
and Avonmouth.
(Via Colombo and Suez Canal).
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
12,300 Tons. W. CHICKEN, Commander.
Will be despatched from —
BRISBANE, MARCH 2.
SYDNEY, MARCH 8.
MELBOURNE, MARCH 10.
ADELAIDE, MARCH 15.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. £4O to £45. £l6/16/-to £lB/18/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. WILTSHIRE, leaving Sydney April 10.
Calling at Hobart and Colombo.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
Aug. 23
Sept. 20
1 lie till uuy'll LI ip IU I/V
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco,
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0-, ORIENT LISE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
A.U.S.N.Go. Ltd.
iplendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”... 7000 tons
T.S.S. - KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
.5. “ WYANDRA”
♦Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
The above steamers possess all modern conveiu
ices for safe, easy and pleasant travelling. . s _
From Sydney to Melbourne, Adelaide' , {u n
me, and vice versa, second halves of = le ‘ ~ an( j
iloon Return Tickets are available by kets by
milarly Return portions of first-class Kali
:eamers; particulars on application.
For Dates of Sailing see Daily Papers.
URNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, II BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
the w*'?
'HE Australian Magazine—p-i ce , 6<i-
JIAiNi). The National Monthly.


■THE North Coast Steam
* Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS : also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
mi
wa
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 ror 101-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiik, Bulletin.] [5
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
V Over 70 years’ success. .
h
ĥ
ħ
h
x -
CHAMWIfc
MALT
VINEGAR
CHAMPIONS
VINEGAR
i " ,
re
Jalt
Commonwealth #H| ©anh of Hustralta
Bra ”*un?(* are ° Pen f ° r the transact * on of General Banking Business throughout Australia
Ntw South Wales— Svdney and Canberra. Victoria -Melbourne. Queensland— Brisbane and
lowtisvnle. South Australia. - Adelaide. Western Australia-Perth Tasmania— ilobart.
And at Egypt House, 36-38 New Broad Street. London
Canie remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection Banking and Exenange Business of every description transacted within the
Commonwealth, United Kingdom and foreign countries.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Agencies are open in practi- ally all Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian
Commonwealth and p .iou a .
Withdrawals on demand may be effected for sums up to £lO at any Office within the Commonwealth
ĥ
Minima
Deposit
SQtu Jakuary, 1913
o
Rate of Interest on
all Deposits up to
£3OO
DENISON MILLEK, Governor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAJJ, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. A. MESTON, Looal Director.
vw
W
7777777777777/7777//,
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
Fount aitiPen
“SAFETY” Type —No matter hou)
carried IT WILL NOT LEAK .
Upside down in pocket or bag—doesn’t matter
a bit. The Pen can’t leak —it’s sealed when
open and sealed when closed. As a pen
—absolutely efficient. Writes smoothly, with-
out spurting or faltering ; lasts a lifetime.
Nibs to suit every hand.
15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and
Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
AUSTRALIA —350, George St,
Sydney.
ill
2
II
11
1111
%
111
V/W",
V/ , liH rt V
1. 'Ill 1
**W«M*’
HERE’S AN ATTRACTIVE OFFER!
This Splendid Watch,
wr
Only
3111
C*«MfoeToftA«c
O R AMTK tti
X
Of course, that price is far below what this reliable
timekeeper is worth. Half-a-guinea is what you would
be charged elsewhere, but we are gifting it away at
3/11, in order to advertise our King of All Cigars and
Corn Cob Tobacco. Read how you can get this watch.
Send 2/6 for a Trial Packet of 10 Cigars, and 3/11 for the Watch.
Kins Of All Reina Victoria, Heavyweight or Rothschild, 4
for 1/-. Sample Box of 10, 2/6; 50 for 9/6; Box of 100,
18/6. Post Free. . .
Kins of All Buenos, 6d. each, 3 for 1 /-; 50 for 16/6;
100, 32/6. Post Free.
Kins of All Clubs, 20/- Box of 50. Post Free.
Albert, Cable Shape, 1/- extra.
TOBACCO.
2oz. Block Corn Cob (Light or Dark), lOd. ; the watch 3/11;
postage, 6d. ; total, 5/3. Inter-State, 2d. extra. The watch
only, 10/6, Post Free.
Large Plug Corn Cob (Light or Dark), 1/4; the Wat*,
3/11; postage, 6d. ; total, 5/9. Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per
lb. boxes, 6/-; 2oz. packets, 6/6; inter-State extra.
Craig & AitKen,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
‘TheMoney
Maker.” J
i
1
■
JERDANS,
The House of Quality in
Cinematograph Goods.
/ _
SOLE AGENTS for the
Silent Empire Bioscope
THE WORLD'S BEST MACHINE.
We can Supply Complete Plants,
Machine, Gas, Outfit, etc., at
£45
We hold Full Stocks of ARC LAMPS,
SATURATORS, FILMS, SLIDES,
RETORTS, CONDENSERS, etc.
Send for Complete Lists, which we will
forward on application.
We also give Complete Entertainments
Anywhere and Everywhere.
393 George Street, Sydney.
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCIvE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
ENGLISH SEEDS
FOR YOUR GARDEN
The best English Flower and Vege-
table Seeds are supplied by the world-
renowned seed specialists, Ryder &
Son, St. Albans, England.
WRITE FOR FREE CATALOGUE (Rest Free),
which lists flowers and vegetables of
every variety, including the newest
strains and latest novelties. The Cata-
logue costs nothing. Send ior it to-day.
RYDER & SON, Ltd., Seed Specialists,
Holywell Hill, St. Albans, Eng.
LETTERS COPIED
ħ
A
m
WHILE WRITING (IN IN! )
by using your own Letter Pape r.
Invoices, etc., with this Copying-
book. You simply insert yoi r
Letter paper (as illustrated) th» n
write: and the act of writing pi *>-
duces a perfect letter and a pc r-
fect copy in the book. There is
no sign of your having taken a
Copy : no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies eithf r
200 letters size 10 by 8 in., or 4' <)
size Bby 5, price 3/9; or Bo< k
N.S.C /400 copies 400 or 800 re-
spectively, price SI- post free,
cash with order. Special Daint v
ZANETIC'
patent**
c toSK g
Octavo Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double capacii v
for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zanetic Ink Paper which
makes the copy, free , if stamped addressed envelope sent io
S.B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd. f LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Every pen has a point.
Here are cloven points you
ought to remember:
The first is the Onoto fills
itself in a flash from any
ink supply.
The second is it cannot
leak.
The rest are “To get an
Onoto now” for posses-
sion is nine points, says
the law.
Get an Onoto pen, and know what
writing comfort really is.
Your own pen, suited to your hand,
wherever you may happen to be.
Onoto
Self-Filling . •
Safety Fountain
Pen
Price 12/- and upwards, at all
Stationers, Stores, Jewellers, &c.
British made by British labour.
Booklet free on application to Thos.
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 195 Runhil!
Row, E.C., or the Australasian Repre-
sentative, Norman Baker, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
Important.— For- those who require a larger
pen wiifii a very flexible nib, a special m> pel
the new G—has been put on the market.
It is exceptional value f'.r the Try
this new 6 at your stationer's
Always use ONOTO INK-the best for
fountain and all other pens.


Tenders.
Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Railway.
WATER TANK WAGGONS.
TENDERS will be received, until 11 a.m.
on WEDNESDAY, 26th FEBRUARY,
1913* for the Manufacture and Supply of 20
Water Tank Waggons of 2400 Gallons
capacity.
Forms of Tender, Snecification, Conditions
of Contract, and Drawings can be seen after
3rd February at the Commonwealth Railway
Offices, 84 William Street, Melbourne; and
also at the offices of The Works Director,
Customs House, Sydney; the Commonwealth
Public Service Inspectors at Brisbane, Ade-
laide, Perth and Ilobart.
The charge for each copy of specification
will we fl Is., and for each copy of plan 55.,
which must be paid before the Documents
can be handed over.
. Tenders, accompanied by deposit men-
tioned in form of tender, should be endorsed
“Tender for 2400-Gallon Water Tank Wag-
gons for Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Rail-
way,” and are to be addressed to: The
Secretary, Department of Home Affairs, Mel-
bourne.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of fecate for Home Affairs.
Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Railway.
SEPARATE QUOTATIONS will be re-
ceived by the Engineer-in-Chief for
Commonwealth Kailways, 84 William Street,
Melbourne, till 11 a.m. on WEDNESDAY,
26th FEBRUARY, 1913, for the following
services. Delivery to be quoted c.i.f. Port
Augusta, S.A., and Fremantle, W.A., respec-
tively ; one of each kind of article specified
being required at each place. The articles
are urgently required, and time of delivery is
to be stated. Price not to include wharfage
charges at destination.
The successful Tenderers will be required
to lodge a deposit of 2J per cent., minimum
£5.
OIL ENGINE.
30-35 B.H.P. Oil Engine (horizontal type
suitable for electric light combined with
belt-driven power load), to run on kero-
sene or crude oil.
12in. LATHE.
12in. Centre. Cap Lathe. Bed, 12 to 15 feet.
Screwcutting, traversing and facing mo-
tions. Including countershafting, set of
AW. Lathe Cutting Tools, and set of
Whitworth Chases.
6in. LATHE.
6in. Centre Gap Lathe. Bed 6 to 8 feet.
Screwcutting, traversing and facing mo-
tions. Including countershafting, all Lathe
Cutting Tools, and set of Hand Chases.
4ft. RADIAL DRILL.
4ft. Radius Radial Drilling Machine. Table
removable. Including countershafting and
set of high-speed twist Drills, Jin. to 2Jin.
(in l-16ths and tapping sizes from Jin. to
2Jin.).
SAW BENCH.
Saw Bench, with Saw 30in. diam. Rising
Table, including 2 Saws.
UNIVERSAL JOINER.
Universal Joiner, with complete set of Cut-
ters, necessary countershafting, etc.
POWER SAW.
Power Hack Saw; to cut to 6in. x 6in
6 dozen spare Blades.
HAND SCREWING MACHINE.
Hand Screwing Machine; screw tubes, Jin
to 2m., and bolts Jin. to ljin.
PORTABLE FORGE.
Portable Forge, “Buffalo,” 24in.
HYDRAULIC JACKS.
4 20-ton Hydraulic Jacks.
HYDRAULIC PUMP.
Hydraulic Hand Pump to 2501 b. per sq. in.
KING O’MALLEY.
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 12th February, 1913.
Appointment of a General Manager for
Cockatoo Island Dockyard.
PPLICATIONS are invited from persons with
Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering experience,
qualified for the position of GENERAL MANAGER
of COCKATOO ISLAND DOCKYARD, Sydney, New
South Wales.
Appointment to be for five years, terminable at
three months’ notice on either side. Extension of
appointment at the conclusion of the five years to
be optional.
If resident out of Australia, passage of General
Manager and family to and from Australia to be pro-
vided by the Commonwealth Government, unless
appointment is terminated at General Manager’s own
request before the expiration of the five years.
Applicants should apply by letter, stating date and
place of birth, give details and proof of their training
and experience, and should forward copies of testi-
monials; applicants should also state salary required;
salary to include all allowances except travelling
(no quarters will be provided).
Aoplications, addressed to the Naval Secretary,
Navy Office, Melbourne, should reach him not later
than 15th APRIL, 1913.
S. A. PETIIEBRIDGE,
Secretary, Department of Defence.
Business Notices.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
r"
K-"?*
h
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli-
v cation. Only address
34 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
overnment Notices.
NOTICE.
Sale of Mineral Leases and Plant—
Northern Territory.
CT BALED Tenders will be received at the Office of
the Administrator of the Northern Territory of
Australia, at Darwin, up to the 31st day of MARCH,
1913, for the purchase of four (4) Mineral Leases,
each of an area of 80 acres, and comprising the
whole of that mining property known as the Daly
River Copper Mine, and for the purchase of a Re-
verberatory Furnace, with slag heap, at such Mine.
This property is situated about 60 miles west-
erly from the Brock’s Creek railway station, on the
Darwin-Pine creek Railway, and about four (4)
miles from the Daly River Landing; the river being
navigable to such landing to vessels drawing not
more than five and a half (sj) feet.
The present Mineral Lease of the property ex-
pires on the 31st day of March, 1913, when the
Leaseholders have to give up possession.
The smelter on the mine was built in 1908. Its
capacity is approximately 150 to 180 tons of ore
a month. It is pointed out that recently through
unauthorised tampering with the stays, the roof of
the furnace has fallen in, so that before the smelter
can be utilised, extensive repairs will be necessary.
The term of the Mineral Lease will be for 99
years from the 30th day of June, 1913, the rental
Is. per acre per annum, and 2i per centum of the
net profits; the conditions, reservations and stipula-
tions pertaining are, with two alterations, those
laid down in the Northern Territory Mining Act
and Regulations in respect to Mineral Leases.
Each tender must be accompanied by a cheque
for £2OO marked “Good” at the Bank.
Further particulars can be obtained at the Exter-
nal Affairs Department, Northern Territory Branch,
Melbourne, and the Government Secretary’s Office,
Darwin. ■ •
J. A. GILRUTH, Administrator.
Office of the Administrator, Darwin.
(This advertisement is in lieu of that which ap-
peared January 30.)
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
F.WOIFFASOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE J
BERLIN • LONDON mJj
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
HIM RODS
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 y jars ago tHe late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the berefitslie
received from KIMRoD a ALiriMA
POWDER, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
Famed for 40 Years.
Best Remedy for Asthma, Kay Fever,
Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by aiT Chemists and S/ores
throughout A ustralusia.
ASTHMA POWDER
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney,
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON. Lie.
Sub-Lessee : ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING.
ALLEN DOONE
Presents his Pretty Comedy Drama,
SWEET COUNTY KEKBY.
PLANS AT PALING’S
PRICES: 4/-, 2/6, 1,/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction ,i. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE THEATRE COOL AND BEAUTIFUL.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
ROSY WITH COMEDY. JOYOUSLY TUNEFUL
DAZZLINGLY DRESSED.
THE SUNSHINE GIIIL
PLANS AT PALING’S
National ajiphitheatre, Sydney.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
SCHEPP’S NOVELTY CIRCUS.
CHAS. DE LEA & GRACE ORMA.
MISS BESSIE SLAUGHTER, Contralto.
KING & THORNTON CO., Eminent American Players.
HERBERT CLIFTON, Character Comedian.
LOUIE DUGGAN. TWO FRANKLINS. Etc.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-, 6d. Saturdays & Holidays, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
ADELPHI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Gisouge Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING,AT 8.
The New Original Play of London Life, entitled,
THE BEGGAR GIRL’S WEDDING.
By WALTER MELVILLE.
The Human Emotions Sublimely Blended.
RESERVES, 4/- POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-.
D ALA C E TIIE\T It E. S~Y DNE Y.
* Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Jo Smith’s Stirring Drama of the Blue Range,
THU BUS II GIRL.
CYRIL MACIvAY as “JACK DUNSTAN.”
EUGENIE DUGGAN as “KATE BRANDON.”
And William Andersoq’s Famous Dramatic < Organisation.
Plans, Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
PRICES: 4/-, 2/6 and 1/-.
"|"HE L.YCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER'S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
QLACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE —SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL OltC'f I l-NTIt AS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
R ICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE
■ * Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
STALEY & BIRBECKS, Mysterious Musical Blacksmiths
MISS CLAIRE ROMAINE, England’s Rollicking Bov.
MAXINI BROS. & BOBBY, Acrobats and Balancers.
MISS ROSIE LLOYD, England’s Vivacious Comedienne
MR. WILL POLUSKI, Creation’s Quaintest Comedian
LANCASTER OPERA/CO.,
CHAS. ZOLI, WELCH & CARBASSE. etc.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 1/-
PE R A HO USE. MELBOURNE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
GASSIE WALMER, in her latest Noveltv Songs.
THE BENI ZOUG ZOUG ARABS, Human Whirlwinds.
RENEE, England’s Beautiful Instrumentaliste.
KITCHEN * FOY, American Bar Comiques.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, Concertina Soloist.
GEO. BRYANT & CO. in “Stung.”
DEMARLO & LADY, in “ A Frog’s Paradise.”
Plan at Allan’s: jig"PRICES—3s., 25.. Is.
yHEA T B £ ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45. :
Magnificent Production of Shakspeare’s Greatest
Coinedv
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 7/6.
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager: William Andelison.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
First Production in Australia of the Romantic Drama,
THE QUEEN OE THE
111 GIIW A Y.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
■ Sole Lessee: -GEO. t MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, FEBRUARY 22.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
In the Great Controversial Attraction,
THE MO N K ,A N D THE
W O M A N.
Prices, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, I/-. Plan at Pianola Co.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
, ' EVERY EVENING AT 7.40.
FIRST PRODUCTION
of \
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ANNUAL EXTRAVAGANZA
IN EOOTS.
THE LAST WORD IN PANTOMIMES.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
What
You Want is Lessons in Elocutio n.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have something to
say woith hearing rio not take the-slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.”—William Ewart Gladstonk.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
of World-Wide Fame
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at the College or by letter.
w
301 A PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Amusements.
SET.
Follies theatre, st. KiLnl
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30 A '
THE SMART
(Direct from London.)
WALTER GEORGE’S ORIGINAL MUSIOAT
COMBINATION. ALWAYS ARTISTS
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EVERY FRIDAY
PRICES: 21- (reserved), 1/6, 1/-, and 6d
Box Plan at Allan’s, Lily Bray ton Floral Studio St Kiln
’Phone. H. J. BEACHAM, Manager
MR. EDWARD BRVX S COM bj s
FIVE COMPANIES OF
D A N D 1 K S.
EVERY EVENING.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE, at 8.30.
“ARCADIA” (late Royal Yacht Club), opp. the Pier
ST. KILDA, at 8.30.
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY, at 8.5
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE
PRINCESS CO T ’RT, ROCKHAL p TON, NIGHTLY
QIRECTION AMALGAMATED PICTURES
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o'clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan's.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
M/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST S PICTURES the B|) ,
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays
and All Holidays at 2.30.”
The Greatest Pictorial En’ti:ui>risk in the Worn it
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Praliran, Vic
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
oil Uie Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with il,-
S'""-ii) LYRIC! ORCHESTRA. r„|. to 2s. I’lan, u
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
pACACE GARDENS, BRISBANE
AIR. ERNEST LEATHLEY’S ENGLISH COSTUJH
COMEDY CO.
THE MOTHS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
An Original and Versatile Entertainment.
Stage Direction : ALF. J. LAWRANCE.
PRICES : 2/- and 1/-
The Palace Gardens are situated at Corner of Ann
Street (North Quay).
g I R C H & CARROLL
(Queensland),
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
I laying Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Business Notices.
Sana Detective Work •• fur
AMAZING MAKE-UPS
A Dozen Changes and Disguises
The Lot fox* Three Shillings
and we pack and pay carriage.
Here’s a bargain chance, boys I Great fun and amusement
can always be had with this collection of Masks and Make-
ps. Yon may be naturally handsome, but a nice mous-
tache will make you positively fascinating Or, if your
beauty is a snare, you can effectually hide it, like the gent
in the middle, with a wig", grog-blossom nose and butterfly
whiskers, that can be worn together or separately. Then
you may slip on an animal mask or startle the ladies as a
gentlemanly demon. There are over a dozen changes you
can effect with all these make-up disguises Just the thing
for detective work. Even your best girl will not know you-
Yon could make love to your mother-in-law without being
found out. Understand the bargain clearly; the wholft
Sot, moustache, wig, nose, whiskers, animal and devil]
masks, a good pound’s worth of fun for 3/- carriage paid
The Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
D. Brahm 8 Co.,
Tailors
are now showing their Winter Stocks of
Materials for
LADIES’ COSTUMES
■ __________________
These Materials are the Latest Produc-
tions of the British Manufacturers, and are
what are now fashionable in the European
centres ; and w-ill be supplemented by further
shipments each fortnight during the coming
season.
A particularly fine range of Pure Indigo
Serges are also being shown.
Our Cutter—Mr. Murphy—gives each cus-
tomer his personal attention.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
Tailors and Costumers,
76 Market Street, SYDNEY


To Printers!
OWING to the introduction of linotype
machinery we have for disposal an
assortment of news type (Miller and
Richard), in case and in good condition.
The following sample faces are offered at
the prices quoted :
About 4001 b. io-pt. Old Style...i/-lb.
About 4001 b. 8-pt. Old Style ij. ib.
About 8001 b. Minion (Plenty of Figures), 10d. lb.
About 6UOllx Nonparjel Cheap at 1/- lb.
Also the following Jobbing Type :
About 1201 b. 8-pt. Cushing 9d, lb.
About 40lb. 8-pt. Cushing Italic 9d. lb.
About 1501 b. 8-pt. Jensen Cheap at 9d. lb.
LARGE QUANTITY OF TYPE
CASES in good condition., at 1/6 each.
THE BULLETIN NEWS CO. LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ĥ
BUY DIRECT
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12 years’
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SAIMDON & STEEDMAN,
76 Finsbury Pavement, London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
WE SA VF YOU POUNDS
m
I
I
fl
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. r\_- ».«..■ ~ .. J
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Bff 0 E Y TO T■ T\T 11 Security of Freehold or Leasehol
Freehold and C P „ . . City or Suburban Properties, or o
of Governmen? lnsetfhert ABrr T U,tUral Lands ° r th * Security
traiian States or New ZelTknd b ViT V r, BiM * of any of the Au9 '
Ol ,_„ 0 „ u _ iealand ii*? AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
ud to*o wr ZTr*T * condltion allowin ? Borrowers the orivilesre of renavinsr
Directors— The it . ... " eoa dunn ~ an Y year, without notice or navmenc of anv iine.
Hon. Jame S ßurm n ML C The* Honß°i’ ChairmanjSenator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Esq., K:C.;Xx MacOormick Fn M *r. ® lack > , M - L C - ’> The Hon. F. E. Wincheombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
HEAD OFFICE: 87 “**'■ "“ d A ® tna,T = Ri^ P EA. F.F.A., F. 5.3.
V c
PELLS
For BILIOUSNESS £f INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION CONQUERED.
There lies the vital secret where so many diseases and ailments are
concerned— Constipation must be conquered, or normal organic action,
freedom from liver and kidney troubles, and from stomach and bowel
disorders, is not possible.
• , Co F kle ’ s Pills conquer Constipation of the most stubbornly aggressive
kind; because they strengthen and stimulate and revivify the organs,
which they cleanse and regulate with such consummate ease and efficiency.
The whole system is freed from the wholesale disturbance due to the con-
stipated tendency, from blood impurities, from effete matter, from lurking
disease. Yet Cockle’s Pills act so gently and pleasingly that the most
delicate persons like them.
Valuable alike IZ Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel, etc. and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants.
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
i
1 m
The “LISTER”
Petrol Engine
BRITISH BUILT.
IJ, 2J, 4, O, 8 & lO H.p.
Stationary and Portable.
Fitted with Bosch High Tension Magneto
Ignition and Automatic Lubrication.
STARTS INSTANTLY AND EASILY.
SAFE :: ECONOMICAL :: DURABLE.
Agents —
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., SYDNEY.
WINCHCOMBE CARSON, LTD., BRISBANE.
HUTCHINSON HUNT, MELBOURNE.
MALLOCH, BROTHERS, PERTH.
LEVIN & COMPANY, LTD,,WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SOLE MAKERS:
R. A. LISTER & Co., Ltd., Dursley, Eng.
/
THE
WORLD’S
BEST /
CREAM
SEPARA-
-TOR
The keen farmer judges by results
Here is a
Proposition
The Melotte
Separator is
placed on the
market at a cost
slightly above
that of the
average cream
separator.
The
Result
The Melotte
has the largest
sale in the
British Empire,
and an annually
increasing one.
The
Conclusion
If the price
is above the
average, the de-
sign, materials,
workmanship,
and construc-
tion, must be
incalculably
above the aver-
age; otherwise
this enormous
sale would be
impossible.
The
Secret
lies in the fact that
once installed,
the Melotte
produces an
increased yield
of the best
cream and butter
throughout a
lifetime of con-
stant use with
practically no
further outlay
for upkeep.
MELOTTE
SEPARATOR SALES Co. L td
BRISTOL, ENGLAND.
Stu
Agents
•New South Wale. : W. S. Friend & Co. Sydney.
Queensland : Clark & Fauset. Bn.bane.
Victoria : T. Robin.on & Co.. Propy.. Ltd..
Melbourne.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and ekptaiH
just how it acts. You use spectacles is sight magni-
fiers, and in the same wav you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles-, the WilsOrt
Common-Sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust. Sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fits the orifice of the eat
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of.course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
horn deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
t>\o
t? d
Or,
(W
07
i v
0
cured, find you can be cured, too. You mav wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t deiay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can. .
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address ‘
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
M.B.FOSTERS
BUGLE
if
Wim
BRAND
ft
THERE IS NO
OTHER JUST
AS GOOD.
ħ
Pipes
GBD
Pipes
SPECIAL SILVER
MOUNTED.
SUPERIOR TO
ALL OTHER
MAKES IN
AUSTRALIA.
A
i
N
Specially
Designed
it a
Cultivated
s’ Taste-
ALL GOOD
SMOKERS
USE THEM
8103
—THE WORLD OVER-
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston— “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney,


ALL OVER FACE
And Part of Body, Began by Pimpled,
Little or No Sieep on Account of
Agony It Caused, Skin Cleary
Thanks to Cuticura Remedies,
“Wilcannia,” Dillon St.; Paddington,’
Sydney, N. S. W. —“ I had been troubled for
about four years with a terrible skin com-
V
plaint all bver my face and
body: It began first by pim-
ples showing but, then a red
rash came spreading all over
my face and part of my body
which lasted for about eigh-
teen to twenty months during
which time I Could get little
or no sleep oh account of the
agony it caused me. I tried all sorts of oint-
inents, powders, etc., With a View to curing
myself but without aVail, until t was rec-
ommended to try Cuticura Soap and Qint-
inent and after using a little Cuticura Oint-
ihent and One cake of Cuticura Soap I did
hot know myself, the contrast being sol
marked. I continued using the Cuticura
Ointment together with Cuticura Resolvent
and in a very short time my skin became as
clear as ever thanks to the use of Cuticura
Remedies, which I might say I still use and
would not be without them for anything;’!
(Signed) O, Carlson, IVovt fe, i9ii<
TO REMOVE DANDRUFF
Prevent dry, thin and falling hair, allay
itching and irritation, and promote the
growth and beauty of the hair, frequent
Shampoos with Cuticura Soap, assisted by*
Occasional dressings witii Cuticura Oint-
ment, afford a most effective and economical
treatment. Cuticura Soap and Ointment
sold everywhere. Liberal sample of each
mailed free, with 32-p. Skin Book. Address
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N, S. W.
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.B.a>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally' suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Violent Cathartics
Injure Health
Don’t take purgatives—their harsh action
is liable to injure the bowels. Why not use
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, a purely vegetable '
remedy that has been /
successfully
millions for half-a- /
century. Acts
gently but surely
and not only
quickly re-
lieves but
for ever
ends the misery of constipation. Use them for dizzi-
ness, indigestion, sick headache and all liver troubles.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
The
GENUINE
must bear
Signature
h
TO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr-Qrowlng Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those Who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc,, know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
1 reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth, I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. 1 had 1 given up the idea of ever growing hair
again l . One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate ehefni'st, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street. Sydnev.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/Is', 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
•djiterodf^
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cufs short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
*he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a ,charin In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
BOVRIL
by virtue of its body-building power
fortifies the system against the attacks
of illness.
By Appointment to
ħ
His Majesty the King.
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
h
ĥ
“Swan Safety'
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
op Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) : J. A. BURKE.'IS Waltham Building, 24 Bond St. Sydney.
'/ss/s//y////s'. yjy/s///s/sssssssi
A'
ksjnv
Benger’s is the most easily
digested of all foods.
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
• IZ
for Infants, Invalids, and the Aged, enjoys the
universal recommendation of Medical men in all
cases of severe or temporary illness, and during
convalescence.
Food
Post free—to an who have the care of Infants and Inralids, a 48-pat*
Booklet, *• Benger’s Food and How to Use It."
BENGER’B FOOD, Ltd., Otter Work*, MANCHESTER, ENO
117, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N,B.W.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, tic., everywhere.
Business, Robbery, etc.
A curious sign of the times,is that Farthing,
MJJ.A., voluntarily abandons his license of the Duke
of Rdthsay Hdtel, Elizabeth-street, near the Mel-
bourne Railway Statiori, iri brder that it may become
part of the Craig-Williamsbfi 1 drSfpfefy shop. The
Licensing Commission would, never think of putting
this eminently respectable 61d putrip but bf action ;
nevertheless it goes, simply. because while Beer, pays
well, Bonnets pay better. Melbourne’s biggest change
is taking place in once-frowsy Flinders-street and
thereabouts. Pubs perhaps excepted, property values
keep on rapidly mounting, especially , near the two
entrances to the railway statioh. Prices in that
quarter already threaten almost the best in Collins-
street, and beat almost the best in Bourke-street.
* *: * *
'‘Pax”': ffl tepfy to C. J. Hutton” (B.
16/l/’l3) re the Dandfenhrig rib-operative bacon fac-
tory and the surprising gobdrifisfc Of Private Enter-
prise to the unsophisticated pig-breeder, let ffie say that
the Co-op. Cos. did not “spend the money it received'
from the trustful farmer in putting up a ,gi eat factory
capable of handling the bacon trade of Australia, and
forgot that some money would be required to run the
business.” The factory premises to date have cbht
under £25,000, and so far from being capable of
“handling the bacon trade of Australia,” they can at
utmost pressure deal with only 600 pigs per week,
about three-eighths of the output of Gippsland alone.
The real reason why the Co-operative factory ran
temporarily out of funds was that the farmers were
so satisfied with the private factories’ benevolent
treatment of them in the past, that the moment they
had a chance to sell their pigs to someone else they
rushed them into the Co-op. factory at the rate of
2000 a week. This is how the true position shows
out, taking the price of pigs in 1911 and 1912 :
i9ll (BtiVate Enterprise 1912 (The Co-op.
the Only Co. a Buyer).
July . . 425. to 475. 60s. to 07s.
August .. 445. to 48s. 755. id §4s.
September 455. to 50s. 90s to 105 s
October . . 40s. to 465. 675. to 775!
November 325. to 365. 665. to 755.
These figures are from Adamson and Strettle’s re-
ports, as published by that firm, and deal mainly with
Gippsland pigs in yardings of about 2000. Perhaps
Mr. Hutton can explain why it happened in 1912,
hen the Co-operative factory broke in on the “hon-
orable understanding” amongst buyers that the price
of pigs went up by 18s. to 50s. per carcase. He might
further explain why, when pigs were quoted at 365.
bacon was Is. per lb., the same as it was in Septem-
ber, 1912, when pigs were worth 105 s. Regarding his
contradiction of my statement that when the Co-
operative Cos. ceased to be a buyer the bottom dropped
out of the market, I again quote figures. In Novem-
ber the best price for bacon pigs was 755. ;in
December (with the Co-operative Cos. not buying) it
was 545. If a fall of 21s. per pig is not dropping
the bottom out of a market, I would like to know
what is. However, Mr. Hutton may rest assured that
the farmers intend to put up the money and see their
factory through. They have had such an enlightening
acquaintance with bacon firms that nothing will in-.
duce some of them to trust themselves to Private En-
terprise’s tender mercies again.
* * * *
“Jag”: At the Castlemaine (Vic.) Police Court
the Other day, one Jones was charged before the
P.M. with “carrying away two bottles of beer from
licensed premises on a Sunday.” Jones, having no
defence, was declared guilty and fined 10s., and an
order was made that the beer be not returned to
Jones. In Jones I’m not interested; but lam con-
sumed with a feverish desire to know the fate of
Jones’s beer. What would you do with two bottles
of confiscated beer in midsummer ?
* * * *
A job in an English patent medicine factory has
its stern side. John Charles Umney, managing
director of a big drug co., in giving evidence before
a select committee of the House of Commons, ex-
plained that he tried his preparations first on about
20 or 30 of his employees. Dr. Chappie, of Maori-
land, expressed surprise; but Umney merely said
that he took some of the stuff himself and went
carefully. It seems an unhappy business; but in
the land of Cobden people have to do strange things
for a crust. Henceforth, the phrase “trying it on
the dog” is obsolete. Possibly through the pressing
claims of the meat market, dog is too valuable for
experiment. .
“H.”: Probably a proposal on the part of the
Commonwealth Government to run national liners
between Australia and Europe would move the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Commerce to indignant protest
that the time was not ripe, or insufficiently wet, or
something. But, all the same, the Associated Cham-
bers of Commerce realise that they are struggling
helplessly in the grip of the tremendous Shipping
Ring. Their experience over bills of lading has
taught them that. And they can get no redress. All
the lines issue practically the same bills; and not
one will amend the one-sided and objectionable
clauses. The Commonwealth, Canadian and U.S.
Governments do not allow the ship-owners to draft
their own B’s.L., but the British Government does;
and the attention of the Empire Trade Commission,
which will sit in Australia next April, is to be
drawn to the matter. Australian importers appar-
ently believe that the Commission may be able
to induce the British Government to compel the Ring
to give a fairer deal. But if the shipping cos. have
a horrible understanding among themselves regard-
ing this matter, they may have another with regard
to freights ; so the importers may merely pull them-
selves out of one pot of soup to fall into another.
“Frank S.”: Taken by and large, grocers, some-
how, are Tories of the third degree ; wherefore natur-
ally their trade journal prints things like this: —“An
American storekeeper writes: ‘lt takes something else
besides buying to make a success in any kind of
business. My first resolution was that the sun should
never shine on my front door. I would have it open
before sun-up, and not close it till sundown.’ ” The
journal’s precious comment on this is: “It is un-
necessary to say that this would be impossible under
local conditions, because, in Australia, though few
of us realise it, there is not much individual freedom
and the law decrees when we shall open and when
we shall close our shops.” So the grocer longs for
the good old times, when the shops were open all day
and most of the night, and the assistants had to work
like galley-slaves for next-to-nothing. In America,
where the ridiculous extract came from, shops are
open all hours. Yet, no matter when they open or
close, the sales in the aggregate are the same. No
one buys an extra bar of soap or a tin of kerosene
because the shop is open at sun-up. The Australian
system is really therefore a money saver, besides
giving the shop hands a fair deal. A fair deal—for
the other fellow —is, however, just what the average
Tory seems to hate most.
HER DIAMOND-STUDDED HEELS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The craze which has taken hold of American women
~—(that of diamond-studded heels to their shoes, or
Such jewels set into them as harmonise With toilette
has made .its d j/p'eatane'e in Sydney, Uriel the first ex-
ponent of the fashibn Ms been! seen at Randwickv
—Fashion note, Syanefl TEI/BGuGri'H (2 : 8 ; /i/’i3).-
The young man sat at her dainty friet arid! tbid her
the same old lies;
The Hop was far bri his rindlesS beat, So there were rib
prying eyes ;
They sat alone in a wide, greed park, arid the passers-
by were few;
And the schoolgirl eyes she shyly hid Were violets
wet With dew.
He told his love, and he tolct it well, for an bid,' bid
hand Was he,
While the sdftly efiimlrig convent bell called bver the
greenwood tree;
But the flapper loVed, a$- all flapp'ers do,* and she hung
her foolish head.
Then, when the villain had dazed her quite —-fie
dragged off her shoes and fled i
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Illliil
1 '
' I
NEARLY
ONE MILLION BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY IN
AUSTRALASIA
PERTH
, ADELAIDE
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
L Kt
mN
Df MORSES
(Cl
D
D
A
*ss
V6S
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets.
A SAFE, SURE AND RELIALE REMEDY
FOR THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IN
CHILDREN AND ADULTS.
Worms, by their movements, and the interrup-
tion they offer to the contents of the bowels,
generally occasion pain or uneasiness in the ab-
domen, sometimes spasmodic, sometimes gnaw-
ing or biting, and not infrequently of a vague,
indescribable character, and yet very distress-
ing. Sympathetic with this is a sensation of itch-
ing at the anus and at the nostrils, producing a
disposition to scratch the fundament and pick
the nose, which is characteristic of this affec-
tion. The bowels are often disordered, some-
times constipated or stopped, and sometimes
relaxed with occasional bloody discharges, as
in dysentery. The discharge is sometimes in
shreds or flakes, which are not infrequently
mistaken for fragments of partially-digested
food. It is not uncommon for portions of un-
digested food to pass with the discharges. The
appetite is exceedingly variable; in some cases
natural, in others deficient, craving or de-
praved; one condition not infrequently alter-
nating with another. The abdomen is often
hard, swollen and tympanetic, tile breath heavy
or foetid, the tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste and a copious flow of saliva; swelling of
the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and dis-
position to grind the teeth during sleep are
other characteristic symptoms. The effects,
however, often extend beyond the alimentary
canal, and various derangements of health are
experienced in consequence either of the direct
irritation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Among the
most common of these are flervous affections,
such as fretfulness, irritation of temper, wake-
fulness, or disposition to excessive sleep, dis-
turbed sleep, sudden starting out of sleep, as if
from fright, dizziness, spasmodic movements
of the eyelids, dilated pupils, perverted vision,
temporary blindness and deafness. General con-
vulsions are not infrequent in children, and
symptoms strongly resembling “Water on the
Brain” have been ascribed to worms and have
ceased on their expulsion.
Cases of St. Vitus’ dartre, melancholia and
nervous diseases, and even insanity, have been
attributed, with the most apparent reason, to
the same cause. In addition to these affections
may be mentioned obstinate cough, spasm of
the glottis, palpitation, languid circulation,
pale and yellowish skin, sunken eyes, a livid
circle about the eyelids, and a general emacia-
tion. This condition is often accompanied by
fever, and is then called worm fever. Persons
in apparently perfect health may be afflicted
with worms, and the only symptoms may be
periods of irritableness or a constant desire
for something to eat, which may last for
months until the system breaks down, and the
worms manifest their presence in some other
manner.
Worms have frequently been described by
medical men as ‘“the Children’s Enemy.” Un-
doubtedly there is rto greater enemy to health,
happiness and comfort in children than the
presence of worms in the stomach and intes-
tines; causing an indescribable irritation and
gnawing in the bowels, which upsets its vic-
tim, impairs the health, spoils the temper,
f^ d mother to distraction, and earns
for the little innocent the harsh and unde-
served reputation of being “a cross child.”
Unfortunately many mothers fail to recog-
nise the fact that their litle ones are suffering
intense pain and distress, and are practically
irresponsible for the outbursts of temper, rest-
lessness and peevishness, and until some more
serious symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of this
< lsease are somewhat variable, but generally
they are so characteristic that no mother need
have any doubts. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if the general conduct of the child
is such as to give the slightest suspicion, an
examination of the stools (evacuation from the
bowels) will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an indif-
ferent state of health. It becomes peevish and
irritable in its temper, and complains of itch-
ing of the nose, whilst the same symptom may
be very prominent indeed in the lower part of
the bowel. Another point to which the attention
of mothers should be specially directed is that
the child is apt to start in its sleep, its repose
being in this way of a disturbed nature. Note
also that many children who are in the habit of
wetting their beds do so by reason of the irri-
tation which these worms produce in the body,
the irritation extending to the bladder and
causing it involuntarily to part with its con-
tents.
In every heap of decaying matter there is
always to be found a nest of worms. They
breed and multiply in impure matter. And so
it is in the human system. The accumulation
of partially digested food in the intestines,
which becomes putrid when the bowels are con-
stipated, induces the presence of worms. A
few doses of Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets, followed by a dose or two of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, will disturb them
in their nest and drive them out of the system.
INCORRECT DIAGNOSIS.
TONIC PRESCRIBED KoR WERE KNOWN
SYDNEY MAN WHO HAD LOST THIRTY
POUNDS IN WHUiHT. WORMS THE
CAUSE.
“Some time ago I began losing weight in an
alarming manner,” writes Mr. G. B. Renton, of
14 Sir John Y'oung’s Crescent, Sydney, “so
much so that I went to see a doctor, who ex-
amined me and came to the conclusion it was
due to overwork and worry. I continued to
lose weight, and also suffer from peculiar in-
ternal pains. I became very anxious at the
continued loss of weight, and thinking I might
be going into a decline went to a second doc-
tor, who examined me thoroughly and gave
about the same opinion as the former one had
done, and prescribed a tonic. One night going
home in the train I read one of your advertise-
ments giving symptoms of people who have
worms. The symptoms given strongly coin-
cided with my own, and I determined to test
the question. I accordingly procured a packet
of your Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets,
and took eight tablets, and in the morning
four Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and to my
intense satisfaction and relief passed two very
large stomach worms. I took them in a glass
and showed them to the doctor who had last
examined me, and who had prescribed the
tonic, and it is needless to say he was
surprised at the result. Altogether I lost thirty
pounds in two months, due to these worms,
and you may believe me I was thoroughly
alarmed, thinking I might have consumption.
I regained all this lost weight immediately I
rid my system of the worms, and am in splen-
did health at present. These are the simple
facts, which spt>ak for themselves, and I shall
be only too pleased to confirm them to any
person who doubts their truth. You have my
permission to use this for publication.
TOO WEAK TO WALK.
DUE TO WORMS. MARVELLOUS RESULTS
OBTAINED FROM COMSTOCK'S “DEAD
SHOT” WORM PELLETS.
“My little girl, now four and a half years of
age, was suffering for over four years,” writes
Mrs. F. Weiss, of 463 Riley Street, Surry Hills,
Sydney. “She appeared to have consumption
of the bowels, and -I took her to the Hospital,
where they prescribed powders, which I gave
her, but did not seem to do any good. I then
discovered she had Worm Fever, and tried
various medicines, which, although they caused
tier to pass some worms, only afforded tem-
porary relief. One day I received one of your
books describing what Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’
Worm Pellets had done for other children, and
I straight away procured a packet. After the
first dose, the result was simply marvellous,
the child passing hundreds of worms. This
was four months ago. I have since continued
the treatment, and feel sure she is now practi-
cally rid of them. Whereas previously my
daughter was very thin, and that weak she
could not walk, she is now full of life and
energy, and for this I have to thank Com-
stock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets. You have
my permission to use this for advertising pur-
poses, and I shall be only too pleased to re-
commend them at every opportunity.”
THE USE OF PURGATIVES.
Although the use of medicines which are
simply purgatives may cause the discharge of
some small worms, such medicines are useless
to thoroughly eradicate the pest. Physics which
do not kill the worms and their eggs have no
permanent results, as the worms pass through
the matter in the intestines and reach the up-
per portion of the bowels or the stomach, or
fasten themselves to the membranes of the in-
testines until the effect of the purgative is
over. Worms require a specific medicine, and
there is no remedy so effective as Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets. They kill the
worms, destroy their eggs and dislodge their
nests.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
scientific preparation, prepared in the form of
a sweet that children eagerly take. They are
packed in glass tubes with full directions in
each, and are for sale by chemists and stores
generally at 2s. 9d. per packet (or six packets
for 15s.); and if unable to obtain locally, will
be mailed post free on receipt of price. Pre-
pared only by the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; and Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
COMSTOCK’S
NERVE AND BONE LINIMENT.
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment is a
powerful, penetrating preparation, acting
through the pores of the skin on the nerves,
bones and muscles.
It possesses the marvellous properties of an
immediate painkiller, and is unequalled as a
remedy for the aches and pains to which human
beings are subject, and which only au external
remedy can relieve.
It overcomes all pains and aches by relieving
the effect on the delicate nerves, causing the
circulation of blood to be fully maintained
through the injured part. It is an invaluable
remedy for sprains and for reducing all swell-
ings. which, under its powerful influence, be-
come softened and disappear.
Rheumatism, Sciatica and Lumbago all yield
to the powerful, penetrating and conquering
properties of this Liniment, if used in con-
nection with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, ac-
cording to directions.
For Stiff Joints, Neuralgia, Lame Back,
Scalds, Burns, Contracted Muscles and Painful
Swellings it will be found that Comstock’s
Nerve and Bone Liniment has no equal. Bath-
ing, friction, oils, liniments and ointments
have in thousands of cases proved utterly un-
availing. Stiff Joints and Sprains that have
resisted all other treatment have yielded to the
powerful influence of Comstock’s Nerve and
Bone Liniment. The persevering use of this
liniment will cause the most stubborn case to
relax.
DISLOCATED SHOULDER.
UNABLE To USE RIGHT ARM FOR SIY
MONTHS. COMSTOCK’S NERVE AND
BONE LINIMENT AFFORDS WONDER
FUL RELIEF.
“As I always believe in giving credit where
credit. is due,” writes Mrs. E. Maher, of Nil
Desperandum, Dartbrook Road, Auburn, “I am
sending this statement in praise of Comstock’s
Nerve and Bone Liniment. Just 12 months ago
1 dislocated my shoulder, and for about six
months suffered continually, being unable to do
any work that necessitated the use of my
right arm. I was treated by a doctor, and also
tried various Liniments recommended by dif-
ferent chemists, but all to no purpose, the
severe pains still continuing. After being in
this state for about six months, I one day
read an advertisement containing some testi-
monials from people who had benefited by the
use of this remedy, and so decided to test it
myself. After trying the first bottle I felt
much relief. I am now using my fourth bottle,
and find I can use my shoulder with consid-
erably more ease, and intend continuing to
treat myself with Comstock’s Nerve and Bone
Liniment, as I know of nothing to equal it. I
am only too pleased to allow you to use this
for advertising purposes, and would confirm
same to anyone calling on me.”
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment is ob-
tainable from all the leading chemists and
storekeepers, or will be sent post free on re-
ceipt of price, 2s. 6d. per bottle (or six bottles
13s. 6d.), by The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney; or Parish
Street, Wellington, N.Z.


ħ
h
TROUT and PERCH TACKLE.
We are the Leading and Largest Importers in Australia of High-class Fishing Tackle.
It doesn't matter whether
you have shillings or
pounds to spend, we will
fit you out better than
any other house. SEND
YOUR ORDER-NOW.
RODS.
The “Perfection” Split Cane Fly Rod, n feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, waterproof lock joints, best agate bridge and
end rings. Highest quality £7/10/-
No. 1. Split Cane Trout Rod, 104 and 11 feet, 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, lock joints, agate bridge and end rings. This
rod is very closely whipped £5/10/-
The M.S. Split Cane Rod, 104 and 114 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, solid winch fittings, serrated ferrules, snake rings,
etc £2
Same as above, but with Steel Centre £2/10/-
Our M.S. Specialities are absolutely the biggest value obtainable.
No. 7. Split Cane Rod, 104 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
nickel-plated mountings, spiral guides 7/6
No. 8. Split Cane Rod, 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
best fittings, snake rings, welted ferrules, two-color silk whip-
pings, put up on flannel-covered wood form 22/6
No. 10. Split Cane Rod, 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
nickel-plated fittings, welted ferrules, snake rings, etc. 17/6
No. 12. Finest Greenheart Rod, 104 and 11 feet, 3
joints, 2 tops, cork grip, best lock joints, serrated ferrules, rev.
end rings, best fittings, stained olive green £2/10/-
M.S. Guinea Greenheart Rod, 104 and 114 feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, snake rings, best fittings. A first-class rod,
suitable for any of our trout streams 21/-
REELS.
No. 1. M.S. Perfection Reels, made of best hardened
aluminium alloy, patent brake attachment —
No.
3in., 25/-; 3% in., 30/-
3. I.X.L. Fly Reels, made of best hardened metal,
optional check, oscillating line guard—
3in., 25/-; 3Min., 27/6; 3Min., 30/-
Hardy Bros.* Renowned Specialities.
Hardy’s Patent Contracted Perfect Reel, with ball
bearing-g and regulating check, specially designed for dry fly
and general trout fishing, 3%in., 42/6; 3 % in., 457-
Hardy’s “Corona Superba” Double Taper Trout Ply
Lines, made from highest-quality silk, a beautiful, soft and
pliant line, suitable for wet or dry fly fishing. Length 35
yards. 1.D.1., 20/-; 1.C.1., 23/6; 287-
Hardy's Improved Halcyon Spinners, very certain in
hooking—
-1 Min., 2/-; 2/3; 2in., 2/6 3in., 3/3
LINES.
“Kingfisher” Double Taper Trout Fly Lines— a High-
class Line —-
30 yards No. 2, 10/-; No. 3, 11/6
40 yards .. No. 1, 11/6; No. 2, 12/6; No. 3, 13/6
42 yards .. No. 4, 22/6; No. 5, 25/-; No. 6, 27/6
Perfect Waterproof Plaited Silk Lines. A good-quality
level line, put up in coils of 25 yards connected—
No. 40, 2/6; No. 30, 3/- per 25 yards
LANDING NETS.
No. 1. M.S. “Perfect” Collapsible Trout Net 167-
No. 8. “Quicksure” Collapsible Trout Net. 307-
No. 9. X.L. Collapsible Net, telescopic handle 14/6
CAST CASES fSI BOXES.
No. 1. Palley’s Cast Case, parchment pockets... 3/6
No. IC. Hand-sewn Pigskin Cast Case, with dressed
castdamper 7/6
No. 2. Japanned Round Cast Box, 4in. diameter 1/6
No. 5. Aluminium Round Cast Box, with Felt
P ads 1/6
FLY BOXES.
No. 1. Best Eyed Fly Boxes, with spring clips, mounted
to Xylonite—
-51 clips, 4/6: 85 clips, 5/6; 119 clips, 7/-
No. 6. Aluminium Fly Box, fitted with 69 Spring
cli P s 9/6
We have absolutely the largest and best assorted stock of High
Class Fishing Tackle in Australia to select from. Get our List—
It will save you money.
FISHING BAGS.
No. 1. M.S. Fishing Bag, made from best canvas with
detachable waterproof lining— ’ u
Medium, 12/6; Large I s ;/
No. 2. “Perfect” Fishing Bag, made from a strong u/ h I
cloth. Has an expanding net on front— 81
Medium, 16/6; Large io/«
NO. 3. I.X.L. Fishing Bag, made from a strong JriS
cloth, with detachable, rubber-faced cloth lining, and t 1
pockets on front for carrying tackle—
Medium, 14/6; Large, le/a
GAFFS.
No. 1. One Slide Telescopic Gaff
No. 2. Two Slide Telescopic Gaff, with point Vro-
tector •• • t«/ «
No. 3. Best Two Slide Telescopic Gaff' very su
perior 17/6
SUNDRIES.
Wading Trousers, made from best Cashmerette, light weight
strong and durable, all sizes 42/- pair
Brogues, leather, with canvas upper, all sizes 25/- pair
Trout Flies, all the latest and standard patterns, from 2/- doz
Perch Flies, very best quality i /«
Others, from tfd each
Spinning Head Flies, for Trout and Perch, a very successful
bait last season. Perch size, 1/6; Trout size, 1/4 each
Spinning Head Halcyons—
-1 % in., 1/4; 2in., 1/6; 2}4in., 1/9; 3in., 2/- each
Flying Waterwitch Baits, highly successful—
-1 34 in., 2/-; 2in., 2/3; 2% in., 2/6; 3in., 3/- each
Rouke Spinners, a good trout bait each
Invincible Spinners, a splendid bait 9,j‘ eac)l
THESE ARE ONLY A FEW OF THE LINES
WE STOCK. For a FULL ILLUSTRATED
DESCRIPTION OF ALL FISHING TACKLE
SEE OUR SIXTH EDITION TACKLE CATA-
LOGUE, containing a page of colored flies. The
Biggest and Best Book of its kind published.
Write now posted free anywhere.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
HEAD
The Premier TacKle House of Australia,
DEPOT; HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Fairbanks-Morse Marine
Engines
For Pleasure Craft and Work Boats
They start without cranking, run
smoothly and always develop more
than rated power. Simple.
Compact. All parts easily acces-
sible and interchangeable. Re-
markable for their reliability and
economy in fuel consumption. Price
Reasonable. Fully Guaranteed.
High Speed Engines, 3A to 24 H.P.
Slow Speed Engines, 7 A and 15 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.CV1939.
Fairbanks-Morse
Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy engines especially suited
for pumping or running light machinery.
Simple. Compact. Two sizes. Will operate
any windmill pump.
Full description in Catalog N0.1939VR.
FM
Type
4<£»
7J4H.P.
Fairbanks-Morse
Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline)
or Distillate. Stationary and Portable
types. Sizes 2 to2oo H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.AL19.39.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Wabash Ave. and Chicago,
Eldredge Place U. S. A.
Agents:
C. H. RELPH
Sidney, N. S. W.
WEBSTER & CO., Ltd.
Brisbane, Queensland
MALLACH BROS.
Perth, W. A.
Schute, Bell & Co.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL. STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—At hi one Place.
WORTH 20 TYPEWRITERS
ĥ
When you need duplicate copies of let-
ters, announcements, price lists, office
forms, etc., one inexperienced office boy
with a Gestetner Rotary Duplicator
can equal in quantity and quality the
daily output of a score of expert typists.
THE
GESTETNER
ROTARY DUPLICATOR
W ill pay for itself in a few weeks. If you now give this work out to a printer, you
can save half the expense, much valuable time, and have your work when you want
it. It is neat, clean, compact, and will not get out of order.
rite now for full information. Booklet on request.
Stott Underwood,
Stott’s Chambers, 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 1556, Q.P.O.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for ‘ii years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago U.S.A.
RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO W
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
PoQft QF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
CARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over SO en.
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrir
England, 6d. How TO Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar,
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d- Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, pew enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Eranders, a rare book by De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, <ss 6d posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures op a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty's
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
op Paris, Is 6d. History op the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. Thk Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain pop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prop. Fowler’s Human Science,
10b 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
B
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR 11 PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Hainan
Is ature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
e , xT t^' C °, V . ered ? dic ‘°" of this srreat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE. COMMONWEALTH, -mg
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gam blurs’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mf.smerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How MgDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. so* Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOl FROH THIS A DVT.
Write lor my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OE ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Kino,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
cound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvqyancr,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY-


Sick Headache
- ;
V,
\
j *
' - _0 *
MRS. STREET, completely cured of
terrific headaches by Bile Beans.
j “THESHARP, SHOOTING
PAINS WERE TERRIFIC.”
A HOUSEWIFE’SGRATITUDE.
No medicine has proved so successful in the
al.eviation and cure of headaches--es-
pecially the sick, health-wrecking kind so
many women suiter ircm —as Bile Beans-
HEADACHES were a source
of misery to me for a
long time,” says Mrs. E.
Street, of Crescent Street, Water-
loo, Sydney. “The pains at times
would be terrific, as if the top of
the head were lifting off, and sharp,
shooting pains across the temples were
intolerable. 1 would also get depressed
and thoroughly out-of-sorts, and feel
completely run-down. My liver was
sluggish in its action, causing me to
feei ianguid and devoid of all energy.
Bile Beans were recommended to
me as a sure remedy. I took them as
advised, and I was pleased to find that
I got increased relief daily, and v
health began to return, my system was
toned up and strengthened, my appe-
tite improved, soon I was restored to splendid health. To Bile Beans, and Bile
Beans alone, my best thanks are due for my wonderful cure, and now we recom-
mend this splendid family medicine to all.” Note, that it was “Bile Beans, and Bile
Beans alone,” that was able to work this wonderful cure in Mrs. Street; and in
thousands of cases it has been proved that after all other medicines failed, -Bile
Beans have restored perfect health.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
The world’s greatest family medicine, Bile Beans, are a positive specific for liver
trouble, stomach disorder, flatulence, constipation, piles, indigestion, dyspepsia,
weakness, loss of energy, that tired feeling, nausea, nervous prostration, sallow com-
plexion, anaemia,
and female ail-
ments. Sold by
all chemists and
stores, or post
free direct from
the Bile Bean Mfg.
Co., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney. Refuse all
substitutes; ask
for Bile Beans, the
proved remedy,
and accept none
other.
1/1)4 819
per box, all
Chemists
and Stores.
CANS
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
Xhe questions of to-day*
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If. on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally-you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Banished Gods.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
NO more in groves of ancient Greece,
Nor in the Tuscan woods and hills,
The rapt soul trims his lamp in
peace;
Nor dwelling by Castilian rills
Beholds the dream-gods of old time,
And weaves them subtly in his rhyme.
The saga and the quaint romaunt,
The djinns of Asiatic cast,
No more take visual form and haunt
The shadowy pages of the past;
The Delphic and Egyptian glades
Have lost their tenants of the shades.
Lo, we have slain the fairy-folk,
And laid the gnome and centaur by !
No patron gods our odes invoke ;
They have abandoned earth and sky.
Only their ghosts dwell in the heart,
Lest we should wholly lose an art.
The nereid, satyr, nymph and faun,
Have vanished with the elder years;
Nor dances Pan across the lawn
With eerie notes for wondering ears.
The elfin and heroic themes
Are exiled to the land of dreams.
Unpeoples the enchanted ring
Where once the magic dance was trod,
And sealed the sweet Pierian spring
That ranged from goblm up to god.
Their place is not on sea or shore;
We have outgrown that antic lore.
But in this wild Australian brake,
Amid the casuaria trees.
And by the margin of the lake,
The banished gods from overseas—
The elves, the sprites, the fays, the gnomes—
Migrating, here have made their homes.
Their shadowy forms float down the aisles,
Dim-litten, of the forest maze,
Or hover in the deep defiles
And by the reedy waterways ;
Or in the mystic midnight moon
They haunt the still, remote lagoon.
Pan is a feathered wood-god now.
Who carols from some secret place;
Ilis dryads sins' from hough to hough
About his hidden dancing space;
Awhile the sweet HUglia dreams
Amidst her naiads in the streams.
Here Zephyr wanders, whispering low,
From sunlit banks to scented glooms ;
Furred goblins scurry to and fro.
And w'ingM elves assail the blooms ;
While massive boles, with heads sublime,
Stand like the titans of the prime !
Dim caverns house the darker gnomes—
Here’s sanctuary for all the crew;
The banished gods have made their homes
Amidst tecoma*; gemmed with dew,
And to these glades their souls impart
Lest we should wholly lose an art.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Mates of Torres.
THE WEALTH OF BRAMBLE CAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“'l l AYE a drink, mate?” asked Jack
|~| Wagstaff of the haggard man who
sat in the corner of O’Rourke’s
bar.
“No —thank you.”
“Don’t take a shingle off the roof.”
“Lave him alone, Jack,” said Dinny
O’Rourke quietly. “He never drinks wit’
anybody but the Oxford Don, which is him-
silf.”
The Oxford Don finished his drink and
walked uncertainly out of the bar to the
verandah, and there he sat, a haggard, wild-
eyed man, very pitifully alone, and staring
at the sea.
“He beachcombs around the reefs, but
always on his lonely own, an’ once a mont
he comes here whin the British India boat
is in from London.”
“That’s queer,” said Wagstaff. “Knocks
about the reefs alone?”
“A rotten life,” said Cravth drinking
alone, and without a mate. When did he
come?”
“On a British India steamer bound for
London, and lost his passage here, an’
stayed. A well-dressed man he was at the
beginning and then he neglected himself, an
drank alone, and at last he went to be a
hatter in the Straits; an’ away he’ll go
t’-morrer, an’ you won’t see him for another
mont’.”
“Why will he go away t’-morrer, Dinny?”
“Because the British India boat comes in
from London to-night, an’ goes out in the
morriin’.”
* * * *
The old bell of Thursday Island, used
most frequently in the Kanaka days, clanged
a fire-alarm in the early morn. Out ot
Dinny O’Rourke’s hotel came O Rourke,
Crayth and Wagstaff, half-dressed in haste,
naked feet thrust into sand-shoes -crying
with all other men, “Where’s the fire.
That red reflection on the _ water told
them. They scaled the stony rise, with its
infrequent stunted trees. On the sum-
mit burned a shack of wood and galvanised
iron, and around it were the shadows or
men. One of them suddenly darted through
a door from which the smoke was seen
wreathing only as yet, and in a moment he
was out again, dragging after him the limp
bodv of a man, so overcome as to seem dead.
The Mates of Torres ran to his aid ; they
lifted the body of the man, and as they did
so, a little ormolu cabinet —strange toy, or a
luxury foreign to Torres Strait fell to the
stones unnoticed. .
“Why, it’s the Oxford Don, said Dinny
O’Rourke. “I never knew where he slept
before. That shack belonged to nobody.
They bore the Oxford Don to the hospi-
tab and as the Mates of Torres left the
illuminated circle of the almost burned-out
shack, Crayth’s foot struck the little cabinet
of ormolu, and he stoooed and picked it up.
“What’s this, Dinny?”
i s at it.... Il’m. Some old junk I
lett be the Ohoinymin, I s’pose. ’Twas a
.loss house once. Bring it along an’ we’ll
Ink closer.
Crayth carried the little cabinet to the
hotel, and there, by the light of a candle,
the three half-dressed men turned it over
and over and found a tiny keyhole. Tint the
cabinet was locked, and the lock strong.
“Here’s a key that’ll tit,” said Jack
W agstaff, taking the poker from the fire-
place that was never used.
Crayth struck the top of the cabinet and
broke it in, and then he drew from the
opening a packet and two photographs. One
of the photographs was that of a man,
strong, very young, with a hopeful face —a
face of action, rather than of a thinker;
the other, that of a girl—a girl of the tro-
pics, though distinctively and softly Euro-
pean ; a girl lean, dark and deep-eyed, and
with the exotic charm and vitality of an
orchid.
“Who were the last people in the shack,
Dinny?”
“Choinase, an’ that was two years ago.”
“I suppose it’s all right, then, and we can
look. But if it’s letters we’ll burn ’em.”
So encouraged, Crayth opened the packet.
It was but one sheet of foolscap, enclosed
in several blank sheets, as if something very
precious was to be protected. Crayth
read a few lines, and stammered in his
surprise.
“Wh-wh-what’s this? Look here, Jack —
Dinny, look at this —what does it mean?”
Wagstaff took the paper, and slowly read
aloud this: —
My treasure—greater than all the riches of the
world—somewhere hidden in the world; but a treas-
ure almost as priceless in the coral, under the fig-
tree by the rock, on the most N.N.E. gut of Bramble
Cay.
“Why, what can it mean?” said Crayth.
“Well, if you ask me, it means another
galleon.”
“Or a clue to a bigger thing than that —-
‘somewhere hidden in the world.’... .H’m.
....‘But a treasure almost as priceless.’...
It’s good enough to try. What do you say,
Jack?”
“I’m with you,” said Jack Wagstaff,
giving his usual reason for the doing of
something unusual. “It will be a change.”
“I’m in, too,” said Dinny. “If you chaps
will get the lugger ready, I’ll be ready wit’
the feed an’ tools.”
And in the afternoon the lugger Margaret !
bore the Mates of Torres N.N.E., past Banks
Island, and then E.N.E. through Deep Pass,
and then almost due east to Bramble Cay, a
matter of 40 hours’ sailing in the light and
baffling winds.
They coasted its north aspect of high,
black ironised cliffs, and made south again
for a landing, and were there turned back by
a flat reef with trepang and brilliant fishes
and gayly-tinted corals in the rocky pools.
Then they took the small boat, and carried
blue water high to shore, and then on rapid
shoal, with the keel scraping through coral
branches.
Late in the afternoon they landed to the
accompaniment of the shrieks of thousands
of dispossessed birds, each with her allotted
nest noon the sand, each menacing the in-
truder open-mouthed.
A frigate bird, which is the pirate of the
reef, pursued a booby till she dropped a fish
from her claw to placate the thief, and the
frigate bird swooped and caught the fish be-
fore it reache'd the sea.
“Cruel as death,” said George Crayth, and
then his big heart began to pity all this
frightened motherhood, for another booby,
flittering before him, tried to save her blue
egg by vomiting a fish, which had been her
afternoon’s fishing and her supper. The
Mates retired before this fear and clamor,
and the shrieks died down to the mere bicker-
ing of nested mothers, whose places in the
sands overlapped, and the cries of hatred for
those thieves of eggs, the rats, which swarm
the island from the wrecked ships.
They went further into the island, and
found a park-like growth of trees, which was
almost dense enough to be called forest, over-
spread with blocks of coral reef —corroded,
bored, excavated, bitten and torn, just as if
it were but yesterday. Trees and ferns and
lycopods grew over it; a butterfly, with a
band of geranium dividing head and throat,
and whose wings were slashed with metallic
blue underneath, and above were blue-black
with brilliant bands of metallic emerald,
flitted seawards, but further south, and
they followed it.
They went on past the foetid beauty of a
stercuiia, on fire with crimson tresses of
flowers, and a fig-tree full of tailor birds, the
foliage almost obscured by hanging nests.
“S-s-sh,” said Dinny O’Rourke. “Whose
is the other boat?”
He pointed to where, in shallow water
nearby, two men rowed wearily in a dinghy,
and they left the trees and cautiously ap-
proached it.
And then Wagstaff laughed suddenly, and
said, “You’ve got rival men on the brain,
Dinny. That’s a nipa palm from Fly River
floating roots upward.”
“Well, it looked like men in a boat, any-
way,” said Dinnv ; “an’ you’ll have men yet.
You ain’t goin’ to have this all your own
way.”
The day was ending in slaughter—shoals
of young fish, driven to the surface by the
bonito, and there eaten by the tern; thou-
sands of young terns ran before the Mates,
and the old birds screamed overhead. Fri-
gate birds, boobies, gannets, noddies and
black and white terns—birds which could not
fly, looking fierce and snapping like cornered
rats ; eggs dropped anywhere without the pre-
paration of a nest, instinct guiding each bird
to its own place in an island covered with
eggs and nestlings. The conservative, love
for the patch of sand they were born on
made each unfledged tern stagger back to its
spot immediately it had been driven fiff.
Dinny O’Rourke swept a patch of sand
clean, saying, “There do be the poultry yard.
The newest laying of eggs is ours to-
morrow.” | i
And then, ere they reached the boat, came
the moonlight, with the homing birds still
flying overhead, their shadows on tljie sand
so dense that O’Rourke, hitting" p.t the
shadow for the substance, aarredThis hand,
and Paddv, O’Rourke’s dog, dasned. at the
bird shadows, filling his mouth with sand,
and slinking away as if ashamed of his error
—vet repeating it. <
In the moonlight they went aboard to wait
with little patience for the new day to tell
them the secret of this island of palms and
(Continued on next page,)


“Why is Mother Always 111? ”
“ Every picture tells a storyJ*
V
M
Si
O
ml
■i
WORN OUT with the miserable pains of Kidney Disease-
Backache, Headache, Dropsical Swellings, Dizziness,
Heart Attacks and Twinges of Rheumatism.
WORN OUT with the worries and cares of the children
and the home—the constant stooping- about, and working from
morning till night. Is it any wonder that the kidneys break
down ?
WORN OUT—So much to do, so little strength to do
it*. Every household task made a burden by the miserable
pains of kidney disease —
Lumbago, pains in the loins and back, heart attacks,
dizziness, nervous headache, rheumatism, gravel and urinary
disorders — . ||
. swellings of dropsy, and that heavy, drowsy feeling
which makes you feel so low and miserable.
But don’t grow disheartened. Neighbors tell here what
a comfort Doan s Backache Kidney Pills have been to them.
Doan’s Pills are for the kidneys ONLY. They relieve the
kidneys and bladder like laxative medicines relieve the bowels,
and dispose of the kidney poisons which are the cause of so
much suffering in men and women. Read this testimony .■ —
Sydney Women Cured.
SEVEN YEARS CURED
Mrs. A. E. Bruce, Omapere, Brough-
ton Road, Artarmon, Sydney, says: “I
suffered for a long time with severe pains
in my back. They were so bad that I could
scarcely move about. Rest was out of
the question. I would be tossing about
all night, moaning with the pain. I
could not bend my back, and I had to
neglect my work. I was really very ill,
and would be confined to bed for days at
a time. I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
rills advertised as a cure for backache,
and procured a bottle. After a few
doses I got relief, and then gradually I
got better, until I was quite cured. This
did not happen yesterday, but two years
ago, and I am still well.” Five years
later, Mrs. Bruce says: “Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Bills cured me of backache
seven years ago, and I have been free
of this ailment ever since.”
FIVE YEARS CURED.
, Mrs. P. J. English, 120 a Phillip
Street, Sydney, says: About six years
ago I commenced to suffer with kidney
disease; at times I was so bad that I
had to take to my bed. I used plasters,
etc., trying for a cure, but nothing did
me any good. Hearing Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills spoken of as excellent for
kidney trouble led me to try them. They
completely cured me, and during the past
three years I have been perfectly well.
I can sincerely recommend other suf-
ferers to use them.”
Two years later Mrs. English confirms
her previous statement: “Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured me of kidney
trouble over five years ago, and I have
been well, ever since. I have recom-
mended this remedy to scores of people,
and they all speak well of them.”
Doan’s Backache Kidnev Pills
at 2/9 per bottle (six bottles 15/3)
McClellan Co., i 6 Pitt Street, Sydney.
are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
or posted on receipt of price by Foster-
9
Backache Kidney Pills
PIEEvS
A Lasting Cure by
DOAN’S OINTMENT .
Mr. Edgar Wood, Coogee Street, Randwick, says: “For seventeen years f
suffered with itching and protruding piles. During that time I was treated by
several well-known Sydney doctors. I also tried Chemists’ Prescriptions, and
used every remedy advertised to cure this complaint, but nothing gave me the
slightest relief. The irritation was so great that it caused me annoyance during
the day, and kept me awake for hours at night. I almost despaired of ever get-
ting anything to relieve me, as I had experienced so many failures. However, I
saw an article in the paper stating that Doan’s Ointment had cured a well-known
Sydney man who had suffered with this complaint for twenty years. I at once
got this Ointment, and am very pleased to tell you that the first application gave
me relief. I continued using it until I was perfectly cured. My cure means a lot
to me, and is wonderful after suffering for seventeen years. Since my cure I have
recommended Doan’s Ointment to other sufferers, anil will always do so. I wish
you to publish this statement, so that people suffering with piles may know the value
of Doan s Ointment.”
Mr. Wood says, nine years after the above was given: “I am still free of
Piles. Doan’s Ointment made a perfect cure in my case, for I have been free of
Itching and Protruding Piles for the past nine years.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot,
or post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
coral and birds and rats and coal; tho jetsam
of tin' scores of ships from all the world,
which had suddenly lifted this Cay out of the
coral sea and struck upon it.
At dawn next morning (hey were ashore
searching for a fig-1 ree at the N.N.E. end of
Bramble Cay, and for a treasure almost as
priceless as the trea lire which was greater
than all the riches of the world.
By noon they had decided on a space to
which the search for the present was to be
restricted, and then had to wait for a few
inches of water to ebb from a sandy pool that
filled the centre of the space.
Then they dug the sand away with diffi-
culty and at last came to the coral, and cut
it away with steel jumpers and found no-
thing, and sat down tired and disheartened.
“’Tis hard wurruk,” said Dinny O’Rourke,
taking off his hat and wiping the sweat from
his forehead. “’Tis corporation laborer’s
work wit’ the chance of gettin’ no wages.”
“Look at the paper again, George. What
does she say?”
Crayth studied the paper again. “Look
here—it says under the fig-tree, and the
branches cover a circumference of about
200 ft.”
“But,” said Crayth, “let’s think a bit. It
couldn’t be like that, because no man would
leave himself or any others he intended to
know such a vague direction. It’s closer
than that.”
He rose, and walked about the space cov-
ered by the umbrageous, glossy-leaved
branches, and muttered as the others did.
“ ‘ln the coral—under the fig-tree—by the
rock.’ I have it,” said Crayth, stopping
suddenly. _ “It doesn’t say, ‘under the coral’;
it says ‘in the coral.’ What’s the matter
with all this broken coral trash piled against
the tree?”
In a momeni ne was on his knees before
the great black trunk of the fig, and the coral
boulders piled against it, and tearing away
the upper layer he bared a chimney of coral
fragments, roughly squared, and shouted with
exultation as he put his hand into the cavity
and brought therefrom an oblong box of tin.
At the smallness of the find there was im-
mediate disappointment; but Crayth said,
feeling as greatly disappointed as any:—
“Never mind—good goods go in small par-
cels. Let’s look inside. It mightn’t be the
stuff, but it may tell us where the stuff is.”
There was no necessity to break open this
box; its loose lid yielded to the hand.
“More letters,” said Wagstaff. “Is this a
short story competition or a blessed literary
bureau?”
It was a large packet of letters, densely
written in a sprawling, feminine hand.
Crayth took it out and looked at it inde-
cisively.
“I don’t like this,” he said, “it’s getting a
little too private.”
As he spoke a photograph dropped from
the loosely-tied packet of letters, and Wag-
staff took it up with an exclamation of sur-
prise and handed it to Dinny O’Rourke.
“Why, ’tis the other photo, all over again.”
And so it was ; the same starry-eyed, dark,
exotic woman, whose picture they had found
in the ormolu cabinet by the burning shack.
“There’s too much sentiment about this
for me,” said Crayth. “I don’t like reading
a woman’s letters. She may be dead, and
that’s what makes it worse.”
“She’s sure to be dead. Code it may be, or
sentiment; but these letters are saved be-
cause she is dead.”
They rose and walked around the tree,
Crayth carrying the tin box in his hand, and
the two other mates followed him.
Behind the treasure a tangle persisted for
a hundred feet. Wagstaff stopped and
looked seaward, shading his eyes with his
hands to make sure. “Look out there,
Dinny,” he said. “There’s a boat.”
“Only some trader beating up among the
islands,” said Crayth. “But what’s this?”
He stepped seawards on the reef as he
spoke, and O’Rourke and Wagstaff followed,
and found him standing before a pattern
made in the rock pools, with great blocks of
dead coral, dirty-white upon the black and
green.
Crayth walked up one leg of the middle
character and down again obliquely.
“Why,” he said, “it’s some letter or other.
Let’s go on. There —A-M-Y —why, it’s the
signed to the letters.”
“We’ll never get to the bottom of it,” said
Wagstaff. “It’s a Chinese puzzle.”
“Chojnase puzzles have an answer to ’em,”
said Dinny O’Rourke. “Let us think now.
Would the sthuff be hid under them rock
letters?”
Crayth laughed openly at the possibility,
and showed him that the rocks below the
coral characters were flat and unbroken and
hard as adamant.
“Well, let’s go on.”
They came in shore again, following the
green woods that grew to high-water mark,
and then Wagstaff stopped and showed them,
deeply cut with a chisel on the rimose trunk
of a breadfruit tree, the letters “AMY,”
now half grown over by the bark. And then
the repetition of the name became so fre-
quent that they exclaimed dpon it no more.
“AMY” on the hull of an old ship, with the
coral growing up around it and the wind and
sea beating it down. On the black rocks,
“AMY” described with stones too heavy to
be disturbed by any tide, as if the name
should be changeless if the thing were not;
on a high patch of white sand. “AMY” in
letters of ironstone weathered black; on a
little bay of yellow sand. “AMY” in letters
of the red of oxidised iron, shining up
through the light green water. And every-
where along these quiet rocks and wooded
side of the island, where the screaming of the
seabird never came, and where the earth was
not dirtied by their clamorous rookeries, and
in the quiet green of palm and lvcopod and
fern, that word was repeated to infinity.
Brilliant pebbles had been gathered from
the reef pools to write the name upon a
strip of moss, under a tree and by a rivulet;
trunk of tree and shelf of rock bore that
word ; the purpose of a man giving even to
the earth the insistence of that fixed idea ;
stones and trees and sea made vocal with
love in grief.
“Lle’d got Amy on the brain,” said
Crayth.
“Poor wretch !” said Wagstaff. “I know.”
“You know, .Tack—how do you know?”
Wagstaff turned away, but did not reply.
“The question to me mind,” said Dinny
O’Rourke, “is not who Amy was—there do
be millions of Amys in the world, an’ ’twould
be better for a lot of min if some of thim
bad never lived. The question to me mind
is, how do Dinny O’Rourke an’ Jack Wag-
staff, an’ George Crayth turn a more or less
honest penny by findin’ where Amy keeps
the cash box?”
But Wagstaff, out of his experience,
guessed of a tragedy somewhere, and was
silent.
And as they came back to the place where
their boat w y as anchored, they found the be-
ginning of the solution. Around the most
north-easterly point of the island, a man
rowed a dinghy towards the great fig tree:
out at the edge of the fringing reef swung
the cutter that had brought him to the
island.
“Now, who’s this?” said Crayth. “Some-
body who’s after our game?”
Still in their sight, the man landed from
the dinghy, stepped into the foot or so of
water that covered the coral trash of the
tide-bared flats, and staggered through the
pools to the sand, careless of obstacles, and
making for the tree. And the dinghy
slipped away, and went out with the tides.
“He hasn’t moored his boat,” said Wag-
staff. “He’ll lose her. Hey ! Hallo ! Your
boat’s drifting.”
But the man seemed not to hear; he
splashed through the rock pools, and slipped
on the clammy cresses and the flat weeds,
and recovered himself, and went on, change-
less in intention, making for the fig tree.
He disappeared behind its trunk, and then
they heard his cry of agony and fear.
The Mates of Torres ran to the tree, and
saw behind the great trunk, and by the
rifled chimney of coral rock, wearing still
his half-burned clothes, now reeking with
sea water, gasping for the air that came to
him in rattling breaths, and his face trans-
figured with pain—the Oxford Don.
They lifted him, and he saw in Crayth’s
hand the tin box.
“Mine, mine ! Give it me !”
Crayth handed him the box, and said:
“The letters have not been touched.”
“Thank you, thank you. You found the
other box after the fire?”
“Yes.”
“It was —it was mine.”
“We didn’t know. We thought it was
treasure of some kind.”
“It is mine.”
“You’re sick, mate.”
“I am—yes—very sick. I’m glad—be-
cause all hope is gone—all hope is gone.”
“Let’s get him aboard the lugger, Dinny.”
“No, no, gentlemen, let me stay. I was
burned a little. It is pneumonia. I’m
finished. I had to follow. I knew I would
live just long enough.”
“Long enough. What for, mate?”
“To get back here. I used to be afraid
I would lose her letters among the reefs, and
I planted them here.”
“So you wrote all that about?”
“Amy, Amy; yes....we were married...
I thought of money—fame—l loved her
always, but I was abstracted. She wanted
me to see —to see and understand —she told
me —told me things. I was dreaming—l
never could hear —the world got between
u5....0n the British India boat bound for
London we were —she tried to tell me of the
hound who was pursuing her on the ship...
I trusted her so, I could not think any
man.... would dare to test her She
loved me, too, but her strength was broken
down by his persistence. ... I found it out
and went mad.... 1 was ashamed I could
not think nor act 1 stayed too long
ashore at Thursday 1 went back to for-
give her and kill him The ship was
gone. ...So I stayed on. .. .waiting for the
British India ship to bring her back....l
forgot to w0rk....1 spent all my money...
Then I took to the reefs.... All letters she
ever wrote to me, I kept 1 thought of
nothing but her name —waking—sleeping—
working....l wrote her name all over the
island.... here, and everywhere.”
“Come to the boat, we’ll get you back to
the hospital, and you’ll pull through, and
find her yet.”
“No Never now. Two days ago the
ship came in—the ninety-eighth British
India ship since I lost her....No it is
the end, and I am glad 1 haven’t eaten
anything I could —could taste for more than
eight years, and now sleep rest. I
remember... .a hymn we used to sing....
when I was a boy and used to go to
church....lt says: ‘When this poor, lisp-
ing, stammering—stammering tongue lies
silent in the grave.’ That is mine No,
no, if you are men, leave me here. . . .Break
me a grave in the coral. If you are men.”
. “ ’Tis all right, mate—’tis all right,” said
big Dinny O’Rourke chokingly. “We’re
men an’ you haven’t had a square deal.
We’ll do all you want.”
“Thank you. And if there is anything
you love, hold to it, and forget the world—
though the world won’t let you forget it, if
you—if you have to work and fill other
mouths than your own with bread.... But
don’t let the world get you. There isn’t
anything worth having in life but love —
nothing—nothing.”
“Don’t talk, mate. Rest.”
“I must talk, because I rest for ever,
soon very soon. When I had her love’
bread was sweet, and since then it has been
dust and ashes.”
“Quiet, mate. Quiet.”
“Lay me down —turn me to the reef. I
want to see her name.”
So they made his tortured body as easy
as they could, spreading the coarse beach-
grass and sea-weed on the sand, and pillow-
ing his head with their coats.
Butterflies of black and emerald flitted
through the copses—the many flakes of
gold that were yellow wanderer butterflies,
bravely ventured over reef and sea. The
tropic sun filtered through the leaves of the
great fig tree, and from its branches the
flute of the little blue dove fell softlv to the
broken man. And on a dead tree a white-
headed sea-eagle tore to morsels a green
snake.
He spoke again. “The best thing—in—
all the world is—clean love —and we think
the less of it —because we get it for
nothing.
* * * *
“ H ® was right, dead right, poor chap.”
said .Tack Wagstaff. as with the spade he
rounded the coral chips on the mound thev
raised above the Oxford Don. “Money can’t
buy the best of things—only the little ones.”
VN ater do be the best drink in the wur-
ndd said Dinny O’Rourke, “an’ ’twould
bottle” m ° St popular if it: cost five Pound a
And then the Margaret bore them back
to Torres Strait, to struggle for the spoil
and *° f° r SC-t the lesson of the Ox-
ford Don.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


ħ
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
wm
:
M
From 7 t 6 4Q H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention
1 It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 -Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
PULL PARTfCCI A?!.S KROif
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Engineers all know the merits of-
m
Stirling Water Tube Boilers,
Nichols’ Slow Speed Boiler
Feed Pumps,
Auld’s Reducing Valves,
Dewrance Steam Valves,
Apexior Boiler Preparation.
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS, AND WILL SEND
YOU FULL INFORMATION PROMPTLY.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
h
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine.
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsbeds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers*
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading: Co.,
Write for full particulars to
540 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
THE LONE Hi
s for everything
lian.
6d
The Crow-Elkhart Motor Car
33-H.P. FOUR CYLINDER. DUAL IGNITION.
WELL SPRUNG. SOLID CONSTRUCTION.
DESIGNED, BUILT & FINISHED WITH TASTE.
One of America’s Best.
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS.
Five-seater, Full Equipment.
For Pleasure Car or Taxi-Cab*
Price - - £385.
COUNTRY AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
STOCKS HELD IN SYDNEY. INSPECTION INVITED.
FRANK SAUNDERS Limited,
,p HONE:ciTYe 7 4s. 232 Clarence St.. Sydney. rs
Digestions for
debility—cheerfulness for despondency—h«
are the good results following a course of
.. ... . rC offering from indigestion or any of the co.up.a.ms ro
which it gives rise you will find the World’s Family Medicine remove
the trouble and restore the organs to healthy action. This, at least
has been the experience of hundreds of thousands of people who have
been led to adopt it during the past three generations and there is no
reason why it should not be your experience, also. Dyspepsia, liver
and kidney derangements, biliousness, headaches, sickness, constip-
ation are some of the many disorders from which you may find relief
After Taking
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/li (56 pills) & 2 9 (168 pills),
Old
Ith for ill-
Beecham’s
New
—strength for
health—such
Pills. If you a
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
crs
CS§
ai
PATENT BAND SAW.
BUILDERS, CABINET MAKERS & JOINERS
Do not forget that the leading
MANUFACTURERS OF
WOODWORKING MACHINERY
have now their own Offices and Showrooms in Sydney.
Get your Information and Advice from a responsible
firm whose Machines are well known all over the world.
Write for Catalogue to
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
I
& '■>
The
Waver ley
is British Built.
12/14 h.p.,
4-cyl. Bosch
Magneto,
Zenith Carburetter,
9ft. Wheel Base.
£330 Nett.
The Doctor’s Ideal Car.
Write for Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycle,
Twin-cyl., 7 h.p., Free Engine Clutch,
Two-Speed Gear.
Metz 22
4-cyL, 22 h.p.,
Friction Drive,
Water-Cooled.
The Finest Runabout In
the World. The
Famous Hill Climbor.
£lB5 nett.
BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 Kent Street
SYDNEY.
on
FLINTS MEDICATED OIL
doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Galls, Cuts,
',' r Broke " Knee? on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
rtS!i v, a '‘rK + r . ! ?n,. e ? llBh ’ the ha,r ? rowin ? in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
snovf S ! , th wn“^ ho n * Au ! tr f lia * and Procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
Ob Bi FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
PROFIT PRODUCERS
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
High-speed Lathes, by Broadbent or John Stirk, are tools
which put extra profits into the pockets of the men who buy
them. They do high-class work, and turn it out at a commer-
cial rate.
For special work you’ll find Capstan and Turret Lathes, by
Drummond Bros., Brown & Ward, or Timbrell & Wright, just
the tools for the purpose.
Morse Cutters and Reamers are well known to men who want
the best work. If you are not yet acquainted with them, send
a trial order.
Our other specialties include:—Drilling Machines, Punching
and Shearing Machines, Milling Machines, Radial Drilling
Machines-, Hack Saw Machines, Shaping Machines, etc.
T. M. GOODALL® Co. Ltd.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-3 05 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof*,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester*
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC MOTORS
for MINES, FACTORIES and PRINTING WORKS.
CHEAPEST POWER SYSTEM KNOWN.
Full particular* on application to Australian Agency,
h
37-43 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Ceraent (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwelling*, Theatre*, H aii.
Warehouses, etc. "alls,
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only reouir* .v.
three-fourths the quantity of studdine and labor a f„° ut
building of Fibro-Oemen t. f for *
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS JIADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos. w
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts ti'mv,.
iron, or lath and plasier * r >
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Writ* for Llthos and Catalog L to sole importers
JAMES HARDIE & CO.
Ciroular Quay West, Sydney. ’
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
■ ■ •
- - ■- ' „■ I
' - A
V>:. v • ‘5., ,
r 5
(V '-.
****♦■.••
STEAM PIPE INSULATION,
with Newall’s Magnesia Steam Pipe Coverings,
MEANS THE MOST EFFICIENT AND PERMANENT LAGGING PROCURABLE.
LARGE STOCKS carried of Removable
Coverings, Bends, Flange Boxes, Plastic
Covering, etc.
1" Covering, the saving of heat
d oyer Unlagged Pipe is from
85% Write for Catalogues.
J. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR LTD.,
k ;
Prell’s Buildings. Melbourne.
228 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Porgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work ß
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
WARBURTON, FRANRI, LTD.,
307-11 KENT
STREET, SYDNEY.
STREET,
PERFECTA CONDUIT CO., LTD.
SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LTD.
VERITY’S, LTD.
ENGINEERING INSTRUMENTS, LTD.
BERRY SKINNER, LTD.
EVERETT, EDQCUMBE, LTD.
NATIONAL TELEWRITER CO.
HAGGIE BROS.
SOLE AGENTS*
PREMIER ACCUMULATOR CO.
MEDWAY’S SAFETY LIFT CO.
UNION CABLE CO.
N. F. RAMSAY
WALKER, HORROCKS LTD.
WHIPP & BOURNE
DANIEL ADAMSON & CO.
“KNEW” FILTERS
MONARCH VACUUM CLEANERS
PREMIER VACUUM CLEANERS
BLACKMAN SONS.
ĥ
MODERN MACHINE-SHOP EQUIPMENT.
The Barnes All-Geared Drill
Indispensable to the progressive shop.
It is designed to deliver the maximum efficiency of the Modern High-Speed Twist Drill
and has greater earning capacity than any other Upright Drill of similar swing*.
All Cone Belts are eliminated——no waste of time caused through slipping', shifting or
replacing' Speed and Feed Belts.
It has 8-Geared Speed Changes and 8-Geared Power Feeds, and all
Changes of Feeds and Speeds, including the BacK Gears, are made
instantly while the Machine is running.
SOLE AGENTS — Inspection Invited, or let us send you full Descriptive Circular.
T’
m
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
99
ROCK.
fii
The Fastest of all Rock
Drills and Simplest in
Construction.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
m
■
The LOWEST Air Con-
sumption per ft. Drilled.
STOCKS HELD AT SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, PERTH.
N. GUTHRIDGE
ħ
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
525 Collins St., Melbourne
W.A, Agents; CHAS. ATKINS <B. CO. LTD., Perth and Kalgoorlie.
