

THE GENIAL SPIRIT.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
i ' V >’ ' —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUC lIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
The Shopkeeper Needing Financial Aid
will exercise sound judgment by procuring the necessary loan from this Company —whose reputation for
fair dealing stands as sponsor for straightforward and business-like treatment. Small or large loans on
any reasonable security. LOWEST INTEREST IN AUSTRALIA!
N.S.W. Mont De Piete D. 8 I. Co. Ltd.,
Head Office: 74 Castiereagh St. 74, Sydney.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215»217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
\
Doctors Recommend
CILBEY’S DRY GIN
EEOBA-RT.
Hadley’s Orient Ijotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Gdarantkrd
d. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
DGDS
Take it back ,
1 must have
fine Apple ftrand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSENS
u
FDGDGSDGHF
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0.,* Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
HFS
BEHSDOBFS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY*
tm
White Malthoid Roofs
are becoming more numerous every day ; more numerous
because so eminently satisfactory ; satisfactory because
they are watertight, cool, artistic.
The PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
Agencies throughout
Australasia.
ChalHs House, SYDNEY.
■t:':
B U LLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S . V. c..
JKotfat-Virhie £«
MACHINFRY MERCHANTS
352 Kent Street Sydney: n.»w
Every owner of a “ Blackston6 ” can
demonstrate that his engine gives him
better service than any other make of
oil engine known. Ask him—then write
us for catalogue.
glackstoifngineS
$ All Types & 3/zts kept/n Stock
HE LI DON SPA
The wonderful efficacy of HELIDON SPA STARKEYS LTD.,
lies in its capacity for rapid absorption, phinip st., Sydney, and
Agents,
Redfern
The Bulletin
Y01.34.— N0. 1731.]
[Thursday, April 17, 1913.
Registered at the General JPost Oflice, fcyctnej, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


HOME UNIVERSITY
(10 NEW VOLUMES).
Price 1/3 each, postage Id.
NAPOLEON (with maps), by H. Fisher.
ORIGIN AND NATURE OF LIFE, by Prof. B.
Moore.
DR. JOHNSON AND HIS CIRCLE, by J. Bailey.
LITERATURE OF GERMANY, by Prof. Robertson.
THE NEWSPAPER, by G. B. Dibblee.
PAINTERS AND PAINTING, by Sir F. Wedmore.
CHEMISTRY, by Prof. R. Meldola.
OOMPARTIVE RELIGION, by J. E. Carpenter.
NAVY AND SEA POWER, by D. Hannav.
VICTORIAN AGE IN LITERATURE, by G. K.
Chesterton.
COMPLETE LIST OF SERIES ON APPLICATION.
GEORGE ROBERTSON (Sb CO. PTY., LTD., 238 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat and the
Prevention of
Consumption,
A. The Larynx
or Organ of
Voice.
B. The Trachea
or Windpipe.
C. The Bron-
chial Tubes
of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of
one of the
Lungs
ŚD
CAUTION. —The large sale for “Eumenthol
JUJUBES” has led to a number of imita-
tions being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying, to be sure and ge
HUDSON’S “Eumenthol Jujubes.” You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told tney
are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumentho
Jujubes.” This proves that these imitation
and substitutes have no reputation of tne
own, and can only be sold on the good reput
and high character of Hudson’s Eumenth
Jujubes.”
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tins 1/6.
Forwarded post free on receipt of stamps
by the Manufacturers,
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd.,
19 York Street, SYDNEY.
Box 1520 G.P.O.
The Red Page
The Minor English Drama
From the giants of the modern European
stage we turn to the playwright pigmies of
England. The dramatists whose plays get
published nowadays are minor dramatists,
earnest cadets assiduously drilling, while for-
eign field-marshals plan new campaigns. We
have no Strindberg, no Tchekoff, no Weder-
kind, no Hauptmann, no Hofmannsthal.
Galsworthy promised development, but has
relaxed into the conventional. Shaw was an
apt imitator of European genius, but already
his plays “date” : the sound and fury of them
will signify nothing to posterity. Granville
Barker is silent. Let us go back to the
minors who are content to do a little thing
well, almost unconscious of the urge of the
great current of experiment and revolt swirl-
ing past in Europe.
At
Here is W. S. Maugham, with his conven-
tional comedy, Penelope (Heinemann, per
Dymook’s Library, Sydney). It is the ancient
story of the wife who sickens her husband of
his infatuation for the other female by con-
tinually throwing the erring pair together.
It is a purely stage idea; and —solely on the
stage—is bound to end in the husband’s re-
pentance. Had Maugham not become in-
fected with the bacillus of popularity he
might have given us a realistic study of that
absurd theatric plot as it would, in nine cases
out of 10, result in real life. The husband
would go off with the fascinating stranger,
and would not find out till after the divorce
that all wives are practically the same w r ife.
(Incidentally, it may be mentioned that all
wives marry the same husband. Justice hav-
ing thus been done to both sexes, we may get
on with our criticism.) Maugham, it is con-
ceded, makes out a good stage case for his
plot. He has chosen his characters carefully
—and conventionally. And in the character
of the wife’s father, a delightful professor
of mathematics, he presents a stage premise
for his stage conclusion. The professor ad-
vises his daughter, who has loved her husband
not lightly but too cuddlesomely, to give her
bored husband his head :
“When every difficulty disappears, Dickie
will find half the savor of the intrigue gone.
Half your battle is won. Leave the rest to
time and Ada Ferguson. Let Ada Ferguson
sit on the arm of his chair when he wants
to read, his paper. Let him account to Ada
Ferguson for all his movements. Under
such circumstances a woman is always on
tenterhooks, and consequently she’s always
exacting. Whenever there’s a pause in the
conversation, Ada Ferguson will say, ‘Do you
care for me as much as ever you did?’ That
speech is a rope around love’s throat. When-
ever he wants to go away, Ada Ferguson
will implore him to stay five minutes longer.
Those five minutes that a man stays against
his will are the nails in love’s coffin. Each
time he leaves her Ada Ferguson will say,
‘At what time will you be back?’ That
question is the earth shovelled into love’s
grave.”
In real life the thin ice would break, but
Dickie returns repentant, just catching the
last train. Happily, Maugham is not satis-
fied with a mere stage reconciliation. The
professor points out that there are other Ada
Fergusons waiting round the corner for her
Dickie. The only way to prevent Dickie
from indulging in flirtations with half a dozen
different women is for her to be six different
women herself. Again a counsel of stage
perfection -
“Remember that man is by nature a
hunter. But how can he pursue if you’re
always flinging yourself in his arms? Even
the barndoor hen gives her lawful mate a
run for his money. ...A wise woman never
lets her husband he quite, quite sure of
her.”
He explains that his own wife had been
systematically unfaithful to him for 20 years.
She had had an affair with the Additional
Curates’ Society, and an intrigue with the
English Church Mission. She had flirted
with Christian Science, made eyes at Hom-
oeopathy, and her relations with vegetarian-
ism had left a distinct mark on her figure.
How could he help adoring a woman so de-
praved ?
The dialogue is admirable, and the whole
false thing cleverly put together.
At
The Curtain Raisers of Eden Phillpotts
(Duckworth, per Dymock’s Library), author
of a fine censored tragedy, The Secret
Woman, are —curtain raisers. There is
some fine character drawing of village types,
but no drama.
A& \
Makeshifts and Realities, two one-act
plays by Gertrude Robins (Laurie) have
more quality. “Makeshifts” is a suburban
comedy for four characters, two sisters
ready from sheer weariness of single life to
jump at marriage with any male thing, and
two male things, a nervous chemist’s assist-
ant and a bounder. Each character is de-
picted with extraordinary sympathy, and
the dialogue is actual speech. The comedy,
which hovers close to pathos, lies in the
characters themselves, not in the way they
appeal to the dramatist. The bounder
raises the hopes of each forlorn sister in
turn, only to disappoint each in the end.
And one sister confesses then that she has a
bit of a headache, while the other goes out
to get a haddock for their lodger, the
chemist’s assistant. That ' is all.
“Realities” is a sequel. The elder sister
has married the meek chemist’s assistant,
and the usual baby has arrived. The bounder
has married his own choice, witu unhappy
results. The elder sister is dowdy, old ;
the bounder’s wife has succeeded in getting
into suburban society. But when the
bounder is caught kissing the assistant’s
wife, the woman sees that her life is no make-
shift, and her husband is a man. Bot-h play-
lets would prove finely effective on the stage.
J*
Three Plays, by John Galsworthy (Duck-
worth, shows this dramatist at his best and
at his worst. “The Little Dream” looks like
a dramatic attempt of his nonage, yet the
drama'tist states that it was written after
“The Eldest Son” and before “Justice.” It
is a vague, undramatic, unpoetic allegory;
and its inclusion in this volume is inexplic-
able —almost as inexplicable as the volume of
poetry that Galsworthy unwisely published.
“The Eldest Son” takes us to the class that
Galsworthy knows so w r ell, the class of The
Country House. The mouldy problem arises:
Whether a gentleman, who has got his
mother’s lady’s maid into the usual trouble,
should marry her or not. Bill, the eldest
when Freda confesses that the usual
consequence of her intimacy with him may
be expected, though he is no longer in love
with her, is impelled, from motives of mere
decency, to marry her. The situation is
nicely paralleled by the case of an under-
keeper and a village girl. Bill’s father, a
bart., had insisted on the under-keeper “mak-
ing a decent woman” of the village girl. He
can’t have scandals in his village. But when
the same situation occurs in his own family,
he threatens his son with disinheritance.
(Estates are never entailed in modern com-
edy.) Bill, of course, intends, after marry-
ing Freda, to go to the El Dorado of all un-
happy English heroes, Canada. It is only
vanished vicars who come to Australia. But
the girl, recognising that Bill has tired of her,
refuses his offer. And her father, the head
keeper, cries with angry pride:—
“Don’t be afraid! We want none of
you! She’ll not force herself where she’s
not welcome. She may ha’ slipped her good
name, but she’ll keep her proper pride. I’ll
have no charity marriage in my family.”
The play is rather cluttered up with Bill’s
sisters, who contribute nothing but their de-
lightful chatter to the plot. But its chief
fault is that the audience know that im the
last act the girl will refuse the offered mar-
riage, and for that refusal the dramatist
hardly gives sufficient reason. When an
event in a play is assumed by the audience
to be necessary, it must be made to appear
inevitable by all the resources of the drama-
tist’s art. A great dramatist would make it
inevitable in some way dramatically effective,
because of some unexpected reason. This
Stanley Houghton has finely done in “Hindle
Wakes,” in which the same situation occurs.
Here, the girl refuses the man because she
went with him only “for a lark.” She looks
upon the episode of their holiday in exactly
the same light as the man does. The hand-
ling of the same climax is what makes “Hin-
dle Wakes” a great play, and “The Eldest
Son” a merely delightful and cleverly planned
comedy.
J*
“Justice,” the concluding, play, was re-
viewed on its appearance as a separate pub-
lication. A re-reading shows it as almost
the highwater mark of Galsworthy’s dramatic
work. This play and “Strife” place him in
the front rank of modern English play-
wrights. But, judging by “The Pigeon,” his
latest play, Galsworthy has done his best
work.
At
The Trial of Jeanne d’Arc, an historical
play by Edward Garnett (Sidgwick and
Jackson, per Dymock’s Library), is practi-
cally the actual course, in historical outline,
of the famous faked trial of Jeanne for
heresy, in 1431. The play has plenty of
horrors, but is essentially undramatic.
At
Rutherford Mayne is one of the leading
playwrights of the Irish school, but The
Drone and Other Plays (Maunsel, Dublin)
shows him to be no Synge. “The Drone” is
dull stuff, merely the conventional modern
comedy with Irish characters. Finer work
is shown in “The Turn of the Road,” in
which the characterisation is much more
deft. An Irish farmer has a son whose sole
delight is to play upon his violin. A broken-
doAvn musician, tramping the roads with his
violin, is brought home by the farpier to
serve as an object-lesson to his son of the
fate of all fiddle-players. And the son,
whose marriage depends on the wish of his
father, burns his violin. But the next day
the tramp is found dead, leaving his violin
to the son. And on the wall it hangs, a
constant temptation to the soul of the musi-
cian. But the girl w'hom he loves puts
heart into the weakling: “Take that fiddle
and do what your heart tells you to,” she
cries. “God made you a musician and not
a farmer.” “And 3mu? What would you
do?” he asks. She tells him that she will
wait for him, till he comes back rich and
famous. The farmer turns him out. but in
the epilogue the grandfather bitterly says:
“Ye thought he was wasting time and
money? D’ye think there’s nothing in this
life beyond making money above the rent?
It’s the wee things you think nothing of,
but that make your home a joy to come
back till, after a hard day’s work. And
you've sent out into the could and wet the
one that was making your home something
more than the common. D’ye think them
proud city folk will listen to his poor ould
ballads with the heart of the boy singing
through them? It’s only us, I say, as
knows the long, wild nights,, and the wet and
the rain and the mist of nights on the bog-
lands —it’s only us, I say, could listen to
him in the right way. (Sobbing.) ... . And
ye knowed, right well ye knowed, that every
string of his fiddle was keyed to the crying
of your own heart.”
And the broken father goes to the door.
“It’s a coorse night,” he mutters. “I’ll
leave the door on the hesp.”
“Red Turf” and “The Troth” are lurid
pictures of the misery of the Irish peasant,
each little play ending with a gun-shot. “The
Troth” has a striking climax. Two peasants
agree to shoot the landlord w r ho is about to
evict them. They toss a coin to decide
which of them should take the dangerous
side of the road. Two shots are heard, and
one of the men slinks back to his wife. The
news comes that the landlord has been shot
and that Moore, to whom had fallen
the dangerous position, has been caught.
Each had sworn that if captured he would
not betray the other. The wife knows from
her husband’s face that he it was who fired
the fatal shot. The husband merely says,
“Peace, woman. Moore has no wife.”
A poet not negligable, in the person of
James’L. Cuthbertson, died at Mount Gam-
bier in 1910. Born in Scotland, and spend-
ing two years at Oxford, he came to Aus-
tralia in 1875. Here he became classical
master at Geelong Grammar School, founded
and edited the “School Quarterly,” and re-
tired after 20 years’ service. The verses in-
cluded in the memorial edition, Barwon
Ballads and School Verses (Melville and
Mullen, Melb., with portrait, published by
members of the Geelong Grammar School),
have practically all appeared in the school
magazihe. The school verses have the swing
and humor that appeal to boyhood; but it
is for his “Barwon Ballads” that he will be
remembered by those interested in Australian
literature. His work betrays a fastidious
taste in phrase, an appreciation of Nature,
and a contemplative and cultured outlook.
Bv the simplest means he gets his quiet
effects, and his scrupulous attention to form
make his verses always pleasant to read.
His range is slight; but within them he pos-
sesses a sure sense of melody. A few of his
verses should occupy a modest place in the
history of our growing literature.
Competitors for the best sonnet on the
Federal Capital are advised, to avoid delav
to address their entries to this page Vul
sonnet must have only two rimes in the
octette, and the sestette must not close with
a riming couplet. Entries close April 30.
The latest 10 issues, or the 10 latest
issues, of the wonderful “Home llniversitv
Library of Modern Knowledge” (William*
and Norgate; Is. and 2s. 6d.), completing
the first 10 volumes, or the 70 first volumes
range over a wide tract of modern knowledge’
The Origin and Nature of Life, by John
Bailey; Chemistry, by Prof. Raphael Mel-
dola; Comparative Religion; The Navy and
Sea Power; a compact life of Napoleon, bv
Herbert Fisher, indicate the variety of sub-
jects treated each by a specialist, while the
last five, or the five last, specialise in litera-
ture and art. Prof. J. G. Robertson writes
of The Literature of Germany, G. K. Ches-
terton treats of The Victorian Age in Litera-
ture, John Bailey tells of Dr. Johnson and
His Circle, Frederick VVedmore discusses
Painters and Painting, with typical illustra-
tions of the masters, and G. Binney Uibblee
explains The Newspaper. The “bitter and
effective satire” of The Bulletin, one notes,
reminds the author of Slmplicissimus, but
is “not always able to keep up to the high
level of brilliancy and wit, which it has
elected to take as its standard.”
Norman Angell, author of The Great Illu-
sion, finds from the Balkan War new sup-
port for his theory that war does not pay.
In Peace 'Theories and the Balkan War (Mar-
shall, per Dymock’s Library) he replies to
the various attacks that have been made on
his theory; and practically admits the con-
tention of this page that his theory does not
apply to undeveloped countries such as ours.
In the defeat of the Turk he finds fresh con-
firmation of the war-illusion. “As a nation,
he has lived by the sword, and he is dying by
the sword, because the sword, the mere exercise
of force by one man or group of men upon
another, conquest, in other words, is an im-
possible form of human relationship.” Angell
regards the condition existing before the war
as not peace but war; and the Balkans are
merely preventing a brigand from carrying
on his trade, and by co-operation between their
States, are bringing not war. Well,
you can look at it in that way if you like.
“The history of the British Empire for 50
years has been a process of undoing the work
of conquest. Colonies are now neither col-
onies nor possessions. They are independent
States. Great Britain, which for centuries
has made such sacrifices to retain Ireland, is
now making great sacrifices in order to make
her secession workable.” And Angell makes
a valid point in his contention that the Bal-
kan War was due chiefly to Britain, which
had guaranteed for ever the integrity of
Turkey in Europe—and not only the present
war, but the conditions of the Balkan States
for so many years under the tyrannical rule
of Turkey. And Angell is justified in his
assertion that he has never urged that war is
impossible. It is alw T ays likely as long as
civilised nations do not use all their energies
to prevent it —as long, that is', as civilised
nations are not civilised. But we in Aus-
tralia are threatened by nations uncivilised,
and we must meet them with their own
weaoons.
“Benno” corroborates: So Charles Garvice
has been appointed iudge of Hodder and
Stoughton’s £250 prize competition for the
best Australian novel! Wherefore the person
whose contributions fall with a weekly thud
into The Bulletin’s w.p.b. should rejoice,
for his day of recognition may be at hand —
unless Hodder and Stoughton’s exercise their
power of veto. If “Bellerive” can bring him-
self down to prose he should win.
Henry Giles Turner tells the story of the
Eureka Stockade succinctly and impartially
in Our Little Rebellion (Whitcombe and
Tombs, Melb., 3s. 6d.). He admits that it
is a little unkind to dissipate with mere
prosaic statements the mild halo of romance
that has grown round about the miners’ re-
bellion ; but he writes with full sympathy
for their point of view, and a due acknow-
ledgment of the abuses that led up to their
sturdy protest. The main sources of his
history are the full reports furnished by the
civil _ and military officials on the goldfields
to Sir Charles Hotliam, and his comments
thereon when transmitting them to the
Secretary of State for the Colonies.
BARWON BALLADS.
WOOD MUSIC.
How golden was the hour we stood
Within the honeysuckle wood,
When motionless above us lay
The under-leaves of silver-grey,
When from the belt of dreamy blue
The white sail trembled into view,
When all around there seemed to be
The scent and murmur of the sea!
I know not if the ocean air
Can dissipate the cloud of care.
Or if the wattle’s bursting bud
Is potent to enchant the blood;
I only know the restless feet
Of time can give us seasons sweet,
I only know that all was fair
When thou standing by me there.
WINTER SUNSET ON THE AUSTRALIAN
COAST.
Wild skies and wilder waters, and the glow
Of stormy sunset on the forest capes,
And deep below the black fantastic shapes
Of boulders gleaming in tempestuous snow;
The gloomy rollers for a moment show
Upon their bellying green reflected back
2’he sullen crimson of the cloudy wrack.
Driven by the strong south-wester to and
fro ;
A thousand fraying branches interlock
Of hardy ti-tree warring with the gales,
And vocal with a glorious minstrelsy;
But louder yet, on sand and ringing rock.
Round all the island continent prevails
The mighty dispason of the sea.
AT BARWON HEADS.
Dusk purple billows to the far sea-line,
But silver-crested as they trembled o’er,
And everywhere the odor of the brine
And savor of the seaweed on the shore.
Upon the reefs and yellow sand below
The falling breakers sparkled, creaming
white,
And, wreckage-burdened, the swift under-
tow
Swept seaward with unconquerable might.
I know not how, but, standing on the height,
Upon the inviolate border of the main,
My spirit brightened, and the dread insight
And vision of the future came again.
And I beheld the Armageddon war,
The shock of iron navies on the seas,
Grey-gleaming vessels blasted from afar,
And Britain’s banner blood-red on the
breeze.
And underneath the everlasting snows,
Beside a Himalayan river-bed,
I heard our trumpet at the battle close,
And northern mothers wailing for their
dead.
The nearer drew the throbbing of the drums,
And louder yet the ruthless cannon
roared,
And thicker lay the dead beneath the gums
As on the hosts of the invader poured.
And last the Warders of the Loiver Sea,
Thq Lion’s brood, unbroken by their loss,
Arose, 'the Southern Commonwealth, the
free,
The Over-lord of all beneath the Cross...
But swift the vision vanished, and I saw
Only the purple rollers landward turn,
Only the shadows o’er the ocean draw,
And the far ruby of the lighthouse byrn.
—From “Barwon Ballads and School
Verses,” by James L. Cuthbertson.


Jk
acre
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for TRAVELLING REQUISITES.
No. F22.—STRAPPED KIT BAGS.
The Week-end Strapped Kit Bags, with single
plain corners and side locks, straps all round, turn ove
Quality AX, as above — Sizes. . 18 20 22
22/6 25/- 27/6
27/6 30/- 35/-
handles,
■ clips—
24in.
30/-
40/-
Quality BX —Superior quality
and finish
m
No. F 23.
The Kit Bag illustrated is the most
popular bag on the market. For purposes
of business or pleasure, for daily use or
week-end visits, ho bag compares with it.
Sizes 12 14 16 18in.
Quality AX—Cow-
hide, with top
lock, nickelled
furniture, lined
Cloth 10/6 12/6 14/6 16/6
Quality BX —Cow-
hide, side pinch
lock, lined cloth,
turn over clips 12/6 15/- 17/6 20/-
No. FB.—Canvas Cabin Trunks, frequently
called Overland Trunks, covered Black, Brown, or
Green Canvas, bound with hide, leather handles,
eight hide leather pieces strengthen the corners,
straps all round, wooden battens along bottom,
lined striped Linen, fitted with tray—
Sizes 30 33 36in.
Quality CX 45/- 50/- 5*
Quality AX—Covered Canvas 30/- 35/- 40/-
Quality BX —Covered Canvas 40/- 44/- 48/-
Quality DX —Covered Canvas
Extra Strong .. .. 55/- 00/- 65/-
Note. —Quality AX, maximum size, 36 x 181 x 14.
Quality BX to DX, maximum size, 36 x 21 x 14.
No. F 49. —The Duchess Dressing Case, neatly
fitted with toilet requisites for ladies. . .. 35/ -
Numerous other pretty designs containing the necessary
requisites for home use or travelling—-
15/-, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35 40/- to £5/5/-
We make a feature of Fitted Presentation
Bags, and offer value that is beyond
comparison. Write for Illustrated Price
List, post free cn request.
No. F29.—Leather Suit Cases. The illustration
represents a handsome and very durable steel frame
travelling else. The foundation is of Compressed Fibre,
covered with selected Cowhide. Every corner is capped
and strongly riveted. Lined with Linen throughout—
Size 20 22 24 26in.
No. F2o.—Gladstone Bag.
Quality AX—Hide and Roan, nickel-plated
shot's and slides.
Sizes 20 22 24 26in.
16/6 18/6 21/- 22/6
Quality BX—All Cowhide, well lined, a strong
and useful bag.
„ 21/- 22/6 25/- 27^6
Quality CX —All Cowhide, lined cloth, nickel-
plated _ shoes and slides, fitted with four
real hide corners to protect bottom.
25/- 27/6 30/- 33/-
No. FBl.—Leather
BX
Sizes
Quality AX —Solid Lea-
th e r Portmanteau,
strong frame, brass
lock, well sewn
Quality BX—Best solid
Leather, hand sewn,
turned edges, capped
corners, straps all
round (No. F3l) ..
Portmanteau, Quality
24 26 28 30in.
33/- 36/- 39/- 42/-
50/- 55/- 60/- 65/-
uILUM
No. 1887X.—Ladies’ Fitted Dressing Cases,
solid Leather Brushes, with White Xylonite Backs,
25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/- to 80 /- each.
No. F32. — Compressed Cane Suit Cases. —The
above design shows a genuine Compressed Cane Suit Case,
fitted with special light tray, divided into convenient com-
partments—
Sizes 26 x 14i x 8i 28 x 15 x 8$ 30 x 15 x Bjin.
65/-
70/-
75/-
No. Fss.—The Compact
Travelling Case. Real Cow-
hide, with two side straps, centre
extension strap with nickelled slid-
ing lock, hide pockets and ink-
well.
Size, 14 x 9in.
Similar design in
Hogskin . . 35/_
Slightly different de-
signs in Cowhide ■ —- 18/6 407-
Best Finish, in
selected Cowhide 45/- 50/- 607-
Size 15 x lOin.
In larger sizes,
best Cowhide 42/- 45/- 50/-
No. F4O. —The Grosvenor
Brush Case, containing 1
each Hair, Cloth and Hart
Brush, also Comb and Mirror,
in Leather Case, 16/6, 22/6,
25/-
No. F4l.—The Austral
Brush Case, containing 2
Gentlemen’s Hair Brushes,
Comb, and Mirror, made in at-
tractive grained leather, 8/6,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6.
No. P24.—The Senator Bag.
THE SENATOR BAG is Capacious in point
of room, convenient in use, comfortable to carry,
combining; lightness with strength.
Quality BX —All Cowhide, cloth lined, nickelled
furniture. Size, 12in., 12/6; 14in., 15/-;
16in., 16/6; IBin., 19/6.
Quality CX —As above, in better quality. Size
12in., 15/-; 14in„ 17/6; 16in., 20/-;
18in., 22/6.
am
SS
©b;
No. F36.—Flaxite Suit Case, light and
strong—•
Sizes 20 22 24 2<?in.
Quality AX —Grained
fibre, with eight
fibre corners, cen-
tre lock and 2
clins. cloth lined 13/6 15/- 16/6 18/6
Quality BX—Superior
quality in strength
and finish, as il-
lustration (No. F 36) 18/6 20/- 22/6 25/-
M
m
No. 1895X.—Gent.’s Fitted Dress-
ing Cases, Ebony-Backed Brushes,
21/-, 27/6, 32/6 to 50/- each.
Many other styles
are illustrated in
our Price List of
Travelling Re-
quisites. Send for
a copy. Post Free
on request.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Let it be a KODAK
—there’s no Better Camera.
A KODAK CAMERA will assure you of all the fun of
pidture-making with none of the bother. You get the
pleasure of pidture-making at home, on holidays and on
tour ; the interest of daylight development and printing ; and the
imperishable joy of the pictures themselves - pictures with the
added value of having been made by yourself —a permanent record
of happy days.
You will find the VEST POCKET KODAK an ideal instru-
ment for your use. It is so small that it will slip easily into
the waiscoat pocket ; so simple that the novice can make capital
little pictures with it at the first attempt ; so efficient that the most
experienced amateur will find pleasure in its use.
It is fitted with a carefully selected Lens, Ball-bearing
Shutter, Brilliant Reversible Finder, and Auto-time Scale. Takes
pictures Ifin. x 2Jin. Price 3Os. Descriptive pamphlet free.
Other KODAK Cameras from 21s. Brownie Cameras from
ss. to 3Os. Catalogue free.
Kodak
Q
a
fcA %
>** /
>-
!jm
<N
Ha
■i
-
•§,.
cv-
£=>
i
“If it isn’t an Eastman, it isn’t a Kodak.’
KODAK (Australasia) LX D
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HIDE: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
r
that is all
that is needed
to start or stop the patent
m
S
ijjlgglll
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING
INSTAEESTIONS
SIMPLE - EFFICIENT
NO COSTLY ACCUMULATORS
PRACTICALLY NO ATTENTION
So/e Makers i
R.A.LISTER*C9L t P
Dursley, Glos.
I
II
m
*
FOUR
HIGHEST
AWARDS
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System —Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work.. No erection or
foundations necessary; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas, acetylene, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights,
fans, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and other
machines.
Is absolutely safe and reliable; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS.
AGENTS—
New South Wales: W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD., 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Victoria: SUTHERLAND 8 ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
T*
I
i
>" i.
a
Contentment
IF you have an Edison phonograph you can sit back in comfort, with the
various members of your family around you, and listen with delight to
the tuneful ballads of long ago, such as “Down on the Swannee River,”
“Home, Sweet Home,” “Kathleen Mavourneen,” “Alice, Where Art Thou,”
and all the others, sung perfectly by the foremost platform artists.
Or, if your tastes tend to modern compositions, you can choose from “Thora,”
“Absent,” “Two Eyes of Grey,” “The Rosary,” etc. By way of a change
you may have a record by Harry Lauder, Billy Williams, Arthur Osmond,
Billy Murray, or Florrie Forde, Ada Jones, or some other bright lady may
help add laughter to the evening’s entertainment.
Some people prefer instrumental numbers, and for these there is a wide
choice of Records by renowned violin, mandolin, ’cello, cornet, zylophone
and piano artists, to say nothing of the big range of items by Alexander
Prince, the greatest of all concertina players, w T ho is at present delighting
Sydney audiences. And, as if these were not enough, there are records by
leading bands, raconteurs, siffleurs (whistlers), etc.
You select your programme to suit your moods when you own an Edison
Phonograph, and have every number rendered as true to life as the original,
sweet, pure and natural.
Hear the Edison Phonograph as soon as you can. If there is no dealer in
your vicinity, write to us, and we will put you in touch with one, as well
as send you latest lists of Phonographs and Records.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE EDISON
PHONOGRAPH


FLOW METER FACTS.
How General Electric Co., U.S.A., Boiler
Flow Meters increase the Efficiency of
your Boiler Plant.
Steam cost 1/- per 1000 lb,
CASE i.
SEND FOR DESCRIPTIVE BULLETIN
No. 7676.
Steam costs 11 id. per 1000 lb
With coal labor, etc., same as Case I.
CASE 11.
Steam Output /n 30//er Horse Po*ver
5—5000 H.P. Boilers in a battery delivering 2500 B.H.P. = 75,0001 b.
per hour.
Load UNEQUALLY divided because there is no means of determining
the steam output of each boiler.
Efficiency curve gives total battery efficiency as 69 %.
Steam cost, 1/- per 10001 b.
This condition of unequal division of load between individual battery
members has been found in nearly every plant not equipped with General
Electric Co., U.S.A., Boiler Flow Meters.
DOES IT EXIST IN YOURS?
Can you afford to overlooK this Saving?
Same 5—5000 H.P. Boilers delivering 2500 B.H.P. = 75,0001 b. per
hour.
Load EQUALLY divided because fires, draught, etc., are regulated in
accordance with the indications of the General Electric Co., U.S.A., Boiler
Flow Meters connected to each boiler of the battery.
Efficiency curve gives total battery efficiency as 72 %.
Steam costs 1134 d. per 10001 b., with coal, labor, etc., same as Case 1.
Saving, 434 % in cost of generating steam.
Send for Descriptive Bulletin No. 7070.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO
217 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Corner of Queen O. Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works : Birmingham, England,
SDG
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
asserted Sample Box.
You know that Bovril possesses
peculiar powers of building up the body.
Never accept a cheap substitute •
Insist on having
BOVR I L
His Majesty the King.
Bv Appointment to
mmmmmlb
-
3
==&
N-
* 9 &, & •'•
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
8 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
! sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
Flonthly, 6d.
The American Ring Pulveriser
is designed for
Crushing and pulverising limestone, lime, coke, ore,
brickbats, sewer pipe, terracotta, glass, quartz, phos-
phate rock, sandstone, gravel, tile crockery, flint,
manganese ore, oyster shells, stove lining, shale and
all other refractory materials.
Made in Six Sizes.
The various sizes are made with a view of meeting
the requirements of the small, medium and large
consumer.
Crushingand Pulverising to Fines.
Those materials of a refractory nature can be fed to
the machine in 3in. to 6in. cubes and smaller.
.
m
The several degrees of fines are secured by installing Grate Bars containing interstices of various widths. A measured
degree of fines is secured by running the materials over a given mesh screen, returning the rejections to the Pulveriser. The
coarser the grind the greater the tonnage capacity, while the finer the grind the smaller the tonnage capacity. The more
dry the material is made, the faster and finer the machine will pulverise.
Strength and Durability.
Careful observations, based upon afitual experience, have resulted in adding to and making extremely" strong all parts
of the machine. Extended research and grinding tests year in and year out have brought about the use of Manganese Steel,
a metal that will best resist abrasion and withstand the greatest impafiL
We shall be pleased to show you these in operation in Sydney. Send for Catalogue.
Australian Representatives:
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made !
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO.
14;
For -22 Short R.F., -22 Long R.F., and -22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2flb.
Rifled bv the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES—PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy titan all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [4
w
J
cv
SDGSD
A NEW SHOT GUN
THE
B.S.A. *4lO BORE
WITH EJECTOR AND FULL CHOKE BARREL
This new bolt action take-down Shot Gun is the latest production
of the celebrated B.S.A. Company, and it has proved itself the most
deadly '4lO gun made. It shoots wonderfully hard and close, even up
to 40 yards, and it is light, well balanced and highly finished. It has
the well-known B.S.A. bolt action, and is specially chambered to take
the latest 2>£ inch '4lO cartridges. With these it kills almost
equal to al2 bore. Price 55/- of all up-to-date
dealers.
Wri;e for B.S.A. Rifle Catalog for full description of these Guns.
Post free from
D. Y. RENNIE
Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd., Australian Bdgs., Melb.
Underwear
Hade in
England
MARK
3QVUX
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from'
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight-
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only :
I. & R. MORLEY and CiEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK' MERINO UNDERWEAR
Will Anprade ™ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking ::
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method of Learning French, German, Italian, Spanish, 1/7
each language; Speeches and Toasts for all occasions, 1/1; Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of Vital Power,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Sweet-
hearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illustrated,
7cL ; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Book of Love Letters, 1/-; How tc
Woo and Win, 1/1 ; Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets,
1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1; Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing
Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues,
1/1 ; Home Amusements, 1/1 ; “How Old Mose Counted the Eggs’’ and
116 Other Humorous Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dramatic Recitations,
1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen” and other Comic Recitations, 1/1 ;
Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conundrums and Riddles, 1/1;
Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and Clairvoyance,
1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach Animal
Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1;
Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6; New 1912 edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New Tricks with Cards, 1/-;
House Painting, Paperhanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/1 ; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and AVitty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter
Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/- ; Dancing Without an Instructor,
1/-; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-.
W*?~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include p ostsge to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
3] FREE.
20)' Bourke St., Melbourne
S’
K
&
You Take
It Apart
With Your
Hands
Your fingers are
your only tools.
Cleaning done from
the breech, easily and
quickly—you canlook
through the barrel and see that it’s clean.
With a Pem/flgtOf):UMC .22 Repeating Rifle you get
all of the pleasures of the hunt and top scores at the
targets. It has a solid breech and is hammerless—there
are no unhandy, awkward features to hamper you.
It’s an accurate, reliable, thoroughly tested rifle —it
shoots clean and true. Knowing sportsmen, the world
over, swear by it.
Shoot Remington-UMC Lesmok 22’s. They made the
world’s 100 shot record 2484 out of a possible 2500 and
were used by Mr. J. Pepe', in making the world’s most
perfect group at xoo yards at Southfields, England.
Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
(M. Hartley Company, Export Agent) 299-301 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
“BEAUTIFUL FACE AND NO
MORE WRINKLES."
FREE BEAUTY COUPON
For “ The Bulletin ” Readers.
m
m
m
m
1
m
m
mm
mm
Are you wearing a wrinkled maskf If you are, icon’t you let me tell you how to get rid of it?
I have done it for thousands, and I can do it for you.
Arrangements have been made with Mile.
Eleanor Lawton, World Famous Beauty
Specialist of Paris and London, to furnish
free particulars to all readers of The
Bulletin (Sydney) in regard to what is
believed to be the most remarkable method of
removing wrinkles which has ever been dis-
covered.
Mile. Lawton has been awarded nine Gold
Medals by Paris, London, Brussels, Rome
and other International Expositions on her
great Beauty discoveries. The French Gov-
ernment has honored her with a Patent
on her wonderful new process for remov-
ing wrinkles, and patents are also now pend-
ing before the United States Governments
at Washington.
Mile. Lawton is, herself, a living example
of the great power of her remarkable beauty-
making discoveries. By many she is con-
sidered the most beautiful woman in all
Paris.
She took her own wrinkles out in three
nights by her new discovery many months
ago, after plasters, face creams and massage,
masks, straps, steaming pots and worthless
anparatus had all failed to remove them, and
her skin to-day is still soft and smooth, her
face beautiful, and she has no more wrinkles.
But, best of all, her discovery not only suc-
ceeded in her own case, but it seems to have
worked even more astonishing results in the
cases of others,
On referring to her files Mile. Lawton
selected a letter from Mrs. W. Schwald as
being typical of the many like it received
every day. Mrs. Schwald writes: “I must
tell you how wonderfully your treatment has
taken out my wrinkles. There were a mul-
titude of them, and they grew constantlj
deeper and more plentiful. I was in despair,
for I had tried treatment after treatment
without the slightest success. Like yourself,
I tried plasters, massage, creams and various
advertised concoctions, but the wrinkles
stayed just the same. When I first heard of
your treatment I had little faith, but I de-
cided to make just one. more attempt. With
the very first trial I was able to remove some
of the deepest lines on my forehead. To-day
there is not a wrinkle on my face, and cer-
tainly I look and feel 10 years younger;
besides, my skin is softer and clearer, and
my complexion better than ever before in my
life. I cannot thank you or praise your treat-
ment enough, and I have recommended it to
more than a dozen friends.”
No other beauty specialist living or dead
has ever been honored by gold medals from
International Expositions, »nd patronised by
countesses and ladies of high title and rank
to the extent that Mile. Eleanor Lawton has
been.
You will never again have the opportunity
of consulting free of cost a Beauty Specialist
of such world-wide reputation as Mile.
Lawton. Therefore, be sure to cut out and
use the Free Coupon to-dav. You need send
no money, except a penny stamp for postage,
but merely enclose the following coupon in
a letter and you will receive a prompt answer
in a plain sealed envelope.
FOR REMOVING WRINKLES
Cut out this Coupon to-day and send it to the world-famous Beauty Specialist, Mile. Eleanor
Lawton, of Paris and London, for free information in regard to removing wrinkles by a marvellous
new process that often makes ordinary wrinkles disappear in one night.
Many ladies say it has made them look from ten to twenty years younger. No plasters or
worthless face creams, lotions and massage; no masks, straps, steaming pots or apparatus; nothing
to inject in or under the skin, but a wonderful new process that any lady can use in the privacy
of her own home. Be sure to read the above article, and write to-day. Address, Mile. Eleanor
Lawton (Dept. 554), 197 Regent Street, London, W., England.
“The Bulletin” (Sydney). FREE COUPON, No. 554.
Do not fail to cut out this coupon and enclose it with your letter.


IS YOUR HAIR
FALLING OUT?
Do not worry about the threat-
ened departure of youth and
beauty. Why not ?
Because, if there is a spark of
life remaining in the roots of the
hair,
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
will arouse it into healthy activity.
The hair will then cease to come
out, will begin to grow, will be
made soft and smooth, and all
without changing the color. Con-
sult your doctor about these hair
problems. ,
If you are weak and nervous,
and your digestion all out of
order, of course you must not
expect healthy hair; the hair
suffers with the rest of the body.
Correct any constitutional weak-
ness with a constitutional medi-
cine— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Prepared by OR. j. O. AYER & CO.,
Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
m
.
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5/-
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLERS FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
Big Stocktaking Sale.
GREAT REDUCTION IN PRICES.
D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock, 12-gauge. Usual price, £3/17/6.
SALE PRICE, £2/17/6. COMPLETE
WITH CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
Special D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, fitted with
Greener patent crossbolt, top lever, automatic
patent safety treble grip. Usual price, £9.
REDUCED TO £7. COMPLETE WITH
CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
5.8.8. L. Gun, with top lever, choke bore, nicely
figured walnut stock, pistol grip. Usual price,
£2. SALE PRICE, 25/- COMPLETE
WITH CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
Special D.8.8.L. Pigeon Gun, with bar and rebound-
ing lock snap action, left barrel full choke, right
modified, nicely figured walnut stock, hammers
below line of sight, fitted with Greener patent
crossbolt. Usual price, £6. SALE PRICE,
£4/4/- COMPLETE WITH CLEANING AP-
PARATUS. TRIAL.
Mauser Principle Rifles, to kill at 200 yards, to take
22 long and 22 short cartridges. Usual price,
£l/1/-. SALE PRICE, 15/-
All orders for Guns or Rifles delivered CARRIAGE
PAID to any address in the Commonwealth.
SEND FOR OUR SPECIAL PRICE LIST.
Small Arms Co.,
IMPORTERS,
242-244 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
MP*
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
'HE Australian Magazine—THE TONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
BEST
NATURAL
tS^
APERIENT
WATER
MOSS
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPINC COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNCS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
ar.d all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard —secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE. SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET. SYDNEY. ~N. S.W.
(1404.)
m
c
o
*
“Salt-Cellars’ ’ and No Bust
do great harm to a woman’s appearance. You can increase
your vitality, build up your strength, develop your bust to
normal, and fill out the unsightly “salt-cellars.”
A thin woman is not necessarily plain: in fact, many thin
women are admittedly pretty, but the admission is always
qualified with—“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.”
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect flesh builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenua-
tion and development, and will send same and a Free Sample
Treatment to you free of charge, upon receipt of a 2d. stamp.
All communications private and confidential. Write or call
for full particulars.
FAEEIERE FEESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
VARICOSE
VEINS
FREE BOOK
Let Us Cure You.
IF YOU have learned to look upon your Varicose Vein
Affliction as incurable, you will have to alter your point of
view. A few years ago, but temporary relief, and then only
by recourse to the surgeon’s knife, was all a sufferer from
this complaint could expect. Now the knife is obsolete.
THE YECSEY METHOD OF TREATMENT
offers not only permanent relief, but an absolute cure—even
in the -very worst cases —without operations and without
laying up. Essentially a home treatment. Hundreds endorse
it.
We want you to learn all about our method. Send 2d. stamp
for free book, giving full particulars. Written diagnosis or
Consultation FREE. Call if convenient.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
For BILIOUSNESS O' INDIGESTION
9
(2
m
c
PIUU
CONSTIPATION CONQUERED.
There lies the vital secret where so many diseases and ailments are
concerned — Constipation must be conquered, or normal organic action,
freedom from liver and kidney troubles, and from stomach and bowel
disorders, is not possible.
Cockle’s Pills conquer Constipation of the most stubbornly aggressive
kind ; because they strengthen and stimulate and revivify the organs,
which they cleanse and regulate with such consummate pase and efficiency.
The whole system is freed from the wholesale disturbance due to the con-
stipated tendency, from blood impurities, from effete matter, from lurking
disease. Yet Cockle’s Pills act so gently and pleasingly that the most
delicate persons like them.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[i.
PVGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The" Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURES '
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
8- GREEN, 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
Love and Logic.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I plucked the rose-bed’s rarest bud
For Nell, my queen of hearts, to wear;
But Clare, the gay, entreating stood.
And so it gemmed her rippling hair.
She vowed the flower did sweeter smell
Because she knew ’twas plucked for Nell.
By Clare’s coquettish quip made bold,
I stooped and kissed the dimpled flirt,
And said : “More dear than minted gold
The kiss your vow reserves to Bert.”
Red was Clare’s blush —and red the oath
I swore, when Nell swept past us both.
N.S.W.
BLACKBOY.
Gloom.
Give me my quill of raven plume.
For darkly I am set on thinking ;
Dim-curtained, to the point of blinking,
I shall require the drawing-room.
An Edgar-Alien Poe-like gloom
Fits fancy unto fancy linking.
Give me my quill of raven plume,
For darkly I am set on thinking.
I’ve visions grim of Ulalume,
On certain purple cushions sinking ;
And still I swear I’ve not been drinking,
As possibly you might assume.
Give me my quill of raven plume,
For darkly I am set on thinking.
MAJORCA.
WAIF.
A Rhyme of Old Boots.
This is a rhyme of ancient boots on a beau-
tiful maiden’s feet,
Who tramps each morn to her daily toil for
a bob and a bit to eat;
This is a rhyme of simple facts for fellers
like us to face
Who find our generous native land a noble
and splendid place,
Where three square meals are the usual
thing, and the wolf at the kitchen door
Is a beast unknown, while “Help yourself!”
is the word when you ask for more.
This is a rhyme of a lady not receiving her
portion yet—-
A rhyme of the girl in the old dead boots
we possibly may forget.
Let’s have a rhyme of horses, or a song of
expensive lunch,
Or a roundelay of the moments spent in
racketing with the bunch?
Let’s have a ballad of silken hose, with a
chorus we all can sing,
Or a lilting lay of a summer’s day and the
pleasures of picnicking
In the scented shade; or a carol, say, of
ineffable surf-delights,
Or a really rollicking rhyme of wild, long
musical comedy nights?
All right! But, while the sun is warm, and
the waiting joy-car hoots,
Let’s- spare a rhyme for the brave young
thing who battles in bygone boots !
The day is long, and the day is dull, and life
is absurdly sad
For the bright voung thing on her way to
work —when the bright young thing
must pad
The weary hoof on her uppers, vexed with a
world that’s not too fair
When it gives more boots to the plain old
maid than the plain old thing can wear.
In a somewhat sere, well-seasoned hat she
tackles the track ahead,
And her skirt is built on a plan that ain’t
the plan of the finely-fed ;
But —dash it, she minds her p’s and q’s,
and she does as a damsel should.
And her battered boots are the sign, you
know, of her battling maidenhood.
So let's stand up as the boots go by with
the beautiful maid in them,
And give her a cheer, while we do not fail
her kind boss to condemn!
Let us arise and give three groans for the
stout, slave-dealing soul
Who helps to keep her in olden boots with
his canny and careful dole!
Let us get up and hurl some rocks on the
sweating blighter’s roof,
And call him out in the road, and bellow a
red-hot, rude reproof
Into the ear that hates to hear the logic of
him who flutes
Of a lady who plods on a long, hard road in
old, unmended boots.
victoria.
FRANK HENTY.
The Mother.
They said it was best! The little face
That nestled beside me day and night
Lay still and smiling, but, oh, so white!
And they bore it out to its resting place,
Bore it away from my tear-veiled sight,
Out in the little casket white.
My heart was bleeding and you were gone.
My heart was torn in my aching breast
The love of my life is there at rest,
Out in the dark with my little one.. . .
The cold of the earth is within my heart,
And yet they said it was “for the best.”
But if you had seen, my love now dead
(As dead as my heart, my love, my child),
The little face and the way it smiled,
Could you have left me, could you have fled?
But you are gone. . . .and the earth is piled
On my love and the face of our little child.
They said it was best, love dead to me ;
They said it was best; and you were gone;
But if he had lived, our little one,
My love could have lived whilst I could see
The big, wide eyes where your own life
shone....
Lying there, lying there all alone!
The children play—but they are not yours ;
Our love is buried and you are fled.
I know what the world so wisely said....
It is best.... they knew by their little
laws....
But I feel the weight of the earth o’erhead
....My love is buried....my heart is
dead.
n.s.w.
HAMER.


THE BEST FAMILY SEWING
MACHINE IN THE WORLD.
OUR FAMOUS
“NEW CENTURY”
The Most Up-to-date Sewing Machine to be Obtained.
New.Centuby.
Throughly high-grade, light
and silent running, very strong
and durable. Automatic Drop-
head, Lift and Ball-bearings.
SOLD ON CASH OR
FOR EASY TERMS.
The Joy of Expert Machinists! Strong enough to last a lifetime!
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. Ltd.,
Central Square, Opposite Railway, SYDNEY.
DINNEFORDS/
Magnesia
rrnrrr
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tation s purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
THE BEST STOBJES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
'4> / M
6
-
in
95
m
i
C^2
V/A
C 'l ?
mi
A COAT THAT WILL GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL
The
t/bldtiaa,
351- Macintosh.
This coat is cut very full and allows
plenty of walking and sitting room
in the skirt.
When ordering by mail just send
height and easy chest measurement
over clothes, also shade preferred, and
we will send a coat guaranteed correct
in fit, and to give good service.
Illustrated catalogue and samples of
material post free on request.
WE PAY CARRIACE ON ALL MACINTOSH ORDERS
(/kidi&zu
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ana at MELBOURNE.
ft
Underwear
r-f
>
Study your Health and Comfort
by wearing only
“ Jason ” Underwear.
The all-pure Australasian wool fabric of Jason gives you the
greatest protection against all weathers, keeping the body at
an equable temperature and making for good health. And
its silky softness ensures your comfort. There is no harshness
about Jason, no matter how often it is washed. And the
guarantee of the makers to replace free any article that shrinks
is sufficient evidence of its thorough reliability.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices
for men, ladies and children. If your dealer does
not stock it insist upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty, write —
Aa34 JASON HOSIERY Co., Leicester, England.
ON TNEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
<*■=
?
Si
7
\
r\
/ 'N
nmin hi in t ii n i i n n 11
3
5792
Is "four Home
Like "feu ?
Does it reveal your taste—your appreciation of wliat is
truly artistic, refined and suitable?
The first factor in making your home represent your best
ideas is interior decorating. Walls and Ceilings are the dom-
inating influence in every room, and the selection of appropriate
schemes should be a matter of careful study.
WUNDERLICH
=* CEILIAf CS
and Wall Linings are the most artistic of all interior installa-
tions. There are designs appropriate to every room in the
house—designs suitable for all styles of architecture.
Beauty, however, is but one of the many features which should
recommend Wunderlich Metal to the homebuilder. It is
practically everlasting. It cannot crack or fall; is fire-
proof, damp-proof, dust-proof and vermin-proof. It is
economical to buy—to freight—and to fix.
Wunderlich Metal Manufactures include Metal Roofing, Dorsners and
Mansard Windows, Ridges and Flnials, Statuary, etc., Metal Shop
Fronts, Verandahs and Awnings, Galvanized Steel Exterior Linings,
Rock Face Stone, etc.
Wunderlich Catalogue “L” post free on request.
Wunderlich Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
s Hobart, Launceston; and Wellington, N.Z.
SPE/?7
i fi
mm
-
I
■x -V? ’
HALLEY MOTOR LORRIES
Any Type of Body Fitted
The Halley Motor Lorry is not an adaptation of pleasure car construction,
but a commercial vehicle intelligently designed and built on the basis of sound
service and satisfaction to the user.
, The Halley is designed by a specialist in industrial motors. It is designed
for hard conditions, hard work and severe usage. It does not ask for ideal condi-
tions under which to do its work. It takes things as it finds them, and meets
difficulties only to surmount them.
The roughest and most hilly road is negotiated with ease. The HALLEY’S
efficiency and reliability are equalled only by its simplicity and ease of control.
Two entirely separate systems of ignition (Bosch Magneto and Battery
Coil), Zenith Carburetter and Radiator specially designed for hot climates.
Chain-cases fitted to all models, which make for silence and insure longer ser-
vice from the chains. d
To Carry from 1 Ton to 6 Tons
We will willingly send, post free, full particulars concerning Halley Lorries
of all types. Any demonstration arranged on request.
Note.—A Special Halley Model for Wool-carrying and General Work
has been designed and constructed. It carries 6 tons and trails 2 tons. AVe cor-
dially invite inquiries concerning the special attributes of this special model.
DALGETY ®. CO. Ltd.
Motor Garage : 136=138 Phillip St., Sydney.
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-
Bellevilie, Napier, Buick, Opel, Cadillac,
Lacre Lorries and Halley Lorries.
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-
Believille, F.N., Cutting, Halley Lorries
and Lacre Lorries.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper
VOL. 34.—N0. 1731.
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1913.
Fuick till.
“IF I WERE KING!”
Mr. Cook said it behoved ever, man who loved his country, and was anaious for it, wefare, to be up and doin g , and see that no stone was left unturned to roll back
the tide which seemed to, etc., etc.-Art electioneering news item.
Mr. Bruce Smith hailed Mr. Cook as the future Prime Minister.-From a recent Liberal rally.
Jokook creates a new Canute role.


The Bulletin
Ihe National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets.
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . . . .. 0 13 6
Quarterly.. .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —-The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.- — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and, D Streets. San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 588
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice,
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby', Ltd., Adelaide—at
lj/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, 6%in.
x 11/in., and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—throughout the Commonwealth, .New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, 10oz.. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bioz.
to 10oz., Bid.; lOoz. to 12oz. 3d.; elsewhere, ljoz. Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1913.
THE REFORM OF UNCLE SAM.
The announcement that the Democratic vic-
tory in the United States will be followed
by a reduction of the tariff has filled the
Tory Foreign-trade press of Australia, and
especially of Sydney, with cold feet, or a
sort of cold enthusiasm or something of the
sort. That press doesn’t enthuse over alleged
tariff victories as it did 20 vears ago. It
has lost faith in the prospective Cobden
millenium, and the coming of the great day
when all the world will adopt the doctrine
of the Survival of the Cheapest. That pro-
spect has beepme as shadowy as the vision
which St. John had on the Isle of Patmos
-—the vision of beasts and kings, and Gog
and Magog, and 24 elders that fell down,
and seven thunders that didn’t fall down,
and three frogs, and a blasphemy which con-
tinued for 42 months. Australia has had
several years of at least partial Protection
over the whole continent, and its Freetrade
papers have made so much more money
during that period than they ever did before
that they would hate to see the situation
violently disturbed. They may not have the
courage to openly recant, but they want to
lie left to wobble darkly in p°ace and quiet-
ness. xind, in any case, the Democratic vie-
tory in the United States would hardly rouse
even St. John of Patmos to wild imagery
and painted language. Of the last 12 Pre-
sidents the Democrats have managed to
elect exactly two. Between 1861, the year
when Abraham Lincoln, the lank rail-
splitter of Illinois, took office, and 1913, the
year when Taft dropped it, their term of
tenancy at the White House has been eight
years. The Protectionists were represented
hy Lincoln, Johnson, Grant, Hayes,
Garfield, Arthur, Harrison, McKinley.
Roosevelt and Taft ; the reduced-tariff
party—for there are no Freetrade delusions
among the Democrats —by Cleveland and
now by Wilson. Until the other day the
reduced tariff party had been out of office
for 16 consecutive years. It has only had a
majority in the Senate during four vears
out of the last 32, and it is still in a hope-
less minority in Uncle Sam’s Upper House.
It has secured a majority in the House of
Representatives for the first .time since
1895. And it is perfectly well aware that it
would still be stranded on the inhospitable
shores of Opposition, and living as best it
could on the scarce and scanty prawrn of
public opprobrium, but for the fact that ex-
President Theodore Roosevelt came back
with much swelled head from his lion-shoot-
ing expedition in Africa, and “threw his hat
into the ring,” according to his own pictur-
esque expression, and threw out his chest,
and organised his famous Bull Moose party,
and split the High Protection vote so hope-
lessly that a comparatively unimportant
low tariff minority was able to crawl into
office sideways.
The Democratic or Comparatively Low
Tariff party in the United States has its
stronghold in the South where the old slave-
owning push hung out, and flogged its friend
Sambo before the war. The old slave-own-
ing push, in its good old slave-owning days,
didn’t manufacture anything worth mention-
ing. It was devoted to the job of dragging
raw material off the surface of the earth.
It possessed a great, ignorant, hulking, en-
slaved black proletariat, and because the
nigger was there to do all the hard work it
came to be regarded as a shame and a dis-
grace for a white man to be seen doing
manual labor. The position was the same
as it is in India or Burmah to-day. and as
it was in Portugal just before the downfall,
and as it always has been where a cheap de-
graded colored race was mixed on a large
scale with a white community. But the
nigger of the Southern States, just because
he was ignorant, uncultured and hulking,
and because he had no prospects in life, and
because he was a nigger, was quite unfit for
any manufacturing industry which called
for high intelligence. As he couldn’t manu-
facture because of his ignorance, and the
white man couldn’t do it lest he should lose
caste, the Southern States imported every-
thing save raw material, and they even im-
ported most of that. They knew practically
nothing save cotton picking. They were so
far behind in the human hustle that they
could, liardly make a gun or a pair of boots
for their troops when the great struggle
came about, and they didn’t even know how
to make iron rails with which to keep their
lines in repair. As importers they believed
in buying in the cheapest market, and so a
sort of Freetrade tradition grew up in the
South —a tradition which lingers in the
hookworm country to this day.
* * * #
The plea advanced for reduced duties is
that they will tend to diminish the cost of
living. It is quite possible that they will
have that effect. Binghi, the old-time Aus-
tralian aboriginal of 200 years ago, had no
customs or excise duties whatsoever, and his
cost of living, expressed in terms of cash,
was nil. At the same time, Binghi wasn’t
a great success. There is, of course, in every
country, a section of the community which
doesn’t know how much worse off it might
easily be, and which thinks almost any kind
of change will be a short cut to Paradise.
The citizen of the United States has griev-
ances, in which respect he is like many other
citizens. But so far as material comfort
goes—so far as concerns the sordid matters
of beer and boots and bread—he is so much
better off than most people that he isn’t
likely to tear his fiscal system to pieces reck-
lessly. In 1911 the Freetrade Government
of Britain was moved to inquire into wages
and prices in the U.S. as compared with
those in England and Wales (where condi-
tions are distinctly better than in Scotland
and Ireland). Its report was that the
skilled artisan earned 235. 3d. in the States
where he earned 10s. in England, and that
his hours were 4 per cent. less. If his wage
was calculated per hour he earned 245. in
the same time that it took the Englishman
to earn 10s., so in the matter of pay he was
almost 2\ times better off. At the same
time he paid 10s. in rent where the English-
man paid 55., and he paid about 14s. for the
victuals which cost the Englishman 10s.
Obviously Jonathan finds living a great
deal more costly than John Bull does, but
he gains far more in excess wages than he
pays in excess of living expenses. He might
be able, if he adopted Freetrade, to reduce
his expenses to Bull’s level, but if he did
it by reducing his wages to Bull’s level he
would have reason to be sorry for himself—
“durned sorry,” as he would probably ex-
press it.
Two or three times in the course of its
history the U.S. citizen has been beguiled
by stories of the cheap living to be found in
low tariff countries, and has made experi-
ments on his own account. He has never
found any joy in the experiments, and every
time he has gone back to the old ways he
has shoved the old tariff a few notches
higher, If the new Democratic Govern-
ment, with its purely accidental majority,
does start to knock bits off the tariff, which
is by no means certain, it isn’t likely to do
very much in that line, and its success will
almost certainly be the matter of a dav.
Circumstances are against it. As the Bri-
tish Board of Trade put the case;—
The average American dietary is on the whole more
varied and more liberal than the British. Besides
this, there is a much wider difference between the
family incomes in the two countries than between
the amounts spent on food The cost of food and
rent combined would be 52 per cent, higher for the
workman in the United States, yet his money earn-
ings are more than 225 per cent, as high as those of
the workman in the United Kingdom. Thus, in the
former country there is left a considerable marg’n
of income over expenditure, which can be, and is, uti-
lised in accordance with a higher standard of living
than is possible for the corresponding classes in this
country.
That testimony, supplied by the Freetrade
Government of the world’s boss Freetrade
country, explains why the fiscal doctrine of
the old shoddy slave-owners of the South is
never likely to get a permanent hold on the
United States. It was the doctrine of a
nigger country, and it was only fit for nig-
gers, and a republic that has grown tired of
niggers has no use for it.
MAORILAND’S STILT-WALKERS.
An astounding sight is the later Maoriland
politician when he mounts the stilts of Im-
perialism. Richard Seddon set the pace at
the time of the Boer war when so many
people became mentally overheated, and the
writer remembers him leaping in the poli-
tical atmosphere one night at the beginning
of the trouble, defying the whole flaming
Universe to “put ’em up.” Here’s a bit of
the outburst from an old note-book: —
The chance of a foreign foe landing a force on
Maoriland’s shores is practically an impossibility.
There is no nation extant which could land a body
of men who would not be wiped out within 24 hours.
Then there was the sight of eight or nine
contingents of swaddies beipg rushed for-
ward to the bellow of “On to the Defence of
the Empire !” Napoleon inspiring his troops
under the walls of Moscow, or Hannibal
pursuing the Duke of Wellington over the
Grampian plains was a circumstance to the
local politician springing his rattle in these
strenuous days. Subsequently came the
shrill crow of Joseph Ward at the Imperial
Conferences, what time he periodically and
dramatically splashed the miniature Domin-
ion into vast Imperial affairs as if it were
the hand of Providence blotting out the
great problems of the age. But Joseph’s
highest altitude on the stilts was reached
when certain wire-pullers suddenly startled
the nation’s ear with the yell: “The Ger-
mans are Upon Us! Dreadnoughts, for
God’s sake !” louseph leaped into the clouds
before anybody else could climb on a mere
cow-shed, and shrieked at Bull : “Have one
with Me!” No inquiry as to what the real
position was ; no consultation with the people
who would have to face the tremendous bill
—nothing. Just the whole perpendicular
bound that has made the self-advertising
politician of Maoriland, and the complacency
of his countrymen, pitiable. It is not cor-
rect to attribute Ward’s subsequent defeat
at the polls to the Dreadnought contribution,
or the manner of it. The baronetcy that
was part and parcel of the job certainly did
raise resentment, but the turning-down of
louseph was probable in any case. Never-
theless, if there was any lesson in the
Dreadnought affair, it has been thrown away
on those now in power.
* * * *
Promptly after lifting the seals of office,
Minister James Allen was handed the
stilts of imperial fervor, and hurried off to
London, the central theatre of the Empire,
where an influential and fashionable audi-
ence can always be relied upon to lend its
good-humored patronage. Allen attained
his object by double-banking. Whereas
Seddon made his coup by pouring into
Africa something less than a dozen contin-
gents and threatening more, and Ward stag-
gered under the spot light with a borrowed
Dreadnought to lay at the feet of a dazed
Empire. Allen brought down the house with
his tableau of more ships on one side and
an expeditionary force of 8000 men
for Empire service on the other. When the
Maorilanders at home understood all that
Allen had committed them to, there was
something very like the surprised yelp of a
newly-trodden-on dog. Allen cabled an ex-
planation to the effect that the force would
iperely consist of volunteers. But as these
volunteers would naturally come out of the
ranks of the home defence force raised under
the compulsory training system, the oppon-
ents of the system continued to yelp, with
assistance from press and other political
enemies of the Government. Concerning
the assurance of Allen that Maoriland
would never see the Empire stuck for a
battleship or two, what could be more free
and easy than the way the obligation was
placed before Bull :
The battleship Maoriland represents the Dominion’s
offer to the Empire, and if the Empire or the
Mother Country [the whole Dam family, in fact]
at any time should want more from Maoriland—if
there is really a need for it—you can come to
Maoriland and ask for it; or you need not even come
and ask; what is necessary will be given. For we
in the oversea Dominions are determined —may I
venture to say, even more determined than you
people in England — to keep the flag flying. It means
so much for us, all over the seas of the world. (Loud
and prolonged tears.)
A moving spectacle; but disturbing for the
next enthusiastic Maoriland parishioner that
drops in. Soon there wall be nothing left
for the peregrinating politician from M.L. to
offer Bull. With 8000 or so of the land
forces ear-marked, and a dozen or so of
battleships thrown in, there will be onlv the
permanent and reproductive works of the
country to fall back upon. And as they
have already been pawned to Uncle Cohen,
that resource is hollow and void.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Nation that Gets There and the One
that Gets Left..
In more ways than one the Balkan war
supplies a high mound of mental strain and
brain fag, on which the Australian may sit
buried in thought about his own future. So
far the victory in the aggregate has been to
the few, while the many have got licked
almost from one end of the campaign to the
other. Yet the few were divided into four
widely-separated armies; they were under
four separate commands ; and they were so
badly severed by ancient quarrels that more
than once they hung together with a good
deal of difficulty. Thus when the Greeks
and Bulgarians attacked Salonika the de-
feated Boss Turk put the city up to auction,
in a manner of speaking, and surrendered
it to the Greek general because he offered
better terms than the Bulgarian one. The
ensuing rage was so terrible that the two
Governments had to rush to the spot and
tear the allies apart, lest they should make
a copious slaughter of each other. For a
day or two they were the maddest friends
conceivable, and each was almost ready to
hire the common enemy to help him against
his brother. In the same way Chukri
Pasha tried to surrender Adrianonle to the
commander of the newly-arrived Servian
contingent, in order to make trouble between
him and the Head Bulgarian, and trouble of
some sort appears to have been very nnr
rowly averted. Yet with all drawbacks Vr
Confederates have won all along the
ail save the Montenegrins, who, though lec 7
oned the best lighting race in Europe, haven’t'
won anything up to time of writing. AIZ!
it lias been a victory for the armies tha
were best-trained and best-prepared Th
Bulgarians, Servians and Greeks, but esped
ally the Bulgarians, had toiled desperaWh,
at the work of military training, and when
the Bulgarian war machine was thrown
against the vast, shambling, squalid, unreadv
levies of the Unspeakable, it was bad for t\l
Unspeakable, despite all his entrenchment,
and fortifications and fighting record Th
Unspeakable began badly. The ex-Sultan
Abdul Hamid, was something between a
coward and a maniac. For 33 years he
never quitted his capital. He fled secretlv
from one bedroom to another, so that the
midnight assassin might not know where h
find him. Every night he kept the whole
of his vast palace in a blaze of light lest
someone should be lurking in the shadows
behind the doormat. He bought about 3000
revolvers, so that he might be ready to shoot
at suspicious characters, and at the end he
didn’t shoot even once. He fell at last
because, though much the larger part of the
army and some of the best generals were on
his side, he couldn’t bring himself to give anv
one general the command, lest too much
power should make him dangerous. And it
has been reckoned that his hired—but often
unpaid—spies numbered as many as 50,000
Certainly several million letters from these
individuals, all denunciations of alleged con-
spirators, were found among the wonderful
old man’s papers when he fell from his high
estate, which fall come about when a Hebrew
officer deposed him in an untidy room, where
he was accompanied by two revolvers, six
cheap American clocks, a tin candlestick, a
hurdy-gurdy, several bottles of medicine and
a small boy. Naturally a man of that sort
left a disreputable army behind him. The
mere fact that the soldiers’ wages had
largely gone to pay the salaries of spies en-
sured that. Abdul’s successors started to
reform things by discharging his officers
wholesale —practically all the old officers had
risen from the ranks and could fight much
better than they could read, while spelling
was quite beyond them —and replacing them
with “gentlemen” who were supposed to be
able to shoot in several languages. In the
midst of this transition the wonderful little
Bulgarian war machine struck the Ottoman
Empire in the stomach and doubled it up,
The well-trained, but not so well-trained,
Greeks and Servians also did good work, but
the Bulgarian was the only one of the Con-
federates who never met defeat. As for the
luckless Montenegrin, he never seemed to
meet anything else. Montenegro has a fine
military system on paper, but in practice it
sticks too closely to the old system of the
Scottish Highlander—the kilt and the yell
and the rush. Something like half the adult
manhood of the little nation sacrificed itself
in the heroic struggle to take Scutari,
which isn’t much of a place after all.
For once the disorganised Turk was up
against an enemy more primitive than him-
self, and, as a consequence, the latter days
of the war find Montenegro the only one of
the Confederates which hasn’t declared a
dividend. Unless its allies stand by it, the
best fighting race in Europe will back out of
the struggle and clamor, a ruined and dead-
broke community, without 2d. to show for
its tremendous exertions. The whole Balkan
row is a lesson in the great art of being
prepared. Other things being equal—often
other thimrs being unequal—it is the thor-
oughly-trained army that Gets There, and
the ill-trained one, even though composed of
better raw material, that Gets Left.
♦
The Non-Australian Conscience.
The Australasian Congregational Union in
its triennial gathering at Adelaide has been
having a bad attack of what is called in
England the “Noncomformist conscience.”
As there isn’t anything in Australia to con-
form to, in this country the article is apt to
take the form of plain anti-Australianism.
In the eyes of the Congregational Confer-
ence at Adelaide the Defence System of the
Commonwealth is condemned because “the
rights of conscience have not been ade-
quately maintained.” J. C. Kirby and A.
G. Collinson talked for nationalism, and
the latter raised an uproar when he told the
divines present that “the conscience clause
was for shirkers.” But the bleat of the
Wowsers drowned the arguments of the men,
and the Union gave its voice for shirk.
Which seems to burst up the last and only
tradition worth a trousers button in the col-
lection-plate which was left to the Congre-
gationalism With some sort of decent show
of truth these pious folk claim that they
are the direct spiritual descendants of the
stern and angry Puritans who fought under
Cromwell at Naseby and Dunbar, and were
in the habit of hunting kings and princes
round the landscape of their sins to prod
them with pikes or remove their heads with
a meat-chopper. The English Puritan
w r asn’t cheerful, but he had a grim notion of
protecting his rights with a knife and a gun,
and he didn’t shirk to any extent even when
Prince Kupebt’s draught horses were jump-
ing on him. In fact, he had conscientious
objections to sitting down to sing psalms
while there was an enemy of his liberty
walking about in a plumed hat, and he pre-
ferred to raise his thunderous chant to the
Lord while the blood of some _ man of sin
was still spurting over his whiskers, hol-
lowing the tradition in some sort of way,
the Congregational people have always been
right up in front when there was any big
political scrap on. and, in the main, for 2W
years they took the right side. They were
the backbone of whatever earnestness there
was about early Yankee nationalism, and
they supplied the sinews and thews in the
mob, aggregation or concourse behind LIN-
COLN when he loaded his gun to shoot at the
aggravated form of State Frights repre-
sented by Jeff Davis. Yet the Australian
fold of these militant and warlike sheep has
declared against the use of the gun for tn
protection of Australia, and on the yer.-
same day it decided not to discuss question
that were purely political. The old Oongi -
gationalist made his politics his religion an
his religion his politics, and that was tn
very best that could be said about him.
variety of the article lately sitting in
laide appears to have so much conscien
that it hasn’t got room for any other bless
thing, and it is not surprising in the fiftht
that fact to know that thing which was on


Oliver Cromwell and his Ironsides is now
only a tender and unappreciated Wowse in
a few half-empty churches.
The Progress of the Peril.
Fkom an ex-Australian in Singapore -
The Yellow Peril moves steadily south, encouraged
by British administration; and the meaning of it
doesn’t seem to be seen by anybody in authority
except perhaps the Dutch, who are using every
effort to keep the undesirables out of Holland’s
valuable East Indian possessions.
Two hundred years ago the Malay Peninsula,
which flings its long Asiatic arm down towards Aus-
tralia, was inhabited almost entirely by the native
Malay, a handsome, indolent savage, not unlike the
Maori, satisfied with his lazy life, his native arts and
crafts, and the very small amount of cultivation
necessary for his existence. Now, the British person
has opened up the country, introduced British capi-
tal, and, of course, British customs wherever they
could be transplanted; and mainly through the great
development of the tin and rubber industries, he has
converted Malaya into one of the wealthiest depen-
dencies, for its size, of the Empire.
But in accomplishing this the British have culti-
vated a factor that must, if present conditions con-
tinue, eventually control politically, as it now does
financially and commercially, the whole Peninsula.
In the days when the Malay Rajahs were supreme,
the Chinaman was but a small item of the popula-
tion. Now in numbers he exceeds all other races, in
wealth he is the ruling power, and in arrogance he
is steadily approaching that stage when he will re-
gard himself as the superior of the white. Immigra-
tion from China has increased from year to year;
and the immigrant has mostly settled down, married
and become a permanency—and his descendants are
British subjects. In Singapore, Kuala Lumpur,
Penang and other towns, hundreds of fine motor-
cars whizz past, carriages bowl along, motor-cycles
dodge through the crowded thoroughfares; and
their owners, in nine cases out of ten, are Chinamen.
Most of the shops and native houses, as well as many
European bungalows, are their property; the Chinese
shopkeeper secures all the Asiatic and a great deal
of the European patronage; the Chinese merchant
(several of him of the millionaire variety) controls
most of the business; and the suave Chinese clerk is
to be found in all Government departments and
European firms. Briefly, in a land to which he is
really alien, the Chinaman has become numerically,
financially and commercially the real power.
Without the Chinaman it is probably true that
Malaya could not have been developed so quickly,
though the potentialities of the Indian coolie are not
to be gainsaid; but whether the Celestial will not
aim presently at political domination is the problem
which is going to have a far-reaching effect, not only
on British prestige in the “Far East,” but on the
foreign difficulties which Australasia will have
to face. Many keen observers declare that the Chinese
are a peaceable race, and. with full scope for their
undoubted commercial instincts, will desire nothing
more than pre-eminence in trade. The writer, how-
ever, has come into contact with many educated
Chinese, themselves naturalised British citizens, and
has discovered that they chafe under the political
control of the white, and should the time come when
they would have to make choice, their adopted
country would be thrown over promptly and their
support go to the yellow race. What saves European
control for the present is that there are so many
almost distinct races of Chinese in the Peninsula,
speaking dialects so diverse as to render conversation
between two sections impossible except through the
easily acquired vernacular of the Malay. Each body
of Chinese, however, possesses a powerful guild, and
once the officials of these various guilds understand
one another, the consolidation of the factions of the
yellow race will present no difficulties. Moreover,
the foreign-living Chinese, through the medium of
papers published in their own tongue, follow closely
the trend of affairs in Republican China; and when
the great Chinese nation becomes a power to be
reckoned with, as it must do. it is certain that, in
the event of complications in Europe, China would be
able to over-run the Malay Peninsula, which with its
wonderful tin deposits and valuable rubber planta-
tions, its railways, docks and fine public buildings,
would become politically a dependency of the Re-
public. The Jap, too, is beginning to find many
opportunities in this “open-to-all” territory; and,
particularly in the native state of Johore. the brown
man is securing a firm foothold. No love is lost
between the Chinaman and his island neighbor;
but the Jap would not hesitate to unite with the
Chinaman against the white whom he so fervently
imitates and hates. .
So there lies, for future British supremacy in these
possessions, a grave danger from the over-running of
the country. Government officials are themselves
privately aware of this, but it is a subject which
officialdom, in true British fashion, prefers to ignore,
while the administrative policy, the educational
facilities, and even the courts of lustice foster its
growth From the Australian point of view it seems
to me that a policy which provides stepping-stones
for the natural invaders of the island-continent is
deserving of a serious protest to the Imperial authori-
ties. But any protest may be unavailing. It pro-
bably will be. All that Australia can rely upon
getting done it must do itself; and surely when Aus-
tralia considers the menace that creeps nearer and
nearer it will be more resolute and more energetic
in those preparations for Defence which, sooner or
later, can alone save its “white” policy.
How Protection Lowers Prices.
Messrs. Cuming, Smith and Co., of Vic-
toria* lately published an interesting piece
of information as to how the present mongrel
tariff “protects,” and also as to how prices
are kept down by the “healthy competition of
1 reetrade.” About 1909 the firm, whose
main business is artificial manure manufac-
ture, started a wood-distillation job at Yarra
Junction (Vic.). One of the chief products
of that industry is formalin, which, up to
1910, had been sold by the chief, and practi-
cally sole, importing house in Melbourne at
10s. per gallon. To the few large consumers
—the N. S. Wales and Vic. State Govern-
ments, and one or two wholesale chemists —-
the new Australian producers quoted 7s. 6d.
per gallon. The importers quoted 7s. 3d. in
reply; but the consumers stood by the local
industry and gave it the orders. Then a pro-
tective duty was asked for, the firm knowing
the ways of importers, and a whole 15 per-
cent. ad val. was given, in 1911. Quotations
being, again called for, the Australian firm
mentioned its bed-rock payable price—7s. 6d.
The importer asked 6s. 6d. —3s. 6d. less than
he had quoted when there was no local in-
dustry—plus the 15 per cent. duty. The
importer got the orders, and Cuming,
Smith’s production of formalin practically
ceased. Unless the duty is raised high
enough to be protective, the local manufac-
turers will be compelled to turn their atten-
tion and machinery to something else, where-
upon, of course, the importer will raise his
price once more to the old 10s., plus some-
thing to pay him for the trouble he went to
to smash the Australian industry. Just
here it may be noted that Cuming, Smith
and Co. employ 150 men at Yarra Junction;
the importer employs two men, a boy and
an occasional carter.
The Anti-Arbitration Yell.
The Bulletin’s Stipendiary Optimist
writes: —
In the last couple of months N. S. Wales has been-
afflicted with a series of strikes. This writer has
no intention of posing as an apologist for strikes. He
considers that the Laborite who strikes, while there
is still the least faint hope of redress from the Courts
is a traitor to his party and to his industrial creed.
I urther, even if there is no hope of redress from thei
Courts, the Laborite who strikes while his party is
in power is a fool, for he thereby declares in effect
that his crowd doesn’t know how to provide the right
kind of Court. The benefits achieved by the em-
ployees, as a result of the Sydney Gas and Ferrv
strikes, would inevitably have accrued shortly from
the Courts, for the reforms which the men demanded
were reasonable. The Darling Harbor railway goods
porters could have gained the points which they
scored last week by legitimate means. And in those
events the Labor cause would have been spared a lot
of discredit, and the Arbitration principle would have
been protected from a flood of Tory obloquy. But
Toryism, in its spirited efforts to cast mud at its
opponents, has overdone things, and in its attempts
to show that Labor has been unprecedentedly lawless
and bloodthirsty in the past few weeks, it has made
an even more glaring ass of itself than usual. The
S. M. Herald said (17/4/’l3) that “this was a time
when there was danger of class-hatred running into
anarchy, and when the red fires of revolution were in
a fair way of being lighted.” William McMillan,
Sydney’s most easily perturbed linen-draper, called a
day or so later, for “a strong Executive, which may
save the country from anarchy and insurrection.”
And Bruce Smith proclaimed that the country was
“no longer fit for a respectable man to live in.”
Do the leaders of Liberalism really believe that this
country is in a worse way, industrially speaking,
than (say) England was in the last century, or in the
century before that, when Arbitration was unknown?
Consider, first, the conduct of the local men. They
struck; and to that extent they were grossly at
fault. But their guilt ended there. They did not
riot or spill blood, or seek to bring about a state of
anarchy. In fact, they took peculiar care to let
the community down as lightly as possible. The
ferry-strikers agreed to man the Government boats;
the railway-strikers to handle milk, on the ground
that it was necessary for children and invalids; and
so on. Never, in an industrial war, was more re-
straint shown. Now, consider the sort of thing that
went on in good old Britain in the good old pre-
Arbitration period. Benjamin Franklin relates that
while he was in London “a desperate battle, with
firearms, raged from eight in the evening till five in
the morning, and many were slain.” He saw “saw-
yers destroying saw-mills, coal-heavers pulling down
the houses of coal-dealers, sailors on strike unrigging
all the outward-bound merchantmen, and closing the
Port of London till their pay was raised, the very
tailors marching in their thousands to ov~-«w'> Par-
liament.” George Eliot gives, in “Felix Holt,”
what has always been accepted as a meticulously
accurate portrait of the Early Victorian worker.
There was no restraint about him. He struck, and
struck often, and on those occasions there were riots
that mostly ended in bloodshed and death. What
insanity it is foy the local party of reaction to sug-
gest that we shOudd hark back in this century to the
anarchic state of affairs which produced the tragedies
of the pre-Reform Bill days! And what a libel it
constitutes in the great body of Australian working-
men to talk of them as revolutionaries and reckless
blood-spillers ? The modern working-man is fre-
quently, taken in the mass, a blighted idiot; but a
dangerous criminal he emphatically is not. The
political party which yells for a reversion to indus-
trial anarchy, because industrial laws have not always
been infallible in their working, and which libels a
large class in the effort to buttress its hopeless case,
does itself no good. All it does is to expose the
rabidly Tory sentiments which in calmer moments it
is so careful to disclaim
V
The One and Onlv Solution of the Trust
Problem.
Scores of wild old Freetraders started to
hurry distractedly in from the woods, so to
speak, at the first intimation that the
Fisher Administration purposed, belatedly,
to do the right thing by Australia’s absurd
tariff. Already they may be heard yammer-
ing enragedly in countless pubs and such-
like resorts, and the burden of their remarks
is to this effect: The trusts are responsible
for the increased cost of living; but the
tariff is solely responsible for the trusts:
wherefore, if the tariff is raised, there will
be more trusts, and the populace will shortly
be insolvent. A. H. Conroy, of N. S.
Wales, a Freetrader of the later Geebung
period, put it this way the other day: —
The Labor party, by supporting a policy of Pro-
tection, created the very trusts so much criticised.
They would not legislate against trusts in the only
manner possible, by removing the tariff where it
was high enough to create trusts.
The foundation or heart or innards of this
crude mis-statement consists in the oft-
repeated but utterly incorrect suggestions
(1) that tariffs produce trusts, and (2)
that without high tariffs there can be no
trusts. The fact is, as this paper has
pointed out before, Freetrade England to-
day is as much the home of trusts as the
Protectionist United States. There are
two main differences, broadly speaking,
between the trust game as it is played in
the States and the same game as it is
played in the United Kingdom. In the
U.S. the trust is above the Law. There, as
in Australia, the federal system of autono-
mous States enables the trust magnates, by
registering in one of those States, which is
prepared to put self-interest before patriot-
ism, to defy the national Parliament.
Britain, being in the enjoyment of a unified
system of government, is in a position to
keep a powerful hand on its trusts from one
end of the Kingdom to the other. In the
U.S. wages are high, in the majority of
industries, and the trusts make most of their
vast dividends by fleecing the consumer. In
Britain wages are low, and the profits of
the trusts are largely achieved by the sweat-
ing of employees. The scandal of the wages
paid in the lower ranks of the British and
Irish railway services is still fresh in the
public mind. Britain, despite the alleged
inestimable Freetrade boon which it pos-
sesses, has immense trusts in the soap,
tobacco, cement and wall-paper trades, and
in the calico printing, fine cotton spinning,
thread manufacturing and bleaching indus-
tries. The huge dyeing concerns of Brad-
ford and Yorkshire have been formed into
a trust of late years. In brief, combines,
vends, trusts —call them by any fancy name
that comes to mind —are as rampant in the
land of Cobden as elsewhere. The moment
the cheaper sort of British workman fairly
grasps the fact that the Coats and the
Glucksteins of his native land are march-
ing to preposterous wealth over his and his
family’s half-starved bodies, there will be
trouble. Where Britain will score in that
critical hour is in the circumstance
that it will have ready to its hand
a means of instantly redressing such
wrongs as have grown intolerable. It
will not be possible then for any interested
person to shelter himself, behind the Consti-
tution of Yorkshire, or to keep up the divi-
dends of his concern by a calm reliance on
the State Rights of Kent. The Central Par-
liament, in London, possessing the same com-
plete power to regulate the monopolist which
Germany possesses to regulate one of its Car-
tels, may be relied on, for the sake of the
public peace, to exercise that power without
hesitation. The United States is less for-
tunately situated, inasmuch as when its day
of trouble comes it will be no more capable
of putting effective anti-trust legislation on
its Statute books than it is at the present
time. Australia has a useful, in fact, price-
less, lesson to learn from the above facts. It
is not that it should declare for Freetrade,
because in England the trusts, for the pre-
sent, are enabled to sell their products at a
low figure; and it is not that it should con-
tinue to leave its national Parliament power-
less in regard to most of the Commonwealth’s
trade and commerce, because wages in the
only other country where such a state of
things prevails, are high. Such propositions
are for none but unthinking persons who
have been hibernating in distant forests for
vears and years. The obvious scheme is for
Australia to adopt the better features of
both Britain and the U.S., namely the cen-
tralised Parliamentary control of the one
country and the effective tariff wall of the
other. Under such conditions the trust
menace or horror could not live in these
parts a month.
A remarkable admission of class privileges
was made last week by Coroner Cole, of
Melbourne, in the matter of an inquest on
the body of a navy ofiicer’s daughter. The
circumstances of her sudden death must
have called imperatively for an inquest. Ihe
medical man or men who viewed the body
notified the Coroner, and that accommo-
dating gentleman in due course gave a per-
mit for the burial of the body without fur-
ther ado. As to whether he held a formal
inquiry, with a duly empanelled jury to
bring in a verdict, no statement has ap-
peared in print. An advertisement of the
young lady’s decease was published in the
Melbourne morning dailies, but they made
no reference to the event. The evening
Herald, however, published the fact that
“An inquest was held to-day by Dr. R. H.
Cole, the Coroner, but the result was not
disclosed. Questioned subsequently, Dr.
Cole stated that he had given a promise to
the father of deceased that he would not
make public the outcome of the inquiry’’—
the names of the parties being given. With
the desire of any parent to throw a veil of
secrecy over a domestic tragedy this paper is
in full sympathy. To the action of the
Coroner in conspiring with an exalted citi-
zen —because he is exalted —to evade the law
which practically commands ample publica-
tion of inquests, in the public interests to
such dangerous concessions to individual
members of the ruling class, this paper is
violently antipathetic. As for _ Coroner
Cole’s frank admission of his willingness to
strain the law in favor of a personage, when
he probably wouldn’t think of so doing
in favor of a mere person, it can only be re-
garded as evidence of Snobbery having got
Officialdom by the throat. When an ordin-
ary citizen dies under inquestious circum-
stances, the police are notified. The Coroner
and the newspapers are notified by the
police, and the evidence given at the coronial
inquiry is published by the newspapers. Cer-
tainly the intention of the law is that it
shall be fully published somewhere, and the
newspapers ' meet the requirement. In
every case, or nearly so, the relatives of
deceased would keep the whole story dark
if they could, but the Coroner and the police
turn the limelight on it. Public interests
demand publicity, in a general way. If a
cause of sudden death is hushed up to
oblige a personage in a case where publicity
would seem to be uncalled for, every mere
person who wants a case hushed un is en-
titled to the same consideration. The wife
who has poisoned her husband, but can make
it seem quite plain that he poisoned him-
self, is entitled to similar consideration. A
Star-Chamber inquest, whereof the Coroner
denies information to a newspaper reporter,
is an outrage. A Coroner who commits it
to oblige a big-wig. without the least appar-
ent consciousness of his indiscretion, is a
shocking example of ingrained Snobbery in
official places.
There might be a good deal more enthus-
iasm over the N.S.W. Government’s vague
proposal to run a State ferry in Sydney to
connect Circular Quay and Milson’s Point
trams and trains, if the one suburban ferry
which the State does run to connect trams
and trains weren’t such a shocking failure.
At the Spit the Government ferries its tram
passengers across Middle Harbor for noth-
ing, and the service would be a disgrace to
an aboriginal management. The ferry or
punt is supposed to be a connection between
the tram that ends at the Spit and the other
one that carries the passengers on to Manly!;
but never, unless by accident, does the punt
run to meet the trams, and as often as not
there’s a wait of anything up to half an hour
on one side of the stream or the other. So
a through journey from Sydney to Manly,
which ought to take 50 minutes, often runs
into twice that time, and the traffic which
ought to be helping to pay the interest bill
goes to the Manly Steamship Co. Hun-
dreds of complaints have been made, of
course; but all the satisfaction anybody
ever gets is that the Kailway Department
runs the trams, while the Works Depart-
ment runs the punt —as though that should
make any difference.
An uproar has been raging in London, par-
ticularly in the Morning Post, over Aus-
tralian wine. On the whole, Australian
vintages have not scored any large adver-
tisement, and the owners and vendors of the
goods got pretty much what they deserve.
The fatal habit of imitating Dago liquors
and labelling a South Aus. product with a
name peculiar to the product of a European
district has a lot to do with the reputation,
or the lack of it, of the goods we have to
sell. Had the earliest growers of Austra-
lian wine been content to produce the best
liquid of one kind which their own vines
and the local sunshine would yield,
and when they had brought the thing to
comparative perfection had marketed it
under the district name, it is certain that
at least one or two vintages of the Com-
monwealth would by this time have had a
big vogue. Instead, every grower has at-
tempted to produce an imitation of every
blessed variety of wine grown on the planet,
and the result, after 50 years or so, is the
contempt of the proud and the sneers of the
wine-wise. It is the same old foreign-trade
idea that has done so much harm in other
directions; only here we have done more
permanent damage to a promising industry
by importing names instead of goods. A
tariff wall of decent height may set one
matter right, but no sort of legislation can
deal with the blind folly which attaches a
doubtful Portuguese or French label to an
Australian article. The Australian article
is produced as a substitute, marketed as a
substitute, and sneered at as a substitute.
And the fact that the imitation may be bet-
ter than the original doesn’t seem to matter
tuppence.
-♦
“0.K.” : The terms “dirty snob” and “cad,”
yelled at a caustic commentator by Lloyd
George and others in the House of Com-
mons, hardly strike one as being applicable
to the offender. Lloyd Geor'ge did a specu-
lative deal in the American Marconi Co.’s
shares on the strength, apparently, of a Bri-
tish Government contract with the British
Marconi Co. When examined by a com-
mittee of inquiry into the honesty of said
contract, Lloyd George declared that he
had bought his Marconi shares as an invest-
ment. “Not having much cash, he avoided
speculations,” he said. But, under cross-
examination, he admitted to having promptly
sold 857 of the first 1000 shares he bought
at a profit of £750. When a Unionist M.P.
—one Kebty-Fletcher —sneeringly asked
Lloyd George in the House whether his
salary of £SOOO didn’t suffice to preserve
him from the temptation of Stock Exchange
speculation, the old canting cries of “snob”
and “cad” were hurled at the nasty ques-
tioner, instead of argument. As a matter
of fact, no decent excuse could be found for
a Chancellor of the Exchequer who specu-
lates in the shares of a wireless telegraph
co. when they are bound to be affected by
political dealings whereof he is “in the
know.” Nor was it “caddish” or “snobbish”
to suggest that a salary of £SOOO to a Min-
ister of State is expected to hold him aloof
from that sort of speculation even as a
Judge’s rotund stipend is expected to keep
him from buying or selling shares in a pub-
lic company whose fortunes he is about to
influence by a legal judgment. The sneer-
ing criticism of Kebty-Fletcher, M.P.,
may have been as malicious as the gibes of
a Willy Kelly in the Australian Parlia-
ment, but all criticism intended to belittle
the political character of a party by be-
smirching the personal reputation of a self-
righteous individual member of it, is mali-
cious as far as that individual is concerned.
“Snob” and “cad” are merely cant terms in
political uproar. Also, the word “dirt”
might as well be dropped out of the vocabu-
lary at political meetings. It is of no
special value, and has outlived its useful-
ness. Dirt is really soil, and soil is what
food grows upon. In fact, dirt is what we
all live upon. The interjector might as
well shout “earth” or “globe” or “planet.”
“Old Soldier” : Judge lleydon, of N.S.W.,
uttered a solemn warning the other day
about the expense of working the Arbitra-
tion law. But he omitted to mention the
explanation of the undue costliness. It is
largely the system. Every Wages’ Board
must have three members. There is the
Chairman, generally a more or less briefless
barrister with no objection in the world to
stringing out the hearing of the dispute for
weeks, or, if necessary, months. Then there
is the Employers’ Representative who often
has a similar object in view, for one reason
or other. One N. S. Wales Board, after
doddering along since last September, looked
up amazedly and found, the other dav, that
the dastardly employees whose case it was
brooding over had gone on strike. Strikes
aDd cheque-drawings—these are among the
chief products of Wade’s much-boomed con-
traption.
N.S.W. Works Minister Arthur Griffith
told the recent railway strikers the truth
about themselves when he styled them “in-
dustrial outlaws.” It seems the porters
made no attempt to impress upon the Gov-
ernment —their own Government, by the
way—that they would strike if something
was not done suddenly. They could, with a
little agitation, have got the Royal Commis-
sion without resorting to a strike at all, and
thereby have saved themselves some money
and the country a vast deal of inconveni-
ence. They didn’t even warn their own
executive. They never gave the Labor Coun-
cil a chance to act on their behalf; they
never gave anybody a chance to do any-
thing. They just struck. They wouldn’t have
Ugh! It’s Alive!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Voice of Parliament had been absolutely
stifled by a mechanical and non-representative
majority that had swept all before it, in the face of
protest, like an Indian juggernaut.— Bruce (or
Baruch) Smith, M.11.R., to a Women's Liberal
League.
“I reah-lly cannot understand,” said Bruce,
“Why these infernal people won’t keep
quiet.
They hold their billets safe; then why the
deuce
Raise such a riot?
“We had a nice, dull Fusion long ago,
When Deakin first towards our crowd
seceded ;
Why can’t they fall asleep, and take it slow
As Georgie Reid did?
“They don’t know what majorities are for;
They think they’ve got to hurry up and
do things !
And so we see them wave their fists, and
roar
For horrid new things.
“Although I say a law is base, and vile,
And reah-lly don’t know inhere I ought
to class it,
They look upon me with a scornful smile,
And, Ged! they pass it!
“If I became Prime Minister by chance
(A chance that’s too remote to need dis-
cussing),
1 wouldn’t lead the country such a dance
With all this fussing.
“No. sir ! the party which inspires my love
Would never share in such a vulgar
tussle;
It doesn’t strain and haul and heave and
shove
And make things hustle.
“Should we come into power, you’d see a
change!
Three years of gentle somnolence would
serve us ;
You bet your life we’d give you nothing
strange
To make you nervous.”
And I believe that Bruce and all his crew
Who unto us with eloquent demands turn,
If asked to shove us on a bit, would do
Not a d —d hand’s turn.
N.S.W.
L.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
m
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . . and . . .
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
mmmmfm i
After a Trying Shopping Tour
drop into one of our theatres. Every-
thing is restful; soft lights, easy chairs,
quiet, interesting pictures, pleasing
music.
Can anything be more restful? And the
cost is a trifle.
The Crystal Palace—Sydney.
The Britannia Melbourne.
WILLIAM B. MILLER, Cien’l Manager.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
struck at all had a Tory Ministry been in
power, knowing that some of them would
have been promptly slung into gaol. But
because it was their own Government they
kicked over the traces, worried and discred-
ited their own Administration, and, as Mini-
ster Griffith said, “deliberately struck a
staggering blow at the principle of State
industrialism.”
.*.
The impudent Sydney Ferries, Ltd., is
gradually making the recent strike of its
employees a means to further cut the purses
of the public. Last week another move was
made in that direction, when the concession
age for school-children’s tickets was lowered
from 18 to 16. Amongst others, this has
exasperated Minister for Public Instruction
Carmichael, as it is having a depreciating
effect upon the attendance at his Continua-
tion Schools. > therefore, a State ferry-boat
for students is the to-be or not-to-be of the
Minister just at present. A whisper of this
has led to the suggestion that there should
be a State ferry for domestic servants along
the Parramatta River, whose “concessions”
were also bitten into to feed the starving
dividend-mongers. Likewise, apprentices
living on the North side of the Harbor which
is the monopoly of the co., and working on
the city side, desire a State boat, they hav-
ing been forced to shell out another slice of
their wages. In fact, practically all hands
on the North Shore want a State ferry, but,
as that would be Socialism, and the North
Shore looks upon Socialism as a dastardly
interference with the sacred rights of Private
Enternrise, the position calls for some further
consideration- —particularly on the part of
the North Shore.
In S. Aus. Supreme Court. Doctor (under
cross-examination, excitably) : “No, I am
not excitable. I never lost my temper with
a patient. I will pay £SO to the hospital if
you can prove such a thing.” Opposing
counsel (with the air of one who has infor-
mation straight from the stable) : “May I
take it that you mean that offer literally?”
Judge Murray (interposing): “Gentlemen, I
am afraid I can’t allow wagering in this
Court.” Disappointment of the hospital,
which saw itself on “a bit to nothing.”
Jeames, his theory :
Holman’s job of explaining to King George, last
week, why his Government ousted Lord Denman from
Federal Government House, Sydney, was one calcu-
lated to afflict the expounder with brain-fag. To
begin with, he had a hostile audience to address.
The King is known to have taken a personal interest
in this matter. He considered, seemingly, that he
was being robbed of one of his palaces, and he wrote
to Lord Denman, urging him to leave no boulder
unturned or cliff unshifted to frustrate the attempted
infamy. Whatever merits the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment’s case possessed rested broad-based on the
State Frights doctrine that the Commonwealth is an
avaricious and callously inequitable institution, bent
on grinding the long-suffering, old Mother State into
the mud of insolvency and ruin and all-round misery.
It is all Sussex-street to a ruined mangelwurzel that
George Y. knows little or nothing of the State
Frights creed. Living in a country which possesses
unification, the Geebung point of view would appeal
to him as wildly unreasonable and perverse. We know
him for an unusually free-spoken monarch at all times.
Under the steady drippage of Holman’s fluent casuis-
tries —as they certainly would appear to his bluff nauti-
cal or topmast mind —rage would probably super-
vene, also harsh words of the sort that are unfit for
publication. In fact, that is doubtless the explanation
of the silence of the cable man in regard to exactly
what George said to William on the Government
House question.
A painful episode occurred in Adelaide
last week, and Right-thinking Persons are
still quivering with scandalised grief over it.
Paris Nesbitt, K.C., wanted to appear in the
Criminal Court against the Crown. How-
ever, he had omitted to get a formal license
from the Government to do so. Accordingly
he was ordered to desist. Whereupon Nes-
bitt cheerfully proposed to abandon iiis
SILK AND DAMN THE CONSEQUENCES.
(Moans from the Bench and cries of
“Shame !” “Disloyalist!” “Fire !” “Police !”
etc., from the body of the Court.) Ulti-
mately the matter was fixed up and Paris
remains a K.C.; but it wouldn’t have hurt
him if he had carried out his threat. The
whole K.C. business is plain rot ; standing
on much the same plane as the office of
Hereditary Bearer of the Sovereign’s Ash-
tray and so forth. According to legal fiction
the K.C. counsels or advises his Sovereign.
Of course in nractice he does nothing of the
sort. Many Iv.C.’s would be dealt with very
strenuously if they essayed to furnish George
V. with advice, on the grounds that they
were not only incompetent to advise on any-
thing more involved than a dog-license dis-
pute, but were furthermore guilty of pollut-
ing the Presence with the odor of dead Beer.
Any practising barrister of 10 years’ stand-
ing can become a K.C., provided the Bar
doesn’t object—and. of course, it practically
never does. From then onward he, can never
appear in Court without a “junior.” The
junior’s fee is two-thirds of whatever the
K.C.’s fee is. The junior is of no use to the
litigant—his province being merely to do the
tiresome chamber-work for which the K.C.
has already been paid. And the litigant is get-
ting to know it in vast numbers. Conse-
quently, one of the first results of “taking
silk” is often the halving of the recipient’s
annual income. It is a stiff price to nay
for a new costume, and the marvel is that
there are still plenty to be found who are
willing to pay it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Antony and Cleopatra.”
llek Majesty’s “Puss in Boots.”
Criterion “The Fortune Hunter.”
Palace “On Our Selection.”
Adelphi. “The Woman Pays.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre “The Man on the Bo\.”
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric )
Colonial r Continuous Pictures.
Empress I
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
§L^T. M ::v.::::::h Vest ’ s Pictures -
Eden Gardens, Manly... The Dandies.
Belmore Markets Wirths’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Count of Luxembourg.”
Princess’s “Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
King’s. “Faust.”
Royal “Milestones.”
Opera House. Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Jesters.
Bijou The Grafters.
“Puss in Boots” continues to keep Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) in as hopelessly con-
gested a state as the most frantic anti-decen-
tralisationist could wish—a notable feat this
for any mere feline.
The quite superfluous real shower of rain
that forms the “curtain” of “The Fortune
Hunter” at the Criterion still sends the audi-
ence home delighted. There is something
pleasing in seeing other people get wet, while
you occupy a dry seat in the stalls. The
fuller opportunities for character-acting
afforded Fred Niblo and Miss Cohan in this
play, as compared with “Wallingford” in-
crease this paper’s respect for the two prin-
cipals.
The mysterious title of the next Adelphi
production, “The Woman Pays,” is giving
rise to all sorts of theories. The latest is
that the play deals with a new Suffragette’s
ruse to make men feel uncomfortable by pub-
licly paying their own tramfare and lunch-
money. Whatever it is, the new Marlow-
drama sounds like breaking some new ice.
But if it doesn’t, this paper won’t be much
surprised—so very few Marlowdramas do.
Any Sydneyite who hasn’t seen Madam
Garcia’s car whirling in mid-air, with the
lady sitting unmoved while it turns somer-
saults, should immediately, upon reading this,
snatch up his hat and his best girl and make
a rush for Belmore Markets. Wirths’ circus
will, after to-morrow night, fold up its Polar
bears, elephants and Other matters, and go
forth to gather gold in the parts where the
cow is pensive and the jumbuck void of
guile. Every thrill is still in its place, and
the acrobats and trapeze artists get in lots of
fine work, while the smile of La Belle Vic-
toria is itself worth the price of two drinks
and a counter-lunch.
Two new sketches by Harry Corson
Clarke and George Bryant’s cos. are
the only new items at the Tivoli
this week. Clarke’s “Strategy” is a
delightful little comedy, and he and
Margeret Dale Owen are so near their best
that the difference isn’t worth worrying
about. As for the rest of the programme,
Henri Frepeh, juggler and one-wheel cyclist,
is in his last nights ; Alexander Prince isn’t,
nor anvthing like if : and Taylor and Arnold,
Will Whitburn and Cummin and Seaham pro-
vide enough nonsense to go on with. Next
week the Jackson family of cyclists will
begin its precarious job, and Nella Webb
will give those who didn’t get tired of her
before another chance to do so.
The Panama Canal films having been a
large success in Sydney, financially and
otherwise (chiefly otherwise, if the J.D.W.
balance-sheet is any criterion), the manage-
ment has decided on a re-flicking at the
Crystal Palace. April 28th-30th have been
earmarked for the purpose. Meanwhile the
usual menu is handed round. The best this
week were the Oxford-Cambridge race and
“The White Glove Gang,” which winds up
with a realistic burning-ship scene that comes
along as a blessed relief from the conven-
tional ending of such shocks.
At Sydney Royal next Saturday, “Antony
and Cleopatra” will once more slither adown
the joyous, but highly reprehensible paths
of dalliance, along which they slithered to
such sad purpose 20 centuries agone. Oscar
Asche will revive this picturesque old scandal
on a scale of unprecedented sumptuousness.
The Hamilton-Plimmer co. closed its pay-
able and artistic Sydney season at the Palace
last night. It does not too frequently happen
that a payable season is an artistic one, nor
is it an invariable rule that an artistic
season is a payable proposition. But in this
case the desirable double came off. In a
manner of speaking, both horses won. The
two plays that the co. staged were revivals,
the first being “Dr. Wake’s Patient” and,
the second, “The Woman of Impulse.” There
was a deal of difference in the capabilities
demanded of the co. in the two pieces, but
sufficient was shown to justify the opinion
that the management’s venture is well sup-
ported behind the footlights. As this paper
has said before, no better combination of
comedy talent has been amalgamated since
the memorable days of Brough and Bouci-
eault. At an early date the co. will cast
new plays upon the waters of public opinion,
and if it doesn’t make more than bread and
cheese, the present writer will arise on all
four feet and be publicly surprised. On
Saturday the theatre will be leased to Dad
Bailey and the rest of the family in “On Our
Selection.” The Bailey-Grant-Duggan co.
intends to hold the fort at the Palace for
several months, and amongst other interest-
ing things Edw’ard Dyson’s “Golden Shanty”
will be tried on the dog that may or may
not bark financially at the pay-box.
“PUSS IN
BOOTS,
AT HEP
MAJESTY S,
SYDNEY.
In the panto,
there are horses
to suit varied
tastes.
Violet Lorraine tells
of stirring deeds that
will happen "when
the brass baud begins
to play.”
Any bloque of Sydney who has the habit
of getting violently and incomprehensibly
drunk, boosted or blithered, should make a
point of seeing Paul Gorden, “the drunk on
the wire,” at the National Amphitheatre.
After seeing Paul, he wall know how to walk
a chalk line even if it sways like politics.
There are several other entertainers at the
National, but none like Paul. He is the
unstable limit.
The principal “show” events in Adelaide
since that leafy city was last heard from a
week ago have been the reopening of the
Tivoli and the departure of the “red”
Dandies. Providence gave these latter clever
people an abnormally hot week for their
open-air finish, and towards the end the
public was scrambling for admission. They
go to the far end of Maoriland shortly. The
Tivoli under Mclntosh’s management dis-
cards the old First Part, and puts up a
strong all-round co., though with no people
new to Australia in it. From the Royal has
gone “Faust,” with the excellent stage
crowds, the somewhat mild Brocken revels
and Robertshaw’s cynical comic Devil u-
rendering seems modelled on Henry Irving
occasional low-comedy manner; and n Vr\-
Maxon is of the school of H. B. Irvine wtl C
admittedly imitates his father, one seemfi
see two quite different Irving imitatfnne
going on side by side. Jansen has come back
to Adelaide tor a week of mysterv m o
Royal, and the Exhibition is just unpackme
something new in the Japanese way, brought
along by Carrington Walters. Van Camn
and his erudite pigs are still at the KinFs
along with Hugh Lloyd, doing marvels on
the wire, and King and Miss Virginia
Thornton in short plays—an excellent varin
tion of Variety.
April sittings of Melbourne’s Repertorv
Theatre, at the Athenaeum Hall, began last
week with two nights of Bernard Shaw’s
“Getting Married.” “Sitting” is a tern
which properly expresses the action of this
comedy of ideas, wherein Gilbertianism con-
tends with Socialism for supremacy, and the
result is a draw. The characters come on to
the stage and seat themselves mostly and
talk in their respective turns. Perpendicu-
lar exceptions to the rule are an old-
fashioned greengrocer, serving as a waiter
(who, being an alderman, is desired to g 0
and assume his robe of office in honor of the
occasion), and a parish beadle, who acts as
herald to a clairvoyant mayoress, and whose
fat-headed mace is credited with curative
properties. Incidentally, it transpires that
the beadle is in the habit of touching the
children of the parish with his mace for ring-
worm, even as monarchs of old used to touch
their loyal subjects for scrofula and things.
The waiter in his aldermanic robes, the occa-
sional beadle, the love-lorn General in full
regimentals (the Repertory exponent of the
part suggested a militiaman just out of
pawn), and one or two other people, are
Shawian adaptations of Gilbertian charac-
ters. The music of Arthur Sullivan is needed
to complete their humor. As for the young
heroine, Mrs. Reginald Bridgenorth," who
sues for a friendly divorce from her middle-
aged husband with a view to marrying a
free and breezy young snob, she is not nearly
so human as the irresponsible wife in “The
Night of the Party.” The matron in the
farcical comedy aforesaid admits to having
supposed that she loved her husband when
she married him. and thinks that she really
did love him until he grew a pair of beastly
whiskers. She is a more convincing exagger-
ation of flighty matronhood than Mrs. Reg.
Bridgenorth in “Getting Married.”
* * * «
Shaw’s entertainment in this case is neither
farce, flesh nor good red Socialism. The
characters assemble and talk together in the
“Kitchen in the Palace of the Bishop of
Chelsea.” during the time appointed for the
marriage of his, youngest daughter in the
church next door, and their talk leaves the
marriage question just where they found it.
In most of their remarks they are obviously
insincere. No air of reality blows into the
situation save when Lesbia Grantham, the
grey-haired spinster, suggests that the laws
of Respectability are cruel to the woman who
wants children of her own, but would like
somebody else’s husband to be the father of
them. And even Lesbia’s burst of emotion
raises the question whether her powerful
maternal instinct would have subordinated
itself to her fear of marriage.
Considered as an entertainment intended
to advance the literary drama movement.
“Getting Married” is a failure. Its types
of character are not realised by the McMahon
forces. Two of Shaw’s brighter comedies —
“Candida” and “Man and Superman”—have
been more interestingly played. Miss Hunger-
ford, in the comparatively strong part of
Lesbia Grantham, shines brightly in spots.
Miss Robson handles the irresponsibility of
Mrs. Reggie with a light amateurish touch.
Gregan McMahon, Helton Daniel and Gerald
Carr are the most satisfactory of the men.
The first of this week’s sittings of the Reper-
tory Theatre had not commenced when The
Bulletin went to press.
At the Bijou, five fraudulent claimants to
the property of Watts (deceased), continue
to talk and sing to one another and to the
village constable. The constable talks back
in a slowq deliberate manner, as before,
until the weird little woman with the unpre-
cedented pair of legs, turns out to be the
rightful heiress to the property. After which
all “The Grafters” repeat the glad tidings
that a Yankee exhibition will occur in 1915,
and the American Musical Burlesque Co.
knocks off work for the night. One more
week of “The Grafters” will be its last for
the present, and another three weeks will
conclude the management’s lease of the
theatre. When “The Grafters” smes to Syd-
ney and elsewhere its local habitation will
be provided by William Anderson, it is said.
** * *
Meanwhile, Anderson will put a Mel-
bourne roof over the head of the William-
son production of “Faust.” Jerrold Robert-
Beatrice Terry and Co. are due at
the King’s next Saturday, and wall plav the
drama of the Man, the Girl and the Devil
for three weeks. Any announcement of
“Faust” these times spells Gounod’s grand
opera to the careless reader. The Ander-
sonian public has never been a whale for
THE MAN ON THE BOX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Awake! for Morning’s yawns have put to
flight
The pleasures of the show of Overnight;
And news of Entertainment must be sought
For something fresh to blossom our Delight.
Hamlet has gone, along with Bentley’s pose ;
And that frail “Sunshine Girl” —where no
one knows ;
But still The Little Theatre fills up ;
And still the same piece Happiness bestows.
Myself for years did joylessly frequent
Singer and pro. (and few worth argument
Save as to who should “shout”), and
evermore
Went out the Interval that in I went.
Then to this Buckler show did I adjourn
("The Man Upon the Box”) with uncon-
cern ;
But Billy Noble murmured : “See it out —-
For once ’tis off it never may return !”
Ah, take a tip: What boots it to avow
You haven’t seen Madge Temple make her
bow —•
Unborn To-morrow night deserves a star,
And Violet Paget’s brilliancy enow.
J.B.


ENGLAND’S Latest Light Car.
STONELEIGH
Weight of
Chassis, llcwt.
Silent Knight Daimler Engine, Detachable Wire Wheels, Worm Drive, etc.
SUNSHINE Motor Cars P’t’y* Melbourne]
HUGH V. McKAY, Sydney & AdelaideJ
Agents.
YG
bOORD & SON
V# V LOHDOM. ENGLAND. V
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
a
SWIFT &• COMPANY. AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS, O COOTJJEU, ST SYDNEY
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Phone No. 230 General. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
grand opera, so it seems advisable to em-
phasise the fact that “Faust” at the King’s
will be spectacular melodrama, with a little
music and ballet and a fine lurid moral
To-morrow (Friday) offers the last oppor-
tunity to witness the murder of Roy Bed-
grave in the pulpit of St. Mary’s. Any
members of The Bulletin’s congregation
who have never seen a corpse in the pulpit
are invited to present their tickets at the
door.
** * *
Notwithstanding the weather's recent re-
lapse into summer, Branscombe has decided
to shift ‘The Jesters” from St. Ivilda on
May 5. A week later they will start a
season at the Athenmum Hall, assisted by a
new proscenium and sounding-board.
At Spencer’s Olympia this week the
assortment of films—grave, frivolous and in-
structive—is about up to the average, or
even more so. And the leading sintiment of
the programme is Irish, bedad ! Those who
have hearts to feel and eyes to weep are
revelling in the biodrama of “Kathleen
Mavourneen,” with Miss Mary Fuller as
the leading lady who never says a word.
The daughter who obeys her parents is
still repenting her foolishness at Melbourne
Royal, where the fate of the man who be-
lieved not in iron ships is united in mar-
riage with a terrible typiste in an unspeak-
able outfit. “Milestones” is now in its
fourth lap.
❖ ❖
De Biere is putting in some last nights at
the Opera House, and the tricks, the patter
and the personality of that cheerful magi-
cian fill the bill for about 45 minutes as
before. Welch and Carbasse, the Kremkas,
Rosie Lloyd, Poluski, and the Dago who
meditates vengeance on Spaghoni the Torea-
dor, are staying a while longer. Also, the
Maxini brethren and their brainy dawg
Bobby. The Maxinis without Bobby would
be a good “turn.” In conjunction with that
educated terrier they are one of the best.
“The Vengeance of Durand,” acted by the
Vitagraph Co., and “The Executioner’s
Secret,” a picturesquely -clothed drama of
bygone days, were outstanding features of
last Monday’s programme on the Lyric
tPrahran, Victoria) screen. To-night
(Thursday) a new lot of thrill will come to
pass, the season of a Lyric photo play being
ordinarily limited to three performances.
At the Town Hall next Saturday (19th),
the Taits introduce Eva Gauthier, ithe Cana-
dian singer, to Melbourne hearing, along
with Laurence Godfrey Smith, the pianist
who claims this country for his own.
The Hamilton-Plimmer Co. come back to
the Princess’s next Saturday. Marlow’s
latest and most successful innings closes on
Friday, in a drama that deserves a less
burdensome title than “What Women Will
Do For Love.” The comedy co. is coming
in with “Dr. Wake’s Patient,” affectionately
remembered in Melbourne as one of the
happiest of Herbert Flemming’s produc-
tions.
* * >:= *
“The Count of Luxembourg.” at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne), neither improves or
otherwise on acquaintance. It has its few
moments of genuine comedy, many moments
of pretty waltzy music and most moments of
stereotyped trivialities. In the first act, W.
S._ Percy provides a humorous situation by
climbing atop of a tall stool to discuss busi-
ness with the Count. In the second act,
Phil Smith puts some grains of novelty into
his rather strenuous drollery and in each of
the acts the interuolated dance duet is an
attractive item. The eight ballerinas are a
dream of pretty girls, but the much-talked of
waltz on the stairs, by Andrews and Florence
Young, continues to strike one as an uncalled
for proceeding. A thing that cannot be
more skilfully done by its perpetrators, is
not worth doing at all—on the stage.
“Luniac” : When you come to think over it,
there is a fine field for developing the “block”
system as practised in the news agency biz
in connection with bread and other things.
As I understand it, housewives would have to
patronise the man who had the run of the
block for the time, and other bread-merchants
would be forced to abstain from supplying
customers off their beat. Every morning I
go to work through the city from my suburb
to another suburb. On the way I meet
blokes, etc., who have come from that suburb,
and are rushing the trams to get to their toil
in my suburb. On the “block” system these
fellows Aiould take my job, and I should take
theirs. It would make a big hole in the tram
receipts, but would stop “economic waste.”
Moreover, I live in Balmain, and my “tart”
resides in Darlinghurst. In my hash-tower
the lady-help has a young man who dwells in
Woolloomooloo. It would be handier for him
to call upon my girl, and it would save me
much tramfare and boot if I could cotton on
to his “piece.” This has just struck me, and,
as variety is the spice of life, I am going to
see about it.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Joseph McCabe, the popular scientist, was as far as
Albany last week, on his return to this country.
This time he will make a longer stay than before, and
one result of his further studies on the spot will be
an elaboration of his English lecture, “The Romance
of Australia,” considered from an evolutionary point
of view. The man who makes it his business to
promote public interest in the nature of the land
the public lives in, deserves large audiences, and
McCabe seems pretty sure to get them. He opens
his tour at the Melb. Atjienaeum Hall on the 26th,
with “The Story of Life on the Earth,” an entirely
new lecture. Then he repeats his fine discourse on
“The End of the World,” and gets on to the subject
of “Life In Other Worlds,” and other themes. By
the way, when the eloquent scholar was giving his
“Romance of Australia” throughout England, one
critic suggested that “Mr. McCabe is apparently
retained by the Federal Government to awaken in-
terest in the Comrponwealth.”
His Majesty’s, Brisbane, has been celebrating its
25th anniversary. In April, 1888, the theatre was
opened by the MacMahons and Leitch, with “Held
By the Enemy.” The MacMahons have covered a
lot of theatrical ground since then, and are still
going strong. Charles is en route to Europe to see
if anything there that would induce Maorilanders to
part up a bit more entertainment money has been
overlooked. James ahd Joseph are meanwhile keep-
ing the aged and honorable banner flying above the
business—the former in Sydney and the latter in
M.L.
There is talk of the Julius Knight Co. at Melb.
Royal playing “Man and Superman” anon. If this
happens it will provide an interesting comparison
with the recent Repertory Co.’s performance of Shaw’s
comedy. Barring Gregan McMahon in the part of
Tanner the Talker, the Repertory cast of “M. and S.”
was strictly amateur, and uncommonly well selected-
considering the limited resources of the club. The
performance was good enough. It remains to be
seen whether a stock professional co. can do much
better.
Mrs. Cornwallis-West, formerly Lady Randolph
Churchill, mother of Winston, has been doing two
things—suing her youthful second husband for resti-
tution of conjugal rights, and rehearsing a new comedy
called “The Bill.” The play is of a political pattern.
The measure in question is a Universal Suffrage Bill.
One scene is laid on the terrace of the House of
Commons and another in a room behind the ladies’
gallery. What a chance there might be, by the
way, in a political drama, based on the career of the
politician who brings in the Bill for giving every-
thing to everybody without, at the same time, taking
anything from anybody !
“Way Verley Penn”: Rumor went lately into
various newspaper offices saying that Lawrence Dun-
bar, formerly villain with Blandolt, Anderson and
other managements for 15 years, had died in Chowth
Africa: Rumor told a lie. Dunbar is alive and well
in the country, and early in March signed on with
the Charles Howitt-A. Phillips Dramatic Co, as stage
manager. The co. is producing “Bella Donna,” “A
Member of Tattersall’s,” “Those Terrible Twins” and
“Raffles.”
“Motley”: The biograph has just been showing in
Australia a picture of elephants ploughing, in the
winter off-time, on Sanger and Co.’s circus farm,
Surrey. A mere advertising dodge, of course. Bar-
num worked it on his farm at Bridgeport, close by
the passing railway trains. When the novelty wore
off the elephants stopped. Years afterwards, in his
“Confessions.” Barnum said: “It was only one of
my puffs. It just occurred to me in the winter to
start the elephants on this rig. I reckoned the
news would fly all over the States, and so it did.”
In the Sanger biograph two monster elephants are
hitched on to a plough which could be easily tugged
bv two horses; and that alone should put the fake
away.
“MILESTONES AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Behold the gentle young lady of the days of
1860 and 1883 — innocent, pure, obedient, etc.,
etc. —being led by her beloved family.
And now behold the
gentle young lady of
1912-1913.
George Bernard Shaw’s latest eruption was a leg-
pulling lecture at Ilford, on “Socialism and the
Middle Classes.” Socialism, he said, spells success.
When he and several other young fellows in the early
’Bo’s started the Fabian Society, they were told by
their relatives that they had inevitably ruined them-
selves and thrown away all their prospects in life.
As a matter of fact, he and his fellow-Fabians had
got on extremely well in the world. “Look at me!”
exclaimed Shaw. “I am one of the most celebrated
people in the world. I am not only a man of genius,
but am making money out of it. Then there is my
friend and brother-Fabian, Sydney Ollivier, who has
become a knight, a colonial Governor and a lot of
other exalted things. Ollivier was our first secre-
tary, and if anybody had told his parents 30 years
ago that he was destined to become the great and
distinguished man he is to-day, they would have
laughed that person to scorn.” Moral (according to
Shaw) : Respectable people who want their sons to
succeed in life and become knights, governors and
exalted things, should bring them up as good
Socialists.
“0.K.”: A Melbourne playbill announcing the
“Anal performances” of George Coppin in 1881 .(he
farewelled some more after that), gives a list of
his theatrical doings from the time of his arrival in
Sydney in 1843. His first appearances were at the
Victoria Theatre, Sydney, on sharing terms, and
his share frequently exceeded £5O a night. He
started management in Tasmania in 1845, and later
in the same year he took the Queen’s Theatre, Mel-
bourne. “The entire working expenses of the theatre,
including rent, were about £47 per week,” so it is
certain that the local stock actors didn’t get princely
salaries. In ’54 he brought an iron theatre and G.
V. Brooke and others to Australia, and made so
much money that next year he and Brooke bought
the lease of the original Melbourne Royal and the
freehold of Cremorne Gardens, “upon which they
expended upwards of £100,000.” On the first night
of management at the Royal the receipts were £478
15s. 6d. Then they ventured the first grand opera
season ever given in Australia, and dropped £3OOO.
The public was not yet ready for "rand opera. But
a one-night appearance of G. V. Brooke in a couple
of farces, when he was passing through Melbourne to
Sydney, brought £531 16s. When the “regular
dramatic season” started, with Brooke as star, the
expenses were £4OO a week and the receipts for the
first night £356 15s. The Cremorne Gardens spec,
was disastrous, and for some years Coppin’s fortunes
fluctuated between ruin and prosperity. After Mel-
bourne Royal was burnt out (uninsured) in 1872,
Coppin got a 99 years’ lease of the ground on which
it stood, built a new house, and was one of the
lessees until 1882, when J. C. Williamson took it
over. Reading between the lines, one perceives that
poor shows and enormous profits were George Cop-
pin’s idea of theatrical business in the bad old days.
He made money very easily and lost it very stupidly
as a rule. The opening of Cremorne Gardens in Mel-
bourne, on the assumption that the whole adult popu-
lation would visit it about once a week all the year
round, was an absurd error of judgment.
“Bloggs” : Ever notice the uncanny passionlessness
of the love-letters that figure in flicker dramas? The
beautiful wife of the black-browed Arizona sheriff
decides, let us say, to forego the delights of life in
an Indian-infested log hut, and to bolt with Bad
Pete the Gamester. She accordingly gets on her
horse, gallops about 75 miles up and down hill, over
plains, through rivers, and in and out of forest glades,
with the following, which she posts in a tree-stump:
“Dear Pete, —Have decided to accede to your oft-
repeated request, and fly to New York. Will be at
the cross-roads at 10.15 a.m. to-morrow. —Yours faith-
fully, Hannah."
Pete gallops about 84 miles, through the same varie-
gated type of country, gets the letter out of the
stump, and writes and posts this: —
“Dear Hannah. —Glad to hear you will be at the
cross-roads at 10.15 to-morrow preliminary to flying
to New York. —Yours resp’fully, Pete the Game-
ster.”
It produces a curious effect, after witnessing a love
scene of the most furiously enthusiastic description,
to read the following in the copper-plate handwriting
of the lady offender
Dear Armand, —My husband is going to the club.
to-night. Call on me then. —Yours truly, Lais.”
There is one good point about this style of corres-
pondence ; it is eminently safe. If picture show fre-
quenters modelled their love-letters on the samples
thrown on the screen, successful divorce and breach-
of-nromise suits would be reduced bv about 50 p.c.
“Saphead”: I’m not going to be so rash
ns to back a fresh champion against cither
the Bwitish cavalryman or the Horsetralian
brumby-chaser, but would like to mention
that there is a darned good rider to be seen
on any night, except Sunday, in any city or
suburban picture-show. The American cow-
boy-actor and his mortal foe (or fellow-
artist), the Redskin, negotiate mighty stiff
pieces of country at breakneck pace. Pos-
sibly the pace is the outcome of the opera-
tor’s desire to get home, early, but I’m in-
clined to think that the fellow who rides for
help, guiding his mount with one hand and
turning in the saddle with the other to fire
at his pursuers with both feet, is fit to be
classed with the world’s best riders. Am
willing to shout “Cavalryman,” “Frank Brown” and
co. to the threepenny seats to prove it.
“Star” : It is satisfactory to kriow that Melbourne
Shakspeare Society has resolved to emnloy its ener-
gies in the erection of a Shakspeare Theatre, rather
than in the foolish business of piling up more marble
effigies to William’s immortal memory. In the work
of building a playhouse the Repertory Club will co-
operate ; and that makes the repertory movement
look healthy and hopeful. An adequate theatre is a
crying need. Without it there would be small chance
of roping in more than the noble 400, whose, guineas
serve to keep the Repertory movement geeing, and
whose enthusiasm can’t atone for the absence of a
simple, but suitable establishment, in which to house
the literary play.
(Continued on page 36.)
The Sins of Man and the injustice of
“Man-made laws” and Man’s administra-
tion of them will do more to help the suffra-
gette movement in England than 50 bonfires
in letter-boxes. For instance, under the
heading, “Why Some Women are Militant,”
the organ of window-breakage reports the
case (taken from the Yorkshire Evening
Post) of a well-to-do man who decoyed a
couple of eight-year-old girls to his lodgings
and “assaulted” them. The Bench con-
sidered the offence proved in one instance,
at any rate, and the well-to-do gentleman
was fined £lO and costs. It goes without
saying that all the indignant mothers in that
district are disposed to sympathise with any
woman who gets three months in quod for
breaking a shop window in a moment of
political agitation.
A Mr. McKenna, who must be more Scawtch
than Irish, gravely announced to the House
of Commons that “forcible feeding of suffra-
gette prisoners would not be employed in
future unless the offences were dangerous
to the public.” Which means that a quite
harmless enthusiast who threatens to give
the policeman a good hard smack if he de-
clines to be otherwise goaded into arresting
her will have the option of dying of starva-
tion in prison. Even a noisy nocturnal win-
dow smasher will be allowed to refuse food
in gaol. In fact, those suffragettes who are
well worth keeping alive will get the Law’s
generous permission to die, whereas the few
who ought to die will be carefully kept alive
lest they cheat the hangman.
Commerce is a careful soul —about its own
profits. For some time past it has been
known that regulations governing the sale
of infants’ food were to be issued under the
authority of the Commerce Act, and these
were recently framed. One of them pres-
cribes that certain articles shall be branded
with the words, “This food is ordinarily un-
suitable for infants under the age of six
months, and is not to be given to such in-
fants except under medical direction.” The-
Sydney Chamber of Commerce doesn’t appar-
ently believe that such articles are good for'
little Australia’s stomach; but it suddenly
remembered that some of its members had!
stocks on which the warning label hadn’t;
been stuck, wherefore it gravely held a meet-
ing and “decided to ask the Comptroller-
General to hold the regulation over untill
January 1, 1914, so as to give merchants
and manufacturers a chance of disposing of
present stocks.” Little Australia’s stomach
may suffer in the meantime, and a few
graves be digged in consequence; but what
is that by comparison with giving manufac-'
turers and merchants a chance of disposing
of present stocks?
GENEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adeline Genge, the dancer, has been engaged by
J. C. Williamson for a tour of Australia. — Cable,
VICTORIA.
I am sick to death of coons
And Gaby glides,
Of the old plantation croons
And dusky brides.
Of our grizzlies, turkey trots—
Terpsichorean sots—
And I wait for Motion’s Queen,
For the art of Adeline—
The art of fairy Adeline Genee.
When the world was very young
The dance was born ;
Ere mature the primal tongue
ur bright the morn.
David danced before the Lord
(Who a front seat could afford)
And the Greeks made dancing mean
All the joy of Adeline —
Light-footed joy of Adeline Genge.
The old Iloifteric dance
Told a tale ;
Aristotle foiind romance
Shall not fail;
’Tis of poetry a kind
Light as Hesperidean wind ;
Vol'tion scarcely seen
Is the art of Adeline—
The fairy art of Adeline Genge.
The Pyhrric dance sent Spartan
Forth to fight,
And the Scotch reel done in tartan
’S a mad sight.
And the dance known as St. Vitus—
(Who was a co-saint of Titus
Or of someone else) —is mean
When compared with Adeline—
The art of fairy Adeline Genee.
There are dances wild and various
—Dances mad :
The dance of St. Macarius
Silly-sad.
And the early Christian prancing
And the bayaderes dancing;
But of motion there’s one queen,
And her name is Adeline —-
Volition’s poet—Adeline Genge.
In the lights of London town
Years ago ;
Where the millions, up and down,
Ebb gnd flow.
From the Circus, Piccadilly,
Came the thousands, sane and silly,
Came broker and the Dean
For to iook at Adeline—
For to see the fairy Adeline Genge.
In the lights of Leicester Square—
(Long years away!)
Is a dancer, dainty, fair
As any fay ;
She’s a sylph and dryad, too,
And as delicate as Blue,
Sfivres china for a queen—
And a fay is Adeline—
Queen of the Empire, Adeline Genge.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


The “D J. Special”
Tunic Shirt at 4/6.
Here is the D.J. Special Value Tunic Shirt—a smart, clean-
cut, manly shirt—at a price considerably below its real
worth. We are enabled to offer it to you at this price
because we import the Materials from the best Manufacturers,
and make the Shirts up in large quantities in our own
Workroom. They are cut by an expert, and may be had m
either Zephyr or French Cambric. With soft centre pleat,
stiff neckband and stiff, rounded cuffs. The colors include
white ground with Black, Blue, Heliotrope Stripe, also darker
grounds of Grey or Blue, with smart striped effects. In all
sizes from 14 to 17 inches Neckband • 4/6 each.
Or 3 for 13/.5
And, remember, David Jones’ Pay Carriage.
David Jones Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0., Sydney.
*
m
*'&■ 'pfc
r • «
i
■H& m
s**
Wm
Kugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid.”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be■
tamed at all Chemists, Drapers and Storeke p
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box « Jf e
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send .a.
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- • (.
ing postage), when box will be posted per
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELnANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE
SOCIETY
DOING IT IN STYLE.
“Ah! Mrs. Tingoose, and how are you going
to vote on the Referenda?”
“In my green pannier gown, I suppose, with a
large green hat trimmed with green
ospreys."
For sheer nerve commend this paper to
the Sydney Telegraph’s smug effort
(10/4/T3). headed “The Right to the
Streets.” “Are the streets of Sydney in-
tended for traffic or public speaking?” asked
the Telegraph of the Minister for Justice,
in a very firm tone of voice. With particu-
lar reference to the evils of street oratory
the paper remarked :
It has been complained that the prevention or
punishment of street speaking is a blow at the liberty
of the subject. But what about the liberty of transit
to which a crowded way may put an end?
Every time there is a Federal or State elec-
tion the Telegraph addresses the populace
on the subject, in a manner of speaking,
from its front windows in King-street. The
oration is not a mere fleeting nuisance of
of an hour or so’s duration. It begins in
the afternoon of the contest, and lasts all
night and well on into the next day. Dur-
ing a good deal of that time King-street, the
most “crowded way” in Sydney, is rendered
utterly useless for purposes of traffic. A
more or less undesirable crowd assembles in
its thousands, and cheers and hoots, jostles,
picks pockets, curses, and as the evening
waxes, gets drunk —that is a goodly propor-
tion of it does. Portions of it become com-
bative. The already scanty supply of police
is depleted in places where a policeman is
an asset, in order that the crowd attracted
by the Telegraph to King-street, may be
watched, and from time to time arrested.
No public service is done by this interference
with the liberty of transit through King-
street. The facts suplied from the Tele-
graph’s front windows are essentially the
sort that will keen for an indefinite period.
And the nuisance, so far as many thousands
of citizens are concerned, is intolerable. If
there was any consistency about the Tele-
graph it would jump on itself furiously for
its past misdeeds in the way of erecting a
vast board over its front door and pasting
election returns theron, with the object of
luring a crowd and earning advertisement,
which is to say money. But will it? Not
on its life.
A pathetic specimen of the sort of work-
ers who suffer from trades unionism is
Albert Peary, who related his woes at Syd-
ney Central Police Court the other day.
Peary stated that every time he got a chance
of “putting his shoulder to the wheel” the
unions pushed him from his billet, and, as
the result of his anxiety to get work, he had
acquired insomnia. His suppressed energy
kept him awake at night, he said. The
police said that poor Peary had been con-
victed of robbery in various cities of divers
States, and the Bench sent him to nurse his
grievance against trades unionism in gaol—
for one month.
* * * *
The Sydney railway porters’ strike was
doomed from the moment the locomotive
and signalling staffs declined to join. They
were men who have never yet been beaten
in any railway strike by being replaced.
They have been defeated by bluff, or by lack
of funds, but no railway system in the world
has ever organised at short notice a new
loco, and signalling staff to take the jobs of
the men who had gone out. A goods porters’
work is not altogether unskilled —no work
is—but it is work that is easily learned and
can be done by unskilled men working under
skilled direction. The only skilled men
among the strikers were the shunters. Their
places would have been somewhat hard to
fill, for their work requires not only know-
ledge but constant watchfulness, foresight
and judgment. But, in a service like that
of Sydney, there are any number of men
who, though holding higher positions at pre-
sent, were, a few years ago, smart shunters.
Unless they could be induced to come out
also, they could keep things going in some
sort of way, and train fresh men. The loco,
and signalling men are the autocrats of the
railway service, and the Amalgamated
Society, apparently under the fatal influ-
ence of Catts, who is really only big enough
to be kitten, made the blunder of taking up
a hostile attitude towards the particular
union which really holds the fate of any
railway strike in its hand. For the good
terms on which the strikers are going back
they can thank Minister Carmichael. Left
to the tender mercies of Johnson, unassisted
by the loco, and signal men, they would have
been smashed in a week.
“Briner” barks some information: —
The Maoriland Dreadnought is sister to our own
battle cruiser Australia, so now we’ve seen what
we’re going to get. Eight 12in. guns and 16 4i-n.
quick-firers. Twelve-inch steel over the' Vital parts.
Steamed 27 knots on trial without developing en-
gines to .the full. Believed she can do 29 knots —an
awful pace for such a mass, and involving terrific
coal-eating. At full speed the coal-eating is 36 tons
an hAur. Eight thousand tons were used in coming
from Durban. Only eight tons left in Melbourne.
But the 650-ton oil reserve was intact. They were
going to try her with 24 hours’ speed crossing to
Wellington. ” The Maoriland ship is an improvement
on the previous best, the Indefatigable, especially in
range of fire, and the Australia will give the Maori-
land craft a little point or two. The two pairs of
turret guns amidships can range almost all round, and
all the big guns can be trained for either broadside,
with four big guns to bear ahead for a chase. Two
others can be trained far past the broadside position.
Four turrets, each two guns. The crack American
visitors, like the Connecticut and Louisiana, only
had two turrets, each two 12in. guns. But they are
six years old, and thus miles behind Australia’s
beauty—to come.
CRUEL MAN.
1T B OWLER: "I got the best or my wife yesterday! ”
2ND DITTO: “How did you manage it?”
1ST B OWLER: “Why, I admitted I was wrong before she had a chance to argue with me.”
The Victorian police are as ineffective with
a revolver as with a “clue,” but some of them
can aim straight with bricks and sundries.
Thus the other Saturday afternoon a citizen,
happening to revisit his city shop, discov-
ered a man investigating the contents of his
safe. He proceeded to tackle him, but was
discouraged by a heavy hammer. With
assistance, however, he captured the intru-
der and sent for the police. A ’tec arriving,
the latter handcuffed his prisoner, collected
certain burgling tools, and started to escort
the safe-breaker to the lock-up. But the
victim wasn’t taking any lock-up, and
sprinted swiftly down the street, with the
Law lumbering in the rear. The Law was
rapidly losing ground, when it aimed a 21b.
weight at its escapee. The shot was good,
and broke his wind. He recovered, however,
so the hammer next caught him in an awk-
ward spot and steadied him. But even with
this handicap he still had the pace of the
Law, so a brace and bit were propelled with
excellent aim. But it took a lot to bring
that bird down, and the Law would proba-
bly have been reduced to heaving tramcars
if a passer-by hadn’t stuck his foot in front
of the runaway, and ended the show. Then
the pair returned on their tracks to gather
up the weapons, and found that all but the
21b. weight had disappeared. No loose pro-
perty is allowed to lie on Melbourne’s streets
very long. # ,
The Sydney papers thought they had a
fine dramatic subject in the isolation of a
party of fishermen at North Head. These
hunters of fish had landed on a ledge of rock
adjacent to a comfortable cave where they
are in the habit of camping. The sea rose
and smashed their boat. One of the party
was apparently a raw haiid, unable to appre-
ciate the subtle enjqyfnents of fish. To be
a good fisherma-p, It’ seems, is the same as
being a Covenanter in the days of
Charles the Twoth of England, son of the
Man of Sin with the long, essenced hair.
Old David Leslie’s idea of a Coven-
anter was a man who could sit out on a wet
hillside in pouring rain listening to a prayer
an hour long and a sermon two hours long,
and enjoy it. So the raw hand left, climbed
the wall of Australia, told someone he met
that there were blokes marooned down below,
and went home. Rescue parties went out,
and got into communication by lowering lit-
erature on a line. The reply turned out to
be a furious request for tobacco. Tobacco
was supplied with a note suggesting that
the parties should be hoisted in a basket.
The answer was to the effect that they didn’t
want to break their necks in a basket. Pro-
bably they were surprised that a few fisher-
men couldn’t take a week’s holiday without
having pilot steamers and police with ropes
chasing them up. And then the sensation
fizzled out.
Westralia’s boast regarding its immunity
from railway accidents is commencing to
wear a wilted, frayed-out, second-hand aD-
pearance; but as there is still no death-roll
in connection with the smashes, most of its
luck still sticks to the Department. Some
years ago the Kalgoorlie express, by far the
heaviest passenger train in the State, whilst
standing on a siding, was bashed by a goods
train with all the emphasis born of a 40
mile-an-hour gait; and later the same train,
hankering for the crowded life, careered
across country and pulled up in a railway
dam. On each occasion nothing more serious
than shock and bruises came up for com-
pensation. The latest attempt at notoriety
happened the other night, when a runaway
engine smote a crowded passenger train
which was standing at a station. The
Groper luck was again good, as only two
passengers were injured. One of them was
ETisola, who has dealings with the Devil in
the matter of stage illusions. Still, these
riotous little happenings do some good, inas-
much as they serve to dispel the impression
that W.A.’s trains don’t run fast enough
to catch up to an accident.
TWOPENCE MISSING.
THE BOSS: “Are you quite sure you didn't
take any money out of this drawer after I
left last night?”
JUNIOR C LERK: “ Er — well, sir, now I come
to think of it, I did take my fare home ”
THE BOSS (sarcastically): “ Where do you live?
South Africa?”
APRIL FOLLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALMA. —Will not see you any more. Good-bye for
ever —JACK. —S. M. Herald, April 1, 1913.
JACK. —Advt. too late. Talk’s cheap after Sun-
day’s smoodging and fooling.—ALMA.
S. M. Herald, April 3 , 1913.
And so they part. The halcyon days of wooing
Draw to a swift and agitated close.
At first I thought that it was Alma’s doing;
It might be Jack’s; who knows?
In Tuesday’s Herald came his valediction:
“Good-bye for ever; will not see you more.
Which left me with the absolute conviction
That Jack was feeling sore.
I, too, had known the species of emotion
Which rent his honest heart before it broke.
Alma, no doubt, misprising his devotion,
Had found another Bloke.
Apparently some interloping Gerald
Had burnt his incense at the self-same shrine,
And Jack had thrown his hand in ( per the Herald,
At eighteen pence a line).
That was the situation, as I read it.
A young romance was ringbarked in the bud ;
Jack’s dignified renouncement did him credit,
And Alma’s name was Mud.
But two days later, on my biassed vision
Burst Alma’s crude, yet spirited retort....
Was Jack, despite his martyr-like decision,
Less injured than I thought?
For Jack had penned his little ad. on Monday,
His previous ardor having calmed and cooled ;
And yet the day before — i.e., on Sunday—
He Smoodged. He even Fooled.
That Sabbath eve his thirsty soul he sated
With all the sweets that dalliance holds in store,
And then sat down next day, and wrote, as stated,
“I will not see you more.”
Jack, it is up to you to go and fix it.
You cannot leave the remedy to Fate.
If there are grounds for Alma’s ipse dixit ,
“Your advert, came too late.”
Tell her your love is still alive and burning;
Ask her to overlook your passing whim ;
Describe it as a pardonable yearning
To pull her tender limb.
Say that your dearest wish has been imperilled
By what you meant for seasonable fun. .. .
Remember, your effusion in the Herald
Appeared on April One.
N.S.'W.
KIOK.


EVERY DAY "
mote people are proving that
KtIVX
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
/ *
I /
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY^
AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for years
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of, Belfast, under the name of
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
•>asily get it for you.*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs.
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
A DISTINCTIVE SHAPE in
ROUGH-FINISHED HATS.
The illustration depicts the effective shape
of our most recent production in Rough-
finished Hats. It is fitted with special
grease-proof leathers and has improved
2in. adjustable brim.
The bow is set at back.
This is a particularly smart shape, hither-
to only produced in smooth-finished felts.
Colors : Smoke, Mole, Subdued Green and
Reseda Green.
Pri ro IQ/fS Postage 9d.
rllte IX U. | n te, State, 1/3.
Please state color and size when ordering.
New Catalogue on request.
.-' T
PEAPES (& CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Montenegro, the little public mosquito
which is fighting a horse with one hand and
defying the threatened rear attack of three
elephants with the other, is the most inter-
esting place in Europe just now. It is
about one-seventh the size of Tasmania, yet
it held its own, in a sort of way, against
the Turk even when he was the terror of
Europe, and owned most of Austria and all
Southern Russia, and almost all Northern
Africa, and was sending his gay armies into
Italy with the threat that he would knock
the Pope’s head against the wall of St.
Peter’s. It is so mountainous that enemies
and vegetables fall off it and break their
necks in the plains below. It is barren, and
as poor as two beggars. For some centuries
there wasn’t a single road leading into it:
roads were handy for invaders, and Monte-
negro couldn’t afford to take chances. The
first piano which ever reached this indomi-
table speck of rock was hauled up precipices
by ropes, and carefully investigated at the
top of the first precipice to make sure that
no Turks were hidden inside it. The popu-
lation is—or was, till it was killed while
trying to take Skutari with its teeth—about
250,000, or 64 to the square mile, and
the craving of the people for a fight is
about 640 to the square inch, which is
equal to 60 knots an hour. A quaint, in-
furiated, honorable survival of the Middle
Ages is Montenegro. It may be getting
near its end now, for even the most lone-
some and embittered rock can’t hold out
against modern science, but it has made a
great splash in history for its size.
“Leo Lear” at a seat of learning:—
Geelong Grammar School has re-hatched its founda-
tion stone; G.-G. Denman was master of ceremonies
this time. The blue building at the top of Moora-
bool-street was built in 1857, and on that occasion
Governor Barkly was the show-piece at the “laying.”
Geelong, of late years, has so thrown off its "slum-
ber that the school, once standing in lonelv isola-
tion, is now crowded by the city. Likewise, it is
crowded inwardly by the rush of young Australians
to absorb the wisdom of the ancients and moderns
It was, therefore, forced to shift camp; and after
one false start in the direction of Belmont, it finally
chose a site on the north shore of Corio Bay. Here
a kind of independent community will be established ;
the school will have its own dairy farms, sewerage
system, vegetables and other accoutrements. The
town council has purchased the old building for a
town hall and offices at a cost of £13,500. After a
.prolonged search, the original foundation-stone was
unearthed, and was relaid by the G.-G. The new
buildings and the 200 acres surrounding them are
to cost about £60,000 ; and towards this, £45,000
is in sight, mostly contributed by “old boys” and
friends, with, here and there, a contribution from
an enemy.
A GHOST THAT
WOULDN'T BE
BURIED.
S HE: “I hear you're married."
HE: "So do I—every time I have a night out
with the boys."
THE UTTER WEARINESS OF THINGS.
MR. STAYLATE (listening attentively): “Is that someone moving?”
MISS T IREDOUT (yowning): “Probably father going for his morning shower.”
The Methody parson can still be a humor-
ist sometimes. Sydney Telegraph gravely
prints that, at a meeting held the other day
to farewell and hearten various of the
brethren who had been passed on to other
circuits, one of the farewellers and hearten-
ers read a paper entitled “Things we are
tired of.”
There is no case on
record of a bedridden
person leading a double
life. —Scrap of medical
philosophy.
In the pious days of
Charles I. a law was
passed in England to
prohibit the murder of
the ox and the mutton
on the blessed Sabbath.
Nobody in Westralia was
much concerned about
the ancient curiosity un-
til the other day when a
butcher had a row with
one of his stipendiary
cow-assassins, and the
latter declined to turn-
to on Sunday. The angry
boss promptly sued him
for breach of contract,
and the stipendiary
assassin as promntly
consulted a lawyer. The
lawyer remembered the
pious statute of Charles
I. and reverently placed
it before the Court with
the remark that, when Westralia
made a start, it took over the whole
boiling of J. Bull’s law, and had for-
gotten to repeal this one. Gibbons,
R.M., was duly impressed, and de-
clared that the ancient law was a
good enough raft for the cow-assas-
sin to escape upon. So the West-
ralian butcher now kills the mutton
on Sundays in fear and trembling, and
the butcher’s customer sniffs his Mon-
day’s meat with suspicion and an
alarmed nose.
Gaud Mayor Hennessey, of Melbourne, the
new broom who looks likely to sweep harder
than his predecessors, talks of importing the
very latest thing in mechanical scavengers.
This is a suction street-cleaner, which has
been working with great success in some of
the dirtiest English cities. It operates, on
the same principle as the suction carpet-
sweeper of domestic life, and should prove as
entertaining to street loafers in Melbourne
as a Druids’ procession. They will be able
to follow the thing around town and watch
it eat up the dust by the way. Presumably
it will also pull the vagrant bits of paper
into its huge belly, in which case the Gaud
Mayor’s new wire rubbish baskets will be
thrown out of action.
The disorganised condition of Victoria’s
Health Department is well illustrated by a
desolate building which stands just outside
the grounds of the Infectious Diseases Hos-
pital at Fairfield. This building was erected
last year for the Health Department as a
sort of Measles Hospital, but it has not yet
been opened or used, patients being still
accommodated at Coode Island Sanitorium,
where the solitary present inmate costs the
State about £6 per week. When the new
building was finished, wire and flock mat-
tresses, Windsor chairs, bedsteads and bun-
dles of bedding were taken out and dumped
on the floor—and there they stay! There is
no fence,_ and stray cows wander along and
poke their horns through the windows, and
dwell on the verandah and lean up against
the walls ; also birds, cats, lizards and other
insects sample the bedding. The Health
chiefs say they erected the hospital in the
expectation that the Infectious Diseases Com-
mittee would take it over and run it; but
the Committe says it couldn’t dream of doing
so until a fence is put up. better ventilation
provided, and various other things done.
Meanwhile John Weary, who has nominal
administrative charge of the Fairfield Hospi-
tal, is deliberately dreaming over the recent
disclosures, and wishing the committee or
the department or somebody would do some-
thing. A most restful person is Weary, but
dreadfully expensive on acocunt of the things
he doesn’t do. As regards the things he
does, he is about as cheap as a vagrant.
* * * *
“0.K.” : H. H. Champion has, I see, been
telling The Bulletin that its recent re-
sume of the tiresome Peter Andersen case
contained so many misstatements that he
hasn’t time to answer them. Presumably
he is ignorant of the truths he calls “mis-
statements.” In any case, a man who shrieks
“misstatements!” without attempting any
statements of his own in contradiction of
them, is on a par with the oracle who dis-
misses an argument with a contemptuous'
“Pshaw!” The one and only fact which
H.H.C. advances in excuse for the Peter
Andersen agitation is practically a full
endorsement of The Bulletin paragraph
whereat he sneers. The authorities, who
have twice (or oftener) committed poor
Peter to a lunatic asylum, are prepared to
let him out on the understanding that he
will go to a distant country and lose him-
self. Mr. Champion, affecting to treat this
concession as a humorous absurdity, says
“Andersen is a lunatic while in Australia,
but could be certified to be sane if he will
only go away.” The proposal, that seems
screamingly funny to Champion, who hasn’t
got the hang of the case, appears seriously
humane to those who have got the hang
of it. Andersen is a monomaniac. Mad on
the subject of his wife and everything relat-
ing thereto. Deported from the land of his
missis and his married life, he might be sane
enough. As long as he stays within walking
distance of his wife’s abode, he is bound to
be a nuisance.
“ Jeames” on a Point of Morals: —
I see, by the cable, that during her trial at the
Central Criminal Court, London, last week, Mrs.
Pankhurst, the Suffragette, “complained that she
was not allowed to tell the jury of the notdrious
circumstances in which a certain Judge was found
dead some years ago.” The circumstances were
similar to those in which the late Pres.dent Felix
Faure, of France, was found dead some time back,
and every gossip in London knows the Judge’s name
and enough stories about him, true and false, to fill
a directory. The marvel was that the lady should
have thought that a public recital of the long-
deceased gentleman’s moral laches would have had
any effect advantageous to the woman’s suffrage
movement. Her idea, presumably, was to show what
naughty men there were in high positions, and the
advisability of replacing them with virtuous women.
But Britain, for all the sanctimoniousness of its
middle classes, has seldom worried much about the
morals of its prominent men, so long as their brains
were all right. It has had spasms of Wowser frenzy,
but only spasms. The founder of the Marlborough
dukedom sold his charms for money as often and as
openly as many an outcast woman on the streets.
Nelson lived for years, and ultimately died, in
unashamed adultery. Wellington’s morals were de-
scribed as “horrible” by one of his most intimate
friends, and his character was horrible in many
other ways. Practically to the end of his life he
followed the sordid pleasures of the raffish-minded
type of youth of fashion, who comes upon the town,
fresh from school or a University, with money to
burn. The_ nobleman who was selected to guide
Queen Victoria’s political footsteps at the beginning
of her reign, had a reputation of the bluest variety
in the circle in which he moved. And it is the same
to-day, human nature being the one factor that re-
mains unchangeable. Of course, a big section of the
THE FIRST NECESSITY.
Some remarkable evidence was given at the hear-
ing of the application of the Australian Actors’ Union
for registration. It was stated that some people
came out as immigrants, and “in 10 minutes they
were on the stage.”
SMALL TOUT: “Hotel, sir?"
IMMIGRANT: “No, a theatre first."
people of the United Kingdom are not in a position
to learn about the failings of their rulers. This ap-
plies to most of those who neither go into Society
nor frequent the great clubs. But even if they did
know it would not seriously trouble them. British
statesmen, administrators, ambassadors, soldiers,
judges and sailors may easily be identified in every
age who did their duty by the State valiantly and
well, while steadily defying a social code which they
found unsuitable to their temperaments. The notion
that what we call “immorality” is incompatible with
genius, valor, probity and patriotism of a high and
valuable order, is one that is only to be found in
the minds of elderly females and fools'.
A TOAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A long life, a strong life, and for me a merry one ;
A stake in the right place when Fortune the wheel
has spun ;
A drink when the throat’s dry and one more when
that is done;
A cool head at midnight, a clear eye at morning
sun ;
A hand for your friend’s hand, a hand he need never
shun
In glad days or sad days when man’s errors over-
run ;
A fair time, a rare time, where true happiness is
won ;
A girl’s kiss, a friend’s tear, when they come to
bury one.
N.S.W.
BILLY B.
YOW LEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Chinese company, known as the “Yow Lee,’
regularly consigns Chinese stowaways. labelled
“Goods” to Australia. —Recent press item.
They are sending Goods, are the Great Yow Lee;
They have packed them tight for a trip by sea;
They have cheek-bones high
And a quaint, slant eye—-
These Goods we get from the Big Yow Lee.
In the China boats of the Big Yow Lee
In the bunkers stowed. is a companee ;
In the night it groans,
And it shakes its bones, 1
These Goods we get from the Big Yow Lee.
In the China boats of the Big Yow Ler
No pigtails bear, as of yore, you see;
They seek our land
With a smile so bland,
And a kinsman’s kick from the Big Yow Lee.
The Goods are gathered most carefullee,
And stowed in a hole that a dog would flee.
And the day they land
There’s a welcome grand
For the corpse-like Goods of the Great Yow Lee.
It’s a dreadful weird, that the Goods must dree ;
In a rough, tough skin they must sheltered be ;
For the berth they know
Is a hell below—
These Goods that come from the Big Yow Lee.
From the slimy slums by the old Yang-tze
The Goods are drawn with a greedy glee ;
From the by-ways foul
Where the leprous prowl,
They rake them in, do the Big Yow Lee.
And just as a joke or a sprightly spree,
They dump them down with a license free—-
To twist and broil
In an endless coil,
With a label: “Goods from the Great Yow Lee.”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


(AV Irvine ifie Synoj>*tf>y
s<’ Co-oberactlon of every
Key dent" p°Ss*Sy"% * sl*Ke
ir> coun'tpy )
Tory P^er"
yvy&rcVt t ll
JoKe
The Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs (Mr.
Thomas) has made fur-
ther exemption in regard
to Mrs. Poon Gooey
The illness of Mrs.
baby pre-
vented her leaving by
the last steamer, and as
there is no other vessel
going to China before
May 7, Mr. Thomas has
extended the exemption
till that date. Mr. Gooey
lias given a written un-
dertaking that his wife
and her two children will
leave by the Yawata
Maru on that date.
—Melb. paper
WtARy
Wl 5 r
Vouno - V OU °'j ' S“' SS ,
Noull Aryourvrf.fe
viU sV .fehurse you t.ll furlfi.r «r<Ur S ft* J-- te
be SicK S ,C K l>t* T _____
The Women's National League, which
is taking a keen interest in this subject,
is issuing a pamphlet to women in the
country districts, which their husbands
would do well to study. It will show
them what the farmer may expect from
the Labor party.—-News item.
t 9
The recent decision of the Cabinet
,vas that the campaign against the
Referendum Should be carried out on
precisely similar lines to that adopted
with effect against the earlier pro-
posals. The attitude of the Govern-
ment was set out by Mr. Watt in very
plain terms at the Essendon meet-
ing prior to his departure for Lon-
don. The text offered by Mr. Watt
for his party was “Unification spells
stagnation.” —News item.
AWr&y —' \% ff"»7etess*ry for *ieio V
9o %c fjre&cW ? . /
plmocK ' IH$ Unification
S’ta.onbit'ion. p
PM ' Id rsfotr Stob xThomz A J>r*y for The
Ca^e."
There is no need for any Libera] can-
didate to be timorous in expressing the
party's policy upon the tariff. The
Liberal undertaking is to maintain the
present protective policy.—“ Argus.”
W.N Ple^e-fell
your y,N
S'teres Vim in ihc-we 4
■—Owino'to me
?birfy
A young woman of Yarraville is an
applicant for the post of football em-
pire.—“ Herald.”
Itte. ProTecTo* 1
loKy &'^c»>'He.men,
I will v/se my ’best"en<iefcVburs "to m^nfein
'ftje f>rolect7ve. policy.
Umj»re KicK,
- wlji^foK^
i yo« rumbled
se boys j
VICTORIA (MOSTLY POLITICAL).


Children thrive
and grow Strong
ON
@2^
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4 , 6.
There is nothing better for a delicate child than a course
of Angier’s Emulsion. It makes the little ones eat better,
digest better, sleep better and rapidly gain in weight, strength
and colour. Doctors prescribe it for coughs, bronchitis,
whooping cough and all lung affections ; also for scrofula,
rickets, malnutrition and for wasting diseases generally.
Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and children all like it.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
A
mi
88
£
r ■
SPARKLETS
HOT WEATHER WISDOM.
If you are ever thirsty in the hot weather—
if cool, sparkling drink appeals to you—re-
member that with a Sparklet Syphon you can
make delicious aerated water IN-
STANTLY , from your ordinary
water supply. Your home will
be happier all the Summer if
“Sparklets” are kept ready at ,
hand.
C. SYPHON, 6/6. C. Bulbs, 2/3 doz.
a SYPHON. 4/- B. Bulbs, 1/6 doz.!'
A Soda-Fountain on a Tea-Fray
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Marloo ’: Out of 484 weight-guessers at
the Alstonville (N.S.W.) Show lately, three figured
Spot’s avoirdupois at the exact 6961 b. of the beast.
Five others were within ilb., and still another five
were only lib. off. Cocky is getting to know his
goddess and her family pretty well, it seems.
PROOF POSITIVE.
BEERY ONE (discussing a musician): “Cripes!
he’s good."
T’ OTHER: “Heard him?”
BEERY ONE: “ Yer-r; he’s bosker"
T’OTHER: "Well, Concertina Dan reckons as
he isn’t much."
BEERY ONE: “Isn’t much! Strike me blue!
Why, I was in Murphy's just agoin ’ ter
hav’ a pot when he struck up, and straight
truth, tell yer wot, I held that mug in me
hand full ’alf a minnit ajor ’ I so much as
sipped it.”
“Kodak”: Jack was a real bushboy, and.
when he came down from his native wilds to stay
with us, he was chiefly interested by the tradesmen’s
horses, the cows that grazed on the vacant lots and
the bird-life of the Coast. A strange chirp or bird-
call was sufficient at any time to draw him out .of
the house at a run to recognise the newcomer. His
happiest morning was when one kookaburra told
his friend a joke on the old gum in the yard. One
of the numerous unseen neighbors was old Macpher-
son, who lived in the big house at the back. It
was his habit, in the cool of the evening, to strut
up and down for half an hour playing the bagpipes.
We were so used to it that none of us ever thought
to explain the distressing uproar to young Jack.
We afterwards remembered that the moment the
hidden performance started he would become moodily
attentive and walk restlessly about. But we never
dropped until the night when, unable to bear it any
longer, he blurted out: “By eripes! If I had a bird
that kicked up a rotten row like that one does, I’d
put a charge of shot into it!”
“Polstan”: Someone wants to know why
bees leave home when nothing seems to warrant the
flitting (B. 13/3/’l3). When things are slow and
business slack, bees very often change locality, gen-
erally for the worse, as a bad season invariably
means annihilation for a swarming hive. But when
there are plenty of stores and the hive is in a healthy
condition they don’t evacuate. The unguarded store
of honey that the inquirer found isn’t hard to explain.
People will insist in spraying, with a poisonous
mixture, fruit trees when in full bloom (a useless
proceeding anyhow at that period) and the working
or field bees die in millions as a consequence. In a
couple of days the hive will be empty save for
drones, queen and young bees. These hang on for a
while, but the empty hive grows cold. The unfor-
tunates bunch together in a futile attempt to keep
warm, but daily the ball of bees grows smaller, till
in a week or so they are all dead. Bees require
much warmth, and when the blanket is lost that is
the finish. Or a hive may possess a young queen,
which gets destroyed or lost before she is laying.
The superseding or young queen kills the old one
if the hive hasn’t already attended to this matter,
so if the former dies before she is mated there are
no eggs available from which to raise a fresh queen,
and in the flying season the hive rapidly dies out. Some-
times the old queen is permitted to live on for a while
when a young queen is occupying the hive, but such
instances are not common. In the honey season the
working bees wear out and fall in a few weeks, and
if there is not a good queen on hand to provide
somewhere about 2000 eggs daily, the outlook for the
colony is poor.
* * * *
“Mary McC.” : I have always suspected
the Australian cow of being a malicious and con-
science-less beast, but in my worst dreams of the
lurking possibilities of the evils which hide themselves
behind her placid front, I never regarded her as the
wholesale murderer she has lately been shown to
be. Practically every drop drawn from her
swelling udder is loaded with poison, and
wittingly or unwittingly she takes her part
in the great congestion conspiracy to kill
off the Australian population in record time.
All evidence points to the fact that the cow
is a walking destruction, a grazing pollution,
a disease-laden curse. She is nearly as in-
jurious as an Asiatic invasion, and carries as
much death in solut'on about with her as a
moderate-sized machine gun could scatter in
a crowded street. Yet nobody is taking her
very seriously. A few mild scientific curses
have been handed out to her in various re-
ports, but the milkman goes his rounds just
the same, and the hearse and flowers are
much as usual. Possibly one or two Govern-
ment Departments in some of the States may,
in a leisurely, half-hearted sort of way, in-
sist that a beast here and there shall be
tried and executed for its crimes, but that is
about the limit to which the machine of
State will go. Yet something drasti
needed, and a Holy War ought to be pro-
claimed throughout the Commonwealth
against the enemy of our peace. What on
earth is the good of giving a baby bonus if
the cow is afterwards given a free hoof to
kill the baby? Let us either do without
cow-milk, or live on the extract of the goat,
she-ass or camel, rather than tolerate the
bovine iniquity. The time is ripe for
slaughter. The hour of vengeance has struck.
Let the murderous cow die in her sins. If
it costs £100,000,000 to finish the job, let
us borrow the money and finish it. The
thing may be cheap at the price. Consump-
tion and the allied diseases are slowly
diminishing; let us take them while they
are on the run, and drive them out once and
for all. The White Plague is a venomous
beast, and the heart of the horror is a cow. We
will hit it hard in the have done with it.
“F.H.R.” : They say you can’t kill a car-
pet snake. But that is rot. You can —with industry
and patience. I was bashing suckers one morning
when I ran on to a pile of snake that put me in
mind of those huge coils of rope you see on an old
sailing ship. I made a chop at it, and sorry I was
next minute, for it was a 10ft. “carpet,” and I had
spoiled the skin. He was cut in two about a yard
from the head, which end made strenuous endeavors
to bite the boots off me, though it took no dislike to
my mate. We left the two pieces about a rod, pole
or perch apart, and didn’t call in again till dinner-
time. Then, to my surprise, the head part had suc-
cessfully swallowed the tail part, tail first, and was
painfully crawling away. I feel almost sure he is
dead now, for I burned him and can see his bones
in the ashes.
LOOKING FOR WORK.
S QUATTER: “No, I can't give you a job, but I had a letter a month ago from my brother
saying he was short of hands."
APPLICNT: "Where's his place?”
S QUATTER: “ Well , he's dead now."
“Paspalum”: The man with hayseed in
his whiskers bought a dozen young heifers in Syd-
ney, and when shipping them by a coastal boat in-
sisted thej' should go at “calf” rates. The clerk
said “No! they are cows.” “Cows be blowed!”
says the bushy. “Why, strike me, they haven’t got
their top teeth yet! Look here, and I’ll show you.”
He did. Percy admitted the evidence. The boss of
the office came along. He, too, looked and was con-
vinced they were still calves. What’s more, they
were shipped as calves, and the cow man went away
with a grin which hasn’t worn off yet. He knew
that cows don’t grow top teeth.
* * * *
“Pick”: Professor Stirling, of Adelaide,
who wants to know truly what the wombat has for
dinner, may be recommended to cancel any doubt
he has concerning the little chap’s liking for roots.
The flats adjacent to a wombat’s villa present a
chronic aspect of disrepair from constant scratch-
ing, and any farmer with a field of potatoes, car-
rots or parsnips near a wombat burrow must pro-
tect them with palings or wire netting if he wants
vegetables for his own dinner. All the same, roots
are not the only line on the wombat menu. The
gourmand will smack his lips over young grass or
any green herbage, and when he finds a pumpkin or
melon he reckons he has struck the fleshpots of
Egypt.
* * * *
“Snell” : Business aptitude flourishes amaz-
ingly in the bush. There were five of us, and we
camped under cover of a huge boulder opposite
Nevill’s store, at Mile End. I had many opportuni-
ties of observing the ebb and flow of commerce at
the Mile End General Store. The emporium was
constructed of palings and roofed with shingle. It
had only one window, which gave it a disconcerting,
cock-eyed expression. Through the dust and cobweb
covering the panes, you discovered a bottle of rasp-
berry vinegar, two jam tins with faded labels and a
drowsing cat. There was always a baby falling down
the three steps leading to the store door, which lent
the place an air of perennial activity. When I called
for a loaf of bread, a large, sullen woman, with soap-
suds on her arms, pushed her head into the shop,
and said: “No bread Chewsdees; bread Thirsdies.”
Then she went away. Later on the same day I called
again, in hopes of pickles, and the same woman re-
sponded after I had knocked for seven minutes. She
did not stay. “Don’t I tell yeh no bread Chews-
dees? Bread Thirsdies!” she barked, and went
away. In the afternoon of Wednesday I once more
visited Nevill’s, expecting to be permitted to buy
some jam. Nobody else had visited the Mile End
General Store in the interval. The same woman with
the same soapsuds on her large arms came half-
way out of the living-room at the back, spotted me,
and wailed in profound despa r: “Lor’ blesh me soul!
Can’t you give a body a minute’s peace? Don’t I
tell you no bread Weddnesdee? Bread Thirsdee!”
I did not get the jam.
“Talywalka”: During a good stretch be-
hind a post-office counter up Monaro way, I found
that greater satisfaction resulted all-round by stick-
ing closely to the wording ladled out by the dark-
skinned merchants when I acted as their correspond-
ence clerk. I am proud of this sample:—
Dear Mr. George Khan, —Sending me the goods, I
say to you to send not the goods that I get before
last week. One dozen pair good braces. Two dozen
cashmere socks. I meet Bagsheek last week and two
bottles of scent very good scent too. Please you tell
Bagsheek not to belt me every time he meet me.
The money order I send you for the goods. He belt
me with the big stick in his cart he’s carrying it to
A NEW MEASUREMENT TABLE.
“ Yuss, Horatio! I've seen th’ time when I've
’ad a pile o’ quids as ’igh as a couple o'
pints.”
hit me with, Mr. George Khan. The last plain shirts
been too dear. For you to send me like that more
dirt cheap I want three dozen of them. I think
Bagsheek very bad man and the money order is in
the letter this good man writing for me.
I hope you are well. He says I’m after his cus-
tomers. Tell him not to belt me like that every
time he meet me, please Mr. George Khan.
Marm Deen.
The goods turned up all right; and about a month
later a very d,lapidated and dejected Marm Deen
also turned up. He had met Bagsheek again.
THE CLOVEN “OOF.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Australia, which has won high place in the
arena of sport, is, it seems, holding its own also in
the. humbler blit more useful sphere of dairying’.
Giving evidence before the Food Commissioner (Mr.
Bavin) yesterday, a dairyman complained of the
slowness of immigrants who were tried at milking.
“There is no comparison between them and the
Australians,’ said he. — Nevis item.
They’ve ta’en the cricket ashes —and, Lord! that
was bad enough ;
lor nothing here on earth could well be worse.
And they decked our new-fledged champions with
the Order of the Muff;
And then, as if to ramify the curse,
They came and squelched us at the courts (the
tennis courts, I mean) —
Just how twas done I disremember now;
But thank the gods of glory—all that ever yet have
been—
Our prestige is unsullied near the Cow !
We saw our sculling triumphs turn to ash and Dead
Sea fruit—
Strange fruit that was as aloes in the mouth.
Vi e saw our pride and glory lost in sorrowful pur-
suit,
And a drooping tail a-trailing in the south.
It was deep humiliation—it was terrible to bear ;
It was hard to tear the laurel from our brow ;
But a gleam of golden sunshine lights the darkness
of despair ;
For, after all, could Barry milk a cowt
They’ve plugged our pugs; our whitest hopes were
but as tallow glims
That flickered out before the storm of bash.
They fell like vicious Vandals on our stalwart Bills
and Jims
(And, in-ci-dental-ly, upon our cash).
But what do bruises matter, or a pug’s dismantled
jaw?
Before the fist of Fate we’ll meekly bow,
Since we’re the greatest milkers that the wide
world ever saw. ...
Hail, Australia, Master—Mistress of the Cow !
N.S.W
IYLES INNISON


TfIRRfINTS
MELBOURNE.
The BIGGEST & BUSIEST MOTOR HOUSE in Australia.
Enormous Stock of Accessories always on hand.
Builders of the Best Motor Bodies.
MOST UP=TO=DATE REPAIR WORKS.
T
ARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD
Agents In Victoria for .Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Austro-Daimler, Sunbeam,
,Adler, Commer, Thornycroft,
• >
104-112 Russell St., and 1&6-192 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
’Phones—3o3o, 2942, 6280, 5534, 3100 '
A
Paddle wheels were the first. When screw pro-
pellers were subsequently proposed they were ridi-
culed. In 1841, to test which was superior, the
British Admiralty built two vessels on exactly the
same dines, tonnage, and power—the “Alecto” with
paddles, and the “Rattler” with the screw. “When
stern to Stern, the two vessels were lashed for a tug
of war the ‘Rattler’ pulled her rival helplessly astern
foremost. paddles and a 11.... The paddle wheel was
doomed,” wrote Berthon. Phillips Ormonde & Co.,
patents, 17 Queen St., Melbourne.*
SKIN DISEASES,
Including Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils. Chilblains,
Ringworm, Shingles, Ulcers, Old Sores have their
remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Sold > ,
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable every
£x-
Foggitt, Jones r
Jellied Pigs’ Feet
make a delightful luncheon dish.
They are packed in tins ready for
service. For those who like some-
thing appetizing they are really
unsurpassed. Your grocer has
i them —ask him for a tin or two-
“Ginger”: The Mulga and the Spinifex
are White, but the mere Outback ought to be
ashamed of itself. Take Riverina for a sample. The
White Australia sentiment is as dead there as last
year’s pumpkin-vine. Outside motor-car circles,
Chow cooks, Chow shopkeepers and Chow gardeners
are the most opulent and haughty citizens. Right
here in Hay are miscellaneous broods of half-caste
Chows, half-caste darkies,' half-caste Hindoos. You
can find them all living under the one roof sometimes.
In Narrandera lately I saw Binghi swop Black Mary
to a white rabbiter for a sheep dog. A couple of miles
further on the rabbiter >got out of the trap to open
a gate and discovered the dog under the trap—he had
broken away from Binghi. I don’t know one
affluent Quong in Riverina who isn’4 married (more
or less) to a White Australian girl. About 12
months ago, in Cheltenham (Vic.) I hiked into a
Chow picnic, and Saw some of the best-looking women
a man would see in Melbourne. No ; don’t trust to
Mary to keep the race white. That is a job that
must be seen to by plain Bill.
* * * •
“Vergniaud”: Ten years ago, while fish-
ing in a big hole in the Namoi, above Manilla
(N.S.W.), my line snagged and I lost the sinker.
I improvised one from a snail padlock I had in my
pocket, baited with a crayfish, and threw in. As the
line whistled through the air bait and sinker got
tangled together. Before I had time to pull the
mixture out, something like a medium-sized shark
became attached. After half-an-hour’s playing I
thought I had landed a cod of 401 b. or so, when the
brute gave a 5 h.p. kick and was back in the water
again. Lately I was riding along the river bank 15
miles lower down, when I came across a group that
had just caught a fish which I reckoned went well
over half a hundredweight. They opened him up
and were surprised to find that his innards contained
a closed padlock. I bet the crowd an even quid
that a key, which I produced, would open the con-
cern. It did, and I won. You’ll probably not
believe this plain, unvarnished tale; but I can intro-
duce you to the girl we bought the subsequent
drinks from.
PROOF OF FIRKINS'S UNRE-
LIABILITY.
“So you did not attack Jobson ?”
“ I did not."
“But Firkins, the last witness, swears he saw
you do it."
“Why, there was any me an' Jobson there
when I ’it ’im!"
“Unumgar”: “D.R.Y.’s question, “What
makes a herd of bees leave its home without appar-
ent reason"? (B. 13/3/’l3) “D.R.Y.” found the
place full of honey ; yet the owners had cleared out.
Of course they had. Having done their duty to a
future generation, they had left to found a new
home and start another family going. Every swarm
of bees in the bush, if left to itself, will fill the
hollow or nest with food, and make a warm bed
for each little bee previously placed there by the
queen, 'then exit. Curtain.
TO HIDE THE
DEFORMITY.
BILL THE F ENCER: “By
Cripes, I wouldn’t like
to hev ter wear a long
’at like that cove THIS
weather."
MRS. BUSH P UB: “But he’s
GOT ter wear it. I
heard him tellin ’ dad that him an all his family had crests."
“Jimmie Pannikin” : I agree entirely with
“Cavalryman,” that the Australian cannot ride, and
is not a horseman in the best sense of the word. I
spent three out-o’-doors, observant, optimistic years
Outback and Further Out, and I studied equine edu-
cation very closely, because I have always been a
horse-lover. I found that the further Outback I
got, the more the equine educational methods de-
teriorated. I used to think that the ability to ride
the saltbush cyclones of buckjumpers, which I often
saw West-o’-West, was proof of horsemanship and
hardihood. After about two years of patient and
persistent study, I
learnt that any fool
of a monkey-like
man can stick to the
best of the worst
jumpers without
being a horseman.
The sand and salt-
bush spaces are
stuffed full with poor
horsemen, and most
of the Far Out rough
riders are really
horse - murderers.
That’s why horses
are becoming a di-
minishing Australian
asset. Thousands of
valuable mokes are
killed every year by
these well - named
horse-breakers. I n
fact, Australians are
the worst horsemen
probably in the
world. They can’t
ride for sour apples;
neither can th ey
swim or lie. The
Federal Government
should import a few
thousand riding masters to teach our lean, wiry,
bronzed and brutal bushmen of Outback how to
ride, drive, nr'nd and train horses. I suppose we
could easily get them from the London or Manchester
prairies, or the tangled forests of Birmingham.
“Billy B.” : How far can ants smell tucker ?
I know. for a fact they can get on to it from a
distance of about 40 yards, and this is how I know.
I was working at the desk in the front room of the
house the landlord allows me to occupy at a robber’s
rental. Before lunch I ate an apple and tossed the
core into the waste-paper basket by my side. At
afternoon-tea time there was a commotion in the
family on the discovery of a procession of millions
of ants, which led from a colony of the pests at the
end of the garden, along the yard, up the back
steps, through the dining-room and hall, round to
my room and into the waste-paper basket where the
core of the apple was black with them. I reckon
it would be extremely unpleasant to stick a nose as
sensitive as that into some of the Ma State’s spend-
ing departments at present.
“S.H.”: On going to our local butcher's
shop the other day, I saw a fair-sized spring cart
standing in the road. It was piled up with all
sorts of heavy-looking articles, but./.there was no
horse between the shafts. A neat middle-aged
woman stood beside the caravan waiting for her
elderly husband, who had gone inside to buy meat.
Husband and wife had travelled all the way from
Tingha, a distance of about 400 miles, pulling their
belongings with them, and seemed none the worse
for the journey. Still, it was a curious vehicle to
find on the Parramatta-road among the smart motor-
cars which infest that dusty thoroughfare.
“Gouger” : Frightful is the position of the
poor devil maimed in the bush and setting down to
die, knowing that help is impossible, the nearest
white man’s camp being, perhaps, 100 miles away.
In most cases, where a lone skeleton has been found
months afterwards, something has been found to
show that the poor wretch “died game.” On Rotham
Park station, in the Gulf country, a black boy left
behind a mute testimony of this sort lately. While
mustering his horse bolted, and the boy disappeared.
The. whole station crew turned out, but after a
fortnight’s constant search all hope of ever seeing
the boy again was given up. About two months
later a party accidentally came across what was left
of him, near the bank of a gully, barely 200 yards
from where the searchers had passed day after day.
Roth legs were broken, and the poor young devil,
with death creeping upon him as the days passed,
had taken off his shirt and stuffed it with grass, that
the end might, at least, be as comfortable as pos-
sible.
ft * * *
“Gouger” : A hardy group of men are the
sandalwood-getters. On York Peninsula the ordinary-
looking, dark-barked, light-green-leafed oily tree
grows only in the forest country, around the coast
and far inland. With a good pack team the col-
lector makes his way to his particular district,
choosing a spot where there is a tribe of blacks
camped handy. To these he distributes rations and
a tomahawk a man, and each buck returning from
hunting brings a sandalwood stick into camp. The
stack soon mounts up, especially if there happen to
be a hundred or more bucks on the job. The sticks
are cut into 3ft. 6in. lengths, barked and packed to
the coast. Thence the cargo is taken to Thursday
Island in schooners, to await final shipping, mostly
to China. At £25 a ton, the man who strikes
quickly a patch of sandalwood does mighty well.
Some gather the vegetable on contract, charging a
couple of pounds a ton less than market price on
the coast. Others have their own cutters, and go the
whole procession.
“Polstan” : When “8.J.5.” asserts that a
squadron of Australian Light-Horse could lose the
crackest cavalry regiment in Europe he isn’t far out.
I’ve spent 16 years in the Mounted Rifles and Light
Horse, and during that time have dropped on some
remarkable samples of horse-mastership by whole
squadrons at a time. I’ve seen raw horses served
out to a squadron, and straight away these animals
have been put through drill movements with a skill
and dash little short of marvellous. A well-known
staff officer of Light Horse, who saw service in In-
dia, told me that he has never seen; this sort of
thing done outside Australia l —-no one would ever
dream of serving out an untrained horse to a Bri-
tish cavalryman. There are Light Horsemen at
Narranda (Vic.) who will run down a scrub kan-
garoo in the thick bush in ten minutes, in great
style, too. If “Cavalryman” (B. 20/2,/’l3) wants
to find out just how much Australians can ride let
him take a sprint with the Light Horse at the next
encampment. He’ll want all the nerve he can mus-
ter. A L'ght Horseman rarely takes a trained horse
to camp, though he invariably brings one back with
him. He holds to the old Mounted Rifle maxim
that “camp’s th’ place to quiet th’ blanks,” and as
a consequence whole truck-loads of snorting, rolling-
eyed “young ’uns” go annually into camp with the
regiment to receive their education.
“Umfaan”: The Federal trawler fossick-
ing at a depth of 1000-odd feet in the Australian
Bight, raked up 13 finny beasts of great edibility
and tonnage. One was only 3in. short of a fathom
in length and was 4ft. round the equator. It had
needle-like teeth, which interlocked as closely as
the jaws of a ticket punch. The head was shaped
like a torpedo, and possessed large, goggle-shaped
eyes 2in. wide. Weight, over 401 b. Being deep-
water fish, they turned turtle on the surface and
went off pop. The trawler claims the species as
new r , and threatens it with a name.
* * * *
“The Seedling - ’: Re strawberry clover (B.
13/3/T3, etc.). It didn't get into Victoria as packing
for merchandise. The vegetable was introduced to
C!ow Band by the late Black, of Tarwin Meadows,
South Gippsland. During a visit to Switzerland he
noticed a creeping clover. He liked the look of it,
and promptly secured the end that grows the creeps
and sent it to Gippsland. The Black boys planted
it on the flats of the Tarwin River near the South
Coast. In a few years it covered miles,, of country,
and has done a bit towards putting a comfortable
lining in a few pockets.
“Wal”: Agree with “Sunflower” (B.
27 /2 / ’ 13) about the comparatively little-known
beauty of Papua's flora. Representatives of all
climates are to be found in the Possession. At sea
level the botanist is in a paradise of tropical vegeta-
tion —vines, creepers, palms, orchids, parasitic
growths of countless variety, and gigantic timber
trees. Incidentally, many of these trees will be of
much value in future years when the settlers awaken
to the knowledge of the wealth of their forests.
Climbing steadily upwards, the observer passes
through zones of almost every temperature, each
with its own peculiar flora, until, at Mount Vic-
toria, the highest point in British Papua is reached.
Here, at a height of nearly 14,000 ft., the “Old
World” flowers, such as buttercups, daisies and cow-
slips, abound. The cataloguing of all specimens
would be a stupendous job, about equal to the
enumeration of the many-colored sins of the joyous
cities of Sheol.
“Eddyscrj”: Wellin, Wellin and Davis
were driving on a small coal seam in a gorge at
Dry Spur, Gippsland ; and after five weeks of it
Davis went abroad on a Sunday afternoon, seeking
some break in the awful monotony of Wellin and
Wellin. Henry Wellin wouldn’t speak, and Wesley
Wellin couldn’t hear. Davis longed for a human
creature with some garrulousness and a sound tym-
panum, and sought the big bark hut out on the flat
land towards Bullfoot. The hut door was open, and
when Davis appeared au it a man inside spilt a dish
of spuds, and a large, sour-looking gohanna, that
had been drowsing where the sunlight fell within
the hut, sailed out, and nearly batted Davis off his
feet, flirting between his legs, before sliding up a
gum. The hairy man inside stood among his spilt
vegetables, “garpin’ ” at the stranger within his
gates. “My name’s Davis,” said the visitor. “I’m
one of a party prospecting coal up the gorge.
Thought I’d drop in on you for a neighborly pitch.”
“Oh,” said the hut-holder, and he picked up a
spud. “Name iv Cadden,” he added after two
minutes, picking uf> another spud. Davis sat on his
heels in the doorway, and tried for half an hour to
maintain a conversation, during which time Cadden
spoke three more words, and picked up three more
potatoes. At this stage the miner was constrained to
admit that his mission was a failure. He arose to
return to Wellin and Wellin. “I’m afraid you’re
not over-fond of society,” said Davis. Cadden took
up another spud, and examined it closely. “Oh, I
dunno,” he said. “I s’pose I’m ez great a bloke
fer company as you’d meet anywhere. There’s
Peter. I’m ’most always with Peter.” He pointed
to Peter. Peter was the gohanna
NO REST FOR THE WICKED.
MUM: “I told the last man who asked for
food to chop some wood , and he broke the
axe handle. My husband put a new one
in this morning .”
BUM (who has asked for food): “Tm sotry to
ear that, mum.”
POT LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The isle of Palamand was gay ;
Its one red shirt flew on a pole.
A mission man had come that way
To save the island’s precious soul.
He was a gentle, chubby chap
Whose knees were hidden by his lap.
The tall, proud chief of Palamand
Beheld the parson with disdain.
The former sported feathers grand;
His hair was like a charger’s main ;
The pastor, who was far from tall,
Had scarcely any liair at all.
“Our hunting has been bad this week,”
The chief explained ; “and fish are few.”
“Of heavy feasting do not speak,”
The pastor said, “I beg of you :
“I’ll take pot luck.” They raised the lid.
It’s needless p’raps to say he did.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


s«n */, /ft %/> // /la
-X s-ccrgf- ( /
*? jj
r
/ftp Or/^o^l^
y| I / ,/ jy o
li// - *y
bt? Z- A/o y- yt/yfafs ,<
"> ">* f«.c,h a f <// £a fc i
&<//y y//~ /far/- /fat/, o/j f/fe jf'
Z^' - / /fety«y6tr s~j-.
>' OL '
</^^ec//oj- /fp/s/&.£'/$_ j • z- y
/ A /ft 7y/c/c//e <//s-fer>ce pay 4& a 1 Or/eh /a/
tyrs. Ws ■
THE AWAKENING OF ASIA. —(By our Japanese Hop.)
CHINA’S PARLIAMENT.—OPENING CEREMONY.
The city was decorated with triumphal arches and flags, and the streets were thronged. Senators numbering 167, and 500 Representatives, assembled in the Lower
Chamber, and out of a total membership of 870, nearly all wore frock coats and top hats.


KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them a
trial. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Obtainable every-
where.*
Martin s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you yet the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
Nervous and run down women are greatly bene-
fited by Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract. It
never fails to restore the lost energy and vitality
necessary to women.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY.
NURSE LINNDENBERG,
of Perth, West Australia,
writes—
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.—
“As a nurse I have seen CLEMENTS
TONIC DO SO MUCH GOOD AMONGST
MY MANY PATIENTS that I feel it my duty
to make those facts known. I have prescribed
it often, and in every case it has done what I
expected of it. It SOOTHES THE PATIEiy,
GIVES SWEET. REFRESHING SLEET,
CREATES A DESIRE FOR FOOD, and not
only that, it HELPS THE FOOD TO DIGEST.
Patients become bright and cheerful after its
use. As a health restorer I decidedly say
CLEMENTS TONIC HAS NO EQUAL.
“(Signed) NURSE LINNDENBERG.”
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL
CLEMENTS TONIC. Get it 8 set well.
n
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Major P. W. Fallon, lately made a lieut.-
col. and given command of the Irish Rifles
(Sydney), belongs to the well-known family
of Albury pioneers who for half a century
have been in the wine-growing business. The
Colonel was a solicitor to start with, but
on the death of P. E. Fallon threw up Costs
and took to the management of the family
vats. His predecessors in the colonelcy of
the Irish Rifles have been Hubert Murray,
now Lieut.-Gov. of Papua; F. B. Freehill,
the solicitor who died ; and J. B. Nash, who
mixes medicine and politics with his mili-
tary enthusiasm.
DR. ANGAS JOHNSON , OF
ADELAIDE.
After reading Alfred Deakin’s great speech
at the beginning of the Federal electoral
campaign, The Bulletin becomes more and
more convinced that Alfred is the re-incar-
nation of Pompey. Pompey was the most
perfect Roman gentleman _of his time. He
was tall and good-looking and affable, and
he wore his toga at the correct angle, and
nobody who met him could help liking him.
He was brave and conscientious. His in-
tentions were of the best, and he never of
set purpose did a bad turn to anybody. And
he only missed the ’bus—the old Roman ’bus
—by half an inch. But he missed the ’bus.
The ruins of the ’bus that he didn’t catch
are scattered all over Macedonia to this day.
Mr. King O’Malley (in his capacious hat)
for the 500th time : “I am Minister for the
Crown!” A piping voice from the back:
“Who’s Minister for the Brim?”
Adelaide Racing Club has lost an ex-chair-
man, an occasional owner, and a keen sup-
porter. in J. R. Anderson, K.C., just dead of
cancer, at 48. He was a steward of Oak-
bank and the Hunt Club, too; and was as
enthusiastic over football as he was about
racing.
A mostly-imported monument, provided by
bis friends, has been put over the grave of
that good Protectionist, ex-Treasurer J. R.
Dacey, who wore himself to a premature
death in the earlier and less profligate days
of the N.S.W. Labor Government. Dace.y’s
remains lie in the Yarra cemetery, and Pre-
mier McGowen will make some remarks at
the unveiling of the stone next Sunday,
April 20.
The Australian Government has, it seems,
appointed an official chaplain; anyway,
Saturday’s S. M. Herald announced that
Prime Minister Fisher and Josiah Thomas,
Minister for Eternal Affairs, were doing
something or other. Without going outside
the present Cabinet, it is probably as good a
choice as could have been made, for Thomas
is a local preacher of great eminence among
the Methodists.
Lord Dudley’s disappearance from public
life tells its own tale. He was firstly Lieu-
tenant-General of Ireland. Then he was
Gov.-General of Australia. Now he has sub-
sided into himself, and is just Lord Dudley
again. Not even Duke of Dudley. King
Edward’s death was a bitter blow to him.
He came to Australia on the understanding
that his genial old friend was going to pay
a health visit to these Labor-blighted shores.
The King died before he could fulfil his end
of the contract, and with him died Dudley’s
hope of a “step.” He never tried, guberna-
torially speaking, again.
The late Henry Wrixon achieved his most
notable act of Toryism when he was Attor-
ney-General in the lamentable Gillies-Deakin
Ministry, 1886-1890. Bailey, of Sydney,
went to Melbourne with the loudly-pro-
claimed idea of starting a local Sunday news-
paper. Whereupon Wrixon, viewing Sunday
journals as the Devil’s organs of democracy,
rushed a Bill through the Vic. Leg. Assembly
prohibiting their publication within the
State. Needless to say, the House of Fat
did not reject that Bill. When a Labor
Government gets going in Victoria its first
care, if it is wise, will be to repeal the
W rixon law.
From The Bulletin’s Oldest inhabitant:
Died last week, William Condie Renwick, a
brother of the late Dr. Arthur Renwick, and an old
Sydney commercial identity. The father was a
master plasterer, who gave his sons trades. Arthur,
afterwards a knighted M.D., served an apprentice-
ship to carpentry, and worked at the trade until an
accident made it difficult for him to carp any
longer, and this circumstance led him to study medi-
cine. The other son was a draper, who, after he had
learned the business, started on his own account in
a small shop in Pitt-street, south of the original
premises of Farmer and Co., and long since absorbed
by that firm. Later he moved into King-street,
occupying part of the block now known as Waters’s
Corner. Here he remained until 1888, when Mrs.
McCathie, who had been managing the business of
H. W. Webb, a neighboring draper, succeeded him.
Mr. Renwick then went on the land at Richmond
River, and resided there for a quarter of a century.
In his old drapery days he was at one time Chairman
of the Great Cobar Copper Co. —the neople who sold
out to the syndicate that made all the money.
Up to the time of Governor Strickland’s
departure, Westralia had had 36 Governors
and Acting-Governors. The first was Cap-
tain James Stirling, lI.N. lie hung out as
Lieut.-Governor from the end of 1828 to
September, 1832. Captains were popular
thenabouts. Stirling was followed in turn
by Captain F. C. Irwin, Captain Richard
Daniell, Captain Picton Beete, then Daniell
again, ditto Stirling again, this-, time as
straight-out Governor, as distinct from
Lieut.-Governor. Stirling had the longest
run of any of them, holding office in two
terms for about nine years. Captain Fitz-
gerald, Mr. John Hutt and Mr. Arthur Ed-
ward Kennedy each held the job down for
about seven years. Lieutenant-Colonel
Clarke had the shortest experience of For-
restralia. He lasted from January, 1846,
to February, 1847.
J. R. Anderson, K.C., who died the other
day in Adelaide, had the unusual experience
of having been Attorney-General without a
seat in either House. Butler, in 1905, want-
ing a law Minister badly, gave the job to
Anderson; and he held it for nearly five
months —until a new Premier (Price) wined
the whole lot out. The whole lot at that
time consisted of four, for in those days a
few of the States really were trying to
economise in view of the transfer of so many
of their functions to the Commonwealth. In-
cidentally, Queensland began with a Minis-
try of two, Premier Herbert and Attorney-
General Pring; but five days later a Trea-
surer was added. It is said that the Gov-
ernment started with 7d.. so at first it
didn’t need a Treasurer. Richard Dry ran
Tasmania for nearly three years with a
Ministry of three, and as Dry dropped out
three days before his colleagues, the Minis-
try at last got down to two. Neil Lewis ran
the same State with four Ministers. At
the other end of the scale, Tommy Bent took
almost his whole partv into his Cabinet. He
had eight honorary Ministers and quite a
heap of salaried ones. To be a Victorian
Minister in Bent’s time was as common as
to be named Smith.
“Melb”: The Bulletin (10/4/’l3) men-
tions the yarn that ex-Judge Casey was a
policeman in America —or it may have been
a gaol warder. There was another story
that in such capacity he locked up the lanky
theatrical Baronet Don, for debt, and Don
snubbed him for it when they met in Ben-
digo. Casey was managing the local Ad-
vertiser at the time, with Mackay as edi-
tor. Mackay’s Rob Roy and Mclntyre’s
Bailie Nicol Jarvie, with the amateurs,
were famous; and Casey was equally good
as Paddy Murphy, in “The Happy Man,”
with the song of “Och, Brian O’Linn had no
Breeches to Wear.” But in politics the
little fat man had rather a bad style—too
much humility, somewhat Tartuffian, greasy
and apt to be rancid. Later, on the bench,
he improved wonderfully, and developed
quite a lot of dry dignity.
“Vic.’s” send-off: —
11. J. Wrixon has gone. He married the widow
Anderson, Money Miller’s daughter, 41 years ago,
and the money choked him. Still, he did one grand
thing for Australia. In the case of Ah Toy v. Mus-
grove (Victorian Collector of Customs) a majority
of the Victorian Full Bench, with Chief Justice
Higinbotham and Judge Kerferd dissenting, decided
that Chinese Immigration could not be completely
blocked. There was a successful appeal to the Privy
Council, where Wrixon pleaded the case as Attorney-
General. Wrixon ought to have been Speaker when
Bent got the billet; but the candidature of J. G.
Duffy spoiled him. At another time he seemed posi-
tively to be the leading candidate for Chief Justice-
ship, Premiership, or Speakership, whichever he cared
to go for; yet he obtained none of them. He always
failed at the critical time. When Victoria was in
its great financial crisis, the men to whom the public
turned were Deakin and Wrixon. Both shirked the
job ; and Turner, the Unknown, took it uu and made
a success of it. In every capacity he lacked bite,
edge, impetus, momentum. Yet he was never un-
stable —he was a Gentle Tory all the time. When
he dropped out of politics he wrote several awfully
stuffy books; but Money Miller’s son-in-law didn’t
care whether anybody bought them.
SCHULER , Editor of Melbourne AGE.
Samuel Way, of South Aus., the oldest
Judge in the Australian Commonwealth, was
77 on Friday last.
The widow of Chief Justice Darley, of
N. S. Wales, who died in London recently,
was a daughter of Captain Sylvester Browne,
of the mercantile marine, who settled in
Sydney in the ’3o’s. This Browne was an
enterprising man who had a business house
in Macquarie-place, and a country residence
in the bush that now forms part of the
inner suburb of Enmore. In or about 1840
he chartered a brig, and took his family and
household belongings to Port Phillip, where
he finally settled. Two of his sons are T. A.
Browne (“Rolf Boldrewood”) and Sylvester
Browne, well known as a mining and sport-
ing man. There are three daughters still living
—Mrs. Cockshott, Mrs. Massie and the
widow of Peter Scratchley, an eminent
engineer.
Lx-Judge Casey, who died in Victoria the
other day, reached the bar via Parliament.
A good many men have done the same thing
since then—including Commonwealth Attor-
ney-General Hughes and N.S.W. Attorney-
General Holman—but Casey led the way in
Australia. He was one of the earliest
colonial” barristers admitted in Victoria.
In those days nearly all the gowns came
from London and Dublin, and were ad-
mitted in Victoria because of their admis-
sion “at Home.” They had not to undergo
any examination. The “colonial” men were
few, though the examination wasn’t hard.
But the attorneys didn’t run much for
the colonial” men. Everything “colonial,”
whether jam, boots and shoes or barristers
was gently sneered at. Politics, however!
helped “King” Casey, and he got a practice
but never a big one. He seemed to take a
bigger .man —George Higinbotham—as his
model; but there was some distance between
them.
H. V. McKAY, of Sunshine Harvester repute,
the Liberal candidate for Ballarat.
Hubert Saumarez Smith, son of the late
“Hob Cab” Primate, resigns his clerical secre-
taryship. and starts for England by the War-
rimoo. The young man is scholastic in taste
and temper, and during his time in Aus-
tralia kept out of the sectarian stadium —a
virtue that can also be put to the credit of
his otherwise-undistinguished father.
A Few Words from the Bar Table: J. M.
Harvey, the latest N. S. Wales Equity
Judge, should do well —as well as Street, to
whose appointment his bears a close analogy.
He knows his job thoroughly, is young and
earnest, and possesses sound health. But
Adrian Knox would have been a better man
for the billet, and Leverrier the best pos-
sible. Why the Government passed over
Leverrier is one of the leading mysteries of
Phillip-street and the pubs adjacent thereto,
at the present time. He is the best scien-
tific and patents lawyer in Australia. Had
he been selected a vast store of invaluable
knowledge, which no other barrister pos-
sesses, would have been placed at the dis-
posal of the State. And the State badly
needs some expert in this line on its
Supreme Court Bench. It would have been
a graceful act on Knox’s part to accept the
Judgeship that is alleged to have
been offered him. Incidentally. he
would have obviated a good deal of
forensic blasphemy by so doing. Many a
hard-up advocate visioned himself the richer
for Knox’s translation to a non-competitive
sphere. Now the chances are be will go on
monopolising all the best work for ever, or
therabouts, since he is a mere youth still as
lawyers go. By the way, the Labor Ad-
ministrations, both in the Federal arena and
in N. S. Wales, have been singularly mal-
adroit in their handling of judicial appoint-
ments. No one should be given an oppor-
tunity to formally ‘refuse” a High Court
or Supreme Court Judgeship. The old, and
more seemly, system was for the Government
of the day to get one of the possible Judge’s
friends to sound him. He took the possible
appointee into a pub, and asked him softly
if he would like to drink a steady and dig-
nified job. If the report was even
doubtful no offer was forthcoming, and
the State was saved from, looking like a
bagman casting round as to where he might
place his goods.
PEACE.
Among the applicants for the position of umpire
for the Victorian Football Association matches for
the ensuing season is a young woman of Yarraville.
She claims that she possesses a sound knowledge of
the game, and is of fine physique. She, too, im-
plies that she has that command of language which
would enable her do take a winniner [?] [?]
controversial warfare.
TWO POOR MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pierpont Morgan died of acute indigestion. For a
long time he had been unable to take any kind of
nourishment. He left one hundred million dollars.
-—Horrible public information.
The millionaire was white and sad.
He wore a thousand pounds in fur.
A tattered pauper, thinly clad,
Arose beside his car. He had
A stomach like a sepulchre,
So hollow ’twas. He, too, was pale.
His cracked voice piped a touching tale.
“A copper, sir; one penny, please!
I’ve scarcely tasted for a week.
The inward cravings never ceare.
A penny, please, to give release
For one day from the rats that tweak
My entrails with unceasing stress.
Rich man, relieve my emptiness!’’
The mill’onaire was white and sad ;
He wore a thousand pounds in fur,
In richest linen he was clad.
With twenty million pounds he had
A stomach like a sepulchre ;
And to the pauper thin and pale
The rich man piped a touching tale.
“Relief, relief; oh, give me peace!
I have not supped through one long moon.
From inward torments no release
Has come to me. They never cease,
My agonies. For that great boon,
The hearty stomach of a clown,
I’ll give you twenty millions down!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


\
f ..TYkf' ' : V>?-^ V ,
•• in <*«&.> W?* \ •:
' M& % :l /,m#l
%s 7
a
r .•
?j«S
&SfifiS
Vts
mmm
m
•*» /
S&I-
->s
,r?
>*•
NTT
SX
////•/
£B*>l«
. • ■
;#s&&:
! ."V'i/
liigK
HM
m
*•••
mMmMzm.
m
S>\
ViVi
V/&S*
wferSf;
mm
■V. a ■
aisais
.
■ ,*
C-.ir
.V.V: >t ->•? v. *t ;
V,
; wfpl
as 83
,
« . • •••
Mi#ii
His
iVt:«
w. i. 1- v,?<tei'SP:t •'. •.
• Vjs
H
&§
'
iWSeSS
SRijig
MAMmimim
. • ■ -t
:<CM
••■>
5
b
l?s^
IT’S “THE AUSTRAL” EVERY TIME!
THAT is the pleased reply of the happy man who wears our “Austral Suits ! There is
nothing to beat it for quality, finish and wear.
We quote “Austral” Suits, to measure, 3 Guineas to 15s.
Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded. Over one thousand materials to select from.
If you cannot call, send for patterns and self-measurement forms, and catalogue of everything for
Men and Boys’ Wear. Carriage paid throughout Australia. We do the rest.
GOWING BROS.,
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 &17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS, MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
ft
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRIILS.
"SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling IViachines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St. r Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Greater J. D. Williams Amuse-
ment Co. (Sydney) :
Towards Re-
duction of
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1910 .. - £54,694
1911 ..£33,210 p.c. = £23,503 £9707 44.987
Goodwill added (net), £11,523 56,510
1912 .. 13,471 7$ p.c. = 13,538 56,577
This has been the most-talked-of co. of the year, and
its shares have had more tribulations than any others
on the market. The business has suffered from a
mixture of hot air and water. It started with hot
air. J. D. Williams, a Yankee showman, turned up
in this country, and decided that it was “easy.” He
hustled, and formed himself into a co. Of course
there wasn’t much real capital in that co. —it was
mostly hot air and water. Next, partly in order to
put in some more water, the first co. was formed
into this Greater J. D. Williams Co. Twelve months
ago, when the first accounts were issued, the capital
subscribed and paid was £148,281 in £1 shares, of
which £53,700 represented the hot-air and water
before mentioned, plus £994 preliminary exes., mak-
ing the total deficit £54,694, with which the table
starts. But they hadn’t exhausted the hot-air reser-
voir yet. The Crystal Palace was projected in Syd-
ney. and presently the co. paid £lO,OOO for the good-
will of that —for the brilliant idea, in short, of a
kind of glorified Paddy’s Market. Also £5523 was
paid by way of “initial and opening exes.” of the
Crystal Palace and the Britannia Theatre (Melb.) ;
buit as against that there is a reserve of £4OOO, repre-
senting, apparently, unrealised profit on “shares in
other cos.” These shares figure as an asset for
£4050. The co. or cos. are not mentioned. The
investment may have been in Bud Atkinson’s busted
circus for all this paper knows. Williams, or
the Williams Co., certainly had something to do with
that concern.
Here are the assets:—
Melba Theatre (Melb.) . . . . £33,215
Leaseholds . . .. .. •• 51,876
Cash . . . . .. . . 8,041
£93 132
Less liabilities .. .. .. 61,912
-£31.220
Films, merchandise, etc. .. .. .. 39,159
Plant, furniture, etc. . . . . . . 28,182
Book debts, pre-payments, etc. .. . . 17,078
Shares in other cos. . . . . .. • • 4,050
Exclusive picture rights .. .. .. 4,740
Goodwill items .. . ■ • • • • 69,223
Total assets .. .. ..£193,652
These represent—Capital. £180,506; and alleged re-
serves, £13,146.
The investor wants to know two things in particu-
lar —(1) “What is the security for my money?”
(2) “What rate of interest am I going to get?” As
to the security: on a breaking-up basis it is pretty
certain that in the Greater J. D. Williams Co. there
wouldn’t be many shillings in the £. The freeholds
and leaseholds are in at cost (less a small amortiza-
tion allowance in the case of the leaseholds). The
cost was no doubt excessive; and the premises are of
little value except for their special purpose. Investi-
gations show quite conclusively that, with exceptions
perhaps, films, merchandise, plant and furniture were
badly bought. The accounts are signed only by the
auditors, who take no responsibility for tbe valua-
tions. The assets are. however, worth more
than break-up value if the co. can use them.
And this depends on whether the co. can
make money. That it made anything like
the profits it is alleged to have made in the first year
is unlikely. It will be noted that the dividend paid
for the first half of the second year absorbed more
than the net Drofit for the whole year. No doubt
profit sufficient to cover the dividend was shown in
the first half-year, which means that there was no
profit at all for the second half, or, if there was a
profit, it was all absorbed in writing down assets
that had previously been over-valued. Again and
again it has been pointed out here that disclosed profit
depends upon the valuation of assets. Here is a
picture film ’ rich cost £lOO, and stands at that
figure in the books. Honestly it is now worth £5.
If it is valued at £lOO the profits may be (say)
£lO,OOO. If, however, it is valued at the honest
£5, the profits come down to £9905. Multiplv
that film by 100, and the important bearing which
valuation has on the profits is obvious. The 1911
valuation of films was made bv two people in the
co.’s service, who have gone. This paper declines to
take their valuation. It is not sacrilege to refuse
to accept the present valuations either. The two
published statements are therefore in all probability
utterlv valueless for the purpose of showing whether
a profit can be made by the co. All they do is this:
they show a very fine income. Everv investigation
shows that there was prodigious waste. You can
pick up stories of mismanagement and extra-
vagance anywhere, and a lot of the stories
are true. Put the two things together—
the undoubted revenue and the equally un-
questionable waste, and the worse you make out
the past mismanagement to have been the better
hope you give the co. for the future. From the
point of view of the investor who likes his sleep, the
thing is of course impossible. But the speculator
who is impressed with the new management and
thinks there is a future in the picture business will
see points in it.
The financial side of the “big” picture business
in the eastern States is suffering a complete change.
There were four big cos. at work —-Amalgamated
Pictures., Ltd., better known as Tait’s; West’s,
Spencer’s and the Williams Co. These people have
been competing against one another for films. The
Taits got tired, and, at their instance, an amalgama-
tion was effected: the General Film Co. of Aus-
tralasia, Ltd., was formed to take over the business
of the Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd., and the Spencer
and West cos., and to purchase the film businesses of
Paths Frgres, Harrington’s and Gaumont’s in Aus-
tralia. The J. D. Williams Co. stood out for a
while; but subsequently it went in on an agreement
to form two cos.—one a co. to hire out films; the
other a co. to exhibit films. In the former the
Williams Co. takes 75,000 shares and the other three
split up 225,000 among them. Their proportions
are now being fixed by the accountants. In the
exhibiting co. the J. D. Williams Co. takes 120,000
shares and the others 180,000 shares. Why two
cos. should have been formed isn’t clear; it seems
to quite unnecessarily complicate matters. These
cos. take over the whole of the goodwill of the
businesses; and the existing cos. will hand their
theatres, etc., over to the combine, the latter holding
them on lease and paying rent. For the stock-in-
trade and plant 6 p.c. debentures will be issued by
the combine. The arrangement runs almost on all-
fours with the brewery combine in Melbourne. Thus
for the future the Greater .1. D. Williams Co. (like
the others) will have onlv three sources of revenue—
(l) dividends from the combine; (2) rent of
premises leased by the combine; (3) interest from
stray investments. The theatres will be managed
by the Combine’s Board of Directors, who, it is
understood, will, as far as possible, retain the
present managers in local control. How the public
will fare has yet to be seen: the scheme certainly
looks all right from the companies’ point of view.
And by reason of the better buying that will be
possible, it would look all right even if the puhlic
got no worse treatment in the future than it has had
in the past.
* * * *
The Perdriau Rubber Co. (Sydney).,
manufacturers and retailers of rubber goods:—
Deficit
(Goodwill
In Reduc- not reck-
tion of oned an
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Asset).
1907.. £s,Bii4 10 p.c.= £4,001 £lBO3 £13,799
1908.. 7,271 10 ~ „ 4,742 2529 10,270
£52 added to goodwill account ... 10,322
1909.. 8,050 10 p.c. = 5,801 2249 8,073
£63 added to goodwill account .. 8,136
1910.. 10,184 10 p.c. = 6,757 3427 4,709
£l3 added to goodwill account .. 4,722
Premium on shares .. 2000 2,722
1911.. 14,645 15 p.c.= 12,500 2145 577
£l2 added to goodwill account .. 689
Reserves.
Premiums on shares .. 6878 6,289
To Reserves.
1912.. 15,397 12£p.c.= 12,160 3237 9,526
The co. was registered in 1904 with a paid capital
of £40,008, to take over an old-established business.
Of this amount, £30,000 was given in shares for the
goodwill (£15,000) and assets; a-nd £lO,OOO was
subscribed for “B” shares carrying certain rights
which have now expired. All shares therefore now
rank alike. With the rapid extension of the rubber
business and the development of new lines by this
co., including the manufacture of motor tyres, fur- •
ther capital has been called for. The next list shows
the growth of that item and the movement of others:
1907. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Capital.. ..£40,008 £70,000 £78,000 £120,000
Liabilities . . 13,895 14,792 38,690 49,929
Stock . . 24,440 42,181 60,264 94,226
Freehold, plant,
etc. . . 10,904 30,018 46,041 63,781
Book debts .. 7,781 10,433 18,259 26,502
Other assets 730 951 552 833
Thus the co. needs £60,117 more to trade on
than it did 12 months ago; and of that
amount £42,000 has come from new capital, £6878
from premium capital and £11,239 from the public
(increased liabilities). Of the total amount, £34,000
has gone into stock, about £ll,OOO into
plant, £6OOO into premises and £BOOO into book
debts —-all movements which naturally result from the
manufacture of new lines, the result of the Pro-
tectionist policy which so annoys that quaint combi-
nation, Attorney-General Billy Hughes and the im-
porter. Why it should annoy the importer is plain
enough; but it is a mystery why it should annoy
.Billy Hughes, who professes to be so much con-
cerned about the defence of Australia. Apparently,
Billy Hughes has an idea that Australia can be best
defended by the workers in the rubber and other
factories of France, America and England. A par-
ticularly cheerful view of the situation, so far as the
Perdriau Rubber Co. is concerned, is that it has
financed its trade extensions so very largely on its
own money. It can’t ask for its own money back ;
but when a co. works on somebody else’s capital,
there is always a danger of the bank manager be-
coming less affable at the most inconvenient time,
which means realisation sales and the sacrifice of
something.
With £49,226 in stock and £41,627 in plant,
it is obvious that the amount of profit claimed by
the co. depends largely on the valuation of the one
and the depreciation of the other. So far as the pub-
lished accounts show, nothing is charged direct
against gross profits to cover wear and tear : £2500
is, however, transferred to machinery and plant re-
serve, which is now £7851 in credit. If this is the
only sum charged against gross profits to pay for the
depreciation of machinery, then the true profit last
year was much less than £15,397, and the true re-
serves are much less than £9526. It seems in-
credible that nothing should be charged direct; and
though the thing could be done without disclosure
(renewals, for instance, and even additions might be
charged to the unpublished working account), there
is no trace of it anywhere. The doubt wants clear-
ing up.
* * » *
Ivempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zealand Drug Co. (Dunedin, M.L.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1903 / £l4 - 941 7 p.c. = £13,649 £1 ”92 £20,056
\ Premiums on shares issued .. 209 20,265
1904 -f 16 ’ 4 . 79 7 p.c. = 13,683 1:2000 796 21,061
" \ Premiums on shares issued .. 17 21.078
1905.. 15,466 7p.c.= 13,686 1780 22,858
1906 \ 16,250 7 ~ ~ 13,751 2499 25*357
• Premiums on shares issued .. 174 25,531
f Depreciation account trans-
-1907.. ferred to general reserves .. 7851 33 382
l 18,652 7 p.c. = 14,000 3520 1132 34 514
1908.. 17,816 7 ~ ~ 14,000 1600 22 6 36*730
1909.. 16,962 7 ~ ~ 14,000' 1000 1962 38*692
1910.. 16,707 7 ~ ~ 14,000 1336 1371 40,063
1911.. 18,225 7 „,, 14/00 1500 2725 42,788
1912 (J 9 - 1 ? 7 7 » >- 1 6,515 1500 2176 44,964
( Premiums on shares issued 3750 48 714
1913.. 21,544 7 p-c. = 16,083 2500 2961 51*675
That “Profits” column looks very good indeed no
violent gymnastics anywhere, but a steady movement
the right way. Of course the figures very largely de-
pend on the stock-taking. Supposing a pessimist with
a bad liver came along next year and superintended
the job in place, let’s say, of the optimist who did it
last year, it is quite possible that there would be a
difference of £lO,OOO or more in the valuation; and
that would make a large hole in next year’s profits
And such things are possible, as this co. found out
some years ago when the directors discovered that
certain branches had inflated values, which is the nice
way of saying that they had invented fictitious profits.
And when you add fictitious profits to this year’s true
profits, you ve got to take them either out of reserves
later on or out of future true profits. There’s that
risk in connection with every co. whose assets con-
sist largely of stock, and the risk is greatest where
the stock isn’t under one roof, is varied, perishable,
and liable to fluctuations in value. The most the in-
vestor can do is to size up the management and take
a general view of the business over a series of years
He may still go wrong, because errors may be re-
peated year after year; but somebody is much more
likely to drop on them in the course of 10 years than
in the brief space of one year. Taking that general
view, things certainly look all right with Kemp-
thorne-Prosser’s; and the management seems to be
prudent—in proof, note that when new shares have
been issued a bit of premiums has been got in to
strengthen the reserves, and observe the steady
writing down of plant and other assets. Going into
balance-sheet details these results are dug out-
1903. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital . . £200,000 £200,000 £228,708 £230,000
Liabilities . . 44,354 57,810 59,599 61,851
Stock .. 145,824 154,582 165,677 173,402
Factories, etc. 80,093 104,062 111,908 115,639
Book debts . . 46,516 53,827 58,180 65,817
Cash, etc. . . 9,997 5,761 13,836 2,444
There is really nothing that seems much out of
place there. Liabilities have grown £17,497 in 10
years; but the business has evidently grown very
considerably too. There is nothing spectacular
about it; it looks iust a sober, solid, steady, profitable
business that isn’t forcing things, but is nevertheless
getting its share of the new trade that arrives with
every immigrant, home-grown or imported.
The South Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide) : ~ ,
Writ- Added Noun-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. £23,468 5 p.c. =£12,500 £3,468 £7500 £22,bio
1902.. 22,506 5 ~ ~ 12,500 1,250 8756 31,371
1903.. 13,752 5 „ „ 12,500 750 502 31,873
1904.. 12,935 5 „ „ 12,500 750 31,508
1905.. 12,913 2J „ „ 6,250 2,750 3913 35,471
1906.. 17,370 5 ~ ~ 12,500 2,750 2120 3/,591
1907.. 18,172 5 ~ ~ 12,500 2,750 2922 40,513
1908.. 24,135 5 ~ ~ 12,500 6,103 5532 46,045
1909.. 17,551 5 ~ „ 12,500 5,051 46,045
1910.. 25,072 5 ~„ 12,500 12,572 46,045
1911.. 35.637 6$ „ „ 15,625 16,057 3955 50,000
1912.. 46,277 74 ~ ~ 18,750 27,527 50,000
1913.. 50,968 74 „ ~ 18,750 32,218 50,000
The £32,218 written off for the past year is made
up this way: Leaseholds, £750; plant, £3OOO,
rolling stock, £2000; goodwill, £15,000; freeholds,
£11,468. On the surface it looks as though several
of these items ought to be charged direct to Profit
and Loss, instead of appropriating amounts out of
declared, and thereby inflated, profits. But it all
depends. Probably a fair amount to cover the year s
depreciation has been already charged, the appro-
priations being extra amounts to cover depreciation
that ought to have been charged years ago, but
wasn’t. Anyway, £10,026 has been charged direct
for depreciation of various sorts and bad and doubt-
ful debts; and the directors say that the “special
provision made for writing down plant, machinery
and rolling stock,” has reduced those items to abso-
lute value.” There still remain freeholds, and lease-
holds and goodwill. These things are lumped with
machinery, plant and rolling stock, the whole un-
tidy heap standing at £459,269. If a co. issues
accounts for the purpose of showing what its position
.really is, it does not mix goodwill with the tangible
That item is merely make-weight—so much
froth in the pot. The goodwill froth probably still
represents a lot of the capital. The co. was formed
in 1887, and that was a time when goodwills were
valued at a very tall figure. The businesses taken over
were those of E. T. Smith and W. K. Simms; the
share capital was £250,000 (150,000 shares paid
to £1 and 50,000 paid to £2) ; and the balance of
the purchase money was represented by a mortgage
debt, subsequently converted into 5 p.c. debentures.
The debentures (£200,000) still stand; and as the
£lO,OOO interest is a first charge against profits, the
debt for present practical purposes amounts to a
large cumulative pref. share issue.
There is nothing visible to account for so large an
increase of profits during the last few years. In
1906, 1907 and 1909, S. Aus. was having very
prosperous times; and though thirsty Broken Hill
wasn’t as affluent as it is just now, it wasn’t hard-
up. There is something to account for a steady, even
fairly quick, growth of business and profits; but a
jump from £17,551 in 1908-9 to £5O 968 in 1912-
13 can only be explained by assuming that when A.
E. Nott became manager in 1905 (they have made
him general-manager since) he proceeded at once to
do some vigorous cleaning-up, and has gradually eased
off. Also, no doubt, the anti-liquor campaign was
costing more money a few years ago than it is now.
That big Cold Tea vote in S. Aus. is always likely
to cause trouble. Not that the closing up of a pub here
and a pub there is going to seriously affect the con-
sumption of beer; but it is going to affect the book-
value of the freeholds which have had their beer-
cannon spiked. The situation, then, is something
like this: (1) There is a heavy debenture debt, and
the demand for regular interest on it is dead-sure.
(2) The value of the tangible assets is unknown to
anybody except insiders. (3) Wowser and other
anti-grog influences are stronger in S. Aus. than in
any other State. (4) S. Aus. (plus Broken Hill)
has had a succession of extra-good years, and to the
real prosperity has been added the bogus prosperity
of a borrowing and spending boom. Against these
things place the facts that the S. Aus. Brewing Co.
has a solid, old-established business; that competi-
tion in Adelaide isn’t keen; and that profits could
shrink one-half and still pay 74 p.c., and leave about
£BOOO a year for writing-down goodwill and the
like purposes.
The Union Trustee Co. (Melbourne) :
Invest-
ment
Ordinary Fluctu-
Re- ation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserve.
1901 .. £2722 34 p.c. = £2584 £946 £306
1902 . . 2886 4 „ „ 2953 879 1006
1903 .. 2848 4 „ „ 2953 774 314
1904 . . 3255 4 „ „ 2953 1,076 301
1905 . . 3427 44 „ „ 3322 1,181 332
1906 . . 3874 5 „ „ 3691 1,364 552
1907 . . 4931 5 „ „ 3691 2,604 630
1908 . . 5737 5 „ „ 3691 4,650 602
1909 . . 4804 5 „ „ 3691 5,763 598
1910 4275 54 „ „ 4060 5.978 628
1911 .. 6332 6 „ „ : 4429 7,881 684
1912 . . 5960 6 ~ „ 4429 9,412 724
1913 . . 6499 6 „ „ 4429 11,482 698
During its land boom Melbourne overworked most
things except its C.O.D. principles. Having dis-
covered that the day of the private trustee was pass-
ing (probably it had a suspicion that most of the
people it knew weren’t to be trusted), it projected
an unnecessary number of cos. to do the business.
When the slump happened, three of the cos.- —the
Union, Australian Natives and Colonial Permanent—■
did the sensible thing, and formed themselves into
this one. Unfortunately that didn’t end the trouble ;
even six bad eggs won’t make one good egg, no
matter how hard you may beat them together. The
trouble was that such a heap of their capital had
been put into mortgages, whose value consisted
largely of hot air. It took years of nursing to re-
store the finances to order, and during that long
period the shareholders got little out of the busi-
ness. Now, however, the mortgages have practically
disappeared, and, assuming that the city freehold
which has been bought and much imnroved is all
right, the assets look a solid lot. This shows how
things have changed :
1896. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Liabilities.. .. £132 £9,235 £722 £65
Public securities 32,667 33,288 33,286 32,758
Mortgages . . 32,451 8,692 2,269 2,210
Freehold.. .. 27,632 40,938 44,474
Deposits, cash, etc. 10,044 23,806 9,885 8,341
The paid capital is £73,822, or£l per share. There is
10s. per share uncalled ; and in the event of liquida-
tion shareholders are liable for another £l. This
puts the co.’s' clients in a very secure position, for,
of course, the co.’s capital and reserves are the guar-
antee given to clients that trust moneys will be there
when they are payable, and that the instructions of
testators will be carried out. Not that the ordinary
trustee co. guarantees either principal or interest of
trust estates. So far as this paper knows, there is
only one office which does that —the Public Trust
Department of Maoriland—and then, of course, it
must ba permitted to nominate the securities. But
what a professional trustee co. does that a private
trustee doesn’t, is to put up a guarantee that there
will be no unlawful mishandling of the dead man’s
assets. Obviously, the value of the guarantee de-
pends to a great extent upon the ratio of the co.’s
funds to the value of the estates in hand. A co. with
£50,000 of its own and £5,000,000 of trusts clearly
doesn’t offer as good a guarantee as a co. with
£50,000 of its own and £10,000,000 of other
people’s money. It is highly desirable, therefore,
that every trust co. should set out the amount of
trusts which its funds have to more or less protect;
and this co. is one of the few that don’t do it. It
is a stupid omission, because, on any such compari-
son, the Union would probably show up exceedingly
well. The co.’s backing is very good (Fairbairns,
Bowes Kelly, David Elder and the like are inter-
ested) ; it has a valuable connection in Queensland as
well as Victoria ; the last of the old dead-horse ap-
pears to have been shifted ; on appearances, the co.
has not credited itself with commission which it
hasn’t yet earned ; and altogether shareholders’ out-
look is very satisfactory indeed.
London Stores, Ltd., which bought a
men's outfitting business in Melbourne, and started
with various goodwill and other intangible items
representing £26,36S of the capital:—
Towards
Reduction
Written of De- De-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. ficit. ficit.
1911 . . £26,368
1912 ..£7293 8 p.c.= £4200 £3093 23,275
£1666 added to goodwill items .. 24 941
1913 .. 9702 8 p.c. =' 5600 £1596 2506 22^435
The business was taken over in June, 1911; but
£3OOO was paid for the profits as from Feb. 1, and
£1536 was made on that deal. This amount being
included with the profits, it seems a fair thing to
regard the co. as having traded from Feb., 1911,
though the div. was paid for eight months only.
The goodwill and such-like items mentioned above
were as follows to start with:—Building alterations
(leasehold premises), £7400; preliminary exes.,
£2309; goodwill, £16,659. Total, £26,368. Orig-
inally it looked as though the building alterations
must be debited with £9400; but £2OOO of this
has been transferred to shop fixtures account. Fur-
ther “alterations” run to £1666, which amount has
been added to the paper assets. This was really an
amount paid for rent while the premises were being
altered. The practical effect of the expenditure by
the co. out of capital is, or should be, to reduce the
amount that would otherwise have to be paid as rent.
The premises are held on a long lease; and instead of
paying the landlord rent for the improvements, the
co. makes them itself and gradually writes off the
cost out of gross profits. To that extent it has or
may have something to show for part of the deficit-
something in the shape of a reduced rent bill. But
that is a very vague, misty “asset.”
The capital is £70,000 ; accumulated profits and
reserve funds of various sorts, £5695 (this was
before payment of £2BOO, the dividend for the
second haif of the year) ; liabilities. £ 5368 ; total,
£81,063. Against that the co. has —Stock, £39,952;
cash, £6184; book debts. £3095; furniture, fixtures
and plant, £6807 ; and the intangible assets afore-
mentioned, £25,025. But for the intangible assets,
which are certainly large, that position would look
very well indeed. The smallness of the book debts of
all kinds is an excellent feature, and the co. is
clearly in a position to get all the advantages of
buying for cash, while offering the same benefits to
its customers. It is too early yet to say whether too
much was paid for the goodwill. Even at the end
of the first year the directors remarked—“ Since the
purchase by the co. the wages have largely increased
by decisions of the Wages Boards.” Still, though
this probably means that the figures on which the co.
bought were too optimistic, the owners might not
have sold for £15,000 if they hadn’t smelt some-
thing. so it can’t be said yet that they got too much
for their name and stand and connection. Never-
theless, as a name alone won’t hold a customer for
long, the wise articles of association provide that 10
p.c. of the profits must go to reserve, presumably for
the writing-off of the goodwill item, and the steady
replacement of that fluff by solid coin or marketable
goods. A provision of that sort and a few other
things suggest that they were prudent men who took
this business in hand.
* * * *
Adelaide has just roused up to the fact
that, though it is unusually well fed in every other
detail, its fish supply is both scarce and costly. A
co. calling itself Fish Industry, Limited, with Lance
Stirling (President of the Legislative Council) and
other solid men as directors, is, therefore, getting
its prospectus out. The move is the d:rect conse-
quence of a report by the Federal trawler Endeavor,
which finds the sea around Kangaroo Island barren,
but the bight a little further west thick with fish
70 miles from shore. “It is not a question of sup-
ply,” Commonwealth-Director Dannevig says; “it is
one merely of transit to market.”
* * * *
“Kilowatt”: Re the deal made by the
Hobart Gas Co. with the Hydro-Electric Co. of
Tasmania. The Hobart Gas Co. is only buying cur-
rent wholesale and retailing light at the rate pro-
vided in the Government Bill. The Gas Co. pays
a minimum of £5OOO a year from the beginning,
and recoups the Hydro-Electric Co. £20,000
already spent on electric light installation. The
Hydro-Electric keeps all its power contracts
and takes over the gas co.’s power service. This
arrangement had to be made in order to complete
an undertaking to supply light to the municipalities
from the end of 1912 ; as the Hvdro-Electric
wasn’t ready, the gas co. kept the contracts for it.
So the deal is good bpth ways. Hydro-Electric
has an authorised debenture is«”o of a million, and
has issued a second £150,000 to complete the hydro
scheme and the zinc-smelting and carbide works.
* * » *
When the Empire Trade Commission
spoke in Brisbane recently with B. Magnus, general-
manager of the Mount Morgan G.M. Co., and formerly
manager of the electrolytic refinery at Kembla
(N.S.W.), it heard something it didn’t ex-
pect. Briefly, Magnus informed the Qommis-
sion that, of the copper produced in Australia, only
one-fourth was refined here, while about three-fourths
went to foreign countries to give foreign workmen a
job and supply foreign manufactures with their raw
material; and he wanted to know if the English roll-
ing mills couldn’t keep the refining business inside
the Empire. Later on he progressed a piece, and
said he would like to see all the refining done in
Australia, and tentatively suggested an export duty.
Just there the Commission opined that it wouldn t
do to butt into Australian politics, and Magnus was
choked off that subject; which was a pity. As he
put it, the Australian Government levies import
duties, and why shouldn’t it impose export duties?
Yet Magnus only touched the fringe of the matter.
The copper that is produced here should not only be
refined, but also manufactured to the utmost limit.
So should the tin and other metals. So should the
wheat, wool, hides, etc. We would shriek with
laughter if the Australian farmer exported milk or
cream and then re-imported butter for his own re-
quirements ; yet that is what Australia is doing with
its lead, copper, tin, wool, hides, etc.
At the moment of writing about 6000 men
are idle at Broken Hill, and most of the mines are
shut down. The mining cos. have ostensibly no
quarrel with their own workmen; but the stoppage
of the Silverton tramway has cut off their means of
reaching the seaboard. It is a pitiful business alto-
gether. Nominally, the entire hold-up is over seven
employees of the Silverton Tramway Go. who exer-
cise more or less authority—such people as assistant
or relieving stationmaster, etc. The unions— they
are all closely federated at Broken Hill—insisted
that these people should join the Clerks’ Union.
When they didn’t join, all the employees came out.
The seven then joined. But the co. says that these
men are officers, and, under the rules of the co.,
officers may not join the Trades Hall. The co. there-
fore declines the proposal to remit the matter to
any arbitration court. The Broken Hill unions, or,
rather, the handful of men who control them, long
ago acquired that most troublesome disease called
swelled head, and for several years past they have
been a thorn in the flesh of the Labor party; never-
theless, there is room for arbitration in this, matter.
In principle, the Silverton Tramway Co. is quite right
■ —-no man in authority, and with the power to recom-
mend a man’s preferment or disrating or disnussai,
should be compelled to join a labor union. He is
the employer’s eyes and ears; it is to him, in case ot
a dispute between employer and employees, that the
employer must turn for expert advice. It should he
for an arbitration court of some kind to say whether
these men come within that category. If they do.
the co. should be entitled to say whether it win


Expert Knowledge and
Sound Financial Experience
Are Essential Qualifications of
Executor, Trustee or Attorney.
The PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
Is specially constituted by Act of Parliament
to act as
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS,
ATTORNEYS UNDER POWER, AGENTS, etc.,
and having had over 25 years’ experience in
Trust matters, offers advantages not
possessed by private individuals.
FIXFD and REASONABLE CHARGES.
bIA A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
Write for Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
tpijst funds to lend on approved
SECURITIES AT FROM 5 PER CENT.
Gas Engines.
Suction Gas Plants.
EFFICIENCY. ECONOMY.
KYNOCH LTD.,
Melbourne.
Brisbane.
Sydney.
Perth.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and bv all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnlev Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnlev” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12,
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the directors,
for in every direction admirable progress has been
achieved.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE meets every need of the
mine, and is not affected by acids, minerals, alkali
or sulphur in soil or water. Priced Catalogue may
be had from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, N.S.W. ; Footscray (Vic.).*
The American Ring Pulverizer is designed for
crushing and pulverizing limestone, lime, coke, ore,
terracotta, glass, quartz, phosphate rock, sandstone,
gravel, tile crockery, flint, manganese ore, shale, and
all other refractory materials. See p. 3. Australian
representatives: Ilaes and Eggers, Ltd., 163 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* # * *
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney.* [1
Mining and assay requisites can be procured ’at
lowest rates from Felton. Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Messrs. Babcock k Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
thik firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison k Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
employ them if they are unionists; and it should
not be open to the unions to compel them to become
members. If, on the other hand, they are not per-
sons in authority then they ca-nnnot be differen-
tiated from other employees.
* * * *
Zinc Corporation’s estimated profits, after
paying for tailings and everything else except office
exes.: January, £11,667; February, £12,618;
March, £13,293. It is cheerful while it lasts. But
it won’t last for ever—or even for half of ever. The
secured tailings dumps contain about 1,800,000 tons;
and they are being eaten up at the rate of from
300,000 to 350,000 tons a year. (For the three
months mentioned the input was 76,020 tons, or at
the rate of 304,080 tons a year.) That means six
years’ life at the present rate of treatment. On top
of that there is the output from the South Blocks
mine, owned by the co. This property can produce
35,000 tons of zinc-treatment material per annum,
along with about a third of that quantity of slimes.
How much ore the mine can profitably yield depends
upon the metal markets ; at present it is fairly safe
to say there are a million tons showing, or enough
to keep the lead plant going seven years—simul-
taneously, of course, with the zinc plant. The pro-
bable life is longer ; so the Zinc Corporation has seven
or eight years, or thereabouts, fairly well secured. For
an existence beyond that it will have to depend on
(1) further purchases, at prices that are not likely
to yield the present profit to the treatment co., and
(2) to developments in the South Blocks. As to the
profits to be made in that time, all depends on the
metal markets; and The Bulletin can’t say what
they are going to be, as its prophet is nursing a
cold caught through neglecting to take an umbrella
with him one recent morning that turned out wet.
• * * *
Mount Boppy, the Ma State’s most pro-
lific gold mine, which has put £419,582 into J.
Bull’s pocket since 1902, had to face so big a capi-
tal expenditure last year that, for a change, share-
holders got nothing. Reserves were 230,000 tons
when the last estimate was made a few months ago.
That is about four years’ supply for the plant. But
the character of the stone has changed considerably,
and with the new processes future profits are not
such dead-sure things as those in the past have been.
“Looker-On”: The Eleanora has had a
crushing of 52 tons for 108 oz., with tons of
concentrates yet to treat. This, it is reported, is
from No. 1 winze east, No. 7 level; and I see it
printed that the same result should be averaged from
all development work. Australian investors were
badly enough bitten over Hillgroye Prop., and they
don’t want more of the same thing, I suppose. If
so, they will refuse to get excited about that crush-
ing. There’s stone to the extent of 2000 tons broken
in the course of development work, and stacked at
the surface. Let that be put through before the
Australian public accepts 20z.-odd as the fair aver-
age of the mine.
* * * *
“H.G.” : This from the Adelaide Register
is a fair sample of the “news” with which the
Chow-loving business men of Port Darwin have
kept most southern papers supplied for years past:
“The Government has the idea that the deplorable
state of mining is due to bad legislation and
Chinese. The sad fact is that all work to date has
failed to prove one really big payable proposition
in the country. Had this been found, neither legis-
lation nor Chinese would have checked the prosperity
which follows profitable mining.” Admittedly, no
big dividend-paying mining proposition has yet
been developed in the Territory. But that doesn’t
prove that the Territory is not rich. When the Pine
Creek railway was completed the Chinese coolies
who were brought out for the work remained in the
country; and until recently a couple of thousand of
these, with their descendants and those others who
have been smuggled in, remained there. They have
lived, and most of them have lived well, on the gold
and tin they have won. Many of them have taken
away small fortunes also. The mining they have
done has in the main been surface scratching on
mineral areas discovered by whites, for the Chinese
are not prospectors; in nearly every case they have
paid tribute to the white merchants, agents, or Gov-
ernment officials of Darwin. In the gold-bearing
area near Brock’s Creek are to be found acres and
acres honeycombed, pig-rooted by Chinese, and to
a great extent spoiled for future legitimate pros-
pecting. The Zapopan mine in that district was
held by Darwin people, but the initial costs depleted
their funds. Instead of making good use of the tail-
ings they had, they got rid of these for a song, and
the man who bought them made a handsome profit.
The mine they let on tribute to the Chinese. And
this is what happened. The gold was found along
the footwall. The Chinese simply gouged out suffi-
cient stone to give them room to work, and when
they were eventually beaten by the water, through
their primitive methods of working, they left the
reef hanging, supported only by a few props here
and there. After the following wet season the mine
was no longer safe. To work it again would require
a new and expensive shaft. Yet when the Chinese
left the mine they were on good stone. This is but
one instance of many. Wherever allowed to go into
a mine, the Chinese made narrow workings till the
water beat them, and then they left behind a death-
trap. Prospecting in the Territory is not an easy
matter. The white population has always been
small, and for the white laborer there has been
little chance of regular employment at wages. The
prospector seldom owns much money, and conse-
quently, no matter how promising his show, he has
had to go to the Darwin storekeepers and agents
for assistance. Thus, the office-stool has acquired a
share, and eventually got a controlling interest, and
in many cases the lot. The next step has been the
putting of Chinese to work the claim on tribute;
then the eyes have been picked out, and presently
another one has been added to the tale of aban-
doned mines. A few attempts certainly have been
made to test mines in a big way. but they have
failed in most cases because of grosslv extravagant
administration. The co. which held the Union and
Yam Creek mines was a bright example. Miles of
telephone lines were erected, and fine residences,
with billiard-rooms and tennis courts, provided.
Thousands of pounds’ worth of machinery was pur-
chased which was never taken out of the cases. Yet
the Union reef is undoubtedly a big thing. The failure
of these big ventures frightened speculators, and the
action of Darwin business people in persistently
dummying for Chows kept white miners out of the
country; bad legislation made it possible for these
office-chair whites to hold claims on miners rights,
and fulfil the working conditions by letting on
tribute to Chinese ; and the Chinese, by their methods
of mining snoiled for the nrosoector manv shows
which held much promise. Moreover, the future will be
the same failure, in spite of the Territory’s wealth,
unless if is insisted that labor conditions on all
mineral claims are fulfilled by white labor.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is not
bothering about its somewhat lean bottom levels at
present. Practically all its spare time is being taken
up in searching for additional ore between the Nos.
2 and 11 levels, where a lot of odds and ends have
been unearthed during the past year. Monthly profits
now average between £2OOO and £3OOO, but as it
takes £38,500 to pay a 6d. div. on the 1,400,000
issued shares, there isn’t much to look forward to, in
view of the somewhat risky outlook and the absence
of any bullion or substantial cash reserve.
As expected, Bind Bind (W.A.), which
this paper described as boom froth, is now deserted.
A mining man of varied experiences went into rap-
tures over the show, and the goldfields papers
backed up his opinion with puffs. These were re-
published in the Adelaide dailies, and in due course
a syndicate was formed to give it a trial. Then the
Government was abused for not providing water
facilities. When it did so, and there was no further
excuse for doing nothing, the show was thrown up
and the field just about petered out.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) has resumed
crushing after a month’s spell. Since August last,
when the mill first started, 7428 tons have been
treated for a return of about that number of ounces
over the plates. Costs are said to have approxi-
mated 165., leaving a gross working profit of 4s. per
ton. This, of course, does not allow for proper develop-
ment, depreciation, etc. Accumulated residues amount
to about 3700 tons, valued at 11s. 4d. per ton, of which
a shade under 9s. is alleged to be clear profit. On
a monthly output of 1500 tons a gross surplus of
£lOOO is expected; but in mining it is much safer
to rely on results than expectations.
* * * *
Chaffers (W.A.) claims to have driven
236 ft. on sft. of 28s. ore at the No. 16 level, and to
have 31s. stuff show'ng in the face. This sounds en-
couraging, but somehow the market doesn’t respond.
By following geologist McLaren’s advice
Great Fingall has now good lengths of payable ore
showing in the levels driven from the internal shaft
below No. 13 workings; and in the bottom, at No.
18 level, about 480 ft. of driving has been done in
fairly good stuff. At this point the shoot also shows
6igns of lengthening a bit.
* * * *
Mountain Queen (Westralia) bitterly
complains of ill-treatment by the State Government.
After spending £36,000 on plant, development, etc.,
and contracting with the Marvel Loch for water at
Is. 6d. per 1000 gals., it was told that the Mines
Department proposed to prohibit the co. getting a
supply from this source while the Government scheme
was available. As the Government charge is 7s. per
thousand, the increase in the monthly water bill
would be £219. The co. is deserving of sympathy,
inasmuch as pipe lines were laid and plant adapted
for using the Marvel Loch water before the Govern-
ment decided to extend its pipe line to the district.
The directors have brought the matter under the
notice of Premier Scaddan, in London, and he has
promised to look into it on his return to Perth.
Union and Dorritt, a little go at Grant,
North Gippsland, has the undertaker on the door-
step. It has been trying to pull through on penny
calls, eked out by Government grants; but share-
holders have got tired, and the directors have no-
thing but a hard bar and vague hopes to offer as a
pick-me-up. With another Government grant the
shareholders may be induced to part with a few more
pence; but the grant hasn’t been made yet, and if it
isn’t forthcoming the shutters will most likely go
up. The co. m’ght cut something in another 70ft. or
so. If it is disappointed there it will be quite a
fair thing to turn its face to the wall.
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), has been pros-
pecting out west at its bottom level, where a bit of
help from the Little Ajax, or some other shoot of
ore, was needed to liven up a dog-bitten market.
The first news about the expected stranger told of
promising-looking veins with that little flow of water
which Daylesford always likes. The next word was
that the pug was in view. Speckers retreated until
they could see how this would unwind, but so far
Little Ajax’s dirt is a mere 6in., with dashed little
color in it.
* * * •
Northern Hope, Beaufort (Vic.), got
flushed out a while since, apparently through poking
an inquisitive nose into some of the old Beaufort
workings. Now the co. is cutting down the shaft
and living in the expectation that it will find 800 ft.
of a level in good order after the inrush of water.
The ground was nice, and the gamble is whether the
gutter lately opened is a main lead with a length
of a mile of wash in the co.’s lease, or a tributary.
Before that can be proved the water has to be
drained and a general clean-up carried through. This
isn’t the cheap job the ordinary man hankers after,
and it may be well in the year before Northern Hope
can testify whether it is a 2Joz. proposition or a
mere watercourse.
* * * #
Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.), is handed
over to a new co. for £7500, and starts afresh with
a register of 54,000 shares of 10s. each. Under-
writers get 6000 paid-ups for flicking through a not
too popular float of 24,000 shares. These are paid up
to 4s. and subscribed for by Walhalla punters and
others who don’t usually touch mining. The old
Walhalla crowd, which wouldn’t risk its money,
although it spent £15,000 of accumulated profits
poking around the bottom levels, is to become a
memory of the past. The record of Cohen’s reef—
1,476,0000z. gold, valued at £5,110,000, and divs.
£2,376,000, of which Long Tunnel gathered in
£1,280,000 —ought to have livened up the old
stagers, but it did not. The co. will have as directors
Wesley Adamson, T. J. Greenwav. Harry Hartrick
and P. H. Miles. Government Geologist Herman will
have a big say in the policy, because the State
Mines Department puts up £lO,OOO on a £ for £
basis to help things along. There is already talk of
punching into the levels at deoth for a start, prob-
ably because the evidence isn’t convincing that the
old co. really worked Cohen’s reef there. Next will
be some prospecting near the surface and a try in
the shallow ground at the South Long Tunnel. E.
G. Dickenson has the secretaryship, vice Dawson,
who goes farming, presumably having collected his
liquidation fee prior to leaving for his fallow at
Terang.
A Sydney concern. Phosphates, Ltd., is
out for the Commonwealth bonus of 7s. a ton. The
co. has secured the Rockhampton (Q.) deposits of
bat guano, and the Customs Department has arranged
to pay the bonus, as on weathered deposits which
have become phosphatic rock. The phosnhates in
this guano are soluble up to 96 p.c., and the lowest-
grade stuff as yet developed is identical with fertil-
isers selling in Melbourne at 755. a ton. Quantities
are as yet not defined. The railway is already handy,
and is to be extended to within half a mile of the
deposits.
w * * *
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, held
its half-yearly meeting lately. Chairman Millican
confessed that the stopes above No. 4 and No. 5
levels had not come up to expectations; 4173 tons
were crushed for 1122,979. When No. 5 is driven
further in towards the Brilliant Blocks boundary, it
should, however, cut better stone coming down from
No. 4 level. It is intended to sink the shaft and
the winze below No. 5 level as soon as additional
boilers are installed. No. 4 level is also to be ex-
tended into the Brilliant Blocks lease, in accordance
with an agreement, which also provides for the sink-
ing of a shaft some 700 ft. deep. This shaft has been
started from the end of the crosscut at the 2000 ft.
level, and it will take the Blocks a few months to
complete the job. The Deeps will also have to
spend a good deal of money to connect the workings
of the two mines, and if the crushings do it all,
shareholders may consider themselves lucky.
* * * *
The New Queen Cross, Charters Towers,
is completing its haulage shaft, which will be
equipped with a double truck-road. Shares were 6d.
12 months since, so some speculators have made
money— -or, anyway, have the chance to make it.
Of course, the Queen Cross cannot be expected to
sustain an average of £l2 per ton, but prospects are
good near the Papuan’s boundary, and there is,
roughly, 1000 ft. of country to explore over towards
the opposite side of the lease. Its success has made
a cluster of neighbors busy. The Brilliant and St.
George expects to strike the Moonstone reef in the
block claim at less than 500 ft., and Clark’s Brilliant
and Day Dawn will also prospect several reefs, in-
cluding the Hidden Treasure, that dip into the Cross
lease. Most important to the Cross is the work
being done by its neighbor, No. 2 South-East Day
Dawn, which is driving towards it at 120 ft. vertical
on a diorite formation, with a vein of mineralised
stone showing.
For the first quarter of this year Mount
Morgan produced copper and gold valued at
;L252,844 (Jan., £77,329; Eeb., a 83,849 ; March,
£91,666). A quarter million in three months
shows that the mine is holding its end up; but it
doesn’t say a word about costs.
Avowedly with the object of getting some
Australian interest in the Mammoth Copper Co. —a
Glasgow concern with a mine out beyond Mungana
(N.Q.) —a block of 5000 shares has been reserved
for issue in these parts. As far as can be made
out, 70,000 £1 shares are authorised, and 50,000
have been issued, the last lot of 5000 at £1 pre-
mium—the price Australia will have to pay for its
5000, if it wants them. It will probably like to
know something more about the mine before it
wants them badly. The co. holds a big area, run-
ning along what is supposed to be the lode for nearly
two miles. The Chieftain is at one end; the Clans-
man at the other. Between these two points,
where most work has been done, there are numerous
shafts and a tunnel or two, and oxidised ore has
been got in some places; but no details are avail-
able. The Chieftain has been probed to 160 ft., and
J. C. Vivian, the imported manager—probably a
good man, though whether he is safe in his esti-
mates or not this paper doesn’t know—reckons the
reserves at 30,000 tons. The plans, however, show
very little development work, and any figure that
could be arrived at by survey now couldn’t give
much of an idea of the resources of the mine.
There is on the Chieftain property a water-jacket
furnace which had a trial run a while ago and pro-
duced 254 tons matte —40 p.e. copper, 6idwt. gold
and 21oz. silver. The ore seems to be worth from
10 to 12 p.c. copper, ldwt. gold and 7oz. silver.
The stuff is good enough, if the quantity is there;
and the thing is certainly worth looking into. If
the lode runs for anything like two miles, and there
is 10 p.c. ore in shoots all that way. the fact that
the matte has to be carted 20 or 30 miles won’t
knock the bottom out of the profits.
# * * *
Gippsland Copper Co. has just completed
an experimental smelting run under the management
of Santowski, formerly of Mount Molloy (N.Q.).
Matte produced was 75 tons, beating all former
efforts. But the same old trouble has yet to be
faced—sufficient cash capital to put the mine in
order and find ironstone. The revenue derived from
twopenny calls is eaten up before the money is paid,
and shareholders have got into the luibit of forfeit-
ing. Reconstruction seems the sensible way. There
are many copper propositions with le-'s pretensions
to success that have had more attention from the
public. The ore averages 3 p.c. copper and carries
platinum and palladium, an addition to the matte
which metal buyers seem to appreciate.
* * * *
Manager Laby, taking his Victorian ex-
perience up north, is threatening to make the Oaks
Amalgamated pay on sdwt. dirt. In fact, with stuff
torn out from a 10ft. face, and going as low as
3dwt., he has lately more than covered working costs.
But North Queensland hasn’t got into the habit of
providing itself with plant that means cheap work,
and Laby is almost in a state of rebellion. The
directors naturally want to give him a chance, but
that means calls, and shareholders are not falling
over one another to pay them. Laby’s idea is to get
to the sulphides, meantime attacking the big low-
grade bodies with more economical appliances. He
deserves his fling.
* # * »
Great Fitzroy (Q.), taking copper at
£67 Is. 6d. per ton, estimates last month’s revenue
at £15,300. Working expenses take £14,776, so
profits are still not in sight, when depreciation, office
exes., etc., are allowed for.
The outlook for Vulcan (N.Q.) doesn’t
improve. Last crushing was 823 tons for £1706=
£2 Is. 6d. per ton. For last half-year (to Feb. 10)
3926 tons gave £9936 =£2 10s. 9d. per ton, and
even on that grade of stone the Profit and Loss bal-
ance was reduced from £2195 to £1387.
For its last 12 months Tasmania Gold
Mine (Tas.) crushed 51,889 tons for 21,4090 z., which
didn’t pay expenses. Ore reserves above the 1500 ft.
level are reckoned at 137,000 tons. The reef gives
a good average stoping width, but intrusions of
barren rock lessen its value. The flow of water is
also tremendously heavy (3,500,000 gallons per day).
The eo. owns ground on the bank of the Tamar
River, and to raise the wind it is proposed to sell
some of it to orchardists.
* * * *
When the Austral-Malay Tin Trust was
formed a few months ago, H. E. Pratten, who had
negotiated the options, was sent to the Malay Penin-
sula to give an eye to the borings and see to the
business side of the deals, if any were made. The
most promising area was at Taiping, between Penang
and Ipoh, where a large area of suitable dredging
ground had been tentatively secured. Subsequent
negotiations led to the representative of a strong
London crowd being let in, and word has now been
received that, the option on 457 acres having been
exercised, a London co. is to be floated, the Austral-
Malay Trust taking a half-share in the promotion,
and, of course, in the “first-robber’s” cut. The ground
doesn’t appear to be extra-rich —probably about Is.
3d. a yard—but, what is of much importance, there
appear to be no two opinions about its suitability
for bucket dredging. The property is known as the
Kamunting. The Trust will now give some attention
to its other options.
The Australian-owned Tongkah Compound,
working its rich Siamese patch, dredged up 33,500
yards last month for 7U tons black tin; and the
area is so suitable for the bucket machine that £l'2
per ton of black tin covered all costs, leaving over
£lOO profit. It is a glittering result. There is a
probability that a big Anglo-Australian co. will be
formed to take over this property along with some
other Malay dredging areas.
* * * *
The Queensland Full Court lately did a
good thing in deciding that the Commissioner of
Taxation was wrong in charging income tax on an
amount received by a co. as premiums on a new share
issue. The Commissioner said it was “income from
personal exertion” —the co. had done so well that it
got an extra price for its shares. The matter was
discussed here some time ago in connection with a
similar claim in S. Aus., and the opinion was ex-
pressed that, since reserve funds are such an ex
cellent thing, any action which might deter a co.
from establishing such a fund by charging pre-
miums for new shares or otherwise, was imprudent.
The Full Court in Queensland, dissenting from Judge
Rutledge, came to much the same conclusion. Pre-
miums are really amounts paid towards the reserved
capital of a co. by way of purchasing an interest in
the reserved capital already accumulated ; and, if the
S. Aus. law allows such premiums to be taxed as
income—which it isn’t —the time is ripe to alter
that law so as to conform to the sensible Queensland
Full Court judgment. Meantime, if the claim is in the
discretion of the S.A. Commissioner, he might do the
fair thing and drop it without pushing any citizens
to the expense of litigation.


C»idVljr'cu»rt^ h '
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
WORLD
RENOWNED
GSD
BRAND
stuhr.
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARD ELS),
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 14, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
The Bush Book Club met at State Gov-
ernment House by Lady Edeline Strickland’s
invitation, the other afternoon. Her Lady-
ship, with' little Mrs. James McGowen at
her elbow, sat at a large round table, and
industriously assimilated a few hundred facts
which floated round the ballroom. Colonel
Campbell and A.D.C. Forbes, firmly but-
tressed behind uniforms lashed with large
gold ropes, gently led the early Bookworm
to the vice-regal presence. The strenuous
Margaret Windeyer was in front of the
fighting line as Hon. Appraiser of Literature
that May be Read. Anything left over goes
to the Seamen’s Mission or some other
Cause. The smart young Club secretary,
Beulah Bolton, well tailored in elephant
grey, nearly inked her brand-new white kid
gloves when the facts wanted something
.sudden done to them with a pen. Mrs. hon.
treasurer Rutter waved a generous helping
■of ostrich plumes in the forefront of the
assembly. Private Sec. Victor Hood made
■a thoughtful pilgrimage to the reporters’
tables, to add his informative mite to the
mountain of white paper, spread around to
:sop up the annual report. There seemed to
ibe enough writing material lying about to
•contain the full opinion of the N.S.W. Oppo-
sition on the political doings of Mr. Speaker
Willis, with footnotes and addenda by Mr.
William McLinen.
Financially, the Bush Book Club is hang-
ing on to the sum of £9l 2s. 6d. till more
supplies come in. Mr. Raymond Jones,
who audited the assets to the uttermost
farthing, was present on the day of reckon-
ing at State Government House. With
him was Mrs. Raymond, looking very blithe
behind a large white tulle bow. Governor
Strickland made a wary entrance to the
Bush corroboree, when the flood of female
oratory had been stemmed with tea-cake. The
Eldest Daughter, who laughs on the sunny
side of 17, was looking for work all the
afternoon. She rendered efficient first-aid to
dames-in-council, in a very young white
frock, topped by a flat black hat that flung a
velvet ribbon under a round white chin.
Hon. treasurer Dorothy Stephen, of the
Girls’ Realm Guild, went off to Eurone a
week or two ago, to cultivate her taste for
water-colors in France and other Conti-
nental parts. Her hon. salary for counting
up the Realm cash, and chasing lost farthings
to their long home in the bank, is exactly
Nothing, and even that is in arrear. The
Guild intends to reduce it to half that
amount, if treasurer Dorothy doesn’t bustle
home at the end of her 12 months’ leave of
absence. In the meantime, organising sec.
Grace Burrows is trying to kidnap a locum
tenens in place of the wanderer. Some day
soon, she’ll pounce round a corner suddenly
and seize the capable Miss Minnie Tange by
the hair of her head, and appoint her to the
glittering billet.
The Girls’ Realm is praying hard for a
fine day for its Zoo fete, when a large and
healthy menagerie of young persons will add
to the attractions of the Moore Park show.
I fancy they’re going to process, in fancy
costume, the Zoo authorities taking half the
gate-money, or something of the kind. Ouh-
side the gates of Tigerland, the Realm
damsels will sell some of the lighter deli-
cacies of the season, having taken their
solemn affidavit not to obstruct the traffic.
The Fine Arts Society in Bligh-street,
sells pictures more or less by stealth, and
blushes to find the cash. Its left hand
doesn’t know how much its right hand col-
lects, and it loves to be a sort of hidden
benefactor, like King Wenceslaus or old Pa
Christmas. Still, its exclusive and oyster-
like silence is broken from time to time by
enterprising travellers like Baldwin Spen-
cer. Last time Explorer Spencer was here
he carried off some of Norman Lindsay’s
work, a yard or two of Bondi beach torn off
in oils by Griiner. and a portrait-study by
Harley Griffiths. But the Fine Arts Society
is so retiring that only the determined wav-
farer can find out where it is and what it
sells. As an artists’ medium for artists’
work, its excessive modesty compels it to sit
back and say nothing and bury itself in
thought. Thus it awaits the fierce rush of
several thousand buyers banging on its sign-
board for a Blamire Young hill-top or a
Haley Lever fishing smack.
Frances Hodgkins is now showing her
wares in water-colors in a charming little
gallery, arranged for the occasion, at
Anthony Hordern’s vast emporium. Take
the lift and anything else you can get, pro-
vided nobody is looking. The Hodgkins style
is so versatile that you can gaze at half a
dozen of her pictures without recognising
the same touch. She is a Modernist, but
repudiates the ultra —before that expression
of the present revolution in Franch art. Yet
she is not always a Modernist. She paints
the Dutch peasant or Netherlands
Hodge with the same sure, swift, clean
strokes that Hogarth used when he
startled comatose British art with the
strong portrait of his rather beefy-look-
ing sister. This picture, which hangs in the
National Gallery (London), is conspicuous
for its detail.
The Modernist wipes detail off his mental
palette and gives a smudge for an infant’s
nose, a few lines for a landscape and a splash
of color for a city. When Frances Hodg-
kins puts her delightful Flemish women,
French fishing boats, and brilliant sketches
of Continental European squares, streets and
market places aside, she boldly follows the
Impressionist cult. The leisured French
class, sitting on the sands to watch the tide
come in, the immaculate French infant, the
Parisian nursemaid (member of an almost
extinct class), are dismissed with a few
vivid dabs of color. The drawing is so good
that the situation is saved for the awe-
stricken amateur who likes human beef to
look like beef, and not like an entree of
yesterday’s cold mutton.
“April,” a water-color severely marked 70
guineas, is the finest example of Frances
Hodgkins’ work in her mid-Modernist mood.
The breezy hilltop, with Youth, Childhood
and the Dog, welcoming Spring (on the
other side of the Equator) by dancing round
in a giddy circle- —the Dog as adoring audi-
ence —give this picture the brisk movement
of Life.
The veteran Du Faur —81 not out —wan-
dered round the Hodgkins show the other
morning. He still has a voice ip the pur-
chase of Art for our National Gallery, though
his own taste in that debatable stuff seems
to linger somewhere in the early Guelph
period. He bore up without any visible sign
of lacerated feelings when he eyed the Mod-
ernist notion of an infant chewing an apple.
Dora Ohlfsen’s studio was crowded with
sunbeams and packing-cases one morning
last week. The cases contained many pro-
files on plaster medallions. They were
booked for Paris, where they will be fitted
with bronze overcoats, before returning to
our Australian walls. Leaning up against
a shelf was a fine study of Octavius Caesar
Holman. The profile, an admirable like-
ness, shows the strength and weakness of
the N.S.W. Attorney-General’s striking per-
sonality. The noble head only wants a few
laurel leaves to make it a fitting addition
to a collection of Roman tombs. The
deep-set fanatic’s eyes, the fine nose, also
imperial, autocratic and Caesarian, and the
disappointing, inconsequent chin make an
artistic triumph as detailed by Dora Ohlf-
sen in plaster. Ex-Governor Chelmsford,
served up in the same style, is a good like-
ness of the original, but the face is milk-
and-water compared to the imperious Hol-
man. Edmund Barton is a successful effort.
This medallion is destined for the Athenaeum
Club, the scene of Barton’s most festive
moments before he wore a High Court wig.
A life-size head of Chief Justice Cullen is
to go to the new Law Courts. A joyous
study of childhood, the Cullen’s chestnut-
haired little Ailsa. goes home to mamma.
Adrian Knox, K.C., shows a strong legal
jaw against the dead white placque on which
it is featured. But the Ohlfsen Victory is
the head of Holman.
Educational Insnector Fraser (better
known to Bulletin readers as “Jimmie
Pannikin”) gave a brisk address to State-
school teachers the other night, in the Girls’
High School. He called his curtain lecture
“Ideals,” but it boiled down to the Import-
ance of Being Joyful. Donald Dinnie
Fraser is an optimist of the 47th degree,
and he whisked away the cobwebs with a
breezy feather-duster homily. Before he
reached his final anecdote, in a light, bari-
tone voice, every iron-bark countenance
present was illumined with a smile like the
gates of Paradise.
Raymond Robins, a recent visitor
from U.S., was prepared to give sin-
ners a leg-up to the steep and stony
track that leads to a Better World.
He came here with the blessing of the
Y.M.C.A.. which is good luggage to carry
about with you. Incidentally, he is a brother
of Elizabeth Robins, who wrote “The Mag-
netic North” and “Where are you going to?”
Mr. Robins will clothe with many (!owc"' ;
of oratory the address You xire Going To, if
you don’t take his advice, and will tell you
all about the temperature you may expect
when you get There.
A Berlin correspondent treads on the
corns of the Modernists in Art. He stamps
his Australian heels in the following rush
of heavy-weight matter. “The Secession
building, which stands in Berlin’s most
fashionable street, was entirely full this
week (March 6) of the life work of one
man, ‘Louis Corinth.’ Have you heard of
him? He was President of the Secession
last year. He is ultra-modern, in choice of
subject, for his canvas sketches range from
sides of beef and chops to delicate flower
studies and sensitive ‘Pietas.’ Such a
strong hand, brutal almost, manifests itself
in every picture, whether it is a study in
expression like his ‘St. Paul,’ with staring
fanatic’s eyes, skinny, drawn face, lips apart,
showing only two discolored teeth ; or blood
dripping from the terrible figure of Samson
after his eyes have been put out.
“Startling people these modernists,
who handle the interior of a but-
cher’s shop or the head of a saint
with the same primitve love of ghastly
detail.... I left the collection quite limp.
The force that jumped out of every canvas,
the work of one man (not yet, I think, 50
years of age), who had filled eight rooms
with his prolific output, made ordinary flesh
feel spineless and ineffectual.... Winifred
Purnell gives her first concert this season, to-
night. and an Australian violinist. Elsie
Playfair, plays also with the Bluthner
orchestra.”
Hugh Ward is lending his massive aid to
the forthcoming ball on behalf of the Hos-
pice for the Dying (Darlinghurst). The
gallery is, therefore, assured of a dazzling
evening’s entertainment.
Mrs. Drummond, wdfe of the naval skip-
per of that name, has achieved quite a good
portrait of the Admirable King-Hall. It is
a clever three-quarter study in oils, mostly
flung off the lady’s palette during a recent
trip to Hobart.
The widow of Justice William Montagu
Manning, who died the other day, aged 86,
was a daughter of Archdeacon Sowerby,. of
Goulburn. She was the Judge’s second wife.
His first wife was a Miss Wise, a sister of
B. It. Wise’s father —and he was a Judge,
too. In fact, Judges were a habit in that
family, for there was another Manning—a
nephew this time —who was on the Supreme
Court Bench when the deceased lady’s hus-
band graced it in his gentle way.
The Kensingtons (father and daughter)
are coming to Sydney for a prolonged holi-
day. He used to be Under-Secretary for
Lands in Maoriland. As an old civil ser-
vant of great tonnage and poundage, he
wears an embroidered tail, called the Im-
perial Service Order.
Dahn Fisher, of M.L. politics, having
closed his reciprocity chat with Prime Min-
ister Fisher, is hurrying back to his native
geysers, via this town.
A horrid man suggests that, as Father
Bull is unable to deal out any form of im-
prisonment to Mrs. Pankhurst in proportion
to her crime in aiding and abetting incen-
diarism, bomb throwing, battle, murder and
sudden death, the Law should change its
methods. If it ordered Mrs. Pankhurst to
be spanked till the rising of the court after
each outbreak of hooliganism, law-abiding
citizens who have had their property _ de-
stroyed and their lives endangered, might
get some satisfaction out of the business.
The lady’s name might be changed to Spank-
worst, on the ground that she got to a worse
spank than any of her followers.
A son of the late Dr. Arthur Renwick,
who also follows the Pill and Plaster trade,
was married, at Summer Hill the other day,
to Miss Eileen Holland. The ’groom, Dr.
Charles Renwick, was supported by Best
Man Selwyn Holland, with another medico,
Dr. Hilton Smith, as assistant Help. The
bride is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. H.
Holland. Papa is Lieut.-Colonel of a militia
regiment in his spare moments. The regi-
mental band, in consequence, poured forth
its sweetest strains as the Nice Girl and her
new husband received the congratulations of
a few score of friends in the home nest. The
bridal plumage was veiled in Limerick lace.
No wedding of any social frill has occurred
without the presence of Limerick lace for
quite 12 months. You might as well leave
out the license or forget the ’groom or the
old slipper as arrange for the legal ceremony
to pull through without this filmy accessory.
Some day, perhaps, Honiton, or mosquito
net, or Venetian Point will get a look-in. The
bridesmaidens at the Renwick-Holland
orange-blossoming were Estelle Boyd and
Naomi and Thelma Holland.
A Goulburn girl, Miss Olive James, daugh-
ter of the District Superintendent of the
Short of Trucks and Bogged Wheat Depart-
ment in these breezy parts, swore to love,
honor and obey Dr. John Snodgrass a week
or so ago. He is attached to the Medical
bureau in Manila, where cockfights break the
Sabbath calm with the exultant crow of the
victor. The vanquished is eaten on Monday.
So is the victor if he got badly damaged in
the hour of triumph. The Snodgrass turtle
doves depart for their coffee-colored home in
the Philippines via the Empire.
Mrs. Ronald Forbes, whose husband is
the tali A.D.C. w'ho wears his Highland legs
swathed in plaid trousers, is a dashing cross-
country rider. She is a member of a well-
known Lincolnshire family named Torr, and
chased the elusive fox on horseback from
the time she discarded her nursery bib.
Sydney by the way. has only had a mild
bln rd of Mrs. Forbes’s wardrobe. The
hurried slaying of George of Greece plunged
official dames into half-mourning at Easter.
Hence, the black and purple episodes at
Randwick, which are said to give no hint of
what the Forbes lady can do in frills when
she gets into her sartorial stride.
The only son of Admiral and Lady Poore
is engaged to Nellie Campbell, a daughter of
the late Mr. Willie Campbell, at one time
M.L.C. here. The Campbells have camped
in London of late years. Young Poore is,
or was, on a Ceylon tea plantation.
The Smith family is on the move. Two
birds of passage of that well-known nomen-
clature, Sir George and Lady Smith, arrived
here in the Orontes. He is a Knight, a
J.P., C.A. and D.L. In his office hours he
is boss of a big manufacturing firm called
Bickford, Smith and Co., England, with
feelers in Australasia. The Smiths have
seven sons and four daughters to perpetuate
the name. So the fear that the world might
run short of Smiths is apparently a ground-
less apprehension.
When does the Centennial Park tea room
serve tea? An indignant motorist asks this
question in italics. “One day last week,”
says he: “I trundled some ladies in my car
round the £300,000 worth of public money
represented in Centennial Park. The day
was fine, and the traffic, which frequently
consists of a returning hearse and a few per-
ambulators, was agreeably diversified by the
fumes of sundry motors. After whizzi™
through an infant avenue of palms, and ad
miring the gorgeous scarlet blooms of
autumn we sighted a small stone kiosk
flanked by a large garbage tin and some
empty bottles. A few babies in go-caH«
waited on the verandah with that solemn
round-eyed expression of being prepared for
the worst, which is part of the pessimism
of extreme youth. We asked for tea There
were various indications that this ornamen
tal sarcophagus had light refreshments
buried somewhere in its inside. The answer
was brief and inconclusive. “We’re not
serving tea to-day.” Only that and nothine
more, as the raven said to Edgar Allan Poe
when it stood on the pallid bust of Pallas
There was no postscript to suggest that they
might boil the kettle next week, or next year
or after the next coronation if we happened
to be passing about that time. So 1 merely
search for information. ‘When does a Cen-
tennial Park Tea House serve tea?’”
Oswald Anderson, who ha- " tuneful trick
of writing popular snacks of song, left Syd-
ney by the Ventura. He goes to try his
luck in the U.S.A. and the great city of
Bullopolis, as a person who can hit the
public ear with “g--d sellers.” Anderson’s
“Your Dear Eyes,” a slight and tuneful
ditty, with sentimental words bv Wilson
Bingham, had a surprising vogue in N.S.W
though local composers are still viewed with
suspicion.
Since the lamented de Beaupuis flickered
out, some of his many stealthy acts of benevo-
lence have crept into the light of day. Like
that veteran child of nature, Kretschmann,
the great Italian teacher often gave freely
of the best that was in him to the pupil
who was unable to pay in anything but the
coin of gratitude, which isn’t legal tender,
and rings with a dull, leaden thud on the
counter of the ham and beef shop. Part of
the alleged large income he made by work-
ing interminable hours instructing the Young
Idea must, therefore, have been merely the
lOU of Lazarus. He had sent to Italy for
a friend, who followed the same school, to
act as his colleague, and take over some of
the white melodist’s burden, which had
become too heavy for his failing strength.
But the Light went out suddenly.
Baritone Charles Rolfe goes to America
for 12 months to gather up ideas in the dizzy
round of U.S. concert platforms. His fare-
well song will shake the rafters of the Con-
cordia Ilall on April 29. After that, the
welkin will be repaired by an eminent local
firm of contractors.
The Eva Gauthier-Laurence Godfrey Smith
concert met the wettest end of a deluge last
week. In spite of the uproarious behavior
of usually respectable gutters and the splash
from city water-spouts, the Concordia Hall
was full for the occasion. The French-
Canadian singer trilled in English, French
and Italian, adding a Malay song with the
fearsome name of “Anak Udang,” as a
savory. The Gauthier voice has the full-
throated, velvet tones of an able-bodied
young thrush, and her vocal method is the
best the Paris Conservatoire can sell.
Pianist Laurence Godfrey, fresh and
sparkling after his holiday abroad, dallied
with Scarlatti and Brahms early in the
programme, and settled down to business
later, in the distracting hide-and-seek varia-
tions of Paderewski’s “Theme VariA”
A confirmed Tory remarks, in a belated
whisper that she is now convinced the
Lower Orders and Satan are forming a com-
bine —they work shorter hours, and he (as
usual) works overtime. Her chief reason
for this gibe is the fact that the Easter bun
was minus its cross this year. Where the
cross w T ent to I don’t know. In fact. I
didn’t miss the emblem, and am depending
entirely on my informant for its absence.
The true nationality of the cosmopolitan
oyster was emphasised by the murder of the
Greek King. Every oyster shop within a
wide area of the G.P.O. wore heavy black
and purple flounces during the solemn lying-
in-tent of George, in the distant land which
has the City of the Violet Crown as its
capital. (This is no relation to Australia’s
capital—the City of the Perished Grass-
hopper.)
On the word of a staid citizen, the follow-
ing episode occurred at Circular Quay last
Wednesday. Three larrikins who had looked
into the bottle when it was green, pink, yel-
low and fringed with fantods, were indus-
triously baiting two or three Japs. With
many hiccups, the most sober of the hooli-
gans at last said : “An’ when er yer goin’ to
take this blessed counttry.” In perfect Eng-
lish, one of the almond-eyed replied: “Ex-
actly any blessed day we choose.” Then the
blessed subject dropped.
“You can have wrinkles wiped off your
countenance for £lO in a London beauty
parlor,” says a recently returned wanderer;
“and for one guinea you can buy half a
dozen drops of eau-de-something which is
alleged to wash crows’-feet off your face as
long as it lasts. It lasts about a week, so
you can take your choice of having an
ordinary soap-and-water ablution, or grow-
ing young, beautiful and bankrupt. Pro-
bably the moral of the London beauty shark
is simple. If you are young and beautiful
you are not likely to remain bankrupt.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


r
'r
X
m
&
t
i
1 ML.
Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Puts a gloss
Upon your shoe,
And it stays
Upon the leather
Thro’ all sorts
And kinds of weather;
Here he is
Demanding boots
With enthusi-
Astic hoots;
“COBRA” is the
Stuff he uses
(Wise is he
Who “COBRA” chooses.)


The Popular
FROM
At
Clad in a “Burberry” Rainproof Coat you will keep perfectly dry
in the wettest of wet weather.
These coats possess distinctive style, and are extremely serviceable
and comfortable. They allow the utmost freedom of movement
whether motoring, driving or walking. “Burberry” Coats are
specially imported, and are made in a large variety of materials.
We invite you to inspect them in our Men’s Clothing Section.
PRICES ... 84/- to 147/- each.
WE PAY THE CARRIAGE.
“Burberry” Coats
S 4I = FROM
FARMER’S.
FARMERS
SYDNEY
The cove that chased the water-cart man to in-
form him that “it was leaking” (vide B. 6/3/’l3)
was not far different from the sower of the sods
who followed up his potato-cart with a wheelbarrow
in which to catch the spuds that “leaked” out of
the faulty bags in which they had been vainly en-
closed. Get good spud sacks, Mr. Farmer, such as
will stand any amount of strain and not spill the
contents. The best place to send to for sound spud
sacks is Smith’s, the Sydney Sack Specialists. Grab
your pen now and write for quotations. We’ve got
our specks 'on ready to read your request. T. Smith
and Co., Ltd., Sack Specialists, Sussex Street,
Sydney.*
DUNLOP
m
&A
RUBBER
*HEELS’
make hard pavements feel like
pile carpet
YOU can walk further, with
less exertion and more comfort,
when using our soft Dunlop
Heels—TßY THEM.
Vtriow Shapes and Sizes. Obtainable AM Leading
Stores. Accept only “Dunlop** Brand.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO„ All States and ftZ.
DUNLOP
38
2*
mum
OOAUTY
CYCLE
TYRES
ulUUr.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 14, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
More disloyalty! On Saturday night last
Lady Denman was flung out of the Mel-
bourne Repertory Theatre by Socialists. In
the natural heat of the moment I may, all
unconsciously, be overstating the case, so to
details. The unfortunate lady’s chair was in
a gangway of the d.c. in contravention of the
regulations of the Water and Sewerage
Board, or some such absurd and anarchistic
body. The president of the Board happened
to be there, shifting scenery or selling pro-
grammes or something; and, of course, he
hurried up and made trouble. Thank Heaven,
Napoleon Boffard, a Loyalist, albeit a mere
Frenchman, rose nobly to the occasion.
Boldly facing the official, Fe offered to go to
gaol. The official intimated coldly that he
did not wish to gaol Nap. ; all he wanted was
to have the gangway cleared. Napoleon then
offered to do something else to avert the
threatened horror —possibly to drown himself.
In vain. Amidst the anguish of every true
Loyalist present, Lady Denman’s chair was
moved a full yard from where it had been.
There was a widespread feeling in the house
that Melbourne had failed to rise to a great
occasion. What would have happened had
Sydney’s Tummas ’Enley or its even more
effulgent William McLinen been there? What
indeed! The scoundrelly Socialistic official
would, by now, in all likelihood, be carrion.
Admiral Cresswell and Coroner Cole per-
petrated a blunder between them, in their
attempt to make a mvstery of poor Miss
Margaret Cresswell’s death. It appears the
mother was at the ’Varsity Commencement,
and a flapper sister at some college sports.
Miss Margaret was overcome by gas-fumes
when taking a bath, and was dead long be-
fore her returning relatives found her.
Mount Lyell manager Sticht has lodged
himself and his family at Coonac, Toorak,
for a lengthy stay. The very best paste-
boards are pouring steadily in.
Mrs. Dick Casey, after boarding for a term
with the. Carmichaels at Bombay, went to
London in time for the Brodribb wedding.
Miss Noel’s sacrificial garment was a most
expensive affair of lace and ermine. The
Mars Buckley’s mansion was used for the
celebration.
A good old female soul —in the person of
Miss Clara Murton—passed out, aged 89, at
one of the Old Colonists’ Homes, Melbourne,
the other week. She had paid for the build-
ing of the Home she died in; also, two other
cottages on the estate were endowed by her.
Miss . Murton’s humanitarianism was both
practical and otherwise, for whilst she gave
some of her income to the China Inland Mis-
sion under the delusion that it was
a blessed thing for the Chows, she
maintained a Melbourne suburban mis-
sion hall for the benefit of local
heathen. How much more sweetly pathetic
was the end of this ancient spinster, who
toddled at last into one of her own alms
houses to find sympathetic companionship,
than that of a wheezy decrepit maiden lady
who. hangs tenaciously to her personal pos-
sessions. and dies in an odor of Toorak gen-
tility disrespected as a dreary old nuisance
by all who knew her!
Ethel Hart, late “sister” in the Melbourne
Children’s Hospital, has been appointed
matron of the Foundling Hospital at Rich-
mond. She is young, 6ft. high, and with a
physique in keeping, and popular with chil-
dren ; so the odds are, she should do well.
The recorded failures of matrons with her
qualifications are infinitesimally small in
number.
Gladys Taylor, one of Melbourne’s rather
numerous slie-lawyers, had the glory of being
the first woman in the State to personally
conduct a case. (In this matter Maoriland
is ahead, for Miss Ethel Benjamin, barris-
teress, made her debut long ago). Other Vic-
torian law-ladies have appeared in court in-
structing a barrister, but Gladys is the first
to ha.ve.got right at the business of cross-
questioning witnesses and addressing the
court. The case, a money dispute, was ad-
journed, so I can’t tell you this week if
Gladys won. or not. However, she showed
plenty of spirit. The party who was being
proceeded against began by treating her to
some impudent back-talk. When he was
enlightened as to the status of the lady, he
commented brokenly, “I didn’t know ’er
from Adam. I never knew no ladies to be
lawyers.”
Mrs. Maud Downie, sister of manager
Johnny. Smith, of. the Royal, made quite a
flutter in the family circle last week by de-
liberately marrying a Scotsman named Bryce,
and departing aboard the Macedonia for
Scotland. It is some years since she called
upon the law to break her first shackles.
Parson Cranford, of Brighton, married his
own daughter last week to Mr. Frank Wilson,
of Broken Hill. Everyone wore white, except
the officiating parent, the beadle and a few
others. The bridegroom and the best man, as
well as the bridegroom’s brother Victor (who
did the giving away) were all clad in suits of
snowy linen. One advantage of this depart-
ure from hoary custom lay in the fact that
the wearing of top or plug hats was obvi-
ated. The proper conduct of a top hat is an
art that can be achieved only by men of
complete leisure. The average strenuous
young Australian or American looks as ill
at ease in this garment as he would if he
were forced to haste to a wedding clad in a
halberd and battle-axe. After a jaunt to
Healesville, the newly-weds will face the
heat and Mary-Anne-lessness of the Great
Silver Minery.
The youngest daughter of F. W. Heath
(the profound scientist who calculates how
many minutes, seconds and fractions of
seconds the Melbourne Gup winner takes to
hasten round Flemington Racecourse)—the
daughter of this eminent man, I say, is to
be married next week to Harold Darling,
grandson of John Darling, the big wheat
merchant of Adelaide. He is in the ancestral
business. She is chiefly famed for her peer-
less complexion.
Bartley Dinsmore’s bride, who was Ettie
Ellis, one of seaside St. Kilda’s smartest
girls, struck a new note in wedding dresses.
It was completely woven in rose-point lace
and edged with ermine. In the days before
the big St. Kilda places started to transform
themselves into hasheries, the Dinsmore man-
sion was of some importance. It stood right
on the Esplanade. First, the Royal Yacht
Club annexed it, and now it has fallen a peg
or two lower. It has been invaded by caf6s
below and flats above, while the “Dandies”
chortle on the back lawn.
Speaking of the decadence of the Big
House reminds one of the complete fall of
Fitzroy-street, St. Kilda, once a stronghold
of our very richest. Mrs. Exclusive Board-
ing-Housekeeper has long been in possession
of nearly all the residential bricks-and-mor-
tarages in the street. Two of the absolutely
last have lately capitulated. Godfrey, M.L.C.,
is digging out from his stone pile and the
next-door Beauchamps are putting their own
private lares and penates under the hammer
of the Firm, and letting their home go to its
inevitable fate.
Mrs. Reed, a widowed sister of Lady
Doughty, whp was once this paper’s Mel-
bourne Chatter, is to be married to one
Alexander Stewart, of Edinburgh. He is
wealthy, much-travelled, and of such high
lineage that he couldn’t get down without
breaking his neck. A relative who was
known to the police and others as Charles
Stuart had his body amputated, and the
operation was a complete success. Another
(also Charles) hid himself up a telegraph
post, or something, after an exciting argu-
ment at Worcester. A third Charles (the
Bonnie one) wandered through the Scotch
Highlands in petticoats, and seriously compro-
mised the good name of Miss F. Macdonald,
and afterwards took to drink, which he
bought on credit. The family has been
dogged back to one Alan, who was a French
landowner over 800 years ago. Presumably
(from the spelling) the present Stewart
comes of a crowd which branched off in dis-
gust, or for other reasons, before Mary’s
time. Until then the Scottish royalties were
Stewarts of Renfrew, but by Mary’s marriage
with a tottering human weed named Henry
Stuart, they became Stuarts of Lennox.
Neither spelling brought them much luck.
It is said that that favorite boarding-house
dish called stew was named after them, but
this is quite uncertain.
Another sister, Miss “Peggy” Stone, is to
bestow herself shortly on Ernest Whiting.
He is the only mariner in a strongly clerical
family. His grandfather was Archbishop of
the Mauritius, and countless relatives have
been Anglican curates, deans, etc., while
some have actually achieved the distinction
of being eaten by tropical savages. The
’groom proposes to abandon the sea after
marriage, buy a macintosh, umbrella and
goloshes,. and start a shorq life in England.
Thus will the Australian family of Stone
be utterly dispersed. There will be two
sisters in England, one in Scotland, and a
married brother in Canada.
There were points of unconscious humor
about the Chaucer Pageant at Melbourne
Town Hall —some of them supplied by Lady
Denman’s Guard of Honor. Headmaster
Sugden, of Queen’s (the college which is
anxious to add a Woman’s Hall to its back
premises) in cap and gown, was on the
Town Hall steps. Near him stood his wife,
in a wimple (which, in case you haven’t
struck one, I may describe as a kind of
facial winding-sheet or shroud), and daugh-
ter Ruth, in a celery-green robe. Also, ad-
jacent were Mrs. President Avery, with
yards of mosquito curtain flowing from an
inverted funnel, which shot starkly up from
her highly-intelligent brow, and secretary
Jean Brown, whose dark thatch made a pre-
carious resting-place for a bilious-hued ar-
rangement like a pill-box. All these helped
earnestly with the receiving. Her Ex., in a
trained black and white garment, grasped a
posey of pink roses. Secretary Vernon,
looking over a tall white fence, was in at-
tendance. In the hall Mrs. Administrator
Gilruth sat at the Denman elbow, wearing a
circlet of feathers round her head, both
above and below. John Madden’s dame,
Warden Mclnerney and a few purple-decked
professors looked out from a pack of faces on
a tottering Norman castle keep, sadly in
need of a coat of paint. After the speeches
a procession of Canterbury Tale characters
marched round. Motor veils were prevalent
with girls young and old. The men mostly
ignored the footwear popular in rare old
Geoff’s time, and affected boots of flamingl.v
American origin. Abernethy, as Richard
11., walked with Queen Vera Deakin at the
head. Over each stall fluttered a twisted-
looking sign. The Denman crest, “a bird
hanging on to a ring,” was next-door neigh-
bor to a loose-jointed Angel. A well (where
a golden wish was supplied for sixpence),
and a towering cross, held the centre of a
modern market place. When the official
part of the job was through a horde of she-
brigands settled like a cloud upon the helpless
lieges, and extorted divers moneys from them,
practically by force majeure. This was about
the most genuinely Early English feature of
the entire show. The pilgrims made a fam-
ished rush for the Tabard Inn when their
journey was over. There was also a strong
flavor of realism about this, methought.
The Warriwee Club opened its new pre-
mises to a packed house of members. Presi-
dent Staughton (in an aggressive velvet
toque, with two sportive plumes sprouting
from its rear) made a few confidential re-
marks, whilst the feathers were tickling her
neck. Mrs. Ted Bage, wearing her usual
well-brushed appearance, exchanged opinions
with Bob Chirnside’s wife, slim Mrs. Lang
making an attentive third. Mrs. Medico
Lynch smiled gaily under a broad lid, and
Mrs. Whitelaw, in black attire, contributed
to the prevailing enthusiasm,' so to speak. In
the musical programme, Madame Betty
Brook succeeded in raising a smile with a
whimsical trifle, and Gertrude Healey really
fiddled her audience into silence, a fine
achievement under the circumstances. George
Cowley, the solitary male present, was in
strong demand, hence the suspicion that the
resolution to make men eligible for members
will presently be carried by a big majority.
Douglas Richardson and Margaret Basker-
ville have next call upon the art gallery at
the Athenaeum Hall —not for sculptors, but
for paintings. Their joint picture-show opens
on Friday (18th), and will keep the walls
furnished until May 1.
Soul-specialists Smith and Robins, to-
gether with the financial and working props
of the Young Men’s Christian Association,
were garden-partyed on Saturday afternoon
by the Harpers, at their Toorak cot. Mrs.
Robert, temporarily disabled from active
service, was unable to do the honors, so
Mrs. Crosbie stepped into her shoes and sup-
ported the host in pump-handling the
solemn-jawed, stove-piped males and their
expensive-looking women folk, whilst a band
on the lawn played rag-time melodies. An
adjournment for speeches was made to the
crimson ballroom. Brother Smith, decor-
ated with a chaste white flower, and distil-
ling Yankee evangelism from every pore,
proved the tallest talker.' Though only a
24-hours-old resident, he has discovered at
least one of our plague spots in an anti-
quated Y.M.C.A. building, which, consid-
ered as a means for luring local youths from
mere worldly pleasures, isn’t worth a cent.
To make virtue a family habit, parents were
exhorted to pour in contributions. Smith is
a sleek, well-oiled showman, handicapped
slightly by a top-note which cracks in mo-
ments of intense emotion. Partner Robins
is an apologetic-looking individual, with
nervous hands, which he wears folded. The
male quartet, who travel in the wake of the
soul-rousers, rendered vocal items about “the
high being brought low.” Robert Harper
listened wearily, holding his head in his
hands, whilst his opulent commercial
brethren sat round wearing stolid faces.
Being a fairly high lot themselves, they
contemplated their approaching lowness with
no enthusiasm to speak of. Tea and
buns, mingled with roses and delphinium,
were served in the dining-room. Secretary
Clack, Chairman Greenwood, and a son of
the departed W. T. Stead assisted to clear
the board. Meanwhile the band on the
lawn persisted in giddy melodies. “For You
are all Married Men” played the sedate
company off the premises.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Our Governor went to Ballarat (Vic.) on Monday,
to stay with Admiral Bridges. With him are his
daughter Alicia and Captain Fletcher. Lady Bosan-
quet and the remaining twin are still rusticating at
Port Lincoln. When they all re-assemble it will be
at North Terrace, and if there is not shortly after-
wards a perfect orgie of foundation-stone laying and
the like, I, for one, my dear, will be surprised.
The Louis Wilsons have gone for a six months
j'aunt to England, taking Vancouver and Amer.ca
generally on the way.
The Koonunga Estate was passed in on Monday
at £lO 15s. an acre. In 1907 the late Mr. Toms
bought the property for £7 2s. 6d. an acre, and put
in a lot of time and cash improving it. His total
wealth is sworn not to exceed £25,000.
Mrs. Acres, who has been spending the summer at
Mount Barker with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Barr
Smith, is at the Grand Central with her daughter,
Miss Hawker. They both return to England next
week. Miss Hawker and Miss Joan Giles (who is also
off) are being affectionately larewelled on all sides.
Mrs. Tom Barr Smith had a dance for them on
Wednesday night at Birdsgate, and Mrs. Fisher gave
a similar entertainment on Friday.
Miss Kathleen O’Dea, who left by the Mongolia,
was feted through the medium of an Exhibition Build-
ing concert on Saturday night. The guest, who was in
a frock of mingled white and pink, sang well herself.
The same boat robbed us of Miss Acraman and her
sister, Miss Hogarth and Miss Von Doussa.
The Autumn Flower Show occurred at the Exhibi-
tion on Thursday. There were only four decorated
dinner tables, and Miss Babbage’s cool arrangement
of blue and maiden-hair fern caught the .judge’s eye.
Miss Isabel Hague was a close second. The roses
were glorious, and some of the cactus dahlias would
have been winners anywhere. From the late Mr.
Caley Smith’s garden came some gorgeous peony
dahlias, and gladioli which had achieved a purple
almost black in its intensity and richness. Mr.
Smith was a keen and persevering experimentalist
and horticulturists will miss him and his work.
Mrs. Herbert, of Papua, is on a visit to her sister,
Mrs. Dr. Evans, at Hindmarsh.
Artist H. S. Power, who has just returned from
seven years work'in England and Europe, is enthusi-
astic on the’ subject of Australian artists abroad.
John Longstaff’s work he considers is at its best
this year, and Fred Leist and Harold Parker are also
doing well, while from America come good reports of
Hayley Lever.
Dr. and Mrs. “Mark” Symons, who have been in
England for four years, returned to Adelaide on
Saturday.
Miss Kathleen Lawrence—she of the “Ben Hur”
Co.—gave a small tea at the Arcadia on Tuesday, to
which she invited her old friends in •„
meet her new friends in the co " th 8 Vlllage to
The Flinders-street Presbyterian i
with white flowers and fashionable "rnsf WaS filled
Tuesday, for the Oean-Gordon weddimr ThT, 0 "
frock boasted some exquisite
bridesmaids, Miss L. Gordon and Miss n i d the
topped off their dresses of pink and m?' Jesso P-
huge, be-plumed mauve hats Mr Alan n With
Mr. Ronald Dean were the groomsmen **? and
small children—a Taylor and a Lego™ were"™'^ 0
ture studies indelicate pink and mauve. Relates on
both sides were there in force—the Oh a „ ve ? on
.1 J. Duncans, J. R.
Deans. Mrs. George Dean was a handsome
in a frock of mole taffeta, with touches of hh,e figUr !
Mrs. Tom Barr Smith also chose rnol e - a o f t lue ’ and
M frock that was evidently Paris-inspired.’
tea at the Gordons’ house, on Brougham piL.T'
newly-weds left for the eastern StatefX
frock of soft grey. e ln a
The death, at Ku Rua Hospital, on Monday of
popular Jim’’ Anderson was a merciful release
tor weeks he had suffered, and it was known from
the first that his recovery was practically hopeless
His father was a builder and his own education h!'
gan at the Grote-street Public School. There he got
a bursary that took him to Prince Alfred’s College
and from there he passed on to the TTn-
yersity. In ’Bl he was articled to the
late John Bray, and m ’B4 he got his LI R
His first partnership was with R. C. Castle and then
he and J. H. Gordon joined forces. He got
K.C.-ship in 1911. He was a ready speaker, a good
sportsman, a generous friend and a keen worker
Politically he was a Radical—so much so that on
one occasion he only missed a seat for Port Adelaida
by three votes. In ’95 he married a daughter of t
11. Gordon’s. 0 •
Mrs. Owen Smyth left for London on Thursday
She goes by the Themistocles from Melbourne. "
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


fljfl
/
4
x
m
Nr
m
%
/
mm
Ni
/.V/
.S-3
*
s
1
I
V
vssfeisg
sim
*****
—•
fS)'''
>■}>
.1:*
;: jXi xW>.V
Hv
At>«J
\
gp^pg
\
ir
W\
\M
1
*
\W
A
>
\
/
y
vsr^;v-
-«*
IN
r
Dewar's Imperial


“GREAT SCOTT, IT’S HOT!”
LET US GET SOMETHING COOL and NICE.
FRANZ JOSEF FOR PREFERENCE.
YES!
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER BEER
EVERY TIME.
CAUSED PAIN AND INCONVENIENCE.
“I am subject to bowel troubles which have
caused me considerable pain and inconvenience,” says
Mr. Alfred Wane, 185 Auburn Road, Auburn (Vic.),
“but was advised to try Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy, and I find it always effects a com-
plete cure after the second dose. I am pleased to
know that there is such a safe and certain remedy
as Chamberlain's Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, and
I always keep a bottle handy now.”*
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES
are a positive cure for Indigestion, Fla-ttilcnce, Heart
burn, Aciditv of Stomach, and all Stomach Tr -
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtaina
everywhere.*
Mptorß
Our large stock of the
latest Trusses for all
kinds of Hernia is a
real boon to sufferers.
Denyer’s Special Elastic
Truss, fitted to size,
ends all trouble, dis-
comfort and fear.
Call or Write.
©J
Single 17/6, Double 22/6
Others from 3/6.
DENYER BROS..
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 George St. (opp. Hunterst.), Sydn*
POLITICAL
POINTS
About the most interesting contribution
to the Hop Poon Gooey discussion was the
letter of one Arthur Litchfield, of Cooina
(N.S.W.), who wrote that he felt inclined
to “sink into the earth with shame because
Hop P. G. was at last to be made to observe
the law. Well, why shouldn’t he sink? It
would at least be a cheap form of burial,
and if he sank “with shame,” that would be
about the most inexpensive thing he could
take with him. A more reckless man might
sink with tuppennce, and in the present
strained condition of the money market, the
coin would be missed. So let Arthur sink
with shame —or old boots or. applause, or
anything else that won’t be missed.
THE CAUSE OF POLITICAL UNREST.
The Prime Minister contends that the Referendum
is a national question, and, therefore, ought to be
exempt from the ordinary party tests. How can this
be so when it is introduced solely for the purpose of
furthering the aims of one party in opposition to
those of the other.... What is of more consequence
from the national standpoint than whether the Labor
party or the Liberal party shall be in the ascendant ?
Sydney TELEGRAPH.
FOREMAN FISHER: " But what's your griev-
ance? You agree with me that if we don’t
get the proper machinery we can't turn out
the work.”
JOE: “Yes, but that’s only a secondary con-
sideration. The real point is whether I’m
to draw pay as foreman instead of you!”
The opening of the Chow Parliament must
have been indeed a dreadful sight. There
were present nearly 700 members of the
new Legislature of the childlike and bland
republic, and nearly all wore frock coats and
plug hats. It is a dreadful thing to see even
one belltopper on top of one politician out
in the middle of a desert, but 700 of them
together were calculated to scare seven
devils out of the land of Han.
When they leave off talking in a large,
vague way and come down to details, there
isn’t one of them that doesn’t yell for Uni-
fication and Reconstruction. For instance,
in Westralia certain new Food and Drug
Regulations are to come in force in May,
whereupon the Western Mail :
Drastic action by a single State would seriously
disturb trade interests, without effecting any public
benefit, and, apart from the question whether the
regulations referred to are necessary or not, the need,
for uniformity throughout the Commonwealth ts
obvious.
Of course the need for uniformity in a hun-
dred things throughout the Commonwealth
is obvious; but when anyone mentions the
one way by which the obvious uniformity
can be produced—the way by. which the
United Kingdom produces uniformity in
Cornwall and Cork and Caithness stupid
paints like the Western Mail shriek
“Socialism!” and reach for their umbrellas
to drive the ravenous beast off the doorstep,
their purpose being to shove the gamp into
the animal, and then open it, so. that the
whalebone ribs will fill the interior of the
creature and utterly destroy it. . And that
ravenous creature isn’t within miles of the
doorstep.
“Yoob Et” writes :
If the awful new President that Uncle Sam has
elected carries out his purpose of granting “inde-
pendence” to the Philippines, there will almost cer-
tainly be big trouble close enough to Australia s
door to give this country a feeling as if cold feet
were walking down its back. The talky, fussy Fill-
pino will be recognised as master of the country.
He already has a Parliament, and a plug hat with a
feather in it, and thinks himself innumerable pump-
kins. The ignorant, but infuriated Mohammedan
Morro will proceed to cut the throat of this educated
but superficial person. The handful of white people
will refuse to be ruled by the brown folk, and will
take the situation in both hands, and start a re-
public, and then put the country up to auction
among those European Powers that seem best able to
supply a capable garrison. The Jap will interfere in
the interests of peace and in his general capacity as
boss of the northern Pacific. And then there will be
breakages—so many breakages that the crash of fall-
ing crockery will be heard from China to Peru.
A beautiful yarn is going round the Fed-
eral offices apropos the latest scheme of a
humor-loving official for making life in the
Northern Territory “bearable.” He pro-
poses, in short, the establishment of maisons
de joie for the exiles, and is alleged to be
so wildly enthusiastic about the importa-
tion of Rahab from Jericho and Delilah
from Philistia that he has even written an
official minute on the sub-
ject. If this is so, ’Siah
Thomas must have been too
startled even to Wowse dur-
ing the last few weeks. And
when ’Siah Thomas ceases to
groan heavily in the taber-
nacle things are indeed being
shaken up.
Joe Cook’s recent speech,
in which he once again an-
nounced his intention of
sinking the fiscal question
that won’t stay sunk, has
put his Victorian supporters
in an awkward hole. Some
of them, like Palmer and
Hans Irvine, don’t worry, as
they represent purely farm-
ing constituencies. But to
men like Fairbairn, who is
trying to win a city seat,
and Manifold, who is stand-
ing for Corangamite (which
has manufacturing towns in
it), Joe’s -attitude is the
devil. The Age is boosting
High Protection for all it is
worth, and has made it a
very live issue in Victoria;
and now that Fisher has
definitely pronounced in
favor of this policy, the Labor
men are going strong on it.
Joe Cook’s speech will thus
probably cost Fairbairn and
Iceberg Irvine their seats,
and should win Geelong again
for Labor. For Geelong,
with its woollen mills, is intensely Austra-
lian, and has in the Advertiser the oldest
Protectionist paper in Victoria.
Some last-possibility-in-the-way-of-a-fool
proposes that the Freetrade United Kingdom
should be fixed up with a law making the
minimum wage 30s. per week. Considering
that the average wages on the Irish rail-
ways are less than £1 a week, and that the
minimum is under 10s., and that the Irish
railways pay none too well even under these
conditions, and that this isn’t, by any means,
the worst case of sweating in the British
islands, the 30s. minimum is a large propo-
sition. It is reckoned that it would cost the
country £200,000,000 per annum. A Free-
trade country lives by free competition and
by being cheaper than any of its rivals, and
that isn’t a good place for a legal minimum
wage.
The Sydney Telegraph, in a pathetic
and only somewhat grammatical note on tne
disappearing Chinaman, states that the num-
ber of Chows in N.S.W. has fallen in about
12 years from 11,200 to 7600, and wants to
know why white men don’t turn vegetable
Johns. The paper emphasises the tact that
“The industry of being a Chinese gardener
is about the best protected industry m exist-
ence.” Now, why doesn’t every white man
with a craving for the soil become a Chinese
gardener?
AN UNDEFINED PLANK FOR A
DEFINITE PURPOSE.
He was glad to say that the two great Liberal
parties in the Federal and State Parliaments were
welded together by a common platform. He hoped
that these relations would be applied to some pur-
pose, to defeat the machinations of the Labor party
in the coming campaigns.— C. G. Wade, at Chats-
wood.
Though nominations in connection with
the Federal elections do not close until May
2, both the Labor and “Liberal” parties
have practically decided upon their candi-
dates in New South Wales. Labor will con-
test every seat except Hume (where Oom
Bill Lvne is to be unmolested) and North
Sydney (which is admitted to be Tory-satur-
ated). “Liberalism” opines to fight shy of
the Barrier and Newcastle, anyhow. One
reasons for dodging forlorn-hope constitu-
encies is that without a poll there will
be less enthusiasm among the electors,
and consequently less votes recorded for
the Referenda—an obvious party advantage
in a hostile electorate. And party advan-
tages are extremely important in Australia
where the nation is more or less a side-issue.
MR. WADE'S FIXTURES.
Both feet , as far as political progress is
concerned.
Japan is threatened with an idea. In its
brown mind it has devised the proposition
that every employer should, at the end of the
year, divide a certain proportion of his profits
among those of his workmen who have been
in his employment for the whole of the pre-
ceding 12 months and have done nothing to
cause a stoppage of work. This scheme,
which was devised by Pooh Bah. the Premier,
with the earnest assistance of Treasurer Pish
Tush, is now before the alleged Parliament.
It is meant to obviate strikes, and it cer-
tainly should obviate something. Thus if an
agile agitator persuades the staff of a big
factory to strike all except one man, that man
will, presumably, get the whole bonus. And
when it is discovered that he is the agitator s
little brother, and that the two are dividing
the profits, the strikers will probably obviate
both of them with a lethal weapon some dark
night.
“Packer’s” unholy exposure :
Just to show you the superiority in the methods
of Liberalism as compared with Labor in New
South Wales, as far as electioneering is concerned,
let me mention the doings at the Glebe (Sydney).
In 1910, James Alexander Hogue, ex-Minister under
Reid and Carruthers and Wade, was dashed into
outer darkness by Laborite Keegan. He was only
dashed by 136 votes in a poll of 8366, but it
finished him. This was to have been expected, but
James Tremendous Hogue and some of his friends
(or enemies) professed to be mightily surprised.
The surprise on that occasion, however, was out-
done recently when they discovered that local Lib-
erals were endeavoring to jettison the ex-Minister
James Innumerable Hogue, and run another candi-
date in the interests of the party at the forth-
coming elections. Of course, the local league must
select the candidate, and a little time ago that body
was galvanised into life by persons who steadily paid
in a shilling and demanded membership. This was
the callous mob getting ready for the unsuspecting
James Universal Hogue; but the procession of bobs
became so noticeable that even James observed it.
And then there was hurrying to and fro. When the
secretary had time to breathe he found 1780 new
members on his list and breathless candidates still
hurling others through the door. The “Liberal”
press sees in this “gratifying evidence of awakened
enthusiasm irt the 'Cause” ; but we know better. If
the Other Man gets 901 and we get only 900 the
Cause can go to the bowels of the ash-barrel — we’re
gone a million. Still, as I said before, our methods
are not to be compared with the unspeakable de-
vices of low wharf lumpers and such. If you have
any doubts ask James Interminable Hogue.
The “Liberal” selections in New South
Wails for the coming Federal fight indicate
that the party had no embarrassment of
capability to draw on. Three (Fegan
Fleming and Conroy) are faded rejects, and
two (Scott and Orchard) are successful re-
tail tradesmen on trial. The rest are local
men with alleged “popular followings.” Nor
does it look as if any of the new men nomin-
ated by Labor may unload a Minister’s port-
folio.
Home - Secretary
McKenna (Eng.) i s
bluffed out by the suf-
fragette women who
refuse food in gaol.
Says he : “If one were
allowed to die, scores
would follow them.
These fanatics fear
death no more than
the followers of the
Mahdi.” How does
he know? Let McKen-
na try it. Just put
three of four of the
dear things together
inside four walls, with
plenty of grub, and no
one looking, and see how they get on.
The N.S.W. Cabinet is going to be called
the Scabinet in future by reason of the way
it has turned dog on Labor principles.
Joe Cook is not to have another walk-over
in Parramatta. The chosen Labor candidate
is O.T). Zieman, a studious young man who
is what Cook can’t ever be expected to be,
in spite of his large capacity for somer-
saults —a young and almost passionate Aus-
tralian patriot, well read, and a straight
Protectionist. Barrister Shannon, nowa-
days fruit-growing in the Parramatta dis-
trict, who had been mentioned as Joe’s most
likely ouster, has accepted nomination for
the North Sydney seat —the one in which
tne nowadays unneard-of Dugaid Thomson
sleeps soundly.
The Liberal ladies who have been looking
for a right-thinking person to drive the
“impossible” Dr. Billy Maloney out of his
Melbourne seat have had wretched luck.
The other day they thought they had found
It, and they invited It to speak to them
nicely at their club. It went, and after a
solid hour’s talk about Protection and other
disappointing things It asked whether any
lady would care to ask any questions. After
a painful interval one very naice Liberal
lady ventured on this : “Are you in favor of
the —ah —baby bonus grant V” Then the
bomb arrived. “Yes, absolutely, whether
the child is born in wedlock or not!” Too-
rak and South Yarra had such hysterics
that next day that candidate withdrew his
name from the Liberal ticket.
“A Man Who Voted Labor” writes:—
If I didn’t know that Attorney-General Hughes
was an abstainer, I would have suspected him of beer,
lush, dog’s nose, blue ruin and mixed breweries when
he made that amazing statement that the Labor
party was not bound by the Prime Minister’s declara-
tion in favor of Protection. This idea that the
Labor party is bound to nothing but the published
platform, as decided upon by the Federal Conference,
is blither. It is imbecility and ash-barrel and old
boots. The Prime Minister of Australia is too big a
man to play a game of promises which do not bind
his party. The people do not elect the Labor people
on the platform as decided by the Conference, but on
the policy put forward by the Prime Minister as
chief representative of the crowd in power. The
great bulk of the people who vote Labor know no-
thing of the platform of the party except as it is
expounded by the Prime Minister and reported in the
press. If that huge mass of “sympathetic voters"
once understands that the party is not bound by the
Prime Minister’s policy speech, the said party will
be of little use to them. It should be understood,
once and for all, that the Labor Conference and the
Political I.abor League and the Caucus are irrespon-
sible institutions. They are amateur affairs and ex-
crescences and dead cats. The country recognises the
Cabinet as represented by the Prime Minister, and the
Legislature, and if anything outside these authorities
makes too much fuss it will be obliterated.
SUNSET ON THE DEAD WHALE
REMNANT.
Strenuous efforts are being made in N.S. W. to
revive interest in a low tariff.
Two more Chow and Australian marriages
happened in Melbourne last week. dan-
gerous Crossing”—it’s time we put up
gate to supplement the warning post.
OUR MENTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A remarkable feature of modern public life is the
intense dislike of the wisdom born of experience that
is displayed by extreme factions like the Labor
party. The people need disinterested guidance, poli-
tical leaders of the great parties in the past used to
make a point of consulting specialists—the success-
ful banker, manufacturer, merchant and landowner.
—Argus, 22/3/’l3.
Alone we are not qualified
(By “we” I mean the mob
Or multitude) to come to a
Decision, in a proper way,
On anything. That job,
Requiring strength and breadth of mind,
Must to our betters be resigned.
I ask you, why should numbers rule?
’Tis most absurd to count
All stomachs, disregarding size ;
The large of girth are always wise!
Those who are paramount
In commerce, and who own the land,
Own, too, the wit to understand.
Large questions —these must baffle us.
If we should be bereft
Of squatters, bankers and the crew
Of wise importers, who, oh! who
To guide us would be left ?
In politics and things like that
We have to put our trust in Fat!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


The longer each Running Part
of an Automobile lasts the lower
is the Maintenance Expense.
lf the moving parts last for 50,000
miles they are eliminated from the
expense account for that length of
time.
lf they last 25,000, not only bear-
ings, but the labor of replacing them,
must be paid for twice as often.
flThe economical car is the one
whose various moving parts are
lubricated by Gargoyle Mobiloils.
The most costly oils to produce, yet
the cheapest per year.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
“
y
V
. VAacjil
HH&.'
35±
DAINTY
EVENING
SHOES
The cleverest creations of the leading -
Parisian, English and American
experts —men who are artists in
shoe-makingf.
In the delicate modelling - , exquisite
materials and flawless workmanship,
there's real beauty—a charm irre-
sistible.
Exclusive designs, in quite a remarkable
variety of styles —there's a shoe to
suit every toilette and taste.
Let us send you our Handsome
Price List.
JftcCCslt
Mail Order Department,
14 and 16 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
Trade Handbooks.
Useful Books on Special Subjects
On our shelves are many other books on important
industrial matters. Tell us what book you need, and
we will describe its contents to you.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
Price.
_ Post Free.
THE ART OF LEAD BURNING: Explaining’ the Apparatus and
Processes. 52 illustrations, by C. H. Fay 7/9
GALVANISING AND TINNING: A Practical Treatise on Coating
, with Tin and Zinc, and Tinning of Grey Iron Castings, by
Flanders .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .'. 10/2
ENAMELLING ON IRON AND STEEL: Theory and Practice, by
Grunwald . . .. .. . . . . ' 7/9
AMERICAN TOOL MAKING AND INTERCHANGEABLE
MANUFACTURING, by J. V. Woodworth 20/6
THE POWER CATECHISM: Giving Correct Answers to Direct
Questions, Covering the Main Principles of Steam Engineering
and the Transmission of Power 10/3
FOREIGN AND COLONIAL PATENT LAWS, by W. C. Fair-
weather, M.A. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 12/9
PUNCHES, DIES, AND TOOLS FOR MANUFACTURING IN
PRESSES: A Cyclopaedia of Die-making, Sheet Metal Working,
etc. (1911) 20/6
THE PROGRESSIVE MACHINIST: A Practical and Educational
Treatise, by Rogers .. .. .. .. .. .. 10/5
THE MANUFACTURE OF RUBBER GOODS, for the Use of
Manufacturers, Chemists, and others, by Adolf Heil and Dr.
Esch 12/9
STANDARD CYCLOP-EDIA OF RECIPES: With Priceless Infor-
mation for Everybody .. .. .. .. .. .. 5/4
THE PREVENTION OF SMOKE, Combined with the Economical
Combustion of Fuel, by W. C. Popplewell, M.Sc. .. .. 10/3
RIVER DISCHARGE: For the Use of Engineers and Students,
by Hoyt and Grover .. .. .. .. .. .. 10/9
STUDENTS’ HANDBOOK OF PAINTS, COLORS, OILS AND
VARNISHES, by John Furnell 3/8
MODERN BLEACHING AND FINISHING, by a Practical Working
Bleacher .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2/1
WOOL DYEING, by Walter Gardner ?/1
THE AUSTRALASIAN BUTCHERS’ MANUAL: For Bacon-Curers,
Smallgoodsmen, and Meat and Provision Trades (1912) .. 5/1
AUSTRALASIAN WHEAT CALCULATOR, bv Broomhall and
Gregson. The result of any weight at any price can be obtained
at a glance .. .. .. .. .. .. 10/2
GRAIN MERCHANTS’ READY-RECKONER 1/1
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD
476 George Street, Sydney
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS).
m>4
4
:£>
h,n
«m
WW\
•'i»Nii|-Hrf
28 Million People
Go to Cinematograph Shows Weekly.
( Vide Cable Reports in Daily Papers, February 21, 1913.)
If you cannot, or do not want to, be one of the 28,000,000, get a Path 6 Home
Cinematograph, and have a picture show in YOUR OWN DRAWING-ROOM.
You can have one in Perfect Comfort
and Absolute Safety by using a
PATHE HOME CINEMATOGRAPH.
MAKES ITS OWN LIGHT.
FILMS WILL NOT BURN.
THERE IS NO DANGER.
LARGE LIST OF GOOD PIC-
TURES, WHOLESOME AND
STIRRING, to select from.
Anyone can work the Pathe Home Cinematograph. Seeing that it makes its
own light, it can be used as successfully in the town as in the country.
Write for Booklet telling you more about this delightful Home Entertainer.
Send the coupon to us or any of our agents.
PATHE FRERES,
12 Alliance Building's,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLINC & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO.. 672 Hay Street, Perth;
or C. W. FRASER & CO., 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRINGTON (N.Z.) LTD., 42
Willis Street, Wellington, & Queen Street,
Auokland, N.Z. ; W. PARK, Stationer, Pal-
merston N., N.Z. ; C. R. FOREMAN & CO.,
Napier, N.Z.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY
Please send me particulars of Pathf s
Home Cinematograph.
Name
Address
C & 27.
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
S/Ns
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Leave the office with a headache and go home?
Don’t do it —take Stearns’ Headache Cure before you
leave, and you will arrive home in a pleasant mood.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE'S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE." Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan's, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Svdnev. ' -
Board and Residence.
HOLIDAY BUREAU,
76 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
FOR INFORMATION—ACCOMMODATION.
LOCAL TOURS ARRANGED.
CONSTIPATION.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS A
SURE YET MILD REMEDY, SAYS
NORTH GRAFTON LADY.
“Having found the need of a medicine to
assist nature,” writes Mrs. Alice Green, of
Prince-street, North Grafton, N.S.W., # in
my case, being a sufferer from Constipation,
I had occasion to use remedies, and found
nothing equal to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for their smooth action and successful
movements of the bowels. They. do not
pain, and are sure to work the desired end.
My relatives also use your remedy, and of
them speak favorably. You may this
testimony for the benefit of others.”
Australian Oil Wells Co.,
N.I.
APPLICATIONS t» * TT \
for Balance of Issue of 20.000 FULLY-PAID
Is. SHARES,
will be received by GEORGE D. MEL BELL
Sharebroker. 36 Temple Court; or ALDA.
GORDON, Manager, 31 Queen Street.
The Company has interests in Ten Options
over Oil Areas in Four States and tn
Northern Territory. '
FOR SALE—ROLLER SKATES.
To WHOLESALE DEALERS, RINK PROPRIETORS
and the TRADE.
1913 Winslow s New Production Ball-bearing
“Double Bar” Extension Skates. These are an es
lished mechanical success. Absolutely Rigid tnrg
out, extra extension to a degree never before atta •
Can be adjusted to fit child or adult. »t
Fibre Rolls.
S. HOFFNUNG 8 CO. Ltd., City.
Public Notices. _____
THE patentees of Australian Patent No. U’DL
1 of 21st April, 1909 (Kahn & Kane), for
provements in window frames,” are pr e P®
enter into negotiation for. and to complete a f,le
ments by way of license or otherwise, on rea
terms with any persons desiring to ex P ,l win J oW
adopt and carry on the manufacture ot ”
Frames” in Australia under said patent. tn the
Metal frames for windows made according w
invention are of pleasing appearance, are
cally constructed, and are of great strength P ,
tionately to their weight. Each frame is , t 0
in a separate sash, and the sashes are f
form the frame by rolling down the flang
bars over the sash edges. cppttSON,
Inquiries to be addressed to W. J- ® v eW
Patent Attorney, 91 Elizabeth Street, Syd y>
South Wales.
Missing Friends.
DENNIS— If this should meet the eye
of PETER DENNIS, or anyone kno
ing his whereabouts, please comm
with LANG & WARE, Commission Agent
Bourke, N.S.W. —-
A RE WARD will be paid, to any person
informing the Tasmanian 1
partment of the whereabouts of
FRANCIS CLARK (alias Colhns).
was in the employ of the Singe
Machine Company at Launceston ana
bourne in 1912, and who is aged I jf 0 r
He left Melbourne in December, ww,
Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Though only a very junior cricketer,
Ramsay Davidson’s feat, when playing recently for
a Williainstown .(Vic.) team against one from Fitz-
roy, is worth noting. The Fitzroy lads were two
short, and Davidson polished off the whole side
(eight wickets, clean bowled) in nine balls for 0
runs. As his mate bowled two maidens, the whole
side went out in 21 balls for 0. Davidson bowls
right arm, fairly fast and with an accurate length,
and last season collared 52 wickets for an average
of 5.19 runs. Williamstown Senior Club has offered
him a place, but he prefers the pleasant irresponsi-
bility of recreative games to the strenuous endeavor
of pennant cricket.
* * * *
The end of the 13th round of Sydney First
Grade Cricket happened on Saturday afternoon in
perfect weather. The public interest was concen-
trated on the match between University and Red-
fern, which were dead-level in the second place in
the competition—three points behind North Sydney.
Of course, had there been any chance of North Syd-
ney biting the dust in its flare-up with Paddington,
there would have been some excitement; but Pad-
dington had started badly, hitting up only 163 ; and
North felt in no way alarmed. Its confidence was
justified, for with Moore’s 73, Hordern’s 42 and
Poidevin’s 27, 211 were hoisted for the loss of eight
wickets, leaving North on top with two wickets and
48 runs on the first innings. When stumps were
drawn on the previous Saturday University had biffed
431 for the loss of nine wickets. It let things stay
at that, and started on the job of running Redfern
through two innings if possible. But the way Rix,
one of the opening pair, treated the bowling, made
the prospect somewhat blue. If the rest of Red-
fern had played the same sort of game, University
would have wanted all its huge score, for though
batsmen came and went, Rix went on vigorously till
105 appeared opposite his name. University got
desperate, and threw in 16 sundries to show it was
getting excited. But the rest of the team was not
up to Rix, and the side vanished for a miserable
180. Massie had cut the tail to pieces, raking in
five wickets for 24. The follow-on started at 4.15,
and Uni. looked anxiously at the light. Was there
time? Single and Minnett, who had more or less
failed with the ball in the first innings, were taken
off, and the job left to Stack and Massie. Redfern
could not face the combination. Also, the Redfern
tail was obviously and painfully down. Only two
men —White and Hayes —reached double figures,
making 15 and 11 respectively. Six men went with-
out notching a run, and the group included Rix, the
lion of the first innings—but then that was to be
expected after his great effort. The whole side was
outed for 40, Massie taking six wickets for 19 and
Stack four for 17. It left University with_ a three-
point win by an innings and 211 runs. It’s a long
while since a serious competitor for the premiership
got its ear rubbed in the gutter in this fashion. This,
of course, elevates University to the position of
runner-up, and lessens the distance between it and
North Sydney to two points’. For the rest, Sydney
beat Petersham on the first innings by 18 runs, the
figures being 213 and 195.' Petersham’s best scorer,
Norton, had the dead luck to be only 94 when his
companion, the ninth man (the 10th being absent),
was bowled. Burwood inflicted a somewhat severe
castigation on Waverlev at the latter’s park. Bur-
wood had left 306 on the board, and AVaverley could
find only 112 towards repayment. Following on, it
rushed up another 101 for the loss of four wickets,
so Burwood had to be content with a first innings
win by 194. Still, it was enough. Glebe just man-
aged to crawl out on top of Central Cumberland,
making 277 to the 268 of the Parramatta team.
Gordon’s victory over Middle Harbor was a compara-
tively tame affair of 47 runs, the place Mr. Wade
represents making 246 to the 199 of the place that
sends Dr. Arthur to Parliament. The missing ninth
round—it went astray through untoward and seasonal
events —will be started next Saturday.
Jim Sullivan, the English middleweight,
made a holy show of the tough, plucky Tasmanian
fighter, Reg. Midwood, on Saturday night. Midwood
will be long remembered in Sydney as the man who,
after being grossly battered for a number of rounds,
and finally knocked down four times in the last round
bv Ercole de Balzac, got up and knocked his
smasher out. Midwood that night created a reputa-
tion for gameness that will take some demolishing.
But on Saturday night, he was pitted against a man
far above him in class—a fighter as cool as an ice-
berg, abnormally strong, armed with a straight left
and a quick inside cross that was as deadly as sin.
Midwood lasted 10 rounds, and the towel was thrown
t > the four winds just in time to save a knock-out.
Exactly how many rounds Midwood would have
lasted‘had not Sullivan damaged his left wrist and
thumb-joint in the first round is hard to say. This
writer’s opinion is that he would not have got past
the third. Sullivan is a peculiar fighter in every
respect, and a peculiarly effective one. His strength
is terrific. Again and again Midwood clinched for
safetv, and Sullivan swung him off and sent home
the inside right cross as he shook him off. He had
only one hand to fight with, for with his left
he could only bluff, bilt he bluffed till the cows
came home. Half the time Midwood was in the ring
he was taking counts. Not a round passed that he
didn’t go down several times, and of the number of
his failings the scribes lost count. It was a para-
lysing* sort of battle, and the onlookers grew weary
of hearing the monotonous “1, 2,3, 4,” etc. He
was game as they make ’em, but just as in real
warfare, courage counts for nothing if there is no
skill and force to back it up, and in spite of his
virtues, Reg. Midwood was a crude amateur com-
pared to this polished artist from Britain by way of
the States. Still, Sullivan has his drawbacks. When
he scores and his man is dizzy Sullivan does not
follow up, and, by raining a shower of blows on his
opponent, end him. He deliberately waits for him
to recover. It is ideal glove work, but it isn t
boxing as understood in these latter days. Sullivan
is a better sportsman than fighter, but a cold, cruel
world will knock that chivalry out of him. Then
Sullivan will be a great fighter. Of course, it may
be that he didn’t follow up on Saturday night owing
to his damaged fist. Anyhow, he’s a fine, clean,
manly artist of scrupulous fairness, who is certain
to become exceedingly popular in the near future.
Consider the Sydney University athlete R.
J. Massie, and the parts thereof. As a cricketer he
gathered 33 wickets at an average of 10.33 in
Svdnev First Grade competition this season, lie
gathered the ’Varsity heavy-weight boxing cham-
pionship by the simple process of showing himself,
whereupon the opposition just faded away. ne
turns the beam at over 15st., and as he is among
the entrants for the coming Australian Amateur
Championship tourney, there’s a bad time in store
apparently, for someone. # #
Petty Officer Curran, who is shortly to
meet William Lang, of Melbourne, arrived in Sydney
last week, and, with Sid Burns, was received into
the pugilistic fold with the usual gastronomic cere-
monies. Curran commenced his boxing career while
serving on the Australian Souadron some years ago.
Among his victims are lan Hague and Gunner Moir,
and his last fight with Lang he won on a foul. Poor
Lang' lost his block entirely on that fatal occasion,
saw red, and while Curran was down-on one knee he
smote somewhere about five times, and most of the
smites arrived. Curran was one of the men who
arrived at Ladysmith by that last train that brought
the 4.7 guns to the besieged township. He was with
the gun ; so he has shed more than nose gore in his
country’s cause.
* * * *
Adelaide has been smiling over a state-
ment that some of the horses taking part in Oakbanlc
events were blessed by priests before they ran. Arch-
bishop O’Reily, however, has told the local Mail
(5/4/’l3) that, whether it is true or not, there is
nothing to smile at. His Church has forms of prayer
officially sanctioned for use over horses, stables, bees,
birds, butter and beer. Also, when the Mail inter-
viewer feebly inquired, ’’Can a man back horses and
still remain a Christian?” the broad-minded prelate
sat on him with this: “Christianity hap nothing
whatever to do with the business. There is nothing
more unchristian in backing a horse than there is in
eating your breakfast in the morning, or taking off
your boots at night.” Then he added what he knew,
that Corrigan, at the top of his fame as a steeple-
chase jockey, always made his confession just before
mounting, and always wore a scapular in the race;
and added (what he probably didn’t know)—that in
a short time every jockey had bought a scapular, and
every jockey wore one, even Protestants and Jews.
BIFF.
At the Sydney Stadium Reg Midwood, after
going to the boards a dozen times and coming
tip for more, is beaten by Jim Sullivan.
The Australian horse-record for high-
jumping has suffered further damage. In November,
1912, at Horsham (Vic.), Landlock cleared 7ft. Ojin..
beating all previous figures. Last Thursday the
same horse, kept and circus-trained for the business,
left 7ft. lin. of atmosphere under him at the Quirindi
(N.S.W.) Show. Tiger, a Manilla (N.S.W.) prad
that could be easily mistaken for a cart-horse, and
up to that time unknown to the show ring, was
runner-up with 6ft. lOin. The figures of that vener-
able nag Pegasus are somehow not included with the
records. It’s probably because of the vaulting habits
of Peg. that the poets who ride him are so addicted
to asking anybody they meet to spring a tray-bit.
Punters and bookies are at a dead end
-concerning a gallant steed named Audacity, which
was entered for the Newmarket (Vic.) Handicap. After
the V.R.C. had accepted nomination and allotted the
nag a weight, it was discovered (but not before the
brute had been well backed) that it (the brute) was
not properly registered. The upshot was that it
didn’t start. The Victorian Club (the recognised
authority on bets and betting) decided that Audacity
had been a bona fide vehicle for betting, and that
all the gambles stood good. An aggrieved punter
then appealed to the V.R.C., and the committee
decided that as the beast, or brute, was never in
Newmarket Handicap, all bets were off. This airy
disregard of the facts that Audacity was on the
V R.C.’s official entry list, that the entrance fee was
paid and the official handicap awarded, has simul-
taneously annoyed the Victorian Club, Patrick Moses
and the suffering punter. If Patriqk Galilee takes
the money that the club insists must 'be paid he will
be barred bv the V.R.C. Also, if backers don’t pay
up as per the V.R.C. decision, they will be defaulters
in the eyes of the club. So there you are! And
where are you?
The Tote arose in its profitable sinfulness
twice on Saturday last. The first occasion was at
the Hobart (Tas.) trotting meeting when the sue
cess of Baby Lincoln yielded a div. of Ls£i 7s. to
the investment of XOs. The backers who didn t catch
the gilded dividend cheered the successful punters
a most unusual and remarkable occurrence Has any
body ever known a case in which the mob cheered
the bookmaker because he accidentally laid 110' to
against the winner and lost. It may have
but this office has received no report J&* rs A 1
ine The second upheaval was at Adelaide (b.A.t,
when Loyal 8 Scot returned £2O 18s. to investors for
second place in the Welter Handicap; wh ! * al ®j
something the book has not yet been found guilty of
perpetrating on the unsuspecting public.
Here’s more pluck. Walter Burn, who
rode Master Koran in the Onkaparinga Cup (S.A.),
had his leg broken during the race throU T f * , a it h b °
bumping him. Yet he kept on and finished. Had it been
the case a bishop who broke his leg over a difficult
passage in the middle of a sermon, and ye
on to the finish, this would have been regarded as
real heroism. As it was, the matter was simply
alluded to as “a nasty accident.’’ ,
* *
Saturday was a red-letter day among the
bowlers —the men who trundle unbalanced spheres
of timber along a green sward, at a game which
Drake and the rest played regardless of the fact that
it was legally prohibited. The Pennant of the Syd-
ney bowlers was the prize. Ashfield went up against
City, and after a desperate struggle managed to
crawl out on top by just one point, the figures being
82 to 81. It was a magnificent struggle, which re-
mained in doubt till the very last globe was rolled.
In the first rink the opposing sides scored 24 each.
In the second, City scored 19 to Ashfield s 17, but
reversed it in the third by only making 19 to Ash-
field’s 22. Then, most remarkable of all, the fourth
rink saw them both make 19, so the match was won
bv the difference between second and third rinks.
There was a fine crowd to watch the finish, which
was close and exciting enough to satisfy the most
exacting performer. #
Young George Gray, the billiardist, has
found trouble in Melbourne. The local solicitors for
John Roberts have issued a Supreme Court writ
against Gray for the amount of the judgment and
costs (plus 4 per cent, interest), which the claimant
obtained in the English courts, and whereof the de-
fendant has not yet paid a brown penny. A trifle of
£2307 ss. lid/is the outstanding liability.
* * * *
The rowing carnival which is to decide
the ownership of the N.S.W. State Sculling Cham-
pionship was commenced on Saturday last on the
Parramatta River, that lazy, drifting Shatt-el-Arab
of the Bagdad of Australia. The great event itself
will not blow into the realm of accomplished things
till the afternoon of Saturday next. All Saturday
saw was the Heavy Boat Championship of one mile,
of which two heats were worked off. The first fell to
Bailey, who beat S. Pearce and Starr, and the second
went to A. Pearce, after an exciting scrap with
Mantova, who at one time had a lead of three
lengths. But A. Pearce overhauled him, passed him,
and beat him with a length to spare. It was a
magnificent sprint. In the one-mile double sculls
H, and G. Beach beat Black and Bernie by three
lengths in Bmin. 35jsec. For a quarter of a mile
it was a fine neck-and-neck affair, but after that
the brothers started to creep away, and kept on
doing it to the finish. Next Saturday will see the
finals rowed off, and should provide some excitement.
* * * *
■ The silken bonds of empire are to be fur-
ther strengthened by an invitation to the Thames
Rowing Club (London), to send an eight-oar crew to
Australia. The N.S.W. and Victorian Rowing Asso-
ciations are co-operating in the matter, and if the
visit comes off the crew will take part in contests on
both the Paramatta and the Yarra. A joint com-
mittee has been fixed up to attend to the business
and do the thing properly.
N.S.W. Policeman W. O’Reilly is a youth-
ful veteran athlete who appears to grow more agile
as the winters whirl by. During the past 12 years
O'Reilly has been cock of the walk in hammer and
shot events. At Sydney last week he heaved the
161 b. hammer 133 ft. 3iin. —which is Ift. l£in. beyond
the State record of F. J. Morgan, put up in 1911.
Altogether, O’Reilly won half a dozen events, caber-
tossing. hammer-throwing, shot-putting, etc., and if
he can" only discover a clue he appears to be alto-
gether the sort of cove necessary for the proper
filling of the job of policeman.
* * * *
R. J. McNamara, F. Corry and R. Spears,
who whacked the recent Six Days’ Races at Sydney
and Melbourne, left for Yankeeland last week. They
are probably the finest trio of riders that ever left
the Commonwealth, and should be heard from soon.
Before leaving they swore by the Holy Jumping
Kangaroo that the 1914 Six Days Races would find
them back again—but the lure of the dollar is
mighty, and the chances are that Australia has seen
the last of them. Cyclists can make sovereigns in
Europe and America where they can but scratch up
humble bobs in Australia.
* * * *
After all, there is apparently something
in a name. At the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) Show last
week, E. J. Clout won the wood-chopping contest.
Has anyone found a promising youth named Biff ?
If so, there might be White Hope possibilities about
him.
* ♦ * *
That particular section of the men who
chase the muddied sphere, known as the Australian
Rulers, made a sudden and desperate plunge' into
the strenuous life on Saturday. While the summer
heat was withering the land a party of reps, met
in some cool hostelry, where the sound of the liquid
flowing from the bottle was made still more soothing
by the splash of a fountain, and arranged for a series
of matches between teams representing the railway
departments of Victoria, N.S.W. and South Australia.
South Oss. met N.S.W. on Saturday last at Adelaide,
and wiped the floor with the Ma Staters by 124 to
74 points. South Australia had not only better
combination, but also showed better individual play.
The Ma State team was just hopelessly inferior, and
that was all there was to be said about it.
Adelaide football, which is carelessly lib-
eral to its players in anything that can possibly be
ranked as expenses, but reckons to steer clear of
direct professionalism, has received a shock from the
plain speaking of Renfrey, captain of Sturt. The
local juniors, he said, were not a good enough reserve
to draw on. “It had cost them a few pounds to get
better footballers to come to the State, and to their
own club, but their efforts would benefit not only
Sturt but the whole of S.A. The committee was not
going to let Sturt go down when it could obtain
men to prevent it from dome so. They would secure
their players, whether they had to go to the North-
ern Territory or to America for them.” (“Oh,
oh,” from members.) Since the meeting the “Oh,
ohs” have come from the other clubs.
* ♦ * *
Great discussion rages among fight-followers
in Sydney as to whom fortune will favor in the Jerry
Jerome-Dave Smith battle next Saturday night. The
man who believes implicitly in the “natural-born
fighter,” wagers his reputation on the aboriginal,
while the chappie who has faith in the trained and
scientific scrapper declares that Smith will eat the
colored brother. Personally, this writer thinks if
Smith can catch the elusive native, colored brother
is in for a licking. Certainly colored brother hll
great agility, and his methods are so unorthodox aa
to be bewildering; but just to the same extent hi*
methods are often wrong.
* * * #
“Mimosa” : After a long experience of the
coon race, 1 am of opinion that the white man's
skull was r.evei' intended to stand the same rone-h
usage as the black man’s, hence the trouble to
a ‘ White Hope.” What better evidence can von
get than in the old Kimberley and Jo’burg (S’Africa 1
days, when one of the most interesting items on ani
sports’ programme was “the cheese-smashing com
petition.” The competitors, who were generally nisr
gers of the Jack Johnson type, were allowed to make
their run at the cheese from any distance they nre
ferred (generally about a 10 yards’ run). Th f
cheeses were hung against a wall, and the first coon
to break his cheese with his cranium was declared
the winner. The game might have remained a
favorite pastime, but when wooden cheeses were
rung in it wenc kind of flat.
* * # «
The Prudent King colt, Pilbarra, bred by
Mr. S. Reynolds (N.S.W.), is at present the most
prominent two-year-old racing in Westralia. On
Easter Saturday he annexed the Aidful Stakes with-
out unduly exerting himself, and on the following
Monday romped home in the Sires’ Produce Stakes'
worth £BOO, £5OO of which went to the first horse
and £5O to the breeder. After winning on Satur
day his owner refused 800 guineas for the colt, and
before the start of Monday’s event an offer of 1200
guineas was declined with a crash. This is pro-
bably a record bid for a two-year-old in the West
Pilbarra was purchased as a yearling by his present
owner for 120 guineas.
* * * «
There are various ways of earning the
breezy title of “sportsman,” and the assassination of
sitting wildfowl with shotguns at a range of five
yards is one of them. The duck season opened the
other day. As the first blood-red smear of dawn
appeared in the sky, hand artillery, wielded by gun-
men who had lain concealed for hours, boomed and
blazed round every sheet of water that the Wildfowl
frequent. Feathers flew, and occasionally jnnks and
fragments of birds flew with them, for the unhappy
winged things, in many instances, were dreaming of
nest and mother only a few feet from the polished
gun barrels. It was about as fair a game as Maxim-
ing an unsuspecting holiday crowd from the roof of
an impregnable fortress. Down at Jerilderie
(N.S.W.) the artillerists got so much winged food
that the local appetite for duck was not equal to
the occasion, and heaps of dead birds just had to go
bad and protest to Heaven that way. It is a plain
tale of dull and ruthless murder which lacks the
pomp and picturesque of King George’s Indian circus.
George was on the roof of an elephant like a
suburban church, and his tigers were, oh! so drunk
with bhang! But at least they weren’t such frail
game that they flew to pieces when he hit them, and
there was always a remote chance of one of the in-
ebriated beasts'making a record spring and clawing
off a pound or so of raw elephant. When the smoke
has blown away and the echoes have ceased, a sports-
man should have something more to show for his
spent cartridge than two feathers and a clot.
* * * *
After an exciting scrimmage, the draughts
championship of Australasia was won by H. Egan, a
Victorian of 25 vears, who was left in the finals
with three N. S. Welshmen. The runner-up, Smith,
of Sydney, is merely 22 years old. Egan’s reward
was £2O.
* * * *
Yankee land is the Mecca for the Aus-
tralian bikist. The last to be lured thither is
Aubrey Taylor, a lad of 19 and amateur half-
mile champion of Australia. Taylor goes to Salt
Lake Citv, and will there whirl his shins for that
money, the love whereof is alleged to be the root
or basement of all evil.
THE RUBAIYAT OF A GOOGLY BOWLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ball asks not of him who bowls or throws,
But “cut” or “pulled” as strikes the Batsman goes ;
And he who lifted you clean out for Six,
He knows about it AH, he knows; he knows.
The Moving Fingers round the wide seam fit,
And “off” or “leg” turn to the Ball transmit;
But should you overpitch upon the leg,
The Batsman scores, and that's the end of it.
And that pet ball which, pitched a little high,
Hangs for a space and so deceives the Eye,
What use is it if Mid-on drops the Chance?
’Tis useless then, “Oh, get a bag,” to cry.
I tell you this: When striving foi a Win,
Sometimes I used to ring a "Wrong ’un in,
And beat the Batsman all the way to find
The Wicket-keep bamboozled by the Spin.
So I have learned, who almost was a Star,
It does not matter much how good you are,
Unless your Team supports you on the field,
You might as well be lounging in the Bar.
And so, a simple Child of Circumstance,
Thus, with the Poets, do I break a Lance,
And say to each young Man who takes the field,
Don’t miss a Chance, my Boy; don’t miss a Chance.
QUEENSLAND.
MILKY WHITE.


£0 PER CENT. SAVING IN YOUR
= AERATED WATER ACCOUNT
... BY USING . . .
ECKERSLEY’S
K>
“REGAL"
Aerated Water
Machines
Special Autumn
Booking Terms
Now Available.
Write for our Booklet,
“ modern carbonating and BOTTLING MACHINES,"
Contrasted with so-called “Aerating- Machines."
Over 3000 Hotelkeepers throughout Australasia are now using our Machines.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
Or. Bridge 8 Young Sts., SYDNEY ; Cr. Clarendon 8 Haig Sts., MELBOURNE.
AGENTS;
W. AUSTRALIA.—LioneI Samson & Sons, Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
S. AUSTRALIA.—AuId & Sons, Commercial Chambers, Gilbert Place,
ADELAIDE.
NEW ZEALAND.—Aerated Water Machines & Supplies Co., N.Z. Express
Co.’s Buildings, WELLINGTON.
QUEENSLAND. —Elliot, Donaldson & Douglas, Queen Street, BRISBANE.
V I if’
l&kM
t Y
3g $
-
££*>l • tet'W "V
■
(ft**
> , ?,,
BBS
■
I*B
s
: . ....
- •?'••
3P.11
Travelling
RUGS
For Land and Sea
"The Bushman” — 18/6
In rubber of the finest quality
plain or fancy dined
waterproof—practically indes-
tructible-warm without being
excessively weighty fitted
with nickel-plated Strap-ring
—size, 60-in. x 50-in. (approx).
“The Bushman” is the rug
that stands alone for all-round
usefulness “Outback.”
"The Traveller” — 21/-
All wool —full winter weight
—heavy fringing—in a variety
of tasteful tarta* and fancy
designs—full size —“TheTrav-
eller” is a rug that will more
than satisfy the requirements
of the the most hard-bitten
rover.
POST YOUR ORDER
for either of these rugs (or
both) and you’ll receive them
by return—freight paid.
LINCOLN,
STUART & CO.,
Pty. Ltd.,
“Mail-Order Outfitters,”
FLINDERS ST., MELB.
YOU NEED MY NEALTN
EXERCISES
Because your health and strength depend upon exercise.
Exercise is the judicious movement of the organs of the body
so that they will not become flabby through want of use.
When an organ becomes flabby it cannot carry out its func-
tions in a natural way. It goes from bad to worse. Eventually,
it is a source of never-ending annoyance—then chronic ill-health.
My judicious exercises are the Keys to Health. You will
enjoy them because they consist of interesting movement which
cuts out monotony, get permanent results quickly, take up very
little time—you’ll gain substantial physical benefit from each
exercise.
“I am still steadily putting on weight, and feel better
than I can ever recollect feeling before.”
N.C., Labosa, Fiji.
“Have increased wonderfully in health, strength and
size. I feel a different man altogether.”
G.T.S., Mornington, W.A.
You can easily get good results also if you give my svstem
a trial.
Write for fuller information, fees, etc., as given in my hand-
some, 40-page booklet, “Health and Strength from Self Culture.”
Kindly send three penny stamps to cover postage.
Reg.L .rsnowy”) Baker
i
\
176 Belmont Building's, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
o<y ( double * 0 )
Old Orkney Whisky.
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODCE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Caiie and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Victor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WICKETS—Brass Tops and Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Cuards, Wicket-keeping Gaunt-
lets, Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
GSD
SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
Many of My
Best Customers
SJSRCIA
I
—a number of whom
are connoisseurs of
Cigar quality, smoke
only my
Manuel Garcia
Cigars
These Cigars are the
finest flavored, most
satisfying and enjoy-
able Havanna Cigars
that it is possible to
procure.
I am making a Special
Window Display of these
Cigars, and would advise
City Residents to call
and v.ew the showing.
The Manuel Garcia Cigars
(Reina Victorias), illuB “ atedi
in boxes of 25’s cost 12/6,
50’s 24 100’s 45/-
POSTAGE EXTRA.
A 25 Box weighs about 6oz.
Every smoker should
have a copy of my
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOG. Sent free
upon request.
A. M. SOLOMON,
Cigar Expert,
173 PITT ST., SYDNEY
In Selecting Your Footwear
If it’s only a matter of taste, you might just as well
display good taste in the selection of your footwear.
The men who display the best taste and wisest
judgment wear Rigney Shoes.
You have only to become acquainted with the
merits of Rigney footwear to endorse their choice.
The Boot here shown is a Choice Tan Russia
Derby Boot, kid lined, very stylish and dressy.
Also in Black.
23 6, 2 51- & 27|6.
Can be had with or without punching on cap.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write to-day for a copy of our Catalog.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney;
And at City Buildings, Edward St., Brisbane.
£2


A New Lease of Health.
“ The wonders brought about by this
preparation are no less manifold than
amazing.”
So writes a well-known physician in
the Medical Press and Circular one
of sixteen thousand doctors who have
testified to the value of Sanatogen in
various kinds of weakness, loss of nerve-
power, impaired digestion, brain-fag,
sleeplessness, and general weakness.
Sanatogen, the tonic food with lasting
effects, has given a new lease of health
to more than a million sufferers, in-
cluding many of the most distinguished
people in the land.
Nerve Power Restored.
The reason for Sanatogen’s great
efficacy in nervous disorders has been
pointed out by no less an authority than
Sir Charles A. Cameron,- C. 8., M.D.,
Public Analyst of Dublin, who states:
“ Sanatbgen is an excellent nerve food,
containing a large amount of organic
phosphorus in exactly the form in which
it can be easily absorbed.”
But Sanatogen does more than revivify
the nervous system. It also builds up
the muscular tissues and has a beneficial
effect upon every organ of the body.
Write for a Free Booklet.
All who feel run down, weary and
depressed—Nature’s warning of nervous
weakness—should write to-day for a Free
Booklet, “ The Art of Diving,” to Messrs.
A. Wulfing & Co., 17, Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Kindly mention this
paper when writing.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists,
price 2s. 6d„ 3s. 6d., and 6s. 6d. per tin.
*r
«
A
0
m
%
w
■tflS
*
“ I have watched the effects of Sanatogen upon persons suffering
from various kinds of weakness and loss of nerve*'power, and I
have proved it to be most valuable.” Lady Henry Somerset.
The Inky Way.
The Bulletin lately received copies of two senti-
mental ballads set to music, “Mother’s Answer
Through the ’Phone,” and “Come Back, Dear
Mother.” With each ballad is included a poem, ap-
parently as a sort of literary bonus. “Mother’s An-
swer” is accompanied by “The Watchman’s Story.”
It goes this way:—
I was sitting by my camp fire —
I work on the night shift
My place of work is Coogee
Near a nasty rift.
Whilst gazing at the ocean
A woman passed me by.
I caught hold of her by the arm.
She said: “Oh, let me die.”
“What do you mean?” I asked her,
“Say have you had a tiff ?
By what right do you venture
So near this dangerous cliff'?’”
Then ths distracted female replies in EdtairaMy
plain Etagiish to the effect that the frailor fever she
secretly married, and for whose sake she Iras bean
turned (Bit by her family, has gone to sxa, taking
with him Iter treasured marriage lines! At this
moment, three lights—the signal of the sailor hus-
band's; natiarm—are observed off the coast. The sym>-
pathetic camp-firer telephones for a cab, and the
lady hurries away on the bent knees of a cab horse
towards the vessel’s anchorage. The poem continues:
Eight years have passed and gone, sir,
Since that incident.
To renovate a main, sir,
Again a gang was sent, etc., etc.
Of course, the grateful lady comes along to thank
him, her first words being:—
My husband even went so far
As to advertise for you.
Would that all poets were as explicit! “Come Back
to Mother” has a. flying angel (not one of the South
Melbourne push variety) on the cover; also, a large-
eyed, curly-haired child who wears her hands clasped.
The accompanying poem in this instance is entitled,
“Sunny Joe.” It contains a drunken father —one of
the old-fashioned brand, without which no angel
child is complete. There are also jolly sailors of the
yo-ho-ho sort, and a kind old watchman with snow-
white hair who leaves all his money to the angel
child. Father drinks himself to death, but does so
entirely at his own expense, the angel child not
having yet received his legacy. Both songs refer to
dead mothers, have a strong religious interest, and
are thoroughly depressing. Tosti’s “Good-bye” and
the well-known “Daddy” are also depressing, but not
in quite the same way. The responsible parties are
R. M. Dunbar (words), and A. B. Saunders (music).
The publishing also is credited to “R. M. Dunbar,
Darlington, Sydney.” The Religious Editor, to whom
all songs about Mother are reverently submitted, has
never been to Darlington; but the directory informs
him that the suburb also includes the district of Gol-
den Grove. No poet could desire a happier location
than that. He hopes that Darlington knows and
values its Dunbar. He does not appear to be a mem-
ber of the local council. Evidently he cares not
who makes Darlington’s by-laws so long as he makes
its songs.
The Wowser pushes his gimlet in high these
days. The Tasmanian University Council has
just fallen foul of “Ivanhoe” on the ground of its
immorality, and Scott’s removal from the pale of
respectable literature is threatened. Archdeacon
Whitington is worried about the pained feeling of
a teacher compelled to instruct his class in some
passages of the book, and Father Ivelsh had heard of
a class standing in a Corner and gloating over parts
of it. All of which is very dreadful, and makes it
quite clear that the author of the wicked tale which
has done so much to add to the gaiety of Sunday-
school libraries in the past, must be relegated to
his place among immoral writers like Shakspeare,
Milton, Homer, Dante and the scribes who were re-
sponsible for the Holy Scriptures.
* * * *
“Quarter Single” : There really seems to be justice
in the constant complaints of country deputations
that the local roads are “somethink awful.” Any-
way, the Age, in describing (17/3/’l3) the wrecking
of a furniture van at Kilmore, ended the paragraph
with the remark: “The roadway was strewn with
furniture, blocking the traffic, and later on had to
be stored in the railway sheds.” Presumably it was
unfit for further use.
An extraordinary mistake was made by a North-
ern Rivers (N.S.W.) sub-editor recently. A Sydney
solicitor had got himself into some trouble, and the
Law Institute had applied for a rule nisi calling
upon him to show cause why his name should not be
struck off the roll. The skeleton press-telegram of
the case despatched from Sydney to the northern
paper referfed to “city attorney,” but gave no name.
The fertile mind of the sub, however, fastened on the
idea that “city attorney” meant So and So, the
official City Solicitor, and he printed it so. Addi-
tional interest was imparted by means of a few
details to the effect that the matter arose out of a
divorce court case. It was something joyous in the
way of deciphering “skeletons” —except, of course,
for the solicitor, the sub and the newspaper. The
solicitor deserved most sympathy; but, like a good
sport, he declined to go for damages, contenting
himself with apologies and a trifling donation to two
local hospitals.
G. S. Porter, of Maoriland, claims to be the old-
est printer in Australasia, and, if the year-stone he
passed the other day was the 100th, as he alleged,
no doubt his claim is good. He was born on March
18, 1813, at Norwich (Eng.), according to the
family traditions, migrated to Canada, and played
a double hand at storekeeping and running a small
newspaper near Toronto. About ’54, he moved on
to Australia ; but he did not settle until he reached
Auckland, and he has been there or thereabouts ever
since. # #
“Quarter Single”: If I knew who “Nightowl (B.
13/2/’l3) was, I would buy him seven drinks and a
cocktail, and then shout for him. I, too, very greatly
wish that “young reporters and a few of the snuny
old ones” could be convinced that big words and
roundabout ways of arranging them make bad jour-
nalism. One can pardon a space-grabber, who has
lust sufficient of the English language at his mercy
to fill five sides with drivel about a presentation
(“handsomely illuminated” and “suitably inscribed )
to a J.P. who would be better dead. But stall
men should know better. Yet “coromal inquiry tor
“inquest” is as plentiful as hairs on a horse, and
such stencils as “cast a gloom,” “deserves a word of
praise,” “devouring element,” ‘ gruesome spectacle
and “indefatigable secretary” are as the worm that
dieth not. And why in the name of Horace Greeley
cannot a pressman say “John Smith’ instead ot a
man named John Smith”? If it were a girl named
John Smith, or a deceased wife s sister named John
Smith, the prologue would be worth mentioning.
William Cullen Bryant, the American poet and edi-
tor, driven to desperation by these things, once pro-
duced an index expur gqtorius in which he barred
such abominations as “initiated” for an
“transpired” for “happened —but still the reporter
transpired at every pore. On hot summer days he
transpired so much that he required three collars m
the 24 hours. The ineradicability (oh, blessed space-
grabbing word!) of the habit was turned to advan-
tage by O. Henry in his newspaper story, Callo-
way’s Code,” in which a war correspondent got a
message past the censor by using words which in-
evitably connoted other words, and these other words
formed an intelligible message. Thus foregone
preconcerted—rash— witching” meant, conclusion-
arrangement—act —hour of midnight. Prom this it
was deduced that the attacking army had concluded
arrangements to act at midnight. That story was
the only enjoyable outcome I ever experienced of
the stencil craze, or the shibboleth habit, or what
ever you like to call it. Apropos of rash act for
“suicide,” the only time it was ever acceptably em-
ployed was when a Sydney evening paper put up the
heading, “Barber’s Rash Act.” ‘Barbers Rash
had the first line all to itself and it h ke
ing a joke on a dead man’s tombstone. Probably the
sub-editor who wrote it was the last man to see the
beautiful appropriateness of his heading.
There are a few bright items that look original
even in the little book of “Maxims and Musings, by
the Marchioness Townshend. For instance. Do not
onlv make a fuss with vour husband when you want
him to give you something, and \ ery few good
looking young men see the disagreeable side
women; only good-looking young women see that.
An esteemed Siamese contemporary puts the matter
thus- “The news of English we tell the latest. Writ
in perfect style and most earliest. Do a murder
get commit, we hear and tell of it. Do a mighty
chief die, we bublish it and in borders of sombre
Staff has each one been college, and writ like the
Kipling and tbe Dickens. We circulate every town
and extortionate not for advertisements.
Victorian Police Offences Act, recently consoli-
dated, embodies the old provision prohibiting Publi-
cation or sale of newspapers on Sunday. Registered
newspapers may issue a Sunday edition containing
news of great national or public importance, but not
more than three times in any calendar year So it
anv speculator plans a Sunday newspaper for Mel-
bourne, he must get the Act amended before he fires
awav ; meantime, events of great national consequence
are "urgently requested not to happen oftener than
once every four months.
“Orient”: Again let me claim cable communica-
tion straight with Japan and China, with daily news
telegrams. Keep your globe with Australia on top,
and see who are your neighbors. London telegrams
treat us as if we lived in Putney or Wapping. Here
is a crisis in Japan. What have our papers made
of it? A mere jumble! If Australians don’t want
news from the East, or rather North, let them be
educated up to a healthy craving for it. Apparently,
democrats have won in Tokio ; yet, along comes word
that 30 millions sterling is to be spent on battle-
ships. Explain this to me! The Jap navy is far
more vital to us than to the Cockney ; yet we must
take the Cockney view or nothing. Next proceed to
China. Morrison's Pekin successor drops a peculiarly
interesting letter on “journalism” in the last Times
here. Seventy newspapers are now clattering in
Pekin, with corresponding activity in Shanghai,
Hankow, Canton —everywhere. The corresnondent.
of course, writes for the English market. What we
want is something written for us. He merely hints
that the Jap navy and army are to whin the globe.
There is no censorship, so the press boils as in
the French Revolution. Something must come out of
the seething pot. What?
Michael Cormac Keane (the “M. Cormae” of much
Bulletin and other verse), returns to his native
M.L. cathedral city, to become associate editor of
the Christchurch Press. W. H. Triggs continues
to edit that Tory tribune. His associate, W. H.
Graham —who is big enough for an All Black ’bailer
—has broken down in health, so he falls into the
padded chair of the Press Co.’s evening journal,
which Ernest IJoben had been editing. Huie, whom
Hoben succeeded, is beating up funds to start a third
evening paper in the City of the Plains. “Mick”
Keane wields just about the wittiest pen in M.L.
journalism to-day : his “Casual Chronicles” have been
a feature of the Dominion since that Cabinet-making
paper started. He is, by the way, an M.A. of Can-
terbury College, and took honors on mathematics;
his professor declared him the most brilliant scholar
in that line he had met. And vet he went into
journalism !
Ernest Short, of Parorangi, 100 miles
north from Wellington (M.L.), is a young
man who is liable to do things. A while
back he ventured from inland M.L. across
the ocean to the Argentine Royal Show with
a pen of Romney Marsh sheep to meet the
world’s best breeders. And he got what lie
went after —the world’s championship with
a Parorangi ram. But the venture cost him
£5OOO.
Camperdown (Vic.) Herald has dug up
some verses, written in 1875, by John Far-
rell (of “How He Died”) to celebrate the
laying of the foundation-stone of a
mechanics’ institute. John, who was then
brewing beer for a man named Jackson,
scattered in those times a good deal of ink
over the local Hampden Guardian. But
most of the stuff is dead now. So, for that
matter, is the Guardian ; so is the brewery;
so is Jackson; so is John Farrell. In or
about Farrell’s day. Camperdown had two
napers, the Guardian and the ( iironicle.
E. W. O’Sullivan was on the Chronicle.
Years afterwards both O’Sullivan and
Farrell passed on to the Sydney Telegraph,
one as overseer, the other for a while as
editor, and then and for many years as leader-
writer. Premier Willie Watt’s brother Row-
land came in afterwards when the Guardian
died and the Herald took its place. The
Western squattocrats hadn’t up to then
struck anything like Rowland V att, and
after he had written something simply blas-
phemous about the potentates sacred game
of polo it was reckoned it was time he went.
And he went —to Westralia, where he died.
THE FOUNDLING ON THE DOORSTEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a discussion by the W.P.A. (not the
W.P.B. but the W.P.A., which means Womens 1 op-
tical Association) in Melbourne recently, concerning
the necessity for securing better representation ot
the Association’s views in the columns of the daily
press. Vida Goldstein and other speakers hit the
Argus severely to leg, Miss Kilkelly going so far as
to wonder “whether that paper ever had a mother
or a sister.”
Oh, Papa !
Have you ever seen the Argus’s mamma?
Is she Sairey Gamp, d’ you think?
Does that paper’s parent drink,
Or gibber with a lunatic “Ha-ha”?
And do you think the passive old resister
Has anything so sprightly as a sister ?
I wonder if the Argus’s mamma
Merely whispered through a keyhole, “Well, ta-ta ! ’
Laid her infant on a door-step, did a two-step or
a four-step,
And hit the trail for distant Panama?
I wonder why the poor abandoned child
So bitterly her mother’s sex reviled?
Did she muse so long and sadly on the ma that
used her badly
That the very name of woman makes her wild?
Does she ever tell the story of her birth?
No ; she doesn’t seem to think the matter’s worth
Interjecting in a column that is stately, staid and
solemn,
As it gently ushers women off the earth.
Oh, Papa!
I’d love to meet the Argus’s mamma!
She might tell me if and why she just left her
child to die,
And how it found its Tory avatar ;
And though she might attempt to draw the cur-
tain,
y e t—her child was on the doorstep, that is cer-
tain !
VICTORIA.
MATERNITY JANE.


» •
/
\ *
x
MS W
'XXI |v | c-
■ -.'
H<
8i Bfl II ' • 1&
gjlfefels .*4 ?J m>/ .*.
/ ■
« • r
1 Kit
X ■ '
; / ~ * * Wf i
.. :• •
* ' r ?■
/, Jpf
11 • | s *? s~ : •«'.■"
- _.
4 •• $ -
*•» '
m:*k
‘ » :
-
■ vv r,^
.
\
k ■;
&&2iiC/&Ss
HW
" • I
' r ' *
.-.. .■ - ■
:v:>,
mmaM
«
#1
. ,
■
A^:
xi
»
lit A
'
|
US
KK
.•
1
V; - , v,-‘
"■.• 'jf ; ' •■.. ■ ■'■■■..:
sv.
6.
n
■
W: •'
■
■
■
*/*
-
—J >■>:!-.-Xll&^ :v '
,
lit
,
*•4;,
SO CAN YOU
en joy the magnificent Mountain Scenery, and breathe the fresh,
invigorating air.
At “THE CARRINGTON”-—the most luxurious Hotel on the
Mountains—every City comfort is provided for visitors.
Electric Light, Water Supply, and Ventilating Plant. The
Garage is one of the finest out of Sydney; each Car being stabled
under separate lock and key.
There is a modern Hydropathic Department, with an expert
Masseur in charge, to treat Ladies and Gentlemen residing at
“THE CARRINGTON” according to Medical instructions.
Ihe whole Hotel is equipped in lavish st}de, and commands a
magnificent view of Katoomba and surroundings.
It is handy to the Station, and to all principal sights.
For a happy, healthy holiday, a stay at “THE CARRINGTON”
offers unique advantages.
Tariff—£3 10s. per week ; 12s. 6d. per day.
TO JENOLAN CAVES BY MOTOR.
A service of luxurious “Itala” Cars runs daily to the Jenolan
Caves. This is one of the most beautiful trips imaginable.
Return Pare, £2.
Full information from the City Office,
18 Imperial Arcade,
Pitt Street, SYDNEY.


BABY
gained 14 lb.
This is not an unusual case
but just one of the thou-
sands in which SCOTT’S
brings new health, in-
creased weight and re-
newed strength.
“After suffering with pneumonia my
son had
wasted away to
skin and bone.
The Doctor then ordered SCOTT’S,
and my son rapidly gained in weight
and vitality. After four bottles he is
completely restored to health and has
gained 14 lb.” —(Signed) John King,
22, Bray Street, Erskineville, Sydney,
N.S.W. 28/6/12.
scorn
Emulsion
None is genuine unless it bears
the Fishman on the package.
TRADE
MARK
SHORT Stories, Novels,
Poems, etc., Wanted.
We are commissioned by a well-known
weekly journal to offer prizes of £lO 10s.
and £5 ss. for the best short stories sub-
mitted before July 31, 1913.
We also haye a purchaser for a hovel by
an Australian writer.
Highest prices secured for Short Stories,
Poems, Special Articles, etc.
MS. revised and every assistance given to
beginners.
1913 Prospectus posted free on request.
Australasian Literary Agency,
Pendennis Chambers, Sydney.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Ansmia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of tne most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the. nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No/3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane: or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street/Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810.—Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
Take Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. No alcohol, no
stimulant. A strong nerve
tonic. A blood purifier.
An aid to digestion.
a CORRESPONDENT writes : “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
Apollina
The Queen of Table W^aters
QUARTS, PINTS AND SPLITS.
"Aberdeen’Rugs
Are Superior in Every Way.
m
Superior workmanship—superior materia s
and superior value. Once you get this
brand of rugs for your horses you will always
get them. Wonderfully lasting, and can t
fall off. If unobtainable locally, write to
SMITH, COPELAND 8 C
0.,
LTD.
NOTE NEW ADDRESS:
Factory g Warehouse: 33-37 Regent Street (opposite Central Railway Station), Sydney.
appmoifq . VICTORIA J Bartram & Son, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
AGENCIES,— Rogg fd street Brisbane.
S AUSTRALIA—C. D. Whiting & Co., Adelaide.
TASMANIA —Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, Hobart.
WEST AUS.—A. Balharry, Perth.
0
PREPARE FOR LONG WINTER NIGHTS
Bv having the best form of entertainment,
AND GET ONE OF OUR SPECIAL HOME
BIOGRAPH MOVING
PICTURE OUTFITS
which Includes Perfect Machine, Safe and Brilliant
Lighting Outfit, and a Splendid Selection of Films. The
whole complete will be securely packed, and sent to any
part of the world for &5 cash, or on our
EASY INSTALMENT SYSTEM AT 8/- MONTHLY
This wonderful little Biograph Machine is not a toy; it is built on the latest modern plan;
contains Film Spools, powerful lens, top and bottom sprockets, apparatus for slides, strong
lamp-house. Light to carry, shows standard-size Films, guaranteed safe, lasts for years, and
will P exhibit clear, flickerless moving pictures. Suitable for Home, Church , or small hall, bend
to-day for our _ _ _
free illustrated catalogue.
We stock other Biograph outfits from £lO upwards. Remember, we send to your very door a
complete Biograph Machine, Brilliant Lighting, and a Selection of t ilms, all for £5.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH LTD., 117£ Bathurst St., Sydney, N.S.W.
4
An
Odorless Breath
is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco
provides. Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer,
healthier gums, and a high standard of mouth
health, all inevitably follow its night and mormng
use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with interesting book and
test papers, free for three penny stamps, on appli-
cation to the Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). (1
HunyadiJanos
Good health is the grandest of all possessions, and there can
be no doubt but what perfect digestion is one of the chief aids
to such a condition.
Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water is Nature’s remedy for
disorders of the stomach, bowels and liver. A wineglassful
taken on arising, before breakfast, will be found to give almost
immediate relief.
CONSTIPATION
GSD
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co.,
St. Louis
U.S.A.
Combination Harness
and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing
Outfits (power or
foot). Easily operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without “CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.,
Solo Australasian
Agents,
Circular Quay East, Sydney, N.S.W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
GSD
Have You a Lean, Emaciated LooK?
Then improve your appearance by growing a moustache.
CAPILLARINE
will do that if you follow the directions given.
This is not an experiment, but a moustache-grower with a record
of 30 years’ success. Get it to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free.
Craig &. AitKen,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Bandicoot: You propose to surtax a land-
owner on the difference between the value of his
improvements and the “fully improved” value. How
are you going to decide what is the fully-improved
value (by which you presumably mean the value
that might be created if every possible improvement
was made) ? What, for instance, will be the value
of an acre block at Girilambone when another Lon-
don grows on the top of that place—which may
happen before the improvement possibilities of
Girilambone are quite used up? Waterspout:
When Nature manufactures a wate rspout it <*oesn
form a vacuum, but the gyrations of the al P
a more or less intense rarefaction of the atmosphere
within the column. The whirl agitates the wate
surface, spirals of vapor ascend, and the rarefied ail
condenses this vapor into “spout, which thus creeps
closer and closer to the sea, until occasionally cloud
and sea are connected. ... G.B .8.. Of cou-
read what you’ve got to say. .Whether we 11 print
it is quite another matter. . .Fair Dinkum (N-®-W-) •
All right; accept your dictum that the R.G. Churcn
provides that no place can have m° re than 0
bishop of one rite.” The Bulletin will lose no
sleep for having omitted the words in 1 tabes.. ...
M.O’S.: “Experiences” are too tame to alarm tne
most nervous lady-mouse in the office. - • ■• :Ne ™°l
please, buy a penn’orth of ink and use it. Pencilled
stuff does occasionally get into type ; but the con-
tributor who types or sends his screed in legible ink
gets a 10yd. handicap in the Sheffield sprint....
Shuvver: “Polar Birds” ingenious, but on the small
side.... Arthur R.: “The Terrible Tamer is a re-
markable poem. One slab: —
’Twas work only for strong men then, witb tne
water-like fryingpan fat. ,
And our hearts stopped dead, as a bough overhea
swept off the skipper’s hat.
What would I have given to be on that land, 100
ing so peaceful like , , . , .
As I watched the Antics of a Cow, who on his heel
had a homely tyke , .
My ’ell! cried the brave old Capn, as the ship
stopped with a sickenin’ thud, „
And the mate who went to sound the hold came uy
knee-deep in mud. a
Then the Old Man asked who d volunteer to make
line fast in the scrub, „ . , . „„
And the whole Ship’s Crew took off their boots,
they spotted a friendly pub.
. . D.D.: Facts noted that to be a. star you must have
a light heart, a flat and a smile... . A.H.. bong
of Grev Eyes” is very poor stuff.... Concertina : Lockeu
?n” found the basket Bungewogonia (orsome-
thing like that): “The Fusion Farmer is not the
worst verse rejected this week... .D.T.. No class...
Bellerive: “The Ants and the Santepede goes.
A band of soldier ants —
Made a savage attack,
upon a santepede which lay
Writhing upon its back,
The viper fought fiercely—
To keep ’em at bay,
And mangled a number —
During the fray, . ,
When in swarm’s the warrior s
Boldly clustered around,
And dragged their victim —
Along the ground,
They bore him onward to —
Their burrowed Bed,
Where they feasted with glee
upon the mutilated Dead,
....Soli: King O’Malley’s shriek about how Captain
(really Lieutenant) Cook “stood on the deck of the
little wooden barque, rocked on the billows of an
uncharted sea, straining his eager, anxious e
finally came the reward—a glimpse of an unknown
world,” was simply muddle and ignorance. Australia
was known two or three centuries before Cook was
born, and it was named New Holland, and to a great
extent charted, and formally annexed long before
Cook saw it. Even the Australian kangaroo was
described by Dutch explorers when Cook s grandiather
was hardly heard 0f... .G.E.C.: Too slight. You
don’t get : the fun you could out of the yarn
Flatfoot: Oh, you’re a despondent cove, you are;
but the chances are the North Shore bridge will be
built before you leam to turn a decent verse
Micmac: Distressing handwriting and vile verse. .. .
Tom Jones: About the feeblest attempt at a story
we have seen for two days. .. .D.J.8.: Little jig-
gettv-jig rhyme about “Life’s Charity brought
us no joy R.C.: “Jasper Jiggins’ is wicked
business. Scarcely a line will rhyme or s ean... .
P. H. Hickey: This paper is gratified to be told, m
reference to its views (6/3/’l3), that “the full force
of organised labor” is now guaranteed under the
basis of union proposed in March last. But it is far
from being convinced. When news of the reconcilia-
tion was suddenly fired into the clouds, it was
centred in the garish illumination that “the working
class and the employing class have nothing in com-
mon .... Between these two classes a struggle must go
on until the workers of the world organise as a class
take possession of the earth and the machinery of
production and abolish the wage system. Some of
The Bulletin’s doubts will be removed when the
fragmentary sections of the party decide merely, to
construct a simple, possible and effective political
platform on common ground, and get to work. The
job of taking possession of the earth is vague and in-
definite. and likelv to take a long time, even if no-
body else objected. You further complain: “As to
militarism and conscription, we here (M.L.) know
the infamies perpetrated in the name of defence, and
are not going to sit deaf and dumb thereon even to
win The Bulletin’s approval.” First of all you
have neither militarism nor conscription ; but if it
be the infamies of compulsory citizen defence that
you refer to, you may easily ascertain the mildness
thereof compared with the infamies that recently
befel Korea where citizen defence was not part of
the programme.... Luke Warm: Fairly funny, also
f a j r ]v libellous, for which reasons it achieved the holv
chuck. You say it is necessary for your real nam°
to remain secret. Well, it might cost us a good deal
if our name didn’t remain secret also.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Scott: We recognise most of the gags as desper-
ately old, and naturally suspect the pictures of being
old also. Likewise we suspect you of being very
vou n»'. A more experienced person would have used
gags that weren’t quite so well known. . . .F.M.M.,
Nemo, H.G.R., S. Smith, G.J.J.M.: Unsuitable,
mostly by reason of advanced years. . . . Mafuta: Can t
see a picture in it.... Caper: Nasty... .Rupert C.,
R jC n.G.S., H.K.D.: They’ve already done as
much work as can reasonably be expected of a joke.
I . .F.C.8.: Mechanical S. J.M.: Drawing neat in
spots Worth keeping at. But don’t practise on so
I small a scale Highton: Draw—don’t scratch.
And then you may do something worth while....
Bro.: Too complicated for a small thing.... G.G.P.:
Verse for illustration ingenious enough, but out of
our line. Others no value. E.C.: Cast out —with
hesitation. . . .Clvde J.: If you unlearned what you’ve
learned, and learned a few other things, and prac-
tised hard for five years, it might be worth while
submitting another D.L.T.S. : The first two gags
are old, so the rest fall under suspicion. .. .P.L.G.:
Some merit in the drawing. None in the subjects.
. J.McD.: Bit over the odds for a paper especially
designed for Sunday reading W.D.B. : Medical
jokes should be carefully selected. Some of them are
too unpleasant Chy H.: Your two men aren’t
saying anything of the slightest interest, and their
pants are too horrible for words.... Jan R.: The
picture isn’t much good. The joke isn’t much good.
And what is the use of a servant girl joke when the
servant girl is extinct ?.... Percy S.: Yours is the
third pictorial joke about “pantomine poisoning” that
has come to hand this week. Why this rush? What
variety show is the joke being worked at?
E J.McK.: Even if your “Day of Judgment” drawing
was a lot better than it is, old age disqualifies the
jest. Please drop the Methuselah business.


Public Opinion, and
Beale High-grade Pianos.
The great majority of our Pianos are sold on the personal recommendation of users, and we are constantly receiving letters from our
customers praising the Beale High-Grade Pianos. Our instruments are in use in every part of Australia; in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New
Caledonia, Mauritius, South Africa, India, and on the Continent of Europe; and everywhere they give the same unbounded satisfaction.
Below we give a few (greatly condensed) extracts from unsolicited testimonials from buyers of Beale High-Grade Pianos.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. FRED L. GOODMAN, Mascotte, Hardy
Street, Ashfield: —
“Splendid, and the tone is perfect. Pro-
fessional musicians have highly commended
it. You are quite at liberty to refer any in-
tending purchaser, desirous of independent
testimony, to me.’’
Mr. WALTER BAXTER, Sen., Albert Street,
Wickham:—
“Entire satisfaction. Keeping up its splen-
did reputation.”
Mr. RAYMOND WALKER, Coolalie:—
i “Very pleased with piano in every way.
Neighbors admire very much.”
Mrs. T. A. HAYNES, Alandale, Cockamid-
gera:—
“Very much pleased with piano. Entire
satisfaction in every way.”
Mr. F. WELLS, Wattamolla, Berry:—
“Piano gives every satisfaction. Neighbors
and friends all speak of it in the highest
terms.”
Mr. F. A. McGINLEY, Sale Street, Orange:—
“May mention that we are thoroughly
pleased with the instrument. Beautiful rich
tone.”
The PRINCIPAL, Cook’s Hill Girls' Superior
Public School, Newcastle: —
“The two Upright Grand Pianos supplied
to the school four years ago have been in con-
stant use. They have given entire satisfac-
tion, and are well adapted for school pur-
poses. The tone is sweet and mellow, and the
pitch is fully maintained, necessitating little
attention in the way of tuning.”
Mrs. GRACE E. BROOKS, Yetman, via In-
verell: —
“Very pleased with the piano. Splendid in-
strument, with a lovely tone.”
Mr. FRANK BELFORD, Hon. Sec. Comboyne
Union Hall Trustees, Comboyne:—
“Pleased to say piano purchased from you
for the hall is giving every satisfaction.”
QUEENSLAND.
Mr. N. GOODFELLOW, Mount View, Mus-
grave Road, Red Hill: —
“Very pleased with the piano. Tone is ex-
cellent, and remains in tune wonderfully
well.” *
Mrs. M. M. MARKS, Clifton Station, Mor-
ven: —
“Piano is excellent, and has stood this
climate exceptionally well. Has only needed
tuning once since I got it.”
Mr. J. PIDGEON, Klienton, Crow’s Nest line,
via Toowoomba: —
“Should like to say that I am very pleased
with the piano. Tone is really beautiful, and
seems to improve with use.”
Mrs. M. CARTER, Fernberg Road, Rasalie:—
“Satisfied with the piano in every way.”
Dr. L. M. McKILLOP, Blackall (Q.)
“It is undoubtedly a magnificent instru-
ment, and your firm is to be congratulated
upon being able to turn out such splendid
work.”
Mr. W. H. SIMPSON, Huelva, Gilliatt:—
“Although this is a very trying climate for
pianos, my Beale is as good as the day it
arrived.”
VICTORIA.
Mr. J. 11. BAYNE, Carnavon Street, Auburn:
“A superb instrument with a magnificent
tone, friends admire it greatly.”
Miss GLADYS WAITE, Norong, via Ruther-
glen:—
“The piano has given me entire satisfac-
tion.”
Mrs. G. M. GOULD, Thomson Street, Hamil-
ton
“Will never cease recommending your
pianos, as I think so highly of them. Mine
has given nothing but satisfaction.”
Miss L. LOVERING, State School, Kerang:—
“Thoroughly satisfied with the instrument.”
Mr. .1. H. ROGERS, Woolocot Street, Co-
burg : —-
“Must say that everyone who has been to
my place has nothing but praise for the
piano.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. 11. J. ARMITAGE, Public School, Hough-
ton :
“Piano, which I have had for three years,
has been in constant use, and tone is as good
as when I got it. Pianists often remark on
its great purity of tone.”
Mrs. H. WALKER, Wandilo, Mount Gambier:
“Must express my satisfaction with your
beautiful, sweet-toned instrument.”
Mr. JOHN O. WIIITEMORE, Dunoon, Victor
Harbor:—
“Much pleased with the instrument in
every way, and gratified with the opinions of
several friends who are professional musi-
cians.”
Mrs. ROSE A. HUNTER, Fairview, Eu-
dunda:—
“May say that I am more than pleased
with the piano.”
Mr. WILLIAM J. HOCKING, Kingston:—
“Everyone agrees that it is a splendid in-
strument.”
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Mr. G. A. BEECK, Katanning:—
“Self and family are more than pleased
with the Beale High-grade Piano.”
Mr. J. A. MILLS, York:—
“Quite satisfied with piano in every way.”
Mrs. C. POWELL, Linden Villa, Stirling
Street, Perth: —
“There is not a better instrument in Perth.”
Mr. T. WARD, Wagin, Western Australia: —
“Greatly satisfied in every respect.”
Mr. W. H. BROWN, Ivalgoorlie:—
“Very pleased with the instrument. Much
better than I expected.”
TASMANIA 8 NEW ZEALAND.
Mr. C. J. HINE, 28 Hillside Crescent, Laun-
ceston :
“Instrument is all that could be desired.”
Mrs. J. ANDERSON, 19 Burnett Street,
Hobart: —-
“Can highly recommend to anyone re-
quiring a first-class piano.”
Mrs. J. HARVEY, Hamilton: —
“Excellent piano. Many have expressed
their delight at 'hearing an instrument with
so mellow a tone.”
Mr. A. O. WOODS, Liverpool Street, Hobart:
“Tone is even better than when we first got
it. Can recommend strongly.”
Mr. EDMUND ANSCOMBE, 134 Princess
Street, Dunedin, New Zealand: —
“All who have tried it have expressed
themselves as being delighted with its beau-
tiful tone and appearance.”
We have literally thousands more
such testimonials, from almost every
part of the world. The immense suc-
cess attained by the Beale Pianos is
due solely to their high-grade quality.
From the very first we have given our
utmost endeavor to turn out only thor-
oughly reliable, soundly constructed
pianos, embodying the very best musi-
cal qualities. We have created a won-
derful factory organisation, and we
pay the best brains and the best skill,
so as to ensure a perfect result. We
realise that an Australian-made piano ,
is subjected to much closer scrutiny
in Australia than any imported piano,
and therefore we make—we are
compelled to make —our pianos much
better than those of our competitors.
At the same time, by making pianos
in Australia, we are in the position to
make them much better suited to Aus-
tralian conditions. Any competent
cabinetmaker will tell you that timber
seasoned in the cold, damp climate of
Europe and America cannot be ex-
pected to withstand Australian ex-
tremes of dry heat as well as timber
which is seasoned in this climate. This
is a most important point in piano-
making, and is one good reason why
so many foreign pianos develop cracked
sounding-boards, split tuning-systems
and faulty casework soon after arrival
in this country. But no man can say
he ever saw a Beale piano with a
cracked sounding-board. We abso-
lutely guarantee that the sounding-
boards of Beale Pianos will never
crack in any climate, because our spe-
cial system of construction renders
cracking an impossibility, at the same
time that it greatly enhances the tonal
qualities of the instrument. Beale
Pianos contain the only practical steel
tuning-system in the world —so there
can be no question of splitting of the
wrest-plank. And then our patented
system of cross-plied woodwork enr
sures permanence for the outside case
of the pianos.
Be sure of this: the better musician you are, the more you will delight in a Beale High-Grade 1 iano.
We have always on hand a number of good second-hand pianos, taken in part payment of Beale 1 ianos.
Call and inspect the Beale Pianos now. Inspection does not put you under any obligation whatever. You suit yourself entiiely a&
whether you purchase.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we will he pleased to send post free.
BEALE CO. LTD.
MAKERS OF
BEA. L E HIGH-GRADE PIA. N O 5
«The Utmost Care ini the Smallest Details.”
CARL VADE.R PIANOS.
Prices: £49, 55, 00, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST.. MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CVSH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


25/ -
FERN POT, pure silver-plated,
handsomely embossed and en-
graved, 4Jin. high.
21/-
TEAPOT, pure silver-plated, hand-
fluted, engraved bands.
217-
dinner CRUET, pure silver-
plated, crystal glass bottles-
SENDS YOU FREE-
12/6.
BUTTER DISH, pure silver-plated,
nickel silver, hand-embossed, cut,
crystal glass.
A Magnificent New Silverware Catalogue of 200
Pages—each page filled with delightfully up-to-
date designs for Wedding or Birthday Gifts,
high in quality and wonderfully low in price.
307-
vegetable DISH, pure sil-
ver-plated, on nickel silver,
highlv burnished.
25/-
BISCUIT BARREL, polished Eng-
lish oak, silver-plated mounts, por-
celain china lining.
25/6.
Handsome CHINA TEA SET,
40 pieces, handsome floral de-
sign, decorated gilt. Postage
extra.
£2/7/6.
HOT-WATER KETTLE & STAND,
pure silver-plated, rustic stand, richly
embossed.
10/6.
EGG FRAME AND SPOONS,
silver-plated, nickel silver.
25/-
CAKE BASKET, pure silver-
plated, nickel silver, richly en-
graved.
Si
PRESERVE DISH, pure sil-
ver-plated, crystal glass dish.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
10/6
SUGAR BASIN, pure
silver-plated, nickel sil-
ver, richly burnished.
fin
itmwIIIIIIM
WE PAY
POSTAGE
L
£
10/6 Pair.
SALT CELLAR AND
SPOON, pure silver-
plated, nickel silver,
rainbow glass.
12/6.
FISII SERVERS, pure silver-plated, hand-engraved blades, xylonite
handles. Ivory handles, 30 / -
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
■■
KM
■ -•'■ .«.
«¥»*
f:
/
111
X
v
• ______........./I
&
X
What a difference stropping makes!
Only those who have used an Auto Strop in companson
with a non-stropping safety can tell just how much difference
there is—not only in the smooth, close shave which the
sharp stropped blade of an Auto Strop ensures, but in the
simplicity of its use also.
It takes far less time to strop an Auto Strop blade (and so keep it in the pink of condition)
than to put a new blade into a non-stropping safety razor. The Auto Strop is the only razor
that strops itself and consequently
SAVES CONSTANT EXPENSE FOR BLADES.
AuloStrop
k s^ F z ET oR
Standard Set, containing self-stropping
Auto Strop Safety Razor, one dozen
improved rust-proof “Valet” blades,
and genuine horsehide strop, complete
in leather-covered case.
Price in Australia - - 22/6
Price in New Zealand 257-
Sol e Depot for Australasia :
PARTRIDGE—ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.


"
9*s
• z
/
■.
s=j ~353
ell
:*;3
ijsiliil
jm,
-■if:, 4-^
niHHH
.
'i*
FLUID
BELT POWER HAMMERS
< —SIEMEHS TDUCB STEEL
ZIEHENS TOUCH STEEL
SIEMENS TOUCH STEEL
CAST STEEL. HARDENED
CAST STEEL. HARDENED
SIEMENS TOUGH STEEL
THE ONLY ONE WORTH
YOUR CONSIDERATION.
British Made.
Highest Efficiency.
THESE Machines are con-
trolled by the foot treadle
which is very sensitive,
so that the heaviest blows to
the lightest tap are easily de-
termined by the operator.
The body' of the Hammer is
cast in one piece, making the
Hammer very strong and self-
contained, thereby requiring
no special foundation. The
Bearings are exceptionally
long and are bushed with
Phosphor Bronze. The Heads
Slides, Bottom Anvil Blocks,
are of tough Steel, wifi? top
and bottom faces of Hardened
Cast Steel; the Springs are of
best quality of tough Spring
Steel, and are oil tempered;
the Anvil Faces set at an
angle so that long bars may be
dealt with. The Heads work-
in long, parallel Slides, which
enables it to always alight in
the same place. Fitted to the
head and to the ends of the
spring are two Steel Shackles
and connecting links which
make the working of the Head
very flexible
The Hammer is built for
work, simple in construction,
very few working parts, and
nothing to get out of order.
Made in
501 b. 801 b.
Sizes.
1001 b:
3cwt.
sin. dia.
dia.
dia.
1-H.P.
28cwt.
Used Universally throughout Australia.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
More in use than any other make.
CASH OR LIBERAL TERMS.
Machine Tools for Engineers’ and Woodworkers’ Shafting, Pulleys, Millgearing, etc.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Model 1906 Repeating Rifle
Shoots .22 Short, .22 Long
and .22 Long Rifle Cartridges
For a good ail-round small caliber rifle for target or small
game shooting, nothing can beat the Winchester 1906
Repeater. It shoots three cartridges of different sizes,
giving quite a range of power. It has the rapid and
popular sliding forearm action and is bored and rifled to do
accurate shooting. It’s adjustable sights provide for shoot-
ing at varying distances. It has the reliability, good finish
and wearing qualities that Winchester rifles are famous
for, and yet it costs very little money. Ask your dealer
to show you one of these light-weight, handy repeaters.
A WINCHESTER REPEATER AT A LOW PRICE,
IMErW
REXOPMOME
RECORDS
The World’s Best Double-Sided Records.
APRIL NUMBERS ARE EVEN BETTER THAN USUAL.
2/6 EACH.
It is difficult to select any of the New April Rexophone
Records for special mention because of their uniform
excellence. The following numbers are representative
of the high quality of the whole series: No. 5344—the
absolute hit of the “Puss in Boots” Pantomime; No.
5356—another Panto, success; No 5371—Popular
Operatic Successes; No. 5385—Fine Selections from the
Opera by Lehar, composer of The Merry Widow.
'4
ah
+•
5331.
5332.
5333.
5334.
5335.
5336.
5337.
5338.
5329. Punjaub March (Lehar) ,
Balkan’s March (Rupprecht)
Band of the Bosnian Ist
Infantry Regiment
5330. Soldier’s Greeting March
(Stolz); , ,
Sons of the Brave March (Bid-
good)— _ ,
Royal Regimental Band
Popular Songs, No. 3 (with Cornet
Solo, “Some Day You’ll .Know )
Popular Songs, No. 3 (with Cornet
Solo, “All That I Ask is Dove )
Rexophone Military Band
Bohemian Girl Overture (with Clari-
onet Solo, “I Dreamt That I Dwelt
in Marble Halls”) —
Bohemian Girl Selection (with Cor-
net Solo, “Then You’ll Remember
Me”) —
Rexophone Concert Orchestra
A Sailor’s Life (Descriptive):
A Rife on the Ocean Wave (Descrip-
tive) — Rexophone Military Band
Chocolate Soldier Waltz (Waltz
Song); ..
Quaker Girl Waltz —
Rexophone Concert Band
Holy City (Cornet Solo);
I’ll Sing Thee Songs of Araby (Cor-
net Solo) Harry Bryan
Rost Chord (Grand Pipe Organ
Ora'pro Nobis (Grand Pipe Organ
Solo) , Dr. Boehm
Bravo ! Fantasia (Xylophone Solo);
Hungarian Airs (Xylophone Solo)
Signor Yenzano
Bonnie Rass o’ Ballochmyle (Aecor-
deon Solo); ~ .
Star o’ Bobbie Burns (Accor deon
soiol— Pamby Dick
5339. If I Built a World for You
(Lehmann), with Piano;
Somfewhere a Voice is Calling
(Tate), with Orchestra—
Annie Bartle
5340. Down the Vale (Pr. L. Moir) ;
Miss Jessie Broughton and
Mr. Denis Creedon
Flow Gently, Deva (Parry)—
Mr. John Bardsley and Mr. Randall
Jackson
5341. Love’s Request (Alex. Reichardt) ;
My Nannie’s Awa’ (Old Scotch Song)
John Jamieson
5342. Chiming Bells of Long Ago;
Old Rustic Bridge By the Mill —
Alfred Jennings
5343. I Don’t Mind Leaving the Dear Home-
land (Miller and Gifford);
You Taught Me How to Love You—
Stanley Kirkby
5344. Everybody’s Doing It Now (Irving
Berlin); .
Cubanola Glide (H. Von Tilzer) —
Stanley Kirkby
5345. Paper Bag Cookery;
The Spaniard That Blighted *My
Fife — Harry Bluff
5346. The Picnic (Every Lassie Loves a
Laddie) ;
Breakfast In Bed On Sunday Morn-
ing— Sandy McGregor
5356. The Policeman’s Holiday (Ewing) ;
Jolly Fellows Waltz (Volstedt)—
Rexophone Concert Band
5371. Sunshine Girl Selection;
Pink Lady Selection —
Rexophone Concert Orchestra
5385. The Count of Luxembourg (Lehar) ,
Selection 1;
The Count of Luxembourg (Lehar),
Selection 2
Rexophone Concert Band
Ask for complete Catalogue of Rexophones and Rexophone Records. Obtain-
able from all Talking Machine Dealers. If you cannot procure from your
dealer, send to us. POSTAGE ON 12 RECORDS is 2/6.
lacßson & Macdonald,
457 KENT STREET, Corner Druitt Street, SYDNEY.


LAST DAYS!
LAST DAYS!
£lOOO
in
Prizes
£lOOO
Work of Art. Work of Art
First Great Prize, Value £5OO
Or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the
World and £lOO in Cash for ONE
PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Note.— The Committee, having paid full
value for the work of art, is prepared do find
a purchaser for same at the advertised
amount if the winner so desires, also for the
Second and Third Prizes.
Second, Value £lOO.
Third, Value £5O.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours
Great Art Union
57th Year —Oldest and Most Popular—s7th
Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the
Hospitals and Public
Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. A list of winning numbers will
be posted to any person on sending an ad-
dressed envelope to the representative, with
stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
26th April, or send Postal Note. P. 0.0., or
stamps with Exchange added, direct to the
representative, 165 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
at once for tickets, and secure a chance in
this Great Art Union, 22 for £l, 11 for 10s.,
or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Mel-
bourne before the date of draiving, May 13,
1913.
Lest You Forget, Buy To-day
THEO. W. IIEIDE, Representative,
165 Flinders Lane, Melb., Vic.
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
'‘Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
KOCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
'Ringing for MoreT'
,uy
MS
A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years ’ success. J
UNCLAIMED MONEY& PROPERTY.
DOUGAL’S REGISTER to NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, &c., *c„ price
5/-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal * Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
00UCAL&C0.,151. STRAND, LONDON, ENCLAND.
(Established over GO Years.)
Fairbanks-Morse Marine Engines
For Pleasure Craft and Work Boats
They start without cranking, run
smoothly and always develop more
than rated power. Simple.
Compact. All parts easily acces-
sible and interchangeable. Re-
markable for their reliability and
economy in fuel consumption. Price
Reasonable. Fullv Guaranteed.'
High Speed Engines, 3A to 24 H.P.
Slow Speed Engines, 7 A and 15 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.CV1939.
Fairbanks-Morsc
Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy engines especially suited
for pumping or running light machinery.
Simple. Compact. Two sizes. Will operate
any windmill pump.
Full description in Catalog N0.1939VR.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Agents:
C. H. RELPH
Sidney, N. S. W.
F.lht.
lype
<< K ,>
7HH.P.
Fairbanks-Morse
Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol
or Distillate. Stationary and
types. Sizes 2to 200 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.AL1939
(Gasoline)
Portable
Wabash Ave. and Chicago,
Eldredge Place U. S. A.
WEBSTER & CO.. Ltd.
Brisbane, Queensland
MALLACH BROS.
Perth, W. A.
OUR BUSINESS
is to make known the
advantages of the
Silent Empire
Biograph
—undoubtedly the best Pro-
jecting Machine on the
market to-day.
WHY?
Because its many good points
stand out so clearly and all
users are high in their praise
of this British-built Bioscope.
JUST A FEW OF ITS
STRONG POINTS
It is Durable. Handy,
Flickerless, Steady,
Fireproof, Silent.
It has Heat Shield,
Bevel Gear Take-up,
Automatic Brake,
All Steel Sprockets,
Maltese Cross in
Oil Bath.
[TiTTy'\* r * f
Years of experience ini
the Moving Picture-
Business has made us.
competent judges.
OUR DECISION:
The Silent
Empire is
The Bioscope
of To-day.
Send to us for further
particulars. There are
hundreds of good things
you should know about
this machine.
JERDANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
§
DON’T leave your arrangements for
this trip till the last. Enquiries
are pouring in from all parts of the
Commonwealth and New Zealand. Bris-
bane is to have the carnival time of its
existence.
The Brisbane Cup is the big race—another
Melbourne Cup, as great a social event, but
delightfully different to Flemington.
Write now, to-day, for full particulars to
C. DYSOMOLLAND,
Sec. Q.T.C.,
Creek Street,
BRISBANE.
m
ii
Presentation Silver.
We allow 20 per cent, discount
off the English Manufacturers’
Wholesale Catalogue Prices for
presentations.
Our managing director has lately
returned from England, where he
made special selections. Our enorm-
ous output enabled him to place
orders of such magnitude that he
was enabled to command special
concessions. Our Stock embrace*
the very latest designs, and is oue
of the largest in the Common
wealth.
The quality of the goods is the
best only, and the prices are abso-
hitely BEDROCK.
We have been supplying Presen-
tation Goods so long that we know
all about them, and so can suggest
and facilitate selection.
It affords us pleasure to submit
a selection on approval when so
desired.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd
■»
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
PLAIN FIGURES-CASH.
GSD
Solid Silver Vase and Bon Bon Dishes combined,
standing Sin. high, choicely cased, .. £B/10/-
Less‘2o % discount .. £l/14/-
_
£6/16/’
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
“Ami”: W. J. Holloway, just dead in London,
first came into notice on the Sydney side. Charles,
who came on the stage later, was a brother ; he mar-
ried Alice Deorwyn, and Beatrice is their daughter.
W.J. married Mrs. Jenyns, widow of a doctor, and
known on the stage as' Kate Arden. She was the
mother of Essie Jenyns. W.J. acted Dazzle in “Lon-
don Assurance,” at the opening of the Melbourne
Opera House, 1872. When Essie had got sufficient
experience, W.J. headed a dramatic co., of which
she was the star. Atholwood, Greenaway, Inman,
Rolfe, Stewart, jun., and others were in the casts.
This long-sustained venture brought forward an un-
precedented number of young Australian actors in
Shakspearian and other first-rate plays. Essie so
utterly quenched the ladies of the company that one
hardly remembers any of them. When she married
the wealthy Newcastle Wood, of the local brewery,
W.J.’s occupation was largely gone. Essie’s mother
jealously estopped. the young chaps out of the part
of Romeo, for which all those mentioned above were
ambitious. W.J. himself had to be. Romeo, and at
last it became rather absurd. In London he acted
with Irving in “Lear” and “Becket.” His son is a
theatrical manager in South Africa and elsewhere.
“Haresfoot”: Gen6e and the Moscow Ballet are
coming—the biggest thing since the arrival of Sally
Heartburn, and that’s a jump of 22 years. Ballet
rapidly followed opera in London. Addison and
other sensible men thought the ballet better than
the opera. The Spectator of that day declared that
the earliest Italian singers flung heaps of insults, in
their own language, at the fashionable audiences,
which would exclaim “Bravo!” or “Divine!” after
the soprano and tenor had been warbling something
like “You English are a parcel of fools for enriching
mountebanks like us.” During the long, warlike
tension with France, with but litle peace between
1795 and 1815, the ballet in London dropped dead.
It resurrected with a rush when Bonaparte had been
finally overthrown. Then came the era of Tagli-
oni,. Cerito (or Cherrytoe), the Elsslers, Carlotta
Grisi, Grahn, and so forth. The immortal Pas de
Quatre was danced bv Taglioni, Cerito, C. Grisi and
Grahn. Short skirt was the rule; the long sk'rt
came only with Kate Vaughan, Sylvia Grey, Alice
Lethbride and the like.
Recently the Melbourne Board of Public Health
announced its intention of forcing managers of all
theatres and other stuffy places of licensed enter-
tainment to provide an efficient system of artificial
ventilation for their auditoriums. There is only
one objection to the proposed reform: under present
conditions the air at most of the show places is so
heavy with impurities that a bored spectator can
fall asleep quite easily.
In the midst of bruiser Johnson’s recent argu-
ment with the laW on the female question, a cute
Yankee manager adapted “Bella Donna” to the oc-
casion by bodily “lifting” the piece (dialogue, situa-
tions and all), merely changing the characters of
Mrs. Armine and the Egyptian Boroudi to those of
Lucille Cameron and Johnson. The enterprising
pirate was doing “overflowing biz.” when Charles
Frohman suddenly biffed him per injunction.
“J.F.H.”: The revival of negro minstrelsv at
London Palladium has proved a success beyond all
expectations. are only given in the
afternoons, as the Palladium wanted for its usual
variety entertainment in the evening; yet, although
the afternoon is not the best time for amusement
ournoses, the Palladium, which seats 5000, is daily
besieged bv crowds of twice and trefcle that num-
ber, and extra police have had to be requisitioned to
marshal the unprecedented queues, and keep them
in order. A new generation has grown up since
burnt-cork entertainment underwent an eclipse, and
to these people it is a revelation and a novelty.
Besides, even in the palmiest days of minstrelsy ‘ a
troupe of 130 strong was never seen in Londori or
anywhere else.
“Stargazer”: The pathetic craving for happy end-
ings is responsible for the fact that “Milestones” has
a decided tail. After being consistent to his char-
acter and temperament from 1860 to 1912, John
Rhead, slumps- suddenly at the finish. Other char-
acters, too, go back on themselves with a jolt that
lands them right out of the picture, with the result
that the finish gives you an impression of a hurried
and incongruous cleaning-up. To the playgoer afflicted
with a trace of artistry the close is most unhappv.
It might have been cruel to have employed the third
generation to knock out Grandpa Rhead,' but at least
it would have been consistent.
The Pollard co. of operatic youngsters, who have
been making Canada their hunting ground for a year
or so, begin to look homewards, and their next big
bill will be for steamship fares to Australia.
From. London: The speculators who took the Lon-
don Opera House off the hands of its disillusioned
promoter, the N’York Jew Hammerstein, have put
up the shutters. So it may be taken for granted
that variety, plus picture-palace business, has failed
there as well as grand opera, and Hammerstein’s
chances of getting back any of his quarter-million
are bluer than ever. The gorgeous place is built in
the new Kingsway, carved by the London County
Council through a former slum area. Londoners
have not yet discovered this new street, and they
have no use for it at night. In 10 years the groovy,
conservative Londoners may have learned how to
get into Kingsway. At present their ideas of amuse-
ment are centred' in the Strand and Leicester Square.
“J.F.H.”: Stanley Houghton, who scored a success
with “Hindle Wakes,” has had another plav pro-
duced at London Garrick under the title of “Trust
the People.” The name suggests politics, and the
name doesn’t lie. The question is: Suppose a pro-
minent politician gets entangled with a siren and
figures as co-re., should. his constituents give him
the “chuck,” and should he be hounded out of public
life? It sounds interesting, and the piece is well-
constructed. Yet it is not likely to arouse half so
much interest as “Hindle Wakes.” Somehow the
average public shies off politics on the stage.
“Rosna”: Percy Grainger, conducting his Irish jig
for strings, “Molly on the Shore,” at the Balfour-
Gardiner concert, Queen’s Hall, London, was a start-
ling apparition—long yellow hair waving wHdly,
and arms and body waving with it. The maker of
gorgeous noises looked like a little marionette, and
his conducting made you giddy; but they were reallv
heavenly noises if you shut your eyes.
INDUSTRY OR ART?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The leading theatrical managements object to the
registration of an actors’ union, on the ground that
its members are not engaged in an industry.
— Neii'S item.
I watched the ill-stared heroine,
And thought it most unfair
That any lady, such as she,
Who suffered from obesity
Should be compelled to bear
The burden of a frenzied play,
To make a Melbourne holiday.
She had to mount a restless horse,
And from a house-top spring,
And drag the hero, fat and large,
To safety from a burning barge;
The villain, too, would fling
The poor soul from a canvas cliff,
Though she was middle-aged and stiff!
The malefactor also had
A pretty rotten time.
The hero when he came around
Ne’er failed to dash him to the ground ;
The man was past his prime,
But took his share of boot and bash !
Thought I: “The fellow earns his cash!”
The low comedian suffered much ;
His toil he never shirked.
The “gods” roared when he struck the earth
With force and hurt his seat of mirth!
I mused, what time he worked:
“If this is not an industry,
In Hpavpti’s namp whof non if Kn9”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


■ mil'll"
whisky
FIND THE WHISKY THAT SDITS YOU-and KEEP TO IT!
HERB is why Thorne’s Old Highland Malt Whisky will suit you : It is pure,
and of a uniformly high quality. It is full-flavored, and of a rich, smooth
mellowness. It has the Thorne flavor —the flavor that always pleases the
palate. It is fully aged, shrewdly blended, and possesses every attribute
and quality indispensable to the perfect whisky.
There is no whisky more wholesome, purer, or more delightful than
Incomparable
THORNE’S ohm. WHISKY
t*>- w;
m
M*i.
'•
“•* -w
•i
is
M
*
]•&*&**"
t<
iuk
.


HORSESHOE
R
E
D
Whether you like your dish of Salmon hot
or cold —make it with Horseshoe.
This firm, red fish —which is canned
immediately from the fresh-caught Salmon
—retains the delicate, fresh flavor to the
full. It is as nourishing as it is delicious.
R
E
D
SALMON
A
THE
“Four-Cuff” Shirt
Will Outwear
Three Ordinary Shirts.
No matter how good the material may be,
your shirts are at the mercy <?f the laundry.
The cuffs go first—then the laundress seems
to have an irresistible desire to push the
iron through the material near the neckband.
We have perfected a shirt that will with-
stand the ravages of the laundry.
It has double material round the neck (see
dotted lines), and a separate pair of cuffs
goes with each shirt. They can be sewn on
when the first pair shows any sign of wear.
Made from French cambrics that will not
fade, in our own electrically-equipped fac-
tory.
Price 5/6, or 3 for 16/=,
Post Free.
FINNEYS
The Drapers of
Queensland,
BRISBANE.
Government Notices.
Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Railway.
Lighting, Heating and Power Plant for
Construction Trains.
QUOTATIONS will be received until
noon on WEDNESDAY, MAY 14, for
the supply of Lighting, Heating and 1 own
Plant for Construction Trains at Kalgoorlie
and Port Augusta.
Drawing, Specification and Schedule of
Requirements may be seen on and arte
April 9 at the Commonwealth Rauwa
Offices, 84 William Street, Melbourne, am
also at the Offices of the Works Directoi,
Custom House, Sydney, and the' Common
wealth Public Service Inspectors at t>n
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for copy of Specification and
Plan will be 10s., which must be naid belo
the document can be handed over.
Quotations endorsed “Quotations for LigljC
ing, Heating and Power Plant” are to £>•
addressed to the Engineer-in-Chief, Com-
monwealth Railways, 84 William “tree ,
Melbourne.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
IN
BANANA LAND
As a rule, rainfall is measured in Banana-
land by the inch, but in wet seasons Innisl-
- and the Johnstone estimate the down-
pour by the foot. Cairns goes one better
this year, and gravely reckons by the yard.
If the political atmosphere were clearer and
sugar-mills either more frequent or a little
less rapacious, the outlook for the sugar-
grower (who likes his moisture in yards)
w r ould be better this season than ever before
within the memory of the Deadest Inhabi-
tant.
Up North you never know what the rum
may do to you. Hence, probably, this pre-
cautionary advt. in a Rockhampton paper:
WARNING.
ANY PERSON found DAMAGING my Char-
acter during the Easter holidays, will be pro-
ceeded against.
John So-and-So.
It ends vaguely, like a novel with the pages
torn out of the penultimate chapter. What
did, John So-and-So expect to happen to his
character during the Easter holidays? Was
it more fragile then than at other times, or
had he less time than usual to look after it?
A CONTRADICTION.
TEMPERANCE C RANK: “And is year father a teetotaler, my boy?'”
THE B OY: “No, sir, he’s a commercial traveller.”
Distinguished people have a knack of
showing up in unexpected places in Bris-
bane. One Sherlock Holmes appeared before
the Bench last week, and a certain William
Makepeace Thackeray stood before the mag-
istracy a short time ago.
“X.P.D.”: Talk about the irreligious
State of Australia doesn’t apply to the
ancient city of Ipswich, anyhow. Instead
of using corners for their legitimate purpose
of accommodating pubs, Ipswich puts its
churches there —there are two in the main
street. Yet things are so crowded in the
sanctuaries on Sundays that ' there is an
overflow, and complaints are made in print
of the street preachers interfering with the
“inside” worshippers by their loud bellow-
ing about Babylon and Benjamin and Beer-
sheba, Thei;e was a big poll lately on the
question of extending the town boundaries,
but I don’t know that it w T as altogether to
relieve the overlapping of religions.
“Lex” from' Outback :
The moral of this story is that we are a practical
people out here' in . the Bush. The case was heard at
Longreach. Accused was one Winterßottom, : locally
known as “Summertop,” of the ancient Order of
Master Drovers. He was charged with the larceny
of a dog. This charge “Summertop” indignantly
denied, and hired Gentleman One to help him in his
denial. As the case could not be finished the day it
commenced, he had to spend a night in the cells.
Next morning, after hearing the evidence, speeches
of counsel, and charge Of the Judge (Arthur Rut-
ledge), the jury* 1 found the prisoner not guilty.
“Summertop” no sooned heard the words of release
than he slipped from the dock through a window, and
I caught just a glimpse of his coat tails disappearing
in the doorway of, an adjacent pub. The Judge, who
is rather short-sighted, didn’t notice that' the prisoner
had gone; and, (assuming that he was still in the
dock, apologised to him during 15 minutes or so for
the mistake that had been' made ’in his tem-
porary imprisoninent. The dog, the subject of
all the trouble, was still in the hands of the
police. As no less than three persons had claimed
it, the sergeant to know whose property it
was. The Judge did his best to get an agreement,
and at length suggested a conference. A conference
was duly held, and an agreement arrived at whereby
one of the claimants was to get the dog, and the
other two were each to get a pup out of the first
litter coming to this world after the next sitting of
tne Qourt; and the Judge made an order accordingly.
Thereafter all was peace and much beer.
The Victress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How fair that City was, how dreaming fair!
As I drew near,
My feet no longer faltered.... that was past.
I held the desert vigil, and the fast
Were purposed for this fruitage. “Lo, at
last
The One I seek awaits me, waiting there!”
1 spoke so of the City, drawing near.
I spoke so, knowing well that She w’ould
hear,
Who waited there,
Flashing a spirit summons from the goal.
And rich flame-pinions fluttered at my soul
As would no longer brook my feet’s control,
And sped me through the winnowing gulfs of
air,
Till all the City lay beneath me there.
A while I hovered o’er it, and the sight
Of such delight
Sent rapture-tremblings through me, till I
thought
“No mortal hands this City can have
wrought;
It is a mirage only, and. distraught
From over-yearning vigil, I surmise
This Place of Dreams to be in very wise!”
But there, just like a lovely rose, it lay
Amid the grey,
Wide wastes of desert, blossoming alone
As though, with its rare beauty, to atone
For lack of other sweetness by its own.
And then, within the City, I descried
Her face.... and, seeing, saw none else
beside.
I saw Her, naught beside her did I see:
And, seemingly,
It was as queen in this enchanted place
She lay there sleeping, all Her body’s grace
Robed in rich crimson, overlain with dace
Of threaded silver, while its golden hem
Swayed with Her breathing, as in requiem.
Her naked feet with golden anklets dight;
Her hands’ delight
Clasped inward to the jewelled zone that
traced
The yielding sweetness of her rounded waist;
Her lips’ red curves, imploring me to taste
(Whom Fate had long allotted as Her sire),
Thrilled me, enamored, with a surge of fire.
I swooped unto Her on the wings of flame,
And heard my name
Fall from Her lips as if in happy dream;
Nearing Her, all Her body seemed to beam
With sweet expectance. Then She waked—
the gleam
Of my flame-pinions was too utter bright,
Falling upon Her in despendent flight.
She viewed me with the wonder of a child ;
And then She smiled,
Closing again in rich content Her eyes,
And through Her lips came such a rush of
sighs
As told, within her heart, what rhapsodies
Made happy tumult there; Her heaving
breast
And arms upreaching to me, love contest.
What space it was we loved each other so,
I do not know:
No night there seemed to be nor any noon.
Nor any time nor place—but in a swoon
Of luscious joying, planet, sun and moon
Floated beside, beneath and overhead,
Hued as of blended green and gold and red.
I only know I weakened was at last
By some great blast
As though a High God summoned all his
host
To arms around him ; ghost on paling ghost
Sped to my vision, nor dared I accost
One in his speeding. . . .Yet as they went by,
Each looked upon me, moaning fearfully.
There was no City, and my love, whose
charms
Had filled my arms,
Was not beside me. On a desert plain
I writhed in an infinitude of pain.
As something wet dripped on me. . . .Was it
rain?
Looking above, I spied a harpy brood
Clamant to Her, my Victress, for their food,
As 10, She held a Red Thing, oozing blood.
It was my heart!. . . .And then I understood.
QUEENSLAND.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 12, 1913.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
To-day was Brisbane d la Henley, and in
celebration of the honor Providence rested
from the labors of its slush, and sun-decked
our winter-frocked population. Talking of
rain and other dampnesses reminds me that
Queensland’s representative lady rowing
four defeated the oars-women from Albert
Park (Vic.) by a margin of inches, and so
retained the ladies’ inter-State rowing cham-
pionship.
Amongst others who watched the marine
argument were the Governor and a select
few stationed aboard the Lucinda. Mayor
Doggett floated on the accumulated waters
upon the launch Ena. The Brisbane Club
and its femininity swarmed on the Emerald,
and every available yacht and motor-boat
was packed with flags and girls. The United
Service Institution moored a house-boat
close to Merthyr bank, where swarms of
temporarily-workless citizens fraternised
with the permanently-employed bull-dog
ants.
The house-boat was a gay affair, and re-
freshment tents were conveniently planted
on the nearest projection of land. Here the
Vision, in white silk and a black hat, came
in search of the eompany that cheers, and
the cup that utters loud applause but doesn’t
inebriate. Amongst the said company was
Oscar Asche, in a dark-blue male frock. I
don’t know what Lily Brayton wore, because
she wasn’t present.
Some of the decorated boats looked very
fine, noticeably the Lurline, in nale mauve
and greenery, and the Ruby shone like an
animated pagoda on its last keel.
The Victorian girls took their sculling de-
feat with every appearance of philosophy,
but, as you know, my dear, feminine phil-
osophy covers a multitude of boiling lan-
guage. They said they would be round next
year for another race, and I presume they
will. They looked like it.
On Tuesday the. Brisbane Ladies’ Rowing
Club fed the Victorian rowers on board the
State derelict Lucinda. On Wednesday they
were taken to look over one or two of the
flourishing little farms at Nundah, after
which the relentless bun was spread for
them in the Wassell home at Teneriffe. On
Thursday another tea jag was given them
by Mrs. Cowlishaw, president of the Chil-
dren’s Hospital.
Sandgate’s new Mayor, Ferguson, and his
wife, shook some dozens of. hands at the
Sandgate Town Hall last Tuesday. A more
or less musical programme and a breathless
hop were flung in as makeweights. Teenie
Annan (now Mrs. Jordan) uplifted a rich
contralto voice at the former function. As
a lifter she was great.
Evelyn Wrench, founder of the Overseas
Club, and his sister, found their way into
this hamlet at the beginning of the week.
They are .at Toowoomba at present, but are
due fo return in a day or two. Miss Wrench
is a somewhat busy, clever woman, who re-
tains enough femininity to bother about her
dfessi She spoke at the National Council
of Women on Friday, and looked smart
and well turned-out.
At the same N.C.W. meeting one lady read
a long paper on “Heredity,” and endeav-
ored to- prove her arguments by relating in-
cidents of family habits in guinea-pigs and
cabbages, i It was very enthralling but not
so enthralling as ostrich plumes or pending
divorce actions.
Gaud Mayor Doggett recepted the Vic.
lady rowers in the Town Hall On Tuesday
morn, and with delightful impartiality
called on every male person present to “say
a few words.” Alderman Leslie Corrie,
when his turn came, struck the audience
dumb by emphatically remarking: “I hate
rowing, and know nothing about it !” An
honest man's the most difficult work
Providence to put up with.
The Asche-Brayton season has been verv
successful here. Asche is verv like Hienold
in his methods, and seems to have a similar
knack of making friends. Likewise, nobodv
has anything but pleasant things to mention
about Lily Brayton. She was It in “The
Tamine of the Shrew.” but her Desdemono
might be better. Also, it might be
worse, and when one thinks how much
worse it might be, a large, pallid pause
descends upon the critic. Asche, who shines
as Hajj, Petruchio and Othello, is not so
successful as Sh.vlock. Indeed, he is such a
dirty-looking Israelite, that one can under-
stand Antonio’s somewhat pointed objections
to his company. Still, Antonio may have
been prejudiced, or Shylock may have been
kept so busy by Antonio’s persecution that
he hadn’t time to wash.
Harold Forbes and little Marjorie Webb
one of the large clan of the medico Webb
family, took the matrimonial fence last
Wednesday with the usual rice and satin
accompaniments. Four pretty bridesmaids
were on hand in case of accidents.
Mrs. Ross Munro has left for England to
bring home a wandering daughter, and Mrs
.Tim Robertson, one of our handsome younger
matrons, is on her way to Sydney to meet
daughter Marjorie, w r ho is travelling under
the Taverner wing.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Probate granted in the will of the late
David Hay Dalrymple showed that that
politician left an estate valued at nearly
£34,000. The genial but caustic Tory jester
was evidently no small potatoes as a
financier.
“Solit-link”: Wienholt, who includes a
boxing exhibition as a side-line in his elec-
tioneering stunt, learned the trick from
Armstrong, the present Speaker of the
Bananaland Assembly. When Armstrong
first stumped the Lockyer 19 years ago, he
carried a pair of gloves in his saddle-pouch,
and whenever he met with a few husky
young fellows he would show them a punch
or two. The mittens and his promises to
run light railways through the electorate
(in place of the very bad roads that existed,
though Armstrong was chairman of the locai
Shire Council) put him into the House.
Needless to say, after Armstrong got where
he wanted to get, the railways never mater-
ialised, and the mittens were put away for
good. He pulls through well enough' now
on bluff.


f
40?
mf
•m
AN EASY FIRST
WATSONS N°lo
Sytin eyflddreaa
360 Hen/- 5f.
U r/>
JSktmdee Scotfafoct
f e/6oarne Address
532 Bourse Sf.
“ THE LANCET ” says
44 Watson's ‘No. 10' Whisky is honestly described on the
label. The quality is certainly excellent, and the mellow
and delicate flavor of malt indicates maturing by age."


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless installed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY .. „
ORSOVA .. „
ORONTES „
OMRAH
OPIIIR .. „
13,000 Regd. Tons.
12,130 „
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 ~ ~
12,036 „ ~
9,023 „
8,282 „
6,814 „
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi,ace. Svdnet.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 116 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £5OO-
-T — 'S}4/ from £1 to £3OO,
and 3% on the excess up to £5OO.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
of Dorth Queensland
LIMIT ED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Hankers- THE LONDON COUNTY k WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).'. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man; Georg is J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New” Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . • • • • 413,59 p 14 6
Reserve •• *• •• «. 130,00*0 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 78.93 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —AV. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOAVED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum; 2
vears and over, at the rate of 44 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance Cua.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnbtt & A. E. D’Arcy, Joint Managers.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
AririrpqspH of Merchants disr.ribufcinjr'itTcan‘be •obtained
A from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Shipping:.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with "Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle ;
TIIOS. BROWN & SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane & Townsville.
Bank of Rein Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock . . .. . . £-1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji. Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
G
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, about MAY 7.
MEDIC, about JUNE 20.
AFRIC, about JULY 9.
SUEVIC, about JULY 30.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
oto£ 24 3
oto 30 0
1 10
Only One Class of Accommodation
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15
London .. • • 19 0
Melbourne
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
0 0
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Aizents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
Howard Smith Co. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Fast Passenger Steamers
* S.S. COOMA,
»S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
♦Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Leave Ports as follows
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday
and Monday, , _ ,
MACKAY every Thursday and Sunday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
SS “AEON” (new steamer, cargo only), for MEL-
' BOURNE, ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE and GER-
ALDTON, transhipping for all S.A. and W.A.
Ports.
From MELBOURNE, APRIL 19.
From ADELAIDE, APRIL 22.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES,
from
FREIGHTS, etc.,
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
TWO SPECIAL ISLAND TOURS!
(PERSONALLY CONDUCTED.)
>
To the Solomons.
“MINDINI ”
3rd MAY
(From BRISBANE,
sth MAY),
on a five weeks’ trip
to
TULAGI, GIZO,
FAISI, etc.
Fare, £2O.
The well-known
BURNS-PHILP
LINERS
will sail from
SYDNEY.
BURNS, PHILP
and CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
To Norfolk Island, etc.
"MAKAMBO”
Ist JULY
on a three weeks’
trip to
NORFOLK
ISLAND
via
LORD HOWE.
Fare, £l2/10/-
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,000,000
£2,150,000
£3,000,000
£8,150,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M. 8.0.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors- Shepheard Edgecliffe Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office-George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St , E C.
With 335 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua. Agents and Corres-
nondents throughout the World.
y Pohle remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking
of Sydney, Limited.
Co.
Capital Paid-up.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital .
£1,739,553 2 6
1,580,000 0 0
1,750,000 0 0
£5,069,553 2 6
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up •• ••
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . ..
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock). -
£538,307
159,054
76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. —' i
Gen Man.. Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E - c -
Agents nnd Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual Qife
1 assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon.
The lion.
Directors:
C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
THE Australian Magazine—THE TONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
TAHITI sails APRIL 19.
The Largest and Finest Steamer trad-
ing between Sydney and San Francisco.
Spacious Promenade Decks, Cabins de
luxe, etc.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS :
MAY 17, JUNE 14, JULY 12.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passeriger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Llimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Yictorian and Queensland Ports. '
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports. )
T.S.S. Wandilla, Anril 30
and May 28.
T.S.S. Warilda, May in
and June 7,
Fitted WirelessTeleirraphy
Each Steamer 8000 tons ''
Carrying Three Classes.
1,2, 3 and 4-Berth Cabin*
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday
April 19.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable af*<v
the first Port of call with other inter-State Comnanie.
on all services subject to conditions, which can bo
ascertained on application at the Company's Office °
G. S. YU ILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SA I LINGS :
’New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab'ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool
(Via Hobart, Colombo and Suez Canal).
T.S.S. WILTSHIRE.
12,600 Tons. B. G. HAYWARD, Commander.
Will be despatched from—
HOBART, APRIL 22.
MELBOURNE, APRIL 25.
ADELAIDE, APRIL 29.
Th,! Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. • .
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. £4O to £45. £l6/16/-to £lB/18/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE, leaving Sydney May 16,1913.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT k CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACIIARN & CO. PIY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
11. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10 000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SONOMA ..
VENTURA
me tnrougn trip io cngiaim v«.. ««. ---- r
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0-, ORIENT LINK,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYD
A.U.S.H. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
♦T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
♦T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”
♦T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
♦T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
• *Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
The above steamers possess all modern convent
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
ir» IJuaocoo ...
ences for safe, easy and pleasant trayemng. .
From Sydney to Melbourne,. Adelaide
full
Prom syciney 10 meiuuu i. c , s ’ fun
bane, and vice versa, second halves of . a nd
Saloon Return Tickets ar ® av , al l al)le T! .fi Tickets by
similarly Return portions of first-class Rail
Steamers; particulars on application.
For Dates of Sailing see Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
i, BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY^,
---X5
dedcert
- Kills
Cockroaches.
GEORGE GOUGH & SON LD., Agents, Albert St.,


THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — &
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. BELLINGER
NAMBUCCA, macleay and manning
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to iweed Heads— steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, A. 6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
LOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
QEORGE HOTEL,
St, Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
hensive ; and
our T weeds
and Costume
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
signs. We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
SDG
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
JJsk your Storekeeper for 11.
Guaranteed free from Preservative*.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
/
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA,
for Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, Is. and 2s. 6d.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410.)
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable: —
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W.
ASSOMIJLL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN'S, ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
Commonwealth §j||| JSanh of Hustralla
Bra a?und**- ° Pen f ° r the transaction of General Banking Business throughout Australia
New South Wales— Sydney and Canberra. Victoria^— Melbourne. Oueenslanri Rri„h«r,o ,
Townsville. South Australia- Adelaide. Western Ta^mania-Hobart
And at Egypt House, 36-38 New Broad Street, London wouart.
Cabie remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted the
Commonwealth, United Kingdom and foreign countries. P transacted wittim the
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
°*°~'**■*»>*», <>.*„
Withdrawals or aama.no may be effected for sums up to £lO at any Office within the Commonwealth
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
torn Jaxuaky, 1913
3°/ 0
Rate of Interest on
all Deposits uo to
£3OO
DENISON MILLED;, Govmrhor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
of m ,!nh?r ntialitle r’ St u n in the P ro « e « s of initial development, Queensland
lor Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
A. MESTON, Local Director.
FOR COMFORT AND ECONOMY GET
U/>e PLUM RAZOR.
\
VA
This razor is always kind to the face. It moves quickly and lightly
through the stiffest stubble. It leaves no after-soreness.
Then note this. We keep every Plum Razor in perfect condition for
two years from date of purchase. ORDER ONE TO-DAY
PRICE 10/6, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,lo/6
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This is the
line that makes a good present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/*
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG &i AITKEN,
654- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
L. &. C. HARDTMUTH’S
“KOH-I-NOOR”
Pocket Propelling Pencils.
Made in a variety of charming
styles, one of which is here illus-
trated. Some styles have re-fills
at the end. Others, for writers
who always like a sharp point to
their pencil, have a pencil sharp-
ener at the end. Each pencil
is perfectly made —“ a thing of
beauty, and a joy for ever.” The
lead, which is “ Koh-i-noor,” does
not slip or break under pressure,
and one twist of the fingers brings
it into action. Too simple and
too well made to get out of order,
and far superior to any other
pocket pencils made.
In Various Styles, Sizes and Prices,
Of Stationers , &c., every inhere,
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd., Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
(AUSTRALIA : 350, George Street, Sydney.)
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chioago, U.B.A.
RICHARDSON
SDG
CHICAGO
“ My Name is Simplicity
The British 2?w
“My name is Onoto. My business
is to simplify writing. My character
(‘quick, reliable worker, very clean,
gives no trouble whatsoever ’) speaks
for itself.”
“ I never take a day off.”
“Why not let me simplify your
writing?
The Onoto simplifies writing because:
1. It needs no filler.— lt fills itself in
five seconds from any ink supply.
2. It cannot leak. —Once closed, the
Onoto becomes a sealed tube, and
can be safely carried at any angle.
Get one to-day.
Onoto
British and best.
Price 12/- and upwards of all Stationers,
Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about the
Onoto Pen free on application to THOS.
DE LA RUE CO., Ltd , 234 Bunhill
Row, London, E. C., or the Australasian
Representatives, NO'-MAN BAKER &
LONGHURST, 50 York Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
Melbourne; Wednesday. April 23,
At 3 o’clock.
At Scott’s Hotel, Collins St., Melbourne,
By order of Mr. ALFRED TIMMS,
COOHILL & HAUGHTON
Will Sell as above,
Green Point Estate,
030 Acres, Yering[,
One of the finest fattening, dairying or grazing
properties within 35 miles radius of Melbourne. It
has a long frontage to the River Yarra, and the
whole area is under a luxuriant sole of fattening
and milk grasses, with the exception of 40 acres,
which is lying fallow.
The Homestead comprises 7-ROOMEI)
BRICK VILLA,
with kitchen, pantry, bathroom, brick dairy, cellar,
large U.G. tank, fruit and flower gardens, men’s
cottage and complete outbuildings, 30-bail cowshed,
concrete floor, concrete silo, barn, Dutch barn,
stables, etc.
Green Point was the original
McNAB STUD FARM
(the McNab’s of Ayrshire Cattle Fame), and it has
only changed hands once in the last 50 years, a fact
that goes far to prove the unique opportunity this
sale affords of acquiring, only 32 miles from Mel-
bourne, an ideal Estate.
EASY TERMS.
£lOOO Deposit, balance over 7 years at 5 per cent.
N.B.—Mr. Alfred Timms is a determined seller,
and his instructions to us are that the property must
be sold, even if the highest bid is considerably less
than its value. This being so, there is a possibility
of some buyer obtaning a sacrifice.
Appointments to inspect, apply Head Office,
COGHILL & HAUGHTON, 79 Swanston St., Melbourne
A Strong, Rigid Fence
“Empire” Fence is not wire-netting, but a
strong, rigid fence, and far neater than com-
mon wire-fencing. The wires are held by a
perfect knot, whicii cannot slip. The meshes
are small at the bottom for sheep and lambs.
It has no sharp points, will not rust, and is
practically indestructible.
Is cheap to buy, easy to erect. Two men
can erect a mile per day.
EMPIRE
HARD
STEEL
WOVEN
WIRE
FENCE
T. C. B. Rothwell writes: “The fence is, in
my opinion, a cheap and verv effective one,
and I am quite satisfied with it.”
Write for Fully Illustrated Descriptive Cata-
logue, sent post free by the Sole Distributors,
PARKER, WINDER & ACHURCH Ltd.
BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND. [X
Agent for Australia and tew Zealand—
ESSEX R. PICOT, 20 Young Street, Sydney;
and 240-2 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
m
m H I
Tip
m
TITj
mu- OUI
*■* f»>. *&?'&»»»*'?. m • v;X^i
fn itf
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
ifw*
per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Re-
turned in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli*
cation. Only address
34 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
r.
45
I do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
TOOTH SOAP
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. Pre-
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar. It’s
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
. . on a penny postcard, sent to
us. will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sent,
post paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out!
I here are imitations . Sold by Chemists everywhere.
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
_i
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
SDG
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
racEcra
BUY DIRECT
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12years’
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SANDON & STEEDMAN.
76 Finsbury Pavement, London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
WE SAVE YOU POUNDS.


Wanted.
WANTED BISMUTH ORE. Give
assay, particulars and quantity
available. „
WILLIAMSON,
Box 494, G.P.0., Sydney.
Amusements.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, * SYDNEY.
Direction .T. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
THE THEATRE COOL AND BEAUTIFUL.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.40.
Pantomime Extravaganza,
PUSS IN BOOTS.
MORE LAUGHS EVERY PERFORMANCE THAN
YOU CAN COUNT.
PLANS AT PALING’S
TH EATRE ROYAE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
NEXT SATURDAY, APRIL 19,
J. C. WILLIAMSON has much pleasure in notifying
ANTONY & CLEOPATRA.
OSCAR ASCHE as MARK ANTONY.
LILY BRAYTON as CLEOPATRA.
PLANS AT PALING’S
A DELPHI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction and Management. Gf.oroe Mablow, dtp.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF FROM CONVENT TO THRONE.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT.
FOR TWELVE NIGHTS ONLY.
THE WOMAN PAYS.
A Domestic Drama that is Wholesome, Bright and
Entertaining.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-
p ai7a c e t he'at reT sydn el
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PLAY.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, APRIL 19,
AND EVERY EVENING THEREAFTER.
THE BERT BAILEY NEW DRAMATIC COMBINATION
in Steele Rudd’s Record-breaking Success,
ON OUR SELECTION.
Box Plan at Paling’s. POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/6, 1/-
Early Doors to Stalls, 6d. extra ; to Gallery, 1/- extra.
Little theatre, castlereagh street,
SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY NIGHT.
HUGH C. BUCKLER and VIOLET PAGET,
supported by a Specially Selected Cast, present the
Greatest of all American Comedy Hits,
THE MAN ON THE BOX.
THE PLAY THAT SENT NEW YORK CRAZY,
AND WHICH HAS FASCINATED SYDNEY.
BOX PLAN —PALING’S.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES —WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
MARVELLE’S COMIC COCKATOOS.
MYSTERIOUS MIK, the Mind-reading Canine.
SPENSER KELLY & MARION WILDER, Vocalists.
MATHEWS & MACK, American Travesty Stars.
MONTY WALKER, Brainstorm Comedian.
PAUL GORDEN, “The Drunk on the Wire.”
FRITZ VON LISTON, Bird and Animal Mimic.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/6. 1/-. Plan at Theatre.
HE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER'S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
[TIE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
i LACIAKIUM AND OLYMPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS,
d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
imperial roller
Foot of William Street.
RINK,
A REFINED RINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN. THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
RI CKA RD S’ TIVOLI THEATRE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HARRY CORSON CLARKE & MISS MARGARET DALE
OWEN, Clever American Sketch Artists.
MISS MADGE TEMPLE, Musical Comedy Star.
CUMMIN & SEAHAM, Comedians and Acrobats.
MONS. REYNARD, Dramatic Baritone, assisted by
MDLLE. ROSELLA, Celebrated Harpist.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, the King of Concertina Soloists.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and I-/- '■ :
PE R A HOUSE, ME LB OUR NE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
ROSIE LLOYD, Vivacious, Fascinating Comedienne.
MR. WILL POLUSKI, Quaintest Comedian.
STALEY & BIRBECKS, Mysterious Musical Blacksmiths.
MAXINI BROS. & BOBBY, Droll Acrobats and Balancers.
KREMKA BROS., Eccentric Comedy Acrobats.
Return for a Short Farewell Season, prior to his return
to Europe, of ARNOLD DE BIERE.
MR. WILTON WELCH & MISS LOUISE CARBASSE,
the Laugh Makers, from the Legitimate.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES 35., 25.. Is.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
In the Great Controversial Attraction,
WHAT WOMEN WILL DO
DOR LOYE.
THE GREAT COAL MINE SENSATION DRAMA.
Prices, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Pianola Co.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
EVERY EVENING.
THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
IN TWO ENTRANCING ACTS.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 67-
Balcony and Stalls, 4/-; Pit and Gallery, 2/-
HIATRE ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE OUTSTANDING SUCCESS OF YEARS.
First Production in Melbourne of
THE PLAY OF THREE GENERATIONS,
MILESTONES.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 7/6.
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT.
FOR THREE WEEKS ONLY.
THE DRAMATIC VERSION OF THE WORLD’S
GREATEST STORY,
E A U S T.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
yy IRTHS H IPPODRO ME, MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY AT 2 P.M. & 7 P.M.
Martin & Rodgers present their Unique and Curious
WONDtiR SHOW.
A High-class Circus, Novel Vaudeville and Quaintly
Attractive European Entertainment.
15 STAR ACTS FROM THE WORLD’S BEST
CIRCUSES AND HALLS.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: Oriental Amusement Co. Ltd. of U.S.A.
EVERY EVENING.
THE TALK OF MELBOURNE.
AMERICAN
MUSICAL BURLESQUE COMPANY.
A Complete American Company of 40 Artists,
in the Musical Burlesque, in Two Acts,
THE GRAET E R S.
ONE CONTINUOUS LAUGH.
IJ O U THE ATR E, MEL BOURNE.
SITUATED CENTRE BOURKE STREET,
Close to all Trams and Trains.
FULLY EQUIPPED FO'R ALL KINDS OF
UP-TO-DATE ENTERTAINMENTS.
This Theatre is so well and favorably known that
further description is not needed.
Its popularity is evidenced by the crowded and fashion-
able audiences nightly attending the performances of the
Oriental Amusement Company of U.S.A.
AVAILABLE FOR LETTING FOR ANY PERIOD
FROM SATURDAY, 24th MAY NEXT.
Owner has placed all business arrangements in the
hands of
MR. F. J. PITCHER,
c/o FINK, BEST & HALL, Solicitors, Collins Street,
Melbourne, to whom apply for particulars as to
terms, etc.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Fraliraii, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYSI
on the Marvellous “Mack” Sereen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
M
R.
EDWARD BRANSCOMB E’S
EIVE COMPANIES OF
I) A IS D 1 H S.
EVERY EVENING.
BRISBANE—Season Closes APRIL 29.
ST. KIL DA—Season Closes MAY 5.
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY, at B.s— Season Closes
APRIL 26.
HOBART—Season Commences APRIL 26.
INVERCARGILL, N. ZEALAND—Season Opens MAY 5.
AUCKLAND, N. ZEALAND—Season Opens May 16.
Direction amalgamated pictures
LTD.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan s.
oi
Y M P I A.
Y M P I A.
OLYMPIA.
MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
ISEENCER’S RIOT U RES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
\A/E S T’S PALACE. MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICT(JRES xhe best
- OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinfies Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the AVorlu.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland),
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
|£XHIBITION BUILDING, ADELAIDE.
A SENSATIONAL ATTRACTION.
TWICE DAILY.
TOKIO TOWN
THE GREAT JAPANESE SHOW,
Arriving from Japan, by the s.s. Kumano Maru, on April 7
A Wonderful Aggregation of Various Types of Japanese
Artists.
BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S. PRICES : 3/-, 2/- and 1/
What
You Want is Lessons in Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have something: to
say worth hearing do not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.”—William Ewart Gladstone.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
; of World-Wide Fame
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at the College or by letter.
T
301 A PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
■5N
5SP
Stewart Dawson 8 Co
(AUST.) LTD.
Value, Quality and Design distinguish
Stewart Dawson Goods. Our clients
have the advantage of direct dealings,
avoiding all middle profits, and therefore
purchasing at FIRST COST PRICES.
■ •: - r i
Jl9lB- Fine Pearl and
Tourmaline Set 9et.
Gold Pendant,
0354 Exquisite Set. Gold
Pendant, set with Pink
and Green Tourmalines,
35/-
C 6355 9c t. Gold
Masonic Pendant,
We Pay Postage on all Goods to any address*
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATED
ART CATALOGUE.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W., and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
[.73/C.
0
UHL S CATALOGUE
Uhl and Sons (The Premier Harness and
Saddlery House) have just revised their
Catalogue and Price List.
Every care has been taken to show by
illustration and description many of the
items we manufacture, such as Harness, Sad-
dlery, Bagware and Horse Rugs, etc., and
offered at prices that by buying elsewhere
means extravagance.
Fill in and post Coupon NOW; we’ll send
Post Free our Catalogue, which you’ll find
very useful.
Name
Address
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd
Petrie Bight, Brisbane.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hog-skin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Tub
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J, P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
4
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
zmalrm
jV-^N I
F.WOIFF&oOHN
\
Obtainable from all the leading stores.
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
„ BERLIN * LONDON^
epn|ff
Fits “Wonder” has
No ‘‘Bromide of Potash^
Safe, Certain Cure—
-6 Bottles posted 17/4
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
VICTORIA.


. v:
.
f;"Wv\.
.
r.
SiraiYS
-
- 2- •• «H;. i • V
‘-'W 5
■
T r, ? , |
i,.;
'■
Why
does Odol absolutely supersede
all other preparations for cleansing
the mouth and teeth ?
Because of its remarkable power of
suffusing the entire oral cavity with
a thin but thoroughly effective anti-
septic coating which maintains its
protective influence for hours after
the mouth has been rinsed with it.
While tooth pastes and powders can, at the best, be
effective only during the few moments of application,
Odol continues co exert its antiseptic and refreshing
powers, gently but persistently, long after use.
It is this lasting effect that gives to daily users of Odol the
absolute assurance that their mouths are permanently protected
against the processes of fermentation and decomposition which,
if not guarded against, inevitably destroy the teeth.
iilll
iiJi
i?
TM
*
>
[OH
g
ft.
!4:
The Ideal Day and Night Wear
for Man, Woman and Child.
Y«y
&
DAY
The “VIYELLA”
label (as above) is
a guarantee of the
good qualities of the
material.
Among the reasons why “ Viyella” is such splendid wear for men, women and children are
the following :
—it does not shrink.
—it is the most durable of all washing fabrics.
—it is unique in make and reputation—there is no other cloth “just
the same.”
—it is the softest, and can be worn against the most sensitive skin,
—it is obtainable in different weights suitable for different climates,
—it always looks smart and dainty when made up.
—it has borne the test of years.
“ Viyella” is sold by all leading drapers and storekeepers. If unobtainable in your vicinity,
write to I. and R. MORREY, of 56 Market Street, Sydney, or 250 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, and the address of the nearest establishment where it is stocked will be sent free.
a.
ft
ii
'jt


Worse Every Day, Not Able to Walk,
Scratched Till Nearly Fainted with
Torture, Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment Gave Instant Relief, Now
Completely Cured.
15 Prospect St., Waverley, Sydney, N. S.
W.—“ Several years ago I Was living in
Narrandera on the Western Line when I
suddenly contracted a bad leg. It first
started With slight itching, but it became
Worse and worse every day until the irrita-
tion became past endurance, I used to
scratch it till the blood came and I can as-
sure you I had no peace night or day and
in consequence became seriously ill,
“My leg getting worse I had to give up
work, not being able to Walk I had to lie
on a couch all day and at night was lifted
on the bed. I used to scratch my leg till I
nearly fainted with the torture, I used
everything I saw advertised but nothing
did me the slightest bit of good. I was get-
ting worse all the time and I was almost in
despair. I saw Cuticura Ointment adver-
tised and being only too glad to grasp at
anything that I thought might give me
relief I sent at cmce to our chemist for some
of the Cuticura Remedies- I washed my
leg at once with the Cuticura Soap then
applied the Cuticura Ointment and to my
Utter amazement I felt instant relief.
“After the third application, my leg was
decidedly better, and from that time my
leg kept improving every time I applied the
Cuticura Ointment until it got completely
cured and has remained so to this day/'
(Signed) Win. Bundock, Aug. 1911.
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment are
Sold throughout the world. For sample of
each with 32-page Skin Book, post-free,
address R- Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W,
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.s.a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
JL HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6a.
Constipation and
Sluggish Liver
Don’t take chances. Get CARTER’S
LITTLE LIVER PILLS right now. They
never fail to make the liver
do its duty. They cure con-
stipation, banish indi-
gestion, drive out A
biliousness and the
blues, stop dizzi-
ness, clear the
complexion,
put a healthy
glow on the
cheek and __
sparkle in the eye. There are many imitations Be
sure and get CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS.' The
pill is small, dose is small, price is small, but results
are alright. Tne GENUINE must bear signature
Carters
Wittle
IIVER
I PILLS.
SDG
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
The above clearlv shows Results from a Shot* Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached" the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. 1 invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. 1
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hai<r grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6.
•g/tur° d f 4!
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks ol
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
The cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Pre*eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L*o - U*l*S
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
"• “Swan Safety
2 wo
an’t Leak,
lot, Miss,
f Scratch !
2
a
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE. 15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond St. Sydney.
mm* m
a
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
For use during illness and con-
valescence.
€J For weakly infants and over-
growing children.
As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases of
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
E3a
a
Food
is soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested.
A full descriptive booklet may be obtained post free on application to
BENGEE’S FOOD, Ltd.. Otter Works, MANCHESTEE, ENGLAND.
117, Pitt Street, BYDNEY, N.B.W. Blo<
Benger's Food is sold in tins, by Druggists , ft ~ everywhere
Business, Robbery, etc.
South Aus., in unveiling a memorial to Ridley
as inventor of the wheat-stripper, claims to have
built the biggest harvester in the Commonwealth,
if not in the world. It has three independent
electric motors, to drive thresher,, beaters and
winnower; a 26ft. comb, in three sections, and a
lorry at one side to take the bags as they are filled.
It needs five men to run it, travels 2lt miles an hour
(kerosene tractor), and tackles 60 acres a day.
It was made by Illman, of Balaklava (S.A.), and is
used by Young and Ralli in the wheat belt of
N.S.W. And it all sounds very impressive, and
will no doubt go on sounding like that until some
day something will go wron<r with one small part,
and, the nearest engineering works being miles
away, the whole thing will be hung up, and the
wheat will call in vain for instant harvesting.
* * * *
That particular brand of criminal Who adds 5 p.c.
of Water to his milk and is fined £2O has, a per-
fect right to Consider himself ill-treated when he
compares his case With this one. A Narrabeen
(N.S.W.) butcher Was proceeded against by a Pure
Poods inspector. The inspector’s evidence showed
that (1) a quantity of beef Was placed on the cart
very close to the horse’s hind-quarters, (2) the
horse was flicking the meat with its tail, (3) the
beef was only partly covered with hessian, (4) what
wasn’t covered With hessian Was covered with dirt
and flies, (5) the driver Was sitting on the hessian,
and had his boots o'rt the meat, (6) in the back of
the cart were 10 Carcases of mutton which were
partly covered with dust. And the magistrate fiped
him £2—a whole 40s. That ridiculous fine sug-
gests that it is about time butchers Were permitted
to work only under license, dirt and flies and other
trimmings to be considered when the ticket came
up for renewal. In fact, no harm Would be done if
all vendors of foodstuffs Were required to take out
a ticket, With the warning that if they didn’t stick
very close to the Pure Foods Act the thing would
drop dead at the end Of the year.
* * * *
James Mills, the Maoriland Union Steam Ship
magnate, has been giving a few figures about his co.
Eleven years back the red funnel firm possessed 56
vessels of 88,000 tons. To-day, including ships in
process of construction’, it owns' 79, of 230,000 tons.
Eleven years ago the average tonnage per steamer
was 1576; to-day it is nearly double that. Coal
consumption has increased in the time from 250,000
tons annually to 500,000 tons, while the wage sheet
has swollen from £196,000 to £400,000. Goiu t
back further than did the managing director, the
good luck and good management of the co. can be
traced from 1875, when it was formed in Dunedin
(M.L.). It commenced business as the owner of
three steamers, with an aggregate tonnage of 724
tens, conveying passengers and cargo to and from the
main town to neighboring small settlements. In
five years it had practically rubbed Out competition
in Maoriland’s coastal trade and in the trade between
M.L. and Australia. Then it absorbed the lines
engaged in the coal trade of the West Coast (M.L.),
and, later, the ships and business of the Tasmanian
Steam Navigation Co. Thence on, its. operations
spread throughout British and Californian waters.
For a youthful co. of about 38 years it has done
some considerable leaping.
F. M. B. Fisher, Maoriland Minister in charge of
Finance, does not look with favor on the proposal
to hold a proper inquest on every fire which eats up
a piece of the national wealth. He thinks it
would be too costly ; but, as a fact, in countries
where exhaustive inquiries are held, there has been
a diminution of the fire-stick enterprise which has
far more than made good the expense of the inquiry.
In addition to the interest on Cohen’s loans, Maori-
land is up against an annual fire-waste of over half
a million, and the expenditure of a few thousands in
the way Fisher doesn’t think wise might reduce that
total a lot.
“B.”: A metropolitan paper tells me that “pawn-
brokers, who have sold pledges, must give full par-
ticulars of the sale to the original owner of the
pledge and hand over to him any cash received in
excess of his legal charges.” And what’s the good
when the particulars are supplied ? The oawn-
, broker is not obliged by law to sell when the pledge-
time has expired. Unless the pledge is perishable,
he can hold it till the accumulating interest swal-
lows every penny the article is likely to fetch at
sale. He” can tell pretty well what it will bring,
and he doesn’t let go till the last minute. Some
pawnbrokers, it is true, act fairly promptly; their
safes are so full that they must empty them. But
in most cases Aaron looks on the forfeited pledge
as a fine interest-bearing asset, and when a sale is
finally effected he will produce.. his book to the
owner, showing that the interest and auctioneer’s
fees have not left a shred for distribution.
FRUGAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’Ve heard of meanest blokes among
The farming men from near and far,
But meanest told by pen or tongue
Is Ogilvie, of Candlebar.
Kate’s favor Sandy’s heart made glad;
In beauty Jane ranked far beneath.
He married Jane because she had
A set of artificial teeth.
Upon his wedding eve, to save
His bawbees, Tam in secret hied
And stole from off a baby’s grave
A white bouquet to give the bride.
VICTORIA.
S.S.
ON BENDIGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And do you recollect the days
AVhen life of golden strands was spun,
When cheerily we trod our ways
From daybreak to the set of sun;
When Hope went with us, side by side,
While Fortune’s lamp was still aglow
To light our paths, whate’er betide,
On Bendigo ?
At night we made the rafters ring
With thunder of deep-chested song,
The chorus rolling with a swing
That seemed to heave the world along!
Or by some spectral poppet-head—
The warden of dim shafts below—
We yarned round camp-fires flickering red
On Bendigo.
They tell me that, at Eaglehawk,
You struck a reef—and kept your head!
I’ve only reaped the barren stalk,
While beards have blanched and years have
fled.
But well enough, and best of all
(For Hope must fade and Youth must go),
We’ve heard that rousing bugle-call
On Bendigo!
Come backward down the years and meet
In memory of that lordlier time
When all the hills were wild and sweet,
And all our pulses beat to rhyme.
Possession rings the curtain down—
The seeking is the joy to know;
And every future wore a crown,
On Bendigo!
I would not part with that red gold
That I have won (nor you, I’ll swear!),
Which, misered in my heart, I hold
As nuggets for the mind to wear;
These draw me back to splendid ways—
They quicken pulses, waning slow,
With music of old gilded days
On Bendigo.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


Demand
Burkefc
ft ft ft Irish
yy h iskey
The World-wide
Whiskey
&
tY CENU
OUR
V- ■■ *
fJNE Old Ir^shWhisS
r.’f -■
m
DUB L ' N (
V
j>?n forked & Capsided by u 5
f£}JP* o *' 4t *ly Trustworthy
Quality throuchouj the. wo*i-0
W MDBr JOHN BURP
0l>"
Exquisitely mellow,
delicate in flavour,
light and digestive.
E. & J. Bu’-ke, Ltd., Dublin.
Capital £1,100,000. Est. 1849.
By far the largest Shippers
of Bottled Whiskey
from Dublin.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. r . J
ror Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle .
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
on on «, 3 ,™„
tralian States or New Zealknd a£ i B '" 8 of a "y of the Aus-
-2W ; —s~
Directors—The Hon. A. VV Meeks MT c *7'?- Wlthout notlceor payment of any fine.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon R j’ Blaek^M'r ’jJ he s°™ J ., T ' Walke >'- Deputy-Chairman ; The
Esq., ? C.; Alex. MacCormiek Esq MD ’ Cenerkl^vf 1 "' 0 ' ’ F ‘ E ‘ Wlnc hcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
HEAD OFFICE :87 PITT STRICET?SYDNEY 3 Ma "a S er and Actuary : Richard Teeee, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
’ ■ H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
A GREAT riUSICAL INNOVATION.
jiBfSSEIISSfi
(Band
AIBERT’S SYSTEM
ikterchangeabie
PARTS
Two more (new) “Boomerang”
Mouth Organ Types, the “ Boom=
erang Grand ” (48 Reeds), Price
6/6 (New); the “Miniature
Grand ” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New)
—Post Free to any address.
Wholesale and Retail from J. ALBERT & SON, 137 King Street, Sydney
(Remit by Australian or N.Z. Postage Stamps.)
Congo Roofing is a tough,
pliable water-proof felt. It
can be laid by unskilled la-
bor, and will give ten years
of faultless service
That ‘*ten years” is ab-
solutely guaranteed by a
free Surety Bond issued with
every roll by the Royal
Exchange Assurance of
London
Further details on request.
Congo Damp Course is a
tough felt somewhat similar
to Congo Roofing, which is
immune from deterioration
by dampness or acids. It is
used for lining the exterior
foundations of buildings to
exclude dampness and ver-
min. It is made in various
widths and is easily applied.
It is the most economical
kind of underground water-
proofing
Australian Agents;^N°y es Bros (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Melbourne),
k S'°-\ ®? sba ne; Walter Held & Co., Ltd., Rockhamnton ;
it e r^S^ lth & T Co -’ Adelaide; Millars’ Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth; William
Hart & Sons, Launceston; T. A. Tabart, Jnr., Hobart.
For general use
The ‘ALLENBURYS’ Diet is a
complete and easily digested food.
It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
helping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and who’e wheat in a partially
predigested form.
M2k.de in a Minute
—add boiling water only —
ALLEN & HANBURYS LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND
and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
• y-2
SD
-
The “LISTER”
Petrol Engine
BRITISH BUILT.
I|, 2}, 4. 6, 8 & lO h.p.
Stationary and Portable.
Fitted with Bosch High Tension Magneto
Ignition and Automatic Lubrication.
STARTS INSTANTLY AND EASILY.
SAFE :: ECONOMICAL :: DURABLE.
Agents —
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., SYDNEY
WINCHCOMBE CARSON, LTD., BRISBANE!
HUTCHINSON HUNT, MELBOURNE
MALLOCH, BROTHERS, PERTH
LEVIN & COMPANY, LTD., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SOLE MAKERS
R. A. LISTER & Co., Ltd., Dursley, Eng.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
h” y ? u „ al 'f deaf ’ " B°i.ng deaf, you will be glad to
hearing „r» Sl m P ft al l d scle . n , tlfic device which restores
nearing, no matter how old you are. No mvsterv or
just re h y ow a it° U a y t; r describe u fully, o a"d y Txp y i a in
fiers anTl L f u You use spectacles as sight magni-
fipr tn the same wav you use this sound magni-
Common h « b £ tter A Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
ahl? Nn ? Uar-Drums are invisible and comfort-
rest "th.. o- ° ne Can you are wearing them. They
strain nf /' nerve ! by takin S the strain off them—the
relfe? ,* y,n ", to hear indistinct sounds. What a
made of i ?’ 6 £ on , e u with that tirin S strain - Being
ev a p „ so f tes f Para rll bber they cannot be felt,
rea.son h a v,i he headrest . s on a pillow. Frtt the same
the ea’r T-1? W ° n Slde of the head will not hurt
ear that „ Tbey P rot eet the tepder ipplir parts of the
den anH* , S ° sensit ive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
aen and piercing sounds.
MntrnifWo y °", may dearly understand how the Sound
“ "“e™ restore hearing, we give an illustration of
Jl *? ln . the ear. You will notice that the
~O VDn d Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
eys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
'?g °.f the softest rubber, it cannot the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort
| Ihe division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
„ The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve co m-
pletely, or were
horn deaf, we
cannot pretend
£ cure you. Only a miracle coulc
do that, in spite of some of th<
absurd claims made to-day. Bui
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
e<s
ip
e e> v
i?
cured, and you can be cured tnn v -^
the Ear-Drums day and night and take th/ Wea £
zp? e :urA c c Sfn ?“ t/ Jr , ( r
&S 3.55! Ca ” insert an,i remoVe th -
visTn P Tht & , £ J (the fee for a doctor’s single
Visit) this includes a pair of drums fthev are ™i»
gJrtS »■;;*>• •*••,***»™“3 So 0 .;
iv, S ,o C After the first pair is bought vou rnav nur-
chase a single drum at any time for' 8s but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years Do
on trfal Pa ' r ' We (io not send ' them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will“ e sent you
hnt°p Ce ’ fullest instructions. Don’t deiay
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
„ ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
„.,^ fase sen d me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
M.B. FOSTER’S
BUGLE
GSD
BRAND
"fan
THERE IS NO
OTHER JUST
AS GOOD.
A
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
N. iieaconsfield testified to the benefits
' he received Irom Himrod's
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
GSD
AartspsA
** - *’
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy lor Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Cold, or
ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by ail Chemises ana Stores
throughout Australasia .
r P 1115 Australian Magazine—TllE
HAND. The National Monthly, r
LONE
rice. G<l.
letters copied
V'. j?
ESS*
mm
W /«»
ZANETIC'
G
♦ OO^
copi* n
3%3
WHILE WRITING (in ink)
by using your own Letter Paper,
Invoices, etc., with this Copying-
book. You simply insert your
Letter paper (as illustrated) then
write: and the act of writing pro-
duces a perfect letter and a per-
fect copy in the book. There is
no sign of your having taken a
copy : no perforated edge.
Idook N.S.C./200 copies either
200 letters size 10 by 8 in., or 400
size Bby 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 re-
spectively, price SI- post free
doubh^capncity
¥ the wonderful Zanetic Ink Paper which
S B ZUNtTir C ui’tf Sf addressed envelope sent to
S B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENGLAND.


Tk BEST HOUSE for all SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
SMOKE,
sunoi;
The
Perfect
Pipe
.Tobacco.
1
Highest Grade
Virginian.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
PARK OR
LIGHT.
In Plug or Cut.
6
per lb.
Post
Free.
rep
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others In QUALITY, FINISH,
DESIGN and WORKMANSHIP.
SHI
Made from the Finest Quality Selected Old Briar
Root, with Superior Hand-Out Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces.
Extra Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADING SHAPES
Price
3 1-
each
(Post Free).
A DELIGHTFUL 8 FASCINATING Cigarette.
Three Witches
vi
t
VIRGINIA
[ICARETTES
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
VC
Is)
PS*
Mi
p\\Y
!
7
B Morris
&sonsLtp
LONDON E.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
Made from Selected Sun Ripe Virginian Tobacco.
They possess a Fragrance of Unique Excellence.
Smoked by Connoisseurs Everywhere.
Price I«.
per 100,
Post Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—City, Suburbs
and Newcastle
rjm
m
,r
“GOLDEN KEY’’
Cigars de Luxe
(made in England).
Irresistibly Appeal to
all Connoisseurs
because of their
Exquisite Flavor
and
Delicate Aroma.
Two Strengths—
MILD and MEDIUM.
Packed in HEAVY CEDAR
PRESENTATION CABINETS,
containing 50 Cigars,
22/6
POfST
FREE.
Try Sample Lot
of 5 Cigars,
packed in Cedar
26
Box
Post Free.
Save “ GOLDEN KEY
Bands for Prizes.
The First Successful Self-Filling Fountain Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
a
Pm
sure
w
"THE A.A." AUTOMATIC SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN
is the pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling method
is exclusive. It is filled by simply twisting the button, holding
the pen point in the ink and, by a reverse twist, the pen is filled.
As the ink is held in a durable reservoir, the pen cannot leak.
No soiling of fingers or any annoying “filler” necessary to keep
“The A.A.” ready for service.
Fitted with i4kt. gold pens, any style or size, with plain,
chased or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree,
gold filled and mother of pearl. They are for sale at all shops.
The cut herein shows the newly patented “ A. A.'’ Clip attached to the
cap of the pen. It excels by far any fountain pen clip yet produced. It
holds perfectly firm, and can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “ The A.A.’’ Automatic Self-Filling
Fountain Pen with the “ A. A.” Clip at your store, write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS (£L CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY, New York, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO. [2
INCREASE YOUR BUSINESS
SDG
SDG
ARE the results you get from your form-letters
quite up to your expectations? No? Then
why not seriously consider the reasons for this
lack of drawing power? The root of the trouble in
many cases lies in the look of the letter —it is simply
thrown into the waste-paper basket. You can alter
this state of affairs and ensure good results by using a
MULTIGRAPH
The Most Efficient Office Appliance in the World.
Not only does the MULTI GRAPH print your form-
letters, it also prints all your office forms and letter-
heads. It duplicates your letters at the rate of bUOU
per hour, at a cost of 9d. per 1000. The Multigraph
saves 50 %of your printing cost. Surely the truth ot
this statement is worth testing. Write now for lull
particulars to
STOTT & UNDERWOOD,
Multigraph Importers, 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mekrik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
1
m
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOIWE TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Papes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER
TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-workino for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
llhat Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor., cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking MadeEEast,j t , Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Oeemino,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver s Ouidk,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ds.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lees Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post, (jay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, is 2a.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. W*~ Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write tor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stagfe. la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, is- SAPPHO gen .
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. .Milford s m
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical lllu strations
Aristotle. 3s 6d. Clog Danoing Made easy, is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op th
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, -is. 6 . ° v|(KS ,
History Court of England, Is 3d P°st. M
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incub > all
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, He}
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted.
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to , r 0 A
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cubvassk s A ®
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget bo^
Book, over 300 latest songs Is 3d P os d
Bbnnarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5 P guaAß .
Sappho, is. Bread and B^ ife ’ 8 handbook,
boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. ihb: wife 10 0 Nf.w
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. 1 aND
Recitations and Readings, . l arge Un-
its Curb, Is 2d posted. Ulus leather
abridged Dictionary, 1/00 psxges, £ an d i
oound, my price, 15s post paid (w y p dyna-
guineas). Bootmaking and Its pa > univkrsai*
mos and Electric Motors, Is M° orb ® doth
ASSISTANT AND COMPLETE MECHANIC, 1016 P | fgj
ssa. u 4f po^™ssroS^!S^Bit '
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).


14 YEARS* TORTURE FROM
DYSPEPSIA* HEADACHE
Could Take Scarcely any Pood for Weeks Together———
Pains Were Dreadful— —Told there was no Cure for Her.
A Housewife's Story of Suffering, and how
Bile Beans Restored her to Health.
( Confirmed, by Sworn Declaration.)
Mrs. Annie Rooney, of 16 Vine Street, Redfern,
Sydney, was in a terrible state of health through
her stomach refusing to do its work, and, but for
the timely arrival of Bile Beans, the doctor’s pro-
nouncement that she was incurable may have come
true. To a special reporter Mrs. Rooney related
her interesting story as follows: —
“For 14 years I endured the utmost torture from
dyspepsia and indigestion. The pains in the pit of
the stomach, in the hack, and between the shoul-
ders were dreadful. With headaches I suffered most
cruelly—the sharp, shooting pains between the
temples, and on the top of the head—as if the scalp
were lifting off —being terrible. I lost all my
appetite completely, and could go for weeks
together with scarcely any food. I became thor-
oughly run-down and out-of-sorts, and fearfully
depressed, with a feeling as if something were
about to happen.
“Although under the doctor for 12 months I
continued to be fearfully wracked with these pains,
as if the brief respites I derived from his treatment
only made each succeeding attack more severe and
harder to bear. Eventually the doctor told me
■:> ,
r
i
MRS. ROONEY,
cured by Bile Beans.
that there was no cure for me.
“Just when my state of health was about at its very worst I was strongly recom-
mended to try Bile Beans. Fortunately I followed the recommendation, for the first
few doses made quite an improvement in my condition. Thus encouraged, I determined
to pursue a thorough course of this medicine. I did so, and each succeeding ”h. se
found a corresponding improvement in my health, which was daily improving. Bile
Beans acted on my system as a tonic. My appetite returned, the headaches and all bodily
pains vanished, and the liver and kidneys were restored to their normal action.
Finally my health completely returned, and I realised what a wonderful restorative
Bile Beans are. . . . . .
“I am pleased indeed to recommend Bile Beans to all needing a reliable stomach
and liver medicine, with the painful . symptoms
I have referred to; and I heartily testify to their
sterling merits.”
DECLARATION
“I, Mrs. Annie Rooney, of 16 Vine Street, Redfern, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the above
statements re my illness, and the benefits I derived from BILE BEANS, and that said statements
are a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by the said BILE BEANS ; and I give my
full permission to the publication of the facts in any form you please, which facts I give volun-
tarily, without receiving payment or inducement of any kind; and I make this Declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the Oaths Act, 1900.”
“(Signed) ANNIE ROONEY.”
Subscribed and declared before me at Redfern, Sydney, this thirtieth day of September, One
Thousand Nine Hundred and Twelve. (Signed) L. BREARLEY, J.P.
!
Bile Beans are a
safe and reliable gen-
eral family medicine.
A box should be kept
in every home; a dose
or two in time will
save much suffering.
Sold by all stores and
chemists, 1/li and 2/9
per box.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding; day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tbe
face, and on tbe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tbe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tbe skin’s Health and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Dawn at Mi son’s Point.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AN evil mist came up the bay,
A chill wind o’er the waters blew ;
The young dawn in a mantle grey
Sighed for the secret thing she knew.
On stilts of light the boats stalked by.
Half-seen amid the creeping gloom,
While like a faint star set on high*
A small light glimmered from your room.
Vast formless shadows came and went,
A troop of Bacchanalian ghosts,
Rude spectres that the east wind sent
To haunt Bohemia’s thirsty coasts.
The scented hopes that redly burned
In caverns gay with yesterbeer
The joyless feet of morning spurned
While death-day wailed about her ear.
The discord of a clanging bell
With horrid warning smote the air—
You dropped your blind : I knew full well
You screwed the paper from your hair.
Oh, heavy w r as the morn to me,
Beyond the waters care was king—-
Spent night, unrobed of mystery,
Drooped westward on a broken wing.
The foggy voice of hooting steam,
The damp cold biting at my heart,
llad torn the curtains of my dream,
And burst its silken webs apart.
So late the crayfish redly glowed.
The world was full of youngest beer,
Tall mirth with laughter for her load
Crowned the gay wetness of our cheer.
And after, ’neath the starlight pale,
I walked amid the purple dark
As one who with a magic sail
Glides joyward in an elfin barque.
I heard the thunders of tall waves
Upon the sleeping mountains press,
Closing with crystal bars the caves
Where mermaid dreams the weeds
caress.
And high above me on the steep
I saw your chambet far withdrawn,
The fragrant casket that should keep
Your whiteness treasured till the daw T n.
Too short the watch. The grey light sprang
Unbidden from the shrouded east.
The steamers screamed, the fog-bell sang
To bid day’s vultures to the feast.
But upward still upon the height
I saw your window through the haze,
And knew that by a candle’s light
You pulled the laces of your stays.
The graceless dawning swelled and grew,
One faint pub one’d its portal thin,
And like striped tulips in the dew
I saw the capsuled joys within.
Yet heavy was that morn to me,
Remembering all our yesterbeer.
While the chill breathing of the sea
Blew dankly in my place of cheer.
But you, with steaming coffee warmed,
Showed to the dav a rosy face,
And with a crystal laughter charmed
The mist that wrapped the old grey
place.
Till with light wings it rose and fled
As oreads flee the face of men.
The while with rising hope I sa’d :
“Ho. barman, fill-’em-up-agen !”
N.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.
An Episode in the Life of the
Drexels.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TERRY DREXEL would have given
anything to avert this misfortune. He
would have given half his money, but
as he had a great deal the loss of half could
not adequately represent his regret at the
unfortunate occurrence. He would have
given years of his life, he told himself, if
his wife had not chanced to come into the
quiet little tea-room while he was there
with Mrs. Crombie. And as he was at the
last of his thirties, years were very precious
to him. He was exasperated with himself,
with Mrs. Crombie, and with the law of
chances. His thoughts outraced his motor,
now running at high speed on the level
country road, and were with his wife. He
recalled her glance of surprise and startled
pain as she passed the table where he and
his companion were seated....to hurt the
being he loved best, and through such a woman
as Mrs. Crombie! Drexel struck his knee
with his closed hand and said something,
and the chauffeur, thinking he had heard an
order, looked round hurriedly and lowered
the car’s speed. “Go on, go on,” said
Drexel. “I did not speak.”
His wife was lying on a couch in her
dressing-room. A boy of four or five. years
was asleep on the floor, his face resting on
an open picture book. The lady turned her
head on the violet cushions that accentu-
ated her clear pallor, and were uniform with
the tone of her eyes.
“You are home early, Terry. Be careful"
—as he stooped to kiss her —“don’t step on
the Littlest One.”
Drexel seated himself, still holding the
hand she had held out to him.
“How is it with you, Ina? You are not
ill?”
“I don’t feel as well as I did at four
o’clock this afternoon.”
She was looking steadily at him, but he
only pressed closer the hand within his own,
while the vertical line between his eyes
deepened. When she moved as if to with-
draw her hand, he spoke : “Since four o’clock
this afternoon I doubt if tliere_ has been a
more wretched man in Australia than my-
self. Wretched on your account. I would
die to save you a heartache, only I know
that my dying would give you a worse one.”
llis smile was strained.
“But why are you wretched? Is if at
being ‘found out,’ so to speak? If I had
not seen you with that woman, you would
still have broken the promise—a promise I
did not demand—you made six months ago
on our wedding day.”
“Circumstances I could not foresee com-
pelled me to break it. But how ask you to
believe that you chanced upon the one and
only time I met Mrs. Crombie since I knew
you! I don’t think I should believe if I
were in your place. Yet it is true.”
His wife nodded. “Yesterday,” she said,
“the Littlest One promised me not to go
into the lake again, but in the afternoon
his brother pushed him in. It was like that,
Terry ?”
“Just like that, with the enormous differ-
ence that the Littlest Rascal stood on the
edge hoping to be pushed in. I was not
looking for my trouble.”
“And you are not going to tell me
further?”
“Not unless you force me.” He had
dropped her hand, and was holding her face
in his palms.
“How could I force you?” she asked.
“Well —-in 20 ways. You might not speak
to me, for instance.”
She smiled up at him. “Well, I won’t
speak to you again. Not until I have some-
thing to say.”
“Ina, to-morrow Mrs. Crombie goes to
India to be married. I have seen and heard
the last‘of her. If not, you shall know of
the next seeing or hearing. You will let the
dead past bury its dead, dearest?”
“I’ll help you roll the boulder on it; but”
—her direct glance challenged his—“if, at
anytime I should ask of you a like proof of
absolute trust, you will give it?”
Drexel’s laugh was so loud and spontane-
ous that the Littlest One awoke and claimed
his stepmother’s attention. She pushed the
hair from his forehead and looked into his
great brown eyes.
“What eyes to be wasted on a boy, Terry !
You haven’t brown eyes—neither had his
mother.”
“No. Eleanor’s eyes were grey. But my
sisters are brown-eyed. Here, you, Littlest
One, take your Zoo books and other truck,
and clear out to your nurse.”
* * * *
The law of chances decreed that Drexel
should answer the telephone in his wife’s
sitting-room late in the forenoon. A dis-
tinguished and over-worked professional man
would not be likely to be reading “The
Hound of Heaven” to his wife before lunch
on a working day. Probably the person at
the other end of the wire thought it
unlikely.
I dimly guess what Time in mists confounds ;
Yet ever and anon a trumpet sounds
From the hid battlements of Eternity;
Those shaken mists a space unsettle
Into the splendid harmony of the lines
broke the brisk and business-like whir of
the telephone. Drexel knew that his wife
preferred to answer her own calls, and he
would now have made no attempt to do so,
but as she rose she suddenly sank back with
the half-humorous, half-pained expression
that denotes a foot “gone to sleep.”
Drexel’s interrogative, “Yes? Yes?” into
the receiver was simultaneous with the other
speaker’s, “You there, I” the voice (a
man’s) stopped suddenly with Mrs. Drexel’s
first name unfinished. To her husband’s re-
iterated “Yes? Yes?” there was no re-
sponse. His wife, her clear pallor a little
tinged with pink, was at his elbow as he
was about to hang up the receiver.
“I think I know who it is,” she said.
Then: “Yes, Ina Drexel speaking.” A pause
of some length, and with the words, “Yes,
I’ll come this afternoon,” she rang off.
“A friend of mine is sick,” she volun-
teered. “Go on, Terry. ‘Those shaken mists
a space’ were the last words. Wasn’t I in-
terested to remember?”
She snoke with a kind of strained merri-
ment. Drexel read to the end of the poem,
and with the final word glanced over at his
wife. She was staring intently into space
at some mental objective which he felt had
no connection with him.
All through the reading of the superb
lamentation, Drexel had been so bored by
the poet’s theme that he was conscious of an
undercurrent of contemptuous irritation.
As a scholar he appreciated the perfection
of what he called a symbolic whine. As a
man of the world of action (and unbelief)
he was unconsciously thinking that a bullet
would have ended for him such utter deso-
lation. Not many days later, near the dawn,
after a sleepless night, he caught himself
voluntarily re-reading the booklet with a
new appreciation of the poet’s mental con-
dition. Here was a fellowship of acute
misery. His wife had not enlightened him
as to the identity of her sick friend, the man
who half-spoke her name through the tele-
phone. She had gently brushed aside his
inquiries and offers to be of use. He was
learning how keen is the unhappiness of
being shut out from any part of the life of
the one we love best. This was for him the
serpent’s tooth: his wife had a secret trouble
he might not share, and was not allowed to
understand.
“I'll want you again in half an hour, you
may as well wait.” Drexel spoke to his
chauffeur as he was going up the steps of his
city office.
“Half an hour,” echoed the chauffeur.
“That would just give me time to take the
fruit and flowers to Albury Chambers, sir.”
Drexel paused midway on the steps, and
asked over his shoulder: “The Albury
Chambers? What are they?”
“Residential flats, sir. T can be back
in”
“Go on, then. I’m in no particular
hsstG^
Of his confidential clerk a little later he
asked, “Do you think you could get me a
list of the tenants of Albury Chambers?”
To himself he said. “I may be able to help
her indirectly.” That was the film with
which he masked his white-hot jealousy. The
clerk reckoned the job an easy one.
Before noon the list was in his hand. At
a glance he saw that men only lived at
Albury Chambers. Scanning the list for the
first time, all the names were strange to
him. At the second and more careful read-
ing, that of Lacrosse seemed not unfamiliar.
Thinking back through his mental files, he
discovered a certain Captain Lacrosse. The
prefix to this name was “Mr.” Drexel rang
up a friend of his, manager of a shipping
company.
“Didn’t a Captain Lacrosse command one
of your vessels?” he asked.
“No,” was the reply. “We never had any-
thing so gay—and that’s saving something!
He was skipper of the ILM.S. Aztec.”
“Where is he now?”
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY TROUBLE
IS SERIOUS.
IT used to be thought
that only urinary
troubles and back-
ache were to be traced
to the kidneys, but
modern science now
shows that many fatal
diseases ha’ve their
beginningin irregulari-
ties of these important
organs.
For the kidneys are
the blood purifiers.
Kvery few minutes the
blood passes through
them to be purified.
But when the kid-
neys are weak and in-
flamed they cannot keep
up with their great
work, and so the
poisonous waste is left
Every
Picture
Tells a
Story,”
«
in the blood, and the whole body is being slowly poisoned.
Yon soon feel languid, dizzy and worn out. You cannot
sleep —cannot eat —you grow irritable and miserable.
Puffy circles come under the eyes —the ankles swell—the
muscles and joints are stiff and rheumatic. There are urinary
disorders, and you have to get up many times during the
night. Your back is weak and aching —you may have sciatic
pains and lumbago.
If you have ANY of the above symptoms give your over-
worked kidneys help AT ONCB in Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, of which Sydney men and women speak so highly.
SYDNEY MAN CURED.
Mr. Joseph Abrahams, of 495 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, says:—“l have
been suffering for over forty years from kidney disease. I have had dreadful
attacks, and have had to stay in bed for a fortnight at a time. I suffered
intense agony, and spent hundreds of pounds on doctors and medicines, but
obtained no relief whatever. A friend of mine advised me to take Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and I got some and commenced to use them, carefully
following the directions. 1 did not have much faith in them, having tried so
many remedies without success. However, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
proved the exception, they cured me. I cannot say enough in praise of these
wonderful Pills. I hope many will benefit by my experience, and give Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills a trial. Should any sufferer call on me I shall be
pleased to give fuller particulars of my thorough cure.”
Two years later Mr. Abrahams says:—“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me of backache and kidney trouble over two years ago, and I have been
well ever since. Before I took Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills 1 was a terrible
sufferer with my back, but now I am absolutely free of every ache and pain.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per bottle (six bottles Ids. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price
by Foster-McClellan Co., 7(3 Pitt Street, Sydney.
uirn:
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
PILES.
TWO YEARS CURED.
Mr. J. Mitchell, 26 Campbell Street,
Glebe, says:—“l was a sufferer with
Itching Piles for over fifteen years, and
I cannot describe the intense agony of
this ailment. Scores of times I have lost
my rest, and I have had to get up alto-
gether ; sleep was out of the question. I
used a great number of Pile cures, and
have also been treated by a doctor, but
got no relief. Reading of cures effected
by Doan’s Ointment, I decided to try this
remedy. A few applications gave me
ease, and, on continuing the treatment,
found, to my great satisfaction, that all
the pain and irritation had gone. I am
very grateful to Doan’s Ointment for my
cure. I advise all sufferers to try Doan’s
Ointment, and am satisfied that if they
follow the directions they will be cured,
as I was.”
Two years later Mrs. Mitchell says:—
“My husband’s cure has proved per-
manent. lie has been absolutely free
from Itching Piles since Doan’s Oint-
ment cured him over two years ago.”
ECZEMA.
THREE YEARS CURED.
Mrs. A. MacKintosh, Ora. 56 Harbor
Street, Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W., says:
“I am convinced that Doan’s Ointment is
the finest skin remedy on earth. I do
not speak from hearsay, but from my
own personal experience. A member ol
my family had a patch of weeping eczema,
which is, I think, the worse form of
eczema. As no remedy did any good, I
began to think there was no cure. I
was wrong in this, as a treatment with
Doan’s Ointment proved. A few appli-
cations of Doan’s Ointment gave marked
relief, and in a very short time she was
cured.”
Three years later, Mrs. MacKintosh
says:— “The cure referred to above has
proved permanent. There has been no
return of eczema since Doan’s Ointment
was used three years ago.”
Doan's Ointment is so/d by all Chemists and Stores at
2 9 per pot, or posted free by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“A few infuriated husbands would like to
know also; I don’t. lie left the service a
year ago.”
The Aztec was the vessel on Avhich
Drexel’s Avife, as an unmarried girl, had
journeyed to and from England. As her
husband reached for the telephone book to
look up Mr. Lacrosse’s number, he felt that
the ethical line between spying on his Avife
and a desire to help her Avas very thin, but
—GOO. There it Avas ! The number he had
hoped not to find in such connection. Mem-
oranda for his wife to ring up 000 were
plentiful of late in his home.
A man called to ask Drexel to lunch with
him, but stopped before the invitation was
wholly spoken, and asked instead, “What’s
the matter? You look as if your stock had
gone wallop !”
Drexel snarled, “You can’t even say that
originally,” and seemed so unpromising as
a folloAv-luncher that the other man went
aAvay alone. Drexel did not lunch at all.
lie did not leave his room until late in the
afternoon, and then his jealous misery took
him, almost without his own volition, into
the neighborhood of Albury Chambers.
His wife’s hansom was opposite a little
floAver shop on the other side of the road.
The shop was empty of customers, and
Drexel, conscious that the driver Avas eyeing
him. asked the man: “Did your mistress say
wher. sue would want you?”
“At four-thirty, sir; and it’s past that
UOAV.”
"Mr. Lacrosse’s flat,” said Drexel, as he
stepped into the lift at the Chambers.
“Third floor,” answered the man. “The
door with the brass flower-pots at it.”
Standing at the head of the stairs and
contemplating the brass flower-pots, Drexel
waited with the consciousness that he was
the guilty and humiliated party—but he was
longing for his wife to come out and tell
him that Lacrosse was her long-lost bro-
ther or uncle —someone near and dear, who
had disappeared under a cloud years ago.
He wanted the story with the commonplace,
happy ending. Once a middle-aged woman
in the uniform of a professional nurse came
out to speak to the elevator lad. She
glanced kindly-wise at the well-looking,
well-tailored man, the look which Drexel
was used to seeing in women’s eyes when
they rested on him. Intuition probably
taught her his identity, for within the min-
ute his Avife came out wrapped in a long
silk dust-cloak. Surprise Avas all the emo-
tion her husband’s swift, scrutinising glance
could read in the fair page of his wife’s
face; and it was cold surprise—as if of
offended majesty. Drexel stepped forward,
and she handed him her feather boa and
long gloves. In the lift he said anologeti-
cally, “I saw your hansom waiting, and
thought I would do the same.” But she
only smiled a little cynically.
They w r ere well on their way home before
either spoke again, and th°n Drexel’s
entreaty came with a rush: "I can’t bear
this any longer, Ina! Won't you tell
me”
“You don’t trust me. then”
“Absolutely! Implicitly! Even if ap-
pearances were more against—ah. Ina ! you
are paying me out for my reservation of a
year ago. If you suffered a tenth of what
I feel, I deserve all you are dealing out to
me.”
He could not see her face, it Avas turned
away from him as she gazed out at the glid-
ing landscape, and, after a pause, he con-
tinued his pleading: “Of course. I surmise
Lacrosse’s identity ; but why not share your
trouble with me?”
She turned to him, looking wonderingly
amused.
“You ‘surmise’? Oh, do you? Well, it’s
more than I can say. Somebody of that
name sublet his flat to my friend. There-
with ends my knowledge of Lacrosse.”
“Your sick friend is a man? He is your
brother, then ?”
“Terry, dear, my dying friend is a man,
and I never had a brother.”
After a long pause, the man said: “I
throw myself on your mercy.”
“It will not be good for you to know —
why didn’t a 7 ou trust me as I trusted you?
He is vour brother.”
“What, he! That criminal! And is he
back here avain ! Ina. I had meant to hide
even his existence from you.”
A long, long silence fell between them.
“Do you wish me.” asked Drexel, “to
recinrocate with a confession?”
“No, no, NO !” And instead of the glid-
ing landscape she seemed to see again in a
little tea-room seated beside her husband a
woman who gazed at her with wonderful
brown ei'es. .Tust such eyes as those with
which the Littlest One looked at her.
“I will not help you D roll the boulders
off, Terry,” she murmured.
A. L. CONOR-O’BRIEN.
The Siren and the First Mate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE caught my eye in the offing, and
bore down on me like a clipper on a
wind.
She was one of those large, white-skinned,
brown-eyed, expensive women Avho throw a
man a rope whether he wants it or not —-
and he never refuses it. There Avas no mis-
taking her smile of greeting, nor the in-
tention of her outstretched hand, which I
guiltily accepted, as a torrent of contralto
utterances poured from her full red lips
accusing me in one breath of being “a hor-
rid man,” and asking, without affording an
opportunity for reply 7, how I dared be in
Sydney without letting her know.
This had me beat; for, although Sydney
is often a port of mine for a fevv days, I
had no recollection of ever having met her
before. And she Avas not the type of woman
one readily forgets.
I was—or, rather, she —I mean we were
still holding hands (such a deliciously cool
hand. I could feel it through her glove).
“Now. no excuses,” she exclaimed. “I
won’t listen to them. I’ll forgive .you ; but
for goodness sake take me somewhere —we
can’t stand here like a pair of” I didn’t
catch the word because the spare boom she
carried had a lot of tinkling things hanging
from it. “Come in here, you wicked fel-
low !” And in spite of my feeble protests
she towed me into a tea-shop.
It was half-past four, and the rooms Avere
fairly full; but she piloted me to a corner
where we had a little table all to ourselves,
and as Ave sat down I began—“My dear
tnadam” ——
“Oh, rats!” she said, hitching het chair
stem-on to me. “There’s no place like a
crowd for being really alone. And now’’ —
here she dabbed at her chin with a little
dabbcr which she unshipped from the tink-
ling thing—“and now tell me everything.”
A large order —and I hate to disappoint
a lady. However, it was of no consequence,
for that woman was a regular talking
machine. She didn’t even stop while they
were taking our order. From her conversa-
tion I gathered that we had been, at least
friends, three years ago.
“Three hundred!” 1 gurgled wildly.
“Awfully nice of you to say so,” she
babbled. “But you ought to have found
some way of letting me know you were in
town. I can understand you not caring to
cail or ring up, or —er —even write while —
while George was there” —I hadn’t the
slightest idea why I should have objected to
George—“but you might have done some-
thing. You are so terribly clever, you could
easily have found a way.
“I’m glad I met you, anyhow,” she
chortled biting a biscuit with beautiful white
teeth. “I would never have forgiven you if
you had gone away without seeing me. But
you would never have done that!”
Here was the first really intoxicating
smile I had ever met, and it was succeeded
by a look of penitent sadness as she confided
to her tea cup that she sometimes thought
of the old days. “I know it’s wrong,” she
said, briskly, as if it Avas all.a thing of the
past now, and she would pever be guilty
again.
“Nearly all the nice things are wrong,” I
sighed.
“Is that why you are”
“Nice?” I suggested.
“No, wrong!” she whispered, with a play
of her eyebrows.
I was glad I had that reputation. We
laughed knowingly', and she poured me an-
other cup of tea.
“I’ve just been seeing him off to Tas-
mania,” she announced, in a tone she would
have used if telling the gardener to poison
the dog—“on business. If you promise to
be good-—-very 7, very much better than you
were last time (I was very, very cross with
you then)” —here her voice sank to a sibi-
lant whisper—“you may come and have din-
ner with me.”
Well? What would you have done?
Up to now I bad hardly had a chance to
speak a dozen Avords ; but I held her hand
in the taxi —it was near dark —and I kissed
her in the shadoAV of the porch. She
stamped her foot, and reminded me of my
promise. I pleaded guilty, and repeated the
offence.
There are some scents that intoxicate a
man. The draAving-room swam with them.
Not knowing how bad I had been “last
time,” I proceeded under reefed topsails,
heaving the lead every feAv minutes, for I
found I was in \ 7 ery shallow Avater. She
shoAved me “George’s room,” where I was to
brush up for dinner.
I don’t remember a thing about dinner
except the liquid glances and honeyed words
of the woman who sat opposite to me. I
know we had Avine, because I could feel my
eyes expanding and contracting—it’s a
habit of theirs Avhen I dine well—and she
kept on growing bigger and whiter, and her
lips redder and her eyes brighter. The
world might haA'e been spinning on its OAvn
axis—l certainly was gyrating on mine, as
oblivious of everything else I rose and leant
over the table to gather her into my 7 arms
... .and... .when I woke up I was in a
paddock near Coogee, and it was about
three o’clock on a frosty 7 morning.
I had no idea how I got there. Neither
had I a stiver left of the eighty pounds ten
(did I mention that it happened in Cup
week?) which I had collected at Tatter-
sail’s not ten minutes before I met—
George’s friend.
I walked back to my ship, and never said
a Avord. You see, I have a wife and two
kids in Auckland; and maybe it was no
more than I deserved.
D. H. SOUTER.
Kismet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE days are hawks, Belov&d,
That feed on hearts of men.
The camel-train goes westward,
And breast-high blows the sand;
And what am I that shudder
To quench the smoking brand?
The days are hawks, BelovSd,
That feed on hearts of men.
Last night the bamboo shivered ;
I heard the wind go by,
The homeless wind, Belov&d,
That hears the hidden things ;
I saw the bright steel redden ;
I heard the beat of wings
Last night. .. .Last night, Belovbd,
I heard the wind go by.
What flesh shall stand against ye,
O ye who cast the die?
I heard the stalking lion
Choke back his sobbing breath,
And crouch before the presence
That only men call Death!
What flesh shall stand against ye,
O ye who cast the die?
To-night is ours, Beloved !
To-morrow’s foes are far.
Your eyes are soft as lightnings
That play across the south.
And more than Paynim plunder
The red wine of your mouth.
To-night is ours, Beloved ;
To-morrow’s foes are far!
To-night the gods are laughing.
We listen and forget—-
Forget the slow tides ebbing,
Forget the creeping sand.
O Maya ! Maya ! moon-gift
Upon a beggar’s hand.
To-night the gods are laughing,
We listen and forget!
The days are hawks, Beloved,
That feed on hearts of men.
To-morrow is a young wind,
We follow where it blows.
But who shall reap the voting wheat
Or pluck To-morrow’s rose?
The days are hawks, Beloved,
That feed on hearts of men !
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


- W estinghouse
Oil Engine
imim
M
fmsp s
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOS ES
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention -
I—lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
-—The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor, is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
f KI7IX PARTJCUI.AItS PROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
f Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
The High-water Mark
.. .IN ...
Woodworking and
Sawmilling Machinery
BO LINDERS.
Ballbearings throughout, with consequent
Reduction in Power to Drive.
No Bearing Troubles.
High Speed and Large Output.
WE CARRY STOCKS OF PLANERS, MOULDERS, JOINTERS, RESAWS, Etc.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
13P5
Economy Tiering Machine,
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine.
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Go.,
Write for full particulars to
■MW
Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND
4
Monthly Guide for
Australian.
everything
m
UNION MARINE ENGINES
Arc Now Guaranteed to Run on Kerosene.
This Means a Reduction of 30 Per Cent, on Running Costs.
The “UNION” KEROSENE ENGINE is just as
RELIABLE and EFFICIENT as the Benzine Engine.
PRICES REMAIN AS BEFORE. No Complicated System Involved.
KEROSENE or BENZINE at Your Pleasure.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
232 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
£ooH Well After Yourself
If you consider for one moment bow completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps healtbwards the moment
you find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
your vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about yourself, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them. Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great number of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
TaKc
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all times you can confidently rely upon
Beccbam’s pills.
Sold everywhere la boxes, price lll\ (56 pills) & 219 (,168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
... AT . •
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
Si
, ,„i. . .
■
HIGH-SPEED TENONING MACHINE
SDG
I
\
Zi
The
Waverley
is British Built.
12/14 h.p.,
4-cyl. Bosch
Magneto,
Zenith Carburetter,
9ft. "Wheel Base.
£350 Nett.
The Doctor’s Ideal Car.
Write for Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycle,
Twin-cyl., 7 h.p., Free Engine Clutch,
Two-Speed Gear.
Metz 22
4-cyl., 22 h.p.,
Friction Drive,
Water-Cooled.
The Finest Runabout in
the World. The
Famous Hill Climber.
£lB5 nett.
sokAgmtsjßßOWN t HELLICAR LTD.,
375 Kent Street
SYDNEY.
on
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Galls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
WANTED ——
To hear from every woodworker who is in the market for machinery that
will bring more grist to the mill.
High-speed machines are rapidly replacing the old-fashioned types. It
means' that you will find competition keener and keener unless you fall into
line and enquip your shop with the modern machines.
Our expert is ready to talk this matter over without any bias. Ask -him
to call or write regarding High-Speed Wood-Working Machinery.
3 & 4 CUTTER PLANERS.
3 & 4 CUTTER PLANERS.
OVERHEAD PLANERS.
OVERHEAD PLANERS.
TENONING MACHINES.
TENONING MACHINES.
SPINDLE MOULDERS.
SPINDLE MOULDERS.
HUB TURNERS.
HUB TURNERS.
DOVETAILERS.
DOVETAILERS.
•• /.
SANDERS.
SANDERS.
Etc., etc.
T. M. 600 PALL & CO. Ltd.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: CITY 6427-8.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor, PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Mines, Towns, Factories and
House Lighting.
Electric Generating Sets, Steam, Oil and Petrol Engines,
Petrol Gas Lighting Plants, Storage Batteries, and all
Accessories for Complete Installations.
Full particulars and estimates from
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fireproof Buildings of
FibrO-CeiMlVt (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding 1 and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and. pl;i> er.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog «- to sole importers-
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
wnv FF ’<
Mwwl Lr %
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
INLET
FLOAT
VANES
CLEANING
SOON
BLOW OFF
U—ARRANGEMENT
DISCHARGE
VALVE
" SPINDLE
- GUI DETUBE
V/
V 1322
“SEN TIN EL"
High Pressure STEAM TRAPS
FOR STEAM PRESSURES to 250 lbs.
SPECIAL FEATURES—Has Renewable Valve and Seat, Regrinds its Valve after
each Discharge, Preserves its Tightness even with Gritty Steam .
Over 40 in Use in Ultimo Power House alone. As supplied to Railway, Water and
Sewerage Board, Mines, Shipbuilders, etc. SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
J.
8 SINCLAIR LTD.
82 PITT ST., SYDNEY;
And at MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, PERTH.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Waives, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work *
Head Office and General Engineering Works : Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Our WORKSHOPS are fitted with MODERN High-Speed TOOLS.
We manufacture ELECTRIC ELEVATORS*
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-311 Kent Street. Sydney. 380 BoUrke Street, Melbourne.
Adjustable Drop Hanger.
Transmission Appliances,
■ . , . ——————
,1
PULLEYS, SHAFT HANGERS, POST BEARINGS,
PILLOW BLOCKS, SELF-OILING BEARINGS,
COUPLINGS, COLLARS, etc.,
will be found in service in all the best equipped and most efficient plants where the value of dependable
equipment is appreciated.
Adjustable Post Bearing.
leir pleasing design, strength and easy facility for erecting gain the instant and favorable attention of all Skilled Engineers and Mill Owners.
SOLE AGENTS*
k a
;:n
V
• f
.
ineers
and Machinery
60 CLARENCE ST.
ercha
"Write for
of DODGE Transmission
Machinery.
*
EVERLASTING VALVES
FOR
BOILER BLOW OFF, CYANIDE VATS, et®.
o
0
2
./ \
msk
ion of Valve
Self Grinding, Self Compensating,
7
Screwed or Flanged,
In Iron, Semi-Brass and All Brass.
OIL FILTERS
(Williams’ Patent)
Description. —The large vessel is the filtering
cylinder; into the bottom division ithe oil is poured
through the funnel. The top vessel is a water tank
of exactly the same capacity as the bottom one, and
connected by a pipe. The pressure of the water
forces the oil through the filtering mediuni into the
reservoir above, whence it is drawn off quite clean.
|3r* e Syriney or Melbourne. SENT ON APPROVAL,
rfice dLO IF UNSATISFACTORY, RETURN it at OUR EXPENSE.
Five Gallons of Dirty Oil can be made quite clean & fit for use In 6 minutes.
■
N. GUTHRIDGE I?
16 Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney ; 525 Collins St., Melbourne.
WATER
TANK
i -•//
DUMMY
Ol K
RESERVOIR
rnx
FILTERED !>/L
CRATES S
£ r
RECEPTACLE
DIRTiWATER
vo umn
