

MELLOWED BY AGE
*
K. Gr. WATKINS CJO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent, Street, Sydney,
Mining' and Contractors Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty: AUCIIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
IT IS NOT COMPULSORY
but it is wise, if an advance of money is required, to go to
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co. Ltd.
74 Castkreagh St., Sydney 74,
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Money Advanced upon All Classes of Security at Lowest Kates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT,
General Manager.
::: L
EEH
Ira
ixii
Williams’s, Whisky
HOBART.
— m* —
(adleys Orient fjotel.
piONEE
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
Take it back.
1 must have
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
L
U
m
HAN S E NS
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially construed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
DRINK
BECK’S LAGER BEER
U
ftJjiLu Hoi
rw
Jr wr£i
" -
«ster
Suggest "MALTHOID
to Your Architect
9 9
Practically every architect is seized of the value of Malthoid both
asbestos-coated and ptain-and your architect would be glad of an ex-
pression of preference by you ; Malthoid lends itself to artistic planning.
The PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
(Manufacturers oi Chailis House, SYDNEY.
hopper waggons.
road-making plants
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
BLACKSTONE
CRUDE OIL ENGINE
The latest development in internal
Combustion Engines, sizes from 15 to 120
B.H. Power.
Ideal for Electric Light installations.
jlCoffat-Virtue £«.
Machinery Merchants,
352 Kent Street (near King Street), Sydney
HELIDON SPA
HFI IDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
*
The Bulletin
Vol. 34.—N0. 1742.]
[Thursday, July 3, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS
ON ANY SUBJECT.
Write for any Books you may require
and for Lists of Books on any subject.
We welcome Enquiries.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
This Powder is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically, owing
to the evolution of free active oxygen when
the powder is in contact witji water or the
oral fluids. It is the oxygen, which, by neu-
tralising the acid-producing organisms of de-
cay, and dissolving mischievous deposits,
whitens the teeth so wonderfully, and wards
off decay as no other preparation for the
Teeth can or will do. Scientists agree that
a powder is superior to any liquid or paste
for cleansing and preserving the Teeth. The
Corhmittee of the British Dental Association
recommend powder as best for the Teeth.
low TO USE THE POWDER.
CSC
IJirJ co
3 V
Sold by all Chemi&ts in our patent stopper metal bottles, handy for
travel or home, price 1/6, forwarded free on receipt of stamps.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. W York St., Sydney.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable information
II regarding the Teeth.
The Red Page
THE INDESTRUCTIBLES.
The dullards of past generations, the undis-
cerning crew
That turned deaf ears unto Shelley, that
turned blind eyes upon Keats,
Unchangeably reincarnate, invincibly born
anew,
Still buzz in the press and the salon, still
lord it in learning’s seats.
Do you think they are ever conquered? Do
you think they are ever slain?
They are secular, sempiternal; the Powers
that cannot die.
When alt things else have perished.
Stupidity shall remain,
And sit secure on the ruins of every star
of the sky.
—William Watson, in “The Muse in
Exile” (Jenkins).
The Wait of William Watson
William Watson, after a life-time spent
in writing poetry, has discovered that people
don’t read poetry. The curious thing is
that it has taken a poet who has produced
12 volumes of poetry so long to happen
upon so obvious a fact. And, flushed with
his discovery, he hastens, in The Muse in
Exile (Jenkiqs). his latest book of verse,
to express his profound dissatisfaction with
such a terrible state of tilings.
He finds that there are “innumerable
persons, in whose scheme of life the poet
cannot properly be said to have a place at
all. This is a state of things obviously
unfortunate for the poet, and I, for one,
hold the opinion that it is not altogether
good for his fellow-men.” Watson does not
put down this lamentable falling-off in the
readers of poetry to the rush and speed of
modern life. “The Slowness and tedium of
our age is clearly what most often oppresses
the ordinary man. The motor-car and the
aeroplane are typical of a hundred ways by
which he desperately seeks to escape from
the monotony, the slowness, of a life empty
of action and incident; a life made so
smooth and orderly by the operation of law
and custom —a life so regulated and policed
—that none _of the primal passions have
free play in it, that the elements of sudden
danger and thrilling hazard are almost
banished from it. and the exercise of some
of the more heroic virtue's almost precluded.
One might have thought that a life so shorn
of its more glowing colors, its more violent
situations, would provide precisely the ante-
cedent conditions necessary for the appre-
ciation of an art whose function is to see
the world through a kind of ecstasy.... to
see vividly, to paint nobly, and to feel
romantically, whatever in this universe is
to be seen and felt and painted.” (Unfor-
tunately. as we shall see, in this volume
William Watson does not see vividly, paint
nobly, nor feel romantically.)
“With one exception there is not a living
English poet the sales of whose poems would
not have been thought contemptible by
►Scott and Byron.” (He does not mention
Keats.) “The exception is, of course, that
apostle of British imperialism—that
vehement and voluble glorifier of Britannic
ideals, whom I dare say you will readily
identify from my brief, and, I hope, not
disparaging description of him.” (So much
for Rudyard! Spiteful William!) “With
that one brilliant and salient exception,
England’s living singers succeed in reaching
only a pitifully small audience.” And
Watson blames —-of all people—the critics!
Not all criticism, but “the vagaries and
perversities of a kind of critic who is not
so much an expositor and interpreter of
literature as a rather officious interloper
between writers and readers.” Especially
“there is the critic who sets an inordinate
value on a certain kind of simplicity—a
simplicity often as self-conscious and de-
liberate as the most highly elaborated
ornateness..,. This critic is offended by
any richness and splendor of attire in which
file poet has —perhaps appropriately—
clothed his thought.” (W.W. rather prides
himself on his clothes.) Also the critic
“who thinks it one of the signs of genius to
be careless of finish and scornful of tech-
nique.” and the critic “who is eternally de-
manding that poetry should be progressive,
and to whom progress means a kicking
against tradition and a violent breach with
the past.” (So much for John Masefield!)
One does not disagree with Watson when
he says that “the majority of cultivated men
and women do not set any exaggerated
A'alue upon these subtle and singular odors
and flavors in literary art which your pro-
fessional critic is so sedulously in search
of. .. . The typical intelligent reader does
not share this purely professional curiosity;
he is not so tired of the great writers of the
past as to resent any natural and inherited
resemblance to them in their successors.
Rather is he pleased.... to think that the
noble tradition is being nobly perpetuated.”
(As it surely is by W.W.)
He predicts that if any increase in the
readers of poetry should tome it will coin-
cide with a decrease in the readers of prose
fiction. The novel will pass. “The endless
conversations. usually unmemorable in
themselves; the so-called realism; the often
indiscriminate transcription of life, as if
everything in life had an equal value: all
this has about it something which scarcely
seems to smack of permanency.... Fiction
is really the arch-enemy of literature at the
present time.” And now we come to Wil-
liam Watson’s personal grievance.
“We have had amongst us in England
during the past quarter of a century
some very real poets—poets whose names
and achievement would, in my opinion, add
lustre to any age or nation. (Me. for
example.) “They occupy no place in the
public eye.” (Why should they?) “They
receive almost no substantial rewards.....
Surely it is to the great banqueting-hall
itself that the minstrel should be bidden. .. .
King Edward VII. was.... not furiously
addicted to literature, and to extol him as
a patron of literature would be the insin-
cerest flattery.” (Any way, he didn’t make
W.W. poet-laureate.) And though Watson
dislikes patronage in theory, “in practice rt
is perhaps disputable. Similarly one may
admit that titles and honorific distinctions
are poor things In themselves, while recog-
nising that in a gountry like England they
still retain some of the symbolic value of
insignia, and may occasionally serve the
useful purpose of investing certain achieve-
ments which are more real than spectacular
w r ith a dignity visible to the general eye.”
(Not even a knighthood! but W.W. hasn’t
quite given up hope.) “If King George and
Queen Mary....can set an equally admir-
able example to their people in things in-
tellectual, their record will be a truly illus-
trious one.” (Hurry up with that Birthday
Honor!)
Watson has a real grievance, but it is a
grievance that has always existed. If a
man opens a shop for the sale of goods that
the public as a whole does not want, he
must either be Content with the mere living
wage afforded him by his sales to his few-
customers —and if he gets from his
craftsmanship a deep delight in fabricating
his articles for sale, he will perhaps balance
that creative joy with his poor material re-
compense and be satisfied ; lie must shut up
shop and take to a profession more remune-
rative: or he must restock his shelves
with something nearer the public taste of
his age. If his wares belong to an earlier
age. they will be but occasionally bought by
the mental survivors of that age: if to a
modern taste he produces, not hypocritically
but because he is himself modern, the wares
they demand, lie will find his shop a going
concern. His wares may be of the same
high artistic standard as the wares of his
predecessors, but they will have that par-
ticular finish demanded by his customers,
again, simply because that shopkeeper can
produce only such particularly ‘ finished
wares.
And William Watson, in The Muse in
Exile, does not create a demand for his
wares. He contrives to be decorously dull.
His subjects are stock poetic subjects, de-
corated with the trite and rather shop-
worn poetic appurtenances. In this slim
volume there is much careful writing, some
clever epigrams, some silliness, and some
spleen, but little poetry. What minor poet
could not have done better than this?
IMPERIAL MOTHER.
Imperial Mother, from whose breasts
We drank as babes the pride whereby
We question ev'n thine own behests.
And judge thee with no timorous eye!
Oft slow to hear when thou dost call.
Oft vexed with an unstable will,
When once a rival seeks thy fall
We are thy sons arid daughters still!
The love that halts, the faith that veers.,
Are then deep sunk as in the Sea:
The Sea where thou must brook no peers,
And halve with none thy sovereignty.
HOME TRUTHS.
It is not the flight from the country.
It is not the rush to the town,
It is ignorance, ignorance, ignorance,
Will bring old England down.
Though vast our overlordship,
And ancient our renown .■
If the unfed 'mind is everywhere
’Twill pull old England down.
Do German legions menace?
Do German Dreadnoughts frown?
It is rather the German schoolmaster
May smite old England down.
Such tripe explains why, at any rate at
the present, William Watson has not a large
public.
Neither English nor Australian publishers
show' any fondness for the production of
volumes of short stories, unless the author
is cunning enough to string his separate
jewels on some connecting ribbon of common
interest—either by writing all his stories
around one character or within one environ-
ment —thus giving to his collection the
semblance of a continuous story. This
publisher’s prejudice can only be overcome
when an author has already acquired by
full-length novels sufficient popularity to
enable him to trade on his name. It will
be noticed that the great majority of vol-
umes of short stories published bear wrell-
known names. Studies in Lgve and Terror,
by Mrs. Belloc Lowndes (Methuen, per
Sydney Book Club), is one of the best re-
cent examples of the conte, or long short-
story. Of the five long short-stories-—the
first occupies almost 100 pages, and has
thus no resemblance to the usual Bulletin
short story'—three are brilliant pieces of
modern work. “Price of Admiralty” is a
graphic study of emotions founded on the
discovery by a Frenchman that his wife
was on board a French submarine which
had sunk without any hope of rescuing the
c £ ew V,. Another story deals with the wreck
ot a Channel steamer, the incidents of which
bear a close relation to the wreck of the
Titanic. But these sensational plots are
utilised by the author simply as the basis
for her brilliant psychology. Admirable and
finely serious work. Compared with this,
M. John Lucas’s collection of contes, The
Lady of the Canaries, is leisurely almost to
the extent of being slovenly. The author
uses for the short-story form the technique
ot the long novel, and these short stories are
not w r orth it.
Strindberg
Further aspects of Strindberg appear in
two volumes recently translated, the auto-
biographical 27m Son of a Servant (Rider,
per Dymock's Library) and the collection of
stories ln Midsummer Days and
Other Sto7’ies (Latimer, per Sydney Book
Club). In an introduction to the former
work, Henry Vacher-Burch needlessly asks
the reader to view The Son of a Servant in
a sympathetic spirit, as the author was “a
man that stood in the heart of the storm
made by Europe’s progress,” and one
“through whose life the fierce winds of
Europe’s opinions blew into varied expres-
sion.” Strindberg needs no apologist.
The Son of a Servant, for instance, is a
straightforward account of Strindberg’s
youth, from which the reader will conclude
that it w r as the unmalleable soul of the child,
and not the asperity of his environment, that
made his childhood so miserable. A genius
cannot go the easier way through life: he
must beat out new tracks for himself and
make the new path smooth for those who
follow. And, despite the case which Strind-
berg makes out for himself, it is evident
that, his character being what it was, he
would have been unhappy under any cir-
cumstances. In this autobiography there is
nothing sensational. Strindberg is solely
concerned to set down the truth of his mem-
ories, to paint his childhood as perfectly as
he may. And a perusal of this work is
necessary to round out our knowledge of
Strindberg’s abnormal personality.
For the general reader, however, the col-
lection of modern fairy tales, In Midsummer
Days, will prove an unsuspected delight.
Here is the child in Strindberg’s soul, here
the sunny side of that gloomy personality.
These stories radiate comedy; they are filled
with the most winsome poetry ; they are
light-hearted and absurd. “The Pilot’s
Troubles” is the maddest and most incon-
gruous dream ever dreamed. Another story
deals with a convict who lived on an island
of “grey stone and grey people, who looked
as if they had been turned to stone, and who
quarried stone, broke stone and carried
stone,” and wdio “among these people looked
Stonier than all the others.” It is a story
of delicate pathos. “The Story of the St.
Gotthard” tells, with the necessary romantic
human; -interest, the thrilling story of the
building of the great tunnel. These are
stories for children, modern fairy-tales,
written with an infinite comprehension of,
and a deep love for, the child-soul. And their
sunny rays throw r on to Strindberg’s soul a
more revealing light than proceeds from that
stark, gloomy piece of psychology, The Son
of a Servant.
War
A German public-school master, Wilhelm
Lamszus, wrote a little book about war; and
in three months 100,000 copies were sold, it
had been translated into eight languages, and
the delegates to the World’s Peace Congress
thanked the author for “having furnished the
cause of peace with a weapon of considerable
importance/’ Also, he promptly lost his
job, but has since been reinstated. Men-
schenschlachthaus was the title of his little
book. As The Human Slaughter-House
(Hutchinson, Is. 3d.) it appears in English.
It aims to upset all romantic ideas of the
pomp and glory of war, by telling in pungent
phrases the sort of shambles that the modern
warfare of machines promises to become.
These “Scenes from the War that is sure to
Come” are painted with hideous detail. Yet
Lamszus rebuts the charge of exaggeration.
“What I have written was worked out
empirically, it is a sum that is, mathemati-
cally, so incontestible that no one has hithr
erto ventured to dispute it. For the second
factor of the sum is the albuminous substance
of human brain and marrow. And when we
hear that in the Russo-Japanese war thou-
sands went mad, who would Care to maintain
that the nervous system of the civilised mid-
European is tougher and hardier than that
of Asiatics and semi-civilised Russians'?
‘The material has become softer.’ says the
authority of the staff-general. What now,
when the sum total of acoustic and visual
stimuli, of physical and psychic shocks, to
which this ‘softer material’ is exposed, has,
with every new invention, become more de-
structive in quality and quantity'? To find
the answer to such a simple problem did not
assuredly call for a mathematical genius.
“With the answer before us, the question
rises whether it is more patriotic to blink it,
to go on pretending that war is what it used
to be —a soldier’s death on a field of honor,
or senseless automatic slaughter by ma-
chinery.
“For just as there is no room for the
uncouth monsters of primeval times, for mas-
todon and brontosaurus, on the green earth
to-day, so little will a nation of Krupp’s
steel plates be able to continue to live in
the community of civilised nations.”
The .author fulfils his nsomise. In the
person of a conscript, he describes the mobi-
lisation. his parting with his wife and chil-
dren, and his feelings. He cannot get rid
of one hideous thought: “We have passed
on from retail to wholesale methods of busi-
ness.... We are being hustled from life to
death by experts—by mechanicians. And
just as they turn out buttons and pins by
wholesale methods of production, so they
are now turning out the crippled and the
dead by machinery.” For the “softer ma-
terial” of this soldier’s brain cannot help
seeing in the man at whom he is shooting
a bloke just like himself. He is sent to the
front, sees his first dead body, passes with
his company “on through this first -spring
crop of dead bodies.” One yokel remarks:
“The stuff is laying about here same as
muck.”
He goes into action. “We are not even
charging men. Machines are trained on
us. Why, we are charging machines....
They are facing up behind us in their hun-
dreds —young, healthy human flesh for the
machines to butcher.... This is a soldier’s
frenzy and the joy of battle: to charge with
bared breast against plated steel —to dash
cheering with soft, uncased brain against a
wall of steel.”
Horrors accumulate. The details are
sickening. Men become cowards; men go
mad. And the conscript who has seen all
these things, thinking himself the only
human being left alive in the butchery of
the earth, shoots himself. And in an epi-
logue the dead man wonders about his wife
and his two kiddies, and tries to find recon-
ciliation in the knowledge that his country
has been victorious and has won land and
fame.
But the author, while writing against
modern war, has written in praise of war—
of the war that the Dutch fought for their
independence, the sort of war that Aus-
tralia will some day have to fight—for her
existence.
*
In reply to a correspondent it seems, but
should not seem, necessary to state that the
songs sent in by competitors for the guinea
offered for the best music-hall Australian
song (closing July 12) will not be the
property of this paper, and that the MS.
(if stamps are enclosed) will be returned to
the owners.
Edward Itay, who is the present English
Open Champion in golf, adds another to the
pile of books which tell you how to hit a
little ball with a big stick. Inland Golf
(Werner, Laurie, 55.) deal's with that vari-
ety of the game that apparently 90 per cent,
of golfers play. It is illustrated by the
usual photographs of the author beginning,
or finishing, or considering, or cursing, his
various strokes.
!)]•. L. Loewenfeld, of Munich, writes On
Conjugal Happiness (Bale, London, per An-
gus and Robertson, Sydney), the experi-
ences, reflections and advice of a medical
man. In Germany this book has already
reached its third edition. The translator
warns the reader that the book is' for the
married, or for those about to marry. The
work is Teutonic in its thoroughness. The
author begins by defining happiness, and
then defining that special happiness termed
conjugal. An examination of the predis-
posing factors and of the essential causes of
conjugal happiness follows. In the first
category the author examines in detail such
factors as age, financial position, physical
endowments, etc.; and in the second he in-
vestigates the psychical qualities of the con-
sorts and sexual intercourse in matrimony.
The result of a careful reading of this work
is to leave one reader, at least, with the
conviction of the solid sense of the author’s
reflections, but with the further conviction
that the causes of conjugal happiness are
too various and too vague to be summarily
swept up into a working hypothesis. Some *
marriages are happy, some aren’t.
From Things Coming to Pass, by Robert
Crossley (Yates, ITahran, Melb., 3d.), we
learn that the Devil’s number is 666. The
author arrives at> this interesting result by
assigning certain numbers to the letters of
the (English) alphabet, and a careful statis-
tical research of the Bible. The words.
“The Devil’s Number,” by this system add
up to 666 ; so also do the words “Blaspheme
God,” and “Teitan,” which is the name by
which the Devil was known as a fallen angel.
One would have thought he would not have
cared what name he was called then. In
Hell they probably called him Mud. How-
ever, “Mud” only adds up to 127, but
“Slush” comes a little nearer. From
this mathematical basis the author is
enabled confidently to predict some exciting
events, as well as to fix with accuracy dates !
of the past. Thus, Satan’s throne was cast
down, and Christ was in mid-Heaven in
a.d. 1883, though not even the scientific
press noted the cataclysm; in 1925 the
first part of the First Resurrection
happens, and Satan and his angels
are _ cast down to the Earth; in 1935
Antichrist and false prophet are disposed of,
and all on their side killed; also, Satan is
bound; the second act of the First Resur-
rection begins in the same year; in 1940 the
nations are judged and the wicked destroyed ;
six months later the Resurrection of the
Hebrew race is due; and in 1960 the
Throne of David is set up in Jerusalem, and
the Millennium is scheduled to begin. The
present writer does not hope to live till
that event, but he would particularly desire
to be present at the Resurrection of the
Hebrew Race in 19404. It ought to prove
spectacular.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR THE WINTER FASHIONS
vvew uesiQ/is
Tor .
Maids and * •
SMALL FICUPES
1509
SOSO
m
369
ANTHONY HOODEPNS famowlonDrices.
Fashion and economy
go hand in hand in the
Green Room at the New
Palace Emporium, and the com-
prehensive collection of Fashion's
choicest creations presents attrac-
tions that are not to be found at
any store. There is a distinctive
smartness in the dainty Winter
Costumes, Blouses and perfectly-
fitting Skirts, and exclusiveness
is provided for by the large
number of imported Mocel
Gowns. A feature is the big
variety of smart Motor and
Driving Coats. The display of
the new Millinery is particularly
pleasing.
Country patrons will find
much to interest them in
our Winter Fashion Book,
posted free on request.
F
ffordcrnj
- ~ Lo'P
Prrc.ej
I
42 36
771
1544
i2ao
No. 41ft. Maid’s Onp-piece Robe, in Cream Estamene, raised waist line, large Sailor Collar,
rich Cluny Lace, Cuffs to match, for girls 12 to 17—
Sizes, 33in„ 23/11; 36in., 24/6; 39in., 24/11; 42in„ 25/6; 45in„ 25/11
No. 2060. Maid’s Costume, in fine Navy Coating Serge, square shaped Collar and Cuffs of
Shot Ottoman Silk, for girls from 14 to 19 years—
Sizes, 45in., 32/6; 48in., 32/9; 51in., 32/11
No. 869. — Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume, in good quality Tweed, Coat has Norfolk
effect, Belt at waist, two-piece Skirt, suitable for girls from 13 to 19 years - •
Skirt Length, 30in., 22/6; 32in., 22/11; 34in., 23/6;- 36in., 23/11
No. 2058. Maid’s Frock, of rough Winter Serge, in dainty Vieux Rose shade, Magyar effect,
side-front fastening, finished Piping of Black Velvet, suitable for girls from 13 to 19 years—
Sizes, 42in„ 22/6; 45in., 22/11; 48in„ 23/6; 51in„ 23/11
No. 1509. Child’s Frock, in fine Navy Coating Serge, Collar and Cuffs of fancy Saxe Blue
Delaine, also in all Navy, suitable for child from 6 to 13 years . . , _
Sizes, 27in„ 12/6; 30in., 12/11; 33in„ 13/6; 36in., 13/11; 39m., 14/6
No. 1280.—Stylish Full-length Coat, of smart Reversible Tweed, in Crown, Green
and Grey Heather mixtures, cut with full, straight back, and deep, round Collar and Revers
in contrast material. S.W., W. and O.S 17 /6
No. 772. A Dressy Winter Coat, well built of Herringbone Heather Homespun Tweeds,
in warm tones of Brown, Dark Moss Green, also Light and Dark, Grey; small design shows front
of this coat, which is smartly finished on collar, fevers, cuffs an<f button holes with Brown Cloth
pipings 25/0; Velvet Hat, 25/-
No. 4236.— Stylishly Cut Full Length Coat, of Navy Cheviot Serge, loose back, single
fronts, the square collar at back, revers and cuffs finished fancy Silk Braid and black Satin
pipings 29/6; Felt Hat, 30/-
No. 1544. Smart Winter Coat, well tailored in warm Diagonal Blanket Fleece Tweeds,
new shaped back with slanting lapped seam, sham holes and buttons, patch pockets, J-length, Light
and Dark Grey, Bronze Green and Brown Heather mixtures. In O.S. 0n1y...., 29/6
Beaver Hat, 30/-
Up to Drr/e* HP
Sr. Wr JV&vrg Serge* Su/Ur
-f 2 a
S>o27
v JL o w
ANTHONY' HOPDEPNS Prices
f J/ r famous
feV^ja
LECINA SOAP.
No. 4711 LECINA SOAP is a Toilet Soap,
possessing great HYGIENIC PROPERTIES,
and is made from the PUREST SUB-
STANCES and BEST RAW MATERIALS by
a specially-adapted process. It is economical
in use, daintily scented, and forms a won-
derfully soft lather.
The LECITHIN, the active ingredient in
4711 LECINA SOAP, possesses the CHAR-
ACTERISTIC PROPERTY of making its
way DIRECT into the PORES of the skin,
STRENGTHENING and INVIGORATING the
latter, and stimulating the ENFEEBLED
blood vessels of the skin to RENEWED and
INTENSE activity. ALL IMPURITIES are
IN THIS WAY REMOVED.
The regular use of 4711 LECINA SOAP
makes the hands soft and smooth, and the
complexion fresh and rosy. The circulation
of the blood is also improved, and the RES-
PIRATION THROUGH THE SKIN is PRO-
MOTED IN A VERY GREAT DEGREE,
which improves the general condition, and
imparts increased elasticity to the entire
S3 No™4711 LECINA SOAP is UNEQUALLED
FOR THE HEAD AND HAIR. It supersedes
other HEAD WASHES and HAIR LOTIONS,
because it is equal to them in quality and
effect, but far more economical in use.
The LECITHIN, the most EFFECTIVE con-
stituent of the SOAP, INVIGORATES and
FERTILISES the HAIR ROOTS and HAIR
NUTRITION in an extraordinary degree, and
promotes the GROWTH of the Hair, leaving
NO STAIN.
NO. 4711 LECINA SOAP,
PRICE 9d. CAKE, 1/6 Box of 3.
POSTAGE, N.S.W., 6d. ; OTHER STATES,
8d. BOX EXTRA.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST OF TOILET
REQUISITES, POST FREE ON REQUEST. r
698
£6/4
4+25
Correct Cosfumes: 1
jSr Wintep We-aq I
426.
z\ ANTHONY HOPDEPNS £* ousLo*Prices
No. 9027.—Useful Coat and Skirt Costume, of Navy Twill M^ tm J J^fmedaiiioS 2
smartly finished, Black Satin Strappings, shaped sections on hips and Russia 2 ’l/-
shaped Skirt with wide lapped seams ’UV "\ T „ ; u:’h u-siated Coat
No. 428.—Coat and Skirt, of All-wool Cheviot Serge, in® lac *. Ol seam 43/.
with patent leather belt, lined through Black Silkette, well s ap ‘ > Hat 21/-
No. 548/2. Coat and Skirt Costume, neW /giack sLti/buttons^onar'anT’cuffs*finished
unlined Coat has high waist effect at back, with row of Black Satin Buttons, c
with embroidery. Skirt is three-piece style and new s lape / ’ lined
No. 548/I.—Stylish Coat and Skirt in fj* Tfouf-piece Skirt and
Coat, with Black patent leather belt, collar and cuffs of Black satin Hat 21/ _
plain front “ ’ '
No. 426. Robe Costume, nicely cut from fVne Coating Serge in Navy or Black, trimmed
"black Satin pipings and buttons; Magyar bodice, skirt fastens centre back with wide lapped
seam 21/9; Felt Hat, 15/6
No. A 425. Coat and Skirt Costume, in new weave Heather Tweed Suiting, dark mixtures
"of Brown or Bronze, coat has collar and revers finished black Satin facings, high waist piped
Satin, lined through with tailors’ twill; three-piece skirt with lapped seam and Satin
buttons 39/6; Velvet Hat, 30/-
No. L 614. Effective Robe Costume, in Black or Navy fine Coating Serge, fastens in front,
"new “set in’’ sleeves, collar of cream Guipure, black Satin pipings and Mohair Buttons.. 29/6
Straw Hat, 25/-
No. 898. — Smartly Cut Coat and Skirt Costume, of Grey Granite Tweed; coat is high
waisted and has new shaped back, skirt is three-piece, with front lap seam 35/-
Also in Black and Navy Cheviot Serge (No. 892) 49 /6; Felt Hat, 21/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New
Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


B.S.A.
Is your Bicycle built of
GENUINE
BaSiAi
FITTINGS?
TKADi MARKS
B.S.A.
The public recognition of the high standard of
quality embodied in B.S.A. manufactures has
tempted unscrupulous persons to offer worthless
imitations as genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
It is therefore necessary to caution intending
purchasers of B.S.A. Fittings that none are
genuine unless they bear the Trade Marks—the
three piled rifles or letters B.S.A. —as illustrated,
stamped on each part.
Remember it is not sufficient to find this mark on one, two,
or more parts. It must appear on EVERY PART specified
below: —
Steering Head, Crank Bracket, Seat Pillar Lug,
Back Fork Ends, Back Fork Bridge, Back Stay
Bridge, Hubs, Cranks and Pedals.
TRADEMARKS
\
B.S.A
Catalogues and Full Particulars of all B.S.A Goods can be
obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
The Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd.
4, Australian Buildings, Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
B.SJL
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN (Si SONS LTP
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
THE MAN WHO TRIES TO KEEP HIS
BUSINESS IN HIS HEAD CAN’T KEEP
AHEAD IN HIS BUSINESS
I
rS
*4
s?
ACCOUNT
/
»•*«,*
w*
His brain can’t stand the strain —it’s built to remember
facts, not figures. The human mind is never completely
accurate. The National Cash Register thinks with a brain
of steel. It keeps track of every detail, of every sale, stops
leaks, losses, mistakes, prevents carelessness and dishonesty.
A store using a National Cash Register is a good store —
it’s run on system—it’s bound to give you “money's worth.”
A merchant should be as sure of getting all the MONEY for
the goods he sells as the cus'omer is sure he gets the goods
for which he pays. A Nati. nil Cash Register enforces
a CORRECT record which cannot be lost, changed or
destroyed. A National Cash Register safeguards each
sale AS IT TAKES PLACE and assures you of getting
all your money for the goods you sell. It will pay you to
investigate. Nearly a million-and-a-quarter merchants are
using National Cash Registers.
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia Ltd.
335 PITT ST., SYDNEY
343 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
2SI MURRAY ST., PERTH
50 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
117» RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE
MACQUARIE ST., HOBART
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
9+9f
Insist on the
ANVIL Brand
Plough Share.
If you would have absolute dependability
under the most strenuous conditions of
service, it is necessary to always insist on
having “Anvil” Brand Plough Shares.
The “Anvil” Share has been tried and proven on scores of farms, and
always maintained its position as the leading Plough Share value in the
Commonwealth.
PRICES: 2/6, 3- 4/- each.
With reductions for quantities.
John Cooper Sons,
“ For all Farming Ironmongery,”
287-289 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
SPENCER’S MILD INDIAN CIGARS.
SPECIALLY SELECTED WHOLE LEAF-No Inferior Fillings.
If not obtainable fro n your dealer, refer
Sample Boxes of
50, 15/-
PARTRIDGE ABERCROMBY LTD.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.
LOFTUS MORAN,
231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Business, Robbery, etc
“Brer Rabbit”: Among the most fashionable furs
at present in Paris, Vienna! Berlin and New York
are what are known as “Adelaide Chinchilla.” They
fetch fancy prices, but they are in truth and in fact
nothing more or less than jundyed, unfaked Austra-
lian grey ’possum. It goes without saying that, even
were the ’possum not protected all the year round,
nobody in Australia could be induced to wear its
fur, for, as a Melbourne dealer remarks to the local
Herald, there is a prejudice here against anything
Australian in the fur line. - It is just as well—one
would lose one’s faith in the Norman Lindsay girl
if one knew that she was responsible for the slaying
of the Norman Lindsay bear, bandicoot or ’possum,
Her very prejudice is, after all,* a left-handed kind
of patriotism. Black fox and Russian squirrel are
popular because they are Impawted. Maoriland black
rabbit can be treated to resemble sealskin, and local
fox can be dyed to imitate the black article. Then
the product deceives the purchaser into believing
that it, too, is Impawted, and it enjoys a ready sale.
“Electric rabbit,” a cheaper variant of the expensive
seal and musquash, is the humble bunny transmogri-
fied ; so also is “coney,” which ( word has been bor-
rowed from Holy Writ to re-christen the vulgar and
unscriptural “wile rabbi’.” Wallaby makes up into
a skin hardly distinguishable from imported fox.
The platypus, being protected, is now allegedly un-
obtainable for the furrier’s purposes, although George
Rex is the proud possessor of an overcoat of this fur,
purchased when, as Duke of Yawnwell and Cork, he
came to this country. Six ’possum skins made into
furs are worth a full three guineas in Australia,
whereas the price charged by English furriers is
from 18 to 30 guineas. Time was when the same
thing could be bought here for a mere quid. It is
good to know that the native fauna Protection Acts
are proving of some value, however slight—although
it would be horrid to think of George Rex going
without his platypus overcoat when the wind
whistled round Windsor Castle.
“Hermes”: The recent remarks of Dominions Com-
mission Chairman Vincent on cotton growing in Aus-
tralia came as a shock to the people who say that
cotton, rice, tea and coffee must be grown by colored
labor. At one time it was alleged that indigo could
be produced only in India on account of the cheap
labor; but the cheap labor indigo of India has all
but vanished before the synthetic indigo made by
highly-paid German chemists on the banks of the
Rhine. Vincent staggered at least one daily paper
in N.S.W, by pointing out that much of the Ameri-
can cotton which is sold in England at 6d. per lb.
is grown in the Western States by white labor, and a
recent magazine article told how, in the old black
States of the South, white labor is supplanting black
toil in the cotton fields because it is more intelligent
and rapid. The ancient idea that cotton-growing is
a business that must be carried on under a system of
large plantations is quite exDloded. It is an industry
for the small farmer, and as Australian cotton has
been valued at Is. per pound in England as against
6d. for American and Bd. for Egyptian there seems
to be money in the job, if the job is properly carried
out. Providing that the idea does not go astray
owing to the turmoil of the elections, an expert is to
be obtained to explain to Australian farmers how to
grow cotton.
A muffled but continuous howl of protest
is going up from Melbourne’s little suburban grocery
stores. Ever since the Argus, full of noisy compas-
sion for the pinched householder, printed a list of
“cheaper groceries,” the grocery boss has found him-
self called on, at all hours of the day, to explain
h's prices to querulous customers. As a rule, the
most persistent ha’penny purchasers are of the type
which takes the Argus and swears by it. The out-
of-the-city retailers swear at it, mostly—even the
leading churchmen among them do it nowadays. It
is alleged that the trouble began by one of the city
stores cutting kerosene down to the bone, omitting,
of course, to alter the price of jam. Then, calling
the press into its confidence, an every-suburb retailer
took tupoence more off kerosene and delivered sugar
for the love if it, though potatoes and tobacco were
still kept at the old price. Thus jam and spuds and
tobacco didn't appear on the “cheaper” list, while
such essential articles as borax and jelly crystals
occupied a prominent position among the reduced
goods. As a matter of fact, for the past two years
the grocers have been having the time of their lives,
and they have no intention of foregoing that good
time by selling their wares for love or anything like
it.
“Stony”: The “authorised” newsagent no doubt
works hard ; but he is generally On a good wicket.
To take an instance of the kindness of Providence to
him, consider the interesting fact that, when the
appointed time comes for billing his customers after
Boxing Day and Good Friday, when no newspapers
are issued in Melbourne, the agent seldom forgets to
put a paper down for every day, bar Sundays. This
means that, in most cases, he receives the full extra
tunpence from his customers. If he has a thousand
deliveries, it follows that he collects upwards of four
sol'd quids for each non-issue. Compared with his
return for an ordinary day, when there is a paper
to be delivered, this is quite a bonanza. Present
writer’s newsagent has just retired into private life,
to subsist on a decent income and never to work any
more if he doesn’t want to. Present writer, however,
is still toiling on—and continuing to remain unpaid
for work he doesn’t do on Boxing Day and similar
sacred occasions.
* * * *
“Fred Ellen”: Hesperides Oysteropoulous was
aggrieved. As the proprietor of a sea-fruit emporium
he was long-suffering, but, in his own words: “Da
game has reacha da freezy leemit.” His newly-
acquired and expensive marble counter and the cash
register had been hauled from their moorings and
wrecked by a party of Saturday night beer shifters.
Hesperides wailed on. “Haifa da customer trya to
not pay an’ breaka da crock or pinch a da knife and
fork ! Da eenspecta da nuisance say da cockroach in
da sauce, and da Labor party scare da capital and
make da wage cost more! But it is over da odds to
have-a da marble counter all bent, da cash-regis’ all
crack and Dimitri’s two toe all trod off! ” So he
summoned the perpetrators, and when asked by the
magistrate did he have any witnesses, replied, “Yes,
your Hona ; plenty da weetnesses ; but da cows all be-
long to the odder side!” I’m glad to say, however,
that they had to pay. These Potts Point bloods are
making the pace too hot.
THE OPTIMISTIC IMMIGRANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The night was dark, the night was chill,
And down the sloppy city street
The wintry wind blew very ill —
Recurrent swathes of blinding sleet.
And on the kerb a little man
Made husky noises o’er a can.
“All'ot!” lie croaked. “All’ot! All’ot!”
It was a wicked lie; his nose
Was blue with cold, and he had got
A chilblain like an open rose
Upon each ear. He stirred his pot,
And cheerily he piped, “All ’ot!”
He vended spuds and saveloys—
The latter certified “all pork.”
To catch the fancy of the boys
He shook a sausage on a fork.
“All ’ot!” he cried. His clothes were thin,
His boots let all the winter in.
He was a “himm grant.” His stand,
He whispered me, was “paying fine.”
His goods “was near all profit,” and
He’d “took a bob” since half-past nine.
“But then,” said he, “a fine career
Is waitin’ any bloke out ’ere!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


STEADY v. UNSTEADY Voltage
Let tbe “ 1 v
“VOLTAGE REGULATOR
be your Switchboard Attendant.
* •
• •
.
■ ■
:
s :
Un
ff&yu/oiior
ttfadfc “190
13
:rJr: -••?--
• 4*
s^Jcst=u-"— *• ; ;
r 30' ~
sa
\ s
£4
: >
Without Tirrill Regulator
SO ■ -
12 It ~ 10
Voltage Curves of Colliery Load
with coal cutters running
STEADY VOLTAGE Means:
More Economical Lamps
may be used.
Fewer Lamp Renewals are
required.
No loss of revenue.
Reduces the number of
Switchboard A ttend=
ants required ; and
Many other advantages
described in
BULLETIN 4602.
PLEASE WRITE FOR A COPY.
in
iffii
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC C 2:
217 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
TO-DAY
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘Allenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO, 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
4@Uenburgs Foods
Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
‘THE LONE HAND ” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
HAES & ECGERS LTD.,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES FOR
163 Clarence Street,
<*^_SYDNEY
M. B. WILD & CO.
ym
Illustration of ISO-H.R. Double Drum Haulage Gear,
. Fitted with
Specialists
in the Manufacture of
Hauling & Winding
Machinery
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
@yT CITROEN GEARS.
Write for Catalogues.
Guaranteed Efficiency, 98 Per Cent.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD."
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, (Sydney
The Latest in Light Sporting Rifles.
STEVENS
"Marksman” Rifle No. 12.
Especially Designed for Smokeless Powder Ammunition.
Three Calibres—22, 25, or 32 rim fire
Ask your storekeeper to quote.
Write for Catalogue to
INSIST ON STEVENS
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian and H Z. Representative for J. STEVENS
ARMS & TOOL CO , Box 88. C.P.0.. Adelaide S.A. rs
FOR PERSONAL SAFETY BOY A
PIEPER BAYARD AUTOMATIC PISTOL
To be bad of all Storekeepers,
Gunsmiths and Merchants.
ALWAYS
READY.
Absolutely
Safe.
Write to W. A. Cox, Q.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Booklet, post free.
//
Simply
Turn a Screw
and Pull —
that’s all that’s neces-
sary to detach the bar-
rel of a Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifle.
It’s just as easy to clean
—it’s all done from the
breech and you can look
through the barrel and see
that it’s clean.
You’ll like this thor-
oughly tested, accurate,
reliable rifle made by expert
gunsmiths—a century’s ex-
perience is builded into it.
It is hammerless, has solid breech—no possibility of
accidental discharge or blow backs.
Shoot Remington-UMC Lesmok 22’s—they made the world’s
highest score and most perfect group. Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifles and Shot Guns. Ammunition for
all makes of fire arms. For sale everywhere.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
(M. Hartley Company, Export Agent) 299-301 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
'This Half-Magazine
Winchester Repeater,
65 1-
glHISai
« )
y.
>
fits
This is one of the latest Models of Win-
chester Half-Magazine Centre Fire Repeaters—
and is just the finest all-round Rifle for every Bushman.
It is a Rifle you can rely on —good for small game ; also Kangaroos,
Wallabies, or for killing Cattle and Hogs on the Farm.
Its magazine carries seven .25/20. .32, .38 or .44 Calibre Cart-
ridges—can be loaded in a moment—the ejection of one cartridge
bringing the other into position.
Its barrel is made of the finest tested Steel, Octagon shape (eight
sided), this being an advantage over the round Barrel, the glare
being lessened, allowing the Eye to glance along a flat plane
instead of a round surface. Is 20 or 24 inches long, just as you
choose, fitted with Sporting Fore and Rear Sight, and a plain
Trigger.
The Stock is of well-seasoned Walnut, fitted with Steel protector.
The net weight of the rifle is from 6ilb. to 71b.
It can also be had with a round barrel for 62/6. Postage
and Packing on either Rifle, 3/- extra.
Ask us to send you our Gun Catalogue, illustrating and
giving prices of others.
T.C. BEIRNE&CO
THE VALLEY,
BRISBANE.
Still Higher Grades in RIFLES.
Our last three advts. In this paper told of cheaper rifles—lo/- up
to 42/6. This week—something higher in grade. You can read
about them all—lso different rifles—in our lists—free if you mention
this paper.
50/-
B.S.A. War Office Model, 24in. barrel, special, deep, sharp, twist rifling ; adjustable wind
gauge back sight to 200 yards, protected fore sight, self-cocking bolt action, safety lock,
hollow butt, holds oil bottle and cleaning tools. A model of the Service Rifle. Oal. 22
long rifle; length, 4l£in. ; weight, ; 50/-.
55/-
No. 1174.—Special Light Weight Marlin Repeating Carbines, 20in. round barrel, half or
full magazine, cal. .25-20, .32, .38, .44; sling rings, steel butt plate, sighted to 1000
yards; side ejection; weight, sJlb.; 55/-
57/6
No. 1173. —Marlin Repeating- Rifle, 24in. round barrel, sporting rear and barleycorn fore
sights, 8 to 14 shots; cal. .25-20, .32, .38, .44; black or smokeless; weight, 6flb. ; 57/6.
57/6
Winchester Take-down Repeating Rifle, 24in. octagon barrel,
weight about sflb. ; cal. .22 short, .22 long, or the powerful .22
up to 15 cartridges; 5776.
slide fore-end operated;
W.R.F. Magazine holds
60/-
“Winchester” Repeating Carbines, 20in. round barrel, half magazine (6), and full magazine
(12 shots) ; cal. .25-20, .32, .38, .44; adjustable sporting sight; weight sflb. 60/- [4
ALCOCK (Si PIERCE, 318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
We also stock-GUNS, REVOLVERS, AUTOMATIC PISTOLS, CARTRIDGES, and all Sporting Requisites.
WAVEfiLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAYERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
Ink’^s'faultless TAIN PENS - ™ E FLOW °E
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent:
ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
m
m
...
A Picture of
Good Health!
Mrs. ADDINGTON, of Argent Street, Broken
Hill, writes her daughter was cured of St. Vitus’s
Dance, and is NOW IN SPLENDID HEALTH
through CLEMENTS TONIC.
“Argent Street, North Broken Hill,
“10th October, 1911.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
Some years ago my daughter, in alighting from
a tram, had a severe fall. It gave her a great
shock, and so affected her nervous system that
eventually St. 1 ltus’s Dance ensued. She became
so bad that it was impossible to hold a knife or
“I was persuaded to try
COMPLETE RECOVERY 011 / 1 ? tW v? l ears have ela P sed SINCE HER
RECOVERY, and all that time she has enjoyed the best of health
I have grent faith in CLEMENTS TONIC, and always recommend it You
can make what use you wish of this. ena xou
“(Signed) (Mrs.) R. A. ADDINGTON.”
CLEMENTS TONIC is Your MEDICINE
The Rev. JOHN HOSKING, D.D., Minister of
the Congregational Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
writes:—•
“I was completely run down and suffered by
nervous prostration, being troubled with Insomnia
and nervous headaches.
“After taking one bottle I slept soundly, and soon
got stronger. One bottle put me right, and was
worth its weight in gold. I recommend this medi-
cine very strongly. You may use this as you think
fit.
“(Signed) JOHN HOSKING, D.D.”
This Testimony should convince anyone suffering
from INSOMNIA or LOSS OF SLEEP and
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN, of the value of this
curative medicine.
GET IT, AND GET WELL.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere.
*


Good Blood!
Does your heart send good or
bad blood to your brain? If bad,
impure blood, then your brain
aches. You are nervous, restless,
cannot sleep. You are as tired in
the morning as at night. You
have no nerve power.
Stimulants will do you harm.
What then?
/Vyer’s
SOLD FOB ROO YEABS
This is the medicine you need.
It removes impurities from the
blood, makes it rich in its life-
giving properties, and gives tone
to the whole system. Ask your
doctor all about this.
To have good blood and strong
nerves, your bowels must be regu-
lar. There must be at least one
free movement each day. Ayer’s
Pills quickly correct any tendency
to constipation. Just one pill at
bedtime, only one.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER fie CO.,
Dowell, Mass., U. So A.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
tacked Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Free
Trial . Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Princture-Kesisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
I BiS.A. Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook’s
Saddles, etc.
MODELS JS3.tO to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient p<»s age, fof
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
AGENT for MEAD
*»• VAL D. COLE, Book Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices. 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Bn
CARTRIDGES
Eley Cartridges)
ensure —as far
as any cartridge
can ensure
first-rate sport
and gratifying bags.
Among sportsmen and sportswomen
throughout the world, the accuracy
of Eley Cartridges is proverbial.
Make a trial of any or all of these:
Eley ‘Achilles’
Deep shell, gas-
tight, smokeless
(42-grain) powder.
Elcy Pluto'
Grand Prix quality
cartridge, smokeless
(33-grain) nowder.
Eley ‘ Zenith’— Deep-shell, gastight,
specially selected smokeless (33-gr.)powder.
THESE ARE ALL ELEY LOADED.
Sold by Ammunition Dealers & Gunmakers
Be very sure to see the name ‘ELEY’
on the tube or shell each cartridge.
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON, ENG.
gmimtumm
i
in
ss
IS
Jg
m
m
'S3
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
IRISH
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
> have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
BoNNINGTQN’S
Irish Moss.
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
The ideal family medicine is equally
benefi ial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations —just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
<o
%
,R, s?,^r
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard —secretly —at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FLAT-CHESTED WOMEN!
TAKE HEED OF THIS ADVICE.
Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as natural de-
velopment was concerned, but science has found a way to cor-
rect your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-
bosomed, and although you have been attenuated all your
life, if you suffer from no wasting disease your bosom can be
fully developed, and your weight increased to normal.
It is the refreshing firmpess and delightful fulness of the
feminine form that captivates, and the woman who is most
perfectly developed is the one who monopolises the endear-
ments of the opposite sex. „ it
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr, I alliere s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect, flesh-builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health.— Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of'over fivfe pounds a week. Send 2d.
stamp for a free trial sample and free book. (1411)
FALLIIRE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney.
e.
MR. G. VECSR'T
FATAL VARICOSE VEINS
If you suffer from Varicose Veins or Ulcers, or both, I believe that I can
completely cure you. I have treated hundreds of terrible cases with the utmost
success, and I know that but very few cases are really incurable. Very few doc-
tors tell you they can cure this trouble. They prefer to ignore it. Doctors coukl
not cure me. I cured myself. I then cured my friends, and then made hundreds
of new friends by curing people who had suffered in some cases for a quarter of
a century. Hence I believe I can cure you... .It will pay you well to fully inves-
tigate my method. , , . , , '
My treatment is applied at your own home, does not require you to lay up,
and is painless and harmless. The worst cases usually respond inside the first few
weeks, and old, stubborn cases are perfectly cured under a suitable course of treat-
ment. ..Give me full details of your case. If I can cure you I will say so, and
send vou a guarantee. If I cannot; I will at once advise you. You run no risk.
You can lose noth ng if I should fail ; but I have built up a large business—not
on failures, but on successes in casjs formerly given up as hopeless. Let me send
you hundreds of grateful testimonials.
Send 2d. stamp for our free book, which gives full particulars, or call
for consultation. Diagnosis and advice FREE. Send, write or call to-day.
FREE BOOK
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney
NEW SEAM SANITARY GAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
The Entire Top Open.
00
Sealed without Haat, Solder or Objeotlonable Fluxes.
f
H
OUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 ends hourly, and may be operated
bv a boy. Our machines are made for all kinds and sizes
of cans. Will stand both retort and bath processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better. Send for
our Catalogue.
The machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
tr AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are not surpassed by any-
thing in the market. •
We Furnish Complete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Ams Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U<S.A.
EUROPEAN AGENCY: G. CUELPA di L., Corgo Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
Tobacco
Rills
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. . . . It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
tobacco specific is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
cravings the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem and aids Nature in entirely eliminating:
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
free sample.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces ” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (tt CO.,
Dept. G,
107 r. asTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4
P\CxES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cnmberaome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only (OMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact.THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with palling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
sott rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women children.
UESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins.st., Melbourne, Vic.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuriea.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use sine# 1596.
cures
Austrian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist foritshistory-the book is free—or wrf%»
g. GREEN. 2XO. Lambeth Koad, London, Enr,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Man’s Way.
“I was not born to die,”
Sang Mesh-and-Blood aglow,
As, golden head on high,
wandered to and fro.
1 draw immortal breath.
I was not made for death.”
As to a festival
Exultantly he strolled;
b rom peak and mountain tall
An echoing music rolled
As, singing through the hours,
■He strolled .among the flowers.
The dawn glows, the hud blows,”
hus caroll ed Flesh-and-Blood—-
The- earth's lap is filled to-day
WHtk laughing Babyhood.”
‘‘Sore tired of life am I,”
Said Flesh-and-Blood anon
As, head no longer high,
He wandered worn and wan :—•
“Grown weary of the strife
Sore tired am I of life.”
Among the late, old years
Disconsolate he went;
His flowers were wet with tears,
His hours were pale and spent—■
“When life has nought to give
It is not good to live.”
“The day flies , the flower dies,”
This mumblingly he ■ saith —
‘‘The Earth's lap is' filled to-night
With dark, dark Death.”
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Song of Repentance.
The letters that they never wrote,
The things they never said,
The tall recording angels quote
Against the guilty dead;
The various matters left undone
Provoke the sentence dire
On those whpse pleasure fain would shun
The heat of Tophet fire.
We sorrow over gifts misspent,
And resolutions vain,
In dust and sackcloth we repent,
And straightway, sin again.
And though our crimes are safely hid,
Fierce conscience claims its due,
And stabs us not for things we did,
But things we did not do.
In moving up and down the earth
Some liquid we may quaff,
And gather e’en in times of dearth
The wherewithal to laugh ;
And sometimes when the days are drear,
And ways are dull and brown,
To some kind soul we may draw near
And borrow half-a-crown.
Beneath the vast and quiet skies,
Or under pleasant shade,
Long have we gazed upon the eyes
Of some clear-visaged maid ;
Long have we held her slender waist,
Or in a sigh’s eclipse
Have known the warm and yielding taste
That dwells in scarlet lips.
But in the cold and stilly night
When all delight has fled ...
We see in dreams the vanished light
Of days remote and dead,
We hear the gurgling streams outpour
And into darkness sink,
And languish in repentance sore
For drinks we did not drink.
Young Mirth with Riot for his mate
*Has held his noisy court
In various places at whose gate
Our folly made resort;
Yes, we were fools in cap and bells,
But our remorse is keen
When some dark spirit brooding tells
What fools we might have been.
Kind Fortune saves our souls from wrath,
And keeps aloof and free
The Root of Evil from our path
With much persistency.
But when our duns around us press,
And Credit’s face is sad,
Our hearts the bitter thought caress
Of debts we might have had.
We sorrow over gifts mis-spent,
And grimly count the cost,
In dust and ashes we repent
For various things we lost,
But cash and kisses, mirth and beer
That once we passed as vain
No, word nor oatb, nor prayer, nor tear
Shall ever call again .
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.
The Fact of the Matter.
The outside world is calling.
There Fame and Wealth may be,
Fame is a word enthralling,
And wealth would do f° r me-
I’ve worn down young Ambition
One does— -my hair is^grey.
Now but the <( CTude condition
Attaches’: Will it Fay .
Thorp was a time when Money
Was what I valued least,
Praise was the goUlen honev
On which my soul would least.
Then Culture’s approbation
Was price and pay .enough.
How great the va ™Fion,
I’m out, now, for the stun.
The children of my .
Glad life, moan in the gmorn >
For light and air they hunger,
1 *> faVwMrs freckle.,
"fSe'r/roSe'S. not lure,
I want to grab the skeke
Which Jingle »”/■*'
M Cd" d I-e iS S iiwS r 'ho.rd.
PANANALAND.
M. BAKER.


BEDROOM SUITES
at . . .
Marcus Clark’s
A
m
// ///
Vi
/ //•.
r
yV/./
¥
A SUPERB
SUITE at
£25
THE. "PSYCHE” SUITE.
■/' IN SOLID OAK, 3 pieces, comprising:
sft. Ward, obe, large door in Tev. mirror. One large and one
small drawer. . . ,
Dressing Table, full-sized swing, bevelled mirror, 3 serviceable drawers under-
neath, Z jewel drawers and shglf under mirroi
Washstand, 3ft. Gin., large cupboard and two drawers.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
CENTRAL SQUARE, OPP. RAILWAY,
SYDNEY.
The Expert
House Furnishers,
The Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
ALBERTS
SYSTEM
ROFESSIONAL
iMTfc*
OOMERANG
S £ rs”s~
\l?_ 3g/_*T7
'‘DDnu 1 -GRAND,” large size 0/0, small d/6
~. PROFESSIONAL, "-large size 4/-, small size 2/-
BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1 /6.
v POCKET BOOMERANG,” l/=, post free.
“ ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells
price S/6 ; 80 ids., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/o!
trade supplied.
CAUTlOtjT—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who, try to “talk in’’the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are onlv a weak imita-
tion of The “ BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has not a “BOOMERANG”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “ just as
good,” anti get, the “BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
v fS)
ALBERT fa SON. 137-0 King street, Sydney.
u The World-wide Whiskey.”
IRISH
A Whiskey of unique value,
■ ■ !.!■ ; ■ ■
mellow, light and digestive.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
(Paid-up Capital, £1,100,000.
Established 1849), are by
far the largest Shippers of
Bottled Whiskey from Dublin.
HEALTH and STRENGTH
a. 90
My life study is to teach how to become
strong and healthy, and, with that object
in view, have litted out the finest Physical
Culture Studio in Australia. Your time
could not be spent to better advantage than
Carrying out my instructions.
Those who are weak soon become strong.
Those who are unwell, out of sorts, out
of condition, will quickly feel the benefit
of fhy methods.
Whether Jou attend my Studio, or com-
municate by post, you are given careful,
personal tuition, Money invested in health
brings the biggest returns. Prospectus
supplied gratis.
(gjoff (^oriarty
PHYSICAL CULTURE STUDIOS
195 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE
(Between Russell and Swanston Streets).
Let Me Show You How to Reduce Your Weight.
The leading StudioOfor teaching Boxing. Obtain particulars of special
Postal Course.
AVOID TYRE TROUBLES by using 1
Perdriau Three-ribbed Motor Tyres.
SPECIALLY CONSTRUCTED FOR AUSTRALIAN
ROADS.
(Made in Australia.)
Price List and all particulars on application.
MOTOR OVERCOATS
FOR WINTER TOURING.
We have a magnificent assortment, of which the following
are selected as Special Value:—
Double Breasted, Dark Grey Frieze, Leather Lined (as illus-
trated) 95/.
Double Breasted, Thick Wool Tweeds, in choice Greys
Browns, etc. 105/-
“Raglan” shape Rainproof, light-weight Garbadine and
Iweed Check Cloth, Lined, Loose Cut, suitable for
Motoring in Showery Weather <= 50/- & 55/-
When ordering by mail, state height, and easy chest measure.
We Pay Carriage.
1
RUBBER C° LT9
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
Old and Young
"Y
Both old and young like to feel that what
they do is well done, and whether the
Linoleums and Furniture are polished by
cither, _ the feeling is secured if Shl>*
Noleum is used.
Shi-Noleum gives wonderful satis-
faction, it gives such a fine finish to the
Floors, and it is so easy to use that it never
fails to please.
BEWARE OF IMITATION .
#
ON TNE HOP!
A j s u perb lihmr ? volurr, e, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price. 21s.
Beauty’s Favourite
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty's
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre .
Hhinent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 34.—N0. 1742.
THURSDAY. JULY 3. 1913.
Pkiok 611.
THE COOK AND THE CRAB.
NEW PRIME MINISTER: “Confound you, you burte, I wish you have my job! I can't go foward, because I've said for years that the f
Labor people go too far forward. I can't go backward because the Senate won't let me. And you-dash you!-can
make a good living by going sideways!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . £1 G 0
Half-yearly . . .. . . 0 13 6
Quarterly.. .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty-
• Six Shillings Sterling you can have Tiie Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, Th" Bulletin/’ is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 8000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
jVc”' 'I? J ?ui 'LETin desires, further, those sending
■ui t 0 dlstinctl V understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,<of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will he paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to he re-drawn—will he paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will he received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can he obtained in Lon-
aon, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver. 8.C.; Jepson Bros.. Nanaimo, 8.C.; S. G.
Ilarlin, J,1,5 Granville Street, Vancouver. B.C.
U.S.A. —Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D
Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Golden Gate News Co., 789
Market Street. San Francisco > Quaker News Co,
Philadelphia. U.S.A. ; Queen City News Co., Randolph
and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, 'Port Said. Egypt.
, Uong ICong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
hong.
Ceylon. — ]V. G. P. Pcrera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort.
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
1,16“ per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size,
x Hin., and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Pates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) :—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom. All Sea
Route, IGoz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and B}oz.
to lOoz,, 21d.; lOoz. to 12oz. Sd.; elsewhere, l/oz. 1d.,-
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 3, 1913.
PARTY GOVERNMENT, ANARCHY,
THE PRECARIOUS POSITION OF
J. COOK, AND SUNDRIES.
Party Government —that wonderful device
by which the country hires certain men to
do its work, and another set to prevent them
doing any woyk at all, just as it might hire
an army for defence and another army to
knock the first one into a cocked hat —is a
fine old Tory institution. Of course, lunatics
always look more aged than their years, and
this particular foolishness is not so vener-
able, after all; but still it is old enough to
know better if it had any mental machinery
to know with. It began, naturally, with the
system which made the Ministry dependent
on a majority in one House of Parliament,
and liable to be sacked at any moment with-
out a character if it lost that majority.
There not being enough billets end salaries
and patronage to go round among the men
who were big enough to have a claim on
them, there arose an incurable desire to
run the Ministry out. As a rule, there were
two parties in the House because it was only
by combination that the jobs could be got, or
kept. Just as three armies, each one hos-
tile to the other two, make a hash of things
when they attempt to fight a battle; and
just as five duellists fighting simultaneously
with five swords apiece make a mess of the
duel, so it was found that three or more
parties often made chaos of the system. In
consequence, if there was really only one set
of opinions in the House, another set had to
be invented in order to make a fight. And
if there were 10 sets of opinions, the holders
thereof had to get together in two groups
and agree to compromise, or sell their con-
sciences, lest the fight should be ruined. The
row was, and is, and apparently will be so
long as the device endures, the first essential,
and the performance of public business is the
one-hundred-and-fiftieth essential, or there-
abouts. The reason why the thing is called
Party Government is that Party comes first.
If business came first, it would, presumably,
be called plain Government.
Incidentally, it is worth noting that even
the most conservative supporter of the bi-
cameral system, or bi-cameral foolishness,
doesn’t dream of making the Ministry re-
sponsible to both Houses, end insisting that
it shall lose its job if any of its measures
are defeated in either House. The idea
would carry the Party system to its logical
conclusion, but it is seldom safe to carry a
dangerous lunatic to his logical conclusion.
The two-House method is written down a
failure by the very fact that one House has
to be regarded as a nonentity or dead thing
when a new Administration is in the making.
Australia is just now thinking hard over
the mysteries of Party. It has acquired a
new Ministry, and the new Ministry has a
majority of one in the House of Represen-
tatives, while in the Senate it has no sup-
port worth speaking of. When it has ap-
pointed a Speaker it will have no majority
or chance or prospect anywhere except in
the Speaker’s casting vote, or in the forbear-
ance of its enemies. These enemies are sup-
posed to be deadly but amiable. The breach
between the two parties is understood to be
wide and bottomless, but cigars and invita-
tions to lunch are handed across it. If the
bitterest Tory found at a late wet hour that
he had lost his purse, the bitterest Laborite
would cheerfully lend him a cab fare, and
vice versa. As a matter of fact, both
crowds know that the game is a joke. The
new people have scrambled into office chiefly
by promising to be as like the o people in
their democratic legislation as possible. The
old people tried to keep in power by being as
unsatisfactory and non-committal on the
tariff issue as their opponents, who are now
the new people. The two parties say that
they have the same Defence policy, and they
are equally ignorant of what they propose to
do about the Northern Territory railway, which
is almost the first essential of Defence, and
about Northern Territory settlement, which
is equally important. Not long since, Aus-
tralia heard its old Prime Minister telling
las constituents that, whatever happened, the
tariff would be improved, but how much it
would be improved he didn’t say. And
almost at the same moment, it heard an old
member of the caucus explaining that the old
Prime Minister had no authority to commit
the party, and that his words were mere
wind and dead leaves and of no account.
More recently, it saw its new and virulently
Foreign-trade Prime Minister offering the
Customs portfolio to the strongest Protec-
tionist in the party, merely because he was
a strong Protectionist, while explaining that
the Government did not intend to make any
serious alteration in the tariff. In short, if
a few strenuous fighters were eliminated on
either side, the only present difference
between the two parties would be their
amazing resemblance, plus the fact that one
lot wants a double dissolution (which will
cost the’country about £150,000) in the hope
of making its position better, and the other
doesn’t, because it reckons its enemy’s posi-
tion could hardly be any worse. But the
pretence of infuriated animosity has to be
preserved, else the wonderful scheme of
things would go to pieces, and because of
this infuriated burlesque animosity it is
understood that little or none of the 'nation’s
business will be attended to for quite a
while. As often happens, the two sections
of the House—-leaving out a few hopeless
Tories on one side and a few very advanced
Democrats on the other —have so drifted
together—or, rather, one section has so
drifted up against the other —that they are,
for the moment, short of subjects to quarrel
about, and have to fall back on old habit
and traditional indignation.
* * * *
All this is interesting from the Party
standpoint, but it isn’t especially helpful as
regards the country’s business. In Switzer-
land. where a plain, ordinary, heavily-shod
neople try to run things on plain principles,
I arty Government has been practically aban-
doned. If the Swiss system prevailed in
Australia, there would have been an elec-
tion of new Ministers when the new Parlia-
ment met. The result might have been a
purely Cook Cabinet or a purely Fisher
Cabinet, or a mixed Cabinet. Some-
times that method brings together men
who are very uncivil to each other,
but then no device is perfect. In any
case, the habit of incivility grows less as the
old Party idea grows weaker. Each new
Minister would hold his appointment—bar-
ring crime, insanity, resignation or death—
for three years. That should appeal to the
new Cook Government—a precarious organ-
isation which, under Australian methods,
doesn’t feel safe for three minutes, no matter
how good its conduct may be, and how much
it may refrain from crime or glaring mad-
ness. Further, the Government wouldn’t re-
quire to have a policy, and that should also
appeal to the Cook Administration. If a
crowd of strenuous men were elected to office
they, or any one of them, could introduce
Bills for the reconstruction or obliteration
ot everything under the sun ; but nobody, not
even the colleagues of the reconstructor and
obliterator, would be bound to support his
views, nor would he be expected to resign,
though every one of his schemes was re-
jected. On the other hand, a Ministry of
unimaginative plodders might simply show
to the Legislature that the finances and
public services were in good order, and then
sit down and wait for private members to
move. If Bruce Smith, of Zurich, had
concealed about him a measure for the aboli-
tion of all Customs duties, or Robert Best,
of Berne, had one for raising all duties to
150 per cent., the Bill could be introduced
and fought to a finish without doing any
harm to Prime Minister Cook, of Unter-
walden, and his cherished job. In fact, any
question, even that of the Northern Terri-
tory railway, could be brought to a vote
without wrecking any,party, or causing any-
body to lose a position or a salary. The idea
that occurred to the Switzer, leading a sim-
ple life among his lakes and avalanches,
was that, on every question that any mem-
ber can bring before any Legislature, there
must be a majority, even if it only consists
of the casting vote of the Speaker, for or
against. And if affairs are so arranged that
every_ member is free to vote according to his
conscience—if he isn’t coerced or influenced
by party loyalty, or driven by the fear of
depriving Cook or anybody else of his
supremacy—then any matter, however
thorny, may be brought up for settlement
any time. •
- * * *
The policy of elective Ministries is essen-
tially Conservative, though the Tory is too
dull to see it. (Just here jt may be men-
tioned that Conservative ideas are not all
bad.) Where the flower of Liberty grows in
greatest profusion, any King is liable to be
shot or any President to be suddenly but-
chered when his constituents for a moment
lose faith in him, and Ministries come and
go like Jonah’s gourd, and anybody may
take his life in his hand and start a revolu-
tion without being regarded as irregular or
misguided. Where the blossom of Freedom
flourishes a little less magnificently it is
merely the Government which is discharged
without notice—perhaps because its majority
of one was too tired to attend. Either way
the policy is mad, wild and unsettled. The
Elective Ministry idea —especially when
combined with the Initiative and Referen-
dum-stands, on the other hand, for order,
stability of government, political decency,
and everything else that the Conservative
professes to aim at. It prevents a Cabinet
Minister being too like a Haytian Dictator,
who comes into unlimited power at break-
fast time, and is running for his life about
the hour of afternoon tea, with all his goods
confiscated. The backward party in Aus-
tralian politics has been accustomed to re-
gard the Elective Ministry idea, the Refer-
endum and the abolition of Party Govern-
,ment as inventions of the Socialistic devil.
The position of Joseph Cook should make
it reconsider this view. What Conservative
stability what solidity and reliability and
good order—can be found about the tottering
attitude of Cook)
THE WOES OF BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Although there are 7 5 members in the House Of
Representatives, still, owing to the lack of a work-
ing majority on either side, the passing of any
effective legislation will be difficult, not to say im-
possible, under the present system of Party Govern-
ment.—Political item.
Once upon a recent even, as I lay in fitful
slumber,
Weaving dreams and seeing visions vague
and utterly absurd,
Suddenly I seemed to waken, somewhat
scared and rather shaken,
For I thought my name was mentioned,
coupled with —“a certain word.”
’Twas the Adjective that roused me, san-
guinary and familiar,
That embellishes the diction of my fellow
countrymen,
When they do commune together in regard
to crops or weather—
Such a word as never, never shall defile this
pious pen.
Sitting upright on my pillow, filled with
weird, uncanny feelings,
Once again I heard distinctly someone call-
ing on my name.
And I gazed around, me vainly as a voice
exclaimed quite plainly:
“Strike me up a blessed wattle if it ain’t
a blessed shame!”
“’Tis some idiotic joker, ’tis some festive
friend,” I muttered,
Gazing toward my chamber window where
the moonlight faintly gleamed.
Then, before my bedroom curtain, I beheld
a shape uncertain,
Something vague and dim and doubtful,
slowly taking form it seemed.
Then, all obvious before me stood a figure
most familiar,
Clad in bushman’s boots and breeches and a
colored cotton shirt.
Said he: “No, yer eyes don’t fail yer: Here’s
yer cobber, Bill Atjstralier,
An’ I’ve come to ask you plainly if this
game ain’t blessed dirt!”
“Pardon, Bill,” said I politely; “but I
hardly get youy, meaning.”
“Strewth!” said B#ll. “Head crook, I call
it!” But I stayed him with a smile.
‘ By your leave, my Worthy bloke, we’ll drop
these oaths and terms colloquial,
And just talk the matter over in a peace-
ful, friendly sty.le.”
Bill choked back a warm expletive— for
my smile was most engaging—
And, upon my invitation, sat beside me on
the bed.
And, omitting decorations—fancy oaths and
execrations —
That his woeful story garnished, I shall tell"
you what he said.
“Now my name is Bill Australier, just
plain Bill without no trimmin’s,
And you’ll tumble that I’m ownin’ quite a
tidy bit o’ land ;
Land that needs a bit o’ workin*; an’ there
ain’t no time for shirkin’,
An’ there ain’t no call for loafers on the
job I got on hand.
“My selection is extensive; right from sea
to sea it stretches;
An’ I’m needin’ willin’ grafters for the toil
there is to do:
So some blokes, called politicians speaks for
. overseers’ positions,
An’ I hands ’em out the billets, thinkin’ they
Would see things through.
“’Strewth! They ain’t signed on 10
minutes ’fore they downs their tools in
anger,
An’, without no word o’ warnin’, started
fightin’ tooth an’ nail.
An’ I yelled till I grew husky, an’ me face
with rage went dusky,
But me most expensive language wasn’t of
the least avail.
“Tell yeh, I was fair bewildered till a bloke
gives me the office,
Pots me wise about them factions an’ this
Party Guv’ment lurk.
Seems, if one side takes to toilin’, then the
other aims at spoilin’
Ev'ry blessed job they tackle. An’ the
blighters calls it wobk !
“go I puts it to ’em plainly. Sez I: ‘This
here Party scrappin’
In the time for which I’m payin’ ain’t a
fair thing, anyway!’
An’ I calmly asks ’em whether they can’t
work in peace together,
An’ consider me a trifle, seein’ as I find the
pay.
“But it weren’t no use o’ torkin’, they just
howls and fights the harder,
leaves me pressin’ jobs to languish while
they plays party games;
’fill one push turns out the stronger; then
I don’t chip in no longer,
For they done a bit o’ graftin’ while the
others calls ’em names.
"Now, this year their contract’s finished, so
I gives ’em all the bullet,
Sacks the lot an’ advertises for fresh men;
an’ when they came,
With near even sides, by Heaven ! 38 to 37,
They • remarks: ‘The job be jiggered!
We’re too close to play the G~-ue.’
"Game! Wot game? Of all the blighters!”
(Here Bill’s language grew tre-
mendous.
I have never heard a vision curse so much
•in all my life.)
“Five an’ seventy I’m payin’ for to work,
an’ here’s them savin’
That the sides is too near equal an’ ’twould
only lead to strife!
"Strike me- !” (Bill again, in anger,
aired his vast vocabulary,
Using words against hi’s “workmen”
stronger than the law allows ;
And his ultimate expletive !—Fain would I
remain secretive,
But I may not. In his Bill de-
scribed them as FAIR COWS!)
‘Fair dashed Cows! That’s wot I call ’em.
An’ I want your straight opinion.
Am I boss of this selection that extends
from sea to sea?
Here’s these blinded politicians bangin’ on
to them positions!
An’ I want the dead, straight griffen: Are
they workin’ points on me?”
Bill,” said I —-and tears were streaming
down my whiskers as I answered—
Precedent, and rule, and custom cannot he
ignored, you know.
This Great Svstem was imported by our
fathers” (Here Bill snorted)
From the dear old Mother Country, and
we cannot let it go."
Wot!” yelled Bill. “Still more imported
pests upon the job to plague me!
Like the rabbits an’ the foxes, burrs an’
thistles, an’ the rest.
Must I ever curse in anguish? Must my
Big Jobs ever languish?
Can’t I clear me blamed selection of this
Party Guv’ment pest?”
“Bill !” I sobbed, choked with emotion —
then in wonder gazed about me;
Marked the moonlight, white and ghostly,
faintly gleaming through the pane ;
Saw mine old familiar trousers —(Pardon
this allusion, Wowsers) 7 —
Hanging on the bedpost sadlv. But I
searched for Bill in vain.
Gone had he from out my chamber. Yet I
sat and pondered deeply
Through that chilly winter even; and I
ponder deeply still.
Evidence I’ve none to show men; but, I
ask, was it an omen?
Did it presage good or evil, that strange
vanishing of Bill?
VICTORIA.
C. J. DENNIS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Small Matter Concerning Johnson.
This is Treasurer Cann, of the N.S.W.
State Ministry, on the chaotic railway
situation, as reported in a Sydney daily:—•
Mr. Cann denies that the Government is desirous
of restoring political control of the railways. “In
Mr. Eddy’s time and in Mr. Oliver’s time,” said
Mr. Cann last night, “there was a Railway Covnnis>
sxoner, and not a Chief Commissioner with plenarv
powers. MR. JOHNSON HAS BEEN GIVEN ABSO-
LUTE CONTROL.”
The Liberal—or Tory—press might think
over that point. Years ago Oliver, an
Australian and about the best Railway
Commissioner that N.S.W. ever possessed,
committed an unpardonable sin. He dis-
approved of the policy of carrying news-
papers free on the trains, and thus pamper-
ing and pauperising newspaper proprietors.
After that it is difficult to remember that
anything he did was done right, according
to the Tory press. Certainly he had rows
with his two colleagues, whom the foolish
Government had made equal in authority
with him, but the difficulty might have been
got over by giving him supreme authority.
Instead of suggesting this, a section of the
daily press clamored that he should be dis-
charged, and that someone else should be
given supreme authority. Johnson, the
Imported, was given a free hand and made
a sort of railway despot, on the ground that
the old system of triple’ control under which
Oliver, the Australian, had to work, was
impossible. That is to say, it was good
enough for Oliver, the Australian, but it
wasn t good enough for Johnson, the Im-
ported. Johnson, the Imported, was to get
a fair show, though any kind of a show
was good enough for Oliver, the local man,
and the man who disapproved of free rail-
caniage for newspapers. For weeks
and weeks before he arrived the glory, the
brilliance, the capacity, the magnificence,
and the superabundance of Johnson— the
man hired to oust Oliver, who had objected
to tree conveyance of newspapers by train—
were told to the public. One Sydney paper
even clamored for “a man like Mr. John-
son —this was before it had even seen
Johnson— to control the N.S.W. Lands
Department, and implied that if the State
could only get enough Johnsons all would
be well in every branch of its service It
is a long while since this racket happened.
■ and a, change has come over the spirit of
the dream. Now that Oliver, the Aus-


eralian, has been got rid of, and John px.
the Imported, has been in office for jps
'tb larger powers than any previous ] Ml-
wav Commissioner possessed, even the
maddest importing Tory paper burns in
-prise at the Johnson shrine no more. In
fart some Tory publications seem as if |mj
mnn’id almost be glad to see Oliver fckffi,
or an Australian like him.
Xhe One Job in which Honesty is a
Fatal Handicap.
The Labor system of caucus-elected Mins-
kies —a system under which it is possible
for an O’Malley to be put in charge I a
great department, by mistake, as it wet -
is bad; but the Liberal method is probfly
Wo rse, from the point of view of the elm-
try A Liberal Prime Minister has to nlke
Ins’ selections firstly with an eye to the lel-
ings of the States. Incidentally he has to
bear in mind the varying fiscal prejudice! of
his followers all over Australia. It isn’tjhe
habit to hbap office on the holder of a silky
seat. (Of course the man with a silky
seat" is just the one who should get ofle",
for constituencies like to be represented by
a Minister, and a portfolio may change a
majority of one into a majority of I#o.
But in Britain, where a member has tolgo
up for re-election when lie takes a pfft-
folio, it is necessary to appoint only he
man with a safe seat, and the Liberals in
Australia follow the British precedent wili-
out knowing why.) And the “hard-worlffiig
member” —which generally means the num-
ber who has no work to do outside Parlia-
ment —requires to be placated or rewarded.
And then there are sectarian and social snd
half a dozen other irrelevancies to be con-
sidered. A staggering handicap, in the else
of a prospective Liberal Minister, is
earnestness; meaning the delusion tjat
Liberalism aspires seriously after anylof
the things that it talks about with such
taking ardor when elections rage. No
Liberal Prime Minister, for example, eoild
afford to so much as dream of choosingsas
a colleague one who really believed in AJti-
Socialism —believed in it so sincerely, tint
is to say, as to wish to nut it into practice.
Anti-Socialism is one of the most inspiring
subjects imaginable for platform work. It
enables its handler to get off countless reus-
ing gags about “British freedom” ; and he
free Briton’s hatred of “bureaucracy” ; aad
the unthinking Labor person’s fatunis
efforts to butt against the economic lavs
of the ages. But for the purposes of poe-
tical modern politics Anti-Socialism is lof
about as much use as Antinomianism—or a
sick headache. The two most pdt-
icaliy consistent members of the OotK
Ministry are W. H. Irvine and P. Mat.
Glynn. But they are far from beiig
fanatics in this respect. Irvine supported
the Trade and Commerce Amendment whn
his party was allied with the Laborites ; aid
at the same time P. McM. Glyjn
announced that a number of Trusts wre
menacing the welfare of Australia. is
supporters of one who was opposed to aiy
amendment of the Trade and Commete
clause; and part of whose case rested In
the assumption that there were no injuries
trusts in Australia, they both ate thjar
opinions of a few years back with the it-
most heartiness. Had they not dole
so, it is a fair thing to postulate that thy
would be private members still. Tie
classic example of the unwisdom, notito
say the insanity, of being a Liberal in Par-
liament as well as out of it is afforded |y
the mournful case of Bruce Smith. IV
lianjentary Liberalism is so nauseated ly
his embarrassing honesty and exasperatiig
belief in the justice and reason of Fre-
trade, Anti-Socialism and the rest of tie
principles [The man who wrote this artice
perpetrates a frightful fist, and the compi-
sitor at his first attempt made “principle”
read “precipices,” which is, perhaps, tie
better word of the two, for Liberalism _s
always falling down them and breaking is
neck.l that the Party stands for, that t
would certainly oust him from Parke,
and put a more pliable Hep. in hs
place, if it were safe or possible to do si.
As it isn’t, Joseph Cook, as leader if
the party, formally registers his disapprovd
of his deolorably upright friend’s methds
by withholding office from him, while bestot-
ing it upon persons without half tie
slighted one’s experience and knowledf.
This paper holds no brief for Bruce Smiti.
It regards him as belonging to a bygote
day in a political manner of speech. Bit
if there is any truth or honesty in
the doctrine that the Cook party claims is
its own, then it does contend that the fict
Liberal to be selected for preferment and
honor should be the Parkes representative.
As a Federalist he played a worthy part in
the drawing up of the Constitution and tie
founding of the Cqmmonwealth. He had
plenty of experience in office in the dajs
when a politician was able not merely jb
call himself a Freetrader, but to act as
such. He is a sound Constitutional lawy«.
His personal habits are irreproachable. Ifc
boots and clothes are as good to look up®
as the clobber of the angels. His hoik
(“Liberty and Liberalism”) is a standat]
work in its line. The Archangel Gabrib.
or a re-incarnation of Julius C-hsar woui]
find it hard to win the Parkes seat froa
him. But he is a Liberal —a genuiig
one—and so, when the portfolios are goin|,
he is an outcast. There is something vet,-
rotten in a system which renders the dis-
couragement of honest politicians —how-
ever great their capacity —a first law if
Party preservation. It is even rottenr
than the Labor arrangement, where onlya
limited choice is allowed of the men wp
are to administer the affairs of the counts
which choice is made in such a way that tie
worst candidate for office is almost as hath
to be first as the best. Some day MJ-
istries will be elected, irrespective
parties, by a general vote of Parliament;
a reform which will ensure that the busmen
°f the nation will be conducted at least &
efficiently as the business of a private cou-
nany. with a reputable board of director
In the meantime, the demented system tf
appointing Ministers to the different j-
nartments on almost every considerat#i
barring that of fitness to their jobs, wil (
presumably, prevail.
♦
Man Overboard.
The N.S.W. Government has gazetted tie
hfe-saving regulations adopted by the pnni,.
stricken Bull Board of Trade ITT hen tt-
Titanic horroT drew attention to the hopelfc
out-of-dateness of that august authority The
ohl V ones" hn t are ai * improvement on the
but , they C0llld go further without
t ung themselves. It is now imperative that
enough , sea /£oing ship shall carry
7 e ", ,0atS f K or aJ1 Persons on boaru
tonnage of L v ber - corresponding to the
ronnage or the ship, irrespective of whether
ba^ a boai 'd 10 or 1000 persons. The old
ti-ncf- lat , any surplus human beings might
whof fu henco °P s « thus discarded. But
S r llf 0me t(? d ? al with other matters
J’tulnr' e rt Ul£ «J 0 * S » -I ? V1 t e occasional scorn.
S n tbe S / ate s Maritime Act, the rules of
S ih’nf eu° f Tra 1 e I ? aust be adopted in qloho ,
homo wnfof. 6 re 5 alatl ons adapted to British
fib i i’ conditions must be applied willy-
nuly to this coast, not because they suit, but
suff US TTnB 0 d ., fo ° l of an Act says they must
carting U l4fn ° ld cod ?V picnic steamers
1500 trippers to Hawkesbury, Port
Stephens or Port Hacking were required to
carry one lifebelt for eve?, triopen“eSing
them to come ashore from shipwreck on the
same old hencoop, kerosene case, or hatch
fblu n i ng rf Th ? n * w code Provides that there
shall be life rafts for 70 per cent, of those on
board, leaving only 30 per cent, to drown,
e -,ioo ded im Provement. To save
4L&0 out of 1500 is something. For the ferry
services, boats going to Manly must provide
floating seals for 60 per cent., and boats ply-
mg to Milson s Point and Mosman must nro-
vide tor 40 per cent, of those on board. Then
Hr every person a lifebelt must be supplied.
Just how this will work out remains to be
seen. At present, the ferries must all carry
floating scats equal to the passenger
capacity. These seats have drums under-
neath to achieve buoyancy, but in many
cases they are stowed in glassed-in cabins,
and wedged firmly to the decks to keep them
trom getting adrift. Experts have always
wrangled as to the utility of these floating
seats, and in the event of a disastrous colli-
sion they would hardly prove equal to sav-
ing everybody. It is doubtful if human in-
genuity could devise anything that would.
Instead of the drums under the seats, life-
belts will be. stowed, and they will also
have to be tied on to the roof, and round
the sides of the steamers. When the ex-
pected calamity happens along, the 1600
people on the North Shore or Manly boat
will have an exciting time sorting themselves
into the 1600 lifebelts. Then when their
ship goes down they will be dotted about
the harbor, each bobbing up and down in his
or her own lifebelt, to be picked up much
like potatoes in a potato doce. This scheme
will work out as well, perhaps, as the other
of throwing everyone on to the floating
seats. Still where was the harm in insisting
on both seats and belts? If 40 per cent,
want seating room in the water, what will
hapnen to the other 60 per cent? But, as
stated, the Government hasn’t any discre-
tion in the matter, and if the Board of Trade
had provided for pudding basins for the
infants to float in the N.a.W. Government
would be obliged to swallow that lunacy
or discard the whole business.
The Promisers,
O. C. Cabot speaks a piece:—
Fytte Two: On State Motor-Car’s Mat , Coastville
* * Railway Station.
m f w Si 'TcSmu. S
fifi: tsi joS s«™. “»'»»»»"
Town Clerk; spectators, officials, and Coastville
Jown Band. Premier seated in State car, with
Doing 1 I™’ mat ' Band I>layin,J “Everybody’s
The Mayor (concluding remarks): and we
all admire an honest politician like ‘Honest Jim'
meaning you Mr. Premier, and no offence,
fio bystanders)'. Three cheers for the Premier!”
(Ragged but cordial cheers are given.)
The Premier (rising majestically amid sustained ap-
piause): Er —Mr. Mayor, ladies and — er—
gentlemen ; er —(five minutes of er—er—er and
stilted thanks). Your request for £54,000 for
the drainage scheme strikes me—er —as —mod-
erate, in view of —er —the importance of your
town, and—er—the importance of drains to your
t Cheers.) All I can promise is—er—
that 1 will lay your case before my colleagues
the—er—Minister for Works, and of course if he
promises —er —consideration, we shall, of course,
Hike- er—that promise into consideration.
[ "fers.) The policy of —er —the Cabinet is to
study the good of all— er —sections of—er—the
people —(Cheers ) —and the Coastville drainage
scheme —er —-most certainly demands our — er-
e^ r Il consideration. That I oromise you it
shall have. On my— er —return to Sydney I
will lily the case before the— er —Acting Premier,
and—er no doubt, etc. (Five minutes of
f!’~ er ~~ er an .d etc.) Of course we are— er —a
little short, just now; and the money market
(two minutes on the money market); but
(warming up), thank God, ladies and gentlemen,
there s plenty more money in London yet! (Im-
mense cheering.) The immense resources of this
noble State (Three minutes on our unparalleled
resources.)... . and, finally, I promise you the
Government’s earnest and sympathetic considera-
„ threat applause, amid which car rolls off
to Blufftown, SO miles south.)
Fytte Three: On Bull-Cohen's Doormat, London.
I ersons : Deputation of Australian Premiers, and
Treasurers, and other Borrowers, waiting on door-
mat.
A huge Card hangs on the Door Handle, which reads:
BULL-COHEN,
International Financier.
Loans on Terms. ~
Money Advanced to Solvent States.
Note for the Day: rate, £5 %.
Reservation: The Limit of Borrowing has been reached
by
Barataria,
Utopia,
Atlantis,
New South Wales.
These should NOT APPLY, as a REFUSAL OFTEN
CAUSES PAIN.
J. Bitll-Cohen.
Australian Borrowers (in chorus): “Well, I’ll
be !”
Liberalism Discovers the Beef Trust
Menace.
When the Referenda campaign was in pro-
gress anyone who referred to predatory
trusts, and the danger that Australia, not to
mention the British Empire, stood in from
them, was regarded coldly by the average
Liberal. If the speaker wasn’t told frankly
that he was a liar, it was suggested that he
was a sensation-mongering ass. Of a Labor-
ite who happened to mention the matter of
the 33 local trusts whose existence was
vouched for six years ago by the present
Minister for External Affairs, it was brightly
argued that he must be suffering from
delirium tremens. The Liberal contention
was that there were no local trusts which
required to be legislated against, nor the least
likelihood of any such concerns making their
appearance here. And there is no doubt the
bulk of the electors believed that untruthful
story. Anyhow, a majority of them turned
down a Constitutional amendment which, had
it been carried, would have given the Aus-
tralian Parliament the same power to cope
with undesirable combines that the German,
French and British Parliaments possess. And
now when all the row is over, and there is
no immediate party disadvantage in telling
the bald truth, the S. M. Herald proceeds
to publish (26/6/T3) a special article which
affirms practically all the pm-Referenda
points that Herald writers have been scoff-
ing at for months. A few extracts: —
The U.S. Tariff Bill represents a big blow at the
American Beef Trust. But despite the fact that the
representations of the American packers to the
authorities at Washington have failed, there are those
who hold that the meat interests of that coun-
try will still control the situation owing to the pro-
minent position. they have already secured in the
Argentine trade.
The control the Beef Trust has obtained in the
Argentine is regarded as a serious menace to the
British meat supply.
The question now is, what will the next move of
the American Beef Trust be, in view of the new
tariff allowing the free importation of meat into the
United States? It is no secret that representatives
of the great packing-houses of America have been
negotiating in Australia and New Zealand for some
time past.
Writing on the subject from New York, Mr. A. H.
Benjamin, who is interested in the development of
the Australian meat trade, says: “The people of
Australia do not realise the power of the Meat Trust.
It will be a miracle if this gigantic concern is pre-
vented from getting a foothold in Australia. The
United States Government has been prosecuting this
combine almost in every State in the union without
securing to date a conviction against their illegal
methods of monopoly.”
In passing, it is interesting to recall that,
during the late Referenda struggle, the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act —which is of a
niece with our Anti-Trust Act—was quoted
b” Liberal speakers and writers as a piece
of legislation that had proved effective to
wipe out not only Beef and Gas and’ such-
like comparatively minor concerns but the
Standard Oil itself. The Herald’s corres-
pondent goes on: —
Eventually the trusts, with Australasia in their
grip, will control the world’s exports, and high
prices will rule to suit the packers’ interests at the
cost of the consumer and pastoralists.
The concensus of opinion on your side is that this
is imDOSsible. I venture to say from my three years’
experience, that nothing is impossible for the Meat
Trust. It has millions at its back, and to absorb
the big Queensland works and other Sydney meat
concerns would not present any difficulty.
I feel sure that the Australian people outside the
meat trade do not realise the power of this combine;
but looking at the situation entirely with Australian
eves I have a firm conviction that if the trust gets
a foothold in Australia or New Zealand, then in less
than 10 years it will control, not only the meat
trade, but the entire food supplies, and spell min to
every wool and cattle-grower in the Commonwealth.
The rabidest Unificationist could not put the
case for Commonwealth control of mono-
polies—which is another way of saying com-
plete Commonwealth control of Australian
trade and commerce —in stronger terms. The
position in the United States, as in this
country, is that though the National Parlia-
ment has power to deal with inter-State
businesses, it cannot touch one, however dis-
astrous to the general welfare that is
afforded the hospitality of any individual
State. That is why in the words of the
Herald’s correspondent, the United States
Government has done no good with the Beef
Trust even though it “has been prosecuting
this combine in almost every State of the
Union.” Every educated Liberal knows in
his heart that Australia is as defenceless
against the assaults of the Beef Trust, in
iT le P r ® sent state of the Constitution, as
1 ncle Sam’s country is—though, for party
reasons, a number of Liberals hesitate to
admit the fact. The bitter experience of
the U.S. goes to show that it is not the
slightest use to leave the scotching of trusts
to the different States. A small State has so
much to gain from the installation of a big
trust in its midst, that its tendency is to let.
its neighbors shift for themselves. To ex-
pect anything different, in the present condi-
tion of human nature, is tantamount to ex-
pecting a man to refuse an income of £20,000
per annum, as a personal favor to some'
people with whom he is but slightly ac-
quainted. Queensland has no particular
reason to eject the Beef Trust; and so it is
there. Australia at large has the best of
reasons to want it moved on. One of them
—that of self-interest—was stated in the
Herald article. The other has been men-
tioned repeatedly in this paper during the
past couple of years, and has to do with the
menace to the British meat supply that is
involved in the establishment of the great
Yankee concern, in this the last lone outpost
or cheen beef and inexpensive mutton. Within
six months of the passage of a Constitutional
amendment giving the Australian Parlia-
ment complete control of trade and com-
merce throughout Australia, the Beef Trust
could be fired into outer darkness for good.
Lacking such an amendment, the Common-
wealth _ must, within a very few years be in
the position of Argentina ; and about the same
time the poorer classes in the united King-
dom will find themselves in the position of
having to pay away most of their exiguous
wages for meat, or turn vegetarians. What
does the allegedly Imperialistic Cook Mini-
stry intend to do in the matter?
♦
The Lord in Korea.
Some time ago certain Japanese fools or
fiends struck the idea that missionary enter-
prise in Korea was a conspiracy against the
Jap. Government, and that the frequent allu-
sions to “the Lord” were a disparagement of
the Mikado’s authority. So 105 suspects,
mostly belonging to the futile Korean
Y.M.C.A., were tortured —some of them
were “put to the question” off and on for
three weeks —till they confessed anything or
everything, after wfflich they were sent to
gaol with sentences many years long. Then
the Japanese were astonished to find that
European and American residents regarded
them with horror, and in their haste to “save
their face,” and play to the gallery, and keep
up their pretence of civilisation, they ordered
a new trial. This time 99 of the Korean
convicts were acquitted, and the other six
had their sentences reduced. But nothing
was done to the officials who organised the
persecution, or to the torturers, or to the
judges who convicted the accused on evidence
extracted by torture. In fact, Japan, with its
utter inability to comprehend the civilised
standpoint,_ apparently doesn’t understand
that anything should be done to these people,
any more than it could understand that any-
thing should be done to the ambassador who
incited the murder of the miserable Empress
of Korea. On this point even the London
Times has broken loose and said things, as
follows:
In the face of these gravest of charges against the
authorities what has been done? Nothing what-
ever. The Courts made no attempt to discover what
truth there was in the prisoners’ statements; the
civil authorities have not lifted a hand; the Gov-
ernor-General, who assured a deputation of mission-
aries last year that no Korean would suffer imprison-
ment except after a fair trial, has taken no action
in the matter. Worst of all, perhaps, not a single
native voice has yet been raised in Japan on behalf
of a full and unsparing investigation.
It is deplorable that the conspiracy affair has been
regarded from the beginning as an issue between
the Japanese and the missionaries; but it is still
more deplorable to think that but for foreign criti-
cism and foreign help 99 innocent men would at this
moment be still in gaol.
A still larger question is left to answer. Does
the spirit of suspicion, if not worse, which must
have actuated the legal authorities in launching this
case, extend throughout the administration in
Korea ? Careful personal observation and inquiry
would alone justify one in an attempt to answer,
but if there be any reason for an affirmative, one
must admit that the successors of Ito have fallen
away from his example.
When the Australian Parliament meets
there is a matter that it should get on to
early—the granting of a pension to Wil-
liam Lyne. He is a tall, picturesque old
figure and weighs considerably. He is a
rare character, inasmuch as he has become
more and more of a democrat as his heap
of years accumulated on his head, whereas
most men become more Tory with age. He
was as good as a Labor man, or rather, he
was better, for the one thing that differen-
tiated him from the recognised Laborites
was his refusal to sink the question of sup-
porting Australian industry. Because he
billed himself as an Independent neither
party would give him a portfolio and a
decent salary, and he could have done with
a decent salary. He is a poor man ; politics
have swallowed up all his early affluence.
He has had two grievous illnesses, which
brought him down to the gates of death, and
each time the indomitable ancient came back
from those gates out of pure pluck, or cus-
sodness, or something. In the end he lost
his seat simply because he was too sick to-
push his electoral campaign, and his old
friends, simply because he hadn’t signed the
Labor pledge, didn’t push it for him. It
was significant, in a way, that his old friends
lost their portfolios bv reason of that omis-
sion. Taking all things into account it is
up to Parliament- to do something hand-
some for picturesque old W. Lyne. He was,
barring Forrest, the final political survivor
of the first Australian Ministry. Big John
of Westralia is the solitary remnant nowa-
days—the one landmark left on One Tree
Plain.
The Workmen’s Compensation Bill, that the
Weary Government has prepared for intro-
duction to Vie. Parliament this session, is
worthy of the Tired Combination. The
measure doesn’t provide, as practically every
Workmen’s Compensation Act does, that the
employer shall compensate workmen injured
in his employment, making such liability to
compensation a legitimate charge on the
cost of production ; instead, it provides that
the employer may deduct one-third of the
insurance premium against accident from his
employee’s wages. In fact, the measure is
not a Workmen’s Compensation Bill at all,
but a Compulsory Accident Insurance Bill:
or, in view r of the amount of “compensation”
A TRAGEDY IN THREE FYTTES OR
CONVULSIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time— dashed near it !
Fytte One : On the Acting Premier’s Doormat.
Persons: The A.P., an hon. member, a secretary, a
shorthander, etc., and a deputation from Japhet-
ville —in search of a railway.
The Hon Member, found in airy discourse with the
A.P. (loq.): “Say, Bill, ’oo’s them waitin’ about
outside?”
The A.P.: “S-ss-ssh! Some of Hogg’s people after
a railway. (To Sec. I By the way, where is Hogg
this morning’?”
Secretary: “I was just going to tell you, sir. Mr.
Hogg has telephoned to say that it’s impossible
for him to introduce the deputation, as the Fly-
catchers’ Mages Board is sitting, and. as General
Secretary, he must be there,”
The A.P.: “Oh!”
The Hon. Member: “That’s awkward.”
The A.P.: “I believe so. Look here, Bullswool ;
yours is an adjoining constituency; do you no
harm to introduce ’em. Go on.”
The Hon. Member: “Awri’.” (Exit.)
A minute later the doormat is violently agitated
and the doors open, admitting deputation, headed
by Mr. BuiiLSWOOD. Formal introductions,
the A.P. rises and bows, right, left and centre.
The Hon. Member: “This yere deputation, Mister
Actin’ Primeer, was to ’ave been interdooced to
yer by Mister ’Ogg, but ’e is unforchinit enough
to be unable to be present, owing to bein’ absent.
These yere gents ’as kindly ast me to interdooce
’em, and I ’ave much pleasure in so doin’. They
want youse (persuasively) to promise ’em
a little railway— er —runnin’ from — er—( a
deputationist prompts him)— Er —yes; from
Japhetville to Baconhash. (Applause.) A line
from _er—that place to—er—the other place
would do a lot of good, and, I say it ought to
go through! (More applause.) I’ll, cut it now,
and ast Mister Stodgepin, the president of the
Shire and the spokesman of this yere deputation,
to inform youse of all particulars. ’ (Addi-
tional applause.)
The A P. (condescendingly): “Glad to hear you, Mr.
Stodgepin, as the expert in the case.
Mr Stodgepin (perspiring profusely, gets off some-
thing like this in a confused murmur): ....
great honor. . .brilliant actor—mean Acting Pre-
mier ...assumed helm of State. .. .Baconhash
magnificent district. .. .flourishing towns ,
railway promised 23 years ago. .. .Henri
Parkes. (Applause). . . .only 48 miles... .cost
£463 000 • mere trifle considering gigantic re-
sources development source of strength to
State. .. .reinforce Australia.. .. .even assist de-
velopment of Empire!’’ (Loud, applause.)
Nine other speakers follow, stressing all Mr.
Stodgepin’s points.
The A P rises majestically, amid applause. In suave
T speech expresses delight to see the representative
men from, etc. Hardy pioneers, worthily suc-
ceeded by such as his friends there to-day. (Vast
applause ) Baconhash truly glorious district.
Memories of boyhood’s days never to be for-
gotten (Sympathetic murmurs)— when huntfd
vabbTes n Japhet Creek. (Applause.) Possibly
not all deputation believed in Government—
(dissent and smiles ) —but the policy of Cabinet
unfaltering in fostering best interests of every--
HnAv—all classes—particularly country pioneers,
o°d y 7xcessivelv particularly district of Bacon,
hash (Immense applause.) Amount estimated
for uine seemed large, but not excessive, in view
of the enormous possibilities, etc. en-
, . e i Cm,id not of course, bind Cabinet,
w Promised to lay proposal before his col-
P with every recommendation to favorable
ieagues, with every reco went th h
first sod- (Cheers)-anA possibly ride
in first train through. (More vast enthusiasm.)
Amid volleys of thanks, good wishes and felicita-
Hons deputation bowed out as far as doormat.


A NEW NOVEL,
“ Betty Wayside/'
By
LOUIS STONE
(Author of “J on ah”)>
*
Begins in the
JULY
Lone Hand
w.
A
ejg
D.
ELECTRIC LAMPS
WILL REDUCE YOUR CURRENT
BILL BY 14/- IN THE
Its Flexible Filament Reduces
Maintenance to Extreme Minimum.
REVISED PRICE LIST No. 3713.
Australian Metal Co. L'l
40 Clarence Street, Sydney.
I
The Turkish Harem
and the story of Bluebeard have been
cause for wonder and speculation for
many years.
The person who don’t know all about
a Turkish Harein now has not been a
regular attendant at our theatres.
Bon’t miss a programme.
Our New Theatre :
The Empress, Prahran (Melbourne),
and 6 others.
WM. B. MILLER. Gen’l Manager.
nnERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
allowed, a Compulsory Consolation Bill,
-these amounts are lavish in their modera-
? ase death the amount is to be
±zUU, or three years’ earnings, whichever is
the larger, but it must not exceed £4OO. For
total, or partial disablement the “compensa-
tion is limited to 50 per cent, of the average
weekly earnings, but must not exceed £1
per week. There is no stipulation that medi-
cal or surgical attention is to be provided—
the mjured worker must look after that him-
f. ; And there are other provisoes and
limitations which make the whole Bill a
farcical attempt or alleged attempt to deal
with a great problem.
»
“The Bulletin” and Barabbas.
Ihe Bulletin’s Melbourne representative
was recently informed that the Ciiukcii
limes, of Sale (Victoria), conducted by
liev. Codebey Smith, proposed to publish
an article (or perhaps republish it, for a
similar article appeared some time ago in a
clerical paper published in N.S.W. >, which
would include “a list of The Bulletin staff
living and dead, stating how long the de-
ceased members were connected with the
staff, and what particular kind of violent
means they died of.” Also, the said repre-
sentative. made some remarks about the pros-
pective information, and the Gippsland
Ihmes (Victoria) reproduced his few and
cheerful words. As a result, the following
letter is to hand :
Editor VSydney Bulletin, —
bir,-—lhe enclosed paragraph from the Gippsland
Jimes I saw upon my return to Sale, after a week’s
absence in the tountry. 1 hasten to forward it.
It furnishes a typical instance of the methods of
your journal. Listen readily to old women s gossip
and proceed to indulge in your ordinary cheap and
ill-founded sneer. Perhaps it is possible that your
general sense of unfairness and partiality when
attacking others will allow you to publish my reply,
with a little plain speaking.
In a sermon on the Bth June, to a large congrega-
tion at Evensong in St. Paul’s Pro-Cathedral, Sale,
1 dwelt upon the fact that Christianity, if real in
the individual, must produce character, for it led to
a sense of Divine dissatisfaction with self, that one
was ever impelled to seek positive virtues. The
cynic and destructivist dwelt upon the failings of
others, and became self-complacent. He had never
been known to elevate a person. His spirit was pro-
ductive of a dreary pessimism. As an example, I in-
stanced your journal, and called attention to the
enclosed extract from our Church News, which was
sufficient to demonstrate how this spirit of The
Bulletin affected many of those identified with it,
a r f V rther state d that my experience with many
of its close readers, among the scattered population
of North Queensland, forced upon me the evidence
of a cynical, and morbid spirit produced
m them by its continued perusal. It was this one
small item in the sermon which your informant so
badly reported to you. It speaks poorly either for
his intelligence or honesty.
This will, of course, call forth your supercilious
sneer, but the truth of this reasoning is evident. A
paper which can caricature the world's Saviour in
His dying agonies after what is universally confessed
to be the purest and most unselfish life (tide your
issue last Christmas), has surely reached the lowest
depth of moral obliquity and degradation. But it
pays—this is your real concern. The secular moral
Pharisee well knows what crowd can be induced to
cry for Barabbas, and as a modern Judas takes
care to reap the shekels resulting from the' choice
of a robber in preference to the Honest, Purest and
Best. Such a life can by no possible means appeal
to men of your ilk. Your eternal strictures and
leers at the Church and clergy are not made with the
object of correcting our imperfections and of making
us more fit to be public teachers of ethics, but
because we bear the marks of Christ, a stigma offen-
sive to the hypocritical and time-serving Bulletin,
with its. vaunted solicitude for the inculcating of a
true national spirit, but its owners, at the same time,
growing fat and sleek on gain at the expense of
thousands of moral wrecks. “They have their re-
ward.’’ Yes, and you are welcome to it.
As you are destitute of all principle and of fair-
ness, it is probable that your fear of publishing
truth wjll prevail in this case—at least, however,
publish my correction.—l am, etc.,
Godfrey 11. Smith.
The Rectory, Sale. June 26, 1913.
The Bulletin publishes the “correction”
with pleasure; in fact, it wouldn’t miss a
piece of copy like that for £5. Also, it pays
for it at the regular space rates. But —as a
mere question of justice to a man who doesn’t
seem to have had much of a show —why does
the Rev. Godfrey H. Smith throw up the
name of Barabbas? Barabbas was in no way
responsible for the fact that the people pre-
ferred him to the Saviour. He might have
been a good convert, so far as the evidence
goes. He is described as a “robber” (the
two men who were crucified on each side of
the Saviour were defined as “thieves”).
It said that he was concerned in a “sedi-
tion,” and had killed somebody. The same
might be said of Robert Bruce and Alfred
the Great, also of Joan of Arc and Moses.
Considering the fight which the so-called
Robbers (or patriots) put up when Jerusa-
lem was in its extremity, it isn’t kind or just
to throw bricks at Barabbas, the Robber,
without better evidence. The fact that the
intensely patriotic Jews admired him sug-
gests that he was more of a Bruce in a
small way than a bushranger, for no person
is madder than a Jew when he is bush-
ranged. Until something more is proved
against him than that he took a hand in an
insurrection against the oppressors of Judaea
—a crowd whom the New Testament, which
completely lacks the national spirit of the
Old Testament, treats very lightly—this
paper won’t sue anybody for libel because he
couples its. name with that of Barabbas.
Some day invasion will come this wav, and
then Australia may badly want a Barabbas
of its own.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Koval. '‘Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
linu Majesty's '‘Autumn Manoeuvres.”
Criterion “Excuse Me.”
Palace The Grafters.
Adelpiii “Man to Man.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's \ aurleville Co.
Little Theatre “Bobby Burnit.”
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lyceum .Spencer's Pictures.
Lyric V
Colonial. r Continuous Pictures.
Empress /
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia West's Pictures.
Town Hall Clara Butt Concerts.
Imperial Roller Kink. Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Protestant Hall Joseph McCabe.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Adeline Genee.
Princess's “Cowboy and Squaw.”
Kin0’5....... “On Our Selection.”
Royal. “Within the Law.”
Opera House Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer's Pictures.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skatimr.
The Auditorium \ “Trial Before Herod” (7th),
I Peter Dawson (9th).
Ib is rash to prophesy; and yet the writer
is fain to mention frankly that, if he is any
vaticinator at all, “Autumn Manoeuvres,’’ the
new show at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), will
not boom. Not that it is a bad show. On
the contrary. It is superbly staged ; there is
an interesting plot; plenty of taking music
and sentiment; and a heap of assorted
humor. Its handicap lies in the fact that
the librettist , talks for the most part in a
language which is not understood locally.
Point after point was missed on the night
that this paper attended the performance,
obviously because to about 90 per cent, of
Australians present the jests had no sig-
nificance at all. To the Englishman—or
at any rate to the Londoner ; or to narrow it
down still further, to the West-end theatre-
goer, who is invariably a fervent jingo and
Tory—the contemptibleness of the Terri-
torial officer is almost as axiomatic as the
splendor and glory and worth of the com-
missioned “regular.” Since Lord Roberts
“THE GRAFTERS
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Bert Le
Blanc as
the Hebrew
Indian
Chief.
began to decry the Territorials the tendency
in Conservative circles has been to regard
tnese warriors as the volunteers used to be
regarded during the ’SO’s and ’9o’s;
namely, as pariahs and outcasts and trades-
men and so forth. Captain Withers
in “Autumn Manoeuvres” is a Territorial
and a grocer. This is a combination which
appeals to all rignt-thinidng Londoners as a
shrieking absurdity. To the Australian,
however, whose own regiments contain
plenty of grocers (likewise solicitors and
money-lenders and millers and journalists
and other humble folk who have nothing
whatever to do with the pageantry of life),
the incompatibility between trade and the
art of war is far less apparent. And so is
the incompatibility between a grocer and a
man of leisure. As a matter of fact, it is
extremely difficult often to distinguish be-
tween one of our old noblesse and one of
our grocers. The two types have a way of
being marvellously alike in speech, appear-
ance and habits. Not so on the English
stage. When the unhappy Withers goes to
•stay at Ambermere he is identified as a
retail-trader immediately, and is treated
accordingly like an intrusive dog. He has
literally, to beg for food, and when the pro-
vender is supplied he is driven, despite his
hound-like lamentations, to devour it alone.
Later, he is roundly insulted by everybody '
and not till the end of his visit is it dis-
covered by the company, with somethin®-
approaching stupefaction, that he possesses
some of the qualities of a human being
after all. If a grocer were put up for the
night at Currandooley or Coolangatta, or
some such big Australian home, it is safe
to bet that no one would impress on him
that he was in the shopkeeping line. He
would not be made to feel that he had just
emerged from a zoo or a padded cell. The
difference between the social outlook of the
two countries has a disastrous effect on
many of the low comedy situations in “Aut-
umn Manoeuvres.” . Captain Withers, who
would be funny enough in London, is
pathetic here; and people don’t crowd to
musical comedies to have their feelings
lacerated.
* * * *
The outstanding features of the produc-
tion are W. Talleur Andrews’ impersonation
of Captain Falconer, and Miss Dorothy
Brunton’s effort as June Pomeroy. Talleur
Andrews is a romantic cavalryman whose
ancestral home has come into the possession
of Miss Florence Young. So exasperated is
he with her for owning his old residence
that he has sworn never again to cross its
threshold, or darken its lintel, or hammer
its knocker, or words to that effect. His
picture of an intensely tuneful warrior
clothed in glopm and emotionalism and
lovely clothes is most alluring. Miss Dorothy
Brunton shows herself in this, the first
big part that she has played, to be quite
the cleverest article in the musical
comedy line that Australia has produced.
If she were a foreign product, instead of
one who has achieved her art on the spot,
the daily press would be in a Chronic state
of lyricism on the subject of her charm and
grace and humor. As it is she is only be-
ginning to score the praise which she has
merited any time thfese two years. Miss
Florence Young has a couple of pleasing
ballads, and she renders them unimpeach-
ably. On her devolves the job of forcing
the beautiful but wooden-headed Falconer
to call at. his old home and discover how
much he is loved by the mortgagee; and
right convincingly she does it. Miss Arun-
dale is as sure and vital and attractive as
ever as Lady Letty Harkin. She has one
number—“lf I Had Only Been a Boy”
which is so futile. that she keeps the on-
looker in a condition of questioning amaze-
ment as to how she manages to make it so
bearable. The rest of her songs are good,
and go like wildfire. Phil Smith, who plays
VV ithers, is a genuine comedian; one who
scorns to tear the cheap guffaw from its
home. Also, his singing is commendable.
And no bricks shall be propelled the hand
that writes these lines at Miss Vivien
Talleur (whose pas seul in the Romany
ballet is a star item) ; or at Reginald
I.oberts; or at Victor Prince; or at
'\ llliam Lockhart, whose General Pom-
eroy displays all the undisciplined rage
of the. military craft; or at Miss Celia
Ghiloni—which, unless the writer’s memory
errs, concludes the list of performers.
** * *
Clara' Butt and her tuneful Kennerley will
conclude their original programme in Sydney
Town f llall on Saturday night; but already
the voice of old General £. S. Desire is being
heard whispering that the programme ought
to be stretched. Murdoch, the solo pianist,
more brilliant with every visit, has got the
better of his influenza, and is back on his
stool. . As for the others, after four months
m which, on the Weather Bureau’s word of
honor, there have been but six fine days, The
Bulletin cannot produce so much as one
new adjective that doesn’t wear a limp and
bedraggled appearance.
Eugenie Le Blanc
as Maisie Fogg.
“Bobby Burnit,” the American plav which
begins as a comedy and ends as a drama,
and expounds how a young man, provided
he has a small fortune to start in business
with, may ultimately manage to make a
crust, is still being admirably played by the
compact company at the Little Theatre,
Sydney. Mr. Hugh Buckler portrays the
strenuousness of Bobby in the exciting third
act, though why the penniless hero should
always appear in a decollete shirt is one of
the abiding mysteries of the drama. Studs
cost so little, and if buttons are too
expensive, a hero might conceivably manage
with a pin or a nail. Also there are boot
laces, stay laces, string, clothes-line, and
fencing wire.
** * *
. Another of the artistic entertainments
f^ V j n T^ y Gilbert Howell and Miss
Madeline Rowsell took place at the Sydney
Repertory Theatre, on Saturday, where an
interested audience was entertained bv
dramatic recitals and a musical programme.
though, judging by the attendance at
Ssydney Criterion, there is no necessity for
anything more exciting than happens to the
passengers of the train in “Excuse Me,” the
management might introduce a little more
local color into the farce by arranging for
the. express to collide with one or more goods
trains on the way. Mr. Johnson’s expert
assistance would probably be available to
provide the necessary realism.
* Sis * *
Concerning an art show: —
The dim, past days, when New South Wales was
a sun-soothed land beneath skies of long-forgotten
blue, are vividly recalled by a visit to Miss Gladvs
Owen s show of Water-color drawings now on ex-
hibition at Anthony HoTdern and Sons’ gallery,
Sydney. Miss Owen is a worshipper of the Aus-
tralian color, and practically every exhibit (there
are 42 of them) is devoted to an expression of
* S rn Vlr ™ e : Much of the work is representative
or lasmaman landscape, but there are some fine
reflections of the sunny Sydney that the oldest in-
habitant will recollect and lie about. The present
generation will be better able to judge a distant,
storm-weather view of the entrance to Port Jack-
son as seen from Vaucluse heights. And the ver-
dict ought to carry full costs for the plaintiff. It
is a cheerful exhibition, despite any defects the
young artistic brush is heir to. The general warmth
about the show earns forgiveness for them ; in fact,
at a time when the miserable weather is giving the
community rheumatism, bronchitis and a multitude
of old misery, warmth would earn forgiveness for
the defects in Joe Cook.
As was the case in Melbourne, the
American musical burlesque outfit playing
“The Grafters” has caught on in Sydney,
and the Palace is crowded nearly every
night except Sunday, which William Ander-
son insists on setting aside for private devo-
tions. On Saturday night some fresh novel-
ties are to be added to those already in the
bill, but none of them will approach in
novelty the person who, arriving at the
theatre at 7.30 p.m., without a booking-office
guarantee, obtains a seat alow or aloft. He
will have to be a dream.
Paul Gorden, the most blithered wire-
walker of his time, is again rolling merrily
home each evening at the National (Syd-
my). No more joyous turn has been seen
at the theatre. Additional fresh attractions
during the week were the Decars and
lomato, said Tomato being a comic donkev.
The woods were full of donkeys during the
recent elections, but they were invariably
dull. Wherefore Tomato has been well re-
ceived.
* * * *
At the Alhambra, Harry Barrington, the
new manager, has been brightening the show
up, and to-morrow night promises some ama-
teiu trials. It will be a pity to miss them.
As this Bulletin hurries to press, the
managerial advt. is moaning “Farewell, a
Png farewell!” to Oscar Asche and Lily
hrayton. The season closes with a Mid-
summer sob, at Sydney Royal, on Saturday
evening, July 5.
The pick of the Crystal Palace pictures in
Sydney this week is “An Actress’s Ro-
mance, a cinema edition of “Adrienne Le-
couvreur,” with Bernhardt, in the leading
nart. ihe picture Js doing good business.
The story of Dick Whittington and
ms Uat, at the Lyric, runs Sara a verv
close second.. The competition between them
viii be continued till the end of the week.
Two more nights and the shutters will
v- °m, sll0 P Window,” at the: Adel-
plu. That piece of wild improbability will
give way to “Man to Man,” wherein the
cruet attraction is a railway smash, so com-
plete that the scene-manufacturer is alleged
to . have been once offered the Railway Com-
missionership of Victoria.
Billie Reeves, the Sydney Tivoli’s latest
acquisition, is absolutely the last hie! in
stage drunkery. If the Temperance
Teague is out for business, it will grab
Keeves as soon as his contract has expired
and tour the country with him. It would
?et more pledges signed in a week that way
t t ? an .i lt , w ouJd in a year by lecturing. The
Hayilahs provide some clever tight-wire
plus some r&thor risky cycle-riding
on the straight and narrow road. Irving
Gayles and Warton, the dusky ex-
cornermen of the long-dead first-part, have
signed on again, and are labelled “Australia’s
evergreen comedians.” Someone or other
is a very poor judge of colors. Also present:
the six Banvards, Lucy Gillett, the Glorv
Girl and the Two Kebbles.
** * *
. ‘‘The Sunshine Girl,” at Adelaide Royal,
is still advertising soap. It is cheerful and
amusing, but ordinary in story, songs and
minor. Jack Cannot, chief fun-maker, is
lnghlv successful; nevertheless he ought to
be told that he is taking his humor too seri-
misly. He is. willing to keep the stage wait-
ing while he indicates how funny he is going
to be presently; also his business of being
just-not-sick after eating soap ought to be
cut out promptly. After which it must be
admitted that his business gets many loud
and approving yells. But so does the crino-
lined lady every time she shows a generous
expanse of leg. This kind of thing is too
easy.
* * *
AdeJaide Tivoli is very strong in variety
turns. There is not much left that is new


CHWEPPE
SCHWEPPES’
Lime Juice Cordial
made exclusively from Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice, by special arrangement with the
proprietors of Montserrat. Montserrat Lime
Fruit Juice is a most refreshing and thirst-
quenching drink. It is soft and palatable to
the palate, so unlike all other Lime Juice.
SCHWEPPES LIMITED,
Purveyors to His Majesty the King.
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFES
, SCHNAPPS.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney
■ [i
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
S. J. FOWLER, Manager.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LI> -t™' b i
Pitt 8 Ring Streets, SYDNEY.
*
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 230 Central.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
, ho on a bicycle, but the massed evolutions
t0 f the eight Jacksons on the small stage are
£ J and thrilling. Madge Temple and the
n Hana San people are other notable items
a b ig bill. At the King’s, one of the
Herflldos has broken a leg while doing a
Comparatively simple feat. De Lea Ld
Orma are consistently funny, and Kurtis’s
roosters, “college bred, give a quaint and
unusual show. ‘Quo Vadis’ (at West’s)
“ ma ins the chief sensation in the picture
world. Other shows have included concerts
u v the Orpheus Society and the University
Ponservatorium, a repetition of “Dorothy”
hv Miss Violet Paine and Co. (it says much
for an amateur opera crowd when a whole
week at the Theatre Royal does not ex-
haust its drawing power), billiards (Walter
I indrum v. Miss Roberts, at the Y.M.C.A.),
■and a dramatic business at the Lyric by Miss
Ethelwyn Robin and other clever people.
The foregoing is a brief description of
“The Cowboy and the Squaw,” which got
the glad hand from a large concourse at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday night. George
Cross is the sterling broncho-buster, and,
with his chiselled features and flowing hair,
looks like a lady in disguise. Miss Florence
Oleeson glides about in the moccasins of
Silver Heels, and T. W. Lloyd lends his
wicked scowl to the presentation of Hawley’s
lurid sins. Various other people inhabit
togs which Montana usage appears to allow,
while six-shooters sneak with emphasis when
the orchestra is still and the boss comedian
is at rest. There is nothing more to be
said, except that the scenery, by J. S.
Mann, is not up to the artist’s usual stan-
dard.
“THE NATIVE BORN ” (MELBOURNE
KING'S).
A Man-Hating Lady's Home in Australia.
At West’s Palace, Melbourne, the “Quo
> adis ’ boom seems more unprecedented
than ever, and vast crowds still surge on to
view Nero twanging his lyre at the unin-
sured city of Rome.
* * * *
Melbourne Repertory Theatre present-
ment of “Fanny’s First Play” reveals the
trivial satire and irony of the induction and
epilogue in all their naked provincialism,
inese superfluous attachments to the cen-
rai comedy seem equally artificial and un-
necessary when crudely put on by amateurs.
Shrew“f\af h M?hinT’, S „ 7°
tainment that fnlimf do Wl th the enter-
droll humaS !' ““ l>e ■*>««* as «
many languages A?.-, mai W lands and
gets its title hv' B *. aDI iy’s First Play”
et v E!
the ’ case haV TI, n ei) h d” 8 , wha “°« to d «
little Viinn • deir dla l°& u e relates only to
TV
circle joke and infi Byion . s is a theatrical-
at that FWil£ Um ° r 18 almost obsolete
Shaw’s fir«r Ijnglls b newspaper notices of
talked of ey '^ al u ing comedy have
talked ot lanny and her house nartv as
to°thtV he - y 7 ere things of importance
As 1 a matter l C f ol ? ed 7 wllich bears her name.
a ma^er of fact, an amateur nerform-
Were , better without them The irS-
the o a u Peals ” nly . „ to the snobs of Culchaw •
the epilogue signifies G. B. Shaw ridiculing
dramatm criticism in four Cockney place!
rahis own il° Unng nnlimi ted melted butter
on nis own cleverness.
“THE
NATIVE
BORN”
(MEL-
BOURNE
KING'S).
In the Chamber
of Horrors ,
with ghostly
outline of the
Boss Horror.
The play proper, which deals with four
young people who did 14 days in gaol for
being decently drunk and disorderly, four
solemn parents who are shocked at the
awful scandal, and a butler of the Crichton
type who _is discovered to be an "object
for adoration because his father was a
duke (and • his mother a duchess) is nan
honestly amusing medley of characterisation,
cynicism, satire and brilliant absurdity. And
the performance is mostly good enough. Re-
garded as the work of amateurs it is very
good. Miss Rose Seton, as Mrs. Gilbey,
scores the best average in what is probably
the best part. Miss Robson makes an
effective gentle Mrs. Knox. Gregan
McMahon plays one stodgy old father, and
T. Skewes is nearly as satisfactory as the
other. Miss Revira has the needful appear-
ance, voice and “go” for the red-dressed joy
girl of the piece. Miss Hungerford is a
spirited Margaret Knox. Helton Daniel has
every natural qualification for the blue-
blooded butler character. Lyle Christian is
a passable Frenchman, and C. Newell,
as Bobby Gilbey, is not always below the
general standard of aptitude. There were
to be three helpines of “Fanny’s First Play.”
To-night (Thursday) the bill is Maeter-
linck’s “The Interior,” Sudermann’s “Fritz-
chen” and Shaw’s “How He Lied to Her
Husband.”
#* * *
In its first week at Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
the charms of the novel dumb show which,
radiates from Gen6e were more honored in
the rumor than in the observance, but the
comic story ballet and the poetic dancing of
Miss Schmolz and Volinin, the three bounc-
ing Tartars and other features (not forget-
ting the operetta) are things that everybody
is bound to see more than once within the
next few weeks. The same show differently
arranged might have boomed from the out-
set. The programme should have started
with the dancing specialities, and ended with
the ballet, the operetta coming between. Last
Saturday a “hunting dance” was added to
the bill, and Genee infused the item with
the “spirit of the chase.”
* * * ...
At Melbourne Royal the eighth week of
“Within the Law” begins next Saturday,
and still it is a crowded house that hears
Muriel Starr scream when the white gleam
of the searchlight falls upon the face of
Harry Sweeney, the stool pigeon.
“On Our Selection” will be revived at
Melbourne King’s on Saturday, in place of
“The Native Born.” The Bert Bailey season
has only four more weeks to run, and, cir-
cumstances permitting, another Australian
drama will share the remaining period with
Steele Rudd’s creations.
** * *
The Four Q’s, who mix music with frivol-
ity and are not unjustly termed Quaint,
came to Melbourne Opera House last Satur-
day for the first time. With them came
Henri French for the second time. The
trained” roosters are doing their poor little
stunts to the satisfaction of a public which
do ® sn it expect much sagacity from poultry,
and the seals are nosing an air ball as be-
tore. Also the remarkable Bellclairs and
Dale and Brookes and others are likewise as
before.
At Melbourne Bijou, under the banner of
Brennan-Fuller Ltd., a season of farcical
comedy begins on Saturday. The f.c. has
a tendency to burst into song, and
Carrie. Moore and Maud Chetwynd will be
the principal ladies of the co.
At Melbourne Auditorium—the place
where David Bispham lately went from—
the most notable of the imminent events is
M' e . ter Dawson concert. Dawson takes the
platiorm on Wednesday next. Miss Annetta
George is the soprano and Alexander Cooper
the new tenor who will support the resonant
bantone. By that time the Auditorium will
have recovered from the solemnity of “The
Inal Before Herod,” which is due on Mon-
day afternoon.
** * *
Melbourne picture showmen and all the
old theatrical and journalistic friends of the
late Lrskine Scott are interesting themselves
in a benefit matinee on behalf of his widow
(IGorence Seymour), which will happen at
West s building next Wednesday. The pro-
gramme is to include “Quo Vadis,” of course,
and a mighty orchestra will accompany that
triumphant picture on its long journey across
the screen.
THE COWBOY AND THE SQUAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are rustlers and coyotes in the latest
Marlow show.
There’s a broncho-busting hero, name of
Bob;
He’s the opportune arrivalist who lays the
villain low
And always keeps his shooter on the job.
Now, Bob is loved by lady Ruth and Silver
Heels, the Red.
Note the latter is a doting Injun Miss,
Whilst the former is the heroine who turn-
eth Robert’s head
When he saves her from the insult of a
kiss.
Bud Hawley is the evil one, the “bad man”
of the play,
Disgraceful in his methods of attack —
The waster with a lurid sneer who steals
the girl away.
And aims at potting Robert in the back.
But Robert is resourceful; he is full of fight
and vim ;
In point of fact, a terror for his size—
He salvages his darling from a situation
grim,
Whilst hanging on a hawser from the flies.
Then Hawley, undefeated, taketh Bob in
ambuscade,
And binds him to a bullock fat and round ;
But the captive bold is rescued by the dusky
Injun maid,
As the stage hands strew some snowflakes
on the ground.
Once more the awful Hawley tries to stir
up wicked strife,
Puts his homicidal finger to his gun ;
But the Injun gets the bullet, and it ends
her little life,
And the other lady murmurs, “I’m the
one.”
VICTORIA.
JEAN SIBI.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The Sydney Repertory Theatre ,is asking for Aus-
tralian plays, cheerful preferred. It intends to pro-
duce Australian plays, even if they do not come up
quite to its standard of excellence, for it recognises
that unless an author can see his work on the stage
he can never learn how to write something better.
And all Australian plays produced will be presented
anonymously. This will ensure a judgment on the
merits of the work and not on the (mostly) de-
merits of the author. And —-a further advantage—if
the audience, or the critics, don’t like the thing
there will be nobody at whom to hurl cabbages or
critiques. At the worst the author can lie low till
his drama blows over. Almost any drama will blow
over in time.
“W.J.H.”: The picture business in Maoriland has
at last, like that of all other countries, fallen into
the clutches of a combine. Until quite recently
picture-house proprietors were reaping the benefits
of keen competition between the two great Dominion
film proprietors, Haywards Ltd., and Fuller and
Sons. These two firms have now become as one,
trading under the name of the M.L. Picture Supplies,
Ltd. In one case it is reported that a country show-
man, who, in the days of competition, paid £7 10s.
weekly for film hire, has now to cough up £l5
for the same. A stand is being made against the
combine .by some of the independent proprietors,
notably John Payne, Socialist member of Parliament,
who runs a big picture palace at Napier. He has
threatened to fight to a finish, said finish being out-
lined as a Bill before Parliament this session. The
recent rise in the price of grindstones was caused by
John’s hasty purchase of a big one to sharpen his
axe upon.
The vaudeville plagiarist gets a bad advertisement
in Australia, although he, she or it is not always an
Australian. The worst offender is the second- or
third-rate performer who lobs upon these shores
from England with a bagful of sneaked songs, gags
and the other salary-earning goods of a first-ranker. By-
and-bye, maybe, the first-ranker is induced to visit
Australia, only to find his tour strewn with cold-pie
audiences who urge him to get work. O Hana San
is the latest to arise and weep sad language on the
subject. O.H.S. has been stirring up business on
the Mclntosh circuit with some bright ideas which
she gathered at a cost of 3000 dollars in Japan.
What, then, was her eloquence on discovering re-
cently that the pick of these had been copied by a
show party ahead of her on tour. At time of writ-
ing, the lady with the cherry blossom name was
flying the copyright flag from her pagoda.
“C. Ockney”: Fairly short, as things go nowadays,
have been the runs of the spring goods in the London
show-boxes this season. “The Cap and Bells,” Ethel
Warwick’s production at the Little, registered 38
performances, which, like the theatre, is little indeed.
Tree’s revival of “The School for Scandal,” put up
the modest total of 47. “Bought and Paid For,”
84 —not too many seats paid for, evidently. “Eliza
Comes to Stay” didn’t stay longer than 117. Pinero’s
“Schoolmistress” broke up her establishment after
the 103rd day. Alexander’s “Open Windows” shut
at 90. The top-notcher was Australia’s old friend
“Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford,” and he didn’t score
more than 158. I think if I were a London manager
(from which Heaven spare me!) 1 would turn my
theatre into a music-hall. It would pay better in
the long run. The theatre seems only to get the
short run,
Lewis Waller tells interviewers that he has brought
with him a brand-new 18th-century drama for first
production here. It has, he says, no name as yet,
though London papers just to hand call it “A Fair
Highwayman.” William Devereux, the author, has
come with the play. Waller’s favorite characters
are Beaucaire, Othello, Brutus and Henry V. But
the first has been successfully played here by Julius
Knight, and the second by Asche, while the third
takes a lot of staging; so he expects to rely on
“Henry V.”-—it is a long time since Rignold did
it —“Romeo and Juliet,” and the modern “Butterfly
on the Wheel,” though he has everything required
for Beaucaire if it should be called for.
The Empire (London) has stood an action for
wrongful dismissal, brought by a French singer, who
had a contract for eight weeks, at £37 10s. per
week, but was turned out after the first night.
Between songs, she changed her costume behind a
screen which was intentionally transparent; in fact,
she required a brilliant electric light to be placed so
that her shadow might be thrown on the screen.
She claimed that she had given her turn at other
halls without protest; but on proof that (1) she was
stripped to “camisole and trunks”; and (2) there
were 30 or 40 stage-hands standing about; and (3)
she had every appearance of being stripoed to the
waig;, the jury stopped the case, and allowed the
Empire’s defence that its contracts empower a sum-
mary shutting-down on anything “hazardous or ob-
jectionable.”
“0.K.”: Time was when the vaudeville business
founded by the late Harry Rickards was run mainly
to please the male proportion of the audience, which
was three-fourths, or four-fifths, of the whole. Nowa-
days, the sexes are almost equally divided in the
audiences, at the Rickards-Mclntosh houses in Sydney
and Melbourne, anyway. The woman-vote, probably,
is the dominating power in establishing the success of
a vaudeville turn, as it is in fixing the popularity, or
otherwise, of a theatrical piece. And the difference
in the taste of the rival sexes for individual turns is
an interesting study, especially where serio-chronic
songstresses are concerned. The men’s special favor-
ites are rarely enthused over by the women, and vice
versa. Of the recent women entertainers, Nella
Webb, the “diseuse,” seems to have scored the largest
aggregate number of votes. The men, as a rule, liked
Nella. Some of them thought her “great.” The
women, with hardly an exception, were gone on her.
“Vagabond,” from London: Why on earth can’t
Australian flicker-makers export a few miles of Aus-
tralian drama ? Some of the “Australian” dramas
screened here are enough to make Australian angels
weep. Here is a brief outline of one: Two miners
in camp in Australia. Conical bell tent in fore-
ground. Beautiful oak, ash, lilac and other native
Australian trees in background. A stile in the middle
distance. One miner girds on a revolver like a toy
cannon, shoulders his pick and departs, after sol-
emnlv shaking hands with his partner. Partner
stands gazing after him, and, as he crosses stile,
miner looks back and “waves.” Next scene he strides
into the picture at an easy, 10-mile-an-hour gait.
Flat expanse of desert country. Miner makes six ter-
rific strokes, drops on his knees, grabs something
from a hole, makes hideous grimaces expressive of
joy, leaps to his feet and gallops off. The print
explains that he has found an opal. About the size
of an ostrich egg. Back in camp, miners shown gloat-
ing (as they’d some right to, certainly). Enter bush-
ranger, riding horse with obvious English saddle. He
wears riding breeches, gaiters and tweed can. Miners
dig hole and bury opal in a starch box. Next scene:
Bushranger riding into farmyard of thatched and
gabled farm, apparently 1000 years old. He secures
a stable boy, and the two ride back and fire volleys
at the partners. One of them, a whiskered veteran,
flops over. The other, a bald-faced young hero, is
rushed and tied up to a sanling. The rescue is
effected by the convenient girl, who finds a troop of
boy-scouts and leads them to the scene. There ap-
pears to be a big demand for pictures here of any-
thing outbush, with horse-riding and so on in it; but
90 per cent, of these scenes are American cow-boy
things. Why can’t the Australian picture makers run
some real Australian out-back pictures on the market ?
(Continued on page 36.)
Two men well known to the Law in
Sydney dropped out very suddenly last
week. One was Lewis Whitfeld, the bookish
Divorce Court specialist, who died on the
golf links in the afternoon after appearing
in a “Society” case in the morning. The
other, H. B. Thomas, another man of great
erudition, and formerly with the old firm of
Norton, Smith and Co., had been for some
years Chief Examiner of Titles in the
N.S.W. Government service. The Whit-
felds have been mostly scholastic. Lewis
was the son of one of the first masters of
Sydney Grammar School; and a Whitfeld
of the third generation is one of the first
professors of the new Westralian University
at Perth.
The Unspeakable Turk is the same old
Unspeakable after he has reformed as he was
before. When Shefket Pasha, the Arab
field-marshal from Bagdad, was butchered,
it seemed a good opportunity to get rid of a
few enemies. So the wonderful Committee
of Union and Progress arrested all the prom-
inent people it had a strong objection to, and
had them tried ; and as they weren’t allowed
lawyers to defend them, nor permitted to
call witnesses, they were naturally convicted.
Then they were “hanged up against the
sun,” to use the picturesque language of the
Scottish Lords of the Congregation, when
they suspended Kirkcaldy of Grange in his
armor, and with all his curses fresh upon
him.
APPEARANCES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a case in the London County Court, last month,
?<if C > t j m u dlan i , sald de to keep two motor-cars.
“the public saw me getting off a
hew ”’ d Bay ’ '° h ’ hea not S ° good as we thou g ht
Down goes our reputation with a flop
Should we unto a restaurant to dine
Repair, and dally with a modest chop,
And aqua pura drink instead of wine;
If by the quizzing public we are caught,
They’ll say: “He ain’t so clever as we thought!”
Our Hamlet maj r have paralysed the town;
“Calls” may have worn the act-drop to a rag;
But in the public street our great renown
Is jeopardised if we should light a “fag,”
, Anf ! not the swank cigar. The passers by
Will snort: “ That bloke play Shakspeare—all my
eye! ”
The comic mime who’ll cause the play-house walls
To shake with laughter—wondrous his success!
Outrageous togs inside earn loud recalls;
Outside unless in wholly perfect dress,
Hell hear the “Blocker” “down” him in this wise:
“He funny! Why, he wears last season’s ties!”
And so it goes. The leading lady, who
As Juliet and Lady Teazle knocks
Her audience silly, but in public view
Takes homely trams and wears quite modest frocks,
May in the street expect to be thus racked:
“The dowdy thing—who told her she could act?”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


"Ns
At Sale Time —Men’s Suits
to Measure 56/9
During our Winter Sale we offer our Noted 63/- to-measure Suits at
56/9, excellently cut and tailored in the following splendid quality
materials: —
Rough Brown Tweeds. This is the very latest style in Men’s Order
Suits. *
Rough Marine Serge Indigo dye. Nothing looks better or wears better.
\Ve stake our reputation on these suits.
English, Scotch and Irish Tweeds. To suit the taste of everybody.
Usual Price 63/-
Sale Price 56/9
Take advantage of this liberal offer without delay. A saving of 6/3 on
a Suit should not be lightly passed by.
David Jones Pay Carriage to any Address in Australasia.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MOBILOIL
No one Lubricating Oil is best for all Cars. Gargoyle Mobiloil
gives you a grade for each type of motor. Use the grade
shown in our complete recommendations. Mailed on request.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
New Zealand Chambers, George St., Sydney.
SOCIETY
PENEOLD'S
WINES
THE REAL CULPRIT.
FIRST ONE : “Isn't it foolish to object to
woman's costume because it at fines her
curves."
SECOND ONE: “Yes, indeed, when the real
fault lies with the woman who has no
curves to define .”
“Croson”: As to that Gentleman One
recently struck off the rolls in Adelaide for,
among other things, misrepresenting by £2OO
the price of a house he had Dought for a
client, misappropriating moneys, and other
irregularities. If I, who am not a gentle-
man-by-act-of-Parliament, did such things, I
would—barring luck and perjury—get a
term of hard labor, besides losing my means
of livelihood. As nothing more than the
loss of his job has, it seems, happened to the
Adelaide gentleman, I can only conclude that
he has escaped the worse things because he
belongs to his professional association or
trade union. I want to know what the
“Liberal” State Government of South Aus.
means by thus giving preference to union-
ists.
“0.K.”: Surely the limit of irony was
reached by the Melbourne barrister who
asked for the release on bail of a young
woman charged on her own confession with
having put a heavy dose of strychnine into
another woman’s cup of tea! No question
of bail could possibly ever be raised in the
case of a man accused of an unprovoked
attempt to poison a woman (or even another
bloke). The barrister’s application for bail
was, under the circs., equivalent to a claim
of privilege for the “weaker sex”—the sex
whose champions assert that it is denied
just treatment in all walks of life, and
scout the suggestion that it has any mental
weaknesses whatever. Listen to the male
barrister pleading to the male Judge, for a
suspension of the “man-made law” on behalf
of a 25-year-old spinster: —
Her father desired to look after her, and her de-
fence could be better prepared if she were at liberty
and with her friends.... It was her infatuation for
her friend which led her to do what she did.
Note how lightly the murderous attempt of
the poor, downtrodden female is spoken of
by the mere married man counsel to the
mere married man Judge ! Would a matron
in a horsehair wig talk thus to her Honor
the Chief Justicess re a misguided bachelor
charged with dropping strychnine for 10
into a husband’s tea at the instigation of a
gay Lothario who was “carrying on” with
the said husband’s lawful wife? Let us
pause to smile at the idea. Yet the State
prosecutor offered only a formal objection to
the demand for bail, and the Judge sug-
gested that he would have granted it but
for the formal protest. Providence seems
to have been poking borak at Mrs. Pank-
hurst and her disciples when It inspired
two Melbourne business girls to get them-
selves into an awful criminal mess where
their counsels’ only available plea is the
excuse of womanly hysteria. Let us con-
clude with the following extract from, the
Church of England Litany : “In the time of
our tribulation, O Lord, put us among the
girls.”
It is announced that a section of the
newly-found Antarctic territory is to be
called “Queen Mary’s Land” —a very poor
and bald variant on the name of Maryland
(U.S.A.). Why not be original and call
the new place “Polly Country” ?
The landlord broke out in an entirely
new place, the other day, when the follow-
ing notice appeared in a Gippsland (Vic.)
paper:—
NOTICE.
All pigs found trespassing on my property at
Stacey’s Bridge after this date will be prosecuted.
J. W. HAMILTON.
June Ith, 1913.
“Neurotic Bill”: The motor cycle will
have to be muffled or banished. You have
only to take a stroll through any one of the
cities to see just what
the public has to en-
dure through these in-
tolerableweapons.
Goggled brutes on their
barking, shrieking mounts
rush through the traffic,
scattering mere pedes-
trians like so much chaff,
and having about as much
respect for the safety of
women and children who
happen to be crossing the
road as a hash-house cook
has for a microbe. Then
there’s the infernal nerve-
racking noise the nuis-
ances make—a battery
under fire can do no
worse. The mere human
has eyelids to shut out
anything objectionable he
doesn’t want to see, but
he has no ear-flap to save
him from objectionable
noises. So it’s the motor-
cycle and the monster who
rides it that must be op-
erated on. The public is
pretty good at standing
insults and annoyances, but there is an en-
durance limit, and then —fireworks ! The
fireworks are now due.
The congestion of Melbourne —an arti-
ficial curse carefully nursed with differen-
lial railway rates and other iniquities too
numerous to mention —was relieved a little,
last week, when a Bendigo lunatic im-
mured at Yarra Bend, escaped from that
institution and made off home. It is re-
freshing to hear that someone besides the
politician is going to the country, even
though the somebody has straws in his hair.
(The fatted calf may be glad of the fodder
anyhow.) Perhaps, though, the poor Yarra
Bender is only hurryinv from the mad city
of Melbourne to the madder city of Sydney.
* * * *
“Nobody dreams of blushing nowadays,”
says a Melbourne girl, Miss Kate Cornell,
lecturing on “The Triumph of the Spinster.”
The spinster never blushes now;
She has, it seems, forgotten how.
The art will not be lost, we learn,
For man is now to have his turn.
victoria. S.S.
The Bulletin receives this letter from
an ornament of Melbourne University: —
As one of the committee of ‘bounders and hood-
lurris’ who your fair correspondent in this week s
Lady’s Letter castigates so unmercifully allow me
to have a word on a function about which you have
been grievously mis-informed. If your informant is,
as you say, ‘no prude’ she has at any rate a pretty
turn of the pen for romantic, but scarcely kino, nc
tion. I know perfectly well that there is not the
remotest chance of any of the following facts ap-
pearing in The Bulletin but in our defence, &
as a safeguard for future occasions I would like
you to know them. .
At the outset, your broad-minded coirespondent
gives us a nasty kick when she says that those who
THE MOTOR MEPHISTO IHELES.
There are a number of young men who parade the
offer to drive young girls and unsuspecting women
should be warned of the dangers that they undergo
of Melbourne bobby.
were unfortunate enough to be unaware of ’Varsity
Night and had booked seats, saw little and heard
less of Miss Hook.’ Well, if the good lady had
taken the trouble to read the Amusements Columns
in the papers, or the placards in about three dozen
of the principal Melbourne shops & cafes, for three
weeks before, she could hardly have been unaware
of the fact. I may also say that to eighty per cent
of the Audience the play is not the thing on ’Varsity
night—witness the fact that all the best Stalls &
Circle seats went in preferential booking before we
were even aware that ’Varsity night was to be held
at ‘Miss Hook.’
As to our ‘puerile entertainment.’ No one ex-
pects masterpieces of literature in a Students’ song
programmes, or John McCormacks among student
singers. Our songs were at least up to the level of
the usual student programme & to anyone inter-
ested in University affairs, the topical allusions
were amusing & to the point. If we were not as
‘obscene’ as the French students for whom your
correspondent cherishes such an intense regard, I
apologise for her disappointment.
The interruptions to the play and the joining in
the choruses are time-honored features of ’Varsity
Nights and (as I have personal authority for) are
enjoyed by the performers as much as by the pub-
lic. If two or three in our number made them-
selves conspicuous by their bad manners, I guarantee
that the same two or three have made themselves as
conspicuous at the respective theatre nights of the
Universities of Babylon, Tyre, Sidon, Athens, Edin-
burgh, Jerusalem & —shall we say, even Paris?
While admiring the deft way in which your cor-
respondent lets us all know that she has attended a
Parisian Students’ Night, I cannot help thinking that
if she attends next ’Varsity night as a ’Varsity Night
* not either as a French salon or a Sunday school,
she will enjoy it a little better —and be able to
write a slightly more truthful account of it.
With kindest regards.
Yours very sincerely,
ONE OF THE BOUNDERS.
It is a curious letter, inasmuch as it doesn’t
deny the bounding, the riot, the hoodlumism
or anything else. It claims, however, that
these things are habitual, and that the
students have bounded and hoodlumed be-
fore ; also that the complainant ought to
have known that the students were going
to bound and hoodie, and ought to have en-
joyed the performance. But, then, a lot
of people forget to keep an eye open for
the information that the students, or the
bottle-ohs, or the vegetable dealers or the
scavengers are going to make night hideous
on a certain date and at a certain place, in
consequence of which neglect they are liable
to be taken by surprise. As regards
“Bounder’s” admiration for “the deft wnv
your correspondent lets us all know that she
has attended a Parisian Students Night.’
surely he doesn t think a trip to I aris is
so rare or amazing that any correspondent
n6P(I go out ot her way to announce
t ] ia t she has been there. And, by the way,
bow old are some of the Melbourne students?
T j ie “Bounder” guarantees that the “two
tl iree”— “the same two or three”—ill-
.
mannered and unwholesome disturbers or
louts who made trouble in Melbourne made
themselves equally obnoxious at the univer-
s;ties 0 f Babylon. Tyre, Sidon etc. Why
don’t these toothless insurrectionists get
, K buried V
tUmseives Di 11. Cl.
city streets at night in motor-cars, in which they
home. Their intentions are dishonorable, and girls
in accepting the proffered motor-car rides. —Remark
John Wren has just bought p block of
land in Swanston-street, near Melbourne’s
central railway station, and the story goes
that he paid over £9OO per foot_ for it and is
going to build on it Melbourne’s 140tli pic-
ture theatre. If it isn’t the 140tli it is there-
abouts. If Melbourne had put into the
means to make money one-half of what it
has lavished lately on the means to spend
money, there would De a lot more hope for
its future.
An Adelaide landlady who was convicted
of “receiving,” because she bought cheap
cigars from a boy who had stolen them
from his employer, has got the conviction
quashed on appeal. It was held that a
"°rson of unblemished character such as
hers was not bound to suspect knavery be-
cause 'of mere cheapness. The lad told a
specious tale about his tobacconist brother
going out of business, and the feminine love
of a “bargain sale” was held to explain the
rest.
THE WORST THAT COULD HAPPEN.
Mr. Agar Wynne has accepted office under Mr.
Cook. Mr. Wynne left one of his country stations
to-day for Melbourne. Latterly he has been in ill-
health, and to-day an unfortunate rumor was in cir-
culation that he was dead. Inquiry showed that the
rumor was unfounded.
TORY HUSBAND : “My dear, my dear. 'This
paper says that Mr. Agar Wynne is dead.”
DEMOCRATIC WIFE : “Uni! I thought it was
much worse. Somebody told me he’d accepted
a portfolio in Mr. Cook’s Ministry."
THE ELECTRIC HEARSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An up-to-date electric hearse has made its appear-
ance in Melbourne. —News item.
When Brown is dead, his spirit fled, his corpse in
an oblong case,
Then hurry the dear departed off to his final resting
place.
When the Bloke with the Scythe has done his job,
finish the rest off quick,
And if the parson must have his say insist on him
being slick !
I hate to see a decent cove, who in life was a trifle
fast,
Trundled along at a snail-like pace when his end
arrives at last;
The dull, black hearse, with its nodding plumes, and
. the mutes, with faces grim,
The awful gloom of the whole dashed show would
never have suited him !
When I depart from this world of pain and laughter
and girls and beer,
I do not ask on my own behalf that any should
shed a tear.
(If Muriel really feels she must, well, then she may
go ahead!)
But I don’t want strangers to raise their hats to me,
because I’m dead !
No, nail me down in my coffin tight and hurry me
off the scene,
For the best dead man that ever was is nought but
a mere “has been” !
Don’t trundle me slowly along the streets, to mock
at the world’s joys ;
Don’t lie on my stone, but merely state: “Deceased
was one of the boys.”
This motor new will do for me if it goes at a
decent pace,
For when I start on a journey long, I worry to reach
the place.
And, maybe, some of the boys I knew ere I mur-
mured a “Good-night, nurse,”
Will wave farewell as 1 speed along in my giddy
electric hearse!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms. 30 Upstairs.
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
Add a little
No matter what your
drink may be.
Reversible Rug's
—New and Effective Designs.
The Woollen Bugs which we quote for winter use are particularly
warm in texture, and of very neat design. The colors harmonise,
and impart an effective appearance to the rugs. For real warmth,
service, and general utility, we strongly commend these lines.
Reversible check patterns in Green and Grey, and Brown and Red—
-16,6, 21/-, 25 -
British and New Zealand Pure Wool Rugs—dark and light Greys,
Greens, Reds, and Brown Mixtures—
-42/-, 47/6, 52/6 to 67/6.
Postage, 1/3 extra.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
PEAPES (SL CO., Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
*****
ripe and luscious brown damsels at
Soina (MX.), specially selected for
! ?T r2 e occasion, lately waggled through a
tlie ia ce f or the delectation of officers of
poi ' Xnd's pledged ironmongery, the battle-
Zealand. Henry o£ Battenbers
d his eye on the ripest and most luscious
?lU6d 1 and when the movement subsided
daDIS !- understood to be thinking that nary
be ft of his acquaintance ever rhytinned
duC that One moment later a couple of
lik d brown arms were hugging the princely
r i «nd Battenberg was kissed with a
• chat made him whirl. Lionel Halsey,
v > gor Jnner of the ship, had hardly burst
? ke a series of chuckles when a rotund
into nhPflii flung itself on him and sampled
KanTnaa/too. . This was the only
• ' during the picnic trip in Maoriland
h”? : he S mile on Halsey’s face entirely
tW t d . The officahs fell in, with faces
imitative of the chief face ; but as
lev filed out, large brown masses of wahine,
Ideating several tons, fell on the party.
1h mass selecting a victim. “Batty,” of
nnrse had to stand the largest rush ; but
T armor-plated expression of Halsey
secured him from a second assault.
* *
NS.W. Court of Marine Inquiry pon-
dered thoughtfully last week on the trouble
or annoyance of the Birkenhead. This craft,
which had braved the storms of Parramatta
River for 33 years, was coming up to Cir-
cular Quay to ship 120 passengers. These
neople wanted to go home to tea in a furious
f a le The ark, in manoeuvring, struck the
wharf, and immediately began to fill, where-
uDon the skipper headed for open water, and
the vessel sank five minutes later in 60ft.
of salt, fishy damp, the top deck floating off
gracefully down the harbor. Had it butted
the wharf after embarking the 120 intending
passengers, three-quarters of Drummoyne
would have been in mourning, xhe real sub-
iects for inquiry should have been : (1) Why
should a ferry steamer in a big line of busi-
ness dive to the bottom, and snlit in halves,
just because it struck a wharf? (2) Is this
a failing common to ferry boats on Sydney
Harbor? Instead, the fatuous Court spent
its energies in trying to decide who was co
blame for the boat hitting the wharf. Hav-
ing found that it was the act of God, the
Court adjourned for lunch. As a matter of
fact, the steering gear had got jammed at a
critical moment, which is the sort of thing
that is liable to happen to any boat 33
years old. or to any older boat, or perhaps
to any old boat or to any young or ordinary
or plain or dashed or blessed boat whatso-
ever.
A GIFT WORTH CULTIVATING.
Science told them how economical Nature was in
the disposal of her gifts. If a gift were not wanted,
used or cultivated, Nature took it away. —The Dean
Sydney.
"If I wot I always sez, Oswald! Never go
agin nature."
An old well of spring water, long ago
covered over, has been discovered on the
south-east corner of Castlereagh and King
streets, Sydney, where the Telegraph is
erecting its new offices. In and before the
year 1820 one Thomas Rose, a sporting
® at h had a public house, the Rose and
crown, close to the corner. No doubt the
lecently-rediscovered spring supplied that
nouse. The only public water then was the
lank Stream, and public pumps were
rected for those who could not sink wells
,? r themselves. One public pump was on
p, e stocks, and another on the site of Otis
cnambers, in King-street. But wells were
u^ ra ’ especially in the neighborhood of
old-tune pubs.
CONFLICTING REASONS.
BILL: “ An' what did they put you in quod
for , Mike?”
MIKE: “Fer knocking a bloke down.”
BILL: “Well, now, that shows the shockin' in-
justice of the law. They put me in for
sticking a bloke up! ”
“Green Tape”: N.S.W. Public Service
Board has trodden with the grace of an
elephant, and with rather less than that
animal’s intelligence, on the pet corns of
the Women’s Club. Five itinerant medicoes
are wanted in the Public Instruction Dept.
—three men and two women. All of them
are to tour the country; the only difference
is that the she-doctors will be allowed to
keep near the railway lines. Whether the
Board thinks the women don’t want to
muddy their feet the advt. sayeth not. The
men are to be paid £5OO and £l5O travel-
ling expenses ; the women are to get £400;
no exes, mentioned. The Board thus evi-
dently reckons that a man-doctor is
worth half as much again as a woman
doing the same work —an “argument” which
is warranted to make the Women’s Club,
where the she-doctor looms largely, take to
the war path. I advise the Board not to go
round to the Club for afternoon tea yet a
While. P.S. —On second thoughts I hope
the Board will go round to the Club at the
very first opportunity.
* * * *
The N.S.W. railways haven’t been get-
ting a very good advertisement of late.
First, it has been decided to push up the
rates, except on workmen’s specially cheap
tickets, workmen being supposed to vote for
Holman and McGowen. This has aroused
some comment, for the recent increases of
wages, which made the extra charges neces-
sary, went almost entirely to the manual
laborers, while the ill-paid clerks remained
much as before. Then it appeared that the
policy of building locomotives by local
industry has been muddled to a breakdown,
and cheap-labor engines are to be imported
from England, while the local man looks for
a job in vain. Further, it is alleged that
the Newcastle coal trade has drifted into
such confusion that the coal trains are
mostly 12 hours late; also that the Mel-
bourne express loses time so regularly on the
N.S.W. section of its journey that it is
almost always late. And it leaked out last
week that, on a recent dark night, a N.S.W.
goods train was turned on to the wrong
line, and sent to rush right into the face
of the i.ielbourne express. It narrowly
dodged its fate, for when it dawned on the
driver that he was on the wrong track, and
that he hadn’t time to back out, he kicked
his great arrangement of trucks furiously
on to Gerogery, and there panted into a
siding. A day or two later it was the Mel-
bourne express that was turned into a side
line by error and sent rushing at a stationary
“goods.” Providence was kind to that ex-
press also, and nobody was killed, but the
bump will go down into history. Altogether
times are exciting.
It looks as though
the Dutchmen are
booked for trouble in
Java. In that most
fertile island of the
world, situated only
three days’ steaming
from Australia, there
are anything over
30,000,000 natives and
anything under 15,000
white people, mostly
Dutch. So fax’, chiefly
by using his brains,
the Dutchman has had
very little trouble
with the natives; and
the native, who used
to spend most of his
time cutting his neigh-
bor’s throat, has mul-
tiplied exceedingly in
consequence of the
pacific Dutchman’s
rule. Also, he has, in
suite of his born
thriftlessness, bet-
tered his economic
position immensely,
and a few have also
achieved some educa-
tion. Possibly these
things ought to have
filled the Javanese
with gratitude. But,
generally speaking,
they haven’t. Either
they have left the
native entirely uncon-
cerned, or they have
merely suggested to
him that it is time
the dog, consisting of
30,000,000 people,
ceased to be wagged
bv a tail consisting of
15,000 other people.
Like most Asiatics the
Javanese are whales on secret societies,
and a most influential one has been
at work lately—backed, perhaps, by
Chinese, who reckon upon having a softer
thing on when the level-headed Dutch rule
is withdrawn. The whole police force is
native, and a good portion of the military
also, and practically the whole lot belong to
the great secret society which wants Java
tor the Javanese. The stolid white authori-
ties, of course, don’t show any alarm; but
every available white Dutch soldier is being
dropped into. Java, and every possible
colored soldier is being shifted out
of Java to one of the other islands.
Also,, white employees of trading and
planting concerns are being advised to put
their gun where they can reach it, and
managers of sugar and other estates are ex-
pected to watch closely and give prompt
warning of the first signs of actual revolu-
tion. The trouble seems, as usual, to be
worst at the Soerabaya end —the end, signi-
ficantly. where the Chinese have most influ-
ence. Not, of course., that the Chinese will
take any overt part in the business. Their
plan is to work through the hadji, the Mo-
hammedan priest. The experienced Dutch-
man of the East Indies doesn’t need anv
special warning to watch him. The hadji
is under suspicion all the time.
* * * *
A young lawyer and a doctor in Adelaide
have been making the not uncommon mis-
take of mixing up friendship with business.
Each of them needed the other’s services a
good deal, and they agreed to give them
mutually without charge. Presently the
doctor called in a K.C., who is the partner
(and father) of the young lawyer. And
after that the K.C.’s bill came in. “I only
pay half of this,” said the doctor; “the other
half is yours by partnership, and so I get
it for nothing.” All parties came into court
at last: but, like most other interesting cases
in Adelaide lately, it was taken outside and
settled on. give-and-take principles—that is
to say, you ask for everything, take all you
can, and don’t give anything if you can help
it.
* * * *
It is a popular superstition that the par-
son has a good time among ladies, and the
harshest of them will rush to make him
afternoon tea with her own fair hands. But
a Sydney gentleman in holy orders recently
discovered that it was not so. A lady called
to him over his back fence, a sort of “Come
over to Macedonia and help us!” yell, for
she had broken the front door key and the
back door one had stuck in the lock. He
said he would see about it, and went inside,
having determined it was better not to go
to the lady’s assistance. As he did not
come to her she went to look for him, and
rang his front bell. His daughter answered
the door, and on the spur of the moment
the man of God slipped and requested his
daughter to say he was not in. The visitor
said he was in, pushed herself into the
house, and proceeded to deal out nunishment
for his sin. She seems to have dealt it lib-
erally, and a magistrate said £5 or two
months. This chastisement of parsons
should certainly be sunpressed with a
strong hand considering that the good man
has to answer to his own Boss as well.
Smith, who is the Johnson of Tasmanian
railways, is in difficulties. Lately, having
ineffectually ukased in a general way that
there should be no more smoking in non-
smoking compartments, he caused the word
to go forth that his law must be obeyed;
and he followed that up with instructions
to various menials to swoop down and make
an example of a few. How the menials
swooped the Hobart Mercury told
presently:—
The first passenger caught offending was a promi-
nent member of the State Opposition who held a
portfolio in the short-lived Labor Ministry. Evi-
dence of the strict impartiality of the guards was
afforded the next day by the same guard who re-
ported as an offender a member of the present Lib-
eral Ministry. The date of the hearing of the cases
has not yet been announced.
And though a week has passed since then,
the date of the hearing of the cases is st'll
one of the things that Smith hasn’t
announced. The silence of Smith is some-
thing enormous just now. In fact, if he
had any more silence the little island
wouldn’t hold it.
THE TRANSFER.
McGOWEN (handing over the official rig-out):
“Here you are , Bill. They're pretty well
done for now , but they might last another
two or three months."
A FANTASY OF FEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Genre’s wonderful feet have formed the subject of
much discussion by scientific and medical bodies in
London, and whole lectures have been delivered upon
them. Since her arrival in Melbourne at least three
medical men have written to Mile. Genee, asking to
be allowed to have photographs taken of her feet.
-—Theatrical news item.
Lang syne I judged my darling by
The merry twinkle in her eye
When it looked into mine,
The dainty dimple on her chin,
The ears that let my praises in,
Her lips as red as wine.
Lang syne I gauged her by the glow
Of her two cheeks that reddened so,
And by her tresses brown,
That always, so it seemed tq me,
Were symbols of the poetry
And beauty of renown.
Lang syne I thought her fine because
Her lashes might have won applause,
And even gleams of hope,
From him who never really cared
For love, and whom the world declared
To be a- misanthrope.
Lang syne I loved the curves of her,
Her snowy bosom fraught with myrrh,
Her soft, voluptuous grace;
The magnetism of her poise—
The strange, sweet sum of earthly joys
No years can quite efface.
But now it seems that I was blind —■
Oh, Love! don’t deem me too unkind;
My sorrow is complete!
So pardon me, and chide me . not;
For I, unthinking, clean forgot
To judge you by your feet!
And if this fashion perseveres
Right down the topsy-turvy years,
Lest I be falsely led,
I think you’d better, Little Sweet,
Not violate your dainty feet —-
But walk upon your head !
N.S.W.
ST. ANTONY.


If&B,
It la practically certain that, what-
ever the attitude adopted by the Minis
terial party in the Legislative Assembly
towards the Cabinet's proposal to hold
all-dav sittings of Parliament may be.
the Legislative Council will decide to
meet, as at present, in the evening.
—News items
Vr \% only m
'ttje evenings
dyfier Jinnee
Le?
(ouricil sefl-le*>
down *te C«>«S'^ e ''
I>MS I « e SS op
■ffte- Country.
It was most absurd that any girl
should he brought up to-day with the
antiquated idea that marriage was i
everything. "
op
Sf>«*s i «*' •» Hdbourne
U+dyJ
EJderly “ Don't" 'ttjmK /
op ♦nVrizs.oc, my dear , /
Be * eirl liKe —-
me With ca^ - $c & .
|jC -yodll never yeer fonely
It is still generally believed among
members of the party that Mr. Bruce
Smith (N.S.W.) will secure the Speaker-
ship in the House of Representatives.
—News item.
/I be Argus °[ \
Ij one
ljb«*'2>vi cUs cyl
Ay'']oS e | 3 b C°° K
dacK
it
If tner* is one quality pre-
eminent fat Mr. Cook, it fg
the delight in battle, and,
until this recent turn in the
tide of affaire which placed
him on top, his battles were
mostly of the hardest kind—,
losing ones.—“ Argus,”
ife r , \
:
bk
Ml$) is o{■ s®
v
\. |>£i'i'tAxi u le.i'' View to -fne.
\
'forme.*' dignity.
(ST .
pu e d Vic WorKcr;— If- imio couTribute to "fffoT~"T <p.
Accident Fund, wHere does Conoe m
Jo'Vn Murrav;_ When you mee+" wiift A n accident* VotA
_ , mc . °t , y ou *' nr>oney “TB.ats
o»nj>e*>s2iJion. in out”. i\sKme a k n€^'t*'o'
THINGS IN MELBOURNE.


For Influenza
and after-effects
NOTHING EQUALS
ANCIER@MULSION
Of Chemists. 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
The remarkable soothing and healing properties of
Angler’s Emulsion, combined w ith ‘ts st rengthemng
nerve-tonic properties, make it invaluable both during ;
after influenza * There is positively nothing to equaMt as
a healing tome and restorative after influent P n *™° ni £
pleurisy, bronchitis or any illness affecting the lungs
digestive organs.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention A,s pa^
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., 7 Barrack St.. Sydney, N.s.w.
THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
SUNSHINE
Melbourne. ]
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &. Adelaide, I
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“J.F.8.” : I’m late butting into the Cape
weed' controversy; but I’ve been too busy persuading
capital_not to fly out of the country, and it’s all
right "now that J. Cook is returned. Some person
who doesn’t know says that a wander’ng circus
brought this vegetable curse to Australia from
S’Africa. Nothing of the sort! The Cape weed,
like many other imported pests, such as onion weed,
lantana, etc., was introduced under the false notion
that it would be a profitable plant to grow. Hugh
Glass was the culprit in this instance. As a boy 1
remember being taken out to Flemington by my
father, who was curious to see a wonderful plant
he’d heard of. Glass’s paddock, which then ex-
tended from the Flemington-road to the Saltwater
River, where Newmarket and Ascot Vale are now,
was, as far as I could see, one mass of the bright
yellow flowers. Years ago I mentioned this matter
to Mr. James Wilson, sen., of St. Alban’s, and he,
too, had seen the Cape weed in cultivation in the
same paddock. I was also told by one of the old
Murray River captains that Torumbarry (one of
Glass’s stations) was the first place where he had
seen Cape weed ; so evidently misguided enthusi-
ast had sent some seeds up there as well.
A WARM RETORT.
THE JUDGE: "Five years hard labor, and
mind you don't appear before me again."
THE PRISONER: "Well, if you're not where
you ought to be by that time, fudge, I'll
make it hot for you myself."
“P. Knutt” : “The Snake” (B. 15/5/’l3)
goes a good one with his recipe for catching rabbits,
but there’s too much bloodshed. Here’s a much more
gentle scheme. Obtain a supply of cooked and un-
cooked peas. Wait till bunny leaves to attend the
local political meeting. Then deposit a few peas,
hard and soft alternately, at the front door. Bunny,
on his return, will immediately begin on the repast
spread for him. When he comes to a hard pea, get
ready, and as soon as he shuts his eyes in his efforts
to bite it, grab him by the off hind leg and wave
him round your head till his neck breaks.
llolrwyt1 ’ who writes from S.vd-
. > am. claims to have spent five years in Australia,
upping the London Daily Mail “Overseas Edition’
some thoroughly veracious matter—
« am able idea being apparently to block immi-
gration. lor instance:
some° of e ‘tVo b n fol ' e , c , omin S out, should remember
KStt: 1 heat ’
sohd dust—-and the scarcity o“f water In the majorUv
riiu ma l p ac , es in New South Wales there is practi-
months" 0 I "hup t 0 drink throll S h the summer
0'.,, f have , k "? wn commercial travellers obliged
nstead of tpi n b r ottl i ° f s ?<>a-water and drink that
Latt mi ! ? r , co ffee owing to the bad water,
thousands J aSt ’ , th !; re is the drawback of the
and imW i , ( "ffpeh pester one night and day
Colonial ln t°l e rable to anyone but a
cvecLstuig sunshine which your correspondent
vMr l ?™ lnduceil ?e nt is for nine months of the
year one continuous blaze during the dav. Oh!
ho\\ one wearies of it and longs for a grev dav.
azureheat f ° g WOuld be a welcome change from the
Lily should be exiled back to England, or, still
better, Scotland, and sentenced to do the next five
years in any one of 500 or 1000 bathless tenement
houses in the east end of Glasgow. Perhaps she is
one of the distant hills that look green.
* * *
D.I). : Seventy miles east of Norseman
(W.A.) is Fraser’s Range station, with an ample
supply of good water at 130 ft. (granite country).
Se\ entv-five miles farther on is Balladonia station,
on the division between granite and limestone, and
the water supply is not so good. This is the begin-
ning of the great limestone plain, and the land east-
ward is practically all selected. The stock route
road is now almost perfect, and driving is similar
to driving over asphalt with a rubber-tyred buggy.
Cemented underground Government tanks holding-
-40,000 gallons are placed about 33 miles apart.
There is no clay and no chance of other surface con-
servation. The longest grass grows on the flats,
which are surrounded by low limestone ridges. The
country is sparsely timbered, myoporum being most
common. Twenty-eight miles north of Madura is a
Government bore, but at the time of my visit the
steam pipe was broken. Thirty-six miles north is the
Transcontinental Survey Line and another bore.
These bores are about 400 ft. deep. Twenty miles
south of the survey line begins a big bare plain,
and for 60 miles there is not a tree one couldn't
carry. On the sky-line often appears a line of
beautiful trees, but when you arrive thereabouts you
find the mirage has lifted them from shrubs 3ft.
high. The grass was wonderful when I saw it. South
of the line I drove through hundreds of thousands of
acres of grass that could be reaped and bound by
a machine. Most selectors get a shock with initial
expense. My estimate is £750 for bore and equip-
ment; 32 miles of dingo-proof fencing, £1600:
stock sheep for the area, £2OOO. I think one bore
would water 64 square miles, stock would have to
walk at the most four miles to the trough. The
crust of the limestone is very hard, and varies from
15ft. to 40ft. Rabbits are of no importance, but
dingoes are plentiful. Still, after fences have been
erected, they would be wiped out, as there is no
cover. They are remarkably tame at present, and
appear to be mostly mongrels, black and white equal-
ling the red in number.
“McNorth” : A little-known member of the
family paradiseidse (birds of paradise) is the Ptiloris
Magnifica Alberti. This gorgeous col-
lection of feathers, which exceeds in
brilliance and wealth of color several
of the varieties of the birds of para-
dise of Papua, has Cape York (Q.)
for its habitat, and is commonly
known as the rifle bird. A sight of
the female causes no comment, but
her husband is, without doubt, a
thing of beauty. Flying in and out
of the scrub with his glorious satin-
velvet body feathers casting irides-
cent flashes as the light strikes him
at different angles, the rifle-bird
knocks all other birds out of the
contest for the bun of gaudiness. But
he is a difficult bird to secure, and
Binghi often spends many weary
hours in the endeavor to obtain a
few of the feathers with which to
adorn his back hair. A stroll in the
scrubs of Cape York cannot fail to
create a feeling of admiration for the
beauties of the native birds. From
the painted kingfishers and sun-birds,
to the snowy white ospreys on the
beach, almost any variety of feather
color can be found. Altogether, the North is a
terribly dreary hole.
Australia has lately had some most reso-
lute explorers on the premises without knowing it.
One of them, returning to England, bit* the ear of
the Daily Mirror, which broke out on April 18 into
a column of horrors headed, “Men Who Starve in
Australia.” One of the men was a motor mechanic
who, unable to get work at his trade in Sydney,
“went up-country to Bankstown, where I stayed
three weeks without being able to get a situation at
my own trade.” This is almost incredible. Still
one never knows. This writer distinctly remembers
a most experienced French snarer of hippopotamuses
who, finding himself stranded in London, clenched
his teeth and faced the watery wildernesses of Put-
ney. After spending a- weary and foodless five
weeks there he was driven back to Paris,-: where Le
Matin published a column about the dreadful con-
dition of the working-men of England owing to the
utter absence of a hippopotamus industry at Putney.
Pontius Potter”: Ever see a dolphin get
his dinner? Watched half a dozen of them shepherd
a school of salmon into the shallow-water of Black-
man s Bay (Tas.). There they formed a half-circle
on the seaward side to prevent a breakaway while
thej took turn about to go in and majce a ineai.
J hings worked as smoothly as a conference of Fat-
men arriving at an honorable understanding to divide
the profits.
THE HAIR ON THE HOOF.
THE SHEPHERD: "And has your mother any more boys like you?"
YOUNG BINGHI: "Two pheller. Baal like me!"
THE S.: “ How's that?"
YOUNG B.: "Oh, too much close up like black pheher—baal black pheller. Close up like
white pheller —baal white pheller. No plurry good!".
“Werrimee”: One of the oldest in-
habitants of Coonabarabran (N.S.W.) was George
Lemon’s galah, whose lengthy career was bitten off
short the other day by a wandering houndog.
Twenty-five years ago the ancient bird went astray,
but was eventually found in a cage. The man in
possession refused to give him up, claiming owner-
ship, and the matter was settled Solomonwise in
the local court. “If he is yours,” said Lemon’s
father, who was then the hereditary owner, “speak to
him, and see will he answer you.” Defendant- did
so, but Cocky sat dumb with half-closed eyes, as
though deadly bored by the whole proceedings. The
P.M. then invited Lemon to say. a few words.
“Hello!” said the complainant. “Where have you
been?” At once the bird’s crest went up and his
eyes opened wide. “Hello, George!” he answered.
“Where the H—l have you been?”
A.L.8.: Like dogs and eats and drunks,
horses have the homing instinct. Knew a wine-
grower on the Hunter River (N.S.W.) who, after
being 29 years on one vineyard, moved into the
Broken Back mountains, about 30 miles away. The
stock he took with him included a sturdy Arab pony
that had spent 27 years on the old place. When the
new selection was reached, this moke was hobbled out
with the rest, but was missing in the morning. At
the end of a day’s search he was still missing. The
following day he was brought back by one of the
vineyard hands. The little hobbled scut had done
the distance in six hours, taking en route a moun-
tain pass which, besides being a mere wallaby pad,
fell 3ft. in Ift. in places, with an occasional preci-
pice handy to warn travellers that the track had been
missed.
***•“■
“8.C.D.” (from the Solomon Group) :
For the information of those who have recently been
mistaking oyster shells for clam shells, I would have
it circulated that a Captain Shapland—the skipper
of a tramp steamer trading out of Liverpool, pur-
chased while at Timor, a pair of clam shells weigh-
ing within 601 b. of two tons. On his return to
Liverpool the skipper presented these shells to the
Museum. I would also like to point out to “Te
Babarantiko” that the demand for porpoise teeth,
so called, is increasing in the Solomons every year.
The demand has always exceeded the supply, and the
trader that commands a good and regular stock of
the ivories is the man that gets the goods. As for
Brum jewellery, the natives have about as much use
for it as an absentee landlord has for the Federal
land tax. I can’t make it more definite than that
without straining for effective comparison.
When that mighty money-grubber, the
C.S.R. Co., purrs in Australia, you imagine that it
is only in Australia that man is vile; in Fiji, with
its black labor, all is peace and happiness, it seems.
But in Fiji things look quite different. The Western
Pacific Herald, the other day, declared that “it is
common knowledge here that the planter-overseers
who took farms over recently from (he co. have,
almost without exception, gone back since they
started, and owe the co’. more now than at taking
over" ; and “the trouble lies in the low price paid
by the C.S.R. Co. for cane.” The Bulletin fancies
it has heard that remark before ; in fact, when the
relations of the mighty octopus and the farmer have
been under discussion, it doesn’t remember that cf
recent years it has heard much else.
“F.C.”: Somebody ought to tell the Vic-
torian Forestry Department to revise its regulations.
Qne of them orders all sleeper-hewers in the State
forests to stack and burn all their waste , Now , in
. ,
cuttln S slee P ers out of > sa - v < an ironbark > there is a
lot of waste, a third Of which is useless, but the
other two-thirds would make excellent firewood,
worth anything up to 10s. a ton on the ground. Of
~ ,
course, the dry mullock must be burnt, otherwise
’ J
hush fires would sweep away the whole forests, but
there is no sense in destroying useful timber. This
country will presently want it badly enough.
THE COSY INTERIOR.
THE INEBRIATE (undressing on the wrong side
of the front door): "Well, if t’ blanksh
housh (hie) HE t' stop out theresh (hie)
awl ni' an' perish (hie) 'tain't my fault.
I'm goin' t' bedsh."
THE VENDETTA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He wears no armor, he bears no crest,
jjo high hopes swell in his manly breast;
He is not plighted to ladye fair
(Though Liz of the factory may be there’) ;
He hath not given his knightly word,
Nor taken an oath on his knightly sword.
No princelings ride in his glittering train,
For he’s Ginger Smith of the Red Rock Lane.
He is not a pirate of days gone by,
Who holds his crew' with an eagle eye;
He is no smuggler of lace and rum—
Though he might have had dealings in opium.
No loyalist, rebel, or bandit, he;
Nor patriot fighting for Liberty.
Yet he meets his band when the shops are shut
And they’ve faken an oath by the Argyle Cut.
No oath that was sworn by the men of old,
When they went in search of the Inca's gold,
Was ever so strong or could bind so fast,
Or ever so surely and grimly passed
As the oath of revenge (’tis a theme well worn)
That Ginger Smith and his push have sworn,
And the track he’ll follow—though pals may fail,
And it leads him thrice through the walls of gaol.
For his Old ’Un’s pension was stopped last week.
Because of the tale of a bloomin’ sneak,
And his moll was stole by the bloomin’ same,
And his pal was smashed in the bloomin’ game—
And the bloomin' crawler, a pimp is he,
With the law behind him and secrecy.
But I’d rather each D. in the cities three
Than Ginger, with reason, was after me.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


SPORTING and MATCH
CARTRIDGES.
AH component parts are manu-
factured and put tog-ether in
our own factory by experts
who understand just what is
necessary to g-ive best results.
Wholesale only—
Scottish House, 90 William St., Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Pills are a most effective remedy for
Biliousness and all irregularities of the stomach and
bowels. They act quickly and effectually, without
weakening the system, as is the case with most medi-
cines used for these troubles. Price, l(Ud. and Is. 6d
Obtainable everywhere.*
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-560-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
TO REMEDY THINNESS AND
IMPROVE THE FIGURE.
Ladies who are thin, scraggy and angular,
and lacking in that full, well-rounded
development which adds so much to any
woman’s charm, may accomplish wonders in
the way of putting on flesh, filling up hollow
cheeks, necks and shoulders and developing
the figure generally by giving a little atten-
tion to the nervous system. When the
nerves are weak the stomach and the other
vital organs are the first to suffer. The
food eaten is not converted into flesh., and
you become thin, scraggy, anaemic, run down
and despondent. The seat of the trouble is
the nerves, which direct and control the
work of the stomach and liver. They must
be strengthened by a proper nerve food, and
probably the best nerve tonic and flesh
builder known is the old-fashioned formula
so frequently prescribed by physicians, com-
posed of §oz. Tincture of Cardamoms Com-
pound, 8.P., 3oz. Elixir Simplex. 8.P.C.,
2oz. Salrado Compound and water sufficient
to make 8 ounces. Take one to two table-
spoonfuls before meals and note how much
better you will feel after the first day.
Weigh yourself when you start and again at
the end of the first week. You should have
gained 21b. at the very least.*
THE WHITE STAR.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
Life seemed to me a wind-whipped thing
A-toss on seas of chance,
Blown hither, thither, foundering
On rocks of circumstance;
And love a philter filled from streams
Sweet as rose-tinted wine,
To drink which giveth fevered dreams —-
But virile dreams were mine!
My lamp lit at the torch of vice,
I sought the dazing mart,
Where daemons gamed with loaded dice
For painted smiles of art,
Till life, methought, was some loose thing
Spumed from a wind-lashed sea ;
With wine to drink and songs to sing
What dreams need trouble me?
One fiery-night a gem-white star
Flamed in the murky sky....
1 heard a soft voice sing afar
A hymn of mystery....
I saw a maid with eyes undimmed,
Whose cool, unruffled breast
Upon the sky was whitely limned ;
And Tier whole pose was rest!
With cool, white hands she beckoned me,
Spoke with red lips apart,
And love that seemed a phantasy
Sprung from her glowing heart!
And now I know Life is a thing
By love made half divine,
Which, lacking, goes on blundering,
Chance-ridden, as was mine!
N.s.iv. W. M. W.
R.S.V.P.: Somebody was saying it was
about time some limit should be put on the “bags”
of so-called sportsmen, and I propel myself in to
second the proposal. Two years ago I was shooting
on a big swamp some distance out of Kerang (Vic.).
On the same swamp was a party led by a bloated
person, who has achieved some fame, or, rather,
notoriety, as a slaughterer of pigeons and other
infuriated game. This animal was in a punt pushed
by two yokels (the weeds were very thick), and he
had two juvenile cockies sworn in to gather for
him. By 10 a.m. they had gathered 1164 brace,
mostly black duck, but with a fair number of teal.
This bag was proudly held up as a record for a
single gun, and I daresay it is. If any suspicious
character doubts my veracity I will have much
pleasure in hurling at him a photo, of the hero
rampant over the carcases of his victims. I won’t
forward his address, because when the opportunity
arrives I want to be the first to give him a broad-
side of duck-shot just where he won’t be able to
see the effects except with the assistance of a large
mirror.
ONE OF THE CREW.
PARSON : “And have YOU seen the sea-serpent?"
THE MARINER : “Not since I've bin on ’he
worter-wagon."
“W..T.H.”: The halcyon days of the
“swaggie” in Maoriland are no more. Time was
when every Australian boat was met at the Bluff by
cockies offering up to 12s. per day for harvesters,
spud diggers, etc. The swaggy was then independent
and numbers of him turned down a paltry 12s. at
the Bluff in the expectation of receiving more up-
country. In South Canterbury, one of the most-
sought-after bowyang-plutocrats was the spud-
digger. Every train was met at the station by the
“poor” farmer, who begged the honor of the pere-
grinating potato-lifter’s company for the season. If
this was haughtily refused, the farmer had to dig
out as much of the harvest as he could by himself
and allow the rest to rot. All that has been changed
by agricultural machinery and traction. There is
now on the job, for instance, a potato-digging
machine which will pay for itself inside a patch of
15 acres. To-day the swaggie is an undesirable. And,
if he is anxious to know exactly how undesirable he
is, any poor farmer in Maoriland will provide him
with full details.
JOURNALISTIC.
EDITOR EMU AND KANGAROO GAZETTE) : “Here, you'll have to postpone Jones's death
and put off the birth of Flannigan's twins till Saturday. There's a patent | medicine
advt. just come in."
“E.K.C.”: It happened at the Saltbush
Races Picnic Meeting, where Jimmy Callaghan was
laying the odds (hard boiled),
and his brother Jack was doing
some riding, etc. Says Jimmy to
Jack, as he was going to the post
for the Squatters’ Handicap:
“Look here, Jack ; I’m paying first
past the post. If Botfly is the
beast, I’m done.” “Righto!”
says Jack, who was riding Great
Thirst. There was a big field, and
Botfly, the favorite, got away
well. When they came into the
straight, Great Thirst, fading
fast, was just alongside Botfly, the
pair right ahead of the rest of
the field. Pulling close in to the
favorite, Jack leant down and
caught hold of the bit ring and
held on. My oath, didn’t he hold
on. All the way down the
straight he kept Botfly’s head
pulled back level with the pom-
mel of his own saddle, while
Botfly’s rider went out of his
mind and raved, and wept, and
swore and lashed Callaghan black
and blue. But the devil held on
and went past the spring dray
and the fat judge under the
wheat bags with Great Thirst a
winner by a neck. Of course,
there was the usual spilling of bad
blood and good beer, and if Jack
Callaghan hadn’t been rescued
by the police, he’d have been lynched. Whether the
odds-laying brother had his fair share of the gruel
I don’t know. In fact, I don’t know much about a
lot of things that happened that day.
* * * *
“Gouger”: It is not all beer and kisses
being initiated into the marriageable age by the
Bloomfield River natives. The young buck
is stretched on his back, while a front tooth
is knocked out by an old ruffian with a sharp-
pointed stick and heavy stone. The stick is then
made red-hot, and thrust into the bleeding cavity to
heal it, or prove to the victim the hollowness of
things in general. When the young buck picks on
his Juliet, and tells the father’s brother of his in-
satiable infatuation, the brother breaks tjie news to
the father. Immediately all talk between the girl’s
father and mother and the young buck must cease.
By-and-bye, Romeo brings his parents along to meet
Juliet and her ma and pa. All sit down and dis-
cuss the emergency—that is, all except the man
who is most concerned. His job is to say nothing
and think what he likes. Agreement having been
reached, the buck gets a gunyah prepared, and one
fine night the maiden’s brother leads her along by
the arms and thrusts her within. Next morning the
bridegroom must give the girl’s father his pick of
his (the bridegroom’s) spears. This squares the old
man for any inconvenience he may have been put to
in allowing somebody else to provide for his
daughter.
Adelaide’s long-cherished idea of removing
all the iron spikes from around its many
city squares is not to be realised yet. Mayor
Bonython has a whole crowd of reasons
against it. (1) Sheep driven from the
market would ruin the lawns and gardens.
Very soon the removal of the abattoirs to
far-away Dry Creek will shift this trouble.
But (2), Adelaide being a spacious place,
heaps of people keep cows inside the city
boundaries; also “there are probably more
dogs at large than in the whole of Mel-
bourne and Sydney put together.” Finally,
and generally (3), the experiment of re-
moval elsewhere has “not been an unquali-
fied success.” Without any intention of
doing damage, people make ugly tracks
across the lawns, Bonython says, and he
gives warning that the removal of fences
would mean the erection of perhaps £l5OO
worth of dwarf walls to replace them,
though both Sydney and Melbourne have
removed miles of railings and replaced them
with nothing at all.
“Carmine”: Cabled that Romney’s por-
trait of Lady 7 de la Pole has been sold for
£41,370. This far tops the price of any
previous Romney, or, for that matter, any
previous English portrait. Romney, how-
ever, has been steadily on the mount. The
Agnews gave £6200 for his “Mrs. Black-
burn,” and that was thought huge. His
“Mrs. Newbury” was sold about 20 years
ago for 1600 guineas, and has since been
resold for twice as much. A Raeburn por-
trait has brought 22,000 guineas, and a
Gainsborough 12,000 guineas. Romney’s
portraits of Nelson’s awful Emma Hamil-
ton must be worth 15,000 apiece. There
are five celebrated ones in which she
figures as Circe, a Bacchante, and in other
characters. Romney was infatuated with her
in her young time, and painted her even
into his portraits of other women. After
being a domestic servant, Emma was em-
ployed at Quack Graham’s “Temple of
Health” to display his “Earth Cure.” She
stood up to her neck in earth. Then she
became the mistress of one Greville, who
sold her much above her value to his uncle
Hamilton. Uncle Hamilton, who was an
ambassador . and a fool, married her
after some time. Romney could command
high payment for portraits, like Reynolds,
Gainsborough and Lawrence (somewhat
later) ; but. like Haydon, he had a mis-
taken ambition to execute great paintings,
for which he had neither the training nor
the industry. So they are nearly all in
limbo.
I rom this paper’s Court Correspondent:
The miserable pay attached to the office of Poet
Laureate (it works out, all told, at less than 355. per
7lfo k Lu SU v. ffeS m l hat - the sweated genius who holds
the job should be given facilities to augment his
Court salary. At Royal garden parties, for example
he might be allowed to stand at the main entrance,
and take toll at the rate of, say, 3d. per guest. This
would not impoverish the guests, and it would mean
a lot to the poet. A small office might be built
for him, near one of the sentry boxes in Buckingham
Palace Grounds, where he would attend between
10 a.m. and 4 p.m., for the purpose of signing auto-
graphs. Autograph-collectors could push their books
through a small window together with a fee of Is.,
and get them back, signed, at a window a little
further on. For 2s. an original couplet might be
inscribed in the volume, and, for 55., an entire lyric.
For half a sovereign the Laureate would interview
an admirer, permit his hand to be shaken, and pro-
vide a signed photograph of himself. Prices for
signed epics might be arranged on contract terms —■
so much per yard—a minimum of a guinea being
insisted on. Moving picture firms should be allowed
to make films of the Laureate getting inspiration for
an ode to a newly-arrived royal infant; hurrying to
his desk while the afflatus was yet on him ; inditing
the ode; and delivering it to the child’s parents.
He would be paid a sum down for each of these, of
course, and royalties to boot. Cigarette and cigar
butts jettisoned by him might be retailed to travel-
ling Americans; special prices being asked for the
remnants of weeds that had been presented to him by
the King or others of exalted position. For a guinea and
taxi-fares both ways, he would dine out with middle-
class families of the celebrity-chasing sort, wearing his
Court suit, and a laurel wreath emblematic of his
calling. He should be allowed to contribute per-
sonal anecdotes of Court life, together with anec-
dotes about the prominent figures in attendance upon
the Sovereign, to the papers which deal in such wares.
This sort of thing, for example, would mean good
money to the Laureate, and do no earthly harm:—
“Mr. Bert Sniffkin, the Poet Laureate, has a
pretty story to tell about Queen Alexandra and little
Prince John. Her Majesty noticed the Prince annoy-
ing Napoleon Bonaparte, one of the 457 pet terriers
which inhabit the royal children’s quarters. ‘Naughty,
naughty!’ she cried. ‘Why are you annoying Napo-
leon Bonaparte?’ ‘Oh, go hon !’ replied the little
Prince archly, and continued his pastime. The
gracious lady was fain to hide her amusement
in the folds of a thousand-guinea sable muff, recently
presented to her by her sister, 11. I. M. the Dowager
Empress of Russia.”
With such privileges as the above, and any addi-
tional ones of the sort that happened to occur to the
Legislature, the Laureate would be placed securely
out of the reach of indigence; in fact, the billet
would become so attractive that England would
probably have to forego her ancient traditions so far
as to impose a smashing import duty on poets, in
order to keep the Laureateship out of the hands of
the cheap foreigner.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: A quaint old
building, one of the oldest in Sydney and
certainly the oldest in Bridge-street, except-
ing perhaps the offices of the Department of
Public Instruction, is being demolished. This
is the place known as the first Synagogue.
The S.M. Herald of June 20 talked thus of
it: —•
The history of the building dates back to over
100 years ago, when a grant of the land was made by
Governor Macquarie to Lieutenant William Grant,
extending from George-street down Bridge-street to
the Tank Stream. At a later date, supposed to be
in 1804, Lieutenant Grant sold the whole of the
land to the Orphan School Committee for £1539
17s. 3d., and on the very site where the building
stands there was erected a less pretentious structure,
which was used as a store by Mr. Gordon.
This will he news to students of Sydney
history. As Macquarie did not arrive until
December, 1809, it is scarcely possible that
he gave Lieutenant Grant a grant of the
land. In fact, there was no Lieutenant
Grant. The simple facts are that in 1799
Governor Hunter gave his brother-in-law or
nephew (authorities are divided as to the
relationship) a grant of the land described.
This relative was Lieutenant Wm. Kent,
who _ built himself there a fine brick
mansion. The house stood facing the pres-
ent George-street, between the Bridge-street
and Dalley-street of to-day. Governor King
wanted a home for orphans and neglected
children, and Kent, wishing to return to
England, offered the house for sale. King
appointed valuators, who assessed the build-
ing only at £1539 17s. 3d. Kent said the
garden and fruit trees had cost him £3OO,
but these he would give in for the sake of
the orphans. The bargain was concluded
and the orphans continued in occupation
until 1828, when they were removed to
Liverpool. The house was then demolished,
and the land, to the extent of an
acre and a half, was sold by auction for
£5200. A street (named Queen’s Place, now
Dalley-street) now runs through it. The
Church and Schools Lands Trustees owned
the site. The ancient building to be now
demolished is believed to have been built in
the 20's of last century—no doubt after
the orphans were removed to Liverpool, as
the site formed part of the school grounds.
" e are told that Mr. Gordon occupied it
as a store, but this writer thinks it will be
difficult to fix Gordon there before the
Hebrews occupied it. The Hebrews got the
building in the very first ’3o’s, fitted it
up as a synagogue, and called it Beth
Tephelah, or House of Prayer. In the first
’4o’s the synagogue in York-street was
built, and the Bridge-street house of prayer
was abandoned to commerce. In the late
’4o’s and for some years afterwards it
was occupied by Mr. Samuel Deane Gordon,
who had kept the Kangaroo Inn in George-
street, opposite the old burial-ground, and
had developed into a wine and spirit mer-
chant. Mr. Gordon also dabbled in politics.
He was in the Assembly for Durham
in the first and second Parliaments, and for
Illawarra in the third. He was a member
of the Legislative Council from 1861 until
his death in 1882. By the way. the same
man is also credited with having been a
postman, and the first to wear a red coat in
Sydney.


General Yuan Shih Kai. the President of the short-
lived Chinese republic, has isssued a series of edicts which
indicates that he proposes to attempt a thorough counter-
revolution. making the old-fashioned Chinese nationalism
his main plank.
He suggests that the usefulness of the present revolu-
tionary leaders has ceased, and he orders the colleges
schools, and public bodies to revive Confucianism.
So here behold John Chinaman fossicking
in the ash-barrel of yester-year for that queue
which he so prematurely cut off.
° r k) Of
f Q+
,i '
;V"'V' *• **W»* 'Z? ’’Z, '%?'•'
" "<*
A big Department Ntorc in Sydney iiav*
jug offered a prize of £2OO for the produe.
tion of an Australian National Anthem,
Hop’s Understudy resolved to have a shot
at it. (See above.) “Let me,” he says,
“write the songs for the Anthem Depart-
ment, and I don't care who sells the
marked-down corsets.”
In the picture above lie is seen trying
his National Anthem on the office rat.
Fl H«. An7W<l>^
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HOUSE APPEAL.
The hoa secretary to .he citizens’ committee writes:-—“I have
received letters from men and women who are prepared to make
sacrifices, rather than that we should he delayed in going to final
appeal. The money required wilt come all right. Next week we
will punish the first list of loyal donors
, ... -,.i tt,t« trip, old Fatty.”
Little Hoy at Man!' : oftttst
MELBOI UNE, lb » settlement of .ho
Prime Minister ('.Hn'icultv in Sydney. the Government should oiler
•»«»™
CARTOONLETS.


Martin s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Cadies recommend
them. Be sure you ge! rhe genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
The boy who described his cow as black, with a
white spot every now and again (Bulletin 19/6/’l3'i
was rather hazy in his descripti®n. Not" so Limpy’
Inrnpy worked a chaffcutter. The boys were always
he’d kl shout hIS <<Wh £’ S 9” ot my blank - v sacks ?”
ne d shout. What sacks ?” was the invariable
query. There s only one kind of ‘blankv’ sack ”
Limpy would shout. “That’s Smith’s ‘equal-to neW
sack.’ You know, ‘the Brand XX sack.’’’ And he
* p he bo^s kn ?. w the kood sacks that T.
Smith and o°., Ltd., sell, at Sussex-street, Sydney
Write to them. They’re “Sack Specialists.”* y 7
nipped in the bud.
1.4 S?“' fSwL,.',, 1 ,"!;;'”?. be nipped i„ , hc
>% <**>» U^^tntJSV^SST
able everywhere.* * 5S * Obtain-
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
F or
QUALITY.
HATS.
F or*
DURABILITY.
EVERY DAY
more people are proving' that
LUX
is the best washing- preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
lever brothers
LIMITED. SVDNEV,
r
y/ui i
/ ♦
PERSONAL
ITEMS
NEXT VISIT.
AUCRLAND SUNDAY.—The battleship New Zealand
nrrived on Saturday, and berthed at the wharf. The
battleship will sail homeward on Saturday. No
visitors were allowed on board, owing to coaling and
victualling operations.
BULL'S JACK T AR: “ Oh, well, s'long,
chummy! You've done us proud. You'll
see us again about 40 days after the first
Jap shell bumps you. ”
The Argus says Joe Cook looks 10 years
younger since the elections. Just attained
his majority, of course—though observe that
in the Upper Storey he is still very weak.
Jeames’ writes from Llie servants’ hall:
The Sackville-Murray row now raging, according
to the cables, in the Probate Division, London, is
over a fortune- or rather the remains thereof —that
has done a bit of moving about in its time. It
originally belonged to the family whose most notori-
ous member was immortalised by Thackeray, as the
Marquis of Steyne. The fine old house in Manchester
square, where the Wallace collection of Greuzes
and so forth, is enshrined, was the identical edifice
where (he Rawdon-Crawleys visited in the days of
.flf affluence. Anyhow, if Becky never carried on
with the uproarious old Marquis there, it is a safe
gambJe that someone like her did. The money
drifted out of the family to one Wallace, whose
origin was more or less of a mystery. He lived in
t ans, and loved art, and subsequently left all the
pictures and miniatures that he had collected to the
British nation, together with the mansion aforesaid.
Sir John Murray Scott was at one time a secretary,
or something of the sort, to Wallace, of the Collec-
tion. After Wallace had been made a Knight and
had died, he, having no relatives, left all his money
to Scott. The chief complaint of the deceased Scott’s
family is that the Sackvilles got hold of the Wal-
lace money (a matter of a million sterling) by being
too civil and abject to their relative. It is a diffi-
cult matter for a Court to decide. Most people
would be civil to an elderly person with a million
sterling to dispose of. There is no suggestion that
Scott was mentally affected. The simple allegation
is that Lady Sackville used her charms to win from
Scott an inheritance that, in other circumstances,
might have gone to his brother. There is also some
talk about a missing codicil—an invariable feature
t’j 6B6 suits. The Sackvilles are kinsfolk of Lady
bdeline Strickland, inasmuch as his father and hers
were first cousins. The family recently spent a
small fortune contesting the claim of an illegitimate
scion of the Sackville house to its title and estates.
According to the S. M. Herald ex-
i\ Inns ter King O’Malley is the owner of a
dilapidated and condemned slum tenement
in Melbourne, and often comes round in
person to collect the rent from his Chow
tenant. “He callee me Mother. Him clack
hfg joke about Chinese looster,” is how the
Chow is represented as describing his land-
lord. Cm-fainly King O’Malley has got the
brother habit badly, and he has also got
the rooster j'oke badly. These two points
seem to lend nomp and circumstance to the
identification.
POLAR EFFECT: MOUNT IRVINE.
He is just “Irvine” to members —a solitary, dis-
tant and rarely approachable figure. This spirit of
aloofness has won him the reputation of being too
unusually self-centred to gain enduring success in
politics. —Sydney D.T. on the new Federal Attorney-
General.
Second only in tact to Wallington, the
trusty and well-beloved, Lord Dicky Nevill,
the G.-G.’s chamberlain, is not at a loss
even when confronted by the Australian
small boy. Dicky_visited a Melbourne news-
paper office on a recent day, and
was confronted by a juvenile mes-
senger about eight hands high, who,
his fists in his pockets and his cap
on the back of his head, demanded
the visitor’s business. Lord Dicky
humbly explained, and was allowed
to pass. Now, the chief of the
messenger staff in that office is a
loyalist of indelible dye. No sooner
had the circumstances of the recep-
tion been disclosed to him than he
he called the boy to judgment. “Did
you know who that was?” he de-
manded. “O’ course I did,” re-
plied the child, with fine scorn
“Then why didn’t you take off your
hat.” “Wot! Me take off my hat
to im? Why, I’m his caddie!”
Dicky, on being told the story,
smiled his quietly pathetic smile,
and remarked resignedly, “Oh, I
never dreamed he would remove his hat,
don t you know —I play such a wretched
game!”
Andrew Fisher was quite touchingly tes-
timomalised by the press gang in Melbourne
tlle mT'ui. of his retirement from
ornce. w hat Melbourne pressmen think of
tMsher is in astonishing contrast with what
neii papers print of him. The gift was a
hot-water kettle-a gentle hint ttf make it
boiling for his adversary.
THE POSTAL TURNIP.
Suggest The receptacle**
for Letters be adapted, to
cope with The mm w order
of -Things .
“That vegetables And uve vtock i
BE Kept separate as tar as
POSSIBLE . ~ )
<&•
tS
(TVs,-?.
ix . \
o* 6 *
M.muYES • 4
To Time. ]
Tvwo Humored
Togo-.
And a Stamp.
*.'!
--''frtAT Postmen receive
A MUCH HIGHER. RATE OP
re numeration *
The Victorian Minister for Agriculture intends to
urge the Postmaster-General to adopt the system of
sending produce by post. The system has lately
been introduced with success in the United States.
In South Africa the system is applied to any article
of produce, if manufactured within the Union, the
maximum being 111 b., and the charge one shilling.
—Daily paper.
Melb ”: Just dead in Melbourne, Annie
Bright, widow of Charles Bright, a literary
man of the last generation She was a good
writer, a good speaker, and an enthusiastic
spiritualist. For the past eight years she
edited, and mostly wrote, the monthly organ
ol the Spook and Ghost Denomination. Her
first husband, Pillars, was a Unitarian min-
ister. Her second husband was Charles
Bright, and she was his second wife. Bright
also did a little Unitarianism at one time
He was on the Argus staff, and spiritualism
being something of a craze then, the editor
told him to knock it kite high, and drag
its mangled remains all over the premises,
and put a brick on its grave. Bright pro-
ceeded to investigate the religion, or super-
stition. with hostile intentions, and was
converted himself, whereupon he left the
Argus, which had no room for ghosts. For
a while he did some literary work for a huge
and wildly extravagant Yankee life insur-
ance concern, but a time of calamity and
retrenchment came upon the giant, and he
skied his job, and became a spiritualistic
lecturer. Bright was a clever scribe and
an attractive conversationalist; also he had
the shining eyes of the fanatic or the
dreamer, and a man with these eyes never
makes much money. He fixed the day and
hour of his death. During his last illness
he got so low one day that it was thought
his final moment had but he suddenly
woke up and explained in a whisper that
there was really no need to worry ; he wasn’t
due to pass out till 4.35 p.m. next Thursday
or some such date. y
, new Australian Ministry may be
thus classified, if any reliance can be placed
on the photographs published in the Sydney
Telegraph Four are bald, ranking thus
order of loss of hair—(l) Cook •
(_) hor re,st; (3) Irvine; (4) Agar Wynne!
iwo Glynn and McColl—are acquitted of
the charge of baldness, and only accused of
having their hair cut short. Two-Irvine
and Honorary Minister Willie Kelly—are
clean shaved. Seven—Cook. Forrest, Glynn
Millen, Agar Wynne, Groom and McColl
h T Ar“n u n tac , hes - Three—Cook, Forrest
and McColl have also beards. One men
has a profoundly melancholv and lost-doe-
expression—Glynn. The men with the most
bal r a l e Groom and Kelly. Glvnn
has the biggest moustache, with War
Wynne a good second. The most orderfv
D ea Forres?s CC All S ’th nd tb \ mo h st ™tidy one
like °tff M a' 6 walrus— not
L P r Wa I d ’ llke , the h air on the lip of a cat
but the saddest droop is that over the torr
of the mouth of Glynn. There isn’t one
monkey shave in the crowd. The b ggest
collar seems to belong to Wynne ; the most
old-fashioned collar to Cook - and the u
respectable tie to Forrest ’ln the phoG,
g t\ P n hS ’ C ?. ok ’ Irvine and Agar Wynne look
at the audience fairly straight hn/!!i ] °v
straight. Milieu, FoVrSf feellv
K a y -rsion tow. 7 rd s d the 12“
hand. McColl looks towards the nVht
Sds a°s if t w a " ds th - e ri ght and down
grave!’ For^ 6 TfiSf'mS °H
flagrant ‘SoSt™ “T* re P reh ensi'ble or
is Milieu ° St WaDtS t 0 kill s °mebody
The retirement of Judge
Mclntyre reopens the old
question whether Tasmania
needs a third Judge. In any
case, ex-Premier Neil Lewis
has a fair chance of getting
h i s long-delayed innings
shortly, for the health of
Chief Justice Dodds (aged
60) is rickety, and he may
resign at any time. Lewis
knows enough law to fit him
to be a mighty good Judge,
m addition to which he has
the calm, well-balanced mind
which fills the bill. (The
Judge who gets wild and
throws his wig at the defend-
ant is always a failure.)
-Norman Cameron has always
fought tooth and nail against
Lewis’s appointment; but
last Tas. elections left the
Cameron in the cold, and
that improves Lewis’s pros-
pects. Premier Solomon’s
chances look bright if a
second vacancy occurs. Ex-
Judge Mclntyre, who carries
his 71 years without stoop-
ing, is a native of Canada,
but has lived in Tasmania
from his boyhood. His father
was Anglican sin-shifter
at Deloraine, and the son
so inherited the pulpit voice
and manner that to be sen-
tenced by him always par-
took of the nature of a
religious ceremony. Still
he is a man widely liked and
respected. His newly-ac-
quired leisure will give him opportunity for
SatnrfiK’" the faco 0t the
oathehc over Iceberg and ‘ AttSm^v-General
a.vM» ustvsx? Vi s
f»| %f»^{“et“so?nrwt«“hL e SS*5
3S'' *£i"CX°'su b Ss *s
, JS &?
result l nf Ch °^ly—either constitutional or the
u %
“retlSSJunt! 0118 - Perha <» Ir ™« is *
THEY ARE ALL THERE
METRODIST CONFERENCE-LITERATURE.
FOR YOUNG METHODISTS.-Harrowig newspaper
heading.
LITTLE WILLIE STIGGINS (rapturously , com-
paratively speaking):
"My! But what a
jolly time I'm a
gom ’ to have!”
Maoriland’s new Speaker, vice Guinness,
who is with the angels now, is Frederic
U llliam Lang, one of Premier Massey’s old,
™ d ; bo 9 a A rd Ironsides. He entered Parlia-
ment -0 years ago and has retained the
confidence of the cow-growing brotherhood
m one or other northern electorate ever
since. Coming after the distinguished
Guinness the difference will be fairly- exten-
sive—something like two laps to the mile
MERELY BLOOD AND DEATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To ,K ltnes ® ? man hacking his arm off just above
. W r> th a razor a few fep t below the cliffs
at Matson s Bay ; to see his life-blood spurting forth
as the arteries were severed ; to watch the victim
balance himself on the red-stained cliffs preparatory
to casting his body over the edge and dropping to
an awful death 300 ft. below, and at the last moment
to see him collapse in a heap, to rescue him from his
perilous position at the risk of his life—this is an
experience which has befallen few men, and a sicken-
mg sight which few would care to witness.
It is not an infrequent happening for people to
slip and fall over the edge. Mr. Gibson has seen
numbers of people sitting on the edge dangling their
teet over the precipice. A slip occurs, and with a
wild shriek they disappear from view. Sometimes
their battered bodies are recovered, but in a number
ot cases they are never seen again....
Year in, year out, Mr. Gibson has 'been a horrified
spectator of such a succession of tragedies both on
land and water that would satisfy the, most cold-
blooded cut-throat in existence.—Bright and joyous
article in Sydney Sunday Times, on the South Head
Signal Master and his job.
Now you might think to look at me, or scan my
photograph,
I’d feel faintness ’neath the waistcoat when I heard
a madman laugh?
Or the slip would be excusable—that I disliked red
blood,
More especially when pouring from high cliffs into
the flood ?
But the mildness of my features is the mask that
hides the stoic,
And a Soul which, at short notice, is prepared to be
heroic.
In my high and windy tower, by the stained and
restless sea,
You may sit awhile and listen to the Chronicles ol
Me.
It would probably excite you if you saw some care-
less ass
Sit upon the edge of Nothing while he watched the
shipping pass?
I dare say your hair would bristle, and you might
emit dry screams
When the suicides like rabbits rushed towards the
brink in streams?
But these little nervous symptoms you will never
spot in me;
For 1 ve fought and got them under in my vears
beside the sea ;
Now I find but little int’rest in the suicide’s last
breath,
And the bodies and accessories of swift and headlong
death.
Bo not bore me with the coffin—do not plague me
with the tomb!
I have stared too long and steadily into the face of
Doom.
You may shudder, if you wish to. You may shiver
at my tales,
And you’re welcome (if you want them) to the sui-
cide’s last wails.
Nothing really interests me but a new and stately
boat; J
But -if you and all your readers want to do a
Sunday gloat,
You are welcome to the gleanings of my high and
watchful years—
To the fragments and the drippings,
To the lonely howls and slippings,
To the dragging jokes and clippings,
And the splashes, froth and tears.
N.S.W.
THE RHYMING UNDERTAKER.


PURE
I
■■ ?
is
b,
m
, 4 vis . ' • - 1 - - '
. H 1 1 ' VSS-N *
.
•Ws':
%
-
wm
V
w
%
..... W
•• -
' ■
• ■ ' ' '
{. '-y
The FAVORITE with
All Good Sportsmen.
US
h


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS'
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans etc
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type.
C. A. PARSONS 8 CO., Newcastle-on-Tync,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P, OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
WILLIAM ADAMS ffl, COMPANY LIMITED
ydney ’ Melbourne. Brisbane. Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Electric Light Department of the
Sydney City Council:—•
Sinking- Deficit
Fund less
Contri- Written Sinking
•>e c ., Loss. bution. Off. Fund.
£4’, 791
1904.. £1,921 £1767 6,715
1006 f 601 2045 £1404 '8,780
( Loan flotation expenses, £787 .. 9,567
Profit.
1906 * 8,648 3349 1400 2,319
I Net profit on Loan flotation, £357 .. 1,962
rLoan flotation and other expenses, £lOl 2,063
I Goodwill Empire Co., £31,000 33,063
1907.. -! Compensation for disturbance, £13.300 19,763
Profit. Sinking Fund. Written Off.
n 19,144 3087 1400 2,019
7Goodwill of Purchases, £79,375 .. 81,394
1908 I Less Loan premiums, £lOOO .. 80,394
I Profit. Sinking Fund. Written Off.
I 17,697 4652 62,697
1909.. 37,371 5211 26,326
Loan expenses, £627 .. .. 25,953
.... „ Reserves.
1910.. 40,47 l 6999 19 518
1911.. 61,441 6999 80*959
1912.. 79,489 9216 160,’448
When this business was started by the council all
the capital put into it was represented by tangible
assets —all, that is, except the small amount that
went in preliminaries. At that time there were four
small private cos. supplying light and current in
various parts of the city. After negotiations, it was
decided to buy them out, a start being made with
the Empire. The city council didn’t want this and
other cos.’ plant. All it wanted was their business.
It therefore agreed to pay a price for the goodwill
and let the cos. do what they liked with their
plants so long as the latter were broken up. These
purchases explain the items “Goodwill Empire Co.,
£31,000,” and “Goodwill of purchases, £79,375.”
the terms varied little from those originally agreed
upon in the Empire case. The council takes the first
Id. per unit supplied to transferred customers, and
hands over the balance of revenue derived from
those customers to the cos. in payment for the busi-
nesses. This shows the progress made lately in
wiping out the debts:—
. 1908. 1911. 1912.
Empire .. .. £17,650 _
Strand .. .. 40,103 £23,162 £13,616
Imperial . . . . 17,074 14,329 11,183
Oxford-st 10,086 5,202 3,013
The council had to pay interest on the unpaid bal-
ance owing to the Strand, Imperial and Oxford-street
cos.; hence the repayment has been slower in those
cases. However, the total liability is now only
£27,812; and as the interest bill gets smaller the
principal is wiped out faster.
The book-value of the goodwill remains, however,
at £74,000. In the table at the top this has not
been reckoned as- an asset; hence the reserves don’t
correspond with those to be found in the published
accounts. This shows how the £160,448 which ap-
pears in the table is arrived at:—
Book value of goodwill .. .. £74,000
Loan flotation and other expenses . . 2,900
Total paper assets .. . . £76 900
Less Sinking: Fund . . . . £46,610
Depreciation Fund . . 108|855
Renewals Reserve . . 29,163
Capital Reserve.. .. 13,300
Loan premiums.. .. 531
P. and L. account . . 38,889
237,348
Reserves (including Depreciation and
Renewals funds) . . .. . £160,448
“Including Depreciation and Renewals funds.” That
suggests that the reserves are not the real thing
throughout in other words, that the department
hasnt tangible assets worth £160,448' more than
the capital. By resolution of the council (4/10/’O9)
3 p.c. p.a. on the capital expenditure is transferred
from profits to the Depreciation fund. This and
perhaps the Renewals reserve are designed to coun-
terbalance current wear and tear; they are the
amount of capital consumed in earning the revenue,
and to that extent are not true profits, and in the
bulk they are not true reserves either. Still, assum-
ing that the plant has not depreciated beyond the
£138,018 at the credit of these two reserves, this is
the position: The enterprise, as the result of nine
years’ work, has paid for the business it bought, wiped
out the preliminary exes., and has £22,430 to the
good. This paper is not, however, prepared to say
that sufficient has been set aside to cover deprecia-
tion. The amount nowadays is better than it used
to .be;_ yet last year’s total was only £36,608,
which is equal to only £3 7s. p.c. of the average
capital sunk in the business during the year ; and it
is very doubtful whether p.c. covers wear and
tear and adequately provides for renewals. It cer-
tainly isn’t nearly as much as the Melbourne city
council, with greater experience, judges it necessary
to set aside.
Still, if no more than £3 :7s. p.c. was actually
put aside, a much larger sum was available You
can get a better look at thiii from the following
figures:—
Working
Ex- Net In-
Revpnue. penses. Revenue, terest. Loss.
1904 .. £4,061 £5.313 £2.436 £3,688
1905 .. 22,176 15,005 7,874 ! 703
, Profit.
1906 .. 40,983 21,567 19,416 10,931 8,4 85'
1907 .. 65,568 31.899 33.969 15.025 18 944
1908 .. 93,600 56.785 36.8151 19,380 17 435
1909 .. 128.980 67,338 61,642 24,575 37 067
1910 . . 166,047 88,497 77,550 27,763 49,787
1911 . . 190,289 95,428 94,861 33,851 61 010
1912 .. 234,324 111,562 122,762 42,324 80,438
From that £80,438 a few pounds must be written
off on various accounts to reduce the amount to the
£79,489 shown in the first table as having been
added to the reserves during last ye&r. That
£79,489 means 1 p.c. sinking fund on the average
capital in the business, 4 p.c. for contingencies, and
£5 17s. p.c. for depreciation. This is good enough.
But it is not much better than it ought to be. For
the last period for which accounts are available, the
Melbourne city enterprise wrote off, including special
appropriations, something over 54 p.c., and then put
a fair amount by for contengencies, in addition to
sinking fund. All this points to one thing: The
council cannot yet afford to divert any of its surplus
revenue to the relief of general rates. It has lately
been proposed that this should be done here as it
has been done in Melbourne. The principle is a bad
one. Whatever may be done later on, the first thing
to do, when anything can be done at all (that is to
say, when debentures, overdrafts and miscellaneous
liabilities have been paid off), is to reduce the cost
of lighting. That’s what the business was started
for, and not to make the consumer pay some of the
property-owner’s general rates for him'
The capital is made up as follows: —
Due on Due on Due to Other
Debentures. Overdrafts. Companies. Creditors.
1907 .. £350,000 £23,005 £23,051 £9,987
1908 .. 475,000 Nil 85,487 17,632
1909 . . 560,000 Nil 80,034 11,712
1910 . . 750,000 Nil 57,530 22,033
1911 . . 750,000 153,922 42,693 27,067
1912 . . 1,000,000 161,077 27,812 49,123
It is pretty clear that the department was in need
of more fixed capital at the end of the year; the
casual overdraft was much too heavy. The council
was, however, only waiting for a better money
market. There is a sinking fund of 1 p.c. attached
to fixed loans. It ought to be payable, not on that
basis, but on the basis of capital expenditure. The
change wouldn’t be great; and the council, being
now in a position to make it in comfort, ought to
do it while the thing is easy. Then one could even
more heartily congratulate the city and the com-
mittee which runs this vigorous enterprise on the
city’s behalf. As it is, the only brick that can be
thrown is so small that it is almost lost among the
bouquets.
The Northern Steamship Co. (Auck-
land (M.L.) : r ,<
Taken
from Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1902 .. £4,397 7 p.c. =£4,875 £478 £39,7.60
Loss.
1903 .. 1,808 7 „ „ 4,875 6683 33,077
Profit. Added.
1904 . . 14,062 7 „ „ 6,905 7157 40,234
1905 . . 7,127 7 „ „ 6,905 222 40,456
Withdrawn.
1906 .. 5,724 7 „ ~ 6,905 1181 39,275
Added.
1907 . . 15,628 7 „ „ 8,681 6947 46,222
Withdrawn.
1908 .. 5,561 7 „ „ 8,681 3120 43,102
1909 .. 3,810 7 „ „ 9,515 5705 37,397
1910 ... 11,213 7 „ „ 11,277 64 37,333
Added.
1911 ~ 17,465 7 „ „ 11,299 6166 43,499
1912 .. 15,852 7 ~ ~ 11,299 4553 48,052
1913 . . 13,559 7 „ „ 11,299 2260 50,312
The reserves are made up as follows:
Insurance acpounts ... .. £41,899
Boiler and repairs account . . 6,806
Unappropriated balance .. .. 1,607
Total .. £50,312
Shipping cos.’ reserves are uncertain cattle. An in-
surance fund is, or should be, an accumulation of
premiums to cover risks still current. If the total
grows faster than the risks to be covered, and if it
continues to grow throughout a long series of years,
it is pretty good proof that the fund is being used
as a stocking to stuff profits into. It is doubtful
whether much is being done in that way in this case.
Ten years ago, with £133,574 in shipping (includ-
ing £17,595 paid on account of a vessel not deliv-
ered), the insurance reserves were £28,833 ; to-day,
with £223,450 in shipping, the insurance reserves
are no more than £41,899. Still, if profit is not
stuffed away there, it may be in the Depreciation
account; and the published figures never disclose how
much revenue goes in that direction. Here are the
items, put into bundles for convenience:—
1903. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital . . £98,415 £161,414 £161,412 £161,412
Liabilities . . 17,313 29,437 • 18,748 45,320
Ships, etc. . . 133,574 204,401 201,168 223,450
Premises, etc. 5,199 5,013 4,923 4,881
Stores, etc. . . 12,870 30,585 27,772 34,364
There is no telling from that whether just enough,
or too much, or too little is written off ships out of
earnings to cover wear and tear ; so we just have to
take the word of the management that the fair pro-
fits are what they are said to be. For, of course, in
a business of _ this kind, the profit is very largely a
matter of estimation: a Board could swell them bv
writing-off too little for wear and tear, and thus
provide too little for replacements, or it could under-
state the case by writing-off too much. Assuming
that .the directors have put by just enough to the
various reserves, this is how the profits look:
1906 ... .. £7,209 I 1910 .. ..£11,252
1907 .. .. 9,057 | 1911 11,696
1908 . . . . 8,787 I 1912 . . . . 11,627
1909 .. .. 9,289 | 1913 .. .. 11,138
And £11,138 is less than the 12 months’ dividend.
There is nothing very cheerful about the record for
I the last year on that showing; The undivided pro-
fits ought to be earning something and swelling the
current profits, and they are evidently not doing
anything of the sort. Certainly the figures are much
better than they were in 1906; but in that year
£25,268 of new capital was got in and approxi-
mately £40,000 more since then, so present profits
ought to be at least £3500 more than they were in
1906, if' only to earn interest on the new money.
Assurance and Thrift Association,
Ltd. (Sydney).—This interesting co. was formed
early in 1910, the promoter being W. R. Dovey, an
actuary who stands high, but leans towards philan-
thropy. There is often legitimate money in philan-
thropy. Dovey’s admirable main idea, apparently,
was to show oeople a new way to become their own
landlords, incidentally providing a decent return for
the people who put _up the money to start with.
House-purchase combined with life insurance is no
new’thing in England ' ntil the last few years
it had not been trir ■ ’lia, though there is,
on the whole, a b • •••,. of success in these
part? wherg.work i fie’ v, , ind. wages are more
tegular. » The peo; y , .. >v, a reliable man
himself, got into t 'w '' ere also reputable;
and that was a goo, the new plan, which
might easily be made .i in other hands. So
i** the business has been cut up into three sections,
and the progress they have made is shown hereunder:
Life and House Purchase Branch.
Expenses
(includ- /dded
Re- ing Divi- to Defi-
venue. Claims, dends). Funds, cit.
Jan., 1910. . - £45
Funds.
Man, 1911.. £1531 £62 17
M?r„ 1912.. f° 4807 729 746
Mar., 1913... fis, £ 5698 3302 4048
i.ANCH.
* . Claims. Expenses. Funds.
Mar., 1911 .. £l5 £l2 £22
„ 1912 .. 52 23 11 40
~ 1913 .. 86 51 20 55
Generai, Branch.
To Total
Revenue. Claims. Expenses. Funds. Funds.
Mar., 1912.. £22L £22 £127 £72 £72
~ 1913 .. 169 60 84 25 97
The house-purchase branch has had almost all the
attention so far, so the figures in the others are very
small.
Briefly, the idea is that a man insures his life for,
say, £6OO, payable at a given age or on death,
whichever arrives first. He may then at once borrow
from the co. up to 75 p.c. of the amount of the policy.
In four or five years he may borrow up to 100 p.c.
of the policy. He pays his insurance premium in the
ordinary way. The rates for this service are low.
A man whose age next birthday is 30 can get a policy
in the Maoriland Life Office (to quote the one State
office in Australasia) payable in 20 years or at
eaflier death for £1 3s. per £lOO per quarter; and
the M.L. State office’s premiums are exceptionally low.
In this Assurance and Thrift Association the pre-
mium is £1 4s. 3d.; so the difference in favor of the
M.L. State office is small. At any rate, it shows
that the co. is not rooking- its policy-holders after it
has attracted them by its offer of a loan. The in-
surer when he gets his loan pays oj p.c. on the ad-
vance. The loan cannot be called in, and no charges
are made for fixing up the mortgage. The loan can
be paid off at any time, whereupon, of course, only
the policy premiums need be continued; or, if the
borrower chooses, the loan can run on till the ex-
piry of the policy (bv death or otherwise), where-
upon the co. pays istelf out of the insurance
money and the widow gets the deeds. The busi-
ness has its unquestionable advantages. No doubt,
on the one hand, there are times when a man can
borrow money to help provide himself with a home
for less than 5i p.c.; but he wants a bit to start
with. And, anyhow, 5| p.c. for a loan which may
be paid off at any. time, or may run for
15 or 20 years, and can’t be called in by the
mortgagee, isn’t out of the Way. A State Bank, work-
ing on the lines of. the one in S. Aus., can doubtless
do better, under certain circumstances. The trouble
is that, unless the borrower from the State Bank
also takes out a policy with another office, his widow
is liable to be in trouble should death happen along
in a year or two. Also, his repayments to the
bank and his premiums to the insurance office are
liable to be burdensome.
The shareholders have so far put up £17,674 and
are liable for another £35,349. Part of this capital
has been issued at a premium; so, in addition to
the funds shown above, there is a reserve of £1257.
So far a dividend of 4 p.c. has been paid on the
capital. For the past year the total amount pay-
able has had to be estimated in the first table
above. Policy-holders are entitled to from 80 to 95
p.c. of the profits: shareholders take the balance.
They guarantee-something and are entitled to some-
thing. The side lines, which include ordinary insur-
ance, provide also for “thrift” or sickness insur-
ance ; but not enough has been done yet in that way
to base an opinion upon. The funds of the co. are
practically all out in advances. These are secured
by mortgage, and to some extent the co. is protected
against loss through depreciation by the payments
made on the policies. Certain guaranteed surrender
values are set out in the co.’s circulars; it should
be noted, however, that they do not apply to house-
purchase policies. The co. would have every chance
of falling up to its eyes in the soup if they did.
The Haymarket Permanent Land,
Building and Investment Co. (Sydney) :
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. 3p.c. = £2201 £143£41,065
1901.. 2369 3 , , 2271 98 41 163
1902.. 2922 3 „ „ 2308 614 41,777
1903.. 2590 3 „,, 2477 113 41 890
lon-" 2°?* 3 ”» 2584 ~ 460 12,350
?oo7" »” 3061 ~ 288 43*060
1907.. 3872 4 ~ ~ 3534 £lO,OOO —t- 33 398
| »08.. 4856 4 „„ 3587 1,000 269 33 667
1 o?n" ilil fi ”” 3599 543.34,216
ini?" -nSf f- ”” 4958 2445 36,655
4944 - '° 7l 5 „ „ 5417 17,836 20,473
191.-. . 7839 7 ~ ~ 6340 1499 9i 979
May, ' ’
1913.. 3751 7 ~ ~ 3174 577 22,549
As usual, very little is to be made out of these ac-
counts, because of the old doubt as to the real value
of the estates in hand. Certainly the co. has sold
a good deal of property during the past few vears •
but it is still pretty heavily loaded up. Apart from
city properties, “cost of sundry estates and improve-
ments stands at £84,530. This includes the rem-
nant of the Furracabad estate, near Glen Innes—a
property acquired at a very stiff price, and for manv
years a millstone round the co.’s neck, preventing it
turning over its money in the suburban subdivision
and thu ? n ; akl "ff th e fat profits which have
come the way of (sav) the Intercolonial Land and
Divestment Co. The position, as shown by balance-
sheet items, has changed as follows:
Liabilities.
Nov., Nov., Nov., Mav,
p, ~ , 1900. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital .. . . £75,176 £90,428 £90,696 £90,708
Deposits . . . . 50,689 55,596 53,768 48,055
'■ 3 ’ 097 15 ’ 009 10,330 16,362
Othei debts . . 42,462 52,766 59,848 57,436
Assets.
Advances, etc. . . 42..003 96,126 120,845 118 600
City properties .. 57,803 34,359 34,162 34 004
Other properties 106,314 105,270 83,363 84 530
p ash •• 7,209 978 1,197 930
The market still declines to take the book value of
properties seriously,. and the shares paid to 40s. are
quoted at 30s. and thereabouts. It is a case where
theye should have been a revaluation long ago.
*-* * *
Wentworth Hotel, Ltd. (Sydnev), was
formed in April, 1912, to purchase the freehold of a
well-known city hotel, extend the premises and carrv
°xVba buslnes . s ; , F °r goodwill (including license)
£8(50 was paid to the vendor, and £lOBl went in
preliminary exes, payable by the co. The co. thus
started with £9831 of its capital unrepresented bv
tangible assets. The first year ends as follows:
... „ In Reduction
1019 ’ 1 roflts - Dividends, of Deficit. Deficit.
191-. . . i. QQo 1
1913 .. £3464 Nil £3464 6367
There are 35,000 fully-paid £1 shares in the co.
this £35,000 went as follows: To the vendor for
furniture, plant and goodwill, £16,250 ( £lO 000
m shares and £6250 in cash); available for ’ the
purchase of the freehold and for building £lB 750
The purchase price of the hotel was £20,000 and
it was, according to the prospectus, intended to
spend another £3OOO on building and £2500 on
equipment As a matter of fact, no less than
£12,206 had been spent on buildings to April 30,
1913, £1433 on neighboring land and improvements'
and, though this amount is not included in the pre-
sent accounts, “about £2500” has been put into
improvements on vacant adjacent land which appears
to be held only on a lease for five years with
option of purchase for £10,000; and £4182 has
been spent on equipment. Approximately, there-
fore, the outlay has been four times the amount
mentioned in the prospectus, though, of course extra
accommodation has been provided for the money
The immediate- result is- that, before paying the
last “about £25.00” mentioned above, liabilities to
the extent of, had been incurred, the bulk
of ; itx secured :by mortgage ; and a heavy outlay has
been also 'made jmi a short-term lease, so that the
■ co. must either write off the amount at the rate
of about £5OO a year out of profits or make up its
mind to buy the property for £lO,OOO, which will
bring its debts up to over £30,000. The proposi-
tion thus differs considerably from what was put
forward in the prospectus. Further, the valuators
(Richardson and Wrench, Limited) estimated “the
present market value of the property used as an hotel
at £20,000.” This sounds as though the owner
charged something for goodwill too. The net pro-
fits for 1911 were stated at £3345. That term of
course, was without the benefit of the hotel addi-
tions. With the small additions foreshadowed it
was reckoned that profits would be doubled. Things
were, no doubt, considerably disturbed during that
portion of the past year when the additions were in
progress, and it may be unfair to judge the pros-
pects on the year’s performances; nevertheless, con-
sidering that the much-increased accommodation has
been available for some months, the profit for the
year is disappointing. In view of the heavy lia-
bility, and especially in view of the large amount of
capital represented by paper assets, the proper thing
has been done in paying no dividend. It is now
proposed to issue some more shares (there are
15.000 in reserve) ; and though this is unobjection-
able, a new issue should not be allowed to smother
the necessity for rapidly writing-off the paper items
out of profits.
Re Melb. Motor ’Bus Co. (B. 19/6/’l3).
The eo. disclaims any connection with the Standard
or Vacuum Oil people. One of the directors is
manager of the automobile department of the Vac.
Oil Co., but The Bulletin is assured that his inter- '
ests in the spec, are purely personal, and the offices
of the two concerns are not related.
Last touch of drought shows up in
the N.S.W. Statistician’s live-stock returns just pub- ‘
lished. Here are the figures as to sheep:-—-
1911. 1912. .
Over 1 year .. .. 35,321,926 33,578,807
Under 1 year .. 9,625,361 5,857,311
Total .. .. 44,947,287 39,436,118
This means, under ordinary circumstances, a shrink-
age of close on to £ 2,000,000 in the next wool clip.
An occasional reference appears in Broken
Hill reports nowadays to “de-leading” ; and the
term “selective flotation” also drops in now and
then. They refer to things that promise to add
another few millions to the marketable wealth of
the Barrier.
The Broken Hill sulphides were not touched until
the companies were driven to it. It was the neces-
sities of the South that led to the first mill, and
T. J. Green way deserves most of the credit for get-
ting it put in. The idea was merely to take out some
of the lead and silver. They thought they would be
doing pretty well if they could extract 65 p.c. of the
lead and 55 p.c. of the silver. The rest would be
passed on to the tailings and slimes dumps, along
with the zinc (spelter). The results were so good
that every mine was soon working mechanical separ-
ators. As these mills worked, enormous dumps of
tailings, rich in zinc and fairly rich also in unre-
covered lead and silver, grew up along the line of
lode. The next great step was the extraction of some
of the zinc from these dumps. Experiments pro-
ceeded for many years, the Germans leading
the way. The most popular idea was that magnets
would do the trick; but very little success was
achieved in that direction. Then Potter and others
began to use a frothing process. The zinc-bearing
tailings, reduced to a pulp, are fed into an agitated
mixture of water, acid and emulsive oil. The zinc
particles, along with some silver and lead, are borne
to the surface as a scum, and are carried off and
saved as a concentrate. The action of the acid and
oil is of course responsible for bringing the metal
to the surface. What is left is sand, which is
generally used for underground filling. The zinc
concentrates, as mentioned just now, contain some
silver and lead, and those metals do not improve a
zinc ore. Consequently they are either not paid for
at all, or very little is paid for them. De-leading is
the process of extracting some of the lead and silver
from the zinc concentrates, with the obiect of mak-
ing a second lot of silver-lead concentrates and at
the same time purifying the zinc concentrate.
in the first process, in what is called the silver-
lead mill, the ore is divided into two, three or four
products, according to the fancy of the manager.
The Sulphide Corporation, generally speaking, separ-
ates into concentrates and tailings only ; it sends its
slimes in with the tailings, and pretends that it has
no slimes. The South separates differently. This
table shows the classification in that co.’s last half-
year :
Proportion Proportion of total metal.
of total ——^
T , ore. Lead. Silver. Zinc.
Lead concen-
trates .. 15.1 p.c. 76.0 p.c. 53.8 p.c. 6.8 p.c
Zinc tail- v
ings . . 71.3 „ 15.7 „ 34.9 „ 82 2
Quartz tail-
ings . . 3.S „ .6 „ 1.3 „ 2 1
Slimes . . 9.8 „ 7.7 „ 10.0 „ 8.’9 ’’
IM-Op.c. 100.0 p.c. 100.0 p.c. 100.0 p.c.
The silver-lead concentrates go to the silver-lead
smelters, which don’t pay for the 6.8 p.c. zinc • in
fact, the smelters actually penalise the stuff if there is
more, usually, than 8 p.c. zinc in it. The zinc tailings
go to the flotation (frothing) plant. The quartz
tailings go underground. The slimes, the bugbear of
the metallurgist, have, in the case of the South
Qlo n oon 01 'f d UP/ 0 -; treatment. The South has about
o«5Z,000 tons of this material on hand, worth 11 4
p.c. lead, 5.80 z. silver, and 14.2 p.c. zinc. The
metallic value of this stuff may be judged from the
tact that the South s crude ore averages only 14 p.c.
lead, 6.50 z. silver and 13.7 p.c. zinc. And the
slimes are on the surface, all ready for treatment.
The South sells its zinc tailings, so the product in
that case cannot bo followed any further. Its neigh-
bor, the Sulphide Corporation, treats its own “zincs ”
tn that co. s last year, 184,460 tons of the zinc-
bearmg stuff was put through the flotation plant,
with this result:—
Metal Contents.
Pro- ~
portion. Lead. Silver. Zinc,
y- „ , , P- C - P-C. OZ. p.c.’
Zinc concentrates .. 40.8 10.8 17.2 43 9
Residues .. .. 592 i.g 1.4 3.4
The residues were done with: they are dumped below
and used as stope-filling. The zinc concentrates now
go through the de-leading process before-mentioned,
it the zinc concentrates were sold without that latest
treatment the co. would only be paid approximately
tor 00 p.c. of zinc, U p.c. of lead and 6oz. silver.
VVhen a co. says that it saves 90 p.c. of the lead,
80 p.c. of the silver and 90 p.c. of the zinc in
the original ore, it has thus told only half the storv.
What really matters is not what it saves, but what it
is paid for. The selective process” aims at putting
the minerals into products where they will be paid
for. So far as the Sulphide Corporation is con-
the t d f' le a dln g operation, which was practi-
cally the start of the selective process, got out last
year 13i,2510z. silver and 1732 tons of lead and
no zinc worth mentioning was lost in the process.
On the contrary, what was left after the lead and
silver were separated was a more valuable zinc
material. Still it wasn’t the best zinc material, and
heavy losses were still involved, since the stuff con-
tamed over 16oz. silver and 8* p.c. lead. That lead
Is not paid tor (or the amount is not w-orth men-
paicUfor ’ Whlle ° nly ab ° ut 5 - oz ' silver would be
. Horivoqd and Bradford, at the B. H. Prop. ; Lister,
at the Zinc Corporation’s works; and Owen, at the
Junction North, have so far done most in carrving
L e a C r\ Pr ? S l onwards As mentioned above,
slimes are the bugbear—or have been. It was in
NoHfiTuLi owen ’? experiments that the Junction
North a while ago startled a good many people bv
At y t n >fe P wf UP f to that time n nhea r d °f for slimes,
a erat bin ° f i m °/ of the experiments lies the
on and Li* lp ~: the . material mixed with water,
° - and acid The beginfiings seem to have been
'i P T?w di u S in water fed in air also,
and it was found that the flotation of the various
metals was assisted in varying degrees. The experi-
al°n * those i-nes, and P< the
results are remarkably good. This mav mean
something more than the extraction of metal from
the slimes in the quantities hitherto made. If, as
seems probable, slimes can be treated almost as
chea p ly as tailings, then much more slimes will be
produced in order to obtain a more complete extrac-
/.°n. Very fine crushing has not been practised
hitherto, in order to avoid making slimes, and the
H sl?mes al cea? a ? tio L n haS sllfferod in consequence
if slimes cease to have any terrors, finer crushing
will be adopted, and the separation thus improved
It is too early yet to put into money the changes
talk oflos fton f el « Pe « T- here are People who
talk of 30s. a ton for South slimes—332,ooo tons as
mentioned before, and hitherto not valued at anv-
-I Sm * an outrageous proposition. At present
prices the silver alone in the South slimes is P worth


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is ,
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CAN ADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS ana
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:—U K., 3/-
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-
Canada and U.S.A.,
FIJI, Bd. per word.
lIVJIII */•» y ■ J —/
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In. Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing .
Public for all INTERNATIONAL
with special wire to Cable Teinun - • niav be
At this office all Standard Code-_ nwea ith,
consulted. At-all < other p!“f., ar e accepted
messages marked "A PACiriu Zealand cable-
at Post and Telegraph oth . ■» accepted
grams. 4jd. per word, VIA PAI/iriu,
at all Telegraph Offices. „„hlets and all
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pampbl ,
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY .
Imperial Buildings, Queensland.
Melbourne; or Southport,
VO li
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and A&eivcy Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
acts as
The Company
executor,
ADMINISTRATOR
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
■ . l-'«ceed £25,000,000.
Estates Administered bxceed £
PUaee call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS BORBOWMAK, General Manager.
A. GANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round)
for means of transport of the raw material,
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various,
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which)
they have supplied, and which show the solution of:
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained tot
consult and advise.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the-
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. fe-
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydnev Water and Sewerage Board fo-r elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect*
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed*
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,.
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more-
safely manipulated at varying temperatures tham
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close-
grain are,, needed. Whatever the specification, Iron*
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really-
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnlev-
lron Comp., Ltd. Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer W unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. Bv
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial 1
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed'
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish)
particulars.* [4
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22. 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) ini
a year whicn was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which-
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence-
extends.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the most economical!
pressure pipe to lay down, as no caulking of the
joints is required, the pipes being simply driven-
together. It can be fitted to any connections, and!
may be tapped under pressure by unskilled labor.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street,
Sydney.*
Haes and Eggers, Ltd., of 163 Clarence Street, are-
the Australian representatives of M. B. Wild and Co.,
specialists in the manufacture of hauling and winding-
machinery of every description. See p. 3.*
To perfect the Petrol Engine is not the work of ai
day. Hornsby’s have been many years experimenting;
and investigating with their Petrol Engine, with the
result that to-day they can offer the world an engine
which for strength, reliability, simplicity and ease-
of management is unequalled. In addition, their engine-
is more economical in consumption, steadier in run-
ning, and has a larger wearing service, thus adding-
greatly to its durability. R, Hornsby & Sons..
Limited. Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.* [1
* ft * *
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote-
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and!
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council Of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.* » * *
J W STYLES & SON, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J. W. Styles,
24 years expert salesman.)*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* # . [2
Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary, Limited, of
Footscray, Victoria, have secured the contract for
the supply of steel pipes required in connection with
the duplication of the Bombay Water Supply. The
contract amounts to over £226,000, and the pipes
to be used are of the locking bar type, of which Mr.
Mephan Ferguson is the inventor and patentee.
Engineers will be interested to note that this Aus-
tralian invention has been adopted in preference to
other classes of piping, after critical and searching
enquiries as to the merits of the various types of
water pipes made in the world It is worthy of
note that all machinery required to carry out this,
work has been designed and manufactured at the
firm’s Footscrav Engineering Works, and will be-
shipped to Bombay, where the pipes will be manu-
factured.* , * *
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received!
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In
ventors’ Guide.* #
Assayers, Mine Managers and p ®°spectors write
to H B Silbf.rberc, and Co., Ltd., 8 O Connell Street,
Sydney,' and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun s
™sc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors balances to 1/IOOU
o-rain ; weight ; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles : chemicals ; etc.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
, 130 the lead £2, and the zinc over £2 10s.,
a tntal of £5 3s - P er ton > and a profit of 30s. would
Umv for big exes, and large losses. The metal-
, an d engineers of Broken Hill are certainly
hot on the trail after that £5 35., or some of it.
Manager Moline, who has made such a
„ ess of Y Waterholes (N.S.W.) for his Melbourne
n goes to Victoria in charge of the Cock’s Pioneer
nrnDOsition, retaining the job of general .manager of
Hie New England property : and Warlow Davies goes up
fhere as manager. Davies, a Sydney Uni. Engineer-
ing graduate, with eight or 10 years’ experience at
Broken Hill, has latterly been doing fine work for
thp De Bavay Co., and if the mine holds as much
nmmise as the man, things will go on being all right
for the Y Waterholes Co.
\t the Eleanora, Hillgrove (N.S.W.),
development work has been suspended to allow of
'. airs to the main shaft. New cyanide works are
m be put up, and the'whole equipment is to be im-
proved at considerable expense Apparently those in
rommand are satisfied with the prospects in No. 8
level and in the winze connecting No. 7 with No. 8.
v 0 9 has also been developed sufficiently to give
some idea of its value. There are several quartz
veins distributed through a wide ore channel, but
trial crushings have been too small to rely on fully.
Principal Westralian results for May :
Value
Revenue. Profit. per
Tonnage. V. £ ton.
Great Boulder .. 18,590 18.090 23,794 51/9
Ivanhoe . • •• 20,538 38.404 14,014 37/5
Kalgurli •• •• 10,985 22,040 9,252 40/2
Associated . • 11,250 14,189 2,043 25/3
Yijanmi • • • • 10,500 17,770 2,030 33/10
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,410 20,729 4,832 30/10
Golden Horseshoe . . 27.125 38,497 5,644 28/4
hake View and Star 18,722 21,440 3,600 22/10
South Kalgurli .. 9,604 10,212 377 21/3
Associated Northern 1,429 4,356 986 61/-
Associated Victorious 7,700 9,477 2,772 24/7
Great Eingall .. ■ 5,927 11,741 1,586 39/8
Oueen of the Hills 3,397 5,769 1,602 34/-
Bullfinch Prop. .. 4,542 13,020 8,472 60/-
Golden Ridge .. 3,025 4,604 1,105 30/5
Mountain Queen .. 3,502 5,054 1.167 28/10
Oroya Links .. 11,890 11,579 677 19/6
Sand Queen .. 1,400 5,300 2,443 75/9
Mararoa . . ■ • 2,730 4,875 35/9
Corinthian North .. 4,209 2,681* 13/-
Menzies Consolidated 2,058 3,770 <O2 36/8
Kyarra .. , • 976 2,321 168 f 47/7
Fenian . . • • 2,954 8,740 59/-
Ingliston Consols 1,849 4,037 43/8
Hannans Reward .. 2,712 1,740 - 12/10
Marvel Loch • • 1,312 1,675 83 25/6
Loss.
Boulder Perseverance 20,775 20,191 658 19/5
Burbanks Main Lode 2,015 4,060 6641 40/3
m a h .. •• 1,305 2,475 195 37/11
Lady Miller .. 1,607 1,858 206 23/1
Commodore • • 900 933 210 20/9
♦Tailings estimated to contain £4470. fExpendi
diture includes £920 development and new plant.
and development absorbed £l7BO.
Like The Bulletin, the Financial
Times (London) can’t see how the current quotation
tor Golden Horseshoes (W.A.) can be justified. Last
year, as it points out, was the worst year on record,
leaving out of account the first two, when
operations were conducted on a small scale. But
it is apparently desired to prop the market up, and
everything possible was done at the meeting to do
that Shareholders were assured that the last of the
co.’s lean years had ended, and were promised a
as. dividend within the next month or two- The
Board felt too optimistic to say what would happen
after that ; but the hint was dropped that no less
satisfactory distributions would follow in due course.
By the end of this month the manager hopes to get
the cages down to the 2630 ft. level, and results are
then to be “manifested in improved outputs, this
is cheering ; hut what has to be remembered all the
time is that, with shares standing at even oos., at
least £120,000 would in the case of an old mine
like the Golden Horseshoe be required to give a lair
return on the investment, and the mine isn t capa-
ble of doing this, or anything like it. Yet there
were buyers lately at over 60s.
Ivanhoe (W.A.) has got its main shaft
down to 2805 ft., and has a crosscut about halt-way
to the main lode at 2720 ft. Some payable stone is
being broken in a winze coming down from the level
above at 2570 ft., but as regards values the mine is
still but a shadow of its former self, or, rather,
what it was like above 1669 ft. Dr. wh
is at present making a geological survey otthe Great
Fingall, and who proceeds from there to the bons oi
Gwalia, is hooked to have another look at the ivan-
hoe before leaving the West. When he last ,sa\v i ,
the graphite was just beginning to be a circumstance
at the 2570 ft. level, and he gave the management a
pretty accurate forecast of the disaster that
about to happen. Since then —as first made .publi
in the back numbers of this paper—the graphite has
impoverished and broken the lode badly, hut ±
laren has great hopes of the intrusion passing away
in deeper ground and values making again.
From Meekatharra (W.A.) A mc e
patch of rich ore has been struck in the lyyarr ....
Preparations are being made for the erection ot the
£lO.OOO worth of new plant ordered by the reman.
... .Ingliston Consols has completed the additions to
its mill, and 15 head are now in operation. Ex-
pected that 2000 tons a month will be treated frotr
this 0ut.... Commodore has its shaft down to •,
and is getting ready to open out at this aep •• • •
Queen of the Hills is looking well and doing
Luptons (W.A.) let the more or less
injured public know that it was still alive by
a meeting on June 12 at Meekatharra A motion
was carried leaving the disposal ot forfeit
and future working to the discretion of the ,
and an early resumption of work was pi •
Hisappointment, however, has dogged the co., .
likely to again worry it before long.
Associated (W.A.) is meeting sh 3 -?®
holders in London on July 24, when a general re
view of the present gloomy position will p g
bv the chairman. Without the leavings
higher levels to fall back on, the c? would bem
a hole; and as this standby is getting PP> .
less every month, more distress signal. - - R
looked for by-and-bye. Meantime, the
trying to keep up appearances by declaring a 6d.
dividend payable the day after the meeting.
Yuanmi’s development at the No. 5 level,
where a few feet of fairly good stuff have been
exposed, ,is considered by the local paper and
other admirers to confirm the optimistic opinion
expressed at the recent annual meeting regarding
its future. But the mine is very patchy and liable
to go wrong at any time. It • was floated by Oroya
Exploration in April, 1911, and absorbed the Oroya-
Black Range in October of the same year. Since
then, the amalgamated venture has paid £35,000
in dividends.
When a fifty-pound note would have got
the Cathcart Central, Ararat (Vic.), the old Cath-
cart crowd laughed at it. One or two of their big
guns mapped an uphill course for the Cathcart
gutter, and so left the Central, according to their
idea, stranded somewhere about the South Pole.
Boring next showed that the channel of the gutter
was away south, and folk woke up to the fact that the
Central might have a chance. This led to the wheeze
that the gutter wobbled in and out over the border
of the Central lease into the Cathcart ground. Now
1600 ft. of driving and crosscutting throws this yarn
on to the mullock heap ; and this clears the field for
J. L. Reilly and James McCrorey. Of course, others
want the glory, but the hard pulling was done by
these two while they were being flogged back. The
record of the Cathcart Central to date, out of the
gutter which wasn’t in its claim, is 2126 fathoms
for 57900 z., or 2oz. 16dwt. per fathom. Most of this
gold has been got out of the wash drives. This
shows once more the fine yielder the Cathcart gutter
has been. Down to the Cathcart No. 2 shaft the dirt
went well over the ounce. Then came the poor
patch which wound up the 8., M. and Co. interest
in the field. Below that was a long stretch of wash
that puddled out over 2oz. per fathom. Now arises
the Central, below the poor patch off the Cathcart
No. 3 shaft, with practically 3oz. dirt. Surely this
is a good omen for the lower reaches of the Langi
gutter ! Cathcart Central hasn’t got all its puddlers
up, and so hasn’t, all its parties operating in wash.
When this happens, the facts wanted will be (1)
the width of the payable wash, (2) the average for
bulk work, (3) the actual cost per fathom. Taking
the length of the gutter proved to date as 1500 ft.
and the width of payable wash as 200 ft., there are
some 8500 square fathoms available. At 2soz , this
means, roughly, 21,5000 z. Costs on the Cathcart
gutter haven’t been light so far, and there isn’t any
certainty that Roberts, at the Central, can mine
more cheaply than Bill Brvant at the Cathcart.
If costs take 15dwt. per fathom, then 64000 z. have
to come off, leaving, roughly, 15,0000 z. for divs.
This gives £60,000 to cut up among 50.000 shares,
or 245. in sight, in ground proved. What exists in
the rest of the claim won’t be known till the pud-
dler gets the mud away from the gold, nor can
anyone say where the lead passes into the New
Langi till the boring is done on the boundary. The
doubt that exists over that point will give vitality
to the gamble that is being nurtured on the pro-
bable” yields from the lower reaches of the gutter.
*, * * *
South New Moon, Bendigo, has 397yds.
along the Moon line of reef, and to date reports
£l5 8s 6d in dividends out of that formation.
Figures like that put the show among the “toffs” of
the line; but, of course, like the bulk of the Ben-
digo mines, the co. isn’t burdened with over-capital-
isation. The co. does a lot for itself and grabs a
bit from tributors. These break about half-ounce dirt
as against the 7*dwt. stuff the co. sends on its own
to the stampers. For the past half-year £ll,OOO
came from the co.’s own work and £1546 from trib-
utors’ efforts. Costs at 235. Bd. are up, but that
arises from the work being done on the Panov s
Gullv line. From its main shaft it is mining
between the 440 ft. and 1220 ft. levels: but there is
not much gilt in the anywhere. *
The crowd that wanted Mines Minister
Rillson to give a State grant to th e New Caledonia,
Warrandvte (Vic.), hasn’t too much fat to melt.
“No ” had been said once before, not improperly,
because the Caledonia then had its chance, and a
live one at that. But it cut up divs too freely, so
that when the poor zone was reached, there was
trouble The present phoenix is the New Caledonia.
Instead of nutting up good stuff hailing
wants the State to provide cash to do the hustling
with. Money is said to be necessary to enable a
new shoot of stone to be opened up off the old
working' but if a few calls can do it the New
Caledonia ought to cease hanging round the Treasury
steps n Bill«on. for the present, doesn’t intend that
State aid shall be forthcoming unless the Caledonia
can’t null through without it: and then Geology
Herman will be called in to advise. #
The first clean-no of the reconstructed
T 1 rn, t 'li —1175 tons for 5000 z., or there-
abouts—bettered of George Dicken-
son the kind, emphatic Melbourne citizen who raised
the’ necessary oof for restoring the abandoned pro-
perty to lifp y The mine manager promises a lot more
Sold from the old depths where last week’s crushing
* old In Dickenson lust now has the laugh of
+ °u m VoT’Fxchange men. 1 Thev told him he was
TvSfsZs* miasa
who*?. .supposed to knowrthe
« l!p 'collected a fTw thmwands from people who
VS£SSr$&
“If HS ” • There is hone for the Melb.
T , . „wi SOTne of its conser-
Stock Exchange. recognising “time sales,”
vatism by permitting a , “forward busi-
er, as the aged committee phrases rea „ ired
ness.” On the plea f rom London, Maoriland
fOF , th :„ del iT3Lt ’ centos bargain mav he made
and other distant centre , weeks, during
in the call serin is speeding in
which period th f. la ,n mv thical clients in non-
his Maiestv s mails fr °™ ™. rse B if this is
existent and faraway P •• ■ been reallv passed
flam, because the new riles« forward de-
ti facilitate, gambling >rb a nge in Sydney and
liverv.” as it is known ■ ~ a j e -business will
Adelaide. But leeahsing th me of transactions
not materially increase trie . ate lnorp free ly an d
or attract .the public - . bh er within the gates,
largely. «. onl Z, n^re Sing «me than the yidicu-
and gives him nno sva tem of scrip peculiar to
ions three-davs -delivery gtock Ex .
Melbourne and unknpw * in " three days is an
change. Delivery of scrip d Rallara t m
ancient custom enforcedl •« W^ lltpr , like the
the earlv davs when the snar to-dav
Kr in the 1" »' *? ,h '
and gone meet in conference
Austrahan Stock then two reforms tha
at Melbourne m dipcusse d—the recognition of
reallv do matter will b thpm rebat e oommis-
K r STtSr p~c«.
tion and readjustment of rates _of brokerage. On
every bourse and exchange outride the Common-
wealth the “runner,” or “tout,” or “half-book man”
who creates orders for the broker to execute is
encouraged and well paid. The commission busi-
ness done on the Melbourne Exchange, instead of
increasing along with the growth of the State, has
diminished ever since the payment of commission
to agents was forbidden. The resurrection of the
agent and the reduction of brokerage will increase
the turn-over of stocks, just as penny postage multi-
plied the number of letters.
Mungana (Q.l, reconstructed a year ago,
has since then done just about as poorly as usual.
Including £ 2144 for depreciation, the loss for the
year was £8917; and there was another £5599 which
was charged against capital. This money was spent
on so-called development. No doubt the co. would
have done better but for the still persistent fire in
the Lady Jane; but, then, every mine would do
better if it weren’t for something or other. As it
was, all production was forced on to the Girofla, and
that low-grade proposition barely paid exes. Still it
provided a few thousand tons of ore for the Chillagoe
furnaces; and, after all, that is mainly what Mun-
gana is for. By this time, the shareholders must
have lost all hope of ever fingering a dividend. If
it comes to that, Chillagoe shareholders can’t feel
very bright either.
Anakie (Q.) was credited last year with
producing £40,000 worth of sapphires; but to the
official statement was added a note that the output
was probably more. What the stuff was worth as
gem-stones nobody knows. The public will pay per-
haps 10 times £40,000 or more for it. The stones
are mostly sold on the field in parcels which fetch
from 4s. to 70s. an ounce. Occasionally there are
stones which the miner offers separately (there are
at present 17 buyers who either live on the field or
make visits to it), and special prices are sometimes
got for these special stones. It is said, however, that
the highest money got on the field has been £7O.
The buyer is supposed to take a risk with such
stones. He doesn’t know how they will cut. But
long experience mostly tells him the probabilities.
Now and again, knowing the tremendous margin
between what he gets and what the public pays, the
gem-miner has broken out into rebellion. Once he
persuaded the Government to arrange with Hirsch and
Son, the big German metal people, to undertake the
marketing; but though the firm is alleged to have
made nothing out of the business, the prices didn t
improve to any ereat extent, and so much mud was
thrown at the Hirsehes that they pulled out. Now
and again a parcel is sent direct to Germany, which
controls the business; and one or two sellers have
tried Paris. But things were much the same, and
the miner has almost left off expecting big prices.
He gets bread-and-butter. Somebody else —he
doesn’t know who —takes the cake.
The workings are from the surface to 30ft. deep,
and the wash, which often has to be blasted out, varies
greatly in value. In a few claims it goes as much
as 30oz. pretty regularly. With anything like fair
stones there is big money in this —big money if the
stuff averages only £1 ner oz., and it probably aver-
ages well over 30s. There is not much labor at-
tached to the business: the dirt has to be broken
down and washed, that is all. There are also by-
products, such as corundum, but the corundum
market is another mystery. You can buy corundum
in America bv the ton at a few cents per lb. ; on
the other hand, there are German buyers for Anakie
corundum up to 7s. or Bs. per oz. What the high-
priced stuff is used for nobody seems to know,
though J. P. Mitchell and others largely interested
in the field have gone to a good deal of trouble to
find out.
Audley Smith has given the -smelter at the
Mammoth (N.Q.) a run, and in a month produced 143
tons copper, containing 2170 z. gold and 65250 z.
silver, from 1668 tons of ore. A mine that can do
things of that sort isn’t to be picked up every day.
Of course it doesn’t prove the size of the mine; but
surface prospects are excellent, and the short smelting
campaign will at least give the co. the means to
push on with development. The last report from the
mine said that already there were sufficient working
faces to provide an output of 80 tons of 11 p.c. basic
sulphides* a day, so the furnace shouldn’t be long
idle. Audley Smith comes south to arrange, among
other things, for further plant; and Alex. MacDonald,
the managing director, whose baby this Mammoth
is, leaves for Glasgow this week to tell his share-
holders about the much-improved outlook.
Mount Morgan (Q.) is likely to issue a
tiptop annual report, as the Robinson-Baillieu syn-
dicate doubtless knew when it made such a big
purchase of shares. The public in Europe w there-
upon expected to buy at suitable prices. Already
London papers are giving it out that Mount Morgan
is good for 1000 tons copper and 12,0000 z. gold per
month. So it is for a time, for there are practi-
cally 1,500,000 tons of copper ore valued at 34 p.c.
copper and Bdwt. gold. But there are over 2,000,000
toM that assay only 2*dwt. gold with lower cooper
values. As large quantities of this grade will have
to be treated, there is no prospect of sustaining an
average of from 12oz. to 13oz. of gold per ton of
copper through the life of the mine.
* *
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, cleaned
up 338 tons for £1423, following 321 tons for
Q9i Obviously, values are irregular, and the
boom time idla that the reef would average £7 per
ton has gone by the board. The aggregate return
% £ h f ls. ee sd 29 per SS
Brilliant blocks’
fTel arid 1 a ah*to pass
Prospecting from the hanging-wall crosscut at No.
r °i P ™ill also come more closely in touch with the
han e iin W g-wan So re C e 0 f which is known to carry faxr
values below No. 3 level. # *
(Tns ) may gain more, compara-
Zeehan f ia ,;L selective flotation process
tively speaking, fro ® arte r Horwood’s process
entitled. » *
vi * ius Kelly left Melbourne this week
Aloysius ivei j avndicate upon his head for
with the blessings of a syndicate p Terri .
the purpose of K “jj who has long
tory, *2 m "wild enthustsms,’ smiles at the cock-
outlived his wild en t , viillites but reckons
sureness of bigoted G t the best that have
th Go C od n se e condarv eTrichments at 107 ft. are the
been Good seconu . dgo far Emissary Kelly
most that have be en p dQ tfae tegt thoroughly,
sets out with the £5OOO or thereabouts,
ii SA3S
srs alias's
,-p. . fi) Depends to some extent on
lnhere are five, £l6O a year
divided among them. (2) The division is a matter
for the directors themselves. The managing-director
is usually paid a salary. (3) £4OO should cover it.
Badlaidean: No; as far as we can see, youir
only danger is that the society might foreclose ii
you couldn’t pay up.


FOUND IT MOST EFFECTIVE.
,‘‘ Whe " ™ y . s ° n Willie w as ill with croup and bron-
chitis, I tried several medicines without effect ”
writes Mrs W Joyner, corner Beattie and Elliott
Streets, Balmain (N.S.W.). “Seeing an advertise
ment on Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, I decided to
ir.v it, and the effect was really splendid. I have
also found it most effective for the other members
of my family.*
Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck;
JRBIMS
CHAMPIONS
'-Mfsfleidsieae
Heims
FARMER'S
CASH BONUS SALE
RENOWNED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Saves Every Cash Buyer
10 per cent., 2/- in the £.
Winter Goods Sweepingly
Reduced.
SALE CATALOGUE SENT
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
BUCHANAN’S
Black (El White.
rr
a grand spirit
“,B.ack & WhUe ” is ‘"deed a “grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 30, 1913.
My Dear Abini, —
Hose Scott dropped a tear on the political
grave of the veteran William Lyne. In a
letter to the Telegraph, our kindly Rose re-
minded a forgetful public that the old war-
rior had engineered the Woman Suffrage Bill
through the Australian Parliament. When
Premier of N.S.W., he helDed to clinch the
passing of the Early Closing Act in this
State.
Mrs. Trefle handed Mrs. Y. Rosenbloom
a purse of £5O the other week, on behalf of
about 60 feminine subscribers. This mark
of friendship is more satisfactory than the
more common one which consists of someone
rushing up to borrow half-a-crown as a sign
'if esteem.
Headmaster Stacy Waddy recently chap-
eroned a football team of King’s
School hoys to Melbourne. The occasion
dragged about two columns of printers’ ink
from the Melbourne Herald, re the his-
toric and comparatively hoary age of the
ancient academy. William IV., unofficiallv
known as Silly Billy,” took a keen inter-
est in the formation of a school in the then
colony which he usually referred to as
Botany Bay. Bishop Broughton, who
founded the King s in 1832, wanted to copy
the traditions of the English public schools,
where dukes in embryo sop up tarts, ginger
ale and classics. Broughton, by the way,
was Anglican Bishop of Calcutta, and his
parish included India and Australia. The
\Y eilington was a friend of Broughton, and
poked his extensive nose into the business
with a foresight which was about SO vears
before the public opinion of the day.
Wellington was one of the first (if not the
first) advocates of compulsory training for
boys in Britain. He told Broughton that
boys should be trained to defend their coun-
ty as soon as they could be trusted with a
rifle. On his advice the King's School,
which was founded by Royal Charter, put
its urchins .into military uniform and
trained them under a sergeant-major to drill
as cadets. This system has never been
abandoned. Whether the old Duke, who
slept in a camp bed and considered holidays
special inventions of the Devil, would ap-
prove of the 14 or 15 weeks a year holiday
wherewith the modern King’s School boy
refreshes his grey matter, is another matter.
Hie Melbourne Herald does not say all
this—it suggests some of it.
i i rh u hideousness of the fashion-
able hat which falls down over one eyebrow
gives the wearer the appearance of being a
lady burglar slightly disguised. When this
creation isn t decked with a wing that beats
the. air at an altitude of one foot above the
br am level, it shoots out a ferocious bunch
ot quills, mostly pointed, at the back. A
mouthful of feathers is the depressing diet
the least aggressive woman in a crowded
assembly generally carries away as her
snare ot a civic entertainment. Beine
bumped up against a wall, with the pluck-
mgs ot an ostrich farm scratching her face,
the mildest She may be driven to chew
off some of the fluff that tickles her nose,
vast Panorama of top heavy Hat which
mfuuL*t ye a u lacal bun parties is even
outclassed by the less dressy section of
Eondon society which looks to Queen Mary
as its fount of fashion.
It’s part of the general “cussedness” of
thmgs that the news item changes its date and
its address and very often its name before it
can keep its original engagement as a reli-
able fact. Some weeks ago Justice Gordon
was alleged to he so firmly chained to his
legal tomes that he couldn’t leave this port
Aow hes mentioned as a passenger on the
Anchises. However, he is only seeing little
Mrs. Gordon and the babies through the first
*>h, my of seasick anguish off this coast.
Barrister Lewis Whitfeld dronped dead
on the Rose Bay golf links on Saturdav. He
was one of the best-liked men at the Sydney
Bar, and a member of a clever family who’ve
stuck their roots into Australian soil with
considerable vigor. A sister, Mrs. Wood
(wife of the Sydney ’Varsity don of that
name), by the way, wears learned letters
after her name.
A legal limb who was a chum of the late
lamented Whitfeld happened to be goffing
, la ~a vicinity, and got one of the shocks of
Ins life. Caddies flew round like grasshopners
passing the bad news along to the players.’
lhere was no more smacking the elusive
\vhite ball at Rose Bay for that day.
Banister Whitfeld s last appearance in
the local courts was on the morning
i a * le t r da y be passed across the
border He then appeared as counsel for
Mrs. Muriel Watt in her petition for a
divorce against Oswald, of that ilk. I don’t
really know what an “ilk” is, but it sounds
imposing. us
Dr. Peter Buck (M.D.), whose native
name is Te Rangihiroa, returned to the Do-
minion the other day, after a holiday here.
He is a tine, upstanding specimen of a Maori
half-caste, and is gifted with the silver tongue
of his maternal ancestry. Flowers of speech
literally bedeck the remarks of the Maori
orator, as anyone who has heard James
Carroll, Maoriland’s ex-Native Minister, can
sit up and testify. Dr. Buck was Associate
Native Minister, by the way, in a former
Administration. He is one of the keenest
students of the _ problems that affect black,
brown, yellow, piebald and striped races this
side of the Equator.
The Rowe-Pagan wedding, up Pymble
way, was a festive affair, decorated with
young and pretty damsels. They carelessly
danced the soles off their satin slippers, till
the morning milk foamed on the back door-
step. The bride, Miss Hilda Rowe, is an
English girl, who’s been boiling the kettle for
a bachelor brother or two in these parts, for
about two years. When she decided to pour
out tea for a married husband instead, a sis-
ter, also married, hurried here to chaperon
the wedding cake. The bridal plumage
shimmered under a lovely cobweb of lace.
Instead of the usual wisp of tulle or blossom,
a white floral hat was perched on the bride’s
tawny, Titian locks with distracting effect.
The groom is a Scot named David Pagan,
now located in N.S.W. He is no relation to the
Billy Pagan of Randolph Bedford romance.
The roomy Rowe homestead, at Pymble, was
packed with visitors, who danced till dawn
began to yawn behind the other side of
Nowhere. The Albert Nathans, the tall
Brennan girls, well-frocked in creamy
drapery; the H. D. Mortons, Mrs. Mills (the
bride’s sister), Mr. and Mrs. McNeil, and a
score or so more, whose names I am un-
worthy to mention, since I have mislaid
them, were amongst those who also hopped.
Polo ponies are going to thunder over the
quaking sand at Kensington early in July.
On the 7th, the first gallop for the Dudley
Oup takes place in the presence of our local
nobility, gentry and casuals.
Fashionable intelligence departments in
the daily press have throbbed with the news
of Miss Dorothy Roberts’s wedding. St.
James’s Church ran out its usual red strip
of carpet for the event. The motors and
hackney cabs of the invited guests lurched
up against the kerbstone to empty their pas-
sengers out on to the asphalt. King-street
is fairly crowded just here. When both
tram lines are full of Commissioner John-
son’s rolling stock, and a lorry or two heaves
its way through the fumes of a few petrol
chariots, and indignant cab horses try to
chew the hats of the passing pedestrian, a
“Society” assemblage has to bundle itself
out of the way as fast as prevailing fashions
permit. The bride is a daughter of that
rather peppery old soldier, Colonel Roberts,
an ex-imperial man, formerly attached to
the R.A.A. He adorned the officers’ mess
in Victoria Barracks with the flash of a
monocle in days gone by. (It may have
been a pince-nez, but it was always impos-
ing.) The groom was Mr. Bernard Blyth-
man, the son of an English parson. Brides-
maidens Theo Ryrie, Gladys Gould (a
daughter of the Senator who waxed rich on
Great Cobar) and Beatrice Roberts, assisted
at the ceremony. Afterwards, the company
bustled into its chariot or tumbril, and fled
to the Australia to fall headlong upon the
eatables.
Sydney’s municipal mother, Mrs. Mayoress
Cocks, declared the new buildings of the
Norland Training College (Woollahra) to
be well and truly open the other afternoon.
The whole menagerie—nurses, youngsters
and kindergarten—are now housed in the
spacious mansion that used to be Rivihre
College. Surrounded by large grounds, and
perched high and dry above that end of
Queen-street that faints ouietly away into a
deep decline, the new Norland College is
about 1000 per cent, better than its pre-
decessor in Lower Fort-street. Large floral
trophies having been, handed to the Mayor-
ess, who was walled in by a small table with
Mrs. Greig-Smith on one side, and Mrs. W.
G. Layton on the other, business proceeded.
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., expressed his firm
belief that a trained Norland nurse was not
the legitimate successor of that dreadful old
woman, Mrs. Gamp, or her friend, Mrs
Elizabeth Prig. She had nothing in com-
mon with Sairey, whose age was generally
her only recommendation. Dr. Vickers, Dr.
Grace Boelkd and Dr. Kerr added a posy to
the Norland nursery system. Matron
Cameron, gowned in the white robe of her
office, handed Mrs. Greig-Smith some glis-
tening silver candelabra from the nursing
staff. After this the gathering, which over-
flowed on to the wide verandahs, retired to
stoke itself with the bun of peace.
. Mrs. Alex.. Gordon, who left for London
• Anchises, made her last appearance
in Sydney for a time, at the Butt-Rumford
concert on June 2S. Justice Gordon and
the great surgeon McCormick were in a
party that included a lady clad in a sump-
tuous gown of amethyst—the deep half-
violet tint that an amethyst gem at Is.
can’t flash into your eyes. Under the film
of drapery on the shoulders glittered—a soft
subdued glitter like something buried under
a translucent mauve tombstone—jewelled
passementerie. Just in front of the Gordon
group was Miss Russell (Kirribilli),
whose tortoiseshell comb, shaped like a big
shell, was one of the sartorial events of the
evening. Stuck rather carelessly in the back
of her hair, the Russell comb was a poem in
tortoiseshell, bound in gold. Mere dia-
monds, except by the bushel as on the Butt
throat, looked commonplace beside this beau-
tiful ornament. Why can’t we grow some
of this lovely stuff in the new Horticultural
College for women—that is .to be, perhaps?
I’m going to ask Mrs. Laura B. Luffman,
who knows these things.
The third Butt-Rumford concert in the
Towm Hall was conspicuous for the impos-
ing size of the audience, and its hearty
efforts to drown the voices of the singers in
premature applause. Ivennerley Rumford
finished the last lines of “Four Jolly Sailor-
men” with the combined strength of the
back seats against him. He suggested a
solitary Turk overwhelmed by the serried
hosts of Bulgaria. The noise of a ton or
two of shoe leather stamping the floor, while
the owners of the leather smacked their
hands together, made a tumultuous end to
the item. Though overwhelmed by numbers
Ivennerley formed himself into a hollow
square, with the women and children and
regimental plate chest in the centre, and
retired in good order. German songs
studded this concert, which was built on
solid lines. The Butt organ swirled round
the massive music of “Die Allmacht” like
a vocal torrent, with a mild trickle at the
end. “Jehovah the Lord” fluttered out as
a soft gasp at the climax. This was one of
the sudden vocal fallings down stairs into
which the stupendous contralto sometimes
slips. Why weaken on a big theme?
“Society” was able to show most of its
bust measurement at the third Butt warble,
the evening being mild. I had, unfortunately,
left my tape measure at home, so I can’t
give the exact dimensions and acreage. The
musical Hollanders sent a small contingent
—about eight or 10 or so —of their family
along. The Sam Horderns —Mrs. Sam very
attractive in black, with white furs up to
her ears —were with the Jack See pair.
Mrs. Jack flung a film of geranium red
across her shoulders, which gave the same
beauteous and adequate protection against
municipal draughts as a yard or two of
rose-tinted cobweb. Feather boas are much
in evidence on mild evenings in the Town
Barn. They are becoming, and don’t warm
up the wearer worth 2|d., though they look
three guineas’ worth of comfort.
Speaking of outward garniture, a friend
tells me that she went to church recently,
and that the sermon seemed to be almost
wholly about millinery. In the course of a
brief discourse allusion was made to the
“cloke of maliciousness,” the priests who
were “clothed with righteousness,” and the
person who “clothed himself with cursing as
with his garment.” But I don’t think the
whole three of them would keep out some of
the draughts we meet with at concerts and
theatres these nights. And not one of them
would be a remedy for cold feet.
Mrs. Slapoffski sends along a sheaf of
press cuttings (British), full of polite re-
marks about her vocal art. It is curious to
note, amongst the extensive list of papers
quoted, that one bears the early Victorian
name, Northern Whig. Seuta, in the “Fly-
ing Dutchman,” is one of Mrs. Slap.’s finest
warbles. Her success in the provinces
in this part swept a Sussex paper into a
whirl of admiring adjectives. Mrs. Slap.,
who _ has been billed in the English
provinces as “The Australian Soprano,” re-
turns to this, her adopted country, about the
end of September. Before leaving the Land
of the Free Breakfast and the Poor-house,
the soprano is engaged to sing at Sir
Wood’s promenade concerts (London) and
to adorn the London Choral Society’s events.
Another girls’ trio has just been born
into the world of harmony and discord. I
don’t think it has a name yet, unless the
christening has been celebrated in the open,
without an umbrella, during the recent in-
clement condition of the rainfall. The trip-
let consists of Violinist Dagmar Thomson,
’Cellist Brenda Deloitte and Pianist Pauline
McQuillen.
Pressman Albert Goldie, of the Sydney
Sun staff, is packing up his fountain pen
for London. He takes his wife and a small
son with him. The youngest hope, a chubby
toddler, with a large waist measurement,
stays behind as a gentleman boarder in the
Norland Nurseries. Mrs. Goldie, who is now
a veteran writer of 22 summers, is better
known as Dulcie Deamer. Her precocious
talent, at 17 or thereabouts, as vou remem-
ber, enabled this brainy Maoriland girl to
snatch the prize of £3O offered by The Lone
Hand. Her little tale was called “As it
Was in the Beginning,” and it dealt with the
time when man was just emerging from the
indignity of his tail, and beginning to realise
that Adam would one day arrive in Meso-
potamia by the four o’clock train, and open
the world officially.
A prominent business man in this town
n a s suggested an Australian carnival as a
booming advt. for this continent. The ap-
proximate date for this event will be 1916
London will be the place. At present
the scheme iS in the same state ' as
the fluffy chrysalis which may flap its
wings to-morrow as a gorgeous butterfly,’ or
may be eaten to-day and nave no flap left.
Albert Goldie goes to London as press-
agent and organiser of the initial arrange-
ments, being sent by the promoter. Whether
the Australian public will rise to this orig-
inal method of educating the average Eng-
lishman re the resources of this garden plot,
remains to be seen. The man who goes to
prepare the way is buoyed up with enough
enthusiasm to float a waterlogged coal mine.
Dillingham and Co. (New York) have
recently published Dulcie Deamer’s book,
"The Suttee of Safa.” Geo. Robertson and
Co. have ordered an Australian edi-
tion, which is due to have its leaves
cut in a few days. Besides this,
Dulcie has placed a series of pre-
historic stories, including those which ap-
peared in The Lone Hand, in U.S. The
Cave Man, pursuing with a club the long-
haired lady who has the swiftest feet, and
the domestic habits of the primeval ape (our
insolvent relation, who has long since paid
one cocoanut in the £ and retired) are
woven into the woof of these narratives.
The complimentary matinee, at the Cri-
terion, to Mrs. Boult, produced a varied
programme. Sid Macdonald rose from a
“sick bed” uplift his voice. Members of
the Little Theatre company gave two sam-
ples of their wares. Pianist Gertrude
Palmer, A.R.A.M., was at the piano at fre-
quent intervals. Geraldine Ward and Mabel
Woolcock warbled songs of sentiment. The
Tivoli lent Welch and Carbasse. Ada
Baker and Harry Thomas gave a mirthful
sketch, “On Their Honeymoon.” Tristram
Greene assisted with his voice. The slim
Queenie Boult danced a minuet with the
youthful Netta Lawson. Mrs. MacKinnon
—she of the large brown eyes—seized an
interval to glide to the centre of the stage
and explain the worthiness of the Cause. A
copy of Mrs. Boult’s play, “Joan of Arc,” in
letterpress, was presented to the author at
this unparalleled crisis, when the fate of
nations trembled in the balance. The orches-
tra, which was caged under a wooden
lattice in front of the submerged footlights,
occasionally put an eye or two to a crack
in the roof, to size up the house.
r i he new Zoo, which straddles the most
thickly tree-clad promontory of the Harbor,
over against Mosman, got its first animal on
Sunday, it is an elephant that misbehaved
itself in a circus, and for its sins has been
passed over to the Zoo, whose officials think
that a little work will be good for its doubt-
ful temper. And there’s plenty of work to
be done in the big park on Bradley’s Head
V mding roads are being made in all direc-
tions ; ponds are being dug ; terraces graded •
trees planted. In the , nursery there are
hundreds of infant waratahs and such like •
and models in clay and plaster have been
piepared for the guidance of the men who
are ont a big job that isn’t expected to be
finished till the gates are thrown open to
the public about four years hence.
The last day of weepy June shed a damp
drizzle on this city, consistent with previous
bad character as a month of much mud. At
Li noon, s. m. Herald proprietor, James
Fairfax, opened a show of Gladys Owen’s
pictures in Anthony Hordern’s Fine Art
Gallery. Most appropriately they were
water- colors.
When Clara Butt gets into a red velvet
dress, hangs a rope of diamonds over the
front compartment of her bodice, puts a few
thousand pounds’ worth of diamond necklet
round her valuable throat, and dips her black
fan' into the same gems till it sparkles like
hoar frost, the public gets quite half its
money s worth in spectacular effect. The
fourth appearance of the vast Clara was a
mdd sensation. The organ seats were
crammed with audience. More audience
filled eveiy other available speck of cane
chair in the Town Hall, though the night—
monotonous as it sounds to mention it —was
4 female sasp of joy and envy went
up to Heaven, or down to some other well-
known address, as the Presence, like a
gigantic scarlet poppy powdered with gems,
bowed the Eiffel Tower of her head to
acknowledge the applause. It was like being
bobbed to by a Himalaya.
“Ilivinites du Styx,” from Gluck’s “Alces-
tis, and Handel’s “Ombra mai fu” were the
contralto s most important contributions to
tlie programme on June 28. Kennerley-
s voice is too light for “The Two
Gienachers which he sang the other even-
ing after Du bist wie eine Blume.” I hope
you cau pronounce this, Arini. without dis-
ai ranging your usually peaceful expression.
It means Thou’rt like a lovelv flower,” so
Z?" Tv w % e \ U]> - , The Rumford baritone
MnrnS g "i • To Althea.” Pianist
dnwn l h ’ i - Wl l h ] IIS hau ' Plastered firmly
lead ’ ', vas , not U P to his usual
. the dlre I'esult of growing a ’fluenza
a , concer t sea son. Mowat Carter
fiddled as pleasantly as usual. If this con-
scientious music-maker would only be un-
tri f ° r about five minutes and cultivate
a little fierce enthusiasm, and kick tin a row
between his fiddle and liis bow he’d Sven up
his audience This is usually amiable but
limp when M. Carter backs into the artist’s
pipes IDder the growl of the municipal organ
Yours affectionately.
VAN DORIAN.


Q
m
A Most
Convincing
Letter i n
praise of
the'Rudge.’
“I am more than
pleased with the
< Budge.’ I lowered
the gear for the Devil’s
Pinch, but it was quite
unnecessary, for the
engine roared the
whole way, and the
belt was not slipping.
I gave her a good test,
and had not only a
portmanteau, but other
parcels ; and my weight
in the overcoat which
I wore is 12st. 41b.
This is not a motorist’s
yarn. It is perfectly
true, and anyone can
come out and see her
do rt. I said the en-
gi n e roared ; but,
strange to say, she was
not very hot on arriv-
ing at ithe top.”
Robt. I. Vynek,
Newenden.
More Proof
for Y o \i.
“So far as I am able
to judge at present, my
‘Rudge’ is very satis-
factory. It takes the
side car up the steepest
hills about here without
an effort, and the free
engine works very
sweetly. On Saturday
last Mr. Glasson and I
(total weight about
265 t.) stopped in the
middle of a long and
fairly steep hill to
shorten the Watta
Watta belt, the free
engine started her
again without an
effort. The engine
also seems to my
mind to run on a
very small quantity of
gas, she will run up
a fair incline on about
quarter throttle of
gas: she will run up
a good speed, and go
with a jump if given
a slight extra dose.”
E. O. Hanson,
Cumnock.
The Rudge—
The Motor Cycle that
Gives Good Service
All the Time
The “Rudge” heads the list of comfortable Motor-Cycles—
as efficient spring forks take up the severe road jolts
before they reach you. All the motion you feel is
pleasant, exhilarating and health-producing.
And the “Rudge” is a reliable, speedy Motor-Cycle, too.
The construction of frame and engine by highly-paid
mechanics ensures perfection—ensures the machine travel-
ling there and home through heavy mud or sand, “over
hills and dale” without mishap.
You’ll find it great to own a “Rudve.” It’s a companion
worth while. At little fuel exnense you can ride
pleasantly to and from business, and the week-ends are
looked forward to on account of the delightful trips you
can make.
Let us tell you all about thfe “Rudge.” We’ll do so if
you’ll call at our Showrooms to-day, or any Friday night
before nine—or our New Illustrated Catalogue tells an
interesting, instructive story. Write for a free copy.
Bennett & Barkell Ltd.
Agents for Triumph, Rudge-Whitworth and
New Hudson Motor Cycles,
Manufacturers of B. & B. Motor Cycles,
124-132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Flexible
Bracelets
Our stock of Fine Gold
Flexible Bracelets em-
braces an extensive range
of beautiful patterns in
these fashionable goods
at prices strictly moder-
ate.
Inspection of the Show-
rooms is invited.
The Mail Order Experi-
ment brings our entire
stock within the reach of
every correspondent bg
giving full information
in reply to every inquiry.
Selections sent on appro-
val to any address.
Hardy Bros. Ltd.,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
Hunter St., SYDNEY ; 118 Queen St., BRISBANE
Over 1,000,000 Copies Sold of the CELEBRATED
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES OF AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
The “Bookstall” Series of Australian Literature is the most successful library of Fiction
ever published, being unique and distinct from any other library; purely Australian in
character, and embracing the manifold conditions of life in our Sunny Land. It appeals to all.
Are you sad? Read the Humorous works.
Are you in love? Read the Romantic works.
Are you thinking of settling on the land? Read the Selection Stories
You will be pleased with the whole Series.
JUST PUBLISHED.
“ABORIGIIMALITIES ■from 11 The Bulletin.”
Selected by Charles Bertie, Author of “Old Sydney,” etc.
WITH 39 ILLUSTRATIONS BY LIONEL LINDSAY.
• Price 1/- ; Post free 1/1.
Readers of The Bulletin, the most popular paper in Australia, will welcome this book w th enthu-
siasm, as it will enable them to enjoy afresh many a hearty joke that tickled them years ago. Mr. Bertie
has selected only the best, so that readers are saved the weeding-out process inevitable in such a collec-
tion of contributions as appears in a weekly paper. . ..
The supreme advantage of having an artist like Lindsay to illumine the text will be apparent t
moment you open this book, which should prove a mirth-producer second to none. v
To those who may not be Bulletin readers we say, “Buy a copy of ‘Aboriginalities at once, ioi
will laugh and grow fat.”
DETECTIVE STORIES.
Billy Pagan, Mining Engineer By Randolph Bedford
Ubique . . By Clarence W. Martin
The Mystery of the Boxing Contest . . By Bert James
BOOKS ON BUSHRANGING.
Dan Kelly, Outlaw By Ambrose Pratt
Three Years with Thunderbolt . . By Ambrose Pratt
The Outlaws of Weddin Range . . By Ambrose Pratt
John Vane, Bushranger By Chas. White
Short-lived Bushrangers By Chas. White
Gentleman Jack By Don Delaney
The Captain of the Gang By Don De’aney
The Devil’s Nightcap By Lancelot Booth
The Convict Pugilist By Geo. Cockerill
The Spell of the Bush By John X. Cameron
SPORTING BOOKS.
A Rogue’s Luck By Arthur Wright
The Mare with the Silver Hoof By Bob Allen
Eros! Eros Wins! By F. Agar
Rung In By Arthur Wright
In Racing Silk By Gerald R. Baldwin
HUMOROUS BOOKS.
The Missing Link By Edward Dyson
Tommy, the Hawker By Edward Dyson
Benno —And Some of the Push . . By Edward Dyson
Fact’ry ’Ands By Edward Dyson
Scotty Mac, Shearer By R. S. Tail
How McDougall Topped the Score, and Other Verses
By Thomas E. Spencer
The Spring Cleaning (by Mrs. Bridget McSweeney)
By Thomas E. Spencer
The Surprising Adventures of Bridget McSweeney
By Thomas E. Spencer
Why Doherty Died By Thomas E. Spencer
The Haunted Shanty By Thomas E. Spencer
That Droll Lady By Thomas E. Spencer
The Bulletin Reciter
Bill’s Idees .. By A. G. Stephens (“The Bookfellow )
THE “BOOKSTALL” SERIES.
PRICE 1/- EACH; POSTAGE Id.
SELECTION STORIES.
By STEELE RUDD.
On Our Selection Sandy’s Selection
Our New Selection Back at Our Selection
Stocking Our Selection From Selection to City
On an Australian Farm For Life
The Dashwoods Dad in Politics
The Poor Parson The Book of Dan
Duncan McClure
By SUMNER LOCKE.
Mum Dawson —Boss The Dawsons’ Uncle George
AUSTRALIAN HISTORICAL
ROMANCES.
The Barb of an Arrow By Roy Bridges
By His Excellency’s Command .... By Roy Bridges
Mr. Barrington By Boy Bridges
BOOKS OF ROMANCE AND
ADVENTURE.
The Double Abduction By H. K. Bloxham
A Man of Sympathy By Harry Tighe
The Sign of the Serpent By J. H. M. Abbott
The Trader By Cecil Ross-Johnson
Stella Sothern By I. A. Rosenblum
The Recipe for Rubber By Ralph Stock
The Bathers By W. G. Henderson
Love and the Aeroplane By John Sandes
Rocky Section By Sydney Partrige
Tom Pagdin, Pirate By E. J. Brady
The Luck of the Native Born By A. J. Barry
Caloola By Clement Pratt
Bindawalla By Thomas E. Spencer
Base Brands By H. M. Somer
Chandler of Corralinga By R. J. Cassidy
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
2
*
t*
I V
4c
-
■
•A-*'
NOW is the Time to Invest
in a NELSON Soda Fountain.
m n illustration represents a famous Nelson “Iceless” interior.
tr'olv denict the perfect workmanship and the grand materials. It is
ftltaW architecture, mechanical perfection and all-
round efficiency. Fountains in Australia
to-day are Manufactory, and all the hi, users
n<2incr Nelson Fountains. ~ ,
,!nrlv installation of one of our magnificent Fountains means that you
An eaily instc foimta in running earlier than your competitor, and that
have jour new * f ter for days and weeks than would otherwise be the
your U “f b ui" g a t l details—don’t wait to think—enterprise is merely another
wori for°action—and action in this case will swell up your profits
on Vr>nntains can be used with stupendous results by Hotelkeepers,
Refreshment Rooms/ Storekeepers, Chemists, and every retailer who is m business
ir, make bia money quickly and honestly.
There’s no better investment in the world for you-we can and will prove
this if you desire it. __ _
WRITE. IN FOR FULL DETAILS.
Tell us the class of business you are in, etc., and let us make a suggestion.
ASK FOR CATALOGUE. Posted Free Anywhere.
Nelson Carbonating Co. Ltd.,
107 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.


SAVES
lO per cent.
a
SAVES
lO per cent.
FARMER’S CASH BONDS SALE.
2/- Saved in Every Pound.
FARMER’S CASH IiOXUS SALE is the greatest money-saving event of
the season. It represents an unequalled opportunity for thrifty buyers to purchase
high-grade and thoroughly-dependable goods at reduced prices, and also less a Cash
Bonus of 10 per cent. • ? “
WINTER GOODS AND SURPLUS STOCK ARE GREATLY
REDUCED, AND ALSO LESS 10 PER CENT., 2/- IN THE £
FOR CASH.
SALE CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE
WB PAY CARRIAGE ON DRAPERY GOODS TO AN\ PART OB' AUSTRALIA.
■SYDNEY.
FARMER’S
GAVE ALL A FAIR TRIAL.
“For years I suffered from bronchitis, although
I tried many patent medicines and doctors’ prescrip-
tions, giving all a fair trial,” writes Mrs. Annie
Lennon, Bridge Road, Drummoyne (N.S.W.). “Then
I tried Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and from the
first dose got relief, and kept on getting better.
Sometimes in the winter I get a return of my old
complaint, but in a very mild way, for Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy soon puts me right.”*
810-SHOWMEN !
"THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street
Sydney. ’
The Oriental Hotel,
Melbourne.
Melbourne Cup Season.
Patrons of the ORIENTAL are respectfully
reminded that booking- is now taking place
for Cup week, and early application should be
made for rooms, to avoid disappointment.
No rooms reserved for less than one week.
Inside Single Rooms £5/5/-
Outside Single Rooms £5/12/-
Double, £lO/10/\ and £ll/4/- per week
including full board. Double bedroom with
Private Bathroom, £l2/12/- per week.’ Pri-
vate Suites by arrangement.
Telegraphic Address,
e. Mclntosh,
General Manager.
ORIENTAL HOTEL, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 30, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Melbourne Hunt Club races, at the
little Moonee Valley course, drew a brace
of motored Governors with their aides
through the winter rain and mud. G.-G.
Denman, muffled to the ears in a black
astrachan overcoat, wore his white spats,
apparently as a sort of vice-regal defiance
of the dreadful weather. State Governor
1 uller wrapped himself in a thin, grey top
coat. I am wondering whether the two
potentates take turn about with the astra-
chan garment, or if each possesses an
astrachan garment of his own. Two vice-
regalities dressed exactly alike might lead to
international complications. Fuller looked
cold in his thin covering—this despite the
fact that there were horse-rugs in plenty.
Visiting sick man Victor Hood risked the
weather to look on. Help Barttelot wore a
very small hard hat like a pudding basin or
large thimble, and gossiped chummily with
his pretty wife, who looked merry and
bright in a grey suit and a bashed hat of
blue and pink. Somebody had netted in an
impromptu vice-regal box on the stand and
lined it completely with red flannel —or
something equally homejy and hygienic.
Consequently the party had somewhere to
rest its damp feet when it came off the sop-
ping lawn. Mrs. Wallach, fair and pretty
*n brown fur, showed a real, rain-resisting
complexion. Mrs. Hood wore grey furs with
a tawny veil and hat. One of the Grice
boys was riding; but his admiring family
had gone north to Bananaland in search of
sunshine, and so was not present to watch
his performance. George Cumming, in a
big check overcoat, came along to watch the
interests of. Rupert Clarke. Mrs. Frank
Clarke, waving a big pink feather, had Ivy
Clarke in tow. Ivy was well muffled in furs
brought from abroad, and seemed to be
occupied mainly with trousseau puzzles.
McArthurs, Powers, Curries and Manifolds
were as conspicuous as possible in the
wrapped and umbrella-d crowd. The motors
splashed amicablv together in the drenched
carriage paddock until it should please their
owners to whir back to their cosy fires.
The Fischer fraulein, who came to the
Glaciarium to show gliders the latest ice
steps, has Teutonised all her Very Best
pupils. Lesly Madden and others make at-
tempts to talk to the nice exile in something
resembling her own language. By the way,
the exile had a birthday last week, and the
quantity of flowers and presents received
prove her to be a great collector of friends.
Government House turns up at the Ice
Rink so frequently nowadays that the
shadowing Helps have started paying at the
door like ordinary folk. The experiment
shocked at least one of them the first time
he made it. A bystander heard him ex-
claim in a high, shrill voice of astonishment
—or plain, stark horror: “Foah BAB ! Bai
jove, that’s hot!” If it wasn’t hot, it seemed
to make him so, and he had to almost tear
his clothes to pieces to find the necessary
silver.
The Victorian Artists frolicked with more
or less abandon on Wednesday of last week.
They hid the familiar stage of the Town
Hall with sham stone walls, and blotted out
every painted mayor by bagging the por-
traits in colored hessian. But they failed
to wrap up a lot of the heavily sedate people
who came to gloat over “Bohemianism” un-
loosed ; on the contrary, they encouraged
these intruders to buy tickets, and to come
along and be themselves in fancy dress,
home well-meaning “Bohemian” youths tried
to make the wild, care-free function “go”
from the jump. The trouble was that they
couldn t even make themselves “go.” In-
grained suburbanism—or whatever it is that
sits on top of the “Bohemian” spirit—can-
not be thrown off like an old hat. Some, of
course, try to attain the proper pitch with
fermented refreshment—a system which
isn t wholly satisfactory. The man in the
street got some fleeting impressions of the
attempted frivol, for the Town Hall only
held it in spasms. Vikings and other appari-
tions fled across to near-by pubs, and
Pierrots pranced painstakingly in the streets
near the dignified edifice. But some of the
best sights remained indoors. For instance
there was a Parliamentary dignitary in
plush and a powdered peruke, attended by
his tribe, and a commercial notabilitv as a
village blacksmith with beautiful bare arms,
ihe portico balcony looked well from the
street, tenanted as it was with hundreds of
well-costumed promenaders. Some genius
hired all the old motors in the garages, and
the late revellers were oiled home in the
cold hours at two shillings per head—or a
shilling per leg.
The Hockey girls are playing the Univer-
sity boys, in the South Yarra Skating Rink,
on July 9. The rink is being lent for the
occasion. The high-spirited lads have been
good enough to handicap themselves with
hobble skirts for the match.. Anyone who
likes to gaze on naturally brilliant corn-
ual 10118 will find the entertainment worth
while; and the girls will be glad to see mil-
Hons in the place on any pretext, for thev
will shortly have the inter-State girl hockey
players on their hands, and they want all
the money they can get for entertaining pur-
poses. The Melbourne girls are putting up
visitors at their various homes. But the
squeeze has its limits, and the young pre-
sident and secretary, with furious blushes of
anxiety, declare at least seven will have to
be boarded. So they have decided to wrench
the money from the public. The public has
plenty, dash it, and it will just have to shell
out!
_ At a small, rather artistic dance, the other
night, a haughty lady whose dress left off
a few inches above her waist, spoke with
bitter contempt of another matron whose
black frock was split to the knee. One sniff
was to the effect that “she didn’t know where
the immodesty of some women would end.”
At a recent select function where Every-
body was supposed to be Somebody (or a
lifelike imitation), some of the j'ust-arrived
guests were crowded chattering in the cloak
room, getting peelbd of motor wraps by
brisk maids, and receiving in exchange their
little metal checks. One pompous lady who
can never forget Pa’s glorious past, flung
her wraps disdainfully to the waiting
Deborah. “Ai don’t need a check, do Ai?”
she yawned from the bottom of her chest.
“Oh, I think we’ll remember your cloak,
Miss Pa’sglorious,” murmured the maid
sweetly. If poetic justice had been done,
she would have been cleverly delayed after
the function, and then led in to see her
sacred wrap being used by a demented
charlady as a scrubbing-cloth.
“White dances” are popular in Suburbia
this season. At some of these events even
the lofty males have condescended to appear
as ice-cream vendors, or whited sepulchres,
or something. The invitation cards issued
by one hostess bear the request: “Ladies
will wear as much white as possible; gentle-
men-—white gloves and ties.” And such
beastly cold weather, too.
Australian doctors are looking forward
with interest to the Maoriland Medical Con-
gress, booked for January next. There is
talk of chartering a special steamer to con-
vey the herd of local medicine men to Auck-
land. If the scheme comes off, the faculty
will have plenty of opportunities for the seri-
ous discussion of bowls, golf, fishing, motor-
ing, whisky, and other professional subjects.
The Auckland Exhibition (opening in De-
cember) will just be nicely under way by
the time they arrive.
Artist H. Septimus Power is painting
G.-G. Denman’s two golden-haired young-
sters and the favorite pony against a back-
ground of Government House treescape.
Septimus can paint horses and dogs, and
his show at the Guild Hall, Swanston-
street, is thronged with sports of both sexes.
They say they know he is a good painter,
because he has personally pursued the fox
and made the hare’s life a burden to it.
The Esperantists of this city are trying
hard to be taken seriously. Last year they
held a congress, for which they managed to
decoy. some of their fellow-enthusiasts from
Maoriland. But, though pleasant, this
wasn’t progress; for, naturally, they all take
<pne another seriously, and it can be done
just as well at a distance. The other
night they had an evening at the Austral
Salon, at which a play written by one of
them was staged. It was taken quite seri-
ously. On July 8 they will make a third
effort to be taken more or less seriously by
giving a dance at the Turn Yerein.
Artist George Coates, who has just re-
turned to his native land, and his artistic
wife (Dora Meeson) are inviting Melbourne
to an exhibition of their paintings, in the
Athenseum, on Monday, July 7. The
strength of Dora’s work has hit the foreign
critics hard.
Artist Fred McCubbin is off to Sydney
early next week on business bent, and the
biz which is Art —will keep him there best
part of the cold month when it is so good to
be out of Melbourne. McCubbin has com-
missions to naint a portrait of Mrs. Walter
Hall from life, and of her late husband from
nhotos. and other clues and information re-
ceived.
The Fox pictures are red-spotting steadily
despite the alarming prices in the catalogue.
You can get samples from £2O to £600; but,
if you search, you can discover a few little
patches at about 15 guineas. Last week,
artists stood back and whispered rever-
ently, “The buyers are sitting!” This
mysterious remark meant that the Felton
Bequest people from the Gallery were get-
ting ready to spend a little money. Mrs.
“Manny” Fox will hold a show of her own
when her clever husband has had his say.
Winnie Tait, daughter of the Man with
the Cigar who used to run our railways,
has been doing things in Canada. She was
a member of a team of four chosen to repre-
sent the Dominion in the international ice-
skating championship at Montreal. She won
a cup for figure skating, and also the
Montreal waltzing championship. Winnie
first acquired the skating habit or disease
at our own Glassy Harem.
The Fairbairn clan is now busy shaking
hands with itself. George Armytage Fair-
bairn (son of the Fred Fairbairns) has just
got his cricket blue at Cambridge. Papa
Frederick was blued at the same place, also
George, Stephen, and a few more of the
family. I suppose it is better to be a blue
than a whited sepulchre—not that the Fair-
bairn family needed blue-ing on that account.
Talking of women in Parliament—or,
rather, out of it. Two strenuous political
workers in the Vida Goldstein campaign
were suffragette spinsters imported from
England. They were brought out to talk,
like missionaries.
Young McLauchlan, of Mahonga statiom,
son of Australian Club president, “Jimmy”
McLauchlan, is building a house of his own.
The new nest is for his brand-new fiancee
and bride-elect, Miss Piggin, whose papa is
auctioneer Piggin, of Corowa.
Nothing like economy. The other morn-
ing, I watched two Society girls leaping
along the Toorak tram-line. Each of them
was wrapped in a big ermine coat, made of
many small pelts. (Value, roughly, one
guinea per tiny skin.) But they raced that
tram to the corner, just to save paying for
the last stretch of a penny section. It
was a splendid example of—well, I don’t
know exactly what to call it, but it was a
splendid example of it, whatever it was, and
if it wasn’t that, it may have been something
else.
Hilda Carney, daughter of solicitor Car-
ney, is changing her name to Hogan. The
prospective husband is an American, who
intends to carry his bride off to foreign
parts.
An important Society hitching impeded
the. traffic in Collins-street, last Friday. The
Vair Dodds-Gordon Lyon wedding duly hap-
pened at Scots’ Church, and afterwards the
flocks of be-feathered guests rustled chatter-
ing up the Boulevard to where the blue car-
pet led into the depths of the Oriental Hotel.
The tall, dark bride matched her bridegroom
nicely as regards height. She was garbed
in the regulation white satin, lace, orange
blossom and veil. Two rose-pink brides-
maids —a sister and an O’Hara colleen-
posed and dimpled in her train, while a
small, frilly child carried a cushion for the
bride to kneel on in church, and a
basket of roses for her breakfast
parade. There were 80 carefully-se-
lected guests, and most of the women wore
ermine, which is expensive, and gives the
wearer the right to look proud and arro-
gant. The three Mount Gambier Clarke girls
had on complete cloaks of the fearfully costly
skins. After the feasting, a Hutch-blue
tailored bride got away in a motor, outlined
with pink roses. Her husband, who had
been delayed by a collar stud, jumned into
the car after her, and they whirred off in
the direction of Sydney. The guests then
returned to the ruins of the cake, which was
decorated with lilies-of-the-valley and pink
roses. As they sampled the almond icing,
the matrons discussed the latest-rumored
engagement, which concerns a Society girl
of several seasons and a “well connected”
English visitor, who is also “well connected”
to money. “Wonder if it’s true?” they
sighed.
Herbert Grimwood is to stage “The Trial
Before Herod” —the mystery play which
impressed most people who saw it in Sydney
—-at Melbourne Auditorium on Monday,
July 7. Prof. R. S. Wallace has been booked
to do a turn before the performance begins.
He is to give an explanatory lecture, in
which he will make due reference to the
fact that the ancient play has been revised
by his friend Archie Strong. The G.-G. has
promised his patronage, and the profits of
the show will be divided between the
Shakspeare Memorial Fund and the Reper-
tory Theatre.
In spite of her declared intention to retire
from the stage into .private life as Mrs.
Isitt, Genee does not give one the impression
of ever settling down in any sense. Even
when away from the stage, in the solid sur-
roundings of everyday life, she seems always
poised. I can’t imagine her lounging in a
home. At a recent informal tea party, a
man wheeled over a cushioned armchair for
her. She sank into it gratefully; but the
next moment she was perched alertly on the
edge. I believe she would fly if you'threw a
hat at her.
Miss Frederika Meyer, elocutionist, is
giving her “last” recital, in the Austral
Salon, at the end of the week. The lady
elocutes to slow, soulful music extracted from
the piano by William Conway.
The small, “ladylike” note paper is Out —
so far at least as the ultra-fashionable are
concerned. If you really wish to be considered
neck-and-neck with the times, you must dis-
regard the postman’s feelings, and get your
extra-thick, cream vellum envelopes built
large enough to swallow an elephantine
sheet of writing paper unfolded. Dainty
billets doux and items about nothing may
thus look like official invitations to the open-
ing of an International Exhibition. It is
going to make the path of the erring more
dangerous than ever. Plow on earth can one
safely destroy or conceal incriminating docu-
ments of such acreage? The compact form
of the old-time note was a great aid to con-
cealment.
One of our biggest drapery “emporiums”
has lately printed a warning to its sales-
ladies to decline all social invitations from
affable and gaudy customers of their own
sex. The story of the wherefore of that
warning sounds like a chapter from a New
York novel. Seems that a well-appointed
dame used to come often to one department
of the store and make herself particularly
nice to two girls (chums) who served her
Presently she suggested an afternoon tea,
and the girls arranged to meet her. At the
door of the tea-room the smiling she-devil
suddenly remembered that she had forgotten
to bring her purse, and when the girls
offered to provide the necessary cash them-
selves she wouldn’t hear of it. They must
come with her to her home in East Mel-
bourne and have tea en famille. So they
all walked together through the Fitzroy
Gardens with the hospitable home in view.
Then Providence intervened. They were
more than half-way through the Gardens
when a young man acquaintance of one of
the girls called her away from her com-
panions to ask her whether she knew who
she was walking with. On her explaining
that she only knew the lady as a nice, kind
customer he advised her to get her young
friend away and do without any afternoon
tea. By this time the other two were leav-
ing the Gardens, and before the alarmed
girl and her mentor could catch up to them
they had disappeared behind the massive
front door of an important-looking house.
The young man knocked and rang. After a
while _ the door was opened—on the chain.
A white-capped and aproned servant didn't
know what the young man meant by asking
to see the young lady who had entered the
house with the mistress. No young lady had
been there that afternoon. The “servant”
tried to shut the door, but the man insisted
on mentioning that if he couldn’t see the
young lady he would bring the police along.
Whereupon the creature in the white cap
said she would go and inquire, and went off—
leaving the door on the chain. Three
minutes later the chain was unloosed, the
missing friend was pushed out on to the
mat, and the reunited ones went away with
their preserver.
From “Rosna,” in London:—
The collection of pictures belonging to the late
George McCulloch, who went to millionairedom via
Broken Hill, was sold at Christie’s this week. With
a few exceptions, they realised considerably less
than cost price. McCulloch was in the habit of
buying “the picture of the year,” from the Royal
Cadavery at Burlington House—large things, gen-
erally 10ft. by 6ft. or so, and costing anything in
four figures. Prices realised at the present sale
ranged from £7B for Bramley’s 3 sq. yards of “Such
is the Kingdom of Heaven,” and £378 for Dicksee’s
enormous “Funeral of a Viking,” and £367 for Col-
lier’s “Glass of Wine with Caesar Borgia,” to £2625
for Leighton’s “Garden of the Hesperides.” The
modern Dutch and French works, on the other hand,
held their own and gathered in usually as manv
guineas as the old boss of Mt. Gipps station had
paid for them.
At the Royal Miniature Society’s show in the Mad-
dox-street Galleries, wherein there is a quantity of
vigorous and original work, chief laurels are scored
by Bess Norris. Critics are raving about the breadth
of style and fine drawing and general brilliance of
her three miniatures, “Sisters,” “Gipsy Pedlar” and
“Dreams,” the last being an exquisite thing in pale
tones of a mother watching beside a sleeping infant.
Another Australian exhibit is a portrait of Fairlie
Cunningham, the Sydney-side sculptor-girl, by May
Butler George, a Melbourne damsel, who has suc-
ceeded in getting into the Salon also, after only a
few months in the Large Smoke. Miss Butler George
has been painting shy Commissioner Reid and
daughter Thelma.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Glamor of the Mayor’s Ball was absolutely
refulgent; and the Glory of it indescribable. It beat
all records.' The Exhibition was successfully dis-
guised as an English manor house. Think of it —-
a manor house ! Incidentals were a terraced garden,
a rose pergola and a lamp-festooned drive! If there
were not 30 or 40 ancestral servitors inside, and a
major-domo, the place belied its appearance. Dis-
persed casually about were roses and autumn leaves
and electric bulbs, shaded from pale saffron to
orange and deep scarlet. The Government House
party arrived at nine o’clock; negotiated, or perpe-
trated, the vice-regal set; sat down with an air of
“Thank God, that’s over” ; and allowed general danc-
ing to begin. Lady Bosanquet’s cream frock was
fairly smothered in exquisite lace, from which twin-
kled diamond , ornaments. Miss Bosanquet was also
in cream, with an overdress of black ninon. The
Mayoress wore white charmeuse, draped with flame-
colored ninon, to which was fastened, lashed or other-
wise attached a brocading of silver and gold. She
is a tall, smart girl—less like a Mayoress than any-
one I have seen for years. Miss Frances Hodgkins,
who came along with the John Downers, covered her-
self in a shimmering Paris-suggestive coat. The
Downer lady was in grey.
People are theorising, furiously over the fate of
Miss Scott Broad, who has been missing from her
home at Glenelg since May 21. There is a vague
idea that she may have gone to Argentina to join
Mr. C. F. Pascoe, to whom she is—or was —engaged.
But no one knows. All that is certain is, she has
gone. Her mother has done a good deal to interest
herself in those questions of reform which particu-
larly affect women and children.
Mrs. J. A. G. Hamilton gave an At Home at the
Grand Central Hotel on Thursday. She faced the
ceremony gallantly in a frock of embroidered grey
crCpe, with a large black hat. Her daughter was in
a sulphur-colored coat and skirt. Among the guests
were Mrs. T. K. Hamilton, Mrs. Winser, Mrs. A. A.
Hamilton, Mrs. T. L. Browne, Miss Frances Hodg-
kins, Mrs. H. P. Gill, Mrs. and Miss Duncan, and
Mrs. Ted Bell.
Tattersall’s Cup Meeting occurred at Morphettville
on Monday. Puringa won the big race, and paid a
£lO dividend. Quickshot fell at the last fence in
the Steeple, and had to be removed in the horse
ambulance—a ruptured tendon being his trouble.
Neither Lady Bosanquet nor her daughters were there ;
on the other hand, his Ex. was. As a matter of fact,
he mostly is. The women wore coats and skirts
with hardly an exception, topped by hats which re-
sembled anything from toadstools to trainwheels.
On Tuesday the foundation was laid of the new
Kindergarten Building in Franklin-street. It is
almost opposite the old cottage wherein the original
free kindergarten was established, and has since
done its good work. Also, the Training College on
East Terrace expects to exhibit a “house full” sign
before long.
W. Berry Smith, who has been for 11 years with
the Register, is forsaking that paper to take a post
on the State Hansard staff of W.A. His fellow-
workers tucked a travelling rug into his hand, what
time they bid him good-bye, and urged him to be
good as well as beautiful.
Mrs. M. A. Stewart died at Pavneham last week.
A daughter—married to Andrew Henning, of Perth
—predeceased her by a couple of days.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


I
)k
M
to their Excellencies the
flovernors of Queensland
and New South Wales
MACHINE MADE—TO YOUR
order and individual
measurements -
651-
701-
751-
patterns am bunched AJMT r
ING vour a R fE QUEst. n write
We send them to any address, post free.
..
I
f
l/rf
mm
Ry Spt»r.i;il Appointment
*o thoir Kxo**ltoncH*s the*
Cnvornors of Qikm'iisLiikJ
and NO6 Soutli Wales.
PLEASE SEND
FOR SAMPLES
and PRICE LIST
(POSTAGE FREE).
word or two about tKc
Fashioning & Fabrics of tbe
MACHINE-MADE
‘Business’
Suits
TO MEASURE- AT
PiKe Brothers Limited.
«T If your occupation demands a strict care of per-
S?JS S£EU to that need than these special., made
Business Suits at Pike Brothers Limited.
fT The fabrics are woven in a distinctive, yet tasteful,
>' manner that will sfcTnd the wear test.
CT The fact of their being machine finished is a distinct
saving to you.
r And they are most admirable for
ordinary purposes too.
«[ Made specifically to yonr indiv i d n al
measures at your own personal
dictation.
Write for Patterns and Seif-measurement Forms, simple and
easy to fill in.
TT riser w,ti RF. SENT, POST FREE BY RETURN,
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
Townsvill©
BRISBANE Toowoomba
• « a Man-made Clothes, the
o* that hoM the
A P s e k C, t these patterns a.so, when yon write.
Tailoring Department offers
ir shape and please the eye.
fototsinUe. tootooombs anb
I£fluDon.


Rainy Days—Cold Days
don’t worry the man who wears a
“PEPPERS” OVERCOAT. Well cut, in
Heavy Tweeds, with full skirts, patch pockets,
storm cuffs, long back vent. Every size in
smart shades.
27/6, 32/6, 50/-, 57/6, 63/-
RUBBER COATS, Raglan Sleeves, thor-
oughly waterproof 21 / -
HIGH-CLASS COATS, for Evening or Street
wear, in Steel Grey Vicuna. Silk Vel-
vet Collar 63/-
MOTOR COATS, in Holland—
-12/6, 14/6, 18/6, 22/6
WATERPROOF COATS, for all outdoor wear—
CARRIAGE PAID. 45/-, 50/-
Write for our “Mirror of Fashion” —full of
interest to dressy men. Post Free anywhere.
PEPPERS LTD.,
The Mirror of
Fashion,”
310 (ieorge Street,- —
SYDNEY.
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
PURE MALT WHISKY.
Crawford s is a Scotch WFisky of Superb Flavor
and Perfect Purity, and is the Finest Very Old
Scotch Obtainable. You cannot do better than
ask for Crawford's.
The Standard of Perfect Production.
POLITICAL
POINTS
William McMillan has submitted himself
to the Liberal party machine as a candidate
for selection for Wollondilly (N.S.W.),
having been given the office that he wasn’t
wanted in Drummoyne. What gall it
must be to a man of the McMil-
lion’s former standing to have to go
cap in hand to half a dozen mediocrities and
ask their permission to present himself for
election by the people!
SIT DOWN , TOE.
Prime Minister Cook, having been in-
formed that there are nearly 4000 men out
of work in Melbourne, has promised to see
what can be done in the way of public
works. It would really be better if he
would see what can be done in the way of
private boots, clothes, hats and other things.
When, owing to an inefficient tariff or some
other cause—Cook is paid to find out the
cause —a small community imports per an-
num nearly £70,000,000 worth of goods
which might otherwise be made locally, how
can it expect its people to be otherwise
than unemployed? If we imported laws
and finance and administration from Eng-
land instead of making them here wouldn’t
Cook himself be unemployed? The un-
employed have to be provided for, either by
Socialistic public works, probably paid for
out of loans, or by Private Enterprise manu-
factures. It is a pity that Joseph should
abandon Private Enterprise and flee into
the arms of Socialism just at the wrong
moment.
Asia has never run a successful republic,
and the Chinese republic promises to be a
failure. Prime Minister Ko Chook, or what-
ever his name may be, isn’t doing much good.
The revenue has almost ceased to come in—
in fact, the provincial governors only re-
mitted 18,500,000 depreciated dollars to the
Treasury last half-year, and the deficit is
117.000,000 dollars. President Yuan Shih
Ivai hangs on to office though his term has
expired, and talks of going back to the old
order of things and throwing the alleged
new civilisation overboard. Presumably he
will make himself Emperor and found the
Bang dynasty. China has already had a
Han dynasty, a Tang dynasty, a Sung dyn-
asty, a Song dynasty, a Ming dynasty, a
Hung dynasty, and some others. A Bang
dynasty is due.
The survey of the Kalgoorlie-Porc
Augusta railroad has been completed for
21 miles east from Kalgoorlie and 13 miles
west from Augusta; but the only rails laid
are three miles of siding in the Parkeston
(Kalgoorlie) depot, and about as much at
Port Augusta. Artesian borers in
South Aus. are tendering, on Government
invitation, for a series of bores from the
Ooldea well, 630 miles from Kalgoorlie, to
the Westralian border, a - stretch of 168
miles of dry country. As Big John Forrest
has pointed out, a gravitation scheme will
provide for water to a distance of 295 miles
from Kalgoorlie, but for 700 miles the
moisture must be got by boring or conser-
vation. The total number of men at work
on the line is 650 —which is just 650 more
than are engaged on the vital North-and-
South transcontinental line, but only 100
more than are busy wasting money on the
Canberra foolishness.
President Blackwood, of the Vic. Em-
ployers’ Federation, crowing over the re-
sults of the elections, said the other day
that the workers’ cup of happiness ought
now to be full, because “they need
no longer fear that they would be forced by
law into unions.” Which recalls that Pre-
sident Blackwood a while ago delivered an
address in England, and Liberty and Pro-
gress (the Federation’s official organ) re-
ported it. In that speech he told how the
Vic. Employers had assisted in the forma-
tion of the Independent Workers’ Associa-
tion —Packer’s precious Union —which con-
cern runs a sort of labor bureau. And he
added that before any workers took a job
through that bureau they were required to
join the Independent Workers’ Association-
's. 6d. entrance fee, and 6d. per week there-
after. That is to say, the Employers’ Fede-
ration compelled the men to join its tame
union before it would allow them to take a
job. From which it seems that R. O.
Blackwood considers it right and proper for
him and his fellow-employers to compel a
man to do a thing whether he' likes it or
not, but believes that it is quite infamous
for the State to use the same compulsion.
News from Mexico, a country where a
strong white race cursed itself by inter-
marriage with colored people, continues, in
the language of “Helen’s Babies,” to be
“bluegy.” The dreary old saying, “There
were giants in those days,” is usually a
fraud, but it seems fairly true in Mexico.
The country produced big men in the time of
the War of Independence, the War of Libera-
tion, the two wars with France, and the row
with the United States. Hidalgo, the
priest; Iturbide, who built the great palace
in Mexico city and tried to be an emperor;
Santa Anna, the fighting fury with the
wooden leg; Miguel Miramon; Benito
Juarez and Diaz were large enough for any
country to be proud of. But to-day the Pre-
sident who arises in the morning isn’t heard
of after dark; and the victorious general
who carried everything before him at break-
fast time goes to lunch and doesn’t come
back. There is talk of re-namine the coun-
try and calling it the Republic of Blood-
muddleslop.
One Vic. Liberal candidate who didn’t
win a seat in Parliament talks revengefully
of the persecutions of an indefatigable brute
who for five weeks devoted the whole of his
spare time to harassing a high-minded, right-
thinking gentleman whose one desire was
to devote himself to the services of his
country. The method of the enemy was to
take up a conspicuous position in
the heart of each meeting held by the Lib-
eral candidate, and, at a crucial moment,
utter his dolorous call: “Yah-h-h, gimme me
guinea! Go on, gimme back me guinea!”
The moderate and progressive candidate
never failed to meet that yap. It got on
his conscience, and robbed him of his nerve,
with the result that he lost power as a fierce
campaigner and missed the ’bus. Towards
the finish he induced a body of his sup-
porters to surround and entrap the fre-
quent interjector,' and at length confronted
his enemy. “What the Devil do you mean
by your ‘gimme back me guinea’?” snorted
the candidate; “I never had a penny of
yours in my life.” “Oh, yes yeh did,”
growled the elector; “once I thought you
was a good demmycrat, ,’nd when they gave
yeh that testymonial in 1890 I contributed
a guinea. I want it back!” “Oh, go to
!” yelled the candidate, and the wail
for the guinea went on to the bitter end.
Victoria’s new Public Works Minister,
Rich Landlord Hagelthorn, threatens to do
things. He is going, he says, to get liis
officers to make a valuation of all the pri-
vate lands of the State, so that the land tax
and municipal rates may be levied on an
honest basis. This paper will provide
Hagelthorn with a halo if he effects this re-
form ; and he will be due for one by that
time. His party lives by the votes of the
men who swindle the revenue through dis-
honest valuations; and if the valuations
could be made honest, Hagelthorn’s own in-
furiated party would tear him in four pieces
and throw half df him over the fence.
THE REFERENDA AFTERMATH.
THE COOKKERFISH: “I've settled 'im, but now
’ow am I t' aeal with them other things? ”
These are the most conspicuous results
of the Federal election. In the Represen-
tatives N.S.W. gives Toryism a majority of
three; Victoria a majority of three; West-
ralia a majority of one. All the other
States give Labor a majority—Queensland,
four; S.A., one; Tasmania, one. As regards
the Senate the Tory party has just seven
supporters. N.S.W. supplies three, Tas-
mania three, and Victoria one. Taking both
Houses into account N.S.W. is the most
Tory of the lot, and Queensland the least.
JUST ONE.
PRIME MINISTER COOK:
“It's a very small
one, but it’s me
own. ”
Premier Peake (S.A.) is due back in
Adelaide on July 5. He went to England
to pick up six millions, but the streets of
London were not paved with gold, and he
had to return with less than a tenth of the
sum.
“Naumai”: William Russell, who has
been raised to Maoriland’s House of Lords,
was swept out of the Reps., after 25 years
of unswerving adherence to Toryism, by the
Seddonian avalanche of 1905, which carried
with it John Duthie, W. C. Buchanan, A.
L. Herdman, W. F. Lang and lesser fry.
Ilerdman “came again,” and is now a fairly
strong Minister in a mediocre team.
Buchanan was knighted recently on the
advice of his old-time chief, Premier Massey.
John Duthie, with Russell, goes to the
Council, and wearisome W. F. Lang gets
the Sneakership. “Bill” Russell is a pic-
turesque personality, as political personali-
ties go just now in louland. He arrived in
the country in ’57, and had a brief term as
a Minister in one of Atkinson’s Govern-
ments. Then for many years he sat and
froze on the Opposition benches, and was
leader until superseded by Massey. In his
younger days he was a prominent racehorse
owner. Russell is one of the very few re-
maining politicians who entered Parliament
when the old lights scintillated—Vogel,
Wakefield, Whitaker, Grey, Fitzgerald,
Atkinson, Rolleston, Stout, Donald McLean,
and Ballance. Seddon did not enter the
Reps, until 1879, three years after Russell.
Judging by its headings when announcing
the new Federal Cabinet, the first thing that
struck Melbourne Age, and the only thing
that appealed to it, was the fact that three
Victorians were included. Contemplating
this triumph, it forgot all about the “great
Protectionist victory” it talked of when the
earlier election returns came in. Of the 10
new Ministers six are Foreign-traders and
one a “moderate” Protectionist; only three
can be relied on to vote for a sane tariff.
But to save its face, the Age had to make
some excuse for what it had done.
Unless a law is enacted for the fining and
imprisonment of aldermen who fail to keep
the roads in repair it
is possible that N.S.W.
will, very shortly, have
no country highways
at all. The back tracks
of the Ma State have
never been very glori-
ous, and now under
local administration,
they are becoming very
horrible. Still when it
is possible to put a
large ink-blot on the
map over 100 of the
141 counties which
make up N.S.W., as
an area which, by rea-
son of the Sydney
Congestion policy, had
less population in 1911
than it had in 1901.
who can be expected
to enthuse much about
roads? What good are
thev to a dying popu-
lation?
The decision of the N.S.W. Labor Govern-
ment to import a vast herd of engines
creates a rather tired feeling. The
“workers,” whom the McGowen Ministry
specially represents, want work. They want
skilled work and well-paid work, and, above
all things, work under union conditions.
Locomotive-building is highly-skilled work,
and consequently well-paid. The men who
do it are very good unionists. And when a
Labor Cabinet has made such a hash
of things that it ends by taking this big
job out of the hands of well-paid Australian
unionists, and giving it to ill-paid out-
siders, there must be something wrong. Of
course it is pleaded that the Clyde and
Eveleigh workshops aren’t big enough to
keep up the supply of engines. Well, a
Labor Government should surely have given
good Australian unionists the job of con-
structing and manning bigger workshops;
No doubt it is more trouble to organise a
great local industry than to import and
borrow, but a Government that calls itself
“Labor” shouldn’t mind a little trouble.
Otherwise it might as well call itself
“Loafer.”
A cablegram from London intimates that
William Jones, an obscure dealer in furni-
ture at the obscure town of Warragul, Vic-
toria, who died intestate, left a fortune of
£250,000 (presumably all made by dealing in
furniture at Warragul, Victoria). An Aus-
tralian solicitor (name not given) is alleged
to have dug out the heir, in the shaoe and
form of one Hugh Jones, of Wales, adjacent
to England. There is something touching
about these romances of small, back-street
people who die leaving immense sums and
unknown heirs, and of the solicitors who find
out the heirs, and interrupt the bread-and-
cheese supper with the news that £20,000,000
is waiting to be claimed. There used to be
romance of that sort at Thirlmere, near
Sydney. A perfectly unobtrusive man kept
a perfectly unobtrusive hotel there; yet in
the stormy times of 1893 the local yokel
used to relate with bated breath how, in the
time of stress, he went to the front and lent
the N.S.W. Government £500,000 without
security. The story wandered round for a
while, and then died, and the reasons for its
beginning and its end are equally unknown
THE COOK-OO.
Mr. Cook will not, it is understood, repeal the
policy of the Labor party, and will generally main-
tain the Acts passed by Mr. Fisher.— News item.
EXIT ANTI-SOCIALISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What with our State railways, State tramways
and State intrusions in all sorts of other directions,
we are no longer to be terrified by the bogey of
State Socialism. —S. M. Herald.
Mr. Cook would be unwise to repeal his prede-
cessor’s legislation. —Consensus of Liberal opinion.
Step discreetly: It is dying.
Whisper low ; the end is near.
Vain is protest; vain is sighing;
Profitless the anguished tear.
After years of loyal service It is due for its reward
Ere another day is over It will lie beneath the
sward.
Lo! the virile voice whose thunder
All the land was wont to fill
With remarks concerning “Plunder”
Is pathetically still.
Not a hint about “Conscription” issues from those
ashen lips,
Not a murmur of the madness of Australian battle-
ships.
All the talk of “Confiscation,”
“Loot” and “Socialistic greed,”
Which each owner of a station
Used delightedly to read,
Has become the merest semblance of a shadow of a
row.
It is passing. There is no one to assail the Land
Tax now.
Circumstances alter cases.
“State intrusion” causes fear
Only when the chance of place is
Neither probable nor near.
When the Cabinet is chosen! With a Liberal at its
head!
Draw the curtains. Say a prayer. “Anti-Social-
ism’s” dead.
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


THE VICTOR
“ARTIST ’’ MOOEL A.
A reliable piano
.
guaranteed by Australia’s
premier piano house—
Palings VICTOR PIANO.
VICTOR PIANOS.
Xo commodity is more worthy of deep consideration than a piano.
Lhe qualities it should possess are not all visible, its durability
is not displayed, therefore you should be guided by A HOUSE
WHOSE REPUTATION IS UNQUESTIONABLE. In this
way you may select an instrument to meet your exact require-
ments, feeling sure that you are getting honest value for your
money.
Paling’s reputation is unquestionable, and PALING’S VICTOR
PIANOS offer THE VERY BEST VALUE in Australia for
the money.
BUILT FOR LONG SERVICE.
There is at least one distinguishing feature about our VICTOR
PIANO—it is BUILT FOR LONG SERVICE. The VICTOR
PIANO is the result of our determination to supply our cus-
tomers with an instrument of dependability and durability, at a
medium price, possessing at the same time a full, rich tone and
pleasing musical features. We have sold thousands of VICTOR
PIANOS to highly-satisfied customers, all over Australia—these
people recommend them to their friends, and our sales are ever
on the increase.
RICH INTONE QUALITY—DURABLE - HONEST VALUE.
VICTOR PIANOS made in four beautiful models,
sold fully guaranteed, and for cash or on. easy
time payments. Catalogues are free.
We allow the utmost value on old pianos taken in
part payment—write us and our representative
will call on you and value your old piano free of
charge.
SOLD ON
EASY
TERMS.
338 George St., Sydney
And at Newcastle,
Brisbane,
Lismore
Toowoomba
CATALOGUES
& PRICE LISTS
POST
FREE.
THE VICTOR
“PREMIER.”
TIME: MR. ENGINEER
If you can save time on the next job you take on, by taking somebody s
advice, wouldn’t you take it?
If you can turn out more work, at less cost, by taking that advice,
wouldn’t you take it?
If you can turn out better work, faster, by taking that advice, wouldn t
you take it?
YOU SURELY WOULD,
as every second saved is an addition to your profit. The advice is,
Write for illustrated specification of
HOLBROOK’S
High-Speed Second-Saving
Lathes and Machine Tools.
Modern Construction
Efficient Handling
Massive Design
Elegant Finish
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
Write to-day to Department L you’ll be pleased you did.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
The Industrial Machinery Merchants,
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ri#-
.
PRISM
BINOCULARS.
REMAIN UNRIVALLED for
Mechanical and Optical Perfection.
BEFORE BUYING A FIELD GLASS
ASK TO SEE
ZEISS TURACT
(8 MAGNIFICATIONS).
THE VERY LATEST MODEL,
It is Lighter than the Telact and Possesses the
same Optical Properties.
PRICE £si 1 51
IN SOLID
LEATHER CASE.
Obtainable from All Leading Opticians.
REPUTABLE OPTICIANS WILL NOT TRY TO SUBSTITUTE
ANOTHER GLASS WHEN ASKED FOR ZEISS.


THE STRENUOUS LIFE.
INDIGESTION A RESULT. DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
RESTORE GOOD HEALTH. WOL-
LONGONG LADY’S EULOGY.
“Having suffered from Indigestion for a
considerable period, tightness in the chest
and wind arising therefrom.” writes Mrs,
M. A. .Cahill, of Woodstock Laundry.
Crown-street, Wollongong, “I was persuaded
by a friend to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for that complaint, and can say that
after a short course of Indian Root Pills
all symptoms of the malady were banished
and good health restored immediately;
whenever I feel such symptoms recurring* a
pill occasionally will dispel what might
otherwise culminate in a protracted spell
of suffering from Indigestion—a most per-
sistent disorder to many women—specially
those following a strenuous life, with little
time to spare in being ill. I can speak
always in praise of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and do to my friends. Your remedy
occupies a place in our household in case of
need by myself and others.”*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
✓7;'VN
E. RESCH’S LIMITED, Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his■ Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices s Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Profits
When Belts fail to grip properly—and poor belts do not grip as
surely as the carefullv-made kind.
Stop this leakage! Get the full transmitting power out of your
machines by using
Slip
Away
PIONEER Leather Belting
—the Leather Belting that is proving its worth over and over
again.
PIONEER BELTING is made from selected centre cuts of hides,
tanned the full time in our own tanneries, and then carefully
manufactured in our own factory.
We make every kind of Belting—and our Price List is free fur
the asking. A Post-card- will fetch it.
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
N.S.W. Rugby League, having finished
counting the takings of the matches against Maori-
land, on Saturday resumed its competition, and had
a great time. The wind was blowing a gale, and
the team that won the toss stood a fair chance of
winning everything else, as Glebe found when it met
East Sydney at the Agricultural Ground and lost the
toss. The Eastern captain, Messenger of the Boot,
chose to play with the wind with a view to bursting
the Glebe boiler during the first half. A succession
of mighty kicks kept Glebe on the gallop all the
time till its boiler was burst. Its side muscles gave
way and its knees sagged. Also, its heart was flutter-
ing, and it didn’t know whether to weep or to lie
down and die. At last came half-time, with change
of ends, and Eastern Suburbs only 10 to nil. It was
“only 10” after a whisky and soda had been swal-
lowed in the dressing-room. The rest and the re-
freshments pulled Glebe together, and with the wind
behind it at the change of ends, it charged with a
loud yell. But East charged on the repulse, and
added another three points. Glebe came again and
again, and in quick succession scored nine points,
and with the wind in its favor and only a four-
point deficit, felt really good. But that first 40
minutes had wrecked Glebe. It was exhausted.
Nature refused to respond to the call. Glebe, in
fact, was done brown. And through its fainting
ranks East Sydney charged like a needle through
silk till 18 points had been added to the score. Then
darkness came down with a rush, like a curtain on a
J. C. Williamson tragedy, and ended the horror, 28
to nine.
The rest of the League matches attracted
their usual crowds, but the Glebe-East Sydney smash
was the star item of the afternoon. Western Sydney
bumped Balmain with seven points, and Balmain’s
retaliatory bump was only five strong. South Sydney
went up against North Sydney, and prevailed over it
by eight points to five. Newtown, after a desperate
struggle, overthrew Annandale by 25 to 15. In the
competition the rich are rapidly becoming richer and
the poor more destitute. East Sydney is now far
ahead with 14 points and the nearest rival, South
Sydney, far away with 10. Newtown has nine,
Glebe seven and Balmain six.
The Maoris had an easy thing served up
for the last match of their tour under the Union flag
in th@ shape of a City and Suburban team, which
they. stamped flat by 31 to three. The stamping was
carried out at the University Oval, and the Sydney
people saw Maori play at its very best. The dark
brethren were in great form, and indulged in a new
warcry and fancy passing. The local team was over-
whelmed, and at half-time the invaders were leading
bv 15 to three. The second half, contrary to custom,
was altogether a Maori innings, the Pakehas never
scoring, and the visitors adding 16 pojnts.
The crash with the Maoris did nqt prevent
the Union Competition proceeding on the’ turbulent
tenor of its muddied track. East Sydney fell on
South, and although South put up a Strti'fs/le it was
soundly walloped by 15 points to six without any
great difficulty. Glebe and North Sydney supplied the
preliminary to the Maori match, at the University
Oval, and put up a great game, of which Glebe had
the best of it right through. In the first half it
piled up 15 points to nil, and in the second, though
unable to score, it prevented North Sydney getting
more than five of its own back. Newtown met Bal-
main and smacked it soundly by 13 to six; and
Western Suburbs did likewise with St. George, the
figures being identical. University sent a strong
team to Manly, but it wasn’t strong enough, and the
game ended in a draw, with eight points each.
As in the League, East Sydney leads the competi-
tion, with 16 points. Neither in the League nor the
Union has East Sydney been defeated so far this
season. Newtown is the nearest competitor with 12
points. University and North Sydney have 11 and
10 points respectively. Below these the single figures
range from the eight of South Sydney and Glebe, to
the pair of St. George.
When the Queensland Soccer team faced
N.S.W. for the Infcfir-state match at Epping (Syd-
ney) on Saturday the'wintry wind chilled the North-
ern boys to the bone. Also, it apparently broke
their hearts and quenched their enthusiasm. The
N.S.W. side caught the infection of depression, and
the result was a dreary game, which ended in a. vicr
tory for the home team by one tp nil.
Under Australian Rules Sydney District
now holds pride of place with 36 competition points
to the 32 of Paddington, the 20 of Newtown, North
Sydney and South Sydney; the 16 of Balmain, and
the 12 of East Sydney. That teeming fount of cham-
pions, East Sydney, has not so far nresented the
Australian game with any of its best. But it is only
a matter of tirne.
In Leaguq hoofball in Melbourne on Sat-
urday Carlton ' clashed against South. The previous
encounter this ’seakon having resulted in a draw, a
great battle was anticipated: but Carlton is not the
Carlton of earlier days, and the Southerners, being?
better than they used to be, played all over the
Old Blues. When the bell rang, South had put toge-
ther 88 points to Carlton’s 41. Richmond, which
may yet reach the “final four” if it can beat the
three leading teams and Carlton, bumped against
’Dons, the premiers, and passed them the eighth
walloping they have sustained this season—67 points
to 57. ’Roy impressed its strength on St. Kilda by
piling up 39 points to eight in the first quarter.
After that, it kicked the ball round casually, putting
on a goal or two whenever necessarv. At the close
of the entertainment, St. Kilda had got 39 points,
but ’Roy had 53, so the Saints were still in the
bottomless pit of defeat. The concussion of Mel-
bourne and ’Varsity interested only a few bigoted
partisans, the episode running to a natural termina-
tion with Melbourne (62 points) and ’Varsity (53).
The best game of the five happened at Geelong where
’Wood pitted its system against Geelong’s noted
marking and kicking. Just before half-time the
board showed Geelong, six goals: ’Wood, six goals ;
so there wasn’t much to choose between them. But
thereafter the Magpies, playing always to the man
in the best position, went slowly ahead, and fin-
ished with 11 goals five behinds to Geelong’s eight
goals 12 behinds. The Seasiders put up a good
fight, but the}' didn’t know enough. Their cake is
now dough, and their name (alas!) is Damp Loam,
otherwise Slush.
* * * *
Most interest in Ass. football centres round
Brunswick, Essendon and ’Town, all striving for
fourth place. On Saturday, ’Town made a fool of
itself by going over to Northcote and kicking
behinds instead of goals. There was a fine stack of
them—l 7, no less, and four goals—but as ’Cote
simultaneously booted six goals 12 behinds, it came
out on top by seven points. That was one of the
games ’Town couldn’t afford to throw away. North
was at home to ’Don, and, taking control at the
start, kept the “Dreadnoughts” on a sort of hopeless
gallop throughout the afternoon, winding up with
76 points to 53/ ’Scray welcomed Port with the
glad hand and the muddy .boot, and in a strenuous
and willing scuffle notched 75 points to Port’s 60.
Brighton, intoxicated with its victory over P’ran,
visited Brunswick and returned in a very sober
frame of mind, the Brickies having kept on top
throughout; 76 to 62. P’ran acquired 97 points
while Melb. City was scraping up 43, but the fact
is hardly worth noting.
* * * *
In between the week-end games the
League’s independent tribunal suspended one player
for four matches and another for three, while the
Ass.’s corresponding body hung one up for five weeks.
These penalties were all imposed for using the elbow
or the fist, and cannot be charged with undue sever-
ity. Wilful breaches of the rules of the game, after
the players have been cautioned, should be met by
suspension for the rest of the season, if not for life.
The best player, and the only one worth looking
after, is the one who plays the ball, not the man ;
and the elbow-jab is a particularly unclean, un-
sportsmanlike trick, which should be stamped out.
Only twice in the past 13 yearS> has the
winner of the G. N. Hurdle at Flemington carried
more than lOst. The two exceptions were Sarasati
(lOst. 91b.) and Old Bribery, who humped lOst. 21b.
So there is not much encouragement to fancy the
heavier weights this year, although three of them—
Waumera, Obi and Uxbridge—are fancied at time of
writing. Of these, Obi (list. 71b.) has the soundest
pretensions on his recent flat-racing, and his previous
performances over the sticks. Two years ago he
carried list. 51b. into third place, and the year
before he won with 9st. 101 b. If he jumps as kindly
as of yore, Obi should finish among the first six, any-
how. The under-lOst.-lot includes Julian, Wisconsin,
Glontaft and Goldfish, of which fancied quartette the
writer reckons Goldfish the best investment at a
fair price. He has done nothing to speak of, but
Fred Burn will ride him in preference to others that
were practically under offer to him. The horseman’s
choice amounts to something of a tip. This scribe’s
tip is Hardrada, despite his lOst. 91b. Hardrada has
one good performance to his credit. His trainer,
who knows what is wanted for this particular race,
fancies the son of Tostig,, and he is reasonably sus-
pected of being a hurdler of the best quality. He
will need to be to win next Saturday.
The Maiden Steeple will be an interesting race if
Booligal goes to the post. The handicapper has put
Booligal on the lOst. 71b. mark for the National
Steeple, and if he has a chance for the big race he
should win easily enough on Saturday.
MODERN STATUE OF “THE BOXERS ”
AND A FEW NOBLE “ART” LOVERS.
How crouching Thorne and Harry Thomas
would appear if Saturday's fight at Sydney was
sculptured by a realist.
A persistent, muddle-headed old idea
cropped up again on an Adelaide racecourse t’other
day. The judge gave a dead-heat for second, and
then there was an awkward delay in hoisting the
placings. When the official hoister was re-
monstrated with, he said it wasn’t his fault; he
Was waiting to be given the number of the third!
That a horse which finishes behind three others isn’t
third was an entirely new idea to him. AVhich recalls
the fact that, at an up-country S. Aus. meeting of
years ago, the dead-heaters for second divided the
three sovs. attached to that position, and the next
horse home took two sovs., being officially placed
third.
* * * *
London Referee gives some interesting
figures about the late Sir Tatton Sykes’s racing stud
in Yorkshire. Since his Sledmere stud became reallv
fashionable, about 1890, his yearlings have fetched
well over a quarter of a million, averaging 1283
guineas apiece. Last year, four successive lots
brought 3100, 3400, 3900 and 3200 guineas. An
hour later, there came consecutively 3800, 3500,
3400 and 3000 guineas. On the other hand, a Car-
bine—Maid of the Mint colt went for 300 guineas in
1904. That colt was Spearmint, which won the
Derby in England and the Grand Prix in France, and
eventually went to the stud at a fee of 250 guineas
—only a trifle short of his original cost. Buying
fashionable yearlings is a gamble. - Tatton Sykes
made the selling of them a gold mine. A time came
when Sykes could have put up a yearling wild eat
and sold it.
* * * *
On Saturday a N.S.W. Lacrosse team
struck Brisbane, and met a Queensland XII in per-
fect weather and the presence of a crowd of about
2000. Queensland drew first-blood, but the advan-
tage was not maintained, and the half-time interval
found the invaders leading with six goals to two.
In the second half Queensland came out of its shell
and showed the Ma Staters what combination is and
how to keep.it, though moving. At three-quarter
time Queensland had lifted its score to eight goals,
while N.S.W. had failed to add any. The final
quarter was very fast and gritty. Both sides let
themselves go, and a fine struggle ensued, inf which
N.S.W. scored twice and Queensland once. And then
the bell rang, with Queensland victorious by nine
goals tb eight. Prior to the big match the Queens-
land schoolboys also defeated a N.S.W. boy team by
12 goals to one. So altogether it was Queensland’s
day out.
Sydney baseball on Saturday provided a
hair-raising time for Lane Cove, which had been top-
dogging in the premiership scramble. The Goliath
team wandered out to Petersham, where the local
men knew every blade of grass and mud-hole in
their cow-patch, and after a vigorous nine innings
game Lane Cove managed to out Petersham by six to
five. But it was so close that the Cove has not yet
recovered from the fright. Up at Rydalmere, Mos-
man caught a disorganised band from Paddington
and tore it to pieces by 15 runs to seven. Waverley
labored hard against Burwood and prevailed upon it,
the scores being five to three. Leichhardt got a
University team and literally rolled it in the mud
by eight runs to one. It was an awful day for base-
ball in the slush and sticky mud.
N.S.W. police champion walker, A. W.
Pickard, showed that he is a good man off the beat
as well as on it by winning the three-mile road
toddle at Sydney from scratch. He conceded long
starts to a lengthy tribe of opponents, but at the
finish wto easily with 25yds. beneath his helmet in
38min. 38sec. The criminal editor unworthily sug-
gests that Mary and Jane and Sue and other cookies
must have paid special attention to the tramper’s
diet of late. The time, considering the awful roads,
is distinctly good.
After many false alarms the great Warr-
nambool-Melbourne road race, with all its inter-
state test races, goes overboard. Over-popularity
killed it. The last two races saw vast crowds at
the Haymarket, Melbourne, get right out of hand,
and, despite barriers, police and officials, rush the
track to the danger of themselves and the con-
testants. The Melbourne City Council and the police
both decided that another finishing point must be
found for the race somewhere outside the city limits.
The V.R.C. put the Flemington course at the co.’s
disposal, but on inspection the place proved to be
even more unsuitable. The only other alternative
was to finish the race a considerable distance from
Melbourne, where there would be neither suitable
surroundings nor conveniences for handling the hun-
dreds of riders, who usually complete the run. So
the cd. accepted the inevitable. The race, with its
inter-State tests, has been easily the biggest item in
the amateur road-racing of Australasia ; and it will
leave a very huge gap indeed. Every man who took
to road-racing did it with a view to competing in,
first, the State Dunlop Test, and, finally, in the great
Warrnambool. Now the Warrnambool is dead.
Its place will be taken by the lOO
Miles Teams Relay Road Competition,” which will be
'dpen to amateur or cash riders belonging to any
bony, >fide cycling club in the Commonwealth and the
Dominion. Over £2OO will be distributed in
prizes, and should an amateur win, he may take>a
trophy—a medal, or a grand piano, or a Family
Bible, or a buggy, or a sundry. The first prize will
be £lOO, the second £5O and the third £2O. A
special 10 guineas is paid for the fastest time, anj
another 10 guineas goes to the winning club. The
competition will rage from August 1, ’l3, till April
30, ’l4. The teams will consist of 10 riders, earrv-
ing a despatch in turn over 10 mile relays till 100
miles have been covered. The team establishing the
fastest time for the century will have the glory. The
team leading at the end of October will receive an
interim prize of £lO, and also the team leading at
the end of January. A standard time will be set,
and a handsome medallion will be awarded to all
riders who equal or better the time limit.
Hardly had the Dunlop Rubber Co. an-
nounced its intention to establish a relay ride in lieu
of the lost Warrnambool and its State Test Races,
than the N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union announced that as
the affair was open to professionals also, its members
could not compete or take part. The Union is strain-
ing things considerably. All competitors will com-
pete actually with members of their own club. The
time limit set for the 100 miles by the promoting com-
pany will be five hours, and it is that time limit that
the whole of the teams will be competing against.
Club teams will never meet, but each club will pick
its 10 best men to gallop against the time limit.
The Amateur Cycling Association of England allowed
Leon Meredith, the world’s amateur champion, to
run in a similar affair, when he covered 100
miles in 4hr. 52min. 41 4-ssec., after most of the
leading professional riders had failed to break the
limit, which was also five hours. N.S.W. Cyclists’
Union would be well advised to chew the matter
over some.
Dead in Adelaide, at the early-middle-age
which seems to be fatal to so many athletes when
they go out of training, “Bunny” Daly, who, with
his brother “Boss,” was a mighty Norwood foot-
baller at the beginning of the century, when that now
discredited district used to play skittles with the
other teams and throw the bones and ruins of them
all over the establishment.
Motor-cars seem to be suffering from the
same trouble as whisky—there are too many brands
on the market. At the moment of writing, there
are 350 different kinds of cars being produced in
the United Kingdom alone, and when one adds the
infinite variety of U.S.A. and France to the list, how
the deyil is the poor motor buyer to decide which
brand he will ride in?
After all, in spite of his marvellous
achievements, the average motor builder is some-
thing of a goat. He has never made provision for
adjustability for the man or woman who. drives a
car, and has crassly assumed that all motorists are
of the same length of leg and arm. Supposing all
bikes were made with the same stretch of leg and
the same handle-bar position! Yet that is the ridicu-
lous stunt the motor-car builder put up on his clients
as regards steerin' l - wheel, pedals and seat accomoda-
tion. Tall men find themselves hopelessly cramped,
and small men and women have a difficulty in reach-
ing the pedals, with the result that their clutch and
brake action are far from being immediate and
effective. The slope of the steering column should
be adjustable, and, if possible, the position of the
wheel itself. All that is required is to make the
driver’s seat adjustable, vertically and horizontally—
which is about the simplest problem imaginable. In
fact, it isn’t a problem at all. Any fool can make a
seat that can be adjusted vertically and horizontally.
A Canadian has been saying shocking
things about the roads of N.S.W., and especially
those which lead into Sydney. He declares that they
are not roads at all, but mere hogs. The charge is
true. It is only a few weeks since a motor fire-
engine rushing through Drummoyne was sunk in
one of the principal residential streets for half an
hour till sufficient horses to haul it could be ob-
tained. The Canadian visitor says that the British
Empire, except in England itself,'is the worst roaded
territory in the world.
* * * *
The Australian cyclists in America,
Goullett, Grenda, Hjehir and A. J. Clark—if Clark
can now be called an Australian—have been sweeping
the tracks. In one month Goullett won five scratch
races, and among his victims was Frank Kramer, the
American Speed King and holder of the world s
Sprint Championship on four occasions. The others
have also been having a royal and affluent time.
* * * *
Motorists who have trouble starting their
engines these cold mornings and nights will be in-
terested to learn that the trouble is easily got over.
Mix equal quantities of petrol and “washed” or com-
mercial ether in a half-pint oil can. The can must
be air-tight and the spout carefully corked to pre-
vent the evaporation of the ether. To start the
engine, swing the handle a couple of times, switch
on current, and then squirt a small quantity of the
mixture into the cylinder compression taps or caps ;
and the engine will spring off its tail at the first
turn. Ether can be got from any chemist, but it is
necessary that it be always carefully corked up.
Pearce has cabled from London that the
English climate suits him admirably. He feels as
though charged with electricity, and ends a 44 miles
daily row delightfully fresh. It’s good news. Barry
is training hard ; and it is expected that the winner
of the race will provide a record. It’s a pity this
electricity is such an ephemeral thing, and, like a
rat, always eager for the shortest way home.
The Brisbane City Council recently
granted Reginald Baker permission to erect and con-
duct a Stadium in the Queensland capital. Plans
were in the first stage of materialisation when the
Government suddenly intervened, cancelled the per-
mit, and declared its intention of allowing only one
scrapping palace in Brisbane. Why the Government
did it, nobody knows ; but it did it, and practically
declared boxing in Brisbane to be a close monopoly.
It looked like a knock-out for Baker, but he came
up smiling at nine, and with one wallop bought out
the monopoly; and is, therefore, better off than he
was before.
Mat Wells was welcomed to Sydney with
the usual dinner, and was discovered to be a sturdily
built young Hebrew with a most peaceful counte-
nance and retiring manner. His brother manages
for him. His fight with Mehegan is fixed for August
2, and will rage at the Sydney Stadium, Rushcut-
ters Bay. It will be necessary to leave home a few
minutes earlier to avoid the crush.
* * * *
The disturbance on Saturday night at the
Sydney Stadium between Frank Thorne and Harry
Thomas was an unsatisfactory sort of scrap. Neither
man scored any distinct advantage, and both had the
better of it at times. Also, occasionally, one had
the worst of it, and sometimes the other wasn’t doing
so well. Thorne put up a scries of fine attacks, and
Thomas made a fine defence, and it was hard to
judge between them. The crowd was distinctly
favorable to Thorne, and after the 15th round Thomas
went in for a knock-out. He prdbably felt it had
been too even to be satisfactory, and he very pro-
• perly realised that there is no disputing a knock-
out. Thorne stuck strictly to the defensive, and
generally acted as though he regarded the battle as
won if he could avoid the knock-out. Which he did.
Then referee Arthur Scott placed his hand on
Thomas’s head, and a great silence crashed down and
almost wrecked the place. Nothing falls so heavily
as a howling silence. Thorpe assuredly was the
better boxer of the two, but the Englishman was the
harder hitter and his wallops hurt; and apparently
Scott judged that the balance of injury entitled
Thomas to the crown. But it was a highly unpopular
decision, and as the scribes themselves are divided
upon the question, who the devil shall speak with
authority ?
* * * *
Jack Johnson, who was out on bail pend-
ing the hearing of his appeal, last week escaped to
Canada. A bogus baseball team travelled towards a
small border town, but before reaching the destina-
tion, one of the players, a fine tall negro with a
heavy moustache, left the train at a place called
Hamilton. Quitting the platform, he stepped into
a high-powered car, which immediately vanished
towards Canada. If Jack had been wise, he would
have retained the friendly moustache, hurried to
Montreal, got on board the French steamer, and
yapped afterwards, by wireless, if he could not wait
till he reached France. But knowing there is no
extradition treaty between Canada and the U.S.A.,
he whooped immediately he was over the line. Then
he went on a sort of royal progress to Montreal,
where he had his photograph taken six times, and
was interviewed by numerous papers, to which he
declared he was safe under the folds of the Union
Jack, and all the world could not tear him away.
Then the bomb burst. The U.S.A. people asked
Canada to send him back, and Johnson discovered
that though there is no extradition treaty, the Cana-
dian Government usually returns such people as are
wanted over the Canadian-U.S.A. border as undesir-
able immigrants, and a United States marshal always
happens to be waiting at the place where the unde-
sirable re-enters Washington’s country—with a party
of armed police. Johnson pleaded that he was not an
immigrant, merely a passenger passing through, and
how the argument ended, or if it ended at all, is not
yet known.
Those who cherish a wild desire to see the
swimming marvel, Duke Kahanamoku, are likely to
have their yearning satisfied next October. Mayne.
captain of the Australian XI in the United States,
got in touch with the Hawaiian peer and fixed up
some arrangment with him. So it is possible
that his Grace will shortly be with us. Let us re-
joice. The people of the old Empire of Kamehameha
are weak on some things, but when they turn out a
swimmer he is the genuine goods. In fact he can
swim a shark till it dies of old age.


LEARN TO BOX SKILFULLY
AND BE A WINNER 1
m
I
1
i
1
I
i
1
i
I
i
i
i
1
1
1
i
i
I
i
1
1
The skilful boxer has a great advantage
over his opponent.
Because he applies his . strength scientifically
--does the right thing at the right moment -
takes good care to reserve his powers, 'sees
that his opponent’s blows lash the air or land
on his gloves.
How unfortunate it’d be for you to engage
a skilful Boxer. Why, you’d be in doubt
about a man of your own weight and skill.
Surely, you ought to cease being a target
for a good Boxer.
Learn to be a skilful Boxer. There’s no
reason for you to remain “crude.” I can
teach you in your own home.
1 TEACH BOXING
BY POST
My methods are as thorough as is possible
' everything is as plain as plain can be. The
instruction is simple and efficient. It will
teach you to be a hard-hitting boxer, with
an excellent defence. You will be taught
how to compel your adversary to leave open-
ings. You’ll cultivate the habit of keeping
yourself “covered” at all times.
Here is what one pupil reported:—
“I had a spar with a chap here the other night. He lost his headpiece, and went for me
like a good one. It was good practice for me while it lasted, but that was not for long.”
J. 0., Tenterfield, N.S.W.
You’re missing a fine lot of pleasure. Hadn’t you better write for further particulars! as regards
fees, etc.? Ask for a copy of my interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Kindly
send threepence in stamps for postage.
REG. L. ( “Snowy”) BARER
204 Belmont Building's,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Actual Sizes.
No. 1.
mi
No. 2,
No. 3.
No. 4. |
Are You a
Cigarette
Smoker ?
If so, and you enjoy a
good cigarette—some-
thing distinctive and
out of the ordinary—
you should try my
THREE C’s
Hand Made
They have a fine flavor
and are very mild.
No. 1, Russian.
A Cigarette that you
will thoroughly en-
joy, jib Box, 45.,
as illustrated.
No. 2, Virginia.
Plain, gold or cork-
tipped, as illustrated,
jib. Box, 4s.
No. 3, Egyptian.
Smokes mild and
sweet, jib. Box,
4s. 6d., as illus-
trated.
No. 4, Turkish.
Oval or round, jib.
Box, 4s. 6d. Oval
as illustrated. POST-
AGE EXTRA.
My large, illustrated
Catalog of Cigars,
Cigarettes, etc., will
be sent free upon re-
quest.
A. M. SOLOMON,
Cigar Eipert,
173 Pitt St., Sydney
IF
YOU WILL go in for
Sport,
YOU WILL go in for Best,
Material,
YOU WILL always obtain
this at
L.W.DODGEBCO.
SYDNEY SPORTS STORES,
NOW LOCATED AT
10 & 12 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
‘SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
• NO
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
rnHE Best Stories written by Australian
-L Writers appear in The Lone ilAi
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly-
PVGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
The Diamond
Output—k.
of our House has broken all
records this year again.
WHY?
Well, we took on a Sole
Agency calling for an enor-
mous output, and to live up
to it we decided two years
ago to offer Diamonds (set
or unset) at merely a
broker’s commission on the
landed cost. We calculated
that the commissions would
Fine Pearl an d
Diamond, set in
Platinum, £B.
Fine Sapp hi r e,
Pearl and Di a-
monds, set in
Platinum,
£B/8/-
Fine blue Sapphire
and Diamonds, set
in Platinum,
£l5.
10 Diamonds, set
in Platinum,
£l7.
Diamonds, set in
Platinum,
£lO/10/-
Fine blue Sapphire
and Pearl and Dia-
monds, set in Plat-
inum, £7 171-
be numerous
us, especially
successful,
than London.
leased buyers would remain customers,
as the pleaseci j . .. another year.
We, therefore, are continuing it for
There is no duty on unset gems.
The experiment proved partly
Our prices for Diamonds are less
Plain Figures
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd
0,1 » H«- .. 23 * 25 HUnter Street ‘
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Comfort from the Start
The Rigney Shoe is a quality shoe
and made according to the natural
lines of the foot, therefore it is com-
fortable from the start.
The shoe illustrated is a choice Willow
Calf Derby Shoe, Fine Stitched Welts,
Perforated Vamp, Lace Face and Cap,
22/6 & 251-
In Black or Tan.
•j ; fl
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our NEW CATALOG.
•#/
&
i;/ ■' <„
Hr: !> %
' . V,. ' i
asss
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY;
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
“The Religious Editbr”: I am writing
this by lamplight because my North Shore
gas is not so much an illuminant as a com-
bustible bad smell. I wonder if these rich
gas cos. would be so shameless about sup-
plying underproof “vapor and giving short
measure to their customers, if, instead of
blowing it anonymously through under-
ground pipes into the privacy of the house-
hold, the employees bad to trundle the
tinned article round the streets in carts
with the name of the supplier emblazoned
on the sides? I don’t think so. The milk-
man —these days an almost ferociously
honest person —is liable at any moment to
be overtaken by the Law in a motor-car
and publicly bailed un for samples, which,
if under the legal limit, will earn his boss a
prosecution and much unpleasant publicity.
If his goods were delivered furtively by pipe,
and charged for distantly and by post at so
much per fopt, he would probably be as bad
as the gas co. has been in the past—and
that is very bad indeed. Man seems to be
so immorally arranged that, directly he. is
able to trade through a pipe,, or over a wire,
or down a chute, he becomes a pirate.
Before signed journalism, the world wants
signed gas, signed bread, initialled milk,
monogrammed cheese, water-marked butter,
and ten thousand other things. At Manly
the water ought to be signed.
THERE’S A GREAT RUSH
BY MOTOWJTS fOR OUR OVERSIZE
DUNLOP
TYRES «
If Your Car is undertyred, here’s the
opportunity of getting better tyre
results. Lhrger covers mean
more air, less vibration,
longer wear, and very
little extra cost.
Send for Price List if you have not
recently had copy posted you.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
all states
AND N.Z.
CO
Si
m
rx
UK
A
L
Vi
OVERSIZE/
STOCKED A 3
FOLLOWS
, 760 x 105
for 760x90*100 rimt
810 x 105
forBlox9o* 100 rim*
815 x 120
for 815 x 105 rims.
880 x, 130
for 880 x 120 rim>.
920 x 130
for 920 x 120 rimt*
AMERICAN
31" x 4"
for 30'x 3'A"r im*
• 33" x 4"
[ for 32'x 3K*Him.


m
Q
n
m
r.
4
>Oi il
b
MS' n
The Bishop of Bath and Wells writes: “The
value of Formamint as a preventive is
appreciated in this house.’’
The Archdeacon of Bristol writes : “I habitually
carry Wulfing’s Formamint with me as a
preventive of Sore Throat.’’
The Earl of Kilmorey writes : “I am glad to give
my testimony to the soothing and curative
effects of your potent remedy— Formamint,
with which lam so familiar. As is my
constant practice, I keep one of your brown
bottles on my dressing table.”
How to Avoid Infectious Diseases.
Do you realise that most of the dangerous infectious
diseases, such as Diphtheria, Consumption, Influenza, Scarlet
Fever, Measles and the like, are caused by germs which gain
entrance to the body through the mouth and throat ?
The minute living organisms which produce such diseases
grow and develop like the seeds of plants, and the mouth and
throat form an ideal hot-house for cultivating them.
The scientist, of course, can grow them outside the body,
artificially. For example, a test-tube culture of the germs
which cause Consumption is depicted here ; and also a bottle
of Wulfing’s Formamint—the means which Science has found
to destroy such germs in the mouth and throat, and so protect
us against the diseases which they breed.
W* WULFJNG *S • .
rormamint
THE GERM-KILLING THROAT TABLET
These harmless and palatable tablets contain the most
powerful destroyer of disease germs known to Science. They
dissolve in the saliva, and the disinfectant is thus carried to
every little crevice, chink, or cranny in the mouth, gums,
tonsils and throat. Thus all germ growths are sought out and
destroyed, their spread is checked, their power to do harm is
entirely broken.
As a preventive of infectious disease, Formamint Tablets
should be used daily by everyone, in health or sickness, and
they are particularly recommended for school children, who
are so exposed to infection, especially at this time of the year.
Beware, however, of harmful imitations ; there is only one
genuine Formamint, viz. Wulfing’s, and all Chemists sell it at
2S. 6d. per bottle. The manufacturers, A. Wulfing & Co.,
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W., will gladly send you a Free
Sample and an interesting Booklet, if you write to them,
mentioning this paper, and enclose two penny stamps towards
postage.
Trafficking in Land.
Traffickers in State leases have had an
finpleasant bump in Maoriland; and as most
of the arguments in the case apply equally
in Australia, the parasitic tribe may expect
trouble on this side of the water also. The
matter was one in which a contract of sale
'was in question. Seth Webb and Martin
Boberts had got from the Dominion Gov-
ernment certain leases of “settlement” land,
in all 2956 acres, for £33 a year. The term
commenced on July 1, 1911. Within a fe\V
months they had made contracts to sell 2600
acres of the leasehold for prices which would
bring them a clear profit of £BOOO. But
trouble arose between the parties, and then
the suet was in the conflagration. The Act
says that there shall be no transfer, except
in case of death or other extraordinary
event, for five years. Apparently the State
lessees’ idea was to give possession of the
land at once and effect the transfer later
on. The purchasers’ idea, on the other
hand, seems to have been that, being anxious
to go on the land and get to work, they could
squeeze out the necessary “consent” from
the Land Board at once. Unfortunately for
both of them the Lands Department took
another view, which was, briefly, that the
whole business was contrary to public policy. •
and the entire contract no good. It was ad-
mitted that the object of Parliament was to
prevent the exploitation of land-seekers.
“And here,” said Justice Cooper, who tried
the case, “is flagrant exploitation.” The
Legislature intended to forbid such transac-
tions, and he had no difficulty in reading the
Act liberally enough to find that it had made
them as illegal as Parliament intended they
should be made. So the contract was thrown
out and the castle of litigation which it was
proposed to build upon the document tumbled
to pieces. Any man who either buys or
sells a “green” lease of this kind knows now
that the bargain is no good in law —in
Maoriland, at any rate, and very likely in
Australia —and the knowledge isn’t likely to
promote trafficking in such goods. Still, it
doesn’t follow at all that the trafficking evil
will be stopped. The trouble in this case
was that the State lessees couldn’t or
wouldn’t wait for another 3J years. If they
had been willing to do that they could no
doubt have got their transfer through, and
been quite successful in bleeding the men to
whom they were passing on the land. Yet
if it is against public policy for speculators
to take up land for the purpose of exploit-
ing the landless, the case surely isn’t altered
seriously by the mere fact of the speculator
lying low for five years; and, though the ex-
cellent Cooper judgment may minimise the
trafficking in leases that have run less than
five years, it will do nothing whatever to stop
the almost equally pernicious trafficking in
leases that have grown to that age. And
there is much more trafficking in them than
in the unripe sort. It is not too much to
say that hundreds of leases have lately been
taken up in N. S. Wales alone by men who
have no intention whatever of holding be-
yond five years, which is the prescribed
term also in the Ma State. These men may
not be able to get the £2OOO or so which
they expect; but the agents who, in most
cases, have run them into the ballot, have
given them pretty definite hopes, all things
going well. How this blackmailing of the
real producers is going to be overcome The
Bulletin doesn’t know for certain. Pro-
bably no one provision will wholly abolish
the curse —for it is a curse. But many
things may help. Thus it should be made
much more difficult to get transfers through
in cases where it is reasonably clear that
speculation has been at the bottom of the
original application. And if 25 per cent, of
the consideration money paid for the leases,
as distinguished from improvements, were
collared by the State, and if, moreover, the
State had the right to fix or at least review
the consideration money payable for a Stale
lease, a good deal of trouble would be ended.
The speculator in that case would not so
enthusiastically crowd the bona fide selector
out of the original ballot. Also, the State
would be getting a little of its own; for
when Gubbins gets a lease from the State
for £3O a year and does practically nothing
with the land except camp on it, and five
years afterwards extracts £2OOO from Mug-
gins for the right to take his (Gubbins’s)
place, it is pretty certain that the State
wasn’t getting market value when it let the
outfit for £3O.
The Sort of Freetrade that Australia
Needs.
“10-2-4” writes :
There is no question about the earnestness of the
Woodrow Wilson Administration on the subject of
Freetrade for the United States. For ex-
ample, last month, it reduced the duty on
motor-cars . imported to the U.S. from 45 to
40 per cent. Under the fallacious old Protectionist
arrangement America has built up a vast motor in-
dustry. It turns out every class of car, from the
Pierce-Arrow, which is as expensive and probably as
good as the Rolls-Royce, to the Ford, which is ab-
surdly cheap and has a reputation for reliability.
None but millionaires use other than locally built
cars in the U.S. They can’t afford to. And inci-
dentally, many thousands of American cars are ex-
ported every year. In Australia almost every other
' taxi-cab that runs about the city streets is a Ford ;
and the vast majority of country cars are Cadillacs, or
other low-priced Yankee creations of a similar stamp.
The fact obtrudes itself that Australia could do well
with some of this business. Why not a Freetrade
duty, on the Woodrow Wilson basis, of 40 or even
35 per cent, on foreign motor-cars? No doubt it
will be impossible, even with such a duty, for Aus-
tralia to build cars outright for some years. The
local demand, though big considering the population,
is not considerable enough in regard to any one make
of car to warrant a firm installing works here—the
machinery in the motor-building trade being costly.
But at least Australia could make a beginning by
assembling the cars which it is going to use, in the
same way as it has been assembling its bicycles for
years past. The assembling industry may not be
what one might term a nation-building one. There
is nothing w ldlv inspiring about it, in the sense
that the ship-building or the steel-making industries
are inspiring. But it is highly profitable, and it
means a heap more work and wages for the country
that introduces it—a consideration for Australia,
which is languishing for a big population. It will
be got going here automatically as soon as the Aus-
tralian Parliament decides to alter the tariff by put-
ting a nominal duty on motor-car parts and, say, a
40 per cent, duty on completed cars. Freetraders
should not object with undue violence to a 40 per
cent, duty in this connection, since it is the standard
set by an Administration which they have acclaimed
repeatedly as in full agreement with their principles.
And Protectionists might regard the nominal duty
on parts, with philosophic calm, in view of the fact
that the more the assembling industry expanded the
more populous and prosperous the country must be-
come, thus bringing nearer the desirable day when
Australia will find itself in a position to rise up and
impose a really' effective Protectionist duty on its
motor-car industry-—say, 100 per cent, all round to
begin with.
The Law and the Life.
“0.K.” gives his view of the case:—
The subject of “forcible feeding” of prisoners is
a decidedly nasty subject—outside of medical and
professional nursing circles. All the same, it threat-
ens to raise nice questions of political and social
law. In the House of Commons, recently, a mem-
ber, who was not openly championing the wearisome
suffragettes, uttered most of the absurdities with which
their case against the Law is buttressed. He said:
“The whole idea of forcible feeding is repugnant
to all decent-minded people, and I cannot conceive
that the House of Commons, in the exercise of its
real common sense, can be a party to a proceeding
of this kind. 1 do not think any sane person ought
to be forcibly fed. There is only one other method
of dealing with these people if you do not give
women the vote, and that is to feed the prisoner,
or to put food before her, and, if she does not take
it, let her take the consequences.” Argument of this
sort wilfully ignores the fact that the allowing of
a convicted suffragette, or any other sort of female
prisoner, to starve herself to death would create an
uproar among the people. It would count as an out-
rage on civilisation, perpetrated by the powers that
be. It would bring all other forcible prevention of
suicide into ridicule if it were publicly sanctioned.
Why pull a wretched, weary-of-life citizen out of the
river, and charge him, or her, with attempted suicide,
at a police court, if suffragettes can lawfully die of
refusing food in prison ? Why apply the stomach-pump
in hospitals to a patient w’ho is brought in suffering
from poison, self-inflicted? Why do anything to
save the life of anybody who has endeavored to lose
that life? The matter of the forcible feeding of
suffragettes (who, by the way, are not sane, but
hysterical or fanatical) must be viewed from a
broad political standpoint. If they are simply left
to make martyrs of themselves, civilisation is out-
raged. If they are allowed to starve themselves to
the very verge of dissolution, they have to be released
for a term, to save their lives. Sending them to
the gaol hospital would be useless, because they—
the mad ones, accepted as sane —would still refuse
food. And if any prisoner is entitled to win release
from gaol by refusing to-take food which is merely
placed in the cell, lots of prisoners other than suf-
fragettes will adopt this system of Law-beating, and
the Law will look a bigger Hass than ever. This is
the difficulty that presents itself, owing to the fact
that society is not prepared to let suffragettes take
the consequences of their hysterical obstinacy. All
communities are interested in the absurd difficulty.
We may have to face it in Australia presently, with
people who object to compulsory military service, or
something of the sort. Forcible feeding seems to
provide the only way out of it. Better for the
Law to sacrifice some of its majesty in doing what
is “repugnant to all decent-minded people,” etc., etc.,
than to lose all its majesty by lying down and
taking “the count.”
A Letter re a Small Coin.
O. O. Cabot writes: —
I rise (with some misgiving) to propose the rein-
troduction of the humble farthing. I am impelled
to do so by that modern Old-Man-of-the-Sea, the Cost-
ofliving. My misgiving shall be dismissed in a
line: I should be sorry to see the farthing again in
circulation, because a small coinage usually indicates,
or precedes, something very like national hardup-
ness. But —and it is a mighty big but, holding
many gallons of explanation—if something isn’t
done' soon to drown, enfeeble, atrophy, or otherwise
arrest the growth of this' fiend, Costofliving, it
means simply that we may as well chuck in our
marbles, or prohibit all food exports, or nationally
hunger-strike, or do or proclaim any other drastic
old thing! The reason the farthing is going to
circulate once more (at present, while nominally
in the coinage, it actually exists only on bread-bills
and drapers’ tickets) is this — Without something
smaller than a halfpenny, the butchers, the bakers,
the grocers, and ' the wood-and-coal pirates are mak-
ing 'an extra (retailers’) profit on every wholesale
increase in price, fair or unfair. Australia already
has to pay a terrible toll to the blighting cuss called
“the middleman” (known so, I believe, because he
cuts the middle out of everything the public has to
buy), and as most retailers are middlemen of con-
siderable pertinacity, I want to draw attention to
the necessity of reintroducing the farthing—and,
perhaps, even a smaller coin—in order to reduce,
not the middleman’s fleecing nropensities (which
would be impossible), but his powers.
Let’s take the grocer. He sells you 2lb. of sugar
for bid., but if you are a poor person, and can afford
to buy only l.b. (or if you need only lib.), you
must pay 3d. Result: grocer wins id., you lose id.
With the farthing in circulation you would have
scored at least as well as the grocer. Again, you
are also in the market for butter, say to the extent
of a ilb.' The grocer has his cow grease labelled
Is. lid. a pound, and, actually, you ought to pay
6fd. for your little bit. With the humble farthing
on deck you wou d do so, but, in its absence, you
chip in 7d. —a distinct extra profit to the grocer of
about 4 per cent, on top of his first profit—of which
more anon. This same procedure applies to bis-
cuits, soar), cheese, etc.
The system hits the poor people every time, and
when it comes (as it does daily) to ordering all of
these lines in small quantities at one time, Messrs.
Sugar and Sand do well. If only 12 people buy
ilb. apiece of biscuits, at per lb., the poor grocer
scoops 3d. extra profit on his first profit—which is
not microscopic. But this is not all. There are two
ends to a sausage, and two to a business transaction.
The grocer gets both. For instance, three weeks ago
butter cost the Sydney grocer 945. per 1121 b.
Three separate and distinct “rises” of 4s. per cwt.
(of 1121 b.) have been recorded to time of writing.
Now, 4s. per cwt. means an increase of considerably
less than Id. per lb. Yet each “rise” saw butter
advanced a full penny per lb. by all the grocers
within reach of the S. M. Herald ! If they raised
butter id. for each 4s. “rise,” they would be making
2s. extra profit, anyhow; because, in “passing it
on” to you* and me and Martha, the grocers would
get three separate lots of 16 halfpence—(Bd. + 3
= 24d. = 2s.) —the difference between the 96 half-
pennies they pay, and the 112 halfpennies they might
charge, but don’t, because they prefer 112 pennies!
You would be surprised, too, to find how quickly
even a small grocer “turns over” a cwt. of butter.
Similar things are done with cheese, sugar, and
bacon, soap and biscuits, etc. With the farthing
in circulation, the poorer people would be able to
save a good many odd pence every week.
All these periodical “wholesale increases,” so
sonorously announced by the S. M. Herald and the
Telegraph (also, by all the “great dailies” in all
the Australian capitals), appear to me to be devised
specially to fleece the consumer. The retailers and
middlemen never object ; on the contrary, they are
“in” with the bigger robbers to “take it out” of
the public. Why ? Because the First Robbers always
manipulate the “rises” so as to leave that sweet,
little “extra bit” for the -shopkeepers. They make a
profit on a profit. With the farthing back again
(and the half-farthing, if necessary), they could
not make so much, though they would still get three
meals a day and an occasional beer. The same with
the bakers, the wood-and-coal fiends, and the sheep-
murderers and the deadly drapers—but, certainly, the
drapers! You see most things marked 6jd. and
ll|d., and Is. ll?d., etc., but how much change
(or lieu of change) is there out of the missus’s good
sevenpence, or shilling, or florin? Nichts!
So I stand in the market place and cry—“ln the
name of the Profit — Farthings !”


Mount Victopm
0
(/111
9,
:v
43
V
P
Lr J
a fa
r r r
*** ~- - fc £.*" ~ r
m&*
fjji .;r*
■«?
**sssw*
1
KS
am
■:~
m
V. . , •
isas* 5
''l
-• •■■*'
s 1
SNvr
XL
n
e=^
<0
4f
\ /
/
XT
fMfoL ..
?• n
3;
§s
AN
N
/
P/'
S'
r
Convenience
Just over three hours' run from Sydney, through magnificent
Scenery. Plenty of trains to suit your pleasure, and the
"IMPERIAL” is close to Mount Victoria Station; in the centre of
the Tourist district, and handy to the famed Jenolan Caves.
Every day a service of easy-riding, high-powered "Itala” Cars runs
to the celebrated Jenolan Caves. FARE, 30/- RETURN.
Comfort
The "IMPERIAL” is without doubt the most modern Hotel in
Mount Victoria, and one of the finest on the Mountains. Fifty
luxurious Bedrooms, magnificent Dining Hall, Electric Light, a
modern Motor Garage, Expert Service and Splendid Cuisine
equalling any City Hotel. A stay at the "IMPERIAL
will add greatly to the pleasure of your visit.
Pleasure
Mount Victoria is 3424 feet above the Sea, situated in the
midst of magnificent Scenery, offering unrivalled attractions
to the visitor. The glorious Mountain air puts new life into one.
Try it this next week end.
The "IMPERIAL” Tariff is £3 3s. per week; 10s. per day.
Full information obtainable from
THE TOWN OFFICE,
18 Imperial Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


From youth
to old age
A
(L
See this
mark on
package.
HEALTH
demands constant care.
SCOTT’S builds up
the system, enriches
the blood, repairs life’s
wear and tear, and pro-
tects against coughs,
bronchitis, whooping
cough and all throat
and chest ailments.
The world’s doctors
recommend genuine
Emulsion
Be sure to see the
fishman on the package.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absoiutely pure form) for successfully
treating all herve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage bv the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under Lhe Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 16 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
AIR PALLING OUT?
Troubled with dandruff?
Did you not know that
Ayer’s Hair Vigor stops
falling hair, destroys dandruff?
THE Australian Magazine—THE
HAND. The National Monthly.
LONE
Price. 6d.
STAMMERING.
WR. W. A. YEARSLEY, Bowen Terrace, Mel-
v bourne. Under special appointment to Munici-
pal Education Committees, England and South
Africa. Method approved Board of Education, Eng.
Subsidised by Governments. Awarded Gold Medal
for excellency. Booklets sent free.
Fits “Wonder” has
No “Bromide of Potash.’
Safe, Certain Cure—
-6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
16 Hunter St., Sydney, &
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
CARBIDE
For First-Class
Results use
Best
Mp~
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole A<r nts for Australia.
Have You Tried Herbs
for Your Illness ? —i
For hundreds of years the common, simple herbs were all that were used as medicines—
and the people in the olden times used to live longer and healthier.
I believe Herbs will often cure where other'treatment fails—in fact, I kno'fr many, many
cases where this has been so. And I want you to try the simple, natural Herb Cure for
your complaint. Tell me your symptoms and all particulars I will send you a full
month’s supply of Herbs, siiited for your illness, with full direction how to use them.
For this full month’s course I charge £2/2/- It will Drove the best investment you ever
made. Try it! Write to-day, and send postal notes of any State.
J. W. CASE,, ph. c., m.p.s.,
Botanic Pharmacist, BRISBANE, Q.
SMOKERS and
NON-SMOKERS
find Pebeco Tooth Paste the best remedy for any disagree-
able taste. It makes your breath sweet and lragrant and
restores tinted teeth, without injury, to their natural color.
Pebeco is a complete and ideal health course for the mouth
and teeth.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with useful Book and interesting
test, Free for three penny stamps, on application to the
Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
A
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). 14
ADVICE TO MR. SHOWMAN!
JUST ARRIVED—THE LARGEST STOCK OF
MOVING
PI CTURE
MACHINES
EVER IMPORTED TO AUSTRALIA.
FROM £lO UPWARDS.
We stork EVEItY LEADING MAKE of BIOSCOPE MACHINE, Lighting Outfits, and Films, and
guarantee to sell 30% CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER FIRM. WE DO NOT BELONG TO ANY
COMBINE. If you want a Moving Picture Outfit for the HOME or THEATRE, we can supply it.
Every article is GUARANTEED PERFECT. GET OUR PRICE LIST before buying elsewhere. If
you want to Pay Cash, or BUY ON THE INSTALMENT SYSTEM, no matter where you live, WE
WILL SUPPLY” YOU. SIXTY MACHINES TO SELECT FROM, and 500,000 FEET OF THE
LATEST FILM SUBJECTS, from id. PER FOOT. WRITE TO-DAY FOR PARTICULARS.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH LTD., Bathurst St., Sidney, N.S.W.
Hunyadi Janos
Disorders of the digestive system are amongst the most common
of all human ills. Fortunately Nature has placed an unfailing
remedy within the reach of every household.
A wineglassful of Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water will be
found the safest and most trustworthy dissipator of such lesser maladies
as Constipation, Indigestion, Biliousness, Torpid Liver and
Hemorrhoids. Get a bottle to-day. It is small in cost and
contains many doses. All chemists sell it.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
M
&
PRIZES VALUE £3500-
. . in the . ,' /
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General)'.
DRAWN NOVEMBER 1, 1913.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £250. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. J. W. Walker,
Breakfast Greek, Cowra, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE
SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1913.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 6.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents
in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
3111 buys this 1016 Watc
To»a««»
Cm*C
AiTKtri
W
4
v
We are offering this half-guinea timepiece at the above
enormous reduction, in order to advertise our
CORN COB TOBACCO and KING OF ALL CIGARS.
Order one of these lots.
Post Free to Anywhere in N.S.W. Interstate.
Watch, 3/11, with 2oz. packet Corn Cob 5/3 5/5
Watch, 3/11, with Large Plug Corn Cob 5/9 5/11
Watch, 3/11, with lib. Plug or Cut, Light
or Dark, Corn Cob .. .. .. 9/11 10/4
GOOD ALBERT FOR Is. EXTRA.
KING OF ALL CIGARS.
WATCH, 3/11 and Sample Box of 10 6/5 6/7
Purchase of Watch Optional with undermentioned:—
Box containing 50 King of All (Rothschilds
—Heavy Weights or Light Weights) 9/6 9/10
Box containing 50 Buenos 15/9 16/1
Box containing 50 Clubs 20/- 20/4
As sample order, 1/- will purchase, post free, 4 King of
All (Rothschilds —Heavy Weights or Light Weights), or 3
Buenos.
Craigs &. AitKen,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
“,T.G.”: An extract from your shout of
praise in re Australian horsemanship:—
A month or two back the Gippsland, Goulburn
Valley and the North-East regiments of Australian
liight Horse were encamped at Wallan (Vic.), and
during the operations outside the encampment the
troops had to ride about the hills' in the vicinity.
These hills were generally very steep, and slippery as
a fusionist candidate and the said hills were studded
with a host of low down stumps, fallen logs, and
dead and dry trees, just the sort of country where
one would think it almost impossible for a horse to
get a move on at all. But these Fghthorsemen took
on the job of going over these hills at full gallop,
and it was not an uncommon thing to see a trooper
and horse go wallop down one of the slopes through
the horse losing his footing ; but, nothing daunted, as
soon as the horseman and his prad pulled up against
a stump or a tree or whatever it was that stopped
the down hill tumble, the trooper pulled his mount
together and then set off again at full gallop.
You are a disastrous sort of advocate. The genuine
horsey man—meaning the man who can ride, and un-
derstands horses and the necessity of caring for them
properly—doesn’t go on in this demented fashion.
Your picture is more suggestive of a herd of inebri-
ated Cockneys out for a Bank Holiday ride on hired
mokes, than of a self-respecting crowd of Australian
swaddies. Bumping horses into stumps and gallop-
ing them down slippery hills are things that no effi-
cient soldier ever does. ... Frank Penshurst: Brightly
done, but it is about four miles too long for its
general interest. If you would boil your efforts
down, and then fry them, and subsequently tear
them to pieces and parboil them you would be
practically certain to see them in print. The more
so as we have an efficient boiling-down factory here
which they would also go through. .. .Josh: After
some hesitation “Bitter-sweet” was projected into
the W.P.B. The first verse was so trite that it slew
the other two. .. .G. Chisholm: Better consult a
patents agent. You’ll find a few advertising....
W.J.H.: Glad to hear from you if you will send us
one-fifth as much and make it of five times better
quality.... Henry Fletcher: Your Australian pub-
lisher can arrange for copyright in U.S.A A.E.
Birrell: Best available “history or review of Austra-
lian poets, past and present,” is the preface to the
“Golden Treasury of Australian Verse.”. .. .J. Le
Dam: Thanks; but belated.. .E.R.D.: Sorry we can’t
oblige you to the extent of your entire recitation;
but the plot’s here, anyway:—
Ten thousand sheep they had to go.
From Coomrith to the Overflow.
Now Mc.Jonathan, the man in charge.
Took delivery at Coomrith yards.
The Boss he was a terrible skite.
He would sit up all night to Brag of his fights.
Then, McJonathan got a Puglish name.
But a man in his camp found it weren’t his game.
We had 20 hours put in one day.
It made poor Les ask for his pay.
McJonathan said six days you shall stop.
Les through off his coat and yeled out Whot.
The Boss, getting wet, sprang like a roo.
And the stones that he seized numbered two.
McJonathan thinking of wot he' should say
Turned and cried out “I’ll pay, I’ll pay.”
....Norman McN.: He was a workman who never
growled at his tools, and he used practically any
old pen that came to his, hand....J.B. (Moree):
The practice differs according to the country. The
British idea, so far as the writer can find out (he
has never been shot himself) is a firing party of six
or twelve, and all the rifles are supposed to be
loaded. But there have been cases in which the guns
were loaded and stacked, and the firing party was
.informed that one gun contained a blank cartridge,
so that each man might console himself with the
idea that He didn’t perpetrate the killing. Other
countries have different methods. There was one
case in ‘ comparatively recent history when 40 sol-
diers were lined up to shoot one emperor and two
generals. Unluckily they had a sort of kindly feel-
ing for the emperor, so the two generals had a sud-
den death, while the agony, of the potentate had to
be finished off with a revolver.... Uncle S.: Haven’t
inquired, but it is quite possible, as you allege, that
some of them belong to the Liberal League. Why
shouldn’t they? The League’s representative comes
round and offers you a ticket for Is. That gives
you a right to help in the selection of your enemy.
Napoleon would probably have paid as much as
2s. 6d. for the right of selecting his enemies on the
morning of Waterloo, and presumably he wouldn’t
have chosen Blucher and Wellington as the pair....
Herbert R.: Regfet all unsuitable, and, on present
appearances, don’t think your verse will ever be
anything else.... Socialist: You want to know why
The Bulletin hammered at the Tariff issue when
the Fisher Government has already committed itself
to the New Protection. One reason was that the
Fisher Government was too much W. M. Hughes.
And W. M. Hughes depends too much on the votes
of the water-side workers,, who carry imported for-
eign goods off foreign ships, and live by importation.
And W. M. Hughes’s idea of Protection is, too often,
to put a 5 per cent, duty on imported goods, when
a 50 per cent, duty would be none too much to
square the difference between Australian and foreign
wage-rates.... Rajah: Your proposed cure for prickly
pear has been duly considered. This paper doesn’t
think much of it. On the face of things it seems
that it would be easier to kill the cactus by throw-
ing rabbits at it, or else to tear it up and use it for
filling deserted shafts. There ought to be enough
old forgotten mines in Victoria to hold all the pear
in Queensland if the vegetables were properly
squashed down The Teller: For the millionth
time (or thereabouts) space isn’t available in this
or any other column to mention unacceptable pars.
If they are printed they are accepted, and will be
paid for on demand. If they are not printed the
writer can take it as a hint that they have not been
accepted. .. .L.A.8.: After reading your attempted
humorous verses, we sat and wondered if you were a
tame flapper with two straw-colored pigtails, or a
carefully hilarious old maid with gold-rimmed
glasses. Perhaps you are a brisk young man in
fancy socks, or a bulgy commercial traveller who
wants to show people that he can be just as refined
as the next man if he wants to. Of course, it is
within the bounds of nossibilitv that you are a
schoolboy or a widow. We are dead certain though
that you are not a Supreme Court Judge or a bar-
maid.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.J.8.: That “best man” joke has seen better
days. But none of its days were very good.... Vi-
ncent H.: The basket opened its mouth after the man-
ner of a whale or a gigantic carpet bag, and got
them. .. .H.V.K.: The picture would require to be
re-drawn. And the gag isn’t pleasant enough to
make the thing seem worth while G. P. Gray:
As an artist you are right at the back or hind-
quarters of the procession C.W.: (1) The picture
is rotten. (2) The proposition that the sailors of
the Australian navy run so furiously in pursuit of
drink is a libel S.O’R.: It only gave us the
tired feeling... .W. Johnson: Don’t think Sherlock
Holmes and Lecocq and a bloodhound and Father
Brown and all the other detectives of fiction could
discover what it is about. Believe it would knock
out Cagliostro in one act, likewise plain-clothes
Constable Smith, and that great discoverer, C. Col-
umbus.


<@&s
w?*;
£ ,’." ?,
•» vr- ? - v.'.- v • -V •/.-’ .<
Baft
-
?•■'. - jSZ
£2
■ : ::?
fe
1
i
I
•r<N.
-4
:3
V
ft
u
\>r.
o
N
'■•w-
V>
0
r>
.i-C"
-v-
-53
A
I
A;3l&#Sf*
r:
■<3
m
i
SS*v
■rr'
I
X.
%
Vfvxyt^km
mmMiM
mmm
V
Ss
***&
a >,
%
*J
D
t £~
Cobra/* 15he Boot PolisK.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Makes good suits
Of white duck, too.
Cross-legged on his
Bench he sews;
Ev’ry tailor’s trick
He knows.
Thread and needle
He can ply,
As the busy
Minutes fly.
COBRA patrons
Never fret.
Crying “ Is my
Suit done yet?"


25-
Solid Silver, Hunting
Keyless, LEVER WATCH, f
plate, full jewelled, patent ad-
justed balance, 25/- Higher
grade, 35/-, £2, £2/10/-,
£3/10/- Solid Gold, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £6.
30'-
£5.
18ct. GOLD, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
£6/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set 6
Diamonds, 6 Ru-
bies, Sapphires or
Olivines.
act.
20/-
j!OLD, set Pearls and Rubies, Garnets or
Amethysts.
301-
m
We Pay Postage
on all Jewellery
35/-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting KEYLESS
LEVER, non-magnetic, full jewelled,
patent time spring, compensation balance,
dust-pToof cases, 30/- Extra jewelled,
35/-, £2, £2/10 '-, £3, up to £lO.
Rolled Gold, 55/-, £4/4/-, £5/5/-
Solid Gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/- up.
A4&AUNDERS
Sydney’s leading jeweller
NEW JEWELLERY DESIGNS.
CHOICE EXCLUSIVE LOW PRICED.
£22/10/-
15ct. GOLD, set Dia
monds and Pearls.
£3/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set
Diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires.
25/-
9et. GOLD, set Pearls
and Amethysts.
.1 ...
15ct. GOLD
NECKLACE, set
Diamonds and
Tourmalines,
£l5.
loot. Gold NECK-
LACE, eet Dia-
monds and Aqua-
marines, £l5.
£lO/10/-
15ct. GOLD, set Dia-
monds and Rubies,
20/-
9ct. GOLD, richly en-
graved; 15ct., 35/-
35/-
Solid GOLD PRESENTA-
TION LINKS, hand-made,
richly engraved, any in-
itials. Extra quality,
50/-. 18ct. Gold, £3.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set 3
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
Solid Silver Patent Expanding LEVER WATCH BRACE-
LET, accurate, reliable. Solid Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-
25/-
9ct. GOLD, set
Pearls and Ame-
thysts or Garents.
807-817 GEORGE STREET
Opp. Railway Station,
SYDNEY.
£l2/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
%
S=3
Lady's Black, Open Face
KEYLESS WATCH,
strong, accurate, 8/6.
Higher grade, 10/-,
15/-, 20/-, 25/- Sil-
ver, 25/-, 35/-, £2.
Solid Gold, £2.
22/6.
9ct. GOLD, set Pearls and Colored Stones,
or all Pearls.
We send our
Jewellery
Catalogue
FREE.
15/-
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face KEYLESS
LEVER, full patent adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and water proof cases, 15/- Higher
Grade, 25/-, 30/-. Solid Silver, £2.
20 1-
A High-Class Cigarette
at a Moderate Price.
Do not buy anything but the best the
world can produce Winfred ” cigarettes
are the last word in cigarette quality.
46
CIGARETTES
10
for
6 d
Plain or Gold Tipped
TO BE OBTAINED EVERYWHERE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
20
for
11=
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO Co., Ltd., London, Eng.


It
Never
Shrinks.
99
66
Underwear
is absolutely unshrinkable—
the maker* will replace free of cost any garment
that ihrink*. And Jason is all pure Australas-
ian wool —the best possible wear for health’*
sake. By the special Jason process it is rendered
soit and silky —the best possible wear for
cemfort.
Jason Underwear costs no more than the
harsh uncomfortable kind, so take care
to buy Jason and only Jason.
Jason Underwear is made In all styles
and prices for men, ladies and
children. If your dealer does
not stock it Insist upon his
getting it for you.
In case of difficulty
write—
Jason Hosiery,
Co.,
Leicester,
England.
Aa3s.
9
The Up-to-date Saddle
We would draw our readers’ attention to the
■saddle illustrated below, which for style, comfort,
strength and workmanship, combined with low price,
excels all o'hers.
This saddle is manufactured in the best style,
with tin- coin fort and durability of the Australian
saddle, and recommended to ail classes of riders,
whether on the station, farm or for town use. Made
only from selected materials, best English bar plate
tree, pig-skin seat and knee pads, extra long flaps
to buckle below, skirt right round, as a weather
nrotector, fitted with double buckle girth, stirrup
leathers and nickel-plated irons. The saddle can be
made to order with either full or half panel.
s 0 ®
Price £31 19/6.
Freight paid to
anv station in
N.S.W. or port in
Queensland. Men-
tion Tub Bulle-
tin, and a sur-
cingle or pair of
spurs will be given
free.
Now is your op-
portunity; secure
this great saddle
bargain from J. P.
Talty, Sydney’s
Saddle Specialist,
388 Sussex St.
Write for illus-
trated Catalogue,
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
hensive; and
our T weeds
and Costume
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
signs. We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costumers,
16 MARKET STREET.
SYDNEY.
OURGAT
ALOiiUJfi
illustrated
"throughout
will be
posted free to «>o«i d eBlto« oj
by mail. Gramo-
'&T a rp l^ V Mu.tca. E In t
itrumentg, etc., etc. Sole •Sff**?. tor j Ol Catarrh
Drum, for Deafnesa Ramey's Medicator lor
Write, mentioning this ... 0,... Melbourne
STAR NOVELTY r.nMPAHY. 229 rnll«« Str*i. "L_
The Best Saddle in Australia
for the Stockman
£6lO
We have been making saddles for close on half a century—and
all we know about the game has gone into the making of this
famous Stock Saddle of ours. It is hand-made throughout—no
cheap and nasty machine work anywhere. It is built on the
staunchest tree of specially tempered steel, fitted with an
unbreakable gulletplate, to which are riveted (not screwed, mind
you) solid steel hind crupper plates. This makes the tree
absolutely unbreakable, yet gives just the elasticity and “give”
needed. The seat is made of specially tanned bag leather, with
very long, thick harness leather flaps, that do away with the
need of wearing leggings. There are leather points to the panel, that will
not wear out for the whole life of the saddle. • The knee pads are 54 inches
high, and made of solid leather, double sewn inside so that they won’t sag
or give over. The thigh pads are made in the same way and If inches
high. We have the seats with as high a dish as 6 inches, but any lower
dish you want we can give you. The mountings are brass and nickel, and
the Dees are fastened so securely that no tug will strain them. The panel
is serge lined, and with extended facings so as not to fray or wear out by
the rubbing of the swag or tucker gear. 'The saddle is sold fitted with
fold or split leather girths, 4 bar irons, stirrup leathers, ring or ordinary
crupper and surcingle.
OUR GUARANTEE. —Any number of these saddles of ours sold ten years
ago are in use to-day and practically as good as new. No stauncher saddle
could be made. The one you buy from us we will guarantee for two years. !
If within that time the saddle proves faulty in material or workmanship, if
you return it to us, we will give you a new saddle in place of it free of
charge. If a saddle lasts two years it will last as long as it is cared for
—though of course no saddle will stand being rolled on or being bumped
against k tree.
L. UHL & SONS LTD.,
Harness Builders, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane, Q.
EVANS
FORMULA OF INC LIVERPOOL THROAT HOSPITAL
ANTISEPTIC THROAT
Pastilles
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles act like a charm in
keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition.
Used by Leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madam Tetrazzini writes: —“l thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Ask for Evans’ Pastilles and see you get them.
FEATHER NECKWEAR.
%
<2.
m
)i2>
m
18
U
Nothing handsomer than one of our
Feather Boas. We are showing some
Lovely Neckwear at Bargain Prices.
Every one is beautiful as a woman’s smile.
42
Length, 1M yards,
Black, White,
Grey, or Natural
Feather Boas.
BLACK or WHITE COQUE BOAS, 217-
Length, 2 yds. One of the greatest
Bargains ever offered.
FEATHER NECKLETS, 21/-, with Tassel
Ends. All Colors. We have a great
variety of these goods.
OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 63/- Black,
White, Natural, etc. Extra good
quality. Length, 1 % yds.
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
MILLER’S,
195 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Cr. Bourke & Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
118 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
AS TRUE AS THE SUN.
Watch Compass and Sun Dial
ft
m
* »
for
Fifty Yetirs*
Cannot Fail or Get Out of Order.
No Winding. No Regulating. No Trouble.
always reliable. always correct
Price only 4/9, free by Registered Post to
any address.
A Special Strong Leather Pouch to carry it in, if
desired, for One Shilling.
. „ „„„„ c mi Dial is a most interesting and useful combination. It
T HE Watch Compass "“noae of a Watchand a Compass. always showing the correct
"f rT v’e .nn and enabifng anvone to find his way through the wildest bush cou . ry.
time by; the sun *»“*"* b *, hmen . sportsmen. travellers. military .men. outlets, scuts,
E-pecta'ly servxeabl 01 . dinilIy watch because it has no delicate mechanism a, wai t
, tc. It IS far better in 110 winding, no regulation, t o cleaning, no caie. It
liable to get ollt " f _m. r Ume wherever the sun shim s. ami that is everywhere and
gives you the accurate sola , v ,il stand rough handling and knocking about
almost always in turn YEARS It is like a medium-size watch, nice y made mid
We guarantee it for gu d Rn ‘ iTor „jd tablet at the hick upon which notes may
, . _ well fitted, with bow and JV"f ‘ h iu which to .airy the Watch Compass may be had for One
b. written. Pruned d.-tiotw A Obtainable only from
Shilling if desired; .thasa.tr g 299 El i zaDe th Street, Melbourne.
The Uniori Manufacturing u
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds,
leather bound-bellows.
Price 21/" P° stfree ’
Complete with,lnstruction
MUSiC, as you like ifc,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone' is Just Perfect!
MFLBA now charms many a home—one
would charm Your,-Why not NOW?
The Test Tells The Tale.
nt , r Models —7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27 6, 37/6.
Other Models #/ . o ,» ored iUustr ated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN &CO.
Pro Ltd., 276-8 Collin* St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
THE BLUE
AMBEROL
Every owner of an Edison Phonograph
should have a selection of Edison Blue
Amberol Records. They give clear-
ness and roundness of tone, reson-
ance to the lower notes, delicacy and
steadiness to the highest soprano
voice, and are clearer, sweeter, richer
and more life-like than any other
Records obtainable.
The Blue Amberol is practically un-
breakable, and wear-proof. Tests at
the factory prove it can be played over
3800 times without deterioration of
its wonderful tone qualities.
We have just issued a handsome cats -
logue of Edison Blue Amberol Records
and will be pleased to post you a cop
of it at once if you will send us youi
name and address.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Sesame” Tin Opener.
The “open
Sesame” to
everything
but your
purse.
c ONDENSt^
MILK
s akdinE< s
r nui
ITiF«
TINS
May be sole; anywhere in
the Commonwealth for
THREEPENCE.
To get it quick send
Fourpenee in stamps to —
‘SESAME,’ Box 98 C. P. 0., Sydney
References by permission:—
“Have discarded all others”
—Mrs. W. Garstang, “Coo-
ee,” Burfitt Street, Leich-
hardt, N.S.W.
“Would not be without it’
—Mrs. Lewis, “The Eyrie,”
Fox Valley Road, Warrawee.
“The best I have ever used”
—Mrs. Armstrong, Myrtle
Street, North Sydney, N.S.W.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
J ARRAU Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
for Moref\
m
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
V Over 70 years’ success, j
r,
U.,
'll//
ulf/td
In Dry Seasons
SVTien feed and water
are short “Empire” Fence
is a real boom. Cattle cannot break
nor injure themselves in the attempt,
troubles are ended when once you have
through
Fencing
erected
EMPIRE
HARO STEEL
WOVEN WIRE
F F. N C E
It has no sharp points, won’t rust, the knots
cannot slip, anti it is practically indestructible.
Oxford, writes“ Your ‘Empire' Fence
is very economical and easy to put up —better
than the ordinary strands of wire, and the smal-
ler mesh at the bottom is very useful for keeping
in sheep.”
Write for fully descriptive Catalogue sent Post
Free by the Sole Distributors, PARKER, WINDER
and ACHURCH LTD., Birmingham, England.
Agent for Australia and New Zealand—
ESSEX R. PICOT, 20 Young Street, Sydney; and
240-2 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. [2


Lieut. J. P. Muller.
Over a M ill ion Copies Sold. ‘Praised uni-
versally— never adversely criticised. Recom-
mended by every doctor who has read it.
“My System”
15 MINUTES A DAY KR HEALTH’S SAKE.
By Lieut. J. P. MULLER
/Late Roval Danish Engineers—Former ly\
\JnsJ>ector,Danish TUbertuiar Sanatorium)
“My System” is the ONLY System of exercise (without appliances) and self-massage which,
scientifically and with the minimum of effort, adequately exercises every muscle—exercises to
promote harmonious development (not abnormal protuberance), to gently and effectively stimu-
late the vital organs and to maintain the skin and body in a perfect condition of natural health.
“My System ”is the quickest, pleasantest and most certain cure and preventive of all
Functional Ailments (when not due to organic disease).
Everyone wlio values buoyant and permanent phy-
s cal health without drugs or tedious and difficult
exercises will be delighted with “My System.”
“ My System ” has been used and endorsed by :
Ex-President Roosevelt,
Lord Alverstone.
Lord Nunburnholme.
Field-Marshal Helmuth Von Moltke.
Sir R. S. Baden-Powell.
Rev. F. B. Meyer, and scores of other public
men, and recommended by 150 eminent physicians
General James Franklin Bell, Chief of Staff,
United States Army, says : “After actual experi-
ence in using the System, I believe it to be more
practical and better adapted to men of mature
age and sedentary tendencies than any other
system heretofore encountered. ”
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the famous author,
says “ One became tit, and kept fit, by carrying
out Lieut. Muller’s System, which is a natural
course of exercises without the use of muscle-
straining instruments, -ausing no great strain,
and resulting in no after collapse.”
SPECIAL LEARNER'S EDITION,
Large Type, Large Photo Repro-
ductions illustrating each exercise
Art Paper, Cloth Boards. . . .
Post free 6,4-
61-
Net
Popular Edition, 3/-. Post free, 3/3.
COMPANION VOLUMES
“MY SYSTEM” for Ladies.
“MY SYSTEM” for Children.
Same Prices as above.
Charts of the Exercises—simple or advanced
degree, 1/3 each. Post free, 1/5
Obtainable from all Booksellers in Australia and
New Zealand. If sold out fresh supplies may be
obtained from the Agent:
Mr. WYATT,
313, Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
O'
I
Q
o
mmmm.
SWIFT’S 10in. Center Lathe
with All-Geared Headstock.
4Y Hole Through Spindle.
Headstock is of simple construction, fitted with improved and
powerful friction clutches, which will pull heaviest cuts.
\6 Spindle Speeds. 6 Rates of Feed.
THESE TOOLS ARE OF THE HIGHEST FINISH AND
ACCURACY THROUGHOUT.
As used in the various Government Railway Workshops
and Dockyards throughout Australia.
ALL SIZES STOCKED BY . . .
BENSON BROTHERS
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
(Sole Agents for
Australia),
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen Street, Melbourne
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
ses
for EVERY KIND OF LIGHT
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBACH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 112-4 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z
A MOUSTACHE MAY MEAN A BETTER POSITION FOR YOU!
Usually the man with the fine moustache inspires more confidence
looks more manly—and so gets the position of trust.
Why not grow a moustache yourself?
CAPIELARINE
is a sure, quick moustache-grower. It has a 30 years’ record of success,
and is sustaining it every day. Get a jar—follow the directions—and
a handsome moustache is assured to you.
Price 10/6 JAR Post Free The C - &A - Moustache Trainer, worn at night,
rrice iv/u jah, tom free. ghapes the mouBtache- 2 /o, 3/0i 5/6> I>oBt Fre * >
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
Be Ever Youthful
The greatest
enemy to a
youthful
appearance
is
Grey Hair.
This can be
overcome by
using
MARIE Permanent
HAfR STA I N
• ( Registered)
The latest and best scientific discovery for
restoring grey or faded hair to its natural
color. Guaranteed not to wash, wear or
rub off, Is not affected by sea air or surf-
ing; proof against humid or damp atmos-
pheres. Is not greasy; never varies in
shade or goes patchy ;is non-injurious; leaves hair soft,
silky and brilliant ; aids growth, and is permanent.
PRICE 10/6 ; Postage 6d. extra. Sold in four shades;
Light Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
Free Test given to all who call' at my Salon. Money
returned if hair not permanently stained.
Prepared and Sold only by
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL, Ladies’ Hair Specialist
Only Address : 46 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY
Register all Letters. ■ (Opposite Hotel Australia*
DON’T NEGLECT
I YOUR HAIR I
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
I OIL I
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour for Fair Hair.
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
Experience Proves
the Value of
Mouaxos
NO IN OIOS
to Horse Owners.
“Sebastopol, Jg
“We have used SOLOMON
SOLUTION fora number of years
for Sore Backs Girth and
Collar Galls—Greasy Heels—
and all kinds of wounds and
sprains in Horses and Cattle.
We have great pleasure in re-
commending it, as no stable
should be without it."
(Signed)
D. Hanrahan & Sons,
Dairymen.
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists.
Stores and Saddlers everywhere
or post free for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
L.R.W.
Mooa-v
E O
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
The
Famous Schebler Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a Jess consumption of
fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO, LTD.,
304 HITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
Magic’ : The Bulletin (“Sundry Shows’’
19/6/ 13) was inadvertently unjust to Bert Bailey
m assuming that the black hole of mystery in “The
Native Born” was “borrowed from a Williamsonian
panto.” Only 18 months ago the Sleeds staged their
black and white act for the panto, in question. “The
Native Born” drama was completed and type-written
half a year before the Sleeds came to Australia.
Their “novelty” is worked, in one way or other, by
magicians innumerable, and Bailey, who js a veteran
dabbler in the black arts, had been considering his
own method of handling this illusion long time ere
he and Duggan built a drama round it. As a matter
of fact, his hall of mystery has many points of dif-
ference from the Sleeds’s.
“Vagabond” (from London) : Might I respectfully
suggest to “Hullo” (B. 27/3/’l3) that it is not
Gen§e who is “out of date,” but himself. He says
that “the new school [Maud Allen unclothed style]
lias captured Europe.” Here in London Maud Allen
is out of the picture at present. The thing in
dancing is the Russian ballet, with Anna Pavlova
first favorite. She has been out of England for a
time, and recently returned. Here is how one of the
leading papers reports her reappearance in loud head-
lines: “Mme. Pavlova Again. Delirious Welcome.”
Now, Pavlova is doing exactly what Genge does, arid
to my mind (and, I may add, in the opinion of ex-
perts) she doesn’t do it a scrap better than Genge,
and perhaps not as well. As to the “unclothed”
style—well, Pavlova in some of her dances wears a
plate over her breasts and little else down to well
below the waist-line. Her dancing is ballet-dancing.
She and all her company whirl in on their toes and
pose with the hind legs in a straight line. But if
anyone thinks that means stiffness or lack of grace—
well, Genge is in Australia to teach them different.
“Ami”: We have lost George Ireland, Harrie’s
father. He started as a brilliant Melbourne Garrick
Club amateur, excelling particularly as Claude Mel-
notte. His last performance was at the Princess’s,
in scenes from “The Hunchback.” Not long before
that he acted Crabtree, in “The School ior Scandal,”
with Bellew and Potter; and he was Friar Laurence
in “Romeo and Juliet,” and Ingot in “David Gar-
rick,” with Julius Knight and Unie Russell (Mrs.
Chia). His first professional appearance dates back
to 1858, at the Melbourne Royal, where he appeared
in “The Two Gentlemen of Verona.” He was Sir
Eglamour in a cast that included Brooke, Heir, Lam-
bert, Ellen Mortyn, and Mrs. Heir. Afterwards he
was at Coppin’s Pantheon, with Rose Edouin in the
company. He did not come well forward till 1862
when he was with Jefferson, at the Princess’s The
splendid company included Mr. and Mrs. Heir, Lam-
bert, Stewart, Fitzgerald, Harwood, Dunn, Clarence
Ho ]t (? la s, d ’ s father), Rosa Dunn, Mrs. Phillips
and Dolly Green They were seen in plays like “Rip
Xm? ln X le ’ ~T i /e R lv als,” “Our American Cousin,”
the Octoroon, Cricket on the Hearth, “Poor Gen-
tleman,” “Heir-at-Law,” etc. In 1863 Barry Sulli-
van took the Royal, and went the round of the legiti-
mate for two years. Ireland’s best time was through-
out this season. He did not appear in noticeable
work, again until Coppin produced the Robertson
plays in St. George s Hall, while the Royal was re-
building after the fire. Thenceforward Ireland had a
dramatic career, on the whole unlucky. He had not
the plasticity of Harwood or Cathcart, either of
whem could take any part in “Hamlet.” About 1890
he took a most unfortunate voyage to England, with
his family. Finding little more opening there than
in Australia, he returned, and even had to join Dan
Barry in country busking, while Ilarrie was growing
up to her excellent position. He tried hotel-keeping
at a small house, the Freemasons’, in Swanston-
w eet o’r,a ,U L 1<; w , a ! pa ' n {" l to see George behind the
bar, and he could not long endure it.
Archie”: Re G. R. Ireland, dead in his 80th year
Writer remembers him very well when he (writer!
was secretary for George Crichton Miln, the Shak-
spearian tragedian. Ireland was a member of Miln’s
company, which, by the way, included James F.
Cathcart, 11. N. Douglas (silver-voiced “Nat”) A
E. Greenaway, J. B. Atholwood, Collett Dobson’,
Harry Hodson, Eloise Juno, Kate Douglas and Isabel
Morris On the night of a Good Friday which hap-
pened during his Shakspearian season, Miln, who had
been a Chicago parson at one time, and was known
the Ward Beecher of the West, lectured on
Church and Stage.” After the lecture he gave a
princely supper to everybody in Melbourne who had
any pretensions to being even a dim semblance of
somebody. He had them all there—doctors, lawyers
college dons, musical stars, litterati, illit-
erate cognoscenti, illuminati, editors, poli-
ticians, distinguished humbugs and all the
gorgeous rest of the silvertail crowd. Of
course, it was a man’s racket, with champagne
wines of all sorts and varieties, music, cigars cigar-
ettes, churchwarden pipes, shag tobacco and rum-
punch, in a huge bowl with a pyramid of ice rising
out of it like Fujiyama. The dining-hall was the
stage of the old Opera House, enclosed in a specially
constructed pavilion decorated with all kinds of
artistry and pot-plants. Ireland and Cathoart sat
side by side, looking splendid with their fresh-col-
ored clean-cut faces, and Miln, indicating them with
a wave of his churchwarden, said: “Archie, I am
proud of my two fine old English gentlemen! D'ye
see anyone here who looks more distinguished than
that pair?” And certainly there- have been kings
and aldermen and others of the salt of the earth
who looked not half so imposing.
A LEGITIMATE GRIEVANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hash-house keepers are said to be responsible for
the disfranchisement of a good many citizens. Elec-
toral oflicers complain that when a grim landlady is
called upon to supply information re a former
boarder, who has gone to find fresh hash and hard
beds new, she usually slams the door saying “Dead.”
The boarder who passed out of her life has ceased
to exist as far as she is concerned. —B. 2915/’IS.
“Out of a shop six months I’ve been,”
Moaned Biff, of the “Legit.”
“A whole half-year since a ‘screw’ I’ve seen!”—
He clutched, with fingers lank and lean,
His glass. Quoth I: “What can it mean?
I’m staggered, I admit!”
“Staggering, but true,” said Biff, “the whole
Profesh is Wond’ring why
An actor with an artist’s soul' —
A mummer great in ev’ry r6le
Is out of work ! Egad, it’s droll!
Another! Well—l’ll try!
“I used to stay at Wattleview,
But that high-toned ‘address’
I had to change, when —entre nous —
My bank account was looking blue!
My bad luck since I debit to
That old proprietress!
“When I had ‘moved’ the ancient cat.
Whose costly board and bed
I had forsaken, the rat-tat
Of postmen, callers, answered pat
With gratis information that
Her late guest, Biff, was dead!
“And when to Kingdom Come she’d sent
Me, straight the door she slammed ;
So when from any management
Came offers, back the message went,
That Biff, the famous heavy gent,
Was dead and, maybe, damned!”
Biff drained his glass. “Curse Wattleview!”
He cried. “And mine’s a beer!
Curse interfering tabbies, who
Run boardinghouses! For it’s through
One such I’ve had no work to do
This perishing half-year!”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


Stewart Dawson s Co.
(AUST.) LIMITED.
Faultless in design , workmanship , and sterling
quality are Stewart Dawson's goods. But
they are rendered even more attractive -by our
Famous First Cost Prices.
D 3520. —8 B'ine
Diamonds an d
Emerald, in 18ct.
Gold & Platinum
Setting,
£l5.
D 3515. —2 Fine
Diamonds, in
18ct. Gold and
Platinum Set-
tings,
06068. —Oxidised, Silver-plated, Satin-lined
JEWEL BOX, with Lock and Key,
D 3812. Fine
Diamonds, in
18ct. Gold and
Platinum Se t-
tings,
£.21.
D3518.—F i n e
Diamond in 18ct.
Gold & Platinum
Setting,
We pay postage on ali goods to any address.
Write for Beautifully Illustrated Art Catalogue—-
sent post free.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
73*6
Q
v )
gas gagyfwi
igk
iv
Danger of Drought!
Victorian Minister of Water Supply
tells Farmers their Responsibilities.
Replying to a deputation from
Karkarooc and North-western Coun-
cils (Melbourne Age, May 8, 1913),
who asked the Department to take
immediate steps to increase the water
storage, Mr. Graham (Minister of
Water Supply) said that if farmers
would assist the Water Supply Com-
mission by making special provision
for storage on their own grants, there
would be no danger in case of drought.
“Part of the scheme should he the
formation of dams by the farmers
themselves, so that the storage might
he secured in the winter, to form a
standby in the dry months. If a long,
dry spell came along they would then
he safe.”
Dams are easily made with scoops,
and they’re mighty cheap here. The
man above has a horse hitched to our
32/6 Scoop.
All Steel Bowl, no seams, extra
heavy bail, steel runners and detach-
able handles. Fills and empties easily
—won’t drag horses out of condition,
because it’s same width back and
front, and cutting edges are well
ground.
Take Mr. Graham’s advice —get a
Scoop, hitch in your horse, and set to
work now.
No. 3 —3 cubic feet, 801 b 32/6
No. 2—5 cubic feet, 951 b 35/-
No. I—7 cubic feet, 1051 b.... 37/6
No. o—lo0 —10 cubic feet, 1351 b... 80/-
Special Tilting Scoops for Dams.
Same solid .construction as above
Scoops. Dumps the load and
returns to its original
position for tilling.
No. 1, 7 cubic feet, 757-
No. 2, 5 cubic feet, 67/G
No. 3, 3 cubic feet, 50/-
Machinery and Tool Merchants,
554=66 & 582=88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Send for “IRON AGE”
Book.
Showing the latest One-Horse Cultivators,
Push Wheel Pious, Hoes and Seed Drills.
The tools are unique, and so are the
values.
THE NESTLE AND ANGLO-SWISS CONDENSED MILK CO.
BY APPOINTMENT
ft
V.‘ , »
ieyx
TO H.M. THE KING.
Do you know ?
KOHLER’S COCOA
is made by the
manufacturers of
Nestles Nut Chocolate


HORSESHOE
RED SALMON
Horseshoe is a Fine, Red, Firm Fish of exquisite flavor,
and makes a dainty, appetising meal served direct from
the can. It offers the skilful housewife a wide choice
of hot dishes suitable for all meals —for all occasions.
Firm, Wholesome & Appetising-.
INTEREST AWAKENED. ,
Inte reBt awakened everywhere in the marvellous
cures of Cuts, Burns and Wounds with Dr. Sheldon’s
everywhere * mment - lB< 6d ‘ and 3s ‘ Obtainable
Improve your appearance by growing a moustache
and you will improve your prospects in life The
prizes in business usually fall to the man who looks
strong anil capable—able to fill successfully a posi-
i° r trU i St \ A , ? ne > full moustache will impart
this look of strength and character to your face. If
you have failed to grow a moustache—-or if your
’IP {s co ! er ® d with nothing but a thin down—you
s hould get Capillarine. This is a preparation which
has been used by thousands during the past 30 years
It will not fail to produce a full? healthy moustache
in dlr J^ lonS are tollowed. You can get a jar for
10s. 6d. Post free from Craig and Aitken'i, 654
George-street, Sydney.* ’ 004
BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXIONS AT
SIXTY.
Any woman of fifty or even sixty years
of age may easily have the fresh, delicate
complexion of a child. Wrinkles, lines,
freckles, tan, and practically all skin
blennshes exist only in the outer or scarf
skin. This scarf skin is composed of minute
scales built up from beneath ; in youth they
wear off rapidly, but as age increases these
scales become thicker and heavier, giving the
dark, sallow, wrinkled complexion so fre-
quently seen in ladies over thirty-five or
forty. _ Beneath this scarf skin lies the true
° r skm ’ wt i ich . always retains its
youthful beauty and vitality, never becomes
wrinkled or disfigured, and in it we find the
real source of a beautiful complexion. Bad
complexions are merely complexions that
have been covered up with thick, lifeless
S< n ar 7u S - kln ’ an , d „ may be Quickly restored to
all their youthful beauty by dissolving the
scales of scarf skin by applying at night a
little pure parinol wax, a vegetable wax
which possesses the peculiar property of
softening or dissolving the dead, dried scales,
so that only enough remain to cover and
protect the dermis, or true skin. Soap and
water and cold creams only remove the verv
loosest layers of scales, and therefore can
never bring out the true beauties of the
complexion, as is done by pure parinol wax.
hor small sum you can get enough to
completely restore your complexion, and vou
will be astonished at the immediate 'im-
provement in your appearance.*
IN
BANANA LAND
“Boswell”: The alleged Farmers’ Union
in Queensland has squeezed out of produce
merchant Denham a promise that he will
some day introduce a Bill to cyrb produce
agents and other hungry middlemen. Den-
ham made the promise with about as good
grace as Paddy Perkins would have done if
he had been pushed into promising a Pro-
hibition law. And no wonder! For during
the Address-in-Reply debate, Labor member
Dave Bowman gave particulars of a trans-
action in produce circles recently. A coun-
try man sent three bags of potatoes to Bris-
bane for sale. They were duly sold at Is.
3d. per cwt., and a covering letter explained
that the very highest rates that day were
55., and some sold down to a bob. But on
the same day a varlet in the forwarding
branch got hold of the country man’s letter
and mistook it for a forwarding order, so he
despatched three bags of spuds by rail forth-
with. And the sale-note showed that the
firm in question, through its varlet, had
forgotten that five bob was the highest rate
f° r the day, for it invoiced the three bags
at 10s. per cwt. “And,” added Bowman
with emphasis, “the firm that did' this was—
now guess who!” Needless to say there,
was a “sensation,” and the House is waiting
for that Produce Brokers Bill to riish it
through with enthusiasm.
The Wisdom of Blank.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Queensland paper records a most touching inci-
dent. A bullock near Gatton sickened and died.
When the stomach was opened up a sovereign, a
shilling and a half-penny were found inside. \
Our fav’rite bullock, Blank —a noble beast
That won the love df all who didn’t know
him,
And eke a good, wide berth from those who
did,
With many a prod and thrust from kindred
bovines
That kenned him as a careful, crusty grazer
That liked to batten on the fattest pasture.
And fought intruders like a horjffid fury— \
Our fav’rite bullock, weary of life’s battle
And of the contact vile of common cattle,
One morning dropt.and died.
Intent to find what malady possessed him
And why he left in fashion so untimely,
We opened up poor Blank’s deceased vitals
And keenly gazed therein ;
And, though we found no patent, signs of
sickness
No clear insignia of fell disease,
Yet, of a sudden, came a glint of cash,
And in the pit of Blank’s departed stomach
We glimpsed a piece of gold, a shining shil-
ling, '
And then a copper coin.
Alas, alas, for Blank !
With canny brain and quite uncommon fore-
sight
That careful beast had pondered o’er his
future,
And. having in his brooding soul decided
That Age and poverty are both a burden,
Had practised Thrift for many a year in
secret,
And had entrusted to the only bank that
His bovine mind could know
His copper and Lis silver and his sovereign ;
And, like a nrudent citizen, had handed
The things, he cherished to a cunning casket
Where neither moth (he guessed) could
e’er corrupt
Or thieves break through and steal.
How vain are bovine schemes! fo
How idle earthly hopes!
Before brave Blank Could e’er enjoy his
hoardings
And see (in language metaphorical
Of course I sneak)
Himself ensconced beneath his vine and fig-
tree,
He fell a prey to some mysterious sickness
And, like a futile human, died intestate,
Leaving his savings to be wrangled for
By curious, greedy ghouls.
Meantime, his ancient comrades in the pas-
ture
Run round and crop the herbage in the
spring-time,
And, careless of the brother who hath left
them,
Bid future cares go hansr.
MORAL.
When Portly grabs the earth with greedy
cravings,
Just think of Blank, ‘the bullock, and his
savings;
And, if the bovine lesson fail to reach you,
Just wait a while and Death himself will
teach you.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 28, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
At the time of writing, Governor Mac-
gregor will have (d.v.) got through the job
of opening the very necessary Institute of
Tropical Medicine, at Townsville. He was
to have had the particular assistance and
support of Lady Mac., aide Foxton, Dr.
Love (delegated by the Government) and
Professor Anderson Stuart (Sydney Univer-
sity). During his Ex.’s absence from the
Brisbane office of the Surplus Governors’
Union, Arthur Morgan is wrestling with the
rubber stamp.
Mrs. Edward Morgan and her daughters,
Eileen and Grace, fed a large party at their
pretty home at Toowopg yesterday afternoon,
to farewell Mrs. Lewis and her daughter,
Josephine, who will sail next week for Eng-
land. Miss Lewis is one of our best musi-
cians. She is going to help herself to some
instruction of the London and Paris variety
before she returns to this hamlet.
THE PERI AT THE GATE OF PUBLICHOUSE.
PARSON : “My dear friend, I have observed you several times to hesitate at this accursed
door; and each time you have turned away as with loathing. Some impulse is at
work upon you.”
DANIEL BACKYARD (hoarsely): “ Guvnor , you are right. I'm waitin' till they puts the
free lunch on.”
That clever organiser and sterling woman,
Sister Mary Patrick (Potter), who has been
for so long Reverend Mother at Allhallows,
retired yesterday, and Sister Mary Borgia
(Byrne), at present Mother Superior of the
Maryborough Convent, will reign in her
stead. Sister Mary Patrick has held the
position for six years, and during that time
the local Roman Church work has developed
wonderfully. The Mater Hospital is one
institution that owes much to her. Sister
Mary Porgia was Reverend Mother on a pre-
vious occasion.
Died, fhis week, Sister Mary Felix, the
gentle head nun of the Mater 1 Misericordise
Hospital. Following the death of the helpful
Sister Mary Antonio, at the beginning of the
year, two deplorable gaps are left in the
efficiency of the institution. Heart trouble
was the enemy in each case.
Two suffragettes, Miss Newcomb and Miss
Hodge, are in our midst, but, so far, there
has been no boom in incendiarism. Also,
dynamite is at the old price on the market.
On Thursday night, at the Women’s Club,
the .'conspirators went the length of making
eloquent addresses on the wrongs and rights
of the Sisterhood, but eloquent addresses, my
dear, are not exactly all we had hoped for.
A clever paper was read, also, by Miss Bed-
ford, describing the position of women
throughout the ages. They (women) all
seemed to have had a more or leas down-
trodden career, and the future isn’t promising.
Any woman can find this out for herself, by
cutting off hubby’s weekly allowance of 9d.
for tobacco.
Emma Franceschi sang here twice this
week. In appearance, she is like a childish
edition of Dolores, and some of her notes
are not unlike that well-known singer’s tones.
At both concerts the programme was too
ambitious, and the little lady was evidently
tired before her last number was reached.
Winslow Knight, who As better and more
familiarly known here as “Billo,” and who
w r as once an ardent footballer, was the
tenor, and MacKenzie was the basso.
At the second concert, the organist (who
was also the accompanist) played a long
and dreary piece, followed by “Abide With
Me,” and “Onward, Christian Soldiers.”
He then faded out, and did not return. A
local artist scrambled into the breach, and
•
played the accompaniments with more or less
success. The little Franceschi showed her
pluck by sticking to the programme, and
also played Winslow Knight’s accompani-
ment.
The committee of the Lady Bowen Hospi-
tal introduced the clamorous collection plate
to several dozens of their pals, at the Albert
Hall on Wednesday afternoon. After the
visitors had disgorged at the door, the two
pretty Earwaker girls, Dorothy Ryder and
Miss Miller wheedled further cash from
them by means of competitions. Betty
Coekburn and Amy Mills sang, Doris
Rowe and Mrs. Moran instrumentled, and
Lylia Fegan recote. The spoils will go to
the building of a new ward.
The same day, the kiddies from the
kindergartens demonstrated at the Centen-
nial Hall. The show was a good one, and
the fat, rosy youngsters were a walking ad-
vertisement for the climatic horrors of the
Aorth. The Vision was there, likewise
1 remieress Denham, Mrs. Pagan, Mrs.
Smith, Mrs. Broun-Joness and other well-
knowns.
Alderman McMaster, who has been a city
lather for about 40 years, and who was 83
tFe other day (he is a very lively young
Queenslander, too, and looks good for an-
other 10 milestones, at least), was over-
whelmed with £5OO by the admiring citizens.
He deserved it. Any man who can listen
to innumerable City Council meetings, and
live to be 83, deserves everything he can
carry away with a camel train.
Yours, in the hope that sunstroke in Syd-
ney is still as deadly as it was last week,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
A. H. (Australian Hater) Barlow’s latest:
“When I heard I was to speak to-day at the
Chamber of Commerce I asked the President
if I would be allowed to curse Federation... .
I curse Federation accordingly.” The pup
howls and the moon goes on serenely shining.
Dalby, Jondaryan, Nanango and Gympie
have just had local-option polls, and the
figures mostly show that the public doesn’t
care tuppence whether it gets any more
pubs or not. The water-waggoners did
their best for no-more-licenses, but in the
three places first named not enough votes
were _ cast to make their small majorities
effective. In the other case, at Gympie, the
local miner voted the water-waggon down
with enthusiasm.
Five of McKeen’s railway autocars are
now at Ipswich. They came from Omaha,
and a Mr. Beard is going to give them the
preparatory test. They must do 500 miles
to the satisfaction of the railway people
before the latter take final delivery. Each
car has petrol engines of 200 horse-power,
and seating accommodation for 69 passen-
gers. They are intended for use on sub-
urban railway lines, where a quick, frequent
and inexpensive service is called for.
’Tis truly a terrible climate in the North !
Fifty years ago the population of Rock-
hampton consisted chiefly of stranded gold-
seekers from the Canoona rush, and back of
Rockhampton was only scrub and blacks.
Yet Central Queenslanders this month in-
tend to hold a reunion of residents of half-
a-century’s standing, and the more the com-
mittee rakes the country the more surprised
it is at the number of eligibles, and the
more convinced ■ it gets that Tropical Aus-
tralia is a hard jrlace to die in.
“Pestus Minor”: The Quarantine Act is
one of the,best that we have in our Statute
Books; bpt the administration is at times —
well, pulling: Aii instance. The S.S. Tai-
yuan arrived at Thursday Island on the
25th ult. with two members of the crew ill,
and plague was suspected. The steamer
was not allowed to berth at the wharf, and
was sent on the voyage south in quarantine
—a very wise proceeding. Nevertheless
seven indented Japanese were allowed
to land, or, at any rate, did land,
and several local residents went on
and came off the vessel. Subsequently two
of the Japs developed sickness and were re-
moved to the Quarantine Station at Friday
Island. They were on shore from Sunday
till Tuesday, and during that time they
mixed with the local Jap residents. I sup
pose we may expect plague at any time, and
the usual amount of wonderment will be ex-
pressed as to how we came to get it.
“Condamine”: The Socialist tiger has
appeared in a fresh place. A large deputa-
tion of Queensland farmers last week visited
Brisbane to ask the Government for longer
terms for pear lands, etcetera. Etcetera in-
cluded _ a request that the Government do
something to relieve the pear-land farmers
of the ever-increasing strain of high-priced
arsenic, which is practically the only poison
used in pear destruction. It appears that
this commodity is in the hands of a mono-
poly, and, as the farmers must have the
goods, the price has risen from £l3 to £29
per ton in about 12 months. At the meeting
of delegates, Morgan M.L.A., the chairman,
placed himself at right angles to the floor
and proposed that the Government should
establish its own mines and manufacture its
own arsenic at Gympie. There is no
greater stickler for Private Enterprise in
Queensland than Morgan, and I’ll bet any
part of Is. 9d. that four out of the five
delegates voted six Noes at the last Refer-
endum. Yet how does State Socialism ap-
peal to them when it is their own Sosh !
The Denham crowd, scared by recent hap-
penings, has announced its intention of re-
introducing the postal vote. As a means of
destroying the secrecy of the ballot, of en-
abhng a wealthy party organisation to prac-
tically settle an election in certain constitu-
encies before polling day, and of coercing
domestic servants and others similarly situ-
ated into voting as the master or mistress
Wl ?i j, t i le State postal vote is unri-
valled. Such a stink of corruption arose
from it that after it had been utilised in
Queensland for two State elections it was
abolished in 1908, not a single vote being
cast in the Assembly for its retention. Party
agents used to go round accompanied by a
sympathetic J.P. to witness the filling-in,
and what those agents didn’t know about
the votes they collected wasn’t worth men-
tioning. Sometimes the ballot papers never
reached the post office at all, hundreds and
hundreds being missing when the count was
made, for the party agent who would post
ballots that were unfavorable was looked
upon as a dangerous fool. The Denham
crowd is loud in anathematising machine
politics, but the most efficiently corrupt pol-
itical machine ever devised in Bananaland
is the postal vote, for which statement
there is evidence by the ton. Ministers
-Blair and Barlow voted to wipe it out It
will be interesting to read their defence of
its re-introduction.


'TfiE Iyre With
“The BIG NAME
&Big Mileage
fm
H
/
E
m
\
£
m
:t
y
m
'i
r
%
1
V
r £>>*
l\
m
-■V.I • >
ki
.
w.
»


Shipping.
Pm ana O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
BELTANA .. 77(11,120|Lingnam .. ..[July la
BALLARAT .. U,l2o|Hanson .. ...Aug. 16
WILOANNIA ~1 s,Qo'i|.-ioott, .. • • 13
Wireless ins' ailed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £IS & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 J«s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD. , 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: Jolin Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE,
AUSTRALIA D;
ORAM A ..Triple-Screw
ORVIETO ..Twin Screw
OSTERLKY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AII
OPIIIR
Fitted with Wireless
13,000 Regd. Tons.
12,130
12.129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9.023
8.282
6,814
Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de luxe; Staterooms, with*
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE, SYPN'EI ,
MELBOURNE/. ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 M Alt'!’ lN PI.ACK. SvPNKV.
Banking:, Public Companies, Ac.
II-
Minimum
Deposit.
&&&
Have YOU a
Bank Account ?
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
If not, open one by Depositing
at least ONE SHILLING In the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
116 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE,
3i
Per
Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
No Connection with
the Post Office.
J. 11. DAVIES,
Secretary.
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
3
Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and lteserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE EKES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorjje and Bridge Sts.
Manager: .1. I’. CANNY.
liOcal Director:
ADAM EOItSYTII, Esq. (Burns, I’liilp A' Co., Ltd.V.
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QOEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. It. I,OYE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENS!,AND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking* Business.
THE
Australian j)ank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.) >
authorised capital .. .: £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED i £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).'. £1,195,2:74
RESERVE FUND £15,060
lISAD OFFlCE—(ieorge and King Streets, Sydney.
LOIN DON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George .1. Sl.r, Esq.. LI..D. ; GiiaS. 11.
Myi.es, Esq.; Mark Siiei.iion, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq ; Frank N. Larwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales Ic Queqnshjnd.
Agencies tlirougbout the Australian Commonwealth,,-
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the Wqrld.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED. ‘
Incorporated under the Companies Act ISG3.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1 921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £SOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 418.590 14 6
Reserve . . . • • • • • 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.C91.609 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 18!iS sperinllp protected.
Director" —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Kdw. Running,
Esq. ; lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—A\. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum- 2
years and over, at the rate of 41 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
The Colonial (Qutual fife
assurance society limited
for
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Ar.nuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.:
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,1)00.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction -as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon.'C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.U.C'. Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Shipping
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To ■'Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
} V
To MANILA. CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angiinr or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For #assage and Full I’articulars apply to —
’•■LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & !> Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER VAN ROMPAEY k Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE k CO., Adelaide;
L: R ATAZZI'A’ *CO.. Perth and Fremantle;
XIJOS. BROWN k SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane & Townsville.
Bank of |)eui Z ea ' a,, d-
SVIINKV HI’ANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..X1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 600,000
“Ordinary Shares ( XI,000,000) Paid-
np . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land,- Fiji. Great Hri-
tain awMreland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at ' Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all otlier usual Hanking business.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
All steamers fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: FARES — Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. & O. Branch Service.
ROUND TUB WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets., Time-Tables, fee.., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
Fast Passenger Steamers
SYDNEY •>
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping for
other Queensland
Ports). >
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves SydiYey July 5
BOMBALA (4000 tons).
Leaves. Melbourne July 9
Leaves Sydney July 12
COOMA (4000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 16
Leaves Sydney July 19
For
MELBOURNE
SOUTH.
130MBALA (4000 tons)
Leaves Sydney July
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
“ BURNS-PHILP.”
Round-the-lslands Tours
Round-Australia. Tours.
Round-the-Pacific Tours.
Round-the-Far-East Tours.
AUSTRALIA’S
Leading
Tour and Travel
Agents.
We Book You to Any Part of the World.
We Estimate and Schedule Any Trip, FREE!
We Issue Letters of Credit, Secure Passports, etc.
We Relieve Our Clients of All Worry.
We Materially Save Expenses and Delays.
We Offer an Unparalleled Choice of Tours.
NOTE : If meditating a Holiday Trip, a Honeymoon Trip, or a Business Trip, conrthunicate with our
TOUR <Sb TRAVEL DEPT.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD. Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
The lion. Sir Charles 11. Macllellar, lit., M.L.C.,
President. T
The Hon. Reginald .Tames Black, M.L.u
Thomas Buckland, Ksq. _
ltichard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Norinand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Janies,T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Eosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Sheplieard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq ..Alfred George Milson, Esq.
' /i'ft 1/ finev London Office-29 Threadneedle St , EC.
33 e 5 a Branrte? anf Agencies" in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and [Correspondents h t° 0 Ut „nd 6 Dra°fti d drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Rills negotiated
ArSt M gciSlar Notes
TTHE North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, M ACRE AY AND MANNING
RIVERS: also to BYRON BAY, COEF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed to Murwillumbah,
rail to Bvron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there-' connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or rice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steatner, £4 2s. Cd.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261. GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Commercial Banking Co.
oi Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . £1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . 1,580,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,080,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
George J. Cohen, Esq .. . . Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Ossi.otv Thompson, Ea).
Norman Sheet,ky, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibits.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massik.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Lpndoii Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manngci : F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South W ales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock).
. £538.307
. 159,054
76,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. —“
Gen Man . Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man. :E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Trice, 6d.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 Georgs Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Uiimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply dor Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And All Ports.
Shipping-.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EX I’ll ESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE 'i
ADELAIDE
PORT PIIUE
Anri GULP POUTS
ALBANY j
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle I
to all North Western Porr.s, j
T.B.S. Warilda, July 5
and August 2.
Fi tt.ed Wire less Telegraphy.
8000 tons. Carrying
Three Classes. 1,2, 3
and 4-Berth Cabin*.
BRISBANE
MACIiAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports NorOi to Oiirns.
S.S. Allinga, July 5.
S. I nnamincka, July 12.
T. S.S. Wandilla (8000 tons),
fitted Wireless Tele-
graphy, July 19.
Saloon Passage Tickets are Interchangeable alter
the first.'Port of call with other intor-State Companies
on all services subject to. conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with calrns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool.
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE.
11,900 Tons. PAGE, Commander.
Will be despatched from —
SYDNEY, JULY 19.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares to London.. £4O £l3/13/-to £l7/17/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACIIARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH k CO., LTD., Adelaide.
11. JONES & CO.. LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots.
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GQOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., M? .3. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Insurance CLt’a.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Itate9.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, Joint Managers
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles,
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sqld by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- Per Box, Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
UNCLftIMED MONEY & PROPERTY.
HOUSAT.'S REOISTHR to NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY H EIRB, LEGATEES, &c., &c., price
5/-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
DOUCAL& CO., 151. STRAND. LONDON, ENCLAND.
<Kstahlixhprl nypr 60 Yenrs.)


GLORIOUS TOURS to the
SOUTH SEA
.... and ....
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, JULY 16, 8 p.m.
T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, AUGUST 12, 8 p.m.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
Steamer for-Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), R.M.S. TAHITI, July 12. Passengers can
spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by 11.M.5.5.
AORANGI, August 5, arriving Sydney August 19.
There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. Talune, July 29. (Maheno,
from Sydney, July 23 connects.)
All Steamers fitted with Wireless.
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney,
Hotels. &c.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM'.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
‘EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA,
for Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, Is. and 2s. 6d.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. /410.)
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable: —
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS. W.
ASSOMTJLL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE'S, MAC*
LELLAN'S. ALL CHEMISTS. W. ASSOMULI
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
I
*
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
For
Overseas
Motorists
and
prospective
buyers
of cars,
etc.
IMPERIAL
YEARBOOK
1913
OULStAS PONUftiOliS
xmturtf '■
HVrZ&itfti?
“The Autocar” Imperial Year Boo: k\
has been prepared to fill th * k e ?f References
standard and authoritative w All phases
on motors and motoring tna •
of automobilism are fully
Price 2/6
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, anu umoa
Published by “ The Autocar,” 20, Tudor St., on on, ~
Commonwealth
head office
Bank of Hustralta
SYDNEY
F«d^ai%apiTa| 1 ° f GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
Queensland— Brisbane and^ownsvihi**' 1 Wa,es Sydney. Victoria — Melbourne.
Perth. Tasman IK]' South Austral ia-Adelaide. Western Australia-
Cable remittances madTTo fnd dat NKV , V BROAU STUKBT, London.
collected. Letters of eVedit- n„r) K drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
forwarded for collection r, . Clrcu ar cotes issued to any part of the world, bills negotiated or
the Commonwealth United Kin!, a " d Exchange business of every description transacted within
’ «?•»./!», ,m a,ld abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
d . SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Brisbane -^Roval 3 Fveh 6 s y. c,n °y i 317 Collins Street, Melbourne; Queen Street,
PerthT Elizabeth Street William Street, Adelaide; St. George's Terrace,
at Post OffiocL wwu’ . Hobart ! and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies
Papua, from*?!™ ordets in the Australian Commonwealth and
All Branch Offices opp >4 (Tasmania, 9 a.m. to 5 p in.), and noon Saturday.
Withdrawals o »T.i°l d s poB '* 9 alld withdrawal, on Friday 7 to 9 p.m.
i/. r. ma t , d may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth.
TAMES KELI Vim tv 37 Rate of ,nt ® rest on a " Deposits up to £3OO
' RRNnR WK. 1913 DENISON MILLER. Govsrnos.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
„. ff i , e , unbounded scop»-to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker. ’ b K
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. A, MESTON, Local Director.
BJJ
SB
ft i
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
IWrrwra t ,,-rrrnTll i
J.
e
When you wish to buy the Fountain Pen that
fills itself in five seconds, don’t ask for a Fountain
Pen, but for an “ Onoto.”
It is the most reliable pen there is. Easy to hold and
easy to write with, and can be carried in any position
without fear of leakage. The Nib is gold, pointed with
iridium and cannot wear out.
Can be filled from any ink supply in five seconds with-
out a filler, mess or trouble. It is therefore indispensible
to the traveller and business men. Can be obtained of all
Stationers, &c.
Price 12/- and upwards. Booklet about the ONOTO
Pen free on application to Thos. Dc La Rue & Co., Ltd.,
253 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian Repre-
sentatives, Nokman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York St.
Sydney.
0
fo&nPM
We Know the
Moving Picture
Machine on the
Market to-day.
Yes; it is the
SILENT
empire!
y,,-, fart fa broomin'* more
nd more known, as all users
f this British-Built Bio
30 pe are so pleased with its
erformance.
■Y SHEER MERIT THIS
[ACHINE has forced
itself to the front.
s
mmsm
m
t)
IT IS FUCKERLESS,
ROCK STEADY,
ECONOMICAL,
PORTABLE, etc.,
and
IT HAS All Steel
Sprockets, Maltese
Cross in Oil Bath,
Iron Stand, 'Fireproof
Filmboxes, etc.
IN FACT, IT HAS ALL
GOOD POINTS AND NO
FAULTS.
We have just landed a New
Shipment of Nos. 3, 10, 12.
Send for our complete list,
Mr. Showman — it’s free.
JERDANvS
My Opticians,
393 George St. Sydney.
Select an
I
Abbey Shoe
and be assured quality, fit, style,
variety and value. The Abbey
Shoe is the' choice of well-
dressed men.
The Boot illustrated is a Patent
Golosh Bal., Dull Calf Leg,
Perforated Golosh, 27/6 and
30/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, 22/6,
25/-, and 27/6.
Postage extra.
In half sizes and quarter fit-
tings.
/SEND FOR CATALOG.
A BB E Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
fffiP
r::/
m*
hk
&5K
Registered
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
Hwsbury&Browns
Oriental
Tooth Powder
ed IS/ in the
- | r United Kingdom
All tire Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY.
Messrs, Elliott Bros. Ltd.
. . F.H.Faulding & Co.
SUFFERERS from that cruel, stubborn, nerve-
racking', skin disease, ECZEMA, need no longer
face its terrible pangs with doubts or misgivings.
“ISO,” the remarkable Eczema Ointment —the remedy
which has cured scores of cases —is within easy reach
of all. The inventors are Chemists of wide repute,
practising in your midst. They use “ISO” daily in
treating patients. Write them at once for a free
sample of “ISO,” enclosing three penny stamps, to
partly cover postage and packing. Their address is :
J. S. BLACK & SONS,
Smith Street, Collingwood, Vic.
Japanese Feet & Bed Warmer
Portable Comfort. Keeps Hot Six Hoars. No. Trouble..
No Risk. Ready in One Minute. Weight only 8
Ounces, Price 8/0, we pay carriage.
m
This is an enlarged form of the Japanese Hot Box, about
10 Inches long, 6 Inches wide, 2 Inches deep. Strongly made
of metal covered with corded velvet. Brass gate., A luxury
in the cold weather for travellers, motorists, cold feet sufferers
and invalids A package of giant fuels given with each
Warmer. Further supplies of Fuels One Shilling per pack-
age, enough for 30 hours’ warmth. Obtainable only from
The Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s Tub Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’oith 1 ”


James Gormly, M.L.G., has been ordered
by the doctors to give his throat a rest. For
many years he was in the N.S.W. Assembly,
where he was regarded as just about the
foremost authority on the back country;
and as his voice was a screech when it
wasn’t a howl, he informed some but scared
others. It was a surprise when he was
lifted into the Legislative Council; but the
atmosphere of the place was against him,
and his scream was rarely heard there. It
is the uproar of his youth, so to say, that
now exacts its toll.
“O.K.’s” few remarks
The widow of pressman Charles Bright died in
Melbourne last week, and doubtless she is now pop-
ping up in misty person or by spooksome proxy, at
the spiritualistic circles of her old friend, T. W.
Stanford. Poor old Mrs. Bright—one calls her
“poor” on account of her gullibility—edited the
Harbinger op Light, and believed in every blessed
manifestation of spiritualism that a “medium” could
produce. The more silly it was the more sincerely
the ancient dame seemed to believe in it. She stuck
to her faith in Charles Bailey, the cast-iron fraud
whom The Lone Hand dealt with years ago, and who
subsequently went to Europe and was found to have
purchased some of his “apports from Egypt” at a
bird-fancier’s in Milan,' or thereabouts. For Which
matter it is clear that Mrs. Bright couldn’t afford
to renounce her faith in an impostor whose weekly
miracles at Mr. Stanford’s rooms were the most in-
teresting things the Harbinger of Light could find
to talk about.
N.S.W. Industrial Judge Ileyd-on had an
argument on June 27 with Brennan, the
wiry little representative of the Newcastle
miners, in the matter of an injunction taken
out against the officials of the Pelaw Main
Lodge. His Honor was arguing that the
miners would think that any of their officers
put under the ban of the Court was worthy
of envy rather than pity, and wound up
with : “Look at' Mr. Bowling. He actually
served a sentence. Can anyone tell me the
miners think that a discredit to him?”
“No,” replied Brennan drily. “And they
don’t think any the worse of me.” Stampede
oq the part of his Honor, who had evidently
quite forgotten that Bowling and Brennan
went to gaol together.
“The Gallery Hand’s” kick off: —
As a Speaker, William McCourt, just dead at Syd-
ney, was mild to the verge of apology. On occasion
he went over the verge and was pathetic in his
mildness. I remember one hair-raising occasion,
when the heat had not died out of the Land Scan-
dals. The late Patrick Crick went mad in the Assembly,
and from the floor of the House threatened one of
the press gang in the Gallery with sudden and ela-
borate extinction. I forget what Crick’s exact griev-
ance was —alleged misreport, I think. Anyhow, the
performance went somehow like this: Crick (looking
upward): “You blank dash” McCourt (soft
pedal): “Order, order.” Crick: “You (meaning the
pressman) get out of this place before I get you, or
I’ll” McCourt (nervously) : “Order, order.”
Crick: “I’ll pull your (old reliable) windpipe out!”
McCourt: “Order, order.” The most relieved man
in the place when Crick had had his say was the
Speaker. I felt inclined to lean over the Gallery
and offer him the ail-night flask.
Mistime Friends.
PATRICK MOLLOY, Deceased.- —Information is re-
* quired by the undersigned as regards the
address of MRS. MOLLOY, formerly of‘llughenden,
the widow of THOMAS MOLLOY, or the children of
the, said Thomas Molloy. B. J. BEIRNE, Solicitor,
Toowoomba, Executor Estate Patrick Molloy, deed.
BROWNE. —Information is required as to GEORGE
KENNY BROWNE, who formerly lived at The
Crescent, Clontarf, Dublin, Ireland, was afterwards
in the Cape Mounted Police, and later in Towns-
ville and Nelson, Australia. REPLY to ARTHUR
GEORGE JOYCE, Solicitor, 121 Stephens Green, W.
Dublin, Ireland.
TIMOTH1 7 moriarty, deceased.
THE brothers and sisters of TIMOTHY
MORIARTY, late of Hawera, New
Zealand, farmer, deceased, will hear some-
thing to 'their advantage by communicating
with
J. W. MACDONALD.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
■ Wellington, New Zealand.
j F this should meet the eye of Miss WINIFRED
’ JULIA SMITH, last heard of in Melbourne, or
anyone knowing her whereabouts, please communicate
with her mother,
Mrs. W. A. SMITH,
Hamilton, Out., Cahada.
JORDON, Albert Charles. Relatives are inquiring
for news and address of above, who was born at
Stepney, London, England, about 42 years ago, mar-
ried in 1896 at Salt River, Cape Town, afterwards
resided at Durban, and about 7 years ago left for
Australia. Please communicate at onee with
ROBERT J. FOSKETT, Solicitor, 6 & 7 Portman
Street, Portman Square, London, England.
Legal Notices.
ESTATE OF FANNY HUNT, LATE OF INVERELLy
DECEASED.
Notice is hereby given to henry hunt,
who married the abovenamed Fanny Hunt,
formerly Dorrington, deceased, at Tamworth, oh the
9th August, 1884, that he must come in before the
undersigned and prove his claim to his share of the
estate of the said deceased on or before the'yfirst day
of September, 1913, OTHERWISE an application
will be made to the Supreme Court in its Probate
Jurisdiction for an order declaring that the said
Henry Hunt predeceased his wife, and that his share
of the estate be distributed amongst the next of If in.
of the deceased. The undersigned will be pleased to
receive any information regarding the said Henry
Hunt.
R. C. MONDAY,
Acting Curator of Intestate Estates,
Sydney.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 18th June, 1913.
Appointment of Inspectors of Rifle
Ranges.
APPLICATIONS are invited from mem-
bers of the Military Forces and others
who possess the necessary qualifications and
are desirous of being appointed Inspectors of
Rifle Ranges in the CommonweaLh Military
Forces. There may be two vacancies.
Pay—Minimum, £250 per annum : Maxi-
mum, £3BO per annum, inclusive of all allow-
ances except travelling.
Further particulars and forms of applica-
tion may be obtained from the Secretary,
Department of Defence, Melbourne, or from
the Commandant, Military District Head-
quarters, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
Applications, endorsed “Application for
Inspector of Rifle Ranges,” must be for-
warded, addressed to the Secretary, Depart-
ment - . of Defence, Victoria Barracks, Mel-
bourne, to reach him not later than 15tli
July, 1913.
S. A. PETIIEBRIDGE.
Secretary.
Public Notice.
THE TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN
DREDGING CO., N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
MOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Dividend
1 N (the eleventh) of ten per cent. (25.) per
share has been declared Payable on 22nd July, 1913,
amounting to it 15,000, and for this purpose the
Share Register will be closed from 15th to 22nd
July inclusive. TJ T „„„„
Hobart, 13th June, 1913. IL J - WISE > Onager.
THE PATENTEE of Australian patent No. 15096 of
1 14th July, 1909 (William Thum), for “Improve-
ments in electrolytic apparatus for refining and separ-
ating metals,” is prepared to enter into negotiations
for and to complete arrangements by way of license
or otherwise on reasonable terms with any persons
desiring to exploit or to adopt and carry on such
invention in Australia.
Inquiries to be addressed to W. J. SPRUSON,
Patent Attorney, 91 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
are invited for
* a large supply of Hard
Water=worn Pebbles, about
3in. diameter, of Flint for
preference.
Mount Morgan Gold Mining
Co. Ltd., Mount Morgan.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
w
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc., with this
,o’opying book. You simnly in-
sert your Letter paper (as
illustrated) then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy in tne noon. There is no sign of your having
taken a copy; no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either 200 letters size 10
by'B in., or 400 size 8 by, 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price 57-
post free, cash with order. Special Dainty Octavo
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, free , if
stamped, addressed envelope sent to
S B ZANETIC, Welford RtL, LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-faihed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
T» S«m Betecthre Werfc ■■ Taw Own 1
AMAZING MAKE-UPS
A DoZe* Change* and Disguise*
The Lot for Three Shillings
—• and we pack and pay carriage.
Here’s a bargain chance, boys ! Great fun and amusement
can always be bad with this collection of Masks and Make-
ups. You may be naturally handsome, but a nice mous-
tache will make you positively fascinating. Or, if your
beauty is a snare, you can effectually hide it, like the gent
in the middle, frith a wig*, grog-blossom nose and butterfly
whiskers, that can be worn together or separately. Then
you may slip on an animal mask or startle the ladies as a
gentlemanly demon. There are over a dozen changes you
can effect with all these make-up disguises Just the thing
for detective work. Even your best girl will not know you.
You could make love to your mother-in-law without being
found out. Understand the bargain clearly; the whole
moustache, -wig, nose, whiskers, animal and devil]
masks, a good pound's worth of fan for 3/- carriage paid.
The Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Amusements.
I. AK A BUT T-B UMFORD TOUR.
< REMAINING SYDNEY CONCERTS,
JULY 3 (Matinge), 5,8, 10.
NEWCASTLE CONCERT,
MONDAY, JULY 14.
BRISBANE SEASON,
JULY 17, 19, 21.
Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT.
MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEI .
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON presents the Musical Pi ay in
Three Acts,
AUTUMN MANOEUVRES.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
PRICES : D.C and O.S. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7.80, 2/- ; thereafter, 1/-
"T“ H E A T R E R O V A 1,, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
in
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Prices : D.C. & O.S. (Reserved). 7/6 ; at Doors, 6/- ; Stalls
4/-; Gallery to 7.30,2/- (thereafter, ]/- Plans at Paling’s.’
A Delphi theatre, Sydney.
** Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of LIFE’S SHOP WINDOW.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 5.
William Bourne’s Great Drury Lane Success,
MAN TO MAN,
With its Wealth of Scenery and Marvellous Mechanical
Effects.
PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
OALA C JE TJI iiT'ntE SV I) Nlil.
1 Direction: WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE G RAF TER S.
Complete American Co. of 60 artists in a two-act
Musical Burlesque.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES: 55., 3s. and Is. Early Doors Gallery, Is.
extra.
JOSEPH McCAB E’S L ECTUBES.
Joseph mccabe*s eectukes.
PROTESTANT HALL.
SHORT AND FINAL SEASON,
OF
POPULAR ILLUSTRATED LECTURES,
BV
JOSEPH McCABE,
The Most Eminent and Popular Science Lecturer that
has visited Australia.
TO-NIGHT, 3rd INST.—“THE END OF THE
WORLD.”
FRIDAY, 4th.—“THE ROMANCE OF AUSTRALIA.”
SATURDAY, 5th.—“THE EVOLUTION OF MAN.”
MONDAY, 7th.—“LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS.”
TUESDAY, Bth.—“EVOLUTION OF SCENERY.”
THURSDAY, 10th.—“SHAKSPEARE & GOETHE.”
POPULAR PRICES: Front Seats, 2s. (Booked at
Cole’s Book Arcade, 35.) ; Gallery, Is. Com-
mence at 8. CARLYLE SMYTHE.
THE LITTLE TH EAT It E
(With the BIG Attractions),
CA3TLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
EVEItY EVENING, AT 8.10.
HUGH Ci BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
present
BOBBY BURNIT.
The Play which Every Father is Taking his Son to See.
PRICES : Orchestral Stalls, 6/-; Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery (till
7.30), 2/-; after that-hour. 1/-
IVIATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. MT»XNEI
Managing Director : BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT
every EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
DECARS AND TOMATO,
A Whirlwind of Laughter.
PAUL GORDEN, Tangle-footed Wire-walker.
MAX DUFFEK, Musical Contortionist.
And Many Others.
PRICES AS USUAL. ' Plan at Theatre,
g PENCE R’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
. I
QUO VA DI S ?
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT IN
SILENT PORTRAYAL.
8000 ft..—A FULL EVENING’S ENTERTAINMENT.
"pHE OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICT U R US, LTD.
’ “BEST OF A 1,!,.’’
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson'!? (No Extra Fee).
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE HOUSE
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES: WED. AND SAT. AT 2.30.
STAR VAUDEVILLE & MINSTRELS.
An Entire Change of Artists and Programme Weekly.
PRICES: 1/6, 1/- arid 6d. Saturday,'2/-, 1/6 and II-
Doors 7.15, Overture ‘B.
g Y D N E Y GLACIARI U~K
BEAL I£E SKATING.
Three sessions daily;: 10 to. 12, 3 to 5,
ii 8 to 30.8 b.
is
Admission, Sl&te Hire, 6d.
Children: Morning and afternoon only,
Admission 18.
Children : Saturday .morning, Admission 6d.
’Phone 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
I MPERIAL RO L/VL E R
Foot of Will iani Street.
KINK,
A REFINED RINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
fastidious People.
now open. three Sessions per day
JAMES-C. BENDRODT,
„ , General Manager.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THE A T RE~
“ Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSII
. EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE FLYING RANVARDS.
TWO LADIES AND FOUR GENTLEMEN
THE WORLD’S GREATEST AERIAL ACT.
DIRECT FROM ENGLAND AND FIRST APPEAR
ANCE IN SYDNEY. •
Grace and Elegance, with a touch of Comedy and a
bit of Sensation.
FISRA HOUSE, MEL BO CRNE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
FOUR QUAINT Q's, Humorous Burlesque Artists.
A. G. SPRY, Cosmopolitan Comedian.
CAPT. TIEBOR’S EDUCATED SEALS * SEA LIONS
TORCAT & D’ALIZA’S TRAINED ROOSTERS.
DALE & BROOKES, Musical Gomedv Artists.
SISTERS CLARENCE & BROTHER, Character Change
Ariists.
BELLCLAIR BROS.. American Athletes.
Plan at Allan’s. f^PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
H E
U II I T O
MELBOURNE.
R I U M,
THE FINEST CONCERT HALL
IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF
ENTERTAINMENTS.
Full particulars for dates, terms, apply,
J. & N. TAIT, The Auditorium, Melbourne.
The auditori VUm .
Direction—GßEGAN McMAHON.
MONDAY, JULY 7, at 2 p.m.,
A MATINEE PERFORMANCE
of
THE TRIAL BEFORE HEROD.
From “The York Mystery Plays” of the XIV. century,
by
HERBERT GRIMWOOD and MEMBERS of the
ASCTIE-BRAYTON COMPANY.
Box Plan at the PIANOLA CO. 5/-, 3/- and 1/-.
AILYING V I S I T O F
PETER DAWSON,
PETER DAWSON,
THE WORLD-FAMED ENGLISH BASSO.
PETER DAWSON,
THE MOST POPULAR GRAMOPHONE SINGER.
ONE NIGHT ONLY.
AUDITORIUM, WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
PRICES, 4/- (RESERVED), 3/-, 2/-.
Plan at Pianola Co., June 30.
Direction FAULKNER SMITH.
PRINCESS’S MKLBOCRNE.
r Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
George Marlow’s Dramatic Combination in the
Greatest American Play of the Century,
THE COWBOY AND THE SQUAW.
POPULAR PRICES.
Plan at Pianola Co.
|_| EK .MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
An Attraction of World-wide Importance.
ADELINE GENEE,
Supported by M. ALEXANDER VOLININ, MLLE.
SCHMOLZ and the IMPERIAL RUSSIAN BALLET.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 7/6.
Balcony and Stalls, 4/- ; Pit and Gallery, 21-
THE. 4 TR E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA
of the Great American Dramatic Success,
WITHIN TH E LA W.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 5.
Reappearance of the Bert Bailey Dramatic Co.
in
The Record-breaking Australian Comedy Drama,
ON OUK- SELECTION.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
CE SKATING.
I
T H E
ICE SKATING.
GLACIAEIUM,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY AFTERNOON : ADMISSION 2/-
EYERY EVENING': ADMISSION 1/-
IRECTION AMALGAMATED PICTURES
LTD.
Melbourne's Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
OLYMPIA. O L Y M P^l A.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
\A/E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
,™E best WEST’S PICTURES™ best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial EnterimuSe in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Ricture Worthy of Note alwavs to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
RI«CHC A R R O L T
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (exeepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia I.td.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
GIVE ME 1 5 MINUTES EACH DAY OF
says
WALTER BENTLEY,
YOUR
TIME,
THE DISTINGUISHED
ACTOR,
and I’ll teach you how to
MAKE SPEECHES,
PROPOSE TOASTS,
ADDRESS BOARD MEETINGS,
SELL MORE GOODS,
STRENGTHEN MEMORY,
DEVELOP STRONG PERSONALITY,
CONVERSE WINNINGLY,
ACQUIRE POISE AND DISTINCTION,
and
OBTAIN PERFECT HEALTH,
BY CORRECT BREATHING AND PHYSICAL CULTURE.
of business and professional people have become convincing sneakers in •
business by following a Mail Course in their spare time at home or at tte?r office Tf P hal in d 2
their power and influence, and put them on the straight road to BIG SUCCESS. 14 h lncreased
“WORTH MUCH MORE THAN IT COSTS.”
Only one address: Ladies and Gentlemen, call or write at once.
301 a PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.


ARE YOU
deaf?
if vou are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
** ■ { a simple and scientific device which restores
hfarine no matter how old you are. No mystery or
ne c v’about it; we describe it fully, and explain
• how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
. an d jn the same way you use this sound magni-
fir to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
mon-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
Me No one can tell you are wearing them. They
ret the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —the
train of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
elief do have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
\Purnifiers ‘restore‘hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
vevs even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fit's the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
horn deaf, we
cannot pretend _ _ _
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you frogi deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been i«:
cured, and you can be cured, too. You mav wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (thev are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also ah
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two vears. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send' them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once;)with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Rank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
Ip
WHEN ORDERING
(Mmu
ALE
Insist on
FOSTERS
‘Bugle
Brand’
The ORIGINAL Bottler*
of Bass’ Ale.
STILL THE FOREMOST.
A
A
HIM ROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
gives instant relief.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
I do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
tooth soap
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. Pre-
serves the enamel. Heals the
eums. Removes tartar. Its
entirely free from acids, ana
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
on a penny postcard, sent to
is, will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sen ,
[>ost paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out .
Then art imitations. Sold by Chemists everywhere.
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849 - »
Far Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
On Security or Freehold or LeasehoH
c-.-l-m _„ w City or Suburban Prooerties, or on
of Governmehf n« ’ PaB^°!: a, o and Agricultural Lands or on the Security
o Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
nrJ 1 or^a ? e contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
niDlfn up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of an v fine.
D Hrm°Ja.m^ h ß„rnTm'V r - Th'n Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman ; Tne
eT' K P•Ai»v' L ilP' > The . H ° n - R - J - ® lack ’, M La 5 The Hon - F- K. Winchcombe, M L. 6. ; Adrian Knox,
HEAI)' O^YOE i r^POT^EET, k SrDNET Oeneral AC, ' Uary = £&'
HAS MONEY TO LEND
MAKE H4O A MONTH
Bo Your Own Boss
v^>
m
%
500 to 1500% Profit in Eacb Sale
If you are making less than £lO a week you should I
write me to-day. I can help you to wealth and In- ]
dependence In an entirely new business. You can
work when you please, where you please, always
have money and the means of making barrels more
of It.
HOW WOULD YOU LIKE to start out from home
on a combination business and pleasure trip, stay at
the best hotels, and live like a lord and clean up
£2 a day? Work at amusement places, on street
corners, manufacturing Institutions, anywhere and
everywhere, ten minutes' walk from home or on the
other side of the globe. . Just set my Camera up any
place you happen to select, and make £2 a day above
operating expenses.
PAPER POST CARDS DIRECT
My proposition is my WONDERFUL NEW
COMBINATION CAMERA with which you can
take and Instantaneously develop ELEVEN entirely
dir, erent styles of pictures. Including Buttons, four
varieties and two sizes of Paper Post Cards, and six
styles of Tintype pictures. Every picture Is devel-
oped without the use of films or negatives, and
Is ready to deliver to your customer In less than
a minute after making the exposure. This
REMARKABLE INVENTION takes 100 pictures
an hour. Everybody wants pictures, and each sale
you make advertises your business and makes more
Bales foryou.
TREMENDOUS PROFITS
Max Brodle states: I made £942.128 In eleven
months; my average profit was £2 7s per day.
S. D. Gibson says: I cleared up more than £4O
profit with your Outfit In a short time.
P. N. Elmore writes: I have not kept track, but
have made £ll to £l2 a week right along with your
Outfit, which beats them all.
Hundreds of letters like these prove the tremendous
money-making possibilities In this new, unique and
absolutely Independent profession. Every sale gives
you a profit of from 500 to 1,500 per'cent,
NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED
Simple Instructions accompany each Outfit, and
you can begin to make money In fifteen minutes
after my Outfit reaches you.
This business Is so new, the demand for photos so
universal, that everyone who sees your Camera Is a
profitable customer for you.
The profits are so quick, so certain, so steady that
a few hours’ work each day at home, or anywhere
on earth gives you a big permanent income. Even
i / you cannot put all of your time into this business,
your spare moments may m this pleasant and easy way
be made to pay you many limes more reward than your
present steady employment.
Saturday afternoons, Sundays and holidays mean
rich harvests for you, and there are scores and scores
of cases where earnings of from £5 to £lO have been
made in a few short hours by men who are regularly
employed in mills, offices and on farms, and who
nevef worked a Camera until they got my new,
simple and thoroughly guaranteed Outfit.
POSITIVE MONEY-MAKING PROOFS FREE
You should investigate thi3 proposition at once.
The proofs showing the money-making ability of
this Camera we will give you free and they will startle,
amaze and delight you. , _ ...
A trifling investment will get this wonderful Outfit
for you and put you In a position to make £5OO a
year. If you want to be independent and absolutely
your own boss, write me to-day and I will send you
bv return mail, full free information regarding this
WONDERFUL PROPOSITION. Including letters
offering positive proofs from every part of the world.
DON’T DELAY, ANSWER THIS ANNOUNCEMENT TO-DAY
L. LASCELLE, Mgr., 627 W. 43d St.. Dept. NEW YORK, U
S. a.
r
TOP-NOTCH
OF SCOTCH
MiAmsF
» \
When dispensing hospitality, rely on “King George IV
Friends will come in “threes’* and “fours and make
“a full house,” because it is a “straight” beverage in
every sense, and although there s not a headache
in a gallon,” its genial stimulus may sometimes
bring a “royal flush.”
“King George IV” is “top notch” in all the
essentials of a high grade whisky —
fine bouquet rounded
mellowness and
perfect purity.
e
i
ie
h
<♦
4*
c?
a
V V
V vV
V v
n
n
V V
mB
vv
v v
VV
V v'
W
m
vX
vy
V'-
A TO PN OTG H-HAfJ D
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents roR '
» eno-iich Ale Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Murray’s English Aie.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout Club Rum.
of Aerated Water* and Cordials.
Manufacturers
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
ACROSS AUSTRALIA. By BALD-
WIN SPENCER, C.M.G., M.A.,
F.R.S.; and F. J. GILLEN, Special
Magistrate and Sub-Protector of
Aborigines for South Australia. With
colored and other Illustrations and
Maps. In 2 vols., Bvo, 21s. net.
(255.) .
Westminster Gazette. —“In the two admir-
ably produced volumes we have one of the most
interesting and best equipped works of travel
of our time.”
THE BELIEF IN’”IMMORTALITY
AND THE WORSHIP OF THE
DEAD. By J. G. FRAZER, D.C.L.,
LL.B. Litt.D. Vol I. The Belief
Among the Aborigines of Australia,
the Torres ' Straits Islands, New
Guinea and Melanesia. Bvo. 10s.
net. (125.)
The Outlook. —“The habits and cusfoihg of
the Fijians, Melanesians, and New Guinea people
are most entertaining, and will repay the stu-
dent and the casual reader. We shall hope for
the remaining volumes of this subject, and
await them with impatience.”
THE 01)1) FARMHOUSE. By the
ODD FARMWIFE. Crown Bvo. 6s.
Daily Chronicle. — “ ‘The Odd Farmhouse,’
in its charming chronicle of small doings, will
help many to see the pleasures that may be in ‘a
green thought in a green shade.’ ”
GITANJALI (Song Offerings).—
By RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
A Collection of Prose Translations
. made by the Author from the original
Bengali. Crown Bvo. 4s. 6d. net.
(ss. 6d.)
The Nation.- —“ Only the classics of mystical
literature provide a standard by which
this handful of ‘Song Offerings’ can be appraised
or understood/’
MACMILLAN’S SEVENPENNY SERIES.
NEW VOLS.
Pott Svo. Cloth Gilt. With Frontis-
piece. 7d. net (9d.) each.
RICHARD CARVEL. By WINSTON
CHURCHILL.
THE PHILANDERERS. By A. E.
W. MASON.
THE VIRGINIAN. By OWEN WIS-
TER.
A VILLAGE TRAGEDY. By MAR-
GARET L. WOODS.
Complete List post free on application.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY
(Lately known as Macmillan’s Colonial Library)*
PAPER COVERS, 2s. 6d. EACH.
CLOTH BOARDS, 3s. 6d. EACH.
627 TRANS-HIMALAYA: Discover-
ies and Adventures in Tibet. By
SVEN HEDIN. Vol. 111. With 11-J
lustrations.
A further instalment of Dr. Sven Hedin’s ac-
count of his latest great journey. The two
earlier volumes were highly praised and widely
read, so that a hearty welcome may be antici-
pated for this continuation o fthfe explorer’s
remarkable narrative.
629 A PRISONER IN FAIRYLAND.
(The Book that “Uncle Paul”
Wrote.) By ALGERNON BLACK-
WOOD, Author of “The Education of
Uncle Paul,” etc.
597 THE INSIDE OF THE CUP.
By-WINSTON CHURCHILL, Au-
thor of “Richard Carvel,” etc.
Like itß immediate predecessor, “A Modern
Chronicle,” Mr. Churchill’s new book is a story
of the present day. It sets forth the personal
history of a young clergyman, and the trans-
formation of his views, and constitutes a power-
ful study of the modern tendencies in religion
and their” new relations to life.
623 LORE OF PROSERPINE. By
MAURICE HEWLETT, Author of
“The Forest Lovers,” etc.
A book of essays on what are commonly de-
scribed as supernatural subjects. Their interest
is greatly increased by the fact that, up to a
certain point, they assume an autobiographical
The “Daily Mall,” April 17, 1013.
A Book That is Being Talked About.
616 THE CROCK OF GOLD
By JAMES STEPHENS.
Author of “The Charwoman’s Daughter.”
“Someone asked me the other day, rather
pettishlv. I thought, ‘Why is everyone talking
about “The Crock of Gold” ?’.... A book
which forces those who have read it with a sym-
pathy to talk about it. One of his Majesty’s
Judges said across a club lunch-table that in
thirty years no other book had kent him out
of his bed after eleven o’clock. A poet urged
me to go out late one night and knock up a
bookseller, so as to begin it at once. A ‘lead-
ing dramatist’ seized me by the arm in the
Circle at Monte Carlo, and, chuckling, related
to me, almost word for word, how the two
Philosophers married their wives, etc., etc.”
628 FATHER RALPH. By GERALD
O’DONOVAN.
A story of modern Irish life, containing a
powerful attack on the methods of Roman
Catholicism.
626 CHANCE THE PIPER. By
AGNES and EGERTON CASTLE,
Authors of “The Secret Orchard,”
etc.
A volume of dramatic stories. They range
in period and scenery from the days of the
-Great Plague of London to those of the Re-
gency and of recent wars; but throughout runs
one leading idea, the far-reaching effects of a
seeming freak of chance in bringing out the
man and the hour.
610 VAN CLEVE. By MARY S.
WATTS, Author of “Nathan Burke,”'
etc.
624 THE MATING OF LYDIA. By
Mrs. HUMPHRY WARD, Author of
“Robert Elsmerd,” etc.
Times. —“The fact that her characters are
touched to larger and finer issues than they
dream of, gives Mrs. Ward’s book a spacious-
ness and grandeur which is very uncommon in
any fiction.”
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
Macmillan & Co. Ltd.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


WHY LOSE
YOORHAK
\
m-
M
b±3
CUTICURA
SOAP SHAMPOOS
And occasional light dressings
of Cuticura Ointment will pre-
vent it when all else fails.
Cuticura Soap ana Ointment are sola throughout
the world. A liberal sample ot each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co.,
Dept. G, Sydney, N. S. W.
Clogged-Up Liver
Causes Headache
It’s a foolish proceeding to suffer from
constipation, sick headache, biliousness,
dizziness, indigestion and
kindred ailments when
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS will
end alt misery in
a few hours.
Purely vege-
table. Act
gently on
liver and
bowels.
Carters!
ITTLE*
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
5
Her Youtfc
rb.A
:LENJ
Mfw CL/.S.v^.)
Mexican
WALNUT a TAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best BtisH Doctor of All!
If you’ve got a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema in any form, Barcoo
rot —or if you’ve a wound that won’t heal or a
jagged cut, all you need
have to cure it is a tin of
Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 1/6, Posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
K.E.8., Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMA CURE
GHIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difflenlty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIIIMAULT & Co s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists. _____
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
The above cleartv shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hafr-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, , etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These -troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
1 had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested ip every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time—yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell: in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit.: This lead him
to tell me that he understpod the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
whs astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world —I am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept* 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original antl Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/H» 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
<dlt!l0Q d f > *
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectu ally
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
*he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
HORROCKSES’
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than tiny
ether pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
*WA
FOVNTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)j:—
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydn
va
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
•I• I •
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
Every householder should possess a copy of “ BENGER'S FOOD,
AND HOW TO USE IT—FOR INFANTS, INVALIDS, AND THE
AGED." Post Free from :
BENOER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, MANCHESTER, ENCh
117, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W. 4
** NZ Benper sFood is sol /in ei'>s Dru<* ist*. etc., everywhere*
rood
The Inky Way.
According to a recent front-rank Labor candidate
in Victoria, the Labor people there asked Geoff Syme
what the family would take for the Age. According
to this yarn, the reply was that an offer of a million
and a quarter might make him think. Unfortunately
the party didn’t have £1,250,000 about its clothes
at the moment, so the representative of the . Symes
didn’t have to think harder than usual.
* * . * *
“P.X.”: There was a time when the proof-reader’s
job was considered of the utmost importance; those
were days before the linotype had arrived, and when
mistakes mattered. Then the reading stool was the
ladder to the best jobs in a newspaper office. The
compositor—on the whole, a man who had much
more knowledge in his head if he had less dexterity
in his fingers, than the tradesman of to-day—pretty
often looked forward to promotion through the
reader’s den. But he had to be a top-notcher to get
there. E. W. Webb, one of the most accomplished
of. Australian journalists, who lately died in Ade-
laide, Was, after helping to bring out the first num-
bers of the Age, a comp, on the Register, and was
for years “father of the chapel’’—that is, spokesman
for the comps, and expert intermediary in office
matters between them and the proprietors. When
the Advertiser was started it was a man of his
stamp who was given the proof-reader’s job in the
new venture. And he did the work so well that it
seemed almost a pity to put him on to anything
else. That first issue of the Advertiser, by the
way, witnessed the birth also of another very vigor-
ous Australian institution; it contained the pro-
spectus of the National Bank of Australia, now in
the front rank of Commonwealth money-lenders and
money-makers.
* * * *
J. S. Blackham,. the military-looking gent, who
has been chief of Melbourne Herald's reporting staff
for a score or so of years, leaves that job to take
charge of the advertising branch-of the office. Black-
ham was born at Adelaide, but nothing else is known
against him. He first fought for his crust in Melbourne,
but drifted to Bendigo,, and served on the staffs of
the Independent and the ’Tiser. Being the pos-
sessor of a voice, he-was in the habit of obliging
the company at smoke nights and Dorcas Society
meetings, and for a while pursued the silvery tenor
of his way as a professional vocalist.
“Wandau”: During my 313 months as journalist
few yells of glorious discontent have given me so
much heart-glow as that of “C.R.L.H.” (B.
12/6/’l3). He tells us that he has been 27 months
a reporter, the last four as daily-paper district rep.
paid on lines, and it is as district linesman that he
emits his magnificent yell of Hell, Sweat and Stop
Thief. And no wonder!' In every trade or calling
the case of the poorer-paid sections is given inade-
quate consideration when organised effort to secure
better pay, etc., is being made. In journalism the
dailies’ district linesmen form one of the sections
whose pay fluctuates between rotten (at the best)
and microscopic (at the worst). The man who
knows that he’ll draw, say, £4 every week is a lot
better off than the man who sometimes draws £5
or £6, but generally draws from £1 to £3. In
the old days, the district men scraped and scratched
and counter-lunched and starved shabbily on a penny
a line. Many of them are married and have families.
All must “keep up appearances,” and some “connec-
tion” as representatives of the “great” journals. The
A.J.A.’s first agreement secured for that section of
brutally-treated workers 10s. a week “retaining fee”
in addition to lineage at ljd. “C.R.L.H.” doesn’t
mention that half-sov. A? district man he should
be getting it, no matter what 10s. or ss. job his
office may give him outside his district work. But
even if he is getting it, the principle of a few
bob “retaining fee” is all wrong. And still all wrong
is the retention of the “retaining fee” system in the
A J.A.’s new log, over which association and proprie-
tors met in conference this June 24—a1l wrong, even
though a line and £1 “retaining fee” are now
asked. Most of the claims cover only the district lines-
man’s very occasional “pickings”—the rare “wind-
fal’s” that happen at long intervals, and come then not
in battalions, but in single spies. Under the expired
“amicable agreement,” the district representative of
a great paper was told, in' effect, “Your work is
worth a salary, old man, but all the salary it’s worth
is 10 bob —and we’ll call it a retaining fee, if you
don’t mind.” If the extra 10s., or part of it, be
secured, that “insult to injury” treatment still
obtains even though the extra farthing (!) a line
be also secured. Doubtless the A.J.A. is doing its
best. It has a rough row to hoe. The large majority
of its members are established staff men who receive
“salaries,” not “retaining fees,” and the associa-
tion probably thinks that it must look their way
most of the time and with a kindlier light in its
eye when preparing a log. But it will, undoubtedly,
more nearly fill the bill as a “trade union” when it
tackles the case of the poor suburban devil, and
demands, without shivering before a Big Innovation,
that he shall be placed on staff status and paid staff
salary (equitably graded according to his district),
plus expenses for the travelling which he must do,
esoecially when his “district” embraces more than
one suburb.
* * * *
“H.C.C”: Beware the pitfalls of shorthand tran-
scription, young man! Rider Haggard, in a pretty
peroration, was made, by one Sydney daily, to pic-
ture the ship of Empire becoming a “rock,” instead
of a “wreck.” Phonography’s consonant outline is
the same for both words. And the other day, Cook,
of the weak, loafing majority, was made to “ “speak
with regard for those who were defeated.” Short-
hand outlines “regret” and “regard” in the same
way. It is interesting to remember that a short-
hand outline nearly cut George Reid’s State Pre-
miership short. He told an interviewer that the
N.S.W. Labor party, which was then affording him
8 rather grumpy and dubious support, always had a
caucus at the critical moment, and decided to stand
by him. The reporter made it that the party always
had an “excuse.” At least, the reporter made it
“excuse,” while Reid swore by all the confectionery
in creation that he said “caucus,” and the Laborites,
who thought at first he had accused them of con-
temptible shuffling, accepted the statement. In
shorthand “caucus” is two “k’s” and an “s,” while
“excuse” is two “k’s” and two “s’s,” and the ’“k”
is a horizontal dash and the “s” a hurried loop or
circle, so there were points about Reid’s explanation.
A DAWN DREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I don’t know what remark the breeze essayed,
What bawdy jest it breathed where she lay curled.
I saw her in one splendid btiish arrayed,
That mantled o’er the bound’ries of the world!
The Dawn, a lazy girl, lay scarce awake;
One perfect leg hung loosely from her bed.
What casual jesting did the stray breeze make,
Uutil that gorgeous wine-flush burned and spread ?
Tingling and mantled o’er with sun-gold fire
From her piled cushions did she half-arise;
The stones that decked dead Cleopatra’s tire
Were like the blazing anger of her eyes.
It seemed the earth must wither ’neath her scorn!
But, lo! a quick smile broke, her anger fled,
A softer beauty in her face was born.
She stretched her limbs and sprang from off her
bed,
And thrilled across the azure, while her hair,
A streaming banner of delight, unfurled!
A clash of cymbals echoed through the air;
Her golden laughter woke the sleeping world!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


Important
Reduction.
In the Prices of
MICHELIN
MOTOR TYRES
WM . - * . f
Bibendum First
as usual
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
lartre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. od.,
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET —BRISBANE
»»
■■
1 Watermans
(LdealV
FountgniPeii
Lost in London, lost again in Quebec, and
after 18 years’ use as efficient as when quite
new. Read this striking testimonial:
“ You will be interested to know that > h ®
Ideal Fountain Fen purchased from you ml* 94 ha “ ;« it
inconstant, unimpaired service eve ]8 ' rs ago . It
writes as well as on the firs y ’ fi rs t contact
does not leak, s ? ’ °[j^ ai case with other makes.
with paper, as A® ° f * e " testing story of how I lost it, once
“ I could write an interest gto y Quebec snow-
unsolicited leSltnial .0 the continued
value ol your (ReyJ John H WRIGHT .“
w 1 A c„if.Filline. 12, 6 and upwards j
la 4 types Regular * nd ?'“/ ,L, upw ards.
Safety and Pump-Filling, It)/ a p
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. Hardtmuth, Ltd., Koh-i-noor House, London, Enylend.
(Au*trali* —350, Gear*. St., Sydney.)
DINNEFQRDSj
» Magnesia
I
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
t
r
'
NHI(US
Mumiros
Barnet Glass Motor-
Cycle Tyres carry the
confidence of Motor-
Cyclists everywhere.
BARNET GLUE
MOTOR TYRES
All roads bear testi-
mony to the quality
of Barnet
Glass Motor
Tyre*.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
Founders of the Rubber
Industry in Australasia f
All States and N.Z.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney; [2
289-93 Swanston St., Melbourne .
r
BARNEIGIASS
[ WAURPROOr OCOAI3
The"MAWSON” Model
Cut, modelled, and made
with as much cue as a
high-priced suit. At all
Drapers and Storekeepers
BARNEY
ENGINE HXCKING&'
PEMTf JOINTING
M55
Recognised by Experts as “Savers
of Steam,” and thoroughly depend-
able undw even severest conditions.
yHE
BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.


The BEST HOUSE for all SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
smoke:
SUNOL
cs-
The
Perfect
Pipe
Tobacco.
Highest Grade
Virginian.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
DARK OR
LIGHT.
In Plug or Cut.
6
per lb.
Post
Free.
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others ih QUALITY, FINISH,
DESIGN and WORKMANSHIP, • ■
6NI>
Made from the Finest Quality Selected Old Briar
Root, with Superior Hand-Out Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces.
Extra Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADINC SHAPES
Price Q /
each
(Post Free).
A DELIGHTFUL 8 FASCINATING Cigarette.
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
Jhree Witches
vi
VIRGINIA
[IGARETTES
35
B-
v
■f r DHORRIS
&sonsL t p
LONDON e.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
Made from Selected Sun Ripe Virginian Tobacco.
They possess a Fragrance of Unique Excellence.
Smoked by Connoisseurs Everywhere.
Price
per 100,
Post Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches —City, Suburbs
and Newcastle
GOLDEN KEY”
Cigars de Luxe
(made In England).
Irresistibly Appeal to
all Connoisseurs
because of their
Exquisite Flavor
and
Delicate Aroma.
Two Strengths—
MILD and MEDIUM.
Packed in HEAVY CEDAR
PRESENTATION CABINETS,
containing 50 Cigars,
22/6
POST
FREE.
Try Sample Lot q/£
of 5 Cigars, /(I)
packed in Cedar v
Box Post Free.
Save “GOLDEN KEY’
Bands for Prizes.
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
Will Anprape »■ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Magical Goods.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method op Learning French, German,
Italian, Spanish, 1/7 each language; Speeches and
Toasts for all occasions, 1/1 ; Every Man His Own
Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of
Manhood, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives,
5/4; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illus-
trated, 7d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Book
of Love Letters, 1/-; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and
Clairvoyance, 1/1; Horse Doctor, 1/1; What Young
People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1 ; Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only
genuine and complete edition, 3/6; New 1912
edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/- ; New
Tricks with Cards, 1/- ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/4 ; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ;
Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/-; Lovers’
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
Wtf-AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
MASKS
For Fancy Dress
Balls, Skating
Carnivals, Pro-
cessions, etc.
Lartre Variety.
Write for List.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
2] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
[3
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “ FENANKLE,” New York.
A. B. FARQUHAR & CO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
38 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How TO Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ds. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases ok Horses,
Is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s'Human Science,
10s 6d. ’ Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
WM
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.'*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I*r- BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-^
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUtURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. HOw to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His- Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking-Made-Ea8)~, Is; .posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. - Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. IST" Established So Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers'
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
1s 2d posted. Fru its of P hilosopuy ,Is post. 100 N ew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
wound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, oloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and musio com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY-


14s:
MPwST
w
v? *
1
NEWTOWN SOCCER FOOTBALL TEAM,
who have trained with
REXONA, the Rapid Healer.
Read what Mr. W. P. Payne, the trainer of this successful team, says of Rexona:
“I am pleased fo have this opportunity of expressing our gratitude and good wishes
for your excellent Remedy, Rexona. Since I have had charge of the Newtown Soccer
Football Club I have been using nothing but Rexona for massaging after training
operations, and J am delighted with fhe results I have obtained from same. All the
Club swear by this line, and I can recommend it as an unsurpassed rubrdown to all
Athletes.
"Every Training Rpom in Australia should have a pot of Rexona, fop I am sure that
all Athletes will find it most excellent.
“Wishing you evefy success with this line, and assuring you of jny highest appre-
ciation pf sanie, “1 am, sincerely yours,
“(Bgd.) WILLIAM FENTON PAYNE,
“Trainer Newtown Soccer Football Club.”
Football players everywhere will find Rexona of the greatest use in the training-
rpotri. It is invaluable as a rub-down for strained and tired muscles, and will
rapidly heal all the many cuts and bruises acquired in the football field, if you have
pot already trip 4 Rexona, sepd us your namp and address, and we will send by return
post a sample pot gratis. Rexona is sold everywhere in triangular pots at 1/ti, or
in large pots, holding nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-, or will be sent post free,
upon receipt of the price, by the Rexona Proprietary Company, 15 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
O
0
o
THE RAPID HEALER
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Buu.ktin st/.e
Price, 21s.
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Wowser Ballade.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 N Egyl )t, by the sacred tree,
Vdown the Nile that ever flows
Athwart the Land of Mystery,
I step sedate and look morose,
I I' 1 damn the Sphinx the Good Man goes
’ g a id pursues its wicked way),
■ Ll midnight pubs of Thebes to close—
-j’lJe Wowser hath a busy day.
, /war's Rome when life was free
tnri Horace love-songs would compose,
moral soul was filled with glee
n tt uch ungodly Pagan shows.
The dancing girls, the wine the rose,
monstrous feasts, the garlands gay,
1 i„d how his smile was oleose—
Th e Wowser hath a busy day.
r n everv land, by Fate’s decree,
' u’lih'ereedv lips and curious nose,
The world’s eternal Pharisee
Per Sin luxuriously crows,
\ d loud his penny-trumpet blows
'Tint Hell will shortly come to stay.
This truth delectable He knows,
‘The Wowser hath a busy day.
Envoy.
llo ' Melbourne is a deadly dose
fOf jovful sin and cardial play,
, i Sydney.' when the Harbor glows—
The Wowser’ hath a busy day.
VICTORIA.
GANESHAN.
A House of Flames.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
do you think?" cried Miss
I Vl/ Glimmer, rapturously, bursting
[i * ' jpto the dining-room where the
boarders lingered over the ruins of the SaG
urday midday dinner- Her eyes were spark-
ling with the excitement of a splendid dis-
covery—something calculated to make the
sepior dowpger sit UP &nd to send dappers
flj “No! What is it?” chorused all the
females present. The male boarders who
had reputations for politeness removed then-
pipes froai their lips. The Perfect Brutes —
there were three of theip—snioked on dog-
“Oh, you’d never guess!” bubbled the
news-bringer- “Well, Howard Surrey-Sussex
and that other loyely actor have takep the
place next door for the Sydney season !”
After the first breathless shock, little
shrieks of rapture came from every part of
the room. The women jumped up and down
on their chairs, clapped their hands, and all
but embraced one another- Miss Gummer,
who had not even taken off her hat or dis-
entangled her fingers the strings of
eight minute brown-paper parcels—the tro-
phies of the eternal bargain chase —was
pelted with inquiries and exclamations ;
“Oh, how perfectly lovely !”
“Is it true —really?”
“Who told you?”
“Are you sure?”
She waited triumphantly until the noise
had abated, then -mt in the knock-out. “Oh,
it’s quite correct. They are coming across
about three o’clock in Harold Stageliaunter’s
new launch —so you will be able to see for
yourselves!” She made a radiantly tri-
umphant exit, and was hack again in a hat-
less state before order had been restored.
The women waited upon her abjectly, and
begged for whatever dregs of news she had
left. Such a triumph had not been witnessed
within the memory of the oldest surviving
boarder.
The room now being like a disturbed cage
of parakeets, the men for the most nart sat
back in their chairs, and smiled indulgently
at the pretty raptures of the female section.
Rut Mr. Bodger, who had been interrupted
in a masterly exposition of the tangle over
the Speakership, stroked his impressive
beard and glowered at the chatterers.
Suddenly two ladies started simultaneously
to talk. The dead pause and usual polite
wrangle as to who should go first enabled
Bodger to edge in the first discord in the
happy scene. “I can’t see,” he boomed. “I
can’t, for the life of me, see what there is in
these confounded actors to make a fuss
about.”
The scornful remark brought forth _ a
ohorus of protest from the ladies. Miss
Rummer led the shrill attack on the scoffer.
"Purely, Mr. Bodger— surely you will allow
ns to admire genius! Why,” she continued
Passionately, the Sunday Babbler said last
week that Surrey-Sussex was one of the
greatest actors Australia had ever known !
The worshippers murmured devoutly, and
stared coldly at Bodger. who grew red in the
face, and retorted with considerable heat
and excessive violence. “Well, the Bab-
iu.kk’s wrong as usual! I know that Sussex
fellow! He isn’t any good—on the stage
or off of it!”
This was too much. Even the men board-
ers joined in the uproar, and strove to point
out to the flushed and defiant Bodger that
die mime with the doubte-barr/Mlcd name had
tnr years been playing principal parts to
adoring audiences, and was . a favorite with
all playgoers.
“I don’t care what you say!” boomed the
staunch unbeliever. “Nothing will convince
® e that he’s any good!” After this had
been repeated in a wild, reason-defying bel-
ow about 20 times, the admirers of,genius
urew off in a breathless and overheated
The atmosphere then gradually
hempson, the recognised “boy” of Miss
hummer, led off for the second round. Lean-
,nf 'forward, he inciuired in a grave and
nendly manner: “What is your objection
o Surrey-Sussex, Mr. Bodger? Is it his
1Q ?(t y ,°V .object to or his lisp?”
I object to him altogether !” was Bodger s
l y an d unsatisfactory reply,
hempson was unruffled. He admitted
leely that lie knew old Badger’s ways, and
was evident he intended to gentle Ins
° r .v subject and extract what reasons, if any.
e had for his dislike of the star. “Don t
•°u {ike "him in ami part?” he persisted in-
S| nuatingly.
Ive never seen him act!” boomed Bod-
i'. 1 - I wouldn’t go across the street to see
hl “ ! He’s no good!”
• ' ° me of the astounded boarders broke
wit? scornful laughter. Others turned away
m hopeless gestures and pitying smiles.
l iu " K fhLpV U ? a ?’l c °ndemn a man offhand
nke tliat. cried Lempson amid the stir.
chattered Miss Gummer
and several other angry ladies.
fl.vula said , “ Psllaw and carefully
I( <Kj d le crum bs oft' his waistcoat.
«ut you can’t, you know,” wailed Lemp-
son warming to his work. “As a fair-
minded man, you can’t say Sussex is no good
wt !fn you haven’t seen him act.”
wo.f!’ 1 can ,bellowed Bodger. “I don’t
want to see him act. I don’t need to see
aim . I know he’s no good !”
Lempson lost the remnants of his hitherto
carefully-kept temper. “Oh, that’s just your
stupid prejudice, or suite, or something!”
It s nothing of the kind!” roared Bodger,
now thoroughly roused.
Oh, yes, it is!” insisted the desperate
young man, while the company listened ap-
prehensively. “It’s just spite—idiotic spite!
How on earth can you possibly know
whether an actor’s good or bad”
‘No actor is any good!” proclaimed Bod-
ger stormily. “I’m a damned sight older
than you are, and I know that every actor
is a damned mountebank, and not fit for
decent society ! I tell you, it makes me sick
the fuss these tuppenny-ha’penny rags like the
Babbler make over these scoundrels —put-
ting silly ideas in women’s heads, and mak-
ing them run after the painted scamps ! I
never knew an actor yet that wasn’t a brain-
less blackguard! D’ye think the women
would run after them if they had brains?
Bali! Why, damme, when I first came to
this country years ago, I lived in the same
house with a tallow-faced scoundrel that
played Hamlet”
Someone made the discovery that a beauti-
ful white launch was approaching the land-
ing stage at the foot of the cliff. There was
a general stampede upstairs to the balcony
commanding the view of the cliff steps and
the next-door garden. Ttfere they all congre-
gated in a whispering mass, and prepared—
if such a thing were possible-—to stgre the
actors out of countenance. They were quiet
enough to be able to hear Bodgep fidgeting
and fussing in his room close by.
As the u’hite boat swept up to thp wharf,
the watclieys saw; sifting ip deck chairs ip
front of the cabin, two gracefully-posed
figures in white flannels.and carefully tilted
grey hats. Those hats were so ex-
quisitely poised that they might have
been placed in -position by women. An
ostrich feather apiece might have been
added without spoiling fh G general
effect. The two wearers were immediately
identified with delighted cries, and the crowd
settled down to watch the disembarkation
and approach to the hired house.
It was well stage-managed. The launch
swept up neatly to the wharf, and Stage-
haunter’s two paid hands made it fast. Then,
with practised grace, the stars rose languidly
from their chairs and sauntered ashore, with
many graceful hand-waves and peals of in-
sincere but beautifully modulated laughter.
Some light banter in high, clear tones, as the
launch, with Stagehaunter at the wheel,
backed away, served to rivet the attention of
the water front on them; which much
accomplished, they began the ascent of the
steps. This was: taken very slowly, with
several halts, during which they posed like
generals conferring on a height, and drew
each other’s attention to the view, satisfy-
ing themselves by rapid, sidelong glances
that they were holding their audience. But,
hungry as they were for attention, the con-
centrated glare of the packed and breathless
balcony load seemed to almost unman —or
unactor —them when, at last, they arrived
at their own front gate.
Surrey-Sussex, who was the first to notice
the boarders, faltered in his performance,
and remarked in an irritable aside, quite
audible to the onlookers : “I say ! Book at
all those people up theah !”
The resplendent Montmorency looked as
commanded, and recoiled gracefully. ‘ Oh, I
sa-v ! What a dreadful crowd !”
“Tell them they mustn’t stare so!
directed his chief, pettishly.
Though the balcony- fiends were only a tew
feet above his head. Montmorency, through
force of habit, put his hand to his mouth.
“Hallo, there, you people! Don t stare so,
T)1 PR S 6 !
The stupid group made no, sound or move.
“Oh. tell them to go away!’ cried the
great but disconcerted actor. “I simply won t
be stared out of countenance in my own
“You’ve got to go away, please!” cried
the transmitter of orders appealingly. Do
away, like dear, good people, and don t stare
S " After a slight pause, the abashed group or
heap of the balcony stirred and started to
C^S “Have vou people finished looking at those
damned barnstormers?” shouted Bodger from
'' S j\li4 Tribbens, who had joined the
watchers on tiptoe during the actors splen-
did entrance, and who had not had time to
have a really good stare, put her finger to
i: lip warningly. “Sh-li-h-! Don’t speak so
loud Mr. Bodger! They f just told us not to
stare so, and to go away.
“117/o told you that, maam?
“The actors did. Mr. Bodger.
Bodger blew out his cheeks and dilated
bis eyes. “D’ye mean to. to tell me
Without finishing the sentence, lie strode to
the rail, and, stroking his beard, stared long
and contemptuously at the stars below.
“Ymi’vp got to go away, cried Montmor-
ency” “Don't stand and stare
!” shouted Bodger. “D’ye think
f 01 “r\mie away. Montmorency,” entreated
, 1 “ »™l Sussex “Come away, for
*
galpe^tra^ Zte perfect f/wmderfrd
g-' ne and we'll never get to know them
men. and now we n n * mpg in our auto-
well enough to g . j shameful the. way
granh books ! it s tl iev will put
he insults People * I “ and
the whole, jot of '1
“‘HeUSlfyTwld ' r '' s - T, ibh T- T rTC it
He is nabiy j <jo, m y dear? He
(Continued on next page.)


c
6
Sit
Smarting, Soreness and Painful
Cracks Soothed and Healed.
What irritation arises from raw,
chapped hands! If the skin is at
all sensitive, some peonle suffer
more or less in this way all the
year round; hut with the damp,
cold and frost of winter, the hands
and wrists become a positive tor-
ture. First, the skin loses its pleasant
softness, then there is a disagreeable
roughness and redness, followed by
cracking and bleeding, particularly in
the region of the knuckles and wrists.
This distressing condition is made worse
by drying the hands or face carelessly after
washing on a raw, cold day. Neglecting chaps
or any cold sores may lead to painful swelling
and inflammation. There is a danger of grit
and dirt getting into the cracks of the skin,
and setting up positive torture.
The trouble is utterly beyond the reach of
toilet creams and cheap salves, which possess
no medicinal value whatever, and which are
not of the least use when the tissues are thus
affected. Zam-Buk is the scientific Balm
which, in addition to allaying the inflammation and pain, and healing chaps and
roughness, also imparts a new and remarkable healthiness to the skin itself.
Smear Zam-Buk on at night, and wear an old pair of gloves till morning. The
effect of the application of Zam-Buk is delightfully soothing. Its pure essences
instantly soak into and thoroughly permeate the tissues of the skin, softening and
healing in a perfectly natural way—the unique Zam-Buk way. Keep a pot of
Zam-Buk handy, then, for your skin is sure to need its soothing and healing aid
these raw, cold days. >
Zam-Buk
is
Soothing,
Healing
and
Antiseptic.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
CHILBLAINS BANISHED.
Air. William Bacon, of Verner Street, Goul-
burn, N.S.W., says? —“During the winter we
experience very cold, frosty weather, and nurse
the fire very closely. The inevitable result is
chilblains. I suffer considerably in this
respect, having had chilblains on the feet,
hands and ears. I tried many ointments and
salves, but with scant success. I applied
Zam-Buk, and the first application drove out
the irritation and soothed the chilblains.’’
CHAPS AND SOKE DIPS HEADED.
Mrs. M. Boyd, 147 Toorak Hoad, South
Yarra, Melbourne, Vic., has suffered from
chapped hands and lips, ar.d writes; —“I
always keep a pot of Zam-Bck bv mo, as I
consider it invaluable for the hands during the
cold winter weather. I suffered from chapped
hands and li' s, but a few applications of
the balm soothed and healed the smarting
chaps very quickly.”
NATURE’S OWN HEALER.
Zam-Buk is excellent for
eczema, piles, raw places,
blood-poison, chapped
hands, cold-sores, bad
legs, and heals cuts,
burns, scalds and
bruises. Of all chemists
and stores at Is. fid. and
3s. fid. per pot.
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
, , es P ecia! |y those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle oi Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
. No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
Chamberlain s Cough Remedy will
at once relieve the cough, ease the
pain, and remove the difficulty in
breathing and produce a free and
easy expectoration. Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy strengthens the
throat, thus making it less susceptible
to sudden chang*e of atmosphere.
COUGH REMEDY.
so vi’lent,” she added thoughtfully, “so fear-
fully vi’lent and hasty!” She edged away,
muttering consolation, and disappeared down
the stairs.
For the next two weeks the actors next
door were the sole topic of conversation
amongst the women of the household. Their
comings and goings, their elegance, their
clothes, visitors and pastimes—upon these
topics they breakfasted, dined, supped and
afternoon- and morning tea-ed. A sudden
flurry on the landing or a wild, rustling
charge upstairs meant that Surrey-Sussex,
beautifully dressed for the occasion, was
about to push a razor-edged mower over the
already close-clipped slip of lawn, or indulge
in some other light outdoor amusement.
Meanwhile, Montmorency, faultlessly attired
and gracefully posed on a ladder, snipped
leaves and twigs off the creeper with a new
pair of shears. They did not garden roughly
in old clothes, or grub about usefully like
ordinary humans. They simply made garden-
ing an excuse for appearing in exquisite
shirts and incomparable ties, and hats of the
most expensive varieties. Everything they
did was observed, faithfullv reported and
excitedly discussed by the womenfolk at
meal-time—also before arid after. Bodger
brought down numerous storms on his head
by his fiercely insulting comments; but no-
thing could burst the theatrical boom, and
the only satisfaction he got was when he
stared down from his balcony until he drove
the actors indoors.
Then came a cold day and colder night of
drizzling rain which sent the household of
Bodger early to bed, and made of the great,
rambling establishment a hash-tower of dark-
ness, long before the late boats from the city
landed their little groups of shivering play-
goers on the wet and windy wharf. Bodger
himself was one of the first to retire; and
he remarked to Mrs. Tribbens, whom he met
on the stairs on his way up, that he was glad
on such a night to feel he was home, “instead
of humbuggimr about a theatre like some silly
women.” (Miss Gummer had at the last
minute decided, after changing and rechang-
ing her mind, to brave the perils of the dark
and go and witness for the ninth time “The
Grand Duke’s Marriage,” the play in which
everyone agreed the great Sussex was at his
best.)
* * * •
At 11.50 poor Miss Gummer was standing
at the gangway of the second-last boat, in
the sacred shadow of the haughty star him-
self, when she happened to glance up at the
shadowy house-littered hill towards which
the craft was gliding. She was struck hys-
terical by the sight of long, red flames issuing
from the top-storey window of one of the dark
buildings, and licking at the roof shingles. A
second terrified glance showed her that it was
Mrs. Tribbens’s place. Her shrill scream
shocked the whole drowsy company, and
made Surrey-Sussex and his lieutenant give
real starts.
“What’s the matter! Ilyah, I say! What’s
the matter? Has someone fallen over the
side?”
Miss Gummer extended a rigid arm,
laughed mirthlessly and sobbed : “See! The
house! It’s on fire!”
The slowing boat at that moment grazed
the pontoon, and the three —Miss Gummer,
Surrey-Sussex and Montmorency—rushed
tumultuously ashore and sped up the dark
steps, calling like three escaped lunatics to
the unconscious and invisible inmates of the
tall, dead premises on the silent hillside.
, “Fire!” shrieked the three. “Fire!
FIRE!”
A window somewhere squealed up, and a
white square of light appeared as the startled
person behind it lit the gas.
“FIRE ! !!” Two more windows further
away went up, and a front door opened.
Someone came running. “Where’s the fire?”
“In that haouse theah!” panted Sussex
importantly. lie turned to the ever-ready
Montmorency. “Ring up the brigade, while
I knock them up! Come on. Miss—er!”
With Miss Gummer sobbing in his tracks, he
made for the front door of Mrs. Tribbens’s
place, and kicked and shouted: “Within
there! Ho! FI AH!!”
At last a wavering light came swiftly
down the hall, chains rattled, and the door
swung back revealing a man in pyjamas
whose eyes were only half-open. “What’s
the matter?” he said. Surrey-Sussex struck
an attitude and exclaimed: “The haouse!
It’s on fiah, man! Raouse everyone!
FI AH!!”
The dazed boarder opened his mouth, put
down his guttering candle with a clatter, and
stumbled up the hall yelling. Thin, acrid
smoke swept out of the dark tunnel into the
white faces of the star and Miss Gummer,
and the subdued but ominous hum of wind-
blown flames came to their ears. The dark
house —terribly like a place of death—seemed
to breathe a threat at them not to enter. It
was undoubtedly the right tragic atmosphere.
As the house awoke to Lempson’s hysteri-
cal cries, Montmorency ran up panting! “Got
the fire brigade! They’re coming now!
What’ll I do next?”
Surrey-Sussex flung out an arm. “The
hose! There’s not a moment to be lost!
Hurry, Montmorency! Remember, there are
lives depending on it!” Montmorency fled
to obey, and Surrey-Sussex struck another
attitude at the door, through which frenzied
and unrecognisable figures were beginning
to shoot, scuttle and stagger. No one having
had sense enough to light the gas, the fugi-
tives merely fled from the smoky darkness
in front of the star into the darkness
and confusion behind him. No one seemed
to have any idea what sort of a hold the
flames had on the house. Dim boarders
darted here and there with extraordinary
speed, begging for particulars and shouting
inquiries for lost friends amongst the waver-
ing, terrified pyjama ghosts, and the animated
bundles which represented women. The
frenzied hunt would not have been so hope-
less if no strangers had been present. But
by this time half the neighborhood had risen
from its bed, and, arrayed in odds and ends
of clothing, rushed down to witness the des-
truction. Amongst the dark, scattered crowd
of expectant onlookers, half the disorganised
pack of Mrs. Tribbens coursed vainly in
search of the other half. The remarkable
slowness of the fire in blazing up and illum-
inating the scene helped to keep the round
game going at a high speed.
Without warning a high shriek cleft the
medley of noises. “Oh ! it’s raining, again !
We’re saved ! The house won’t burn now!
It’s raining!”
It wasn’t —it was only Montmorency mak-
ing his futile attempt to hose from the actors’
garden the second-stor*"- window of th<>
burning house. He had drenched half the
crowd before someone discovered him and
forced him to stop. He then joined his
fussing superior in front of the doomed
mansion, and helped him in a fine but almost
unnoticed series of tableaux expressive of
heroic grief and Man’s utter helplessness in
the face of overwhelming disaster. Unfor-
tunately the necessary background of flam-
ing ruins was absent; so the performance had
to be given in the murky hallway. The only
person who commented on it was the sharp-
eyed pantryman from next door, and he
merely asked—after requesting to be struck
dead—“what them there blokes thought
they was doin’?” A ripple of malicious
laughter ran through the crowd. At the
same moment a glad shout went up, “Here’s
the brigade!”
Surrey-Sussex and Montmorency turned
at the rumble of wheels, and saw in the
distance a couple of big hose-cart lamps
lurching down the rough road at the back.
The fire flared up in welcome, and the crowd
started to buzz uselessly in a higher key.
The firemen pulled up at the back of the
house. The crowd cheered and fixed its at-
tention on the flashing helmets now busy
over lengths of hose. The two actors were
utterly unnoticed for several minutes. Then
a female voice wailed piercingly, “Mr. Bod-
ger ! Where’s Mr. Bodger ?”
There was an instant’s hush. No answer.
Voices everywhere shouted in the dark,
“Bodger! Where’s Bodger? Speak up,
Bodger!”
Still no answer—only the horrified buzz
of the frightened crowd and the fiercer roar
of the flames.
The woman’s voice shrieked again, “He's
in the house! It started in his room!”
A roar went up from the crowd. All
eyes turned again to the front door, where
Surrey-Sussex and Montmorency were posing
for their lives.
A couple of stout and indifferent firemen
dragging a hose shouldered past the actors
and ran fearlesslv up the smoke-veiled stairs.
On the first landing, a stout, pyjama’d figure
stumbled past them. It was riodger—alive
and unsinged, but furious with alarm.
“Why didn’t they wake me?” he bellowed
as he ran. “Why didn’t they wake me?”
The firemen sped upwards without an-
swering. Bodger bounded on and came within
sight of those standing before the front door.
“Bodger’s coming!” was telegraphed round
the crowd. Cheers were given, and every-
one crowded forward to greet him.
He was only a few steps from the bottom
when Surrey-Sussex dashed forward, fol-
lowed by Montmorency. The breathless
actors bounded up to meet him, grasped an
arm apiece, and, before he knew what they
were about, were half lifting and half drag-
ging him towards the front door.
. “Courage!” panted Sussex. “Courage,
Father! We’ll save you!”
“Bah!” howled Bodger, and made extraor-
dinary efforts to wrench himself from
their devoted grip. “Let me go, damn you !
Let me go! I’ll ‘Father’ you!” The three
rolled and staggered drunkenly together.
“Come on ! We’ll save you !” gasped Sus-
sex, shoving and dragging at the captive, who
was falling over umbrella-stands and other
furniture.
Bodger snorted and plunged like a draught
horse, but failed to get away. “Damn you,
I saved myself! Let me go!” They
crashed against the wall and fought on, amid
the wreckage of a bandbox, a brown paper
parcel and an old coat.
The amazed crowd without cheered wildly.
It seemed to refresh the actors. They
dragged with renewed strength, and Sussex
again gasped “Father,” and urged Bodger to
have courage.
Bodger howled in his beard. “You—call
me ‘Father’ again—l’ll flog you ! Let
me go, you scoundrels! Hands off!!”
(Frightful shoving and reeling. Frantic
cheers from the crowd.) “Will you let me
—hah!”
“We’ll—save —you!” sobbed Sussex grimly.
“Now, Montmorency!” Montmorency re-
sponded nobly at the right moment. They
put their shoulders under Bodger’s arms and
rushed, him into the nigbt. amidst cheers and
hysterical laughter, barking his shins against
a shrub. He kicked weakly at them as they
dropped him amongst the crowd. -“I’ll prose-
cute them!” he raved. “Assault and bat-
tery—l’ll prosecute them and flog them!”
Hardly anybody heard him. They were all
cheering the winded and deadly-serious
actors, who were some little distance off, being
interviewed by the only fully-dressed man in
the crowd. It turned out afterwards he was
a reporter who had seen the flames from the
city and hurried across in the last boat.
Before the excitement over the rescue had
abated, the two firemen unexpectedly emerged
with their hose. Being assailed by a number
of the interested parties, they replied briefly:
“Yes, the blanky fire was out, and for
Gossake get off them there ’ose —we wanter
take it ’ome with us.” They were allowed
to depart without further hindrance. The
crowd stood about in the sudden dark-
ness, chattering, and waiting for something
more to happen, or for a band to play the
first bar or two of the Anthem. Nothing
more happened, and of course no band played.
The night—now morning—became colder.
Rain began to fall—softly and steadily, as if
commencing a steady, all-day job. The
crowd reluctantly went off shivering, and the
Tribbens household decided by slow stages
to make the experiment of sleeping in a
narHally-burnt tenement. The women
in first in twos and threes. The men fol-
lowed in a solid, talkative bunch, with Bod-
ger, raving incoherently, in their midst.
Next morning the first Tribbensite to read
the paper found that Bodger had become the
best advertisement of Surrey-Sussex. The
principal daily had half a column on the cable
page headed “Plucky Rescue —Gallantry of
Two Well-known Actors —Old Man Snatched
From the Flames.” In the report, Bodger’s
forcible abduction from the perfectly safe
hall of Tribbens, and the dragging of him
through the umbrella-stand was made to
appear as the heroic exploit of two dauntless
super-men. It was hinted that his struggles
were the result of abject fear. No one had
the courage to convey the news to the vic-
tim. But the marked paper was sent up to
him by Alice, the prehistoric serving-maid,
just before breakfast. There was no sign
for five minutes. Then an upstairs door was
heard to open and slam like a 12-inch gun
and a few fragments of the valuable journal'
fluttered down into the hall.
KODAK.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES.
"'V ft***
ll 1 .
;1
The resistance due to the sliding
friction at the joint, inseparable
from chains of the solid joint pin
type, is eliminated, and the fullest
advantage is taken of the power
developed by the Motor by
utilising the patent
ROCKER JOINT.
98 per cent. Efficiency.
Made in units from to 1000 Lp.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE OF
ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES
ai)d REQUISITES^—
IS NOW READY.
POST FREE ON APPLICATION TO
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The METZ- 22 at £lB5 Costs Little to Maintain
V
People said it couldn’t be done. But here it is—a thoroughly practical Oar
tor £18.5, that cuts the upkeep down to a very low level. The Metz-22 is
the result of organised effort on a large scale. Thousands of them are
made every year. Result: High Efficiency and Low Cost.
The Metz-22 will run up to fifty miles per hour—taking big hills on top speed
without any hitches or breaks. It runs over thirty miles to the gallon, and
will do from 8000 to 10,000 miles on the same tyres.
Why pay three or four times the price for a car that will not serve you
any better? Why saddle yourself with a heavy upkeep cost when a Metz-22
will run so economically? £lB5 is the price. And you’ll know it must be
a good-looking car when we tell you that 33J % of the cars we sell are bought
by medical men. to whom appearance is a strong factor.
Me are ready to show the Metz-22 at work—anytime—anywhere. Ask us
to pick you up for a trial run. More “Metz” facts are given in the folder.
Ask for YOUR copy to-day.
BROWN 8 HELUCAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
METZ CARS,
WAVERLEY CARS
INDIAN MOTOR
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Call 6. Cuts
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint sOH from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and -Brisbane, or from
©• Be FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
HE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
>Ac r?v\
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine.
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Wooisheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings. Melbourne.
Write for full particulars to
IF YOU NEED A REST.
TAKE A REST.
i
I'ltniinfifiHiiniummmiinmiimumnmnnHnnninMnnftini
H
aarami:
•
AND LEAVE THE REST
Beechams Pills.
GITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including; Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
and Cabinet Make
You all require Economical, High-speed
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Ask us for Catalogues.
Ask us for References.
Ask us for Advice.
Ask us for Prices.
You will find that—Our Machines give you satisfaction.
You will find that—We hold the largest stock in Australia.
You will find that—Our expert advice is to your benefit.
You will find that-Our Prices as MANUFACTURERS are reasonable.
WE SAVE YOU MONEY.
Write, call or 'phone ; we are always ready for you to discuss our machines.
THE PREMIER SAWMILL & WOODWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURERS,
KIRCHNER & CO
■5
32 Market St., Sydney.
’PHONE: CITY—7O9I.
■
THIS IS THE TIME TO BUY
HIGH-SPEED MACHIHE TOOLS
The ‘“do it now” principle is specially applicable to the installation of
High-Speed Machine Tools. Competition is so keen that better methods
must prevail if you want to hold your own. Fast, efficient tools are
essential. It is our business to sell such tools, but in no instance do we
ask for a sale until we have convinced the prospect that what he buys
will materially assist him. If you appreciate that type of salesmanship
get in touch with us now. An expert will go into the pros and cons with
you at once.
HIGH-SPEED LATHES
DRILLING MACHINES,
PUNCHING AND SHEARING MACHINES,
MILLING MACHINES,
RADIAL DRILLING MACHINES,
HACK-SAW MACHINES,
SHAPING MACHINES,
BLOWERS AND POWER HAMMERS,
Etc., Etc.,
CASH
or
TERMS.
T. M. GOOD ALL h CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Vf ATCHING COLORS BY
L A ARTIFICIAL LIGHT.
By our new system colors of delicate fabrics can be matched
accurately by Electric Bight. No other lighting method allots this.
Also, the cost of lighting by this method is much below that by any
other.
SEND FOR OUR PAMPHLET ON THIS SUBJECT.
Union
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd*
MELBOURNE : 33 William St.
’Phone-City 51 17.
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
’Phone—City 3520.
BRISBANE: Roma St!
’Phone—Cent 3676..
DICK S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORICINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADt.
5 OR
ywY#
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Beit GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
“importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Ciroular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
fpr THE
m
c/>
c/>
UJ
%
T*
3?
<3
>0
f V
DALGETY & C 9 LIP,
——-AGENTS.—” >
"TANGYE”
Portable OH Engine.
. .*y\
&5-T--
■ ‘
Above illustration shows an up-to-date '-GANte” Milking Plant,
driven by a “ TANGYE ” Oil Engine.
_ ... : ; ' , T -v- ' .•
Dalgety’s Machinery Department.
AGENTS FOR—
Miller’s Point, SYDNEY—
and All Branches.
"TANGYE”
Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas
Plants, Steam Engines, Vertical
Boilers, Irrigation Plants and
PUMPS of all descriptions-
“ CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines.
“NICHOLSON & MORROW"
Harvesters, Drills, Cultivators, Ploughs.
with Patent Automatic
Milk Releaser.
American Tool Works Company
Lathes, Planers, Shapers 8 Radial Drills
The most modern designs in
High-Speed Machines of this make
carried in stock. In the construc-
tion of the Radial Drills has been
taken into consideration every
condition. As they stand to-day,
the American Radial Drills are
absolutely beyond comparison in
their facilities for High-Speed
Production, Accuracy of Align-
ments, and Durability.
Call and inspect, or write us for
illustrations and description, and
prices.
Mi
Engineers and
acbinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
m
'M.
NAT
OIL ENGINES
For RESIDUE OIL or any
grade of Common
Paraffin. *
Suitable for both
MARINE and
STATIONARY PURPOSES.
WARBURTON, FRANK! LTD.,
NEWCASTLE. 307-311 Kent Street, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
ntelMQ
mv-<7hv.
5
Through actual performance the “Lister”
sheep-shearing machine has quickly become
famous as a standard raiser of efficiency and
satisfaction.
And all its parts are guaranteed inter-
changeable with the “Wolseley.”
The use of “Lister” duplicates emphasises
“Lister” superiority and durability.
Sole Agents,- DaNGAR GEDYE & Co, SYDNEY.
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving Chaffcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Vic . Adelaide Brisbane Sydney Melbourne.
.
.
FEED.
'tfistytCMi ShtM& pfJSCNARGE
THE DORR THICKENER
The only approved mechanical device which will continuously decant
a liquid in a clear state from finely divided material, such as slime or
fine sand, held by the liquid in suspension, and will deliver at the
same time the thickened material as fast as it is formed, either
continuously or intermittently as desired.
ADVANTAGES OF DORR THICKENER.
Small cost of operation and installation—larger capacity and higher
extraction —reduced head room and economy of water.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE.
