

DB'WAB 7 S““ —MELLOWED BY AGE.
Machinery Merchants,
Mining: and Contractors’
Specialty
Kent Street, Sydney,
107
Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining 1 Requisites.
AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always a
IT IS NOT COMPULSORY
but it is wise, if an advance of money is required, to go to
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co. Ltd.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Money Advanced upon All Classes of Security at Lowest Rates of Interest.
215-217 Swanston Street, Me
40 Adelaide Street, Urisban_
EUSTACE BENNETT,
Genera Manager.
rTm
LJJLLLL
ii
mifmi
ran
Doctors Recommend
GILBEY’S DRY GIN
3E3L O B A. ft T.
[iadley’s Orient fjotel.
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmßßßKmii'-. i in n iiiimiiM
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guahan'J'kku
J. C. Ludowici «& Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET „ SYDNEY.
mmm
hams
bacon
dC
HUBB’S
:
FIRE
RESISTING
32 RECIPES
or preparing a variety ot the most
dainty Desserts with
i:KKEECS
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
m
'
■
U V ..... .
: -pi
-.v
U^L
'
to ensure Long Service
■
% V■( r ', ’ iV.■ '' i :
the silvertown RUBBER CO.,
sydney-melbourne-newcastle
BENSDORPS
COCOA.
Royal
Dutch
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY*
If you want your home to look Mission-like, let us
suggest that you panel the best rooms with
AMI YYI I). This new product is made to take the
place of the costly Hardwood that our parents
used. It is really imitation Hardvvood, with all
the beauty of the grain faithfully reproduced by a
new process. It calls for no expert knowledge in
fixing.
I
is the Most Perfect of
Wall Covering's.
We’ll gladly send Samples and Prices.
A room finished with AMIWUD is nearly furnished.
It looks comfortable. The AMIWUD Sheets, which
can be supplied in the following woods and sizes,
can be nailed directly to the studs or rafters:
Can be had in Golden Oak, Jenisero, Weathered
Oak and Mahogany, in sheets 7ft. 6in. x 2ft., or
9ft. Gin. x 2ft. Battens for the panelling to corres-
pond.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., challis house,
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.)
SYDNEY.
Manufadurers of MALTHOID.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
WHITE LABEL s v.o
AIR-COOLED
BENZINE
ENGINE.
The “New-Way” being successfully air-
cooled, offers distinct advantages.
Water, water-tank, piping and packing are
eliminated; labor and expense greatly re-
duced ; simplicity increased. As for durability
and reliability the “New-Way” is unsurpassed.
Tilted with Bosch High-Tension Magneto.
Sizes from li-H.P., Portable and Stationary.
Postcard brings Catalogue “0.D.” SEND NOW.
Mat-Virtue
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 KENT STREET
(near King Street), SYDNEY,
H ELI DON SPA
Please choose your “ SPA ” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents ,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
Yol. 34—No. 1745.]
[Thursday, J uly 24, 1913.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.|., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW NOVELS Price 3/6 each, Posted 3/9
SINS OF THE FATHER, by THOMAS DIXON.
VIRGINIA, by ELLEN GLASGOW.
SIXTY-FIRST SECOND, by OWEN JOHNSON.
ROLLING STONES, by O. HENRY.
THE MIDLANDERS, by C. T. JACKSON.
LIFE MASK, by Author of “He Who Passed.”
OFFICER 666, by CURRIE and McHUGH.
WIND AMONG THE BARLEY, by M. P.
WILLCOCKS.
SON OF THE SUN, by JACK LONDON.
GEORGE HELM, by DAVID G. PHILLIPS.
THE CONTRAST, by ELINOR GLYN.
JOYFUL HEATHERBY, by PAYNE ERSKINE.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY, LTD., m PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
This Powder is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically, owing
to the evolution of free active oxygen when
the powder is in contact with water or the
oral fluids. It is the oxygen which, by neu-
tralising the acid-producing organisms of de-
cay, and dissolving mischievous deposits,
whitens the teeth so wonderfully, and wards
off decay as no other preparation for the
Teeth can or will do. Scientists agree that
a powder is superior to any liquid or paste
for cleansing and preserving the Teeth. The
Committee of the British Dental Association
recommend powder as best for the Teeth.
Sold by all Chemists In our patent stopper metal bottles, handy for
travel or home, prioe 1/6, forwarded free on reoeiptof stamps.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd., 19 York st., Sydney.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable Information
11 regarding the Teeth.
■HOW TO USE THE POWDER.i
CSC
The Red Page
The Music Hall Song
It was Trial Night at the Commonwealth
Music Hall.
A man in a red flannel shirt, riding-boots,
stock-whip and a cold began:—
In Os —tray—leee—yerrrrr,
Lan dov warm thand sun-nee skies-zzz
In _ Os—tray—leeee—yerrrrr
Prit-tee gurls-zz with hap-pee eyes-zzz
In Os —tray—leeee—yerrr
Land where men nare men nin-deeddd
If you’ll only play the game
You’ll be sure rof friends sand fame
In Os—tray, Os—tray—leeee—yerrnrrrrrrrrrrr 1
That was as far as he got. The audience
had heard that sort of thing before.
Two singers attempted to sing of “Hunt-
ing ’Roo,” and nine blithefully began songs
whose chorus consisted chiefly of “Coo-ee,”
but none of them were permitted to finish.
There were several songs of “Surfing,” but
only one, by Roy R. Rede, had a music-hallv
sound: —•
Sidney met Sylvia down by the sea,
Down by the Sydney-side sea.
He was surf-bathing, so also was she,
Only clad from her neck to her knee.
She showed all her dimples and pretty brown curves,
As she sat in the sun, on the sand.
He thought her the fare that the brave man deserves,
So he said as he tickled her hand—
Chorus:
My Sydney surfing girl,
You are my deep-sea pearl,
You are the brownest and best on the beach.
I’ll stick to you, darling, just like a leech.
Won’t you say you’ll be my own little peach?
Sylvie, my surfing girl?
There were other verses, somewhat
similar.
Australian Girl furnished the theme of a
number of songs. “My Australian Girl,” by
Cora Dunne, had a cheerful refrain about
Hilda of St. Kiida, but the song was no
smarter than the average panto.-song. The
other Australian Girl songs were all cata-
logue songs. You mention all the different
sorts of girls, from Siamese to Esquimaux,
and then you remark, usually in the chorus,
that the Australian girl is the one for you.
This is hardly flattering to the Australian
girl.
The character songs submitted next were
quite uncharacteristic, and about this time
the audience began, in the intervals of hiss-
ing, to feel somewhat kindly toward the
professional manufacturer of music-hall
ditties. Judging by the samples submitted
so far, the music-hall song was not easy to
write. However, “Bellerive” appeared, and
the audience stayed their tears. “Bellerive’s”
specialty was the sentimental ballad, as
thus:—
SCHOOLMATES.
In a country cottage Hospital—
There lay a pal of mine,
In agony slowly dying from
Fracture of the spine,
I fondly clasped my comrade’s hand,
And whispered words of cheer,
Although I knew alas, to true,
The end was drawing near,
Chorus :
We were schoolmates schoolmates, in the happy Days
gone by,
At the same old desk we studied, schoolmates Jack
and I
Ordained alas, in manhood, to part for evermore,
We were schoolmates together in the happy days of
yore.
While chasing the cattle home he sighed,
Beside the old stone wall,
My horse did trip across a log—
And I received a fatal fall,
I turned away with tear dimmed eyes,
When a nurse bent oer his bed,
He’d breathed his last, his soul had passed.
My dear old pal was Dead.
Chorus :
We were schoolmates etc etc.
In response to the hilarious encore,
“Bellerive” complied with :—■
DAISY MAY.
I miss thee sadly miss thee, Daisy May,
Like a dreani from this world thou passed away.
No more for thee I wait,
By the dear old homestead gate,
Thou art anchored with the angels Daisy May.
Chorus:
The golden sunlight gleameth,
And the stars of night doth beameth,
Upon thy sepulchre in the grave yard far away,
Though far from my Australian home, in a city o’er
the foam,
Fond memories hover o’er me Daisy May,
/_, 1
Sad and lonely I wander, Daisy May,
I miss the dear old farmhouse and the hay,
I miss the fern tree bowers,
The meadows and wild flowers,
Where we spent life’s golden hours, Daisy May.
Chorus:
The golden sunlight etc etc
“The Old Gum Tree” told the old story
in the old way, just the sort of sentimental
verse that we wished to better. “On the
Sunny Maranoa,” by A. E. Yarra, has the
sentiment laid on in large, obvious slabs, so
palatable to music-hall audiences. The
second verse and chorus may be recalled,
and may recall a dozen other similar songs:
Many happy days I’ll wander, where the sandal bushes
wave
And the daisies nod their heads among the grass;
Where the blue star-flowers spread their sweetness on
my mother’s grave
And the winds sing to the'pine trees as they pass.
All the boys and girls will greet me, when they see
me home again ;*
For their love is just the same, to rich and poor.
My heart is sadly aching and the tears fall like rain.
To be with you on the sunny Maranoa.
Chorus:
Oh, the bell-birds will be singing,
And the horse-bells will be ringing,
And the sheep-dogs will be waiting by the door.
Love in friends’ eyes will be shining
And my heart will cease from pining
When I’m with you on the sunny Maranoa.
The patriotic defence song, sung by a
cadet, afforded scope for Boy scout “busi-
ness” in the refrain, though the sincerity
of the composer, “El Tigre,” somehow
failed to get over the footlights:—
Northward away—all well ?
Leeuwin to York —all right?....
Of danger the out-posts tell.
But we’ll keep The Land all White;
White as the six grand stars....
White tho’ the Father fall,
For the son will gather the scattered bones
To found the Great White Wall.
There were but three more volunteers
that evening, and each was equally accept-
able to the audience. Miss Riethmuller,
Examinee Office, Grafton, obliged with the
sentimental “Along the Condamine,” with
its musical words and its chiming refrain;
W. A. Woods, House of Assembly, Hobart,
Tas., declaimed, with a full chorus of cadets
and much flag-wagging, the patriotic “Aus-
tralia, Whatever Betide”; and P. F. Row-
land, Paxton-street, Townsville, in the dis-
guise . of the High Commissioner, produced
his big advertisement for immigrants. The
music-hall management decided to present
each of these three competitors with half-a-
guinea, as the owners of the three best
music-hall songs submitted; but the man-
agement confessed disappointment that out
of over 60 entries no better singers emerged.
ALONG THE CONDAMINE.
Like far bells from faery pealing, comes a
witching memory stealing,
Laden with the scent of wattle, and a breath
of gum and pine—
-1 am thinking of the river, where the long
reed-grasses quiver,
I am dreaming of the river that they call
the Condamine.
Chorus :
Evening shadows falling and the bullock-
bells a-calling,
All the gold and crimson fading from the
sunset line,
River’s song and wind’s voice mingle
With the hobble-chains’ faint jingle—
llow they woo me, singing to me, “Back—
come back —to Londamine.”
Joy and youth-time joined in singing, silver
bells of hope were ringing,
All the world was like a chalice, brimming
o’er with rarest wine,
In the days when we went droving, careless
days of reckless roving —
How I wish I could recall them, and return
to Condamine.
Vanish all the city places, all the worn and
weary faces —
Days _of toil and thought and striving,
nights of smoke and cards arid wine—
I am back amongst the cattle, and I make
the whip-cracks rattle,
Just as if the guns of armies spoke along
the Condamine!
Chorus :
Evening shadows falling and the bullock-
bells a-calling,
All the gold and crimson fading from the
sunset line,
River’s song and wind’s voice mingle,
With the hobble-chains’ faint jingle,
Fancy in her golden ferry takes me back to
Condamine!
S. I. Riethmuller.
AUSTRALIA, WHATEVER BETIDE.
We honor the flag of the Old Land,
The flag of our sires and their seers,
But, for us who inherit the Gold Land,
Its glory grows grey with the years;
No longer it signals our stations,
Its shelter our sons have out-grown,
Attained to the manhood of nations
We’re flying a flag of our own.
Chorus :
As warm as the winds that caress her,
As wide as her plains are wide,
Is the love of the lads who possess her —
Australia, tvhatever betide!
Our country, ’mid sorrow or laughter,
OUR country; range, river, and crag!
Our country, from here to hereafter,
And over it all, OUR FLAG! *
Our heritage worthy the Giver,
Our country a continent, Lord,
May love-locks that link us for ever
Be strong as Thy Gideon-sword;
Let this be our guide and our glory
We reap as our hands have sown —
To stain with no infamous story
Australia’s flag■—our own!
O’er pine-land and vine-land and heather,
Our fathers brave flags have Unfurled;
Six stars have we gathered together
To beacon and beckon the world!
Of our love a broad shield we have made her,
Australia, from zone unto zone,
Six deep we’ll repel her invader,
Or die 'neatli this flag of our own.
Chorus :
As warm, as the winds that caress her,
As wide as her plains are wide,
Is the love of the lads who possess her —
Australia, whatever betide!
Then here, whatsoever Fate’s measure
Of gain for the future, or loss,
We pledge thee our lives and our treasure,
O flag of the Starry Cross!
W. A. Woods.
A BIG LAND OUT HERE.
So you’re a-grubbin’, Bill, in the same old
rotten slum,
Off the old Whitechapel Road,
Where yer never see the sky, and the drunks
go rollin’ by,
An’ life is a dead, dead load.
Yer haven’t got a chanst of a life above a
beast,
In the little old land over yon,
They'll work you till you’re dry, and then
they’ll pass yer by,
And they won’t be mighty sorry when you’re
gone.
Chorus :
There's big, big land out here, Bill,
There' s whips o’ room to breathe out here;
The sun’s most almost bright, and the
stars are grand at night;
There’s a big, big land out here.
Yer say per pore old missus' got another
little kid,
Ps jest as sorry, mate, as you;
Kids aren't wanted over there; starve at
home or work’us fare;
What’s a pore English nipper for to dot
But here in bright Australia we wants the
kids to come, •
The Baby Bonus shows yer what we mean;
Every nipper gets five quid, jest for bein'
born a kid,
An’ he gives it to his mother, every bean!
There’s stacks o’ work out here fer a steady
bloke like you,
Shearin’ sheep’s a paying sort of game;
You can earn some boshter pay cut tin' cane
up Queensland way,
Then you’ll start yourself and grow the same.
There's horses for the riding, and miles and
miles of land,
There's dairyin’ all along the coast;
There’s gold for the prospectin’, precious
opals for collectin’,
But some likes the free drovin' life the most.
And if a bloke’s got brains, there’s nothin’
in his way,
We’ve no “ aunt’s sisters” here!
It isn’t wealth or birth, but it’s what a bloke
is worth,
That brings a fellow name and fame out
here.
There’s shearers and there’s miners makin’
laics in Parli’ment,
Him as can lead soon gets the upper 'and,
One year be pickin’ mullock on the heaps
of Gympie town,
And the next be bloomin’ Premier of the
land.
Chorus:
It’s not all heaven out here, Bill,
There’s plenty little rubs out here;
I’m not the bloke to skite, but you’ll find
that it’s all light,
If you try your luck and come out here.
P. F. Rowland.
May Sinclair remains the foremost woman
novelist of England. The Combined Maze
(Hutchinson, per Dymock’s Library) is a
novel that Wells might have written,
though one questions whether Wells would
have written it so naturally, whether, in-
deed, he could have written it without clog-
ging up the story with problems and
theories, and, possibly, statistics and docu-
mentary evidence. Ranny, the hero, is an
uneducated London clerk, whose religion is
to keep “fit” and whose hell is flabbiness.
It was the London Polytechnic Gymnasium
that converted him to his athletic religion.
There his performance on the horizontal bar
was—well, it was equalled only by the ex-
hibition given by Winnie Dymond on the
parallel bars. And in the Combined Maze,
which concluded the public displays of the
Poly. Gym., Ranny had for his running
partner this demure Winnie. This youth
and this athletic little girl ran together
through the intricacies of the Combined
Maze; but Life is itself a Combined Maze,
and in this larger maze Ranny was provided
with another running partner. For Violet
pursued and captured Ranny, while Winnie
modestly waited. And Ranny married
Violet —being a respectably brought up
young man, he had to —and settled down in
a time-payment, suburban, semi-detached,
gimcrack cottage, and found married life a
failure. Happily, however, his wife
“cleared” with the other man; and had
Ranny possessed only the necessary £4O he
could have divorced his wife and married the
waiting Winnie. But his tragedy is the
tragedy of poverty—the hopeless, unmiti-
gable poverty of the London clerk, with his
“rises” years ahead of him, and nothing but
those “rises” to look to. Once a London
clerk, and every other avenue of employ-
ment seems closed to him. So Ranny had
to wait for years before he put by the
money to get his divorce, and then his
penitent wife turned up and Ranny had to
take her in. That is all—except for the
exquisite character-drawing of the wonder-
ful Winnie, the humor of Ranny, the life-
like presentment of Ranny’s father and
mother, and the sensuous fascination of
Violet. It is a story told with the necessary
frankness, an indictment of what Ranny
calls the “rotten respectability” that hushes
things up and smoothes things over, and a
protest against the fate that “makes us do
things we don’t want to do and never meant
to do.” The Combined Maze stands on the
same high plane as this author’s earlier
success, The Divine Fire. But one won-
ders if the drear ending had to be. It
leaves the impression that May Sinclair
deliberately decided upon the unhappy end-
ing merely as a protest against the gratu-
items frequency of the happy ending i#
fiction.
J*
Unquenched Fire, by Alice
(Long, per Dymock’s Library) is sligkt,
theatrical, American. It is the story of the
society girl who gets tired of society add
runs away from home to become an actress.
She fails horribly at first, but her chance
comes—think of the enormous number of
times in real life where the heroine’s chance
never comes! —however, this is fiction, and
in due time her chance comes. She marries
the right man, and after the failure of his
play and of herself, she succeeds in getting
a celebrated theatrical producer to produce
another of her husband’s plays, with her in
the star part. This she takes on tour, and
her juvenile lead promptly makes love t®
her. She has to tell her husband;
but he does not forgive her, even though,
with cheerful promptitude, Fate kills the
lover in a train accident. Then the woman
looked into her own soul.
She saw its pitiful futility. Truly, the
fever of the theatre had eaten into her, and
to it she had sacrificed all. Swiftly they
flashed before her, the faces.... and lastly,
her own comfortable, well-fed self, that had
gone placidly on and used them all as ex-
perienced material, had climbed up on their
prostrate bodies.
“I’ve just discovered that all my life I’ve
been a monumentally selfish fool,” she said.
But as the great manager told her, that
was all that was wanted to make her a suc-
cess in her part; and, though she had de-
cided to leave the stage, that night he makes
her a star. What happens between man
and wife is not stated.
J*
William J. Locke is wonderful. He stiH
manages to keep it up, to write a novel that
is popular and yet put good work in it, to
welter in sentimentality and yet not t®
sicken you with sentiment, to charm without
cloying, to be impossible without beng ab-
surd. In Stella Maris (Lane, per W. Dy-
mock, Sydney), Locke introduces you into a
sickroom that has no sickness in it, since the
reality gi the physical consequences of that
spinal malady from which his heroine had
been suffering so long would leave no room
for romance; and romance William J. Locke
must have if his books are to sell. The
situation of a girl possessing great wealth
and passing her life lying flat on her back
in the one room of her great house is arti-
ficial enough, but the supposition that int*
her mind no whisper of evil or of the ordi-
nary facts of life has entered, is flatly in-
conceivable. Still, the situation was neces-
sary for Locke’s story. Interesting is the
slow disillusioning of Stella till she knows
all the horror of humanity at its worst; but
the real story goes on outside both the sick-
room and the mind of the miraculously
recovered girl. It is the story of a journa-
list and his wife, separated from him, who
got three years’ for cruelty to her servant
girl. The husband adopts the shockingly
tortured waif; and upon the character of
Unity the novelist has concentrated his
whole sympathetic understanding. Thus
Unity, and not the incomparable Stella, is
the heroine of a book that as long as it re-
mains among the realities of life, is fine and
strong, if a little platitudinous. But Stella
is really rather difficult to believe in, and
her final choice from her two lovers seems
either the mere caprice of her creator or
the mere caprice of a woman.
J. he Round Table, for June (Macmillan),
presents a fine survey of the Balkan War,
an impartial account of the recent little
flutter by British Ministers on the Stock
Exchange, and a record of other matters of
Imperial importance. This half-crown poli-
tical quarterly is worth its price.
Slab from the prospectus of the Repertory
Theatre, Sydney:—
It is the purpose also of the Repertory Theatre to
afford an opportunity to the Australian dramatist,
wno heretofore has written what he has written
without the spur of prospective production. The
Repertory Theatre will provide this incentive. To
tlie education of the Australian playwright the
Repertory promoters attach much importance. His
sa Y e in occasional amateur productions, has
hitherto in this city had no chance of display. The
+ 01 ? r 2. erc^ Theatre,_ with its importations, guaran-
teed by overseas audiences to be successes, cannot be
blamed for not taking risks with the production of
Australian drama. It will be the Sydney Repertory
theatre’s aim to take those risks for the patriotic
purpose of bringing to birth and fostering a school
of Australian dramatists. Wherever the experiment
has been tried, it has been found that the establish-
ment of a native Repertory Theatre has produced a
native drama.
The Abbey Theatre in Dublin, and the modern
Irish drama may be cited.
The Repertory promoters believe that there are
Australian plays of sufficient dramatic appeal to win
success when produced. The Repertory Theatre calls
for the Australian play ; it will offer its services to
Australian authors to improve their work, and will
produce, as often as possible, Australian plays that
come up to the standard of its stage. This is the
keynote of the Sydney Repertory Theatre’s idea: to
encourage by practical means Australian authors to
write Australian plays for Australian audiences.
Novels


we
ANTHONY HORDERNS’for EVERYTHING
Anthony Horderns’
FOR THE
GEM JUNIOR
Safety Razor
WT
%
a.
GE
M
& li
THe Man Who Uses the
GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor
MAKES SHAVING EASY.
OEM JUNIOR blades are as thin as an edge-holding piece of steel can possibly be
rolled. They can be sharpened time and time again, because they’re tempered to
receive an edge, and to hold it when they get it.
THE OEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new BAR feature which carefully
spreads the skin, so that the stubble is forced out far enough to give as close a
shave as can only be secured with any other Razor in the world by going over the
face twice. , T ,
THE GEM JUNIOR SET is packed in substantial. 1 lush-lined Box. and in
addition to the Silver-plated frame and seven blades, includes a stropping handle.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, 5/- ; By Post, 5/3.
EXTRA BLADES, 2/1 per Packet of 7, Post Free.
m
BLADES
OLD BLADES Made NEW
Save your Old Blades. After they have passed beyond the
fiage of revival by means of the ordinary strop, the Safety
Blade Expert can renew the keen edge of the hand-ground blade
with the patent power, high-speed machine specially designed
for Safety Razors. It sharpens any Wafer Safety Razor Blade.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ PRICE —
I\l DOZEN ; 7ri. HALF-DOZEN. POST FREE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
Billiard Tables 8 Requisites
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES
cannot fail to interest anyone desirous of BRINGING DOWN THE COST of the
somewhat expensive material for the game of Billiards. On comparison the saving
will be found considerable.
dtt t t adr r rA'RTT? illustrated. —W a 1 n u t Frame* with Tasmanian
B.aS AR^ ABr S Blackwood I«, BgJ*- £*
bined Dining and Billiard
Table, covered with Bil-
liard Cloth, India-rubber
Cushions, Brass-mounted
Pockets, complete with •>
Ivory Balls, 2 Cues.
Marking Board, Chalk,
Rules, etc.: —
Size. Price.
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in. £C>
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. 10in- £2O
Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in.,
six sin. legs £27/10/-
9ft. sin. x sft., six
ordinary dining
BILLIARD TABLE, as above, but without Raves
6ft. 4in- x Bft. 4in. ‘ ‘;; ’’/ £l7
7ft 4in. x 3ft. 10m. £23/10/-
Bft! 4in. x 4ft. 4in., with six mn. egs .•••••■• £2 9/10/-
9ft. x sft., with six Cm. legs
IB BILLIARD TABLES -On f ha «djM«ng kg,
table. These Billiard U b e d p oc k e ts, and are complete
Fumed Queensland
£9/10/-
£l3/10/-
Billiard Cloth, India-rubber ousmu Chalk, Rules, etc-
with 3 Ivory Balls, 2 Cues, Marking Boaid, uuaik,
Maple Frame :
Size, 6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in. ,
Size. 7ft. 4in. x 3ft. 10in. £l9/10/-
Size, Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in. !!!!!.’ £24/10/-
Sl “' Snorting 'Requisites. Bested Free on Application.
Write for our
••
W
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR THE
PERFORATED
RAZOR HONE.
The secret of Easy Shaving is proper honing.
The PERFORATED RAZOR HONE puts into
the hands of every man the secret of automatic-
ally producing that Perfect, Smooth-cutting Edge
which makes Shaving a pleasure.
The regular row of holes in the Perforated Razor
Hones have an undercut effect, shearing the wire
edge smoothly off.
Why the Perforated Hone
is so Easy to Use.
As the razor-edge gets thin and sharp, a Wire-edge commences to form, but
as the razor is drawn slantingly forward across the regular rows of holes, their
deftly-rounded edges have a sort of undercut effect, shearing the Wire-edge smoothly
off as fast as it forms, and dropping it as fine steel dust into the holes.
Give six strokes or a hundred —you simply can’t hurt your razor if you keep it
flat oh the hone, which is a specially hard but very line stone; it leaves a smooth,
keen cutting edge that is a revelation even to a barber.
Perforated Razor Hones are made in two sizes, and will
LAST A LIFETIME.
Price 2/9, 3/6.
Postage 3d. and
4d. Extra.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
... FOR ...
ARDATH Cabinet Cigars
A&DATf ft CABINET
QUAUTt H«6CO
Ardath Cabinet Cigars
are justly popular, for the reason that they
are beautifully mild and aromatic, filled with
a delicious blend of selected tobacco, uniform
in quality, and .contain only a minimum of
nicotine.
Ardath Cabinet Cigars
are .distinctly in the first rank of medium-
priced cigars. They are made under perfect
conditions, and combine every point of ex-
cellence demanded by the cigar connoisseur.
Ardath Cabinet Cigars, no. 444 and no. 6&s,
can oiJv be obtained at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, _ and are
cigars that will he smok> d with appreciation by the most critical. We
recorpmend these cigars with coniideuce. *
Ardath Cigars
are packed in artistically-prepared cabinets, fitted with a spring catch,
and make an ideal present for any man. Our unique system of spot
< ash trading enables us to sell these high-grade cigars pt prices which
offer absolutely the best value in the land.
BOX 25 60 100
No. 444 7/6 14/6 28/6
No. 666 10/- 19/6 38/6
Postage.—Box of 25, N.S.W.. 6d; other
States, Bd. extra. Box of 50, N.S.W., 9d.;
other States, 1/2 extra.
Write for Price List of Tobacco, Cigars and Smokers'
Requisites. Posted Free on request.
%
TffJa
ARDATH CABIHET
QUALITY mi 444
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New
Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


FULL SPEED AHEAD!
After 58 years of solid work in a large Sawmill, one
of our clients writes: —“That he has only to move
his starting lever and his
‘MARSHALL’
20 h.p. Engine
starts off just tHe same as tHe day it
was bought."
This is the kind of Engine you require. Never gives
trouble, and is always a
HANDSOME PAYING INVESTMENT!
TRACTIONS, Li g h.t
and Heavy«
PORTABLES, 2 to
40 h.p.
OIL TRACTORS,
suitable for use in districts
where wood and water are
scarce. These Engines haul
from lO to 30 tons
on ordinary kerosene fuel.
Vertical and Horizontal Stationary Engines
Colonial Type (Si Vertical Boilers, lOOlb.
pressure.
Describe your wants, then write for Illustrated
Catalog-. Very Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
*
\\
hi
m
ti
V
4
■9“
&
&
\\\>
Jk
7
V»"\
-V.
/V J, i
vA.
RENEWED STRENGTH FOR THE WEAR
To instantly invigorate —to permanently strengthen—to safeguard you
against illness and disease —do make you healthier and happier—and to
equip you with an abundance of reserve strength— that is the mission of
“Wincarnis.” As you take your wineglassful of “Wincarnis” daily, you
will feel yourself getting stronger, and you will experience a delicious
increase of vigor, vitality and reserve strength as the rich, revitalised
blood goes dancing through your veins, making your whole body tingle
and glow with the new life that
ffWPPWVM
creates. Depression, Anaemia, Sleeplessness, Weakness, Brain-fag,
and ISTerve troubles will disappear, and will be replaced by a
wealth of glorious health that will be a revelation to you.
Will you buy just one bottle of “Wincarnis” to-day, and prove its
supreme health-creating virtues for yourself? Remember that
incarnis lias an unrivallGd reputation of nearly thirty years 5 standing
—that it is recommended by over 10,000 doctors—and that countless
thousands of sufferers have proved, beyond question, that it gives new
life to the invalid—renewed strength to the weak —increased vigor to
brain workers—and a wealth of health to everyone.
To-day is the best day to commence taking “Wincarnis.” Buy a bottle to-day from your Wine
Merchant or Licensed Chemist or Grocer, and test its marvellous strengthening properties.
Australian and New Zealand Depot: FASSETT (Si JOHNSON, 5 (Si 7 BarracK Street, SYDNEY
COLEMAN (Si CO., Wincarnis WorKs, NORWICH, ENG.
The Inky Way.
“W.” writes: “Dear old Webb,” as he was called
—the Adelaide journalist who died the other day at
the age of 80-I—had 1 —had a life-long intimacy with the
Chief Justice and the late Justice Bundey. Webb,
who never married, lived for over 60 years in the
same household in Wakefield-street. The original
head of the house—now dead for many years—was a
mail-guard (Mr. Armstrong). He was engaged on
the Woodside route, and Judge Bundey was then clerk
of the court in that pretty little town. They
became friendly, and the result was that Armstrong
asked Bundey to go to town to study the law and to
live at his house until he was admitted to the Bar.
This offer was accepted. In this manner, Webb and
Bundey began to build up that close intimacy that
lasted till Bundey died some years ago. Chief Jus-
tice Way used to go down to Armstrong’s to study
with Bundey, and that accounted for the friendship
with Way. Although the worldly positions of Webb
and his two judicial friends in after life were very
different, the old relations were always maintained.
Bundey never was happy on a yachting cruise unless
Webb was with him, and Webb was wont to say that
Bundey was the most perfect gentleman in Australia,
although he was not, for that distinction belonged to
“dear old Webb” himself—unless Alfred Deakin
fought him for it, which Alfred could reason-
ably do. Peace to his ashes! His remains were
cremated in accordance with his own desire, as he
thought he would be less trouble that way, and he
was always the most considerate of men—chivalrous
in the extreme to all ladies and kind as a guardian
angel to all young children, vagabond or otherwise.
He was a comrade of whom any journalist might be
truly proud. The amount of cash he disbursed to
derelicts and deadbeats —especially if they could
claim some connection with the fourth estate, how-
ever slight—would have done credit to the purse of
an Andrew Carnegie.
Lord Northcliffe, head of the Harmsworths and boss
of the London Daily Mail, has been holding a couple
of journalistic festivals in one week —the 25th anni-
versary of his Answers and the 3000th number of his
Daily Mirror. He celebrated both in his customary
style—enlarged issues and spec al contributions from
eminent people, himself included. To the Answers
number Lord Roberts, Marconi, Shackleton, actor
Tree, Henry Lucy, Harry Lauder and a score of other
notables contributed. Answers is the only imitator
and rival of Tit-Bits that succeeded in taking root,
and its success was largely due to Northcliffe's in-
genuity in inventing prize competitions. In the
Daily Mirror “special, Northcliffe tells the story of
the paper under the title of “How a Complete Failure
was Changed into a Huge Success.’’ Its first year
cost him £100,000; he thought a woman’s daily was
wanted, and he was entirely mistaken. The first
number sold 265.217 copies, but the figure gradually
dropped to 24,000, and he was losing at the rate
of £3OOO a week. Then he reorganised the paper,
reduced the price from a penny to a half-penny,
specialised in pictorial news, and converted defeat
into victory. The circulation is now over 800,000 a
day. Northcliffe incidentally lays down the prin-
ciple on which he runs the Daily Mail, the Daily
Mirror and his host of other publications; he en-
courages young and energetic people; places direc-
torships within the reach of all who have the ability
and the perseverance to secure them; takes
care that in every case payment is made by
results ; and insists that there shall be as little pro-
prietorial interference as possible with the responsible
heads of departments—exactly the principles on which
the “great’’ Australian dailies work, with a differ-
ence or two.
* * * *
Down and counted out, John Hilton Green, who
steered a somewhat unsteady course in the Far North
tail of the Inky Way. “Jack” was a brother of
Dave, who acted the part of minor deity to him.
Dave had the acquisitive habit; Jack didn’t. Never-
theless, though they differed in many respects, the
brethren put in many a 16-hour shift together on the
North Queensland Register and other papers—•
mostly now owned or part-owned by David. A good
bush pressman and a fine mate—that was J. H. Green.
“D.W.”: A friend has lent me a copy of the
Portland Guardian, dated March, 1855, and a cur-
sory glance over its columns is interesting. In these
present days of “high cost of living” it is consoling
to note that fresh butter was 3s. 6d. per lb. in 1855,
while the salt article was 2s. Candles cost Is. 2d.
per lb., and flour £5O per ton. Sugar, 58 years
ago, was sold retail at 3ld. to sd. per lb., so that
matters have not improved much in that direction.
Oats (feed and seed) were 15s. per bushel, and hay
at £ll per ton tells its own tale. Visitors to the
Western District of late years will find it difficult
to realise that in nine months of 1854-5 the value
of imports at the State’s outports was: Portland,
£193,241 ; Port Fairy, £62,743; Warrnambool,
£25,727 ; Port Albert, £22,891. During the same
period the value of exports was: Portland, £231,322 ;
Port Fairy, £136,727; Warrnambbol, £908; Port
Albert, £51,557. Portland’s tonnage of inward
vessels was 16,447 against Port Fairy’s 2323 and
Port Albert’s 10,025 tons, Warrnambool being a
miserable last with 963 tons. In outward tonnage,
Portland again led with 172,161 tons, Port Albert again
next with 11,214 tons. Portland will come again
as a shipping centre, but what hope is there for Port
Albert? The cussedness of the working man was even
then noticeable. Though butter was only 3s. 6d. per
lb., and flour £5O per ton, “common laboring men,”
so the paper complains, were scarce at 7s. per day
of nine hours. The leading article is in advocacy of
the Patriotic Fund for sufferers by the Crimean War,
while the scanty news columns are filled with ex-
tracts from inter-State papers, a report of a three-
days’ race meeting where the biggest prize was a
60-guinea purse, and police items about obstreperous
sailors from the three steamers and five oversea sail-
ing vessels in port. A line is given to the passage of
the Estimates, showing that the House cut down the
cost of Parliament (no payment of members then)
from £7565 to £6499. Drafts of an Education Bill
and a Governor’s message re railway construction
appear, with other items of interest.
THE BARD ON HIS HAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the season when I should be shorn ;
The sheep have yielded all their happy wool.
Upon the morning winds is lightly borne
A sense of coming springtime, and the cool,
Brown mud fades out with a faint hint of dust
Which whispers to my languid hair, “You must!”
The little sprouts of pleasant growth that sprang
Above my temples one short year ago
Are lank to harvest. All the songs I sang
Beneath these waving locks the public know
Have long been paid for, and the cash is spent
In beer, books, beauty, blessedness and rent.
None have I spent on barbers, but the hour
Is hard upon me when my brow must yield
Its wilted fleece to doom. The world has power,
And all the cheerful voices of the field
Call me to shed ’mid wafts of milder air
The wilding tumult of my winter hair.
Egg-bald with musing on a youth misspent,
Goes one who advocates the use of shears.
What should they shear from him, ye blue skies bent
Kindly above me? Not for all his tears
Shall he have joy of shaggy locks and free
Like those that cluster wildly over me!
O contents of my simple rhymester’s hat,
The snipping scissors shall not wear thee thin.
Eager as hope thy yet remaining mat
To hairier summer growth again shall win.
Not pride of rhyme or joy of hair shall cease
Merely because in spring I yield my fleece.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


0
w
■M-*
SCHEN
iJIi i 1
m '
GENERAL. ELECTRIC COMP
THE SUN NEVER SETS
Reliable
Switchboards.
SWITCHBOARD ORDER.
ONE MONTH.
Australia 9
Chili 1
Philippine Islands 1
Mexico 4
Brazil 2
Argentine Republic 1
Salvadore 1
Cuba 2
China 1
Japan 1
Honduras 1
Siam 9
Turkey 2
Canada 9
India 2
United States 3JB
Total 364
FOUR MILES OF RELIABLE SWITCHBOARDS
were purchased by 3900 firms, and sent to 40 Countries in all
parts of the World from the Schenectady Works of the General
Electric Co., U.S.A., in 1911.
This remarkable record illustrates our known ability to meet every requirement
in Switchboard Work.
For larger or difficult installations our Switchboard Specialist is at your service.
PLEASE WRITE FOR YOUR COPY OF BULLETIN 7799.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC C 2;
217 Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Brunches in all parts of the world.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
W-PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL., LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole A<r nts for Australia.
Aa36
The most Healthy, the most Comfortable.
11
Underwear.
The careful selection of pure Australasian
wool, its careful cleansing, and its skilful
manufacture into shapely, well-fitting garmenis,
make Jason the most healthy and the most comfortable body-
wear you can buy.
And the natural fleecmess of the fibre is retained by the Jason
process so that it is l.ke silk in wear. The name * Jason is
stamped on every garment to safeguard you against imitations.
The makers will readily replace any garment that shrinks.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices for men, ladies S’ children.
If your dealer does not stock it insist upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty write —
JASON HOSIERY Co., Leicester, England.
<P
“Things done by halves are never
done right/’ “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCIvE, TOM PS ITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
CRANES and PULLEY BLOCKS
Manufactured by Herbert Morris Ltd. (formerly Herbert Morris ®. Baslert Ltd.)
800 CRANES IN STOCK
Ready for Shipment.
*.*v
u
~+
*!•
iM
-w
>
i
Y
ii ,y
S
.
;
The Quality and Prices are Right. Send us your Inquiries.
Complete Illustrated Catalogue of Cranes and BlocKs sent on request.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES—
We will send a Pulley Block on approval at our own expense to any user.
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
-*_SYDNEY


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
THe Most Accurate *22 Calibre
REPEATING RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEVENS
VISIBLE LOADING No. 70.
m
Luyi
\ou see the cartridge go in the chamber.
You know when this rifle is loaded.
Will handle indiscriminately, without ad-
justment, fifteen '22 Short: twelve •
Long, and twelve -22 Long Rifle R.
cartridges.
Y'our dealer can quote attractive prices.
m to:
. J ro
Weight, 441 b.
Insist on Stevens.
Write for Rifle and Telescope catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [3
BEIRNES
Special Gun Offer During Sale Time.
201=
BUYS
THIS
St=..-x
ikj* * . >’ e
WONGA
TH
RELIABLE
GUN.
No.
8.U.13.
This is a thoroughly well-made Gun in every way—it is reliable, safe and effective—a Gun that
will surely please you at the Price. It is the latest single-barrelled take-down Breech-loading
Gun on the market, has 30in. 12 or 16 gauge plain steel barrel, choke bored —guaranteed nitro
proof. It is fitted with positive automatic shell ejector, also top lever action, which works either
to the right or left, thus opening the breech, which releases automatic ejector, throwing out shell,
clear, as shown in illustration—the one action-making Gun ready for reloading. It has also a low,
centre rebounding hammer. The Frame is case hardened, fore-end and stock being of the best
English stained Walnut, and highly polished—has hardened Rubber butt plate. Patent snap on
action, makmg it easy and simple to take apart, and not too complicated to clean. Weight
aoout djld.
Usual Price, 25/-; SALE PRICE, 20/-.
carriage and Packing, 2/6 extra, to any part of Australia.
Ask us to send you our big, 100-page Sale Catalogue
No. 6, showing other Guns Equally Reduced.
T. C. BEIRNE & CO.,
THE VALLEY, BRISBANE
M
Gk
B.S.A.
*303 L.ee-Enfield
SPECIAL MATCH RIFLES AND BARRELS
have again proved their enormous superiority over all other
makes, by practically sweeping the board of all important
prizes and Matches at Bisley, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Hobart, etc.
There is big money to be won during 1913, and
you want to get ready in time. Write for latest
B.S.A. Catalog of Rifles, Sights, etc.
Post free from
D. Y. RENNIE.
Representating B.S.A. Co., Ltd.
Austra.ian Buildings.
Melbourne.
Uii
Will Andrade « BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Magical Goods.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method of Learning French, German,
Italian, Spanish, 1/7 each language; Speeches and
Toasts for all occasions, 1/1 ; Every Man His Own
Carpenter, 1/1 ; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4;. Macfadden’s Superb Virility of
Manhood, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives,
5/4 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illus-
trated, 7d. ; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Book
of Love Letters, 1/- ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and
Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Horse Doctor, 1/1 ; What Young
People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1 • Dr
Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only
genuine and complete edition, 3/6; New 1912
edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New
Tricks with Cards, 1/- ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/4; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ;
Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/-; Lovers’
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
m~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
MASKS
For Fancy Dress
Balls, Skating
Carnivals, Pro-
cessions, etc.
Large Variety.
Write for List.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of
any State will do.
CATALOGUES
2] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
• a« *
Simply
Turn a Screw
and Pull —
that’s all that’s neces-
sary to detach the bar-
rel of a Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifle.
It’s just as easy to clean
—it’s all done from the
breech and you can look
through the barrel and see
that it’s clean.
You’ll like this thor-
oughly tested, accurate,
reliable rifle made by expert
gunsmiths—a century’s ex-
perience is builded into it.
It is hammerless, has solid breech—no possibility of
accidental discharge or blow backs.
Shoot Remington-UMC Lesmok 22’s—they made the world’s
highest score and most perfect group. Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifles and Shot Guns. Ammunition for
all makes of fire arms. For sale everywhere.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
(M. Hartley Company, Export Agent) 299-301 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
A GREAT HUSICAL INNOVATION.
„ _ I»TEBCH*««ABLe
li£, f parts
(Rand'
ALBERT’S SYS!
HA "° fh Eo
ALBERT’S SYSTEM EEOS
Two more (new) “Boomerang”
Mouth Organ Types, the “ Boom-
erang Grand ” (48 Reeds), Price
6/6 (New); the “Miniature
Grand ” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New)
—Post Free to any address.
tAnniTt! eS< v. tt >'P es P osse ®® already the great superiority of the “Boomerang” Mouth Organ
tonality, but being tuned to the grand concert pitch, and provided with extra reeds thev at
ol reSScflILKf Irem
cSfiriSiS” si? p™fcis,; BOOMEEANG orand " wiu ‘>*ooo.“”™
Wholesale and Retail from J. ALBERT & SON, 137 King Street, Sydney
(Remit by Australian or N.Z. Postage Stamps.) J *
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt, i hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Seven
Prize Medals,
Works: Birmingnam, England,
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
A Splendid Tribute to the
Great Nerve Medicine,
CLEMENTS
TONIC
How It Cured Loss of
Sleep and Neuralgia.
Bffl
/ : •••:•
m
\
1
19 Bourke Street, Launceston,
December 7, 1911.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“My restoration to health by the
aid of Clements Tonic was little
short of marvellous.
“For two years I suffered dreadfully from Neuralgia and Insomnia,
the neuralgic pains were aggravated by my not being able to sleep. My
appetite left me, and I became so weak that I was unable to work, my hands
fw ] f mbs trembled and shook so, I thought my end had come. 'Durum
that time I was under medical treatment. I also tried various reme-
dies and still kept getting worse. One day a friend gave me half a bottle
of Clements lonic to try. Ihe result was so good that I took a course.
and feft t^plendid Ved and 1 WaS Soon free from m y complaints
fkp thi ! Cit Z’ and SCOres of friends can vouch for
tiie truth ot this statement, lou may make what use you wish of this.
(Signed) SAMUEL COULTASS.”
vous neadacht or WeSss S iffef Fev L er Ve o r ; ° f Spirit8 ’ Sick and Ner ‘
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL CLEMENTS TONIC.


the simplest, easiest and most rational means
of establishing and maintaining buoyant Health
-without drugs or any appliances-at a cost of
only 15 minutes daily.
"... an excellent System ... it does
actually accomplish everything its
author promises.” The Standard.
Over a Million Copies already Sold.
u iniLLiwii tuples already 00/a
“My System
r„ licirr i d
By LIEUT. J. P. MULLER.
(Formerly of Royal Danish Engineers. Late
Inspector, Danish Tubercular Sanatorium.)
“ My S /s te ™ ” co,lsists of a series of scientifically
devised bodily movements followed by a bath (cold
or tepid) and self-massage. It can be m-ad“d to
suit people of all ages. It promotes beauty of
physique—not abnormal protuberance-by har
moniouslv developing each muscle according to its
need ; it gently and effectively stimulates tl”e vital
organs, thus enabling them to rid the system of the
poisons which cause functional ailments • and
maintains the skin and body in a perfect condition
of natural health. “My System” has been used
and endorsed by:
Ex-President Roosevelt, Lord Al-
verstone. Rev. F. B. Meyer Field
Marshal Von Moltke.Sir k.S.Baden-
Powell, Sir A. Conan Doyle, and many
other public men and eminent physicians. Every
doctor who has investigated it advocates it for the
cure of—Constipation, Rheumatism, Indigestion
Insomnia, and kindred complaints. The Whole
System can be performed in 15 minutes
Special Learners’
Edition
Large Type, Art Paper, Large Photos
Shewing Positions of each exercise
Cloth Boards. Post free 6/4.
6/
Net
Popular Edition. 3/-; Post Free, 3/3.
Companion Volumes
“MY SYSTEM" for Ladies.
“MY SYSTEM” for Children.
Published at same prices as above.
New Photographic Charts 1/3 each. Post free 1/5
From all booksellers in Australia and New Zealand If
sold out further supplies may be obtained from the A gent
Mr. WYATT,
313, Little Collins St,, Melbourne,
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Riprtj.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, e/o Sydney Agents.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable new T s from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Heading Room at the offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Benger’s Food is
universally recommended
by medical men.
For use during illness and
convalescence.
For weakly and over-growing
children.
As a supplementary food in
malnutrition, and for all
cases of dyspepsia and
impaired digestion.
&
-
w
vs?
4M:
179*
Food
For CHILDREN,
INVALIDS and
the AGED,
is comforting,
when other foods
cause pain. It is
the most easily
digested of all
foods, but is not
pre-digested.
Ecu get's Food is sold by
Druggists , etc.* everywhere .
BENGER'B FOOD, LTD.
MAN CHESTER, ENG.
Branch Offices—
NEW YORK (U.S.A.)
92, William Street.
Sydney (n.s.w.)
117, Pitt Street.
Canadian A gtuts—-
National Trug and
Che ical Co., Ltd.,
34. St. Gabriel Bt.,
Montreal,
and Branches
throughout Canadsu
Linseed Compound,” Trade Mark of Kay’s.
m pound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
BONNINCIWS WILL ANSWER YES
$
O'
H 055
IRISH
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “BonningTon’s’' of 40 years fame.
BoNNINCTQN’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for 'Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
‘o
IRISH J*? 5
Cured.
SPFCTFTr v?L drunkard—secretly— at home. GOLDEN
of ei he L ° r ta r e ' and , can be . taken b - v the most delicate person
iW . Xt eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
... ... lng antipathy to alcohol m a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few dav«
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE £d fullparHculara
CO ’ DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N. S.W.
9
'T
I
I (1414)
iTHE MAGICAL CHANGE !i
Thin, Flat-
Ch e s t e d
Women!
If you have been sparse-bosomed and hollow-cheeked
all your life, or if your measurements are not what
they should be, don’t you think it is time vou re-
belled ?
While you are worrying day after day over your
appearance, thousands of women—once like you—taking; advantage
of the opportunity science has offered, are now enjoying perfect
oust development and robust womanhood.
DR. FALLIERE’S “FLESH-FOOD” has developed to normal
women who never had the semblance of a bust, and has restored to
/ _ vl &°J*ous vitality women who lost the figure that was once their pride.
It will do the same for you. If three or four inches more bust measure-
ment will perfect your figure, “Flesh-Food” will give them to you. If 12 or
13 pounds added will correct your weight, you can depend on “Flesh-Food.” If
even more inches or weight is required, “Flesh-Food” offers you salvation. • It is
harmless and reliable, pleasant and always beneficial. Many cases gain five pounds
a week and several inches in a month. Guarantee given in cases accepted. Thou-
sands endorse it. Send 2d. stamp for free sample and our free illustrated book
and scores of testimonials. w . , __ _ M A ,
Watworth, Falliere Ass n. f 1103 Ash Street, Sydney.
MR. G. VEC HEY.
LET ME RID YOU
OF YOUR KILLING
VARICOSE VEINS.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins or Ulcers, or both, I believe that I can com-
pletely cure you. I have treated hundreds of terrible cases with the utmost suc-
cess, and I know that but very few cases are really incurable when properly treated
without operations, and by my method, which has been tested and successfully
proved in hundreds of instances.
Very few doctors tell you they can cure this trouble. They prefer to ignore
it. Doctors could not cure me. I cured myself. I then cured my friends, and
then made hundreds of new friends by curing people who had suffered in some
eases for a quarter of a century. Hence I believe I can cure you.
If you would like to feel your legs well, strong and supple again, send for
full details of this wonderfully efficacious home treatment.
ADVICE FREE FREE BOOK DIAGNOSIS FREE
I want you to learn all about my method. Send 2d. stamp for Free Book, giving full parti-
culars. Written Diagnosis or Consultation FREE. Call if convenient. (1424)
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
a
D
: ■
BILIOUS SUBJECTS
are generally victims of Constipation, that root evil
terrible afflictions ; but they are “ bilious subjects ” no
they adopt the famous Cockle’s Antibilious Pills as
household remedy, now in the
of so many
longer when
the standing
Second Century of World-Wide Renown.
Cockle’s Pills, which doctors of six generations have taught the world
to use and esteem, have no harsh, coercive action on the sluggish :
they gently stimulate, soothingly strengthen and encourage, the natural
organic functions, at the same time thoroughly cleansing the system and
purifying the vital fluid. There is nothing to equal Cockle’s Pills for
this pertect cleansing, reinvigorating, purifying combination of results.
It is marvellous.
put a,
TOBACCO KILLS!
w.
|&&
V
■J7-
7
Face to Face with Death l
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. H. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for SO
years, hut since takinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. [3.
"Coaguline,” “Klinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
PESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-ot., Melbourne, Vic.
Hie'Stsndard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in u« sine* 1906.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Song of Girl.
the shining rows
Of damsels slight and airy,
strong, elastic pose
Of naiad, nymph and fairy ;
i like the way that ribbon goes
Straight up and down on Mary.
1 t 0 hear the magic thrill
rp . When day its ledger closes,
Ihe laughter running silver-shrill
1 hat everybody knows is
Blown from soft lips that poets still
Insist are parted roses.
I like to walk at quiet night
When all the lamps are burning,
To see the feet of young delight
Ihe city pavements spurning,
And silken lustres faintly bright
Round hidden ankles turning.
I like all phases of all girl,
In dusk or morning weather,
I like each as a sundered pearl,
I like them all together,
I like them under brims that curl,
Or tufted with a feather.
I like the way that Mabel stands.
The way that Nancy dances ;
When Adeline a soft kiss lands
My pulse with rapture prances;
I know the touch of Ethel’s hands,
The light of Cora’s glances.
I do not want a Helen’s smile
As my unique possession,
A Cleopatra full of guile
Was never my obsession,
All girl that grows finds all the while
My busy heart in session.
I want, these sunny days and free,
To taste the bliss of blisses,
To lie beneath a pleasant tree—
Just such a tree as this is—
While all pink girl should smother me
In fifty thousand kisses.
I like to see the shining rows
Of damsels slight and airy,
To watch the clear, elastic pose
Of naiad, nymph and fairy;
I like that ribbon thing that grows
Out of the back of Mary.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
Fate.
There stands an iron cliff,
Wild seas are at its base,
And mid-high, hewn in stone,
A track runs round its face.
Men journey safely there,
Some sing and laugh and dance—
The sure-of-foot are they
For whom is no mischance.
But some fall headlong down
Into the moaning vast —
’Tis said —clutched suddenly
By hands from out the Past.
Agrip with ancient foes,
They struggle, fail and fall —
Singing the rest march on.
Nor heed their dying call.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Dream.
All God, it is a fearful thing to take a
human life:
I saw it done—
The red blood run— l
I held the fatal knife.
A fearful, fearful thing it is to see the red
blood run;
I saw it out —
One ghastly gout—
No more to be undone.
I did the deed, last week it was —or was it
yesterday ?
I cannot tell —
But know full well
It passeth not for aye.
I could not see the pale, pale face —I only
saw my hands —
Stained with the crime
Like ingrained grime
That gripped my heart with bands.
I rubbed and rubbed to get away that sign
of dreadful sin.
But always there
The fresh stains were —
I only rubbed them in-
O God, my'God why didst thou let my
hand outrun my heart?
Ah me, I know,
’Twas long ago—
But never we can part.
I S aw —I saw —the red blood flow, a dread-
ful rain did seem ;
I cannot say
Was’t yesterday?
Methinks ’twas all a dream.
The sun it shineth through my panes 1
see the blue sky gleam
I’m right—l’m right—
’Twas yesternight
I had that fearful dream.
O God, a fearful dream it was —let be,
my trembling heart;
A dream, I say,
To God I pray
To make that dream depart.
I see the blue, blue sky above —the tall trees
waving green —
And then I know
It was not so —
That thing had never been.
But when the night descends apace and I
creep into bed... •
But peace ! Be still.
I ask His Will
To take away that dread.
N.S.W.
SYDNEY PARTRIGE.


A Favorite Bedroom
A Handsome Style that will Give Years of Constant Use.
The
YARRA.
,11m,. mwiiJißnmT
ii.i.iiiii
m 1
I' till
=S2?
MC 4C?l.’?
A highly polished BEDROOM SUITE, comprising:— Elegant Wardrobe,
with large, bevelled mirror, one large, oblong drawer and detachable
pediment; Dressing Chest, 2 long drawers and 2 small drawers, and
2 jewel drawers, bevelled mirror; Marble-top Washstand, turned legs,
tile back, pedestal, with towel rails at side.
Supplied in thoroughly seasoned Timber, well polished in walnut or rosewood
color, at £l3/5/-
BE WISE, AND INVEST IN ONE OF THESE DURABLE SUITES.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
THE EXPERT
HOUSE FURNISHERS,
CENTRAL SQUARE, OPP. RAILWAY, SYDNEY.
DfNNEFORD'Sj
Magnesia
DINNEFORD'S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn. Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Afiections.
0
T,
*v
V
P
K
W
P*
0
MOTOR
TYRES
For
Reliability
Durability
and Hard Wear.
PRICE LIST AND ALL PARTICULARS
ON APPLICATION.
PERDRIAU Rubber Co. Ltd.,
270 George Street, Sydney.
105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
4l Creek Street, Brisbane.
BUILT TO BEAT THE BAND
q THE BESSES O’
IHE BARN have
gone but the Besses o’
the Pocket have
to stay.
come
fc’/l
WEI
The P eeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack
Mouth
Organs
MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds,. .
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds, ... 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds, . . . 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds. . .
SOLD EVERYWHERE
. 1/-
• 1/-
. 6d
Sole Agents
Allan & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne. Adelaide
Bendgo & Geelong
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HANP
The National
flonthly, 6d.
ON TNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely
and bound; containing upwards of
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings.
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
printed
Three
Full
id? • Ceilings
-
m
4240
SAFE.
ARTISTIC.
PERMANENT.
Made in
AUSTRALIA.
FIRST
COST
THE LAST.
Look for
TRADE MARK.
Wunderlich Ceilings are equally suitable for town and country
requirements. They pack in a very small compass. Where transport
charges are heavy this is an important consideration, in that it effects a
large saving over the freight of other materials. Their extreme lightness
makes it possible to economise in the size of ceiling joists. Steel ceilings
can be erected without delay. Other advantages are: —They lessen the
fire risk, they do not harbour vermin, and never crack or discolour; they
can be easily washed, and may be fixed over cracked plaster ceilings, effec-
tually preventing any fall; they remain fresh in appearance for a number
of years. Thus first cost is the last cost.
The sheet steel employed is the best British Bessemer steel. The
finished materials are sent out primed on both surfaces with a coat of the
best oil paint, which forms an ideal ground for the decorator. Where no
extra decoration is required, a plain white (flat) finish always produces a
good effect. Look for our Trade Mark on every sheet, and remember
that Wunderlich Ceilings and Wall Coverings are made in Australia, and
that we have the sole right to the use of the word “ Wunderlich ” in
connection with these materials.
Catalogue and all Particulars Post Free.
WTJKTDBRLICH Ltd.
56 Pitt Street, Sydney. ————
SOLE AGENTS FOR MARSEILLES ROOFING TILES.
W!W
■ ■ "i\
I
I
>
HALLEY MOTOR LORRIES
Insure Permanent Satisfaction
Here is a testimonial from a user of Halley Lorries, who commenced bv ordering
:— nd evldenced hls satisfaction by increasing his purchases to a fleet of
n c- t i Glasgow, April 3, 1913
th P JfrL reply t 0 , voar inquiry, I have pleasure in stating' that
ot f or i/ ornes you havie supplied me with continue to give me the
fhefr credft ISf No 10 i’ n £ W a . combined mileage of over 450,000 to
heir credit. No. 1, which has been in daily use for close upon eight vears
has alone covered over 140,000 miles, and is still giving me a most reliable
and economical service. yours faithMlv,
(Sgd.) WM. MILNE.
1909 M mS, , i U 9lt a Slll3 ret Hal ‘ ey ” 19 ° 5 ' a “ d Pla “ d repeat 'orders in 1907,
FULL PARTICULARS POST FREE, ON REQUEST.
To Carry from 1 Ton to 6 Tons.
Any Type of Body Fitted.
DALGETY <& CO. Ltd.
Motor Garage : 136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: Bourke Street.
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay*
Belleville. Napier, Buick, Opel, Cadillac,
Lacre Lorries and Halley Lorries.
BRISBANE : George Street.
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-
Belleville, “F.N.,” Cutting, Halley
Lorries and Lacre Lorries.


The Bulletin
at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper:
You 34.—N0. 1745.
THURSDAY. JULY 24. 1913.
Prioh 611.
THE FEDERAL POSTAGE STAMP.
Joseph Cook in his speech at Ballarat: “The Kangaroo has had sentence of death passed on him.”
JUDGE COOK: “You are found guilty of being a purely Australian animal discovered at large on a purely Australian stamp.
And the sentence of this Court is that you be taken back to the gum-tree from which you came, and there hanged by the
neck until you are dead.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . .. . . 013 6
.. .. . . . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
;Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
i all Business Communications to be addressed to The
. Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
;paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
.care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
rvertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
tthe Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
It/he Editor is to invite inattention.
Il.t is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to (anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even, tom, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, Ucknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs
JLetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
..will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
; tfe > address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
■ no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
, conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
.. without stamps for return it will be understood that
, the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
: sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
, attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
ssending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
rresponsible for the preservation or transmission of
MIS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Amy one supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco ; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan. 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. ‘
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
t Colombo. ,
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
r account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
■ agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
• mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
. !,]6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%m.
rx llffn., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
rwarded on application. Larger metal plates can be
ssupplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
J Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed’ in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to lOoz., 2\d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, J,oz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 24, 1913.
THE THREATENED REVOLT OF
THE COUNTRY.
When New South Wales holds its State
election it is likely to have four parties in
the field instead of two. There will be, of
course,j the old Liberal push, which believes
in sacrificing all the interests of the State
to the enlargement and bloating of Sydney.
There will be the old Labor push, which
believes in exactly the same thing. The Coun-
try Party, which represents a breakaway
from the Congestion idea, and a demand
that the back regions of the State shall get
some .-semblance of consideration, is a new
arrival. And ex-Laborite Beeby’s National
Progressive Association is, to a great extent,
■ a duplicate of the Country Party. If the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association also
Vbursts into politics, which Heaven forbid,
there will even be five parties. The most
notable features in the programme of the
Country Party are these: —
Elective Ministr-'es.
The Initiative and Referendum.
Preferential voting in order to prevent minority
candidates getting in on a split vote.
THE CREATING OF NEW PORTS NORTH AND SOUTH
The linking up of these new ports with the
railway system.
There are one or two dozen other items in
the programme, but these are the most
genuinely national ideas in the collection.
On the other hand, Beeby’s new National
Progressive Association puts forward a big
scheme, of which the following are leading
propositions:—
The submission to the people by Referendum of
such amendments of the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion as are necessary to enable the Australian Gov-
ernment to carry out the spirit and intention of the
Federal compact.
The submission to a non-party national conven-
tion, elected by popular franchise, of the framing
of a new Constitution for the Commonwealth.
Preferential voting.
The opening of new ports north and south
of Sydney.
Preferential rates for producers to the
NEAREST PORT.
Also, maintenance and improvement of industrial
legislation; national insurance; State labor registry
offices; a superannuation scheme for public ser-
vants ; expansion of the education system, and many
other things.
There are points of difference between the
two programmes, as well as a good many
points of resemblance. But the re-
semblance is most striking in the fact
that that section of the State for which
Sydney is not the natural port is tired of
paying absurd freights over absurd dis-
tances, and having its goods rotted and
ruined through absurd delays, simply that
the Sydney wharves may be choked with
property, and the Sydney merchants may
be saved the trifling worry of opening
branch offices at places like Eden, Jervis
Bay and Port Stephens. And probably the
Scotch farmer about Inverness or Perth
would be equally wild if he wasn’t allowed
to use the adjacent ports of Aberdeen, Glas-
gow, Greenock, Grangemouth or Leith, and
had to send all his exportable goods by train
to London. Some farmers become very
angry at times.
The people who demand some genuine
attempt at decentralisation have already
been solemnly warned that if they pursue
their evil courses further they may bring
about the disruption of the Great Liberal
Party, and enable the Laborites to secure
another lease of power. It is very much as
if the Turks had solemnly warned the Bul-
garians and the other Confederates, during
the recent war, that if they (the Bulgarians
and other Confederates) kept on pounding
the Turks much longer the result might be
that the Turks would be knocked out. To
which the Confederates would naturally
have replied that the knocking out of the
Turks was their especial business and their
one great ambition. The great ambition of
the new political organisations is the break-
ing up of the selfish, narrow-minded Liberal
party, and likewise of the selfish, parish-
pump-minded Labor party. They have both
talked decentralisation, and said pleasant
things about the opening of the closed, deep-
water ports for ocean traffic. And they have
both stuck rigidly to the policy of building no
railways to any ports that could possibly
compete with Sydney, and building no
wharves and laying out no new cities at
any such ports. In fact, they have ad-
hered to the old device which lost Spain its
South American empire—the device which
made Panama the one port of export, and
caused the goods of a whole continent to be
dragged to rags in order to reach Panama,
unless they were abandoned on the road.
As a result of this wonderful Liberal and
Labor policy it is possible to mark out 100
of the 144 counties of N.S.W. as a region
that, in the aggregate, is losing population.
The natural deep-water outlets of most of
this country, according to distance, are Port
Pirie, Adelaide, Portland, Melbourne, Eden,
Jervis Bay, Port Stephens and Brisbane;
and being almost entirely cut off from them
by the Sydney congestion policy, the region
is naturally on the down grade. No one
could reasonably expect it to be otherwise.
In New South Wales, just now, cattle,
sheep, pigs, dairy cows, butter exports,
cheese exports and wool exports are decreas-
ing, which is only natural, seeing that the
population of such a vast area of the State
—mostly the sheep and bullock and cow and
hog area —is diminishing. This sort of
thing is not calculated to make the people
of the country feel good towards either of
the parties which run things at Sydney in
purely Sydney interests.
* * #• *
If no new parties butted into the scramble
for office, it is fairly certain that the Liberals
under Charles Gregory Wade would
win at next election. The Charles
Gregory Wade crowd isn’t attractive, but
the other gang is beyond description. It
smells politically like Sodom and its neigh-
bor. It climbed into office on promises of
economical finance, reduced borrowing, the
application of loan money only to such
works as would pay full interest and sink-
ing fund, the establishment of a system for
the gradual repayment of the public debt,
decentralisation and other beautiful things.
It has lied on practically every point, and
proved itself an unabashed Ananias all
round. And it has done, or attempted,
things that were even beyond the ordinary
range of an Ananias. When it introduced,
and toiled hard to pass, an Income Tax Act
which proposed to levy a specially reduced
rate on the loafing absentee landlord, as
compared with the little, struggling local
manufacturing companv which employs
Australian unionists and nays wages fixed
by an Australian Wages Board —well, some
surprised persons wondered which absentee
landlord had pulled the strings, and which
influential Laborite the strings were hitched
on to. It looked like a deed of treachery
that even Judas would have dodged.
The party’s enthusiastic support of the
superfluous State Governor whom it was
pledged to obliterate, and its maintenance
of the State Upper House, which it was
pledged to wine out; its backdown on the
State leasehold principle; its subservience to
the great Sydney landlords —these and other
things made its position practically hope-
less if the two-party system lasted. How-
ever bad the other gang might be, the desire
to teach a lesson to this gang was almost
overwhelming. The wail of the Liberals is
to the effect that the new developments are
likely to burst their organisation and give
the unspeakable Holman crowd a new lease
of life just when it was dead. They say
this isn’t fair, and that it almost amounts
to treason against the Liberal cause.
* * * *
The country parties—there are at least
two of them— naturally feel little interest
in the plea. State Liberalism has given
them small cause for gratitude, and State
Labor has done just about as much. If it
is Liberalism’s rising prospects that are
blighted by the new movement that is Lib-
eralism’s accidental misfortune. The new
movement would blight Labor’s rising pros-
pects just as cheerfully if Labor had any
prospects at the moment. It would split
either party in the good cause of decentrali-
sation. It is getting near to that point at
which it would cheerfully split the
State. When the inhabitants of large
areas have to pay a vast amount of needless
freight on their exports; when they see a
great proportion of their produce left to rot
because the preposterously long and crowded
railways can’t carry it; when they are 200
miles further awjjy from the musical comedy
and the opera than they need be; when they
see people and sheep and bullocks and hogs
and even the priceless moo-cow diminishing
through needless remoteness from a market,
and their only reward lies in being marked
“New South Wales” on the map—well, some
of them feel ready to damn New South
Wales. Some of them feel almost ready to
speak disparagingly of the map. If the
North and the South and the South-west
of the State broke away and set up for
themselves, they would, of course, lose the
right to call themselves New South Wales,
but, after all, there are other names, and
some of them are not so clumsy. In fact,
barring the Cape of the Eleven Thousand
Virgins, there is hardly a place on earth
which has a more cumbersome designation
than that of the State which calls itself
Mother because it was lagged first. Its title
requires to be carried round in a waggon,
and the waggon is liable to become bogged
on a bad road. The new States would christen
themselves afresh. They would be as much
part of Australia as they are now. The sun
would still shine, and the rain fall and the
grass grow. The cow would look in no way
different. And if these new States, by get-
ting clear of Sydney influences, could secure
a chance to develop their nearest deen-water
ports and to create citie* there; and if, by
reason of their new facilities they began to
increase and multiply instead of being on
the downhill track, they would regard the
loss of Sydney as great gain. It is no use
telling the people who are impoverished by
the Congestion policy that any attempt to
strike out for themselves is a base attempt
to break up the Liberal party. They are
quite ready to break up both parties. And
seeing how little both parties have done for
them there is nothing remarkable about this.
If either Laborites or Liberals took up
the cause of decentralisation honestly and
in earnest, and could show that they were
honest and in earnest, there would be a big
vote to be gathered just now. But unless
the members of the present N.S.W. Ministry
deposited about £50,000 of their own money
with the leaders of the new move-
ment, along with their signed and undated
resignations, as a guarantee that they would
really do something, and try to be
ashamed of themselves if they turned
traitor, it is hardly imaginable that anyone
would take notice of any offers or promises
they could make. An alleged decentralisa-
tion party which planned out the North
Coast railway in a vast, expensive curve to
keep it away from one of the very best
harbors in the State, simply because that
harbor isn’t Sydney, requires to put up a
substantial deposit when it enters into nego-
tiations. Its lOU is no good. The case
calls for cash. The Liberals haven’t broken
so many promises as their opponents in the
matter of decentralisation, simply because
they didn’t make so many. So the Country
organisation thinks of setting up on its own.
as the Irish Nationalists did when they
found that there was nothing to be gained by
being either a Liberal tail or a Conservative
tail, and that they could only hope for suc-
cess by being the whole animal themselves
—their own animal, so to speak. The entire
trouble lies in the fact that rather less than
one-third of New South Wales has its nat-
ural deep-water outlet at Sydney, and the
attempt to force all trade to Sydney, or to
kill it if it can’t get there, must either result
in the secession or impoverishment of the
greater part of the State. So far the result
has been impoverishment, seeing that it is
possible to mark off an area covering about
two-thirds of the State as a region of de-
clining ponulation. The secession will
probably follow.
ABOUT SOME CALLINGS THAT ARE
GROPING IN THE DARK.
By The Bulletin’s Agricultural and Cow
Editor: —
One of life’s little tragedies, so far as the Liberal,
or anti-Socialistic, farmer is concerned, is the diffi-
culty he labors under of reconciling his alleged poli-
tical principles with what he is sure are his own
requirements, and with what he suspects to be the
requirements of the State. A Commonwealth-con-
trolled Scientific Laboratory—an institution whose
duty it would be to disseminate information on the
more abstruse pastoral and agricultural problems of
the day, and, on occasion, act the part of a sort of
Health bureau in connection with sheep and cattle
diseases, etc. —is an urgent need at the present time.
It must necessarily be Socialistic, since Private
Enterprise is never going to inaugurate anything of
the sort. It will have to be run by the Common-
wealth, since, under other conditions, the good work
done in one State by skilled scientific workers oper-
ating in conjunction with a conscientious body of
persons on the land, would be liable to be nullified
by incompetence, or carelessness, or both, in an
adjoining State. To be effective, a central bureau
would need to be empowered to interfere with in-
fectious sheep, stock, and so on, wherever they hap-
pened to be. The animal health authorities might
discover (say) an outbreak of mammitis at Nowra
(N.S.W.), and consider it necessary to quarantine
that district; or some such pest might come along,
in a limited area, as the fly which is just now blow-
ing sheep disastrously in Queensland, and the scien-
tists might have to take drastic steps in the way of
interfering with local Private Enterprise as a condi-
tion of stamping out that offence. But such a re-
form would necessitate Federal control of the in-
ternal trade and commerce of the States. So the
Liberal farmer who wants the same cpre taken of his
stock’s health, and of his neighbor’s stock’s health,
by the Commonwealth an is expended to-day on his
own health, will require'to go back on at least part
of the Liberal policy as it stood at last Federal
elections. It is all very puzzling, and for the type
of man who hankers after consistency in politics,
extremely depressing.
The assistance that a scientific laboratory, of the
sort indicated above, could give to the man on the
land is obvious in a dozen different directions. Take
dam-sinking. Dam-sinking can be either reasonably
economical or wildly extravagant. The old, casual
method was to start delving into the earth at any
old spot that possessed a decent catchment area and
a more or less favorable sub-soil, regardless abso-
lutely of the atmospheric conditions. An expert in
such matters would show the crudely unthinking
dam-manufacturer a far better way. In the Steppes
of Russia, and in many other regions where the con-
servation of water is an affair of supreme import-
ance, the humidity of the atmosphere is taken by
scientists before any work is started, and the pre-
vailing dry wind, and other factors, carefully noted.
By fixing the site of the dam where the air is damp-
est, as a general thing, and by also selecting the lee
side of some natural obstruction to the prevailing
dry wind, about 20 per cent, of evaporation is com-
monly saved, to the vast profit of the dam-sinker.
Information on such questions might well be sup-
plied to the producer by the State. The pastoralist
could do with a lot more scientific knowledge on
the question of sheep than he enjoys at present.
Australia’s unique success as a sheep-growing coun-
try is much more its own fault than that of its in-
habitants. The industry has been simply dragged up,
in a manner of speaking, and it is still run on
weirdly slipshod lines. It is a common thing for
a man who owns a block of land in, for example, the
well-watered Riverina country, to strike a mob of
sheep travelling from Cunnamulla (Q.), or some such
drought-smiten spot, and buy them out of hand—for
no other reason than that they are cheap. It never
occurs to him that excessively dry country sheep
may do indifferently in wet country. In Britain,
sheep-farming has been going, on for centuries. The
entire island would fit into a section of N. S. Wales.
Yet small as it is, the experience of ages has shown
that widely different breeds of sheep do really well
in certain localities, and none other. No rational
British breeder would dream of running Southdowns
on Romney Marsh country, or Lincolns or Shrop-
shires on the hills of Wales. The vogue in Aus-
tralia, for the moment, is in favor of crossbred sheep
—the main explanation being, no doubt, that their
wool brings the best price just now, by comparison
with the weight of carcase. On the other hand,
during the ’9o’s, every pasto*alist in N. S. Wales
thought 15-16th Yermonts were the ideal articles to
produce. Nowadays, money couldn’t buy one of
these large and absurdly wrinkled animals. Who
knows for certain which of these two sorts of sheep
is the better; or whether some totally different
variety wouldn’t be superior to either of them, for
general use over the whole continent; or whether,
again, a score of different sorts wouldn’t be superior
to all three as regards a score of different localities?
The whole problem is wrapped in the kind of mys-
tery that can only be penetrated by the large im-
partial eye of Science.
It is notorious that certain diseases of sheep (fluke,
foot-rot, and so forth) which are as innocuous as a
shower of rain in one district, thrive and increase
in virulence like tropical weeds in another district
when their “host”—-meaning the animal that bears
the germs of them —is transferred there. At pres-
ent, all that the farmer is absolutely certain about
is that certain complaints appear here and there,
and rage violently. He knows neither the districts
which are most dangerous—in the sense of being the
most advantageous for the development of such dis-
eases —nor the class of sheep which are best capable
of resisting disease when it strikes them. And his
collective ignorance loses the country hundreds of
thousands of pounds per annum. In the cattle in-
dustry a number of infectious tumors are endemic
in certain areas. No one has definitely placed
these areas. The settler doesn’t know when he
buys land there. The residents are often similarly
ignorant. The oldest inhabitant is liable to have no
suspicions of the trouble. The vendor of stock loses
when his cattle arrive at Ilomebush or Flemington,
and are ordered to be destroyed by the inspectors
there; or else the public loses in a far more intoler-
able way by consuming the diseased meat which has
got past the eye of authority. All this loss and
danger could be obviated, as surely as small-pox or
the plague. Australia is afflicted with poison plants
of different sorts. The average bucolic has but a
vague acquaintance with them. He isn’t sure which
parts they most pervade. He has a dim idea that
some—like the zamia palm—are more dangerous at
one period of their growth than another; but he
couldn’t say off-hand, or find out off-hand either,
whether they are more to be dreaded in extreme
youth or doddering eld. He knows that some of
they teem on the stock routes, but on which stock
routes they teem he knows not. He would be
obliged to the State if it would only tell him. The
late Farrer did N. S. Wales a better turn by his
researches into the habits and customs of wheat than
all the philanthropists that ever gave donations to
hospitals. He demonstrated for the financial benefit
of innumerable backblockers which cereals were best
suited to the various soils and climates of the Ma
State. One result is that where farmers used to get
10-bushel crops they now get 16- and 18-bushel ones.
But his researches did not extend, to the rest of
Australia. What a limitless field of wealth a capa-
ble official, working along Farrer’s lines, might
open up in this vast and fertile continent!
It is profitless to go into further detail in this
regard. What is clear is that Australia would be
immensely advantaged by a Commonwealth labora-
tory designed to tell the farmer or agriculturist
or pastoralist or cattle-man anywhere between Glad-
stone (W.A.) and Gladstone (Q,), the count-
less things that it is advisable he should
know, and that he is not fitted to find out
for himself. But as aforementioned, _it would
have to be a species of unificatory institution.
It would need, if it was to do any good at all, to
have the same complete swav from end to end of
Australia, as the Q. Tick Quarantine- Act has from
end to end of Bananaland. It would require to be
able to interfere with a number of hitherto un-
assailed industries in the most ruthless and compre-
hensive fashion. In addition, the primary producer
would have to endure, as patiently as possible, the
revolting spectacle of the taxpayers’ , money being
spent on the business of research work on his behalf;
and on the dissemination of local information
acquired by the laboratory’s experts; and on the
Dublication of the researches pertinent to conditions
here, that were being made in other parts of the
world. In short, the primary producers—the squat-
ter. the cocky farmer, the big cattle-man, and _ the
rest—would have to cease howling “unification” in a
scandalised tone of voice at every fresh mention of a
Constitutional amendment giving the Australian Par-
liament power to control intra-State businesses ; and
the same people would need to be somewhat less
blatantly anti-Rocialistic at election times than thee
have been in the past. If thev make these sensible
changes in their immemorial habits, they may
achieve an institution nres°htlv that will do them,
and the country, a world bf good. ,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Estimable, but Useless, Band of
Travellers.
From “Westminster” :
I have just finished reading the list of names of
those who are to visit Australia next month as an
“Empire Parliamentary Party.” The involuntary
smile having to some small extent worn off, I sub-
mit such pertinent questions as: Who has asked
them ? And why ? What does Australia expect them
to do for it? And how will they do it? Did they
select themselves? Or did the Commonwealth speci-
fically ask for them, and none others ? I say de-
liberately, as one who knows personally every one
of the gentlemen whose names have been cabled as
certain starters for the round trip through Austra-
lasia and back to London, that a more estimable,
undistinguished, dull, virtuous, inarticulate, obscure
and generally feeble collection of Parliamentarians
could hardly have been amassed if the 1200 and odd
members composing the Lords and Commons had
been raked with a fine tooth-comb. One may take
it, I suppose, that the expenses of the members of
the party are being paid by Australia. In any
other event the majority of them would, for finan-
cial reasons, be unable to come. That means that a
good many thousands of pounds sterling will be
wantonly wasted. These men will do Australia no
manner of good in the United Kingdom. They have
not, between the lot of them, the ears of st>oo citi-
zens. They will not make the Commonwealth pro-
minent in either House. They do not command the
attention of any legislator, barring the Parliamen-
tary whip. With one lonely exception they cannot
begin to write. Those who are not hopeless medio-
crities are failures—in fact, the best of them are
those who have failed after achieving minor office,


Let me particularise, as an indication of the sort of
thing I mean.
“E. Carlile j is the first name on the newspaper
list that lies before me. This is Sir Hildred Car-
lile. He is a lory. He used to be in business
and has served in a Yeomanry Regiment of sorts. A
more genial, pleasant smiling, friendly customer
uoes not pervade the three kingdoms. But he has
never done anything of note, and never will if he
attains the years ot Methuselah. Colonel Yate is
a soldier. Outside his profession he has not an idea
in his head. A thousand sueh drift down to Aus-
tralia from India, on iurlough, or what not, every
year. Amery, the next on the list, is perhaps the
most challenging of the lot. L. C. M. S. Amery is
the smallest man in the House, and he is likewise
the one with the vastest store of energy, and the
most penetrating voice; and, in addition, he pos-
sesses as sharp a tongue as anyone. He is the solitary
publicist of note connected with the party. He was
on the Times staff for years, and edited' the Times
History of the South African war. Latterly he has
been serving on the Marconi Commission. He did
nothing sensational in that capacity. On the other
hand he made no bad mistakes. Donald Mac-
Master is a Canadian barrister. A pleasant, kindly
fellow, but he carries about as much weight in the
Mother of Parliaments as one of its attendants or
constables. Charles Goldman is a Jew, and one
of the few moneyed men among the visitors. He
married a daughter of Lord Peel, but is otherwise
unknown to fame. D. V. Pirie (known sometimes
as Captain Pirie) is a Peace enthusiast. I don’t
know that he is anything else. Unlike most of his
colleagues he has sufficient personality to be dis-
tinctly, nasty, in a verbal sense, when roused, and
also unlike all the foregoing, he is a Radical.
Stephen Collins is a London contractor. If I
were asked to say what he was chiefly, I should an-
swer : a Londoner —and a Liberal. He is quite re-
spectable, quite colorless, quite undistinguished.
After A. S. Bird, who is an obscure Tory, we get to
Tommy Lough. This is one of the stars of the
assemblage inasmuch as he once very nearly achieved
minor office. However it eluded him somehow, and
his life was the greyer for the mishap. He made
his money in tea, and qua tea-expert, I understand,
there are few to touch him. But as a useful student
of oversea affairs No ; most emphatically No. He
added to the gaiety of life, the other day, by being
made Lord Lieutenant of his county in Ireland. As
he is essentially a London resident (he represents
Islington) everybody was vastly diverted —excepting
always the Cavan county people who had to consult
dictionaries to find oaths sufficient to express their
scandalised feelings in this matter. Arthur Black
is a Nottingham Liberal et prwt.erea nihil. The Rt.
Hon. C. B. Stuart \Yortley once became an Under-
secretary. He is a charming man. And that is
all. Hamar Greenwood tried hard to be an Under-
secretary, but failed. He has a pretty wit. Eccle-
siastics of all faiths and sorts are detestable to him
(that is to say, in the mass, and regarded purely as
clericals), and his remarks and comments concern-
ing them are calculated to make the orthodox sit
up. He is a vehement radical and Home Ruler.
Amery, aforementioned, married his sister. Sir
Joseph Walton is known commonly as “Chinese
Walton.” He has been charged with some consider-
able knowledge of Chinese affairs. The two most
interesting of the entire Party I have reserved for
the last; namely, Will Crooks and Howard D Eg-
ville, the secretary. Will Crooks is of the bluff,
honest, somewhat' uncultivated type—rather like
your own Alf Edden, of N. S. Wales. His sterling
qualities and imperturbable good humor have ren-
dered him one of the most popular figures in the
House He is proud of the fact that he was born
in a workhouse in the very constituency (Wool-
wich) which he now represents in Parliament.
D’Egville gets up all the Parliamentary dinners to
visiting Premiers and similar notabilities. He is
full of tact and kindliness. He is interested m
colonial questions, and has written thereon in several
of the Reviews. He is not an M.P., and is prac-
tically unknown outside the world of what I may
call Legislative festivity. , . .
The question which Australia should propound to
itself is: Are these estimable nonenties worth while r
I submit, very firmly, that they are not. They will
cost a lot of money. And they will not repay it
either in kind, or otherwise, no matter how well in-
tentioned thev may be, for the simple reason that
they are constitutionally and otherwise incapable of
so doing. If Australia takes the counsel of one who
knows the precise worth of these travellers as spokes-
men, heralds and the like in foreign parts, it will
seize the incidence of the small-pox outbreak o u
them courteously Londonwards again. ,
move should be to try and induce any three of the
following to come here. (The thing is not so 1m
practicable as it may appear at a _ casual g a ™ e e
The British politician, however eminent, is t
keenest of holiday makers) : wiwbton
Asquith, Lloyd George. Harcourt. Winston
CuLon. Walter Long, Lord D -=r Austen
t. w T nrd HyLSBURY, Lord HARROWBY, AUBIHI
Chamberlain. Bishop of London. A of° Can-
York Bishop of Wakefield, Archbishop of lan
TE Get R a Y ST'above and Australia wiH be
supplied with the advertisement of! a life
gentlemen who are coming mi! Thev will iust
a ■ftssrwrs#* =
;X». ,y t£ ,tai-
have ever abandoned their virtuous hearths.
Deference to Unionism.
I)far Bulletin, —Seems to me that the
recent Labor Government committed a fool-
ish indiscretion
in/itself with the bureaucratic government
of g th? Traces Halls.
ment was not gratuitous. Cue .
O’Malley’s foolish minutes gave the iumon
party the chance to hx the > _. -fo-
ment on this B.T.U. question, and aj jto
mative answer was extorted. nerverter
power was made to appear l lk P w h e reas
o£ Dublic money to partisan use , w ’
it w P as merely doing what wise Oove^n-
ment is bound to do under the established
industrial
in the seat of iISHER tne
are defining preference to unionists
Government jobs as a matter o> P The
venience rather than political P P •
president of the Australian Builders L
orers’ Federation say, We are in a pos,,
tion to uphold the principle of P Boiler-
unionists.” The secretary of
makers’ Union and Iron Trades lederatio
says: “We will still manage to control pre
ference to unionists. 1 roni
Workers’ Assistants’ Union, the ederatea
Engine Drivers’ Association * nd An Js; e
gamated Miners’ Association nratio n
same confident assurance that a „
of Labor Government policy preference
to unionists was not needed. stateme nt
can protect themselves. Cook s statement
that “in future there will be no preterenc
to unionists on Government works doesnt
matter any more than lisheks ■£ bor
announcement of preference works
Government policy. No Govern j n
can be .accomplished hy uon-umo <
conjunction with union ditto. N>t g ()r
mentioning can be done by uon- t
on its own. Therefore the offic al
of Prime Minister Cook re ,
repugnant to the principle °f _eq f tinkling
ship” is merely sounding brassi and tmU g
cymbals. Also it is .simply hot a r J.
from the mouth of impotent A ’ b o tli
way of its neck. Wliv all this talk on both
sides of a “new edict, as thoug
assertion that “every citizen who seeks pub
lie employment has an undemab e £
bay f, bls appllcatlon decided solely on its
merits possessed the least edictive value?
„ applicant is a non-unionist his appli-
cation has a grave demerit to discommend
it to any Government agent. The Labor
oveinment could not afford to employ any
UU NT° n ' Vorkei ' s > neither can the Liberal
No Government has ever denied the
lnulrfa abl i t - y ot - a wor ker’s right to be
J dged on his merits, but if his non-unionism
is bound to bring trouble to anv big
employer of labor who gives him a job, the
judgment must always go against him. The
i , OK Ministry, being a big employer of
abor, has to do more than give preference
to unionists. It has, from motives of public
policy, to_ close its workshop doors against
non-unionists.—Yours truly, O.K.
The Case of Moses.
Tiie reverend anti-Socialists of ictoria
have discovered a prize—an address by one
Moses Baeitz, described as the great
Socialist leader of Canada. Moses
delivers the law in this fashion:
The Socialist position is founded upon science. As
such it is opposed to all religions, which, we main-
tain were products of given social conditions. With
the establishment of a social regime, Christianity,
Judaism, and all supernatural ideas clinging to man-
kind will be abolished. The Socialist party of Canada
is opposed to the unscientific worship of Christ,
Buddha or Mohammed. We do not believe in the
salvation of the Church. Socialists cannot believe
in'any supernatural God. If they do, they are not
Socialists. P Christianity, with its superstitions, must
be submerged before the workers obtain their com-
plete emancipation. That is our slogan. .
Phristiaiiitv, says Moses, is unscientific;
Socialism is scientific; therefore yoa can’t
be a Christian aifd a . Socialist. Clothes,
savs Chidley, ate unscientific;' Socialism is
scientific; therefore you cant wear clothes
and be a Socialist. And the papers which
are greedily printing the Moses yarn under
the heading “Warning to Christian Work-
ingmen” would be quite as much justified
in S printing the Chidley yarn under the
heading “Warning to, Christian Drapers.
If the Socialist can’t be a Socialist without
on nosing everything that somebody else con-
siders^unscienW, he will have to swear
enmity to a lot of things he never troubled
enm y , English alphabet is
horribly unscientific; and if Socialism is
gofng to make war on everything that isn t
“scientific” it will have to hurry along and
out a code in which one tetter wdj
hive onlv one sound. Also our spelling is
unscientific. Likewise the calendar is urn
“iSe—tha calendar which cuts up the
tween two of 31 days, and permits the ninth
month of the year to be called September?
Also there is the large matter of weights
and measures; this paper takes it for
granted that Moses won’t recognise any-
body as a true believer who isn’t opposed
to ha pence, and poles and perches and
ounces and stones and drams and gallons.
1 urther, Mozez (of course, he writes him-
self that way, “Moses” being unscientific;
and even “Mozez” is not wholly scientific,
for there is no “e” in the English alphabet
that sounds like the “e” in his name, and he
ought to call himself “Mozeeeeez”) will
observe that the distribution of things in
general is absurdly unscientific, some coun-
tries having vastly greater quantities of
mountains than they have any use for, while
Australia often has to hang its parched
tongue out many inches for want of a de-
cent mountain range in its interior to call
down rain. This paper doesn’t know quite
what Mozez (or Mozeeeeez) proposes to
do about that and a few million other
things, but he is no Socialist if he doesn’t
propose to do something. On second thoughts,
Moses had better stick to his job and leave
the side-lines alone. Socialism has to do
with a host of things, but it hasn’t to do
with everything, and the man who mixes
it up with such problems as whether it is
best to wear sunlight or wool next the skin
is merely a creator of difficulties, an in-
ventor of red herrings, and a provider of
ammunition to the enemy. Moses might
even devote his whole life to the scientific
spelling of his own name. Long ago there
was in the British House of Commons a
strongly Protestant aristocrat, by name
Thomas Massey Massey, who demanded
that Christmas should in future be called
Christ-fide, the syllable “mas” being, he
held, a reference to the Roman Catholic
mass, and a relic of Popish idolatry. And
O’Connell rose to speak words of en-
couragement, and asked the hon. member
why he didn’t call himself Thotide Tidey
Tidey. Then that member went away to
think things over, and found that he was
just as unscientific as the Moses above-
mentioned.
♦
The Yarra and the Snowy.
Valentine J. Ceowley, A.M.1.E., has per-
suaded the Weaby Government of Victoria
to take a look at the details of a scheme
propounded by this writer in this paper over
10 years ago—and probably by several other
individuals before him—that of damning
the Yarra at Warrandyte, at Templestowe
and below Heidelberg, and thereby provid-
ing power enough to electrically drive Mel-
bourne’s trams and light the city. Ceowley
puts down the capital cost of the complete
scheme at £130,000, and the cost of running
the plant, including all expenses, at £13,740
a year—-which is dirt cheap for the light and
tramway power of a city the size of Mel-
bourne. Even if Cbowley’s estimate of the
cost is unduly low the fact remains that
there is here, day and night, year in year
out, energy equivalent to very many thou-
sands of horse-power continually running to
waste —a most shiftless proceeding. And
not only would this water-generated electric
power be always consumed without ever
diminishing the source of supply:—which is
not the case with coal or oil —but it is clean,
healthy, and above all things cheap. Un-
fortunately the factor that will probably
weigh most with Weaby and co. is none of
these; it is Vested Interests. Incidentally,
just consider the comparatively sluggish
Yarra as compared with the swiftly-flowing
Snowy, which rushes past the abandoned
Federal capital site of Dalgety. It is recog-
nised that the Yarra. though by no means a
maddened sort of river, could light
and tram all Melbourne for little
more than a song. The vastly more
powerful Snowy could light and supply rail-
way, tramway, and factory power to a city
twice the size of Melbourne for next to
nothing. But the frenzy of the Sydney
Congestion push prevented the Snowy being
used, and it still runs to waste. Meanwhile
the Federal city is to be built at a place
where even drinking water will be brought
in with difficulty and from a great distance
—in fact, if it ever becomes a great city
some of its drinking water will have to be
pumped up to it at vast expense by coal-
driven engines. And the cost of bringing
that coal for long distances by coal-driven
trains will be quite a surprising circum-
stance.
The financial incapacity of the present
N.S.W Government is quite unusual. Thus
the great North Coast railway was to be
built at an estimated cost of £2,800,000.
About one-third of it has been built, and
the inspired persons in charge of the State’s
affairs have already, so far as can be ascer-
tained, got through about £2,100,000. It
the same crowd is left to finish the job on
these principles, the- bill will be. over
£6,000,000, and nothing save almost impos-
sible charges will pay interest upon it. lhe
great disaster seems to be that the State
Labor Ministry started with the foolish idea
that every worker is at heart a loafer, and
it systematically encouraged loafing, with
the view of acquiring political support, lhe
result is an unfinished and apparently
broken-down public work, and an exploded
Treasury. Incidentally, Minister Gbiffith,
probably the most brazen cynic in a gather-
ing of several cynics and a Sunday-school
teacher recently intimated that he was in
no way ashamed of the recent loan boom,
and that it might even have been bigger if
the supply of loans hadn’t given out. Grif-
fith is a representative of a party which
climbed into office on the assurance that it
would practise economy; reduce borrowing
(not increase it 300 per cent., but eeditce
it) ■ and spend loan money only upon works
that would pay notlonly interest but sinking
fund also (the idea of running the N.S.W.
railways and tramways into such a condi-
tion that they w r ould even cease to pay
interest was no part of the published pro-
gramme). So his statement was something
extra in the way of callous jest. It isn’t
every day that a leader calls his party, even
by implication, a liar and an unblushing
fraud quite so openly as all that. But
Gbiffith is commonly reported to be a very
successful business man and a very
rich man. It may be that he doesn’t care
how soon he drops out of politics. Possibly
be has ceased to care much what his politics
look like when he drops out.
“N. ob M.” : “Sardonyx” says (B. 26/6/’l3)
that it is dry-dock accommodation that will
have the last word with respect to the mag-
nification of steamships. Perhans. but har-
bor depths will have a word in the matter,
too. Take this forthcoming White Star
liner in process of construction at Belfast.
If its dimensions are what they are rumored
to be, Hobart will be the only Australasian
coastal city at which it will be able to call.
An official statement runs this way:—
llobart, 54 ft.; new pier (1210 ft. long)
36ft. to 62ft.
Melbourne: 37ft.; at berth 29ft.
Sydney: 40ft.; at newest berth, 35ft. to
60ft.
Brisbane: 24ft. to 30ft.; at berth, 20ft. to
25ft.
Fremantle: 30ft.; at berth 30ft.
Adelaide: 30ft. to 33ft.; at berth, 30ft. to
35ft.
Auckland: 31ft.; at berth 30ft.
Wellington: 42ft.; at berth 33ft.
So the only port that could accommodate
the deepest-draught ship (384 ft.) is Hobart.
A vessel drawing that water could not safely
enter between Sydney heads. It could enter
Wellington, but could not berth. The mul-
tiplication of Australian ships that can ohly
snooze in safety under the shadow of Mt..
Wellington has much to recommend it from,
a Hobart point of view; but the mainland!
may take a much sourer view of the matter..
And then neglected harbors like Westernport
and Port Stephens may get a show.
♦
Something in the nature of a send-off:—
Johnson, the N.S.W. railway panjandrum, ex-
pects to leave Australia before the farmers hold their
next annual conference, and he almost wept the
other day when the cockies gave him a few faint words
of praise. The cold potentate was so overcome that
all he could say was that he had only done his duty.
The trouble all along with Johnson has been that
his ideas about his duty, and his method of carrying
them out, have been so queer. Still it wasn’t all
his fault that he apparently had so poor an opinion
of every railway man in the State, bar Johnson.
A lot of the blame belongs to the State, which tied
the known and proved Oliver down so tight, and
finally threw him out, and immediately afterwards
gave an unknown foreigner such extraordinary
powers. If Johnson decided that local railway men
weren’t to be trusted to do things, he could at least
plead that that was obviously the policy of the coun-
try. The consequence has been that Johnson has
had to pose as an expert in about 20 different
branches of railway work and boss the whole lot..
And at all times, and in all nlaces, he has been the'
man who knows. Nobody can doubt that
Johnson has worked tremendously hard. It
would often have been better for the country if he
had done less himself, and allowed other men with
special knowledge to do more.
Nobody can say in advance when or where
the worst human disaster will turn up..
Agab Wynne’s much-advertised resolve to>
replace the kangaroo on the Australian
stamp by the King’s head and a clutter of
details, was followed up by a N.S.W. State
Liberal, who opined that the kangaroo was
originally put on the stamp instead of the
King’s head by reason of Labor “disloyalty.”
Yet N.S.W. used to have a penny stamp
with a view of Sydney Harbor on it, and a
twopenny stamp decorated with an emu,
and they were both the work of “Liberals.”
Tasmania’s fine collection of scenic stamps
was the work of very solid old Tories. They
shifted the head of the beloved monarch afid
put in mountains and waterfalls, simply to
advertise their island. The scenic stamps
of Maoriland and the swan on the Wes-
tralian stamps weren’t devised by Labor
Governments. The marine scene on the
Papuan stamps can’t be set down to the
mad disloyalty of trades-unions. And
in sections of the British Empire
which are ruled direct from England
the craving to shove his Majesty’s
cranium on the postage stamp isn’t violently
annarent. Crocodiles, nvramids, elephants
and such-like local emblems are, or have
been, in use. Probably, if the matter were
put to him. the King would say that he was
dead tired of seeing the reproduction of
his own countenance, and that he regarded
some of his allegedly “loval” subjects as
muddlers and interfering noodles, who were
hanging on to the tail of his coat in the
hope of getting some cheap title or another.
The writer faintly recalls a novel entitled
“The Berber” —scene laid in Morocco. At
one point in the story a “Liberal” Moor
hollered so loudly about the majesty, glory,
justice, etc., of the Sultan that that poten-
tate got tired. When the Liberal had given
his fifteenth cheer in the hone of promotion
the Sultan got very tired and ordered one:
of his enthusiastic supnorter’s feet to be
cut off with an axe. Possibly the people
who are so mad with loyalty about the Aus-
tralian postage stamp make Geokge V. wish
nt times that he was in the position of that
Moorish despot.
4
Political note from China, where the
vicious yellow cloud is gathering:—
The Chinese National Assembly at Peking has
developed, in the course of a couple of months, a
party system that would be a discredit to any
civilised State in the world. The gag, the closure
and the stonewall are as familiar to it as they are
to any Chamber anywhere. The party with the
longest nails wins every debate hands up. It has
the whole magnificent vocabulary of the Chinese
language in which to revile the Government. The
Government retaliates with proscriptions, and, it is
whispered, with bombs. Between the Chingputang
(progressive) party and the Kuomingtang, which
upholds the Government, there is almost a ven-
detta. After a session of more than six weeks
neither House has succeeded in even deciding the
rules of its internal procedure. In the meantime
President Yuan Shih-K’ai has managed to float his
loan and to execute other measures without the
assistance of his Parliament. The floating of for-
eign loans being a profitable business, some of the
provincial Governors have initiated the job on their
own hook, and in one province there is a million
tael’s worth of paper money blowing about the
streets without a dollar’s worth of gold reserve to
back it up. As for the national loan, subscribed
many times over, President Yuan Shih-K’ai, whose
aggressive tendencies were shown when, as Chinese
Resident in Korea, he precipitated his country into
a disastrous war with Japan, proposes to employ the
foreign dollars in a scheme of universal training.
The Chinese, when properly led and paid, makes a
splendid sold’er. His intelligence may indeed make
him the scientific soldier of the future. His quali-
ties differ in different localities. The men of Shan-
tung are steady, amenable to discipline, of wonder-
ful physique and able to bear the extremes of hard-
ship and exposure. The Hainanese highlanders possess
all the dash, courage and loyalty of hill-tribes. The
coast population are fair seamen. The Mongolians
have the makings of good cavalry. In fact, in the
vast scope of the Republic there are the elements
for the organising of the most formidable army in
the world. And there are 300 millions of them, on
a rough guess.
The Gem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
came t 0 Gundagai on Saturday after-
noon Aid. Dodd (Mayor) introduced Mr. Holman
Pariiarn b , n S[ ht «»t £«« in the history of the State
Parliaments in Australia to-day.”
,fi?d not hesitated to borrow the money and
spend it judiciously and well in their policy of pro-
gress and development. On the irrigation works
at Burnnjuck Mr. Wade spent £400,000. They had
spent £875,000 —more than twice as much. On
sewerage construction, mainly for country towns, the
.Liberal Government had spent £175,000, and the
Labor Government £629,000, over three times as
much. On water supply for country towns Mr.
Wade had spent £lBO,OOO, and the Labor Govern-
ment £400,000. The total spent on public works
b Jo>AA WADE Government during the 28 months was
£8,700,000, and the Labor Government £13,800,000
—an increase of over £5,000,000.
—Holman at Gundagai.
Haek ! I hear a small voice calling by a
stream of falling cash !
It comes thinly through the thunder of the
coins that bounce and dash.
’Tis the voice of one called Dodd —
Mayor of Gundagai, by G —D!
And its piping treble falters on the sodden
edge of things;
Thus his country cricket solo to his spend-
thrift god he sings.
But the heavy golden thunder of the money
pouring down
Threatens ever to engulf him and his foolish
paean drown.
But the idol of small Dodd
Is observed to smile and nod,
Ere he prances gaily forward to take credit
for the flood
Of prosperity—(Not “deluge,” if you
please! There’s too much mud
Where a deluge has been foaming; so we’ll
use the gentler word
And sit quiet while the Gem unfolds his
policy absurd.)
Hear him promise! Hear him plan,
Like a thrifty Labor man!
See him pelt the wretched Wade
With his implements of trade !
Brave comparisons and figures whizzing
surely through the night
Smite Wade on the reputation with a loud
and awful smite.
Wade, the Unheroic Spender, is assailed be-
cause he wouldn’t
Throw the golden flood-gates open—or was
frightened to, or couldn’t!
“It’s Development and Progress!” says the
Gem, beside the torrent;
And all those who wish to stop it he regards
with looks abhorrent.
Wade, the thriftless office-seeker, from this
impudence recoils s
And looks sadly at the rapids where the loan
cash leaps and boils.
Who will vote to stop the gushing of the
mad financial stream,
While good CoHEfi up above there likes the
Gem’s resplendent gleam?
Who prefers a muddy trickle to the full-
powered rush and roar,
When a Spender with some courage pulls
the bung from Cohen’s store?
Plaintive howls for honest finance —saving
war cries made to please
Are as useless as old jam tins when the
spray flies in the breeze ;
But the time to come round moaning is when
rocks and mud are seen.
And the wide bed of the torrent with rank
ferns and moss is green.
Then, of course, there’s nothing in it when
there’s no cash flowing past.
After Holman’s burst of Progress, how
long will the torrent last?
Is Wade wild when he remembers that his
maddest lOU
Was quite sane to that of Holman —fear-
less tapper of the .Tew.
N.S.W.
THE PAWNBROKER.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
*
>?
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . .and . . .
"MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
n
'
i
* '
>
Famous scenes in foreign lands
are now known to everyone through the
medium of the pictures.
Our business is to entertain—and w here
is there such entertainment to be had—
such instructive entertainment—as is
available to everyone at popular prices
at our theatres?
Our New Theatre:
The Empress, Prahran (Melbourne),
and 6 others.
WM. B. MILLER 3 Gen’l Manager •
WHERE
EVERYBODY
COES
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
[* O,fAL “Butterfly on Wheel.”
Her Majesty’s '“Autumn Manoeuvres.”
Palace “The Grafters.”
Adelphi “No Mother to Guide Her.”
livolj... Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre “The Great Adventure.”
National Amphitheatre Brennan's Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric Y
Colonial v Continuous Pictures.
Empress )
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating'.
Glaciarium......, Ice Skating.
Town Hall Mme. Lillian Nordica.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Adeline Gen6e.
Princess’s “Marriages of Mayfair.”
King’s “On Our Selection.”
Royal “Within the Law.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West s Palace West's Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Glaciarium.... Ice Skating.
The revival by the Firm’s comic opera co.
of “Miss Hook of Holland” at Sydney Cri-
terion on Saturday was justified by that
lady’s father, Mr. Hook, liqueur distiller.
This scribe has often speculated upon what
would happen to a real person who casually
strolled on among the unreal persons of a
musical play. This is actually what hap-
pens in the present version of Mr. Hook,
played by Leslie Holland. The charming
old man, even against a background of
chorus, is a real man. He drops his aitches.
but none of his dignity. He does not flirt
GENEE
SEASON,
HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELB.
HALINA
SCHMOLZ
IN THE
SWAN
DANCE.
with the nearest available chorus girl, as
every old gent, has always done since the
beginning of musical plays. He does not
sing silly topical songs the moment the con-
ductor raises his baton. And though he
takes too much of his liqueur, after al] it is
his liqueur, distilled bv himself, and he takes
it in a gentlemanly way. He is just a kindly
ancient, possessing the unobtrusive foibles
of garrulous age, a quiet old dear who never
clowns and rather dislikes the limelight.
Leslie Holland’s interpretation of this diffi-
cult part is a triumph of character acting.
It is one of the finest pieces of legitimate
comedy recently seen on the Australian
musical stage. Miss Olive Godwin, as Miss
Hook, reappears with a voice of firmer and
finer quality, and her vivacious acting is
all that the part demands. Miss Jessie
Lonnen, of course, is inimitable in her
Dutchness. Jack Cannot, as a Dutch loafer,
extracts every particle of humor out of a
rather meagre part. Frank Greene makes a
dashing bandmaster—at least he dashes as
much as a Dutch bandmaster can be ex-
pected to dash, and he Dutches in proportion.
No single Dutch cheese of censure can be
hurled at any of the other principals in the
revival. But this scribe often wonders why
it is necessary to exploit these foreign coun-
tries on the Australian stage. Why can’t
we have a “Miss Bloke of New South
Wales, with the first act set not on the
borders of the Zuyder Zee, but on the bor-
ders of Sydney Harbor ; and the second act,
instead of in the interior of the liqueur dis-
tiHery at Amsterdam, in the interior of the
(rlebe Abattoirs. On the musical play stage
the Glebe Abattoirs would be delightfully
picturesque, with all the slaughterers (who
would, of course, be show girls) in blue silk
overalls, screening pink tights, and they could
slaughter pantomime cows to rag-time;
while the hero , would be principal butcher'
and the comedian a sausage-maker. Any-
thing is possible in a musical play.
“Henry V.” withdraws from Sydney Royal
nn Friday night. What with the growing
depression and what with the glut or surfeit
of the Bard that Oscar Asche gave Sydney,
the monarch who married an insane King’s
daughter never had a fair show. “A Butter-
fly on the Wheel” will be staged on the fol-
lowing Saturday. This is the famous divorce
drama which ran for three months in Lon-
don and for five months in New York. It
contains a part that might have been written
expressly to display the emotional genius of
Madge Titheradge, and star rOles, more or
less, for Lewis Waller, Evelyn Beerbohm
and Charles Quartermaine. What more
could the public ask?
** # *
“These intellectual plays,” began the
Usual White Shirt Front in the stalls at
Sydney’s Little Theatre on Monday night,
under the fatuous impression that “The
Great Adventure” was a sort of Arnold Ben-
nett’s first play. The comedy of the great
artist who, in an access of shyness, allows
his dead valet to be buried as his master,
and finds that as a retired valet life is in-
finitely more worth living, is not an intellec-
tual play a.t all. It is an unintellectual
play, since it does not deal with any prob-
lems (in fact, granted the preposterous
nature of its plot, it is merely a realistic
plav) ; since the characters act and talk as
real characters would, and since the experi-
enced commercial dramatist has quietly dis-
dained to spoil his play by making it theatric.
The thing evidences careless workmanship,
it retains the marks of having been
dramatised from the author’s early farcical
novel, and it requires no less than four acts,
each divided by a “black-out” into two
scenes. As during this momentary darkness
intervals varying from a few minutes to the
passage, of months are supposed to elapse,
the audience feels some difficulty in catching
up with the plot till the invariable refer-
ence is made by one of the characters that
so many days or months have passed. “The
Great Adventure” proceeds not so much by
an orderly progression as by spasms. How-
ever, by the dropping of the curtain between
each scene, the difficulty can be to a certain
extent obviated.
Ilam Carve, an illustrious English painter,
with a hatred of the adulation of the public,
allows the doctor whom he calls to the death-
bed of his valet to believe that it is the
master whom he is attending. And Janet
Cannot, who comes to meet the valet with a
view to matrimony, thinks that Carve is her
prospective husband. Janet is a de-
lightfully commonplace widow, and Carve
determines to take the dead valet’s name.
She nurses him during an illness, and they
marry and settle down in Putney. But
Carve has inherited not only his valet’s
name., but his valet’s reputation, and, in
addition, cannot refrain from painting mas-
terpieces. A Bond-street art dealer pene-
trates the great man’s disguise, and insists
on Carve giving evidence that he is alive.
For he is being proceeded against bv a mil-
lionaire to whom he has been disposing of
GENEE
SEASON.
HARRY
SWEENEY
AS A POET.
genuine Carves, one of which was obviously
painted after that great artist’s death. Also
arrive the valet’s deserted wife and his two
sons, both curates. The wife “identifies”
Carve as her husband in the usual careless
method of mislaid wives. The law case is
stopped by a whisper “from influential quar-
ters, since the valet’s body has been buried
in Westminster Abbey, and the English
nation would never survive the ridicule of
a disclosure of the ghastly mistake. How-
ever, the. trial takes place in private, and
the identity of Carve is established by the
convenient and fortuitous existence of two
moles, one hairy and the other not hairy, on
the artist’s neck.
* * * *
About this fantastic plot Bennett has
woven a tissue of delightful comedy, and in
the characters of Carve and his wife he has
"iven a great opportunity for Mr. Hugh
Buckler and Miss Violet Paget. Mr. Buck-
lers. artist shows this experienced actor
at his finest in a role that calls for delicate
nuances of expression and a sense of high
comedy. IBs performance is the finest thing
he has yet done during the present long sea-
son. Miss Violet Paget, though charming
and altogether delightful as the mothering,
philosophic woman, does not quite realise
the author’s difficult conception. But it is
a part that few experienced actresses could
flawlessly render. The charm of Janet must
shine out through her commonness, her
brusque sharpness, her lack of culture: and
in expressing that charm the actress has no
help, but rather a hindrance, from the
dramatist. Reynolds Denniston, as Carve’s
suspicious cousin, Kenneth Brampton, in a
little part of a modern journalist; Arthur
Cornell, as the picture-dealer; Miss Lillian
Lloyd, as an intense young lady ; and Miss
Ternpe Pigott, as the valet’s deserted wife,
materially assist by their work. But
the Mr. Texel of Alfred Bristowe —a delicate
cameo of character work, and the finished
interpretation by G. Kay Souper of a genial
lord, are more than merely admirable.”
* * * *
The Sydney National Amphitheatre man-
agement has, by reason of the successful re-
vival of nigger minstrelsy in England, been
induced _to set up Brothers Bones and
Tambo in the old line of business. A party
of coons, recently introduced to Australia
froni the cotton fields of Greenland or the
whale fisheries of Switzerland, are nightly
warbling the plantation melodies of faint
memory, doing buck and wing dances “down
on de sandy floor” and shaking up popular
“rags” to beat the band.
Last week there was a falling-off in at-
tendances at the Sydney theatres, due to
the small-pox scare; but, probably, the Pal-
ace, where William Anderson’s United States
"Urlesque co. is getting a big scream with
‘lhe Grafters,” suffered least on that ac-
count so far as the box-office was concerned.
New songs and dances have been introduced,
and, although the vaccinated audiences have
been able to applaud only with their star-
board limbs, the rush of encores has been
well maintained.
Nordica’s programme is all wrong. Her
first Australian concert is a fixture for
Thursday, at the Sydney Town Hall, and
no programme that opens on a Thursday has
that regard for The Bulletin which
eternal justice demands. However, if this
paper canT say this week what it thinks of
the American singer and her comnany, it
hopes to be sufficiently through its vaccina-
tion troubles to deliver a calm judgment
next week. The season is thus far limited
to four nights—two this week and two next.
Autumn Manoeuvres” will pervade Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, for another week, after
all, before marching Brisbane-wards. Gpn6e
is to stay in Melbourne for nine days longer
than was intended, business in the Russian
ballet line having looked up of late in that
city. Fred Niblo and his co. have been
ordered by the Health authorities or some-
one to occupy the interval in the good work
of cheering up a succession of lymph-mad-
dened audiences with “Get-Rich-Quick Wal-
lingford.” It is only fair, on the other hand,
to own frankly that none of these things may
happen. Before The Bulletin goes to
press the presentment of a troune of per-
forming llamas or a revival of “The Gaiety
Girl” may have been decided on. One can
but speak for the immediate moment in these
somewhat diseased times.
* * * *
While it cannot be claimed that “No
Mother to Guide Her,” the new bellowdrama
at Sydney Adelphi, possesses the music of “The
Mikado,” or the fine phrases of Shakspeare,
or the beautiful phantasies of “The Blue
Bird” or the quaint dresses of “Milestones,”
it does possess the delightful criminalities,
the _ artistic bloodstains, the charming vil-
lainies and the aromatic gunpowder-smoke
of almost every Marlowdrama this writer
has smelt. And it has one almost-new touch
to boot. The villain owns a very handy
hypnotic power, by means of which he throws
the responsibility of murders and minor items
on to the nearest in-no-cent gir-rrl. Thus
by a bit of finger-wagging he compels a
GENEE SEASON.
THE CHINESE DANCE.
waif, whose mother has turned her out, to
do some housebreaking, and when the house-
holder appears, he shoots him, hypnotises
the lady of the house, and persuades' her that
she slew the old man. Thus with a combi-
nation of shootings, drownings, rescues, rob-
beries and hold-ups, the play bustles along
till it bumps heavily against the time limit,
B.nd the Ij&w puts out its foot, &nd thG shGGp
stand on one side and smile, while the goats
are herded for the sacrifice.' Ethel Buckley
the cheeild with no ma to guide her, carries
off the bulk of the proceeds; and Cyril
Mackay earns one (1) gold-mounted halo
for his London missioner. The other char-
acters and the scenery are up to the
Adelphimark.
H* si»
The Sydney Tivoli lies low and only
whispers this week. The whisper consists
of last week’s programme, plus Madge
Temple, the lady who wears dresses, and
sings a few songs as a side line. But there’ll be
something doing in the Tiv. camp in the near
future. The Macinstoush has just sent out
30 or more new artists, and the first instal-
ment of half a dozen will appear next week.
After that things will buzz for some time.
“Australia Calls,” the national film at
Sydney Lyceum, is a good illustration of the
difficulties under which picture playmakers
labor. The producer, Raymond Longford, had
no means to bring into the picture an army of
Chinese storming an Australian position.
He had to take things as he could get them.
His Chinese force was recruited fi-om the
local Mongolian furniture shops, and he had
to rely upon fugitive military manoeuvres to
give him what he wanted for the Australian
army part of his show. The story, as
outlined by Messrs. Barr and Jeffries to
suit the exigencies of the picture business,
shows Australia enjoying itself, horseracing,
footballing and surf-bathing, and over each
scene of amusement rises the vision of the
Asiatic invader. The thread of the inevit-
able love story is spun on an inland station,
and here it is that .the messenger of war
arrives with the proclamation that Aus-
tralia is attacked. The station hands rush
to arms and are hurriedly enlisted. The
messenger, riding on, reaches the farm of
the Peace Society man, the fool who believes
in arbitration and goodwill on earth when
the enemy is on the soil. He (the fool)
tears down the proclamation and orders the
courier off his property. Later on, when he
sees another courier in uniform with an
Asiatic face, he reaches for a gun, and uses
it. Having fired, he looks round to find
himself covered by the rifles of Chinese in-
fantry. _ The rifles speak while he is still
protesting, probably about arbitration; and
he falls dead. The picture then switches
back to show the gathering of an army. The
marching of Australian troops through the
cheering streets; the accumulation of
mounted infantry, the assembling of all
arms, making for their various stations.
And then the boom and smoke of
battle; Sydney a sea of fire where tower and
spire come toppling down. Hereabouts the
rejected suitor turns traitor, and in return
for the girl, £5OOO cash and a passage out of
the country, he undertakes to guide the Mon-
golian forces. The girl is captured and
brought into the Chinese camp, but the Aus-
tralian aeroplane, manipulated by Hart,
happens through the air. rescues her, and
carries her off amid a storm of bul-
lets and a typhoon of applause. The
riding is about the best ever seen on a
screen in Australia ; and the most impressive
nlaver is the Chinese commander. Andrew
Warn “Australia Calls” is a notable con-
tribution to the art of cinematograph in
the Commonwealth.
Oscar Asche’s Antony, at Adelaide Royal,
seems at least as much Asche as Antony.
It is a fine, robust, intelligent rendering,
and a quite arguable reading of the char-
acter. Lily Brayton is simply triumphant
as Cleopatra, and astonishes many, who
thought she had not the strength for it.
The support is excellent —notably Grimwood
as Enobarbus and Miss Orton-Dring as
Charmian. The stage-version of the play,
heavily cut, provides a straightforward and
even moving story, and the mounting is
superb; but that jack-in-the-box Roman
soldier, half-way up through the floor in the
final curtain, jars a little.
* * * *
Adelaide Tivoli is very strong on the ath-
letic side, with the flying Banvards—clever,
even daring, yet sure—and the Bellclairs,
lithe yet powerful. Also the De Bruns’
glide and dip and apache dancing is a kind
of athletic feat in itself. Kitty Dale and
Brookes look after the humorous side. The
King’s has encored some successes of last
year—Lallie Brooke, of the ouaint feminine
costumes, the musical Doremi three, and the
odd Guillaume Baby crowd, who show at
first-hand what Australia already knows
from films. That European low-comedy
tends to become sheer buffoonery. “Quo
Vadis,” at West’s, is nearing the end of its
long run, which easily beats the record of
any previous stage-play in Adelaide. De
Groen’s selection of music helps the illusion
a lot. Heinicke’s orchestra filled the Exhibi-
tion on Saturday nivht, and Knox’s organ-
playing the Town Hall on Sunday afternoon.
And in the up-country towns the talented
Corrick family is giving the public a change
from the everlasting Pictures.
* * * *
Seemingly there is a doubt as to whether
the Bert Bailey management will change its
bat again this innings at Melbourne King’s.
On Our Selection” remains the same old
source of revenue as before. Money is re-
jected at the pay-boxes, especially on Satur-
day nights. The house continues to roar
like lions at dinner-time. All things con-


THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Driv« No Chains.
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y,
Melbourne
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaid
Sole
Agents.
bOORD 8c SON
V* tONDON. ENGLAND *1
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
I SWIFT &• COMPANY, AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS. O CQN'NXIX ST SYDNEY
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
vrcrun Branch :.0 fj,, g K j ng S, reets _ SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WMITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. , 2
sidered, a breaking-up of the Rudd family
party would seem most uncalled for. This
(Thursday) afternoon there is a mixed per-
formance at the King’s in aid of the widow
of the late Andy Howard, the
telepathist and cipher-talker, who used n
rush around circuses and theatres looking
at curios which his far-off brother duly de
scribed. ,r uc
Forcibly acted by the principals, hand-
somely dressed and staged, vigorously car-
ried along by the Russian ballet, and
admirably accompanied by the orchestra,
“The Arabian Nights” tragedy is an inter-
esting substitute for the comedy of “Cop-
pelia,” in which Genge had most of the work
to do. Although there are opportunities for
Miss Schmolz to dance as prettily as she
looks, and for some lively leg-play by the
company, “The Arabian Nights” is rather a
picturesque dumb drama than a ballet.
Apart from the serious histrionic develop-
ments in Volinin and little Miss Novotna
(who is ordinarily as gay as a kitten), the
acting of some of the background figures is
worth watching, and although the bill has
lost its humorous centrepiece it has gained
in variety. Genge, being troubled in one of
her legs, appeared only in “Les S.vlphides”
last Saturday, but if her dancing suffered by
the strain or muscle-binding that E. J. Tait
told the audience of, the effect was not ob-
vious. The star glittered as usual. Her
hunting dance was omitted, but the diver-
tissements, which introduced Halina
Schmolz. as a lovely Cupid, kept the hcuse
happy till 11 p.m. Next week is the last of
the Genge season at Her Majesty’s. The
great soul of Melbourne saddens at the
thought of losing this poetic entertainment
so soon ; whereas, the soulless section of the
public will be looking out for the return of
the Julius Knight Co., with “Bella Donna,”
on August 2.
* * * s!:
Next Thursday (31st) a matinge send-off
to Frances Ross will hapnen at Melbourne
Royal, and all persons desirous of being
present on that occasion are advised to n«te
the date and get full particulars from the
advt. It will be the first time in 11 weeks
for anything other than “Within the Law”
to hapnen at the Royal. Even then an act
from the drama aforesaid will assist the
programme.
At Melbourne Princess’s the strange
career of “The Girl Who Loved a Soldier”
is to close on Friday. “The Marriages of
Mayfair,” which has the names of Cecil
Raleigh and Henry Hamilton attached to.it.
will make a bid for intelligent consideration
on Saturday.
jjt S:
Somehow the vaudeville bill at Melbourne
Opera House has drooped below oar for the
moment. A lady with the modest, unassum-
ing title of “The Glory Girl.” is the latest
arrival, but her warbling of unsecular songs,
with pale limelight and other spiritual acces-
sories, is not specially glorious. Lucy Gillet,
Greaw T G , acc T e P ted without demur as the
ins thaf dy J , uggle j on Earth, does noth-
The Fmir n > b * F ° f men can,t do better.
bflz?'. 8 g - et most of their Quaintness
oy ancient devices, and the lone ouick-
glo^med^hv 11 rtf- the Si ? ters Clarence is en-
ilira by - th ? lr P ers tstence in making a
i ke sll 3s in S every time they change
seals rtiff*' he d f parture of the educated
seals this week will be a relief to frequent
visitors at the Opera House. As for the
framed Roosters, so called, the announce-
E ° f J heir l as - mghts amounts to glad
g , reat Joy -. Their matter-of-fact
ShKXt ; ,rai - They ° ught to '»
hem,Vn d w’ l dramat i c s °Prano of whom this
hemisphere has heard great accounts, is the
r”f f c °ming event at the Melbourne Audi-
tonum, but she is not due before August 6.
Meanwhile (on the 2nd). Peter Dawson will
areweH at the Town Hall, and Dorothea
Spinney, the pla-tform-player, is due at the
Masonic on July 28.
GENEE SEASON,
VLASTA
NOVOTNA,
AS SHE
WILL BE
WHEN
SHE ’S
OLDER.
Spencer’s screen at Melbourne Olympia on
Saturday was picturesque with “The
Golden Hoard,” a long-distance story of
highway larceny and bad men, featuring the
premature burial of saintly Bob and the
partial frying of his lady-love. The villain
of the yarn is one Red Morel, and Morel is
something vermilion. “The Ferrets” was
cheerful detective fictiop, and Path S’s
European Gazette contained the usual notes
anent cattle shows and female fashions, with
an item on modern newspaper printing.
Art note from Watt’s city:—
Melbourne’s tribe of picture lovers has been divid-
ing its attention between the shows of Mrs. Phillips
Fox and Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Coates. Mrs. Fox
ascended to the upper Guildhall, but various buyers
found her out and left bloodstains on several “sym-
phonies,” and one or two jottings of African drought.
impressionistic little artist is especially fond
of Tangier, which seems to have been designed in a
hurricane and built in a fury, and she shows that
she has butted into parts of Algeria, where even the
soap-merchant fears to tread. Also, she has held
her nose through old Cadiz, and taken her camp-
stool and. sandwiches into the leafy resorts of Paris.
The Coateses dadoed the Athenaeum with 140 frames
19 whereof husband George has filled with humanity,
varying from a London waif to a white-haired duchess
of great antiquity. The patrician lady is
especially good. Mrs. Coates (Dora Meeson that
was) fastened her name on a crowd of fog, land, and
seascapes, including some dinky bits of the Thames,
adjacent to Battersea and St. Stephen’s.
The Melbourne Women’s Political Associ-
ation has already girded up its corset and
got a hustle on itself with a view to getting
the eight-years sentence that was passed on
Clarice Cowell and Elizabeth Barry “sub-
stantially reduced.” It says that one of them
was “a victim of man’s perfidy and of un-
equal laws,” and the other was led astray
by “an abnormal sense of friendship,” and
they were “both victims of criminal sugges-
tion.” It seems rather a large order. When
a girl has some casual love passages on her
own responsibility with a man whom she re-
gards as single, and then finds that he is
married, it isn’t an absolutely tremendous
event. She could probably have found out
with a very little inquiry that he was
married. There have been cases when a
man got strongly “mashed” upon a woman,
and then found that she had committed
bigamy. And when one girl tried to poison
the man’s wife, who had never done her any
injury whatever, and was aided by another
girl who had no earthly connection with the
case, and the pair, owing to unequal laws, or
unequal administration of the laws, got
off with about one-third the sentence
that a man would have received —
well, it all makes the attitude of
the Woman’s Pol. Ass. look humorous. In
a large, vague way the Pol. Ass. says that
the excited pair were victims of “criminal
suggestion,” but it doesn’t produce or name
the alleged criminal suggestor. The lack of
that hostile person tends to spoil the case.
Does the Women’s Pol. Ass. hold that a
woman is of such small account that any
other woman, or any other two women, who
have no semblance of a grievance against
her, should be allowed to come along and
poison her with impunity?
THE ARABIAN NIGHTS BALLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In light and gauzy garments and a blushful
state of grief
Halina Schmolz was carried to the nimble
Arab chief. e
The warriors who caught her picking blos-
soms by a stream,
And saw that she was beautiful—in point of
fact, a “dream”—
Had brought her to the palace for their
master to admire,
So she frivolled on her toe-tips till she set
his brain afire.
She whirled around his presence like a fire-
work on a pin
Whilst the blood was coursing madly through
the veins of Volinin.
The warriors cavorted, and the Harem darl-
ings danced,
And the Chieftain leapt and bounded when
he didn t 101 l entranced
By the contour of Halina and the graceful
pirouettes
Wherewith —how like a woman !—she dis-
sembled her regrets.
But his lawful wife, Novotna (she possessed
an iron nerve),
Knew the captive for a Lady whom she for-
merly did serve;
And she went to get some strychnine in a
bottle small and thin,
Which she gave to fair Halina, unobserved
by Volinin.
At last, alone with Lina, full of amorous in-
tent,
He danced the gay comelosa, and she knew
just what he meant.
From his violent caresses she did not ap-
pear to shrink,
But she filled a golden goblet and invited
him to drink.
He drank the poisoned nectar and Novotna
came to see
His final dying wriggles, for an iron-nerve
had she.
Then the ladies fled together, and the trom-
bones made a din,
And the curtain slow descended on the
corpse of Volinin.
VICTORIA.
O.K.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Hard to say whether G6nee’s fine healthiness is
due to her dancing, or her fine dancing is largelv
due to her remarkably good health. She scores both
ways probably. Genfee has never had a day’s sick-
ness in her life, she says. But the fact that she
was born strong and wiry is shown in the fact that
after 20 years of violent muscular exercise she re-
tains her slimness. Ordinary dancers, like acrobats,
thicken with age, as the result of their hard work.
“Stargazer”: Just now the greater part of the
programme at Melb. Opera House is taken up by
seals and chickens. To my mind, neither feature is
an entertainment, and all the animal shows put on
in 12 months have not been worth half an hour em-
ployed in watching a trained sheep dog at a show,
penning three sheep. The whimsicality, cunning and
patience of the business dog are wholly delightful
where the capers of the skilled chicken' are a bore.
With the ass, the goose, the ape and the parrot so
much in evidence on the boards at ordinarv theatres,
it seems to me our music-hall managers should strive
to retain the human element.
“HENRY V.” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Pistol (Evelyn Beerbohm) eats the leek at the
direction of Fluellen (Arec Thompson).
“Theorbo”: Armes Beaumont, long in the twi-
light, now vanishes into the dark. He came
into musical notice as leading tenor of St. Peter’s
Church choir, Melbourne, under Canon Handheld.
This was the earliest surpliced choir in that city.
From there he advanced to oratorio. A society called
the Musical Union was set up in opposition to the
Philharmonic. It engaged Squires for the tenor part
in “The Messiah.” He failed to turn up, probably
through not being paid. Beaumont was in the audi-
ence, and sang the role, and thenceforward he was
in the first class. Squires, at this time, held the
sway as tenor of Lyster’s Opera Co. He was a little
man, who always had to • introduce falsetto. Lyster
engaged Beaumont also ; and the new man made his
first appearance in Sydney, as Thaddeus, in “The
Bohemian Girl.” He had a fine presence, and was
a clear tenor robusto, though, in my judgment, not
to be ranked with a number who have appeared
since. In the “Bohemian Girl ( ” “Maritana,” “Faust”
and other operas he was always welcome. Lyster did
well by putting up “L’Africaine,” with Beaumont
and Fannie Simonsen taking one night and Squires
and Lucy Escott the next. It was hereabouts that
Beaumont had the misfortune to lose an eye through
a charge of small shot, accidentally fired by Lyster’s
brother. When Lyster took on opera bouffe with
“The Grand Duchess,” Beaumont, Farley and Mrs.
Simonsen transferred ably to this line. Beaumont
saved a goodly fortune, but lost it in the Melbourne
land boom, like Harwood and Stewart, and for many
years past had lived very poorly.
Most people who remember the Armes Beaumont
of 40 years ago, and even 35 years ago, when his
voice had not yet been damaged by much singing
in many operas, will emphatically declare that his
was the sweetest, roundest and smoothest, natural
tenor ever heard on the Australian stage. Thirty-
five years ago he was on the sunny side of 40, and
until he was well into the fifties, he continued to be
a fine tenor on his good days. After that he was an
occasional reminder of what a delightful singer
he had been. But even as late as 10
years ago, when Melba gave her services for yet
another final farewell benefit to Armes Beaumont at
Melbourne Town—services which made the benefit
worth more than £5OO to her old colleague—the
mellow tones of his long-rested voice amazed the
lady. Thinking of how famous, worn-out singers
squeeze every available shilling from their celebrity
in the old countries, Melba said to George Musgrove,
as she listened to the ancient’s mellifluous battered
warble: “I want to know why he’s retiring?” So
it goes without saying that a tenor who, after being
“worked to death” in opera, could still preserve the
quality of his voice when he was a sexagenarian
must have known the art of producing it properly.
The one thing that Beaumont did not know about
vocalisation was how to shape his mouth. He had
neglected to drill himself in front of a mirror, and
he screwed his lips askew when he sang. This,
however, may have been due to the calamity which
spoilt his handsome face when he was a young man
of 27 ( i.e ., in 1867). His friend and manager,
William Saurin Lyster, fired the gunshot that de-
stroyed one eye and impaired the sight of the other,
and thus Beaumont’s prospect of a great career in
Europe was cruelly blighted. He was, nevertheless,
the star of Lyster’s opera co. for a dozen years after
that, but the accident tethered him to Australia. In
188 Q his friend died, leaving him, by way of com-
pensation, a life-interest in a sum of money which
sufficed to keep him from destitution in his old age.
Always a gambler as long as he had money to lose,
Armes Beaumont might have come very near to beg-
gary but for the little pension bequeathed him by
Lyster. Off the stage he was a soured and somewhat
intolerant old pro. ; but one remembers him on the
stage as a debonair Don Caesar de Bazan, a very cap-
able actor in opera despite his affliction, and a
breezy, unaffected singer. Many old Victorian iden-
tities—for it was mostly in Victoria that Beaumont
tuned his lays—remain faithful to early memories of
the Voice that has passed out. To speak to them
of later tenors who have visited Australia and won
much applause, is to get always the same replv:
“You never heard Armes Beaumont at his best.”
The present writer, who heard the veteran many
times at his second-best, reckons that tradition has
not flattered him. Some tenor voices are called
“silvery.” Armes Beaumont’s was golden.
“T.0.T.”: George Marlow —-Marks, outside the oro-
fession—retires from the firm of George Marlow,
Limited, his co-directors, George Willoughby, A B.
Davies and George T. Eaton, having bought him
out. The purchase monev is said to be £50.000, or
thereabout. The firm, which has only been in exist-
ence three years, now controls the Adelohi (Sydney)
and the Princess’s (Melbourne), and is reputed to
be making fine money out of its own special brand
of stage screech.
Y.Z. (This letter, The Bulletin interpolates,
comes from one of the most successful and
most widely-known writers in Australia): My
dealings with the late J. C. Williamson
were brief. I wanted to sell J.C.W. a play of
my own making. The goods were delivered. J.C.W.
looked into the bale, sampled the stuff, and gave
judgment. He was delighted with the drama. He
displayed the unaffected enthusiasm of a child.
“Vengeance is Mine” would play magnificently. The
characterisation was splendid. The chief comedy r&le
appealed to all the actor in him. I went from the
theatre with a fixed idea that the play was accepted,
and was to be produced with great 6clat at the earli-
est possible moment. Next day the script turned up
at my front door in the hands of a small boy. No
word came with it. It was just dumped. The next
manager I showed it to said “Vengeance is Mine” was
“no dam good at all.”
“C. Ockney”: In the cast of the London revival
of Pinero’s “Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” at the St.
James’s, last month, was our well-remembered Kate
Bishop. She played Mrs. Cortelyou. Kate’s
daughter, by the way (she is Mrs. A. L. Prinsep in
private life, and Marie LBhr in public), was having
congratulations showered on her simultaneously. The
occasion was the birth of Kate’s granddaughter.
The Quinlan Opera Co. will set the Australian
bill rolling with a Wagner opera, “Di& Miestersing-
ers,” last visit having proved that the Wagnerites
are the backbone of grand-opera patronage here-
abouts. The season opens at Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
on August 16, and the repertoire will be 25 operas,
including the four sections of “The Ring of the
Nibelung,” whereof only “The Valkyrie” has been
rung into Australia, thusfar. Other first-time operas
will be “Louise,” and “Manon Lescaut,” “The Fly-
ing Dutchman” and “The Marriage of Figaro” will
also count as novelties from the Quinlan co. The
soprano and tenor for the Wagner productions will be
newcomers, seemingly. Of the leading principals of
the previous co. only Jeanne Brola, Edna Thornton,
Robert Parker, William Samuell and Charles Magrath
are re-engaged. By the way, there was a lot of talk
last Quinlan time about Brola being about to retire
from the stage, and having consented to come to
Australia to play “The Girl of the Golden West”
because Puccini had asked it as a favor. Since then
the lady must have reconsidered her decision to fade
into private life. Actresses and singers are given
that way.
Australia’s old friends, Maud Williamson and
Alfred Woods, have been in London since January
last, and a brief note from Alfred is full of cheer-
fulness regarding the prospects. They have been
working the halls with a sketch entitled “The Saint
and the Sinner” (written by the lady member of the
partnership), and salaries and press notices have been
running a dead heat for conspicuousness. The surest
sign of success is the fact that the sketch has been
booked right up to August, 1916.
Drink isn’t the sole cause of insanity—
not by many acres. The stark naked lady
whom a staggered curate found in All Saints’
Anglican Church, St. Kilda (Vic.), hadn’t
even a trace of beer about her. Like Prin-
cess Elizabeth of Hungary, who is also
alleged to have shed all her garments in the
sacred edifice and been flogged by her pastor,
as per special appointment, her brain had
gone by reason of religion. Possibly a
timely allowance of gin would have saved
her. Some lady teachers dressed her in a
scrimmage of three rounds, and the reception
house swallowed her up.
THE NAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Julius Roscius....He is great.— Bulletin critic.
“ ‘Great! ’ Blimey, so he ought to be! ”
Joe Bloggs the super snorted at
The adjective. “My oath!” roared he,
“Vd be great with a name like that!
“Wot you was christened as a kid—-
A plain name—ain’t no use at all;
For fortune, if you’d make a bid,
Choose wot looks striking on a wall!
“The blooming press and public, too,
A homely ‘Joseph Bloggs’ would slate;
But when a ‘Julius’ is on view,
And Roscius,’ too —he must be ‘great’!
“Why, where would Melba be without
Her lovely moniker, and—look !
Who cares a single cuss about
A Premier whose name is Cook?
You bet it’s gospel! Mr. Brown
Can thump the dominoes a treat,
But that name never draws the town—
Old Paderewski’s got him beat!
“And jest becos my name ain’t grand
I never gets a press report.
I only carry banners and
Get potted outside Agincowrf.
“But I can act, my oath, I can!
Give me a chance! It’s up to me
I o chuck the ‘Bloggs’! Behold the man—-
Oscar Du Maurier Niblo Bernhardt Irving
Boucicault Waller Shakspeare Siddons
Dolon Thespis Beerbohm Tree—that’s
ME.”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


p-'i
.
ODDMENT WEEK
Britannia Underwear at 4/9.
Less 21- in the £ for Cash.
This week, and until Wednesday, July 30, are oddment days, and, in
addition to the drastic clearance prices on all season’s goods left over
from the sale, we are allowing 2/- in the pound discount for cash.
The Balance of our special value Britannia Underwear is to clear at
4/9, less 2/- in the pound.
Britannia Underwear is of pure natural wool, very soft, very comfortable,
and guaranteed unshrinkable. The garments are well shaned and
finished —to give perfect freedom and comfort. In sizes Small Men’s,
Men’s and Out Sizes. They are guaranteed unshrinkable.
Undervests, with 4 sleeves, and Underpants:—
Usual Price
To Clear 4/9 each, less 2/- in the £ for cash
Sent Carriage Paid.
David Jones, Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
« ..
a
Rug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid.”
Free Sample sent ora Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmanns Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“Lud”: A professor of eugenics, at Lon-
don University, paid from the £60,000 be-
quest by Galton, thinks engaged men and
women ought to indulge in mixed bathing,
just once, at any rate. How do they, other-
wise, know each other’s frames. I recall that
Fox, the great statesman, was enamored of
Harriet Mellon, the actress, but was dis-
enchanted after seeing her in what was
called a breeches part. He said: “She is
straight up and down, before and behind,
like a yard of pump-water, and her legs—
oh, her legs ! They are Odd Lots.” How-
ever, Miss Mellon did not do at all badly.
She married Tom Coutts, the millionaire
banker, and afterwards became Duchess of
St. Albans. She left £I,BOO,UOU and a bank
to Angela Burdett, whom this and the last
generation knew as Burdett Coutts.
The present war is a strenuous business,
but even the most strenuous war may be a
trifle overdone in the papers. When an
army goes out 100,000 strong, and 50,000 of
them are killed, and 50,000 taken prisoners,
and 120,000 wounded, and the balance
runs away—well, it is no wonder that the
vast horde which remains after the total dis-
appearance of the balance should get out of
hand and commit atrocities. Judging by
the quantity of arms captured, the Bul-
garians were overloaded. Every man must
have carried six rifles, and evidently four
of them were stolen while he was firing the
other two simultaneously.
“G.E.8.” : The Maori is having a bad run
in the Northern Provinces of the Dominion.
Time was when our fat friend, with his genial
smile and comfortable beer-filled paunch, was
the idol of the taxi-cab man, the publican and
the wizard of the billiard saloon; for the
Maori, fingering the proceeds of his land,
dearly loves to emulate the aristocrat of
the private bar. To-day he is missing
from his old haunts; and the Waite-
mata Hotel corner —one of the busiest spots
in Auckland —is shorn of its glory. There
the Maoris used to congregate. All day they
would stand about or sit on the kerbing,
smoking the pipe of peace and drifting into
the billiard saloon for a game of snooker, or
into the hotel for “te peer to make te glad
come quick.” The corner is the starting
point of all Auckland’s tramcars, and when I
saw a car depart with a solitary native in
majestic possession, I understood. He had
got in first, and the dread of small-pox had
driven away every other passenger. So the
edict has gone forth that the Maori shall not
ANTI-VACOINATION.
THE ORATOR: “ I haven't been vaccinated, nor
I ain’t afraid of y’ small-pox.”
WAYBACK: “Yus, but what about swine
fever?"
ride in any public conveyance. The barbers
have turned him down. The publicans
frown upon him. The picture-show pro-
prietor refuses to recognise his old friend.
The total Maori population of the Dominion
is only 50,000 —49,844 at the 1911 census—
yet in the northern provinces alone there
are approximately 1000 suffering from the
disease. The white, as he progresses through
the centuries, improves his sanitary condi-
tions. But the brown still likes to sleep in
one room with as many others as he can
pack in, and, whefl a member of one tribe
goes for a walk with Jaipo, representatives
from all the other tribes attend his tangi,
and incidentally take home a few of the
germs which caused the vacancy. Add to
all this the fact that the Maori is tired, and
drops most of his refuse at the back door-
step, and it can be readily understood how
the wicked little germ has a joyous time
with Henare and Mere.
Either the young lady with a nice London
Journal sort of name is more easily de-
frauded than the average, or all other young
ladies are extinct. Thus last Monday two
men were tried in Sydney on a charge of
defrauding young girls with promises of
positions which didn’t transpire. And the
complainants were (1) I’ixie, (2) Ida,
(3) Rena, (4) Olive,' (5) Rose, (6) Mar-
guerite, (7) Edith Florence, (8) Barbara,
(9) Thirza. (10) Florence, (11) Mavis.
Apparently not one penny was got out of
Mary, Jane, Susan. Bridget or Sarah. And
as regards surnames, there wasn’t one Smith.
Brown, Jones or Macdonald in the crowd.
HER STEADY JOB.
BARRISTER: “ You describe yourself as an actress. Where do you act?”
BREACH-OF-PROMISE LADY : "On the postcards.”
Statistician Knibbs digs out some curious
facts. It struck him the other day that
man is a very ornery cuss, and that one cuss
is just about as ornery as another. To find
something to support his theory, he got plug-
ging into the birth registrations, of all things,
and found that in 1911, in every single State
of the Commonwealth, more births were
registered on the 41st day after birth than
on any other day. That set him going, and
he looked up the records for 1912, and found
that in that year, too, most births were
registered on the 41st day in
every State except Queens-
land, where it happened that
the figures for the 40th day
just topped the poll. There
is no obvious reason why
there should be this rush to
get the job done of the 41st
day because in every State
except South Aus. parents
are allowed 60 days wherein
to do the job, and in South
Aus. the law which says 42
days isn’t enforced. Back
at the dawn of official regis-
tration in Britain 42 days
was the time fixed; and
Knibbs’s only explanation
is that the habit of crowd-
ing in on the register on the
41st day, or thereabouts, be-
came a fixture like McTon-
alt’s habit of wearing
freckles or Smith’s habit of
wearing twice as many
pockets as he has any reas-
onable use for.
Just now about the poorest job going is
that of a great European Power. The Great
Powers warned the little Balkan States that
they wouldn’t be allowed to take any terri-
tory from Turkey, and they took much terri-
tory gaily. The Powers bade the States stop
fighting among themselves; told them to ar-
bitrate ; told the Turks not to join in the
new war; urged Roumania not to do
anything wild : and shouted to everybody to
stop. And amid all this fuss their one
streak of luck was when they scared the
Montenegrins out of Scutari. War is such
a vast concern nowadays—there is such a
risk that an obscure bit of frontier inter-
ference may develop into a row that will
cost £500,000,000 —that the biggest mega-
tharium among Powers is afraid to tread
on a mosquito lest the insect should
prove to have rich and influential friends,
and it might have to fight another
megatharium for the skeeter’s property. In-
side a little more than a century debts have
been piled up that will take at the present
rate of progress thousands of years to
shift, and the Great Powers see Jews in
their sleep nowadays. What they want
above all things is cheap war.
Judge Moule (Vic.) weighed in last week
with a Solomon-like judgment in the cases of
an embezzler and a larcenist. Both offenders
were first-timers—or, at any rate, members
of the first-collared brigade. They apolo-
gised heartily for their lapses; and men-
tioned that they had work to go to, and
would lapse no more. Said Moule, in
effect: “I sentence you each to 12 months’
hard labor, but will suspend sentence on
your giving bonds to be of good behavior
for two years, and also make restitution, at
the rate of £1 per month per thief.” Which
eminently sensible decision not only gave the
culprits another chance, but recouped two
citizens their losses, saved the State a few
pounds, and ensured something better than
starvation for two inoffensive wives and
families.
WHOLESALE ORDER.
The system of produce by post in South Africa is
very popular with the public. The Commonwealth
Postmaster-General suggests a conference with a view
to arranging a scheme in Victoria. —News item.
Sydney is still forced to draw its supplies of
lymph from the Victorian Government farm. —News
item.
VICTORIA: “'Ere, mister, I’m sick of the
whole business. ’Ow much for sending the
calf?”
A NEW DAMON AND PYTHIAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Record of conversation between Messrs. G. E.
Frazer and Agar Wynne, M’s.P., on the latter taking
over from the former in the office of Postmaster-
General.
Mr. Frazer (to Mr. Wynne) : There is no man on
the other side of the House I could be more pleased
to see here than you.
Mr. Wynne: And there is no one I more regret
displacing than you. We have had a great friendship
and regard for one another since we first met.
Mr. Frazer: Well, I am out, and you are in, and
I am not going to cry over it. I am very, very
pleased to see you here. — Melbourne Age.
Scene: Inner sanctum of P.M.G.’s Department.
Characters: Charles Edward Damon Frazer, Agar
Pythias Wynne. An Unimportant Clerk (in the
background).
Charles:
So, brother, I am out and you are in.
Farewell, farewell, to all my splendor bright!
Yet, just to know ’tis you, dear Agar Wynne,
Tinges my melancholy with delight.
Indeed, I find it very hard to go ;
Yet pleasure surely mingles with my woe.
Ay, you are in, and I am in—the soup !
For me the shades; for you the favored place.
Yet doth it cheer me when my spirits droop
Just to behold your ever welcome face.
Aside. (But, by the gods, just give me half a show,
The merest chance to kick, and out you go!)
Agar:
Sweet Frazer, though I ill disguise my joy
In winning thus to fame, despite my foes ;
It pains me to the heart, my dear old boy,
To think ’tis you whom I must so depose.
Nay, but it brings the hot tears to mine eyes,
To know that you must sink that I may rise.
Agar is in, and Charles is out, you say.
’Tis sure a cruel fortune wills it so.
My j°y is clouded o’er with grief to-day,
Because, my dear old friend, you have to go.
Aside. (But, give me strength, and I shall scheme and
plan
To Ifeep you out for ever, if I can!)
Charl,es :
Dear Agar, when I gaze into your eyes,
Those kindly orbs whose depths so well I know,
Nay, I am filled with wonder and surprise
That I did not resign long years ago.
For who is Charles, to hold a place on high,
When such a man as Agar Wynne is by ?
Indeed, the sorrow I so lately felt
Has given place to purest joy alone;
For now, at last, discerning Fate has dealt
Bare justice, and you sit upon my throne.
Aside. (But give me half a chance, that’s all I crave;
I’ll dig with joy your Legislative grave!)
Agar :
Nay, rare Charles Edward, ’tis your blind regard
For him you love prompts that unselfish speech.
Ah, would that Fate —blind Fate, so doubly hard —
Had never placed these sweets within my reach!
If ’twere not for my Party, friend, I’d say,
“Cleave you to office, Charles; I will away.”
Forgive these tears ; for now my joy has flown,
And in its stead come pangs of dull despair.
Ah, could I but contrive, my friend, mine own !
To yield you of my triumph e’en a share !
Aside. (Now, by the Sacred Fuse, you’ve got the sack
And I’ll raise Cain to stop your getting back )
Charles:
Agar ! These tears are tears of sorrow rare !
My past neglect of you brings keen regret.
Agar :
Dear Charles, if you’ve a kerchief you could spare,
Pray lend it me. Mine own is sopping wet.
Both, aside. (Now, having pulled his leg, I shall
retire
And, to confound him, with my friends conspire.)
Exit both, apparently in tears, but eyeing each other
furtively from behind their respective handker-
chiefs.
Unimportant Clerk (advancing) :
Well, spare my days ! Of all the blessed guff !
And if, next week, Wynne’s out and Frazer’s in,
They’ll probably dish up the same old stuff,
While honest men can only stand and grin.
More change! More toil! More worry for our sins!
A plague on all their childish Outs and Ins!
Now must we shed the Labor livery,
And learn new manners in the Lib’ral school.
And, mayhap, in a twelve-month we shall be
Once more returned unto the Labor rule.
Oh, that the gods would blast such tricks as these,
And send this land Elective Ministries!
Bell rings. Exit.
Curtain.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
MIXED VACCINATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
Vaccination has charms.
In the ether-filled basement,
Snowy shoulders and arms —
(Vaccination has charms!)
Touched with Fear’s red alarms
Simply laughed at effacement.
Vaccination has charms
In the ether-filled basement.
LYMPH.


17
®5?
©u 1
&
air
PS
air
©v
&
ST
V\?''/
©oca
*n
J
255
I
I
O.T. Improves all Drinks just
as Sauces Improve Food.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms. 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
(1.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
PURE-WOOL UNDERWEAR
Figure-Conforming Garments.
We are featuring an excellent grade of British Underwear,
made specially for us from pure, selected wool.
It is very warm and comfortable; and each garment is shaped
to fit the figure. This underwear is unshrinkable.
Medium and Heavy Weight Natural Wool: —•
Postage, 3d. per garment extra.
Please state chest and waist measurement and length of sleeves.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Painfully convincing evidence is coming
to hand that Charles Henry Spargo, who
was hanged in W.A. recently for the murder
of one Jones, was a wholesale practitioner
in the assassination line. Reginald Dicken-
son, a former associate of Spargo, is not to
be found, and another Jones besides the one
whose death at the hands of Spargo was
established, has vanished off the face of the
earth. He, like his slaughtered namesake,
was an intimate of Spargo’s. Spargo took
Dickenson’s luggage from an hotel, saying
that the owner was leaving on the Paroo
and wanted it. Dickenson never left on the
Paroo, and never got his luggage. The
sleuths of the law opine darkly that he
journeyed long ago to a bourne where lug-
gage is a superfluity. As regards Jones
Spargo said he would g_et him a job. Jones
left for the job with £25 or more about him,
and never got there. He doesn’t seem to
have got anywhere, and the idea is that his
hones will be unearthed ultimately, minus
the cash. Murder, like drink, is undoubtedly
one of those habits that grow’ on a man—
witness Deeming, Jack the Ripper and a
score of other notorious cases. The sinner
begins in a small way, perhaps, by butcher-
ing an actor, or a press-agent, or a book-
canvasser. This corresponds to the inebri-
ate’s first beer. In a little while we have
him simply lapping blood, so that anyone
who goes out for a quiet afternoon stroll
with him is liable to be smitten violently
from behind, separated from any small
change he may have about him, and incon-
tinently buried. The very casualness with
which he murders is his surest safeguard.
The police have a habit of looking for
serious motives. They cannot bring them-
selves to regard the acquirement of £3 10s.,
a gun-metal watch and a pair of braces as
sufficient reason why a man should go
through the physical labor of an assassina-
tion .and subsequent interment, to say
nothing of the risks involved. And yet
there are chronic gore inebriates who will
slay for anything. At a pinch they will slay
for nothing—just to keep their hands
and eyes in, as it were. Unless Spargo, who
is now reposing with a broken neck in Perth
Gaol, was one of these ghouls, appearances
malign him.
“Melb”: The Orange Snow’ball says:—
“Ulster has forged ahead with far less nat-
ural advantages than the rest of Ireland.
Her revenue is twice that of the rest of
Ireland. Only one-fourth of Ulster is Roman
Catholic. The poor rate in the Protestant
north is 2d. a head ; in the rest of Ireland,
2s. 3d. Paupers in England number 103
per 10,000; in Ulster, 94; in the rest of
Ireland, 307.” All this is to prove the de-
praving effects of Roman Catholicism. And
it would be impressive if in the next breath
Snowball didn’t say that the R.C.’s in Aus-
tralia are jumping on the Protestants in
prosperous tyranny!
EACH TO HIS OWN TASTE.
ARTIST: “Ah,-it's horrible to think of this
shrine of Art to be desecrated by an exhi-
bition of HATS.”
PHILISTINE WIFE: “Exhibition of HATS!
Come on; let’s go in. I thought it was
only pictures.”
EN REGLE.
“Do you think my costume is too — er—snappy
for the dear Bishop’s garden party? ”
“Oh, if the old buffer says anything I’ll tell
him you just came along because you
couldn’t get a seat at the matinde.”
From Melbourne Argus (2/7/Y3) :
Wagga, Tuesday.—Yesterday afternoon the body
of a middle-aged man, Frederick Herman Wieland,
was discovered hanging from a rafter in a bedroom.
Wieland was suspended by a rope round the neck.
He was in comfortable circumstances.
An immigrant, bringing the paragraph un-
der notice, remarks that the standard of
comfort in Australia is not so high as he
had expected to find it.
“The Old Soldier”: The “Quaker-lad,”
Crosland, is getting too much limelight alto-
gether. In fact, he and his misguided abet-
tors are beginning to create
an unpleasant impression
that limelight is all they are
after. In his r6le of Peace
enthusiast he has, on alleg-
edly conscientious grounds:
(1) failed to attend a com-
pulsory drill; (2) failed to
return to military custody
when ordered; (3) dis-
obeyed orders; (4) omitted
to attend for medical exam-
ination. Why? None of
these things is wrong in it-
self, even in the eyes of the
most fanatical anti-war cam-
paigner. Drill is not war,
and medical inspection is not
fighting. Plainly it is this
youth’s duty to unresistingly
obey the law as regards drill
and medical inspection, and
to wait till he stands in the
ranks, and gets the order to
load with ball cartridge pre-
paratory to firing on an in-
vader who has possibly dis-
embowelled his mother, and
then make his protest. It
would be interesting to hear
the remarks of his comrades
w’hen he did make it, though,
if he then believed what he
says, he would simply fail
to load his rifle, and would
march quietly forward and
take his chance, as Quakers
who were pressed into vari-
ous European armies in the
18th century sometimes did.
These men were genuine
heroes and martyrs of their
sort. Young Crosland is merely a bogus or
cheaply bellowdramatic variety of the article.
Two dames of the highest social flight
are making a house-to-house visitation beg-
ging alms towards meeting the cost of the
Privy Council appeal in the Government
House case. That’s all right; but some
eyebrows did go a bit higher than usual
when the dames descended upon the wives
of certain High Court Judges, and begged
them for a trifle of hubby’s money to upset
hubby’s judgment.
European criminologists are
inclining to the view that the
old-fashioned criminal is giving
way to a new type, less skilled
in the strictly technical sense,
but more cunning, unscrupu-
lous and reckless. The old
variety of malefactor was a
quiet, law-abiding cove by tem-
perament. Bloodshed he ab-
horred, and he only resorted to
it when absolutely
forced thereto. He
had no grievance
against Society. All
he wanted was Soci-
ety’s money. The
new type is exempli-
fied in the Anarchists
of Stepney, the Paris
“motor bandits,” and
Australia’s masked
and other burglars,
who have no scruples about
taking life, and go about their
business armed with the very
latest repeating pistols. The
kindly, unobtrusive, old Mid
and Early Victorian malefactor
had rather an aversion to fire-
arms. He preferred life-pre-
servers. They were so much
more silent and they made less
of a mess. The European
theory is that the new type of
criminal is a degenerate, who
has failed to succeed in his
chosen calling or business, and
has been driven in consequence
to declare war against the whole
human race. We have had in
Australia within the last year
or two a crop of almost inex-
plicable murder and robbery cases, evi-
dently not the work of habitual
criminals. Many of them have quite
baffled the police, simply because the
average policeman, when he hears of a
crime, naturally looks for traces of the
handiwork of some old professional, and,
failing to find them, is at a loss. Without a
doubt the infuriated amateur, driven to
frenzy by his tragic lack of success in the
bank-clerk or haberdashery line of effort,
has been largely responsible for these hor-
rors. A really maddened amateur Sikes,
possessed of a low grade of nerve, is
capable of butchering an entire Sunday-
school for 3d.
The crime of the two Melbourne shop girls,
guilty on their own confession of conspiring
to poison a matron, whom one of them had
no sort of grievance against, was not more
foolish than the sentence dealt out to them
by Chief Justice Madden. These inexplic-
able spinsters were jointly and severally suf-
fering from temporary insanity when they
planned their crime, or they were a pair of
black-hearted, cold-blooded wretches, who
should have been hanged, if possible, as a
warning to their poison-loving sex. Their
murderous conspiracy was a to be con-
sidered almost childish, or wholly devilish.
They were either pitiable or unpardonable.
They deserved the least punishment or the
largest penalty the Law could reasonably
deal out to them. What they did not de-
serve, as a matter of public policy, was a half-
measure of severity in their punishment.
Justice admits of no compromise where at-
tempts at murder are concerned. Yet Judge
Madden, after pronouncing them a pair of
unpitiable young women, and saying he
could not distinguish their case from that
of “assassins whose business is to kill,” sen-
tenced them to eight years’ hard labor apiece,
with the suggestion that the Lord (Denman)
might have some mercy on their weakness.
Whereupon the extraordinary prisoners col-
lapsed, and many people in court wept tears
of compassion for them, thus showing their
entire want of sympathy with the Judge’s
award. The historical poison-in-a-teacup
case adds another item to the list of Madden
judgments which were bound to be upset on
appeal. In this instance the public lodges
the appeal.
As small-pox is believed to be primarily a
dirt disease, and, anyhow, belongs to the
tribe of diseases which are capable of linger-
ing round apartments, clothes, or anything
that is not disinfected, the Ma capital should
be about due for another wholesale cleaning
up. Sydney seems to be the sort of city
that cleans up thoroughly only under fear
of sudden death or permanent disfigurement.
It has not been absolutely boiled and puri-
fied since the last plague scare, and that
was years and years ago. It has never been
like some German cities where children are
bathed at school, and a policeman will chase
you for miles in all the glory of his sword
and helmet if you expectorate in a public
place. Several Sydney chemists report that
the sale of disinfectants, except camphor,
has shown no appreciable increase. There
is a rush on camphor, but the other agents
for making premises wholesome and safe just
wobble along at the old rate. Yet in almost
every big building in Sydney city there are
considerable tracts which ' sunlight never
reaches, and all such places should be puri-
fied violently. Vaccination is a splendid
thing, but a thorough disinfecting would be
a valuable and mighty assistant.
Adelaide, which has as many things to be
proud of as any city in Australia, wears glad
feathers now on account of its new abat-
toirs, opened last week, and alleged (of
course) to be the best anywhere. The first
estimate of cost was £80,000; the final out-
lay was £350,000. But the latter figure
includes the cost of nearly 50 workmen’s
houses, a railway line (£20,000), and a
whole fleet of motor-lorries to run the meat
round the city. The site is at Gepp’s Cross,
near Dry Creek, seven miles north of Ade-
laide —S. Australia’s one big gaol overlooks
it. The yards will hold 50,000 sheep, 3000
cattle, and 2000 pigs, and the killing capa-
city is 4500, 500, and 280 per day. The
first sale was carried out by Edward
Laughton, aged 81, who has been knocking
down live stock in Adelaide for over 50
years. Dunne, of Netley station, gave the
bullock for Laughton to knock down; and
as the Children’s Hospital was to get what-
ever it would fetch, the price was run up to
£64.
A QUESTION OF LOCALITY.
Several Sydney newspapers recommend the
wearing of a red ribbon by vaccinated persons ,
so that strangers may refrain from bumping
the afflicted members.
THE REAL EVIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. James Miller Robertson, a rich coal-mine
owner, has discovered that high wages are the root
of all evil. Putting the Industrial Commission wise
the other day, he said: “Few, if any, chairmen of
boards ever suggest when they hear evidence regard-
ing the increased cost of living, that this is not
diminished by the expensive ways and luxurious
habits now considered necessary by workmen, or
by their excessive attendance at theatres, picture
shows, football matches, races and picnics, with
which of late the workmen have become obsessed.”
We worry o’er excessive cost
Of bread and meat, and heavy rent ;
We think not of the time that’s lost,
The precious money that’s mis-spent
By laborers on picnics gay—
On pipes, and drinks, and skating rinks.
On penny ices and the play.
If things are dear and it is hard
To make the gold supply go round,
Take warning from the frantic bard
By Robertson inspired to sound
His trembling lyre, and plot and plan
The lavish life of Bill and wife
To end as early as you can.
’Tis not the owners’ gems and furs,
Their splendid hospitalities,
Their motor-cars, and costly curs
That cause the mischief, if you please
It is the workers’ shilling bets,
His lolly balls, and music halls,
And four-a-penny cigarettes.
We’d hear no more about the high
Expense of living nowadays,
If Working Men would only try '
To live in simple, frugal ways.
They rob the better class of bliss
By wanting pay to spend each day,
And clinging to dear life like this.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


A c °‘
A burning town on Greek border.
Ferdinand of Bulgaria has appealed to his brother Sovereign of Roumania to
leave off the war.
Ferdinand: “Look here, old man, come and have a driuk, and l won’t hit you
any more.’’
The Chinese Revolution.
That small maddened Quaker boy resisting compulsory
service.
An Anti-Vaccinationist.
■J.f“-<%<&/ ■>/ ,
A FEW THOUGHTS ABOUT PEACE AND THE BLESSINGS THEREOF.


m
Get Rid of
Bronchitis
BY USING
M
B
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
The combined healing aijd strengthening properties of this
remedy make it unequalled in bronchitis and all catarrhal
affections of throat and lungs. For upwards °f twenty years
Angier-S Emulsion has be«n Pre“nbed by
profession and used in the hospitals. .. t
approved remedy for colds, coughs, bronchitis, and all throat
and chest affections.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this papen
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co.. 7 Barraok St„ Sydney, I
Don’t run away with the idea
r 4.
1
that “SPARKLETS” are only valu-
able in the summer. For instance,
whiskey is in season from January 1
to December 31, and the best of
whiskey is still better with the
addition of
“SPARKLETS”
TRY IT.
C. Syphons, 6/6.
B. Syphons, 4/-
B. Bulbs, 1/6 dozen.
C. Bulbs, 2/3 dozen.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Billy T.”: Stoney was driving a one-
horse waggon from Wheathill to Fullup. On the
one : horse waggon were Mrs. Stoney and baby, Mrs.
Baldwin (who was Mrs. Stoney’s mother), Stoney
himself, and the neW cottage piano Stoney had
bought in Melbourne a week ago, and which was to
vastly improve the social status of the Stoney family
in Fullup and district. They were passing through
the railway gates at Old Corner, when the gate-
keeper came whooping from his house. The down
train was in sight, and Stoney was invited to be
“Damquickaboutit.” He made an honest but bull-
headed effort to comply, with the result that the
off fore-wheel was rushed against the gatepost.
Maximilian, the grey neddy, plunged, and the next
moment was trotting down the road, dragging the
shafts and the fore carriage at his heels, leaving the
waggon and its precious freight on the railway track.
The train was coming at them, whistling madly, and
a fearsome scramble ensued. The gatekeeper grabbed
the baby, and placed it out of danger. Stoney
grabbed his missus. The gatekeeper was back, giving
fat Mrs. Baldwin necessary assistance to alight, when
Stoney cut in. “No, no!” he cried in a frenzy.
“Think of me piannv. Leave her! Leave her!
Maybe they’ll stop if they see a woman in.” The
locomotive did stop—within 2ft. of the Waggon,
Stoney’s mother-in-law, and the precious piano.
Stoney has never ceased to congratulate himself on
his great presence of mind.
IN TOPHET.
WANTTOKNOWUS: “ What's the joke?”
THREEBALUS: “ Why , an ex-State Premier is
explaining his system of finance."
“Harrison O.” : In the course of my diva-
gations Outback and West o’ Sunset, also Nearer In
and East o’ the Eight Hours’ Monument, I found
that any old excuse for a “darnce” passes muster.
Subscription hops are organised to start a football
club, to recoup Hayseed for the loss of his stack by
fire or act of God, to buy a “pram” for Mrs. Wheat-
sheaf’s twins, or a cork arm for Bill Oates, who
came off second-best in a disagreement with a chaff-
cutter. But the most pleasing “hop” I attended
during my three weeks’ exile from Bourke-street was
the one arranged to obtain coin to enable Kitty Wood
to place a suitable monument over the grave of her
young man, who had departed this life a couple of
months previously. I danced half the night with
Kitty, who was the acknowledged belle of the ball.
J.G. . W ith regard to the chronically
unprofitable condition of Ballarat and the frequentlv
littlt yable St tn 6 ° f Bendig0 ’ both of which places are
few R m °r e ha " gambling counters these days: A
JeL back g ° Wh ° threw job/a fei
went in for t “P 1 to K et hold of small blocks,
have e for tomato, fruit and vegetable growing, and
of toma e toe ed ‘A*I 0 " 16 l yCarS ° Ver £4OO from an acre
matoes. Others have done nearly as well out of
Ltd f’; h tr*" thou ““ ,s »> o< .2‘£
land on the Bendigo goldfield that could produce the
IT cr °P s and give constant employment to more
bowelfof tT e n °Z digging out the unprofitable
withhel , 6 "TT- But nearl >' all this land is
ithheld from cultivation because it is alleged to be
wanted for the industry that doesn’t .pay owners
a T„ °hT T U workmen ; and if you so much as men-
on that it is time the foolishness was ended the
ruined mine-owners yell like mad that you are ham-
pering mining operations and driving capital out of
the country. It is time we got sense and refused to
take any notice, even if mine-owners do yell like mad
to be allowed to go on ruining themselves and wast-
ing the too scarce labor of the community.
<< * * * *
Hee Kee : The job which has all others
beaten to a frazzle in the matter of sheer loneliness
is that of the boundary rider along some of the sec-
tions of the rabbit-proof fences which run almost
parallel with each other from the Great Australian
Bight to far-off Murchison. Each man has a length
o 100 miles to traverse, which distance he covers
weekly per medium of the tame, domestic bike. The
duties consist of repairing or re-erecting the fence
and posting notices as to dire penalties for leaving
open the gates, the hinges of which, through being
so long closed, are generally as rusty as those on
the safe door wherein the States’ sinking funds are
kept. Encountered one of these outpost men re-
cently under the shadow of the horizon carrying the
following light equipment: Spade, fencing bar, axe,
wire-strainer, combination wire-cutter and splicer,
hammer, nails and staples, 20yds. No. 12 wire!
small roll of seizing wire, breech-loading gun, car-
tridges, blankets, flour, baking powder, tinned dog,
tinned fruit, waterbag, matches, shirt, pants, needles,
cotton, buttons, cloth for patches, boots, pipes, to-
bacco and a library consisting of the Bible, Miller’s
Sporting Guide, two newspapers (several weeks old),
torn copy of “On Our Selection,” and copies of The
Bulletin’s “Abo” pages dating back to the Stone
Age. He appeared to stave off madness by culti-
vating a taste for Australian poetry, and regaled me
for about an hour with selections from Paterson,
Ogilvy and “Dryblower” Murphy. When I left he
was explaining to a racehorse-gohanna and a rabbit
which had succumbed to starvation inside the fence
“How We Beat the Favorite.”
* * * *
“The Immature Male”: Follows an in-
stance of a Man who Took his Job Seriously. There
is a road to the south’ard of Sydney much patronised
by motorists, and bisected by a little tinpbt river.
As there is no town near by, and consequently only a
few votes, a myopic Government has installed an en-
tirely inadequate ramshackle horse-punt in lieu of
the bridge which should have been built there years
ago. This Dreadnought possesses a captain and a crew;
and when the crew is not operating on the gangway
gates, he is lurking in the bows, keeping a sharp
look-out ahead for snags, or stray goats, or something,
what time the craft slowly claws its weary way, in
a futile, crab-like sort of
fashion, along a half-sub-
merged cable that
stretches across the water
separating one Dead End
from the other. It so
happened that one Sab-
bath morning I and sev-
eral other evangelists
trundled our car aboard
this ark, and, the day
being hot and dusty, we
devoutly circulated a
flask of spiritual comfort.
We each had a swig, and
then we gave the captain
a swig, and one of us held
out the flask and nodded
an invitation towards the
crew, who was pottering
about aimlessly in the
bows. The crew looked
back at us in a shocked
sort of way, hitched his
slacks, and slowly raised
a deprecatory hand. Then,
in the manner of one
whose responsibilities sat
heavily upon him, he
said: “Not while I’m at
sea, sir!” Two of our party felt the rebuke so
keenly that they got out right there and walked
ashore.
♦ * * *
“Cubbon Budgery”: The watershed of the
Mitchell River (N.Q.) abounds in snake. From the
small “grassy” to his huge relative, the python,
there is a variety that conduces to fleetness of foot
in woman and a quick eye and ready hand in man.
Not only on land do they roam, singly, in pairs,
and sometimes in mobs, but a man has to be care-
ful when having his annual swim, or he may find
himself in the loving embrace of a few yards of
water snake. I was fishing some days ago in the
Mitchell, and placed my catch (four bream) on a
wire in the water to keep them fresh. Pulling the
wire out later to add to the collection, I found
myself gazing into a face that for pure villainy
couldn’t be equalled. The Face at the Window
wasn’t at the same window with it. Two of the
fish were dead when rescued, and my reptile con-
temporary showed every sign of disputing my right
to the lot. When measured after the scrap, he
lingered to a length of lift.
PARTICULAR.
STATION MISS: "Here's a nice hat, ferry."
JERRY: "Ah! That pheller too old! Yer can't 'sped a gen'levin to wear a plurry
concertina!"
“The Old Soldier”: What:a perilous thing
is generalisation, and how it causeth the generaliser
to fall in with the thudsome crash of a policeman
stumbling over a street garbage tin! The above
reflection is inspired by the recent remarks of H.
Maxwell Clark, of Canada, on roads, Australian and
otherwise. Said Clark, after a few perfectly vera-
cious comments on the unspeakableness of the high-
ways around Sydney, and after a special reference
to the utter poisonousness of the main Parramatta
road—if road and not ruin it be indeed:—
The roads in the British Empire, with the excep-
tion of those in England itself, are behind every
other nation in the world. China and Japan possess
excellent roads. Those on the Continent are excep-
tional.
As a matter of fact, the roads in China and Japan
are mostly narrow paths through the cultivations,
wide enough, at most, to allow a single cart to pass.
The foreign concessions are different. They have
excellent roads, but no Asiatic is in any way re-
sponsible, except in the capacity of laborer. As re-
gards the Continent one is impelled to inquire if
Clark was ever in Spain, Italy, or what was once
Poland, off the regular tourist track? All those
countries have roads that could give points even to
those of a Sydney suburban municipality for utter
rottenness. Both in Spain and Italy there are busy,
well-frequented roads only passable for pack animals.
Of course this does not apply to the Alpine dis-
tricts, or those of the Western Pyrenees, where the
tourist traffic demands and gets good carriage roads.
The Polish mud has always been notorious as an
obstacle to armies, and twice turned back Napoleon
from Russia. The dreadful roads of Poland are
really Russia’s best defence against Western and
Central Europe.
“Pa Pooa”: Colored sister along East
Cape, Taupota, Dogura and the north-east coast of
Papua can deliver the most practical demonstrations
ini Australasia of how to keep unruly husbands in
line. If Mrs. Papua finds Mr. P. is spending all his
sapi-sapi on betel-nut, or suspects him of admiring
the tattooing on a flapper of a neighboring village,
she promptly heaves basalt and bad lan-
guage at him without mercy. I saw one
family disturbance of the sort a few days
ago. Evidently, the old man had come
home with a load aboard or with a piece of
grass ramie (equal to a hairpin) in his
pocket, so Mrs. P. got to business. Of the
3969 pieces of rock thrown only three
missed, and a bruised and battered husband
took to a canoe and put to sea, pursued by
a shower of road metal. He was rocked on the cradle
of the deep.
* * * *
“John Besique”: For strange oaths and
variety of blasphemy I will back Moonta (S.A.)
miners with any under earth. Something happened
to a truck not long ago, and the gentle expressions
dealt out by the man in charge would make a saint
eat his halo. Having tried every oath under the
sun, -he administered a final kick. “There, damme!”
he said. “And to-night when I say me prayers, I’ll
tell Gord about ’ee.”
“Snell” : I want to tell some more about
the marvellous intelligence and fidelity of the dorg.
This one attracted attention by his peculiar conduct
in crouching by the big dam in Peter Dibbin’s home
paddock, staring mournfully into the water, and
uttering certain pathetic noises. Lobe drove him
away, but he went back, and resumed his crouch and
his lamentations. Finding this course of conduct
unavailing after two days, he started making short
runs to Dibbin’s homestead and back to the dam,
yapping weirdly all the time. Human obtuseness
beat him again, so he took a mouthful of Dibbin’s
pants, and pulled Dibbin, and when Dibbin tried to
kick his ear off, he seized Mrs. Dibbin’s skirt, and
pulled her. Then he ran towards the dam, yapping
back. He repeated the operation a dozen times be-
fore the Dibbins tumbled. “It’s someone drownded!”
said Mrs. Dibbin. In 10 minutes Dibbin and all
hands were at the dam, and the dog was jumping
about and barking gaily. Dibbin had lost
his nut. He and his men got at the
bank of the dam to let the water out. It
was an alarming sacrifice, but at such a moment
mere considerations of profit and loss availed nothing.
They let the water out. It rushed over Dibbin’s
land, carried off a pile of fencing, swamped the onion
crop, and crippled Harvard’s barn. But the
object was secured. The dog grabbed the mutton bone
he had inadvertently dropped into the water two
days earlier, and was off into the scrub.
WASTED TIME.
Firewood is commanding record prices in Sydney.
Unheard of prices are predicted if a cold snap
occurs.
SIKES (regretfully): “By crumbs! If I had
known this was outside I wouldn't have
wasted all my time over this measly
silver.”
THE PERISHABLE POST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The proposal to establish a system of delivering
rural produce by post has “favorably impressed” the
new Postmaster-General.
The sad-eyed postman greeted me
With apprehensive glance;
The package offered seemed to be
An epic or romance
Some editor, with judgment slack
And printed thanks, had sent me back.
I took it up, and then I knew
It was the chicken gay
Aunt Ann had sent from Boolaroo
A week ago to-day.
The post, as oft it did befall,
Was too slow for a fun-e-ral.
I sadly gave him back the chick ;
It perfumed all the place.
“Here, take it, Henry, take it quick!”
I moaned, and held my face.
“Dead letters have to be,” I said,
“But (help!) this one is much too dead.”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


TfIRRfINTS
MELBOURNE.
The BIGGEST & BUSIEST MOTOR HOUSE in Australia.
Enormous Stock of Accessories always on hand.
Builders of the Best Motor Bodies.
MOST UP-TO-DATE REPAIR WORKS.
Hp ARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
Agents in Victoria for Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Austro-Daimler, Sunbeam,
Adler, Commer, Thornycroft,
104-112 Russell St., and 186-192 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
’Phones—3o3o, 2942, 6280, 6534, 3100.
A
. j'H as ' .The tremendous growth of the automobile
Mnf IS - Well I K S - t , r f- ted by the fact that the Ford
rhl tS ' - 1S n ° W J ,ulld, "& about 1000 cars per diem
The factories employ about 13,000 men working on
ear! 6 8 h S ur shlft , s ; . An average production of 1000
cars per day won d indicate that an automobile can
be complete 1 m slightly more than 100 working hours
—a most remarkable achievement. Phillips Ormonde
* Co., patent and trade mark attorneys and encineers
17 Queen Street (Lombard Buildings'), Melbourne* ’
DYSPEPTICS JN AUSTRALIA.
PHYSICIAN TELLS WHAT TO EAT,
AND GIVES SOUND ADVICE TO ALL
STOMACH SUFFERERS.
' know ° medica l practitioner recently
S a | he startling statement that a careful
estungie shows that nearly 50 per cent, of
abo, 1 ( aV oio^Q deffree l of , dyspepsia—that’s
When -> l3 ‘- 653 people here in Australia.
, was suggested that 50 per cent, is
a pretty large percentage, the doctor, seeing
«nnL h a* W /u Dot bei ? g taken quite seriously,
-poke as follows, and with emphasis, that at
once dispelled all doubt as to whether or no
J n ea ™ est: ¥ 50 . P er cent, of the
P yo Pu to 7 n , ba <3 • )ust been exposed
to small-pox the whole town would be panic-
Srt e n ; t aDd yet SUC u ex P° sur e probably
ME, ° ot c * u l e anywhere nearly as many
eating fn l 1 - be cau . s , ed ’ in time ’ by com pi i-
f - owlng , mild cases of dyspepsia
Oni aJ 7*7 neglected right at this minute,
drink of whisky doesn’t make a drunk-
°. ne day s neglect of a mild attack of
dyspepsia isn t going to kill anybody. But
rift; / 7 e /u yone neglects an abnormal con-
d tion of the stomach for months or years
viVH™ b< p Con T§ cons cious of being an actual
77 “ f real dyspepsia. And neglect, from
77 y m S 7’ can do damage pretty fast. It
7*7 .ad to stomach ulcers or cancer, and
7 r ““ a . te fatally. The enormous amount of
y pepsia, and its alarming increase from
W“. *? year ’ are due to the fact that we
i live normal lives. It’s not normal to
eat fast, to eat ultra-fancy foods, to sit all
f y at a desk, to live an inactive indoor life,
etc. -these abnormal conditions of living
cause hyperacidity of the stomach. That
of acid in the stomach
7777 excess leads to dyspepsia,
.belching, distress after eating,
nd, acid stomach, etc. For the cure of any
ot these troubles, I prescribe, first of all, the
use ot some common sense. Don’t starve or
go on any freak diet, but eat moderately,
avoid fancy dishes, go light on stimulants,
and see if you can’t get a little more exer-
cise. AJon t take any pepsin or patent medi-
ernes or drugs to act on the stomach, but go
to your chemist, and get a little ordinary bi-
surated magnesia, and take one-half to' one
teaspoonful in a little hot or cold water after
each meal. .The bisurated magnesia is an
a.ntacm. It is not to act on the stomach at
all, but to act entirely upon the contents of
the stomach to neutralise the excess acid.
1 hat is the way to get rid of your dyspepsia,
indigestion, etc., and keep out of danger of
developing stomach ulcers or cancer.*
“Jimmie Pannikin” : Despite farmers and
Settlers’ Conferences and interested press barrackers,
child slavery in the dairying industry continues to
receive the public curse of patriotic and unbiassed
Australians. The latest was uttered by Dr. Gertrude
Halley, 8.A., before the Education Commission,
which held its final sitting a few days ago, at Parlia-
ment House, Adelaide. Dr. Halley is well and favor-
ably known in N.S.W., and was appointed five years
ago as medical officer to the Tasmanian Education
Department
Mr. Styles: We hear at times that children come
to school unfitted for work, owing to laboring before
and after school.
Dr. Halley : Yes. In dairying and agricultural
districts this is especially so. I found some chil-
dren in Tasmania suffering from strained heart, typi-
cal of wharf-laborers, due to lifting heavy potato
sacks. In New South Wales, at Kiama, I found a
number of children who have to do dairying work.
One small boy op six had to milk five cows
EVERY MORNING BEFORE SCHOOL.
During my strenuous sojourn in Cowland (N.S.W.)
I repeatedly challenged champions of the accursed
cow child-slavery to reply to charges made by Gov-
ernor-General Dudley, H. W. Potts, of Hawkesbury
College, the Scotch Commissioners, the S.M. Herald,
and the Sydney Telegraph. I now, after my long
silence, challenge them to arise and face Dr. Ger-
trude Halley, 8.A., a trained and trustworthy
observer of high scientific attainments. Don’t all
speak at once !
ONCE BITTEN.
THE SNAGGIT : “Garni He cant bluff me
this tune. Why, I ’ aven’t ’ad a drop
since Johnson's pub was burned.”
NOT HIS FAULT.
MRS. PARSON: "William Samuel Herbert Septimus Bioggs, did you not promise me that
I should not see you in this state again? ”
WILLIAM : “Speak ter the (hie) bloomin’ top , mum! Yer would[?] seen me at all if
he hadn (hie) pulled me outer the pub ."
“Wandi”: The Richmond River (N.S.W.),
now being choked up and rendered unnavigable by
the beautiful hyacinth devil, was once a charming
waterway. It winds so much that the riversider has
notice of the steamer’s approach long before it
arrives. Often he hears the whistle or sees the
smoke a couple of hours before. A deckhand one
day unostentatiously fell overboard. That didn’t
worry him. He swam to land, strolled leisurely
across a narrow neck, and sat down on a wharf to
wait. The steamer drew alongside in response to
the customary signal, when he astonished the skip-
per by leaping on board and inquiring, “Where’s
the towel?” “How did you get here?” asked the
skipper. “Stopped back to have a swim,” said the
deckhand; “but I forgot the towel.” He had
walked a hundred yards, while the steamer had
travelled three miles. Every riversider has his own
wharf, a couple of slabs, resting at one extremity
on the bank, and at the other on a rail laid across
two forked uprights driven into the mud. Often it
is no more than a small stump. A tie-up is made if
it is only to land a scrubbing brush or a pound of
tobacco. Like the coach-driver on the outback
roads, the skipper takes messages and parcels from
one point to another, and executes small orders for
groceries and drapery at the stores. This saves the
settlers a lot of travelling. If they want to go to a
neighbor’s a few miles up or down, they can step
on board, and the lift costs them nothing. When
the steamer is wanted to call, a piece of calico tied
to a stick is hoisted at the “wharf.” If a tin of
treacle is wanted, the tin is hung out on the end of
a clothes-prop, and the deckhand boathooks it on
board when passing. Next day he brings it back
full. At election times there is someone waiting on
nearly every wharf, and the skipper shouts who got
in as he steams by. If there is much information
to impart, he is courteous enough to stop the en-
gines, and detail the hang of the situation as he
drifts along, his listener meanwhile struggling with
smartweed and stinging-nettles as he keeps pace on
the bank. The “old man” knows the enthusiasts
and the political opinions of most; he can tell you
also before he rounds the bend who will be wanting
to know what won the boat race and what the Mel-
bourne Cup. He is one of themselves, this skipper ;
a patient, good-natured amphibian, who does a won-
derful amount of good service in the course of a
year for the riversiders.
* * * *
The idea held by people who don’t know
the cow cocky that milking machines mean clean
milk has been blown to smithereens by an inspec-
tion of 300 juice-suction plants lately made by the
Maoriland Dairy Department. Only 23 p.c. of the
machines proved clean, and 50 p.c. were absolutely
bad —so bad that the press was asked not to publish
details, which in one case were specially revolting.
Why the feelings of the unclean cow-artist should
be considered before the public health was not ex-
plained. Ordinary methods having failed to instil
the rudiments of sanitation into him it is now
being pointed out to him that slumps in the butter
and cheese market are the result of his ancient and
fish-like habits. The appeal to his pocket is confi-
dently expected to make him consider the matter.
But, after all, the best idea is to register a cow-
keeper in the same way as is done with a solicitor,
and let the Cow Institute (which should be a body
of men who don’t keep cows) haul him up and
have him struck off the rolls and permanently dis-
qualified, for dirt. Dirt, in his case, should rank
with embezzlement in the case of an attorney.
Then we would be gladdened by the sight of law
reports, headed: “In the case of , a Cow-keeper,
One,” which would be a change from “Gentleman
One.”
Letter to hand signed “Barabbas”: —
I noticed a letter in your columns, addressed to
you by a Church of England clergyman. It was the
finest literary gem that has appeared in your pseudo-
comic to my knowledge for the past 20 years. And
yet it is possible, under the utilitarian influence of
your much-vaunted rag, that the neurotics who hys-
terically scream that The Bulletin is the greatest
paper in this benighted Commonwealth, will act on
your overwhelming vanity as a dope to a prostituted
career. [That is a fine expression—Ed. B.] What
any discerning person can see in the production to
waste a solid piece of valuable metal, week in and
week out, is beyond me. Probably, as in my own case,
to keep evergreen the morbid fact that human nature
is degenerating, and journalism fallen in the mire of
literary putrescence. Possibly you view the matter
in the light of the law of supply and demand, and
excuse your journalistic profligacy as a necessary evil
of the times.
Taking a more charitable aspect of the matter, it
is possible that your contributors suffer from a con-
tinual brain fag ? / For who can but admit that the
stuff you publish, and the artists whose poor souls
you flatter with a bubble reputation, arc not methods
that appeal to the normal intellect.
Your poets are execrable. Blank [name cut out]
wants a sea, trip badly, and a course of vitality pills
Dash [name also cut out] should be accorded a pub-
lic funeral, and his jargon buried with him or cre-
mated. Blazes [name withheld from publication] is
a prolonged grievance, and Bang [name obliterated]
a unique diagnostique for cerebral meningitis Blanky
[narne available on application to the office] is like
a course of Appollinaris Water, and produces in time
sundry attacks of gangrenous appendicitis.
Your prose artists would be more at home digging
for tin in a wild cat mine at Ardlethan. I wonder
the man at the type-setting machine doesn’t chuck
his job out of pure self-respect. Thingumbob [name
carefully buried] is akin to a photographic lense that
has been over-exposed to the rays of public lime-
light. Nature has rebelled at the prodigal use he has
made of her gifts, and will probably ere long filch
back her inspiration. Howler [name and fearful howl
of vituperation held back, and the case submitted for
legal opinion] evidently struts into your office
once a month, and scribbles some rubbish off
on a piece of waste paper, and struts out again with
the air of a reincarnated Marcus Clarke. His stuff
contains neither information, humor, nor even mediocre
literary ability. He appears to the commercial mind
to be in the enviable position of being a favorite with
your Religious Editor, and laboring under the delu-
rin ■t a "m a f ap wil ] d0 > on the grounds that
he did it. Which reminds me that in your last
edition gross carelessness was exhibited in your nrint-
lng department. I enclose a paragraph which is a
disgrace to any respectable production, not alone The
Bulletin. You will observe the, imprint of a coin
in the middle of very important information. Evi-
dently one of your inebriated mental freaks has laid
his beer money on the copy. It certainly points to
lack of business management, and reflects on your
attention to details.
Coming to the Artistic portion of vour “R a f>
This is getting worse every week. Why not pension
off Jumbo [the name will appear next weekl
or send him to Papua to amuse the natives? He
seems to be tottering on the brink of paralysis, and
his work is purely a travesty. Gamp [this name
would be dangerous, for he is a big man and can
fight] appears to be depleted. He gives one the
impression that, on sending his stuff to your art
gallery, he remarks to his sub-conscious mind with a
grin, that “Any old thing will do for the fast-failing
freak of bygone fame.” Demetrius [one of the staff is
mashed on his sister, and we really can’t offend
him] is the limit, and should be transferred to the
World’3 News. Wangdoodle [more trouble, for this
artist is very brief in the temper]—well, personally,
as far as lam concerned, he can be damned. Of course
he fills up space, and that means a good deal these
times. All the other inspired rotters excepting the
one redeeming Blank [name withheld lest envy should
be aroused], are evidently ashamed to put their names
to their brilliant oil paintings. It’s a great paper,
The Bulletin ? Fine advertising medium. I don’t
think. Grand illustration of what bluff will do in
Australia ! Why not make “Bellrive” editor. He is
the only person with brains in the crowd.
Get some original talent in the concern. Pension
off the present staff, and give the public something
decent to digest. Why not cultivate a bit of ambi-
tion. Money isn’t everything.
“Guido Reni”: Postmaster - General
Wynne’s indecent haste to abolish the kan-
garoo stamp and substitute a bearded pard
recalls the fact that there exists in the
Postal Department a series of 10 designs
for stamps created by Blamire Young by
direction of Charlie Frazer, the ex-P.M.G.
There was trouble about the payment,
and Blamire had to use a solicitor to get
his money. Once he was paid, his beautiful
drawings were pigeon-holed, and Frazer’s
own crude conception was adopted. The
kangaroo is all right, and so is the King,
but the main use of a postage stamp should
be to advertise the country. Ninety millions
of Americans are at this moment using
stamps whose purpose is to advertise the
Panama Exhibition. It is understood that
Blamire Young, while producing 10 beau-
tiful designs, stuck closely to the idea that
a postage stamp was a cheap and effective
method of advertising the resources and the
advantages of Australia. Perhaps the Post
Office people will now let’ the public see
what sort of a job he mode of it.
“C.R.L.H.”: It certainly was time the
Board of Trade or somebody stamped on
that old swindle, the “floating seat,” and
prescribed boats or lifebelts instead. Re-
cently when the Sydney Harbor ferry Bir-
kenhead foundered, the oil-drummed seats,
which bore little braSs-pluted Navigation
Department certificates on them, managed to
break adrift. But they floated only at
intervals. Those looking on from the shore
saw the seats disappear for minutes at a
time, coming up l'O to 20yds. away from
where they sank. Such life-saving apparatus
might be excellent for use in novelty events
at a swimming carnival; but it certainly
wouldn’t save much life at a shipwreck. It
is the kind of gear one might throw, per-
haps, to the C.S.R. Co., if it fell into the
water; or to the. motor-boat hog. But that’s
all. Another thing. A few months ago my
friend Julius Caesar, who is a shipping re-
porter, nosed out a little scoop. Julius
heard that the very rare function of lifeboat
drill was to be performed by the crew of a
well-known coastal steamer, then lying in
Darling Harbor. The hands got the four
lifeboats out in fairly good time; and then
this happened. Two were found to be leak-
ing badly. The third filled rapidly, and
would have sunk but for the ropes holding
it to the davits. The fourth broke from the
ropes while it was being lowered, filled
through cracks in the bottom and sides, and
sank in a few minutes. It does not require
a vivid imagination to picture what would
have happened had there been a real neces-
sity to use those lifeboats. Whether there
would have been enough of them, even were
they of the best, is also highly doubtful, as
the vessel is often crowded with passengers
my f , rier l d Juli ”s, I had better
add that he tore back to the office, ripped
out half a column, and bundled his stuff in.
It you happen to know the Sydney papers
you II _ also know how much of that gross
reflection on Private Enterprise was ever
printed.
THE PIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Greta town a Monster bides—
A dark, devouring Thing, in truth ;
It feeds upon the prime of man,
And battens on the strength of Youth.
A brazen, blatant blast—its call
Goes sounding over field and wood ;
For twice a day its bowels crave,
And twice a day it calls for food.
I met a lad upon the street
Ere yet the townsfolk were astir.
“Good morning,” said I, and he said,
With glowing face, “Good morning, sir.”
I sought the dawn that made the east
A golden rose without a flaw ;
He vanished from the glowing world—
A morsel down the Monster’s maw.
About me many scents were blown,
I saw the world at peace—new-lit;
Around him noisome vapors crept—
He saw the darkness of the Pit.
The upper world of light was mine—
Of joy and laughter, birds and flowers ;
A victim of the Under-world—
He sweated through the toiling hours.
I heard the magpies warbling clear,
And some were nigh and some aloof ;
I did not hear, beneath mv feet,
The death cry and the falling roof.
I did not see the white-faced throng
That gaped aghast in Greta’s street ;
Nor did I see the bearers march
With staring eyes and leaden feet.
I did not see these things, and yet
These things a little while made stir ;
But ’twixt us two shall no more pass—
Good morning,” and “Good morning, sir.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


GROWN RESTIVE.
PREMIER WATT: "Hullo! It's a very different animal from the one I managed last years!"


REXONA.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals with
remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned oint-
ments which are very slow in their action, Rexona
speedily effects its relief after a very few applica-
tors-. Sold in triangular pots it Is. 6d. and 3s
Obtainable everywhere.*
VIOLENT PAINS AND PURGING.
“I recommend Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhea
Remedy as being the most satisfactory medicine for
colic, diarrhoea or dysentery,” writes Mr. Cecil C
Hooper, storekeeper, Wakefield fN.Z.I. “At times
I am seized with violent pains and purging, and have
tried several so-called cures, but find nothing equal
to Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.”*
„J‘ Th ? 01 2 Hand” (Bulletin 10/7/’l3) advised the
Newchum to take his tip. “Experience teaches ”
he stated. Quite so. Experience teaches the farmer to
deal With a reputable firm when he requires sicks
for his October and November delivery. T Smith
Ltd have kept faith with farmers for 20 W?
That convinces, eh ? Twenty years as specialists in
all kinds of sacks and bags. A firm must be reli
able to keep its end up for that period. Why not
write them? If you are interested in saving time
SMITH Tro C °T n Tn “ S l ck Specialist?,’’ 1 t!
-MiiH & CO., LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.*
GAE LIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
F or
QUALITY.
HATS.
F or
durability,
EVERY DAY
mote people are proving that
ux
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes^
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
\,,
/»
i i
S 3
lever brothers
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Robert Homburg, brother of
the S.A. Attorney-General, and
himself an M.L.A. of the
State, is just back from a fly
over Europe—or part of it.
In London he had a short but
lofty 70-miles-an-hour flight
with Grahame White, and in
Germany he had two hours in
a Zeppelin. He describes the latter
experience as being like sitting in an
armchair compared with the other. The
Zeppelin runs a regular passenger service
every calm day, sending up a little red trial
balloon first if there is any idea that things
are too gusty.
Dr. Patou , Chief Health Officer of N.S.W.,
lets loose a few cow-pox germs on the community.
William Francis Schey, who has dropped
out at 56, was probably at his best between
30 and 40, when he was a member of the
N.S.W. Parliament. He was a good speaker
—fiery, impetuous and fearless. A poor
man—he had been a laborer at 6s. per day—
he represented a poor constituency, Dar-
lington, and had a hard struggle in the days
before payment of members —a reform which
came about largely owing to his in-season
and out-of-season advocacy. Yet when pay-
ment was fixed, his constituency fired him
out. Premiers, however, stuck to old pals in
those days, and, being himself unemployed,
he was given a salaried job to look after
others similarly unfortunate. To everybody’s
surprise he soon exhibited qualities of a high
standard. So he was promoted till
he ultimately became Director of Labor.
His name seems likely to survive in Schey-
ville. He will also be remembered as hav-
ing been one of the laborers who helped to
build the stone wall round Farm Cove, Syd-
ney, on the Botanic Gardens side.
Ilall Jones, ex-High Commissioner for
Maonland, and Premier before that, had a
singular experience in Sydney while he was
on the way back from London to' the Do-
minion. He ambled into a tram, and found
himself in the same compartment as J. C.
\\ atson and McGowen. “You can find three
ex-Premiers collected together almost any-
where,” says Hall Jones, “out I doubt if
ever again there will be found three ex-
Premiers happening across each other acci-
dentally, who have all resigned office volun-
tarily.”
THE DOSSEK.
DOCTOR: “ That will do. But don't wash it
for a few days."
DOSSER: “Good Lord , doctor, do you want to
kill me outright? I hain't missed me
morning bath ter 40 years."
“N. or M.”: Another old Hobart nota-
bility to go to sleep is Russell Young, aged
75, solicitor and one-time M.L.a. for the
Iluon. lie was one of the first pupils at the
old High School, and has been in at the
foundation of most things in the Apple
city since it saw its first apple on the hori-
zon. The Art Gallery and the Southern
Law Society both owe themselves to him,
and if he did not invent the Queen’s Domain,
the Botanical Gardens, the University and
the Royal Society of Tasmania, he did a
good deal to keep them spinning. His father,
Thomas Young, came to Tasmania by the
ship Portland in 1820, and was one of the
first lawyers to be admitted when the
Supreme Court was constituted in 1824
Father and son, the Youngs have been look-
ing to Hobart’s law business ever since.
Adelaide has lost its bookselling grand-
fathez% W. C. Rigby. He came to Australia
in 1853, in a 48-ton lugger, carrying 13 men,
and reached Melbourne after a voyage of
4| months. This vast and howling deed in-
spired a daring party of four fishermen who
safely in the Mystery smack, less than
half the size of the bookselling lugger. The
Rigby vessel came with an idea on the part
of the padrone, or whoever owned it, that a
career was open in trading on the Yarra
He probably mistook it for the Mississippi.
That ditch not seeming propitious, the har-
monious little crew had to burst up. Rigby
bed six years on the Victorian goldfields.
Then he went to Adelaide and founded what
afterwards grew into a fine business, which
was taken over only four years ago by a
more extensive gent., known as Risrb.v Lim-
ited. During his London apprenticeship to
the trade. Rigby was in the same establish-
ment as Robertson and Mullen, both of whom
afterwards became bosses in the Australian
bonk trade.
Ex-Gaud Mayor Davey, of Melbourne, is
off to London to see his nephew installed as
Gaud Mayor of that ancient city, civic dis-
tinction _ being _ a widespread weakness in
the family. When his brother non-progres-
sives were feasting him last week Davey
stated that he had been 60 years away from
England, and after eating one more
Christmas dinner in his birthland “he would
be content to return to Melbourne and make
the necessary arrangements with a respect-
able undertaker.” Considering his long ex-
perience of the banqueting business, Davey
seems much too pessimistic re the good old
English Christmas dinner. It should not
so quickly prove fatal. A less hardened
eater, might not long survive the Ordeal by
Pudding, but Davey has been doing his
stummick proud for years—and without get-
ting fat.
M.: This is from the Victorian Govern-
ment Gazette (9/7/T3) :
SUPPLEMENTARY SALE.
KORUMBURRA.—SaIe (No. 8925), at ELEVEN
o’clock on TUESDAY, AUGUST 5, 1913, at the
AUCTION ROOMS of Mr. A. E. WITTON. To be
be conducted by E. W. WELCH, Esq., Land Officer.
TOWN LOT.
Korumburra, Parish of Korumburra, County of Buln
Buln.
The above is interesting if only by reason
of the fact that Mr. E. W. Welch left the
Lands Department three years ago, and has
been dead for about 18 months. If there is
one adage that is truer than another it is
the ancient one which lays it down that
“dead men yell no sales.”
Two Irish priests, Fathers Carr and
O’Meehan, are just winding up a three years’
buccaneering expedition in Australia, in the
course of which they have collected £7OOO
for rebuilding Galway Cathedral. Bang
goes £7000; still it will probably pay Aus-
tralia better in the long run than cadging
for “poor Australia” in Britain, as Arch-
bishop Wright has been doing. The present
R.C. Archbishop of Melbourne, Dr. Carr,
was formerly Bishop of Galway, and that
made some sort of an excuse for the attack
on these shores.
Major E. H. Weston, who died at Mos-
man (N.S.W.) last week, aged 81, was a
grandson of Colonel Johnston, of the Old
lium Corps, who deposed Governor Bligh in
1808. His mother was Blanche, youngest
daughter of the Colonel; she was in her
second year at the time of the Bligh “re-
bellion, ’ and was 17 at the time of her
rather s death. From India came on fur-
lough one Captain Weston, of the East
India Co.’s army. He wedded Blanche John-
ston and took her to India. She was a
wealthy heiress ; so Weston retired from the
Army, and after a time came to Australia,
settling down on the 2000-acre grant given to
Colonel Johnston by Governor King as a
reward for his great gallantry in quelling
am insurrection” of half-starved convicts
at Castle Hill. Captain Weston died many
years ago, leaving his widow to carry on at
the King’s Gift” until 1904, when she too
died, at 98 years of age. Major Weston,
iier son, then went to live at Mosman. He
had up to that, time been a grazier at Albion
l ark, where his remains have been interred.
CIESARIS REFUGIT!— OR LATIN TO
THAT EFFECT.
He raised applause by a reference to "the unim-
peachable haracter of Gregory Wade,” and
went on to refer to the vacant Chief Justiceship.
"We offered it to him," said Mr. Hongue. "We all
wished him to take the position. although conseious
of the great loss the party would sustain. But he
refused it for conscientious reasons. It was a sacri-
fice unexampled in the political history of the coun-
try."-Thrilling news items.
Casar again refuses the diadem.
“Beware”: Watson will not be Laure-
ate. In his poem of “The Woman with the
Serpents longue are such lines as these:
She is not old, she is not young
Ihe woman with the Serpent’s Tongue
.. ..Vicmus from her natal hour,
a ll her ]ife for po
With little left of seemly pride,
With venomed fangs she'cannot’hide
VVho half makes love to you to-day
1 o-morrow gives her guest away ’
Malignant-lipped, unkind, unsweet
Past all example indiscreet.
Watson, whose aberrations are well known
committed the indescribable folly, i n Amer-
ica. of saying that Mrs. Asquith was referred
to in these lines. It flashed all through the
American press; and, although Asquith and
Mrs. Asquith declined to be interviewed on
the mattei, Miss Asquith expatiated to an
interviewer She said that Watson had pes
tered Mrs. Asquith to use her political influ-
Whi t 0^ ard * doing something good for him.
hen she refused, he thus revenged himself.
He had been a guest of the family’s at Down-
T V WI , U be remem bered that Mrs.
• I o U , fore . ier , marria^e Miss Tennant,
sistei of Mrs. Stanlev— was said to be the
heroine of Benson’s “Dodo.”
Bill Watt, Premier of Victoria, comes back
just in time to find the small-pox trouble in
possession of Melbourne. Now Willie is a
bitter and conscientious anti-vaccinationist
and has been fined and advertised in thai
capacity. And when William finds himself
up against the necessity of enforcing the
law which he has spurned, what will Billiam
do.' Bis a problem. What would a Jesuit
do if he became Moderator of the Preshv
terian Assembly and couldn’t get out of the
job without ruin V And if a maddened yet
ambitious Orangeman became PoDe whnt
course would he pursue? Also supposing a
broad-brimmed Quaker, full of “thee” and
thou, succeeded to the command of an
ar ? y u in j se ? on d half of a desperate battle
and had to tell his men to charge like the
Oevil but maintain a strictly peaceful
attitude, what attitude would he take up?
THE WAY OUT.
It has been said. I believe, in Ballarat, that the
Liberals have crawled into office. May I say that
there has been no crawling into office? (Cheers.)
And there will be no crawling out of it. (Renewed
cheers.)
“No, we guess there won't be any crawling
out!”
JVuki : Auckland (M.L.) is gaining a
reputation as a place where Anglican
Bishops go to pieces. Two years ago it
farewelled Bishop Neligan, who retired
owing to nervous breakdown; and now
comes news of the resignation of Bishop
Crossley from precisely similar causes. The
Auckland Diocese is large, yet two previous
bishops, the famous Selwyn and the later
Cowie, pulled through well enough, and both
built up a solid popularity. On Bishop
Crossley s last trip to the Great Barrier he
was concerned about a little accident. As
he stepped on board the Waiotahi, his large
cross, the badge of his office, caught in
something, snapped the chain, and was lost
in the ocean. Crossley isn’t superstitious,
but he would rather have lost almost any-
thing else.
The star hero of 1912 was Albert M.
Gadd, of Mount Lyell (Tas.) fame. By
wa,y of proving it the Royal Humane So-
ciety has just awarded him a gold medal.
He was the man who, knowing all about
fh® risks he was taking, hurled himself over
and over again into the workings charged
with the deadly carbon monoxide (or choke
damp) until he collapsed. He has now col-
lapsed for good—it being the habit of this
insidious gas to strike its victims at long
range. By the way, apart from a retired
sea-captain and a farmer, most of Austra-
lia’s 1912 vintage of heroes consists of
miners, firemen, policemen and maid ser-
vants. No merchant king or legal
C^’ ri a' as &one into the flames or
the flood to save a fellow human. Perhaps
they never got a show. Possibly they
wouldnt have imperilled their pleasurable
lives if they had.
DISCRETION THE BETTER PART
OF VALOR .
Do not imagine that we are attacking the working
man of Australia. Such is not our intention. (Hear,
hear.) If there was any suspicion of that kind of
thing, I would not remain two minutes in any Gov-
ernment. (Cheers.) I have no quarrel with any
working man in Australia.— Cook.
JOSEPH : "For Heaven’s sake , Bruce , don’t go
stirring him up. I shall run away if you
keep on—I really shall.”
BALD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. McDonald was a wigless Speaker, Mr. John-
s'?" W" 1 show his confidence in the Ministry’s sta-
bility by obtaining a wig and gown.— Argus.
A continent was rudely torn
By factions grim. The grievous heat
By Austral’s sweating millions borne
Threw Andrew Fisher off his feet.
And into power the people took
Irvine the cold, and Joseph Cook.
Then Joseph set to work with will
To save the country from its foes—
(lt has been saved and saved until
Most wearisome the process grows) ;
And from Australia’s dust-box big
He dug an old and mouldy wig.
He yelled with joy. His hairless head
Uncovered in the wintry wind,
Was blue with cold. “At last,” he said,
“I’ve made a most important find,
A great discovery, indeed—
Here is the country’s crying need!”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


ft
mm
Iff
1®
s
as
it
X3s
iff
a®.
’
o&.
»
Mi
-
Im
<S*'i
mi.
rim
sg*
;
m
h>S?
1.5
“Where are you getting your Spring Suit, old man?”
“Gowing’s, as usual. No one can do any better.
Please send for patterns early— if you cannot call—as we are expecting a large increased Spring
business this year.
We have just got a new catalogue out, and shall be pleased to send it to you.
All orders Carriage Paid throughout Australia.
GOWING BROS.,
PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,
484. 486, 488 & 490 George Street; &3,5,7, 9. 11, 13. 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
QAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATOr!.'
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 &, 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
"SISKOL" ROCKDRII.IV
“SISKOL" HAMMERDRILLS.
"SISKOL” COALCOTTERS.
International Channelling Machines
Ltd.
DiERCKS <& CO. PROP. LTD.,
%%5 C°films st., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Commercial Banking Co. of Syd-
ney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1905.. £65,263 lOp.c. = £60,000 £15,203 £1,121,856
June, 1906.. 66,022 10 ~ ~ 50,000 16,022 1,137,878
Dec., 1906.. 67,982 10 ~ ~ 50,0)0 17,982 1,155,860
Premiums on new shares .. 42,713 1,198,573
June, 1907.. 71,80.> lOp.c. = 50,000 21,800 1,220,373
Premiums on new shares .. 6,522 1,225,895
Dec., 1907 . 83,005 lOp.c. = 61,288 21,717 1,248,612
Premiums on new shares .. 765 1,249,377
June, 1908.. 90,973 lOp.c. = 62,420 28 553 1,277 93 )
Dec., 1908.. 91,706 10 „ ~ 68,184 23,'.522 1,301,452
June, 1909.. 104,433 10 „ ~ 74,776 29,062 1,331,114
Dec., 1909.. 116,496 10 ~ ~ 75,0 K) 41,496 1,372,610
June, 1910.. 117,000 10 ~ ~ 75,00) 42,000 1,414,610
Dec, 1910.. 117,955 10 ~ „ 75,000 42,355 1,457,565
June, 1911.. 118,095 10 ~ ~ 75,000 43,096 1,500,660
Dec., 1911.. 119,897 10 ~ ~ 75,000 44,897 1,545,557
June, 1912.. 123,933 10 ~ ~ 75,000 48,983 1,594,540
Dec., 1912.. 132,011 10 ~ ~ 86,302 45,709 1,640,249
June, 1913.. 134,122 10 ~ ~ 87,383 46,739 1,636,988
Compare the profit in the top line with that shown
ln bottom line, and you will see that it has
doubled in less than eight years. Certainly the
capital has been increased, too. Down to 1906 it
was £1,000,000; since then it has been gradually
brought up to £1,750,000, and it is proposed
before the year is out to ask shareholders to author-
ise the issue of another £250,000 at par. The first
of the recent new issues was sent out at a pre-
lnmin ; after that, the management apparently
thought that the reserves were strong enough to
.justify something in the way of a bonus, which the
issue of such shares at par amounts to. There is
no urgent need for new capital, so far as one can
see, at present ; for the public’s money in the busi-
ness amounts to less than £6 4s. for every £1 in
the shareholders’ little lot, and that can’t be re-
garded as an unsafe proportion. Still, if the money
is available, the bank is all the stronger and better
‘? r it; and, probably, if here and there a
shareholder hasn’t got the cash in these times of
scarce money, the bank will let him have it at a
trifle under the 10 p.c. he will get for it. Where-
fore this paper doesn’t expect that the athletic
Massie, assistant general manager, w ; ll have to rush
to the rescue of general-manager Dibbs to save him
from being torn to pieces by infuriated shareholders.
Most of the figures show a shrinkage compared
with those of 12 months ago:—
Liabilities.
XT x June, ’l2. June. ’l3.
•• £48,894 £30,707 Dec. £18,187
Biiis • • . . 922.848 957,594 Inc. 34,746
Deposits, etc. 20,823,525 20,013,372 Dec. 810,153
Assets.
Liquid assets 10,268,095 9,992,542 Dec. 275 553
Advances . . 14,378,428 13,993,999 Dec. 384,429
Premises . . 537,178 539,503 Inc. 2^325
So there is over £30,000 still out in notes, and
piobably a good many of the documents have been
lost and never will come in. Deposits are nearly a
million poorer. No doubt the transfer of Common-
wea11h Government balances to the new Common-
wealth Bank was responsible for a considerable cut.
With the supplies of money easing off, and with an
uncertain European situation urging this and other
prudent banks to maintain a strong cash position,
little has been done in the way of offering new
during the year, and advances are
£384,429 less than they were 12 months back. In
consequence of money being thus got in, the hoard
JjS ll , l ?,, assets was cut into to the extent of only
notwithstanding the withdrawal of
£810,153 of deposits; and the bank still holds
liquid a very strong 47 p.c. of the money it owes
to the public. Undoubtedly it is very wise to main-
tain a strong cash position at present. The Euro-
pean money market is liable to an attack
of nerves at any moment, and some of the
results may be quite unexpected. Alreadv
there has been trouble in Argentina, where
“™ e . j )anl f’ suffering from the same greed that
afflicted a few in Australia a while ago, allowed their
coin to get very low. Two of them have so far
tailed to meet the sudden demands made on them,
and a third was at latest regarded as bound to go.
Naturally, with so much in liquid assets, the
earnings of the Commercial of Sydney are not tre-
memlous. Here they are for some years past cal-
cinated on cap’tal and reserves combined :
Dec., ’OB.. £6 18 7 p.c. June, ’ll.. £719 8 p.c.
June, 09.. 7 9 0 „ Dec., ’ll.. 7 19 10 .
Dec., 09.. 8 4 7,, June, ’12.. 8 211
June, 10.. 8 211 „ Dec., ’12.. 718 4 ”
Dec., ’lO. . 8 110 „ June, ’13.. 718 4 ”
But if, having a large proportion of funds liquid,
the earnings at the moment are not out-of-the-way,
clients have this comfort: the bank is still in a
posution to do something to belt, customers through
tight places, and it isn’t in a position to have to
2 n i a \ reac *y~harassed customers to pay up and
n, U 6 h f 1P H V h , rou * h , a tight place. And that fr the
sort of bank to make friends and keep them, and
thus make the fattest profits in the long run.
The Queensland National Bank*—
Towards
Repaying
Gross Written Private Nominal
t Profits. Off. Depositors. Reserves.
June, 4905. . £22,009 £10,009 £9,000- £45,000
Dec., 1905. . 22,307 10,307 9,000 48 000
June, 1906-. 23,421 IM2I 9,000 SUOOO
i )eC " ion®' • 30 >420 14,420 12,000 55,000
n ’ ‘ 34 - 783 18 > 783 12-000 59i000
r eC " 43,606 23 ’ 606 15,000 04,000
nT’ -ions" 43,482 23 ’ 482 15-000 69 000
Dec., 1908.. 43,737 18,737 20,000 74,000
June, 1909.. 44,158 19,158 20,000 79,000
? ec - 1009. ■ 44,432 19,432 20,000 84,000
June, 1910.. 45,626 20,626 20,000 89,000
Dec., 1910.. 46,174 21,174 20,000 94,000
nT’ iQii 4 2’ 275 1°> 275 30,000 100,-000
Dec., 1911. . 47,542 11,542 30,000 106,000
rw 6 ’ iaiv ' ' 36,159 118.000
? e ’ ni o' ■ 48,179 36,179 130,000
June, 1913.. 48,214 36,214 142,000
General-manager Ralston evidently runs either a
lawn-mower or a horse-clipper over the figures before
he publishes them, in order to reduce them to a
beautiful uniformity—£4B,ls9, £48.179, £48,214;
what could be neater and less upsetting!’ Still the
fact that every term shows an extra pound or two
is probably the cautious man’s way of hinting that
business was a shade better each time. This paper
certainly has no clods to throw at the management
for adopting such a policy. There can be no divi-
dends yet for a while, and there could be‘‘ no sense
m producing fluctuations in the price of shares such
as would be inevitable if the profits (and, after all,
bank profits are a mere matter of estimate) were
made to appear as uneven as a bushman’s clip. The
thing to do is to show the tendency of the bank
while giving out word now and then as to the date
"hen it is reckoned that dividends may be resumed
The latter was done at the last half-yearly meeting^
when the chairman mentioned seven years, or a little
less, without, of course, committing the bank to the
figure.
What stands in the way of earlier dividends is the
agreement under which the bank undertook to repay
one-fourth of the old private deposits out of profits
before giving the shareholders a taste. It was as
liberal a compromise as the shareholders deserved
The bank had actually lost all its capital, and the
arrangement permitted shareholders to cling to their
holding in the concern, simply requiring that that
holding should remain dormant unti,l the creditors
had got back their principal—this quarter of it
without interest. No doubt it looked a tremendously
long job ; but the resilience of Queensland and the
support of the Government came to the rescue, with
the result that repayments, slow at first, have been
fairly rapid of late. Here is the record:—
Current Repaid Balance
Profits to in
Appropriated. Depositors. Hand,
o years to )
Dec., 1903 1 £72,000 Is. in £= £51,939 £20,061
June, 1904. . 6,000 6d. in £= 25.970 91
Dec., 1904.. 9,000 9 091
June, 1905.. 9,000 1g,’091
Dec., 1905. . 9,000 6d. in £= 25,970 1,’121
June, 1906.. 9.000 10 121
Dec., 1906 12.000 22 121
June, 1907.. 12,000 6d. in £= 25,970 8,’151
Dec., 1907.. 15,000 * 23 151
June, 1908.. 15,000 6d. in £= 25,969 12,182
Dec., 1908.. 20,000 32 18 9
June, 1909.. 20,000 9d. in £= 38,657 13!525
Dec., 1909.. 20,000 33,525
June, 1910.. 20,000 53,525
Dec., 1910.. 20,000 9d. in £= 38,642 34,883
June, 1911.. 30,000 64,883
Dec., 1911.. 30,000 Is. in £= 51,527 43,356
June, 1912.. 36,159 6d. in £= 25,763 53,752
Dec., 1912.. 36,179 6d. in £= 25,762 64,169
June, 1913.. 36,214 9d. in £= 38,643 61,740
£436,552 7/3 in £= £374,812 £61,740
Thus just as much has been available in' the past
three years as in the preceding dozen; and the
chances are that thre pace will be at least main-
tained, if it isn’t quickened. For 18 months past
the management has evidently seen no reason to
write down assets formally, wherefore the whole of the
disclosed profit after providing for the statutory
addition to the i, "mal reserve fund becomes avail-
able for paying off the old debts. Assuming that
£72,000 a year—the recent average—can be applied
to the removal of the dead horse, something under
eight years should see the end of the tiresome
animal. Any increase in profits and anything that
the manager may shake out of his sleeve, in the
shape of a fund to cover contingencies that have
expired, would, of course, hurry up the removal of
the final splinter of the old horse. There is very
little doubt that the management has a contingency
fund made up of the cl'ppings or shavings of profits
before alluded to ; whether it will be wanted or not
depends largely upon the behavior of Queensland
during the next few ■■-ears. A drought following on
the collapse of the borrowing boom would knock
large lumps off Northern property values, and per-
hans make some of the bank’s newer Securities look
very sick. If the manager has been as prudent as
he is alleged to have been, his fund to meet this con-
tingency ought by this time to be strong enough to
support an elephant.
Summing-up, this is how the old trouble now
stands:—
Dec., Dec., June.,
m ,1. , 1897 - 1912. 1913.
Old debt to Govern-
ment .. ..£1,833,327 £238,293 £218,293
Stock (fixed debt
to old deposi-
tors) . . . 3,116,621 3,091,669 3,091,669
Debt to old de-
positors payable
out of profits . . 1,038,974 667,926 629,283
The old debt to Government carries £2 12s. 6d.
p.c. ; the inscribed stock costs p.c. ; the debt to
the old depositors payable out of profit costs nothing.
On the other hand, it was supposed that there were
no assets to represent that last-mentioned old debt.
Considering what money is worth now, things must
be bad with the assets if the bank can’t show a fine
profit on over 3} millions of money that averages
only about 3j p.c., especially when none of that
money can be called for until 1919. This seems to
be a fair alternative: either a much bigger profit is
being made on this money than the publ shed accounts
show, or the assets are still badly overvalued ; and,
as against the latter assumption, the fact has to be
noted that the management has left off writing-down
assets. And then there is the new business, shown,
with the old, in this comparison:—
J x 1903. 1912. 1913.
Bills and notes .. £332.600 £7B 388 £B3 682
Old debts .. 4,259 116 3,350.962 3,309.962
Deposits .. .. 1,755,189 5,700,242 6,429 747
L'quid assets .. 1,731.167 2,986,867 3,891,057
Advances . . . . 4,967,465 ]
Private ledger [• 6,412,347 6,226,920
accounts . . 530.381 |
Premises . . .. 275,869 297,129 297,046
As remarked just now, none of the old debts can be
called for till 1919, and then only a trifle; so the
cash position is very strong indeed ; over 60 p.c. of
the new deposits are held liquid. Still, just over U
m llions of it is Government money, and no doubt
that isn’t there for long. Cutting out the Govern-
ment money altogether, there is 47 p.c. of the new
deposits liquid—a pretty good sign that the Q.N. is
playing for safety. What a monumental drunk would
have been missed if that had been its game 30 years
ago ! And what a long, painful recovery !
The share capital is £413,418, in shares paid to
£3. It is ridiculously little to own the profits of
a bank this size. The other side of the picture is
that it is ridiculously b’ttle to carry risks of this
size. In good times, when the last of the dead-
horse has gone, shareholders should wallow in profits’
In poor times they will be liable to wallow in
doubts and misgivings.
The chairman of directors has issued his
scheme for the increase of the capital of the Bank
ot New Zealand ; and no doubt, as he renresents the
Dominion on the Board, the scheme has the Govern-
ment s approval. Considering that the bank would
certamlv have smashed if the Government had not
years ago rescued it, and in view also of the fact
that the ascertained losses at the time far exceeded
the share capital, the shareholders are very lib-
erally treated in the chairman’s proposals. The
capital is now as follows •
4 p.c. stock, repayable next year, guar-
anteed by Government .. £1 000 600
Pref. shares (75.000), held by Govern-
ment, restricted to 10 p.c. . . . . 500 000
150,000 ordinary shares, £6 13s. 4d„
paid to £3 6s. Bd. . . . . . . 500,000
T . . „ T, otal , £2.000,000
It is proposed that the new capital when fully paid
shall be:—
4 p.c. Government stock, repayable in
1934 out of a sinking fund to be
nn e „ ta £ lis , hed , £1,000,000
75,000 Pref. shares, now held by the
Government, to be called “A” shares 500,000
150,000 Pref. shares (“B”), to rank
for dividend like ordinary shares,
Government to have the first call on
them • • • • • • • • . . 1,000,000
150,000 Ordinaries, now held by private
shareholders (at present paid to
„„„ £3 6s - Bd.) 1,000,000
300,000 new Ordinaries, holders of nrcs-
ent ordinaries to have first call on
them • • 2.000,000
Total £5,500,000
It is further proposed that when any issue of the
new shares is made, the proportion shall be one “B”
pref. to two ordinaries. So, though, apart from the
£1,000,000 of stock, Government and ordinary
shareholders have each at present £500,000 in the
business, in future issues ordinaries will get twice
as big a cut as the Government—and, in all the cir-
cumstances, this is stretching liberality to the pri-
vate shareholders very far indeed. On the other hand,
the “B” prefs. rank ahead of the ordinaries as to
capital (that is, in the event of liquidation) ; but
for some inexplicable reason they are to carry no
voting power.
* * * *
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat,
Vic.) :
Written
off Added
Pre- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
_ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1905.. 4040 7 p.c. = 2975 -£- 1065 68,976
June, 1906.. .4050 7 „ „ 2975 £5OO 575 69,551
Dec., 1906.. 4098 7 „ „ 2975 1123 70,674
June, 1907. . 4129 7 ~ ~ 2975 -- 1154 71,828
Dec., 1907. . 4007 7 „ „ 2975 ft)32 72,860
June, 1908.. 4050 7 „ ~2975 1075 73,935
Dec., 1908.. 4079 7 „ „ 2975 1104 75 039
J une > x 9 0 9- 4103 7 „ ~2975 500 628 75,667
Dec., 1909.. 4160 7* „ „ 3187 973 76,640
June, 1910.. 4204 7* „ ~ 3187 1017 77,657
Dec., 1910.. 4176 74 „ „ 3187 989 78,646
ne ’ 42 ' 6 ‘i » » 3187 1089 79,735
Dee., 1911.. 4356 74 „ „ 3187 1169 80,904
June, 1912.. 4395 74 „ ~ 3187 1208 82,112
Dec., 1912.. 4481 8 „ „ 3400 1081 83,193
June, 1913.. 4449 8 „ ~3400 1049 84,242
One gets no surprises from the Ballarat Bank—the
only bank in Australia with no branches, and the
°? Iy ° n th . e mainland with its head office outside
°{ \t- capital. But for the centralisation policy
ot Victoria it would have made more progress, for it
is m the centre of a rich district, which had a
world-beating goldfield or two to give it a start. As
things are, it goes along as placidly as a cabbage.
On paper there is no stronger banking concern, con-
sidering its size, in Australia. All told it owes
ofo 51 ’ 33 ?! ? nd . its own hmds amount to
£169,242, so the depositors, etc., are extraordinarily
well protected. It could, moreover, pay no less than
47 p.c. of all its debts to the public out of its
liquid assets. With so little public money in the
business, ,in proportion to its own funds, and with
so much of the little that it has got represented by
i 1 j Ssets ’ lt: . s earning's are naturally small. Cal-
culated on capital and reserves combined, the dis-
closed profits work out as follows:
Dec., 1909. £5 3 6 p.c. Dec., 1911. £5 5 9 p.c.
•June, 1910. 5 4 0 „ .Tune, 1912. 5 4H)
Dec., 1910. 5 2 8 „ Dec., 1912. 5 7 3 ”
June, 1911. 5 4 6 „ June, 1913. 5 5 9 ”
But if the earnings are small, so are the risks.
And apparently it is content to be that sort of
T he man who is looking out for a quick rise
2^ 4 S' ve a second thought to Ballarat Bank
hnvL,I he , person w ho. has them, if he doesn’t
sleeps very welT^ 116 Wlth the proceeds > Probably
* * *
The Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney).—
SvHnp^°'«t W^ sl ? ares ha J e Just been listed on the
f ydr le -^ T , Stl °ck Exchange, has had a very mixed his-
t Y aS f °rmed 22 years ago, and was nominally
an Austral an co. ; but about nine-tenths or more of
the shares were held in England, mostly by a big
ft i l ?no I o 1 oo COr ?° ratlon ' The whole outfit cost about
£300,00°. lor many years following the breaking
ot the boom the results were very poor, and, on the
principle that capital ought to show a respectable
return, the £300,000 was written down heroically
to about half that amount. Approx'matelv two-
thirds of the reduced capital was represented by
mortgage and one-third by shares. Three or four
years ago, believing that local control would im-
prove matters, Sydney people bought out the London
financial corporation beforementioned, paying 40s.
for the 20s. shares, and the control passed to this
side. Some 6pc pref. shares (£33.000 altogether)
were issued to reduce the mortgage debt, and current
profit was also used to further reduce the mort-
gage. To recoup themselves for the 100 per cent,
premium paid for the shares, a new issue of shares
was subsequently made. The position now is that
there are 33,000 pref. shares of £l, 50,000 ordinary
shares paid to £1 and 50,000 paid to 10s There
are also 150.000 unissued. Apparently to save ex-
pense a new co. was not formed, so the property
stands in the books at the figure to which it was
A r L d °, Wn i n the «’ lo °my times (£147.365, plus
£20.000 for funuture arid machinery). Mortgages
and advances have been reduced to £26,310. As
the liabilities were for many years £lOO.OOO or
thereabouts, the cleaning-up has been excellent
though, as mentioned above, some of it has been due
to the pref. capital raised. Profits for the vear to
June, 1912, were £ 31,314. These, however, were said
to be abnormal. During that year the Hotel Metro-
pole Co., which had done a good deal of the finan-
cing in connection with the transfer of the business
to Australia, realised on its controlling interest, and
probably this accounted for a thorough cleaning out
of the cash-box prior to the transfer of the shares—
which transfer was made, by the way, at a nrofit of
something like £40.000 to the Metronole Co For
tbp 0 _ pas “ y ea r the Australia Co. shows a profit of
a 25.436, and a d vidend of 3s. per share for the
year is paid on all ordinary shares. This, with the
6 p.c. to prefs., absorbs £l6 980; £l7OO is trans-
lerreri to furniture and machinery renewal
making them The formal reserve fund
“now at £lO,OOO and unappropriated profits at
i- oUoo.
Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Writ-
t. .u- -n. • , ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
June, 05. . £902 Nil £902 £2722
Dec., 05.. 823 Nil 823 3545
June, ’06.. 842 Nil £1387 3000
Dec., ’06.. 972 Nil _ 972 SavS
June, ’07.. 874 Nil 874 434 n
Dec., ’O7. . 1200 24 p.c. = £6OO 600 5446
June,, ’OB.. 1330 24 „ „ 600 730 6176
Dec., ’OB.. 1619 2* „ „ 600 1019 7105
June, ’09.. 14 94 24 „ „ 600 894 gogq
Dec., 09. . 1444 24 ~ ~ 600 500 344 8433
June, ’lO.. 1429 24 „ „ 600 9000 269
Dec., ’lO.. 1616 24 „ „ 600 1016 1278
June, 11.. 777 2* „ „ 600 177 1455
? 6C ’’ 2 4 »>> 600 706 403 1858
June, ’12.. 1100 24 „ „ 600 350 150 2008
Dec., ’12.. 1096 24 „ „ 600 2650
June, ’13.. 1580 24 „ „ 600 486 49 R 4 eSe ’34B
The co. doesn’t own the freehold ; but its lease
runs for more than half a century yet. Still the
time will come when the whole outfit will have to
be passed on to the ground landlord; hence it is
necessary for the co. to build up out of profits a
fund to provide for the return of capital. * So far
nothing has been done in that way.' Certainly t
has written assets down now and then • b t t
hasn’t put the money by-it has stuck it into othej
wastmg assets The time seems to. have arrived
though, when the co. should be able to nut its
affairs into better order. J. C. WillLmson Itd
has a lease of the theatre until 1928, and ’as the
lessee has to keep the place in repair, and’as more
rent will be paid from 1918 onwards, the co should
have a fairly substantial start for a sinking fund
At present its surplus of liquid assets is only big
enough to provide the half-year’s dividend and
lease about £2OO over. Builders and renovators
have taken large bites out of the cash for a irood
many years past; but there should now be a Test
from them for a little time to come. 1
The Zinc Corporation, Ltd., was re
formed as at July 1, 1911, to amalgamate the old
Zinc Corporation and the Broken Hill South Blocks •
and it is not much use carrying the figures back
beyond that amalgamation. Since then results have
been as follows: K
Dividends. Writ-
i„ivPr°stS ‘ Pref ' e Ordinary?' Off! Deficit.
£ £ £ it
mi * *
Dec.', “1* 877
’ll.. 75,1-21 30p.c. =36,854 20p.c. = 32,657 Nil
12.,266,276 37i ~ ~ 92, i3o 35 ~ ~ 114,259 40,636 22,’y39
The original Zinc Corporation was formed in 1905
the prime promoter being Herbert J. Daly an ex-
mining reporter, who scented something important
coming, in the way of zinc extraction from the vast
dumps of so-called tailings at Broken Hill. The co
S n a , r ™ d „„ with a ca P ital of £240,000, of which
£«n°nnn W3S hy cash; the other
£BO,OOO appeared among the assets as “Tailings
I urchaso consideration Account”—really the very
tender consideration which the promoters showed
themselves. The process adopted for a start was
the Potter, and some sort of a plant was put up
on the British. Things went badly for a while
though not so badly as some people made out; and
before long, m order to raise more money, the co
was offering the most extraordinary terms: first
subscribers to the new issue were to get back their
pnncipal ; then they were to get 20 p.c. p.a. ; after
that, they were to have the same cut as the ordi-
naries No sooner had the new capital been raised
™ a ” things began to improve wonderfully, and in
.1 9 , 10 the co. made a net profit of £97,906 on a capi-
tal of £541,532. The Potter and other processes
had meantime been superseded by the Minerals
separation system. Then a new idea was worked out
the South Blocks mine was in a bad way. A
doubtful dividend had been paid, but even that had
tailed to shake things up. Amalgamation with this
very live Zinc concern was, therefore, resolved on •
and this was the basis agreed to:—
Pref. £1 Ordinary
™ . shares. 10s. shares,
lo Zinc Corporation .. 179.026 453,132
To South Blocks.. .. 66,666 200,’000
It looked as though the Zinc Corporation had been
loaded with a most unprofitable baby The ground
had been worked for close on 20 years, and had
never paid any but the beforementioned doubtful
dividend Duck, however, still stood to the Corpora-
tion; and the mine has developed remarkably well,
lbe pref. shares had to be taken over with their
°"\ pr avi leges; but these are, to some extent,
whittled down by making the ordinary shares 10«
whije the prefs. are 205.. and declaring the dividend
(after the prefs. get their 20 p.c.) at so much—2s.
or Is. 6d., as the case may be—per share all round.
In this way ordinaries last year scored very nearly
as well as prefs.
The co. won’t flourish for ever, and this and the
recent high price of zinc are just about the two most
important facts for the speculator to remember. The
i on hand at Dec. 31, 1912, amounted to
1,844,748 tons. The zinc plant ate up 345,425 tons
of tailings last year, so, at that rate of going, there
was a trifle over six years’ supply in the dumps at
the beginning of this year. To that must be added
the South Blocks mine. 8., M. and Co. estimated
the reserves down to the No. 7 level at 721,191 tons
and there is unquestionably much ore below that
level: a crosscut at No. 8 (1180 ft.) showed 50ft.,
averaging 14.8 p.c. lead, 2.30 z. silver and 10.7 p.c.
zinc with 35 p.c. of poorer stuff. There are other
bodies as yet not measured. The ore is
poor, certainly, so far as silver goes,
but it is hard to conceive of metals going
so low that there wouldn’t be money in it. In
six years the mine should have produced enough
zinc tailings to keep the zinc plant going a further
two years or so. That gives the zinc plant a life of
eight years practically certain. Bevond that, the co.
must depend on (1) further purchases, which won’t
be either very easy or very profitable ; (2) the South
Blocks mine. The latter even in its improved state
isn’t much of a propositiop to support a co. with a
capital of £572,261.
In one respect the co.’s finances are sounder than
those of most mining cos. The latter rarely th ; nk
of providing for the return of capital; when the
mine is gone the capital is gone. Shareholders in
such cases must provide for the return of their own
capital ; thev must refuse to regard as dividends a
good deal of what is d’stributed as such. This Zinc
Corporation does go a little way in the direction of
sound finance by charging to Profit and Loss the cost
ot the tailings, or thereabouts. Thus the “Tailings”
asset in the balance-sheet is gradnally reduced, and
other assets are taking its place. This shows how the
position is changing:—
T . ~ , 1911. 1912.
Liquid assets .. £225.124 £442,499
Liabilities .. .. 146,396 217,578
Surplus.. .. £79,728 £224,921
But still no formal fund for the return of capital is
being accumulated, as it ought to be.
Union Bank shares are now quoted ex
rights £55 10s. There have for over 30 vears
past been 60,000 shares of £25 each. The new
issue will consist of 20,000 shares, of £25 each,
for which present holders will pay £45. The pre-
sent £55 10s. eg rights is equal to £59 cum
rights. The dividend for about seven years past
has been 14 p.c. ; and on a payment of that size the
present price shows £6 6s. p.c. on the investment.
As the bank is without doubt in a very strong posi-
tion, with reserves of over IJ, millions, the rate of
interest required on an investment of this class is a
market Str ° ng hmt 38 t 0 the state of the money
* * * *
Sydney Exchange Co. :
Writ-
_ , ten To Re- Re-
*ron Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1905.. 1069 6p.c.= 900 - 169 16 348
June, 1906.. 806 6„ „ 900 16 254
Dec., 1906.. 1316 6„ „ 900 416 16 670
June, 1907.. 739 6„ „ 900 ifisno
Dec., 1907.. 1186 6,, 900 286 16 795
June, 1908.. 896 6„ „ 900 16 791
? eC ” 1261 6„ „ 900 361 17 152
June 1909.. He! 6„ „ 900 261 17 413
Dec., 1909.. 1464 6 „ 900 564 17’977
June, 1910.. 1792 6„ „ 900 1000 17 869
June 1911 " 5” ” 900 500 3*o 18,209
June, 1911.. 1316 6,, 900 416 18 696
Dec:, 1911.. 1028 6 ” 900 - 128 18,753
-Tune, 1912.. 1242 6 „ 900 250 92 18,845
t ’ 1912.. 1854 6„ „ 900 250 704 19,549
June, 1913.. 602 6,, ~ 900 250 19,001
since P tiyc oned in the last line is the poorest
attHhnte twi ab i Ie Wa ? b ? n ,\. in 1905 - The directors
ciV? !?i slump to “additional Federal and Muni-
r,e?l -?n? and extenslve repairs to the co.’s pro-
( y ■ . 3 he taxes may be, and very likely are,
thro?? d in P nn rn fV, nt ? ? nd , in an - y case are probably
a flino- at to tbe Fiitnmn s general principle to have
a fling at taxes whenever he sees an opening The
the Xt X7nk a r , e e PairS > re ’ 110 doubt ’ the r P eal Tause of
doesn’t ha g i a u d 3S a neW floor put in to - dav
cause L?! i to be , ren T ed to-morrow, there’s no
capital is ?l a nnnn at , he K suddep d r° p - The co.’s
caoirai is £30.000, and, besides that there are
debentures totaHing £20,000. The premises Rem-
and clnb e th ha 's e , and commercial men’s pub
hahlv waTt the books at £69,750, and is pro-
steadv Tf/e V P °° d deal more. The co. lives a
from rents’ revenl,e al most exclusively
prettv sute f ° r the man who is satisfied with a
Lir a tin t p - on present market price ( £l2
for a £lO share), 5 p.c.—the stock is worth consider-


Expert Knowledge and
Sound Financial Experience
Are Essential Qualifications of
Executor, Trustee or Attorney.
The PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
Is specially constituted by Act of Parliament
to act as
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS,
ATTORNEYS UNDER POWER, AGENTS, etc.,
and having had over 25 years’ experience in
Trust matters, offers advantages not
possessed by private Individuals.
FIXED and REASONABLE CHARGES,
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
Write for Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND ON APPROVED
SECURITIES AT FROM 5 PER CENI.
Suction Gas Plants.
Gas, Petrol, Oil Engines.
SIMPLICITY. RELIABILITY.
kyimoch ltd.,
Melbourne.
Adelaide.
Perth
Sydney
Brisbane
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concerte construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
salfely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd., Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yds. of
road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yd., and the cost of the spalls per cub. yd. averaged
2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub. yd.,
broken and spread. Their last contract under the
hand-breaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per cub.
yd., stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total 7s. 3d., as against 4s. 10d.— a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yd. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [3
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911 : “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year whicn was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, in sizes from 3in. up-
wards, serves for every duty for which a first-class
pressure pipe is required, if kept wet, the wood is
practically everlasting, and it is an out-and-out
economical pipe. Particulars from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney.*
Simplicity is the goal to which all makers of Oil
and Petrol Engines are making, because, if the
engine is to be made serviceable, it must be so
simple that skilled attention is not necessary.
Hornsby & Sons have achieved the almost impossible
in this respect. The Engines they are now placing
(both Oil and Petrol) on the market are of so simple
a nature that a boy can be taught the management in
a few minutes. Once started, they require practi-
cally no attention. R. Hornsby & Sons, Limited,
Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.* [4
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
ASPHALTUM.—Australian Oil Wells Co. will
purchase or procure capital to work asphaltum de-
posits. GEORGE D. MEUDELL, 424 Collins Street,
Melbourne.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
nvest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
rinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
nd all modem scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
ffice: Flinders Lane. Melbourne.*
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicles; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ing. The man who wants 10 or 12 p.c., and is pre-
pared to take a few extra risks, will rule it out of
the question.
w * * *
After having had investigations made by
managing-director J. J. Garvan and members of the
staff, the M.L.C. (Mutual Life and Citizens’) has
taken out a license to do life-assurance business in
Canada, where already the co., in order to spread
its risks, has placed some investments on the security
of wheat lands. Under the Canadian law, the one
office cannot do both life and accident business. The
M.L.C. will confine itself to the former; but other
arrangements are in progress to enable its staff to
handle also accident lines. It is not proposed to
try to make a splash, and a firm hand is to be kept
on the expenses, it is said. It is believed that, there
being no outstanding local office in Canada, a fair
share of the new business offering may be got as
cheaply by an Australian as by any other society.
* * * *
The Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
(Sydney) proposes to make another bonus distribu-
tion of shares —one in seven—on September 1. This
will bring the shares up to 200,000, all paid to 7s.
Things are not looking too well with the
Zinc Corporation’s interests at Sunny Corner(N.S.W-).
After much toil, the bottom levels were unwatered
and cleaned up, but there was no ore in sight, and,
though a good deal of driving and rising has been
done, nothing has been found, and work in that
part has been abandoned. Operations are being con-
tinued in the higher levels, where there is a good
deal of ore in sight; but whether the co. will be
satisfied with this is doubtful. Possibly the ore
body has run out in another “flat,” similar to those
found in the old days. The lode generally lays at
at angle of about 45deg., but in one place it was
quite horizontal, and covered an area of over four
acres. The same thing may have occurred again
below the No. 4 level. At the Sulphide Co.’s option,
the Nevada, the diamond drill has completed two
holes, and the third is down nearly 300 ft. So far,
nothing worth while has been found.
Great depth is suggested by the following
cryptic announcement from the New Burragorang
(N.S.W.): “Lifted 12 trucks firsts; still lifting;
letter following.” This co. has made a plucky effort
to get at the lode worked, with more than respectable
results, by the Yerranderie, and at 630 ft. in the
main shaft dropped on to a body of ore. This is
being opened out at 641 ft. A sample gives silver
107 oz. per ton, lead 41.2 p.c. and gold But
samples depend on a whole lot of things. A new
winding plant is to be erected, capable of hoisting
from 3000 ft., and the shaft is to be continued to
1000 ft. at least. Even 1000 ft. is. a fair depth to
follow a ribbon. The ribbon must be more than
passing rich to stand it.
Kyloe’s new venture at Drake (N.S.W.)
is a copper vein, as vet measurable only in inches,
despite frequent “indications of the lode widening at
depth.” So far Hunting’s shaft is 97ft. deep, where
the width of ore is 36in. and the assay 9.6 p.c.
copper. Enough, anyway, to be respectable! The
lode has straigtened up considerably, and now has
two good walls ; and a little water is making in the
bottom. Hereabouts the tale will become interest-
ing. . West’s shaft is 36ft. deep, the ore in the
bottom being 18in. wide and assaying 9.4 p c.
copper. “Ore appears to be widening out and im-
proving in value again.” Surface plant is being
erected, from the remains of the now-defunct Kyloe
mine; but delay has been caused by breakdowns of
the traction engine.
A glow-worm glimmer still survives around
the ancient districts of Lionville and Solferino, in
the neighborhood of Grafton (N.S.W.). The Moun-
tain Maid G. M. Co. has been registered, capital
£13,000 in 13.000 £1 shares, half of which in-
evitably go to the unselfish vendors who part with
a property that has yielded gold to the tune of £4O
a foot of sinking. The iust-as-inevitable rich stone
equal to anv vet raised is still showing underfoot.
It is a mystery whv people will persist in letting
others into sucb good things. Near by there is an-
other property (No. 2), where a winze, which is
being sunk from the tunnel, has yielded, it is
claimed, 30 tons of 2oz. to 3oz. stone from 20ft. of
sinking. Good stuff, but so little of it, and so hard
to find.
Principal Westralian results for June :
Revenue. Profit. Value.
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder .. 16,457* 44,141 23,025 53/8
Ivanhoe .. 19,154 36,815 14,005 38/5
Kalgurli.. .. 10,610 21,033 9,259 39/8
Bullfinch Prop. .. 4,542 13,626 8,369 60/-
Golden Horseshoe 25,697 f 36,810 5,604 28/8
Yuanmi .. ... 10,400 17,849 2,597 34/4
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,401 20,724 4,593 30/11
Lake View and Star 17,058 19,950 3,659 23/5
Oroya Links . . 10,830 11,432 1,582 21/1
Great Fingall .. 5,197 10,739 1,144 41/4
Associated .. 10,475 12,793 1,353 24/5
South Kalgurli .. 9,188 9,988 475 21/9
Corinthian North 2,537 1,668* 9/3
Associated Northern 9,486 8,146 2,005§ 17/2
Ida H 1,415 4,278 1,452 60/6
Golden Ridge .. 2,515 4,148 1,000 33/-
Mararoa .. .. 2,650 4,940 37/3
Kyarra .. .. 875 2,512 332|| 57/5
Golden Butterfly. . 1,200 1,410 175 23/6
Hannan’s Reward 3,129 1.479 9/5
Mountain Queen.. 3,626 4.915 1,402 27/1
Fenian ..' .. 2,817 8,277 3,019 58/9
Boulder No. 1 . . 2,70011 913 407 3/8
Lake View and Oroya 8,145** 1.508 ~~
Boulder Perseverance 20,294 17,028 2,556 16/9
Lady Miller .. 1,815 1.666 473 18 4
Burbanks Main Lode 2,005 3,888 2-9 38/9
Menzies Consolidated 2,221 3,306 -84 29/9
*Small tonnage due to holiday and stoppage for mill
repairs. (Reduction in tonnage attributed to tnere
being five Sundays and one holiday in month.
(Residues of a gross value of £2340 stacked for
treatment. includes £740 derived from co. s
almost worked out Kalgoorlie show. ||Over £IOUU
was expended on development. I; Accumulated slimes.
**old Lake View tailings.
* ♦ *
That incorrigible old optimist, G. P.
Doolette, raised shareholders’ expectations kite hig
at the Bullfinch meeting in London. “Local people
declared that the mine would develop into a nig
thing,” he said. Dick Hamilton reckoned that the
lode was “very good looking.” Loring and otheis
were “absolutely astounded at the amount or ore
developed.” Young Bill Robinson, who spent the
best part of a day underground, ventured the opinion
that the property had bright prospects, while some
of “the highest authorities in the West agreed tha
mightlfuLTe i bei K ff °P ened U P at the 310 ft. level
in the b rwu me one of the most important
ne State. Other complimentary reports had
above F we^ Ved ’ Doolette thought those mentioned
the totTl n M fficient t 0 k° on with. He added that
W hoH > ay ,°!l. mine and Plant to December 31
OH 4 h h A d , been £100,163, that £27,000 since paid
Ana-nst l borrow ed from the bank, that from
£vn non , rd L " 10t ' thl - v P roflt s should average
the b v’j a i' d .that the co. would certainly be on
nWr d !T dend *J lst by the end of the vear - This
dimlra th l gathering to concert pitch, and it
dispersed in a hooray frame of mind.
* * * *
W° rd c . omes fr om the West that initial
difficulties in connection with Howe’s volatilisation
ha , ve been overcome at the Gwalia Consoli-
d?„ed >, and i-fiat. the first clean-up from the new
plant has established the success of this method of
treatment for the hitherto-troublesome antimonial-
arsemcal ores on the property. It is better to wait
a while before joining the band of whoopers.
* * * *
Two Westralian derelicts, Cumberland
???“. P rin °ess Royal, are to be persevered with a
little longer. Former has been handed over to tribu-
tors, and the advisableness of doing the same in
regard to the latter is now under consideration,
several parties have offered to give the upper levels
a trial, but the matter is hung up for the time
being because shareholders think that if the spec, is
good enough for tributors it is good enough for them.
Wrong! As a rule, tributors are able to earn a
living where a co. would starve.
Chaffers’ (W.A.) reconstruction has been
formally agreed to by shareholders, and a meeting
of confirmation was to have been held in
London on July 23. Recent developments
on the lode at No. 16 level have been
very good, according to official reports, and
the management has been telling the local news-
paper that there is every prospect of the mine turn-
ing itself from an expensive failure into a source of
profit to shareholders.
Geologist Dr. Maclaren has completed
examinations of the Great Fingall and Fenian, and
is now heading towards Sons of Gwalia (W.A.). As
regards the Fenian, Maclaren is said to have con-
sidered the intrusion which cut off values at the No.
7 level, and to have renorted that it isn’t likely to
be fatal to the shoot in deeper ground.
Thinking, no doubt, that any excuse was
better than none, chairman Phillips told shareholders
at the Oroya-Links meeting in London that profits
had fallen off during the latter half of last year
because of labor unrest. Continuing, this Venture-
some person said: “The various labor unions com-
bined and threatened a strike unless certain prepos-
terous rises in wages and new conditions were
granted. As the co. is treating low-grade ore, all I
can say is that, had the men’s claims been upheld, I
should, with my colleagues’ consent, have called the
proprietors of the Kalgoorlie mines together and pro-
posed to them that they should pick out the richest
ore in their properties and then sell up and dis-
tribute the proceeds among shareholders.” A mere
silly threat by Phi lips to cut off his (probably
Hebrew) nose to spite his (probably Hebrew) face
and induce a number of other Jews and Gentiles to
follow suit.
* * ia ■ ♦ *
A note of warning is hereby sounded re-
garding South Edna May (W.A.). An option has
been secured in a roundabout sort of way on a lease
some distance east of the Edna May at Weston’s
(W.A.), and preparations are being made to get the
public in. A couple of shafts have been sunk to 65ft.
and connected with a drive, and from this develop-
ment work about 50 tons of picked ore has been
crushed for a return of 350 z. over the plates.
Therefore, remarks the co. with a look as if every-
thing is all over bar shouting, the stone was worth
nearly an ounce. But what would a fair-dinkum
sampling show the property to average, and on
whose recommendation has the option been acquired ?
There is so much rubbish in the West nowadays
that it is not safe to have anything to do with
anything there without thorough investigation.
Eyes in Westralia are now turned to a
new copper find 115 miles north of Peak Hill, and
over 200 miles from anywhere else. The outcrop can
be traced for half a mile or more, and, although
the vein is small on the surface, it appears to bulge
in depth. A small parcel of what is estimated to be
40 to 60 p.c. ore has been dug out of the prospectors’
claim-and sent along to the smelters for treatment.
* * * *
A low return, impoverished stopes, and
poor values in the bottom of the Victorious, knocked
the price of Associated Northerns down several shil-
lings. The current month’s return is expected to be
better. If it isn’t the market will probably sag a
bit more. Last month the grade averaged 17s. 2d.,
and in view of the fairly long stretch of high values
recently reported at the No. 4 level, and the rich ore
stated to have been met in rising and winzing since
then, it seems remarkable that a better average than
17s. 2d. could not have been recovered. What is
the matter? Has the much-advertised rich shoot
vanished, has it been used up, or is the management
keeping it for show purposes ? Surely something
more than the bald statement that the stopes were
poor is needed to clear up the mystery ! As regards
the bottom level, the management is confident that
the downward continuation of the rich shoot will be
picked up east of the present workings. The Bul-
letin hopes so.
Star of Erin, Enoch’s Point (Vic.), is
getting into the dyke formation, and the special
wish of as good a party of Sons of Erin as ever
lifted a whisky flask is that they may strike it
green. The great thing in Victorian hill mining is
a basin and floors of quartz in which the gold will
occur like spangles on Genee’s skirts. Star of Erin
has reached the dyke, and manager Thrupp declares
that the basin is nearby. The next need is the
quartz in the greenstone, and the last is the gold.
This is the best and the worst of Star of Erin,
which, after all, is a mining gamble with an honest,
hopeful lot of Irishmen to shove it along on the
straight road. ■
Birthday Tunnel, Berringa (Vic.), used
to sDlash out a picture cover and a neat plan of
the workings, but since John Leishman has eased
out of mining, there are no trimmings to the menu.
It would still be hard to find a better record of pro-
gressive work and dividend-paying, though. Three
levels are being worked at a fair depth and a lot
of solid development work is being rushed on, yet
costs don’t mount to above 10s. Bd. per ton. Of
this 25 p.c. is represented by the aforesaid develop-
ment. That 10,744 tons gave gold and pyrites worth
£5477, and that only one call had to be made, is
the index to the care with which pence are watched.
The co in the last week or two has got on to better
stone in No. 4 level south, but the “better stone is
simplv 3dwt. stuff. Most mines would regard stone like
this as piffle, but in the Tunnel sdwt. means romping
on the div. list. A big programme of work is set
out on the next half-year, with a bank debit and
calls ahead unless development yields some quick
help.
George Buchanan has got on the Board
ot the North Nuggetty, Daylesfard, buying a very
big qualification at a top price. This re-introduces
Ballarat to the property; but the circumstance won’t
make the show an ounce better than W. Rain repre-
sents. Appropriately, just as Buchanan got his seat
the Welcome reef was hit. Thereupon a merry trio
set to work to unload a block of 10,000 shares
picked up in anticipation of this strike. But after
a few timid bears had been fed up, the old weary
feeling got into the ring, and not much unloading
was possible. The truth is that the grade of the
dirt at the North Nuggetty has to come down, and
squibby stories about Welcome reefs and No. 6 level
developments can’t alter that fact.
* * * *
Before Peter Mcßride got tired of the
warring at Wonthaggi, he locked up all the coal
lands in Victoria for State purposes and held on to
them grimly unto the last. A. A. B llson now has
to make up his mind whether he will continue that
policy or let Private Enterprise into the industry.
There isn’t much to be nroud of over Wonthaggi.
Instead of all hands playing up to Peter Mcßride’s
policy of giving a fair day’s pay for a fair day’s
work, and a fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay.
they have loafed and fought like a lot of Mexicans.
Boys that ought to have been cuffed have roughed-
up everything, and the people of the State are sick
of Wonthaggi. Thus arises the opportunity for the
old coal crowd who were sent into the dustbin by
Mcßride. The State coal mine, notwithstanding
that it has had no driving and has had much poor
labor, has pretty well cleaned Private Enterprise out
of Outtrim and Jumbunna ; so Billson is asked to let
the cos. roam round pegging out leases as of old.
The old cos. have mined 2,000,000 tons of coal, and
have paid a few thousands in divs., but they couldn’t
have paid even that much if they hadn’t been
bonused by kindly Treasurers. Therefore, while
he is about it, Billson ought to ascertain if
more pap-feeding is wanted to keep Private Enter-
prise on its big feet, because, if it is necessary, the
last excuse for lease-pegging and opposition to Won-
thaggi vanishes.
The old Unity, Bendigo, has exhausted
its capital of £ 40.000, and the directors propose to
increase the face value of the 32,000 shares from
255. to £3 with a view to continuing calls. Why
they should ask for an extension to £ 3 when £2
would be as far as the most sanguine believer could
be expected to go is a mystery. A hundred moons
have waxed and waned since the Union was a pay-
ing concern. Up to then it had distributed £54,700,
so any original shareholders who have hung on are
still on the right side of the ledger. Prospects run
on much the same lines as the present developments
of the Carlisle, which lately took to paying divs.
again after a pause of three or four years. All
th'ngs considered, the Unity is worth persevering
with.
* * * *
After weeks of foolishness comes the order
“As ,you were!” to the strikers in the Cloncurry
(Q.) district. The matter in dispute is to be
settled by a conference between the A.W.A. and the
cos. concerned after the next A.W.A. annual confer-
ence. Meanwhile each party has agreed not to hit
the other provided the other does no hitting. The
stoppage has affected the Hampden far more seri-
ously than the Elliott, as the Hampden’s finances
are not all that could be desired, and it must scratch
along at full pace with its production to lighten the
burden of capital expenditure at and near the
Macgregor. The Elliott, on the other hand, hasn’t
shown any inclination whatever to get a move on
since the “unfortunate” fire at the South Consols,
though it now threatens that smelting will shortly
bd re-started If the mines are any good at all they
ought certainly to be able to give the smelters a
pretty fair run, as the miners have had a handy
start.
t * * *
For the first six months of this year 19
mines at Charters Towers crushed 41,462 tons for
£135,018. The total return from all sources was
£161,140. Brilliant Extended heads the list with
12,216 tons for £31,808. Then come New Brilliant
Freehold, with 7008 tons for £18.534 ; Mills’ United,
with 7001 tons for £17.320; and Brilliant Deeps,
with 3656 tons for £15,457. The proposal to sink
a deep shaft (4000 ft.) at Lissner Park is still
attracting attention, and the ratepayers have give"
a strong vote in favor of the use of the ground for
this purpose. #
Some time in May The Bulletin re-
marked, apropos the latest tin float of a Siamese
property in Australia, that the group which had the
business in hand was the same that put the Tong-
kah business through. Incidentally it was said
that, “on the first rise to 405., Sim Bee, the Gov-
ernor of Puket, sent his scrip swirling to Sydney,
and got the then top price.” Sim Bee is now
dead and can’t speak for himself; but The Bulle-
tin is assured that he never held any Tongkah
shares. It wasn’t, of course, suggested that he
hadn’t come by them honestly. On the contrary,
his reputation for straight dealing stood high
among those Australian mining men who have had
dealings with him and the other Siamese Govern-
ment officials. The Bulletin is told that the re-
mark has given the late Governor’s relatives pain;
and for that it is sorry.
* * *
The Mammoth (N.Q.) is sinking its main
vertical shaft another lift from the 160 ft. level.
Work at this depth is proving a strong shoot of ore.
Average values lately obtained in the course of 46ft.
of development were' 12.30 p.c. copper, I.6odwt. gold,
and 4.910 z. silver. No. 2 south drive at the 160 ft.
level has been extended to 174 ft. ; the lode has re-
cently improved from 21in., worth 9.2 p.c. copper, to
60in., worth 16 7 p.c. copper. The co. has a big
area along the line, and the further it goes the more
it looks like climbing to a comfortable place among
the moderate dividend-payers. *
Kulamadau, Woodlark Island (Papua),
ended its half-year on May 31 rather miserably, and
it has been found necessary to transfer £2OOO from
fixed deposit to current account. During the six
months, 11,613 tons were milled for gold and con-
centrates valued at £12,178. The cyaniding of
tailings gave £1438, and other items made a total
of £13,649. During the half-year 5855 tons were
raised at an average cost of £1 7s. 9d., and 0758
tons were quarried at a cost of Is. 3.7 d. per ton.
Milling runs to 4s. 9d„ and cyaniding 3s. 3sd. P«
ton Total cost of the crushing stuff raised from the
mine, £1 15s. lOd. The drives have been put in
order, and the two shafts connected at No. 5 level.
The battery has a capacity of 500 tons per week, and
the returns since the half-year closed been
remunerative. Kulamadau appeals to Charters Towers
as a fair mining gamble on the strength of what has
been revealed in the deepest level (No. 5). #
Brilliant Block. Charters Towers, is
sinking its shaft—inclined at an angle of 45 degrees
through granite at the rate of from 30ft. to 40ft.
per fortnight. A bore-hole put down from the
2000 ft level before the shaft was started failed to
Dick up a solid reef, but it met with diorite forma-
tion carrying quartz leaders. Nevertheless
boundary prospects from the Brilliant Deeps old
workings, and from the footwall reef more recently
worked, provided an incentive to sink the shaft,
towards the cost of which the State Government pays
a subsidy of £3OOO, and the Deeps contribute some-
thing in return for ventilating privileges. There
is no certainty about results, of course, for a reef
may be rich on the boundary and yet become im-
poverished as risen on. Such was the case in the
East Mexican, whose No. 6 level above the New
Brilliant Freehold’s boundary was the best in the
mine. » » *
H.8.W.; Dealt with in B. 10/7/T3.
.... Mvora: Sorry cannot advise that way.
Transvaal (Rand) figures. From May,
,1887, to April 30, 1913, ore milled, 209.414,540
tons, of the value of £377,048,511. For 1912, ore
treated, 26,071,841 tons; value, £38,757,560; divi-
dends, £8,331,575. Persons employed on the Rand
mines, 23,418 Europeans (most of them at present
busy smashing things, the Rand being in the midst
of its most serious strike) and 193,341 colored
people.
* * * *
There are rumors in Melbourne that
MacDonald, who reported so positively against the
existence of oil on the Victoria River (N.T.), was
able to spend only a day or two on each of five
areas. If this be true, it is up to the Common-
wealth to hire an expert to inquire thoroughly
into the probable existence of oil on the Victoria
River. Incidentally he might go to Vailala River,
Papua, and find out why it took six months to bore
250 ft. through soft strata. The finding of oil in
Australia is too important a matter to be set back
or delayed by the adverse report of only one oil-
driller, whatever his qualifications—-especially when
the oil-driller has done no drilling.


~ZANETIC ink paper is so wonderfully sensitive
that when placed under writing paper, it produces
by the act of writing with pen and ink a perfect
permanent copy No copying-press required. Each
Zanetic sheet makes many copies. All Stationers, or
from Makers S. B. ZANETIC, Welford Road
Leicester, England. Sample sheet 2d., post free.*
Heerinsfs
Copen/jagert
Est. 1818
;
l : O 4
heerihg
merry Sunn
AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for vears
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name of
“Ozenne,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
easily get it for you.*
WORLD
RENOWNEB
grand
STUHR,
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Bold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEQROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD B RANDY
1575, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 21, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
General Finn is still waving his fountain
pen over vice-regal note-paper as acting
private sec. to Governor Strickland. In
spite of unreliable rumors to the contrary,
soldier Finn is only filling a temporary gap
on sub-royalty’s staff. His own job, as sec-
retary to the Walter Hall Trust Fund, is
his only permanent toil in these parts.
Beatrice Grimshaw drops in from Bris-
bane, where she clambered aboard the
Van Linschoten. “Mrs. J. H. P. Murray
has asked me to stay with her at Port
Moresby before going off into the
wilds of the Papuan bush I have
been getting a few tropical clothes here, for
Brisbane is well to the fore in these matters.
They do not recommend plate-armor corsets
down to your knees as just the thing in the
tropics, or give you evening dresses that
melt. A black sequined gown I once had did
this at a dinner-party in Moresby, and stuck
to the chairs, also to me... .A good many
people seem to have been vaccinated on the
leg up here. It must have its disadvantages,
remembering the public inspection that all
travellers undergo. I was done before leav-
ing Sydney, not because I wanted it —as it
was the fifth time, but to save trouble. If
one travels much one is sure to come in for
vaccination fairly often. It ceases to take
after a while, and the subject regards it as
merely a ceremony. I have been to the drill-
shed once to be inspected, and have to go
again before leaving.”
Hodder and Stoughton are going to
publish “The _ Sorcerer’s Stone” —the latest
Grimshaw series of stories of Papuan treas-
ure, and of wild life amongst the cannibals
and mosquito nets. The Lone Hand will
run it from November in serial form. Eng-
lish and ’Murkan magazines will also serve it
out m monthly snacks. Fiction has a golden
lining when it travels round the globe at this
pace, but the experienced Beatrice remarks
m parentheses: “By a lucky fluke Papua is
a perfect sanatorium for me, as I seem to be
almost fever-proof. For the rest, it takes
time and money to explore its hinterland.
You must not mind ‘living on broken wittles
and sleeping on the coals,’ or its equivalent.
Also, you must be a good mountaineer and
have a knack of getting on with natives ; your
life may depend on that.” Given all these
things, Papua is a literary field of uncommon
possibilities.
The W atkins people, who are Parramatta
rolks, are mourning the loss of clever daugh-
ter Dorothy. She was on a holiday trip to
some Queensland relatives, and was killed
last week, by being flung off her horse. The
P rl just grown the learned tail, “Bache-
lor of Science,” after a career of great pro-
mise at Sydney Uni.
One or both the cricketing Waddv
brothers are going to take a N.S.W. team
to Geylon m December—or there’s been
some talk of it. A man who knows cricket
played in that spicy island says that
White Australia will have to send a good
combine of casual cricketers to play “The
Colts. ’ This is composed of descendants of
mixed races known in Colombo as Burghers
—a relic of the days when the Dutch owned
that colored strand. The Burghers are
mostly descended from wealthy Dutchmen
with a dash of Portuguese and Cingalese.
They play with that subtle turn of the
wrist that marks the game as the victorious
Ranji steered it. “The Burghers,” it is
alleged, “are a very fine race in spite of the
native strain. In the present generation it
scarcely tints their complexion. They are
amongst the ablest lawyers and doctors in
loD ' and to all appearance white men.”
Ihe Colts are equal to an English county
XI, and it s up to the Waddy team to make
a big effort to keep up the White Australia
argument.
The extensive cricketer, Warwick Arm-
strong, was married to his little Aileen
O Donnell the other day. The bridal plu-
mage was a foam of silky drapery, covered
with a gossamer fall of lace. The O’Donnells
are well known in the pastoral pursuits of
this State. The bride’s late father, P. J.
U Donnell, owned the fatted herds that
munch the Mingay grass, and the Darling
I omt abode is called after those pastures.
groom is something in the Government
m, Melbourne, when he isn’t piling up a
cricket scores ; so the new bride will wrestle
with Sarah Ran in that city.
The female instinct to cling to a title
till death do them part, is indexed in the
bald cable item re the George Cornwallis-
W est divorce. “She resumes the name of Lady
Randolph Churchill.” The widow of the
late Judge Innes (Sydney), whose second
matrimonial venture was the sour-looking
Irench diplomat, Biard d’Aunet, also sticks
to the prefix “Lady,” with Innes after it,
though the circumstances are entirely dif-
ferent. Mrs. Innes Biard d’Aunet is said
to be an admirer of her Frenchman’s brains,
though she prefers Sydney to Paris as a
fixed abode.
Goff has been suffering so much from the
panic in its left arm that the first fortnight
in August will not see the inter-State ama-
teur championship on the Kensington links.
Health permitting, the goffers will strike the
first blow in that competition on September
5.
Artist Griiner has achieved a delicate
Blamire Youngish little canvas, whereon is
painted the best-looking hill near the plains
of Canberra. This effort is housed in the
Fine Arts Society’s rooms, Bligh-street.
The George Earps recently invited our
Nicest People to an evening party. There
was no dancing. His Anglican Gaiters,
Archbishop Wright, and Mrs. Archbishop,
were the cause of this gathering at Uig
Lodge. So the Turkey Trot, and other ball-
room frenzies, were carefully locked up out
of sight. Little Mrs. Earp, who has a feel-
ing for . yellow in all its fantasies, was
clothed in a gown that emulated the nicest
shade in fresh dairy butter. She presented
the Shepherd to the most expensive members
of the fold, while the lute, harp and other
instruments played selections suitable to the
occasion. Three daughters of the house vied
with mamma in chasing visitors to the re-
freshments, which were numerous and solid
enough to sink a ship. Her Gaiters is a
buxom, bright-eyed dame, who seems to find
the occupation of a Mrs. Archbishop very
good for her health.
The Ivor Etheringtons, of Colombo, are
lingering in the Henry Gullett homestead
at Wahroonga. She used to be Winifred, of
that ilk. They leave here for their new
bungalow amongst the cinnamon groves some
time in October. If this residence is as
extensive as its photo, its innumerable bal-
conies will take some dusting. “We haven’t
got the servant trouble in Ceylon,” said Ivor
the Tea Planter the other afternoon, “but
it s just as hard to get houses there as it
is here, and the rents are very high. Do we
work? I should say so! We take no notice
of the heat, and work longer hours than the
average Sydney merchant. For instance,
most of us are up and about our business, if
it happens to be tea or other merchandise,
at half-past six in the morning. Bath and
breakfast soon after 8 a.m. Then we go to
our offices, and don’t knock off for an hour
to go to a caf6 or walk about the streets as
they do here. Just a snack in the office, and
very often another man comes along in the
lunch hour to have his hurried snack too,
and talk business at the same time. Home
in the evening, after a 12-hour day. It
doesn’t seem to hurt us much—in fact, we
thrive on it!” When the Northern Terri-
tory has begun to wear some of the frills
of longer-settled States, and knows the cheer-
ful scream of a locomotive engine, 'the
White Australian seems to have j’ust the
same chances of growing a wiry constitution
as the Ceylon tea-planter.
Dr. Enid Macdonald, of this city, is going
north to join the staff of a Brisbane hospital.
She is the brainy young daughter of the
well-known Dr. “Wally Mac,” whose fame in
way back Queensland towns, years ago, is
still remembered. And the rush of the relays
of horses that used to post him on to the
Aever-Never, when some patient required to
ve ..] lls fi ea <l and body amputated to save
his life, . used to wake up the sparse com-
munity in the dead of night. The sparse
community still wakes up as that outfit
passes, but it is a ghostly outfit now, and
is hastening to operate on a spectre whose
invisible appendix has gone wrong. Of
course the doctor survives. He will never
die. But he has tamed down to the use of
a petrol car on Sydney macadam, though he
is supposed to cherish acute yearnings for the
jungle. He is the only man in Australia
whose ghost tears around while he is still
alive.
In the . State schools the infant mind is
turned aside from its usual calm meditation
on the curly body of an S, and the hidden
meaning of taking 17 from 12, when you
can t do it without stealing something to
square up. Inspector Donald Fraser made
his first appearance the other morning, at
the Paddington State seminary. Fifty
small kiddies, who hadn’t seen the 6ft. or so
of Fraser before, fastened 100 staring eyes
0n ais r£ ace ’ an(i rem ained glued to their
seats. The teacher in charge passed the
word to go on. with the daily task. The
class was petrified like Cleopatra’s needle.
Presently the Sweetest Thing in the room
burst into tears. The class wailed in sym-
pathy. Then the Sweetest Thing spoke up :
Please, teacher, I don’t want to be waxen-
ationed less mother’s with me!”
The Ceylon Tourist Bureau, with Mr.
Anglo-Indian IV ayman in charge, has just
unpacked its. oak furniture, and hung out its
sign, in a Pitt-street eyrie. It behoves the
tourist to walk warily past its elegant door,
lest he be seized, loaded with descriptive
literature about the Palace of the Tooth
and packed off to a Buried City in Ceylon’
before he has time to escape.
Nordica. the U.S. soprano, is making a
majestic descent on our village as I write.
Her baggage, a heavyweight argument that
has to be mentioned by the ton, is slowly
passing the awe-stricken Customs officers, in
battalions of French lingerie and hollow
squares of gold and silver tissue frocks.
I hope she has brought along a gown she
wore last London season. It occurred on a
Melba first night at Covent Garden. The
base or foundation of the structure was a
princess slip of cloth of silver. Over this
shimmered a Cleopatra tunic of blush-rose
chiffon, embroidered in violet orchids, brushed
with the kind of dew you buy (I hope
you do buy these comforts) from a diamond
merchant by the carat. Fringes of the same
gems, tinkled on her shoulder straps. Mrs.
Nordica told a London reporter that the
gown symbolised the purple of perfection
as a tribute to Melba’s art, and the white
flash of the stones the crystal purity of the
Skylark’s voice. She added: “I had the dia-
monds tuned for the occasion, so that the
fringes would tinkle in the same key as Mimi’s
music.” If he were a very young reporter,
and had just supped off underdone lobster,
trimmed with pickled pork, and washed
down with mixed drinks, no doubt hq be-
lieved the lady.
The Actors’ Association of Australia gave
its second birthday party at Paris House
on Sunday evening. President George
Titheradge, in the chair, had the guest of
honor, daughter Madge, at his right
elbow. Henry V. Waller sat on the Presi-
dent’s vaccination side. “Hop,” who grows
fiddles as a hobby, in his occasional hours
of ease, camped next door to his friend
Titheradge’s choicest bloom, the principal
girl present. The Hugh Wards were strongly
entrenched in the vicinity. Mrs. Hugh
owned a very sore left arm. Walter Bent-
ley, further along, had Frank Musgrove and
George Willoughby as outposts on his right,
or unpunctured, column. Florence Young
dominated a joyous table in the centre.
Madge Temple’s decorative appearance, tem-
porarily detached from her best hat —the
one with dark black underneath and an os-
trich farm on top showed sleek raven locks
m neat little Emma Jane rolls low down on
the back of her handsome head. Hubby
Derewski, with Reg Roberts on his tender
left arm, sat opposite an unvaccinated lady
made of wax. This trophy was perched like
a cosy on the shoulder of an able-bodied
champagne bottle. The Freddie Shipmans
were located at the same board.
Tith. proposed the King’s health at the
Actors festive Sunday night out, with a sly
allusion to the loyalty of actors to monnrchs,
perhaps because they remembered that the
ghost never walked during the time of
Oliver Cromwell. Comedian Percy’s speech
was the sparkle of the occasion. His usual
patriotic allusion to our wheatfields, our
beautiful country, our brass effrontery, our
tinny” luck, our golden climate, etc., was
twined round a welcome to Madge, the guest
of honor. “I tell you what, we’re all friends
here, so I don’t mind letting you into a
secret about our tinny luck. When Rome
and Greece had cornered all the art and
learning in the world, they said, ‘Now we’ll
go out. to Australia and corner the fish
and fruit trade.’ Well, I’m sorry to tell you
—were aH friends together—they’ve done
it. I his sally from Percy was followed by
a .more serious exhortation from Victor
Prince. He is a stout pillar of the Actors’
Benevolent Fund, and rounded uo the strag-
glers m a forceful demand that the pros-
perous should help those who fall by the way
Bentley proposed the toast, “Lewis Waller!”
When the acclamation ended, Waller, who
has a. large dimple in his chin, brushed his
artistic brow with his hand fa Waller
habit), and explained that his temper was
not so good as it was supposed to be. (Here
followed an anecdote.) He wanted to thank
them from the bottom of his heart (that was
his own pet phrase), but his friend and con-
frere, Madge Titheradge, incidentally an
ardent suffragette, who had often heard him
say it, used it for herself in returnig thanks.
However, he would still thank them from the
same spot.
The committee of the Journalists’
Institute gives a lunch to Lewis
Mailer and Madge Titheradge before
this meets your long-distance range of obser-
vation, Arini. . The inky trade is getting
several steps higher in finance than it used
to be in the days of Grub-street, when genius
retired to bed while its only shirt was drying
on the back-yard fence. Then it could only
teed itself when its credit was good. Now it
can offer considerably more than a dish of
herbs to the spoilt darlings of stageland Yet
even a dish of herbs—so a great authority
said—is better than a brawling woman in a
wide house, or words to that effect.
“The Brixton Burglary” will face the foot-
lights at the Criterion on Saturday after-
noon, July 26. It is in aid of St. Martha’s
Home, Leichhardt. J. R. Allen produces this
robbery, which is planned on Sherlock
Holmes principles. It can give a wrinkle or
two to the simple burglar who boldly attacks
a large house, and a menagerie of vassals
and only gets away with the kitchen spoons!
The Sydney Uni. Dramatic Society is
going to give “The Younger Generation” in
the Concordia Hall on Saturday, July 26
A curtain-raiser called “Anchored,” written
by Adrian Stephen, precedes the main theme
The Stephen plunge into theatrical matter
is a story of student life written round Paul’s
College. So a sweet young thing, armed
with a tennis racquet and bearing in
her strong right hand a pair of canvas shoes,
tells me. Hon. Secs. Betty Marshall and
R. R. Kidston, and vice-president Enid
Armstrong are storming the highest
altitudes in the Inky Way, to place their
case before the public eye. Proceeds go to
fill the cash-box of the ’Varsity Women’s
Sports Association, which has a large hole in
its middle just now.
The Theatre Royal has just had its inside
painted white. It looks about twice the
size it used to, when its sombre coloring
deadened the effect of the electric bulbs.
Henry V. is now making his last attack on
Agincourt—till the scenery is packed up for
another town. The battering ram —a fear-
some-looking beast with crumpled horns and
the long, lean body of a praying mantis-
helps to crumble the walls of the besieged
village. Waller, as Henry V., has the
sinewy form and nervous dash that usuallv
goes with 20 summers, and his clothes are
heavenly. He makes love to Katherine in a
mediaeval tunic set with large glass rubies
the size of marbles, and crimson trunks
that cling to his royal legs as tight as wall-
paper. Madge Titheradge makes Katherine
a. witch in yellow brocade, with the cutest
little gold cap pulled down over her head
like a babe’s bonnet. Chas. Quartermaine
is the Dauphin. He looks like the useful
young man who comes to the back door for
the grocery order —if that indispensable visi-
tor could be persuaded to put a wreath of
flowers on his head, and jump on his bike
in fancy dress.
J. C. Williamson spent his last Sunday
evening in this town under G. L. ijroodman’s
roof, in the leafy hollow of Double Bay. A
game of bridge and a little bit of supper
passed between them. “Goody,” who has
been associated with the departed J.C.W.
for 33 years, is wearing his loss with a de-
jected countenance.
Haling Cottage has been rented by Lewis
Haller, his leading lady and her husband,
and a sister of the first-named star. The
constellation will twinkle in deshabille
(when there is no rehearsal) and house
slippers on the lawn that overlooks the goff
links. This red-tiled bungalow is the roomy
cot that belongs to Lawyer Herbert Harris.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
An old Sussex-street (Sydney) merchant,
George Nipper, died last week, aged 75 years.
He arrived in Victoria from Weston-super-
Mare (Eng.) in 1857. After some years in
the southern State, he went up to Grafton
and, becoming associated with the late John
See, founded the firm of Nipper and See,
well known for years in connection with
ships and pumpkins.
“Hermes”: How poor the logic of the
fanatic invariably is. We now have the
Rev. Anti-Liquor Boyce arguing publicly
that the community is as much called upon
to suppress alcohol as smali-pox. Small-pox
has killed no one so far, he claims, while the
unspeakably accursed der-rink killed 18
people in January, 1912. A point he over-
looks is that no man need take whisky. It is
one of the easiest things to avoid doing. In
fact, its elusiveness constitutes a standing
grievance with a large and honorable class.
Aot even the maddest of pub-loafers ever
deliberately took small-pox of his free will
and personal wish. It took him. So the
Ganon s argument fails. No one really has;
any right to prevent a man taking alcohol
eyer \ 11 P]' actice . is Proved to tend to
shorten his life. Life is not to be judged
bv its term of years, but by the quantity
and quality of the work that is turned
out during its span. Many of the people on
the Ganon s tally would, no doubt, have died
anyhow, and perhaps liquor helped them to
die and, mayhap, gave them a few joyous
hours before the time came to open the door
and step into the empty dark. Anyhow, the
great fact remains—der-rink is an optional
matter, small-pox is a matter of compulsion,
in tact, the disease is the sort of tyranny
the .Peace Society would be justified in pass-
ing some resolutions about.
w ons^ er able changes are impending at the
Hydro-Majestw, at Medlow. Hitherto, the palatial
resort has been a Place of summer joy only, but the
J A o J ° yn^°- n Sl ? lth ’ having been induced to
“555*, the P osltlo . n of consulting genius, has recom-
mended a renovation and refitting that will make the.
= an + abod f,, of delight and solid comfort, summer-
and winter. The work is to be commenced at once-
and carried out on a lavish scale. There is no reason,
why the Hydro should not be a winter resort. It may-
adLnflL Sn -° W fl S Kosciusko has ; but that will be an,
? ln the e 7, es of millions. Present writer
would as soon see the Devil as gaze upon snow at
close range. But keen, cold weather outside is a .joy-
ful thing when one is inside with a splendid fire
and good company. Exactly what lines the Hon. J
Joynton Smith s scheme will follow have not yet been
announced, but it is said the device is to cost a lot
of money, and the said Smith has the reputation of
tbe ng *r^ ho , g ? od value for his money, or
the money that friends invest on his advice. Anv-
M i? aS a , Wln ter resort is a bright idea
which should appeal to a lot of people.


e.
t<)
1
tm
WM
m
Cv
ip
sov
I
---,.
i
38K
&SS
M
V
wm
mm
R
I
&Z}. ■^• f -
a " l -fl \ \ v *7
*&.'/ lssS* > V
W.
<9
¥1
as
v-V
a
M
■- S
s&ss
k
fP
• r V
V
rO
a:
?s
w
< •.
fpr
if fa
;-a.v- , T fuh
|Oj..
v*
.).
a
;fv:
.'. t-
&VS
A*§S
I £
T^r— v>
if v if
I
V^V 7J7
&
llPfltlOlF -
\ -v : Jfrs
iSSI
f i
wm
<U>
isPI
#3
«5K
«
©Ss&Ss
0
V
5g
i*'
Si*
S:<
til
hJ&i
I
X#P
:m
K
V'N
BR
#
i?s
if <TV.
s
l Wf?9.s i
£ Tf ■# wms
i;
V*
%
I
'■>
anil
W v s■: ■
r#s
%*
... •■;
«\
O *-»
* ~-Jif^
V ;^2
"/im:?
/( i
VS:
B
#>@j*
.4
V"V"
r
Vj o
V-
\\\ ,
£§2
ags
M
si
*
.i*
&
%
r J^s.i''.m±
%
e>
c<w>
/~-
• 'V-V'
r.-,^
!•■ #>■'
SKSS;
Si
isii
Sra
5
■•• SS"
\y>.
v-e
isfe
S
r^'g ( _ Jjn~\
r
Cobl*2t,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo
Is as rich as
Rothschild too.
Stocks and bonds
And gold has he,
Mines on land
And ships at sea.
Tho’ he’s worth
A vast amount,
With his riches
You must count
Tins of “COBRA."
In all weather
Wealth and polish
Go together.
[Next week Poor Man. \


MILITARY HAIR BRUSHES
m
Neat and
10/6 Pair —at Farmer’s
These Military Hair Brushes are extremely useful for week-
enders, campers, etc. They are equally useful for the Home
Dressing Table.
Packed in neat leather cases, as illustration, and made with
selected White Bristles and White Satinwood, or Ebony Backs.
These Brushes make pleasing and practical presents and give
splendid service. Inspect in the Fancy Section.
WITH SCREWED SATINWOOD BACKS:
10/6, 12/6, and 13/6 Pair.
WITH SOLID EBONY BACKS:
14/6 and 20/- Pair.
w e Pay the Carriage.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
Are those
Dyspepsia,
employed ;
everywhere.
BROUGHT TO BAY
enemies of civilisation, Indigestion and
when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
DUNLOP
RUBBER
GOODS
jS>
DUNLOP MOTOR i
c „ • TYRES • e
BIC MH.WSJ-
DUNLOP TYRES
/or
* £ ftEUABU- 1
LSk
IkR
KAi
DUNLOP-KELLY
.VEHICLE TYRES
A plW**
, ( ‘ V
DUNLOP
MINING GOODS
pwss,
JljC;
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEELS
ENSURE EASY ,
'■'«£? FIF ORTABI.I
Send
-Tor ,
Price List
Dunlop
Rubber Co-
All States aN-Z
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 21, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Glaciarium was thoroughly dusted
and trimmed in one spot with cane arm-
chairs last Thursday night, for the Denman
house-party. Miss Fischer, partnered Prof.
Koch in a “Danse des Apaches,” and every-
one said that their effort was “perfectly won-
derful, my dear,” and “absolutely sweet.”
it really was effective. The lights were
lowered to a mere glim, two greeny-bluey
spot lights splashed on to the wet floor, and
111 apached the black-and-red-clad performers.
Major-General Kirkpatrick talked all he
knew to the Barttelot lady (peeping out of
purple velvet and much fur). The G.-G. lis-
tened to Mrs. Kirkpatrick, and Help Burn-
ham looked creditably desolate and sick of
ml 6-star of k is existen ce being absent,
lhe Gaud Mayor appeared occasionally from
behind the shelter of a kindly pillar. (If
this phrase presents to your imagination the
picture of an aboriginal peering furtively
round the bole of a tree, blame his Worship,
not me.) The chairs held the party for
exactly 20 minutes. The patrons then with-
drew, with a very taking air of never having
so much as heard of cold feet, and the crowd
rushed the ice and glode furiously, to Rag
mixtures, as usual.
The “Corry” Mackinnons’ dance was so
meticulously correct an imitation of the
London article, as limned for us in the
British illustrated papers, that it might
have been imported. All but the veriest
outcasts, and back numbers practised the
Gaby glide, the Tango, the Bunnv Hug and
the Turkey Trot as though they had been
born and reared in one of the nigger plan-
tations from which these movements eman-
ated. The one air suits any of these dances —
for the . reason chiefly that the only
essential in them is to keep moving. Sassiety
has been practising them secretly in its own
billiard-room or kitchen or back yard, with
a tutor laid on, and has got the drunken
slide of the Gaby glide to perfection at last.
Baronet Walter Barttelot. better of his
hunting spill, was there —as usual, devotedly
in the wake of his lovely lady. The Ftive
Millers and the Mount Gambier Clarkes
(who have practically adopted Melbourne),
and the new Gordon Lyon bride, and the
Bridges, of Trawalla, were among the ex-
pensive, crush. Young Mrs. Cox, the Dayles-
ford heiress, had her usual brilliant Sassiety
narty following her Dale grey fish tail. The
Landales and the MacArthurs and the Mil-
lers. and the Powers, were others who had
their names shouted bv the attendant Jeames
de la Pluche. Mrs. Reverie Clarke-
Power and her husband, and Mrs. Frank
Clarke, with Ivy Clarke under her wing,
Turkey-trotted with the rest, and Big-
john Forrest shone as a keen observer with
his hospitable, dame chaperoning a new bud
or two,. as is her motherly way. Big-
john’s views on the glidetrotting were not
fully expressed.
Eight gay young bachelors of Toorak have
flung invitations broadcast to pretty girls
and a plentiful supply of partners for an
At Home in the famous All Saints Hall (the
prej'udice of the Saints to dancing frivol
goes down before the fact of a divine floor)
on August 4. A corner note mentions “Danc-
ing from 9 till 2.”
Unless Providence intervenes on a hostile
basis the Homoeopathic Hospital will shortly
have some sort of cash-gathering dance of
its own. The Gaud Mayoress is considering
the scheme in three volumes, and Mrs.
Cooper, of Brooklawn, and Cedric Bawden
are perspiring as temporary secretaries.
A-ctor Eric Maxon is organiser. The initial
idea was to have a pierrot dance, in August,
at the St. Kilda Town Hall. Then a Whit“
Ball was suggested, the linen duds to be
afterwards handed over to the Hospital. A
Pyjama. Ball was also hinted at, but the
suggestion was dropped almost as soon as it
had raised a blush. Whatever is decided on,
the ticket funds will be put to a good use,
i.c., the Cot Endowment.
The recent Victorian Artists’ masquerade,
at the Town Hall, was such a success finan-
cially that the committee, in its hunger for
more, has ordered a cheap encore to take
place, at the end of the month, at the East-
ern Hill headquarters. Members may revel
at 2s. per head, and non-members at 3s.
Arthur Murray, 326 Flinders-lane, is ready
to welcome ticket-buyers with both hands.
The South Melbourne mayoral Baragwan-
aths, who gave an impressively expensive
dance, a month ago, are to be tendered a
return” on Friday, 25th.
Recently heard a hunting man ask wildly
why the meets in this part of the world
were held at mid-day? The poor gentle-
man, it appeared, had grown tired of pursu-
ing mere hares, and wanted to pursue a
smelly fox for a change. “Plenty of foxes
m the morning,” he grumbled. “Why can’t
they meet in the morning?” Well, why?
The Millers tried to coax the cross-country
sports out to a seven o’clock gallop, with a
breakfast at Millbank, one of the family’s
country places. But the locals showed they
didn’t care for early rising, and everyone re-
verted to the old, comfortable hour.
Dr. Davenport, of the Athenaeum Club
(what his club membership has to do with
the case I know not, my dear, and if you
don’t believe me, search me), Dr. Daven-
port, I repeat, and Dr. Strong undertook
the hideously responsible job of vaccinating
Government House last week. Will an ac-
cusation of lese-majeste lie if Lord Denman
gets a sore arm? It is a nice point for the
lawyers. His Ex. faced the ordeal like a
man. That is, I presume he did, since
there is no mention of his having broken
down and sobbed. His abject followers were
less heroic. ‘“Worse than a Supper Raid,”
they wailed as one exquisite.
The very latest shade in hair is the deep,
clayey red of a bush road or a seaside bluff.
Flemington lawn was startled on Hurdle
Race Saturday by a lately-arrived dame,
whose eyebrows and eyelashes matched the
stuff her hat rested on. At first sight it was
almost as startling as blue lips or gamboge
eyes, but we’ll probably get used to it in
time.
Mr. Edgar G. Ritchie, Engineer of Water
Supply in the Metropolitan Board of Works
(I love these titles!), has plighted his troth
to Miss Bertha Rees. This clever little girl
holds the position of Demonstrator of Botany
at Melbourne University. She is the
daughter of Mrs. Rees, of Wanda, Caul-
field, and of the late barrister D. C. Rees,
who was Chief Examiner of Titles in his
time. Fianc6 _ Ritchie is the elder son of a
Ritchie who, in life, was Secretary to the
Minister for Railways. (The printer ad-
vises me that he has no more capital letters
left.)
Rupert Clarke’s lady has been writing to
her friends from Epping Forest (or some
such locality near London), and bemoaning
the damp misery of the place, whilst prais-
ing the lost Australian sunshine she left on
the other side of the Equator. Rupert was
with her at time of writing. The lady is
nutting in some of her time buying frock
dreams for the amusement of Flemington
lawn at Cup time.
Mrs. Busst is now airing some stylish
frocks at Society outbreaks. She has just
arrived home, after seeing her German-Aus-
tralian sons. comfortably established in im-
portant musical niches in Berlin and Vienna.
Mrs. Judge Casey has been lording it over
the Best People and making them wince by
post since she started her long foreign trip.
In India (Glory be to Allah!) she stayed
with the governing Carmichaels. Now from
London comes news of her as a marvellously-
frocked hostess giving a party at Prince’s to
the . Fuller lady and" Australian friends of
distinction and Breeding.
Ex-Secretary Vernon, who wrote many
letters on behalf of Federal Government
House, and left here to take an English ap-
pointment, is once more looking to-
wards the Australian establishment. Like
the Scottish gentleman in “What Every
Woman Knows,” Vernon “is a marrit man
noo, and would require quarters, if ap-
pointed to the staff.
. Bardie Willis, a South Yarra beauty girl,
is booked for matrimony with squatter Les-
lie Pearson, of Mudgee. N.S.W.
Geelong came to Melbourne in dense
masses to watch, oversee and generally super-
vise the marrying of Harrie McCallum.
daughter of Mrs. Lachlan McCallum, to
Orwell Jones. The marrying, cake-cutting
and feeding were all got through at the
Quamby Club. The bride wore blue—per-
haps to match the Club walls—but was
veiled, wreathed and trained in the conven-
tional way. The bridesmaid was also blue,
but with a relieving touch of blush-pink
about her waist, and a big, fragrant nose-
gay of pink roses. A great-grandmother’s
veil of priceless lace (all lace is priceless)
was delicately fixed on Harrie’s head. Some
of this stuff is so cobwebby and frail that a
rough touch will crumble it. It is rather
like wearing a burnt gas-mantle. The
bridegroom’s mother, garbed in grey, came
up from Geelong to look on. The show was
at 8 o’clock in the evening, and shaded elec-
tric lights shed a blessing on the expensive
duds of the company.
From “Rosna,” in the Fog that is beside
the Thames:—
Contralto Kate Rooney leaves by the next post
for Uncle Sam’s large continent, being under con-
tract to sing there for the next three years. If the
said continent does not appreciate her, the Common-
wealth will have to raise the price of frozen mutton
or arrange some other neat form of retaliation.
The Suffragettes have set a pretty fashion in
funerals. Britain, which loves the waving hearse-
plume, the widow’s weeds and all the other gloomy
trappings, turned out _ in thousands to see the last
journey of Emily Davison, M.A., the voteless woman
who killed herself at the Derby. There was, for this
event, no hearse; to give a better view the coffin was
carried on an open carriage draped with the Suffrage
colors—heliotrope, green and white. The mourners
wore the same shades, except that several hundred
Varsity graduates were in their robes. Few wore
hats, and everyone carried a madonna lily or purple
iris, which is distinctly more decorative than a yard
of crBpe or a black-edged hanky. 'Hie body was
taken north by train, in a flower-decked saloon
carriage guarded by white-frocked girls, and as the
train passed under a bridge into Miss Davison’s
county, a torrent of white and purple flowers
descended on it. /
South Australia’s soprano, Clvtie Hine, who
brought her bird notes to London for polish three or
four years ago, goes touring the North and Scotland
with a grand opera co. in a month or two. She is
one of the few Australian girls who have scored an
appearance at Covent Garden, which is about as good
an advertisement as any nightingale, seeking engage-
ments, can have in these conservative isles.
Mrs. Dora Meeson Coates is triumphing
with her picture exhibition. In eight days
she raked in £5OO. “And it’s only for small
stuff,” she murmurs. “The large pictures
are being thought about still.” The slow-
moving Felton Bequest trustees are holding
their contemplative chins before “The Span-
ish Girl” and “The Chorus Girl,” which
were painted by husband Coates and are on
exhibition among his wife’s pictures. They
deliberated so long over Mrs. Coates’ “Lon-
don Bridge” that she sold it under their
gradual noses at a big price to a business-
like private buver. Bendigo has already
bought a handful, and a provincial town took
its pick of the stuff well ahead of the Mel-
bourne Gallery. Governor-General Denman
has fixed a date to look at the show. Lon-
don Bridge and other shipping-port pictures
are very fascinating. One shows the big grain
elevators pouring out rivers of gold, and
below them the barges, moored so close to-
gether that one could walk for miles along
them. Dora Meeson says that while she
was painting she was half-smothered in
grain dust all the time. “London likes
those pictures and buys them,” she adds
briskly. Paris likes her decorative work
best. So does Melbourne —if her “Poppies”
is a fair example. It is a dreamy imagina-
tive thing with dancing dream figures in a
poppy field. The show is full of vigor and
variety. A large, vivid portrait is “Christine
Silver taking a Call.” Christine Silver was
the first Fanny in “Fanny’s First Play.”
A large canvas—a nude figure called “Aut-
umn” —may sell here. “They don’t take to
nudes in England,” says the artist.
The “star” danseuse being a hard social
bird to catch, and one that flies verv high,
Mrs. Webb and Mrs. Quinnell, of the Aus-
tral Salon, were proud to send out invita-
tions “to meet Mrs. Gen6e-Isitt.” The
function happened on Monday of last week.
The dainty little lady arrived in a cunning
black silk suit with her favorite peacock-
green feather tickling her ear. Mrs. Quinnell
gave her, as a peace offering, a big bouquet
of Iceland poppies tied with blue and gold
streamers. The two chief conspirators then
settled their distinguished guest amongst
cushions and turned on an excellent pro-
gramme of music, which was tempered with
tea and alleviated with scones.
Schubert would be surprised if he dropped
in after a ghostly fashion to Her Majesty’s,
these and heard the music of one of
his Impromptus being used as a two-step for
two cheeky little dancing girls in military
clothing.
“Dodo” Chennery, whose mother was one
of the prettiest of the big family of Riverina
Watson girls (and who is also niece to a
Chirnside and an Armytage), is causing
excitement amongst the several clans by her
success on the London stage. While under-
studying the lead in a production of “Mile-
stones,” her principal fell ill and “Dodo”
got her chance. She made so good that she
got a fine engagement. The new-risen star
and her beautiful young widowed mother
were flatting for a time in Melbourne, and
their chief interest then was centred round
George Titheradge and son Dion.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The small-pox scare (or, perhaps, as a resident of
a city that is pre-eminent in culture, I should say
variolaphobia) is with us; and Sydneyites are, for
the nonce, almost as unpopular as writters. The
prevailing impression hereabouts appears to be that
the ill-used old Harbor-side city bears a close re-
semblance to London in the time of Solomon Eagle,
and that persons are being requested to bring out
their dead at every other street corner. Nevertheless,
the Vincents, mother and daughter, have gone, greatly
daring, Queenslandward. On the other hand, Mrs.
Edward Miller has arrived here from Melbourne.
Mayoral balls and minor civic dissipations have
raged briskly during the week. Both Unley and
Norwood cut their ratepayers’ list in half and stood
each section a free festivity. The Bosanquets ap-
peared at the Norwood show on Wednesday, and at
the Unley one on Friday; and H.E. sandwiched in a
meeting of the Royal Geographical Society on Thurs-
day.
The Wrenches have been staying at Government
House. Last week they burst forth from that
haughty solitude and held a public meeting on behalf
of their club. Also, Mrs. Arnold Davey, whose husband
is president of the affair here, gave a reception for Miss
Wrench at the Grand Central. Miss Bosanquet and
her sister and a perfect galaxy of Butlers, Bonythons,
Downers, and so on, turned up and worshipped the
guest of honor.
The revel of the week was the “Blue and White”
dance. It revolved in the North Adelaide Institute
on Friday.
The estate of R. J. Matheson, of Nilpena station,
who died on his way to England, has been sworn at
£33,000.
There is to be a University Women’s Ball in the
Elder Hall on August 11.
W. C. Rigby, who died on Monday, arrived in
Australia originally from England in his own 48-ton
lugger. He brought with him his wife and baby,
three other passengers and a crew of seven. They
were becalmed off the Isle of Wight, and again near
Madeira, and then struck a succession of storms.
They ran ashore on Kangaroo Island, but disentangled
themselves, and finally got to Melbourne after a four-
and-a-half-months’ voyage. After six years on the
goldfields Mr. Rigby came here and established the
business which still bears his name.
Mr. R. M. Cudmore, who died in Melbourne on
Saturday, was son of the late Donald Cudmore, who
was at Glen Osmond in the early days. The Man
with the Scythe has been busy amongst the Cudmores
of late. It is not long since J. F. Cudmore, of
Glenelg, and his wife died, and Mrs. R. M. Cudmore
went only in January.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
N.S.W. is threatened with another Abi-
gail in Parliament. “Erny,” a solicitor-son
of the old Habigail of bygone vears, is the
selected Liberal candidate for Camperdown.
Gone to the top of the mast, in Paradise,
James Watt, captain of the Kanowna, and
for many years skipper of various vessels in
the inter-State passenger trade. Watt, who was
always a favorite on the coast, became more
or less famous among shipmasters by saving
the collier Glaucus in a gale, some few years
back. It was not an easy job to manoeuvre
the Kanowna in the heavy sea that ran into
Wilson’s Promontory, and Watt had his
own passengers to think of; but, though it
was touch and go, he managed to tow the
helpless old collier into comparative safety,
where it was able to ride out the gale.
The death of Lord Ashbourne the other
week was a reminder of how things go in
the “Milestones” play. Forty years ago he
was a brilliant practitioner at the Dublin
bar and a Radical as times went. A Con-
servative Government appointed him At-
torney-Gen. for Ireland, and eight years
later he was made Lord Chancellor" and
Baron Ashbourne. After which his enthu-
siasm for Unionism ripened every year. His
son and successor is an ardent Nationalist—
or was, before he came into the titles. Titles
alter cases, as a rule.
Frank A. Badgery, the new M.L.A. for
Wollondilly (N.S.YV.), in succession to ex-
Speaker McCourt, is a native of the dis-
trict, born at Exeter in 1852. His father
Henry Badgery, settled there in 1819. The
first of the vast Australian tribe of Badgerys
(James) was a settler on the Hawkesbury
He signed the Address to Governor Bligh
and a couple of years later also signed the
request to Colonel Johnston to arrest the
same Governor. After that, finding he had
rushed into political complications, he seems
to have lain low. in a public sense.
Forbes-Robertson—just knighted; they call him
Sir Johnston now—had the enormous Drury Lane
absolutely crammed for his farewell last month. He
chose “Hamlet” for his final London appearance.
When it was over, the audience simply refused to go
home, even after the safety curtain was down and th«
orchestra had left; and the old favorite had to
make a tour of stalls and dress circle, shaking hands.
As for the gallery, it went round to the stage door
and got its shake there.


•O
Blue Amberol
Records for
August are Now Ready.
The new Edison Blue Amberol Records have at a bound achieved most wonderful suc-
cess.
Everybody is delighted with the smooth, sweet and perfectly natural tone, the increased
volume of sound and marked superiority of Mr. Edison’s latest improvement The Blue
Amberol is practically unbreakable, and can be played over 3800 times without any
lessening of its wonderful tone qualities. *
In the August issue of Amberol Records, now on sale at all dealers, there are
many surpassingly fine numbers. In fact, it includes many of the finest selections ever
put out by us. Every item is a star number.
You should call on the nearest Edison dealer and ask him to let you hear some of them.
On request we will forward his address together with a handsome catalogue of Blue
Amberol Records.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28110 I Hear You Calling Me (Tenor solo, orch. acc.)
28111 The Day is Done (Contralto solo, orch. acc.)...
Orville Harrold
Christine Miller
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
1504 Roses Bloom for Lovers—“ The Rose Maid”
(Soprano solo, orch. acc.) Grace Kerns
1505 When You’re Away (Mezzo soprano and tenor,
orch. acc.) Clark and Hindermyer
1515 Anchored Knickerbocker Q’tette
1520 Nita Gitana (Tenor solo, orch. acc.) .. Miller
1526 Teasing Moon (Tenor solo, orch. acc.)
Van Brunt
1534 Oh! You Circus Day Medley (Whistling solo,
orch. acc.) Joe Belmont
1536 Ma Lady Lu (Tenor and mixed chorus, orch.
acc.) Van Brunt and Chorus
1539 Medley of Southern Plantation Songs
N.Y. Military Band
1549 My Sumurun Girl Medley (Banjo solo, orch.
acc.) Van Epps
1556 When I Waltz With You (Tenor solo, orch.
acc.) C. W. Harrison
1559 The Valley of Peace (Tenor and Baritone, orch.
acc.) Anthony and Harrison
1562 The Land of Golden Dreams (Contralto and
Baritone, orch. acc) .... Baker and Harrison
1578 The Shepherd Boy (Violin, flute and harp)
Venetian Instrumental Trio
1580 Dear Robin, I’ll be True (Counter-tenor and
mixed chorus, orch. acc) .. Oakland & Chorus
1582 Luella Lee (Tenor duet, orch. acc.)
Campbell and Gillette
1583 Uncle Josh Buys an Automobile (Vaudeville
specialty) Cal Stewart
1586 Weeping, Sad and Lonely (Soprano and chorus)
Spencer and Chorus
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364*372 Kent Street, Sydney.
1590
1594
1595
1596
1597
1599
1600
1601
1604
23006
23008
23010
23012
23018
23020
23035
My Little Lovin’ Sugar Babe (Male voices,
orch. ace.) Premier Q’tette
The Village Gossips (Vaudeville specialty)
Cal. Stewart
Mystic Dreams Waltz (Xylophone solo, orch.
acc -) • ; Charles Daab
Good Night, Farewell (Male voices, orch. acc.)
Knickerbocker Q’tette
Kentucky Days (Tenor and chorus, orch. acc.)
Murray and Chorus
Where the Edelweiss is Blooming (Soprano and
tenor duet, orch. acc.) .. Spencer & Gillette
Home, Sweet Home, the World Over
Edison Concert Band
The Holy City (Tenor and mixed chorus)
Skedden and Edison Mixed Q’tette
Heimweh (Longing for Home), Violin, ’cello,
flute and harp .. Venetian Instrumental Q’tette
Keep on Swinging Me, Charlie (Comic song,
orch. acc) Florrie Forde
March, Strathspey and Reel
Highlanders’ Bagpipe Band
Kangaroo Hop, The (Comic song, orch acc.)
Billy Williams
My Heart is With You To-night (Tenor solo,
orch. acc.) Hardy Williams
Muleteer of Malaga (Baritone solo, orch. acc.)
T. F. Kinniburgh
Regimental Marches No. 3
National Military Band
Don’t Sing in Ragtime (Comic song, orch.
acc.) Billy Merson
YOUR DUTY TOWARDS YOUR NEIGHBOR
IS TO
PROTECT YOURSELF
AGAINST SMALLPOX.
USE
Wrights Coal Tar Soap
AND ADVISE YOUR NEIGHBOR TO.
PROBABLY THEY DO SO ALREADY, BUT MAKE CERTAIN.
Fifty Years’ Reputation.
BEST PROTECTIVE
AGAINST INFECTION.
SIXPENCE A TABLET.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price. 21s.
THE NESTLE and ANGLO=SWISS CONDENSED MILK CG
BY APPOINTMENT
lexx
*
TO H.M. THE KING.
THE IDEAL
A
WINTER DRINK!
CUP OF
9
Pure
Soluble
Cocoa
is delicious when made with
NESTLES MILK
A Most Nourishing and Appetising Beverage in Cold Weather.
SPECIAL NOTE.-For puddings, custards, cakes, blanc-manges, and other delicacies,
NESTLE’S MILK is unequalled.


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
A SUPERIOR
WHISKY
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
FINEST VERY OLD SCOTCH.
A WHISKY OF SUPERB FLAVOR AND PERFECT PURITY.
TRY IT.
POLITICAL
POINTS
HIS HOUR OF TRIUMPH.
Although the Government may be prevented from
giving due effect to the policy that the people have
endorsed, it still retains the power of preventing any
further excursions into the domain of Socialism by
the Labor party. And that itself is a positive result
of the elections which is not to be lightly valued
Sydney Telegraph, on the state of Federal parties.
USED-TO-DRIVE : “ Well , now you've been given
charge of the whole system, what's yer
policy? What are yer goin t' do, an' when
are yer goin' t' do it? ”
SUPPOSED-TO-DRIVE : "Ha! hall Don'tcher
see the point, my man — I’m doin’ it
NOW!!”
Joke Hook at Ballarat: “This Govern-
ment is not merely in power to cross its
“t’s” and dot its “i’s.” Of course not; it
also wants to be allowed to take its “e’s.”
From a recent N.S.W. political report:—
A voice cried, “Where is the money to come
from?” Mr. Holman replied: “From the London
market, and there will be no difficulty in getting it.”
But then what an awful difficulty there
may be about repaying it? And what is to
be done about the political reputation of
Holman, if he has one now, which is doubt-
ful —Holman, who climbed into office on a
programme according to which not a penny
of loan money was to be spent except on
works that would pay full interest and
sinking fund? Is there any political
Iscariot in Australia—any political scab or
Parliamentary non-unionist—who ought to
bang himself higher than Holman?
The Fusion felt very sore when Bruce
Smith flatly declined to allow himself to be
nominated for the Speakership of the House
of Reps.; for it was realised that the only
way to keep the Ministerial imiority on the
premises was to chain the Myth to the chair
and give it the mace to play with. Not
being able to get hold of Bruce, the Fusion
decided to do both itself and the Opposition
a good turn, by making Elliott Johnson
Speaker. Now W. E. Johnson has restored
the mace, decked himself out in the wig and
gown discarded by ex-Speaker McDonald,
and settled down to enjoy himself until
such time as a motion against the Fusion is
moved when Bruce Smith happens to be
away seeing a dog about a new hat.
This is the latest recorded protest (in
Sydney) against compulsory military educa-
tion :
That the I.W.W. protests against the commitment
of the Quaker boy, Sydney Crossland, to Victoria
Barracks, for refusing, on the ground of religious
conviction, to comply with the provisions of the
Commonwealth Defence Act; that the secretary for-
ward the protest to the Minister for Defence, request-
ing that those who are opposed to conscription and
militarism be exempt from penalties, seeing that the
coercion of citizens who have conscientious objec-
tions, amounts to persecution, and is in conflict with
a rational spirit and with the ideal of a free and en-
lightened Commonwealth.
And —just incidentally—what about people
who have conscientious objections to trades
unionism, and object to being “conscripted”
into the unionist army? And what of those
who object to paying for the support of a
military force, on the ground that it is a
meaner thing to pay other people to fight
than to fight personally—the folk who ought
to get their share of the naval and military
expenditure refunded to them? And isn’t
there something to be said for the people
who object to being included in the census,
or who object to being taxed for the cost
of a census, seeing that “Satan stood up
against Israel and provoked David to num-
ber Israel” (see the first Book of Chronicles,
chapter 21 and verse 1), and that because of
that census the Lord slew 70,000 Israelites?
The early Christians had conscientious ob-
jections to baths and drains, and many
modern ones have similar objections to vac-
cination. It is a mixed situation, and the
conscientious objector is often a great
nuisance.
A certain sympathy goes out to Ferdinand
of Bulgaria in his troubles. He came to
his present country as a stranger and a
pilgrim, but lie steered his riotous little
State very well for 26 years. He raised it
from a principality to a kingdom. He defi-
nitely incorporated the stolen province of
Eastern Roumelia with
his old scrap of territory,
and when Turkey remon-
strated he merely said
that he was deaf in that
ear. He had vast pati-
ence, and was apparently
a very fine liar. The
country grew rich under
his captainship. Then,
at the height of his glory,
when Bulgaria, gladdened
by the plunder of the
Turk, promised to be-
come a really respectable
second-rate kingdom, the
wild-cat army got out of
hand and started lashing
out at its recent allies.
Nobody suspects Ferdin-
and, that polite old ser-
pent, of precipitating a
conflict with Greece, Ser-
via, Montenegro and Rou-
mania at such an ill-chosen moment.
Apparently it was just his ill-luck and the
outbreak f his army of wild cats.
“Ex”: Sydney Telegraph made a bad
break, the other dav, over what it called
“the appearance for the first time in the
French army of colored troops.” As far
back as 1854 the French used African troops
in the Crimea —Turcos, Spahis, Zouaves,
and Chasseurs d’Afrique. They used them
again in the _ early stages of the war of
1870-71. Again: “Their appearance at
Longchamps can only be for the edification
of some European Power.” Who doubts
that the hint was meant for Germany, even
as Britain “edified” Russia by bringing
Indian troops to Cyprus and Malta? All
told, the French “colored” armv totals qver
150,000 men—North Africans, Senegalites,
Congolese, Madagascarenes, Annamites, and
Tonquinese. The tricolor, in fact, is multi-
colored.
ATMOSPHERIC.
[For The Bulletin.]
Mr. Badgery’s candidature is to receive renewed
air from Mr. A. 11. Conroy. —Sydney Telegraph.
The writer probably meant “aid,”
The ever-honest comp.
Set up the thing he should have said.
All, all this platform pomp,
And row, and verbal wear and tear
Are, it is clear, so much hot air.
N.S.W. 10-2-4.
LOST—A PARROT.
CHORUS: "Pretty cocky! Pretty cocky!"
Ex-Premier Wade of N.S.W'. has arisen
and been upstanding on his two boots, and
has declared that while his Government built
railways at an average rate of £lO,OOO per
mile the McGowen-Holman average was
£30,000 per mile. It would surely be worth
while to hire one or two non-political experts
from other States to investigate that charge.
It is a perfect sky-scraper of a charge.
In consequence of the sudden slump in
immigration, the Victorian Government lost
£4OOO over unused berths taken in the
steamer Hawkes Bay, and another £3OOO
over berths not filled in the Indrapura. The
State has taken 9025 berths in vessels leav-
ing London from July to December, and it
is certain there will be another heavy loss
over these. A present estimate is that it
will run to £5OOO, but probably it will be
considerably more. As for reasons, the
immigration agents seem to be floored most
by the lamentations in the Australian papers
themselves about the dizzy cost of living in
these parts. The other important fact —
that the dizzy cost is the result of dizzy
wages and dizzy profits, in both of which
newcomers might share — to be strictly
overlooked.
The debilitated and inconsequential pro-
gress of the Vic. Parliament’s Address in
Reply was illuminated by at least one bril-
liant irrelevancy. It emanated from Labor
member Jewell, of Brunswick. Jewell said
that Weary and Co., while preaching pro-
tection, had practised Freetrade by giving
a German firm the order for the machinery
for the new State. Cool Stores at £25,700,
although a local firm had tendered at
£27,700 —this while “hundreds of iron-
workers were out of work.” No one dis-
putes the culpability of Weary and Co. The
weird absurdity of Jewell’s reproach lies in
the fact that the larger share of the obloquy
in this matter lies on Jewell’s own party
in Federal politics, which had ‘every oppor-
tunity, during the last three years, to pass
such a tariff that no German or other foreign
firms could land that machinery here for a
penny less than £40.(6)0. Then it would
have been made locally, regardless of
Weary’s prejudices, and the iron-workers
would not have been so largely unemployed ;
also Jewell would not have been, in effect,
deriding and berating his own crowd.
“Henry Horsecollar” writes :
One W. E. Griffis, writing in the North American
Revikw, expresses the opinion that it is quite absurd
to consider the possibility of Japanese aggression in
any part of the Pacific, because Japan is too hard
up to make war. On the surface of things the idea
is very good. But lack of money didn’t prevent the
Maoris coming to what is now Maoriland, or the
Saxons or Normans coming to England. The Turks
and the Mahrattas, when their star was in the
ascendant, made war without a copper, and the con-
quered country had to pay. In fact the Mahratta
Confederacy struck the dead finish when it sacked
its one supremely great commander, after a success-
ful campaign, because, having gone out with no-
thing, he didn’t declare a sufficiently large dividend
on his return. France started the wars of the first
Republic and the Napoleonic period with soldiers
who were penniless, almost naked, and almost shoe-
less, and with about one depreciated franc in the
Treasury, and for something like 20 years it made
Europe pay the bill and a great deal more. It was
defeated in the end, but it was rich in its defeat,
whereas it had formerly been stone broke. It isn’t
wise to speculate too much on Japan’s poverty as a
guarantee of peace. Sometimes poverty only leads
to fury. Many a man who has been attacked by a
penniless crocodile, or by a lion that hadn’t even a
shirt to its back, has realised that there are no fixed
rules in war.
When James McGowen left the N.S.W.
State Premiership for a subordinate port-
folio he did a deed which isn’t common in
Britain, though there is abundant precedent
for it in Australia. Thus Stuart Donaldson
was chief of the first N.S.W. Ministry,
while in the third he held office under
Parker. Cowper led the second Ministry.
In the fourth, which he also led, Robertson
was low down on the list of his colleagues.
In the sixth he held office under Robertson.
In the seventh, ninth and twelfth Robert-
son held office under him. Forster was
Premier of the fifth N.S.W. Ministry. Then
he served under Martin in the eighth, under
Robertson in the eleventh, under Cowper
in the twelfth, and under Robertson in the
fifteenth. In fact, Premiers used to wander
up and down in an amazing fashion, and
the man who was boss to-day was office-boy
or the person who cleans up next week. In
S.A. during 1863 Henry Ayers suddenly
rose from being the honorary Minister or
deck-sweep in Hart’s Cabinet to being
Premier three times in succession, with
Hart under him. Then the political friend-
shin ended. Ayers led seven more Minis-
tries and didn’t offer Hart a job. while Hart
led two Ministries, but refused to recognise
that Ayers was on the face of the earth.
Incidentally. John Weary, of Victoria, re-
vived the old casual habit when he fell off
the top rung of the political ladder the
other day, and took a less exhausting billet
half-way down. And Waddell recalled the
old habit in N.S.W.. when he became the
tail of Wade’s dog. after being the whole
dog and kennel himself.
Britain’s House of Gauds has thrown out
the Irish Home Rule Bill for the second
consecutive session. At the third attempt,
under the new law, it can be passed bv the
Commons and sent direct for the King’s
assent without anybody taking notice of the
Lords. They will simply be regarded as
dead. And then if there is a penn’orth of
real insurrection amid all the “blow” of the
noisy half of Ulster, that province will throw
its futile brick of protest at some casual
policeman named Murphy, and run for its
life.
A BASE DESIGN.
The Fisher mandate enforcing preference for union-
ists in Government contracts has also been set aside.
In making the announcement, Mr. Cook said: “In
future, the fact that a man is not a member of a
union will not bar him from Commonwealth em-
ployment. All citizens will be treated alike. — Daily
paper.
HIGHT PRIEST OF MAMMON: "Strike furiously
hard , Joke, my son; strike for the Right-
Thinking, for the Dividends; after all
ids the thin end of the wedged."
John Jackson Calvert, Clerk of N.S.W.
Parliament, takes his grey hairs and amiable
smile into retirement when the present
Assembly has its funeral. He picked up the
shoes of Dick O’Connor, father of the lately-
deceased Justice O’Connor, and has worn
them with comfort. Calvert began in the
Public Service 60 years ago, when Fitzroy
was Governor. He was the type the old style
of N.S.W. Minister mostly liked to embrace
and promote, for he had marquises and such-
like birds roosting in his family tree. But
he had merit, too. He was a bookman in a
moderate way, and a sportsman with more
emphasis, and an authority on Parliamentary
punctilios particularly. He has interesting
memories of many politicians, but until re-
tirement from office removes the seal, he does
not talk about them above his breath.
THE BONFIRE LOYALIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During the last few months an ever-increaeing
number of badges have appeared in the button-holes
of Melbourne’s male population—the symbol of the
Overseas Club. The activities of the various branches
are numerous, but the celebration of Empire Day is
a matter to which is naturally given considerable
attention. Among the ceremonies already arranged
is one under which a chain of bonfires will be
lighted in all parts of the Empire as an outward
symbol of Imperial unity.— Melbourne Argus.
With a bag of lunch beside him, and lank whiskers
> like a goat,
And a chaste and unobtrusive label pinned upon his
* "boat,
See The sober, earnest person in the corner of the
ffius?
By his looks he’s tame and harmless; but he is
hot always thus!
When he thinks the Empire’s calling he goes forth
* Upon a jag,
With his pockets full of crackers, for the glory of
“The Flag.”
When the Empire-spirit moves him he will stand
right up and screech;
Afid with taloned hands endeavor the unwinking
stars to reach.
Thus on Empire Day he loses his accustomed equi-
poise,
Getting gay and most uproarious as he blithers with
the boys;
While his weird, wild, eager whiskers in the cause
of Empire wag,
And he bursts his braces, screaming like a kid about
’ “The Flag.”
On the day true patriots celebrate —when Empire
Day is here—
He will bribe the small school-children with cheap
buns and ginger-beer,
To cheer the local councillors and curios like that,
Who in the cause of Empire-bray have taken round
the hat;
And the nippers of Australia, lest their loyalty may
lag,
He will lure to Empire-duty with free lollies and a
flag.
He will strive, with futile bonfires, all the myriad
souls to knit
Of an Empire mostly sweated, of far tribes that fail
to fit
In the brotherhood of nations which his plan of Em-
pire is;
He Will burn his fingers monkeying with things that
spit and fizz,
And of Empire and its grandeurs without ceasing
he will brag,
So that men may think him Loyal— him, with crack-
ers and a flag !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


's/A
Car
Gossip
The Gargoyle may not be a
pretty “bird,” but it served its
purpose in Architecture and
we use its fascinating ugliness
to identify the oils and other
products of petroleum which
are of our own manufacture.
Mobiloil
is made from Pennsyl-
vania crude oil which
costs Ten Shillings a
barrel of 34i imperial
gallons at the wells.
Some crude oil
is worth only
half-a-crown a
barrel.
fat*
cA
fl^>
P
djP 3
Per*
r^ri^
VACUUM OIL
L Co. Pfy. Lt-d.
%Thro.
Com
An
V
Throughout the
Commonwealth
And N«W
Zealand.
THE
FAMOUS
ft
i
m
per 251- pair
(Postage 1/- Extra).
One of the Very Finest Grades of
English Footwear— Exceptional Value*
In Box Calf or Vici Glace Kid,
Goloshed Bals** Oak-tanned Soles*
REMEMBER—EVERY PAIR GUARANTEED.
(Our Handsome Catalogue sent Post Free.)
Coit,
»
Mail Order Department,
14 and 16 Russell Street
MELBOURNE.
DESIGNERS’ BOOKS
AH Craftsmen interested in Artistic Lettering and
Decoration will find suggestions of the utmost
importance in these Books.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
We have a few Portfolios of Magnificent Designs—German, Italian and French, Illustrated
in Color; also Collotype and Photo-Prints. The Designs include Furniture and Room Interiors,
Decorative Painting, Allegorical Figures, Copies of Famous Paintings from Italian Palace Interiors,
Ancient Wood-carved Doors, and Architectural Exteriors. Only a few for Sale, and these cannot
be repeated again, 15/- and 25/- each Portfolio (50 to 150 designs in each). POSTAGE
EXTRA.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
.3
\
Held in
a Girl’s
Hand!
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
EVERYTHING NECESSARY, EXCEPTING ONLY THE SCREEN,
IS IN THE MACHINE AS THE GIRL IS HOLDING IT.
Pathe's Home Cinematograph .
Makes its own light. Fig. 16 is a small magneto. As the handle that
projects the picture is turned, sufficient light is produced in the magneto to
throw a moving picture of startling distinctness on the screen. Anyone, in
any place, town or country, can have Moving Pictures in the Home without
the use o’f gas, electric light, or oil. No outside light is necessary. You
cannot get this advantage in any other cinematograph.
The Films will not burn .
Pathe Films are non-inflammable. There is absolutely no danger. In
Victoria the Fire Underwriters’ Association charge no extra premium if a
Path 6 Home Cinematograph is in the home. You cannot get this advantage
in any other cinematograph.
Large choice of Films in Pathe's Circulating Library
not obtainable for any other cinematograph.
PATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Buildings,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
HOME CINEMATOGRAPH & AGENCIES PTY.
LTD 48 Queen Street, Melbourne;
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane: 8. SPURLINC & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth;
orC W. FRASER & CO., 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRINGTONS (N.Z.) LTD.,42 Willis
Street, Wellington, N.Z.; W. PA™, Sta-
tioner Palmerston North, N.Z.; G. R. FORE-
MAN & CO., Napier, N.Z.; WILKINS & FIELD
HARDWARE CO. LTD., Nelson, New Zealand ;
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERA-
TIVE ASSOCIATION OF CANTERBURY LTD.;
PATERSON & BARR LTD., Dunedin, for
Dunedin; The Arts and Crafts Depot,
Masterton, N.Z.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
Please send me particulars of Fathi's
Home Cinematograph.
Name,
Address
27.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
DIABETES.
This highly dangerous disease will in its earlier
stages be remedied by prompt treatment with Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Take them in time. Price,
Is. fid. and 2s. fid. Obtainable everywhere.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
ELDERLY WICKHAM LADY.
HAS GREAT FAITH IN DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
People getting on in years usually find
they require some kind of medicine to regu-
late their system. Mrs. E. New, of Charh
ton-street, Wickham, N.S.W., who is 77
years of age, has been taking Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills for many years, and by
such *neans enjoys good health in spite of
her advanced age. Mrs. E. New writes: —
“I am 77 years of age, and have been
taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for
many years, and have great faith in them.
I find they are a splendid medicine for regu-
lating the bowels, and always keep them by
me, and take a dose occasionally when I
feel I need them. You have my permission
to use this for advertising purposes.”*
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
&
# per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas * 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. MONEY RE-
TURNED in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on app’i'
cation. Only address —
34 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
UnCIhIMEO MONEY & PROPERTY.
nOU'TAL’R RHriISTr.R to NRXT-OF-KIN.
CHANCERY HRIRS, LEGATE KB. Ac.. Ac., price
5/-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal A Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
QOUCAL & C0.,151. STRAND, LONDON, ENCLAND.
( Kstahl/ish t>ri over RO Yenrs.)
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Australian sculler Harry Pearce sustained
a crushing defeat at the oars of Ernest Barry on
Monday last, the Englishman winning with such
ease that the cables described hirn as “paddling
quietly home.” For a week before the event Aus-
tralian cognoscenti who had seen both men had
prognosticated the result, l’earce went to the front
from the iump with a great spurt, bu/t Barry held
him easily always within striking distance. Then
when Pearce burst his boiler Barry came with a long
steady stroke and increasing pace, went to the
front and stayed there, with about six lengths be-
tween them. After that it was a mere procession.
Towards the end, Barry eased up and “paddled
quietly home,” with a margin of about two lengths.
Pearce complained afterwards that be got cramps in
both arms, so that he could hardly hold the sculls.
If this was so, it suggests that his training was not
carried out on proper lines. Barry afterwards told
the press that he, found Pearce faster than Arnst
over the first part of the course, but that Arnst had
more staying power. Australian champion J. Paddon
is howling for a match with the winner, and won’t
be happy till he gets it, in proof whereof he has
ueposited the sum of £lOO good Easterling money.
Weights for the “Australian” Hurdle and
Steeple at Caulfield (which are worth as much as
ihe Nationals at Flemington) don’t seem to press too
heavily on the recent top-notchers. Obi, with 12st. 51b.,
has a great chance to score again over the little
sticks, though Bill Taft, the runner-up to him at
Flemington, meets him on somewhat better terms,
and will doubtless be ridden more discreetly next
time. Ballista(9st. 71b.) is suspected of being better than
Wimmera (list. 31b.) at the weights, but has yet to
prove himself enough of a racehorse to live with
Obi in the run home. For the Steeplechase
the two brave goers that fell at Flemington-—United
Kingdom and Myall Jack—are very favorably treated,
whilst grey Vanguard, who made up a lot
of ground after being tailed off for the first mile and
,i half, gets a 61b. reduction in his load.
* * * *
Despite the accusation that she was not
equal to a tip-top weight, Leah Kleshna won the
Ulupna Steeplechase at Caulfield last Saturday under
the respectable burden of 12st. 31b. Moreover, the
mare showed a fair turn of speed in a close finish,
and on this performance in a 2-mile go she will have
backers for the 4-mile Australian Steeple a fortnight
hence. But the long race, wherein she is handi-
capped at 12st. lib. is a much more serious propo-
sition.
In excuse for United Kingdom’s sudden
rush to the front and subsequent fall in the Grand
National the other week, it is said that he took the
bit between his teeth and bolted. Carter had to
decide whether he would saw away at the nag’s
mouth or let him gang his ain gait, and he chose
what is usually the less of two evils.
“Jimmy” Gooden died in Adelaide last
week, aged 68. He had been various things in his
time—club secretary, hotelkeeper, and crack rifle
shot. But cricket was his long suit. Gooden was
one of the men who pulled S.A. up into the first
rank. He was a Norwood player for about 30 years,
and captain of that XI for 16. In those days the
Norwoods included also Lyons, the Giffens, and
Blinman, and were nearly unbeatable. Also
he skippered the S.A. 18 that played Lord Harris’s
XI. He did a lot of work, manual and other, in
the establishment of the Oval at Adelaide, and the
S.A. Cricket Association made him a life member
long ago. George Giffen always reckoned that he
owed much to Gooden’s coaching, and there was a
great gathering of old cricket personalities at his
grave-side on Saturday.
* * * *
The world’s classic motor-car road race,
the Grand Prix of France, was an easy thing for the
promoting nation, the cars of which filled first and
second places. The winner was Boillot, and the
second man Jules Goux, both of whom drove Puegeot
cars. England filled third place with a Sunbeam,
driven, sad to say, by a Frenchman or a Belgian,
named Chassiagne. The winner averaged over 72
miles an hour, as against the 69 put up last year.
The race was a disappointment to Goux, who has
been figuring big on the rim of things automobilic
of late, having established a speed of 106 J miles
per hour lately, and followed it up by annexing the
£4OOO first prize for the 500-miles run at Indian-
apolis (U.S.A.). The winning car developed over
159 h.p., while the Sunbeam was a mere 110 h.p.
affair. The race was run on peculiar lines. The
competitors could have any powered engines they
chose, but they were onlv allowed a gallon of petrol
for every 14 miles of the course. The Puegeot people
underfed their huge engine, while the British firm
gave its flier full and plenty. The underfed car
won. But it is hard to see where the moral comes
in, although the fact is plain enough. The big strong
engine can do more on insufficient diet than the
little strong engine can do even if properly fed.
* * * *
Jules Goux, said to be the most dapper of
the great motor drivers, scored an easy win at
Indianapolis (U.S.A.) in the 500-miles contest. The
real struggle took place over the first 100 miles,
during which Burman contested every inch. Then
Goux got to the front, kept there and eventually
won w ; 'h 14min. to spare. Fourteen minutes at a
speed of 77 miles an hour represents a long streak
of margin between first and second competitors.
The Dunlop Rubber Co. states that the
forthcoming 100 Miles Cvcling Relay Test against
time, for £2lO worth of prizes, can be competed
in only by teams drawn from clubs. The best men
cannot be drawn from an association, or league or
union of affiliated clubs. They must be drawn from
the individual clubs composing the union or the
league, and race as representatives of the clubs only.
Which is. of course, fair and reasonable, and gives
the smallest club an eoual chance with the largest.
Somewhere about 40.000 copies of the rules govern-
ing the contest will be distributed among wheelers
during the coming week.
* * * *
The fact that this year of grace 1913 is
the half-jubilee of the Dunlop pneumatic tyre is
worth a mention. Of course, the Belfast surgeon
who gave his name to the tvre was not the originator
of the idea. The first known man to get that was
an Englishman named Thompson, who. away back
in 1847, got a patent, and actually made pneumatic
tvres for horse-drawn vehicles. His trouble was that
there were not the manufacturing facilities to make
the idea a success, and it was abandoned till 1888,
when Dr. Dunlop, of Belfast, revived it, and made
a success. The first appearance of the Dunlop on
the track was when Frame Cortland used it at i£en-
nington Oval in 1890, and with its aid left the rest
standing still. Then the rush started, and it has
been growing ever since. The remarkable thing
about the pneumatic tyre is the way it has held its
own against all the ingenu.ty and skill that has
tried to replace the hollow tube with one filled with
some elastic compound which will not be at the
mercy of a puncture.
The surprise of the Rugby League Com-
petition in Sydney on Saturday was provided by
Balmain, which fell on South Sydney at Bircngrove
Oval and flattened it out in great style, by 14 points
to six. South, apparently, like East Sydney, has
gone stale, and the club selectors are apparently too
crass to replace the exhausted units. Still, there
seems to be a sort of fatality about the second game
with Balmain against South Sydney. It happened
in both 1911 and 1912, and in all three seasons
South Sydney won the first scrap with comparative
ease. This season it was the black and gold for-
wards who did the trick, by the process of smother-
ing the Southern three-quarter men, and nipping every
evolution in the bud by grassing the evoluters before
they could get going. Which, of course, means that
the Balmain forwards had the speed and the jump
which are the progeny of perfect condition. South
was not up to its usual speed; neither had it the
bite that made it terrible at the beginning of the
season. East Sydney also had a narrow escape. It
won over Western Suburbs, but only by a margin of
one point, 11 to 10. Had West had a better back
machine it would have worried East to death. As it
was, the Western backs were worse than those of
East, Sydney, and those of East were deadly stale. It
was the superiority of the Western forwards which
enabled the team to make the stand it did, and nar-
rowly. escape defeating the premier club. Newtown
journeyed to North Sydney, where it found 8000
people waiting to look on. North Sydney takes its
League football very seriously. The game was keen
as a razor ought to be, and it was the superiority
of the Newtown artillery that brought it out on top
with 14 points to 10. Newtown played a man short
for a long while, or the Northern downfall would
have been worse than it was. North was weak in the
scrums and on the line, and the excellent long-range
kicking of Newtown enabled it to get out of many
difficulties. Although Glebe did down Annandale by
eight points to two, the victory was nothing to
crow about. Annandale never played a worse
game; and, for that matter, neither did Glebe.
Over and over again the Annandale forwards blazed
the track right to the Glebe line, and then the backs
failed to push the attack home. They were not up
to their usual form. Had they been, Annandale
had surely come out on top. The result of the defeat
of South Sydney is to improve the position of East
Sydney and Newtown, which have now got a sub-
stantial start in the Competition with 19 and 17
points respectively. South Sydney is level with
Glebe (14 points each), and after them are the
teams which, from a Competition point of view, are
hopeless, having only single figures opposite their
names —North Sydney, Balmain, Western Suburbs
and Annandale, with six, five, four and two points
respectively.
Union Rugby loomed large last week in
the eye of the Union followers and the Ma State
generally, when the N.S.W. team journeyed to Bris-
bane (Q.). There the local XV fell upon it and
routed it by 13 points to three. Queensland won the
toss, and, after a brief struggle, carried the war into
N.S.W. and scored. The kick at goal failed, how-
ever. Queensland, elated by this initial success,
charged again and crossed, but once more the kick
at goal failed. With six points scored against it
inside 10 minutes, the Ma State team endeavored to
drag itself together. But it was no go. Queens-
land charged again, scored, and onlv missed the extra
points; and so half-time found Bananaland leading
by nine to nil. On the resumption N.S.W. let loose
a sudden charge, and, bursting through, seeured a
try, its first score, inside of a minute'. It was slick.
But the slickness could not be repeated, although it
was followed up by a whole series of charges and
attacks, which the stubborn, lean Queenslanders
pulled down remorselessly one by one. Then some-
one got his nose wrecked, and the game was sus-
pended for repairs. Almost immediately upon re-
sumption Queensland kicked a field goal that lifted
its score to 13 to three. After that the ambulance
came to carry away a N.S.W. slaver of the ancient
and honorable Cymric clan of Jones. With the
departure of Jones went also all hope of levelling up
the scores, and no further record was made on either
side. Ma had bit the dust.
In spite of these strenuous doings abroad
the Union competition went on the tumultuous tenor
of its way in Sydney. The star item of the after-
noon was the ferocious struggle between University
and Newtown at the Alma Mater Oval, where a
thousand population looked on eagerly. On that
bleak, exposed ground the wintry wind was mighty,
and University, hav ; ng won the toss, chose to play
with the breeze behind it. With the help of the
gale, it bashed and booted 19 points before half-time
brought its golden hour to a close, and sent it to the
end where it would have to fight for its life. But
its tactics were good, and it used the touch-l‘ne for
all it was worth when the cyclone was against it.
and, verily, it had its reward. While Newtown piled
up 17 points University managed to put on another
eight, and so won out by 27 to 17. Great was the
whoop. The dolorous smiting of North Sydney by
Glebe at Rushcutters Bay was a terrible affair. It
was a boot of tonnage that Glebe waved over the
ancient ground, and so was the score it piled up. 34
points to six. South Svdney, once the most formid-
able of Sydney teams, fell on Balmain and made a
Bulgarian atrocitv of it bv 14 points to three in a
game that calls for no comment. Western Suburbs
dared the long sea voyage to the village of Manlv.
and found a team with swelled head awaiting it. And
it had reason to be swelled, havmg made drawn
games with those giants. University and Newtown.
But the enlargement, of the head and the inflamma-
tion thereof had not extended to the boot, nor had
it affected the legs in anv wav; and when the dust
had settled, Manly was found on top by 11 points
to nil.
All interest in the N.S.W. Rugby Union’s
competition has virtually ceased. No matter what
happens, Eastern Suburbs must win. If the whole
plaving team fell dead, it would still be the premier
club, so far ahead is it. East has 20 noints, and
the nearest rivals. University and Newtown, are
each 13. Glebe has 10. In the B Division, South
Svdnev is on ton, with 12 points ; North Svdney has
10 arid Manly has eight. Below that are—but, no
matter.
* * » *
Vaccination played ancient Henry with
the Soccer games in Svdnev on Saturday. Most, of
the star plavers were absent, and those that were
present had apparently bepn vaccinated in the kiek.
The result was uninteresting nlav, in which the
winning teams blundered to victory because the other
fellows were too sore about the boots to stop them.
Newtown thumped Northern Suburbs bv two goals to
nil. Balmain banged Granville with five goal* to
one. Svdnev and Canterburv wrestled mightibn but
both failed to score. Annandale blew out the shining
light of Glebe bv seven goals to nil.
Melbourne’s Saturday hoofball was bright
where it wasn’t expected to be and dull where it
ought to have glittered. Somewhere about 25,000
persons braved the ice-tipped winter wind on the
Carlton Oval in the expectation that the Old Blues,
fighting for their place in the “four,” would make
a close finish with ’Wood. But, alas! before the
first term was over it was seen that the Magpies
were playing all over their opponents. On their
own ground, and with the high wind right behind
them, the locals could notch but two goals and five
behinds, while the Magpies got four behinds. When
the second term ended, ’Wood had five goals eight
behinds on the board; Carlton but two goals six
behinds. The Blues tore around more recklessly in
the second half, but, even so, the surer marking and
cleaner passing of the Magpies added increased points,
and when the final bell rang the scorer stated: ’Wood,
77 points; Carlton, 54. The Only other struggle
that counted was at St. Kilda, where the Saints en-
countered certain sinners from Richmond. Could
they win they would be only half-a-game behind
Carlton, and there would still be corn in Egypt, so
to speak; so they bogged in regardless, and kept
adding always a point or two more than the Yellow-
and-Blacks. But up to lemon-time they could never
get more than eight points to the good, and a couple
of straight kicks might easily annul that advantage.
So, in the last quarter, the Saints took Richmond
by the forelock, so to speak, and hammered into it
the fact that they were out to win, and were stand-
ing no nonsense, the consequence being an additional
20 points to the other's two —totals, Saints, 62
points; Richmond, 36. Over on the South Melbourne
ground the ’Dons, who couldn’t reach the finals if
they won every game yet to play, avenged themselves
on the Red-and-Whites for many drastic defeats. They
plaved with such method and determination that by
three-quarter time they had achieved 49 points to
South’s seven. Disaster was inevitable for the
latter, but it managed to avoid utter disgrace by
getting 42 altogether to ’Don’s 62. ’Roy dog-wai-
loped Melbourne by 86 to 28 ; and Geelong pounded
the Students regardless of their feelings by erecting
the steep tally of 120 points to 36. The result of
the day’s happenings is that South descends from
first to third place, while ’Roy and ’Wood stand on
top, level in games, though the former is slightly
ahead on points. As for Carlton, its posit'on depends
on what happens on August 2, when it bumps against
St. Kilda. If it goes down, then it probably goes
out as part of the bargain.
GREAT SCOTT!
Referee Scott intercepts one of O'Donnell's wild
swipes , in the O’Donnell-Smith disturbance at
Sydney Stadium.
The Melbourne Ass. struggle gets even
more exciting than that of the League. On Satur-
day, ’Wick, playing with steadily-improving system,
met and routed the all-conquering ’Scrayites by 80
to 43, which was emphatic, beyond doubt. Wil-
liamstown, knowing it had to win, gave P’ran neither
rest nor respite till the close of the uproar, when
the scores were: ’Town, 46 points; P’ran, 38. The
other disturbances were mere exercise canters for one
side, and didn't really matter. They ended: North,
71 points; Brighton, 59; ’Don, 106; Melb. City,
27; and Port, 76; ’Cote, 35. The position is that
there is just half a game between each of the first
four teams —’Scrav, North, ’Don and ’Wick, while
’Town and P’ran are level, half a game lower still.
So there may possibly be breakages, as the man
said when the aeroplane capsized above the crockery
shop.
The week’s football happenings in Mel-
bourne include the suspension of the mysterious No.
17, of ’Town’s team, who was adjudged to be the
Adams so numbered officially, until the end of 1914,
and the hanging up of a Melb. City ’bailer for the
rest of this season. In the interim of bogging-in,
certain mysterious parties are also understood to
have been endeavoring to organise a footballers’
union, or boggers-in institute, or some such, for the
“better protection of the interests of a numerous
and hard-working class of toilers.” Apparently the
“trade” or “profession” of ’bailer thinks of applying
for an award, or at least a wages board —as to
which this writer would like to mention that he
knows of one star who, on being promised 355. a
week, plus exes., transferred to an Ass. club. So
far the takings haven’t permitted the committee to
keep its promise, the most he has got having been
255., and the least 10s. Also, a certain League club
started the season by paying its men from £3 to
ss. a week apiece. That team is now near the
bottom of the list, and its “gates” wouldn’t yield
10s. a player all round. There are other expenses to
a football club besides players’ wages, and you can’t
whack out minimum wages when they aren’t there
to whack.
* * * *
On Saturday 48 bowlers descended on
Sydney from the coaly city of Newcastle, and met
the pick of the metropolis on Waverley’s green
sward. When the riot was over and the last glass
was drained, it was found the infected capital had
won by 287 to 267.
* * * *
Sydney baseball top-dogs had a day of
revelry on Saturday when the weaker teams were re-
duced to pulp, and then finally deflocculated—with
only one exception, that of Mosman-North Sydney
versus Waverley. The aristocrats of Mosman got a
bad scare, and pulled out only by scoring three runs
in the last innings. The total figures were 11 to
nine. Leichhardt buried the dry bones o"f Padding-
ton by 17 to one—a truly awful bur’al. That of Sir
John Moore was nothing to it. Lane Cove downed
University by 19 to five. Burwood was mangled by
Petersham by 20 to eight; ,and the rest was the
silence of despair and the trodden-on hat of desola-
tion. The positions in the competition were in no
way affected, but the bitterness of defeat was rubbed
in," and the sweetness of victory embittered by the
flavor of walk-over.
Like many other people in Sydney the
lacrossers are under medical observation, and great
was the woe on Saturday. Many of the clubs failed
to find enough plavers to make up teams, while the
Svdney club could raise nobodv, every mother’s son
of the fighting crowd being a-bed. Apparently the
doctors overdosed the citv. It was a serious business
for Svdney, which was second on the list, and was
down to meet Fast Svdnev, the premier gang or
Golden Horde. Birchgrove’s arm was much better
than Burwood’s, and the latter went under by nine
to three. Mosman was real good, and Manly wasn't
ltesult: 14 to three. Petersham very calmly tore
University to shreds by seven to one. The brethren,
of East Sydney have now accumulated 21 competition
points to the 15 of Petersham and Sydney and the
13 of Birchgrove. The others have no hope. As a
matter of fact, no one seems to have much hope, and
barring a miracle East Sydney has the championship
secured.
* * * *
The amateur championships in boxing and
wrastling of the V.A.A.A. were decided at Meib
Athenaeum Hall on Tuesday night last week. a
crowded house, which included Waxellency Madden
and the Fuller Governor got some willing goes for
its money. The wrastlers made the better display
from the expert point of view, and in each of the
four divisions last year’s champion scored again.
Feather-weight Ridley beat Carr picturesquely each
time by standing him on his head with a crutch
hold before turning him down. Bridges (10st.)
worked the arm roll on Beattie—a former champion
—in masterly style. Meeske, the middle-weight,
failed to fix Tonkin on both shoulders within the
10 minutes’ limit, but he was always atop and got
the award on points. Jenkin, a tall 12st. 101 b. boy
made light of P. Fatouros, who scaled 21b. heavier!
the two falls taking only 5J minutes in all. Wrast-
ling, as the amateurs play it, may not be always
crowded with incident, but it is at least interesting.
In the glove department the light-weights Dever
and Bodsworth put up the brightest show. Dever,
who finally got the medal on points, is a pretty
boxer, but in a fight to a finish, with all rules sus-
pended, the other fellow would probably be the sur-
vivor. Quinlan (12st. 111 b.) happened to hit J. A.
Miller (lOst. 121 b.) so hard in their first round that
a clout in the second round left him dazed. After
the ref. had stopped the fight Miller staggered to
his feet, under the impression that he was still a
goer, whereas the victor was merely shaking hands
with him. A sturdy bantam, J. W. Jannese, had
nothing to beat in little Jacky McGowan (7st. 21b.),
whose second chucked in the towel before time was
called in the first round. Jacky has a fine Roman
nose on him, well worth preserving intact. If he
follows up boxing as a business, like his clever dad
before him, the glory of Jack’s nose will surely de-
part from it. J. J. Goddard put his hands up in
two classes—welterweight and middleweight. In the
former he won on points, although Davison had got
him tired at the finish. Goddard is an artist as
compared with the average duck-and-biff boxer, but
seemingly he was not in good health. When he
reappeared to try conclusions with J. Suter (the
Railway Institute champion), who had 71b.
more weight behind his punch, the only chance for
Goddard was in his opponent’s rashness. However,
he could do nothing with his opportunities, and
before he dropped from exhaustion a good hard
knock on the region of the heart might have been
his death blow.
» * * «
The Holberg-Mehegan scran at Sydney
Stadium was generally regarded as something extra
special as a display of pluck; but, according to
those who saw both scraps, it was nothing to that
put up by Teddie Manson, who held the gate of the
five-bob section when it was rushed by the “bleach-
ers.” That was a terrific, all-in disturbance, in
which rules were thrown aside. The crowd smashed
at Edwin with hands and feet, and some even
tried to bite him. However, in the end, the white
coat of Manson was triumphant, and the serried
hosts of the rushers were pushed back, and the
barbed-wire gate slammed in their faces.
Although Les O’Donnell weighed 12st. 61b.
to Dave Smith’s list, llßb. when they entered the
ring at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night, the
lighter man was favorite at anything up to three
to one. Smith himself was over-confident, and
reaped the usual harvest in the shape of a face that
was less beautiful than it might have been. So,
although he won, he got a mighty bashing while
dragging his victory by the tail out of the ash-
barrel of adversity. It was Smith’s speed that
flabbergasted O’Donnell, who, although he put up a
great fight, never had a hope. He could not get out
of Smith’s way, so he smote him hard and often,
but, not smiting him hard enough, he got the worst
of the exchanges, until the 16th round, when his
misfortunes were ended by a knock-out. And all the
rest is frills. It was a ding-dong battle; a most
stubborn fight, but at the end of each round there
was no doubt as to who had got the best and the
worst of it. After the eighth round it was plain
that O’Donnell’s only chance was a knock-out. Smith
never gave him that chance. In boxing the man
that goes looking for a knock-out as the only hope
has to leave himse’f open, and O’Donnell did so.
Then he closed suddenly.
Someone has discovered that the clinging
Vine, who batted so carefully for the last English
XI, holds a record —he and C. B. Frv have 33 times
put up over 100 for the first wicket for Sussex.
This overtons the opening partnerships of A. 0.
Jones and Tremonger for Nottingham, J. T. Brown
and Tunnicliffe for Yorkshire, or Hayward and Hobbs
for Surrey. Taking great care of himself. Joseph
Vine has been in bis countv team since 1896. and
bas scored over 1000 in each of the last 12 seasons,
besides taking over 500 wickets at odd times. He
gets a big “benefit” match this month.


brand your
WITH
tk
%
i v
/ /
mnntti
*
< NN 1
PATENT
SHEEPBRANDINGHonm
BLACK, RED <& BLUE <ln 8-Gallon Cases).
4/6 Per Gallon.
1-Gallon Tins,
5/- each.
. . Kempton, Tasmania,
Dear Sirs, It is preferable to any I have ever used; the longer it stands
on the sheep, the more plainly it. shows. (Signed) JAMES HADDON, Senr.
Coorawong, via Coonamble, N.S.W.,
Dear Sirs, —I have been using “Kemp’s Sheep Branding Liquid” for a
number of years. I find “Kemp’s’* is the best. I will continue using it.
(Signed) A. J. HOWARD.
Agents in MELBOURNE (Dalgety & Co., Ltd.).
„ „ SYDNEY (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
~ ~ ADELAIDE (D. &J. Fowler Ltd.).
~ „ KINGSTON, S.A. (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
„ „ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.).
~ ~ ROCKHAMPTON (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
~ ~ TOWNSVILLE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
~ „ FREMANTLE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
~ ~ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.).
„ „ LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell & Co. Ltd.).
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID IS NOT AN OIL AND
WILL NOT INJURE THE WOOL.
SUIT
FOR
llv
Your acceptance of this Special End-of-
the-Season offer makes a certainty of two
things:—
1- —That you will obtain complete Suit
Satisfaction.
2- —That you will save 20s. in hard
cash on the transaction.
In actual fact we offer you your choice
from a Range of Suitings, honestly equal
to any 70s. Suitings we’ve ever sold. We
guarantee that the Cutting, Fitting and
Making of the Finished Garments will be
absolutely flawless, and we Stamp the
Contract with the Hall-mark of Genuine-
ness by adding our Client-protecting
Clause,
"We’ll Refund Money if
we Fail to Satisfy”
—that is, we’ll hand you back every penny of
the amount paid if you are not perfectly con-
vinced that the Suit you are getting is at least
equal to any 70s. suit that you ever wore or saw,
and that was produced in the Commonwealth.
Now, you get this undoubted value—you get this
perfect pocket-protection for an outlay of 505.!
Don’t you think it is at least worth your while to
WRITE FOR PATTERNS (Post Free)
from the 500 Suitings at your disposal—to compare
their quality with that of the ordinary 70s. Suiting
and then to let your judgment decide? A copy of our
“Mail-Order” Catalog, with Tapes and Self-Measure-
ment Forms, will be sent you with the Patterns.
You’ll incur no obligation by writing, and the keener
judge of Tailoring Values you are the better pleased
we’ll be to hear from you. The finished suit will be
sent freight free. Save a Sovereign by writing now.
The Offer Holds for
ONE MONTH ONLY.
I
PTYLTD.
244*254 Flirvders St
(Opp. Cent. Rly.Stn)
_ MELBOURNE
a
>•
YOUR HEALTH IS WHAT YOU MAKE IT
Exercise you neglect your health. Because
anaHtv ; b \ C ? e , y° u . r blood circulation becomes feeble, it*
quality impoverished, its nourishing qualities banished.
fivSe n Lmt a fi Rni- eXerciSe ’ but few 01111 flnd time for a da ily
Devotethlt ti™ B +* ever - vo '?f ! , can ware fifteen minutes a day.
EXERC,SES ' •"I
apply scientific principles to ensure a
vigorous blood circulation, a thorough exercising of the vital
ann a arLt an bec C ° mP^ e Their benefit's are Sickly
apparent, because they go right to the spot. y
Here is good evidence:—
“Since undertaking your Course, I feel twice the man
“ d 1 have developed wonderfully. I have never been
more pleased with anything I have done than since I
honcstlv y ° Ur 9 0urse of Physical Culture, and I can
S'esr w..r°“ “ kin>: hm ”
That will give you an idea how you can benefit.
,J he ™ are , many more such letters given in my booklet
, “ an d Strength from Self Culture*” One of them will
®n«dy be similar to your case. Why not write for this inter*
cost n of b tuitk>n W etc C 9 alS °/ 1 !f, S full in formati on of my methods,
postage ° n ’ etC * ’ Klndly send three penny stamps for
Reg.L . (“Snowy”) Baker
■W*
ar
I
217 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
00 (double-0')
Old Orkney Whisky
IF
YOU WILL go in for
Sport,
YOU WILL go in for Best
Material,
YOU WILL always obtain
this at
L.W. DODGE SCO.
SYDNEY SPORTS STORES,
NOW LOCATED AT
10 & 12 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
&
Yon get more Fnel Miles
out of
SHELL'
than oat of any other Motor Spirit
THAT'S WHERE /TS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
Choice
w
Havana
Cigars!
My Manuel Garcia
Cigars are fine, full-
flavored Havanas.
They are undoubtedly
rare cigars of exquisite
fragrance and undeni-
ab 1 e quality—cigars
which please the most
exacting connoisseur.
The Manuel Garcia
Cigars (Reina Victor-
ias), as illustrated, in
boxes of 25’s, cost 12/6,
50’s 24/-, 100’s 45/-
Postage extra.
A 25-box weighs about
6oz.
Write for a copy of my
Illustrated Catalog, sent
free on request.
Actual
Size.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 Pitt St., Sydney.
RIGNEY SHOES
Rigney Shoes are made in all styles, and in
a size to fit any foot.
Real comfort, smart appearance and long
wear are what you buy with every Rigney
shoe.
We here illustrate a Geo. E. Keith’s best
American, All-Patent Enamel Kid Bal. The
design, material and workmanship are alike
—“perfect.” The famous Paris Last, in
Patent or Tans. Also in Derby.
35-
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write for a Copy of our New
Illustrated Catalogue.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,"
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
s'


GAMATOGEIi
&
1
"r
A 3
,V
-v-
-fcrig
s
89
I HAVE
RECEIVED A
SECOND LIFE
V
THt TF.rtf*H.T
SKMHER
Hundreds of thousands of people have derived
immeasurable benefits
From Sanatogen
Thousands of them have written to the proprietors
to say so. Their testimony records marvellous results,
which, until its discovery, could never have been obtained
by any means at the disposal of the physician.
Among the writers are many celebrities with whose
names
You will
be as familiar as with your own.
Tens of thousands of doctors throughout the world
have prescribed Sanatogen, which a medical authority,
writing in The Medical Press and Circular, states, “has
strengthened the physician’s hand a hundredfold,’’ while,
he adds, “ the wonders brought about by this prepara-
tion are no less manifold than amazing.’’
This is high praise for any preparation to
Receive
but it has been endorsed by innumerable statements.
Here, for instance, is one by that famous Authoress,
Madame Sarah Grand : “ Sanatogen has done everything
for me which it is said to be able to do for cases of
nervous weakness and exhaustion. I began to take it
after nearly four years’ enforced idleness from extreme
weakness, and felt the benefit almost immediately. And
now, after taking it steadily three times a day for
twelve weeks, I find myself able to enjoy both work
and play again, and also able to do as much of both as I
ever did.”
To be so revitalised is, indeed, in Shakespeare’s
words, to receive
A Second Life
That experience may be duplicated by every reader
of these words, for Sanatogen so influences the nervous
and muscular systems, the digestion and the great blood-
making organs, that it restores the normal balance dis-
organised by illness or disease.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists, in tins, at 2S. 6d.,
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d.
An interesting and instructive booklet, entitled
“ The Art of Living,” will be sent, post free, to all
who write, mentioning this paper, to A. Wulfing Ik Co.,
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Some Views on Party Government.
Sydney Telegraph appears to have felt
last week that the case for elective Minis-
tries was getting altogether too dangerous,
and it opened out on the subject with most
misguided vigor. A sample
The idea is that the House should only sit as a
committee directing the best men in the country
how to carry on public affairs. Those who pro-
pound it are no doubt aware that something like this
system is now under trial in the United States, where
the Cabinet is outside Congress, as the President is
supposed to be.
The U.S. Constitution is not “under trial.”
It has lasted 120 odd years, and no one has
yet proposed to alter the relation of the
executive to Congress. The Ministers are
not elected, but appointed by the President,
and they attend sittings of either House
when required to explain anything. The
same system is in force in the German Em-
pire. For more than 40 years the affairs of
the Empire have been administered by suc-
cessive Cabinets of officials, many of whom
have never been Parliamentarians. The fol-
lowing is so monumentally foolish that it sug-
gests thgt the Telegraph is cynically pre-
suming on the ignorance of its readers:—
The notion that the Socialist and the Liberal
and advocates of freehold and leasehold, and Protec-
tion and Freetrade should hold office together is as
amiable as that of the lion and the lamb bedding
down together; and the same may be said of the
benevolent idea that members of Parliament should
be mere committeemen, voting this way and that,
and leaving a tortured Ministry to carry out its
behests.
As a matter of fact, in tlie newly-constituted
Australian Government the Protectionist
lion is bedding down quite comfortably
with what the old would probably call
the Freetrade lamb. And there are other
differences. The difference, for example, be-
tween the Liberalism of Glynn and Irvine
and the “Liberalism” of Joe Cook and W.
E. Johnson. Finally, according to the
’Graph, it is to “ignore human nature” to
.. . suppose that for the sake of places in hopelessly
piebald Governments men will do or sanction what
they believe to be utterly wrong.
Every politician has, at one time or other
in his career, to do or sanction things he
believes to be wrong. Cook, as a Free-
trader, is doing it so long as he, for the
sake of keeping Victorian votes, submits to
a tariff which he believes to be pernicious.
Willy Kelly, as a pro-Dreadnoughter and
opponent of local defence, is sanctioning
what he believes to be wrong in tamely sub-
mitting to “conscription”' and the institu-
tion of an Australian Navy. Bruce Smith,
as an Anti-Socialist is sanctioning what he
believes to be wrong when for various good
and sufficient narty reasons he shuts his
mouth on the subject of the Progressive
Land Tax. Wine out the Party Government
system, and members of Governments, pie-
bald or otherwise, will not be driven to sanc-
tion what they believe to be utterly wrong.
Under the existing system they are hard at
it every day of their lives.
A Tale of Things in General.
“Hock” writes on the above subject:—^
I rise (with great sorrow) to say that there are no
extortionate profits to be collected in the retail
grocery trade. Many readers (bar grocers) would
agree with O. C. Cabot (B. 3/7/’l3) that a big wal-
lop of the high cost of living is due to plain robbery
on the part of the middleman, the grocer being the
chief brigand. A while ago I mislaid my con-
science and decided to join the alleged robber class.
I thought I’d have some trouble to get in. I had
none. About 179 grocers answered my advt. Before
I was halfway through their epistles I concluded
the game had one drawback —it was unhealthy.
“Owing to ill-health” was the sole reason for selling
in 40 per cent, of cases. The balance had reasons,
many and varied, according to their versatility as
liars. The ill-health section were not liars. They
were (most of them) suffering severely from shock,
aggravated by insomnia. You get the shock when
you first realise what a disastrous take-down the
trade is. The aggravation follows through lying
awake at night wondering when some mug will
happen along to relieve you of the sorry turnout.
I relieved one of them. I was assured my weekly
turnover would run to £6O. It crawled to £5O.
I was a bit upset; but I cheered up when I thought
of the agent’s glowing description: “Great oppor-
tunity for smart man; room for extension; houses
going up everywhere.” After my first month’s worry
was over, I began to investigate things. I wouldn’t
have started so soon only “wholesale acounts” were
beginning to belt the soul out of my “cash in hand.”
My out-of-pocket exes, were £5 12s. 6d. (landlord,
one man’s wages, and coupons). I discovered the
cursed coupon parasite was eating 2 per cent, out of
my turnover. My show panned out just about 17
per cent, gross profit. At that figure my weekly
net cash return (bar pence fractions) was £7 ss* 4d.
(not £8 10s., as the mug beginnner thinks). My
share of the week’s plunder: £1 12s. lOd. That
result includes the farthings O. C. Cabot writes
about. They amount to about a “sprat” on a box
of butter. I admit I picked a bad hole to start in;
still, I know there is not more to-day than a good
mechanic’s wage to be got anywhere in the line;
hence so many of the concerns are always in the
market. 1 never knew a retail grocer who made a
fortune, and 1 never Knew a retail draper After
all, there are points about money-lending. The
money-lender’s goods never go bad. They are never
seized on a charge of adulteration or unfitness for
human consumption. They never decompose, and
the tin never blows up. Shylock is not, under any
circumstances, driven to sell off last season’s sove-
reigns at an alarming sacrifice because they have
gone out of fashion by reason of the trimmings, and
last year’s bob is as good as this year’s bob. Also,
his stock is never destroyed by fire, and he isn’t ex-
pected to give coupons, and he hasn’t to take an
illustrated page in The Bulletin to advertise his
new season’s goods—the freshly imported quid and
the thrum that has just been unloaded from the
ship. Still, even he has his grievances. The best
and most solvent peonle go to the man who sells rich
chiffons, while the worst and least solvent go to the
man who sells rich money. The money-lender is a
man who lives in the water arguing with the shark
in the shark’s own element. And even when he
charges 60 per cent, his rate isn’t higher than the
draper’s. I don’t know of a single money-lender in
Australasia who left a great fortune, though I have
known two who went insolvent. And one of them
never got his certificate. He applied for it off and
on during many weary years, but each time a clergy-
man appeared to “oppose,” and the clergyman
knocked the money-lender out every time. This
particular financier had made the mistake of calling
himself a “bank”; and the parson had put £lOO
with him on fixed deposit. And when Galileos
bank broke, not even a surreptitious offer ot £soo'
would buy off the good man’s vengeance. He re-
fused to be a secretly preferred creditor. He
proved that there had been “misrepresentation, and
he raised Sheol. So in the end, poor old Galilee
became a sort of runner for a slop clo emporium,
and I believe he died in that capacity. I know he
died in something. Incidentally, the money he lent
me was a dead loss to him. And it didn t do me
much good. Perhaps there was a curse on it.
The Victorian Government is talking about
tearing up the Eocal Government derange-
ment by the roots and throwing numerous
weakling boroughs and shires over the fence.
The Watt Ministry is talking of doing this;
but whether the Weary lot now in office-
has enough energy to do it remains to be
seen. Other and stronger Governments have
said the same thing—until a host of borough;
and shire councillors rose up in their one-bob'
wrath and threatened anyone who dared to>
lay hands upon the municipal tinpot of V ic~
toria, whereupon the authorities Quietly
caved in. But it is quite time some body put
many Victorian penny councils out of their-
misery. Consider this little lot of decayed
boroughs:—
Ratepayers. Revenue.
Raywood . . 138 . . £324
Smythesdale .. 156 .. 272:
Majorica . . 185 . . 369’
Tarnagulla . . 217 . . 610>
Malmsbury . . 245 .. 691
Scarsdale . . 251 .. 382:
Carisbrook . . 252 . . 528
Chewton.. .. 277 .. 694
Buninyong . . 356 . . 840-
And this worse lot of shires: —
Ratepayers. Revenue..
Springfield . . 167 . . £lll6
Merriang . . 273 .. 1169
Laneefield .. 291 .. 1080
Mount Alexander 543 . . 1057
Broadford . . 504 . . 1454
Doncaster .. 321 .. 1299
Glenlyon.. .. 495 .. 1314
Pyalong . . 345 .. 1306
Templestowe . . 394 .'. 1187
Keilor . . . . 423 . . 1490
If these comic-opera councils were wiped
out and their ha’penny or bottle-o areas,
thrown into those of their nearest neighbors,
a lot of money now wasted on secretaries
and engineers and goat-inspectors could be
spent on the disgraceful roads; and the
Backbone of the Country would then be rid
of one of the excuses he now has for howling
at the prospect of paying 2d. a day more to
his tired hired man. Perhaps he doesn’t
really want to be rid of the excuse. But
that doesn’t matter. The country needs a
much larger rural population, and the best
way to attract it is to nay the decent wages
that mostly are not paid in the cocky parts
at present.
“Binnacle” : The N.S.W. Government has
re-appointed the same old lot of 12 Marine
Assessors who have been doing duty for
years. These assessors assist the Marine
Court Judge when a luckless skipper is up
before Pilate, and although they are respect-
able, well-meaning, courteous, unwarlike, and
even genteel, they have all been out of active
service for years. In fact, their strongest
qualification for the job is sentiment. It’s
an easy matter for the Executive to say,
“Re-appoint the old ’uns,” but as the vacan-
cies are advertised far and wide, and, no
doubt, are largely applied for, this easy
way of doing things is hardly a recommen-
dation for good administration, and the
establishment of confidence in the Court.
Anyhow, I reckon the credentials of fresh
aspirants should be examined. The work
wouldn’t take lone, and would, at least, in-
isipire a friendly feeling. Further, I reckon
aitad hold and consider and am of fixed
(opinion that the marine assessor should be
a skipper on active service, with a year’s
leave of absence from his employment. And
when his year is up he should do another
Spell at sea before he is qualified to act
again. If a dozen shipping companies lent
a skipner apiece for the job, then the oldest
gang of assessors wouldn’t have been out of
touch with actual sea conditions for more
than a year when it was in its last day of
service, and that would at least be an ad-
vantage. The Judge doesn’t necessarily get
out of touch with law through being on the
Bench, for the law is a dry land beast and
comes to him in books; but the sea doesn’t
come to the marine assessor.
A man in the business has just completed
a census of the hoardings of three cities,
and finds that 40 per cent, of the commercial
posters that appeal for Australian money
are printed outside Australia. In other
words, the firms who cry aloud to Australia
to spend its money with them are doing
their little bit to prevent Australia having
any money to spend with them or anybody
else. The present duty on this printed stuff
is 6d. per lb. or 30 per cent., whichever is
the greater, and that looks a reasonable
start to give the Australian printer. But
the fact that 40 per cent, of the work is
done by the foreigner proves that it isn’t a
reasonable start. The duty, as it stands,
really helps the big importer. His foreign
firm, busy in Britain or America as well as
in Australia, gets perhaps 100,000 litho-
graphed posters printed ; and a good deal of
the preliminary expense is the same whether
the number is 1000 or 100,000. With this
preliminary expense spread over 100,000, the
big foreign house with the Australian agent
can thus land its advertising goods here at a
price which the Australian printer can’t
look at. But the Australian, with only the
Australian market to cater for, has to pay
the Australian printer; mostly the duty is
big enough to stop him from going outside.
If the duty were made high enough to keep
all poster and such-like printing in the
country—and it can be done as well here as
anywhere—the Australian would be on as
good a wicket as the big international
trader; but he never will be so long as the
duty is made so low that the foreign trader
can fly over it like a bird.


ThE
f
W
:
if 'P^t
i
\■ | '’T'v ■* /s*?'
’jS, ft - ~■
V '• '■ r. ,V • ' v>J
% ' ,-5 -%s. , ?
' V"‘"\
-
v *w\ «P
E£S&
.
r-^V:
.
. ';v' <
«►»*_. '«-y» -^ChrA.
■ \
HR-' *** •
> •■
■ J
3
, - %%
, .
I
y
, -V
,
2*™w®i
p~r ■ '■—'
F\
* \
AX
Tu f '. • W9i.A
s ,; t r :/ ;
Isl
v :
“ ' •'•- V , '-■
.
■
i • ■;■
,
§MI
«
A ,f
View the Mountains by Motor.
Besides the unequalled comforts and advantages offered
by the CARRINGTON Hotel, there is the additional joy
of a 47-mile Motor ride to the Caves available to all
Visitors.
Every day the magnificent “Itala” Cars make this trip.
Fare, £2 return. '
A stay at the CARRINGTON, with its many conveni-
ences —Electric Light, Artificial Heating, Hydropathic
Dept., etc., will give you the greatest pleasure. Every
comfort to make your stay enjoyable.
Tariff —£3 10s. per week ;
12s. 6d. per day.
Full information from City Office.
18 IMPERIAL ARCADE,
SYDNEY.


Bottle-fed
Babies
How often little, bottle-fed
babies suffer from weak-
ness, anaemia, rickets and
teething troubles. Yet a
little SCOTT’S Emulsion,
added to the contents of
the bottle, will build up
the weakest child, will en-
rich the blood, renew the
strength and make that
child healthy, sturdy and
strong; and, at t~e same
time, genuine SCOTT’S
will strengthen the lungs
to resist coughs, colds, bron-
chitis, and all throat and
chest ailments. Start baby
on SCOTT’S to-day—but be
sure to get SCOTT’S with
the fishman on the package.
scorn
Emulsion
TRADE
MARK
LAGTOBACILLINE.
The Bacillary treatment of Bacterial and Fer-
mentative affections of the alimentary canal.
Laetobacilline pits the vigorous lactic ferment
against the less resistant organisms of decomposi-
tion, with the result that the latter are immediately
destroyed.
Lacobacilline is prepared under the scientific
supervision and control of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
It is prepared in tablets to be eaten with meals,
and by checking intestinal putrefaction exerts a
remarkable influence towards the attainment of per-
fect health. It is of special value in all affections
of the digestive tract, auto-intoxication, colites, in-
testinal catarrh, chronic dyspepsia, etc.
Every cylinder of tablets bears the words
, “Laetobacilline preparee par la Societe le Fer-
ment Seul Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff.”
Without which none are genuine.
Laetobacilline is sold in boxes containing eight
cylinders of Tablets, price ss. 6d., and can be
ordered through any chemist or obtained direct from
the Depot Societe ie Ferment, Australasia Chambers,
406-414 Queeii Street, Brisbane; or. branches, Vic-
kery’s Chambers, 82 / Pitt Street, Sydney; Safe
Deposit Buildings, 90 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Ellershaw’s Ruildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle;
Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen Street, Auckland; from
where all information can be obtained.*
&f°;z
(P.%
Fits “Wonder” has
No “Bromide of Potash.
Safe, Certain Cure —
6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
16 Hunter St., Sydney, &
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
Be Ever Youthful
The greatest
enemy to a
youthful
appearance
is
Grey Hair.
This can be
overcome by
using
MARIE Permanent
HAIR STA I N
(' R e'gistered) "
The latest and best scientific discovery for
restoring grey or faded hair to its natural
color. Guaranteed not to Wash, wear or
i;ub off. I stnpt affected by sea air or surf-
ing ; proof agrtinst humid or damp atmos-
pheres. Is not greasy,; never varies in
shade or goes patchy; is non-injurious; leaves hair soft,
silky and fcriljia'nt; aids growth, and is permanent.
PRICE 10/6 ; Postage 6d. extra. Sold in four shades:
Light Brown, Meflihin Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
Free Test glveri- to all who call at my Salon. Money
returned if hair not permanently stained.
Prepared and Sold only by
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL, Ladies’ Hair Specialist
Only Address : 46 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY
; Register all Letters.-.. (Opposite Hotel Australia*
ll«
THE
FIRST TUBE
of Pebeco you use will clearly demonstrate its merits to the
full The taste is totally different from that of any other
dentifrice; not flat, but quite distinctive and agreeable, a
taste remarkably clean, refreshing and purifying, a taste
which, once accustomed to, you will not willingly miss.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test. Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). [3
ADVICE TO MR. SHOWMAN!
JUST ARRIVED—THE LARGEST STOCK OF
MOVING
PICTURE
MACHINES
EVER IMPORTED TO AUSTRALIA.
FROM £lO UPWARDS.
We stork EVERY LEADING MAKE of BIOSCOPE MACHINE, Lighting Outfits, and Films, and
guarantee to sell 30% CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER FIRM. WE DO NOT BELONG TO ANY
COMBINE. If you want a Moving Picture Outfit for the HOME or THEATRE, we can supply it.
Every article is GUARANTEED PERFECT. GET OUR PRICE LIST before buying elsewhere. If
you want to Pay Cash, or BUY ON THE INSTALMENT SYSTEM, no matter where you live, WE
WILL SUPPLY YOU. SIXTY MACHINES TO SELECT FROM, and 500,000 FEET OF THE
LATEST FILM SUBJECTS, from id. PER FOOT. WRITE TO-DAY FOR PARTICULARS.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH LTD., Bathurst St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Hunyadi Janos
Liver disturbances are, as a rule, due to indiscretions of diet,
to excess of wine and to want of exercise. The condition, how-
ever, may be promptly and thoroughly remedied by a wineglass-
ful of Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water taken every
morning on arising, before breakfast. It brings relief in the
natural, easy way. Bottled at the springs, just as nature
creates it and intends it should be taken. Sold by all chemists.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co./usl 8 :
Combination Harness and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing Outfits (power
or foot). Easily operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without
“ CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.,
Sole Australasian Agents,
CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
[2
No Motorist can afford to overlook
the exceptional merits of
BARNET GLASS
MOTOR TYRES
Produced bu the Founders of
Australasias Rubber Industry.
BflOTGVffi ffliSC?!,™
231 Clarence St., Sydney
wi
is gour
4^
,Do You Long for a Full Moustache?
Are -you tired of
hearing slighting re-
marks about the man
who cannot grow a
moustache ? Get
CAPILLARINE.
This is an absolutely genuine MOUSTACHE GROWER.
Tt has been tried with success by thousands during the past 30 years.
Can be applied at bedtime. Growth will be permanent.
Price 10/fi lAR Pn*t F too The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night,
rut* iv/v van, tom rree. shapes the raoustache . 2 /6, 3/6, s/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654- George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R.S.V.P.: Indicate the par., mentioning
date and page, and send claim to the accountant,
who will remit. Same rule applies to all contribu-
tors, and all contributors are implored to note it...
C.W.M.: Noyes Bros., Clarence-street, Sydney
Norseman: Good enough subject; try it again....
H. Nesbitt: Interest too 10ca1....E. Sprott: Ask
Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .Pug: Except for a
brief telegram no particulars of the Langford-
Henry fight at New York are to hand. The men
were both negroes. There was a riot (cause un-
known), and arm chairs, billiard tables, ships, curses
and wild aspersions were thrown at the seconds. It
is alleged that they and many other people were
“knocked out.” The story ends there.... Ulster-
ite: But you surely don’t take Robinson Snowball’s
figures seriously. In mostly Protestant Scotland the
number of paupers increased from 99,932 in 1900
to 109,239 in 1912. In Ireland, which is mostly
Roman Catholic, they diminished from 103,866 in
1900 to 79,636 in 1912. And the population of the
two countries isn’t so widely different. England
and Wales haven’t anything like 10 times Ireland’s
population (36,539,636 people as against Ireland’s
4,374,805). But they have more than 10 times
Ireland’s stock of paupers (801,881 as against Ire-
land’s 79,636). Apparently the big city disease has
more to do with the manufacture of pauperism than
religion. Take no notice of Snowball. He is only
water when melted down.... Bellerive: Here’s a
free lift to the Victorian Tourist Bureau: —-
PORT ALBERT AND SALE SOUTH GIPPSLAND.
Tourists flock in the summer
By boat and rail
To Gippsland s charming
Port albert and sale
The wide yarra river is
Their favorite resort
For boating excursion
And greating fishing sport
When the weather is rough
And the gusty winds wail
A scene of wild grandeur
Is port albert and sale.
. ...F.H.R.: Dull stuff.... Long Mac: A crude but
interesting product:
THE WAIL OF THE ENGINE DRIVERS.
Things are awkward for us drivers
The main pump’s leaking bad
The duplex is the one they used
When Noah was but a lad
There’s no brush to clean the tubes with
There’s no bar to shake the fire
The feed pump’s arm is lassoed
With a piece of copper wire
There’s no light up in the Gear Room
There’s no planks beneath our feet
And when chains break in the night time
Well we have a perfect treat
The boiler steams so badly
It would drive you off your dot
Although one night quite recently
The tube plate got quite hot
But with that we’re seldom troubled
For we find that as a rule
When the steam is back to ninety
That the tube plate’s rather cool.
Snifter valve won’t give ,us water
Vacuum gauge don’t show an inch,
For the glands are always leaking
On the engine at the winch.
Say, about how long do you think it will be before
the explosion ?... .L.J.V.: Sdrry... .H.R.8.: Smooth
work, but you say nothing new... .C.L.F.: N 0....
May S.: Counted 0ut.... Tommy A.: The reader
would have to sing it, and that’s just what he won’t
d 0... .Lucy R.: Verses rather feeble. Make a par.
of it.... J.T.G.: You are young. Go in peace....
Ecnirp: Yawned over it in a heartfelt manner....
Gay O’H.: A mere indication of past gaiety, and no
more. Rough work with a gleam of promise. .. .
H.G.G.: It is going home to y0u.... A. M. MacD. :■
Poem falls over its own feet with a crash in first
verse.... G. W.: Eulogy basketed.... H.W.W.: No
thanks. It appears to be written in the United
States language. .. .George S.: Not told with suffi-
cient skill. .. .G.F.P.; Gladys respectfully rejected...
Broad Arrow: An idea poorly versified... .Victor L.:
No use. . . .R.W.C.: It isn’t a good parody, anyhow
....C.N.11. (New York): Regret story unsuitable for
this paper. .. .Ben Rio: Weak. .. .Mary Ann M.: Good
slapdash stuff. Too rough fbr pri'ht.... Karra: A
difficult theme: You didn’t do'badly with it, but it
isn’t for print. .. .J.B.W. (England): No particular
punch.... Val H.: The poem hobbles and limps....
Spook: Not B. stuff... .Claire D.: Poor stuff....
K W. 8.: Form is all right and workmanship fair.
“The End” is the best of the trio, but the idea has
been used many times before. “Faithless” and
“Chord” rather colorless. Vou may do better. .. .
T.M.T.: Too labored... .W. D. McG.:, Too late....
Arthur H.: One stanza :
So he refused to admire
Where Blank caressed the shelines
With the magic eye of fire
That women love from we swines.
....Inquirer: Australia has to pay its foreign credi-
tors between £14.000,000 and £15,000.000 a year
as interest. If it doesn’t export enough merchan-
dise to pay for its imports plus the foregoing
amount, it has to either go into debt or else export
its gold. In 1910, the excess of exports reached
£11,173,482. which was nearly enough to settle both
bills; in 1911, the excess fell to £2,437,265, which
meant that Australia paid for its imports but went
qver £10.000.000 into debt for interest on borrowed
money; last vear the imports exceeded the exports
by £10.021.015. which meant that the country went
into debt for the whole of the interest and for
£10.021,015 of thp foreigners’ goods which it
bought. Or. if it didn’t go into debt, it burrowed
into its gold reserves... .C. Movnihan: No space for
prose or verse that has been printed elsewhere
Mark Tyme: Too diffuse. .. .W.J.C.: You marvel that
a paper which “compelled your admiration” by
’'standing almost alone in denouncing the unjust
Boer war” should now snnuort “this infamous con-
scription in A"stralia.” Where is your logic? This
countrv is as liable to have an “unjust war” waved
against it as the Transvaal was. If it were only
possible for Australia to be invaded justly, we might
not trouble But the historv of S’Africa simply
backs up all other historv. and warns us to be pre-
pared for unjust invasions; and if “W.J.C.” can
show us how we can be prepared for un-
just invasions except by militarv training, we
shall be glad. .. .Englishman: Your par. be-
ginning “The Marchionesse of - —- —. who is one of the
richest heiresses in the United Kingdom, has a dis-
tant kinsman living not 16 miles from rural Mount
Camhier. S. V.” drove the Religions Editor to such
a fi-pnzv o f blasphemy as to put him in serious
danger of being unfrocked. If there is one thing
that exasperates the staff more than another it i= the
tvoe of person whose identity is adumbrated hv a
reverential dash. Provide the name of your affluent
marchioness —and, if possible, hef address, and age.
and information as to whether or no her teeth are
her own, and so forth —or for ever hold your peace.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L. G.: Don’t know what the “Vista of Years”
is about, unless it represents the ruined
Marius repairing bis pants amid the ruins of
Carthage, and seeing a vision of the good old
days, when he whooped things up with the old blokes
at Rome. Anyhow, it seems a thing of little pur-
pose.... Sarto: We can stand a certain number of
Cook jokes and a reasonable quantity of vaccination
jokes, but there are limits. Still, when we knock
out 25 Cook pictures and 30 vaccination pictures
per week the paper struggles along somehow
John Compton: But Watt, at his worst, isn’t the
tvpioal parish-pumper of Australia. It would be a
sin To aim that particular clod at him.


Public Opinion and
Beale HigH-grade Pianos.
The to reat majority of our Pianos are sold on the personal recommendation of users, and we are constantly receiving letters from our
customers praising the Beale High-Grade Pianos. Our instruments are in use in every part of Australia; in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New
Caledonia, Mauritius, South Africa, India, and on the Continent of Europe; and everywhere they give the same unbounded satisfaction.
Below we give a few (greatly condensed) extracts from unsolicited testimonials from buyers of Beale High-Grade Pianos.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. FRED L. GOODMAN, Mascotte, Hardy
Street, Ashtield:—
“Splendid, and the tone is perfect. Pro-
fessional musicians have highly commended
it. You are quite at liberty to refer any in-
tending purchaser, desirous of independent
testimony, to me.”
Mr. WALTER BAXTER, Sen., Albert Street,
Wickham:—
“Entire satisfaction. Keeping up its splen-
did reputation.”
Mr. RAYMOND WALKER, Coolalie:—
“Very pleased with piano in every way.
Neighbors admire very much.”
Mrs. T. A. HAYNES, Alandale, Cockamid-
gera
“Very much pleased with piano. Entire
satisfaction in every way.”
Mr. F. WELLS, Wattamolla, Berry:—
“Piano gives every satisfaction. Neighbors
and friends all speak of it in the highest
terms.”
Mr. F. A. McGINLEY, Sale Street, Orange:—
“May mention that we are thoroughly
pleased with the instrument. Beautiful rich
tone.”
The PRINCIPAL, Cook’s Hill Girls’ Superior
Public School, Newcastle: —
“The two Upright Grand Pianos supplied
to the school four years ago have been in con-
stant use. They have given entire satisfac-
tion, and are well adapted for school pur-
poses. The tone is sweet and mellow, and the
pitch is fully maintained, necessitating little
attention in the way of tuning.”
Mrs. GRACE E. BROOKS, Yetman, via In-
verell: —
“Very pleased with the piano. Splendid in-
strument, with a lovely tone.”
Mr. FRANK BELFORD, Hon. Sec. Comboyne
Union Hall Trustees, Comboyne:—
“Pleased to say piano purchased from you
for the hall is giving every satisfaction.”
QUEENSLAND. .
Mr. N. GOODFELLOW, Mount View, Mus-
grave Road, Red Hill: —
“Very pleased with the piano. Tone is ex-
cellent, and remains in tune wonderfully
well.”
Mrs. M. M. MARKS, Clifton Station, Mor-
ven:—
“Piano is excellent, and has stood this
climate exceptionally well. Has only needed
tuning once since I got it.”
Mr. J. PIDGEON, Klienton, Crow’s Nest line,
via Toowoomba:—
“Should like to say that I am very pleased
with the piano. Tone is really beautiful, and
seems to improve with use.”
Mrs. M. CARTER, Fernberg Road, Rasalie: —
“Satisfied with the piano in every way.”
Dr. L. M. McKILLOP, Blackall CQ.) :
“It is undoubtedly a magnificent instru-
ment, and your firm is to be congratulated
upon being able to turn out such splendid
work.”
Mr. W. H. SIMPSON, Huelva, Gilliatt:—
“Although this is a very trying climate for
pianos, my Beale is as good as the day it
arrived.”
VICTORIA.
Mr. J. H. BAYNE, Carnavon Street, Auburn:
“A superb instrument with a magnificent
tone. Friends admire it greatly.”
Miss GLADYS WAITE, Norong, via Ruther-
glen:—
“The piano has given me entire satisfac-
tion.”
Mrs. G. M. GOULD, Thomson Street, Hamil-
ton :
“Will never cease recommending your
pianos, as I think so highly of them. Mine
has given nothing but satisfaction.”
Miss L. LOVERING, State School, Kerang:—
“Thoroughly satisfied with the instrument.”
Mr. J. H. ROGERS, Woolocot Street, Co-
burg :
“Must say that everyone who has been to
my place has nothing but praise for the
piano.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. H. J. ARMITAGE, Public School, Hough-
ton :
“Piano, which I have had for three years,
has been in constant use, and tone is as good
as when I got it. Pianists often remark on
its great purity of tone.”
Mrs. H. WALKER, Wandilo, Mount Gambier:
“Must express my, satisfaction with your
beautiful, sweet-toned instrument.”
'
Mr. JOHN 0. WHITEMOEE, Dunoon, Victor
Harbor:—
“Much pleased with the instrument in
every way, and gratified with the opinions of
several friends who are professional musi-
cians.”
Mrs. ROSE A. HUNTER, Fairview, Eu-
dunda:—
“May say that I am more than pleased
with the piano.”
Mr. WILLIAM J. HOCKING, Kingston:—
“Everyone agrees that it is a splendid in-
strument:”
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Mr. G. A. BEECK, Katanning:—
“Self and family are more than pleased
with the Beale High-grade Piano.”
Mr. J. A. MILLS, York:—
“Quite satisfied with piano in every way.”
Mrs. C. POWELL, Linden Villa, Stirling
Street, Perth:—
“There is not a better instrument in Perth.”
Mr. T. WARD, Wagin, Western Australia: —
“Greatly satisfied in every respect.”
Mr. W. H. BROWN, Kalgoorlie:—
“Very pleased with the instrument. Much
better than I expected.”
TASMANIA 8 NEW ZEALAND.
Mr. C. J. HINE, 28 Hillside Crescent, Laun-
ceston :
“Instrument is all that could be desired.”
Mrs. J. ANDERSON, 19 Burnett Street,
Hobart: —
“Can highly recommend to anyone re-
quiring a first-class piano.”
Mrs. J. HARVEY, Hamilton: —
“Excellent piano. Many have expressed
their delight at hearing an instrument with
so mellow a tone.”
Mr. A. O. WOODS, Liverpool Street, Hobart:
“Tone is even better than when we first got
it. Can recommend strongly.”
Mr. EDMUND ANSCOMBE, 134 Princess
Street, Dunedin, New Zealand: —
“All who have tried it have expressed
themselves as being delighted with its beau-
tiful tone and appearance.”
We have literally thousands more
such testimonials, from almost every
part of the world. The immense suc-
cess attained by the Beale Pianos is
due solely to their high-grade quality.
Prom the very first we have given our
utmost endeavor to turn out only thor-
oughly reliable, soundly constructed
pianos, embodying the very best musi-
cal qualities. We have created a won-
derful factory organisation, and we
pay the best brains and the best skill,
so as to ensure a perfect result. We
realise that an Australian-made piano
is subjected to much closer scrutiny
in Australia than any imported piano,
and therefore we make —we are
compelled to make —our pianos much
better than those of our competitors.
At the same time, by making pianos
in Australia, we are in the position to
make them much better suited to Aus-
tralian conditions. Any competent
cabinetmaker will tell you that timber
seasoned in the cold, damp climate of
Europe and America cannot be ex-
pected to withstand Australian ex-
tremes of dry heat as well as timber
which is seasoned in this climate. This
is a most important point in. piano-
making, and is one good reason why
so many foreign pianos develop cracked
sounding-boards, split tuning-systems
and faulty casework soon after arrival
in this country. But no man can say
he ever saw a Beale piano with a
cracked sounding-board. We abso-
lutely guarantee that the sounding-
boards of Beale Pianos will never
crack in any climate, because our spe-
cial system of construction renders
cracking an impossibility, at the same
time that it greatly enhances the tonal
qualities of the instrument. Beale
Pianos contain the only practical steel
tuning-system in the world —so there
can be no question of splitting of the
wrest-plank. And then our patented
system of cross-plied woodwork en-
sures permanence for the outside case
of the pianos.
Be sure of this: the better musician you are, the more you will delight in a Beale High-Grade Piano.
We have always on hand a number of good second-hand pianos, taken in part payment of Beale Pianos.
Call and inspect the Beale Pianos now. Inspection does not put you under any obligation whatever. You suit yourself entirely as to
whether you purchase.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we will be pleased to send post free.
BEALE CO. LTD.,
MAKERS OF
UjrA. LE high-grade PIA. N O S
« The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.
CARL VADE-R PIANOS.
Prices: £49. 55, 60. 65, 70. 75. 80, »5, 95. IQO, I*s, 150. and 240 Guineas.
mi i 107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
LIVERPOOL ST. (opposite Mark Foy s). SYDNEY. HAY pERm WA
new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.WI
marvhnroi iph. Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, . .
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
TRAVELLERS everywhere. _ _ TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
Head Office and Fa^° p r^ s and TUNING> Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


25,'-
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless LEVER WATCH, J-
plate, full jewelled, patent ad-
justed balance, 25/- Higher
Grade, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-,
50/- Solid Gold, £3
£3/10/-, £4.
30|-
22/6.
GOLD EARRINGS, set
Pearls and Amethysts,
or Red Stones.
157-
gold BROOCH, set Pearls and Garnet.
£5.
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding WATCH
BRACELET, full jewelled Lever movement, accur-
ate, reliable.
Higher Grade, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
Post Free All Over Australasia
AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER .
sends all these Beautiful Designs and any Order in Jewellery. Let us forward you our Free
Catalog—and then send us an Order. You will find our Designs so Satisfactory, our Personal
Service so Good, and our Prices Wonderfully Low.
£l2/10/-
18ct. GOLD, all
Diamond Cluster.
25/-
15et. GOLD WED-
DING RING. 18ct.
Gold, 30/-
.y
30 7-
GOLD BROOCH and
PENDANT COMBINA-
TION, set Pearls and
Amethyst or Garnet.
£4/10/-
15ct. GOLD BROOCH, set
pure, double-cut Diamonds,
and Rubies or Sapphires.
12/6
15/-
Gent.’s Nickel, Open Face, iveyless
LEVER, full jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and waterproof cases, 12/6, 15/-
Higher Grades, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
Solid Silver, £2.
20 1-
25/-
£2llO/-
£2/10/-
R
GOLD NECKLACE, set Pearls and
Peridots, and Garnets, Amethysts and
Peridot*.
22/6.
GOLD LINKS, set
Red or Blue Stone.
15ct. Gold, £2. Dia-
mond set, 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
GOLD LINKS, any in-
itials engraved. 15ct.
Gold, 40/-
GOLD PENDANT, set
Pearls and Amethysts
or Garnets.
12/6.
GOLD BROOCH, set Pearls and Gar-
net, or Amethyst.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set 3
large Diamonds.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £l5
£5.
18ct. GOLD, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds. Larger
Diamonds,
£6/10/-,
£7/10/-
GOLD BROOCH and PEN-
DANT COMBINATION, set
handsome Cameo and Pearls.
12/6.
GOLD EARRINGS, set
Pearls and Red or
Blue Stones.
50/-
15ct. GOLD SPRAY BROOCH, set pure
white Pearls.
£3.
GOLD BRACELET, set Diamonds and Garnets,
Peridots.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
HP
m
j
0
V
' in j
MW#
*
1 m yPMP/.;
h % \fmtm-
'■ : SYmmm
Ffcli
is
L'SVWI
' / ./■
? ' 'Jr ■' //
**.\ V
m
/;
i
te-’i ' “**
*/*& !
>:< ’ ! ;' M-
o
i 1/3UF*\
M
¥
/7
What a difference stropping makes!
Only those who have used an Auto Strop in comparison
with a non-stropping safety can tell just how much difference
there is—not only in the smooth, close shave which the
sharp stropped blade of an Auto Strop ensures, but in the
simplicity of its use also.
It takes far less time to strop an Auto Strop blade (and so keep it in the pink of condition)
than to put a new blade into a non-stropping safety razor. The Auto Strop is the only razor
that strops itself and consequently
SAVES CONSTANT EXPENSE FOR BLADES.
Standard Set, containing self-stropping
Auto Strop Safety Razor, one dozen
improved rust-proof “Valet” blades,
and genuine horsehide strop, complete
in leather-covered case.
Price in Australia - - 22/6
Price in New Zealand 25/-
Obtainable of all high-class Dealert
throughout Australasia.
Sole Depot for Australasia :
PARTRIDGE—ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
jjpK York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.
M f z et o y r


%
0
VIA
U
ii
f
*
3,
-*
/
£5O O for
Hippy Moments.
for being happy !
for io happy little snapshots !
il6 prizes for the happiest men, women and children.
Ihe happiest Competition ever announced. The
happier you are the more likely you are to win the
first prize of Happiness is everything—
experience is nothing. The beginner has every bit
as good a chance as the expert.
Full particulars of the Competition are given in the July issue of the
Australasian Photo Review (now ready), or ask any Kodak
dealer for the “ Happy Moments” Booklet.
There are Brownie Cameras from 51 - to 50/-, and Kodak Cameras
from 21/- up. Securestme. and fill a “ Happy Moments” Album at once.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY : 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The BlocH," 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: East Street.
BROHEN HIDE: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
NErW
RJEXOPnOME
RECORDS
!•*»»%
For JULY NOW READY.
10-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED.
Price 2/6 Each.
The July list of Rexophone Records contains such a
wealth of variety that there is something in it to suit
every record buyer.
Call on your Dealer and hear some of these fine records.
w
5373.
(Sunrise Waltz (Bell Solo) ;
1 The Dandy Polka (Bell Solo)
l Billy Whitlock
5374.
( Gladiator March (Sousa) ;
Prussian Standards March —
l Royal Regimental Band
5375.
f Darktown Dandies; .
, Queen of the Burlesque (Banjo)-
Oily Oaklej
5378.
My Heart is with You To-nigrht;
When the Swallows Build Their
Nest, Sweet Marie — , ,
Stanley Kirkby
5879.
(It’s Nice When You Love a Wee
Lassie (Lauder);
The Same as His Father Did Be-
fore Him (Lauder) —
l Rab Maclean
538 U.
f “Girl in the Taxi” Waltz;
Mystic Beauty Waltz —
I Savoy Orchestra
5384.
r Peace! Perfect Peace;
{ O Come All Ye Faithful—
t Cathedral Quartette
5438.
/'Reminiscences of Scotland (with
Corbet Solo, “Blue Bells of Scot-
land,’’ by Musician Sayer);
« Reminiscences of England (with
Cornfet Solo, “Home, Sweet Home,”
by Musician Sayer)—
. H.M. Irish Guards Band
5439.
life’s Dream is O’er (Alice, Where
Art Thou?), Whistling Duet;
Dreams of Ragtime (Whistling
Duet)— Wills and Lawrence
5440.
[Youth and liove (Geo. M. Saker),
with Flute Obligato by Mark
J Brewer;
| Braga’s Serenade (with Flute Obli-
gato by Mark Brewer)—
Miss Ena Vine
5449.
The Gaby Glide (Hirsch);
Moonlight Hay (Wenrich) -
Jack Charman and Harry Gove
5450.
("Alexander’s Ragtime Band (Irving
Berlin) Whistling Solo;
I Grizzly Bear (Botsford). Whistling
I goto Guido Gialdini
We stock Records of all the Popular Singers,
Band Selections, Sacred Vocal Selections, etc.,
receipt of postcard.
Instrunlental Solos, and Duets,
and will furnish Catalogues on
JacKson & Macdonald,
457 KENT ST. (Corner of PRUITT ST.), SYDNEY.
Stewart Dawson s Co.
(AUST.) LIMITED.
Beautiful and delicate designs—always the newest —-distinguish
Stewart Dawson Goods. And they are sold to you at FIRST-
COST PRICES. We pay Postage to any address. Write for
Illustrated Art Catalogue. We are open till 10 p.m. Fridays.
D 3812. —Fine Dia-
monds, in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
£2l.
D 3515. —2 Fine
Diamonds, in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
C 6556. —Fine Aquamarine
and Pearl Set 9ct. GOLD
NECKLET.
75/-
D 3520.—8 Fine
Diamonds and Em-
erald, in 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Set-
tings,
£l5.
V
D 3518. —Fine D i a
mond, in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
e


,
« ;
' '■
Hi
M
■
I 1
B. i
:
,V\*
<
x
'
11l
V
m
The Mellow
Mag'net.
It is the "Thorne” Flavor that
is so attractive —so magnetic—to
the appreciator of good Whisky.
“ Thorne Flavor " is the ripe
product of 80 years. It is its
uniformity of excellence the
unvarying mellowness, smooth-
ness and purity that have elevated
this fine Glenlivet spirit to a
pinnacle of high public favor.
Toast your Successes or
Solace your Defeats” in Thorne's.
It will add a rosier flush to Good
Fortune—and soften the sting of
a Reverse.
The Whisky provided for the
regalement of the King's Guests
at the Garden Party during the
Great Delhi Durbar was
Incomparable
I horne s
Old Highland Malt
WhisKy.
©
7oio


S I E- M ID N S
Wotan
Lamps
are made of
pure=drawn
Tungsten
Wire.
Ask for them.
s.
Wotan
Lamps
have long life,
stand severe
service,
and do not
blacken.
No lamps consume less current than Wotan lamps.
They give a brilliant white light that closely re-
sembles daylight, and can be depended on for
long service.
TANTALUM LAMPS
Pure drawn wire lamps. Very brilliant and long
lasting. Make daylight out of darkness at a very
small cost for current. Are not affected by any
ordinary vibration.
CARBON LAMPS
We can supply any quantity of carbon lamps at
best market prices.
SIEMENS BROS. DYNAMO WORKS LTD.,
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE.
I
V
&
N
W\\
t
0
2
9
8
BIG
BEN
8
7
5
e
s
Big Ben—Two good alarms in one
Take your choice in Big Ben. He
rings either way you wish five
straight minutes or every other half
minute for all of ten minutes unless
you switch him off. He’s two alarms
in one.
If you’re a light sleeper, turn on
the half-minute taps before you go
to bed. If you sleep heavily, set the
five minute call. You can slumber
then without the get-up worry on
your mind.
When morning comes, andut’s an-
nounced by Big Ben’s jolly bell, you
can’t help getting up at once, for Big
Ben never fails to get you wide awake.
Big Ben is really three good clocks
in one, two excellent alarms and a
fine time-keeper to keep in any room
and tell time all day by.
If you have got to get up bright
and early, if you have to get down to
work on time, ask for Big Ben at
your jewellers, and try him for a
week. You’ll never want to be with-
out him afterwards.
Big Ben stands seven inches tall.
He is triple nickel-plated and wears
an inner vest of steel that insures
him for life. His big, bold figures
and hands are easy to read in the
dim morning light. His large, com-
fortable keys almost wind them-
selves. He rings five minutes steadily
or ten intermittently. If he is oiled
every other year, there is no telling
how long he will last.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U S.A., by Westclox. His
price is 12/6, postage 1/- extra. If
you cannot find him in your town,
send a money order to the makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt
Street, Sydney. They will have
one mailed to you by the nearest
jeweller.
4 mi* *
r?
- .IS
PRIZES VALUE £3500
. . In the . .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 1, 1913.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £250. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. J. W. Walker,
Breakfast Creek, Cowra, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE
SHILLING.
get A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1913.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 6.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents
in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Tra es Hall, Sydney.
PERFECTION
ENGINES.
2 to 30 h.p.
IT
«f
L-3
Single Cylinder “Perfection’
with Igniter and Plug Cover.
. *1
V
■
v,-.
*1
m
r
•.
nP4>‘ '
Photograph of Actual Test.
Test shown in above photograph was made to
prove that “Perfection” Igniter is absolutely water-
proof. We challenge any engine manufacturer in the
world to produce an engine with an ignition system
that will stand a similar test. Every part of the
ignition system was submerged in water and engine
continued to run, showed the same power and speed
as when running perfectly dry, proving bevond any
doubt our claim, AN ABSOLUTE WATERPROOF
IGNITION SYSTEM.
Perfection Special Gasoline and Kerosene Engines are the greatest value ever
placed on the market. Full rated horse-power guaranteed, simple construction,
economic cost of upkeep, high-grade material, best workmanship, smooth running,
and, in service, equal to any higher-priced engine.
Marine Engines, suitable for Canoes, Tenders, and Fishermen.
AAATERPROOF IGNITION SYSTEM.
No Coils, no Batteries, no Timer, no danger of your engine stopping if
caught in a storm, as Ignition System is ABSOLUTELY W ATERPROOF.
STOCKED BY
BENSON BROTHERS
(Sole Agrents for
Australia),
MACHINE TOOL MERCHANTS,
51-53 Drultt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen Street, Melbourne
“Bardie”: British suffragettes may count
themselves lucky that Bull’s gaols are not
run on the same lines as those of N. S.
Wales a few —very few —years ago. It was
the custom then to compel all prisoners sen-
tenced to three years and upwards to pass
the first nine months of their time in soli-
rarv confinement. Judicial euphemism
b tvied this part of the punishment “separate
treatment.” The severity of this separate
treatment was enhanced when its victims
were sent to Berrima, a gloomy old horror-
haunted prison a few miles from Moss Vale.
Prisoners there, especially the younger ones
—lads of 18 or 19 —occasionally hanged
themselves, or went mad. or expressed their
disapproval in other ways. The solitary
confinees had their scanty rations pitched in
to them each day through small holes in the
cell doors. Once a youthful malefactor hit
on the idea of a hunger strike as a happy
issue out of his afflictions, and with iron
self-control refrained from eating, and piled
his meagre rations up in a corner of his cell.
This went on for days, and he was slowly
starving to death with food constantly be-
fore his eyes. When he was too weak to
crawl out for his one hour’s exercise, the
warders suspected something was wrong, and
the hoard of tucker was found. The visiting
surgeon was summoned, and he prescribed
forcible feeding. The patient was scruffed
out of his cell by three or four warders and
spreadeagled on the cement floor of the cor-
ridor. Then a tin funnel was inserted in one
of his nostrils, and a pint of hot soup was
poured to the accompaniment of the gasps
and futile struggles of the semi-suffocated
patient. He held out for five days—the
warders called it blank obstinacy—till his
nose was badly ulcerated. Then one in
authority had an inspiration. “Get some
cayenne pepper,” he ordered. The cayenne
was procured and the striker’s soup liberally
seasoned. The first dose did it. The hunger-
strike was declared off, and the disillusioned
prisoner resumed the even tenor of his sepa-
rate treatment.
A story of “Albert the Good (Wowser)”:
Sculptor Mackennal, of Australia and the world,
was some years ago asked by friends whether he
could get them a permit to see the art treasures of
Windsor Castle. He applied to the right quarter,
and got it, and, never having seen them himself,
went along too. The Royal Family was at Balmoral,
otherwise the members of the party wouldn’t have
been allowed to see what they did see. On their
arrival they were handed over to a dignitary, who
took them in hand, to prevent them seeing what
they wanted to. When they lingered over an inspec-
tion of any fine old furniture, this solemn human
joke hustled them away to gloat over “some furni-
ture worth seeing—the Queen’s own furniture, gen-
tlemen!” To show how superior this was to the
articles carved by Gibbons, which thev had been
low-born enough to admire, the flunkey led them to
some “hot stuff” made to the Queen’s and Albert
the Good’s design, and carefully covered with cloth
overalls. And what was underneath? The worst
kind of wooden scroll work ! They were too weak
to offer much resistance after that; and when the
guide somewhat sharply reproved them for loitering
to admire a Cellini epergne or such truck, they de-
sisted guiltily and followed to see the piece de re-
sistance. A linen drapery, cut to fit, covered it
where it rested on a table. On being unveiled it
was revealed as a life-sized Skye terrier and a life-
sized “foxy” chasing a life-sized rat round a life-
sized rat-trap—or it may have been a beehive. “Her
Majesty's favorite dogs, gentlemen, designed and
modelled by his Royal Highness the Prince Consort.
All in solid silver, gentlemen.” To relieve the strain,
one of the party foolishly murmured, “Solid silver,
really.” “Yes, sir, solid silver. Her Majesty, hav-
IpE a ' utm! l *' r ;°f useless Jacobean tankards and gob-
lets, thought they would be put to good use if she
had them melted down and used for the metal for
with vlshiC!fs hiC !f haS alwa l s beeu a
-lid o^’! lf ZZ
gentlemen I kept the best to the last/’ Sacobean
silver. The same that brings two and three thou-
sand Pounds at Christie’s ! Melted to make a Wow-
sers hohday ! Pom Canty using the Great Seal to
Wowser Was a compared to Albert the
C.R.L.H.”: Where is the sense in the
costly, ridiculous flummery of “evening
dress,” either for men or for women? A
woman who has been covered up all the
week, or all the month, comes out one night
with at least half of her above the movable
waist-line bared to an extent she would not
think of permitting in the surf at Bondi or
Manly, The same women would go into the
surf in the equally idiotic and dangerous
stockings-skirt-and-sash style that seems to
be growing on Sydney beaches. You see,
where scantiness means safety, Girl likes to
clog herself with unnecessary wrappings.
>Y here it means a fair chance of getting
pneumonia, she likes to take chances. YVhat
woman would wear her evening undress
through the streets in the daytime? Then
why at night? And why a “theatre” or
’dinner night more than any other night?
* or , man » if he wants to wear the dress
affected by the class-conscious waiter, why
doesnt he wait? If the total cost of this
witless waste, from the time it started on
this continent up till now, were spent on
Defence, Australia would be ready to face
dangers that make it feel green with terror
at present.
It is related of Archbishop Wright that a
needy curate once appealed to him for em-
ployment, or whatever it is thev lavish on
divines who are short of cash. The indigent
cleric —one of those mild, well-meaning little
men who strike you as having intoned from
birth, and whose heads are absolutely made
tor the small flat hat of Wowserdom—had
been associated with the editing of The
Church Mothers’ Annual or some such
production. “I understand,” said the Arch-
bishop sadly, “that you have literary lean-
ings.” With a faint shudder the holy youth
owned up to his horrible past. The Arch,
proceeded to reassure him. “I have no ob-
jection to journalism as such,” he said, “but
I must insist that you shall not contribute to
The Bulletin.” And then there was ap-
plause in the palace, and things began to
look up for the curate. Also they got no
worse for The Bulletin.
For a mere mining township, and not a
tremendous one at that, Creswick (Vic.)
has produced its full share of Australians
who have done things. Among them are
Alexander Peacock, Vic. Minister for Edu-
cation, and inventor of the Peacock fog-
horn; Hagelthorn. Minister for Works, vice
the suave Edgar; D. C. McGrath, Federal
member for affable Alf’s old seat; J. Boys,
head of the Vic. Tourist bureau; Dr
Lewers, of St- Vincent’s Hospital (Mel-
bourne) ; Norman Lindsay and clan; and
the talented Major Tremearne, first holder
of the Cambridge diploma in anthropology,
and a scientist who is rapidly pushing him-
self into the savant’s eye. There are bigger
and older and dirtier and madder places that
have done less.


HORSESHOE SALMON
A DELICIOUS FISH FOOD.
Whether used direct from the can, or prepared in
numberless inviting; dishes, HORSESHOE is
always excellent. The full natural flavor of the
Alaska Salmon is always retained in
HORSESHOE
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries!
Searches, Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
tt OAREY, MARTIN, formerly of Southern Cross
Hotel, Bourke Street, Melbourne, or anyone
acquainted with his whereabouts, please communi-
cate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
Queen Street, Melbourne.
DROWNE.—lnformation is required as to GEORGE
j? KENNY BROWNE, who formerly lived at The
Crescent, Clontarf, Dublin, Ireland, was afterwards
in the Cape Mounted Police, and later in Towns-
Nelson > Australia. REPLY to ARTHUR
GEORGE JOYCE, Solicitor, 121 Stephens Green W
Dublin, Ireland. ’
IMPORTANT.—OWEN, VGII
, Arthur Owen, late of Trawool, Tooborac
and East Metcalfe, or any person knowing his where-
abouts, or any person who can give evidence of his
death please communicate immediately with The
Equity Trustees Co. Ltd., 85 Queen St., Melbourne
j I CHARLES ARTHUR GRAY, formerly of Tan-
unda, S.A., produce dealer, will communicate
with A. JENSEN, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, he will
hear of something to his advantage.
DRADY, CHRISTINA, daughter of late JAMES and
J—> CHRISTINA BRADY, of Dublin, last heard of
January 8, 1877, at Logan Village Hotel, Queensland ;
afterwards understood to be at Queen’s Hotel, Towns-
ville, Queensland, will hear something to her advan-
tage by communicating with her sister,
MRS. ANNE COEN (nee Brady),
Tenterfleld, N.S.W.
Any friend of hers please communicate.
The
Lonsdale Velour
251- Post Free.
This is the most fashion-
able Hat in Australia to-day
—the real Austrian Plush;
beautiful rich finish in spe-
cial shades of Green, Brown,
Slate, Mole, Reseda and
Black.
The brims are about two to
two and a half inches wide,
with wide band and bow at
back.
PRICE 25/- POST
FREE TO ANY PART
OF AUSTRALIA.
FINNEY'S,
The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
The Woodford Shire Council gave the
water hyacinth a deadly blow the other day.
In discussing a letter from the Home De-
partment re the increase of the pest in the
shire waters, one councillor sagely re-
marked : “It would be very expensive to deal
With the hyacinth now. Better leave it
alone for a few years !” It was then carried
unanimously that the letter lie on the table
for a month. By such decisive methods do
Queensland Bumbles deal with national
plagues and curses.
“Evan Elp.us”; A new pest has invaded
Bananaland in great numbers, after expul-
sion from the Ma State. It lives in low
shops, half-way down the corpse of dead
streets, and advertises itself in the “Wanted”
columns of the daily press. It brands itself
“Palmist,” and is seen in various stages of
growth—undress, development, devilment,
cussedness and decay. Sometimes it is
young and fresh-looking; again ancient like
Mother Earth, and, like her, with a pro-
nounced equator. The other day I visited a
specimen who, after bestowing much wisdom
upon me as to my wife’s beauty, my pros-
pects for a long life and other important
matters, informed me the fare would be 2s.
6d. v I asked the apparition if it cave
coufcphs, and the apparition hit me on the
head with a decomposed umbrella. After
that chaos broke loose and raged exceedingly.
“Politicus”: Queensland Assembly dis-
cussed a motion a few days ago to raise the
Parliamentary wage from £3OO to £5OO.
Premier Denham suggested that a referen-
dum of the electors be taken on the matter,
but the House voted him down, all the Labor
members and a good few Liberals opposing
the amendment. Queensland State Labor
party is very unfortunate on this same re-
ferendum business. Some years ago it
opposed the Bible in State Schools Refer-
endum Bill on the grounds that the proposed
enactment dealt with a matter of conscience
and should not therefore be supported. To-
day the State Labor party unanimously
downs a proposal to consult the electorate
on the salary question. Surely this is not
also a matter of conscience! Wouldn’t it
look better if the State Labor party fired the
Referendum plank out of the platform? It
would be a much more decent proceeding
than the persistent violation of what is
looked unon as a vital principle of demo-
cracy. When prominent Sydney men of the
Federal Labor partv turned dog on their
alleged great principle over the proposed
Referendum re the site of the Federal
capital, and declared that the common,
beastly herd was unfit to deal with such a
question, they started the plank on its down-
ward track. And it has been going down-
hill ever since.
COMBINED SIN.
P.M.: “ Was this man fighting, constable?”
JOHN HOP: “He was dhrunk, yer Honor, an the other mahn was simularly worse .”
An ominous sign of the first bad begin-
nings of a mighty slump are commencing to
appear along the Queensland coast. At
Brisbane, Bundaberg, Mackay and Towns-
ville bands of unemployed are greatly in
evidence. With a serious hitch in loan flota-
tion, the uproar of the out-of-works in
Bananaland will about shake the roof off
Parliament House.
Queensland’s system of “guaranteed rail-
ways” has gone utterly to pot. The idea
was that, when the Department wasn’t dead-
sure about the results from a proposed line
and the local people were, the latter might
get the work carried out by guaranteeing
interest and working exes. So far just on
2% millions has been spent on such lines, and
it would take £43,682 to fill the hole in the
Treasury caused by losses on working; but
all that the Department has got in is £3497.
And the people who paid the £3497 are now
reported to be individually and collectively
wondering what particular variety of green-
horn they are. ,
The Denham Government did an inglori-
ous backdown in the House of Fossils on
the Sugar Cultivation Bill. Blair accepted
the Labor party’s amendment and deleted
the clause which made it necessary for the
Attorney-General to authorise prosecutions
for breaches of the White Australia rule.
The House of Nominees put wings to its
heels, and made a wild rush to reinstate the
clause, and there was great ioy when Den-
ham “reluctantly” bowed to the Council’s
will.. One Tory went so far as to say that
the restriction was necessary; because with-
out it there would be a wild charge by
millions of swagmen to haul the C.S.R. Co.
and other tatterdemalions to court. In-
cidentally, on the other side, Hamilton,
M.L.A., reminded the House that a member
of the present Ministry had once insisted on
keeping a Kanaka about the premises con-
trary to law, and that the Attorney-General
of the day had to be fairly driven before he
prosecuted.
The Denham Government has brought in
its Bill to patch up that State’s electoral
law. It proposes to guillotine the system by
which “assessors” decided an election ap-
peal—a system under which the business
became a mere party wrangle, with a bored
magistrate in the middle. In future, if the
Bill goes through, the, trouble Will be de-
cided by a Judge of either the Supreme or
District Court, or by a> barrister of five
years’ standing, the latter nominated by the
Chief Justice. The State will fall into line
with the Commonwealth in regard to
the get up of the roll, and the
method of marking ballot papers. Hence-
forth, the presiding officer will no longer-
scratch his name on the back of the
paper—or even forget to do it, as was his
habit. Also, the old farce whereby the re-
turning officer announced the final result to
three men, one policeman, and an indefinite
number of dogs, is to be poleaxed, and the
result made known by public advertisement.
Absentee voting is to be shoved into oblivion,
and the old pernicious postal voting is to be
resurrected to fill the bill. Of course it is
to be under stringent administration, and the
local J.P. will not any longer be able to
witness signatures in connection with the
perruHon«ness.
From the Rockhampton Daily Record
(10/7/’l3) :
A telegram was received from the Minister for
Defence, in reply to one sent by the committee
yesterday, asking if he would allow the Melbourne to
lie in Port Alma roads during her stay. The reply
was that the anchorage for the cruiser was a matter
at the discretion of the commander, and suggesting
that he be communicated with. This had been done,
and a telegram was read from Captain De Silver, ask-
ing if there was railway communication between
Port Alma and Rockhampton, and if the roads could
accommodate the Melbourne. It was decided to send
a wire, stating that rail communication existed, and
that on the authority of the Harbor Master there
was ample room to accommodate the cruiser.
The Bulletin is not, of course, aware
whether the commander of Australia’s first
cruiser is honestly as ignorant about Aus-
tralia’s principal ports—and especially about
tj>e ports along the coast where trouble is
likely to be met—as, according to the para-
graph, he pretends to be. If, however, he
really hasn’t got the information, this
paper suggests that he should apply for it
to the Japanese mariner he may find handi-
est. The Jap. will have it all right.
The Lost Opportunity.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The casualties during the Johannesburg strike riots
numbered 100. — Cable.
It is worth while thinking of what may occur any
day in Australia, and the more so if we have again
a Government at the head of the Commonwealth
which will refuse to give the assistance of the mili-
tary forces to the civil power—as occurred during
the Tramway Strike in 1912.— Brisbane Courier, on
the Johannesburg strike.
When Brisbane strikers rushed around
adorned with ribbons red,
How did it come we never piled the pave-
ment with the dead?
Whatever were we doing that we got the
trouble through
Without a single broken head, and just a
bruise or two?
Why, over in Sou’ Africa they mowed ’em
down in scores,
And laid the miners cold and stiff beside
their bloodied doors;
While here a craven Government a-crawling
to the mob
Said, “Bill and Jim, be sensible and go back
to your job.”
Whene’er we get a lovely chance it’s just a
chance in vain.
And so we sing Alas —Alas!
How many a fruitless year must pass
Till such an opportunity may come our way
again!
To think the p’lice should dodder round with
just a common club,
As if they’d only got the call a common
drunk to drub ;
When military might have filled the streets
with martial tread
Our soldiers slept the stupid sleep of
righteous men in bed.
And while cold steel and bullet might have
kept the highway clear,
And blood might eas’ly have been spilt, the
only spill was beer!
To think that men could down their tools
and leave their precious work
And not a single volley check this shocking
claim to shirk !
To think that we who might have strewn the
roadway with the slain
Should in this measly fashion trip,
And let a fine occasion slip—
When such an opportunity may not occur
again!
No wonder Toil is waxing fat and lifting
up his head!
He knows this land is not the land a striker’s
blood to shed ;
He knows the Guv’ment’s timid here, re-
spectable and moral.
And thinks a battered nose or two is shock-
ing in a quarrel.
If. when we had them tramping round and
waving of their flags.
We’d acted like Sou’ Africa and shot the
squad to rags,
I guess that Agitation would have shrivelled
up in fear,
And placid Peace had blessed the land for
many a happy year.
But just when Order had the chance to read
a lesson plain.
Why, dash my eyes, without a crack.
To work the wretches wandered back —
Oh. such an Opportunity may not occur
again !
QUEENSLAND.
LOR AN’ ORDER.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 19, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Governor Macgregor, assisted by aide
Foxton, has been week-ending at Cecil
Plains. They are expected back at the office
on Tuesday. Secretary Blyth is going to
sky his inkpot in August and return to the
cold snows of old England.
Lady Macgregor and the Vision called in
at the Charity Ball on Thursday, and agi-
tated the arms of two or three debutantes.
The Charity Ball was a big success and
another triumph for the quiet little Mayor-
ess of South Brisbane, Mrs. Neylan.
The small-pox is suspected of having been
smuggled over the border. Somebody or
other (probably somebody) who travelled
north by mail train, and then leisurely
moved from Brisbane 'to Ipswich, thence to
Toowoomba, is the alleged runner of contra-
band goods. He is “isolated” in the vicinity
of the last-named village, but if I get the
disease, Thargomindah, a lot more than that
will happen to him.
On Monday afternoon the Lady Laming-
ton Hospital had its annual meeting, and
on Tuesday the Lady Bowen did ditto. The
Chiel gave each institution a well-deserved
crow of encouragement, and two hard-work-
ing committees sat back with a chortle or
howl of triumph.
A returned traveller, who is said to be
an authority on female good looks, says that
one night recently at the Savoy, a London
foodery where the unemployed do themselves
proud, the three best-looking girls were all
Australians. And two of them came from
Brisbane. After all. Brisbane is greater
than Babylon. It is alive, while Babylon
is dead, and a live grasshopper is greater
than a defunct lion.
The large Butt lady and her husband
sang at the Exhibition Hall on Thursday,
and are going through the same payable
experience to-night. There is no doubt that
the lady’s voice, like her bank balance, has
grown richer and more mellow since the
last time she was here. Her art has im-
proved, too. Kennerley Butt, in the inter-
vals of singing delightful songs, plavs a
quite passable game of golf. At the Thurs-
day concert, Mrs. Rumford wore a mulberry
pink velvet brocade, with brown fur outlining
it and silver tissue underneath.
Interstate croquet has been raging at
Ascot all the week, and there have been
other diversions and revolutions. The
N.S.W. footballers were beaten by a Queens-
land team this afternoon, and the tail of
this State is greatly exalted.
The whirls and gyrations of the week
were the Myosotis Assembly, the Queens-
land Flying Squadron ball, the Everose
Assembly, and the Merveilleuse girls’ cor-
roboree.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Littleton Groom, Minister of Trade and
Customs, seems to be born to be advertised.
Thus he had no sooner taken his new job
than the small-pox scare happened along to
push his name to the front throughout the
Commonwealth. Personally, he is retiring
and even diffident, so that the publicity he
gets is sheer luck. When he entered
the Federal House, he moved bash-
fully to a quiet seat, thinking to be
an observer for some time. But Luck
had an eye on him, and immediately Austin
Chapman, the whip, hove alongside and
whispered, “The Kanaka Bill is on; get up
and say something.” “How can I?” pleaded
the novice; “I’m only just arrived.” “You
know all about Queensland,” urged Chap-
man ; “get up, man, and say something.”
And so the bashful young member found
himself spouting away, before he had warmed
his seat. That helped him to the office of
Home Affairs: then came the Attorney-
Generalship. External Affairs, and now
Trade and Customs.


3
•V
J
'■ *
V
\
V
■
if
s
.
m
rr
“THE PURITAN.”
watsonsNo.lOwhisky


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
BALLARAT ..111,1201 Hanson
WILCANNIA 5,00(I| Scott
COMMONWEALTH 7,000| Mine
GEELONG .. 8.0001 Bidwell
Auff.
Sept.
Oct.
Oot.
16
13
30
Wireless installed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 Us.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, With
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi,ace. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
II-
Minimum
Deposit.
Have YOU a
Bank Account ?
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
If not, open one by Depositing
at least ONE SHILLING in the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
116 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
No Connection with
3*
Per
Cent.
the Post Office.
J. H. DAVIES,
Secretary.
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
3
Per
Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
On Excess
to £5OO
of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
.Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian gank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED .. £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE —George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE —2 King William Street, E.C.
11l RECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Spy, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myi.es, Esq.; Mark Siiei.don, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yaiuvood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth.
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement * extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . .. .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,418 0 0
Reserve .. • • • • • 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All neiv business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —.Tns. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.; Geo. Edw. Bunning,'
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.— *
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
vears and over, at the rate of 41 per cent, per annum.*
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial f|)utual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED r
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
ravelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. Iv.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Shipping;.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane & Townsville.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . .. .... 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain "and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, about JULY 30.
PERSIC, about AUG. 26.
* CERA MIC, 18,000 tons, about SEPT. 24
RUNIC, about OCT. 22.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
*New Triple-Screw Steamer.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London . . .. 19 0 oto 30 0 C
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Auents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping for
other Queensland
Ports).
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves Sydney July 26
BOMBALA (4000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 30
Leaves Sydney August 2
COOMA (4000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 6
Leaves Sydney August 9
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and \V.A. ports).
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 tons).
Leaves Sydney July 26
COOMA (4000 tons).
Leaves Sydney August 2
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
•• BURNS-PHILP.”
Round-the-lslands Tours.
Round-Australia Tours.
Round-the-Pacific Tours.
Round-the-Far-East Tours.
AUSTRALIA’S
Leading
Tour and Travel
Agents.
We Book You to Any Part of the World.
We Estimate and Schedule Any Trip, FREE!
We Issue Letters of Credit, Secure Passports, etc.
We Relieve Our Clients of All Worry.
We Materially Save Expenses and Delays.
We Offer an Unparalleled Choice of Tours.
NOTE : If meditating a Holiday Trip, a Honeymoon Trip, or a Business Trip, communicate with our
TOUR (Sb TRAVEL DEPT.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD. Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
nnw
DIRECTORS:
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.O.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binreie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand. MacLaurin, ICt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James T. Walker. '*•
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq., Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office- George s>t.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and Correspondents throughout the World. .
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. I'oreign Bills negotiated
L ' ttm 01 c; ' dit c "-" Nole!
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. fid. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2r.; 6d.
For Guide and r all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up .. £1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,630,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,0000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. CoheN, Esq . . .. Chairman.
Hon 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onsi,ow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. CAPE, Esq. and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dinns.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. •• ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. i —--
Gen Man . Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man. :E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Coughs arid
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and S:an Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney,
'
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” | "Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern'.Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regufar services between
COMMONWEALTH d; ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AN-Q, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And AII Ports.
£8,757,080
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
August 2.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
A n d Ports Norrh to o»irn.».
S. Grantala (4000 tons),
August 2.
T. S.S. Wandilla (8000 tons),
fitted Wireless Tele-
graphy, August 16.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable alter
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Routs
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
♦New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabrns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool.
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
12500 TONS. CAPTAIN CHICKEN.
Will be
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE ..
ADELAIDE
despatched from
AUGUST 15, 1913
AUGUST 20, 1913
AUGUST 23, 1913
AUGUST 26, 1913
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. .
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
Fares to London, £4O to £45. £l6/16/-to £lB/18/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra. Steerage,.
£l/1/- extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,.
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH k CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10 000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,.
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAI LING S FROM SYDNEY—
VENTURA .. | July 26 I Sept. 20 | Nov. 15 | Jan. W
SONOMA .. „ Aug. 23 ! Oct. 18 j Dec. 13 j Feb. i
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
*T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
♦T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”..
*T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
*T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ..
5.5. “ WYANDRA”
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
♦Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Winter Tours to Cairns and Fiji are highly re< r?I 1 L
mended for the salubrious climate and keautm
scenery, and Tourists will find that the A.U.o-- -
Coy.’s steamers possess all up-to-date arrangemen
for convenience and comfort, making travel sale,
easy and pleasant. After first port of call First a
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with <
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. toy.
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on a PP llc .
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers,
for a Printed Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Insurance
ro„
l Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY-
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Kates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNE
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
J. A. Mihnett & A. E. D’Arct, Joint Managers


GLORIOUS TOURS to the
SOUTH SEA
.... and ....
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, AUGUST 12, 8 p.m.
T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, SEPT. 9, 8 p.m.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
rlavs to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(\pia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Ilaapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
Steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
'* Svdney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), R.M.S. MO ANA, August 9. Passengers can
spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.S.
TAHITI, September 2, arriving Sydney September 16.
There is also a service Xverv 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. Talune, July 29. (Maheno,
from Sydney, Jdly 23 connects.)
All Steamers fitted with Wireless.
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street. Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF :
From 13- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and \ ocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
V
v A
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Ladv writes: “I like the Celebrated ARABIA
Egyptian'Henna before all others ; it-is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has ..the largest sale o
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the “g
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine Price 1/- and Z/b.
Obtainable from all Chemists ami Stores in An.n.il
AERTEX Cellular
&
v
V
AE
Cl
O
IH
ae
4ondQ3>
UNDERWEAR
FOR WINTER.
The ideal form of fabric for underclofhmg
use in all seasons. Recommended by _
men in all parts of the globe. For prese
we stock Undershirts, Pants, Pyjamas, Night
dresses and Ladies’ garments in materia .
Pure Natural Wool.
White and Natural Merinos,
White Silk and Wool „
Heavy Cotton, in White and Peru.
We also stock the above fabrics, in addition to
the lighter weight Aertex materials, by y
or piece. .
Call or write for Price Lists, Pamphlets, e ~
post free to any address.
ao n!Sw.- DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next door to Farmer's:)'
OURCA
posted free
_ shopping by mail. ® e Grnm0 ■
'«SUSSSS^SNSSff£i
Btruments, etc., etc. S° le , ae f, n for Catarrh
Drums for Deafness Barney s Medicator
Write, mentioning this paper o c trfe ( Melbourne
star nnvriTY rnmPft*'Y, 9,Q f " llms
Commonwealth
Bank of HustraUa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
Federal Capital Canberra. New South Wales Sydney. Victoria Melbourne.
Queensland —Brisbane and Townsville. South Australia—Adelaide, Western Australia —
Perth. Tasmania—Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street, Sydney; 317 Collins Street, Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange, 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street, Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies
at Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and
Papua, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. daily (Tasmania, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.), and noon Saturday.
All Branch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth.
1/- Minimum Deposit. 3% Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1913 DENISON MILLER, Governor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
V «■
mV.
§£j||s}
EVERY kind OF LIGHT.
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBACH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 102-4 Viotoria Street, Wellington, H Z
The Best Saddle in Australia
for the Stockman
£6lO
We have been making saddles for close on half a century and
all we know about the game has gone into the m akln g of this
famous Stock Saddle of ours. It is hand-made throughout—no
cheap and nasty machine work anywhere. It if huilt on the
staunchest tree of specially tempered steel, fitted with an
unbreakable gulletplate, to which are riveted (not scwwed, mind
you)-* solid steel hind crupper plates. This . makes the tree
absolutely unbreakable, yet gives just the elasticity and give
thf whole life'of te‘saddle. P °The knee pad P s are 54 inches
high and made of solid leather, double sewn inside so that they won t sag
Sr s. as, ". c as*. «w
Dees that "We pa^
is lined, and with extended facings so as not to fray or wear out f
Bfest shut &
crupper and surcingle.
OTTR GUARANTEE —Any number of these saddles of ours : sold I ten .years
li
against a tree.
L. UHL & SONS LTD.,
Harness Builders, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane, Q.
Picture Showmen!
OUR NEW SHIPMENT OF
Silent Empire Bioscopes and
Kelvin Electric Generating Sets
.... aDDivPin AND MERITS YOUR ATTENTION.
• T , h f e ;r«5
isibe be« machine on the market to-
thp Kelvin plnnts they
are TT St trffle ab to haie
“'lv^rS.jouo^hacontptete
P *“ joTefnfo't call on us, send (or our
Picture Booklet-it’s free.
“YOU KNOW THE FIRM.”
JERDANS LTD
3±
) KELVIN
generating set
393 George Street,
__ SYDNEY.
I
The Dress
Careful Man
will find an ABBEY Shoe all
that he desires in fit, wear, com-
fort and fashion.
The boot we illustrate is a Tan
Willow Calf Bal., 22/6, 25/-
and 27/6.
Also, in Box Calf, 21/-, 25/-
In Glae6* Kid, 21/-, 22/6, 25/-
and 27/6.
In half sizes and quarter fit-
tings.
Postage extra.
Write for' Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
A look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp , is
the most perfect Hairdressing.
» DON’T LOOK OLD.
Sesame” Tin Opener.
The “open
Sesame” to
everything
\but your t
\ purse.
c ondens£^
MILK
s ARDIME s „
%itVfo° p
TINS^
May be sold anywhere in
the Commonwealth for
THREEPENCE.
Tq .get it quick send
Fourpence in stamps to—
‘SESAME,’ Box 98 C. P. 0., Sydney
References by permission:—
“Have discarded all others”
—Mrs. W. Garstang, “Coo-
ee,” £urfitt Street, Leich-
hardt, Sr.s.w.
“Would not be without it”
—Mrs. Lewis, “The Eyrie,”
Fox Valley Road, Warrawee.
“The best I have ever used”
—Mrs. Armstrong, Myrtle
Street, North Sydney, N.S.W.
C OFFERERS from that cruel, stubborn, nerve-
-racking, skin disease, ECZEMA, need no longer
face its terrible pangs with doubts or misgivings.
“ISO ” the remarkable Eczema Ointrrient- the remedy
which has cured scores of cases —is within easy reach
of all. The inventors are Chemists repute,
practising in your midst. They use ISO daily in
trearin"' patients. Write theih at once for a free
eample'of "ISO," ericlo.ine three penny_«•»» »
p„,, r cover P°| ta | e IoNsT” *
Smith Street, Collingwood, Vic.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in "England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
nd guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
. Salts.
- IN VARIOUS
l SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
: Brown, Lisrht or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
' Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.


Amusements.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN
presents
THE
WORLD’S
GREATEST
DRAMATIC
SOPRANO,
TOWN HALL,
SYDNEY,
JULY 24, 26, 30;
AUGUST 2.
4 GREAT
CONCERTS.
Mme. LILLIAN NOUDICA,
Assisted by
PAUL DUFAULT . \ Tenor
FRANKLIN HOLDING Violinist
JtOMAYNE SIMMONS ... Pianist
PRICES: 10/6, 7/6, 5/-
PLANS AT PALING’S, JULY 18.
U JIAJESTVS THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
AUTUMN MAMEUVBFS.
BRIGHT, SPIRITED, MILITARY MUSICAL PLAY.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
PRICES : D.C and O.S. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Amphitheatre till 7.80, 2/-; thereafter, 1/-
"T* 11 E A T R E R O V A E, SYDNEY.
Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF KING HENRY V.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 26.
LEWIS WALLER & MADGE TITHERADGE
in the
GREATEST DIVORCE PLAY EVER WRITTEN
A BUTTERFLY ON THE WHEEL’
PRICES: D.C. and O.S. (Reserved and at door), 6/-
Stails, 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7,30, 2/-.; thereafter, 1/-
ADEL P H 1 .THEATRE, SYDNEY.
** Direction : GEORGE MARLOW, LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
GEORGE MARLOW’S DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Latest and Greatest of all London Successes,
NO MOTHER TO GUIDE HER.
MISS ETHEL BUCKLEY as NAN.
MR. CYRIL MACKAY as TOM PELHAM.
PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and !/• Early Doors 6d. extra.
PAI. A ( E THEA T R e] SYDN E Y.
* Direction: WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
TH E GRAFT E B, S.
Complete American Co. of 60 artists in a two-act
Musical Burlesque.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES: 55., 3s. and Is. Early Doors Gallery, Is.
extra.
H E E IT T E E THEATRE
(With the BIG Attractions),
CA3TLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.10.
HUGH C. BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
present
THE GREAT ADVENTUIIK.
PRICES : Orchestral Stalls, 6/-; Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery (till
7.3 n), 2/-; after that hour, 1/-
NATIONAL amphitheatre' SYDNEY.
Managin'; Director : BEN J. FULLER
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE RAGTIME REVUE
TROUPE of REAL NEGRO MINSTRELS.
CARL PRINZ’S MONKEYS.
DALTON & -MOORE. THE ST. LEONARDS.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, I/- Box Plan at Theatre.
YCEDM THEATRE, SYDNEY,
EVERY EVENING.
AU S T RALTA CALLS!
THE DEFENCE POSITION IN AUSTRALIA
PICTORIALLY PORTRAYED.
EDISON’S TALKING PICTURES.
THE KINETOPHONE.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S. PRICES: 2/-, 3/6, tld
■J" HE OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
W EST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3(1. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
LHAMBRA THEATRE, SYDNEY.
HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE HOUSE.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES: WED. AND SAT. AT 2.30.
STAR VAUDEVILLE & MINSTRELS.
An Entire Change of Artists and Programme Weekly.
PRICES: 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Saturday, 2/-, 1/6 and 1/-
Doors 7.15, Overture 8.
gYD N E T
GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
Three sessions daily: 10 to 12, 3 to 5,
8 to 10.30.
Admission, 2s. Skate Hire, 6d.
Children: Morning and afternoon only,
Admission Is.
Children: Saturday morning, Admission 6d.
’Phone 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
I MPEB I A 1 BOILER
" Foot of William Street.
KINK,
A REFINED RINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN.
THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
D ICK A K D S’ TIVOLI THEATUE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSII.
every EVENING AT 8.
MADGE TEMPLE, Fashion-plate of the Variety Stage.
LOLA KRASAVINA, Russia’s Representative'* Singer.
LANGTRY. England’s Popular Comedienne.
CUMMIN & SEAHAM, Knockabout Comedy Acrobats.
THE HAVILANS, America’s Expert Tight-wire Artists.
DE MARLO & LADY in “ A FROG’S PARADISE.”
SAYLES & YVARTON. GEORGE WHITEHEAD.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
OTT R A H °u s E. M E LBOCRN E.
w Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
FOUR QUAINT Q's, Humorous Burlesque Artists.
A. G. SPRY, Cosmopolitan Comedian.
THE GLORY GIRL.
FRENCH, the Intoxicated Genius.
LUCY GIL LET, the Greatest Lady J uggler on Earth.
YAUDE & VERNE, Premier Patterologists.
IRMA CARON, Lyric Soprano and Instrumentalist.
Plan at Allan’s.
—4s., 35., 25., Is.
D RING ESS’S THEATRE. .MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 26.
George Marlow’s Dramatic Combination in the
Original Drama of Modern Life,
THE MARRIAGES OF MAYFAIR.
POPULAR PRICES. Plan at Pianola Co.
H
Elt .MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST NIGHTS OF
ADELINE GEN EE,
Supported by M. ALEXANDER VOLININ, MLLE.
BCHMOLZ and the IMPERIAL RUSSIAN BALLET.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 7/6.
Balcony and Stalls. 4/-; Pit and Gallery, 2/-
THEA T It E KOY A L. .MELBOURNE
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA
of the Great American Dramatic Success,
WIT HI N THE LA W.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stails, 4/-■ Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURN K.
" Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the Bert Bailey Dramatic Co.
in
The Record-breaking Australian Comedy Drama,
OUR
ON
POPULAR PRICES.
SELECTION.
PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
CE SKATING.
I
T IT E
ICE SKATING.
GLAOTAItIUM,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY AFTERNOON;: ADMISSION 2/-
EVERY EVENING : ADMISSION 1/-
IKLCTION AMALGAMATED PICTURE*
LTD.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJI STIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o'clock.
3d., 6d. ancb 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. l’j@n at Allan's.
L Y M I* I A. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
\A# E S T’S PALACE, M ELBOUKNE
THK BEST WEST’S PICTUBESthk best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. Wus'r.
NIGHTLY''AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Till! C Hi! AT I! ST PICTORIAL KNTICIfIMtISE IN THE WORLD
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note alwavs to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
GIVE ME 15 MINUTES EACH DAY OF YOUR TIME,
says
WALTER BENTLEY
THE DISTINGUISHED
ACTOR,
and I’ll teach you how to
MAKE SPEECHES*
PROPOSE TOASTSS,
ADDRESS BOARD MEETINGS,
SELL MORE GOODS,
STRENGTHEN MEMORY,
DEVELOP STRONG PERSONALITY,
CONVERSE WINNINGLY,
ACQUIRE POISE AND DISTINCTION,
and
OBTAIN PERFECT HEALTH,
BY CORRECT BREATHING AND PHYSICAL CULTURE.
Thousands of business and professional people have become convincing speakers in public and in
business by following a Mail Course in their spare time at home or at their office. It has increased
their power and influence, and put them on the straight road to BIG SUCCESS.
“WORTH MUCH MORE THAN IT COSTS.’’
Only one address: Ladies and Gentlemen, call or write at once.
301 a PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
BIRCH & C A R R O li 1.
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 31- PER BOX, or 8 BOXES £l,
Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
PRICES are invited for
* a large supply of Hard
Water=worn Pebbles, about
3in. diameter, of Flint for
preference.
Mount Morgan Gold Mining
Co. Ltd., Mount Morgan.
FATHERS!
What more suitable wedding present for
your daughter than a cabinet of
Spoons and Forks and Cutlery?
File Fx. & R. Spoons and Forks are the
most heavily plated.
They are plated on hard white nickel
bases.
They will wear like silver for 40 years.
They are practically heavy sheaths of
silver covering the hard white base.
They engrave like solid silver.
Solid Oak Canteen, containing 47 pieces of
Spoons, Forks and Cutlery... £lO/10/-
Less 20 % discount 2/2/-
They are the best, yet far away the lowest in price, on the market.
Plain Figures
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 &25 Hunter Street.
YOUR MORNING SHAVE
SS
will take half the time it does now, once you get a keen, reliable PLUM.
This splendid razor skims over cheek and chin quickly and gently. No
pulling—no after-irritation.
We guarantee to keep the blade in first-class order for two years, free
of charge.
PRICE 10/6, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 6/6 each
post free.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle. 10/6
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Singie Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop. 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should nor, be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
QWKHIKO
Q
*O.
We Never Hold
a Sale, but
nevertheless we are always making remark-
ably splendid Jewellery Offers, which stamp
us as the “live wires” of the Jewellery Trade.
These Specials are for Wise
Bulletin Readers, upon which
they will save considerably.
The New, Fashionable, Broad GOLD BANGLE, very
heavy, £3.
WE POST ALL ORDERS FREE.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
/
0
'fim
W
W:
Charming 15c t.
GOLD EARRINGS,
with Aquamarines
and Pearls, 30 /-
Holling’dale® Kessell
Watchmakers and Jewellers
98 KING ST SYDNEY
BRANCH AT42I PITT ST
• NEAR. RAILWAY *
SPENCER’S MILD INDIAN CIGARS.
Sample Boxes of 50,15/-
SPECIALLY SELECTED WHOLE LEAF—No Inferior Fillings.
If not obtainable from your dealer, refer
PARTRIDGE ABERCROMBY LTD., LOFTUS MORAN,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney. 231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.


ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Cojnmon-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them—the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
“5°
(W
£>
cured, and you can be cured, too. You mav wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve!'
lelst danger lnS6rt and remove them without the
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). Phis includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at .first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
ORDER FORM. ~ '
STAR NOVELTY CO..
103 Arlington Chambers.
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address *
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
M.B.FOSTERS
BUGLE
BRAND
ftflM
UNEXCELLED FOR
PURITY,
BRILLIANCY
AND UNIFORMITY.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received trom Himrod’s
Asthma and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
Hi!
h
ASTHMA
OIM
P
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy Cor Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Cold, or
ord nary Cough.
Soid tM Tins dy all Chemists and Suns
throughout Australasia.
WRIGHT’S
I do use
Antiseptic Myrrh
kTOOTH SOAP
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. Pre-
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar, its
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
on a penny postcard, sent to
us. will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sent.
Post paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out.
rhert art imitations. Sold by Chemists everywhere.
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich., IJ.S.A.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. r~ ... . .. J
HAS MONEY
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
TO LEND On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
Freehold nnH o o . . .. City or Suburban Properties, or o
of Government Debon7uJ«r 0< Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
tralian states or New ln , 9cr,b ed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
n NC Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
ut> ro "O^npr^ivfr" 6 P*v d conta '" B a condition allowing Borrowers the nrivilesre of reoavin?
Directors » f the loan dunnsr an v - vear - withou « notice or payment of any fine.
Hon. P W .‘ Thfw 8 ’ o' L V C i,, Chairman ; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Esq K C • Sir Alev viaVn, ' 6 M.L.C. ; The Hon. P. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
HEAD OFFICE • PITT STREET syDNFV Ueneral Manaffer and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
8 ' bJ -REET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
73 C
■ m m
/VNTISEPTIC THROAT
?!
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to
a formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading Singers throughout the world. The
celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes:—“l thank you for the
”2s Xes . Ivans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Sole Manufacturers— ALL CHEMISTS.
EVANS SONS LESCHER 8 WEBB LTD., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS’ ” Pastilles, and see you get them.
Celebrated
Cascade
Ale
k
IN BULK
and
BOTTLED.
WUrnm^
k,
Jllfi
ill
LIl
*° ■**"***. CaJKJjg,
<S..r
CALL
FOR IT
on ALL
Occasions.
Head Office:
156 Collins St., Hobart
AGENTS:
Melbourne:
Taylor, Ferguson &
Co., 127 King St.
Sydney:
D’Arcy & Co.
Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co.,
-Ltd.
Maryborough:
Corser & Co.
Rockhampton:
Walter Reid & Co.
Townsville:
Burns, Philp & Co.,
Ltd.
Cairns:
Burns, Philp & Co.,
Ltd.
fe
¥m
r f7JTT7777777777r7777/ /
<w
Waterman’s
( Ideal )
FountMiPen
“SAFETY” Type —No matter how
carried IT WILL NOT LEAK .
Upside down in pocket or bag—doesn’t matter
a bit. The Pen can’t leak —it’s sealed when
open and sealed when closed. As a pen
—absolutely efficient. Writes smoothly, with-
out spurting or faltering; lasts a lifetime.
Nibs to suit every hand.
15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and
Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
AUSTRALIA—3SO, George St,
Sydney.
it
ill
m
ilii
ill
tl
l. 'Mu' i
'Ml'
tooheys limited
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
- AGENTS for ■
. Polish Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Murray’s Engnsn «ie.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Manufacturers of
The Up-to-date Saddle
We would draw our readers’ attention to the
saddle illustrated below, which for style, comfort,
strength and workmanship, combined with low price,
excels all others.
This saddle is manufactured in the best style,
with the comfort and durability of the Australian
saddle, and recommended to all classes of riders,
whether on the station, farm or for town use. Made
only from selected, materials, best English bar plate
tree, pig-skin seat' and knee pads, extra long flaps
to buckle below, skirt right round, as a weather
protector, fitted with double buckle girth, stirrup
leathers and nickel-plated irons. The saddle can be
made to order with either full or half panel.
Price £3/19/6
Freight paid to
any station in
N.S.W. or port in
Queensland. Men-
tion The Bulle-
tin, and a sur-
cingle or pair of
spurs will be given
free.
Now is your op-
portunity ; secure
this great saddle
bargain from J. P.
Talty, Sydney’s
Saddle Specialist,
388 Sussex St.
Write for illus-
trated Catalogue.
, r
ll||HlUiUHntim»MWn»m...— —•
Registered
NOTE the SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
m
Oriental
.Tooth Powder
-&Al-
in the
United Kingdom
All the family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY.
Messrs. Elliotf Bros. Ltd.
. . F.H Faulding & Co.
‘ The Autocar Imperial Year Book"
Will be found invaluable to overseas
motorists, intending buyers of cars,
IMPERIAL
YEAR BOOK
1913
CfßCVlAtk***
** tme cocomes
v***£jA* so*ll*sB*
. A»*OAD
U».*.'XV.
: fA>*6fa(A'
etc.
Contains a complete
list of cars on the
British market with
all details and prices ;
articles on chassis and
body design, car
lighting lubricating
systems, auxiliary
suspension, etc.;
freight charges and
duties ; World’s
records ; gear ratios ;
motor associations,
clubs, etc., etc., Well
illustrated.
Price 2/6,
Agents : Gordon & Gotch Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, and Launceston
(Tasmania); J. Wyatt, Melbourne; Geo.
Robertson & Co., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
Published by the Proprietors of “ The Autocar,” 20 Tudor
Street, London, England.
for More!'
p
V'
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years’ success.
-^1
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” of 40 years’
proven efficary for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.


HOW TO TREAT
PIMPLES
V
&
&
s>
rvi
AND
BLACKHEADS
Successfully and Speedily With
CUTICURASOAP
And Cuticura Ointment, at
a trifling cost, is learned
from the special directions
which accompany these
pure, sweet and gentle
emollients.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughoi
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-pa!
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin ar
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Cc
Dept. B. Sydney. N. S. W.
Puts Stomach,
Liver and Bowels
in Fine Condition _
To promptly end the misery of consti-
pation torpid liver, sick headache, indi-
gestion, dizziness and nausea, you must
use CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS. They
never fail—that’s why
millions use them.
Vim,vigor,vitality,
and a clear com-
plexion are the
result of their
use. You
need them.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
signature
5
/^HerYoutii^
rfcA
LEWS
'll,/ C IJ-5.A)
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
If THE
only permanent aiJ realiy satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
STAMMERING.
j\yj R. W. A. YEARSLEY, Bowen Terrace, Mel-
bourne. Under special appointment to Munici-
pal Education Committees, England and South
Africa. Method approved Board of Education, Eng.
Subsidised by Governments. Awarded Gold Medal
for excellency. Booklets sent free.
ASTHMA CURE
GHIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Conßhs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold by all ChemitU.
“Linseed Compound.” The “Stockport Rem-
edy for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
'V'
m
• dr.
oA
14 ■‘)«
%v-
-if
New Preparation
Causes Big Scare Among Hair Specialists.
My True Hair Grower has a most wonder-
ful effect upon the hair glands and tissues
of the scalp. It is the only remedy for the
hair ever discovered that is similar to the
natural hair foods or liquids of the scalp.
It penetrates the pores quickly, and the
hair soon shows the effects of its wonder-
fully exhilarating and life-producing quali-
ties.
Besides being a True Hair Grower, my
preparation quickly removes DANDRUFF,
and stops FALLING lIAIR and ITCHING.
It is known the world over, and I have in
my consulting-rooms upwards of 3000 grate-
ful _ letters from men and women who have
derived so much benefit from the use of my
True Hair Grower as to compel them to
write and thank me.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES!
Ha ving such complete confidence in this compound, I am offering a
trial box to anyone interested. Send in your name and full address, to-
gether with three penny stamps for postage, etc.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH
(Dept. 7), 192 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
•/lit 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
’hlcrcaf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks st
SPASMS and COLIC
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
Choose a “ Swan.”
a
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
The
“Swan Safety”
Can’t Leak,
ElQt, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J.
A. BlißKh's Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
2s £
a
si
is
V
A
m
The World-wide Whiskey.'
BURKE'S
★ ★★ IRISH
WHISKEY
Distinguished by its Delicacy of Flavour.
Lightness and Digestibility.
Exquisitely Mellow.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
DUBLIN.
Capital £1,100,000. E*td. 1849
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Melb ”: Maffra beet-sugar factory is once more
a good deal discussed. Meanwhile, the State Cabinet
deliberates on a petition for the reopening of a
curious line of railway, two miles long, and nearly
half a century old, going from Elsternwick to Ross-
town (now re-named Carnegie), beyond Caulfield
Racecourse, This old two miles of line was laid
down as part of Murray Ross’s scheme, under Nat
Levi’s inspiration, for founding a sugar-beet indus-
try at Rosstown. A factory was built, and a planta-
tion laid out, and between them they ran away With
about £40,000. Ross lived at a mansion in Commer-
cial-road, Prahran, afterwards the dwelling of Graham
Berry, when he had risen to the Premiership from
his little grocery shop on the Toorak-road and Chapel-
street corner. A photo, is yet extant of this shop,
with Berry in his shirt-sleeves at the door,
“Briner” : The suction dredge W. H, Edgar, built
at the WilliamstoWn State Ship Building Yard (Vic.),
is just launched. The whole thing Will cost £BOOO.
Compound expansion engines have been built for it
by Thompson, of Castlemaine, 200-horse power, with
high-speed engines for pumping 1000 tons of sand an
hour. Preference has been given to Australian
material in the construction. The frames were manu-
factured in Melbourne of steel made in Victoria.
Altogether, 80 per cent, of the cost was distributed in
the State ; the rest Went to J. Bull. For a start, the
W, H. Edgar will work at the Gippsland Lakes.
The shipyard, when completed (this dredge work was
done with a scratch plant), will cost £50,000. At
present it employs 200 men, but there are orders for
two dredges in hand ; and when they start, 800 men
Will be employed, Other orders in hand bring up the
total to £lOO,OOO. The dredge is, above all other
toilers of the sea, the one that should be built on the
spot. Two recent dredges that Victoria tried to im-
port disappeared with all hands, and anybody who
tries to bring a lumbering, unseaworthy iron cathe-
dral of that sort across the great waters deserves to
be shot on sight—or previously.
“Me”: The meanest Of all business robberies is
that of the petty bandit, the weekly tradesman.
This buccaneer, whether milkman, baker, butcher,
iceman or grocer makes a habit of overcharging in
his weekly bill. The average housewife is an easy
snap for this licensed ’ sneak-thief. She doesn’t
trouble to record whether she got a pint or a quart
of milk last Tuesday week, or two loaves or one on
Thursday, and blindly pays up the small weekly
overcharge. The butcher’s method is to quote on
the bill a quarter of a pound weight too much. The
average housekeeper doesn’t trouble to Weigh each
hunk of dead flesh. The iceman leaves a block of
ice at the back door every hot day when he finds the
family out. The grocer is more subtle. He knows
that the house woman has a vague idea of the price
of groceries, but a still more vague idea of arith-
metic. His bill therefore adds up to less than his
total, and the house-female pays the total and not
the sum of the items. My particular house-tart
tells me that ev©y second week there is a mistake
in the grocer’s addition—always in the grocer’s
favor. An artistic grocer, one ‘ would think, would
occasionally undercharge by, say, a halfpenny, but
m.y house-she tells me there are no artistic grocers.
As our average overcharge and undersupply in all
the departments of the weekly buccaneer’s business
is about lid., it is easy to see how profitable a
business is that of a trades bandit with a large
family connection.
“Marloo” : Now that the atmosphere is fairly free
from the storm of thunderbolts which were being
hurled around concerning the tuberculous cow and
her product, allow me to fling a few brickbats at
the diseased hog and his friends of the Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.). A few years ago Cocky pursued
the pig-raising industry in a half-hearted manner;
but as the price of hog's-flesh has sailed up, Cocky
has started to bog in for all he is worth. To con-
firm this statement it is only necessary to remark
that the North Coast Co-operative Co. (Byron Bay,
headquarters), which lately adopted bacon-curing as
a side-line, slaughtered 21,714 porkers in the last
six months. Yet this co. receives only a small pro-
portion of the pigs raised on the Richmond and
Tweed Rivers, and, owing to a shortage of supply,
it works at but half its capacity. Most of the swine
are sold in the open market to local and visiting
buyers. Any animal supplied to the N.C. Co-op. Co.,
on being pronounced diseased, is cut down in the
flower of its youth and burned to the ground, and
the supplier is the loser. Not so in the open market.
There, a Diseased Pig Fund has been established ; the
purchaser deducts a certain amount per head of
swine auctioned, and the seller is relieved of all
risk. It is asserted that the proportion of diseased
annual runs as high at times as 20 p.c. That Cocky
appreciates the insurance idea is evident from the
whole-hearted way he passes by his own co-operative
co. The pigs bought in the open market are mixed
up and taken to various distant places to be
slaughtered. Thus health officers are unable to track
down disease. Cocky himself may be ignorant of
its presence in his sties, and goes on week after week
disseminating instead of eradicating it, and the Lord
knows disease takes a bit of eradicating once it
lays hold of the grumpy animal which broke its neck
when it practised road-hogging in the ancient scrip-
tures.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: I don’t know anything at all about
pony racing, but my worst friend frequents the
courses and bestows much money upon the undeserving
objects there. I had been told that Saveloy was a
safe thing for the Fish Plate, and I asked him to put
10s. on for me. “Ten shillings?” he ejaculated.
“Don't you do it, man! Say half a crown. Great
Scott, it would be cruelty to animals. Put 10s. on,
and they’ll pull the poor beast’s head off!”
W. A. Holman is the fifth lawyer to be-
come Premier of N.S.W. since 1856, when
responsible government was introduced.
Solicitors, though numerous in Parliament,
have not been much favored for the Premier-
ship. Only one (Carruthers) formed a
Government. Martin had been a solicitor,
and would probably have remained in that
branch but for the row over a solicitor tak-
ing the Attorney-Generalship. Of the five,
Wade was the only man who had been
trained to the barrister business as a life
profession. Reid started as a civil service
clerk ; Holman as a carpenter and a cabinet-
maker.
A FRUGAL SOUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
McMasters iii a solid man.
He o\Vns a pair of streets. Poor soul,
He Iboks as if te furis a carl;
And sells polonies on a roll.
His boots are worse than mine, and I
„ . Own no estate beside the duSt
that comes to me as I pass by;
No man’s more cussed, or more discussed.
1 do not say his foes are just;
much to see him stand
So often on the corner there;
His old brown cadv in his hand,
His eyes set in a pensive stare.
A curious pastime this for one
Who owns two streets. Yet lank of jaw,
The same old clo’es in cold or sun,
You’ll find him chewing at a straw,
His battered boxer in his paw.
“Why does he loiter on that spot,”
I asked the man who pulled the beer,
“When so much money he has got?”
The barman grinned from ear to ear.
“One day,” he said, “a kiddy ran,
A little, happy, slipshod brat,
And looked at him, and said ‘Poor man!’
And put a penny in his hat.
So now he always stands like that,”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


FEATHER neckwear.
m
*>
r-~.
m
m
&
$
&
SB
I
45
*>
mb
iw» 8 han<i somer thm pne of our
i t,lei lioas ' We are showing some
Lovely Neckwear at Bargain Prices.-
Bvery one is beautiful as a woman’s smile.
421-
Length* 1 1,4 yards,
Black, White,
Grey, or Natural
Feather Boas.
BLACK or WHITE TOQUE BOAS, 21/-
Length, 2 yds. One of the greatest
Bargains ever offered.
FEATHER NECKLETS, 21/., With Tassel
Ends. All Colors. We have a great
ariety of these goods.
OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 63/- Black,
\Y hite, Natural, etc. Extra good
quality. Length, 1% yds.
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
MILLER’S.
195 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Cr. Bourke & Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
118 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
4
*A.
&
///
I am a Success!
lt wouldn’t do for me to
s.iy so myse f—l’m only repe ting
whrtt tens of thousands of thoughtful
friends of mine say as they wa"ch the
r , even flow of ink record their words un-
-7 tailingly and unhesitatingly on the paper.
I work silently, unceasingly, never splutter nor scratch.
I am safe in the hands of a child, the perfect fountain
pen, made in Lngland by Britisli labour.
—I do not leak
—I fill myself in a flask
—I clean myself in filling
—I cost 12/- (upwards for a larger size).
Tell your Stationer you want an introduction to
Onoto the pen—and ask him to show you how I work,
ihen take me away and use me daily. That’s wiiat
I’m meant for.
Booklet about me will be sent free to all inter-
ested on application to T. De La Rue &
Co., Ltd., 186 hunhill Row, London,
or the Australasian Representative,
Norman Baker, 50 York St.,
Sydney.
12/-
and upwards,
at all Stationers, &c.
66
Pen
ffiHeaßras
.i - <&?' ' , U .if M-SaKC 1
;
C^itJ
*
v-
WWm
■>■.
SSe
MS
8M
- *
•wo-.
Vi
/;■.
-?.
<V-fc
>K^*7
•w.--
M •'
.-: ;
.*!'•> S;
V
*
J'A^P
Mmmm
few
~; - •
€o'
• -
I
a
■•t
$
ly*:
.'T
vi;<
ss
-/??
site?
a
\V
!!n\
t5B
H
!'•. '>*»
face-M*
>/jpv
feiff
• ;•
S.-?SV®
Mm
3KB&MK
W LOOK PRETTY?
Yes! But can you—
without a Pretty Skin.
Hunting, motoring, golf,
cold winds will all do
their part in reddening
, and roughening your face
Do your part with - * -
“ Kaloderma ” Soap - - - -
“Kaloderma" Jelly, and
“ Kaloderma ” Face Powder;
you may then snap your
fingers at wind & weather.
The Mysteries of Beauty s Toilet spell
0
9
%
4
4
*
THK BEST STORIES written in
1 LONE HAND each month.
Australia appear
Price Sixpence.
Jfj
n
U
LOOK
y.t.
HW v l -;.
ML '
r /2
FORTHE
RED
ON EVERY BOX OF
Rifle And
Pistol Cartridges
By taking this precaution, you will be sure of
getting Winchester make of cartridges, which
are universally acknowledged to have no super-
iors. Winchester cartridges adapted to Winches-
ter rifles are made to get the best results out of
Winchester rifles. The same equipment, organi-
zation and system are employed in making Win-
chester cartridges of all sizes and calibers, ’ the
natural consequence being that Winchester car-
tridges give the best results in any arms. Win-
chester cartridges are made in calibers suitable for
all makes of rifles, revolvers and pistols and are
sold everywhere. They are always satisfactory.
lin SURE TO ASK FOR TIIR RRD W BRAND .
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
ON OR OFF
that is all
that is needed
to start or stop the patent
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING
FOUR
t-lIGU ESI
AWARDS
SIMPLE. - EFFICIENT
NO COSTLY ACCUMULATORS
practically no attention
INSTAMMFIONj
So/e Mahers.
R. A .Ll STER*C9 LTP
Dursley.Glos.
3i
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System—Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works; and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessary; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas acetylene, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights,
fans, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and othei
machines.
Is absolutely safe and reliable; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS.
AGENTS—
New South Wales: W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD., 279 Clarence Street, and
425-430 Rent Street (4 doors from Town Hall), Sydney.
Queensland: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Victoria: SUTHERLAND 8 ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
SNI
Wo
*l9
G
R
A
D
E
S.N.L. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
*
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—■
25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches’’
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
TOBACCOS.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“Lonus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches
H
A
N
m
irvr
c
0
M
P
A
C
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
„ „ Real Morocco . . 3/6 „
~ „ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 »
„ „ Gazelle £»/- »
„ „ Velvet Calf .... 6/6 »
POCKET LICHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
()
T
H
I
N
G
SSI
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams’s Soap—
-18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
u
A
L
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Hay market, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
The First
Successful
Self-Filling
Fountain
Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
“THE A.A.” AUTOMATIC SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN
is the pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling method
is exclusive. It is filled by simply twisting the button, holding the
pen point in the ink, and, by a reverse twist, the pen is filled. As
the ink is held in a durable reservoir, the pen cannot leak. No
soiling of fingers or any annoying “filler” necessary to keep
“The A.A.” ready for service.
Fitted with 14kt. gold pens, any style or size, with plain,
chased or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver
filigree, gold filled and mother of pearl. They are for sale
at all shops.
The cut herein show's the newly-patented “A.A.” Clip attached
to the cap of the pen. It excels by far any fountain pen clip yet
produced. It holds perfectly firm, and can be attached almost
instantly.
If you cannot secure “The A.A.” Automatic Self-Filling
mountain Pen with the “A.A.” Clip at your store, write for prices
to
RYAN, LEWIS CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN & CO., New York, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO.
[2
iA.A.i
=_ ARTHUR A WArEHMAN £. CO
v, '== NOT CONNf OTCD WITH THE P
V t T L E. WAT E R AKI CO. r
B
w.
JAY
rlfv
&
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTvt e. CO., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tink’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. ° Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
WindowTickbtWriting Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Trick sand
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Bod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
108 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
8
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR <• PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS I REE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions chat occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
c *° t £‘ c ° v J ered of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE!
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
-ws
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Plano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How TO
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 5s 6d-
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, 1b
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
lor all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. Established to Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADV T.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Maks Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bbnnarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
i.ound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Coughs &
Colds.
V V
1 ’
f
%
•>J
WH
%
'At
5s
SV
e
i
si
£
m
A GOLDEN RULE
for mothers is
never to neglect
the first sign of a cold or chill in
their children ; and the safest and
surest way to stop a cough, and thus
arrest the beginning of chest weakness,
is to give the little sufferer a few Peps breath-
able tablets. One tablet, or, in the case of
infants, half a tablet crushed into a powder and
placed on the tongue, will immediately prove
beneficial.
Peps have two great advantages over old-fashioned
cough mixtures and cheap lozenges. Firstly, as Peps
dissolve in the mouth they give off soothing, healing,
and lung-strengthening fumes that are breathed into
the throat, bronchial tubes and lungs. This is the
only way to stop a cough and end that wheeziness,
hard breathing, choking, whooping and chest soreness
that distress a child so much.
Secondly, Peps are perfectly free from opium,
laudanum and other harmful drugs, and can be given
to delicate children with an assurance of absolute
benefit. Pleasant to the taste and soothing in action,
Peps are favorites with the children. It is an excel-
lent plan to keep Peps for children’s use before setting
out for school on a damp dav, and thus keep at bay
colds, whooping cough, croup, sore throat, bronchitis
and even pneumonia.
Peps are the real safeguard against "Winter's on-
coming dangers, and will keep the children’s chests
strong and their lungs healthy.
PEPS GO DIRECT TO THE LUNGS
Peps, the great breathing-remedy for throat and chest com-
plaints, are excellent for Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore and
Relaxed Throat, Night Cough, Early Morning Cough, Hoarseness,
Bronchial Colds, Chest Tightness, Wheeziness, Influenza Cough,
Winter Cough, Chest Weakness in Children, Smoker’s Throat and
other Throat, Chest and Lung Ailments. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores at 1/6 and 3/- per box. or direct, post paid, from the
Peps Pastille Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MOTHER’S PRAISE
FOR PEPS.
“My two children suf-
fered from very severe
colds,” writes Mrs- Ethel
Nyes, of 54 McKenzie
Street, Leichhardt, Syd-
ney, “which were accom-
panied by such fearful
coughs that I became very
anxious. My mother, who
had herself been cured by
Peps of Bronchitis,
strongly advised me to ad-
minister them to the
little ones, and after tak-
ing a few of the Pastilles
the cough eased, phlegm
was freely ejected, and a
continuation of the Peps
treatment completely
cured them. Now we are
never without a box of
Peps always handy, es-
pecially in the winter
months.”
Fop Coufihs.Colds & Bronchitis.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the otHer Hand
tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Camera-Fiend.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
.t-qU have possibly gleaned that the
\ Camera-fiend. —
J- That bore with the gimlet-eye
\ud the snigger—will snap a scrim or a
scrap,
Or a smooge, or a skirt awry.
y„u have spotted him, maybe, streets away
\nd done a get for your life.
Y,m have begged the girl to control that curl,
And look a bit like your wife.
You have got the sense of bis fancy lens,
That swivels around the curves,
» nc | a t half a mile will expand your smile
* And enlarge on your mighty nerves.
The dainty jest of the pocket pest,
With a proof to your trustful half,
j s first rate fun to all but one, —
Or two —and of course you laugh.
Ynd the hollow peal, as you look and feel
A worm and a grovelling grub,
\nd your feeble “damn” should be heard in
cam-
Era, rather than at the club.
Xow that sort of guff may be funny enough ;
It’s the wheeze that your joker jerks ;
But I’ve just been there, and you may swear
That that isn’t how it works.
Yes, I’ve been there myself,—and it wasn’t
for pelf,
And it wasn’t for Wowsy Bits.
But I’ve learned to run, and I’m getting a
gun,
And I’m losing weight like fits.
Xo matter for what, but, I tell you, it’s hot
When the Village is out for me;
They chivvy me down from town to town,
And then from tree to tree.
It’s not for my bleed they show such greed,
And they aren’t just out for game,
But the lust of the chase has come over the
place,
And it operates just the same.
It’s not for my hide, or my dim dark slide,
It’s not for my gold or plate;
But, wet or dry, lest my filming eye
Should focus them all too late.
If I take my stand, they come in a band
But not with waddies or rocks;
But with wiles and charms, and they come
in arms,
And they come in their Sunday frocks.
The last from bed, and the latest wed,
And the longest lived, they come,
The orphan thin, and the frequent twin,
And the deepest dyed in rum.
They simper and pose in ranks and rows
They giggle in groups and gangs ;
The maidens sweet show indictable feet
And the gaffers their graveyard fangs.
One brings a cat and another a brat,
Absorbing his natural pap ;
One holds me up with a mongrel pup
Till one of us gets first snap.
Snap, rapid, and slow; plat., silver and
bro.,
Matt, glossy, and white, and cream:
Develop and print on a record sprint,
And tone and fix in a dream.
But my care consumes in the charcoal
fumes.
And I’m plugging the dark-room door;
For I’d cheerfully do with my six-by-two,
Instead of my five-by-four.
MAJORCA.
WAIF.
A Bachelor's Nurse-Lady.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN a bachelor adopts a baby
strange things are liable to
happen, and the following is a
faithful account of what struck ray old
friend Itice shortly after we had dissolved
the Ancient and Honorable Order of Mokes,
and sold the home of the order at
Elysium.
For a time, at least, it was necessary to
board, and we hunted round for an estab-
lishment that stood in its own grounds,
where Babe’s open air life could continue
without a break. Like love, a good boarding-
house is to be found where least expected,
and we discovered that the end house of
Eromanga Terrace at Potts Point had the
necessary qualifications. Outside, from the
street frontage, it was an ordinary terrace
house, one of six. But at the back the
enterprising proprietress had acquired a
huge lawn that dipped down towards the
water. It was an ideal spot, and we moved
>n at once.
At Elysium Carrie had been house-
keeper, living and eating in her own
■apartments.” When we arrived at
Eromanga House, we found the position
somewhat different. Carrie became _ a
•nurse-lady,” for whom full board was paid,
and who was treated the same as any other
boarder, and, naturally, had meals at the
same table, and acted in every way as an
aqual of the haughtiest married woman in
me place. Rice briefly introduced Babe as
ms daughter. It saved trouble. When
sympathetic ladies asked about the late Mrs.
kiee he generally explained that the subject
was too painful for discussion. As the lady
bad never existed this was the easiest way
ou t of the difficulty.
Then something happened.
. Opposite to Carrie sat John B. Wilks.
” e . was bare on top, wore mutton-chop
and had a bow-window in front.
b*'it he dressed like a tailor’s model, and
Was affluent. He spent his day looking for
adventures, and his nights in seeing them
through. Carrie’s plump figure and rather
regular features attracted him. He suddenly
developed an intense interest in Babe, and
nisisted on calling Carrie Mrs. Rice. _
When for the 50th time it was explained
'bat Carrie was not Mrs. Rice, but Miss
fietts, he ceased to mistake her for Babe’s
mother.
He took to staying at home in the morn-
ings and accompanying Carrie as she
strolled about the lawn with Babe. Then
he loaned her books, and began to buy her
magazines and lady’s journals.
One Sunday morning he was detected by
Rice in the act of chucking Caroline under
the chin, where a laurestina bush shut them
out of view of the verandah and dining-room
windows. Rice, being at the top of the
house, had an uninterrupted view. I
restrained Rice with difficulty from smiting
Wilks in the bow-window with his foot, but
Carrie was sent for and spoken to imme-
diately. The onslaught was so sudden and
Rice’s language was so vigorous, that Carrie
was overwhelmed, and, contrary to her usual
habit, retired in a crushed state without a
word.
After that Wilks accompanied her no
more on the lawn on Sunday mornings. But
from what transpired later on it seemed that
lie still did so on week days while Rice and
I were engaged in honest toil.
* * * *
The disaster came about simply enough.
Debarred from enjoying Carrie’s society on
the lawn, Wilks proposed a theatre and
champagne supper afterwards. Carrie, who
had read about these sort of goings on in
Duchess Dreadfuls, and so forth, sud-
denly found herself hurled bodily into the
world of romance. She manufactured a tale
about a sick sister, or something, and a
sympathetic dowager consented to look after
Babe. After seeing the dowager safely into
her room, Carrie applied the hot pad to her
rosebloom, touched her brows with the
pencil, and fled silently to where Wilks was
cooling his heels down the street within easy
call of a cabstand.
From that on till midnight is veiled in
mystery. But Carrie was not so carried
away with champagne as not to recognise
the danger of them coming in together after
midnight, and proposed to Wilks, who was
himself somewhat worried, that it would be
best for him to stroll in quietly and leave
his latch-key in the door, and she could
follow in a couple of minutes. So Wilks
waddled in.
Five minutes later Carrie came scurrying
along on tiptoe. Whether it was the
champagne, or the recollection of the
romantic time she had been having, deponent
knoweth not, but Carrie ran lightly past the
door of Eromanga House and up the steps
of the next house. And some fool had left
that door open. She entered noiselessly, and
tiptoed quietly to her room.
“I won’t strike a light, it might waken
Babe,” she whispered softly, taking off her
hat and putting it on a chair she had
bumped with her knee. Then she hung her
dust cloak and silk blouse over the foot of
the bed, and undoing her skirt band, took off
her shoes.
The man in the bed saw her dimly against
the light that filtered through the holland
blinds. He was a bad man and said nothing.
Carrie is a fine-looking girl.
Off came a slip-body, and then Carrie’s
hand stole under the pillow and fumbled
about. The man in the bed kept silent.
“I can’t find my nighty; did you move it,
Babe?” whispered Carrie.
“No, darling, no!” hissed the man in his
sweetest hiss, taking Carrie’s plump
shoulders in his arms and imprinting a kiss
among her curls.
Carrie’s shriek raised the whole street.
The paralysed man in the bed hung on to
her in a frenzy of sudden fear, and urged
her to be silent. The whole house woke
with a mingled prayer and oath. Lights
flashed out, doors were thrown open and
loud inquiries made. On the floor above a
lean spinster opened her window and blew a
police whistle loud and long.
Then the man in the bed also shouted for
assistance. The landlady’s husband hurried
in carrying a lamp in one hand and a cleaver
in the other. Behind him came his wife.
The rest of the boarders, armed with any-
thing they could snatch up, pushed her in
front of them.
“I found this female groping under my
pillow for my watch, and just grabbed her !”
explained the man in the bed to the land-
lady. “What is the meaning of this sort of
thing in your house?” he demanded viciously.
Babel broke loose. The landlady’s hus-
band put the lamp down on the top of the
chest of drawers. A cynical smile stole over
his unshaven face.
“Good gag that!” he sniggered.
“Watcher mean?” demanded the boarder
angrily.
“What I say,” sniggered the landlady’s
husband. “What the devil would she be
takin’ off her things in yer room for, if she
was after yer turnip? Now then, you hussy,
get yer clobber on and sret quietly before the
John Dunns come along and want to know
what the shindy is.”
Carrie sank down speechless, first on to a
chair and then on to the floor, where she
covered her face with her hands and went
into hysterics.
“John, keep quiet!” shouted the landlady,
suddenly finding the use of her tongue.
“Will I?” snorted John. “You don’t
know enough to run this business, so I’ve
got to interfere, whether I likes it or not.
and whether you likes it or not. Dooty’s
dooty. I don’t want to have my house dis-
graced, an’ my name in the papers in con-
nection with a case of this sort. Not much.
What ’ud me boss think?”
“Your ’ouse! Your name! ! Your
boss !! ! O Lord, I like that! You never
had a ’ouse till you got me.”
“Of course not. What does a single bloke
want with a ’ouse? But” (with ferocity) “who
paid for it? Who ordered the first furniture
you ever had? Yah ! You’d bin a slavey all
yer life if I hadn’t come along. Now don’t
you let this bloke run your name into the
paners. There’s nothing in it.”
“Phwat’s the nature av all this dmthurb-
ance?” said a broguey voice, and looking
round everybody saw the tall form and
classic features of Constable Denis O’Hagan.
The boarder grew violent.
“Constable, seize that woman. I give her
in charge for attempted robbery ; seize her, I
say V 9
“Seize me fut —I’ll nat. Just go aisy, fur
if I know me business that girl is a dacent
woman. ’Tis some mishtake, that’s all.
Besides, Oi didn’t see her attempt anny
robbery. ’Tis by summons ye must pro-
“ Well, I'll give her in charge for being
illegally on me premises,” said the landlady
with a sudden outburst of dignity.
“Be aisy fer a moment, an’ give the poor
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY TROUBLE COMES ON QUIETLY.
Often those in the greatest danger from
kidney complaint do not know their kidneys
are diseased, and so the trouble is neglected
until it reaches an incurable stage. For
kidney disease comes on quietly —may have
been in the system for years without being
suspedted. Cure your kidneys while you can }
by starting with Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills at once if you have any such clear signs
of kidney or bladder trouble as :
Gravel, Stone,
Urinary Disorders,
Dropsy,
Backache, Lumbago,
Rheumatism.
bfoan’s Backache Kidney Pills relieve the
kidneys and bladder like ordinary medicines
relieve the bowels. They dispose of the
excess uric acid which is the great cause of
rheumatism, backache, lumbago and stone,
and they release the accumulated water in
dropsy.
“ Every
Picture
Tells a
Story ”
Tired out from morning till night —•
Head lad —heart lad —rheumatic and dropsical.
Have you suspected your kidneys?
Doan’s Backache Kidney Dills are sold
by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per
bottle (0 bottles, 15/3), or posted free
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Sydney People Cured
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. G. Gavin, 57 Stephen-street, Camperdown, says:—
“For about five years I suffered-a good deal from backache
and kidney trouble, and only those who have been afflicted
in this way will have any idea what I went through. The
pain in my back was so severe that I could hardly move,
especially in the morning, when it was often almost an im-
possibility for me to get out of bed without assistance.
Other symptoms of kidney trouble were bad headaches and
dizzy attacks, both of which were very trying. I was
treated by a doctor for some time, and also tried different
kidney remedies I saw advertised, but nothing did me any
good. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were at last brought
under my notice, and they proved to be the very thing I
wanted. After taking one bottle I felt ever so much
better, and nine bottles of the Pills cured me completely, and
I have been free from pain ever since. It is three years
since I took Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so my cure has
been well tested.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., ex-railway guard, 749 Harris
Street, Pyrmont, says: "Some time ago i strained myself
pushing some heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effect in
the small of my back. For three solid months I was unable
to work. I was laid up. I had a very lame back, and a
dull pain through the loins and kidneys, and my secretions
became unnatural and irregular. I consulted a doctor, who
recommended Turkish baths, but. though I got a little ease.
I could not work. I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
and obtained wonderful relief. I am so much better I can
now do heavy work. I am firmly convinced that Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are a true kidney remedy, and I
never fail to recommend them among my friends.”
Thirteen years later, Mr- Carroll confirms the above: “I
have been quite free of backache and urinary trouble ever
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me thirteen years
ago.”
onurs
Backache
Kidney
FILLS.
girl a chance to explain. There’s something
about this case Oi cannot understhand !”
“Then yer too dull to watch ducks,”
sniggered the landlady’s husband.
The tall, blue-eyed Celt in the uniform
rubbed his chin reflectively:
“Oi’m a family man meself, an’ if she's a
bad girl I’ll turn Orangeman at the first
light av the moruin’,” he said, mostly to
himself.
Meanwhile Carrie had recovered slightly
and sat on the floor; her face hidden by a
tumbling mass of dark brown hair that had
a pleasant sheen about it. The copper man
leaned over:—
“Tell me, where d’ye live, ma gliirl?”
“At Ercmanga House,” she answered
quickly. It was the first intelligent remark
that had been made from her standpoint.
“Oi told ye so! Now what did Oi tell
yez !” said the Celt, becoming more broguey
in his excitement. “Sure, ’tis next door the
poor ghirl lives, and annywan moight make
the same mishtake. Oi’ve done it meself,
scores av toimes.”
The landlady’s husband whistled softly.
“Put yer hair up, and your coat on, and
come* along home. ’Tis no good stayin’ here
anny longer. The matther is clear as mud —
a very simple mishtake.”
The constable gave Caroline his arm down
the stairs, muttering soothing things as he
went, in a manner becoming to a family man.
He saw her to the door* of Eronmnga House,
where everybody was waiting to get par-
ticulars of the disturbance next door.
While these exciting events were taking
place Rice and I were holding up our end of
a Masonic celebration down town. When we
arrived home we fought a pitched battle on
the pavement near the front door to decide
who should unlock the door for the other
fellow. I won. Then I carried Rice up-
stairs and dropped him heavily into bed.
Naturally Rice heard nothing of his
neglected infant and his errant nurse till
next morning, though I had a vague impres-
sion about murder, conflagration and battle
next door.
It was not till after breakfast that w;
heard the details. The conscientious land-
lady “deemed it her duty” to give both Rice
and myself the whole history of the deplor-
able business. Carrie was still in bed, a
wreck and not quite finished sniffling.
Then the trouble began.
Wilks had had an early breakfast and had
fled to the Mountains for a week. Rice tele-
graphed a promise to do him bodily damage
when he came back. He insisted on Carrie
getting up and coming down in a wrapoer,
and he admonished her in such a tremendous
voice that she fainted. The landlady, who
was a good cliurchwoman, blinked know-
ingly. • She afterwards informed the lady
boarders that Mr. Rice took it too much to
heart altogether for a man who had only an
employer’s interest in Carrie. She would
keep her eye on Mr. Rice.
She did.
Ever after that Rice would, no matter
what time lie came home, knock softly on
Carrie’s door and inquire if she was in. The
trouble happened the third night after the
rumpus, when we brought another lmavy
load home. We were both in bed when Rice,
who had talked for a full hour about his in-
tention of going straight off to sleep and
getting up early, suddenly remembered that
lie had not made sure Carrie was with Babe.
He rolled out of bed, staggered to the door,
fell down three steps, and lurching heavily
along the passage, collided with Carrie’s
door.
“’Sense me, are you there, Carrie, me
girl?”
No answer. Rice tapped softly on the
door and hiccoughed several times as he
strove to speak.
“Shay, are you in there, or are you outsh
again. Damn it, I won’t have you goin’
outsli like this. I’ll come in an’ get me
daughter.”
And he w T as trying the handle of the door
when the landlady pounced down on him.
touched him on the arm, held an accusing
candle in his face, and said withering things.
Rice tried to explain, but the hiccoughs
seized him, and he could only make horrible
uoises.
The landlady cut it short by ordering him
to go to his room. He refused to stir with-
out his daughter, and the landlady tapped
on the door. It was opened by Carrie, who
peeped out nervously, and said the noise was
waking Babe up. Then she flew back to the
cot. and bounced the bed up and down to
sooth the waking child.
“Naughty daddy, wake poor Babe up!”
said the little kid.
“It’s the Scriptures confirmed,” said the
landlady, folding her hands and turning up
her eyes : “Out of the mouths of babes and
sucklings! Mr. Rice, you are a bad man.
and a hypocrite. As for you, Miss, you’re a
brazen woman. You leave my house to-
morrow morning. Heavens, to think of this
sort of thing in my house, me who never
took anyone without references. The world
is growing too dreadful for decent people to
live in. I”
“Shut up, hie !” said Rice fiercely. “Get
out my daughter’s room with your —hie —
putrid mind. Hear? Carrie, go to —’ic—
bedsh. please.”
And Rice staggered unsteadily back to
our room, feeling that he had vindicated his
own and everybody else’s character.
“Itsh all right, ole man, she’s theresh;
fast ashleep; so am I. Must get early to-
morrowsh.”
* * * *
He did. It was the landlady who made
sure that he did. By 8 a.m. Rice with his
nurse-lady and adopted daughter in tow. and
with a blighted character, was looking for a
decent place at which to have breakfast.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Eve.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This story is printed without correction or altera-
tion. It appears exactly as the writer produced it.
The whole Bulletin staff read it, and the verdict
was that it would be a sin to alter the punctuation,
or the spelling, or the language of the commercial
traveller’s wife, or the wooden unresponsiveness of
Jones, or anything else.
Scene, A Commercial Travellers town-
residence, He has returned unexpectedly
from the Country & has taken the Children
to a Picture show, She pleaded indisposition,
At eight o’clock Mr Jonescalls & is received
by Her & is entertained with small talk &
Music, apologies having been made for the
absence of the Servant, who has gone to the
Theatre, “So that We are quite alone.,” she
remarks jokingly, (At nine o’clock,) I must
be getting along, said he, rising & buttoning
his coat, Why its quite early yet, she cries
glancing at the clock on the mantlepeice,
I’m sure our clock must be fast. Yes but
I’m dead tired, been working hard all day
rushing things, & feel knocked up, he re-
sponds, Sighing she brushes slowly past
him, as she leads the way into the Hall,
where he reaches for his hat, Don’t take
Daddy’s she smiles, encouragingly, keeping
very close to his arm & reaching across him,
as he sorts his from among several that hang
on the rack, I got quite a fright this morn-
ing she continues, when lying half asleep,
some -one threw open the french-lights on
the balcony of my bedroom & walked in &
I never heard his footstep coming round the
Verandah either., What time was it- V he
asked, consolingly, Oh:, somewhere about
six o’clock, he said that he had come from
Seymour, by the all-night. Yes. he ven-
tured I remember being there once, she does
get in just before six, Does your Husband
like travelling, he continued, pausing before
the front door, Oh yes, she says quickly, &
added & I am quite content you know, he
says that it suits him & he keeps so well
that I’m sure it does. Would’nt you like
to be with him, he suggested, Oh no. she
said emphatically, no there are the Children,
the Schools, & a hundred other reason
s against it, he did want me to move all-
together to one of the larger Towns that
he stays at for some weeks, or to stay say
for twelve months, but I hate the particular
Town that he prefers,. Its not much of a
place, he murmured lamely. I stayed there
for a few hours once, waiting for a train,
it was so dead & quiet that I was very
glad when our time was up. She opens the
hall door & he walks on to the verandah, in
closing the door a turning round she col-
lieds against him, he starts a-oneside witha
muttered apology, I beg your pardon, Its
all right, she says feelingly. They stand to-
-gether looking out into the garden, &
through the trees at the starlight, Does’nt
the .Tackerandah tree look gaunt in this dim
light, she ventured cautiously, Yes, he says
big & lonely eh., I suppose that you are
lonely Mr Jones, being so long away from
your Wife, quite over three months now
is’nt it? No, lie responds. Oh no. you see
I am getting quite used to it now, although
I’d much sooner be with her if you can
understand, hastily, but as it is I’m doing
big business here & She’s all right & I sup-
pose, that we must make the best of it. Yes,
she murmured sotto voce & I suppose that
there are plenty of other women, eh? No,
he remonstrated' strongly, no, that is no
good to me, one is all & enough for me, I’m
not like that at all, I dont beleive in that
sort of thing, no good to me.A few seconds
quiet pause, stretching himself & yawning,
he continued, Oh well, I suppose that I had
better get along, is’nt your Husband
jealous?, I’m running a risk of getting my
head blown off,, All men are jealous, she
said dryly. Then straightening up she
asked, What do you think of these Picture
shows?, lam of the opinion that if you see
one you have exhausted the lot, you even
see the same Actors, time after time, & then
some of the Pictures are not strictly decent,
I would not go across the street to see
another if I were offered admission.,? ()h, I
would not say that, lie remonstrated 1
rather like them, thev have helped me to
pass away many evenings that would other-,
wise have been very dull for me, I find a :
deal of enjoyment in the Music &am well
entertained, I often go & really I can’t say
that I have seen anything that You could
take exception to, though I have heard of
some people who are not pleased with some
of the dresses worn by the performers A
few seconds pause A then. I’m afraid that
I'll be shot for staying here, She. alluringly,
why wont you come in & sing a song, do.?
lie walking the verandah very slowly, Oh i
can’t I’m too dead tired.really beat & I’ve
a heavy day to-morrow.& You won’t impro-
ve your cold standing here in the night air,
a board somewhere in the house gives a
slight creak,llullo the Ghosts are walking:,
I must clear. I’ll be along again in a few
days, walking towards the front steps, Well
good-night Mrs. White, goodnight Mr. .Tones,
they shake hands, He goes out the gate. &
she takes an easy chair on the verandah
sighing.
Ex. HOMO.
Summer’s Lullaby.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SING me to sleep, you soothing summer
breezes,
Dreamily soft with odors from the
wild ;
Lulled by your breath that all the senses
pleases,
So shall all conscious musings be beguiled.
So would 1 float, from thoughts of day, to
dreaming,
Swooningly sinking into songful ease,
Dreaming that all our world-ways were but
seeming,
And all our pains and longings phantasies.
Waft from the blossoms and the seeding
g; asses,
From (risning leaves, and from the sleep-
ing sea,
Lethe-like breathings as your light wing
passes J
Perfume and song and whispered lullaby.
So shall I dream, as though there were no
waking, WjA
No garish morning, no unrestful noon,
Only this eve that night is overtaking.
Only this dream, fast fading to a swoon.
Soon shall I sleep. Sigh on. The world day
wholly
Melts into night, and starry stillness
creeps
Over my spirit, silently and slowly, *■
Wreathing it round till all emotion sleeps.
MAJORCA, SPAIN.
.T. LINDO-WEBB.


W esting'house
Oil Engine
i
iV
%
m
mm
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOS ES
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention -
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
com plica ted m eel) a nism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE: STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane,
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Fairbanks-Morse Marine
For Pleasure Craft and Work Boats
They start without cranking, run
smoothly and always develop more
than rated power. Simple.
Compact. All parts easily acces-
sible and interchangeable. Re-
markable for their reliability and
economy in fuel consumption. Price
Reasonable. Fully Guaranteed.
High Speed Engines, 334 to 24 H.P.
Slow Speed Engines, 734 and 15 H. P.
Write tor Catalog N0.CV1939.
Fairbanks-Morse
Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy engines especially suited
for pumping or running light machinery.
Simple. Compact. Two sizes. Will operate
any windmill pump.
Full description in Catalog N0.1939VR.
. - ==£
F.ti
H.P
•banks- Morse
>il Engines
Operate on Kerosene. Petrol (Gasoline)
or Distillate. Stationary and Portable
types. Sizes 2to 200 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.AL1939.
Fai
orse &Co •
Eldredge Place
Chicago,
U. S.A.
Agents:
C. H. RELPH
WEBSTER & CO., Ltd.
Brisbane, Queensland
MALLACH BROS.
Perth, W. A.
THE STIRLING WATER TUBE BOILER
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar-
anteed Results.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
/ Dewrance Steam Valves.
Write us for our Complete Catalogue of Engineers’ Supplies.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
. . . ’ ■■
THE LONE
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian..
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking alt goods to
any height limited by size of machine.
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
write for full particulars to 340 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
THE MEDICINE TO BE RELIED ON
is a term which tersely expresses the reputation that has been
achieved by Beecham’s Pills. For upwards of sixty years they have
been highly appreciated by all classes of the community. Multitudes
of men and women in every walk of life ungrudgingly acknowledge
them to be a really reliable remedy for disorders of the stomach, liver
kidneys and bowels. A vegetable preparation skilfully compounded
of tbe finest ingredients, Beecham s Fills are uniform in standard and
their beneficial effects are invariable. They strengthen the stomach,
regulate the action of the liver, eliminate impurities from the blood
and keep the bowels properly regulated. Health and happiness,
vivacity and vitality, a clear head and a good appetite attend those
who, from time to time, take
BEECHAd'S
PlU£
Sold everywhere In boxes, price 1/It (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
Sawmiliers, Joiners and Cabinet Makers
You all require Economical, High-speed
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Ask us for Catalogues. Ask us for Advice.
Ask us for References. Ask us for Prices.
You will find that —Our Machines give you satisfaction.
You will find that —We hold the largest stock in Australia.
You will find that-Our expert advice is to your benefit.
You will find that-Our Prices as MANUFACTURERS are reasonable.
WE SAME YOU MONEY.
Write, call or ’phone ; we are always ready for you to discuss our machines.
THE PREMIER SAWMILL & WOODWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURERS,
& CO.,
32 Market St., Sydney.
’PHONE: CITY-7091.
METZ “22” is a Car
You Can Afford to Own
The first cost is low —the running cost is low. Though priced sit £lB5 only,
it will serve your needs much better than many cars for which twice the
price will be asked.
The drive is the simple friction drive. This drive makes piloting easy, cuts
out jerky starting and abolishes the need for expensive repairs. There are
no gears, live axle, differentials, clutch, gear-box, etc. For use on country or
city roads it is the car that gives you the most for your money.
Get us to prove our words with a trial trip. We’ll pick you up anywhere
round Sydney and bring you back again. The price, £lB5, is for the com-
plete outfit, including lamps, hood, etc., etc.
BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 4352.
METZ CARS,
WAyERLEY CARS,
INDIAN MOTOCYCLES.
PLANT FOR. SALE, Now in Full Work.
75-h.p. Westinghouse Steam Engine, direct coupled to 50 Kilowatt 125 volt Generator
complete ... ~ " £350
40-h.p. Westinghouse Standard Steam Engine .. .. V. . .£lOO
40-h.p. Westinghouse Junior type - '*
Suction Gas Plant, including 37-h.p. Orossley Engine .. £250
May be inspected with full load. Will shortly be replaced by enlarged electric plant. Early
application necessary. Exceptional” opportunity.
BEALE ® CO. LTD., Annandale, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
Put Your Capital
Into Work Producers.
Lathes.
Milling Cutters.
Shaping Machines.
Drilling Machines.
Radial Drills.
Blowers.
Punching Machines.
Hack Saw Machines.
Power Hammers.
Etc.
When you know that the cost of machining your work
costs one-sixth of the total cost of your finished product,
and that your output is limited to your capacity for
machining parts, it is at once apparent that the machining
question is all-important.
It is also evident that the place where your capital will
do most good is invested in machine tools that are capable
of turning out large quantities of accurate duplicate parts
in a short time.
Therein lies the value of dealing with Goodall’s, for we
supply high-speed machine tools that give the largest
output per £1 of investment. The work is accurate and
the running cost low- Our expert advice on machining
problems will be helpful. Just ask us.
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. GOOD ALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
3 0 3-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Vf ATCHING colors by
A A ARTIFICIAL LIGHT.
Bj our new system colors of delicate fabrics can be matched
accurately by Electric Bight. No other lighting method allows this.
Also, the cost of lighting by this method is much below that by any
other. jj
SEND FOR OUR PAMPHLET ON THIS SUBJECT.
IffllOfl
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd.
MELBOURNE : 33 William Sr.
’Phone-City 5117.
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
’Phone—City 3520.
BRISBANE
.
: Roma
[2
St.
’Phone—Cent 3676..
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF-
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
C>:jC;>
i£;7 i'^ry'S
Spirit
■
For women
Combine Efficiency with Economy and Neatness
by using NONPAREIL”
OB
The Modern
Insulating Material.
■ -
31 i
1 H
SB Bwk
WAS*.
L /
£ Ift
FAST SUPERSEDING ALL OTHER METHO
.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOI|LER-M AKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
*€
A
»»
48*
m
The popularity of the “ Buffalo ” is largely due to the growing recog-
nition of the numerous and varied applications in which they are useful.
For fIODERN SHOP AND FACTORY EQUIPMENT they are particularly adapted for—
BLOWlNG—Supplying blast for Cupolas, Forges, Furnaces, Forced Draft, etc.
VENTILATING AND COOLING Shops, Factories, Engine Rooms, Workshops, Laundries, etc.
EXHAUSTING Steam, Smoke, Gas, Fumes, etc.; Shavings and Refuse from Woodworking Plants; and
Dust from Abrasive and Buffing Wheels.
Estimates for SPECIAL HEATING AND DRYING PLANTS. '
Write for Full Descriptive Catalogue.
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
The ALBANY Patent Water-sealed Rotary Pump.
PATENTED IN ALL COUNTRIES.
Th© most important feature of these pumps is the fact that slip and leakage have been reduced to a minimum by the introduction of groovds cut
along the faces and edges of the teeth, so that, in rotating, a body of water lodges in the grooves, forming an absolute, sealed, water-tight joint or
cushion between the casing and rotating rollers, thereby producing an efficient vacuum.
The position of the pump has become assured wherever electrically-driven pumps are required; and in the improved type all wear is eliminated
from the internal members by the introduction of steel spur wheels, fitted in a suitable gear box outside the pump cover and by means of which
the whole of the Power is Transmitted.
NO SKILLED MECHANIC REQUIRED. NO VALVES REQUIRED.
Suitable for boiler feed, deep wells, hot liquids, boiling soap, oil, tar, crude petroleum, fats, and other liquids of high gravity, also gas exhausters.
The smaller sizes are specially adapted for forced lubrication.
All Sizes from 1 to 6 inches Stocked.
Sole
Agents-
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney & Melbourne.
