

MELLOWED BY /
|®B
fess fi
R. Car. WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street:, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
-Specialty :AL C I IQNhLRS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always avaitable.
IT IS NOT COMPULSORY
l>ut it is wise, if an advance of money is required, to go to
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co. Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney 74.
18(> Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, X.S.W.
Honey Advanced upon All Classes of Security at Lowest Rates of Interest.
2
215-217 Swans ton Street, Mel
•10 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT,
Geiu ra Manager.
**>
ffWl
hYii
Williams's,™* Whisky
fUK
Ijadleys Orient [jotel.
ppONEfc R
LEATHER BELTING
GUAKAN'I'KKD
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
"Take it back,
I must have—
HUTTON’S
PincApple Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSENS
u
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVER I OWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
tA ULX
DRINK
#
S LAGER BEER
AJIfWi I) is a new product that offers to the homebuilder, whether in the city or the country, a
more desirable interior finish than plaster, a more sensible finish than wall-paper, ami a cheaper one
than hardwood, though it like hardwood. Amiwnd is simply imitation hardwood, with all the
beautiful grain faithfully reproduced. We can supply in Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, -lenisero or
Mahogany. We’ll gladly send samples.
Challis House, The Paraffine Paint Co.,
D. S. EVANS,
Australasian Manager,
SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY
TD
L
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
DAVEY PAXMAN
STEAM ENGINES.
Portable, Stationary and Traction.
Davey Paxman, the name that has stood
for years, is your guide to the world’s
best and most efficient steam engine .
The Davey Paxman has met and de-
feated in competition all the leading
makes, and proves a revelation to Aus-
tralian users. ~
Let us send you our Catalogue F»Q»
jlMut-VittireSs
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 KENT
(near King Street),
STREET
SYDNEY.
HFI inoN SPA
** It is a dream of the Physician realised,” so says a medical
WFT TDfiN SPA is Nature s Elimmanl
man
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Rectf&m
The Bulletin
Vol. 34.—N0. 1744.1
[Thursday, July 17, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, X.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Cambridge Manuals of Science and Literature
10 New Volumes
Just Received.
Bees and Wasps, by 0. H. Latter.
Wireless Telegraphy, by C. L. Forteseue.
Beyond the Atom, hy John Cox.
Theory of Money, by D. A. Barker.
English Monasteries, by H. H. Thompson.
Bound in Cloth, price 1/3 each, posted 1/5.
Co-Partnership in Industry, by C. R. Fay.
Submerged Forests, by C. Reid.
Wanderings of Animals, by H. Gadow.
Mysticism in Rng]i-b Literature, by C. F. Spurgeon.
Plato, by Mrs. A. M. Adam.
Complete Lists of Series Post Free on Application.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR. THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS !
HUDSON’S EUNENTHOL JUJUBES.
The Great Antiseptic and Pmnhviartir {'AMt n I MC M/\
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
or other poisonous drug. Suitable
Contains no Cocaine
for old and young.
F or Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike Cough Medicines “Eumenthol Ju-
jubes do not interfere with the Digestion •
on the .contrary,, they have a beneficial effect’
as their Antiseptic properties prevent ah-
normal fermentation of the food, and thus
they prove helpful for sufferers from Indiges
tion and Dyspepsia when taken after meals.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be as effec-
tive bactencidally as is Creosote.”
h it- suv -'
Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd.
[3 Kox 1520 Q.P.Q. I 7 York street s YDI Se Y ,
Tears and Triumph
The Red Page
The brilliance, the sparkling wit, and the
passionate, though apparently paradoxical,
sincerity of Bernard Shaw hall-marks Tears
and Triumph, by Dowell O’Reilly (printed
by Beatty, Richardson. Paling’s Buildings.
Sydney, publisher and price not stated), as
the most striking Australian publication of
the year. The intrusion of the name of
Shaw, necessary for the purpose of a world
standard, since we have nothing like , this
O’Reillism in Australia, may convey the
wrong impression that this fantasy in prose
is but an imitation or a parody of Bernard.
In Tears and Triumph there is wit equal to
Shaw's and audacity excelling Shaw’s; but
this work is unique in construction and in
style, its essence predominantly O’Reillian.
The plot is slight, the texture tough.
Outwardly it is but a romantic encounter
one blistering summer day between a man
and the eternal woman. The romance, it
is necessary to state, is entirely on his side.
For while at the sight of her he mentally
saw himself “matching his brains against
her coquetry—the black ink of his deliberate
falsehood against her gorgeous indifference
to truth,” yet his face seemed to interest
her. “not as a human document, but rather
as a draper’s advertisement or a butcher’s
bill—her gaze suggested arithmetic.”
Jt
The hero had come to look for “Elysium.”
This, according to a land-agent s deceptive
“litho” was a “waterside garden suburb, only
10 minutes from Bankstown station.” It
was a day of heat, and as the hero goes
along the bush track he treads indifferently
on innumerable red ants, and mutters mad
jingles chiming with his brutal footfall, such
as: “The poor little beggars must keep on
the run or they’ll blister the soles of their
feet. I am kinder than God, so I send ’em
to hell, where they’ll never complain of the
heat.”
He did not discover “Elysium,” but he dis-
covered the eternal woman in the scrub.
“With expressionless face, his laughter
bled inwardly*—a common experience with
the intellectual man when strutting his part
in the comedy of passion.” And it is this
internally bleeding laughter that gives the
book its high distinction. For his italicised
reflections, a running commentary on the
charmingly told woman’s pathetic romance,
range over the whole evolution of woman
and project themselves far into her future,'
and his philosophy explains and excuses, in-
deed, almost canonises, the suffragette. It
is the finest appeal on behalf of Woman that
this critic has hitherto met.
Here we catch a glimpse into the profound
and ever-widening gulf that sunders man
from woman. In passion she finds herself;
he loses himself. She rushes forward to
fulfil her purpose ; he turns back from his.
So passion is to her highest self a sacra-
ment: to his highest self a sacrilege.....
Woman must know that, from time imme-
morial, the one universal theme for man’s
laughter has been the one theme that, in her
very nature, she must ever hold sacred. Why
is this so? Because man knows that, as a
male, he has sunk beneath contempt—his
mind and soul alone count. And the eternal
woman knows that it is her glorified sex
that counts —her Motherhood, that is Life
itself.
And Woman! “What unspeakable eter-
nities must her sex have weltered through, to
emerge at last, so strangely different from
man !” And then we have the brilliant de-
scription of the evolution of woman, from
that far s,way time when she first began to
fidget. And between the acts of this great
drama we catch the trivial romance of the
woman v chatting of her own so much
greater’tragedy, as if she were Sitting in the
stalls, while behind the curtain you heard
the setting of a new scene. Thus she tells
her own story :
We had our first row when he tried to
kiss me—l slapped him—l was that inno-
cent. He said, “What’s that for?” I said,
“Never you mind!” He said. “Well, don’t
you do it again.” I said, “Just you try.”
He said. “That’s the limit—l’m off!” I said,
“Good riddance of bad rubbish” —I wasn't
going to let on I liked him, but, my word,
didn’t 1 cry that night”
d*
Then the curtain is rung up and the play
goes on.
So man and woman travelled together—
within the germinating “idea” of life—right
up through chaos—electrons —matter. All
that time they never had a difference; but,
of course, she wasn’t a woman then....
Then came the first wonder of organic bliss
—a united and perfectly contented Amoeba
—at least his half was—and life seemed one
long honeymoon. They broke off their chil-
dren as they wanted them, and, with the in-
creasing corpulency of years, found this a
most admirable provision, for they actually
retained their good figure, while raking in
baby-bonuses. But she wouldn’t let well
alone. She said that they had been keeping
company quite long enough—it didn’t matter
while out on the track, but now, approach-
ing settled districts, they had better get
“married.”... .At last she took up her bur-
den of motherhood, and set out on her jour-
ney ....
She first stood up—the child on her
breast. It was she who first saw the Stars.
“My dear,” she said, “I have only just
realised what a long way we still have to
go, and if we —that is, if baby is ever to get
there, I must give up a lot more for him.”
“Please yourself, darling.” He was now
an experienced married gorilla, and knew
how to avoid an argument.
“Of course,” she said with a brave little
smile, “I'll try to keep up with you, but baby
is so heavy, and the children drag at one’s
fur so—but I'll try.”....
Yet. all through those ages, she was doing
—in secret—a most awful thing. She was
unconsciously dislocating and distorting her
athletic body, that her child might have
ampler room for growth and nobler sources
of nourishment. She lengthened her trunk
and shortened her legs, and forced her lungs
to breathe upward. Her head ceased to ex-
pand. Her hands and feet —once powerful
as her mate’s—withered through eternities
of helpless brooding and nursing....
“Haven’t I a pretty little foot?” she said
one day to her mate, lie kissed it—but not
with tears, for he did not understand....
Then we learn how by sweeping out the
cave,
It took her exactly one minute and a half
to lay the foundations of civilisation. In
00 seconds she established the fact that en-
vironment —that shapes all lesser life—must
no longer shape her destiny. In fact, she
wasn’t going to have a destiny—so there!
....She had originated the idea of “home.”
More than that: she had established a
“midden” —say rubbish-box—for all univer-
sal laws, and other dirt and refuse that
might, in ages to come, offend her nose, or
revolt her womanhood.
So the story, or the tragedy, of woman
runs on. “Think! For an eternity I have
just been saying ‘Goo !’ to my eternal baby!”
And at last she tells man to go straight on
to God —“and tell Him I sent you.. ..1 shall
go on—my own way—with baby.” And
thus we come “from History-in-the-crucible
to Hysteria-in-Chrystabel,” and hence to the
stupendous scene, brilliantly and humor-
ously and dramatically pictured, where
Woman presents ' her ultimatum to the
Powers. Into the secret conclave of
diplomats came the Woman, “flung on
their table a scented ultimatum —
flounced into a vacant ,arm-chair and mys-
teriously silenced her crying infant.” And
the ultimatum, which, with the already sel-
fish abuse of quotation, we have to refrain
from printing here, should be emblazoned in
letters of gold over every Speaker’s chair,
and flaunted in banners at the head of every
army in the world. It begins : “To the Hor-
rid, Selfish. Savage, Silly Old Powers; I’m
sick of the whole pack of you !” and is signed
“Civilised Motherhood, R. 1.” But one final
quotation demands space here;—
If an eternity of sex-specialisation has re-
duced woman to what she is, what —in God’s
Name —will another eternity of ; sex. and
nothing but sex, reduce her to? A horror of
sex-incarnate —brainless, soulless, helpless—
something gross and leprous-white for ever
lying still- —an abomination disguised in silks
and flowers and perfumes—'mowing like an
idiot —a momentary delight to the depraved
male —a lasting insult to his mind and soul
—a pollution from which her little son must
be snatched —
Do we blame her cry of terror —her
blanched cheek—‘the passionate fury of her
refusal to follow any longer the old path?
J*
It has taken a writer in Australia, where
the suffragette was long ago vaccinated
with freedom, to write the finest exposition
of the soul of this remarkable movement, and
to write it with an astonishing wit, a genial
humor, rarely to be found flourishing on a
scientific basis of biology.
The Man Who Sees Fairies
His name is Maurice Hewlett, and he is
one of the few foremost novelists in Eng-
land. In Lore of Proserpine (Macmillan)
he gives us what one may call, as Hewlett
himself suggests, the Natural History of the
Preternatural. The fairies he sees are real
fairies, not jim-jams, which are' apparently
denizens only of the Commonwealth. If
Hewlett came to Australia we would in all
probability have an equally valuable book on
“The Anatomy and the Habits of the
Fantod.”
At the outset Hewlett remarks: —
I hope nobody will ask me whether the
things in this book are true, for it will then
be my humiliating duty to reply that I don’t
know. They seem to be so to me writing
them; they seemed to be so when they oc-
curred, and one of them occurred only two or
three years ago.
But that is exactly what any reader of
this book is entitled to ask. Is it true, or
merely the delightful fiction of a master of
fiction? And though Hewlett says he does
not know, he contrives to leave the impres-
sion—indeed, he strives very persistently to
leave the impression—that he does know.
The only alternatives he allows the reader
are, either that he possesses the power of self-
deception, or that he really saw a London
telegraph messenger who was a Greek god,
and saw a Cockney’s wife of no particular
morals floating through the air and dancing
with other fairies in a London park.
Hewlett’s first fairy he saw when he was
12 years old.
I must have been looking at him for some
time before I made out that he was there. ..
I presently and gradually did realise...a
shape, a creature, a thing of form and pres-
sure—-not a wraith, not, I am quite sure, a
trick of the senses.
Hewlett describes the figure with meticu-
lous detail. He was absent-mindedly choking
a rabbit; but, being a fairy, of course, there
was nothing shocking in that. Fairies, we
are informed, are without shame, being non-
human, and therefore not to be judged by
our moral standards.
The next was a Dryad. It is curious to
note that all the fairies Hewlett saw be-
longed to the Greek mythology. Either Eng-
land hasn’t any indigenous fairies, or all
fairies are Dagos. lie never met a Hebrew
spook or a Wesleyan jinnee. This Dryad
was preening herself in the sunlight—"a
radiant young female thing, fiercely favored,
smiling with a fierce joy, with a gleam of
fierce light in her narrowed eyes. .. .Her gar-
ment was thin and grey, and it clung to her
like a bark, seemed to grow upon her as a
creeping stone-weed grows.”
The next was Mrs. Ventris, of the London
slums, who was. also a prostitute. Hewlett
saw her often, leaning out of her window —
“a pale-faced, curling-papered, half-bodiced,
unwashed drab of a girl, who would have
had shame written across her for any-
one to read if she had not seemed of all
women I have ever seen the least shame-
faced.” Then, one night, Hewlett saw her at
her window:
She! Could this be she? It was so, in-
deed, but she was transfigured... She rayed
forth light. The moon shone full upon her,
and revealed her pure form from head to foot
swathed in filmy blue. Translucent web-
bery, whatever it was, it showed her beneath
it as bare as Venus was when she fared
forth unblemished from the sea. .. .Breath-
less I watched her. the drab of my daily ob-
servation, radiant now; then as I watched
she stretched out her arms and.... without
falter or fury launched herself into the air,
and dropt slowly down out of my sight.
Like a bird, Hewlett suggests. Mrs. Ven-
tris was, you see, a fairy. And he saw her
again one night in a London park, playing
games with a crowd of other fairies. “A
mad business under the cloudy moon. It
had a dreamlike element of riot and wild
triumph. I suppose I must have been there
for two or three hours, during all which
time their swift play was never altogether
stopped.” Then they melted away.
The case of the fairy telegraph boy, Quid-
nunc, is circumstantially related —too circum-
stantially for conviction. For here Hewlett
is not concerned solely with his own sight,
which may be defective, but with the evi-
dence of hundreds of other people.
Quidnunc was a disappearing telegraph
boy, who, in answer to your appeal—his
office hours were after midnight in a London
park—brought you, in the form of a telegram,
the news you desired ; and yet no one of the
immense number of people who had seen him
ever thought of identifying him by means of
their telegrams at the telegraph office.
Finally, a member of the aristocracy, a young
girl, disappeared with him. That is circum-
stantial enough, as Hewlett tells it. But
the fiction writer gives way to his artistic
desire to round the story off. So we have
the quite unnecessary final chapter. “A
curate of my acquaintance” is dragged in to
state that he found the vanished girl at
Pherae, in Greece, some years later, wearing
the costume of the peasants, and possessing
two or three young children, all fair and
golden-haired, while she was dark. She told
the curate that her husband was away on a
journey. And Hewlett adds the further un-
necessary touch. “It is odd, and perhaps it
is more than odd, that there was a famous
temple of Hermes in Pherae in former times.”
You see, the fiction-writer had to have his
artistic ending. Hermes—a modern tele-
graph boy—how aptly everything fits!
Jt
No objection can be taken to the story of a
certain Mr. Beckwith, who found and brought
home a fairy (with a gash in her throat),
since here Hewlett is not responsible for any-
thing but the telling. Beckwith, he states,
left a statement of this happening. Hew-
lett’s share is merely that of the sympathetic
historian. Beckwith kept his fairy—-un-
known to his wife T—in the dog kennel; the
dogs recognised her, and so did Beckwith’s
child. And though Beckwith was able to
keep the fairy a prisoner, owing to his dis-
covery that fairies, like slugs, will not cross
zinc, ultimately she, the dog and the child
disappeared. So, the story of the Fairy
Wife is related second-hand; though in both
cases one would like to verify Hewlett’s
rather ostentatiously paraded' references.
However, he returns to his own experiences
when he relates how he saw a male and a
female Oread at their fairy love-making, and
—strange coincidence —subsequently he saw
the female Oread with her child. And what are
we to make out of this remark, in reference
to the story of the wife “who suffered a fairy
union and b#re a fairy child’.'”
The fairy father was, so far as I can
make out, the indwelling spirit of a rose, and
the story is too painful and the detail in my
possession too exact for me to put it down
here. I was myself actually present, and in
the house, when the child was born. I wit-
nessed the anguish of the unfortunate hus-
band, who is now dead.
And, delightfully descending, in a foot-
note, to statistics, Hewlett gravely states
that “The number of fairy wives in England
alone is very considerable —over a quarter of
a million, I am told.”
An enchanting book, written by a master
of the whimsical. Looked upon as fiction,
the thing is gallantly done; as fact it is fact
expressed through a sensuous and poetic tem-
perament. Frankly we believe that Maurice
Hewlett, of whose impressionable youth he
gives us a convincing picture, believed that
he saw fairies; but, in the instances which
we have noticed his evidence is open to grave
doubt. He believes he saw fairies, but he
fails to make us believe that other people Saw
them. So any poetical drunk believes he
sees fantods, but unless we are similarly
poetical and similarly delirious, we cannot
give corroborative evidence. But it must be
delightful to be poetically drunk enough to
see fairies.
Mrs. Boult, the author of Joan of Arc, in
four acts, seven scenes and a tableau or two,
demands a huge stage and a Shakespearian
freedom. The drama, published by D. S.
Fprd, George-street, Sydney, depicts a dra-
matic subject without dramatic conciseness.
The speeches fiow on in narrative rather
tnan in dramatic form; and the drama is
more in the subject she has chosen than in
its presentment. Yet there> is good work,
and considerable cleverness in her adaptation
of a tremendous story for the stage. How-
ever, she has not adapted it for the modern
stage, since she has quite obviously taken
the technique, and the technique alone, of
the Elizabethan dramatists. Thus in the
scene, “Before the Principal Gates of Or-
leans,” she introduces the English Generals,
and immediately on their retirement, brings
on the attendants of Joan, and Joan herself
on a black charger—long before the English
Generals could have got out of sight. Then,
straight upon her departure, scouts of the
English army appear on the same small sec-
tion of ground, while “from off stage comes
all the tumult of a bloody war.” So close is
the bloody war that the scouts are able to de-
scribe to each other every petty detail of
the conflict. These conventions would have
passed unnoticed in a play of Shakespeare’s,
but for the modern drama they strain the
intelligence of the audience overmuch. As
a pageant-play, with much blue-pencilling,
Joan of Arc would have its place, not ex-
cluding the tableau of The Coronation of
Rheims, and of The Beatification, with its
vision of Joan looking down upon the scene,
haloed and carrying a white lily and a silver
crucifix. But in the modern drama Mrs.
Boult is a strange anachronism. She should
have been the literary hostess of the Mer-
maid Tavern.
Frankfort Sommerville contrives to say,
not something new, but something known
expressed in a new way, in The Spirit of
Paris (Black, per Dymock’s Library). The
illustrations in color by French artists alone
are attractive; but the style of the author
has the daintiness, the charming artifice, the
delicate precision, and the whimsicality of
these illustrations. He chatters of the
Parisienne, the theatre, the “Prismatic Pre-
cincts” of fashion, cafCs, amusements, and
artists —all the stock subjects, but pleasantly
and delicately treated. He takes his reader
to out-of-the-way theatres and cafes, intro-
ducing him to one of the latter, where all the
waiters are gentlemen who have lost
their fortunes and where there is a specially
named dinner for every kind of client. Thus,
the list suited to blokes who bring ladies
includes: “The ‘Petite Femme,’ for certain
circumstances ; the ‘Honeymoon’ dinner, con-
sisting merely of friandises and absurdities;
the ‘Delicate,’ a stage higher in tone; the
‘Consomme,’ where the lady cannot touch
anything but a spoonful of soup and a
shrimp or two, and has to be tempted; the
‘Rose-Marie,’ where the lady has a little
more healthy appetite ; the ‘Ylfinagfere,’ for a
man and his wife ; and so on.” And there is
for men the dinner “Perdrix”: “an excellent
little dinner meant to satisfy and interest,
but not too much to distract the attention.
Suited to persons who wish to talk —and
not merely of the things they are eating.”
And the “Bon Ton”: “Especially suited to
a gentleman who invites a friend and wishes
to give him an excellent meal only it does
not admit of so much conversation —it re-
quires thought.”
The latest shilling issues from Hodder and
Stoughton include The Dis-Honorable and
The Bush Track, two Australian stories by
David the author of the winning
entry in this firm’s recent prize novel com-
petition.


j
ace
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR TOILET SILVERWARE.
No. 145 B.—Sterling Silver Hair Brush, Plain De-
Slffn 16/6
N°. 1878 A.—Sterling Silver Hair Brush, New Design,
Fancy Border 1 6/ 18/6
Hie
zsm
■e.
W
No. 159 B.—Sterling Silver-mounted
Plain Design, Floral Border
Hair
Brush,
■ 15/-
No. 17 3 B. —Sterling
Silver Hair Brush, Plain
Design, Fancy .Border 15/-
No. 18221). — Sterling Silver Toilet Set, consisting of
Two Hair Brushes, Cloth and Hat Brushes, Mirror and Comb—
£6/10/-, £7/10/- to £lO/10/-
PRICE LISTS
POST FREE.
No. 1822 B . —Sterling Silver Toilet Set, consisting of
Two Hair Brushes, Cloth and Hat Brushes, Mirror and Comb,
in Satin-Lined Case. .£4/10/-, £6, £7/10/-, £9/10/-
Anthony Horderns
for EVERYTHING
No. 1862 H
Silver Hair Brush,
Fluted Empire Design 24/-
No. 1892. — Ha1l Set, in Black
Wood, Mirror Centre, Three Nickel-
Brushes 17/6
No. 104 B.—Sterling Sil-
ver Hand Mirror, Conven-
tional Design, lljin. long 26/-
No. 1458. —Sterling Sil-
ver Hand Mirror, Plain De-
sign, 114 inches 10ng... 30/-
Postage Extra.
No. 187 B.—Sterling Sil-
ver Hair Brush, Plain De-
sign, Best Bristles 25/-
No. 1891 F.—Mahogany Hall Set,
Three Nickel-mounted Brushes, Mirror
Centre 28/6
No. 18 9 3.—Sterling
Silver-mounted Hair
Brush, Ribbon Design,
24/-, 28/6, 36/-
No. 1488. —S ter-
ling Silver Hair
Brush, Empire De-
sign 14/6
mi
m
No. 1822 C Silver Toilet Set, consisting
of Two Hair Brushes, Mirror and Comb, in Satin-Lined
Case 40/-, 40/- to 60/-
No. 164 B.—Ste-
rling Silver-mounted
Hair Brush, Conven
tional Design... 17/6
No. 1869 B.—Sterling
Silver-mounted Hair
Brush 29/C
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers.
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Sore Throat and Influenza.
THE COMMONEST WINTER COMPLAINTS:
THEIR PREVENTION AND CURE.
When the days are cold and wet in winter, disease
germs have a much greater power over man than
they have in summer. The reason is that chill and
damp lower the vitality and render the body less
liable to withstand the attack of the germs and to
destroy them. #
Although Nature has made a wonderful provision
for meeting these germ attacks by delegating to
certain panicles of the blood the mission to eat up
these intruders, the warmth and moisture in the
back of the mouth and throat enable the germs to
develop with extraordinary rapidity. Ivach germ
divides into two in twenty minutes, so that, in the
course of a few hours, a single germ will have pro-
duced hundreds of thousands.
If the body is in a good state of health, the germs
are destroyed very soon after being inhaled, so that
they produce no ill-effects.
When, however, the system is below par or
weakened by any cause, the germs easily overcome
the defending forces in the blood, and we get the
particular disease they produce.
It is in this way that sore throat,
influenza, and bad colds arise.
Obviously the only means of cure
and prevention is to destroy the
germs in the mouth and throat.
Of all the methods hitherto de-
vised by Science for producing this
result, nothing can compare with
Wulfing’s Formamint. This is
unanimously admitted bythe medical
profession.
Many thousands of doctors, in-
cluding several to crowned heads of
Europe, have written to the pro-
prietors stating that they invariably
use Wulfing’s Formamint for treat-
ing sore throat. The reason is that
nothing destroys the germs so rapidly
and completely.
This was first proved by a famous
scientist, who removed some virulent
germs of diphtheria from the throat
of a patient seriously ill with that
disease, and mixed them with a
solution of Formamint. Within
ten minutes they were all killed. In spite of
this, Formamint is not offered as a cure for
diphtheria, although it will undoubtedly prevent
that dread complaint and other serious germ-
diseases.
The Prevention of Diphtheria.
This fact is vouched for by many sanitary
inspectors. The sanitary inspector of High
Wycombe, England, writes : “ I know of no other
preparation so effectual in preventing infectious
disease as Wulfing’s Formamint. During an out-
break of diphtheria I have frequently given away
Formamint to those who have been in contact with
the disease, and no other cases have been removed
to hospital from the same household. Whenever
our ambulance is ordered out for the removal of an
infectious case, Formamint always accompanies
us.”
Many articles have appeared in the medical
papers pointing out Formamint’s supreme excel-
lence in the cure of sore throat. In The Prac-
titioner the Chief Medical Officer of one of the
largest Infectious Diseases’ Hospitals in the world
writes: “ I have never had sore throat myself since
I began to use Wulfing’s Formamint, although I
suffered periodically before.”
A writer in the Lancet states : “ I have had the
best results from the use of Wulfing’s Formamint
Tablets.”
mm.
I'mM
h&wmrJt
mm
*?■
’ mvsC4
>:
mmkmk
•*
|S§ i\
■
Fig. 1.
Fig. 2.
Fig. 3.
THE GERMS OF INFLUENZA AS SEEN UNDER THE MICROSCOPE.
Experiment* made at the Physiological Institute, Berlin, by Dr. Piorkowski.
Fi*. 1 shows the germs allowed to grow freely on
a culture medium comparable to the favourable
breeding giound of our throats. Fig. 2 shows the
remarkable decrease in the number of germs when
the breeding ground had been treated with the
saliva of a person who had sucked three Pormnnnirt
Tablets. Fig. 3 shows the entire destruction of the
germs when the bleeding ground had been tr. ated
with the saliva of a person who had sucked five
Formamint Tablets five minutes previously. ThM*
the Slicking of Wulhng’s Formamint prevents germ-
diseases by destroying the germs wh.eh oause them.
It should be noted, however, that only Wulfing’s
Formamint produces such results. None of the
many imitations now on the market will do so.
How valueless they are is shown by a physician,
who writes that he “ has tried six substitutes, and
has not found one of them efficacious.”
Remarka le Concensus of Opinion.
The social testimony to Formamint’s value is as
remarkable as the medical. No preparation, with
the single exception of Sanatogen, which is made
by the same firm, has received such distinguished
testimonials.
The Right Hon. Viscount Massereene and Ferrard
writes: “ I have found Wulfing’s Formamint most
effective for the cure of sore throat, which quickly
disappears after using a few tablets.”
The Right Hon. Lord Glantawe writes : “ I have
been using Wulfing’s Formamint for sore throat
with most satisfactory results.”
The Right Hon. Lord Kingsale writes: “I and
my family use quite a number of Wulfing’s
Formamint Tablets, and find them all you say they
are. I always carry a goodly number in my pocket,
and have recommended them to many friends.”
As to their value in influenza, Sir George Alex-
ander writes: “ Formamint Tablets have been my
constant companions during the winter, and I have
found them a dangerous enemy to the influenza
fiend.”
Among other distinguished users
of Wulfing’s Formamint may be
mentioned the Right Hon. Arthur
J. Balfour, M.P., Sir Gilbert Parker,
M.P., and scores of other M.P.’s; the
Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton ; Madame
Adelina Patti; and Lord Justice
Buckley, in addition to many leading
barristers, clergymen, actors , and
singers, to all of whom the preserva-
tion of the voice and the avoidance
of sore throat is of the utmost im-
portance.
Wulfing’s Formamint may be ob-
tained of all Chemists, price 2s. 6d.
per bottle. A Free Sample will be
sent to every reader who has not
tried it before who writes to Messrs.
A. Wulfing & Co., 17, Bond Street,
Sydney, mentioning the Bulletin ,
and enclosing two penny stamps
towards postage. With it will be
sent an interesting booklet on sore
throat.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Machete”: The clerks in the various Port Moresby
(Papua) business houses turned as one worm the
other day and threatened to strike unless their hours
were shortened. After a futile kick by the bosses,
it was agreed that work should begin in future at 9
a.m. instead of .8 a.m. Having tasted blood, the
victors are contemplating further “exactions” ; and
Heaven knows what poor old harassed Capital will
do about it. After Papua, there are not many islands
left for it to tty to.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: The outlook for the resurrected beet-
sugar industry at Maffra (Vic.) is very gloomy.
Growers have tried the crop for two years now, and
there apparently isn’t one of them who hasn t found
the business a complete failure. Further, the grow-
ers believe that, with successive croppings, the
vield will fall off, so that things will get worse in-
stead of better; and a third of them have conse-
quently quitted. Five tons is their average; and, at
present prices, 10 tons, they say, is the smallest crop
that will pay. About the one man who hasn’t lost
heart is Dyer, the imported expert; and his opti-
mism isn’t counting for much among the men who
are losing the money. He's on salary ; they're not.
* * * *
“Gerald Barker”: Apropos Sydney’s North Shore
bridge. The height of the new German leviathan's
masts above water level is 250 ft., whereas the high-
est point of the main snan of the proposed bridge,
recommended by the Ylorks Committee, .is 1 /6ft.
T coming of the leviathans to Australia is not
yet, but I notice that there will be an 18,000-
tonner in Sydney Harbor by September next—the
White Star liner Ceramic. Everybody knows that
l he swinging out of the big boats moored at Circu-
lar Quay is dangerous, and their departure from
the Quay is not far off. Where are they to go, if not
higher up the harbor and “under the bridge”? We
don’t want to build this bridge to accommodate
merely the vessels of to-day. It must be good enough
for a hundred years. And if Australia grows and
shipping grows as both have been growing lately,
what chance has a 176 ft. bridge of satisfying the
needs of the year 1960 ?
The dexterous butter faker has been a busy artist
this year, according to the Commonwealth Export
Department. From January 1 to May 31, 162 con-
signments examined for export had to be held back
because the pump had encroached unduly on the
work of the cow. Sixteen per cent, of moisture is
allowed by both English and Australian laws, but
the insatiable faker poured in considerably more.
There were only 84 consignments stopped for a like
reason last year, so evidently the prestidigitator is
getting his hand in practice. In addition, a lot of
boxes were “short weight,” and more were “bare
weight,” i.e., contained less than sufficient alleged
butter to make good on the scales on arrival in Eng-
land. Seven consignments contained over 0.5 of
boric acid, and they had to be stopped. The Export
Department rounded off its report as follows: “If
those concerned in the butter trade exercise the same
energy in producing first-class butter that some of
them do in complaining about British buyers, and
in fighting against any assistance from the Govern-
ment here in the matter of grading, etc., the ques-
tion of marketing would soon be settled satisfac-
torily.” And the faker deserved the acid post-
script.
* * * *
Some time ago, when the chaos on Sydney’s
wharves was a public scandal, and the wail of the
carter, looking for his cases under a heap higher than
the Kutab Minar was loud in the land, the Harbor
Trust Commissioners tired of trying to make anti-
Sosh cart its goods away in decent time. So they
purchased two motor-lorries, and announced that the
Trust would shift the goods of any consignor who
asked it to do so. Sydney’s merchant princes, im-
porting kings and middlemen generally, are anti-
Sosh to a man, yet they rushed the Socialistic motor-
cart to such an extent that there is now quite a small
fleet running to cope with the requests from anti-
Sosh; and to-day, when an oversea liner arrives to
disgorge its cargo, it doesn’t proceed to dump it on
top of the remains of the previous three or four
shiploads. This has so annoyed Private
Enterprise in the carrying trade that an
irate deputation lately waited on the Trust,
to protest against State competition. _ The
Chief Commissioner blandly disclaimed any idea of
competition, but announced that, as long as the
trading community asked the State to shift its
stuff, the State would go on shifting. The deputa-
tion fumed. It despaired, evidently, of inducing its
old ant’-Sosh customers to come back to the good
anti-Sosh fold, and it went away proclaiming its
intention of “having the law” of the abominable
tiger, which has once more turned out to be a reli-
able working bullock.
* * * *
“Kailoa”: Signing the necessary form for a Syd-
ney Ferries season ticket is becoming, year by year,
more and more like signing your own death warrant;
but the latest one, which follows directly on top of
very much advanced rates, would make the ordinary
death-warrant tear out its hair and go green with
envy. It leads off with an earnest prayer to the
manager that he will be gracious enough to permit
you to help the Ferries Co. pay its dividends by issu-
ing to you a season ticket, and as a further induce-
ment, you will agree to abide by certain conditions,
including this: —
“The co. shall not be liable for loss of life or in-
jury suffered by any passenger however caused, nor
loss of or damage to passengers’ luggage or other
property .... whether such loss or damage arises from
accident or from theft or pilferage, or from any
act, default, neglect or error of judgment of masters,
officers or crew or any other servant or agent of the
co. .. .by storms, stress of weather, riots, strikes,
lockouts or combination of... .any persons or labor-
ers whatsoever connected with the. .. .obtaining of
coal or other material used in connection with the
running of a ferry service.... or any other persons
employed, directly or indirectly, in the business or
industry of running a ferry service.”
So when, through “neglect or error of judgment” of
an .underpaid ferry captain, your wife and family
suddenly cease to take any further interest in ferry
companies ; or when your new Marianne reports that
a S.F. employee stole her luggage, and she can t
arrive; or wlien one of the deck-hands pokes your
wife’s eye out with a broom, or trips you up with
a rope and breaks your leg, and you go with fire in
your eyes to the Ferry Co., it will merely produce
your writing authorising them to do such things
free of charge. Then you will rise up and damn
the co., and damn everyone who voted “No” on
the Referendum, and damn anyone who advised any-
one else not to vote “Yes.”
* * * *
“B.”: Australian wines will, it is said, be largely
represented at the next London wine show. But
that isn’t much good to the Australian consumer.
Whatever opinion London passes on choice samples
will leave the Australian the victim he mostly is
to-day. If proprietors looked ahead they would see
that the Australian consumption is the backbone of
their trade, and that the export is merely an extra.
Therefore they would study the Australian’s pocket
and his head, too. It is ridiculous to roll the stuff
in casks or barrels into any shop that can pay the
small license fee, and trust to the shopman or shop-
woman to give it a name and a price. Some firms
label “our own bottling,” but that is only in respect
of the higher-priced. Even then the buyer has to
risk a lot. But without this small guarantee it is
all risk. Wine growers or proprietaries that wish to
treat the consuming public fairly must follow their
casks into the market, and see that the public gets
the best goods possible at the price paid. Till then
Australian wine-drinking will be under a cloud.
* * * *
From a correspondent in Perak (Federated Malay
States), showing, among other things, the kind of
odd jobs which State Socialism is expected to do
nowadays:—“During the last three months the rub-
ber planters of Malaya have been much harassed by
the raids of wild elephants. Several important plant-
ing centres have been visited, especially in the exten-
sive district of - Sungei Siput, Perak, where
are situated the estates of several well-known cos. —
for instance, Kamuniiig, Changkat Salak, Heawood,
and Perak —as well pe many others, privately owned.
In this district alone, since the beginning of the year,
there have been no less than six raids, and several
thousands pounds’ worth of damage has been done.
Only trees of about 10 months’ old and under have
been attacked. The elephants have not contented
themselves with simply pulling up the trees, but in
many cases have eaten the roots, thus making re-
planting an impossibility. The planters have for
some time past been agitating for immediate public
action, and, at the time of writing, the Government
is organising a large ‘drive.’ It is hoped to catch
the two herds that are doing all the damage. The
planters intend keeping up their agitation, for, under
the special circumstances, it is absolutely essential
that the herds of wild elephants throughout the
Federated Malay States should be kept completely
under control. If this is not done, it is felt that,
with the fall in the price of rubber, the matter will
be very serious.”
* » * •
“Yarriambiak”: There is a youthful genius in Mel-
bourne who will probably end up as a J. D. Rocke-
feller if he can keep out of the clutches of the police
long enough to give his talents a fair chance._ I first
saw him about a week ago, when he was piloting an
eminently respectable but distinctly blithered old
lady across t’linders-street. ITe propped her up
against a post and informed her that any tram would
take her to Spencer-street. The elderly female was
profuse in her expressions of gratitude, but the boy
expected more. lie burst into voluminous tears and
sobbed out his pitiful story. He was an orphan,
whose cruel father had turned his mother and him-
self from the door; he was suffering from sleeping
sickness; he had not had anything to. eat for seven
years, and could the kind lady give him a trine for
food. The kind lady could, and did. A couple of
hours later the inventor of this new trade —or is it
a profession?—discovered an ancient gentleman who
had been putting down the cursed drink, and was
busy making figure eights outside the railway sta-
tion. He took the old chap in charge, tucked his
arm lovingly under his own, and threaded his way
through the traffic. Passing the John Hop on point
duty, he remarked in a loud whisper, “Hold up,
father,” and father dutifully held up. Arrived at
the other side, “father” was placed in a vertical
position against a lamp-post, and the information
was conveyed to him that any car except those
marked St. Kilda would take him to Prahran. The
old gentleman weighed out a shilling without being
asked, and the new street pilot darted away to look
for more customers. I am expecting to hear any
day that he has formed himself into a limited lia-
bility company, and is training a corps of assistants
with special " aptitude for finding the wandering
drunk. After that there’s bound to be a union and
a wages board for the industry, and large questions
of dirt money and such like.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: The number of trivial ways in which
a casual, and more or less trusting, citizen may be
taken down in Sydney is astonishing. Did you ever
notice, for instance, the way half-pennies have of
appearing in your pockets seemingly from nowhere?
They are among the minor curses of my life. Who
wants a half-penny? What conceivable article of
value can be bought with it? The coin is, to all
intents and purposes, useless; and it takes up room
and is generally dirty, and in other respects unde-
sirable. And yet, since it is money, one is reluctant
to throw it away. As a gift, it is spurned even by
the smallest of children. In brief, it is a nuisance.
Half-pennies mostly come to me, I find, from tram-
conductors. The conductor dashes a handful of change
into my hand, consisting of an assortment of pennies,
three-penny-bits and the half-penny. I glance casually
at the money. It seems to count up all right. I
pocket it. The conductor is up a half-penny—that is,
if I don’t detect the swindle. If I do, the dishonest
hound apologises blandly, pays up, and tries the
same game on another. It is the safest swindle I
know, and guaranteed, in a hurried community like this,
to come off triumphantly four times out of five. The
other day I halted before a pleasant-looking paper-
seller who had arrived at the age of discretion, and
in every respect appeared reliable and honest. I
took a paper; gave him a shilling; and stood
brooding, as is frequently my wont. After a while
he said he couldn’t change a shilling and asked for
sixpence. I handed him sixpence. After a further
examination of his garments, he said, with a rather
taking air of mock despair, that he hadn’t even change
of sixpence, but would get it at the adjacent pub.
He returned, and handed me five-pence. I said:
“What about the shilling?” A look of anguish dis-
torted his face: “The shilling!” he wailed. “I give
it back ter yer.” Dull ns I am in business matters,
I knew well that he hadn’t. And he knew that he
hadn’t; and knew, moreover, that I knew he knew
he hadn’t. But what was there to be done? Fight
him? Give him in charge? Indulge in a public
wrangle with him? None of them seemed worth
while. With a sickly grin I left him to his ill-
gotten wealth. A couple of nights later I was de-
feated in an even simpler fashion. Again lusting
for a news-sheet, I tendered a boy paper-vendor a
half-sovereign; the only coin, barring one of the
tram-conductor’s sovereigns aforementioned, that I
had about me. He went for change to the usual pub,
while I stood reading. After I had digested the
whole of the cables and had got half-way through a
lurid murder-report, I bethought me of my change.
Simultaneously I observed that the pub was a corner
one with an" entrance (likewise an exit) in each
street. I debited 9s. lid. to my under-suspicious
disposition, and went home. I could cite a dozen
other ways in which I have been had during the last
six months or so, but fear to be accused of imbecility
or something like that. Yet why should I mind? The
accusation would come from people who had had
precisely similar experiences themselves.
UNREASONABLE GENEROSITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are devoting the next day or two to giving
away Miss Macdougall’s large stock of underclothing.
—Startling announcement in Sydney Sun.
At such a time as this, when past
Our ears a blizzard’s blowing ;
When all the skies are overcast;
And in the hills it’s snowing ;
1 say it neither just nor right is
To give away a lady’s nighties.
Charity tons of sinning shrives,
So claim the worst of Grundies ;
Yet surely not, when it deprives
A maiden of her undies;
No man of Soul e’en one small knicker
Would alienate —unless in liquor.
What right have people to dispose
In this high-handed fashion
Of Miss Maedougall’s underclothes?
(Forgive the note of passion;
Even the semi-altogether
Provokes a shudder in such weather.)
And who is She who idly stands
And makes no lamentations,
While folks deal out, with lavish hands,
Her winter combinations —
Garments which plainly are essential
To those whose life’s not penitential ?
It may be said that others gain
By all this reckless giving;
Those, as a case in point, who strain
Beneath the Cost of Living.
My answer rings like • some fierce bugle:
“Quite so. But what of Miss Macdougall?”
N.S.W.
D. B. J.


STEADY v. UNSTEADY Voltage
Let the “VOLTAGE REGULATOR”
l>e your Switchboard Attendant.
m*r*****~*~~~* ***' * nwpst'f;/^
* * • • • 9 I
fS£9Egj£gprfc~:S .rE£.' -i^p^g=3L^:—• .. • • • • ♦
k-.-fc.-L.-.'... . ’ ! r~'£i--a.- , .'fsrtrr-.* £ .rrr-i~V~ 5 •
'• ■ ?AI - t rt?.B„t J
EBBarsgfeMr
15t: , ~ -t-'r.T.'trlßS:-: •:' ’’ FIH
—»-=T- rpr. ; -• ;
u ; ;jw_-
t .vs": :~,': _-;t ::''->- -t •..t.~H-
_ in : - : ..». 1
.I^o
J^S.
With TirriH Regu/at c
' T 4. - :?13
■•' '■' - ■ - -Jr ~r~i~ -f
I Voltage Curves of Coiliery Loacj_
with tool cutters running
• m
• • • • •
m
3r :i
l: : vi
X
- 5 1
p-t-^r
S 3
Izi)
m
P' i
rr :t.: :.r
r :
Without TirriH Regulator.
rsa — -f
M
Jr.
IIJ.
;4«sj
STEADY VOLTAGE Means:
More Economical Lamps
may be used.
Fewer Lamp Renewals are
required.
No loss of revenue.
Reduces the number of
Switchboard Attend=
ants required ; and
Many other advantages
described in
BULLETIN 4602.
PLEASE WRITE FOR A COPY.
£
w
If
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC C 2:
217 Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING
AND MANAGEMENT FREE.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, England, and Market Street, Sydney,
iSllenburgs Foods
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
WOLF
Patent Superheated Steam
Semi-Portable Locomobile
Two WOLF Tandem Compound Condensing Superheated
Steam Locomobiles, each 215-320 h.p.
The Coal Con-
sumption of
Standard Engine
is 0‘7891b. per
B.H.P. per hour
—the World’s
Record in
Economy.
'H
y,:.
m
m
%
is
SL
iu
*>ie
%.
® ‘.'-ikJm. £~ 01 —
I ' Ejvj "
□FS*
.v:>.' >» ;*v
'?*K ' .
- ■ -
■ “t-
MmSt 5 " jfe.-
v,,,
v>r? “
SSras
o,,icial Test of a WOLF 800 h.p. Compound Condensing
Superheated Steam Locomobile.
One of these Plants has been in use for over 50 Y,£ARS, and one in the Commonwealth
has been working for over 20 YEARS, both still giving excellent results.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue to the Australian Representatives—
HAES &
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE: CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Famous Small-Bore SINGLE SHOT RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEV ENS
FAVORITE No. 17.
?
32
LONG
D)j
r.
25
STEVENS
Furnished with Automatic Ejector in 22 calibre.
Carefully bored and rifled by the celebrated Stevens method.
For - 22 Long Rifle, - 25 Stevens and "32 Long rim fire cartridges. State which
calibi’e you prefer when ordering.
STEVENS are the “ Bull's Eye ” Kind. Sold by all dealers in the Commonwealth.
For full information, latest catalogues, etc., .apply to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [2
The PIEPER BAYARD Automatic Pistol
■
MILITARY TYPE,
Possessing Patented Improvements
over all other Pistols.
The above sketch shows
the Pistol mounted on
Solid Leather Holster for
use as a Carbine.
The Weapon for Backcountrymen,
Squatters & Big Game Sportsmen.
Write to W. A. Cox, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Descriptive Book, post free.
n
««!«*»•
m
i
t -
Simply
Turn a Screw
and Pull —
that’s all that’s neces-
sary to detach the bar-
rel of a Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifle.
It’s just as easy to clean
—it’s all done from the
breech and you can look
through the barrel and see
that it’s clean.
You’ll like this thor-
oughly tested, accurate,
reliable rifle made by expert
gunsmiths—a century’s ex-
perience is builded into it.
It is hammerless, has solid breech—no possibility of
accidental discharge or blow backs.
Shoot Remington-UMC Lesmok 22’s—they made the world’s
highest score and most perfect group. Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifles and Shot Guns. Ammunition for
all makes of fire arms. For . sale everywhere.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
(M. Hartley Company, Export Agent) 299-301 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
BEIRNE'S
Special Gun Offer During Sale Time.
201=
BUYS
THIS
No.
B.U. 13.
WONGA
THE
RELIABLE
GUN.
This is a thoroughly well-made Gun in every way—it is reliable, safe and effective —a Gun that
will surely please you at the Price. It is the latest single-barrelled take-down Breech-loading
Gun on the market, has 30in. 12 or 16 gauge plain steel barrel, choke bored —guaranteed nitro
proof. It is fitted with positive automatic shell ejector, also top lever action, which works either
to the right or left, thus opening the breech, which releases automatic ejector, throwing out shell,
clear, as shown in illustration —the one action-making Gun ready for reloading. It has also a low,
centre rebounding hammer. The Frame is case hardened, fore-end and stock being of the best
English stained Walnut, and highly polished—has hardened Rubber butt plate. Patent snap on
action, making it easy and simple to take apart, and not too complicated to clean. Weight,
about 6^lb.
Usual Price, 25/-; SALE PRICE, 20/-.
Carriage and Packing, 2/6 extra, to any part of Australia.
Ask us to send you our big, 100-page Sale Catalogue
No. 6, showing other Guns Equally Reduced.
T. C. BEIRNE & CO.,
THE VALLEY, BRISBANE
F rom
Alcock 8 Pierce’s Rifle Lists.
This Is the fifth selection. Previously we have mentioned models from 10/- up to 60/-.
Of course, they are only roughly outlined. You can get the full details in our lists, which
are free by mentioning this paper.
62/6
Winchester Repeating Rifles, 24in. round barrel, cal. .25-20, .32, .38, .44; half (7) or full
magazine (14 shots), adjustable sights, weight about 711 b. ; 62/6.
65/-
Winchester, .25-20, .32, .38, .44 cal. Repeaters, 24in. octagon barrels, half or full magazine,
sporting sights, weight about 7£lb.; 65/-
65/-
B.S.A. Sporting Martini, .32 cal. Rifle, dismountable action, Italian walnut stock, fitted
with sling rings; 65/-
70/-
Remington Special Target, Hammerless, Repeating Rifle, fires without adjustment, 15 .22
short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cartridges, 24in. special steel octagon barrel, straight grip,
weight s*lb; 70/-
70/
B.S.A. War Office Magazine Model, extra long (24in.) round, heavy barrel, Enfield rifling,
wind gauge, back sight to 200 yards, 5-shot magazine, cal. .22 long rifle; 70/-
75/-
No. 1171 Stevens’ “Ideal” Take-down Rifle, 24in. half octagon barrel, under lever action,
Rocky Mountain front and sporting rear sights, cal. .22 short, long or long rifle, weight
71b; 75/- Aperture sights, 15/- extra. [5
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
THE ART AND ETIQUETTE OF COURTSHIP
Courtihip Made Easy, How to
know that you art really in
Lore, How to Court a Bashful
Girl, How to Woo an Heiresa,
How to Woo a Widow, How to
make a Baohelor Propose, How
to Bop the Question, Etiquette
before and after Engagement,
Wedding Etiquette. These are
only a few of the chapters of
this interesting book. Price
Eight Pence, posted. UNION
CO.. 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
&
FTTHE Best Stories written by Australian
J- Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
£4O A MONTH
loperating theNEWMODEL COMBIN-
ATION CAMERA. It takes and instant-
ly develops eleven entirely dif-
ferent styles of pictures, includ-
ing two sizes and four styles
PAPER POST CARDS,
six styles of Tintype Pictures,
and Brooch Pictures. Requires
r no experience whatever. Every-
body wants pictures. Five hundred
mm ..percent, profit. THE WORLD’S
BIGGEST MONEY-MAKER. Small investment se-
cures complete outfit, including Camera, Tripod, and mate-
rial for 150 pictures. Make money *he first day no matter where
you live or what you are doing. 4 Detailed information free,
including letters from prosperous operators everywhere.
L. LASCELLE, 627 W. 43d St., Dept. 772, New York
A CASE OF
NERVOUS
BREAKDOWN
where
CLEMENTS
TONIC
Cured Rapidly.
'
m
m
sm-s
:
MRS. NELLIE REDDICK, of No. 7 Evansdale Road, Hawthorn (Vic.),
writes this letter to women who are weak or suffering from bad nerves :
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
suffered forW 8 m a ontTs e - doctZZnft hr^ alcdown ' l and Uver. I cannot express all I
I did not thSI on!,ld P-ttcnddnce and medicines did me no fact ,
do “'me "leet* / or Zter ,JS? <»
minutes, for fear I would die in their absence. %£ headaches' I 'and*otter
sufferings are impossible to express One dm, T ZnY * 8 7 X
books, and was greatly convinced. I sent and not n jw/7 I? i.? ne
found so much benefit by it I continued, and took 15 bottles ZaU
thankfully say it has cured me. I cannot praise it ennVnh iZ u i ?i\
work,or me. I hove ,o much faith in it ,hi? \l Me tt'eme any hiZ
my belief. 1 would never be without it. and have told many to live « a trial
You can publish this if you wish, for I cannot praise it enoiigh
“(Signed) KELLIE REDDICK”
All Chemists and Stores Sell Clements Tonic


For the
Children
When the children are weak,
when they do not care to play,
when they are languid, when
they keep thin, and when they
have no appetite; this is the
medicine they need—
J\Tjei fs
SOLD FOB
80 YEA2IS
No alcohol in this medicine. No
habit-forming drug of any kind.
Perfectly safe in every way. Ask
your doctor for his approval.
Talk to the children about this
great rule of "Have
daily movements of the trowels."
Ayer’s Pills are sugar-coated,
gently laxative. Dose, one pill,
only one pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO..
Lowell, Mass.. U* S. A.
TEH DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
Packed Free. AU charges Prepaid to you*
Port direct from onr Factory. Highest-
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
I Flyer Of Brook's Saddles, etc.
[mod'h^j;
£3.10 to £9
I Tyres arid! accessories half usual prices,
iprUTC wanted ift eaeh district. Write
flu L is I u at once, using - ' sufficient postage,
for Tree Art Catalogue an* ou»
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE .
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL-
AGENT for
VAL. D. COLE,
LARGE STOCKS ON
MEAD Clfclvr.u.-
Book Arcade, Melbourne.
HAND. ALL MODELS
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austka-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
“Linseed Compound,” Trade Mark of Kay’s.
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and <
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
—essential
good sport.
Good cartridges ms
not always suffice
ensure good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction .with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater proba y
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two ‘Eley Loaded' Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme’
Abright orangeg-inch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with Eley
i (42-gr.) Smokeless.
Elcy ‘Elold*
Alight maroon Cartridge.
Loaded withEley(33 gr->
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above , and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from allGunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
Eley Bros., Ld., London
Eng.
1
v(
* >
\> ’
SSL*!
Good for
The Children
Every mother ltnows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “TBonnington's Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at c«ce noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for BON N I iNGTON’S"
1/0 & 2/6
D
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4> MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
THIN, UNDEVELOPED WOMEN!
A thin woman is not necessarily plain, let alone ugly. In fact, many thin
women possess very pretty, ii sweet faces, ’ but this is usually admitted with
the qualifying phrase, “but, poor thing, she is so dreadfully thin.”
A woman’s chief charm is a well-rounded ; figure and a full bosom. With
these, thin arms and hollow cheeks are a rarity.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages, of ill-health have sought and
accepted this advice, and to-day are models of womanly development and
examples of perfect health. You can acquire the same results. _ T priri _
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere s FLESH-FOOD
is a harmless, perfect' flesh-builder. It increases the vitality and improves
the general health. Some cases report a gain in weight of over five pounds
a week, and an increase in bust measure by six inches or more.
We want you to know just what “FLESH FOOD” is, and will gladly give
vou a free sample. Send 2d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample
and our instructive book. “FLESH FOOD” is put up in tablet form and
can be secretly taken if desired. All correspondence is confidential and
private, and all our literature is sent closely covered and free from observa-
tion Write at once. It is absolutely free. (lllrf)
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney.
Do You Want to
be Rid ~of Your
VARICOSE VEINS?
THT o appeal is made direct to you because from our experience we know that
THIS APFJiAIi suffered the tortures of the damned from varicose veins i
an'dTlcers because they did not know there was a painless cure for this disastrous
complaint. Did you know that there really is a certain and lasting cure
the failure of ordinary methods to overcome this trouble, the lay-
Owmg to the m f exists for the trouble—a belief that was
man h?s come to beheve that no VECSEY METHOD OF HOME TREAT-
funded ° n fact until_fou y g . * varicose veins and ulcers without
MEttT has made possible a bsolute cure oi and efficacious . It is
operation or laying up. It is a p™ those cagcs where the sufferer has
perfectly harmless a d P • the trea tment afforded almost instant relief,
been incapacitated for day IP > j lave entirely disappeared under a few weeks’ treatment.
Ulcers that have tffearnallaboutour methoT Send 2d stamp for free book, giving
full particulars. Written diagnosis or Consultation FREE. Get a specimen copy
of our refund guarantee. (1*23)
Mr. G. Vecsey.
FREE BOOK
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
NEW SEAM SANITARY CAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
The Entire Top Open.
11'
u
mi
Sealed without Heat, Solder or Objeotlonable Fluxes.
1T OUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 ends hourly, and may be operated
bv a bov Our machines are made for all kinds and sizes
of cans Will stand both retort and bath processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better, bend for
our Catalogue.
IT The machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
IT AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are not surpassed by any-
thing in the market. y
We Furnish Complete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Ams Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
EUROPEAN AGENCY: G. QUELPA dl L., Corso Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
fs to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, P Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Inver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
reftores to health the entire nervous system,
and°aids nature in entirely, eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
„_, 9,1 stamp, and we will post you a
FRFF SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.
w, Vmnk Ford, (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes • “I was a heavy smoker for 60 years,
U t niior taking your treatment for 11, days I
]'L TeSe up y for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. 0.107 CsstlereajS St., Sydney.
“Coaguline,” “Klinx ” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing: purposes, etc.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumberiome spring trusses? Do yon
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
■end you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, end SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women <fc children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349. Collina-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The’SUndard Remedy which has oatlived the Centurtee.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
ifi om tin©# 1006.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aik your chemist for its history-the took is free -or write
g. GREEN. 210. Lambeth. Road, London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Idyll of Winter.
The languid stf« forgot to shine.
A grey light lay on land and river.
For one soft hand that dropped in mine
My hot kiss thanked the gracious giver.
A chill wind blew across the world
And brought a black cloud rolling after,
But one small hat-brim deftly curled
Made a red roof above our laughter.
Moved by that sound a small, brown bird
Glanced forth upon our gladness spying,
Amazed at that clear sound that stirred
Through the wide winter’s leafy sighing.
All careless we of clouded light,
Our warm blood beat to that old measure
That pulsed amid the scented night
When some brown god invented pleasure.
ffidl i ; n a valley moony pale,
Where sang the spray of one white foun-
tain.
An oread heard the whispered tale
Breathed by the shepherd of the mountain.
. k
And, stooping from the pine-fringed hill,
A kindly deity made mention
That that delightful moment’s thrill
Should be henceforth a world convention.
Stirred by the sweetness of a glance
Young love to beauty kissed devotion’,
And that which came by lightest chance
Became a recognised emotion.
The small bird perked his plumes and fanned
The chill leaves with a flirting feather,
As if he failed to understand
Our laughter in the bleak, grey weather.
But I, with Mabel’s hand in mine,
Felt summer in my full veins glowing,
With poppy flame and seas of wine
And hot December’s mirth-horns blowing.
A ruddier vintage seemed to start
From the swift burning of her blushes,
Than that which, from the red sun’s heart,
Between twin worlds the evening crushes.
So everything was really well,
We loved in simple, serious fashion,
Until the first large raindrops fell
And fotind two kindred hats to splash on.
Two hats above a single thought!
In case the angry skies should melt her,
Our single soul in haste we caught
And wrapped her up and ran for shelter.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
Karl Von Hoffman.
Hard by the Northern Road lives Karl Von
Hoffman —
His porchway red with many a climbing
rose
Twice twenty blue and gold Australian
summers
And thirty German summertides he knows.
His river-lands are rich in purple lucerne —
How rich his red, fat-sided cattle tell;
His clustering grapes, bee-visited, bird-
haunted. ...
Upon the hillsides to their ripening swell.
Long commerce with the soil has made him
wealthy, , .
Much trade with nature brought him gra-
cious gain;
Year in, year out, he bartered them and
muscle
For wine and honey, cream and golden
grain.
At times beneath that porch of climbing
Her Cheeks rose-mantled and her mouth
She sits and sings—his fair Australian
daughter, , , . , .
What time Von Hoffman smokes his big-
bowled pipe.
She sings him back again to morning splen-
To boisterous youthhood by the dancing
Half the night was given to gold-haired
Gretchen, •
And half to high carousal, jest and wine.
Once more beneath the moon in piny wood-
He walks’ with Love, an exile from the
Or booSv-mated in black-raftered taverns
To clinking flagons shouts a rousing song.
He qpes himself a booted, bearded Uhlan
New come to battle, splashed and stained
TTio lift-pd sabre to the hilt-hold crimson,
H rS-fetlocked with the foeman's
blood.
Once more he sees that after-battle group-
The road-side inn set round with walnut
And wine tr S S elbow. seated three tall fellows
With trailing swords and helmets on their
knees.
Thev rise, they shout, their long-gapped
swords are lifted* ~ i
Their eyes, their blades with pride and
France.
Thus, hour by hour, with golden stars above
moons new risen, red and round and
bowled pipe.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


raiJS'IAVS' AVHA 'ALIAS' V
every customer that purchases
it, is THE HANDSOME
"CHALLENGER” SUITE.
C°L°
m
i
V
t
Made in thoroughly seasoned wood, and beautifully polished in stained walnut
or rosewood color, it comprises:—
3ft - o 6 i"'pS rdl ’° be ’ With largG ’ b6Velled Miri ‘ 0r ’ arti stically carved, made all in
DreS iS?for CheSt ’ 3 large drawers ’ 1 small dra wer, shelf underneath the bevelled
Washstand, marble top, cupboard underneath, towel rails fitted at sides.
SUITE IS FINISHED WITH
OXIDISED FITTINGS.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
PRICE £l2.
The Satisfactory
House Furnishers,
CENTRAL SQUARE, OPP. RAILWAY, SYDNEY.
cMAGNESIA S
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
rntm/m/,
V,
ft
i
mo
Cl
»
a
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE.
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/-post free.
OTHER MODELS-ALL PRICES ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE
Sole At«nt», ALLAN tf CO.. P ly. Ltd.. 276 8 Collin, St.. Melb.. Bendi t o. Geeloot.
!m
mam ..
■
m
'
.
H
Mias LA BLANC, of “The Grafters/’ using Geoff Moriarty’s Apparatus, in his fine
new Physical Culture Studio. 1 n e ‘
WHY NOT BE HEALTHY and STROVE
Are you unwell, run down.' f your nerves ovprstmnfY svofnm _ « « ,
Place yourself in my hands. With simple exercises in vournwn* h°J ° rder ’ i? st your a PPetite?
apparatus supplied, and by carefully following my instructions vo,T^r° n the ? eoff Moriarty
strong and well. Boxing also taught personally by post. 1 ’ y e soon ha PPy» hearty,
Send 4d. stamps, for particulars and my booklet.
GEOFF MORIARTY
£5,\ S,CAL CULTURE
STUDIOS
George’s Buildings, 195 Little Collins
StfPOt (Between Swans ton
IS
T
s
.1
%
%
0
I /
i
n
'&7
K
W
a-
-7
< /&k2ftA2&
MOTOR
TYRES
For
Reliability
Durability
and Hard Wear.
PRICE LIST AND ALL PARTICULARS
ON APPLICATION.
PERDRIAU Rubber Co. Ltd.,
270 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
41 Creek Street, Brisbane.
't-i
MAIDS LIKE IT
Maids like Shi-Noleum
because it does away with all
the hard work of Floor Polishing
and because the shine lasts on the
Floors for weeks, a rub over occasionally is
is all that is necessary.
Linoleums always look their best when
polished with Shi-Noleum, it brings the
colour up so beautifully and preserves them
for years.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
Honthly, 6d.
Beauty’s Favourite
THe article which excels all others
in improving' the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won. and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre*
eminent decree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.-No. 1744.
THURSDAY, JULY 17. 1913.
Pkiok tiu.
THE WORSHIP OF THE GOLDEN CALF.
A religi ous revival, for which the Medical Profession of N.S.W. is main ly response.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES:. Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly . . . . . . .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Eetters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,-” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with, Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W, Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.: Bay City News Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan. 585
29th Street. San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets; Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
, Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
J/l6 per doz. nett'.
The Bulletin mptgl advertising plates, size 6%in.
x Bin., and gelatine transparencies will be, for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single copies, The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout,' the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British Neip Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz,, id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., ld, Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each padket—otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 2\d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, JfOz.,
Id., and id. each addit'ioanl 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 17, 1913.
THE POSTPONED BRIDGE.
The Sydney-North Shore bridge has no great
luck. Perhaps it has killed a black cat or
slain a Chinaman. It has been advocated
since the roots of Original Sin. It has been
discussed by more commissions and com-
mittees than the Oldest Inhabitant cares to
remember, because the recollection of them
makes him feel too old. In fact, the recol-
lection makes him feel buried. The members
of the very first commission walked on the
shore in the twilight holding each other’s
tails, and discussed cantilevers and such-like
engineering devices while carrying a cocoa-
nut in the hand that wasn’t full of tail. It
was decided then to postpone the great work
until Adam should be born, in the hope that
he would be able to see Abraham, the first
Jew, and speak intelligibly to him concern-
ing a loan. The Oldest Inhabitant reckons
that that unsatisfactory sort of business has
been going on ever since. The evidence taken
at the various inquiries, if it were piled up in
the middle of the harbor, would make a very
good support for the bridge. The work has
been passed, and endorsed, and recommended
again and again. But through much post-
ponement an idea seems to have arisen that,
in some way or another, Sydney is a wholly
unusual kind of city; that North Sydney is
an unprecedented kind of suburb; and that
what is required is a unique bridge, built
amid unparalleled circumstances, with a
hitherto unknown variety of water flowing
beneath it, at a pace not previously heard
of. Everybody concerned seems to be
afflicted by the idea that it isn’t a mere ques-
tion of building a plain old bridge, just like
any other plain old bridge of the same size,
but that the community is up against a pro-
blem. The people concerned feel as if they
were Columbuses, tittering on the verge of
a sea of mechanical investigation. So the
Government staggers each time a report
comes to hand, and passes its trembling hand
over its matted brow, and decides that it
won’t rush into the wildernesses of the Un-
known just yet. It will wait for further de-
velopments, and find out if bridges really
exist in other parts of the world, and if they
are a success, and if Providence doesn’t
object to them.
* * * *
The. usual experience has happened again.
There was a notable investigation, and almost
everybody gave evidence so long as his voice
held out, and when he couldn’t speak any
more he made signals with his hands. The
construction of the bridge was duly recom-
mended. This was about the one-hundredth
committee of investigation, and it ascertained
nothing that the previous ninety-nine inves-
tigations weren’t equally acquainted with. It
simply found out that there was land on each
side, and water in between, and that there
was a recognised method of dealing with such
cases. Then the matter was hung up on
the same old basis. Minister Gkifeith pro-
fesses to have faith that the postponement is
only temporary, but faith has been on the
premises so long that the community is tired
of seeing the animal, and hates to pay the
dog-tax on it any longer. Temporariness
in the matter of the Sydney-North Shore
bridge seems a trifle more permanent than
eternity. One reason assigned for the stop-
page is that the country objects to the ex-
penditure of so much money on the bloated
city of Sydney. It is quite probable that it
does object to the expenditure of money on
Sydney. But the country also objects, in
many places, to the building, largely at the
country’s expense, of unnecessarily long rail-
ways to carry the country’s produce to Syd-
ney, when there are much more convenient
ports to which the country, if it wasn’t for
the hungry monopoly of Sydney, could send
its exports at less than half the cost. And
the country objects not a little to costly rail-
way duplications, which wouldn’t be re-
quired for many years save that the policy
of dragging everything to Sydney at the coun-
try’s expense has hopelessly clogged the ex-
isting lines. Further, the country can’t be
expected to feel any better over the expendi-
ture of public money on Sydney’s under-
ground railways than on a city bridge. Yet
the congestion policy, and the centralisation
policy, and the policy of shutting up the out-
lying ports, and the costly railway duplica-
tions these policies make necessary,
all go on. And the city underground rail-
ways are to be started, according to Minister
Griffith, almost immediately, regardless of
the cost and irrespective of the country’s feel-
ings. These railways, it is alleged, are
matters of necessity, while the Sydney-North
Shore bridge is merely an affair of conveni-
ence. The difference between necessity and
convenience in' this matter is not easy to
define.
* * * *
The Sydney, tube railways are certainly
a matter of urgency, for N.S.W.’s capital is
probably the only big civilised city on earth
which to' convey all its traffic on the
surface, by /tram-car, motor-car, cab, taxi-
cab, buggy, cart, dray, perambulator, wheel-
barrow, ambulance, horse, human hoof, drunk
carried by a policeman, and such-like simple
conveyance, and to do this amid a maze of
narrow, winding streets. But the first essen-
tial reform is to abolish the present Hump-
and-Dead-End station, and to push the fairly-
cheap surface railway right through the city
and across the harbor. Even in a place as
large as Sydney a surface railway is inex-
pensive as compared with a subterranean
one. Probably the surface railway and the
bridge would cost as little as the subter-
ranean system without the bridge, and, by
practically abolishing the tramway traffic to
and from the present railway station, the
surface railway might give more immediate
relief. But the subterranean or tube rail-
way, or underground tramway, represents the
line of least political resistance. It will only
compete against the State-owned tramways,
and they , have no infuriated host of scrip-
holders to protest on behalf of their vested
interests. On the other hand, an extension
of the surface railway would make a bridge
practically inevitable. . And a bridge would
compete against a very rich monopoly, re-
presented by a very rich and angry and in-
fluential body of shareholders. It may be
that one Government after another has sized
up the influence and hostility of these share-
holders, and has become afraid. It may be
that it is the influence of these shareholders
that has always kept Sydney’s railway sta-
tion in an absurd spot on the outskirts of
the city. If once that railway moves into the
city, then the building of the bridge in order
to connect with North Sydney and establish
an alternative route to the North becomes
inevitable. And the building of the bridge
will be disastrous to the ferry monopoly. And
the railway hasn't moved worth a cent.
Almost every other city on earth —from Mel-
bourne to mouldering old Damascus —has run
its railway right through, but Sydney stands
by itself on the theory that a continuous line
through a big centre of population is impos-
sible. Exactly how much the voting power
of persons interested in the immensely rich
ferry monopoly has to do with this strange
meptal attitude it is impossible to say. There
is, so far as this paper is aware, no other
ferry monopoly of its wealth and size in the
world. Certainly there was nothing resem-
bling it on the Hawkesburv Biver. a few
miles north of Sydney, and the building of a
bridge there was found quite easy.
* » * *
There have been many proposals that the
State should interfere, by the construction
of bridges or tunnels, available for the use
of trains, tram-cars, private vehicles, horses,
dogs and foot-passengers, with the proud
Private Enterprise institution, which prac-
tically owns the harbor, yet reserves the
right to refuse to sell tickets to people who
want to cross the harbor if it happens to
object to these people. Each proposal has
bumped up against Something. Each one
has come into fatal concussion with Cir-
cumstances Unknown. Even when money
was being borrowed at a rate never before
heard of, and gaols and crockery were being
acquired out of loans, it always happened
that money couldn’t be borrowed for this
especial work. When the surplus was said
to be larger than any previous surplus it
somehow chanced that it wasn’t the kind
of surplus that could come in just here. The
right kind of surplus (probably a red sur-
plus with green stripes) and the right kind
of loan (possibly a pale blue loan with pas-
sementerie on it) which would fill the par-
ticular bill never eventuated. And all the
time the ferry monopoly grows larger and
more influential, and acquires more respect
among politicians. Also, it may be, more
politicians’ mothers-in-law acquire shares in
THE FOUR INDESCRIBABLES AND
THE UNSPEAKABLE.
When the complete history of the wild-cat
war in the Balkan Peninsula is written it
should make a remarkable narrative. The
dead haven’t been counted yet, but there is
a suspicion that in some of the combats a
lone-standing record has been broken. In
ISO 9, when Charles of Austria wiped the
floor with Napoleon, and taught him for the
first time that he might be beaten at his own
game, it is recorded that the victors of the
battle of Aspern and Essling lost one-third
of their number, and the defeated crowd
lost one-half or a little more. These figures
have held good in Europe for 104 years, and
if the blood-blot in some of the recent Bal-
kan annoyances has been bigger in propor-
tion than that of Aspern and Essling it will
be a strenuous event. When four of the
five little Balkan States —for lioumania
stood out —combined to make war upon the
Unspeakable Turk the odds against them
looked impossible. They mustered about
10,000,000 people under four separate com-
mands, while the Unspeakable had 24,000,000
people, on a rough estimate, to draw upon,
and his armies were under one chief, and
directed by one intelligence. Also he had
behind him a great pres.tige and a fair
amount of money—or debased coinage. Like-
wise he had tons of badly-printed notes. The
Confederates were divided by three great
hatreds, for the Bulgarian loathes the Greek
and is loathed in return ; and the Bulgarian
also hates the Servian and Montenegrin
(these two hold pretty well together), and
is hated in return; and the Servian and
Montenegrin have no use for the Greek, who,
by way of retaliation, has no use for them.
The one binding force of the Alliance
was the common objection to the Unspeak-
able Turk, and this common virtue held the
discordant elements together while the first
war lasted. The Confederates mapped out
the territory that was to be conquered, and
they carefully divided the skin of the bear
before the bear was dead.
* * * *
The bear died to a very considerable ex-
tent, amid the applause of everybody who
knew him, for there is no better way of
spending a pleasant Sunday afternoon in
south-eastern Europe than in attending a
Turk’s funeral —unless, indeed, one can bury
two Turks and leave a dog on the grave. It
was a great effort made against heavy odds.
The Greek seemed to have recovered the
punch which he lost at Chaeronea, 2250 years
ago; and the Servian was getting square
for the downfall of Lazarus, the Czar, at
Kossova in 1389; and the Bulgarian had
enough grievances to avenge to fill a whole
Book of Lamentations. Also the multitu-
dinous Turk didn’t fight up to his reputa-
tion. His two best generals were murdered
by their own people, and the much-adver-
tised Enver Bey fled for his life and left
his troops behind him. Unfortunately, when
the Unspeakable was defeated, the four In-
describables fell out among themselves. The
skin of the bear was ready for division
according to previous arrangement, but out-
side Powers interfered. When Austria and
its allies declared that Skutari must go to
enrich a new kingdom of Albania, Monte-
negro found that its one big nrize had van-
ished, and that it had been fighting for prac-
tically nothing. A bit of Servia’s share of
the plunder also went to Albania. Greece
found some of its portion of the skin cut off.
So these three States put it to Bulgaria,
which retained its portion of the captured
territory intact —put it as one infuriated
Christian to another—that there should be
a new division of what captured territory
was left. And Bulgaria, suffering from the
last possible magnificence in the way of
swelled head, and inflated by the fact that
it had done the hardest fighting and in-
curred the biggest losses, told its three late
allies to go to that place which isn’t men-
tioned in polite society. Incidentally it
began to think about robbing its allies of
the little bit of profit thac remained
to them. Then commenced the new
war of three Indescribables against
one, while the defeated Unspeakable put
raw steak on his damaged eye in the back-
ground, and gave the scrap his moral sup-
port, and said it was good. A less decayed
person than the Turk would have joined in
and goj: something of his own back again.
The Greek took up the challenge of Bul-
garia with joy in his heart and a light shin-
ing in his countenance. He sets it down-
largely to the attacks of the Bulgarians in
the far past that his empire was so weak-
ened as to make successful resistance to the
Turk impossible. For the loss of Constan-
tinople and Adrianople and Smyrna and
Aleppo and Damascus, and all his vast pos-
sessions in Europe and Asia, and for his 400
years or so of servitude to the Turk, he
holds his recent ally in a great degree re-
snonsible. He would like a dead Bulgarian
for a birthday present quite as much as a
seltzogene. Also the Servians remember that
the Bulgarians licked them badlv in the
80’s of last century; and they hold that, if
Bulgaria had stood fast by the Serb empire
in the time of Stephen Dushan. the Turk
would never have taken root in Europe at
all and centuries of woe would have* been
averted. So the recent allies gathered up
some five centuries’ accumulation of malig-
nity and went to war. And, in the back-
ground, the defeated Unspeakable silently
applied raw steak to his eye.
* * * *
Information from the seat of war has
been wild and mad and gory and confused
but it soon appeared that the Bulgarian
person had taken on too large a con-
tract. He represents a State with
only million people. He sent his
last man and his last coin to the front in
the conflict with the Turk, and he bought
victory at tremendous expense. He started
the new war with his second best army, for
his best army was buried. For want
of men to till the farms there is practically
no crop in view, which is a serious business
for a mostly-agricultural community. The
Bulgarian had to keep some kind of an army
on his southern border to watch the Turk,
who still has a population of nearly
20,000,000 to draw upon if he feels like
renewing the war. He was doing a fierce
scramble in a westerly direction with
Greece (2,800,000 people) ; Servia
(3,000,000) ; and Montenegro (250,000).
On the north lies the old, semi-Latin king-
dom of Roumania (population 6,000,000),
which demands payment at Bulgaria’s ex-
pense for its neutrality during the recent
disagreement, and suddenly sent 500,000
troops to collect the bill. So busi-
ness was strenuous, and Ferdinand,
the elderly botanical king with the
countenance of a Mephistopheles, had
much on his hands. Savoff, the Bulgarian
commander who did such good service
against the Turk, was recently sacked on
a charge of “precipitating” the present an-
noyance. This was a case of changing
horses in the middle of the stream. Of his
successor it was said proudly that he had,
by a fine military proceeding, “driven a
wedge” between the Servians and the
Greeks, which is a dubious expression and
capable of two meanings. If the commander
who does that sort of thing wins it is said
that he broke the enemy’s line. If he loses,
it is said that the enemy attacked
him on both flanks and wiped him out. The
Bulgarians seem to have done a brilliant
manoeuvre and fallen in. In war almost
any tactics are the right tactics provided
the right man is behind the tactics, even
supposing they are wrong. Thus Napoleon
I. made his successes by a policy of swift
concentration directed against antiquated
generals, who scattered their forces. Then
he struck irreparable disaster when he col-
lided with a Russian commander who spread
an inferior army along a line several hun-
dred miles from one end to the other,
and proved that the elusive, scattered kind
of warfare was the game that he really
knew. Bulgaria appears to have struck the
prize mishap of its recent history when it
broke the enemy’s line. Perhaps it was the
wrong kind of general who broke the line,
or he broke it at the wrong place, or he
broke the wrong man’s line.
So Bulgaria appears to have fallen almost
in a day from the pinnacle of glory to the
cellar or basement of misfortune. Mean-
while the Unspeakable Turk hangs
round in the background and puts raw steak
on his eye. And whatever troubles may be
created by the rather squalid “Christians”
of the Balkans-—however Greek and Bul-
garian and Serb may howl and bite at one
another —the Turk’s discomfiture makes
Europe a good deal cleaner than it was.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Concerning a Stamp.
The proposal of Postmaster-General Agar
Wynne to put the Post Office under the
control of Commissioners may lead to one
good result. It may prevent maddened per-
sons like Agar Wynne altering the coun-
try’s postage stamp whenever a new Govern-
ment comes in with only the Speaker’s cast-
ing vote and the forbearance of its oppo-
nents to ■ save it from destruction. The
stamp introduced by the Fisher Adminis-
tration had its drawbacks, certainly. It was
not so artistic as it might have been. But
at least it was Australian. The simple,
plain old kangaroo was its leading feature,
and Australia owns; the kangaroo. That
quaint and cheerfiißibjteast is this country’s
monopoly and ad%ra£<ppaent. Australia may
be said to ;ClateSffts' from the time
when PelsArt A; the Diifch navigator, took
reports and" drawings and par-
ticulars and plans and specifications of the
kangaroo back with him to ’Holland. It
might he possible to limn a better kangaroo
than the one op the fTsnfcß Government’s
stamp, but it would certainly be easy to do
a better King than t lifer one wlio is to take
the creature’s place. ’ Agar Wynne pro-
poses rush in where emus fear to tread,
with a concern that looks like a marine store
or a museum. In the middle there is the
head of the King. Above that appears the
word “Australia.” Then happens a top
line consisting of five designs—-a cross with
four spots on it; a sort of Maltese cross; a
crown; a lobster ; and a hurricane or blot or
something. Down the left side is a swan,
some foliage, a very meaty kangaroo, and a
large statement which says “Id.” At the
bottom the stamp says “One Penny.” On
the right-hand side going upwards is again
the wild, unsupported statement “Id.” It
isn’t even backed by an affidavit made be-
fore a Justice of the Peace.V Next —still
going upwards—the, infuriated spectator
arrives at a hen or emu ,or ostrich with a
stack of hay for a tail. sort of burst of
foliage separates this., wild egg-layer from
an alleged lion wi(h an impossible tail in
three curves. Round the Kina: appears the
statement “Australia” (above) “Postage”
(below). Itv is necessary to mention that
it is “postage” in order to prevent the public
imagining that it is an insurrection or a
wheelbarrow. The King, who occupies the
middle of the spectacle, wears a moustache,
a beard, some hair, a smile, a uniform, a
badge, two epaulettes, four stars, and a few
sundries.. there is a crinkled
border like a grandmother’s cap. All good
citizens are hereby advised to lay in £5
worth of the old kangaroo stamps to keep
them going until Agar Wynne and the
<. o°. K Government and the new postage
foolishness have all disappeared.
The “S. M. Herald” Discovers Some
More Facts about the Beef Trust.
o T l S r a <^eei ‘i n g s is n of the times that the
S. M. Herald should be palpably getting
ready, even at this early hour, to drop on to
the pro-Referenda side of the political fence.
It discovered officially, last month, for the
first time, that the Beef Trust was in Aus-
tralia a matter that had been common
knowledge to most intelligent folks outside


party politics for about a year. Also, it
mentioned that the Trust’s object in coming
to Australia could only be to corner the
British meat trade — a proposition which was
first put forward by The Bulletin nearly
three years ago. On Friday last, the cau-
tious old sheet went a step or two further,
and published some details which this paper
has been harping on ever since the Referenda
campaign started. The following, for ex-
ample, is the sort of thing that The Bulle-
tin has said repeatedly, and that the ordin-
ary common or hedge or platitude-mongering
Liberal has as often condemned loftily for so
many reckless attempts to raise the “Trust
bogey”: —
A matter that is of the utmost consequence both
to this country and to Great Britain is the American
Beef Trust, which controls the supply in North
America, and which is said to be acquiring control
of that in the Argentine. That is to say, the Trust
is practically supreme in two of the three sources
from which comes the bulk of the beef consumed in
Britain. The existence of a competitor in the shape
of Australia still keeps the Trust from dictating the
prices in London, but there is not the least doubt
that could the Trust once include Australia among
its conquests it would be> in a position to impose
what terms it liked upon the consumer.... As long as
we are able to export in competition with the Ameri-
can Trust the British public will be able to eat beef
at a reasonable expenditure. Once we fall under its
influences, the price of beef in Britain will be what
the Trust thinks fit to demand, and that will be as
much as can be screwed out of the pockets of a
public to whom beef is almost a necessity of life.
No wonder that Britain is anxious, and we in Aus-
tralia should not be less concerned to keep the Trust
from getting a foothold here. If it gets any sort of
control this will affect not only the price of exported
meat, but also of meat for local consumption. Should
the Trust acquire any large interests in any of the
States where cattle-raising is carried on extensively,
everyone would feel the pinch. For our own sakes, no
less than for the sake of Great Britain, we must, by
every means, endeavor to keep such a development
from our doors.
By way of justifying the very different tone
of voice in which it talked last month, when
the electors of N. S. Wales needed to have
their legs drastically pulled in the interests
of Liberalism, the Hekald finished up as
follows: —
Our attitude to the Referendum on tuis point was
that, in the first place, there is no evidence that such
Trusts exist, and in the second place, that we have
adequate legal machinery to deal with them if and
when they do. We still believe that we are correct
in each of these propositions. But we are fully alive
to the danger which must constantly threaten the
economic organisation of every country nowadays, and
we believe that in the case of the Beef Trust this
danger may sooner or later threaten Australia.
If (1) the American Beef Trust is
not now in Queensland (and on the 26th
of last month the Herald itself admitted
that it was) ; or if (2) it is there, but
is impotent to do any damage, owing
to our 1910 Anti-Trust Act being a far
more efficacious monopoly-prophylactic than
America’s futile Sherman Act, then the
Herald is wantonly wasting its leader space
in discussing the Trust menace at all. In
either of the above events Australia is per-
fectly safe, and so is Great Britain. If the
Beef Trust (which, by the way, does not
confine its operations to; beef, as the Herald
evidently imagines; but also deals in mutton
and every other sort of meat, and :n all the
by-products of the meat trade, as well as m
a host of other foodstuffs which have no re-
lation to the dead animal business), if this
mammoth curse is not here, or can be ejected
as soon as it starts to be objectionable, there
is no more need for the sounding of warn-
ings on the subject than there is for excited
public mention of the fact that the inhabi-
tants of Mars might be dangerous if they
invaded the Sandwich Islands. From which
premises it may readily be deduced that the
Herald in its heart to-day believes that the
dangers which it scoffed at as recently as last
month are the genuine goods. The doctrine
of State rights has, in a manner of speaking,
rendered the Sherman Anti-Trust Act in-
effective in the United States; and has al-
lowed the Beef Trust to grow there, lhe
same pernicious doctrine is going to have the
same effect here ; inasmuch as (1) the Austra-
lian Parliament has, under existing circum-
stances, no power to touch a Trust which is
registered in any ond State of the I edera-
tion, and (2) the experience of decades goes
to show that no individual State can be
relied on to show sufficient altruism to oust
a rich monopoly which is making .its profits
at the expense of the neighbors of those who
are harboring it, while designedly sparing
its hosts. The only possible cure is an
amendment of the Trade and Gommerce
clause in the Constitution, that will give
the Australian Parliament full control or
both inter-State and intra-State trade and
commerce. Judging by the form of the past
few weeks, this paper confidently expects to
see the S. M. Herald advocating the
Fisher Government’s king-pin amendment
within —say —a year from to-day.
Gone Dotty.
When a Tory newspaper starts screaming
at the iniquities of State Socialism and the
martyrdom of Private Enterprise, even th<
staunchest Tory is apt to rub his eyes ana
wonder whether he reads and hears arign .
For a Tory Granny in her wrath will say
anything. She rails dementedly. Just now
the Melbourne Argus has lost her reason
(or her “block”) as the result of the Wati
Government’s refusal to lease any more coa
bearing country to Private Enterprise,
unhappy ancient beats her flat breast,
bangs her head against the stone wall ana
talks in this strain :
As soon as the State commenced operations at
Wonthaggi it became evident that Privat
prise was in every possible way to be g 1 •
forced out of the industry. .. - Such is, of course, the
true spirit of the State monopolist. In ,
mination to exclude competition it destroy I.
of development. For whoever heard, e P -
this crude Wonthaggi experiment, of a State dm g
industrial pioneering of any kind . All th
ever does in this way is to take over a
from the ownership and control of those! ig
created it and made it possible. Once that . P
taken progress invariably ceases.
Evidently the noor old Argus, in fi ei jb resen
frame of mind, is incapable of understand
ing that the progress of the railway a “ d
phone industries has not. ceased
were taken over from Private Entergris
Victoria. No use to tell the gibbeni g
lady that a State Government moves in the
matter of cold storage accommodation, and a
Federal Government proceeds to manuiac
ture Clothing for an y
boy and man soldiers. Idle to mentio
fact that the Vic. Government Pioneered its
own railwav rolling-stock #manufactui g
dustry, and is progressing with it. -Lue
Argus maintains that such e
and cannot be. These strange delusions are
the immediate outcome of the sad plight of
the Outtnm Coal Mining Co., which —-
. .had recently in hand money that in more favor-
able circumstances the directors could have advan-
tageousiy used in opening up new areas ; but instead
of doing so they divided the money among the share-
holders, and are considering whether they .will not
soon have to Wind up their affairs.
Private Enterprise has been forced to pocket
a lot of profits instead of investing the
money in the (possibly unsuccessful) at-
tempt to make further profits. The State
proposes to steal this opportunity from
P.E., and the profits will mostly go to the
public instead of to shareholders. More-
over, local Private Enterprise, which provides
the public with slack coal, is likely to be
undersold by the State mine, if Act of Par-
liament permits the outrage, so it appears
that “people money to lose” (i.e., Pri-
vate Enterprisers) are vainly hoping for “a
definite assurance that State selling will not
be permitted.” Hence the straws in the
Argus’s hair, the froth at her mumbling lips,
and the wild, unseeing stare in her poor,
mad eyes.
The Imperishable Independent.
C, G Wade, one-time State Premier of
N S W., is either a very simple-minded
man or else he is a stupendous bluffer. Con-
sider the following from the column-long
protest, which he lodged the other day,
against the formation of a Country party .
Within the Parliamentary party there is ; a distinct
section known as the Country party. There is a
sub-committee specially appointed to act on behal
of the country—to watch all matters effecting coun
trv interests, and to consult with the Liberal leader.
t anv coterie of members, calling themselves _ a
vure Country party, secure better results or exercise
more influence that does the country section of the
present Liberal party?.
The obvious answer is a resonant xes.
Absurd though it s«.Vnds;htheT^orraparlia-
liamentary party, like the Labor 1
mentary party, is out. primarily, not hai
£ much to advantage the State or any par-
ticular section thereof, as it is to seize office
and hold it. With that end in view would-
be Liberal candidates are forced to sign the
most binding pledges imaginable before they
are allowed to pursue a Liberal nomination ,
V iberal nominees have to sign more pledges ,
and Liberal members who betray a shadow
of restiveness under the party whip or, to
rmHt otherwise, who display the possession
put it ojnei > regard to any con-
ot minds oE theirown in g heartily
‘‘mugwumps” and “traitors.”
and if they Persist are ousted from the party
U Lip? (due of the main tragedies of
the° g archaic political system coder wh.ch
Australia staggers so painfully to and from
the pawnshop, lies in the fact that a long
spell in office is rarely the reward which a
party gets for doing the big and urgent
things. The Federal Labor party, for ex-
ample, was responsible for the imposition
of the Land Tax, and for the starting of a
local army and navy; it inaugurated the
Interstate Commission; and got a move on
with one transcontinental railway—neces-
saries which no previous party had had the
nerve to tackle. As one result the Cook
party, whose entire policy consists appar-
ently in changing the appearance of a stamp
and abolishing signed journalism, is in re-
ceipt of the wages and perquisites of office.
One of the first rules of the Party Govern-
ment game is: “Never alienate support.”
Another is: “Soothe the enemy, if possible,
while conceding him nothing of any value.”
A third is: “Remain inoffensively inert un-
less absolutely kicked into action.” The
above rules apply more particularly to Lib-
eral Administrations, which depend for so
much of their support, financial and other-
wise, on those who are interested in main-
taining the status quo. All of which cir-
cumstances make the institution of a separ-
ate Country party a first essential to decen-
tralisation or any other move which theatens
the material interests of Sydney and the
Sydney press. A country section of the
Liberal Parliamentary party is an extremely
useful thing in its way—useful, that is, to
get Liberalism into power and keep it there.
The fact that it is in existence acts as a
sort of balm, or emollient lotion on mad- ;
dened backblockers who are wooden-headed
enough not to see the audacious way in
which the Vested Interests of Sydney use
whichever party happens to be in power to
their own advantage. All hands are en-
couraged to blither about decentralisation
for all they are worth. As C. G. Wade
put it last week: —
Was it not the Liberal party who first initiated
decentralisation as a fixed principle of policy more
than three years ago? In pursuance of that prin-
ciple my Government appointed a Royal Commission
to determine upon the best routes for connecting up
the interior with coastal ports.
There is no vestige of trouble or protest
from anywhere until some misguided mem-
ber of the country section of the Parliamen-
tary party, exasperated by soothing but pro-
fitless chat, and the appointment of Royal
Commissions which lead nowhere, attempts
to make a definite move in the interests of
the country dwellers. Then such an uproar
arises from the Sydney papers and the Lib-
eral leaders, on the subject of discipline and
the need for the due observance thereof that
the wretched member either caves in, or
turns Independent and prepares for a swift
return to private life. The formation of a
Country party is as vital an essential to the
achievement of decentralisation in N. S.
Wales to-day as the formation of a
Nationalist party was to the achieve-
ment of Home Rule for Ireland in
the Mid-Victorian epoch. It is as
necessary that there should be inde-
pendent country representatives In the N. S.
Wales Legislative Assembly, if the country
is to make any headway against those whose
one aim in life is to bloat Sydney, as repre-
sentation by a lawyer or two would be in the
case of a citizen who was battling to estab-
lish his right to portion of a rich estate.
This is, no doubt, a regrettable, not to say
scandalous, state of affairs. Under a
rational system of government the whole
Parliament would be concerned, solely to do
its best for the State at large; and not be
driven to discriminate injuriously against
any one section as a condition of keeping
in office. But till Party Government is
abolished or human nature completely
changed, the formation of Independent par-
ties, with a collective motto of “Support in
return for Concession,” must continue to be
a feature of the political landscape.
The Policy of Preference to Rottenness.
To a deputation from the Dorrigo (N-S.W.)
district Minister-for-Works Gkiffith spoke
as follows last week :
In regard to Coif’s Harbor, he had spent a lot of
money in anticipation by ordering a plant for the
construction of a harbor there, and he was certain
Parliament would sanction his action. He intended
to make Coff’s Ilarhor a well-sheltered spot on the
north and Kembla a similar harbor on the south, so
that farmers should not send everything on the con-
gested lines to the city.
If a man owned a first-class motor-car, that
was in good running order, and, in prefer-
ence to travelling in it, had a ruined wheel-
barrow patched up, and hired someone to
push him about the city in that,. we should
say that he was eccentric. And if he had a
comfortable house, and yet insisted on inhab-
iting an inverted dust-box, or a damp, sea-
side cave, we should cast severe reflections
on his intellect. But hardly anyone has a
curse to fling at the N. S. Wales and Vic-
torian Ministers, who, for fear of prejudicing
the vested interests of Sydney or Melbourne,
as the case may be, blew millions of bor-
rowed money on harbors that are practically
useless to man or beast, while firmly ignor-
ing the very best things in this line that
adorn the coasts of Australia. Port Ste-
phens and Jervis Bay and Twofold Bay
have so often been given the glassy eye of
dislike and distrust, by successive N.S.W.
Ministries, Liberal and Labor, that the gen-
eral public has acquired a vague impression,
seemingly, that there is wrong
with them. That vague impression is, of
course, a false one. Jervis Bay is
probably the finest harbor N. S. Wales
possesses. Its natural advantages are so
many that it would cost an absurdly small
sum to so open it up that it would absorb
the whole of that trade between \V yalong
and the sea which now meanders expensively
to its destination -via Port Jackson. Port
Stephens is nearly as good. The bringing
of a railway to its shores, and the building of
a few wharves and similar trade necessaries
would mean that a hhge volume of IS or them
commerce would find an outlet there,
to the detriment of Sydney, possibly, but to
the vast advantage of the producer, and of
the State at large. These places are boy-
cotted by Sydney-bossed Ministries, not be-
cause they are in any way bad, but because
thev are too good. Their strong points——
their depth of water, their security in rough
weather, their vastness, and so on —are then-
weak points. Their virtues are their vices.
Thev are abhorrent to Sydney for the same
reason that the capable but, at the same
time disquietihgly beautiful housemaid is
anathema to the elderly and no longer lovelv
housewife. They are too dangerous. The result
is that the State’s (or rather the foreign
pawnbroker’s) money is wasted ceaselessly
on repairing and constructing and patching
up alleged ports, whose merit Consists
solely in the fact that if the wealth of all
the Rothschilds was expended on them
every year, they could never hope to rival
Sydney. Coif’s Harbor and Port Kembla
both fit into this category. They are so
insignificant that the latest available edition
of Harmsworth’s immense Atlas and
Gazetteer makes no mention of them. They
are the merest indentations on the face of a
rugged coast. Providence never intended
either of them to shelter so much as a sea-
gull. But because no matter what is done to
them, they can never be made sufficiently
safe or convenient to encourage the building
of an opposition city to Sydney in their
neighborhood, State Ministers feel that it
is safe to subsidise them; and because half
a loaf, or, for that matter, a fragment of
State crust, is better than no bread when
starvation looms, the Northerners and
Southerners go on clamoring for the expendi-
ture of more and more money on the futile
places. Another example of the same in-
sane tendency is afforded by the way cash
is poured out on the SiSYPHUS-like job of
keeping the State’s bar harbors in order.
Have you ever frequented a bar harbor,
gentle reader? The entrance to a bar har-
bor resembles a surfing beach, with a record-
sized line of breakers, the first of which is
about a mile from the shore. Between the
breakers the tide runs out (and likewise in)
along a narrow channel, after the fashion of
a mill-race. If the weather is perfectly calm ;
and the channel along which the tide careers
happens not to be silted up ; and the skipper
or pilot of your craft is absolutely sober, you
mnv get safely inside the bar harbor. Other-
wise you must stay outside till the sea mod-
erates ; or the channel is dredged clear ; or
the navigator sobers up. Once inside the
bar harbor you are liable to stick fast any-
where at any time, since the channel, which
is the harbor, is continually altering its for-
mation, depth and so on. Thousands are
spent yearly on these ridiculous and perilous
resorts. In fact, with the exception of Syd-
ney, the only harbors on which the otate
spends anything are inlets such as Narooma,
which can only be entered when the voy-
ager’s luck is well in, and dents or small
holes in the coast like Kembla, which were
no more intended by nature to be ports than
jaguars were intended to be black bream.
It is arguable whether it wouldn’t be a finan-
cial blessing to Australia if someone de-
stroyed Sydney utterly. For one thing, two
Sydneys would presently arise—one at Jer-
vis Bay and one at Port Stephens—in addi-
tion to the city that would begin tb re-form
at Port Jackson. Under the existing system
of preference to rottenness, as regards har-
bors, there can never be more than one
Sydney, and a collection of trade-starved
coastal villages.
Sydney is beginning to develop a shudder,v
feeling over what might have happened had
it been struck by virulent instead of modi-
fied small-pox. An enormous proportion or
the people had never been vaccinated at all,
for the Ma State doesn’t make vaccination
compulsory. Some 30 years ago the city
had a small-pox scare and went into raving
lunacy. Patients were rushed down to the
hospital shin Faraway, and shoved into any
odd corner of the vast hulk. There was no
proper system of registration or inspection.
It was merely a wild throwing on board.
When the scare was over and the Faraway
was cleaned up. dead bodies were found in
all sorts of odd corners. These were the
patients who had been heaved on to the
floating premises in the small hours of the
morning, and whom the doctors and nurses
had never heard of. Small-pox is an im-
partial disease, and has been known to at-
tack children before they were born. There
is no record of it having attacked anyone
after death, but' there it no proof that it
wouldn’t if it got the chance. Like nK)S f
other jim-jams it runs in a variety of shapes.
In confluent small-pox the eruption, instead
of coming out in small, single pimples, takes
the form of a huge patch, in which the face
seems to literally run out of shape. The dis-
figurement left by this brand is repulsive,
and somewhere about 50 per cent, of those
attacked die. One hundred per cent, of those
who get through it wish they had died, for
people cross the street rather than meet
them. Another form is the haemorrhagic, in
which the pocks and all the surfaces bleed,
and the patient is worn out by loss of blood,
and perishes of sheer weakness. But the
worst form is the malignant or toxic. Per-
haps one patient in 100 recovers, and his
face for ever afterwards is no more like a
face than it is like a pyramid or a tree. A
wooden god is human by comparison. In
the Glasgow epidemic of 1900-1901 the mor-
tality among the un-vaccinated was 516 per
1000. aDd 104 per 1000 among the vacci-
nated. The vaccinated ones had probably
neglected to be re-vaccinated when the
scourge came, but still derived considerable
benefit from the treatment. However, it is
cheering to know that vaccinated babies are
absolutely immune from any form of the
hideous complaint, and the moral is obvious.
Many of the objections to vaccination have
disappeared owing to the abolition of human
transmission. Virus from one child used to
infect the other with more than cow-pox.
and sometimes produce a crop of troubles. But
in these days pure calf-lymph only is used,
and bab.v can be scratched with impunity and
a light heart.
The Vic. Timber Fallers’ Wages Board has
issued a log for the industry with which it
is concerned. Naturally timber fallers want
a log. Employees must in future pay their
“head snig horse drivers” (Lord knows what
a snig horse is; the writer doesn’t —but let
it pass) £3 6s. per week of 52 hours; drivers
of any vehicle used to carry logs to the mill,
£3 6s. per week of 48 hours; head fallers,
ropemen and bullock team drivers, £3 10s. ;
ordinary fallers, £2 15s. 6d.; shootmen, as-
sistant ropemen and assistant drivers, £2
145.; and men conveying logs from water
depot to mill. £2 11s. per week of 48 hours.”
What a mild circumstance the pro-
posed Rural Workers’ Log (about which
such an uproar of protest was raised in
Vic. farming circles during the late elec-
tion) appears by comparison with the above.
The Rural Workers’ reps, ask for 40s. a
week and “found” for ploughmen. 355. a
week and “found ’ for dairy hands, and so
on. Now if an ordinary taller or axeman is
worth 455. Od. and a common or blastiferous
bullocky 70s. per week, isn’t a competent
The Loans.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
See the merry little Loans—
Infant Loans!
What a world of usury their littleness con-
dones !
How they captivated members,
In the ancient, dead Decembers —worthy
members, such as Juggins, Smith, and
Robinson, and Jones !
Planted nicely in the sraveyard, under their
respective stones!
How those Ministers departed—once so jolly
and light-hearted—
In a gladsome moment started with those
friendly, little Loans—
Saying: “ Borrow — borrow — borrow! We
can pay 'em off to-morrow; and this
world is full of sorrow, so we'll raise
some little Loans!"
Note the well-developed Loans —
Grown-up Loans!
Lusty, hairy-breasted fellows, who are any-
thing but drones!
How they throng about the Nation, dazed
’twixt Drought and Condemnation, like a
Second Dispensation— not in Sinai’s
thunder-tones !
How each adult Loan discloses, tables certi-
fied by Moses — interest-tables, one sup-
poses* where the Gentile State atones!
High ambassadors of Cohen, ever growin’,
growin’, growin’—
When they’ll stop there seems no knowin’ —
even Robinson and Jones,
Who are now quite ancient bones.
Cannot send a spook to tell us if they’re
never-dying Loans,
Haunting Young Australia’s portal, or if,
after all, they’re mortal—
They look good for many laps, do those
hairy-breasted chaps—Oh, a Century,
perhaps!—
These same well-developed Loans.
Mark the legion of the Loans —
Monster Loans!
What a mighty horde of them that everyone
disowns!
How they haunt us day and night, never
absent from our sight—ranked on cen-
tre, left, and right —Hear their groans!
They are groaning to be fed—
Not a single Loan is dead, though some sixty
years are sped—just like Jones !
Smith and Robinson and Brown, who once
ruled the blessed town, years ago were
fastened down,
But their Loans —
Still inhabit this fair region ; they are grown
a mighty Legion, who are constantly
besiegin’ —New South Wales !
All the merry infant Loans — .
All the middle-agbd Loans, lusty, hairy-
breasted Loans —
All the new-made, monster Loans —
Are on deck!
There are ancient, withered Loans, like old
greybeards and bent crones, who appeal
in piping tones to be nursed
There are stalwart, whiskered Loans, who
declare they’ll grind our bones for cash
lent on telephones—things accursed!
There are also Loans galore, just recruited
by the score, who are yelling out for
more —they’re the worst! _
While the Nation mutters “Time! m a sort
of looney rhyme, with audacity sublime,
more loans rise,
Bearing interest at Four and a Half-yea,
even more —soon the thing we all abhor
(just like Jones!)
Will be here; that is to say, we shall soon
be ashed to pay! And will Cohen
heed our moans?... .
Not a heed! Kings on their thrones have
been routed by the Loans by the mel-
ancholy folly of the Loans—Loans—
Loans (19 times).
N.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.


SAVED HUNDREDS OF CHILDREN.
“My sons, Charles and John, are subject to colds,”
says Mrs. C. Carter, 33 Market Street, South Mel-
bourne (Vic.). “Some time back I would have lost
both of them with croup but for the timely advice
of Mrs. Snowden, who recommended me to give them
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. I tried it, and saw
the change for the better in them right away, and
they were both soon well again. 1 have seen the
lives of hundreds of children saved by Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy.”*
Be Ever Youthful
The greatest
enemy to a
youthful
appearance
is
Grey Hair.
This can be
overcome by
using
MARIE Permanent
ha'ir stain
(Registered) 1 1 -
The latest and best scientific discovery for
restoring grey or faded hair to its natural
color. Guaranteed not to wash, wear or
rub off. Is not affected by sea air or surf*
Ing ; proof against humid or damp atmos-
pheres. Is not greasy; never varies in
shade or goes patchy; is non-injurious; leaves hair soft,
silky and brilliant; aids growth, and is permanent.
PRICE 10/6; Postage 6d. extra. Sold in four shades;
Light Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
Free Test given to all who call at my Salon. Money
returned if hair not permanently stained.
Prepared and Sold only by
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL, Ladies’ Hair Specialist
Only Address : 46 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY
Register all Letters. (Opposite Hotel Australian.
T
n
r
P:
m
Famous scenes in foreign lands
are now known to everyone through the
medium of the pictures.
Our business is to entertain—and where
is there such entertainment to be had—
such instructive entertainment—as is
available to everyone at popular prices
at our theatres?
Our New Theatre:
The Empress, Prahran (Melbourne),
and 6 others.
WM. If. MILLER, Gen'l Manager.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
COES
ploughman worth 50s. —which is what 40s.
and “found” amounts to? Of course timber-
cutting is rather more of a manufacturing
than a rural industry. Though necessarily
carried on in the backblocks it is scarcely a
“primary” industry—the mills are run on
much the same lines as a city factory, as
far as the employees are concerned —and the
semi-manufacturing and “secondary” em-
ployer is always expected to —and does, as
a rule —pay decent wages. The primary pro-
ducer in the purely rural industries is re-
garded as a poor, spineless being who must
always be assisted in some way or another by
State charity and must be allowed to sweat
his employees till further orders. That, at
any rate, is the reputation his press bar-
rackers are getting for him.
The suffragette captains are said to have
made all the necessary arrangements
for setting fire to London in sundry
places at a given time, but, after
getting all the phosphorus and com-
bustibles in readiness for a lovely burst of
conflagration, they spoilt the scheme by in-
viting French aviators to fly along to the
scene of action and drop bombs into the
burning. The astonished foreigners warned
the British Ambassador in Paris, and the
police seized the stock of fire-kindling mater-
ials. If this story is as true as it sounds,
the Pankiiurst Government should retire
from business. There is no reasonableness
in women who could imagine the pluckiest
of aviators willing to take a share in a
murderous job in a friendly country, or being
ready to sympathise with its organisers.
The Frenchmen were sure to give the game
away. Any half-witted man could have
told the women they were imagining a vain
thing. If the suffragettes want any bomb-
dropping from aeroplanes to be done on be-
half of their cause they will have to do it
themselves. And why not? A Pank-
hurst who winged her flight with a packet
of nitro-glycerine and dynamite drops
aboard, and let them fall from such a giddy
height that they exploded in mid-air, and
blew her into smithereens, would be a splen-
did martyr to her convictions, as well as a
useful experimentaliste. Thus far, the
effect of dropping explosives from the clouds
has not been properly tested.
+
Soa;e few weeks back the N.S.W. Post Office
bosses received a letter from a Sydney resi-
dent, offering, for a consideration, to show
where the Department had lost £6OOO. The
bosses having required particulars, the cor-
respondent gave dates, names, and the
amount due, which he said was £5933. Later
on, he received a communication that a spe-
cial audit by experts had been made of the
accounts of the firm mentioned, and the audi-
tors were satisfied that the informer was
barking up the wrong vegetable. Where-
upon he remarked that the G.P.O. had been
paying refunds of duty on imported postal
material where it wasn’t due. He also
sooled more dates and other information at
the Department, which, in desperation, called
up its whole reserve of investigators. They
found that the G.P.O. was out to the tune
of £5983, and the money, being applied for,
was promptly paid. The lynx-eyed citizen
who directed the postal tortoise to the moun-
tain of shortage was awarded £4O0 —a very
cheap fee in the circumstances.
+ _
It is time that Charles Gregory Wade,
ex-Premier of N.S.W., was saved from his
friends. Thus James Alexander Hogue,
ex-MiDister. about the wonderful fact that
Wade didn’t appoint himself to the job of
Chief Justice of N.S.W.
“We offered it to him,” said Mr. Hogue. “We
urged; him to take it, again and again. I have
good Reason for saying that his intimate friends and
relatives wanted him to take it. The legal profes-
sion was favorable, so was the press, and the Oppo-
sition desired it. We all wished him to take the
position, although conscious of the great loss the
party would sustaim But he refused it, for con-
scientious reasons, ft w*s a sacrifice unexampled in
the political history of the country. How many
members of the Labor party would have refused a
position worth £3500 a year, with a substantial
pension on retirement?”
Wheii a disastrous friend like Hogue drags
up unpleasant memories like that, it is up
to someone to speak to the disastrous
friend. The legal profession wasn’t favor-
able to Wade’s proposed appointment. It
regarded Wade as nothing approaching the
right size of man for the job. The
press was largely hostile. Sydney Tele-
graph, for example, was absolutely insult-
ing on the subject. The friends and rela-
tives didn’t count, being biassed parties.
And (the sacrifice wasn’t “unexampled.”
Every’ previous Attorney-General of
N.S.W. has abstained from appointing him-
self to the Bench. Wade was the only man
of them all who seemed to come near to
departing from an honorable precedent in
this respect. His possible appointment
hovered for months before he definitely and
publicly tore himself away from the tempta-
tion which men like Wise and Want, of his
own State, and Bryan O’Loghlen, of Vic-
toria, didn’t consider for a second. As
regards the gibe at the Labor party, no Labor
political lawyer has yet rushed the Bench. Cer-
tainly Griffith, in Queensland, and Bar-
ton, Isaacs and Higgins in Federal
affairs, went from politics to the Bench ; but
they weren’t Laborites.
Hardly had Cook taken his seat as Prime
Minister at the opening of Parliament than
he got a foretaste of his doom. Bruce
Smith was absent. When his name was
called for swearing-in, Bruce was still miss-
ing, and the Whip, muttering a prayer, fled
out of the hall to find him. In a few min-
utes he returned, followed by the missing
majority, which he carefully deposited in its
seat. But the chances are that, when an
important division is on, this majority will
not be so easily discovered, and Cook will
realise what sort of a mistake he made
when he neglected to hold down and anchor
Bruce Smith to the floor of the House with
a portfolio. The most urgent need of the
Cook Ministry just now is the discovery of
some means to glue Bruce Smith to his job
and keep him glued.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Koval. “Henry V.”
Her Majesty’s •‘Autumn Manoeuvres.”
Palace... “The Grafters.”
AnEi.mil “No Mother to Guide Her.’
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre ....... “The Great Adventure.”
National Amphi m katke Brennans Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric t
Colonial. 1 V Continuous Pictures.
Em tress J
Crystal Palace. Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
Glaciarium. Ice Skating.
MELHOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Adeline Genfee.
Princess’s “Girl Who Loved a Soldier”
King’s “On Our Selection,” ,
Royal “Within the Law.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer's Pictures.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
“Theatre-goer,” on the One form of Show
that Australia has not yet seen: —
Australian managements have chased the elusive
oof-bird with almost every conceivable class of show,
of late years, from beliow-drama to “Twelfth Night,”
and from light comedy to screaming farce; but the
one sure money-maker they have, for some reason
or other, left unexploited. There is a fortune for
the first management which puts on a Review in
this country. Reviews (or R&vues, as they are called
in their land of- origin) have been steadily ousting
the legitimate, and a good many other forms of
drama all over the world for the past five years.
The only two that have not done sensationally well
have been “J’adore Ca” and “Come Over Here” in
London; and they boomed conspicuously in Paris
and New York, which were their respective native
cities. The Review type of show, which is approved-
of abroad, would be wildly popular here, for a whole
herd of obvious reasons. Australians are extremely
self-centred. Year by year, as the national spirit
grows, they are taking less and less interest in out-
side affairs, and more and more in their own. To
the average Australian, the local trainees are far
more absorbing than the entire British army; and
Speaker Willis is a more interesting figure to them
than Poincare or the Kaiser. Incidentally, they are
the greatest newspaper readers and politicians on
earth. Not a local gag, social or political, would
miss them. Not a local character would go unrecog-
nised. A Review is really a sort of sublimated
gossip ; and a big section of Australians love gossip
more than they love drink, as many a maddened
Governor, and so forth, has had cause to know.
Australians, in their passion for broad humor and
bitter satire; in their national self-consciousness;
and in their love of seeing their own institutions
burlesqued, bear a close resemblance to the Greeks,
who first discovered the usages of the Review.
The musical comedy vogue is pasing all over the
world. More especially it is passing here. A produc-
tion with special features such as “The Waltz
Dream,” or with unusually charming music, such as
“The Merry Widow” will still make good, of course.
But anything short of exceptional—not to say, stag,
gering—merit is bound to do more and more indiffer-
ently even in a country where theatre-going is, to
many people, a form of religious rite that simply
must be performed at short intervals. Musical
comedy continues to hold its head up to a certain
extent among us, partly because it is excellently done
by the J. O. Williamson management, as regards the
acting and staging ; partly because it has no rival in
its own line. But the subject-matter has long
ceased to have any local interest whatever. And
the absence of plot, which is an advantage in cities
like London and New York, where people drop into
a show at all hours, is a source of constant irrita-
tion to Sydneyites and Melbourneites, who mostly
arrive at the theatre in a state of coldly critical
sobriety at 8 pm., and remain doggedly till 11.
The successful Australian Review will have no
fantasy about it. (Did you ever notice how abhor-
rent fantasy is to Australia? “Peter Pan,” “The
Blue Bird,” and both productions of “A Midsummer
Night's Dream” were all failures, more or less. And
now word comes that the incomparable Genee is
doing none too well in Melbourne.) It will not
portray distant places like the Court of Ilistria or
the London Embankment. It yvill cut out the fairies
and animated dolls that are featured in so many
Paris revues. And it will not contain any jests about
Winston Churchill, or Lloyd-George’s Insurance Act.
On the other hand, it will have something in the
nature of a coherent plot. The humor and the
language will be such as Australians are familiar
with. It will tshow places that everybody knows,
and faces that *9O per cent, of the audience will
delightedly recognise—the chief reasons these why
“On Our Selection” is the sufecess it is. And as I
remarked before, there will ,be the fortune of a
lifetime in it—.and other fortunes, in other shows
of the sort, even after the first tremendous success
of curiosity has achieved.
# . * * *
A public event which calls for considera-
tion is the meeting of the Good Roads Asso-
ciation in the vestibule of Sydney Town Hall
at four o’clofck on July *24 —Thursday, a
week hence. The roads of N.S.W. are a
disgrace. They are starved by mean rate-
payers and cheap aldermen and hungry
mayors, who think the short cut to popu-
larity is to keep the rates down to Is. in the
£, and have bogs, precipices, horrors, ruts
and nightmares, when the rate ought to be
2s. and the highways like billiard tables.
The starvation scheme doesn’t pay, for
the community loses more in bumps,
accidents, delay, wear and tear of
vehicles and ruin of horses than it
saves in rates, and it has the disgrace
thrown in. The Good Roads Association
has a word to say about these matters, and
the public is cordially invited. That public,
if it only knew what good roads are,
wouldn’t require to be invited. It would
have invited itself long ago. Incidentally,
if the mayor didn’t mend his ways, a more
intelligent set of people would unanimously
elect him ex-mayor next year.
J. C. Williamson’s death makes practically
no difference to the management of the firm
in which, for the past two years, he was little
more than a figure-head. When the Combine
was formed, J.C.W. disposed of two-thirds
of his interest in the co. to his right-hand
man, George Tallis. Since then, and even
before then, Tallis was the controlling
force, although his old boss* drew a large
salary as “governing director.” The vete-
ran’s health had been his main concern for
some time past, and, when he went travel-
ling in company with the chief “managing
director,” it was the latter who selected
such big shows as “Within the Law” and
Gen6e. George Tallis, Clyde Meynell and
Hugh Ward will run the business exactly
as before, but will gradually broaden the
lines, no doubt. Tallis owns more than half
of it, and is wealthy in investments outside
of his theatrical interests. Moreover, he
is still quite young, as self-mhde capitalists
go. He entered Williamson’s employ as
clerk, about 25 years ago, and he brought a
head for figures and a talent for organisation
with him. His name first figured on the
bill as treasurer for Williamson and Mus-
grove, at Melb. Princess’s. Then he became
business manager at the same house, and
from the time when Williamson dissolved
partnership with Musgrove, there was
rapidly-increasing scope for Tallis’s mana-
gerial ability. By the death of his old boss
and partner, he is put in the position of
recognised head of the Combine.
“HENRY V." AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
The King of France (Halliwell Hobbes)
gives the Princess to Handsome Henry (Lewis
Waller).
The Sydney Criterion will remain un-
populated till Saturday, when “Miss Hook
of Holland,” in which title it is suspected
there is concealed a vague kind of geo-
graphical joke, will re-appear.
The last week of “Bobby Burnit” at the
Little Theatre (Sydney V is. announced. On
Monday Arnold Bennett’s comedy, “The
Great Adventure,” now running in London,
will be presented. This is the story of a
great artist who, in the pretended person of
his dead valet, finds the happiness and the
woman that, as a great artist, he failed to
discover.
u' 'l' *
There will be no more “Autumn
Manoeuvres” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
after next week. Miss Florence Young and
her delightful voice; Miss Arundale and
her cheery wit; Miss Dorothy Brunton and
her charm and youthful beauty; likewise
Talleur Andrews and the comedian Smith,
and Roberts and the rest of the warriors
are all getting ready to load up the ,baggage-
taxies, see to the powder-supplies, and strike
camp. A hideous rumor has been permeat-
ing the lines, and percolating to the en-
trenchments, that Miss Mollie Bearde, the
splendid show-lady who spurned the dia-
monds the other day, has packed up her
impedimenta of war and left the scene of
action already. It is all very sad. As some
slight compensation, the incomparable Gende
is due to arrive at Sydney’s biggest play-
house the night after the military show
effects its retreat.
** * *
Carl Prinz’s monkeys are back at the
National Amphitheatre (Sydney) helping
Tomato, the comic donkey, to rouse the mul-
titude to hilarity. Now, if only Cook could
be induced to bring on the Socialistic tiger
what a programme it would be! Unfor-
tunately, Joseph has to keep the beast on a
hair-trigger, so to speak, in the Federal Par-
liament lobbies, Melbourne, in case the caged
Majority attempts to escape.
At the Palace (Sydney), William Ander-
son’s American burlesque co; is still doing
big business with “The Grafters.” The
show is now in its fifth week, and appears
likely to run to the completion of the season,
a month hence.
** * *
The Bulletin nurses its sore arm and
howls above the groans of the multitude
that on Friday night “Man to Man,” hither-
to at Sydney Adelphi, will quit the quaran-
tined town. “No Mother to Guide Her”
(the Her in the case being Ethel Buckley)
is due on Saturday night.
If Sydney Tivoli-ites had developed a
habit of going regularly to Clara Butt con-
certs and such-like, Lola Krasavina, the
Russian operatic singer, wouldn’t get a very
enthusiastic reception. But,’ as most of
them don’t inhabit the Town Hall on such
occasions, she gets the reception on a big
scale, and The Bulletin isn’t going to
deny her any of it. The rest of the pro-
gramme is much the same as it was last
week, but a special word might be given to
the Banvards (last nights), Billie Reeves
the drunk, and the wire-walking Havilans.
After a record run of about eight weeks,
“Quo Vadis” at Sydney Lyceum will “snatch
its time” on Friday night. On Saturday,
Spencer’s will incite Young Australia to
become patriotic by screening “Australia
Calls,” a picture which includes various
military manoeuvres, aeroplane flights by
Hart, and the burning of Sydney. The
yarn is by J. Barr and C. A. Jeffries, whom
The Bulletin knows to be good craftsmen
and individually and collectively capable of
perpetrating the best picture idea that ever
was or will be. Edison’s new invention, the
Kinetophone, which provides the dialogue
and sounds incidental to a picture, will be
introduced the same evening.
Some of England’s clanking, iron-clad
history is now being beautifully illustrated
by Lewis Waller and co., at the re-decorated
Sydney Royal. The Battle of Agincourt
tableaux, the departure scene on Southamp-
ton Quay, the Harfleur setting, and the
night view of the English lines, with the
wavering lines of glowing watch fires on the
bleak hills, are alone worth the entrance
money. Then it is worth the price of
another stall to hear Madge Titheradge,
classically garbed and throned as Chorus,
deliver the speech before the curtain.
Finally, there is Lewis Waller—for nothing,
so to speak. The distinguished London
actor looks astonishingly youthful as the
mailed Henry, and his fine performance is
practically effortless. Not till the wooing
of Katherine in the last scene does he get
a chance to descend from the heroic key:
and then he is so unaffected and smiles so
sweetly that the women in the audience go
away sighing that Shakspeare’s clashing
battle-play has not got enough love-making
in it! Miss Titheradge, charmingly youthful
and winsomely intelligent, promises 'to heat)
more local laurels on a distinguished and
well-loved name. Her speeches as Chorus
are delivered with perfect elocution and tell-
ing effect. As the shy Princess Katherine,
in the last scene, she plays up prettily to the
bluff and boisterous Harry, who really seems
glad to throw off his heroic collar and get
down to a human, everyday level. The per-
fect love-making of the two finished artists
is just glimpsed for a few brief minutes in
the sentimental ending to all the steel-clad
battle spectacles. If Shakspeare were writ-
ing to-day he would have to hurry his lead-
ing lady into sight of the audience before
the final scene. Halliwell Hobbes, the re-
strained and careful actor who was last
here with Ethel Irving, supplies two good
old-men studies as the Archbishop of Can-
terbury and the frail and doddering King of
France. George Titheradge, a proud father
in mail, as Duke of Exeter, arrests the
three traitors on the Quay in a dignified
manner, and describes the finding of the
battle-scarred bodies in a heart-breaking
speech never excelled by mortal policeman.
Evelyn Beerbohm (Pistol), a swaggering
scarecrow in a red cloak and an electrically
disturbed wig and moustache, reminiscent of
Will Whitburn, gets the most out of his
picturesque role. Alec F. Thompson, a
little soldierly figure with earden produce in
his helm, is pleasantly effervescent as the
talkative Fluellen. Charles Ouartermaine
(the Dauphin). Edmund Waller (Nvm).
and Harry Halley (Bardolnh) are others
who demand honorable mention.
* * * *
Leonai'da.” in four acts, by Bjornson.
suggests something mediaeval and 'gloomy.
In reality, it is a modern “Cousin Kate.”
Hagbart got engaged to Aagot, and then fell
in love with her aunt. This good one-act
idea has been unduly spun out, and the Ade-
laide Literary Theatre, giving what it claims
to be the first hearing of any Bjornsen play
in Australia, was to with respectful
attention rather than interest. There is
just one effective moment. Aagot has had
the wit to detect the truth about Hagbart.
It is you he loves,” she declares —and goes
away to stav. The ground seems to be
cleared, and Aunt allows herself to admit to
Hagbart that she reciprocates. And then
back comes the girl, prattling of her wed-
ding. “Sorry I was so foolishly jealous


Melba was the most interviewed person in London
round and about the recent 25th anniversary of her
first appearance at Covent Garden. Asked what she
regarded as her crowning triumph, the apex of her
carper she replied, “My return to Melbourne after 16
vears’' absence! That was the most deeply emotional
experience "n my professional life, and I shall never
forget it.”
IW4
*•
H
k a-
Scnweppfb
SARTO
is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root with special
flavorings, the recipe, for which
is held by SCHWEPPES LTD.
exclusively.
SARTO is a refreshing bever-
age, and, being a blood purifier,
has most excellent tonic properties.
It is greatly improved by a slice
of fresh lemon.
MEDICAL MEN
RECOMMEND...
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS A WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. u
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INBURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Victorian Branch : 50 Melbourne. pjjj g S t rCCtS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
■Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
just now. Absurd, of course. Forget
that I. ever said _ it!” Miss Ethel
Lewis, in this part, did the best work she
has ever done, and Miss Stella Earle, as the
young and charming aunt, had but one blem-
ish —over-deliberation. To ston to think
before speaking is natural in real life, fatal
on the stage. There was sound support by
James Anderson, Wadmore, and Miss Murie'l
Craigie. It was not the players’ fault that
every conversation was longer than is inter-
esting or necessary.
Sc * sH *
At Adelaide Royal the comic opera season
finished with “Florodora,” in which Blanche
Browne elected to be Dolores, and Palotta
scored once more in “Tact.” Now it is “Kis-
met,” with the heavy mounting skilfully
adapted to the small stage. Adelaide grum-
bles at the raised prices, but cannot stay
away. The booking was even stronger at
the end of the run than at the beginning.
Incidentally a Kismet Ball at the Exhibi-
tion provided a lot of amusement, with good
money for the Children’s Hospital. The
closing of the Royal for one night gave visit-
ing players a chance to wander, and Madge
Temple, at the Tivoli, calling on “married
men who love their wives” to stand up and
sing, had the pleasant surprise of a solo from
Jack Cannot in the stalls. O Hana San is
still at the Tivoli, and the powerful Bell-
clairs have just come in. At the King’s is
Paul Gorden, on a return visit, tipsily wire-
walking ; also Armstrong and Howarth, and
Vernon and Mack. Wondergraph remains at
the Town Hall, its new Hindley-street palace
being well advanced, but not ready, and relies
largely on local football matches ; but West’s
peg away solidly with “Quo Vadis,” of which
fine drama the public can seemingly stand
unlimited weeks.
** * *
The dance and song festivities at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) were varied and further
enlarged last Saturday, although “Coppelia”
remained in the centre of the bill as before.
In the first place “The Daring of Diane”
was substituted for the mild, melodious story
of Suzanne and her cigarette habit. “Diane,”
which is a mere trifle, lasting only 20 min-
utes, introduced Miss Hilda Vining in the
name part. If the audience had thought
more of the operetta the merit of Miss
Vining would have been more generally
noticed. Then, after “Coppelia” had added
one more laurel to Genre’s local crown, that
indefatigable little lady figured as fairy-in-
chief of “Les Sylphides,” a muslin-skirted
ballet that moves to the music of Chopin.
The star’s chief support—actually as well
as figuratively speaking—is Alex. Volinin
(stated to be “the vision of Chopin”). whilst
Halina Schmolz and little Miss Novotna
are occasional soloists who supply ripping
tripping items. For instance, Miss Schmolz
gets her daintiest effect by seeming to be
blown backwards on her toes. Gen6e, how-
ever, gets all the pirouetting and posing that
need young man Volinin’s assistance. In
her poetic picture work, Gen6e is as dis-
tinctively light-hearted as in her humorous
pantomime, and each succeeding Saturday
she seems an even more ethereal body than
she was a week previously. But the fine art
of the principals goes to lessen the illusion
of the ballet as a whole. It is too chaste
for the surroundings. The rank and file
girls twitter not ungracefully on their toes,
yet they lack sylphideousness. They are
darlings of this world rather than denizens
of the sylvan groves of fancy. There is
nothing elusive about them. One never
thinks of them as being likely to fly up to
Heaven or melt into space. Friday is the
last night of “Coppelia.” which will have to
make room for an Oriental ballet on Satur-
day. The Divertissements are unchanged
and presumably the Swan dance of Halina
Schmolz. and lier delightful pas de flirtation
with Volinin, will be encored for the rest of
the season.
** * *
There is nothing .new to say of “Within
the Law,” in its ninth week at Melbourne
Royal, except that Sw r eeney, the “stool
pigeon,” is also taking part in the operetta
at Her Majesty’s. After completing his
stunt as a poet in the curtain-raiser at one
house he rushes off to the other place and
gets murdered for conniving with the police.
Bispham, whose other name is David, re-
turns to the Melbourne Auditorium this
(Thursday) evening for another short sea-
son. He matinees on Saturday (Saturday
evenings being dedicated to Opera lops),
and sings again on Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday next week. By the way, i ridays
at the Auditorium are reserved for popular
lectures, and to-morrow night Professor
Tucker will take A Walk Through Imperial
Rome.
“On Our Selection” continues to fill Mel-
bourne King’s with mirth and money, lhe
programme refrains from classifying this
lucrative show. It is not described as drama,
melo-drama, comedy or play, but as a
Quaint Story of a Settler’s Life, and under
any other definition it would get there just
the same. The reason for the success is
shared by sundry causes, whereof the ab-
surdity of Dave’s nose is not more im-
nortant than the battered respectability ot
Dad’s belltopper. Public interest is stimu-
lated by Dad’s crowning glory. People go
away Yvondering how he ever contrived to get
into Parliament with a hat like that.
*. # * *
The Melbourne halls are always finding
tenants at this time of year. A new com-
pany of Branscombe’s Dandies starts an
innings at the Athenaeum to-night (Thurs-
day), and the Masonic is to be re-opened
°? Monday (29th) under the management
of Faulkner Smith. Dorothea Spinney, who
comes with a series of Grecian and Irish
platform plays, will introduce herself to
Australia at the Masonic.
* * * *
“The Girl Who Loved a Soldier,” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, is an infuriated play of
Sydney life, aggravated by strong resem-
blances to almost every other stage howl
that the writer knows. Despite its harbor
scenery and its bits of atmosphere from
Chowder Bay, Darling Point, and other
spots within the quarantine area, many Eng-
lish' effusions would have no hesitation in
calling it sister and giving it a fraternal
hug. Still it must be said to the credit of
the show that it has a strain of hyperbolic
exaggeration which is all its own, and there
is one scene wherein the author shows a
genius for imaginative sacrilege by dragging
in Sydney’s haughtiest Anglican cathedral
by the scruff of the belfry, so to speak. One
Toby Trackem, a boy scout, is the play’s
most prevalent institution, and he is always
on hand to save the hero from becoming a
heap of remains on the moist floor of Sydney
Harbor. Toby’s stunts in the matter
of hero-salvage might earn his creator a
fine of 7d. for larceny from current dramas;
but he is a cheerful lunatic whom one
Crossley shows to be in great need of a
voice jube and some dramatic culture.
George Cross, as th 6 heroic artillery private
with a habit of inventing submarines, has to
keep his usual loveliness in reserve, and
Lloyd is the wicked stockbroker with a fond-
ness for large and baffling misdemeanors —
like, say, cheeking a policeman or pinching
a canary. The only other people who call
for comment are Miss Agnes Keogh, who
plays Olga Lazaroff with engaging uphol-
stery, and C. J. Ennis, who unfortunately
brings to the portrayal of the heavy dad
the physique of a lead pencil. The others
are as flat as last month’s beer or this
month’s Booligal.
“The Modern Prodigal” leaped on to the
screen at Melbourne Majestic on Saturday,
and, after the manner of his kind, suddenly
tore away home to find that his mother’s
cupboard was bare and her bank account
emnty. Of course, the welcome stranger
succors the author of his being. With the
coin that used to be spent in riot and gam-
ing at the Hog’s Husk Club he puts the
commissariat and the bank account on their
feet and becomes a whale for piety and early
bed. Taken altogether, the film is a fine
pictorial tract.
GENRE
SEASON,
AT HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
Gence get annoyed.
Volinin goes up for
a mark.
Lucy Gillet has arrived at Melbourne
Opera House with her packet of juggling
tricks and her tendency to somersault on
the slightest provocation. The. young lady
won’t make Cinquevalli feel envious, but her
large, comfortable self-confidence and her
taking manner of using her understandings
go a long way to make her a pleasing en-
tertainment. Miss Irma Caron, the other
fresh face, fiddles the time-worn Barcarolle
creditably enough, but isn t sumptuously
equipped in a vocal sense. Other turns,
human, animal and feathered, are very
passable or even more so, the only drawback
being A. G. Spry’s poor, wheezy cross-talk
with an accomplice in the audience.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Private Boxer”: One begins to believe the Lon-
don managers’ assertion that everything connected
with the stage has become extravagantly dear of
late. The damages in breach-of-promise cases
brought by stage beauties, for instance.. Only the
other clay a Miss Daisy Markham (the name seems
to suit, somehow) wrested £50,000 from a Marquis
who preferred to part with his money rather than
marry his actress. A few years back Daisy’s lacer-
ated heart would, perforce, have had to be healed
with about half of 50,000 pence. Even the rather
famous Miss Fortescue, when she brought her action
for breach—a cause celebre of the period-—against
Lord Garmoyle (“Gumboil” to the irreverent) was
awarded only £lO,OOO.
Nellie Bramley, who helped to make “The Monk
and the Woman” boom for Marlow, is a very sick
girl nowadays, having been operated on four times
during the last few weeks. Although she has not
been on the boards for long (she is only 23), the
young Australian has done some good work, and has
got near the top of the tree in local melodrama.
“S.T.S.”: The one speech in “Milestones” which
seems to ring absolutely untrue is that of the poli-
tician, that his intended marriage may “kill the
Labor party.” Consider it as a personal matter.
At the age of 50, you are impelled irresistibly to
marry your old sweetheart. You being a Labor
leader, and she the daughter of a Conservative
baronet and widow of a peer, it is not an ideal alli-
ance, and, as soon as you have fallen into each
other's arms, misgivings set in. “This will kill
father,” she sighs; and you, as in duty bound, re-
assure her: “The old gentleman is pretty tough.”
And then you add (incredibly): “It may kill the
Labor party!” No man would admit, or even
realise, that his domestic affairs could kill his party.
Probably even Parnell, of whom it was very nearly
true, would have shied at that way of phrasing it.
It is the remark of a cynical person in the opposite
camj>—not of the successful lover and leader most
concerned.
“U.S.”: J.C.W.’s death recalls the parallel between
his Dutch “Struck Oil” and Jefferson’s Dutch “Rip
Van Winkle.” Williamson bought “The Deed,” ajid had
it turned round into “Struck Oil.” Its success in San
Francisco justified his coming to Australia. Coppin,
Stewart, Hennings and Greville refused him a mod-
est salary. Australia opened London to him. Jeff-
erson, 12 years earlier, had re-shaped a crude “Rip
Van Winkle” drama. He made a success with it in
San Francisco, and so was emboldened to try Aus-
tralia. Manager Tolano, at Sydney Vic., re-
fused him a modest salary. And he did so well on
his own that he was also able shortly to steer for
London. Here he had the piece re-written again by
Boucicault. It ran 150 nights. “Struck Oil” ran
100.
“The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” being exactly 20
years old in May, was revived on Derby Day by
George Alexander and Mrs. Pat Campbell, the origi-
nal Tanqueray and Paula.
Beerbohm Tree, at Her Majesty’s, London, is
going to produce “Joseph and His Brethren” —-the
first Biblical play duly licensed by the Lord Cham-
berlain. This recalls that a play on the same sub-
ject by George Rignold and Rev. George Walters,
successfully performed in Sydney and Melbourne,
was refused a license when Rignold took it to Lon-
don, on the ground that there was a “long-estab-
lished rule of the Lord Chamberlain’s Department
not to license any drama avowedly drawn from
Scriptural sources.” Evidently somebody has in-
spected the rule and found that the moths have
made holes in it large enough fo let a knight
through, where a mere untagged actor and a parson
pushed and scrambled in vain.
Arthur Tranton, a popular though not widely ad-
vertised member of the Asche-Brayton co., died
other day, while on the way back to the Cold Country.
Tranton, who was Oscar’s understudy, appeared for a
time in the Melbourne production of “Kismet,” but
soon had to go into a private hospital, where he was
a prisoner for months. Then he made an effort to
reach England and his wife, but did not get as far as
Port Said. Cancer was the trouble. Asche behaved
in a most generous manner from start to finish of the
sad business—without taking his press agent into his
confidence either.
“Harrison O.”: London has had another “moral-
ity” play on the lines of “Everywoman.” “Every-
wife” is the name of the thing, and it was hatched
in Yankeeland. Everyhusband, the hero, falls under
the evil influence of the villain, Rhyme. Thereupon
he disregards the copy-book maxims of Reason, who
appears to fill the shoes of the gloomy Nobody,
whom Eardley Turner used to represent as a sort of
peripatetic Dante. Everyhubbv leaves Everymissus
at the bidding of a fast cat, Jealousy; and Happi-
ness, the Everycouple’s serving-maid, promptly gives
notice. Later, the breach between man and missus
is healed, and Everywife, presumably, makes tracks
for the nearest registry office in search of Happiness.
There’s a ring of truth about the theatrical story
that Volinin, the Russian dancing man, received a
note from a Melbourne Sassiety woman asking him to
write her a long letter and “tell her many th'ngs.”
Volinin, the story goes, did write and tell her
many things—in Russian —which she probably would
be sorry to get translated into English. When a
stage-struck matron (these “bold hussies” are mostly
married) implores a strange young man to tell her
many things, it would have to be a very unintelli-
gent foreigner who didn’t know which thing was the
subject nearest to her heart.
“0.K.”: “The Trial Before Herod,” which Herbert
Grimwood staged at Melbourne Auditorium the other
afternoon, is a crude trifle of a “Mystery play” as
compared with the “Everyman” that had an im-
pressive one performance at the Town Hall some
years ago. Yet it might have seemed worth while if
the introductory lecture by Professor Wallace had
been dramatically forceful or historically interesting.
As it was, the meagre audience felt bored to death
before the mystery play (why “mystery,” where the
story is so simple and straightforward?) started its
30-minutes’ course. The University professor deliv-
ered in dry monotone, like a lad reading from a
school book, a dreary string of facts which he had
committed to paper. Comments and quotations came
all the same from this self-satisfied teacher of the
young. With his eyes fixed on his notes, he uttered
his bald statements. The matter a"d of bis
discourse were equally dismal. He had no points to
make, nor could his voice have made cnem it diey had
been there. The prof.’s lecture, considered as food
for the intellect and stimulant for the imagination,
amounted to bread and water. Then some mock
monks marched down the hall, chanting Latin, and
placed themselves upon their marrowbones on either
side of the proscenium. Grimwood, in the character
of Herod, made a laudable endeavor to shake things
up. Always a difficult actor to understand when he
is declaiming his loudest, Grimwood, in the thinly-
populated auditorium, was the profoundest mystery
in the play. His enunciation, though doubtless the
same as usual, seemed to out-Herod Herbert. One
could only guess that he was asserting his kingly
majesty and protesting against Roman authority in
Jerusalem. His courtiers and a couple of Roman
soldiers helned to make his meaning clear, but, after
all, the only impressive feature of the proceedings
was the speechless Christ whom the soldiers set before
the King. It was not so much that actor Hignett
was picturesquely made up for the part, and mildly
dignified in his deportment. The strength of his
impersonation was in his silence. Herod ranted and
all the other people talked, or jeered, or did some-
thing in their turns, but the Figure merely stood still
and held His tongue. He was the embodiment of
masterly inactivity. There is nothing really Great
in being one still, silent Figure amidst an excited
gathering, but it seems immense. The effect of
hidden force and essential superiority is attained.
If Hignett had raved and gesticulated whilst Grim-
wood struck an attitude of cold indifference, the posi-
tions of majesty and impotence would have been
reversed in their stage presentment. One could sym-
pathise with the natural exasperation of Herod, but
there was no denying his belittlement. When one
King of the Jews was shouting, the Rival Claimant
to the title reigned supreme. He wore the crown of
muteness and the robe of impassivity, and He didn’t
need the white light on His face to make him Lord
of all. The moral was a convincing replv to the con-
troversial question in Melb. Age : “Do We Talk Too
Much ?”
This paper hates to spread jam on its own
bread-and-butter; but this goes, more in
defence of Bulletin readers than of Bul-
letin producers :
Allow me, as a clergyman, who has, after 40 years
work in different States, just retired from active
pastoral service, to enter an emphatic protest against
the Rev. Godfrey H. Smith, of Sale, and his testi-
mony against The Bulletin, from his experience in
North Queensland.
In issue July 3, the Rev. Smith states: “My ex-
perience with many of its close readers, among the
scattered population of North Queensland, forced upon
me the evidence of a cynical, pessimistic and morbid
spirit produced in them by its continued perusal.”
The present scribe has wandered into shearing-sheds
and stations in North Queensland, in Burketown, Clon-
curry, Croydon and Camoweal; and everywhere, in
station, shearing-shed, pub and parsonage, he has
found The Bulletin in welcome circulation. Fur-
ther, The Bulletin is the only print that finds a
way into several homes in the Never Never Land,
and I have never found a brighter, kinder, more
charitable, and more truly Christian folk than the
aforesaid readers of this so-called “print of Barab-
bas.” I found no trace of the “morbid spirit”
mentioned, but rather a genial humor and a light-
heartedness which, I am sure, was due to a great
extent, to the humor, genial criticisms and sarcastic
squibs and gibes at hypocrisy, tomfoolery and black
bigotry that appeared weekly in the pages of The
Bulletin. If the “morbid spirit” were generated
by pessimistic newspapers, I should stake my repu-
tation the account should go down to prints like
the Church Times, of Sale, and not to a paper
brightened weekly by Australia’s best humor and
brightest sketches, and salted by common sense and
a thorough national spirit that should rouse up the
most “morbid spirit” to enthuse over the joy of
living and the glory of being a nation-buijder. Let
The Bulletin still fleece hypocrisy, expose shams,
crush bigotry, continue the supply of humor, and it
will do good in bringing sunshine, common sense,
practical charity, and the true national spirit into
the lives of many Christians in North Queensland,
and maybe into the homes of a few atheists in Sale.
STANZAS TO A SILENT MUSICIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By her dancing, Genee is able to tell a story, and
to suggest many emotions. Her feet seem to talk.
—Melbourne paper.
Speak to me only with thy feet,
And bliss will then be mine,
Beyond that won from Helen’s kiss,
Or Circe’s golden wine;
For rich and rare beyond Compare
Is converse such as thine.
Oh, skip a chanson through for me
In soundless numbers sweet,
Or trip a silent lullaby,
My pleasure to complete ;
For tongues are numb and lips are dumb
Beside your fluent feet.
Dance out your elfin melodies,
That ring through Beauty’s bower.
Oh, talk to me in cadence soft;
While hour by tuneful hour
Unnoticed flies, with greedy eyes,
Your discourse I’ll devour!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
THE PARIAH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My bearing is not brave and high ;
My progress through the crowded city
Is noticeably skulking. I
Imagine strangers filled with pity.
I feel that each is my detractor;
All fancy me a malefactor.
I penetrate my fav’rite club
It strikes me that my friends avoid me;
The shifty look, the furtive snub
Are handed me. I grow annoyed ; see
Contempt in mere exuberances,
Hate in the friendliest of glances.
Last night I dined at Paris House
And asked the chef for mayonnaise: blame
An erring waiter for the douse
My spirits got when Sauce Bearnaise came.
Once I’d have cursed—-I frankly state it:
Last night I took the stuff, and ate it.
A humbler, sadder outcast you
Shall not discover than the writer ;
He battles vainly with the view .
That all regard him as a blighter.
The cause need but be adumbrated;
He has not yet been vaccinated.
N.s.w.
D.B.J.


a*
REDUCED FROM 14/6
TO —8/6.
Further
Reductions
on
Sale Prices.
REDUCED FROM 15 6
TO 12/6.
A few dozen only soft Felt Hats, in several
shades of Brown only. A popular shape—of good
quality—with bound edge.
Usual Price 14/®
Sale Price 8/6
The popular shape Felt Hat, in light or medium
Grey, with 2J-inch Brim (as illustration). Splen-
did quality.
Usual Price 15/6
Further Reduced to 12/6
V
Remember, we pay
These hats are to be had at these prices for the closing days of Sale.
carriage.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Comfort
For One-Penny-Farthing per day!
Vv arm Your Home with a
Perfection Oil Heater’’
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
SOCIETY
In the Sydney Telegraph of Monday the
poor old Pope got prodded Here is
the report:—
HOW CAN THEY ESCAPE HELL?
The Roman Catholic people should be no-license
advocates to a man. Either that or the infallibility
of the Pope is a fiction. So Rev. John Paterson
argues. At the Protestant Hall yesterday,- he said
that the last Pope was a prohibitionist, and when
he was elected to that position the first thing he did
was to forbid absolutely the sale of intoxicating
liquors in the Vatican. In the only part of the world
where he had full temporal powers the Pope enforced
absolute prohibition. What the speaker wanted to
know was how, if the Pope was infallible, and he
was a prohibitionist, all the Roman Catholics were
not going to Hell for not being prohibitionists also ?
“But they tell me I don’t understand the doctrine of
infallibility,” he added.
After all. the doctrine of infallibility is
very simple, even if it may seem rather
illogical. Thus it is claimed that David
was infallible while he was writing the
Psalms, all Scripture being inspired; but
that he was not infallible while he was steal-
ing Uriah’s wife. And Solomon was infal-
lible in the period of inspiration during
which he supplied his learned contribution
to Holy Writ, but not when he fell away
into idolatry. And when the patriarchs, the
judges, the prophets, and the apostles had
all had their turn at being God’s representa-
tives on earth the Pope of Rome and the
Patriarch of Constantinople took on the
contract. The last apostle was elected to
fill a vacancy, and the process of election
has gone on, with more or less success, ever
since. It was the choice of Matthias by ballot
which started the effort to continue the line of
inspiration, and the effort continues to this
day. The infallibility problem remains just
where it was in the time of. the second
Israelitish king. When the Religious Poten-
ttate at Rome- decides on matters of doctrine
lie is supposed to be inspired. When he de-
cides to be, in his own personal capacity, a
vegetarian or a teetotaller, he is presumably
looking after his own private affairs. He
doesn’t demand that all Roman Catholics
should be teetotallers aged 60 because he is
a teetotaller aged 60. Inspiration and in-
fallibility are vast and difficult subjects, and
the two men who complicated them worst
of all were Father David and Son Solomon.
“Catoptric” on some things the imported
expert can’t be expected to know :
The imported expert recommended a dado of un-
watched lights around our coast. These lights jig
along for quite a while, and are inspected every few
years —before, say, election time. South Aus. has a
couple of the let-’em-rip outfits, and last week an
inquisitive official, ambling round the littoral, missed
one of them. After a hunt he found it underneath
a colony of shags who had selected the beacon as a
residence, owing no doubt to the rent-raising habit
of the present-day landlord. Anyway, in the place
where the light used to be was a crowd of old shags,
young shags and middle-aged shags, shags of all sects
and shags of all sexes, living in tenement houses,
flats and villa residences, the whole constructed so
as to obscure the beacon. The irritated officer de-
molished the suburb and then left —to give the birds
a chance to restore their happy homes. It seems to
me that the expert under-rated our Australian- fauna.
I remember once, going down to the South Head
light, I found it obscured by about 135,000,000
beetles; and then there are such things as the Aus-
tralian Bight sea-serpent and the highly intelligent
iatUigator that wouldn’t let Johnson, M.P., sit on it.
'N® imported person can be expected to make allow-
ances: for what these and other strange local reptiles
are ’liable to do.
“Jeames” : The London Mail, which has
just been called upon to pay Sir Arthur
Vicars £5OOO for suggesting that he had
connived at the theft of ’the Dublin Crown
jewels, and was more friendly than circum-
stances warranted with Lady Haddo, is a
kind of Modern Society elevated to the
Nth degree. Modern Society was warned
off Smith’s book-stalls, all over the United
Kingdom, in the later Victorian epoch, for
mild little chroniques scandaleuses that would
be blue-pencilled by A. Moreton Mandeville,
the editor of the Mail, as too dull and home
circlish altogether. The Mail specialises
in this sort of paragraph
We Want to Know: —
If the tall son of the peer —that frequenter of the
Divorce Court —is not a chip of the old block ; and
what the mother of the pretty girl from the “Revue
thinks of his attentions to her daughter; and
whether she prefers “Irish whisky” to “blue blood.
Whether Mrs. Asquith enjoyed herself at the
Palace the other evening ; and which she thinks the
more fascinating, Pavlova or Maud Allan ? ...
If the young w.fe of the well-known Admiral
found out that her husband was visiting the night
club with the pretty lady from the- Empire Revue,
and if she persuaded a junior lieutenant .to take her
there, and what happened at the meeting; and if
the lieutenant now feels sorry for himself —and also
the Admiral.
Stuff like the above, where it isn’t meaning-
less —in the sense of having no relation What-
ever to fact or even to actual people —is as
financially perilous as dynamite. The first
two pars would be comprehended fully by
every Society gossip in the three kingdoms ;
and they are as unpleasant as regards their
inner meanings as the mind of man could
conceive. The third may be apocryphal -as
indeed about half of these efforts are. Sir
Arthur Vicars, the latest to be accused
of stealing, or assisting to steal, the Dublin
Crown jewels (practically everyone of any
prominence who was about the Castle in
1907 has now been charged with the theft of
these gauds), was Ulster King at Arms. The
Mail’s story was that his mistress had got
jealous of Lady Haddo and given him away.
Lady Haddo was an attractive widow before
her marriage to the 27-year-old son of
Lord Aberdeen. She gave evidence that she
had only spoken to Vicars once in her life;
and the Mail caved suddenly in, and ad-
mitted that its informant was a liar —an ab-
solute habit, I have noticed, in the social
informant Tine of business.
A case that happened in South Melbourne
the other day threw a dun-colored light on
the value of Victorian police evidence. Two
constables had seen a man who gave the
name of Patrick Mullins leaving the Sham-
rock Hotel on a Sunday, so they took out
a summons charging him with being illegally
on the premises, and then went to the resi-
dence of one Andrew Murphy and handed
that citizen the brief. Heaven knows why
Murphy accepted it, but he did, and came to
court in due course. There the two con-
stables swore that the man in the dock was
the man they had seen leaving the beer foun-
dry at an illegal hour. The man in the dock
denied this—he had been at home in bed at
that moment, he said, and his name wasn’t
Mullins. The Bench scrutinised Murphy
thoughtfully; but he was quite sober, and
quite positive, so the case was adjourned for
further inquiry. When it came up again
the police admitted they had “made a mis-
■ take.” Murphy’s tale was quite correct, and
thq man they wanted was in reality a Ger-
man named Siemens, who went by the
name of Mullins. Murphy was, of course,
discharged, and apparently that ends the
matter. But it certainly shouldn’t. A loud
rebuke ought to be coming to someone.
BADLY!!
THE LADY: “Have you ‘ Freckles'?”
The allegedly “genuine” painting by
Turner, dug up lately in Hobart, where it
had been sold for a few shillings, came down
at the last fence. In London the experts
repudiated it, so there is one “masterpiece”
the less for millionaires to haggle over.
A DELICATE POINT.
SHE: “And you are going to take me away from my father , George!"
GEORGE: “ Yes—but think how long he has had you."
Of the 30 or 40 samples of the art of L.
Bernard Hall (Director of the National Gal-
lery, Melbourne), at present being exhibited
at Angus and Robertson’s gallery, Sydney,
the really charming are- the still-life can-
vases and the interiors. In these the artist
is at his height, and warms up an admira-
tion that stands with more or less chilled
feet before such nudes as in “Under the
Colosseum” and the now somewhat famous
“Sleep.” In these two, as in others ex-
hibited, the draughtsmanship is the attrac-
tive force ; the common, familiar feelings of
the ordinary passer-by find themselves alien-
ated. In “Sleep” the vulgar eye is held by the
marvellous sheen of a metal shield, its reflec-
tion on the model’s flesh, a brass-moulded
bowl and a handful of figs <m a table. Of
all the exhibits, the writer would first choose
“The Old Kitchen” —a cracked and smoke-
aged fireplace and a few pots and pans, yet
so exquisitely has the feeling of homeliness
been limned that, as Hugh McCrae put it
the other day, “you can sniff the smoke.”
That gem can be purchased for 18 guineas ;
“Sleep” is marked at 300 'guineas; “The
Quest,” ditto. The last-mentioned relates to
O. Khayyam’s lines : —-
I sent my Soul through the Invisible
Some letter of that After-life to spell.
The relationship isn’t clear. As an inter-
preter, the Soul (a shadowy female faintlv
illuminated with colored halos) may con-
sider her drink-selling license cancelled and
her billiard table confiscated. Presumably
the large sphere upon which she is perched
is the Invisible, but it doesn’t look like the
article. Of the interiors, a sun-fingered cor-
ner in the artist’s house is an envious piece
of work; and, of the portraiture, the artist’s
wife. The .“still-life (melon)” and
“Japoneries” are a winning double in their
line, and their line, as has been said before,
is No. 1, topside. There are, on the other
hand, one or two canvases hung which can-
not be observed with equanimity; but for
the sake of being in harmony with the Peace
Society for once in a lifetime The Bulletin
refrains from mentioning them. The ex-
hibition, which ranks as one of the important
of the year, will remain open until July 22.
* * * *
Police Commissioner Sainsbury says he
did not publish the names of the ladies and
gentlemen who were found in the “swift”
Melbourne restaurants the other Sunday
morning, because he wished to avoid creating
domestic trouble- For this Sainsbury will
be remembered in the prayers of many. It
would have been a distressing complication
had the world been informed on Monday
morning that it was not Smith’s wife Smith
was supping with at the Fish and Chips
Palace, but the wife of Jones, whereas the
lady supping with Jones at the other estab-
lishment was not really Mrs. Jones, hut the
wife of Smith. Families do get so mixed up
in the excitement of a police raid.
THE SMILE.
BRISBANE, Thursday.— Dr. Elkington (Commis-
sioner of Publie Health): “The adoption of a com-
pulsory system of vaccination would enable Queens-
land to smile at smallpox."
QUEENSLAND : “Kick away, Sis; you cant
corrupt me!”
FAME!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London. Tuesday Night.
Their Majesties the Ring and Queen, who are visit-
ing Lancashire, narrowly escaped an unpleasant ex-
perience at Southport to-day.
Two Suffragettes, who were about to hurl bundles
of Suffragette literature into their Majesties’ carriage
as they drove through the streets of the town, sud-
denly found their hands pinned behind by detectives.
—Recent cable.
Lo ! once more the dreadful babel
Of the latest news by cable
Sets the whole world quivering ;
Tells how females, wild, pedantic,
Tried the sacrilegious antic
Of assaulting George the King!
This is crime of wrong begotten ;
Oh ! the state of Hingland’s rotten—
Hingland, mistress of the sea!
Yet, methinks, that such a story
Tends to heighten George’s glory,
Leaves his fame less transitory,
Makes him known to you and me —
Yea, the violence of the sex
Puffs the name of Georgios Rex,
Lifts him from obscuritee !
VICTORIA.
JEAN S.
THE VICTIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She sat within the waiting car.
A sorrow seemed to rise
Like thick, grey, ocean mist, and mar
The splendor of her eyes.
No rest her stricken heart could find ;
She hated contact with her kind.
Long looked I on her sweet, sad face,
And saw her spirit’s stress
If some rude passer dared to place
A hand upon her dress;
For one was here whose faith in man
Was smothered under sorrow’s ban.
The young conductor lingered there.
Her thoughts were far from him.
He tapped her arm, and murmured “Fare!’’
Her face went hot and grim.
“Stand back,” in horror screamed the lass —
“I’ve just been vaccinated, ass!”
N.S.W.
Y. Z.


Wild s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs-,.
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydnev, fe
the proper place to go if you want the best of a'ttens
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the l
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
fi.3o ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
Add a little
j it V
No matter what your
drink may be.
A STURDY BOOT
for OUTDOOR WEAR
27/6
The golfer, the tourist, and all men who do much
walking out-of-doors will find this style not only
serviceable but extremely easy on the feet.
Its appearance is another strong point in its favor —
it is a very dressy model.
In Black Box Calf, and Dark or Light Tan, leather-
lined, with stout double soles and wide rope-
stitched welts. The toecaps are neatly perforated.
Note particularly the thickness Of the soles.
PRICE 27 6.
POSTAGE 1/- EXTRA.
INTER-STATE, 1/3.
Men's Wear Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■
*•
'
Suffragettism has added one picturesque
expression to the British language—“the
Cat and Mouse Act.” When the hunger-
strike became chronic something had to be
done to, prevent the Law being more of Mr.
Bumble’s donkey than usual. So it was
enacted that if the lady-incendiary who was,
perhaps, on a three months’- —say, 1)1 da vs’—
sentence, reduced herself in, pay, five days to
a state of dangerous weakness through lack
of soup and the like, she would be released—
not definitely, as was the case with the early
hungerers, but until she had put bn suffi-
cient flesh at home to stand another spell of
gaol and lack of victuals. It was reckoned
that if she was arrested and released
19 times, she wbpld have about hunger-
struck hei* way Through her sentence. The
suffragettes Complain that this is the way
the cat treats ,the mouse—hence'the pictur-
esque name given to the Act. Mrs. Rank-
hurst ha§ already been moused, three times,
and isn’t half through her Sentence with the
cat as yet. By-and-b.ye some wOak member
of the sisterhood will rat on the movement
and humbly eat her victuals in gaol. That
is to say, she will turn dog. The hunger-
strike, by the way, is a Russian device, and
used to be much practised in the political
prisons of Siberia. When’'such things existed.
It was generally a protestvagainst scanty
rations or cruelty. And, so far as is known,
the bloated tyrant was defeated every time.
“Tara" : The Battle of the 'Boyne and the
Glorious Twelfth of July are round again,
and, as usual, there are comparisons be-
tween lovely, enlightened Belfast and other
parts of Ireland. , Turn up, then, a book
just published ori" “The Lady Next Door,”
by Begbie, a Protestant, and judge the fic-
tion from the fact,,. In the mean streets
where Belfast’s ■ linen workers dwell the
faces are terrible —either fierce, hard, cruel,
embittered, or sad, wretched, hopeless, de-
spairing. The young people are small, pale,
and flat-chested, bloodless dwarfs. Their
home-life is spent in terrible dog-holes, as
bad as those of the festering purlieus of Can-
ton or Calcutta. Probe, and’ you will find
the most abominably sweated workers of
the world. Before six in the morning, when
work begins, an army of women and girls
hurry to the linen factories, shivering with
cold,,and dull with bodily want. In the dry-
spinning rooms the air is dusty with a chok-
ing fluff. In the wet-spinning rooms the
moist heat is so great that a person unac-
customed to it faints. Most of the females
LINGERING.
THE YANK: "No, I don't want another ride
on that 'there depressor. I was so long
cornin' up, I ain't yet quite got over the
feelin' that I'm a darned cabbage."
ore barefoot. Living chiefly on bread and
tea, they toil drudgingly, for six or seven
shillings a week. No wonder that the aver-
age worker lives but 38 years. “Home
work” is scarcely less inhuman. For three
days’ steady industry at embroidering with
exquisite skill a silk parasol, a young woman
receives 2s. Another made, with difficulty,
6d. a day embroidering dots on cushion
covers, 300 for a 'penny. And these the
Protestant Begbie alleges to be typical, and
not exceptional cashs. Free? Enlightened?
The mockery of it! C f
ARS LONGA.
YOUTHFUL CRITIC: “My father's a painter. He can paint a lot better than that. He
can do plumbing as well."
“F§ng-sliui”: The foreign settlement in
Shanghai is to China what Geneva is to
Europe—a refuge for all the irreconcilables,
reactionaries and disgraced officials in the
republic. Here they can plot in perfect
security, bar accidents, under the protection
of the "settlement police. Occasionally, how-
ever, there are accidents.
The Central Government
sends a bomb and blows up
an inconvenient general or
a superfluous ex-Minister.
General Hsii, the Tiger, an
ardent collector of antiques,
received a vase, a real old
piece of Ming, through the
post the other day, and after
the explosion you could not
distinguish between Hsii, the
and Yang, his ser-
vant, and as for the old piece
of Ming it simply “was
not.” It was just a piece of
old Bang. President Yuan-
Shih K’ai is . alleged to have
a hand in these things. Each
assassination is followed by
an outbreak of decrees - ex-
pressing the most passionate
grief arid astonishment, as
beautiful in composition as
the best of the late Empress
Dowager’s. The foreign set-
tlemerit harbors a big
try in < bombs. At present
the Chinese anarchist is only
an amateur at the game.
He makes his infernal
machine out of a jam-tin or
an empty beer bottle, and in
hurrying to the scene of
operations often inadver-
tently turns the thing up-
side down in the street, to
the detriment of the traffic
and himself. Every now and
then, in spite of these acci-
dents. a house blows up in
the Settlement, telling its
own tale. As an engine of
destruction a pale, flat-faced,
flat-chested, expressionless little creature,
tottering along on tiny crumpled feet, is a
horrible conception ; but Chinese women, as
courageous as any, are the chief instruments
for the conveying of bombs.
From George Cecil Russell, of Gembrook
(Vic.) :—•
Discussing a recent “record” English picture sale,
“Carmine” (B. 3/7/’l3) has hit the price of Rom-
ney’s portraits wonderfully. There are two female
portraits which have been much sought—“ Miss
Close,” the. property of some people who wouldn’t
quote a price, and the “Lady Russell and Child,”
for which one of the Rothschilds offered some years
ago- £14,000 guineas. To show how values have
moved up, all Romney got for the Lady Russell was
40 guineas. The head of our family still has the
picture with the receipt by Romney and the written
offer of 14,000 guineas pasted on the back.
“Carmine’s” shot ( £15,000) is therefore marvel-
lously near the mark.
Quite a number of quaint old feuds—
some of them local, some imported, some
about religion, some about politics, some
about a girl, some about a cow which a
Scottish subject of James IV. stole on the
Border from an English subject of Henry
Vlll.—still survive in Australia. Tasmania
is rich in them. A murder of a few years
ago was the outcome of a feud in which there
had been many ambushments, threats, mid-
night alarms, bye-drinkings and surprises.
The latest trouble at Mathinna, which led
recently to the slaying and burning of a
farmer, has revealed the fact that many resi-
dents of that region go about armed, and
that the locality is mobilised all the time,
so to speak.
After all the fuss made over the raid on
the fizzy Melbourne cafes—a raid on a Carl-
ton or South Melbourne sly-grog shop would
have been carried out with less advertise-
ment but more effect —the Law is no further
ahead than when it started. After being
unnecessarily arrested the unfortunate em-
ployees,, who merely carried the liqfior to
the customers, were duly charged, and when
the first two cases had been dismissed the
Law perceived that it had dropped into a
cavity. '-Now it is proceeding against the
proprietors, or managers; but whether it
will have any better luck remains to be seen.
If it doesn’t, any cafe or restaurant will
apparently be at liberty to sell liquor at all
hours of the night, and Parliament will be
desired to amend the Licensing Act and
close up the orifice in haste.
John Policeman has been having some
exciting experiences in Sydney lately. The
other day he was guarding an alleged mur-
derer whose bodily weakness had laid him
on his back in the North Shore Hospital.
Observing his charge to be asleep, John
turned round for a drink of water. The
exant length qf time he took in turning
round, irrigating the interior and walking
back round his feet has not been ascertained,
but when he next cast- his sleuthful eye
upon the place whereon he had deposited
the property of Rex, it was minus the
goods. By next day John had nearly worn
his most useful ends off in searching the
hills, caves, gullies, summits, apexes and
other mixed scenery for miles, around. About
this time, no news having been received from
the front, the hospital people decided to
dismantle the bed of the departed State
guest, and lo I likewise ’struth! when the
nurse turned over the sheets .there lay the
identical! The next stirring entertainment
took place aboard one of Johnson’s sub-
urban trains (or whatever they are). A
policeman was escorting a prisoner to Can-
terbury, when the inconsiderate captive
dived overboard into the dusk that was
being left behind at the rate of 150 miles
an hour. When the officer returned some
time later with a search party and a shovel
and broom, the only collection taken up was
an old hat with a dent in it. And, in these
prosaic days, a policeman who reaches the
lockup with nothing more substantial than
an old hat is up against something extra in
the way of explanation.
A case in the Vic. County Court recently
threw light on the brilliant arid copious ways
of the gravediggefi,. It appeared that cer-
tain undertakers, to'.advertise their business,,
notified the public that they proposed to inter-
“the late Mr. Arthur Branston” at the-
Necropolis, Spring, Vale, on January 1, at:
3 p.m., etc., etc. Apparently they hit om
the name of Arthur Bransfon because there-
was no such person in the directory; but itt
happened that there was. a-William Arthur-
John Branston, commonly called Arthur, andl
it also happened that he had been in poor-
health for some time. This Branston suedl
for damages in a general way—and Judge
Box non-suited him, with costs, though he-
was able to prove that his “widow” had beem
the subject of many condoling messages.. So
the coffin firm may go- on its well-advertised
way unrebuked.
* * [’ * ■*
“Premo” : We in Melbourne are used to the
deriding of our trams. Still I think the fat
conductor was hardly fair the other cold
morning when he ran alongside his car in
order to stimulate his circulation.
Melbourne’s City Fathers are going to
lock the door of their stable, as it were, now
that the horse is embezzled. Having dis-
covered that the new Auditorium has taken
their best concert clients away from the cold,.
draughty hall, they have decided to brighteni
and warm its neglected interior with 16 elec-
tric radiators. Next winter, perhaps, they
will conceive some means of reducing the-
barn’s draughtiness. Even Melbourne’s city
councillors must live and learn, otherwise
death will overtake them and they will
perish. Inflamed by the enthusiasm of the
present Gaud Mayor they are taking mild
measures to purify the Chow quarters of the
metropolis.
PHILANTHROPY.
RELIEVING GOVERNMENT MEDICAL OFFICERS.
HOW IT’S DID.
A DOCTOR’S COMPLAINT.
“It is scandalous,” said a Sydney medical man
yesterday, “that the medical men cannot get a
supply of lymph for the purpose of vaccinating per-
sons privately. We could attend to hundreds, and
take a lot of work off the shoulders of the Govern-
ment medical officers. TJie supply of lymph, so far
as medical men are concerned, has gone out since last.
Saturday.”
THE PRAYER OE THE MILLIONAIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lightning wrecked the roof of Euclid- avenue
Church, Cleveland, U.S.A. The flash entered the
building and completely destroyed Mr. Rockefeller’s;
pew.— Cable.
Lord ' I would have Thee understand, now that I have-
aged,
I’ve turned aside from those pursuits in which I was
engaged.
I’ve drawn a given finite line, and spared a certain
share
Of dollars to the local kirk, and gone upon the
square.
I place my palms quite parallel, and bow my humble
head,
At the fit and proper angle, when the proper prayer
is said. ' jl
Upon my shaking shoulders I’ve laid the Christian
yoke,
And wowse within a circle of ultyi pious folk.
I trust Thy full salvation, and render Thee Thy due,
Of splintered roof and rafter my tljousand-dollar pew.
I praise Thy heaven’ly power, and voice no word ag’in
it, .-'d
Yet Loru ! Withhold it kil&t Tiiff Church while
I am sitting in it ! ; |
N.S.W.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


Militant suffragettes have decided to
thirst-strike as well as to hunger-strike
when in gaol.
V ( fteceot (Xbta)
SMOKING A PREVENTIVE.
A correspondent in n Sydney journal states
that, during the small-pox epidemic in Lon-
don, in 187 J, the late Sir Jonathan Hutchin-
son, the eminent physician, who was attend-
ing a patient in the house in which he resided,
advised him to smoke “and keep on smoking."
He did so, and was not in the least affected,
though all the others in the house (three
women and a child) were more or less suf-
ferers.—News item.
v *%l£'
pVS<>»> - “ k Oyoure S">oKw»o
T)it>»hfeolldi Kid •' If" aste r be 2\ % !l
' ){ovf its hef>ide*'nic bre^enf’—
r I
Try Cm
■sl e delicti
"favorite
\>nd wil|
l?e go<Jg4 in wee K 4
JoKooK’- Do ifaf jfj e I?a<cK
tviy necK, where 1 ca,nt"see if *
(o«7i^2_»
OsTT^ir
P) G^°*'e
fywj,
Sne^ovl
j lfem’ie*' KeWo^
neyi^WeeK
The Minister of Agriculture (Mr.
Graham) had an interview with the
Postmaster-General yesterday, in advo-
cacy of his plan to afford facilities
through the post for the transmission
of dairy products and similar perishable
articles.-—Daily paper.
Ho,s«w,f e “
,osW " **.**«, *l*
*\mJl f°*
<3 Af*?*',
VicioVi^
prob/tt
io To cj.^o
VACCINATION
WHILE, you
WAIT
V/ij-fe - Hcre >
hino once. ljeev»* ^ ,“
bx*& t*|» Sydney on "Hie fhone..
A PEW CURRENT EVENTS.


) Don’t Trifle Q
with a Cough*
TAKE
ANGIER#MULSION
1
Of Chemists. 1/3. 2/9 and 4/6-
There is positively nothing equal to Angler’s Emulsion
for coughs, bronchitis and all chest affections Not only
does it heal and strengthen throat and lungs but■ ' d
appetite, aids digestion and builds up strength. For upwards
of twenty years Angler’s Emulsion has been prescnbed the
medical profession and used in the hospitals. It is the standard
approved remedy for coughs, bronchitis and all lung troubles.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., 7 Barrack St.. Sydney
:andard
oubles.
paper. Mju
N.S.W. IP
THe World's Best.
DAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y,
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,
},
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
DOOMED.
THE PET PARROT (sorrowfully): “And to
think I've talked all these years and it s
come to this!"
“Lemarj”: Billjim was waltzing with
Matilda through Northern Riverina, and struck a
squattage where the boss isn’t lavish. That evening
he was evidently less lavish than usual when Billjim
passed up his dilly-bag; wherefore, when I drove
through next day, I found this testimonial, written
hi Billjim’s largest letters on the boundary gate:
“Mr. ’ s rations are excellent, if taken just be-
fore or after meals.”
“ M im°s a ” : “Ivory” (B. 12/tt/’l3) enters
ppearance for the defendants, the Queensland
fR a ‘ ISWer the Charge by me
ÜB. 8/5/13) against, them of allowing their cattle
det enorate. I quoted the statement made by
John Cooke the meat exporter (who should know
0,,™ 6 , abo, ' t , the matter), to the effect that
Queensland cattle had deteriorated, as evidenced by
the average weight of the carcases treated. Cooke
was further of opinion that the fault lay with the
.attle-breeders in not importing the right class of
bull, such as the Argentine Estancieros are willing
to pay the price for. I also quoted the statement
of the leading judge and breeders of shorthorns in
bouth Airica, the quality of whose cattle I know.
Writing to me, he frankly stated that he would not
think of importing a shorthorn from here, for the
reason that Australia had never imported an out-
standing shorthorn, as far as records went. “Ivory”
wishes us to believe that Bananaland cattle have not
c etenorated, and says the trouble is merely that
the cattle now being treated have not sufficient age
upon them, on account of the drought of 10 years
ago having thinned out the herds. To all this I
Damrot! Statistics prove the increase
yearly. What age does he want his rump steak to
be? On one station in C.-W. Queensland, muster-
ing for sale has been going on for the past 12
months, and bullocks are run in daily that were
grown cattle when the Australian States federated.
It is not the age that troubles Bananaland cattle
buyers; it is the weight and quality of the beast.
Had Ivory ’ stated that cattle-breeding was being
neglected on account of the high price of wool and
the banks’ preference for sheep’s-wool and mutton
over bull’s-wool and beef, there would have been
something in it. There are certainly a few breeders
of high-class Herefords in Queensland, but the short-
horn, which is the one, is sadly neglected. That
S Africa is a good market for good, cattle is proved
by the fact that recently one Farr, of Adelaide,
Cape Colony, imported from Great Britain and Hol-
land 100 shorthorn and Friesland cattle which, when
sold by public auction, realised an average of over
£l5O per head. This S’African market is, open to
Australia ; but, unfortunately, the sale bulls or cows
will not stand the acid for quality agaihst those of
Great Britain. It would be an eye-opener for
Bananaland’s cattle-men to visit the ranch of the
Liebig Meat Co., in Rhodesia, and see the class of
cattle it breeds; and the foundation of that herd
came from South America. Concluding, I affirm that
the deterioration is due to (1) the dilatory methods
of breeding adopted by the cattle-men of Queens--
land, and (2) sheep being predominant and in the
bankers’ favor, wherefore cattle have been neglected ;
and I add for “Ivory’s” benefit that older and
tougher steak appears upon the breakfast plate than
was the case 10 years ago.
“Button-stick” winds up a controversy
that has outlived its interest, with a few words of
horse-sense:—
I’ve just been reading “W. Kabe,” “8.J.5.” (B.
20/3/’l3) and others, in re our riding and horse-
manship. Without a doubt certain out-back Aus-
tralians can ride anything on four legs, can gallop
through scrub and timber as thick as bristles on a
new hair brush, and so on. But a man may be a
good horseman, and still be unable to do these fancy
tricks. _ The brand of horsemanship that Australia
wants is the sort that works a war-charger day in
day out, with odd nights thrown in for luck, for
week and months on end, on feed that the horse
requires spectacles to see, on dirty and insufficient
water, with a saddle glued on for 24
or 36 hours at a stretch sometimes, doing
without a yard of exercise for some weeks,
and then being asked to do forced marches
for a week and come through, if not with
a Smile, at least without a sore back.
“Wild Colonial Boys” are not necessary
for a job of this sort. On the contrary.
I found in S’Africa that it was the rough-
riders and breakers who were the hardest
on their mounts, and used up more on
the campaign than any other class of rider.
Some of the men who were useful but not
ornamental riders —men who could sit a horse
as long as the horse had no personal objec-
tion only—went through the war without
falling off and breaking anything, with-
out being more than a few yards behind
in a gallop to or from a hot corner, and
generally did quite well what they were
there to do, and did the whole campaign
on one horse, and when they chucked the
job handed over the moke in fair order
and repair and regular running order. I
don’t remember one of the fancy hard-
riding buck-jump breaker riders who
didn’t go through a long string of crocks,
leaving them to recuperate in horse-depSts
or inside the asvogels. The great point to
remember is that when Australia reaches
for its gun and climbs into the saddle it
will want not merely horsemen but horse-
masters. “8.J.5.” is beside the point
when he talks of “chasing brumbies in the
scrubby ranges.” It won’t be brumbies
we’ll haye to chase in the day of trouble,
and as a general thing the “scrubby
ranges” will be avoided as awkward and
uncomfortable places to manoeuvre large
bodies of troops. And the man in khaki
who can be depended on to have his horse
in a condition to do a fair day’s work in
fairly decent riding country is likely to
be more useful than the fellow who
can light a pipe while on board an
animal that is throwing a complicated series of sun-
fish step-dances and volcanic eruptions, but who
has a horse that, after a week’s campaigning, is only
fit for a rest-cure or a neurasthenia sanatorium.
“Lagani Namo” (concerning superstition
in Papua) : I translate what I overheard the native
constable say: “I slept under a tree in the branches
of which a corpse had been placed. The corpse s
spirit leaped on me during the night, biting and
scratching me. I saw it plainly and fired four shots
at it, but these had no effect.” “Bah,” interjected
the corporal, “you were a fool. If you had slept
between two fires and had not snored in your sleep
the spirit would not have harmed you.”
DIGNITY.
McPHERSON, J. P. (after a desperate and hopeless effort to get on his feet): “It's a wonder
tae me, Casey, that ye hav na more respect for me and the poseetion I hold, goin'
on the way ye do in my presence, for well ye ken I'm a magistr-r-ate"
CASEY: “ Sure, I was but havin’ a bit of a dance."
McPHEERSON (loudly): “ It's no that / object tae. ’Tis the disr-respect tae the poseetion
I hold"
“A.H.” discourses on the local fruit
trade:—-
The two rottenest places in Australia for fruit
are Brisbane and Sydney. And the quaint thing is,
they ought to be the two best. Queensland has an
ideal soil and climate for fruit-growing, together
with rail and shipping facilities. Jack fruit, mango-
steen and pawpaw grow practically wild. Yet hardly
anyone troubles to retail them. As to the Northern
State’s stone and citrus fruits, they mostly face the
public in a ruined state. The fruit fly has absolutely
adopted them, and its ravages take a more wide-
spread and disgusting form there than in any other
place on record. A strong argument for giving the
Federal Parliament complete power over trade and
commerce is to be found in the fact that the Q. fruit
industry, as at present constituted, is a menace to
the whole of Australia.
In the Ma State are to be found vineyards eaten
up with phylloxera. They have borne nothing for
years, and yet are allowed to remain, generating a
plague that is only awaiting an opportunity to de-
stroy the whole gTape industry of the State. Every
badly-infected vine should be destroyed within a
given period, the soil burned and the land either
laid fallow, or covered with a leguminous crop. The
example of France might be safely followed in deal-
ing with this pest, and any grower neglecting to con-
form with the regulations should be treated as a
national enemy and heavily fined. As regards the
other pests, N.S.W. has acted with commendable
harshness, and its fruit gardens are a credit to it, on
the whole. The chronic fruit famine from which it
suffers is due to the King which combines to keep up
prices regardless of the blasphemies of the con-
sumer and the producer.
In Melbourne fruit is about 10 p.c. cheaper than
in Sydney and 50 p.c. cheaper than in Brisbane,
if one takes quality into account. And then
there is Adelaide. How shall I sing the praises of
Adelaide with sufficient vociferousness? There you
can get grapes at threepence per lb., such as are
sold in Sydney at Is. 6d. or 2s. per lb. Also, apples,
pears, peaches and plums at exactly the price per lb.
which is paid in the eastern cities for individual
specimens. The Adelaide fruit is carefully placed
on the market; there is no filling of attractive
windows, and supplying a deluded purchaser with
withered and uneatable stock. Westralia’s record is
equally creditable, or nearly so. It does not import
Tasmanian or Californian apples, and the inhabi-
tants, though handicapped by the soil, the climate
and a deficient rainfall, not only grow a good home
supply, but have gained through the last four seasons
the top prices on the London markets. All of which
goes to show that control of fruit-growing and market-
ing should be vested in a Commonwealth Board com-
posed of experts in each branch. Given such condi-
tions, a wine industry greater than that of France
and Germany combined would grow up, and fruit-
buyers would get value for their money.
“W. J.H.” : Re the “escaped elephant” (B.
12/6/’l3). A circus came to Ohakune, the mud-
diest, wettest, coldest town on the Main Trunk line
(M.L.). When entraining about midnight, after
the performance, an elephant went missing. The
local stationmaster was informed, and he was
prompt with his clue. “It’s been stolen, I’ll bet,”
he said. “You can’t leave a thing lying about here.
Those shiners” (railway-engine cleaners) “will have
it. They got away with two pounds of waste, half
a candle, and a bag of spuds last week.”
“Pick”: Because a Westralian postman
forsook his mailbags and fled at the sight of a few
dingoes, fancied or real (they keep bad- grog in
W.A. occasionally), and because he shot a few of
the animals that were attracted by the smell of his
galley, “Ginger” (13. 19/6/T3) writes up the
warragul as a beast of ravening ferocity and wolfish
propensities. Well, among the Jingera mountains
(N.S.W.), where there are more wild dogs to the
acre than there are to the squattage in any other
part of Australia, I have, when droving with sheep,
hundreds of times pelted them off with firesticks
during night watches. And when I was lost once
on Big Badger, and the aroma of a bear I was
toasting for supper had brought dozens of them
out of the scrub, they knocked holes through the
darkness in their haste to escape from the first
waddy I lobbed among them. That much for their
gameness and savagery. The simple truth is, dingoes
do not hunt in packs. They are solitary animals,
and, except when attending a banquet or a duel
over a lady, are rarely seen in bigger mobs than
one.
BIRDS OF A FEATHER.
The Chief of Police in Louisville, Kentucky, has
ordered the arrest of all women wearing the new split
skirts.
THE LIDY: "Never mind, dearie! We're both
martyrs to fashion."
THE CALL OF THE COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Empire Day was duly celebrated at the school on
Friday. The pupils gathered at the usual time, and
the teacher gave an address on the greatness of the
British Empire, after which recitations were given
by the pupils. The singing of “God Save the
King” brought the indoor proceedings to a close
The “Call of the Cow” made the afternoon a short
one, but one and all expressed themselves as having
spent a very enjoyable day.
: i-lttan from the Cowland press.
Ilark! The Empire calls, and loyalty is throbbing
in our blasts ;
It is throbbing, throbbing, throbbing all the time,
And we’d gladly do it honor till the birds fly t 6
their nests;
But to linger so would really be a crime.
For the cow is calling, calling—don’t you hear her
pleading moo?
God save our gracious King—-but do be quick!
For we cannot wait much longer; we have other
work to do ;
So save our King—but save him mighty slick !
And if You cannot save him, say, by half-past four
o’clock,
Well, You’d better leave the effort go at that :
For old Posie, ruminating in the yard, will get a
shock,
And the other cows will wonder what we’re at.
This loyalty is right enough, provided that it flows
Somewhere between the hours of eight and four;
But if it takes much longer, then it’s overboard it
goes —
For that calling from the cow we can’t ignore!
And, when you come to think of it, a prince is
always near
To step into a monarch’s empty shoes ;
But a milking cow is-hard to get, and always very
dear ;
So you’ll pardon our respect for Posie’s moos.
The kids are disappointed; yes, but what can they
expect
Whenever from the cowyard comes the call?
Aye, I have no doubt this loyalty is perfectly cor-
rect —-
But the cows don’t seem to think so —not at all!
So, Providence, get busy there. In fact, I don't see
why
We couldn’t have a king who wouldn’t need
Such a vast amount of saving, with the bull’s wife
standing by,
What time the CS-lves are fretting for their feed.
Say, why not save him once for all, and let the
matter be ?
Or can it be a king is evil-starr'd ?
Listen! Loud above the tumult of our rural lovalt’
Comes the. calling from our Empress in the yard!
N.S.W.
TEAT TUGGER.


I
SPORTING and MATCH
CARTRIDGES.
All component parts are manu-
factured and put together in
our own factory by experts
who understand just what is
necessary to give best results.
Wholesale only—
Scottish House, 90 William St., Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price, IOJd.
and Is. 6d Obtainable everywhere.*
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident S Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-560-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
WHAT DYSPEPTICS SHOULD EAT.
A PHYSICIAN’S ADVICE.
“Indigestion and practically all forms of
stomach trouble are, nine times out of ten,
due to acidity; therefore stomach sufferers
should, whenever possible, avoid eating food
that is acid in its nature, or which by chemi-
cal action in the stomach develops acidity,
unfortunately, such a rule eliminates most
foods which are pleasant to the taste, as
well as those which are rich in blood, flesh
and nerve building properties. This is the
reason why dyspeptics and stomach sufferers
are usually so thin, emaciated and lacking
in that vital energy which can only come
from a well-fed body. For the benefit of
those sufferers who have been obliged to ex-
clude / ro , m their diet all starchy, sweet or
tatty food, and are trying to keep up a mis-
erable existence on gluten products, I would
suggest that you should try a meal of any
food or foods which you may like in moder-
ate amount, taking immediately afterwards
ha*! a teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia in
a little hot or cold water. This will neu-
tralise. any acid which may be present, or
which may be formed, and instead of the
as .H a i t j e l 1 I ng uneasiness and fulness, you
nnd that your food agrees with you per-
Ct *. y ; “ lsurat ea magnesia is doubtless the
best food corrective and antacid known. It
s not a medicine, and has no direct action
but by neutralising the
acidity of the food contents, and thus re-
« he sour , ce of . the aci d irritation
. inflames the delicate stomach lining,
it does more than could possibly be done
drug or medicine. As a physician
ieve use medicine whenever
“*' es l ary - hut I must admit that I cannot
■ e , sense of dosing an inflamed and
£™ tat ?d stomach with drugs instead of get-
d of r^ e ac , l . d_ r the . cause of all the
■frr\m * Z a bisurated magnesia
v your chemist, eat what you want at
your next meal, take some of the bisurated
d * rected above ’ and see if I
am not right. *
“Tarago”: Can’t agree with “Ginger’s”
vague generalities about the courage of the hungry
dingo (B. 19/6/T3). My experience of the Gipps-
land species of the slinking marauder brands him a
coward. For years I lived in dingo-infested country,
and never knew anything more bellicose than a
poddy-calf to suffer from the mong.’s alleged cour-
age. A close acquaintance with him leaves the im-
pression that his chief asset is bluff. I was returning
home with stores and Sunday’s roast one night, and
was followed some distance by a pack. Naturally,
I had some apprehension, and backed up against a
tree with a stout waddy. The mob continued to
serenade me from a safe distance, and appeared to
be content to wait until I dropped dead from starva-
tion. The siege was becoming monotonous, when
three misguided poddy-calves, disturbed by the
racket, galloped across the foreground, and there-
after I was in the moonlight alone. Furthermore,
the female dingo will make no effort to defend her
progeny. I have chased her from a hollow log and
extracted five pups without any resistance. Inciden-
tally, one of the ’foresaid turned out one of the finest
reptile-destroyers in the province. I don’t know if
this habit is chronic with the untamed species.
THE EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCE.
PARSON : “Dear, dear! This is no way to
behave, my man, especially on the Sabbaths’
P ERFORMER: “Oh, ain’t it! Well, how would
you behave s’ posin’ the kid set alight ter
’imself and yer missus put 'im out with
yer beer, ’specially on ther Sabbath?”
“Avis”: Australia has all the hawking
falcons. The black-checked corresponds with the
English peregrine; the grey, known as the smoke
hawk, is like the European gerfalcon ; and our little
falcon is like the English merlin, or lady’s hawk.
Here it is called the duck hawk. Less than 12
inches long, bill to tail, it will slay a teal (18in.),
black duck (24in.) and even a wild turkey (4ft.).
The black-check variety frequents Bass Strait, and
has the peculiarity that it rarely constructs a nest
for its red-brown mottled eggs. Those who know
nothing of the falcon will be surprised to hear that
a blow from its wing will slice off a duck’s head.
AND ALL FOR NINEPENCE.
HAIRURESSER (to impatient Backblocks customer): " Orl rightl Orl right! But let us
clean up a bit as we go along!”
Naturalist James S. Bray lately told Bill-
jim what to do when his dog gets nipped. If the
nipper is a snake, locate the fang marks, scarify not
too deeply—a snake’s fang penetrates only about
an eighth of an inch, and the venom doesn’t issue
from the point, but from a small hole on the upper
surface —and rub in salt or tobacco juice. Next,
make the animal swallow salt and water to produce
vomiting. Repeat the dose if the limbs become, use-
less. If salt isn’t handy, tobacco (Billjim mostly
has a bit o’ weed) masticated to pulp or soaked in
water will do. Another useful agent is nicotine
drawn from a pipe stem with a straw and rubbed on
the dog’s tongue. But as an enemy of the friend
of man, the tick beats the curse with the endless
tail because, besides being deadly, it is also fright-
fully painful. First, find the tick. Put a table-
spoonful of methylated spirit, turpentine, strong
vinegar, or any other liquid that has fire in it, in
a small glass bottle. Invert the bottle and press
it tightly against the animal’s body so that the
parasite is immersed in the liquid. A dead tick
should happen after a minute or so of this treat-
ment. Remove the corpse with a pocket knife,
locate the nearest pub, and complete salvage opera-
tions with a personal dose of any remedy preferred
by the operator. Then in nine cases out of 10
Billjim needn’t steal anew dog.
* * * *
“Gouger”: If the Daintree River blacks
(N.Q.) desire to kill an enemy in secret, they watch
their chance by night, when the foe is sleeping bliss-
fully. The death warrant is a small, flat stone,
which is heated in the doomed man’s own fire while
he slumbers. When warm, the stone is placed gently
on the dreamer’s stomach, a monotonous charm is
whispered over him, while the charmer’s hands are
passed very gently over his victim’s forehead.
While the charm is working the patient is supposed
to be having terrible dreams, wherein his enemy is
surely compassing his death. When the charmer is
satisfied the job is well and truly done, he steals
away, leaving the stone. How deeply-rooted super-
stition is, defying all the pooh! pooh! of the white
man, is proved next morning, when the black man
wakens and sees the stone. He straightway loses
interest in worldly things, and gradually falls into
a state of coma. In about a month he dies. 1 have
had two “boys” killed in this way, and every effort
to shake sense into them has been unavailing. I
have argued with them, I have laughed at them, I
have belted them. “No good, boss; me die!” was
all they’d say. And they carried out their word to
the finish —just when I wanted them most, too, con-
found them!
“W.T.C.”: For cowardice the Sydney
young man is hard to beat. I was at one of the
beaches one night recently, looking for an expected
eclipse of the moon. I was seated in a secluded
spot, waiting for the phenomenon, and enjoying
the beauty of the night, when other young men
began to arrive; but not one of them had had the
pluck to come alone. At length the looked-for
change in the orb of night took place. So impres-
sive—almost terrifying, in fact! Satisfied with the
sight I turned to go, and, shame to him, every young
man on that beach was clinging to his female
companion—l presume in abject terror!
“McNorth”: When Billy, aboriginal, re-
turned to his district he was chock-full of all kinds
of information that he had learnt at the mission
school. So he started in and told the camp nigs
all about the revolution of the earth. One asked
what it turned on. Billy answered that it turned
on an axle. The doubter then wanted to know whac
the axle rested on. Billy said, “A forked stick.”
“What the fork stick he rest on?” “Longa big
stone.” “What the big stone rest on?” “Longa
’nother big stone.” “Yes, yes; I savee that. But
what that big stone rest on?” Billy was getting
annoyed, so he said wratlifully, “Oh, there’s big
stones all the way down.”
The just-deceased widow of Charles Bright
had the distinction of being the only Aus-
tralian woman, so far as this paper knows,
who ever spoke the funeral oration at her
husband’s grave.
Scone (N.S.W.) has entered into posses-
sion of a new hospital, erected to the
memory of H. J. H. Scott, one-time
“Tuppenny” Scott and captain of the Aus-
tralian eleven, and more recently Dr. Scott,
of Scone. The cricketer-medico was a popu-
lar figure wherever he went; and when it
recovered from the shock of his untimely
death, the district decided to build a hospital
to bear his name. One benefactor gave the
site, the public subscribed about £3000 and
the Government gave £2000. with the result
that Scone has a very worthy reminder of a
man who was worth remembering.
“Bookware” : A biography of Henry Var-
ley, the ex-Victorian butcher who turned
evangelist and made a stir in two hemi-
spheres, has been published in London. A
son has written it. Two others of the family
are the Varley Brothers, of Melbourne. In
France you don’t care to admit that you are
a grocer. “Born a man, died a grocer,” is
the gibe. Here the odium seems to attach to
the butcher; hence perhaps the sedulous con-
cealment of Varley’s old beef trade. But he
didn t mind ; and, anyhow, there was always
a vealy look about him. In preaching he
rubbed his hands, washed them in invisible
water, a reminiscence of his old “Buy ! Buy !
Buy !” in the Geelong market. Yet a good,"
honest, sanguinary evangelist he was.
“Naumai”: John Duthie has been called
to the M.L. Leg. Council by his political
brother, Premier Massey. “Honest John’’
was the nightmare of Hansard and of gal-
lery pressmen in general. Like most diffi-
cult men to “take,” he was a wildly irri-
tated person when misreported. In fact, he
was a bitter and maddened bloke. One day
he told Seddon that he (Richard) had been
guilty of “a piece of impertinence.” In the
gallery it sounded like “beastly imperti-
nence,” and so it appeared. When Duthie
read his paper he took the stairs in two
leaps, and for 10 minutes sang a song about
the war. He sat in three Parliaments. By
occupation Duthie is a wealthy ironmongei*.
John Ballance once called him a “tin tack
merchant,” but Ballance was a hard man
sometimes.
“Jean Sibi’s” art note: —
Sculptor Web. Gilbert, who is off to Europe next
year, has been giving some of his chisellings an air-
ing. There are 17 works in the exhibition, and
each one demonstrates Gilbert’s remarkable faculty
for impressing his personality on marble and bronze.
The most charming thing is his “Nautilus,” a slim,
bare girl standing on a shell. “Hedone,” accom-
panied by snakes and less pleasingly feminine, is
very well modelled; the “Reclining Figure” in
marble is honored with a pose that emphasises the
damsel’s nudity ; the “Head of Minerva” is a coldly
dignified contribution; and “Salome” contains all
the fateful expression that one expects in the notori-
ous adorer of John the Dipper. Among the portrait
busts, which include likeable studies of artist McCub-
bin and Mrs. Brough, the most attractive is that of
Barney O’Dowd, whose altitudinous fofehead and
faraway look have been very suggestively done in
bronze. The head, which is now one of the per-
manent institutions of the National Gallery, was
ticketed at 30 guineas, and dirt-cheap at the price.
Geelong woke up the other Sunday morn-
ing to find that workmen were desecrating
the holy day by putting the finishing touches
on anew theatre. Happily somebody re-
membered that proceedings to squash the
horror could be taken under an Act passed
in the days of King Charles the Saunterer,
and the law was accordingly set in motion.
The workmen were charged with pursuing
their worldly calling on the Lord’s Day, for
which the penalty prescribed is ss. or 24
hours in the stocks. Unluckily action had
not been comnjenced against the men until
11 days after the offence, whereas the
mouldy old Act says that not more than 10
must elapse. Thus Geelong missed a beau-
tiful difficulty; for had they been fined the
defendants were going to refuse to pay the
dollar, and throw on Geelong the job of
producing the stocks. They might perhaps
have been mad enough to have Geelong fined
for not providing stocks.
The just-published Letters of Professor
Goldwin Smith (1826-1910), the Oxford
philosopher who settled in Canada, suggest
that he would have been a valued contri-
butor to The Bulletin if he had settled in
Australia instead :
(1879). —Toronto is just now in a paroxysm of
vulgar flunkeyism, called forth by the visit of the
Princess and her husband.... One of the most ludi-
crous parts of the Jingo policy is the attempt to set
up a Court here, with an aristocracy of knights.
One of the knights had been a chemist, another a
miller. The people call them Sir Bolus and Sir
Brom.
(1897 —to G. H. Reid, who, with Barton, had been
been asking for advice.) —It might be well to pro-
vide for a revision of the Constitution, whatever it
might be, after a certain term. Circumstances
change, and institutions must change with them.
As Bacon says, “What man does not alter for the
better, Time, the great innovator, alters for the
worse.” Time has greatly altered for the worse the
American Constitution, the immobility of which,
owing to the excessive difficulty of amendment, is a
very serious evil.
(1899-1900). —The Boers have made a most gal-
lant fight, and they will leave an impression. I
doubt whether England has been put in a worse
moral position since the burning of Joan of Arc
I was thinking of paying a short visit to England;
but the Jingoism there would sicken me.
(1904).—The root of the evil is the Party system,
which we have learned to regard as the necessary
foundation of free government, whereas it is an acci-
dent of English history, the offspring of the struggle
in the 18th century between the Stuarts and their
Constitutional opponents (1909). —The party sys-
tem of government is surely everywhere breaking
down. Here (Toronto) its downfall is complete.
(1900). I begin to fhink that Socialism is the
only force capable of coping with Jingoism. It is
unquestionably gaining ground here.
Name and address of the author of these
remarks: Goldwin Smith, The Cemeterv,
Toronto, Canada—barring his brain, which
he bequeathed to a Professor of Cornell
University, U.S.A., remarking “I would as
soon he should have my brain as my old
hat.
POISON!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Alliance must trust to the popular education of
liquor, which had been proved a failure as a stimu-
lant, and a poison as a beverage.— -From garbled ac-
count of “Tommy” Walker’s remarks on Derrink
(W.A.)
Yus! orfen I ses to me mate, Mick O’Brine, ’oo’s
apt for to licker too free —
“Youse say yer ’ead’s achin’ —it’s poison youse
takin’ —most deadly, youse take it from me !”
But wot do I get in reply but a snort, or a deep,
’oiler larf, or a sneer?
Mick ’ll say—“ Strike me pink ! One ’ud blankv
well think that I drank! W’y I only ’as beer!
An’ wot’s beer?
Commin beer?
Blokes eats ’undreds of gallons a year!
Youse ’ave tea —
Beer fer me !
There’s no bleedin’ ’idatids in beer! (’Ear! ’Ear!)”
Well, o’ corse, I replies to Mick —blastin’ his eyes fer
a blanky, fanatical fool —
yer know as it’s poison wot lures you weak
boys on to ’Ell, where the Devil keeps school?”
Ses I: “The Alliance is out in defiance of spendin’
six million a year ;
It don’t want to ’urt youse—it wants to convert
youse, an’ wean youse off ’orrible beer.
For wot’s beei —
Narsty beer —
W’ich is orfen as thick as it’s clear?
It goes sour
In a nour —
It’s a norrible poison is Beer!”
But all my advice counts for nix with O’Brine, as,
lately, I’ve ’ad cause to see;
I torks ’obnail liver, in ’opes that ’e’d shiver, nex’
time ’e’ felt wild for a spree:
I ses: “Drink’s a failure, all over Australure; the
doctors won’t ’ave it—no fear!
An’ even Tom Walker” “Shut up, you d—d
talker!” says Mick,
Drink’s quite diff’rent from Beer!
Why, wot’s beer ?
I’ve some ’ere....
Wot, yer won’t ?.... Well (hie) ’s luck, then, ol’
dear!”
Ses I, “Mick!
W’y, youse slack”
Ses ’e —“No. just thic) poisoned by beer!”
(Dear! Dear!)
N.S.W.
YE ANCIENT SANDGROPER.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Last Friday afternoon “The Bulletin" Office was a mere shambles. Every,
body bad to be vaccinated. Hop's Understudy was the first to be operated on,
and here you see him bearing it. with Christian fortitude.
“LETTING IT DRY.”
A Harrowing Scene,
While being operated on, the Editor-in-Chief calmly kept on
writing powerful leaders, what time the printer’s devil stood
by shrieking for “Copy.”
Martha Washington emphatically re-
fused to be done on the * BM ’
count of evenin’ dress.” The '
cleared, and now, if you ask M»th«
where she pas vaccinated, she will tel
you, “At THE BOOLETEEN Office, g
course!”
The printer's devil, by-the-bye, is
a violent Anti-Vaccinationist. H.
had to be held down by the Managing
Director and three other strong men,
while the surgeon vaccinated him on
the tail.
The Wild Cat took refuge in the shaft,
and hasn’t been seen since.
The Company has plenty of lymph left We hwr our owm
private calf tied up in the cellar, in case of emergencj.
rt’s beginning to take. Yesterday the Fighting Editor and the
Religious Ditto had a “scrap,” but, as neither could, for obvious reasons,
get hi his “dirty left,” the conflict was a draw.
THE VACCINATION BOOM AT "THE BULLETIN" OFFICE.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable every-
where.* J
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
durability.
is
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
LIVX
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
%
7.-
"»/"< 1
/ *
G>
lever brothers
LIMITED. SYONEV
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“N.M.” on a dead Quaker and a deader
ship:—
Gone, Robert Mather, aged 65, head of Hobart’s
oldest drapery business, and connection by birth or
marriage with all the Mathers, Cottons, Walkers
and Mays that dot the Apple Island with Quaker-
ism. (Count in with the last-named family, by the
way, the illustrious Phil May.) “Mather’s,” like
Walch’s bookshop, goes back to the infancy of Tas-
manian trade, when commodities were scarcer than
customers and there was no need to shriek to reach
the public’s ear. All the same, shopkeeping was not
the Quaker equivalent of beer and skittles. Bad
debts loomed large, and the Mathers firm was obliged
to compound with its creditors. The diggings, which
broke out soon after and splashed the trades with
gold, put things right; whereupon the firm honor-
ably notified its former creditors that they would be
credited and supplied with goods to the full amount
that had been owing. A bit of interesting shipping
history connects with the coming of the family to
Tassy. The Australian States were being boomed in
1821, and any old ramshackle vessel that could put
to sea found its complement of passengers. The
Mathers (husband, wife and small children) had the
luck to strike the Hope. After repeated delays in
starting, this coffin-ship went pottering about the
English coastline and ran into a violent storm at
the Downs, which, by bringing the whole infamous
business to light, probably saved the lives of the
passengers. The owners had crammed in as many
as they could, and, after carefully collecting the pas-
sage-money (over £3000), had sent the vessel to
sea, with a 6canty supply of inferior provisions, to
take its chance. To their surprise, the ship turned
up again, and then they played their last card —
they declared themselves bankrupt, and left their
passengers stranded. Eventually, through represen-
tations made to Earl Bathurst, the British Govern-
ment came to the rescue, and provided another vessel
(the Heroine) to carry the passengers to Australia.
The shipping arrangements seem to have been all
very casual. At Rio Janeiro the captain of the
Heroine gave some of the men leave to go on shore;
then, the breeze having freshened, he went off
without them, and would have left them there, re-
gardless of the protests of their wives and families,
if a storm had not driven him back for shelter.
They arrived in Hobart Town on September 10,
1822, after 20 weeks of voyaging, during the last
10 or 12 of which the passengers were shut off from
fresh air and daylight, the hatches being closed and
a tarpaulin nailed over them. Mrs. Mather wrote
memoirs of the voyage. Pleasant it must have been,
travelling in those days!—especially as the water-
supply frequently ran out or went stale, and the
food was salt junk with a supply of vinegar to ward
off scurvy!
JUDGE HEYDON, Arbitration Court,
N.S.W. Here you see his Honor arbitrating
for all he is worth.
You’ve heard of the Duke of Saxe-Coburg. Let’s talk
of the King of Sacks—that is, the “once-used equal-
to-new” sack. It’s the King, because it’s a money-
saver. One of these sacks would prevent Capital
leaving the country if it was, sewn up in it. Our
sacks point the way out of your sack worries ; there’s
no “cul-de-sac” about them as a business proposi-
tion ; there’s only one hole in them, and that’s at
the mouth. They’re tiptop, in short. Write the
“Sack Specialists,” T. SMITH, LTD., Sussex-street,
Sydney. Do it now.*
“0.K.”: Several obituary notices of the
late J. C. Williamson give the date of his
birthday as August 26, 1845, which would
make him out to have been under 68 when
he died. Probably he was three or four years
older. The statement that he was only a
youth of 17 or 18 when he went with a
company to Canada is hardly credible. Be-
sides, the various notices are contradictory.
For instance:—
Mr. Williamson once described to an interviewer
how he came to cross the Rubicon. “We were living
at Milwaukee, and there was an amateur company
with which I had appeared. One of them arranged
to go to Canada, and asked me to come along. I
was then 16. I went to my uncle and told him
about it. He said, ‘Remember, if you go, you go
for good.’ Well, I went, and from that Hay I have
been connected with the stage,” etc., etc.
Another account: —
Mr. Williamson delighted in amateur theatricals,
and got an engagement at the Milwaukee Theatre
where he learned dancing and fencing, helped the
stage manager, played his part in the evening, and
sometimes painted scenery. In 1863 he went to
Canada.
Third account: —
When 16 he joined a theatrical co. at Milwaukee,
and played many characters in that early part of
his stage life, and he, in addition, looked after the
business side of the enterprise. In 1862 he went to
Canada with a company.
These differing notices all give the year of
his birth as 1845, and were seemingly
written in recent years. A more trust-
worthy notice appeared in a Melbourne
theatrical sheet—The Call —of December,
1887, and this said :
Mr. J. C. Williamson was born on 26th August,
18 4 b. At 16 years of age he adopted the profession
of an actor —-a determination which did not meet
with the approval of his friends. His first efforts
were on the boards of the Milwaukee Theatre. Then
for a year or two he travelled through the Western
States and afterwards visited Canada, etc., etc.
But even in 1887, when J.C.W. was said to
have been born in 1844 (not ’45), he was
already at an age when actors and other
people are disposed to lose count of two or
three years in their variegated past. Pro-
bably the veteran was nearer 72 than 68
when his long innings closed. The one thing
certain is that he married Maggie Moore
just 40 years ago, and was a keenly com-
mercial-minded artist in those early days.
No actor of his class—for Williamson was
an excellent character actor —was ever more
thoroughly businesslike. He had his bride-
to-be in his eye, as the ideal Lizzie Stofel,
when he bought “Struck Oil” in the manu-
script and got it pulled into shape for him.
The following year the Williamsons brought
their piece to Australia and started as star
artists. Without the assistance of his lucky
“find,” J.C.W. would have been a successful
man, of course. He had success in him. But
he owed his early rise and his Australian
fortunes to the “Struck Oil” investment and
his choice of a wife, not forgetting the fact
that he himself had become a specialist in
dialect characters, and was the very man to
make a hit as John Stofel. There was no
vanity of the beauty actor about J. C. Wil-
liamson. Off the stage he was known as
“Handsome Jimmy,” but in his handsomest
time of life he disguised himself as elderly
fat men, and one of his first big parts was
that of the Dickens character, Joey Ladle-
bloated, bibulous Joey Ladle —in an adapta-
tion of “No Thoroughfare.” When the pre-
sent writer interviewed J.C.W. some years
ago, he seemed to remember his Joey Ladle,
at Wallack’s Theatre, as the “creation” he
was particularly proud of. An actor who
mostly played dialect characters in America
got little chance of creating anything. Wil-
liamson’s John Stofel was his own glorified
edition of the typical Dutch American. It
couldn’t have been better done, but it ran
on old lines. His Rip Van Winkle differed
only a little from Jefferson’s creation of the
part, and John Stofel, returning to Pitts-
burg in a cranky condition, was much the
same man as Rip after his long sleep. Again,
J.C.W.’s performance of the old servant in
“Kerry” couldn’t help being founded on the
creation of Dion Boucicault, senior, who
wrote the one-act play. Williamson in Aus-
tralia usually played the parts in which
there is least scope for an actor’s individua-
lity. Sometimes, as in “Arrah-Na-Pogue”
and other melodramas, he revealed something
of his identity in a jaunty sort of way. On
the. comic-opera stage he was an admirable
policeman in “Pirates of Penzance,” and a
droll old Judge in “Trial by Jury.” Some
21 years ago, when Billv Elton had just con-
cluded his engagement with the firm,
manager Williamson took “Billy’s” nart as
the Dutch burgomaster in “La Cigale,” and
this was his. last apnearance as an every-
night actor in Melbourne. His subsequent
special appearances happened in Sydney.
Herbert Brookes, the new President of
the Vic. Chamber of Manufactures, has
hitherto mostly been in the shadow of two
relatives—Alfred Deakin, his father-in-law,
and Norman, his tennis-champion brother.
But Herbert is likely to nrove himself as
good iron as either of them. As a youngster
he took his Engineering degree and drifted
into mining, but had the bad luck to strike
the common sort that doesn’t pay; so he
became sec. to an engineering co., and pushed
along till he nowadays is chairman of direc-
tors, with a large, powerful oar also in the
Australian Paper Mills.
Two remarkable deaths were reported last
week. One was that of the oldest inhabi-
tant of Adelong (N.S.W.). aged 305, the
same old unprovable, impossible centenarian.
The other deceased was a boy in California,
who drank 33 bottles of ginger-beer, and
then gave up the ghost. Probably he died
on a Friday.
A number of old Victorian “lags” will
remember Peter Dwyer, their former guar-
dian. Peter’s connection with prisons be-
gan 60 years ago, when he became a warder
at Pentridge, which was always Melbourne’s
“felons’ hotel” for long-sentence boarders.
When Maryborough was honored with a
gaol 50 years ago, Peter Dwyer was ap-
pointed first governor. Then he governed
Portland Gaol, and afterwards took the man-
agement of Geelong Gaol, where the old,
forgotten murderers used to be sent to end
their days. From there he went to Mel-
bourne City Gaol, and finally he returned
to Pentridge as his Excellency the Governor.
In the early 90’s of last century, Peter re-
tired into rural private life at the little town-
ship of Riddell, and there he died last week,
full of years (86) and gruesome reminis-
cences. His knowledge of episodes in the
lives of citizens who hoped he had forgotten
them must have been wide and deep.
Concerning Australia’s political patriarch :
John Dennistoun Wood is last man left who could
write a readable book on early-Victorian politics
from personal experience ; but as he was 83 the other
day the book can hardly be looked for now. Born
in Van Diemen’s Land when William IV. was king,
he was sent to England for his education, and was
called to the English Bar in 1852. Then he re-
turned to these parts, and got a big practice. Next
he went into politics, and was Solicitor-General in
the first O’Shanassy Ministry (1857 —it lasted 49
days), Attorney-General in the Nicholson Ministry
of 1859-60 (it lasted one year and 30 days), and
“Justice” in the third O’Shanassy Cabinet, a dur-
able thing as durability went then, which lasted
from 14th November, ’6l, to 27th June, ’63. In
1867 he made a tour of Greece, Turkey and the
world thereabouts. He had fever at Damascus, and
something else serious—possibly pariah dogs—in
Constantinople. In 1869 he returned to England,
began practice at the Bar there, and during the next
20 years appeared in every case of importance that
went from Victoria to the Privy Council. Then, his
old bones calling for milder weather, he returned to
Melbourne, and resumed practice as a barrister in
the old quarters. He is a most versatile little man.
He has had a taste for the stage among other
things—the theatre was, and is, one of his favorite
recreations. Over half a century ago the members
of the Victorian Parliament played “The Merchant
of Venice” at the Melbourne Theatre Royal, when
George Coppin was to the fore. Rusden, the clerk
of the Council, wrote a prologue, and Wood, who
had a fine voice, delivered it. After the perform-
ance there was a supper at the cafe attached to the
theatre, and Wood was the humorist of the night—
or morning. Like most Tasmanians, he never lost
his love for his native island, and after having seen
the world and the Unspeakable, he returned three
or four years ago to his birthplace, at Dennistoun,
to farm sheep and become a member of the local
Parliament.
Leyton Richards throws up the Collins-
street (Melb.) Independent pulpit. All
through the hairily picturesque Bevan’s
20 years this church went down, down. At
last there would be only 100 or less
people in the gorgeous tabernacle of a Sun-
day. morning, and very few more at night.
On Bevan taking a sort of professorship in
Adelaide, Richards was brought from Brit-
ain, and has been for three years indus-
triously flogging the dead nag. But it won’t
move. A red-hot fanatic might make it
seem to be alive for a while, but Richards
1913 D. T.’s.
(A Study in Fan tods.)
THE MAN ABOUT TOWN: “Oh, crumbs!
Here's another—a new ’un this time! ”
is not that sort. As for stipend money, there
is no worry. The property, partly occu-
pied by the Commonwealth Government
for offices, renders the Church just as inde-
pendent of patronage as one of the sleepy,
cobwebby endowed places in London. Even
if it pleached to a congregation of one beetle
the salary of the expounder would come in
just the same.
THE LATEST EXCUSE.
IRATE WIFE : “How dare you come home in
this state? Where've you been?"
HUBBY: " 'Sort ri’, m' dear; I bin (hie)
gettin ’ vaeshinated. Sufferin' from after
effeesh , y' know."
Political spoils going naturally nowadays
to the victors, W. E. Johnson becomes
Speaker of the House of Reps, in succession
to the strikingly successful “Charley”
McDonald, the wire and whipcord member
for the North. Johnson was born at New-
castle-on-Tyne in 1861. He studied tele-
graphy, and as a youngster was employed at
the London Exchange, Mark Lane, the Corn
Exchange, the Smithfield Market, and else-
where. Then he shipped as midshipman, and
went twice round the world. On his last
voyage he was left at Colombo with fever,
and was repotted dead when the ship arrived
in England. After that, not being as dead
as he was alleged to be, he worked in
America and Australia as scenic artist. Then
he came forward in politics, and was
elected for Lang (N.S.W.) in 1903. In
Parliament he has talked unceasingly, and
generally uninterestingly, and in the North-
ern Territory he sat on an alligator, mistak-
ing it for a log. Apart from that, the only
notable thing he has done was when, as
the jackal of the Sydney Congestion party,
he proposed Canberra as the site of Aus-
tralia’s rabbit-burrow capital.
The Commonwealth Government, if it
follows the recommendation of the Historical
Memorials Committee, will buy Lister Lis-
tens painting of the Federal capital site for
£250; and it will also make a bid for Penley
Boyd’s picture on the same lugubrious sub-
ject.
The dropping out of J. T.
Walker and the defeat of Lyne
removes from politics (for the
present, at any rate) the last of
the Ma State’s representatives in
the Convention which framed the
Federal Constitution. Of the
others, O’Connor, Abbott and
Brunker are dead ; Carruthers and
McMillan may be classified as Past
Deeds; Barton is on the High
Court, and Reid and Wise are
otherwise occupied. Walker’s in-
tention to retire was known over
12 months ago; so Oom Bill is
the real last of the 10. And take
him for all in all, he was about
the best and biggest of the bunch.
“J.F.H.” : Not many Australian
swaggies finish up as Governors
and Iv.C.M.G.’s; but the story of
one has just been published in
London. _ Ralph Williams is the
author, 15s. the price, and “How I
Became a Governor” the title.
M illiams went to Australia in an
aimless fashion as a young man,
he says. He took to the bush and
humped his bluey or drum from
station to station, gaining a good
deal of rouseabout rough-and-
tumble experience. Then he joined
an expedition that went treasure-
hunting in Patagonia, where he
lived for a time with the Indians.
Afterwards he made off to South
Afnca, where he got a billet under Sir
Charles \\ arren, in the Civil Intelligence De-
partment. Thus he got his foot on the
ladder, and rose to be British Agent in Pre-
toria, Treasurer at Gibraltar, Colonial Secre-
tary at Barbadoes, Governor of the Wind-
ward Islands, and, finally, Governor of New-
foundland.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God bless Vm,, darling, and give you the pluck
you need. —Your broken-hearted Bim. — From, the
Marquis of Northampton’s farewell letter to Miss
Daisy Moss, who afterwards got £50,000 out of him
for breach of promise of marriage.
Miss Moss has gained far more than pluck.
For Valor, after all,
Is not a fraction of the luck
That on one’s brow may fall.
Most girls would gladly cringe like hounds
For fifty thousand golden pounds.
Bim, on the other hand, has lost,
Or smashed, the best of hearts —
A process that has doubtless cost
Him divers ghastly smarts ;
And also, which is still more drear,
Two thousand pounds and odd per year.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


smokiing-
fllXTCJßE
X-y-Sv! II
Ml
{ r V )* # J
/~~~7
tl
vU
The Comfortable' .Smoke
" Here upon my easy chair,
Choice ‘ Vice Regal ’ gaily smoking "
If'-’ , . , o" .
VICE REGAL” (the Famous Brand of W. D.
and H. O. Wills) on Cigarettes or Smoking
Mixture, is the Hallmark of Excellence. Refreshing
originality of flavour —an individual quality as
delicious as it is distinctive —is characteristic of
“Vice-Regal.
SMOKING MIXTURE
SOLD IN 1 oz AND 2oz AIRTIGHT TINS
TWO STRENGTHS -MEDIUM AND FULL.
CIGARETTES
IN 6 D PACKETS.
IVORY TIPS
l k
ti&*
n
\MO^
c\* v
oaz
3)
W.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
Information apply— 32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers. Fans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type
C, A. PARSONS 8 CO., Newcastle-on-Tyne,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONF
Sol. Australasian WILLIAM ADAMS «, CO M PANYLIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane. Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Electric Light Department of
Tiie Melbourne Citv Council:—
Paid Contri- Writ-
Gross as In- bution ten To Re- Re-
Reb., Profit, terest. to Citv. Off. serves, serves.
1902.. £10,566 £17,866 ‘ £2l 689
1903.. 23,568 11.791 _ £11,777 33G16
1904.. 3',877 12,750 18,127 51,543
1905.. 36,636 13,395 £l,OOO £12,608 9,633 61,176
1906.. 40,986 13,456 1,000 5,650 20,880 82,056
1907.. 48,722 14,386 1,500 5,039 27,797 109,853
1908.. 53,761 16,144 3,000 62,079 82,391
1909.. 57,323 16,343 5,000 5,532 30,448 112, 539
1916.. 63,842 17,066 7,000 4,346 35,430 148,269
1911.. 70,078 17,533 9,500 7,698 35,347 183,616
Dec.,
19i 1.. 70,039 15,137 10,000 3,135 41,767 225,383
1912.. 73,4u9 19,357 8,750 10,003 35,299 260,682
As to the figures in the last line, the only question
is whether a small amount included with the £10,003
written off should not have been deducted straight
away from gross profits ; but it isn’t of much prac-
tical consequence whether it is done one way or the
other. The bulk of the £10,003 consists of cost of
buildings, plant, etc., renewed or put out of use. The
practice is to put a substantial sum to credit of a
depreciation and renewals account, and write off
amounts from that account as renewals or replace-
ments are made. This is a satisfactory system so
long as it is clearly understood that the amount put
to reserves is not all true profit. Hitherto, the plant
being new, replacements have been slight, and the
reserves (which include the depreciation fund) have
therefore grown fast. In course of time the renewals
will cost more perhaps in a year than the amount
put by to cover depreciation in that year ; and then
the reserves will start to shrink. It must therefore
be understood that the reserves at present are largely
fictitious, and the profits, so far as they include the
amount required to cover wear and tear, are ficti-
tious also. Instead of anything from £35,000 to
£40,000 of profit being made, last year’s total was
only £17,047, which was more than absorbed by the
sinking fund and the contribution to the city funds.
The sinking fund contribution is 1 p.c., plus, of
course, the interest earnings of the fund. After that
had been handed over, and the amount judged neces-
sary to cover depreciation was provided, there wasn’t
enough left to furnish the grant in relief of city
rates which was made ; wherefore the profit and loss
balance had to be cut into. This shows that and
other points:—
Feb.,’o3. Feb.,’ll. Dec..’ll. Dec.,’l2.
£/£,£,
Sinking Fund.. 40,985 79,417 87,216 96,185
For renewals,
etc. . . 102,864 134,330 163,514
P. and L. Bal-
ance, Dr. . . 7,569
P. and L. Bal-
ance, Cr. . . 1,335 3,837 983
Total. . £33,416 £183,616 £225,383 £260,682
The council never should have started the practice
of burgling this young enterprise’s cash-box in order
to relieve the city ratepayer. The time may come
when the infant may reasonably be asked to do
something; but it shouldn’t be until the business
has provided a much more general and satisfactory
service at a lower cost, and has got more than its
eyebrows out oi debt. To now make a grant which
involves an onslaught on the small unappro-
priated accumulations is very discreditable unless
the council is convinced that the amount (including
a special £7000) appropriated against depreciation
was more than the case called for.
; 're excellent thing about this municipal business
i- that both sinking and depreciation funds are in-
v sTil outside this enterprise altogether, and the in-
teresf is credited to the fund whose investments
carried the money. In the first table all the earn-
ings are, of course, included in the gross profits.
T'm next little list shows the earnings in more de-
Feb., Feb., Deo., Dec.,
1908. 1911. 1911. 1912.
Balance, working a/c .. £49,599 £63,934 £64,004 £65,146
Sinking fund interest .. 1,971 2,779 2,539 3,354
Renewals fund interest.. 2,046 2,676 3,077 4,590
Profit on sales of plant,
debentures, etc. .. 145 689 419 319
Total Profit .. £53,761 £70,078 £70,039 £73,409
The sinking fund is invested wholly or almost wholly
in Government and municipal securities; the depre-
ciation fund, which may be required for renewals
and replacements at any time, is mostly on fixed de-
posit at 34 p.c. This plan of investing the depre-
ciation fund is an excellent one. In most cases,
even where a sinking fund for the repayment of
capital is invested in more or less liquid securities,
the depreciation reserve is “used in the business,”
as it is called—which means pretty often that it
isn t a real reserve at all; and when money is
wanted for renewals, there is no alternative but to
raise it from either the shareholders or the over-
draft or debenture merchant. The caoital in this
business is £526,000 plus an overdraft of £41,419.
Buildings, plant, installations, etc., stand in the
books at £498,497, with £49.821 on account of
the purchase of private undertakings. The nature of
this last asset is not plain. It may even be a goodwill
or paper item. The total amount put aside against
wear and tear last year was £32,640 (including
special appropriations to cover the actual cost of
such things as renewal of poles), which is equal to
6 p.c. on, say, £540.000. It looks a reasonable
provision. As shown above, the total to the credit
of the Depreciation Fund is now £163,514, but
there will, it is said, be heavy drafts on this reserve
very soon on account of renewals.
Further reductions were made in some of the
charges for lighting last year, which probably
accounts for the comparatively poor spring in the
figures relating to profits. (Also, by the way, it
probably accounts for the further reduction ' just
made by the rival Gas Co.) This table gives a bet-
ter idea of working costs, etc.: —
, Works’ Capital
F eb., Revenue. Expenditure. Profit. Outlav.
1901 .. £35,727 £24,462 £11.265 £204,051
1903 . . 64,008 41,352 22,656 324,979
1906 . . 72,214 33,628 38,586 380^565
1907 .. 817190 35,660 45,530 420,236
1908 . . 92,365 42,766 49,599 510,843
1909 . . 102,635 50,177 52,458 556,248
1910 .. 113,578 54,662 58,916 575,291
1911 . . 120,363 56,429 63,934 628,067
Dec.,
1911 .. 112,119 48,115 64,004 629,785
1912 . . 130,276 65,130 65,146 672,590
The term ended December, 1911, was 10 months
only, so revenue for that period was at the rate of
£130,805 a year, or actually more than it was for
the past year. Expenses, however, instead of re-
maining also stationary or thereabouts, have bustled
along from £56,135 (on a 12 months basis) to
£65,130. It is pretty clear from this and other
features that the business will require watching.
There is still a fair margin left after providing for
depreciation and sinking fund, but there plainly
isn't enough left for such contributions to the gen-
eral rates as have been made in the last two or
three years; and last year’s halt of the revenue,
while the expenditure jumped ahead, suggests that
for the current year it may not be advisable to make
any contribution at all. Or, rather, it may be less
advisable than it has ever been.
The Maoriland State Fire Insurance
Office, which began regular business early in Janu-
ary, 1905 (the deficit up to then represents prelim-
inary expenses) :
Ex- Added to
Dec., Revenue. Claims, penses. Reserves. Deficit.
1904 £1,026 £1,026
Reserves.
1905 .. £13,136 £2,418 6,738 £3,980 2,954
1906 .. 20,991 10,312 7,215 3,464 6,418
1907 . . 23,302 12,701 8,355 2,246 8,664
1908 . . 26,909 18,904 10,146 6,523
1909 . . 34,038 18,535 10,155 5,348 11,871
1910 .. 41,788 18,914 11,478 11,396 23,267
1911 . . 48,930 27,537 13,125 8,268 31,535
1912 . . 56,315 25,111 14,526 16,678 48,213
This office is now in the extraordinary position of
having no capital in the ordinary meaning of the
word. It was started because there was an outcry
against the over-charges made for insurance by pri-
vate offices, and Parliament authorised the raising
of £lOO,OOO as capital in order to provide some
healthy competition. All this office asked for to
start with, however, was £2OOO, which amount was
raised by the State on debentures. It was on this
small amount able to pull through, and during the
past year it reckoned that it could afford to buy
up those debentures, and do without any outside
help at all. This deal having been made, the office
is in the position of having provided all of its own
funds of nearly £50,000 out of its own earnings
within eight years. Certainly it can’t be claimed
that the whole £48,213 is surplus profit; for
those funds include the money necessary to
cover the risks under policies paid for last year
and running into this year. Making a liberal
allowance on this account the actual aggregate pro-
fits of the office so far have been, say, £20,000,
which is equal to 125 p.c. per annum on the capital
put up by the Government. And that isn’t all the
office has done by a long way. Immediately on the
appearance of this State office, the private cos. pulled
down their premiums, and it has been figured out
that the public has thus saved in the aggregate in
premiums £1,500,000. It has been a wonderful re-
turn from an investment of £2OOO, and the repay-
ment of the principal in full doesn’t diminish the
wonder. No doubt it would be too much to expect
things to go on being so good indefinitely. An out-
size in fires must be expected some day ; and against
that hazard the office must build up larger reserves.
When its funds are equal to 150 p.c. of the year’s
premiums, it may reckon itself in a safe and com-
fortable position. At present they don’t reach quite
95 p.c. ; and no private office would be regarded as
sound enough if it didn’t have much more than that.
Certainly, if something very unpleasant happened,
the State would come to the rescue—the State is
pledged to that—but the office doesn’t want to ever
have to go to the State for tuppence. Hence the
need for the steady growth of funds, not so much
to protect the policy-holders (who are protected as
no other policy-holders are by the State guarantee)
as to protect the State and make the office capable
of standing unsupported under practically any ad-
verse circumstances. And having no hungry share-
holders eager for dividends, it can, of course, accu-
mulate the necessary funds more easily than any of
its competitors doing an equal amount of similar
business.
As for those competitors, some of them are sorry
now they ever cut down the premiums. They hoped
to kill the State office; they have merely
crippled themselves. In their struggles some of them
have adopted the most reprehensible policy of accept-
ing over-insurances, relying on the fact that an in-
surance policy is an indemnity against loss, and
that, though a man pay premiums on £5OO of
stock, he can recover only £lOO if he can show that
he has lost only £lOO worth. The trouble is that
many small insurers don’t know this —the fish-shop
man, for instance—-and some stocks and shops are
far more inflammable when the owner expects to get
£5OO in case they are burned than when he believes
he can only rely on getting £ 100>. This over-
insurance, notoriously prevalent in Maoriland, is
largely responsible for the Dominion’s fire waste,
which has been est’mated by some at over £6,000,000
in 10 years. No doubt the flimsy, inflammable nature
of many of the premises helps; for unfortunately
the fire which breaks out in the little, over-insured
fish-shop has a habit of spreading to other places
that are not over-insured—which makes one wonder
why the decent majority who don’t over-insure don’t
adopt measures to squeeze out the cos. that encour-
age the vicious practice.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Added
Provided to In-
Ex- for Depre- surance
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Fund.
£)a C £>£,££,£,
1900 .. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,909 42,x98
1901 . . 412,816 226,783 79,577 106,456
1902 . . 429,263 226,512 81,002 121,749
1903 .. 438,825 236,874 87,731 114,220
1904 .. 454,758 248,313 95,175 111,270
1905 .. 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1906 . . 466,326 335,946 104,564 25,816
1907 .. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,265
1908 .. 488,932 321,453 98,473 69,006
1909 .. 482,038 307,035 86,915 50,000 38,088
Standard Life bus'ness secured.
1910 .. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1911 .. 622,924 316,776 167,165 200 138,783
1912 . . 649,677 337,357 193,116 32,483 86,721
This society has been wading in trouble and is not
yet right out of it. Ten months ago, in fact, there
was a scare, whereupon the Victorian Government
appointed a committee of experts to overhaul the
business. This committee has made two or three
progress reports, but its final summary will not be
available for another few months. Judging by the
progress reports there is nothing flagrantly amiss.
“We have not observed,” they say, “any assets or
advances which in our opinion are of a speculative
nature, nor any advances or loans to directors.”
That makes comforting reading. Unfortunately it
doesn’t also make the Colonial Mutual a prosperous
concern.
The society got into the backwash many years
ago, and has stayed there ever since. Nothing suc-
ceeds in insurance like success. Give an office a
good name and policies will come in with little
persuasion ; throw doubt on the future, and every
bit of business has to be fought for. And it costs
money not only to get the business, but also to
keep it. Finding prejudice against it strong in Aus-
tralia, this society struggled to get attractive
figures by going to S’Africa and Europe. It didn’t
get much business to speak of, and what it did get
cost a great deal. The expense rate has run to con-
siderably over 20 p.c. of the total income, and the
insurer with decent sized lines to place —the man
who is looking for insurance as an investment—
knows that an office which consumes from 20 to 30
p.c. of its income in expenses has very little hope
of offering much in the way of bonuses. Bonuses
come from three principal sources—(l) a lower
expense rate than that figured on in fixing the pre-
mium ; (2) better interest earnings than the rate
assumed; and (3) a better mortality experience
than that assumed. With so high an expense rate
bonuses can’t get much help from the first source.
The position is none too good either with regard to
the second source. This list shows the recent interest
earnings on average funds: —
1904 ..£4l 4 p.c. 1909 ..£4 3 3 p.c.
1905 .. 3 17 11 „ 1910 . . 4 3 10 „
1906 .. 318 1 „ 1911 .. 4 5 9 „
1907 .. 316 9 „ 1912 . . 4 511 „
1908 .. 4 1 1 „
There is an improvement there, certainly, but the
rate is still, considering the nature of the securities,
at least 6s. Bd. p.c. less than it ought to be; and
another 6s. Bd. p.c. would mean £ll,OOO or
thereabouts available per annum for bonuses. The
trouble probably still lies in the load of freeholds
and leaseholds carried by the society. The manage-
ment certainly points out that these are bringing in
“over 4 p.c.,” whereas the rate assumed in fixing
premiums was only 8$ p.c. This means that the
society is earning enough to more than pay the
face value of its policies.; provided, of course, its
expenses and claims don’t run away with more than
it was assumed they would. But nowadays the
public wants much more than the face value of a
policy; so, though the figures are quite satisfac-
tory from one point of view, they are not satisfac-
tory from the point of view of new business-getting.
Going back to expenses, these are the figures for
recent years :■ —-
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1903 .. £l9 19 10 p.c. 1908 .. £2O 210 p.c.
1904 .. 20 18 7 „ 1909 .. 18 0 7 „
1905 .. 21 17 10 „ 1910 .. 20 16 4 „
1906 .. 22 8 8 „ 1911 .. 26 16 8 „
1907 . . 22 3 2 „ 1912 . . 29 14 5,,
But that £29 14s. sd. p.c. for the past year rather
over-states the case. As a matter of fact, a good
deal of cleaning-up has been done during the 12
months, and various amounts have been dropped in
among the expenses—for instance, furniture depre-
ciation, £2BBl ; written off Fidelity Guarantee
account, £3549, plus a special appropriation to that
account, £4OOO. Strike off these extras, some of
which should, no doubt, have been charged to pre-
vious years, and the position for the past year isn’t
quite so unsatisfactory as it looks, though it is still
unsatisfactory. As for the cost of new business,
approximate figures can be got this way. Assume
that renewal (old) business costs 7 p.c. and annuity
(single premium) business 3 p.c.; total, £27,086.
Take the expenses proper to the year at £185,000 ;
then £157,914, being the balance over and above
the £27,086, was the cost of the new business,
which brought in £115,499 of premiums. This
means that the new business cost 137 p.c. of the
first-year premiums. It is too much, though it is
not as excessive as one would expect from the ex-
pense rate previously mentioned and calculated on
total income.
Come, now, to a comparatively new outbreak :■ —
Accident Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1910 .. £6,460 £679 £2202 £3579
1911 .. 13,166 3839 3910 5417
1912 .. 13,777 4872 6151 3754
Here, too, a pretty serious growth is shown in the
expense rate. The business nevertheless is appar-
ently still toothsome. After providing for unex-
pired risks (an estimate, of course) the accumu-
lated profit amounts to £6379.
The assets of the Ordinary and Accident depart-
ments are not separated. The next table shows their
composition in a rather general way
1902. 1912.
t —'> t A
Cash and de-
ports ..£218,091 8.0 p.c. £145,844 4.2 p.c.
Public securities 335,500 12.4 „ 541,404 15.5 „
Mortgages ..1,156,083 42.6 „ 1,427,210 40.7 „
Freeholds, etc. 677,376 24.9 „ 861,288 24.6 „
Other assets .. 328,961 12.1 „ 526,160 15.0 „
“Other assets” include loans on policies, outstanding
premiums (a heavy amount, showing that the society
is probably finding some difficulty in bringing
policy-holders up to the scratch), and £42,699
advanced to the Industrial department. To the policy-
holder who hangs back when his premium falls due,
this paper has only one thing to say. On the pre-
sent showing, it certainly couldn’t advise him to
increase the amount of his policy ; but on the evi-
dence available it is utter folly for a man who has
paid several premiums to drop out now. He did
badly to get in ; now that he is in he will do a lot
worse to drop out. If he is a wise man he will stay
and use his influence to get the whole business taken
over by some more progressive concern, just as the
M.L A. and the Widows’ Fund were taken over some
years ago. The Citizens’ office was the nucleus in
that case, and the trustees of the Widows’ Fund sec-
tion lately certified that the bonus now “represents,
on the average, an increase of 100 p.c. over the bonus
distributed prior to the union.” The National
Mutual is in business in S'Africa, so there might be
some advantage in a union in that direction. In any
case, this is a matter of detail. The thing is to
end a costly, unnecessary, independent struggle and
go under somebody else’s wing. It will certainly be
better for present policy-holders ; and, after all, it is
only the interests of present policy-holders that the
society is bound to consider.
Industrial Department.
Total
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit.
1909 .. £3,481 £39 £14,587 £11,145
Paid for Standard business, £22,000 33,145
1910 . . 54,908 3483 70,988 52,708
1911 .. 60,484 6254 66,630 65,108
1912 . . 77,516 7710 62,755 58,057
Instead of feeding the society this branch has so
far been a severe tax upon it. It got into the busi-
ness too late in the day, for one thing; and, in any
case, it is doubtful whether it is a concern likely to
make a success of this kind of business. Bruce Smith
seems to The Bulletin to typify the Colonial Mutual,
of which he is a director ; and it isn’t easy to pic-
ture Bruce Smith as a successful pursuer of Indus-
trial insurance. In order to give itself a lift along
the road, the society early in the proceedings bought
up the struggl ng Standard office, and paid what
has always seemed to this paper the very excessive
price of £22,000 for the business. Judging by what
it has had to pay since then for organisation, as it
is euphemistically called, it was a poorer bargain
than it looked at the outset. In the accounts the
position is improved by shunting a large part of the
expenses into the balance-sheet, where they appear
as an asset. This purely paper item now amounts
to no less than £108,294. The cold fact is that
though the assurance fund is £72,101, the substantial
assets of all sorts, including outstanding premiums
and office furniture, amount to only £7273. In
other words, while £72,101 or thereabouts should
have been accumulated towards meeting the obliga-
tions under policy contracts, all there is of tangible
assets in this branch is £7273. For the rest, the
branch has for the present to lean on the Ordinarv
branch, and trust to the future to improve matters.
The Brisbane Electric Tramways In-
vestment Co.: —
Dividends.
, K ■ N Re-
Dec., Profits. Pref. Ord. serves.
1905.. £17,334
£ S S,
1906.. 24,961 5 p c.= 17,812 2 p.e.= 7,500 16,983
1907.. 32.669 5 „ ~17,812 4 „ ~15,000 16.840
1908.. 39.858 5 „„ 17,812 6 „ ,;"M,SOO 16,386
1909.. 47,977 5 „ ~17,695 8 ~ ~30.000 16.668
1910. . 77,014 5 „ „ 17,656 8 ~ ~ 30.000 46,026
1911.. 87,705 5 „ ~17,656 8 „ ~30,000 86,075
£75,000 of reserves capitalised.. 11,075
1912.. 56,362 5 p.c.=17,656 8 p.c.=36,000 13,781
The Brisbane Electric Tramways Investment Co.
doesn’t own the trams ; it merely owns all but half
a dozen or so of the shares in the co. that owns the
trams. Originally, in 1882, an Act was passed giv-
ing a co. the right to use the streets of Brisbane
and suburbs for any old sort of tram for 14 years.
Before that period had quite expired, Malcolm
McEacharn got the concession extended for 25 years
on condition that electric lines were laid. That
gives the co. eight years from now. At the end of
that time the authorities can come in and buy with-
out paying anything for goodwill. That is to sav,
they must pay a fair price for the property neces-
sary for use in the business, but nothing for rights
and such-like. That allows of Brisbane making a
great deal better bargain than has been possible
lately at Perth and .Hobart. Unfortunately, it hangs
things up seriously, for, naturally, unless" the co. is
offered special inducements, it isn’t going to spend
a heap of money on extensions during the last few
years of its life. For one thing, it would be losing
interest on the capital cost while the lines were actu-
ally under construction ; for another, it wouldn’t be
able to recoup itself for the small return which most
lines give in their young days, and while population
is moving out to the newly-opened-up quarters. The
congestion disease isn’t very bad in Brisbane; but
for what there is of it the 25-year agreement with
the Tramways Co. is mainly responsible.
The past year’s profits were cut into badly by the
strike which happened early in the year, and by the
subsequent arbitration proceedings, in the course of
which manager Badger heard things which probably
didn’t improve his sleep for a night or two. You
get a better view of what the strike meant by look-
ing at the expenses of the co. which nominally owns
the trams: —
Ex- Divii Re-
Dec., Receipts, penses. Profits, dends. serves.
1906 .. £141,677 £82,525 £59,152 £50,000 £25,674
1907 .. 159,111 88,489 70,622 57,000 39.296
1908 . . 178,510 94,964 83,546 65,000 57.842
1909 . . 199,263 105,082 94,181 75,000 77,023
1910 .. 222,580 115,695 106,885 106,000 77,908
1911 .. 253,970 129,284 124,686 110,000 92 594
1912 .. 254,838 162,305 92,533 80,000 105,127
That profit of £92,533 made on the actual running
of the trams was cut up as follows: Dividends,
£80,000; renewal fund, £10,000; to unappropri-
ated balance, £2533. Of the dividends, £79,947
went to the B. E. T. Investment Co. That £79,947
and £74 of sundry receipts constituted the B. E. T. I.
Co.’s revenue. The total was £80,021, which in its
turn was cut up this way:—
Gross revenue . . . . . . £80,021
Less insurance and direction . . 4,590
Net revenue .. .. .. .. £75,431
Less interest on debentures . . . . 19,069
Net profit .. .. .. .. £56,362
The B. E. T. Investment Co., it will be seen, has
reserves now of only £13,781, the issue of £75,000
of bonus capital having made a big cut into the
old total; but it will also be noted that it owns
more than 99 p.c. of the Tramways Co.’s reserves,
which run to £105,127. Certainly, of the £105,127
no less than £lOO,OOO is to the credit of a renewals
fund; but it seems very doubtful whether much of
the money will be called for to pay for renewals.
On the other hand it may possibly be wanted to
provide for depreciation ; that is to say, when the
authorities take over the system, the fair value pay-
able for plant, properties, etc., may be considerably
less than the book value, and this reserve may come
in handy then to equalise matters. On this point,
however, there is no information. That is the advan-
tage of having two companies. The Investment Co.’s
Profit and Loss account merely shows dividends on
one side and management exes, on the other. The
Tramways Co., being a “private” concern, doesn’t
publish any accounts, and the public doesn’t know
whether anything, and if anything how much, is
written off to cover depreciation. In order not to
put too attractive a look on things, considerable pro-
fit may be going into new plant, etc., being reck-
oned in with ordinary expenditure. If money is
going that way it won’t be wasted, of course—it will
come back in the shape of extra purchase money
when the sale is made eight years hence. Mean-
time the possible mopping-up of a trifle of the profit
that way may be doing a little to pacify that part
of Brisbane which chafes at having to wait eight
years, and would no doubt chafe more if the profits
were shown to be larger. Certainly something may
be done before the eight years are up—the possi-
bilities of this were referred to at the meeting in
London—but there will have to be special legisla-
tion to deal with the matter. And, of course, a con-
tract having been made, the tramway people will
have to be a party to any variation of the present
terms.
* ♦ * »
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
May, 1907 .. £934,432 £571,619 £362,813
May, 1908 . . 911,723 648,360 263,363
Mav, 1909 .. 901,838 673,622 228,216
May, 1910 .. 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
Nov., 1910 .. 484,755 408,450 76,305
May, 1911 . . 468,538 350,867 117,671
Nov., 1911 .. 452,336 381,730 70,606
May, 1912 . . 537,378 349,985 187,393
Nov., 1912 . . 640,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913 . . 499,317 351,314 148,003
The year’s gross profit has been cut up this way:—
Dividends (Is. per quarter) .. ..£200,000
Depreciation, written off .. .. 49,413
Rebuilding Fund . . .. . . 100,000
Stores replacement .. .. .. 20,000
Unappropriated .. .. .. 31,717
Total £401,130
Barring the mine itself, there soon won’t be much
of the old Mount Morgan left. The death of Walter
Russell Hall was directly responsible for the be-
ginning of the changes; and when they started
there seemed no stopping them. General manager,
underground manager, surface manager, secretary —
all are new men. The purchase of the Walter
Russell Hall shares by the Baillieu-Robinson syndi-
cate produced radical changes in the Board also —
and, by the way, in the terms on which the direc-
tors hold their seats. The new brooms are at least
raising a dust. What will happen when the dust settles
has yet to be seen. Profits for the half-year were
certainly nothing to crow over; but this was no
doubt due to the change-over. “Don’t blame us,”
the new men say in effect; “blame our predeces-
sors.” For instance: “The power plant has been the
source of a good deal of trouble during the year,
the type of machines there installed being not suit-
able for the class of work we are now doing. The
breakdown of some of the electric generators last
month and minor breakdowns during previous
months have lost the co, in its production some 800
tons of blister copper, besides which the mainte-
nance , of power plant has proved a verv expensive
item.” A new power plant is now under construc-
tion. Some of it will be ready early next year.
New converters, which were put in a While ago,
will be hung up until then, and three new blast
furnaces will be got ready for blowing in about
March next.
A very important feature of the new men’s activi-
ties is the utilisation of ores hitherto cut out from
reserves as being either too silicious Or too low
grade. General-manager Magnus reckons that, in
order to work out these ores simultaneously with
the smelting ores, at least 500 tons a day must be
drawn from them—probably more, as their limits
are not yet reached. He has had an experimental
concentrating unit going for some months now, and
finds profit-making easy. How much profit there is
in the business he is too shrewd a Yankee to say
mst yet. However, he has apparently satisfied the
reni or a capable at the start of handling
000 tons a day is under order and construction, and
Adam Boyd, the underground man whom Magnus
was wise enough to entice up that way (Magnus
himself being a metallurgist and not a miner), is at
work getting things ready for mining this ore. Also,


J. Eark Hermann Ltd.
Head Office —1-9 Third Floor Suite,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Also at
Collins House, Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
199 Winchester House, Old Broad
Street, LONDON, E.C.
And Continental Agencies.
CAPITAL £500,000
COMPANY and ESTATE MANAGERS,
TEES, EXECUTORS, ATTORNEYS, O .r TY
WRITERS, GUARANTORS, and HEAi,n
SPECIALISTS.
Flotations of approved Concerns undertaken.
FIRST-CLASS INTEREST-BEARING Indus-
trial and Commercial SHARE and DEBEN J
Investments, to suit Clients. a ,
Arrangements made for Sub-divismn am
of Suburban and Country LS IA i r.b.
Correspondence Invited.
Managing Director J - EARLE H
MELBOURNE Director 'Jy ' at \
LONDON Manager ... JOHN GOODWYN, A. ■
ZWQS
0
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
executor,
administrator,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £25,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS BORBfowMAN, General Manager.
•FREDK. A. LANG, Manager
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concerte construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
salfely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd., Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. 10d. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total," 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * *
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, in sizes from 3in. up-
wards, serves for every duty for which a first-class
pressure pipe is required. If kept wet, the wood is
practically everlasting, and it is an out-and-out
economical pipe. Particulars from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney.*
Farmers, Dairymen and Orchardists, and all who
earn their living from the land, should be on the
look-out for the latest and most scientific methods
of reducing labor. Hornsby’s Oil Engine offers to
them an exceptional opportunity, because it can do
so much of the work hitherto performed at great
expense of tissue by the tiller of the soil. In any
well conducted farm, station or dairy an Oil Engine
must have a place, and there is only one that fits
the bill, and that is Hornsby’s. R. Hornsby & Sons,
Limited, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.* [3
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons Ltd., 880 George Street,
Sydney.*
* * ■* *
ASPHALTUM. —Australian Oil Wells Co. will
purchase or procure capital to work asphaltum de-
posits. GEORGE D. MEUDELL, 424 Collins Street,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
J. W. STYLES & SON, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J. W. Styles,
24 years expert salesman.)*
Messrs. Griffith & llassel, Patent Attorneys, Syd-
ney, desire to notify their numerous clients and the
public generally that they have removed to new offices
in Record Chambers, 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary, Limited, of
Footscray, Victoria, have secured the contract for
the supply of steel pipes required in connection with
the duplication of the Bombay Water Supply. The
contract amounts to over £226,000, and the pipes
to be used are of the locking bar type, of which Mr.
Mephan Ferguson is the inventor and patentee.
Engineers will be interested to note that this Aus-
tralian invention has been adopted in preference to
other classes of piping, after critical and searching
inquiries as to the merits of the various types of
water pipes made in the world. It is worthy of
note that all machinery required to carry out this
work has been designed and manufactured at the
firm’s Footscray Engineering Works, and will be
shipped to' Bombay, where the pipes will be manu-
factured. *
* * * *
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Oolmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
milling requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/10C0
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicles ;. etc. *
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
to help smelt some of the very silicious ore which
is rich in gold, a contract has been made with the
Towers people, who own Iron Island, to drop in
100,000 tons of ironstone. Magnus prefers to put
this’ rich gold stone into the furnaces in spite of its
silicious character. The losses frighten him off
mill-concentration. And he ought to know what he
can do by this time, because during the past year
he has smelted 51,712 tons of ore excluded from" the
old reserves —which means that pretty nearly every
fourth ton sent to the works has been stuff that was
previously reckoned no good. Theoretically, of
course, it is a fine thing to work out all your ore,
the poor with the good, for the time generally comes
when you can’t work the poor by itself. But it’s a
question whether Magnus in this case has achieved
more than a technical triumph. He had an excep-
tional market for copper; and it is probable that,
in order to get the advantage of the market, he
should have used his lame plant on the better stuff,
and waited for the reorganisation to be complete
before bogging into the poor-grade stuff. That is,
assuming that the better stuff was procurable—which,
of course, isn’t certain. There has been many a
time during the last few years when, in spite of its
vast reserves, Mount Morgan has had to scratch hard
to get the ore necessary to keep the furnaces fed.
That part of the business suffered terribly when
Seale died a few years ago. One way and another,
the new plant is going to cost close-up £250,000.
Hence the cut of £lOO,OOO out of last year’s profits
for a rebuilding fund.
But shareholders needn’t be alarmed. There seems
to be no reason whv the directors should make a
habit of these cuts. The balance-sheet as at May, 1913,
shows no liabilities whatever to the public. On the other
side there were liquid and semi-liquid assets of
£511,382, exclusive of shares and debentures in other
cos. ; and out of that there is only £50,000 to come for
a quarter’s dividend. Nothing is more certain than
that the new crowd who have thrust a vigorous finger
in the pie will make as much money out of the
mine as they can. and do it as quickly as they can.
Walter Russell Hall and his friends weren’t built
that way. They wouldn’t force things. The new
people will. They will rush matters along for a
few years —and then Mount Morgan will Drobably see
the end of them. Dividends are too slow for the
modern money-spinner of the Baillieu-Robinson pat-
tern. There is quicker money in getting in at £3,
whooping things up till shares are worth £7 in a
few years, and thereupon dropping out. That will
probably be the policy.
The Bank of North Queensland: —
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Profils. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1905.. 2262 2* p.c.= 1325 937 20,100
Dec, 1905.. 2310 21 „,, 1326 984 21,084
June, 1906.. 2461 21 „ „ 1330 1131 22,215
Dec., 1906.. 2644 2J „ „ 1335 1309 23,524
June, 1907.. 3018 4 „ „ 2113 905 24,429
Dec., 1907.. 3371 4 „ „ 2122 4000 21,678
June, 1908.. 3677 4 „ „ 2129 1548 23,226
Dec., 1908.. 4070 5 ~ „ 2652 4500 20,144
June, 1909.. 4314 5 „ „ 2658 1656 21,800
Dec 1909.. 4641 5 ~ ~ 2666 23,775
June, 1910.. 4717 5 „ „ 2668 5000 20,824
Dec.. 1910.. 4838 5 „ „ 2671 2167 22,991
June, 1911. . 4 851 5 ~ ~ 26/1 4000 21,171
Dec., 1911.. 5383 6 ~,,3197 2186 23,357
June, 1912.. 6062 6 ~ „ 3214 2848 26,205
Dec., 1912.. 7601 6 „ „ 4192 3409 29,614
June, 1913.. 8376 7 „ „ 5445 2931 32,545
This bank was, born just 25 years ago, and that
wasn’t a good time for any bank’s mother to earn the
baby bonus. The infant fell into trouble promptly,
inevitably and thoroughly; and, looking back now,
it is a marvel that it didn’t put up its shutters for
good. It was probably saved by the fact that it
didn’t attempt to humbug itself into any false ideas
about the position. It just sat down to years of hard,
careful work in order to save up and put by another
lot of capital to replace the lot which it knew was
lost. Queensland’s remarkable capacity for pouring
out money from its wool and cattle and sugar lands
made the task comparatively easy and unexpectedly
rapid. For years, as profits in excess of the very
modest dividends were made, they were written off—-
the management’s hint that the canital wasn t yet
intact. Then came a time, a couple of years ago,
when the surplus profits, instead of being written
off, were allowed to accumulate to the credit of Profit
and Loss. Now, apparently quite sat'sfied that the
capital is represented by assets worth 20s. in the £,
with presumably a trifle laid by inside to cover con-
tingencies, the directors for the first time for very
many years make a substantial addition to the formal
reserve fund—£7soo. Simultaneously, a dividend
at the rate of 7 p.c. is paid—the highest in the bank s
history. For some years past it had been plain that
the business could stand more capital. There was
evident disinclination, however, to ask for any un i
the old capital had been thoroughly restored. that
done, 255. was called on the 50,00!) shares,
making them paid up to 655. That f, ayes
them with a Lability of 755. The other 60s.
of shares originally £lO was written off as lo 't
the bad old days. As this 255. of capital has been
coming in by instalments during the past two h
years, the earnings on total funds (capital and -
serves) can’t be stated with accuracy. For the P •
half-year they were at the rate of about £9 •
p.c. p.a.—a figure which suggests that there isn
much wrong with the assets nowadays.
The next table shows how things have moved in 12
months and 10 years:—
Liabilities.
1903 1912. 1913.
Deposits .. ..£257,108 £891,058 £865,840
Bills, etc. . . 82,068 71,155 61,149
t. ~ , iiVfUff 3“>B 171 334,725
Sa±r? :: SSe mJj*
Premises, etc. .. 21,776 60,54.) »
But while the public’s money in the has
shrunk a little in the 12 months, shareh
put up an extra £62,500; wherefore it has been
possible to give customers some further lit „
ance without cutting into the liquid £ • g
latter still exceed 36 p.c. of the tota , 7
which should be enough to carry any bank through
any trouble that can be reasonably foreseen and pro
vided for. And the position is all the more setcu
from the depositors’ point of view, because,
to the recent increase of funds, there is no ■ .
£5 of the public’s money at risk for every £1 tha
the shareholders have in the busine ■ „
another wav, liquid assets could pay 36 p. • ,
the debt to the public, and there are enough other
assets to pay the rest of the liabilities , ink
nearly 7s. in the £ over —a fine margin n( j
ages. Altogether the little concern looks sate ana
snug, and, moreover, appears to be in very profitable
nsning waters.
*
T_he Westralian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perth): —
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
o£t L ’ Jons" 1551 30 P c - = 1575 8,057
?V’ ' 1611 10 » » 525 1086 9,143
fgb X 252 10 „ „ 525 727 9,870
? ct ." 714 10 „ „ 525 189 10,059
n P t'’ ion?" Ho 7 15 ” ” 787 ~ 4 10 10,469
?V’ 129 7 *• 1589 20 » » 1050 389 150 10,619
1273 10 525 1000 10,369
Oct., 1908.. 1107 10 „ „ 525 582 10,951
Apl., 1909.. 1075 20 „ „ 1050 25 10,976
Oct., 1909.. 1557 10 „ „ 525 1032 12,008
Apl., 1910.. 1831 20 „ „ 1050 ,268 513 12,521
Oct., 1910.. 1616 20 „ „ 1050 66 500 13,021
A P 3'’ 1892 30 •’ ” 1575 317 13,338
Oct., 1911.. 1898 20 „ „ 1155 743 14,081
Apl., 1912.. 1691 28 „ „ 1628 63 14,144
Oct., 1912.. 1461 18$ „„ 1155 306 14,450
Apl., 1913.. 1888 26$ „ „ 1680 219 14,439
Of the £l6BO mentioned in the last line the divi-
dend tax takes £BO, and £lOOO will be absorbed in
paying shares up another Is. This will make them
13s. paid ; but as they are liable for another 375.,
there is plenty of room for further bonus distributions
if the profits can stand them. It seems hardly possi-
ble, though, to keep distributions going at the recent
rapid rate. Every addition means that a trifle more
is called for to pay the ordinary 10 p.c.
div. ; and there hasn’t been much left over
even in the past two or three years to
add to reserves. The business certainly keeps
almost astonishingly profitable. On a paid capital
of £12,000 and reserves of £14,450 at the start of the
half-year, net earnings were at the voluptuous rate
of 14$ p.c. ; and it’s a nice business that will do
that when practically the whole of the funds are in
gilt-edged securities. Yet the solid fact remains that,
though its earnings are, as a rule, so very good, the
trustee co. does far more for its money than most
people who work on a commission. It is work, too,
that must be done; and there is no comparison
between getting it done by people who are trained to
the job, have special facilities for doing it, and put
up security that they will do it properly and go on
doing it, and by amateurs who may as likely as not
be either dead or missing when the time comes for
them to take up their trust. This co. can’t complain
that its superior advantages are not being recognised
in its own field. Six years ago the estates in hand
were valued at only £415,999; to-day the total is
£1,662,137.
Work at Lloyd’s, Burraga (N.S.W.), has
been retarded by the unusual wetness of the season.
For the last fortnight 1588 tons of 4.8 p.c. ore
were raised and 1500 tons sent to the mill. The
return was 249 tons of concentrates worth 14.06
p.c. copper, and 91 tons of picked ore worth 11.85
p.c. These products are smelted with slag, making
a total of 339 tons, which returned 50 tons matte
containing 32.2 tons copper and low values for gold
and silver. The matte during the fortnight averaged
64.4 p.c. copper, and is being shipped in that form
to refining works. Slime concentrates will be pro-
duced when the Minerals Separation plant is com-
pleted, and when this is done, the extraction of
copper from crude ore assaying 4.8 p.c. should show
considerable improvement. At present, the loss in
slimes, tailings and slag is very heavy. Firewood is
difficult to obtain in wet weather, and damp wood
isn’t an ideal fuel; but these troubles are small com-
pared with the heavy and continuous loss of copper.
The first set of bores at old Lambing Flat
(N.S.W.) have not justified the water that was poured
into that little Melbourne float. Work was started
at the top of the lead, and little else than blanks
was bored into. Now the camp is pitched 17 chains
farther along the gutter, to see if the hatters left
anything down stream. Meanwhile Frank Powell,
who has charge of the operation, continues as full of
cheer as a pear is full of juice.
Whether the Broken Hill Junction North
office has its roof in Collins House or Sydney doesn’t
count, so long as someone nails down the shing’es
that lie about loose. A few outsiders knew first about
the late fearful balance-sheet, and the market reeked
with the news of the sale of the zinc-lead concen-
trates before the transaction got *into print. *
In 1912 Bullfinch Prop. (W.A.) paid
away £18,252. of which £15,347 went in mine
development. Sundry receipts, mostly transfer fees,
totalled £315, leaving a debit for the year of
£17,937. No ore was treated during this period.
A summary of the results of crushings for the cur-
rent year is given in the report, but nothing is said
about the prospects of the undertaking, except that
reserves are estimated to have a gross value of
£409 736, and to represent something over £200.000
profit ’in sight. On December 31, 1912, the liabili-
ties amounted to £31.771, but against this the co.
had, besides mine, plant and ore reserves, stores
apnroximatelv worth £5600. Profits from ore treat-
ment to the end of June totalled about £36,000, so
the co. is now out of debt, and has a few thousands
in hand. # *
Orova Links (W.A.) announces that,
after paving two 5 p.c. d'vs. ( £28.750). charging
depreciation (£2385), writing off capital and de-
velopment exes. (£13.800) and paying directors
commission (£395). the accounts for 1912 show a
credit, inclusive of £7752 brought forward, of
£ll 308 Balance of underwriting commission
(£5591) and £3OOO further development expendi-
ture have been written off, leaving £2717 to be
carried forward. Liquid assets are estimated at
£49 000. Ore reserves total 126,473 tons, worth
25s 4d. per ton. In addition, there is 60,000 tons
of “Dartiallv developed” payable ore. The estimate
of BM and Co., who P nominally act as general
managers, is 11,936 tons less: but this is said to be
almost entirely accounted for by the firm only taking
into consideration ore above No. 7 level, whereas the
manager has taken into his calculations a certain
auantitv of ore opened up below that level. On other
sections of the property there are said to be consider-
able auantities of low-grade though payable ore, of
which it is not possible to give any reliable estimate
nf tonnage and value. All the same, the Links is
u fatoe
something else. » * *
Sweet William, at Payne’s Find (W.A.).
• nfßpiollv de G oribed as a network of sfold-bear.ngr
reefsfwtdch wouWmy well the ground was not so
Viarrl They would pay much better if they wouia
live in depthT but if indications go for anything
, ■. rm._ manager suggests sinking a shaf to
Af its working capital in this way as any other, as
°oTS SforneK
monev which the Sweet William Co. has in hand is
likely to be spent in any case. # .
Gt Fingall’s surplus for 1912 amounted
t 0 n 6 430 Of this. £3203 was chinned off the
book vajues of investments, together with £1909
transferred for the same purpose from the reserve
account. The amount left was just sufficient to pay
the Is. div. declared a month or two ago. The
general managers estimated that at Dec. 31, 1912,
there were above the No. 14 level 21,151 tons of ore
valued at 265. sd. per ton. In addition, 50,308 tons
of 40s. stuff were reckoned to be visible below No. 14
level, and this material will be made available for
the mill on completion of the internal shaft. During
the first five months of the current year about 28,000
tons, taken almost entirely from above No. 14 level,
were treated, and there is a large but indefinite ton-
nage still available.
» * * »
There is strong local objection to the
terms of Chaffers (W.A.) reconstruction on the
ground that Lionel Robinson and Co. are getting too
much of the lolly. The assessment on 500,000 shares
amounts to £37,500, and the commission to be paid
to Robinson and Co. for guaranteeing this number
works out at almost 10 p.c. Recent developments, it
is claimed, make it practically certain that the re-
construction will go through, and for a co. to pay 10
p.c. com. and offer a three years’ option over 86,604
reserve shares at par for guaranteeing what looks like
a certainty is regarded by the objectors as giving
away too much of a good thing. Nevertheless, money
for the resuscitation of Westralian mining ventures
cannot be got in London for nothing, and it is doubt-
full if it could be got there at present without Robin-
son’s help. Therefore he and his party have the
box seat.
* * * *
Edna May (W.A.) has its new mill in
full swing, and intends to clean up at the end of this
month. Plant is stated to be running well, and the
amalgamating plates to be all right. The co. has
taken a three months’ option on the Myrtle East, situ-
ated about 200yds. east of its own show. A little
development has been done in the new show, and
some ounce ore is exposed in its workings. Terms
of option are £3OOO and a tenth interest.
* * * *
Lionel Robinson and party have manned
their Slippery Gimlet option at Ora Banda (W.A.).
This is taken to signify that they mean business,
and are getting ready to place the Gimlet and sur-
rounding leases on the London market. Meantime,
the praises of the neighboring Victorious mine are
being chanted in order to help matters.
A Melbourne co. with a nominal capital
of £2400 in £2O shares has been formed to work
a certain gold-bearing area on Hampton Plains
Estate (W.A.). Portion of the ground has been
tried before by others, but reports recently obtained
from two experts infer that the aforesaid others
missed a lot.
Poseidon Alluvial (Vic.) looks like ger-
minating into a rather feeble wallflower. It has
been superphosphated with £2361 of gold from the
mine and £3485 of calls, but isn’t yet even peeping
into the dividend list. The last trouble has been over
some slum which slushed into the leading drives, to
worry the miners and stick up the wheeler boys. Most
of this drifty ground hangs round the junction of the
Poseidon and the Main gutters, so no exact estimate of
the trouble ahead of the co. can be made. What
they ought to do is to go back to the old order of
things—stop panelling, drain the ground, cut off
another block of the lead, and call up a bit more
capital. All this is heroic, but it pays to be heroic
in deep-lead work, when the wash is green and heavy.
The average of the dirt treated for the past six
months is 2|oz., and it takes Oathcart Central to top
that, so the outlook isn’t dreary.
* * * *
Over 2000 ft. of tunnel has landed the
Homeward Bound, Yackandandah (Vic.), on a big
formation that assays up to an ounce, though there
is more that doesn’t go a quarter of it. The co.
wants cash to test the stone, and shoves out 40,000
shares paid up to 15s. by way of a preliminary excur-
sion. *
“Some Phases of Mining in Victoria” is
the title of a lecture that H. Herman (the local
Director of Geological Survey) will deliver in the
Board room at the Melbourne Chamber of Mines on
Friday Legal managers and secretaries invite atten-
tion to the matter of Herman’s discourse, so it is
presumed by the cynical that he will have nothing
to say about certain phases of legal management.
* * * *
Lake and Currie do the talk for the
Briseis in London, while Lindesay Clark runs
the show at Derby (Tas.), and keeps silent.
Hence Australians have to get facts about, Briseis
filtered through Lake and Currie. That firm s prac-
tice is to leave a bit over for emergencies and sur-
prises. Therefore, when they put Krushka Flat con-
tents at 750 tons black tin, a bit can be added for
trimmings. On Lake and Currie’s statement of costs
there is £lOO,OOO profit in sight in that bit ot
ground. On the Ringarooma leases water will have
to be pumped for many a long day before the basalt-
crusted drift can be sucked into the sluice box. One
slab of this area Lake and Currie think contains 3288
tons metallic tin. The difference between getting this
stuff and the other stuff lying in the Krushka Flat is
about £4O per ton. But let the total cost be £9O
and tin worth £lBO, and a profit of £9O per ton
remains. Multiply that amount by 3288 tons, and it
will be seen that £295,920 should be earned. This
is the Krushka Flat profit, so that , lt . i ap P® ars as if
the co.’s shares are not over-valued by the dreary
market. Divs. are, however, sure to be spread over
a long period, and a modern man won’t wait. More-
over, S just as tin has slid from £230 per ton to
£lBO, so it may slither down to £l5O. j[ f ®°T7
and the Lord forbid—the foregoing estimated profit
will have to be written down towards nothing.
North Mt. Farrell (Tas.) hasn’t got back
to the dividend list yet; for, though it goes on
steadily making modest profits out ofa*'trfm-
lndes the money has of late been absorbed in a tram
wav ’and other' works. Last half-year’s output was
6458 tons for the mill and 24t tons of firsts , the lot
produced 1120 tons of ore an f d . ® os f s
ing 570 z. silver and 56) p.c. of lead. Of course costs
are heavy with these small lodes— mining runs to
hist on £l, apart from development—vet the profits
were £2048 for the six months. The directors, how_
Tver keep a sharp eye on depreciation, and wroteoff
more than half this money to cover wear and tear.
The most hopeful feature is that the ore in the
bottom (No. 6) level, though small, is unusually
clean -so in spite of the falling market for lead, there
seems to be still bread and butter ahead of the co.
The helpings are, however, few far between.
Radium Hill is despatching another
parcel of “adium bromide to London. Information
about the price realised for the previous parcel
would do more to allay doubts than the vague state-
progress has been made in the treat-
Sydney) P . stated officially that it will
ment of . ncrease the output of bromide. The
Julv °eall of £1 per share has had a disturbing effect
on "the market. This call will make shares paid to
£ 8. * *
Thompson’s “f,
£j?xaea jwup-je. c
' 'hrfim It oboot 400 ft. So far the co. ha. had
same bodie small crushings by calls, and that
K PP S“*.™'‘to "StS till .hi foregoing „ork
has been done.


IT STRENGTHENED MY THROAT.
“1 had a weak throat,” writes Mr. C. V. H. Stal-
ed, 10 Bunbury Street, Fofttscray (Vic.). “The
slightest change in the weather would affect it, and
I would have to go home from work feeling fit for
nothing. My sister swears by Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, so I thought I would try it. I did so, and
can honestly say it has worked wonders, for my
throat is now quite strong.”*
Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
CRM®
HE PLUS ULTRA
J
■
T'f.
FARMER’S
Hairdressing Rooms
for Ladies.
Every woman who values her physical
attractions will find the LADIES’ HAIR-
DRESSING ROOMS at Farmer’s an ideal re-
sort for beautifying’ her skin, hair and hands.
The rooms are handsomely appointed and
fully equipped with the most modern appli-
ances. They are controlled by experts, aided
by skilful assistants, and include sections
devoted to Hairdressing, Hairworking, Sham-
pooing, Singeing, Scalp and Face Massage,
Manicuring, Chiropody, etc.
Hairdressing appointments for social func-
tions can be made by ’phone or letter.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
Pitt, Market and George Sts.
BUCHANAN’S
BlacK (Q, White.
A GRAND SPIRIT
Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 14, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
The woes of the vaccinated are making an
epidemic of groans and high temperatures in
our best suburbs. The Sore Arm Brigade
includes every other person who hasn’t a
sore leg and a limp. The disease itself —-
whatever it may be —is a mere picnic to the
preventive. If the punctured takes his
lymph too seriously he climbs up to 103 deg.
without a stepladder. At the Board of
Health and the Town Hall, very large after-
noon parties surge round the vast policeman
who stays the stampede with the white cot-
ton gloves of the law.
The innumerable Little Mother, aged any-
thing from five to 10 years, dragging in her
wake, by their dyed garments, w r hich didn’t
come from Bozrah, but more probably from
Surry Hills, small and insubordinate rela-
tives, has been a feature of the Board of
Health At Homes. The other afternoon the
welkin —that portion of the welkin which
domes or welks over Macquarie-street—rang
with the yells of a toddler aged about 24
full moons. “Come on now —yer got ter be
done —yer needn’t bawl like that.” The
still Unpunctured, struggling by inches to
the man with the lymph, made way for the
Little Mother. _ The accumulated ages of
the pair couldn’t have been more than nine
years. “’E’s got ter be done,” said the
juvenile chaperon in explanation, “an’ ’e
don’t want ter to be! See wot I’ll give yer
after yer been done —orlright then, I’ll ’ave
the bulls eyes meself!” Kindly womenfolk
made various abortive efforts to dry the
tears of the rebel, who howled so much the
more. She —rather dusty about her lingerie,
but bright-eyed and resolute—lifted Him —a
cataract of kicks —high up and called aloud
(though no one had as yet asked for them)
their full names and address. “An’ we ain’t
ever been done before,” said She, holding
out all their four arms for inspection. Half
a dozen more Little Mothers lurked on the
edge of the crowd, showing a courage that
older folk might well emulate, and fiercely
resentful of the success of the foster-parent
of the yelling two-year-old. “It ain’t ’is
turn to be done—she brought ’im a long
whiles after I come with my lot —no, I
won’t be quiet! Let the copper take me
up But the majesty of the Law pre-
vailed. An infant insurrection to be imme-
djately vaccinated was quelled of policeman
XIZ, who inquired in a voice of thunder,
‘vvhat’s all this row about?”
Sydney has surged with the invasion of
the I 010 sheep fraternity. Mutton matrons
in their prime and frisky young lambs in
their first season tore round the Paddington
Town Hall the other night. The Civil Am-
bulance Ball was the occasion. It was
chiefly a polo party. Players who smacked
the hard white balls at Kensington last week
U P niost of the tickets, and turned the
affair into a spree for themselves and their
friends. Decorations were good and strongly
reminiscent of the defunct Shakspeare Ball,
where once the same paper hollyhocks and
roses bloomed against the cardboard front
of Ann Hathaway’s cottage in the Town
Hall. The Paddington Town Hall is a
simple proposition, and trims up more
easily. “Society” gave a mild exhibition of
its general resemblance to a bear-garden when
it got itself jammed together outside the
female cloak-room. This was early in the
evening. Our best young men at this epoch
were puffing cigarette smoke over the beauti-
fully undressed shoulders of our most ex-
pensive girls, and condescending to ask for
dances in that airy fashion which shows that
the dancing man knows his priceless value
these days.
Han - s , e c. Mrs. Macneill Simpson got
through the throng in a cloud of raven dra-
neries that showed the glitter of small, shiny
white stones over the shoulders. Mr. Jim
Osborne stuck his head through a wreath or
horsecollar of paper herbage, affixpd a piece
“f. lemonade wire to one eye, and gave his
friends an excellent imitation of the Ass in
, A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” One of
the Philip Morton girls floated past in dia-
phanous white draperies. Polo man George
Mack and Mrs. George (who used to be a
and a herd of Willsallens,
Osbornes, Whites and a Nivison or two
bustled upstairs to the ballroom. Frank
Osborne, beaming with good nature, ambled
along in the. wake of his countless relatives.
The municipal Laytons gazed over the
heads of most of the small dancing men who
were proudly guiding Junoesque maidens
round the mazy waltz. The Turkey trot,
which consists of a good d al of farmvard
knee action, was amongst those present. Mrs.
J. J. Rouse, in Quaker grey, watched a
nice-looking young daughter caper round.
Mrs. Sydney Jamieson’s delicate cameo pro-
file looked over a white shoulder draped in
a film of azure blue. The Leonard Dodds
lady, magnificently upholstered in a gown of
velvet and lace that was too intricate to be
hurriedly grasped with the tail of my eye,
was a sartorial event of the party. Mrs.
Willie Anderson, who used to be Lily See,
\yas one of the prettiest young matrons at
the revel. The imposing appearance of Mrs.
Spencer Brunton was swathed in the species
of black gown—hung with diamonds
over the foam of corsage lingerie—that the
deserving poor can only see through tears of
envy. The white blaze of fierce electric light
bit through the thin pink rags that were sup-
posed to shade the ballroom lights. A revela-
tion in cosmetics, laid on with the generous
disregard to quantity that marks Billjim
when he paints the fowlhouse, was the result.
Polo ponies thundered across the quaking
sods at Kensington on Saturday, for : the
finish of the tussle for the Dudley Cup. The
play was good in spots and streaked with
tame places when the ball was tucked up in
a hole and the players smote the atmosphere
with some dust. One or two ponies took it
into their heads to roll over more or less on
their riders, who rose up none the worse for
this, strenuous form of physical culture. The
terrific rush of the Gee-Gee’s polo team was
amongst the missing at last week’s battle
of the ball. Narromine won the Dudley
trophy, and girls with green and white rib-
bons in their coats chortled with joy. A
strong Mack clan barracked for the Narro-
mine boys, and treble yells of applause for
“Boxer” Stevenson, who played a dashing
game, greeted every lucky smack at the ball,
xtiuswellbrook A team got away with the
Knox Cup just as the air was getting a
very cold chill in its evening breeze. Gov-
ernor Strickland and Lady Edeline drove
out in a victoria. The rest of the family
(excepting the baby, who is too young to
anoreciate polo) arrived in a smart little
governess cart with a dark green body and
a pale roan horse. The Admiral tramped
round with his Ex. while Mack senior—
the proud parent of two polo players—sat
in the vice-regal chariot to pass the time of
day with Ladv Edeline. The Maxwell
Allans, some of the Manar Gordon clan, the
George. Fullers, and a few thousand or less
of Whites, Osbornes, Willsallens, Nivisons,
Macks and Macarthurs shivered'amongst the
spectators.
The early-rising habits of Governor
Strickland and his young daughters are
ahead of the loud alarum of the kookaburra
out Rose Bay way. Before that uncertain
timekeeper opens his mouth to yawn at the
morning fog, horses’ hoofs clatter down the
red gravel to the gates, and canter off to
meet the sunrise, or to hold applauding con-
troversy with the morning star. The family
desire to ride out to greet the time o’ day
as it winks over the edge of the sea is only
second to its unswerving devotion to chess.
Two, at least, of the youthful maidens of
the house are as keen about this ancient
game as their vice-regal papa. The Strick-
land infant, a. puny morsel when she arrived
here, is putting on weight with a reckless
indifference to her waist measurement. Baby
S. is improving so fast that another year
or two may see the family instinct to play
chess suddenly break out in her infant
cranium. Colonel Campbell, A.D.C., who
used to be in the Westralian militia, gener-
ally squires the kindergarten when it takes
its official walks abroad. He looks as if
he could be trusted with an entire boarding-
school of curls and giggles.
The Cullen dame opens a bazaar in the
Royal .Art Society’s loft on July 31. The
cause is a Jumble Depbt that hangs out its
sign as a really reliable rag-store in
Surry Hills. The Girls’ Realm Guild made
up its mind that a vast amount of clothes
have been regularly thrown away by extra-
vagant young minxes in easy circum-
stances. They fixed up a depot where
honorary workers sell these garments at
slaughter prices—a shilling for a shirt or
3d. for a hat —to a large and enthusiastic
circle of customers in Hard-up streets. Now
they want to collect a horse of refined man-
ners and not too big an appetite, and a van
to gather more superfluous clothes than the
uncertain habits of the average carriers’
horseflesh can deliver at schedule time.
The late Justice R. E. O’Connor’s por-
trait in oils is at present hanging (on loan)
in the Australian court of our National
Gallery. It is a large decorative canvas,
chiefly remarkable for the subject’s easy pose
and its benign likeness to the original—one
of the best Australians who ever plunged
too deeply into his own pockets to help im-
pecunious friends. Artist Percv Spence has
nainted the benevolent appearance of the
late R. E. O Connor in his judicial uphol-
stery. The kindly eyes peer out under the
legal roof of curled horsehair, and the figure
is draped in the • learned petticoats of the
Law. The Bar or some of its wigs, gave
this portrait to the High Court, so it is
only a visitor here.
mi £ hty Polo Burnham’s engagement
to a Melbourne girl has been a Blow to some
ot our own Society damsels. One short vear
all had hopes. Then came the
affliction or the eviction.” Up to the last
scream of the engine that tore the G-G
Denmans from the Ma State, distracted
young maidens hung about the Gee-Gee’s
Young Gentlemen, and flung last farewells
at their baggage. Now all is over “Mel-
bourne,” said one of the disconsolates rather
bitterly, “gets everything except the small-
pox!” Which was cruelly unjust. Mel-
bourne doesn’t get the Harbor.
Mrs. George Craig, of Wellington (M.L.),
is staying with some relatives at Neutral
Bay for a while. A bout of ill-health drove
her to this blue water-front to recuperate,
and she is doing it with much success.
Hurried word drops in that Lieutenant
Anderson, R.A.G.A., is engaged to the nicest
girl he has ever met. Her name is Ethel.
She is a daughter of the late Captain But-
cher and Mrs. Butcher, of Albany (W.A.).
Mr. Anderson, who is permanently a gunner,
as you see by the shocking length of his offi-
cial tail, camps at the Forts, Albany.
Mrs. Ronald Forbes, wife of the A.D.C.
with the plaid accent in his family escut-
cheon, tripped back from Queenslana in time
for the Ambulance Polo ball. At Saturday’s
meet of polo ponies, out Kensington way,
Mrs. Ronald wore a saucy black beaver hat,
with a purple plume falling off its brim.
The rest of her attire was buried under a
brown fur coat that was snug enough to
warm up a' young iceberg.
His Anglican Legs of Australia has re-
turned to the Sydney fold, after a hurried
scamper through Bible Societies, etc., on the
All Red Route. Mrs. Archbishop Wright,
who scampered with his Gaiters, is now tear-
ing through an orgy of triumphal tea and
tarts. If this welcome-home pastry isn’t
soon eaten to its final crumb, the Welcomed
will have to fast for a few days, to repair
their religious convictions —I mean their
digestion.
The Linschoten dallied here a few days
longer than its original date of departure
from this port. Amongst its passengers is
the indefatigable Beatrice Grimshaw, who
changed her mind about going to the Malay
Archipelago. She returns to her palatial
humpy of two rooms or so on the beetling
brow of a Port Moresby knoll, for another
brilliant attack on local scenery. Miss
Grimshaw slings a graphic pen across that
sun-baked territory, with no rival of any
consequence to steal her thunder.
Maoriland’s once amazingly busy repre-
sentative here, E. H. Montgomery, is now
taking a long, long holiday under six feet
of his native soil, in or near Auckland. His
blithe and buoyant temperament incited him
to rush through a mountainous task, which
included everything from immigration agent
to social ambassador and general rouseabout
of Dominion interests so far as they were
located in this State. He was the beginning
and the end and the middle of the M.L.
Tourist Bureau in Sydney, and his sudden
death has steeped that department in mourn-
ing. The late lamented Montgomery was
one of the best. The light flickered out so
quickly that he was dead before his innu-
merable friends knew that he was ill.
The Man with the Scythe has been work-
ing overtime lately in these parts, and hack-
ing down so many apparently healthy
humans, that the obituary notice boards are
getting overcrowded. Amongst his most re-
cent and loveliest victims was the charming
Mollie Willcox. She was the only daughter
of an adoring widowed parent, souatter Will-
cox, of Beanbaa station, up Coonamble way,
A few minutes before Death gave his im-
perative knock at the homestead gate, the
pretty Mollie was in her usual rosebud bloom
of health. She was dressed to go to the
Bachelors’ Ball. Fianc6 R. Bull was chat-
ting to her when she said she felt very hot,
and fell down in a dead faint. Willcox
pere, who was in Sydney, rushed to Coon-
amble with two of our most famous special-
ists. But the ewe lamb never rallied. A
clot on the brain or something of the kind
was the technical explanation. The beloved
Mollie was buried about 48 hours after the
first symptom of the tragedy. Her wedding
was to have occurred when September tossed
the wattle blossom round Coonamble.
A lively young damsel declares that last
week’s hop in St. Paul’s College was the
most attractive festivity that academy has
roofed for many a day. The party was
given by the warden, Dr. Radford, and the
students, who rested from their labors at
the ’Varsity for the occasion. Mrs. Warden
Radford, Mrs. Busby, Mrs. C. G. Wade (who
has a son at Paul’s), and Mrs. Barff (who
belongs to the serious Uni’ set, which never
wears hair-pads and seldom powders its
nose), chaperoned the girl brigade. Jap-
anese lanterns bobbed in the quadrangle.
The ballroom was elegantly attired in
mixed flowers. Students had turned their
private lairs into sitting-out snuggeries. Two
easy chairs, a fire, the family photos, and
the table at which young Hopeful attacks the
coming exam., with a wet towel round his
head, made a cosy retreat (for two) after
the madding dance. ’Varsity boys had
asked all the best-looking young women of
their acquaintance. Miss Ogilvie, from New
England sheep walks, the two Svdnev Jones
sisters, Mollie David, Miss Colletti, who
counts as a beauty, the tall Brennan girls
(Florence and Adele) and a Merewether
maiden were amongst the most dressy young
persons present.
Hon. Sec. Mrs. Heydon, Mrs. Ted Antill
and Mrs. Seely (hon. treas.) helped to push
a cheque into the yawning coffers of
the Woolloomooloo Day Nursery the other
afternoon. A children’s dance in aid of that
useful charity hummed with youngsters in
fancy dress. The Paddington Town Hall,
where this annual revel always thumps the
floor with the bounding steps of young and
hearty dancers, wore the Civil Ambulance
ball herbage on its walls, and fluttered a few
relics of the previous Sports Union hop, over-
head. The Day Nursery takes care of small
fry whose mammas go out by the day to do
chores for other folks. It feeds, amuses, and
I fancy, gives a snack of kindergarten to in-
fants who are rising five or six years. To
the babes of Woolloomooloo this anchorage,
where they can’t bump their heads, fall into
tubs of boiling water, or set the premises on
fire, is a cheerful haven, flowing with milk
and sponge cake. It will thankfully spend
any contribution you can send along.
America’s star soprano, Lillian Nordica,
is alleged to be loaded to the Plimsoll line
with ropes of pearls, encrustations of dia-
monds and the contents of a large emerald
mine. She doesn’t wear the lot at once, but
mercifully displays these glittering baubles
on consecutive evenings. The U.S. warbler
collects precious stones by the bushel as
easily- as the average female toiler collects
washing, or grey hairs, or a hole in the heel
of her stocking. The haunted Czar and his
sad-eyed Czarina once found a peaceful in-
terval when their bomb-shattered nerves
allowed them to drink in the Nordica trill.
They promptly loaded the singer with a
green serpent bracelet ouilt of emeralds the
size of sparrows’ eggs—or thereabouts—as
a slight token of their esteem. American
audiences have more or less pelted the lady
with diamond tiaras. One of these costly
gauds runs into more carats than I dare to
mention in cold print. Some of these gems
will blaze in our Town Hall in a week or
two. Nordica is nearing this port in the
Sonoma. She only engaged the top deck, or
most of it, for herself and suite, and all the
hold for her baggage. The rest of her bag-
gage is being towed behind, all except her
supremely best hat, which follows in another
ship under escort of a man-of-war. Arrange-
ments have been made with friendly Powers,
so that even if war breaks out while I write,
and the British fleet is fully occupied, the
best Nordica hat will arrive here safely. It
reposes under the protection of an inter-
national guarantee. In fact, it has been
neutralised like Belgium—which is just about
the same size.
The Butt-Rumfords finished here, for the
present, at a matinee that was packed with
enthusiasm and good Federal legal tender.
They’ll look in again during August, to col-
lect any cash they may have missed during
their recent swoop on the emotions of plain
citizens. They turn their vaccination marks
due north before returning to the Cabbage
Patch via Sydney.
Pianist Harold Craxton, of the Kennerley-
Rumford team, strayed into the Civil Ambu-
lance ball the other night He looked mildly
msthetic in the usual swallow-tail that
evaded the ordinary by gaping open over a
soulful waistcoat of lizard grey. Plis hya-
cinthine locks continue to escape the mow-
ing down process that pursues the commer-
cial cranium or the suburban lawn. Craxton’s
small, quaint personality encloses a graceful
turn for composition. His “Come you
Mary” was one of Baritone Rumford’s most
popular encore numbers.
David Bispliam’s good-bye to Sydney on
Saturday evening dragged an enthusiastic
audienpe from the flank of the domestic hob.
His extensive baritone had been laid on to
the Symphony concert in the afternoon. He
shook the Town Hall rafters at his own
recital with “Danny Deever” and “The Two
Grenadiers” nevertheless. Beethoven’s
“Hymn of the Creation,” one of Bispham’s
greatest efforts, starred his farewell warble.
There was no sign of vaccination tremolo in
the American singer’s left arm when he imi-
tated the bagpipes in the lilt of Robbie
Burns’ runaway soldier —the one who fled
from the Battle of Killiecrankie. Pianist
Harry Gilbert is likely to have an inter-
esting limp in a day or two. He was punc-
tured under the knee so as to keep both
hands in active service. Gilbert was re-
called twice for his spirited attack on
Chopin’s Ballade No. 111. This was his
biff farewell at the grand piano in this city.
Bispham, by the way. is under contract for
a 42 weeks’ engagement in a leading role
m light opera. A New York management
has signed and sealed David the singer at a
stiff salary for this event.
Chappell and Co. have forwarded two fat
consignments of melody. There’s just space
enough to squeeze in the “Little Grey Home
in the West,” by Herman Lohr, and a few
other items. If the “Grey Home” had been
a few feet larger it wouldn’t have had a
hope of being mentioned as a melodious
valse, suited to the technique of 12 sum-
mers. Marjorie Hope Lumley contributes
an album of fine songs One is a charming
trifle that flutters round “a thin little wisp
of. new-horn moon.” More melody to a
middle-aged summer moon is built on vaude-
ville lines by Leslie Elliot. Three African
dances, the compositions of Montague Ring,
are for the schoolgirl who likes simplicity
starred by a few octaves.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORAIN.


VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Leather Goods
sBIJ
Gentleman's Solid Pig Sain Dressing Case, in new design,
excellently fitted with Ebony Brushes and the Finest Cutlery,
13in. long, lies flat at bottom of Handbag, £4.
MANY OTHER DESIGNS ARE IN STOCK.
We have a large selection of Leather Goods, including Travelling
Bags, Dressing Rolls, Shirt and, Tie Cases, Tobacco Pouches, Rote,
Card and Cigar Cases, Bridge Boxes, Blotting Books and Pads, Writ-
ing and Stationery Sets, Glove Boxes, Vanity Bags and Photograph
Frames.
Inspection is invited. Selections sent on approval to any address in
the Commonwealth.
Hardy Brothers Limited,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
s
(<
N.S.W. Bookstall Series.
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price, One Shilling Each ; Post Free, 1/1.
“ ABORIGINALITIES,” from -The Bulletin.”
Selected by Charles Bertie, Author of “Old Sydney,” etc.
WITH 39 ILLUSTRATIONS BY LIONEL LINDSAY.
Price, 1/-; Post free, 1/1.
Readers of The Bulletin, the most popular paper in Australia, will welcome this book with
enthusiasm, as it will enable them to enjoy afresh many a hearty joke that tickled them years ago.
Mr. Bertie has selected only the best, so that readers are saved the weeding-out process inevitable
in such a collection of contributions as appears in a weekly paper. The supreme advantage of
having an artist like Lindsay to illumine the text will be apparent the moment you open this book,
which should prove a mirth-producer second to none. To those who may not be Bulletin
readers we say, “Buy a copy of ‘Aboriginalities’ at once. You will laugh and grow fat.”
“ BILL’S IDEES,
5 > By
A. G. STEPHENS
(“The Bookfellow ”).
Fully Illustrated. Price, 1/-; Post Free, 1/1.
In “BILL’S IDEES” the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., has the pleasure of introducing Mr. A. G.
Stephens as a new Australian humorist. Mr. Stephens’ reputation as the doyen of Australian critics
is widespread, and he has several books of prose and verse to his credit. “Bill’s Idees” is the first
book in which he has given his natural humor free play—as we venture to think, with the happiest
results.
Many years ago the original of “Bill” was a larrikin in Sydney—the leader of a “push.” He
reformed himself, and for a long time bas been a highly-respected citizen; as he says, improving
his mind, cultivating his good instincts, and trying to live up to his ideal. Bill’s ideal is “a quiet
bloke with a quiet wife and a quiet dog with a quiet name.” Bill has had to struggle to reach his
ideal, because he had a lot of bad instincts to get rid of, and because he never had much chance in
the way of education. Still, with the help of his favorite author, Vere Foster, he is getting along
nicely. Bill’s story is told in his own words. He is interesting when he looks back upon his unre-
generate past, and is no less interesting when he contemplates his reformed present. Hard life has
taught him a philosophy of his own, worth considering. His native humor is of the kind called
“pawlcy,” and he enjoys a joke against himself. Bill isn’t a fool, and he isn t a clown , perhaps
his readers will seldom laugh right out. But they will get a few broad grins and a whole heap of
chuckles. Bill’s “missus” is several chapters to herself.
Steele Rudd s Great Australian Books
In Cheap Editions. Price, Is. each ; Post Free, Is. Id.
All the Celebrated Illustrations have been retained, as these New Cheap Editions are printed frorr
the Original Stereos.
Sandy’s Selection.
Back at Our Selection.
From Selection to City.
On Our Selection.
Our New Selection.
The Dashwoods.
The Poor Parson.
Duncan McClure.
For Life.
Dad in Politics.
Stocking Our Selection.
On an Australian Farm.
V
V
ft
K\Va>
l
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
tomm
A
r m
hW&>{
'(0
mm
%
• u *1
»<««!
H
»>.«».<
if
11
=s-c
wg
a
A
.#ll
SSI
>!
*2
m
r*
i mri»
Oilrtll
»•-:
Mn
».«
M
*
w,.
are now obtainable from
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney; and all Booksellers.
The New Era
of Musical
Enjoyment
The Wonder
of the
Pianola
Piano.
For sheer wonder
what modern invention
can compare with the
Pianola Piano? which
not only instantly re-
moves all the manipu-
lative difficulties of
piano-playing, but also
guides you in expres-
sion and execution, as
if the great composers
themselveswere
prompting you.
At the same time,
your interpretation is
as personal and in-
stinctive as if your
hands were touching
the keys. In this
quality the Pianola
Piano is alone.
Those remarkable devices, the
Metrostyle and Themodist,
which give you as complete a
mastery over the music, are not
and never can be duplicated
by any other piano-playing instrument.
The Pianola Piano is a combination of
the Pianola with the famous Steinway,
Weber, and Steck Pianos, and is the
only piano-playing instrument recognised
by the great musicians of to-day.
Call and play the Pianola Piano, or write
for Catalogue “HP
the pianola company,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE ; 357 George Street »™d Jones uu Sydney.
88 ”77 rf '7 L °" d ° n - Ber,in ' yor *' etc ~
CIUMO «*»»1


At FARMER’S BONUS SALE
Pure Wool Sweaters, 12/6
And Less lO per cent.
These sweaters are ideal garments for lounge wear,
holidays and week-ends. They fit snugly, and are
delightfully warm and comfortable for winter.
Made, as illustration, from Pure Wool, Scotch
knit, in Navy, Light and Dark Grey, and Brown,
with Polo or roll collars. When ordering by post it
is only necessary to state chest measurement.
Men’s. O.S. Ex. O.S.
12/6 13/6 14/6
And Less The Sale Bonus, 10 Per Cent.
IMPORTANT.
Farmer’s Cash Bonus Sale ceases on Saturday,
July 19. All orders bearing Saturday’s Post-
Mark will be executed at Sale Prices, and Less
the Bonus 10 per cent., for Cash.
FARMER’S, Sydney
%S-&y
%
///>
Mm,
WiiiliUmiil
m
m
m\V:
Wvimm
M l: L-lf-V. /
it Vi
ill
WmmM
810-SHOWMEN »
S 0 } g d U ney. So]e J^an’ S) Ltd./bs Geo^sS;
The Oriental Hotel,
Melbourne.
Melbourne Cup Season.
remfnZI 8 I?IENTAL are respectfully
for * b j 0kl "? ]s now taking: place
made for roo’ “ * early . a PP lica tion should be
made for rooms, to avoid disappointment.
No rooms reserved for less than one week.
Inside Single Rooms £5/5/.
Outside Single Rooms ....... £5/12/.
. Double, £lO/10/- and £ll/4/- per week
Private’R a th U boar<k Double Bedroom, with
1 mate Bathroom, £l2/12/- per week Pri-
vate Suites bv arrangement.
e. mcintosh,
Telegraphic Address, Gene,al U^r -
ORIENTAL HOTEL, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 14, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Federal Parliament opened with the
usual useless flourish on Wednesday. The
big grey house made a fine scenic back-
ground for the matinee, which included six
bay horses, purple and powdered postilions
perched on same, an open carriage contain-
ing one Governor-General, and a cloud or
host of scarlet and gold military supers.
The procession provided some entertainment
for Bourke-street, ere it halted at the
Spring-street frontage of the House of Argu-
ment, where a well-polished band burst into
the. usual music incidental to the occasion,
while the small G.-G., who was really very
anxious to get out to the Flemington races,
hurried up the steps with his sword dangling
and his staff panting at his heels. Within
doors, the galleries were packed with women,
some of whom had been there since 11
o’clock. (Imagine, if you can, a three
hours wait for such poor but distinguished
mummery !) The Barttelot lady, a tall, wil-
lowy figure in nut brown, brought her two
boys, and little Judith Denman and
her brother hung about in charge of a
governess. Judith was amusing herself by
practising Genee toe-steps on the mosaic
floor. Mrs. Guise, in a cute little purple
hat, waited on the steps to see the imitation
pageant. She is a stranger to the country,
and is curious about the tribal customs. As
soon as the G.-G. was through with his
famous Parliamentary turn, he simply flew
home, changed into his grey sporting clothes,
and motored out to Flemington in time to
see the third race or thereabouts of the
mid-week G.N. galloping.
The Forrest dame, wearing a beaming
smile, a large feathered hat and some silken
clothing of great value, entertained some
people at tea. (I am now back at Parlia-
ment House.) Flocks of women, many of
them more or less like birds of paradise,
rustled up and down the carved marble stair-
case, and sat about on the comfortable red
leather chairs —the sort that cunning people
build for the comfort of men. Hugh Pat-
terson, chairman of the Canberra picture
selecting committee, had his fellow-judges
with him. The pictures of the dry place
will be sorted out in the Prime Min-
ister’s office and arranged for a special view.
It is expected that legislators will always
be able to raise a thirst by looking at them.
The mask ball in aid of the Alfred Hos-
pital carried so much social weight that it
was completely . crushed. Harmless frivo-
lity was impossible, and plain “Bohemian-
lsm was completely frozen off. Dominoes
and masks -were marked like packing cases
that go down to the sea in ships, and the
alleged revellers carefully inspected one
another’s credentials before signing any
agreements to dance, cavort, rotate or
bound in the manner hereinafter described,
lou never saw such a cautious show in
your life. It was the most circumspect per-
formance ever given with joyous intentions;
but the John Madden dame cast a coldly ap-
proving eye over the crowd from the chap-
mu dais and seemed perfectly satisfied.
Ihe G.-G. and the State potentate came
along to the (supposed) frivol, after dining
solemnly at the Athenaeum. Aide Burn-
ham, bereft of his fiancee, whispered darkly
to Aide Curwen. Victor Hood, not being
on duty, roamed at large amongst the dis-
creet assemblage. The Barttelot Help, out
ot action through his hunting accident,
stayed at home and spent a frivolous even-
ing reading Gibbon’s “Decline and Fall.”
Ills pretty wife came along in a purple
frock with her white shoulders outlined in
silver. Mrs. Ross-Soden blazed in purple
velvet, and two other Society women flared
together in shot purple silk. Mrs. Willie
Sharp (a committee chaperon), also
mourned for the deceased spirit of gaiety
in the sombre color. Mrs. Alawa Buchanan’s
trock was made out of a lace curtain —at
least that is what it suggested. All these
people did not bother about disguise. No
masks or dominoes could have veiled or
obscured their social brilliance, and you
couldn t have hidden their lights under a
bushel without seriously damaging the
bushel. Governor Fuller sat surrounded by
chaperons and looked amazingly cheerful.
It was probably much better than wander-
ing loose in the mob of distrust, and being
cold-shouldered in mistake for some impos-
sible person called Jonesmith or Brown-
green. There were strict rules about smok-
ing in the lounges or corridors, and if you
were not charitably satisfied with the sup-
per and its claret cup, you could go up-
stairs and get champagne. But you had to
be a committee person, or a Governor, or
an accredited representative of one of the
Great Powers.
For the last day of the Flemington Grand
National, the weather was fine and breezy
and the going good. After a succession of
soggy,_ rain-soaked courses and muddy gal-
lops, it was like coming into a large legacy
a nice day. The jumoing races were
delightful to watch. One light bay soared
like a monoplane. I noticed him only once,
and he was then leaping in the ruck/Afraid
that he liked flying so much that the horses
"■ho just pimped high enough hurried in
ahead of him. Every animal in the Steeple-
chase was heavily fancied; the different
clubs were each “on” a different horse, and
everybody seemed keen on picking up the
money they had dropped or hurled away on
previous gallops. As usual, Mr. Wooloash
buzzed about the Birdcage, while Mrs.
Woolcash fussed with the chauffeur over
lunch baskets and food under the elms. The
winter meeting always draws the country
people, and how thev do compete with one
another. The dressing was lavishly expen-
sive, but of the smartly tailored sort that
“station” people seem to “do” to perfec-
tion. Four cheerful Government House
men, dressed uniformly in grey so that you
couldn’t tell the Governors from the Helps,
and most of the time unaccompanied by
womenfolk, roosted in the vice-regal box
just long enough to watch the various races,
then dashed off to interview the uproarious
persons who wear cash slung round their
necks. After the racing, G.-G. Denman,
shadowed by his faithful Burnham, hurried
off by motor to Sunbury, to put in the week-
end with the Russell Clarkes, at Ruperts-
wood.
There were some new and interesting
effects in the frocking, on the mercifully
hne Steeplechase Day, at Flemington. Mrs.
Currie, in a grey, feathery garment, looked
like the story princess who disguised her-
self as a bird. Gladys Chirnside, tailored
in champagne-color, wore as head-covering a
black velvet belltopper. She paraded
proudly with a Camperdown girl who
looked fearfully unhappv—perhaps because
her hat was flat, and bashed and quite
feminine. Nowadays, height is the hall-
mark of hat smartness. Take a quill or a
straight feather (the longer the better),
stick it in the back of a turban of silk, and
lo! you are all right! Another trick is to
stick an American Beauty rose with a fopt-
long stem in your headpiece. It must be at
the back, though; your hat-trimming fol-
lows respectfully behind you always. Mrs.
Isaacs had three purple streak feathers
dipped in vivid red, while daughter Nancy’s
white feather measured exactly (This
doesn _t sound like his Honor’s associate,
does it?) The High Court Miss did the
lawn with a Hammond-Clegg girl, who
scored a poster effect with large civet cat
furs. Ballarat Ham’s daughter—a bride of
yestermonth—looked blooming, and wore a
lavender feather in grey souirrel mufflings.
Widower Brodie, of Sanderson’s, escorted
three smart damsels.. Nan O’Hara, in white
cloth, m with a Riverina squatting party;
and Mrs. Leslie Stuart was swathed in a
smart green frock. Chirnsides were scat-
tered all over the stand and lawn; Mrs.
Buchanan talked horse in the birdcage; and
the McCullochs, from the Western Dis-
trict, gave the biggest lunch party on re-
cord and thereby achieved a certain amount
ot tame.
Inter-State hockey was the chief topic in
flapper circles during last week. The visit-
ing teams managed to escape vaccination
on their way hither, but were carefully
scratched before being despatched home
Ihe young amazons played with proper
ferocity and have many honorable wounds
to show. The Melbourne girls say that
Sydney plays a ‘lovely” game, but that
Adelaide is too rough. After the Melbourne-
f delaide contest, Fanny Rigby, Melbourne’s
best half-back, was lamed and had wrists
and ankles cut. Mrs. Burston gave a tea
party, the following day, in the Botanical
txaidens, and this indomitable young woman
arrived in a cab and was carried
to the tea house on the shoulders of admir-
ing girl-players. Mattie Fogarty, as some-
one expressed it, “got off with a smack on
the jaw : but Miss Clendidden was told to
qint the held on account of an injured knee.
Ihe ardent little player resented being kept
out of the playing area by an anxious
brother. "Its nothing but a touch!” com-
Pmc nec L * e heroine. Though they take
therr hurts lightly, these hockey maidens
don t; approve of very rough play. Thev
?°. n t ™ ln , d , a slap on the shoulder, or a
frightful blow on. the ankle; but when a
player goes on like a prehistoric squaw
they start to get wild.
Gn Saturdav, after a deliriously exciting
week, the hockey girls took the visiting
plajers to see Within the Law.” Cheerful
cripples, with wrists and ankles carefully
bandaged and complexions ruddier than
ever, limped proudly up the mignonette-
green velvet carpet of the Theatre Royal
stairs, and afterwards limped down
again to a jolly supper party in a Collins-
street cafe.
Help Barttelot had a fall in the Ice
,A!?\i he * ?, the i' day - The thlld w as like
unto the fall of a giant gum tree, and he
occupied so much space whilst horizontal
~, e aS L a ser j°us danger to navigation.
Attendants fled to brush fallen greatness, and
complete calm was not restored for quite
throughout 111 '’ ice kept Perfectly cool
n,r <p "9 - , Dei . lma n has been three times to Her
Majesty s since the start of Gende’s season.
Kut he comes early and does not strain the
loyalty of the audience by keeping the stage
waiting.
Wtodow S - Per Son who Esca Ped out of the
Even now we can’t quite sort out the true inward-
ness of that cafC raid, which was so like a scene out
of “The Magistrate.” Was it a misfortune or was
it not ? A heap of people are mad because they
weren’t found unlawfully on the premises—young,
unmarried, gay-doggy persons, who feel that their
professed wickedness has been called in question, and
their alleged iniquity has fallen into disrepute. They
try to explain that they are really Mohawks and
Cheerful Cherokees and all that sort of thing, and
this was the only night in years when they weren’t
painting the town red, and doing the homeless eat
act on the tiles or on the top of the Equitable build-
ing, and throwing the decalogue into the Yarra.
They had gone home early on account of toothache.
Then there were the people who were found
but didn’t want to be discovered, in consequence
whereof they fled in hysterics; and there were the
people who were found but didn’t care, in conse-
quence of which they didn’t flee in anything. But
the people who regret that they were found are few,
while the people who are mad because they weren’t
found are many.
During the scatter one of the Very Best matrons
made a hopeless dash for home, only to be held up
by the relentless Law. “Your name, madam ?”
thundered the Statute at the top of its voice. “I
won’t tell you!” panted the poor, desperate lady.
You must!” insisted the respectful Civil and
Criminal Code. “I won't!” reiterated the trembling
Social Light. “You —you must ask my solicitor!”
A young man who was supping at one of the
raided places on the fatal nigiit speaks with irrev-
erent glee of the scramble. “I was just in the
middle of a yarn when I noticed the line of bulky
men coming in. They didn’t look like anything but
police, so I knew it was all up. One of them went
over to the band, and the music died of fright—the
flute expiring absurdly on a wild, high note. Then
they took our names, slowly and carefully, being very
anxious over the spelling. (You know policemen
always have great trouble about spelling.) Some of
the fellows got nasty, and a few of the women tried
to get away. I don’t know which was the
more foolish thing to do. After the waiters had been
taken away, the band revived and played again.
But the music wasn’t the same. For one thing, that
flute had been nearly scared to death and the violin
tried to be jo.yyus in an undertone. Perhaps the
orchestra thought it saw the end of the job approach-
ing It was an extraordinary transition from gav
to glum. e J
, One day this month, Harrie Lachlan
McCallum is to wed Rupert Orwell Jones.
J-he ceremony will happen in the drawing-
room of the Quamby Club.
AT^ llen was married to Sheila
Macdonald, Mrs. Hoad gave the bride a pre-
sent of great value. The late General Hoad
had been carefully collecting pearls to form
a.' necklace for his wife. These treasures
his widow handed to young Mrs. Oswald on
her wedding day.
A handsome young man who is adjutant
or orderly or something to Colonel Some-
body and lives in barracks used to be en-
gaged to a Brisbane girl. (That isn’t the
beginning of a serial story. It is a specially
abbreviated news item.)
Mrs. Marcus Bloch, who hails from Tas-
mania, is proudly carrying round a silver
purse won by her husband in the Elstern-
wick Golf Links tournament.
w Last week, Mrs. Quinnell and Mrs.
Webb, of the Austral Salon, gave a violet-
smothered morning tea party at the Fran-
catelli, and wore the enamel and gold
badges presented to them by their fellow-
members Mrs. Quinnell came to the func-
tion tresh from seeing her god-child off on
a long sea wedding trip. Maisie Gill was
married from adopted aunt Quinnell’s house
Her bridegroom is a military man with a
CvHl lda T bl b b^ ry <&- names—Captain
tj o u Q William Weavers. He hails
troni Hobart and has been ordered north
to Brisbane. The knot-tying happened at
All feaints, and the sword-cutting of the
cake was done An a pink and white rose-
decked house. The table was all white, the
bridesmaids were all rank, and all the
bridegroom s military chums came along in
duvvW an rni help f < ? to . *? ake the spectacle
Sfc'iwn white-clad bride had sister
V ol °wmg in pink-sashed white
s “ k and a black Gainsborough hat. A small
child in white muslin carried all the
light luggage sister Ivathie couldn’t man-
age. Mrs. Quinnell was a handsome spec-
tacle in leaf-green. She carried a 'rich
bouquet of pink-red blossom. The color of
the waiting chauffeur’s nose was probably
blue: but, as he staved outside, he didn’t
clash with the careful color scheme
Mr. Wrench and his sister, who are sky-
rocketing round Melbourne setting the
place aglow with the Overseas Club idea
were received with overwhelming pomp by
the Gaud Mayor, on Friday evening, in the
council chamber of the Town Hall. The
Gaud Mayor sat proudly on his blackwood
tlnone and had Governor Fuller on his
light hand. hovered like vultures in
the background. The face of Bigjohn For-
ence- Sh °hn e i a Hsing moon in the audi-
t^ C iC u he countenance of Andrew
Fisher hadn’t a gleam on it. There
was a banner with the monogram of the
Overseas Club on a table, an Overseas
Jpl ab -so n g set to the tune of the Doxology,
and .about two hours loose eloquence—-
mostly about the blessed Empire upon which
the sun etc., etc Vhile the Gaud Mayor
taohf’uSrv 01- * FuHer tortured h is mous-
tache Until his turn came. Then he un-
loaded all the stock eloquence of Empire
Dnv. All the Best People who weren’t
dead were on hand: all the Other Sort of
people stayed away. The advantage of be-
longing to the Other Sort is that you can
stay away when you want to.
Mrs Atherton and daughter Muriel have
come down from Bananaland in order to be
on the wharf to welcome Molly, who married
Captain Ersldne White. The CaptSn has
been ordered to some uninteresting place for
mother.’ S ° M ° Uy 18 Coming home to see
Bess Norris Tait has produced a work of
nature in Melbourne. “It” is a living, kick-
SO&se** who indl " ges in
A much-photographed little lady who lost
a husband m the divorce court, and subse-
quently started a beauty parlor, is about to
marry one of Melbourne’s iost eligible
bachelors. Of course, all the nice matrons
with nice, unmarried daughters feel some
"J at hurt about it. But bachelors never
wiU understand that the single girl should
have first chgnce. It is one of thC nn
laws that are only known to women tten
Dickens’s «'
Athenaeum Hall from time to ti^'sSSd
have a crowded hour or two at St’ S!
Ctthedrai Chapter Hom Ton Saturday
(19th) when she tackles an Australian
is going to recite the essential
passages of Mrs. Gunn’s charming “v/e o
the Never Never,” with lantern views, loanee
by the Department of External Affairs.
Frances Ross (who is to have her fare
well at the Royal on the 31st) looks like
an 18-year-old in a rose-tinted light, anc
can brave the sunlight with a perfectly un
puckered face. She is going the rounds ol
her old friends and saying good-bye, with a
figure and frock above criticism and a cuff
little osprey-ed turban that leaves nothins
more to be said.
Pianist Edward Goll gave two recitals in
the Auditorium last week, and musical Mel-
bourne closed its eyes in rapture and sighed
something to the effect that it hadn’t heard
Chopin served up so divinely for many long
years. Goll could give complete programme*
of Chopin items and still not weary
his audiences. At the first recital he made
a centre dish of Beethoven, played a boiled
sonata of Haydn, flavored the lot with a
httle Schumann, and topped off with six
Chopin studies. Society sat reverently at
his feet in its softest chiffons, and a heavy-
weight dame who implies that she only be-
gins to breathe when in London, murmured
in a dazed way, ‘‘But whay is he living here
when he is such a Success in London
I robable explanation is that Goll was for-
tunate enough to marry a charming and
home-loving Australian widow. Also per-
haps he does better here than in crowded
London. The O’Haras and the Burstons
took their music on the balcony. Law-
yer Waxman, himself a player, was wildlv
enthusiastic aloft. Stead, of the Review of
Reviews, listened with his wife, and Mrs
Ihompson and her daughter sat side bv
side. The latter’s dazzling complexion and
litian hair contrasted nicely with some
white fox furs. Mrs. Tom Hogan’s place in
the audience was marked by a large black
osprey like a fountain of ink. Mrs. Walshe
of Balwyn, threw precedent to the winds
and actually made a journey to town to
listen to son-in-law Edward, who wore his
hair in beautifully-brushed waves and his
music likewise. He responded to the rap-
turous applause with a far-away smile, and
straightway smote the piano again. After-
wards everybody who is anybody went off
Wl £ h a party to feed in a cafA Only the
nobodies eat in the privacy of their homes.
Ihe charm of that dance duet between
beauteous Halina Scholtz and young man
Volimn has been intensified by the report
that they are a ‘‘devoted couple” with mat-
rimony in view.. And it is said to differ
from most theatrical stories of the kind in
bemg strictly true. It has all the air of
truth when the nymph like Halina coyly
wanS i d ! Vmely ' 1 l e gged admirer for
wanting to kiss her, and then falls pirouett-
ishly into his arms. The dancers pro-
vide a dainty object lesson for young peSnR
sAke Tf Dt t 0 look Very much sn iitten for the
sake of appearances. The play of facial
expression on both sides is just as lovely as
the movements and poses. y as
I rom my Adelaide correspondent:—
mmmm
accordance with th e ne w “V**. *
behavior at public meetings. * f regulating
Mr. and Mrs. Duncan, with thpir arm t n. „
bouraJ "“Afi'rita,' J £; r " d ,“ T, ‘™W Sr S 3:
The, h, d claLed X ' ‘gS?’ A TSSSSS’
.ai?r *4 e L “f e -
msm
S' o'r isss?
—or not enoue-h men i.- . . lew f? lrls
estfof^th^m 011 " 1316 bal J' room avoiders!
est of the marriage market. Mayor Dollman and his
wfs a an d M^ d nre f
never, seen an M.C. ? Then ale you The
an d circumstance and dignitv.
Richardsons of • ? au ? hter of the Norman
Bullock His fafhe/■ ela ? de , 1S to Mr. Roy
F W? Bullock. 18 " ag6nt End ex - Ma V° r
PeL a e r 0 a ’Kfc ga l e a dinner on Tuesday, to the
'■sj* *■*«
cittataLiirif l n o ot h ™ re '°™ d °“ W “ w
r ,„,^ e . re aII excessively Asiatic, and, especially, Bag-
dad, just now—the result of the Kismet Ball The
rnf f e or e whieh o M the tS ,T aS the Sw B and goW
one, tor which Mrs. Macully was resDonsihle
-re^n S3 and r °s t ilver Deele d L ffra “ ful %ure in emerald
disraised d o f l * r. and , M L H ’ P - Gill, who was
disguised as a huge Arab, led in the Drocession
b< h st Ch n/rf oC nf Sed a n d bowed and salaamed for the
glorious in hlneV a" 1- ' „ At n -30 the Asches, all
glorious in black and gold, arrived, and to sav that
put T' S ti f i blithering description, is to
sold sweets ind b°.vs and girls in Arab dress
Sard of hn„„ Ptngranimes. Also, they acted as a
arrived ° f RnreT n’ hen the Gov emment House partv
traUa of has ?ny portion of this White Aus-
eTthusiaL Mr! t b J ack w,tb such whole-hearted
show snri .n MrS - b ? nd ?J' was bon. secretary of the
faithful if ever mer 8 the bea P ed - u P praises of the
iaitnrui, if ever a woman did.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


’M s n°d »°°g
tt
/
/
<4*
y*
V
:-■:■■
&m
vwM
‘£s
4 !
©is
.x^%2
50*
■at
£5
//-'
sag
Yftlrt
f:'r
1 w^ f
"'* “
'•vr-
m
w
J>#? •""'s
■, ><
J-
H&tKfcj
llllln
*-vy
■s t~u.*\
V ..- .
n
\
f #
3
m 2
o
w v \t , '
D
m% :
iir
'WAI
$y
s
■ «:■
mm
a.
I
a &&
'
If/
?tf/
•, lt y^.
r
i
V/;'
a..'®
-
..
9^
fl//*
zmf%
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Heads a jolly
Sailor crew.
He’s the brightest
Tar afloat,
And he has
A shining boat.
Down the sunny
Coast she reels,
Showing a clean
Pair of heels.
Other craft seem
Slow indeed
When the “COBRA
Goes full speed.
[Next week, Rich Alan. J


YOU CAN EXPRESS
much individual personality of dress in a
soft Felt Hat by your own adjustment of
brim and crown to personal desire.
Our styles can be adjusted in many pleasing
effects. Colors to harmonise.
We illustrate a fine Lounge Felt. Its color
is Dark Green, with band to match.
Price 12/6
We have numerous other shapes and styles, also, in stock.
Call and see them, or write for our new, free Catalogue, “The Mirror of Fashion.”
PEPPERS LIMITED.
310 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
WHEN NEXT YOU ARE DRINKING
WHISKY
TRY
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
FINEST VERY OLD SCOTCH.
A Carefully-Selected, Choice, High-Class Scotch Whisky,
of Superb Flavor and Perfect Purity.
The Standard of Perfect Production.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A cablegram from England :
A British departmental document, just issued,
shows that wheat, barley, oats, bread, beef, mutton,
pork, bacon, milk, cheese and eggs were all dearer
in 1912 than previously.
Butter attained the highest figures reached for nine
years past.
Grapes, greengages and strawberries cost more.
Apparently even the blessings of Freetrade
can’t keen down the price of food, which is
rising so fast that it blows the cork out of
the bottle. The population of the earth
keeps multiplying, and the food-growing sur-
faces of the globe don’t expand, so the food
problem gets worse, as a matter of necessity.
Has anyone noticed the remarkable par-
allel between Elijah, the Prophet of Israel,
and Holman, the Premier of N.S.W.? Each
one struck a drought. In one case the Lord
ceased to pour rain on Palestine, and in the
other case Israel ceased to rain loans on
N.S.W. Each man did a famous run.
Elijah ran in front of the King’s chariot
from Mount Carmel to Jezreel; in other
words, he ran almost across the kingdom,
so apparently he was a thin and leggy kind
of man. Holman ran to England, and if
he didn’t get in front of the King’s chariot
he at least probably saw Geo„ V. in his
vehicle. And each man, sitting amid arid
conditions, saw a friendly little cloud on
the horizon. In Elijah's case it foretold
rain and promised to save his reputation.
In Holman’s case it foretells that if the row
between McMillan and Wade becomes much
worse there may be a split among his
enemies, and it promises to save his job.
Bakhap (Tas.) threatens to be the verbal
high-roller of the Senate. In moving the
Address-in-Reply, he introduced himself to
“the paladins of debate” as “a recruit to the
legislative phalanx” thus :
If at present 1 lack anything in regard to a sense
of the responsibility developing upon me through hav-
ing been deputed to assist in regulating the political
affairs of one of the world’s continents, I hope, never-
theless that 1 shall soon acquire that proper sense
of responsibility in the atmosphere of this Chamber.
... .1 shall on the present occasion content myself by
moving the adoption of the Address in Reply in this
formal manner, and shall reserve for a future occa-
sion the exposition of those stores of political wisdom
which I have accumulated.
After that there were 10 minutes for re-
freshments, and a carpenter did some hasty
repairs to the dictionary.
Recent files of Cold Country papers men-
tion that a strike of 250 men and women for
higher wages is in progress at a Barking fac-
tory, a few miles out of London. The present
pay is from 16s. to 225. for men and from 9s.
to 15s. for women, and the week consists of
55 hours. There is nothing very exciting
about all this. Some Cold Land workers get
more than these rates ; plenty get less. But
the matter concerns Australia because the
strikers happen to be match-makers, and Aus-
tralia’s largest firm of match-makers, in Vic-
toria, pays, or paid until it had to shut up
shop lately, 2Ss. to 525. for women, and 50s
to 60s. for men. and the week ran to only 48
hours. Yet, though this meant something
like 400 per cent- more than the English
rates, Australia’s Protective duty against
English-made matches is 6d. per gross of
boxes, or only about 25 per cent, ad val-
orem! When will the Australian Labor
party realise that, when it continuously
pushes up wages and reduces hours, and yet
sinks the fiscal issue, it is only playing into
the hands of the extraneous sweater, and his
agent, the foreign importer?
Perth, which some years ago allowed the
usual benevolent syndicate to give it the
boon of a street, tramway service, got the
usual sickener when it inspected the syndi-
cate at close quarters; and one or two
strikes, in which the co. adopted a hoggish
attitude, settled all hopes of permanent
friendship. Now, therefore, when the Wes-
tralian Parliament has ratified a contract
which the Scaddan Government lately made
to buy out the hdggish company, even the
West Australian raises its voice in a
gentle bleat that “there can be little doubt
but that the system is in the right hands,”
inasmuch as “the suburban railways and
the trams can be worked harmoniously to
the benefit of the public under the Govern-
ment” ; and the poor old paper, which is in
the habit of picturing nationalisation as a
monster with dreadful claws and smoking
nostrils, implores its readers not to be terri-
fied this time, but to reflect that, “though it
is nationalisation, it is the nationalisation
of a public utility that was a monopoly.”
THE SERIOUS MOMENT.
And although I have taken the helm of State at a
moment when storm and cloud encompass us round,
and I am called upon to play the part of the daring
pilot, storm and cloud have always been our native
favoring elements, through which we have won a hun-
dred times in our tempest-tossed career, (Cheers.)
State Premier Holman (N.S.W.).
EX-SKIPPER JIM: "Just us well we're used to
this, William , ’ cause now there's no fear
uv us not weatherin' through, is there ,
William'?"
THE NEW MAX: "H'm, yes; let's hope not,
James. Same time. she’d 'a' been much
more certain I ride it safely through if'er
hot tom hadn't been let get so terribly
touted!"
POOR OLD GREG.
Mr. L. S. Forsyth moved: “That in the opinion of
this conference the time has arrived when the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association of New South
Wales should declare for a straight-out political
party of its own.”
FARMER (to Wade): “Look ’ere, Pm sick of
supportin’ YOU. Corner on out of that and
let ME do a bit of ctintbin for a change.”
Apparently the question involved in the
alleged lack of qualification which surrounds
Victoria’s new Labor M.L.C., Fielding, is to
go undecided for all time. Attorney-General
Drysdale Brown says that Fielding was told
to get himself naturalised two years ago,
when he w T as appointed a J.P., or honor-
arium magistrate. It isn’t certain whether
he did or didn’t the deed. But as Fielding’s
father and grandfather were British sub-
jects, Dry Brown holds that Fielding was
one himself, though born in the United
States, and there was no need for him to
take out naturalisation papers. Brown
adds, in a cold voice, that any common in-
former can take up the question if he likes,
and begin by proving that Fielding isn’t a
British subject. So Dry Brown retires
with the dignity of a gentleman [which he
is, whatever else he isn’t), and leaves the
common informer (who is a very common
creature) with a large contract on his hands.
A few nights ago Joe
Cook delivered a speech in
.Melbourne that was full of
the milk of human kindness.
His party, he said, was full
to the neck with goodwill
towmrds everybody; and he
slopped over into generalisa-
tions about the good time that
was in store for everybody
when the “Liberal” party
got' thoroughly going. But,
on the very same evening,
one of his alleged followers,
Sampson, spoke a piece at
Horsham, and Sampson’s
piece fitted in with Joseph’s
declaration in much the same
way as boiling lead matches
butter. This Sampson, who
was returned by the Wim-
mera cockies with a huge
majority, declared that one
of the first acts of his party
would be to so amend the
Arbitration Act that the
rural workers would be cut
out from its benefits, and the
farmers would be able to
pay what wages they liked,
whereat there were loud
cheers and much hooraying.
Fortunately, there is no
chance of the disastrous pro-
posal of Sampson being car-
ried into effect. Even on his own side there
are men —Wynne, for instance —who would
never vote for a free hand for the cocky.
The incident therefore merely shows the
heterogeneous nature of Joe’s majority, and
its precarious quality.
A “Greater Adelaide” scheme is being
talked of by the suburbs, which run pretty
well from hills to sea. Unley, Nor-
wood, Hindmarsh, Thebarton and St. Peters
have had a preliminary conference, and
the various district councils which come
right up to the City boundaries on some of
its spreading sides are expected to join. The
City itself is for the present sitting back to
watch. Already there is joint action of Citv
and suburbs in the matter of electric trams,
abattoirs, milk-supply, and (practically)
public health ; and from that to combination
in refuse destruction, lighting, and quarry-
purchase should be an easy step.
N.S.W. State Minister Trefle appears
anxious to be the supreme lOU. He wants
to spend “£30,000,000 or £40,000,000 or
£50,000,000” of loan money “to-morrow.”
Which is a record for heroism. Also, on
the part of a member of an allegedly anti-
loan Cabinet, it is a record for cheek.
The N.S.W. Country party is a new
political institution which is much wanted.
Its great desire is to do battle with the
Congestion Policy, under which all the ex-
portable produce of an area of 310.000 square
miles must go to Sydney, or go nowhere. If
Sydney is so far off that it doesn’t pay to
send the goods there; or if the bottle-neck
at Redfern or the wharves at Darling liar
bor are so crowded that the goods can’t get
there—well, the goods must just rot. Said
Donaldson M.L.A. on this subject:—
1 have seen bags of wheat lying [at country rail-
way stations] absolutely unprotected. I have seen
men loading trucks at stations ankle-deep in wheat
from the bags that had rotted. I have seen them
rescuing sound bags from that criminal destruction
of the foodstuff of the world. And yet there are
people in other countries who are absolutely craving
for food—for the bread that is made from that wheat.
Also, what is of much more importance to
N.S.W., there are people who are absolutely
craving for the money they ought to get for
that rotted wheat. When millions of bags
of grain are stranded at country railway
stations, and the State’s stock of cattle and
sheep and pigs and cows, and its butter and
cheese exports, are all decreasing by reason
of the Congestion insanity, it is time for a
new party to develop.
Even Hobart, the place where the awful
municipal franchise obtains —a landlord may
exercise seven votes, an occupier only one—
now owns its tramways. Last week the
Mayor formally took over the lines and the
quaint two-decker cars and the old manager
and staff —after handing out a cheque for
£210,000 for the privilege. The outside
value of the show is £lOO,OOO. according to
experts; but the other £llO,OOO represents
the monopoly-right in the streets which the
old Private Enterprisers got for nothing
some 16 years ago. With rail-less trams
and up-to-date motor-’bus services supersed-
ing street-railways in many cities, including
Leeds, London and Edinburgh, the Hobart
Tram Co. probably considers itself the
luckiest tram co. in the wide, wide world to
have got out when it did. and on such ex-
cellent terms. However, the property-
elected aldermen who made the purchase all
reckon the bargain is a good one. The Mayor
passed his word to the same effect, and said
that he spoke as “one of the oldest share-
holders in the private company,” and there-
fore competent to judge. And the vendors
wear the smile of sweet content. There are
others, of course, but these are the mere
general public who have to foot the bill by
paying twopence a time to ride the shortest
distance measurable at the slowest pace
imaginable on any tramways conceivable.
Melbourne friends of the late lawyer Sam
Gillott suspect him of having died a million-
aire. H e was childless, and it is understood
that his wealth will pass to public charities
after his widow’s decease.
THE GREAT PROGRESSIVE PARTY.
Although the Government may be prevented from
giving due effect to the policy that the people have
endorsed, it still retains the power of preventing anv
further excursions into the domain of Socialism by
the Labor party.— Syd. D.T. July 9. 1913.
JOE COOK: "Mark time."
BALLADE POLITIQUE a DOUBLE REFRAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scene: A Photographer’s Shop.
Parliamentary (or £l2-a-week) Liberal, and Or-
dinary (or non-stipendiary) Liberal, discovered
viewing full-length photograph of the new Prime
Minister.
Parliamentary Liberal (with sudden enthusiasm):
Hail Liberalism’s brightest star,
That, after lurking dim, afar,
For years, has now contrived to swim
O’er Office’s horizon-rim!
From allegory to desist:
Hail Cook, the Anti-Socialist !
Ordinary Liberal (impatiently):
Silence ! O foolish rhapsodist:
Cook is no Anti-Socialist.
Parl. Lib. (stupefied):
You talk like a Disloyalist:
Cook is an Anti-Socialist.
Ord. Lib. (firmly):
No more than the misguided man
That him, these three years past fore-ran.
What of the Fisher Land Tax ? Say
Will Cook sweep that offence away i
The infamy which confiscates
The choicest of our big estates;
And one of whose provisions drives
Rich absentees to spend their lives
Out here (a place they cannot stand)
Instead of in the Mother-Land.
Not he! None but a satirist
Would call him Anti-Socialist.
Paul. Lib. (furiously):
Scoundrel and secret Laborist!
He is an Anti-Socialist.
Ord. Lib. (with relentless calm):
In that event it would be meet
For him to scrap our “futile fleet,”
And, in its place, hire British craft
To guard Australia fore and aft.
“Conscription” would be swept aside
As hateful to the nation’s pride.
Judge Higgins’s loathly Court would go.
All Anti-Socialists well know
That efforts to control supply.
Demand and such, are hopeless. Why!
Cook has himself exposed the flaws
That lurk in these insensate laws.
And yet he no more means to try
To cause one such reform than I.
No ; Cook may be a Loyalist;
Also a fervent Methodist;
Likewise a pharmacologist;
Or journalist, or novelist;
But that man is a Sciolist
Who terms him Anti-Socialist.
Parl. Lib. (maddened):
Liar! Pro-Boer!! and Atheist!!!
Take that! You never will be missed.
(Throws camera at Ord. Lib., who falls dead.)
So perish all base fabulists.
(Turning once more to photograph, his eyes shining
with Party loyalty and unquestioning, hound-
like trust.)
Hail! Prince of Anti-Socialists !
( Curtain.)
N.S.W.
J. B. DALLEY.


ANOS
with
we Recommend
Confidence.
THE SUPERB
RONISCH PIANO.
The high standard of construction and the excellence
of the materials and timber used in the superb
RONISCH PIANO ensures durability and perman-
ence of the charming RONISCH tone and musical
qualities.
The RONISCH is an ideal piano for use in Australia
—is a perfect instrument FOR YOUR HOME.
Please call and inspect our handsome RONISCH
Models in Grands and Uprights, also our Ronisch-
Claviola Combination Pianos. Catalogues and price
lists are free.
THE GLORIOUS
LIPP PIANO.
It is the amount of thought and care put into the
celebrated LIPP PIANO that relieves you of all
worry—that ensures you getting perfect satisfaction.
The LIPP PIANO is produced in an atmosphere
where perfect*organisation and system exist, together
with the personal supervision of members of the
great firm of Richard Lipp and Sohn, who are experts
in piano building themselves. The utmost value
allowed on old pianos taken in part payment of our
LIPP PIANOS. No charge made for valuing.
PALING’S
Fully Guaranteed and on Easy Time Payments.
338 George St., Sydney,
78-80 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
MOLES WORTH ST., LISMORE.
And at BRISBANE (Sb TOOWOOMBA.
rA 7O- MJ,T
. FOR
Your acceptance of this Special End-of-
the-Season offer makes a certainty of two
things:—
1. That you will obtain complete Suit
Satisfaction.
2. —That you will save 20s. in hard
cash on the transaction.
In actual fact we offer you your choice
from a Range of Suitings, honestly equal
to any 70s. Suitings we’ve ever sold. We
guarantee that the Cutting, Fitting and
Making of the Finished Garments will be
absolutely flawless, and we Stamp the
Contract with the Hall-mark of Genuine-
ness by adding our Client-protecting
Clause,
“ We’ll Refund Money if
we Fail to Satisfy”
—that is, we’ll hand you back every penny of
the amount paid if you are not perfectly con-
vinced that the Suit you are getting is at least
equal to any 70s. suit that you ever wore or saw,
and that was produced in the Commonwealth.
Now, you get this undoubted value —you get this
perfect pocket-protection for an outlay of 505.!
Don’t you think it is at least worth your while to
WRITE FOR PATTERNS (Post Free)
from the 500 Suitings at your disposal—to compare
their quality With that of the ordinary 70s. Suiting
and then to let vour judgment decide? A copy of our
“Mail-Order” Catalog, with Tapes and Self-Measure-
ment Forms, will be sent you with the Patterns.
You’ll incur no obligation by writing, and the keener
judge of Tailoring Values you are the better pleased
we’ll be to hear from you. The finished suit will be
sent freight free. Save a Sovereign by writing now.
The Offer Holds for
ONE MONTH ONLY.
I
Flinders St
(Opp. Cent. Rly.Stn)
MELBOURNE
9
tot
i
m
r
'if
m
WITH
PHOTOGRAPHY is SIMPLE
WE TEACH
YOU HOWTO
USE THEM
Cameras & Photo Supplies
386 George St. Sydney
Branches in EVERY STATE
mu/ Mew Zealand
P>EFORE starting the Fascinating Hobby of
Photography send for a copy of Harringtons’
400=page Catalogue. It contains all the informa-
tion you require, and has illustrations and
particulars of over 150 of the Best Makes of
Cameras. IT 15 FREE.


TOO WEAK TO WALK.
DUE TO WORMS. MARVELLOUS
RESULTS OBTAINED FROM COM-
STOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
Children are often suffering from Worms,
and even some have Worm Fever without
their parents realising the cause of illness.
A notable instance is that of Baby Weiss,
whose photo, is reproduced,_ in addition to
the mother’s statement. This child was too
weak to walk, owing to no other reason than
the presence of these parasites in the system,
and the only rem-
“T
From, a photo.
edy that extermin-
ated them was
Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pel-
lets. “My little
girl, now four and
a half years of age,
was suffering for
over four years.”
writes Mrs. F.
Weiss, of 545
.Crown - street,
Surry Hills, Syd-
ney. “She ap-
peared to have
consumption of the
bowels, and I took
her to the Hospi-
tal, where they prescribed powders, which I
gave her, but did not seem to do any good.
I then discovered she had Worm Fever, and
tried various medicines, which, although
they caused her to pass some worms, only
afforded temporary relief. One day I re-
ceived one of your books describing what
Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets had
done for other children, and I straight away
procured a packet. After the first dose the
result was simply marvellous, the child
passed hundreds of worms. This was four
months ago. I have since continued the
treatment and feel sure she is now practi-
cally rid of them. Whereas previously my
daughter was very thin and that weak she
could not walk, she is now full of life and
energy, and for this I have to thank Com-
stock's ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets. You
have my permission to use this for advertis-
ing purposes, and I shall be only too pleased
to recommend them at every opportunity.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable preparation for the
eradication of Worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 2s. 9d. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co. Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
* —
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH'S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
brewery and Offices: Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Dependability cannot be “ Doped ” into Belting.
Appearance is of small moment compared with service. Yet many men—some of them
thoroughly good Engineers—are deceived into buying Belting that has been “doped” to
make it look as good as
“PIONEER” LEATHER BELTING.
Fifty odd years’ experience serves to confirm us in
the opinion we have ever held, that only Leather
tanned the full time —only the centre cuts of the
hides- —and only conscientious manufacturing- will
suffice to make a Belting good - enough to carry the
Pioneer Trade Mark. Every foot of our Belting is
warranted. You are safe in buying it for all Power
Transmission purposes. Price List Free.
EjON g E R
LEATHER
'B E. LTI NC
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer Works,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The first request made by Waldemar
Holberg, the Dane, when he landed in Sydney, was
that he might be matched with Hughie Mehegan.
Naturally, Reginald Baker was dubious. He had
already matched the Australian with Matt Wells, who
was on his way to Australia under a big guarantee,
and it would prejudice that scrap as a drawing pro-
position should the Dane overthrow Mehegan a fort-
night before the great battle. But the Viking got
his way, and on Saturday night he climbed through
the ropes and fixed his eye on the man he was so
anxious to meet. The crowd was astonished to learn
that the apparently little Dane weighed 9st. 1211 b.
—half a pound more than the Australian, who
seemed to tower over him. But it was obvious that
the visitor was heavily handicapped by the shortness
of his reach. This brevity proved disastrous. Many
and many a time when he strove to counter, it was
lack of range that prevented him reaching the mark.
He started with a terrific burst. His speed was
dazzling, his ducking bewildering, and his blows ter-
r.fic. Mehegan looked at him, with a casual ex-
pression, and decided that he was dangerous. He was
partly bull-ant and partly dynamite. Mehegan always
starts slowly, and for at least half the first round
gives the idea of bordering upon the helpless. Wal-
demar is evidently accustomed to get off the mark
at top speed. The shortness of his reach has made
a clincher of him. His short-range blow makes it
necessary to get in close through the other man’s
guard, deliver the wanop or goods or proposition, and
then hang on. It is the right game for his build,
and he worried Mehegan with it at various times.
But it soon became apparent that he was outclassed.
He was of the wrong build to fight an opponent like
the Australian. Mehegan did not adopt his crouch,
neither did he use his old-time smother. But he drove
terrific blows to Holberg’s body, and the splendid
condition of the visitor was evidenced by the way he
stood them. A feature of the fight was the absence
of wasted effort. It was clean, hard, deliberate hit-
ting in which every blow was carefully aimed. Both
boxers were using their heads as well as their hands.
After the fifth round it became apparent that Hol-
berg’s star was sinking. He fought magnificently.
He did all that a man might do, but he was slowly
getting the worst of it. In the ninth a.left that was
like a cannon-ball dazed Holberg, and before he could
recover a right cross caught him on the cheekbone
and knocked him half-way through the ropes. There
lie clun«', all but out, and was counted to nine when
he same back and tried to clinch. The gong salvaged
him. He returned a badly rattled man, and everyone
expected to see it end there and then. But he made
a marvellous recovery, and hit back steadily, wh le
taking enough annoyance to have felled a bullock.
The crowd went mad over his pluck and endurance,
and right there he became a popular favorite. In the
12th round Mehegan, with a left hook, closed Hol-
berg’s right eye. The Dane continued to clinch, and by
clever ducking managed to evade some withering
smites. But in the 13th Mehegan suddenly smothered
and, boring in, cut loose in a terrific style. In vain
Holberg tried to clinch. He was bashed off. He
bent almost to the floor, and Mehegan bent after and
assaulted and battered him. Again the gong saved
Canute’s countryman. Thence onwards he was merely
trying to last the full time. His power of offence
had gone, but he would see it but somehow. So he
clinched and clinched, and whenever he could he
landed a blow that sometimes made the crowd think
he was going to recover and come again. In the 17th
Nature went on strike. The plucky fellow had fought
himself out, and he suddenly collapsed to his knees,
fell forward on his chin, unable to move, and was
counted out. No sooner had the fatal 10 sounded
than Mehegan lifted him up and placed him on his
chair. It was a splendid defeat. The Dane had fought
himself to a standstill.
This was Mehegan’s first appearance in the ring
since his return to Australia, and he appears to
have improved a lot, good fighter as he was when
he went away. His hitting power seems to >»ve
increased ; and he has got himself under perfect con-
trol. He wastes no blows. Every time he strikes he
hits something, and it is seldom the atmosphere.
Not a wallop he sends along but is a possible knock-
out. His fighting is more versatile than it was, and
he no longer depends on his smother for protection,
but has developed a very pretty fend with his right.
The only contra-account is that he does not strike
the writer as being as fast as he was before he went
to Britain. But that may be a fancy due to having
seen the leaping Frenchmen during his absence.
Mehegan has got himself down to within three
pounds of the weight at which he is to meet Wells,
and he looks capable of getting off the other three
without having to unduly weaken himself.
East Saturday the fastest 25 furlongs
steeplechase that ever was resulted in the victory of
the quickest and safest jumper that ever topped the
23 obstacles of the Flemington Grand National course.
A year ago Guncap clipped 2 jsec. from the previous
record. On Saturday the time for Leah Kleshna’s
journey was 4sec. better than Guncap’s, and 4sec. is
a consideration to a rather small mare weighted with
list. 51b. Her performance was worth going a long
way to see. On the flat, Leah Kleshna is merely a
good, honest goer—something better than a plodder,
but in no way brilliant. The mare seems ,to main-
tain one solid pace from end to end, and if tackled
at the finish by anything that can make a sprinting
effort, she is bound to be beaten. But in this race
of her life she had a lead of half a dozen lengths
when she cleared the 23rd fence, and as her nearest
pursuers were no faster than herself, she won com-
fortably. Of the 16 starters only six came to grief.
Big Bob shifted Fred Burn from the saddle at the
first fence. Guncap fell at the second fence. Two
possible winners were outed in the last mile. United
Kingdom (last year’s runner-up) had taken a strong
lead, and looked unbeatable when he blundered five
furlongs from home; and, just previously, Myall
•lack was going well in the first flight when he fell.
With these out of the way, Leah Kleshna, always in
the front four, had no dangerous opponent left. The
top-weight, speedy Bullawarra, was wearing himself
out at the jumps whilst Leah was flying them, and
he could get no nearer than fourth. For the last
half-mile the G. N. Steeple was a procession, in which
the order of the five leaders never varied. The
winner—a 10 to 1 chance —got a great reception.
Apart from the two chief jiimnlrtg races, the most
notable incident of the Grand National meeting at
Flemington was the revelation of the imported Sea
Prince in the Braybrook Handicap (12 furlongs) on
the Wednesday. Sea Prince, who was apparently not
half wound-up, won in brilliant stylK He has been
let into the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups at 6st.
131 b. and 7st. 51b. respectively, and his owner has
already backed him for both races to win many
thousands. If the imported horse thrives these next
three or four months, he is pretty certain to start a
hot favorite for one or both of the Spring handicaps
in Melbourne. Other dead-birds may come into the
market, but it is hardly conceivable that anything
can look better than Sea Prince as long as he con-
tinues to do satisfactory work. He is a 5-year-old by
Persimmon, the sire of Comedy King.
“Snaffle”: Desmond, whose death is told
by cable, once had an offer of 40,000 guineas made
for him. Of his progeny, Cragunour fetched 1200
guineas as a yearling, Stornaway 5000 guineas (also
as a yearling), and 10 others, sold in 1912, averaged
2484 guineas. His noted descendants include Craga-
nour, Aboyeur, White Knight, Declare, Knockl'eerna,
Land League, Hall Cross, Sir Archibald, Lomond and
Charles O’Malley. Last season his stock won 37
races, value £20,008, of which Craganour, with five
wins, contributed £B7OO. His fee was 250 guineas,
which ranks somewhere near the top.
• * * *
Dead, at 50 odd, H. H. Young, a promi-
nent and fairly successful owner of horses in S. Aus.
Years ago, his colt Vagary provided the only in-
stance the writer has ever seen of a double fatality in
a flat race. It fell on the far side of the course, at
Morphettville, and neither horse nor rider stirred
again.
* * « *
“S.T.S.” : The late Alfred Lyttelton kept
wicket for England in the great “seven-runs match’’
—the word “test match” was then not yet invented —
of 1882. He was a soynd batsman, yet Maurice Read
told me long after that he considered the game was
lost by Lyttelton and A. P. Lucas, who merely kept
their wickets up for some overs, with the pitch
steadily getting worse, Spofforth and Boyle getting
more difficult all the time, and C. T. Studd, the best
batsman, to go in, being plied with brandy by Hornby
in the pavilion. A little recklessness would have paid
better. Some history was made that day. It was the
first time Australia ever won in England, and the
Sporting Times disgustedly said that English cricket
was dead, and should be cremated and the ashes
taken to Australia —thus originating the famous
phrase. Personally, after travelling all Monday to
see the match, I as nearly as possible missed the finish
on Tuesday evening, being almost persuaded to leave
the ground when England, with seven wickets to fall,
wanted 30, or thereabouts, to win. In 1884, when
Murdoch and c 6. made an immense score, Lyttelton
actually went on to bowl, and succeeded where the
regular bowlers had failed. W. G. Grace took the
gloves, having already fielded in every other position
in the XI during that innings. Meanwhile, one of
London’s clever thieves went off to the Lyttelton man-
sion, applied for the Hon. Alfred’s overcoat and even-
ing clothes, and got away with the whole lot.
* * * *
So far there is no bicycle record between
Sydney and Brisbane, chiefly owing to the awful
roads which prevail on the N.S.W. side of the border.
The distance, by land, is something over 700 miles,
and it ought to be a fine, interesting run. But it
isn’t; it is only a precipice, a bog and a misery.
However, a Queensland rider, F. Riddell, will shortly
make an attempt to achieve a through ride southward
from one city to the other, If he succeeds on such
roads, his name should be indelibly graven on slush,
and a large hole should be dug in the worst bog, and
there a statue of wind should be embedded in his
memory.
* * * *
League Rugby in Sydney on Saturday
was far from inspiring. Only one match, that be-
tween North Sydney and Eastern Suburbs, showed
any semblance of a struggle, and even that had its
depressing aspects. North Sydney had the champion
team beaten, but its intense respect for the top dog
of the competition caused it to throw the match
away. Its respect got it down, got on its nerves and
caused it to miss excellent chances. It was sorrowful.
Eastern Suburbs has apparently gone stale ; even the
leg of Messenger has lost its cunning, and he missed
goals that quite recently would have been dead easy.
But North Sydney was too nervous to take advantage
of its opportunities. At half-time East led by 16 to
13, and at the end of the game it was 24 to 18 in
favor of East. The smashing of Balmain by New-
town was what might have been expected, consider-
ing the way the same team tore through the cham-
pions the previous week. Balmain played clumsily,
a thing which no team can afford to do when
matched with Newtown, and the Tattered Suburb
was lucky to escape with a mere 11-point defeat.
Annandale played excellently against South Sydney
right up to half-time, when it led by five to three ;
but in the second half the team went to pieces in an
amazing manner. The damage was done in almost a
single burst of scoring. Western Suburbs never had
a chance against Glebe. The red-clad crowd was on
top from the lump, and kicked like blazes all the
time. At the interval ft led by 13 to nil, and at full
time by 27 to eight.
In the Competition, Eastern Suburbs is
still in the van with 16 points. But it has no sine-
cure, for Newtown is on its heels with 15, the earn-
ings of seven wins and a draw. South Sydney has
14 and Glebe 12 ; so in this particular riot anything
is possible. Balmain, North Sydney, Western
Suburbs and Annandale are practically out of the
hunt. They are all single figures, and North Sydney,
the best of them, has only six. The Annandale team,
though at the bottom of the list, is deserving of
encouragement. It is the youngest member of the
crowd, and it is an improving member. It has a long
list of disasters, but in every case the team has played
a plucky game, and given an interesting disnlay;
and, judging by its work, is doing its best to bring
itself up to the mark. For one reason and
another the writer expects to see Annandale hold a
much better position in next season’s competition.
On Saturday tlie Yic. League sent one
team to Adelaide and another to Ballarat, and gave
the metropolis a chance to rest itself. The met.,
however, wasn’t taking any rest, and conveyed itself
to the Ass. matches, to the repletion of the Ass.’s
coffers. On the North Melb., ground ’Scray made an
unseemly exhibition of the locals by playing a con-
certed as opposed to an individualists game. At
half-time ’Scray’s tally was 49 points to 14 ; at
three-quarters, 74 to 26 ; at the end, 89 to 46. A
keener, closer game happened out at Brunswick, where
P’ran was up agkinst the Brickies. The latter, play-
ing with n’ce method, got a small lead and kept it
till the middle of the last quarter. Then the shop-
keeping suburb threw its winter fairs, its bargain
counter and the rest of its stock-in-trade into : the
controversy, so to speak, and flattened out its oppo-
nents, the result being P’ran, 73 points ; ’W : ck,’ 57.
That defeat pushes ’Wick down from third place to
fifth. . ’Town, which thrashed Melb. City by 97 to
49, is only half a game behind. ’Town’s committee,
by the way, put in the early part of this week study-
ing how to save its face. When it played ’Cote on
■Tune 28 the umpire reported a player, whose name
he didn’t know, but who wore No. 17 on his rear, for
using the elbow and much indelicate language. At
the inquiry ’Town’s committee produced one Bus :
bridge as the wearer of “17,” but all five umpires
declared he wasn’t the man. The committee said
they must be mistaken, but the investigating trio
coldly remarked that the official record showed No.
17 to be one Adams, and if Adams wasn’t produced
within one week he would be dealt with as though
guilty, whether he was playing or not; also, some-
thing heavy would simultaneously drop on the club
itself. Saturday’s other two games didn’t matter,
though the victorious teams’ barrackers were soothed
when ’Don beat Port by 73 to 41, and Brighton
thrashed ’Cote by 79 to 63.
* * * *
Taking advantage of the absence of League
games, Soccer enthusiasts of Yarraside indulged in their
annual riot —England v. the 'lioy
ground, in the presence of several immigrants and
about 3000 or’nery bloques. The episode was pleas-
ing in spots and disappointing in patches, the lack
of effective combination and an undue tendency to
dribble being noticeable, especially on the part of
Scawtlan'. “Tonal - ’ had the weight, a lot of it, but
his opponent had the pace, and, in the long run,
speed won by three goals to one.
The S. M. Herald football scribe was the
first in Sydney to note that, although there are two
matches and the final yet to be played, the N.S.W.
Rugby Union competition is practically ended, and
the premiership lost and won, irrespective of what
may happen. Eastern Suburbs, having won the whole
10 games played this season, has 20 points. New-
town, having lost three and drawn one game, has
only 13, so if it won the three remaining matches
and defeated Eastern Suburbs in the final, it would
have only 19 points. University, which is next on
the list with 11 points, has four matches to play,
owing to the irruption of the Maoriland University
teams; but if it won them all it would also have
only 19. So Eastern Suburbs is too far ahead to be
overtaken, and practically has the premiership in
hand. Only two matches were played on Saturday.
The premier team walloped Newtown by 31 points to
eight, a truly awful event in Union Rugby, and
North Sydney scrunched South Sydney by 11 points
to four. In the first half Newtown managed to hold
its own fairly well, and was three to the champion’s
eight. But in the second half the Eastern team got
properly going and jumped on its fainting opponents.
North Sydney won its game in the first half, and
neither side scored in the second. So the game was
more even than the scores would lead one to suppose.
* * * *
The star match of the Rugby Union’s menu
was, of course, that between the Maoriland Univer-
sity team and the Svdney Metropolitan XV at the
University Oval, where 4000 spectators howled them-
selves hoarse. The unbeaten University team con-
tinued on its victorious course, and won very deci-
sively by 27 points to 10. That is the sort of score
there is no disputing. It has been a most successful
tour, the visiting team winning its three matches
with 62 points to 40. On Saturday the Maoriland
pack outclassed the home forwards, and the backs
excelled in line-kicking and passing charges. The
home tackling was weak, and the marvel is that the
downfall was not worse. The Metropolitan team had
sudden bursts of brilliance, which, however, quickly
faded out. Altogether, the Maorilanders were far
superior, and one cannot help wondering if the N.S.W.
standard of Union Rugby is not a declining one.
Tbe Soccer crowd started tbe second round
of the Rawson Cup competition in and around Syd-
ney on Saturday, and played off four matches.
Annandale smashed up Granville by three goals to
two after a very dashing game, in which anything
was possible right up to time. Newtown had an
easy time with Glebe, but did not make much use
of its obvious superiority, and won out by only two
to one. Sydney made a much better showing with
North Sydney, and in a far more evenly contested
game danced on a more formidable opposition by
four goals to one. Balmain, the champion team,
drifted over Canterbury in a dead calm sort of way,
and served it up with four goals to one.
• * • *
After being held up with adverse weather
for many weeks, N.S.W. Bowling Association took
advantage ( of a fine dav and wiped the much-post-
poned John Young shield off the slate on Saturday.
It is a strange, sudden-death, one-day affa r —the
team which demolishes an opponent by the greatest
margin having tbe right to the furniture for 12
months. The result of the hurricane among the clubs
was a win for City over Gladstone Park by 204 to
65—a difference of 139 points, which created a new
record for the competition. The marginal effort of
other clubs was a long way to rearward of those
who thrive within the quarantined area.
Sydney lacrosse was full of surprises on
Saturday, but the two upheavals that astonished the
natives mostly were those of University and Birch-
grove. The University smashing of Burwood was like
the fall of the Tower of Babel, w'th Burwood under-
neath, the final figures being eight to one. Birch-
grove danced on Sydney by four to one. Eastern
Suburbs got the scare of its life when, at half-time,
Mosman led by two goals to one; but the team from
the home of champions pulled itself together and
soused Mosman in the soup with eight goals to four.
Which was good going. Petersham and Manly met bv
the sea, and Petersham won by nine goals to three.
Play all round was strenuous—too strenuous very
often, with a tendency to use an opponent’s head
instead of the ball. This is a phase which requires
more attention than it is getting. The general result
on the competition was to knock things more askew.
Eastern Suburbs has now a more decided lead than
ever with 19 points to Sydney’s 15, Petersham’s 13
and Birchgrove’s 11. There are others, of course, but
they do not really count.
* * • *
Queensland athlete Charles Swain now
monopolises the mile championship of his State, hav-
ing just won it for the third time. The 880yds. title
also belongs to the legs and feet of the flying Too-
wong harrier; and Swain is probably the most bril-
liant performer Bananaland has yet produced.
Saturday’s round of Sydney baseball was
a joyous time for batsmen, who treated pitchers’
efforts as just plain tripe. Mosman-N. Sydney v.
University supplied the closest tussle of the day, and
likewise the heaviest tally, out of which the players
from over the ferry scrambled with 18 runs to the 17
of Uni. Petersham and Paddington were also in
merry mood, and the brethren of Petersham scored a
victory by 28 to 11. Lane Gove made a chopping-
block of BurwOod by 10 runs to five; while Leich-
hardt recorded the best marginal win of the day
over Waverley by 12 runs to two. Lane Cove and
Mosman, therefore, still remain at the top-rung with
one defeat each, while Leichhardt (last year’s pre-
miers) is close behind with two losses. There is
small possibility of premiership success for any of
the other stragglers in the competition.
» * * *
Is Matt Wells afraid of Mehegan? It
looks like it. They are to fight for the lightweight
championship, and as the fight takes place in Aus-
tralia, Mehegan very reasonably thought that Aus-
tralian conditions would apply, which would make
the weight limit lOst. Wells then produced his
agreement, and it was discovered that Mr. Baker
had contracted to give him three fights at 9st. 91b. ;
and on that specified weight Wells and his manager
were obdurate. Mehegan offered to split the differ-
ence, but the visitors would not concede an ounce.
The trouble was, of course, that to get down to that
weight Mehegan might have to waste, and be
thereby weakened, while Wells is apparently under
the impression that he can make it in the ordinary
course of training. It may be good business, but it
leaves a nasty taste in the mouth, and will not con-
duce to popularity. However, Wells probably con-
siders a win, or anything that will assist him to
accomplish a win, worth stacks of popularity. Which
is a good, worldly way of looking at the matter.
Bill Lang having contracted influenza will
be unable to meet Curran, at Sydney Stadium on the
26th, and it is just possible that the gap will be
filled by Pat Bradley and Jerry Jerome, the aborigi-
nal. It will be an interesting scrap, and ought to
provide some fun. Jerry is beautifully unconven-
tional, and Bradley has a style that is peculiarly his
own, and also peculiarly effective. It is very un-
likely that the black will be able to settle Bradley.
In fact, most people are beginning to think that in
a little while Patrick will have climbed over the pile
of victims to the top of the game in Australia, and
a fight that is much talked of and devoutly wished
for, in spite of the disparity of weights, is one
between Bradley and Dave Smith. It is said that
Bradley is quite willing to tackle Smith, or anyone
else. In fact, there is a suspicion that Patrick would
cheerfully tackle an elephant if the purse were
worth it, or do battle with a whale, or even a
pyramid.
Last week Jack Johnson, accompanied by
his wife, servants, hangers-on, motor-cars and other
varlets, arrived in London, and received a greeting
from the Cockneys that must have shaken him up.
He had difficulty in securing quarters, and, as he
hunted through the streets for somewhere to
stow his outfit, the people made unpleasant remarks
and occasionally applied epithets. In spite of this
irritating experience, he stated, for the benefit of the
public, that, as soon as he had finished his music-hall
engagements, he would return to America to answer
the White Slave charges against him. Chances are
that the music-hall crowds will give him a hostile
reception; and it is more than possible that the
British authorities may exercise the power they have
under their own law to deport him. The fact that
he was convicted in the United States gives the
Government that power; and it will be a brave music-
hall proprietary that will dare to stage before an
English audience a convicted White Slaver who is
a fugitive from iustice. To make money Johnson
should get converted, take a hall under Wowser
patronage, and deliver his interesting lectures, “How
1 Became First a Boxer and then a White Slaver” ;
“What It Was Like to Abduct Belle Schreiber” ; and
“The Awful Secrets of the Game Exposed.” There
might not be millions in it, but there are decent pick-
ings if Johnson can get the right crowd of Wowsers
to take him up.
Last Sabbath morn, walking in
meditation in my garden-paths before my cold-meat
dinner, I observed a concourse of young men coming
over the green hill, and making west by south-west
for the rivulet. They were all well-dressed, not
loudly, but in sober, seemly Sabbath greys and blues
and browns, wearing overcoats and carrying gamps,
as befitted the day. Looking not to the right nor
to the left, the brethren proceeded earnestly up the
hill and down the hill, along the scrubby creek-bank,
across the water, and so up another hillside into the
unknown. A godly-looking, 'gentle-mannered bunch
of Sabbath wayfarers, by the appearance of them.
Yet, alas ! that such things should not be what they
seemed, for it came to my troubled ears, later in
the day, that the gathering was what the sinful call
“a two-up school” shifting camp, owing to a sud-
den hint of police activity in the rural north-east
from which they came. Truly, as of yore, man
regardeth the outward appearance, and looketh not
into the heart, and is deceived grievously. In :fact,
he mucketh up the whole business, and muddleth the
circumstance.
(Continued on page 44-)


LEARN TO BOX SKILFULLY
AND BE A WINNER !
V////////M
wmmm
i
1
i
3
I
I
I
i
1
1
i
i
*
i
l
I
I
l
-
l
i
i
i
I
i
1
I
I
l
The skilful boxer has a great advantage
over his opponent.
Because he applies his strength scientifically
oes the right thing at the right moment—
takes good care to reserve his powers, sees
that his opnonent’s blows lash the air or land
on his gloves.
How unfortunate it’d be for you to engage
a skilful Boxer. Why, you’d be in doubt
about a man of your own weight and skill.
Surely, you ought to cease being a target
for a good Boxer.
Learn to be a skilful Boxer. There’s no
reason for you to remain “crude.” I can
teach you in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
My methods are as thorough as is possible
—everything is as plain as plain can be. The
instruction is simple and efficient. It will
teach you to be a hard-hitting boxer, with
an excellent defence. You will be taught
how to compel your adversary to leave open-
ings. You’ll cultivate the habit of keeping
yourself “covered” at all times.
Here is what one pupil reported
“I had a spar with a chap here the other night. He lost his headpiece, and went for me
like a good one. It was good practice for me while it lasted, but that was not for long.”
J. 0., Tenterfield, N.S.W.
You’re missing a fine lot of pleasure. Hadn’t you better write for further particulars as regards
fees, etc. ? Ask for a copy of my interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Kindly
send threepence in stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
204 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
LATEST CIGARETTE
»d CIGAR HOLDERS.
The two here illustrated
are the last w r ords in Cigar
and Cigarette Holders, and
have many unusual features.
In the first place they are
HYGIENIC.
The holders are of
Solid Silver, with
quill mouthpieces
that can be changed
as often as re-
quired-
The silver can be
scalded; thus you
have a new holder
when desired.
The illustrations
show the actual size
of the holders.
No. 1.
No. 1 Cigarette, I/-
Quills, 3doz. 1/-
No. 2 Cigar, 1/6
Quills, 6d. per dozen.
Postage, 2d. extra.
MY ILLUSTRATED CAT-
ALOG, “A Book of Good
Smokes,” will interest every
smoker. Send to-day for a
copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 Pitt St., Sydney.
IF
YOU WILL go in lor
Sport,
YOU WILL gfo in for Best
Material,
YOU WILL always obtain
this at
L.W. DODGE SCO.
SYDNEY SPORTS STORES.
NOW LOCATED AT
10 & 12 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Yon get more Fnel Miles
out of
SHELL’
than ont of any other Motor Spirit
THAT'S WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
. tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
ril HE Best Stories written by Australian
I Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. 6d. monthly-
OUR BAD ROADS.
The Good Roads Association
of New South Wales
earnestly appeals to the citizens of the State to assist in the work now
being; done towards improving; the present deplorable con itions.
Attention is directed to a Public Meeting; to be held on
July 24, at 4 p.m., in the Town Hall Vestibule, Sydney. e S
Honorable the Lord Mayor has kindly consented to take the chair.
It is hoped that the meeting will suggest a way to improve matters.
CHARLES E. WATERS, President.
D. R. COOPER, Hon. Secretary,
Bull's Chambers, Moore Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Rigney Shoes Cannot Do More!
Shoes satisfy, and no
footwear can do more. Rigney
Shoes satisfy fully and com-
pletely in style, fit, appearance
and wear, therefore they are the
shoes for you, that is, if you are
satisfied only with the best.
The boot illustrated is a Choice
Box Calf Lace Boot, Wide Welt,
Double Sole, Rope Stitched,
very smart, and splendidly
finished.
PRICES
23|6, 25 1-, 27/6
A Very Special Line for Country and
Heavy Wear.
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write for a Copy of our new Catalog’. £
The Rigney Shoe Co.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade
Shoe Parlors,”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Letter from a man who has just seen a
tram-car decorated with dangling leather
nooses: —
Just at the time when Sydney is clamoring for
vaccination and avoiding all places where fresh air
is scarce and germs are numerous, some inspired
traffic-manager seems to be calmly and callously pre-
paring to overload Johnson’s scarce Cremorne trams
by fixing four hang-on straps in the villainously nar-
row compartments where 10 crushed passengers sit
knee-to-knee and tread on one another’s feet. By way
of balancing the congestion, eight hanging straps are
now provided in the central compartment where there
is sufficient room between the seats to enable the
passenger to sit naturally. I have only seen one car
fitted in this outrageous manner, and it may repre-
sent the last effort of a demented fitter before he was
taken away, kicking, in a cab. On the other hand,
it may be the first of a swarm of similarly-fitted pub-
lic vehicles. If it does represent a carefully-planned
experiment in traffic handling, then Johnson’s tram-
way department has thrown honesty to the winds.
DOUBLE THE PLEASURE OFORIVINO
By
Fitting -
The whole outrage seems to be the result of the Syd-
ney Ferries’ reduced ferry service. The Tramway
Department, apparently, does not see why it should
run trams that merely connect with an empty wharf ;
so the tram “service” has been cut down to match
the so-called ferry “service,” and the same old num-
ber of passengers can either cram themselves into less
trains, or walk. Some of them must necessarily go
without the ventilation and seating space they pay
for ; and in order that they will not enrage the other
passengers by falling on them, the straps have been
provided. The systematic overcrowding of the trams
is unpleasant enough when the city has a clean bill
of health. But in a time of pestiience, nobody—not
even a Government department—-should be allowed to
cram people up like sheep in airtight bins. At the
present time, no sane individual wants to inhale
other people’s breath; but, judging by that well-
strapped tramcar, that is exactly what Johnson’s tram-
way department seems to be preparing to make him
do. The Public Health people should hurry after
Johnson and ask him what he is thinking about, or if
he is thinking about anything.
’
i % ■ >.
m ,
: :fi>s' miSAS 0 , •>
j#
-'W *4
-V
OTTim?
s 4
h\CV\ x
SOLID RUBBER TYRES
No passenger vehicle is complete or up-to-date unless shod with
these High-grade Resilient Tyres. No Vibration—No Rattling—and
increased comfort —besides doubling the life of your vehicle.
Prices range from £5 per pair and upwards. Send for Price List.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
JOS FLINDERS STREET. MELBOURNE
255 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
92 PIRIE ST.. ADELAIDE. 67 KINO ST.. PERTH
268-270 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
95 COURTENAY PLACE, WELLINGTON
Zm lie WORCESTER ST., CHRISTCHURCH


V'.
Wr
t/'V'-i.,
||S# ' H
i i s
$
mmm
% .
tSXTK.W<. ti
. -;.
:■ i
' .■ :
mm
■:.
.
'•.*
■y
■
• c -
-.y; '
im#
M
'••• •. .•
■m
Wm
i
111111
,
sssfe
* . ; /
{ . 'i * &<>
I a y.
w& - ,>
Wmmik &
rit
?m.
3&
*A
•Mp m I ■■-;
■
11
V,
Si
on Modern Science
res
\
\
has been g
mm
r,
the best
forcleansina Mouth a
The Inky Way.
‘‘Wandau” : My par in Bulletin 3/7/’l3 was writ-
ten before the recent conference between the A.J.A.
and proprietors of dailies and weeklies thereto at-
tached. In it I referred to the A.J.A. agreement as
having “expired.” But the conference proved abor-
tive, and, pending the compulsory conference before
Justice Higgins, which was promptly applied for
(per midnight wire, in fact) by the A.J.A., the old
agreement continues. The date and place of the
"ompulsory conference will be fixed by the Judge,
rnd if the result be again nil, Federal Arbitration
Court proceedings will follow.
“Well Inked”: The recently-formed Journalists’
Associations in Australia and Maoriland are gradu-
ally making acquaintance with the Industrial Courts,
and great is the disturbance in the minds of some
of the ancients, who shake their heads sadly and
mourn for the departed dignity of the profession.
Some other mourners are representative journals of the
wealthy party. A few days ago at Christchurch(M.L.)
the Arbitration Court granted, amongst other things,
preference to unionists (as was done at Auckland and
Dunedin), and the official mouthpiece of Riches in
M.L., the Dominion, had the assurance to bray
thus: “It is a sound principle that the community
has a right to obtain its news from an unpolluted
source —that no artificial restriction confining selec-
tion to the members of any one class or organisation
should be placed on the employment of the men who
provide the facts and truths upon which the public
bases its judgment on current events—for, once the
degeneracy of the press is permitted, its reputation
as the guardians of the rights of the people is gone
and its influence for good has reached vanishing
point,” That chunk will do to cheer the M.L. boys
up in the dog days. The Dunedin Star took another
point: “The disclosures made on the witness stand
at Christchurch,” it said, “showed, beyond doubt,
that under the new order of things, the esprit de
corps, the camaraderie and the innate love of the
profession, which were the outstanding features of a
noble calling in days gone by, are slipping away,
and are being replaced, more’s the pity, by what is
very much akin to selfishness.... If pressmen have
any dirty linen to wash, let the process be under-
taken in the editor’s sanctum, and nowhere else.” As
a matter of fact, it has been the long, despairing
failures to obtain a fair thing from editors and
managers in M.L. and Australia that have turned
pressmen to the Court. And the reluctance with
which they turned in that direction needs no adver-
tisement. “The innate love of the profession” isn’t
going to be undermined by an extra 10s. to buy the
child a frock or sufficient spare time in the 24 hours
to see the child out of its sleeping hours. On the
other hand, those things will tend to give the pro-
fession a flavor that it at present lacks. “The innate
love of the profession” gag might be saved with
advantage for the business sheet of the Press Associa-
tion. The pleader for the employers, before the
THE ETERNAL ALIEN.
In refusing to grant Japanese settlers the ordinary rights of soil enjoyed by other American citizens, California, speaking for herself and all the Western.
States of America (for all the Western States are of one mind on this matter), has brought to a clear-cut issue a question that has long been struggling to
define itself.
UNCLE SAM: “I guess it’s no use arguing. You can be as civilised as you like, but you can’t be one of us.”
AUSTRALIA: “Hooray! Good boy, Uncle!”
Court in Christchurch, wept into his brief and asked
if it were “for the public good that the large major-
ity of the people who did not believe in unionism
should be compelled to take their news, truths and
facts from a polluted source.” I do not propose to
answer him. But if ever I do hurl a rock at the
glasshouse in which the M.L. affluent press lives,
great will be the crash thereof,
* * * *
“H.C.C.”: “Jack” Blackham, who steps down-
stairs in Melbourne Herald office from leadership of
the reporting staff to captaincy of the advts., first
became connected with the paper in the early ’9o’s,
when it was shifted by certain land boomsters from
Little Collins-street to' the Collins-street building in
which the snuffle-busting Daily Telegraph had
petered out. Blackham was one of the Telegraph
staff who were mixed with a! few Herald identities
in the “reorganisation.” In those days (’Bo’s and
early ’9o’s) some of Melbourne’s pressmen walked
abroad under belltoppers (with coat-tails to match),
and it was frequent subject for discussion whether
Blackham or “Charlie” Norman, of the Argus, wore
the shinier stovepipe. To the keen observer it seemed
that “Jack,” by assiduous polishing, beat the other
man’s larger aggregate of new tiles by a short head.
Ultimately, the Blackhamites, hungry for the ver-
diet, demanded that the jewellery of each competitor
be thrown into the scale. Then their man won easily.
For “Jack” sported the most auriferous vest in all
Melbourne—gold watch, gold chain, gold lockets,
gold medals—all presentation stuff, too. Assayed any
day of the week, he must have yielded a Bullfinch
to the ton. It was a glorious victory. As a vdcalist
Blackham had a soothing quality, and looked with
kindly tolerance upon the Kelynophone, an instru-
ment in great demand at smoke concerts. It con-
sisted of a huge paper funnel, or bell, through which
its inventor, Tom Kelynack (Herald), a born mimic,
spoke, while concealed from view, giving imitations
of local celebrities and notorieties, lawyers, singers,
Governors, etc. As war correspondent for the Daily
Telegraph, “Jack” was quietly impressive in his
black-braided black uniform, with peaked cap a la
tramguard. We were a mixed lot, we war correspon-
dents on the battlefield of Langwarrin Easter En-
campment. From the Argus, Donald Macdonald,
took his life in his hands in a tweed sac suit. So did
Frank Whitcombe, from the Standard, and I, from
the Herald. The late W. J. Lambie, from the Age,
who had survived the Soudan contingent, kept Black-
ham company in uniform. Only Lambie wore the
complete khaki outfit and inhabited, moreover, a
special, private, double-roofed tent of his own,
whereas each of the rest of us, even Blackham,
scribbled and dossed in one of the common or garden
bell-shaped affairs, for all the world like an ordinary
Gippsland unmounted rifleman. “Jack,” by the
way, was too good a soldier to wear those trinkets on
his uniform—he knew the enemy were fair marks-
men. Nor did he ever sing in the firing-line. His
long experience as Railway Department paragraphist
should serve him well now that he is Advertisement
Adjutant-General. Also, his hat and jewellery would
justify an increase in the rate per inch.
THE POET MAKES HIS FORTUNE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I admit that acting for the cinematograph is
rather a dull business. We artists who are so en-
gaged day by day would give much to have the
oppressive silence broken with an occasional hand-
clap. No doubt our work is less spirited for the
lack of some show of appreciation.- —From an inter-
view with an actor.
Dear friends, I mean to write no more
Exquisite rhymes to tickle you.
My sounding lines will never roar
Along the column as of yore.
I'll sell my Pegasus. He’ll do
To feed the lions at the Zoo.
The weary graft of making jokes
And writing pars, of Hughes and Cook
No more my subtle power invokes.
1 do not care which paper croaks,
Or if the shilling buyers look
No more at any kind of book.
The fact is, I’m all right at last;
My fortune’s made. I’ll go my ways
Of pleasantness. I’m holding fast
To bales of lovely quids, so blast
The blooming laurels and the bays!
I've made a great machine that brays
Applause at pros, who all their days
Act stuff for living picture plays.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


. [r
• *,l
r.
1; '
a
msf
; -m
«®rjr ; a
HM
A ¥
■
m
_
StHR
* »
* ••
K
m
>A- Li J
«#$
iMSfj
- 1
»
£
MS
• ‘.i.ix
X
l
m
¥
m
KvW
a
*
¥v,
1
U'l
Si
SS?
* ;•
s*s
raj
/
i
m
* ;<
■Eg*
Everything to Make Life Pleasant
Picturesque situation, sumptuously furnished Dining, DraAving
and Bed Rooms, Electric Light, Artificial Heating System, Modern
Water and Ventilating Plants, and a Hydropathic Department.
These are some of the advantages possessed by the “CARRING-
TON” —the leading Hotel on the Mountains. Right in the centre
of the Blue Mountain Tourist District.
Tariff, £3 10s. per week; 12s. 6d. per day.
Daily trips to Jenolan Caves in “Itala” Cars. Fare, £2 return.
CITY OFFICE—IB Imperial Arcade, SYDNEY.


Was pale
and thin
Weak and delicate
children grow healthy,
sturdy and strong
when given SCOTT’S
Emulsion.
'* My two sons, one pale and thin, were
suffering with severe coughs and loss
of appetite. After the first bottle
of SCOTT’S they were brighter and
eating better. In a short time they
were quite cured and looked a
picture of health
Both children like SCOTT’S so well
that they call it cream.” —(Signed)
Mrs. C. Barnard, 64, Angel Street,
Newtown, Sydney, N.S.W. 31/8/11-
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
Only the genuine SCOTT'S
bears the Fishman Trade Mark.
TRADE
(k
MARK
ANTIN EURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen Street. Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by 11. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810, [2
Ever used Ayer*s Hair Vig-
or? Makes the hair soft,
smooth, rich, and greatly
promotes growth. Show for-
mula to your doctor. Does
not color.
STAMMERING.
R. W. A. YEARSLEY, Bowen Terrace, Mel-
bourne. Under special appointment to Munici-
pal Education Committees, England and South
Africa. Method approved Board of Education, Eng.
Subsidised by Governments. Awarded Gold Medal
for excellency, booklets sent free.
i
Ml£Pf
Fits “Wonder” has
No ‘‘Bromide of Potash.
Safe, Certain Cure—
-6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
16 Hunter St.. Sydney, &
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
p£~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb ft Co. on each Bottle.
Lieut.'J. P. Muller.
Over a Million Copies Sold. ‘Praised uni-
versally—never adversely criticised. Recom-
mended by every doctor who has read it.
“My System”
15 MINUTES A DAY i .R HEALTH’S SAKE.
D__ I I P H/IMII IT D (Late Ro\al Danish Engineers— Formerly\
Dj LtIcUU J • I • IYI ) I-j 1-j Lis lv \ Inspecto r. Da n ish Tubercular Sanatorium)
“ My System ” is the ONLY System of exercise (without appliances) and self-massage which,
scientifically and with ti.a minimum of effort, adequately exercises every muscle—exercises to
promote harmonious development (net abnormal protuberance), to gently and effectively stimu-
late the vital organs and to maintain the skin and body in a perfect condition of natural health.
“My System ’’ is the quickest, pleasantest and most certain cure and preventive of all
Functional Ailments (when not due to organic disease).
Everyone who values buoyant and permanent phy-
sical health without drugs or tedious and difficult
exercises will be delighted with “ My System.”
“ My System " has been used and endorsed by :
Ex-President Rooievelt.
Lord Alverstone.
Lord Nunburnholme.
Field-Marshal Helmuth Von Moltke.
Sir R. S. Baden-Powcll.
Rev. F. Bi Meyer, and scores of other public
men, and recommended by 150 eminent physicians
General James Fran'clin Bell, Chief of Staff,
United States Arm’-, says : “ After actual experi-
ence in using the ty stem, I believe it to be more
practical and better adapted to men of mature
age and sedentary tendencies than any other
system heretofore encountered. ’’
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the famous author,
says: “ One became fit, and kept fit, by carrying
out Lieut. Muller’s System, which is a natural
course of exercises without the use of muscle-
straining instruments, ausing no great strain,
and resulting in no after collapse.”
SPECIAL LEARNER S EDITION,
Large Type, Large Photo Kepro-
ductions illustrating each exercise
Art Paper, Cloth Boards. . . .
Post free 6/4
Net
Popular Edition, 3/-. Post free. 3/3.
COMPANION VOLUMES
“MY SYSTEM” for Ladles.
“MY SYSTEM” for Children.
Same Prices as above.
Charts of the Exercises—simple or advanced
degree, 1/3 each. Post free, 1/5
Obtainable from all Booksellers in Australia and
New Zealand. If sold out fresh supplies may be
obtained from the Agent:
Mr. WYATT.
313, Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
11l Advise You FREE OF COST Whether
Herbs Will Heal Your Complaint.
i
I sincerely believe that the old-time method of treating disease with simple Herbs is
often successful where expensive drugging fails to cure.
If you will tell me the symptoms of your complaint, just write me a plain, straightfor-
ward letter, I will tell you whether I think Herbs will cure it and what the cost will be.
I do not claim to cure Consumption or Cancer, but I have been treating most other dis-
eases for years with herbs, and hundreds of patients will testify to my skill.
Write to me about it to-day. Enclose stamp for reply.
J. W. CASE, Ph. c. f m.p.s.,
Botanic Pharmacist, BRISBANE, Q.
Hunyadi Janos'
Good health is the grandest of all possessions, and there can
be no doubt but what perfect digestion is one of the chief aids
to such a condition.
Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water is Nature’s remedy for
disorders of the stomach, bowels and liver. A wineglassful
taken on arising, before breakfast, will be found to give almost
immediate relief.
constipation
Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
All the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an adequate food— a real nutriment.
ROWLAND S MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural ha\r-liealth
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores , Chemists , and
ROWLANDS , 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
THE HEART OE THE AUTOMOBILE—
The
Famous ScKebkr Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited!.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Yet: Your paragraph was cast out on a
charge of being too vast, too learned, too technical,
too brilliant and complicated and elaborate and full
of knowledge and crowded with bottomless research.
Also, its profundity killed t. And it was addi-
tionally slain by its scientific aspects, its wealth of
erudition, its intense medical and surgical and physi-
ological investigation, its boldly speculative charac-
ter, its magnificent disregard of old conventions and
superstitions, and its esoteric ratiocination and phil-
osophic outlook. Besides, it was all about how to
treat a tuberculous cow. The editor of this paper
has sold his cow. The associate editor never had a
cow. The chief sub-editor doesn’t know a cow when
he sees it. The business manager prefers a motor-
car, and the secretary prefers cigars. On top of all,
the narrative you supplied was long and dreary and
hard to read, and big enough to fill a wheelbarrow.
Incidentally, we wouldn’t be surprised if we heard
that you were a vegetarian. You may even be dead
or a Congregational st for all the evidence we have
to the contrary. These remarks are made in a per-
fectly friendly spirit. You can have the loan of
18d. if you require it. The sporting editor will
gladly take you out for a drink in the hotel next
door where the thin barmaid is. But we can’t stand
all that intense and passionate cow-learning. It
makes us feel as if we had eaten two dead languages.
This is our busy day, and space, as you observe, is
scarce. Please go and throw yourself over a pair
of precipices. .. .Tas: Yes, thousands of people have
heard of “parrots pecking lambs to death.” The
Maoriland kea, or mountain parrot, is charged with
the habit. A publication issued by the Government
says of the bird: “On the Alpine slopes, where the
fjirthest-out flock-owners pasture their sheep, the
kea is under a ban, because of its carnivorous tastes.
It has developed a taste for living mutton, boldly
attacking sheep and lambs and digging into their
vitals with its great savage beak.” Friends of the
kea, on the other hand, say that this is a cold-
blooded slander. .. .Subiaco: It bears all the out-
ward marks of veracity, but we are aweary of the
Australian horsemanship controversy. .. .Through the
Fence: It isn’t what we want, but it should be sell-
able elsewhere. Copy returned... .L.0.P.: Divin ng
rod beaten to sawdust long ago. . . .H. E. Wedde: (1)
The last British monarch who appeared in person on
a battlefield was George 11., at Dettingen (Bavaria),
in 1743. (2) There was no law passed to prohibit
British sovereigns going into action. George IV.
always alleged that he fought at Waterloo, but
nobody believed him. British kings have simply got
out of the habit of raging in the front of the battle.
(3) There was no such incident. (4) George 11.
died in his bed. At least there is no record that
he borrowed anybody else’s bed to die in. He was
an economical potentate, and had probably saved up
enough to buy beds....W. Fenton: Very much
obliged for your testimony, though we can’t print
it. .. . Koolywurtie: In the days of our grandfather
the yarn was told of Isaac Newton. .. .Jimmo: You
rhyme all right; but it takes more than rhyming
all right to make reading all right. .. .Haremai:
Hardly suitable for publication, but worth remember-
ing for incidental reference some day....Al: Don’t
think any “defence” of the late Mrs. Annie Bright
is called for; certainly “0.K.” didn’t cast any
reflection on the lady’s “charitable and loving
nature” —-just about the most certain and conspicu-
ous thing about the lady. .. .C.E.M.: Won’t swear
to it; but 325. per 1000 has been quoted....A.
Humphrey: Don’t care for parables, and “Islandia”
is a poor one.... Grit: Copy of Grit (26/6/’l3)
received, with blue-pencilled statement to the effect
that “Liquor is to blame for one out of every
adult male deaths.” Well, wouldn’t these people
have died anyhow? In other words, would they
have lived for ever but for liquor ? It seems a rash
theory. Nobody has lived for ever as yet. Every-
body who dies must die of something. And the
person who dies of something at the age of (say)
54 might, if he had avoided that something, have
died of something else at the age of 45. That is
to say, the whisky that killed him at last might
have averted some serious infection previously.
Doubtless many a man has caught the germ that
killed him through not being in a clean, impervious
cell “sleeping it 0ff.”... .James K.: So far as we
know he is dead, but otherwise quite well. At least
deadness is the only bad symptom we have heard of
in his case. Better get some one in Adelaide to
look him up, or to get a photograph of his tomb-
stone for you. . . .M.D.(Q.) : “Shadow too strained. ...
M.HC.(M.L-): Story unsuitable for B. Always glad to
consider pars... .Lela M.: A feeble poem. .. .Dorothy
M. H.: Verses too young, but the beautifullv-written
manuscript was a pleasure to read... .P. Bade: Hope-
less verse... .Pathfinder: Your friends must be easily
amused... .P.P.Q.: Returning sketch. Try and boil
it down to half present length. . . .W.T.C.: Try it on
another paper... .E.E.C.: Yarn too wild, though the
detail is well done. Verses promising, but hardly
worth print.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F. C. Burgis: The best one is (alas!) an old
Scotch jest. The Bailie printed it in this writer’s
infancy. And the Bailie wasn’t much of a paper
either. .. .L.M.P.: So “a friend” heard that joke,
did he? Well, your friend heard somebody reading
it out of an old Bulletin, and the friend read very
badly and spoiled the joke.... H S'.: Picture dealing
with the much-canvassed subject of the morning
after —that is to say, the morning subsequent to the
night before —declined... .E. Dunbar: That used to
be a morning joke. You haven’t improved it by
making it an evening joke. ... Harry P.: Small and
ordinary and unimpressive. .. .Wil C.: Please note
that we can’t stand more than 55 pictures dealing
with Joe Cook in any one week. Yours happened
to be the 56th Joe Cook picture. (N.B. —We are
thinking of having one issue wholly devoid of Cook,
if you don’t m nd. N.B. some more —You can’t
draw Cook.) .... Dan: You have a bigger front than
all King O’Malley’s house property, to try to pass
off that jest as new... .Buck D.: No earthly g00d...
G. : Coarse and ugly... .Frank K.: Why, in the
name of Heaven, do all you artists send in pictures
of J. Cook ? He has met Parliament with a
majority of one, which was in the chair, and he has
done nothing yet save adjourn. Anybody can ad-
journ. The Bible adjourned for about 480 years,
which caused a great historical gap between Arta-
xerxes of the Old Testament and Herod of the New
Testament. .. .W.J.N.: There is no great demand
here for jokes about carbuncles, boils and the like.. .
C.F.P.: Have made 10 different attempts to make it
a habitable joke. Unfortunately, the joke is auite
roofless and unfurnished, and we have given it up...
H. : You ask us to kindly criticise. We can’t.
There isn’t sufficient language in the office. .. .
Ernest D.: Small masterpiece, representing meat with
flies on it, rejected... .E.A.: The art isn’t much,
and some of the gigs are bad, and some of them
are dashed bad, but the worst of them is the
“celery-salary” foke. How did that verbal ghost
happen to again revisit the shadows of the moon ?...
Redluom: That vaccination joke was told of Mrs.
Langtry in her youth. It went round from paper
to paper, as a crisp little yarn about how the doctor
told the lady she would have to swallow the mark
if she didn’t want the public to see it. Then an
elaborate American spread the three-line joke into
half-a-column, and killed it. . . .F.W.B. (Asylum Re-
serve) : Drawing about the size of a postage stamp
and impossibly bad. Also, when you write the
dialogue all over the picture you spoil the picture.
Incidentally, the idea appeared in The Bulletin
years ago. .. . J.A.S.: Outer darkness swallowed your
suffragette picture. Incidentally, outer darkness has
had a pain in the stomach ever since. .. .C.C.: Two
men, a fallen tree, an axe, a dog, a fence, a horse,
two humpies, a dry landscape, and no explanation
nor name nor address. Why didn’t you add a dead
tree and a crow ?.... Invicta: You’re more honest
than a few others, anyhow—you at least, when send-
ing along a second-hand jest for illustration, for-
ward the printed cutting to show that it is second-


Type F.C.
BE WISE IN TIME.
When YOU have purchased a Steam Engine (just because you thought it was
cheap), and afterwards found it was “dear at any price, have a few quiet
moments to yourself and Write to Ls.
We will take up Your Trouble at this point, and Guarantee to supply you with a
MARSHALL Steam Engine
acknowledged to be THE MOST UP-TO-DATE ENGINE IN THE WORLD.
Don’t take our Word. Everyone says so. And, what everyone says must be true.
SINGLE CYLINDER AND COM-
T»nTTivn TRACTIONS. Specially
Built for Australia.
Portables, 2 to 35 H.P., 120 1501 b.
Working Pressure.
Horizontal and Vertical Stationary
Engines, all sizes.
Vertical Boilers, 2 to 12 H.P.
Colonial Type Boilers.
Special Engine Oils, Packing,
Belting, &c.
Catalogues Free.
Cash or Liberal Terms.
SIEMENS
D.C. Cinematograph-Generators
Have been specially designed to furnish a steady voltage under
all operating conditions and to work at high efficiency. This
means low operating expense.
I hey require the minimum of attention, and embody superior
constructional features which are the outcome of Siemens
extensive experience.
Ring-lubricated bearings and thorough ventilation ensure cool
and practically silent running.
SIZES IN STOCK: 8.5. 10.3 and 12.5 kilowatts at llOv.
D on’t let a penny stamp stand between you and information
concerning this F.C. type of generator. Get your request
for literature in to-day’s post.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works
42 Bridge St., Sydney 29 William St., Melbourne
Telegraphic Address :
"SIEMENS.” Sydney or Melbourne
1»
A PUZZLE!
OIL ENGINE BEYERS are frequently at a lossi to y h .^_ make ° f Engme
to select, and to all sued we wouia say.
“Deal with a Reputable Firm *’ and buy something “Right Pp-to-Date.
AS EXPERTS in this line of business we
commend to your notice the
“BIG CHIEF”
OIL ENGINES.
from 1 to 12 H.P.,
sent “AMERICA’S
backed up by a
FIVE YEARS’
which positively repre-
BEST,” and this is
guarantee.
Fitted with WIZARD
latest improvements.
Catalogues.
MAGNETO and all
Send for Descriptive
ABSOLUTELY the Best Value ever offered.
Bedrock Prices.
Cash or Easy Terms.
ggSgagafl
M
W •
. Ml
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Do YOU fully realise
what the “UNIVERSAL”
Drafting Machine does?
THE UNIVERSAL
DRAFTING MACHINE ,is
adapted to all forms of draft-
ing—architectural, mechanical,
structural, map work and sur-
veys. Thousands are in profit-
able use in every civilised
country in the world. In
Australia, we have the Vic-
torian Railways and the lead-
ing Mining and Engineering
Companies using them success-
fully.
You do better work with a
Drafting Machine, because you
are not repeatedly distracted
by handling and changing
tools and watching their align-
ment. You are thus able to
concentrate your mind —put in
vour lines just as fast as you
can think them out.
Besides the speed gained by
concentration, the Drafting
Machine saves 25 to 50 per
cent, in time through mechani-
cal convenience.
Summed up, The Universal
Drafting Machine takes the
drudgery out of drafting,
makes it quick, easy, and—by
giving you a chance to give
more and closer attention to
what you are drawing —it im-
proves the work.
We devote 14 pages in our
Big 532-page Book of Engin-
eering Tools and Supplies, to
The Universal Drafting Ma-
chine. If you are interested,
and cannot call, write, men-
tioning your business, and the
Book will he mailed Post Free.
Machinery and Tool Merchants,
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE (VIC.).


AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
For Reliable Goods —
Our Stock of Clocks is the Largest in Australasia, our Cutlery and Leather-
ware selections the best. Send for the Free Catalogue of these goods.
257-
field GLASSES, . ..airtel-finished frame,
morocco leather-finished achromatic lenses,
sharp definition.
217-
seal MOTOR BAG, fitted with mirror,
purse and head salts bottle. Strong
nickel frame.
1/6.
POCKET COMPASS, brass case, paper
dial.
4/6.
TOBACCO POUCH, buckskin,
pure silver shield, best rubber
lining.
15/6.
BRONZE ORNAMENT, on
handsomely-finished black
pedestal; height, 14in.
21./-
8-DAY MARBLETTE STRIKING CLOCK, strikes
every half-hour, accurate, guaranteed reliable time-
keeper. Add extra for freight.
15/6.
BRONZE ORNA
MENT, on hand
somely - finished
black pedestal;
height. 14in.
6/6.
GENT.'S COMPANION, containing razor
scissors. corn knife, tweezers and corkscrew
finest Sheffield make. Complete in leather case
5/6.
POCKET BOOK, black leather,
silk lined, nickel lock.
15/-
CUTLERY SET, comprising half-dozen dessert
knives and forks, xylonite handles, finest
Sheffield Steel,. Complete in velvet-lined case.
5/6.
SHAVING BOWL and
BRUSH, polished nic-
kel, porcelain china
bowL
8/6.
NICKEL TOILET MIRROR, richly embossed,
with bevelled glass.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL
GOODS BUT CLOCKS AND CHINA.
llClgUl. itlH.
gill
iiiiiiii
iiiiiii
2/6.
RECTANGULAR
READING
GLASS, suit all
sights, 2/6.
3/6.
807-817 George Street, Sydney
10/6.
GENT.’S TRAVET i CASE, fitted every
convenience.
ooovaox
s^ixnvno
IT is an admitted fact that present tobacco
crops are eminently unsatisfactory, and
manufacturers who are compelled to
purchase at the present time cannot obtain
so good a tobacco as hitherto. It is owing
to this deterioration that many cigarettes
are degenerating in quality.
The manufacturers of “ Wilfred ”
Cigarettes are in a unique position.
They hold an enormous stock of the
finest selected tobacco purchased during the
past three or four years, so that they are able
to maintain, for some years to come, the
present high-class quality of their cigarettes
without increasing the price.
10 f 6(1 CIGARETTES |A r
To be obtained throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., London.


Missing- Friends.
rOWNE.— Information is required as to GEORGE
U KENNY BROWNE, who formerly lived at The
('rescent, Clontarf, Dublin, Ireland, was afterwards
in the Cape Mounted Police, and later in Towns-
ville and Nelson, Australia. REPLY to ARTHUR
GEORGE JOYCE, Solicitor, 121 Stephens Green, W.
nnblin. Ireland.
B
JORDON, Albert Charles. Relatives are inquiring
U for news and address of above, who was born at
Stepnev, London, England, about 42 years ago, mar-
ried in 1896 at Salt River, Cape Town, afterwards
resided at Durban, and about 7 years ago left for
Australia. Please communicate at once with
ROBERT J. FOSKETT, Solicitor, 6 & 7 Portman
Street, Portman Square, London, England.
IMPORTANT. —OWEN, HARRY ARTHUR. Will
I Harry Arthur Owen, late of Trawool, Tooborac
and East Metcalfe, or any person knowing his where-
abouts, or any person who can give evidence of his
death, please communicate immediately with The
Equity Trustees Co. Ltd., 85 Queen St., Melbourne.
Timothy moriarty, deceased?
THE brothers and sisters of TIMOTHY
MORIARTY, late of Hawera, New
Zealand, farmer, deceased, will hear some-
thing to their advantage by communicating
J. W. MACDONALD.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
| F CHARLES ARTHUR GRAY, formerly of Tan-
‘ unda, S.A., produce dealer, will communicate
with A. JENSEN, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, he will
hear of something to his advantage.
MARY ANN MILLAR (formerly Swanson), daughter
of George Swanson, of Thurso, Caithness, Scot-
land, or her children, George Millar, William Millar,
Robert Millar, John Millar and Lionel Millar, are
requested to communicate with ALLEN, ALLEN &
HEMSLEY, Solicitors, Martin Place, Sydney.
Business Notices.
WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
Genuine Dutch Pipes
THE PERFECTION OF SMOKING
COOL AND SWEET
(~)NLY those who hare smoked a Real Dutch
Pipe know how different ii the flaror of
tobacco, how cool and sweet and free from all
unpleasant taste and odour. These are Genuine
Dutch Pipes, with natural Cherry or polished
white wood stem, porcelain bowl and fittings,
ebonite mouthpiece with flexible connection am,
fine cord and tassel; orer 30 inches in length.
Dr. Lb MA.NG, of Eudunda, SJL., wrote:—“ T
am very pleased with my Dutch Pipe. It if
exactly what I wanted for years.” Our
Hamburg agent haring bought these Pipes
very cheaply, we are selling them at
only 6/G each
{worth double), and we pack carefully and
pay carriage to any address. You should
treat yourself to one or make your friend
a nice present. Will soon be all sold at
this price.
The Union Company
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Nearly a Yard Lon
To Own ers of
EDISON
2-MINUTE Machines.
Owing to the great interest aroused by
the introduction of BLUE AMBEROL
RECORDS we have decided to renew our
special Amberol Attachment offer, which will
enable owners of 2-minute Edison Phono-
graphs to equip their machines for the play-
ing of 4-minute Records, on exceptionally
advantageous terms.
The offer enables you to fit your Phono-
graph with the Amberol Attachment and at
the same time gives you a fine collection of
ten Amberol Records to start on —and all
for practically the same initial cost as you
would formerly have been obliged to pay for
the Attachments alone.
Call on the Edison dealer nearest you to-day, and
ask for the special folder, giving details of this offer ;
also lists of the Amberol Records, or write direct for
a free copy.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
LETTERS COPIED
wh, ( Vn 7nkT' ng
I
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc., with this
,Copyipg book. You simnly in-
;ert your Letter paper (as
illustrated! then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy in tne book. There ia no sign of your having
taken a copy; no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either 200 letters size 10
by 8 in., or 400 size 8 by 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price 5/-
post free, cash with order. Special Dainty Octavo
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, free, if
stamped, addressed envelope sent to
8. B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENCLAND.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
"yOU begin to
1 look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
TS
W
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/« PER BOX, or 8 BOXES £l,
Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
V
The MOUSTACHE YOU NEED!
The moustache that will make you look manly—improve your appear-
ance —help you to a better job—can be yours by using
CAPILLARINE.
This is a moustache-grower with a record of 30 years success. Apply
it at bedS and you will soon have a handsome, permanent
. h . e . D°i) ler f p r ' 00 The C. &A. Moustache Trainer, worn.at night,
Price 10/6 JAR, Post free. sha pes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, PpSt Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
Picture Showmen!
OUR NEW SHIPMENT OF
Silent Empire Bioscopes and
Kelvin Electric Generating Sets
HAS ARRIVED, AND MERITS YOUR ATTENTION.
The latest model Empire is perfection
itself, and we say unhesitatingly that it
is the best machine on the market to-
day. ' k
With regard to the Kelvin plants they
are most reliable and portable, and only
cost a trifle to run, and they have
capacity to light the whole show.
The Combination of the Kelvin
and Empire is Unbeatable.
We can fit you out with a complete
Plant for £45.
If you cannot call on us, send for oui
Picture Booklet —it’s free.
“YOU KNOW THE FIRM.”
JERDANS LTD.,
) KELVIN
GENERATING SET
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Stewart Dawson s Co.
(AUST.) LIMITED.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
Stewart Dawson Designs, Artistic and Distinctive, have an
added attraction when viewed, with the famous FIRST COST
PRICES of our beautiful goods. Our new Art Catalogue, sent
post free on request, makes selection a pleasure.
06557—9 ct. Gold NECK-
LET, set with fine quality
Garnets and Pearls,
50 -
I
Jl9lB. —Fine Pearl
and Tourmaline,
set 9c t. Gold
PENDANT,
21/-
C 8159- —Fine Pearl
and Turquoise, set
9et. Gold BROOCH,
We pay postage on all goods to any address.
Write for a copy of our Beautiful Illustrated Art Catalogue.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 8t Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
I.ya/o.
I?
rag
|ss
I3H/
kJ
m
V
NOW is the Time to Invest
in a NELSON Soda Fountain.
ThP above illustration represents a famous Nelson “Iceless” interior,
r. i. tmlv denict the perfect workmanship and the grand materials. It is
SL Tst woSd” in interior design, architecture, mechanical perfection and all-
lound efficiency wQuld point out Tll , lt t |p. finest Soda Fountains in Australia
to-day are those turned out from the Nelson Manufactory, and all the big useis
arp using: Nelson Pountnins. #
An early installation of one of our magnificent Fountains means that you
bnvp vour new season’s fountain running earlier than your competitor, and that
have your new f days and weeks than would otherwise be the
IZ ' Don* ciufbbie at wait to think-enterprise is merely another
word for action—and action in this case will swell up your profits
These Fountains can be used with stupendous results by Hotelkeepers,
Refreshment Rooms, Storekeepers, Chemists_, and every retailer who is in business
to make big money quickly and honestly.
There’s no better investment in the world for /ou-we can and will prove
this if you desire it. ~T „
WRITE in for full details.
Tell us the class of business you are in, etc., and let us make a suggestion.
ASK FOR CATALOGUE. Posted Free Anywhere.
Nelson Carbonating Co. Ltd.,
167 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


The Up-to-date Saddle
We would draw our readers’ attention to the
paddle illustrated below, which for style, comfort,
strength and workmanship, combined with low price,
excels all others.
This saddle is manufactured in the best style,
with the comfort and durability of the Australian
saddle, and recommended to all classes of riders,
whether on the station, farm or for town use. Made
only from selected materials, best English bar plate
tree, pig-skin seat and knee pads, extra long flaps
to buckle below, skirt right round, as a weather
protector, fitted with double buckle girth, stirrup
leathers and nickel-plated irons. The saddle can be
made to order with either full or half panel.
Price £3/19/6.
Freight paid to
any station in
N’.S.W. or port in
Queensland. Men-
tion The Bulle-
and a sur-
cingle or pair of
spurs will be given
free.
Now is your op-
portunity ; secure
this great saddle
bargain from ,J. P.
Talty, Sydney’s
Saddle Specialist,
388 Sussex St.
Write for illus-
trated Catalogue.
INFLAMATION
of the Knee
CURED BY
SOLOMON
" 0 SOLUTION
“Sometime ago I suffered from
a swollen knee. Constant walking
on the hard pavements caused
inflamation to set in. I consulted
a doctor, but without relief. A
friend advised me to use SOLOMON
SOLUTION. I am pleased to say I did,
with the gratifying result that
after a few applications I was
cured and have had no return of
the pain since.”
(Signed) J. J. Lloyd.
South Melbourne.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from store-
keepers and Chemists; post free
fof 3/fffoin
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
i i
L.R.W.
For A
Overseas
Motorists
and
prospective
buyers
of cars,
etc.
;JS
imperial ■
YEARBOOK”
1913
‘ ° K ‘ K
s@
■ ffISSS
isaS
“The Autocar” Imperial Year Book^
has been prepared to fill the demand for a
standard and authoritarive work of .eferences
on motors and motoring matters. All phases
of automobilism are fully dealt with.
Price 2/6
Agents : Gordon & Gotch Ud., Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, etc.; J. Wya'i,
Melbourne; George Robertson & Co-.yLtd.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, and Brisbane.
Published by “ The Auto ear,” 20, Tudor St., London, Eng.
STUDY THIS KNOT.
See what a perfect fastening
for two wires this is. See
how perfectly formed —no
jagged edges to catch hair j
or wool. Absolutely secure
without injury to the wires, neither of which
can draw through. The small lower meshes
keep back sheep and lambs, while the great
strength of the fence withstands-the heaviest
animals. Cheap to buy—easy to put up— :
practically everlasting.
EMPIRE Hard Steel
Woven Wire FENCE.
N.P.N., Tewkesbury, writes: —“It is a
splendid fence, and I like it better than the
wire fence I had before. I hope to have
some more later on.”
Write for fully descriptive Catalogue sent
Post Free by the Sole Distributors,
PARKER, WINDER & ACHURCH LTD.,
Birmingham, England. [3
Agent for Australia and New Zealand—
ESSEX R PICOT, 20 Young Street, Sydney;
and 240-2 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne
LOOK FOR
THIS MARK!
PIT
TRADE MARKS
B.S.A.
LOOK FOR
THIS MARK!
Warning to Cyclists.
When ordering your new bicycle built of
B.S.A. FITTINGS
insist on seeing the B.S.A. mark—the three piled rifles
—and letters “8.5. A.” as illustrated, stamped on
EVERY PART.
This mark is your guarantee, its presence means that
you secure the same quality material and workmanship
which has made B.S.A. productions famous the world
over. Therefore, you are certain of long and reliable
service. As a protection against inferior imitations
being substituted, the three piled rifles and letters B.S A:
should he carefully observed, not on one or two parts
only, but on every part, as follows:
STEERING HEAD, CRANK BRACKET. SEAT PILLAR
LUG. BACK FORK ENDS, BACK FORK BRIDGE,
BACK STAY BRIDGE, HUBS, CRANKS, PEDALS.
Catalogues and Full Particulars of all B.S.A. Goods can be
obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
The Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd.,
4, Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
a*P3
mu
TVKOIXVN
a
n
isn
aasvH^iu
J-NnowV
Take care of the Pennies so
that the Pounds can take
care of you
You Icce money because your system does not show you
where every Penny comes from and where it goes.
It does not tell you how much you
should have! you take what you find and guess
whether it is all your profit.
A National Cash Register will take care of
every penny you take in, and give you a complete record
of everjr transaction in your shop.
It will pay you to investigate this system at once and
see what it will do for you! Don’t delay.
Our Registers are supplied on very easy terms of payment.
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia Ltd.
335 PITT ST., SYDNEY
343 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
281 MURRAY ST., PERTH
50 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
117 a RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE
MACQUARIE ST., HOBART
Tgjti cl Little, Fcieiui
tolM the World^
'■Art.
X
f
Business man,
traveller, clerk,
madam at home,
the bov*at school,
journalist, minis-
ter, doctor, law-
yer, all who put
pen to paper are
better off if I am
their doily com-
panion.
If I am with
you—you are al-
ways ready to
write. So am I.
And I neither
scratch nor splutter, Idot the paper or
refuse to write when you want me to.
—I am British made.
—I never leak.
I fill myself in a flash.
—I clean myself in filling.
I am the perfect fountain pen —the
success of 1907. Everybody who uses
me says everybody else ought to have
me.
12/- (more for a larger size) makes
me your little friend for life. Pay it to
any st;itio>er.
6*
Pen
“ Pen Points— a booklet for the ready writer.'’
Free on application to the Makers,
T. DE LA RUE & CO., Ltd.,
159 Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
or the Australasian Representative,
NORMAN BAKER, 50 York Street, Sydney.
a
#
4
/
HPINKABLE
UNS
/
ALL
WOOL
nT-
S3J '
SocKs and
StocKings
Create happy feet.
All-pure Australasian Wool, unshrink-
able, dyed with fast sanitary dyes.
These are sufficient reasons why you
should insist rn vour stockings and
socks being —they make for
better health. When in addition you
have the far greater comfort of the
soft silky texture of —a com-
fort hitherto only to be secured by
wearing expensive silk hose—it is
imperative that you s'-nuld insist on
being supplied with . They
will cost you no more than the
irritating shrinkable hose you have
hitherto' worn.
f>V” Stocking* a»vd Socks for ladles, men
and children. In all prices. Of
iVien’s O.i fitters, Drapers atari Stores. If your
dealer does not stock them tie "an obtain
them /|'um his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for ll’ booklet an 4
t\an\e of nearest agent to—
J*son Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
Aa3l '
f*.'Ringing for Moref'
lk^-J
pW»“
525?
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and *
rich, egg like creaminesS* |
Has stood the test o f time
. Over 70 years ’ success.


your duty towards your neighbor
PROTECT YOURSELF
AGAINST SMALLPOX.
USE
Wright s Coal Tar Soap
AND ADVISE YOUR NEIGHBOR TO.
PROBABLY THEY DO SO ALREADY, BUT MAKE CERTAIN.
% *
♦ ... * •
Fifty Years' Reputation.
• - ' ...
BEST PROTECTIVE
AGAINST INFECTION.
SIXPENCE A TABLET.
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
for EVERY KIND OF LIGHT.
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
VA
tfAto
a
m
&
%
WELSBACH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 102-1 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z
z
•tv
Restore the voice with
y ANTISEPTIC THROAT
vires
formula or rit uverfooCthroaT lOswrAfc
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles act like a charm in
keeping the voice and throat ip perfect condition.
Used bv Leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madam Tetrazzini writes: —“I thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.” ,
Ask for Evans’ Pastilles and see you get them.
SPENCER’S MILD INDIAN CICARS.
SPECIALLY SELECTED WHOLE LEAF-No Inferior Fillings. e | g g Qxes 0 { 50, 15/.
if not obtainable from your dealer, refer , *
PARTRIDGE ABERCROMBY LTD., LOFTUS M®RAN,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney. 231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRaH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALE, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
"Sesame” Tin Opener.
The “open
Sesame” to
everything
but your
purse.
condense 1 *
milk
s ARD!NE S „
TINS
May be sold anywhere in
the Commonwealth for
THREEPENCE.
To get it quick send
Fourpence- in stamps to— •
‘SESAME,’ Spx 98 C. P. 0., Sydney
References fey permission:—
- - “Have discarded all others’
—tMbu Wjl Garstang, “Coo
eC;&'Jßurßft Street, Leich
hasrdt, TraifW
4'‘W6uld mdf be without it’
—Mrs. Lewis, i‘The Eyrie,’
. Fex Valley Road, Warrawee.
“The best I have ever used’’
—iMrs. Armstrong, Myrtle
. Street, North Sydney, N.S.W.
“Linseed Compound.” The “Stockport Rem-
edy for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
HP HE Australian Magazin c -Til E
I HAND. The National Monthly.
LO.NK
Price, 6d.
The Best Saddle in Australia
for the Stockman
-£6llOl-
V
■ -
mm
We have been making saddles for close on half a century—and
all we know about the game has gone into the making of this
famous Stock Saddle of ours. It is hand-made throughout—no
cheap and nasty machine work anywhere. It is built on the
staunchest tree of specially tempered steel, fitted with an
unbreakable gulletplate, to which are riveted (not screwed, mind
you) solid steel hind crupper plates. This makes the tree
absolutely unbreakable, yet gives just the elasticity and “give”
needed. The seat is made of specially tanned bag leather, with
very long, thick harness leather flaps, that do away with the
need of wearing leggings. There are leather points to the panel, that will
not wear out for the whole life of the saddle. The knee pads are 54 inches
high, and made of solid leather, double sewn inside so that they won’t sag
or give over. The thigh pads are made in the same way and lj inches
high. We have the seats with as high a dish as 6 inches, but anv lower
dish you want we can give you. The mountings are brass and nickel, and
the Dees are fastened so securely that no tug will strain them. The panel
is serge lined, and with extended facings so as not to frav or wear out by
the rubbing of the swag or tucker gear. The saddle is sold fitted with
told or split leather girths, 4 bar irons, stirrup leathers, ring or ordinary
crupper and surcingle. -. • ■
OUR GUARANTEE.—Any number of these saddles of ours sold ten year,s
ago are in use to-day and practically as good as new. No stauncher saddle
Tf U Tu e ‘ *be one - vou buy from us we will guarantee for two years,
it within that time the saddle proves faulty in material or workmanship, if
you return it to us, we will give you a new saddle in place of it free of
charge. If a saddle lasts two years it will last as long as it is cared for
though of course no saddle will stand being rolled on or being bumped
against a tree. H
L. UHL & SONS LTD.,
Harness Builders, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane, Q.
IP
B+9r
Insist on the
ANVIL Brand
Plough Share.
V
If you would have absolute dependability
under the most, strenuous conditions of
service, it is necessary to always insist on
having “Anvil” Brand Plough Shares.
The “Anvil” Share has been tried and proven on scores of farms, and
always maintained its position as the leading Plough Share value in the
Commonwealth.
PRICKS; 2/6, 3/- each.
With reductions for quantities.
John Cooper Sons,
“ For all Farming Ironmongery,”
287-289 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
The Fx & R
WATCHES
are the most extraordinary watches of the age.
They are J-plate levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have breauet overcoil balance spring.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand ROUGH-
RIDING AND KNOCKING ABOUT, and go with
profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order for 2 years without charge (breakages ex-
cepted).
They are made in every type of case.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
%
/
S'
Gent.’s full-sized Open-Pace Oxidised
Steel Watch with 15 jewels, 33/- 1
with 7 jewels, 28/-
m
X*
PRIZES VALUE £3500
i . . In the . .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 1, 1913.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £250. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. J. W. Walker,
Breakfast Creek, Cowra, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE
SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1913.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 6.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents
in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
buy a better razor
w *
That’s
one* that will give you 365 clean, smooth shaves every year.
U/ye ** PLUM,”
and a splendid razor it is.
The blade is of ringing, silver steel, keen and reliable.
We keep it in first-class order for two years, free of charge.
All Post Free: Order one NOW.
Single Razor, Vulcanite handle. 10/6
Pair, in double case, an excellent set 217-
Single Razor, Ivory handle, splendid quality 15/C
Pair, in double case, a handsome present 307-
Plum Razor Strop . 10/6 & 7/6
Other good kinds, thoroughly reliable, from . 3/6
Plum Strop Dressing makes keener blades. Tube.... 1/-
Stick of Shaving Soap that lathers freely 17-
Razors ground and set with care. 17-
Safety Razors, handy and efficient, from 5/6
C. & A. Moustache Trainer, shapes the moustache, worn at night—
Send for our Illustrated Price List. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6
i
!
I
:
i
: t
<
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654
GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.


HORSESHOE
SALMON
Canned from the freshly-caught salmon, all the fine natural
flavor of the fish is preserved in HORSESHOE,
The firm, rich, red fish —which breaks up into appetising
flakes—appeals to every palate. HORSESHOE is
uniformly attractive to all people on all occasions.
The Delicious, Firm Red Fish.
Express your appreciation of extreme Hat
excellence and INSIST on a “Stetson.”
WRITE FOR MEN'S WEAR PRICE
LIST. POST FREE jt #
STETSON
HATS
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
excel for both style
and quality.
S6e "WALTON.”
A new Stetson model, semi-neglige
Felt, with all the advantages of a
Lounge Hat The Brim can be
turned any way to choice.
Shades: Pearl, Otter, Dark Fawn
and Biscuit.
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD., Brisbane
C i.L. * '
For Everything that Is Good and New for the We
ar and Use of Man.
IN
BANANA LAND
The prickly pear commission, which is
meandering through India, hasn’t yet found
anything of much interest. The one item that
is worth further investigation is that, in
certain parts of the land of Chunder Loo,
the curse is used as a fertiliser. Apart from
that, the commission seems to be discovering
the things it was well acquainted with yes-
terday.
It seems likely that the Queensland
Government will have to mourn over the
£5O per bag it paid for the imported coch-
ineal bugs. So far the little beasts refuse
absolutely to eat the Dulacca pear, and have
had to be kept alive on special cactus sent
from Emerald, in the middle innards of the
country. To make matters worse, every
bird, it seems, and most large beetles, insist
upon including cochineal bugs in their diet,
and the betting at present is on the birds
and the beetles. The cochineal bug isn’t a
fighter, and when the local beetle comes
along and tells him to put up his props he
simply wilts and calls for the police.
Go to the bush, and the settlements that
are being bitten out of the bush, to find the
ready, helping hand. The Maranoa Advo-
cate tells how a Yingerbag settler recently
died, leaving a wife and several children in
poor circumstances. The neighbors brought
along their machines, with 32 horses, and
grafted till they had put the clearing under
wheat. And then Providence lent its hand,
and sent the rain that was wanted to give
the widow’s crop a start. Providence is
right on to its job.
The other day a deputation from the
Lockyer shires waited on Treasurer Barnes.
It politely asked for a loan for 40 years to
build a road. Whereupon Barnes was moved
to talk sense:—
Ever since he had been Treasurer he had dis-
couraged loans over long periods. If they had a
loan of £ 500 over 40 years it would probably cost
£llOO. That was not good policy. He would be
very pleased, provided their position was a good
one, to find the money for the usual period, which
he believed was 10 years. The life of the road could
not possibly be 40 years.
Which is quite an admirable sentiment. But
when the State Government borrows money
for permanently unproductive works it
makes no provision for repayment in 40, or
even 4000 years, or any other old time this
side of eternity. In fact, it is in such mortal
teryor of reducing a loan by a few pounds
that, since surpluses have to be employed in
paying off debt, it almost habitually fakes
its accounts in good years so as to avoid
showing any surplus. J
Under-Secretary Ryder, of the Home De-
partment, is to retire this year, as he has
just passed his 70th milestone. Ryder was
born on Prince Edward’s Island, a cold,
bleak region in North America. He came
to Queensland as a very young boy, and
dashed into journalism, but shortly aban-
doned the Inky Way for the Civil Service.
He has always been known as an able and
courteous officer, with no prejudices and no
partialities. The Denham crowd is allowing
him to buy up his lapsed pension rights by
paying down a sum in hard cash —a prac-
tice admirable or otherwise just as you look
at it from the standpoint ’of the retiring
official or of the general taxpayer. As the
latter doesn’t grumble, nobody worries about
him.
Bananaland Assembly discussed higher
wages for members recently; £5OO a year
was mentioned. The chief feature of the
debate was the “friendly” hostility which
some of the Denhamites assumed. The
speeches were remarkably short, in the hope
that the vote might be reached before other
business was called on. Digby Denham
tried to block this by proposing a referen-
dum. A vote, overwhelmingly against this,
was, however, squeezed through just on the
stroke of six o’clock. But all was not yet
lost. As the Speaker proceeded to put the
original motion, a Ministerialist got the
floor. So the motion is still on the business
paper, and members will have to wait a few
more weeks for the extra money.
THE BRAND HE WANTED.
PARSON (on the subject of strong drink): “‘It biteth like a serpent and siingeth like an
adder.’ ”
THE OTHER ONE (deeply interested): “No! Tell us where yer got it, mate. I haven't
had a drink with a nip in it for a week.”
“Basalt Bill”: Somebody handed to Too-
woomba Town Council recently tne "lavish
generosity” championship following upon its
gift of a month’s holiday on full pay, after
32 years’ service, to a retiring employee.
But what about the Einasleigh (N.Q.) dis-
trict hospital committee? Recently the in-
stitution was minus a matron and plus a
typhoid outbreak. Thereupon the medico’s
wife rolled up her sleeves to the shoulder,
and starred in the “ministering angel” role
for eight days of from 14' to 20 hours each.
At the same time the wardsman (a lad of
63 summers) toiled 16 hours per diem, and
moreover the young scoundrel kept going for
over a month, wages being 255. per week.
The committee thought carefully over the
matter, and finally awarded the heroine and
hero a whole vote of thanks. The reward
would probably have been increased, but the
hospital has a surplus of only. £lBOO and
sorr“ odd pence.
“Norbell” on some casual habits:—
They’ve had another big fire in Charleville. A
whole block, including the leading hotel, the news-
paper office and several shops, has ended in smoke,
and sundry people barely escaped incineration. The
hotel was a favorite watering place for squatters,
commercial travellers, tick inspectors and other
potentates, and was a tinder building which simply
invited a bonfire. One reads that the fire brigade
was helpless. It’s a wonder there was a fire brigade.
They take a lot of chances with the wooden walls
of 5 -'•Western Queensland. At Goondiwindi, where
about half the town was burned a few years ago, and
where a fine river—the Macintyre—-gives a perma--
nent water supply in the very back yards of the!
main street, they have no fire brigade," and not so-
much as a bucket ready for the inevitable blaze.
In Dalby and Roma, important, flourishing and
largely wooden towns, both with a good pressure!
of artesian water laid on, they are casual to the
same degree. Given nice dry weather and a good
wind, there’ll be a hot time in the devil-may-care
West one of these nights.
Ballade of Ghouls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While some do crave a daily crust,
And others pine for rich array;
While some in saintly helpers trust
To aid them win their earthly way;
Not ours the wish for high display,
For regal board and sumptuous bed
One simple boon we nightly pray—
Give us this day our Daily Dead!
Alike on evil man and just
The Scythe it falldth ev’ry day,
And soon the Worm within your dust
Shall hold an undisputed sway;
But ev’ry clod is teeming clay
Where myriad lives are born and bred,
So start not when ye hear us say —
“Give us this day our Daily Dead !”
For years that tame the Heart of Lust,
For creaking back and hair of grey,
For Age that rots in senile rust
We find a calm and sheltered bay ;
To none who knock we answer Nay,
And when the Greedy Pit Is fed
We beg the Reaper none may stay—
“ Give us this day our Daily Dead !”
Envoi.
Not ours to lift the gladsome lay
When babes are born or maids are wed ;
We chaunt the dirge of all decay—
“ Give us this day our Daily Dead!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 12. 1913.
My Dear Thargominoah,—
The Wattle Day League is making enthu-
siastic arrangements to hold a celebration
here, sometime after the best of the
blossoms are done and the trees near town
have been torn down by the picnicking pest.
In order to spur the lagging interest of the
State school kid, a public meeting is to be
held in the School of Arts Hall on July 21.
Ministers Tolmie and Blair and Botanical
Gardens director Bailey will make compli-
mentary remarks about the national vege-
table, and several well-known amateurs will
uplift the voice of song in Australian ditties.
The other day a mild sensation was
created in the Government offices. A depu-
tation of the unemployed arrived, fiercely
demanding a little conversation with Premier
Digby Denham or one of his satellites.
Digby not being forthcoming, Bishop Barnes
dashed into the breach, and, after a slight
wrangle with one of the deputation as to the
right of a free citizen to wear his cady in
a Minister’s room, promised to do something.
Said something took the shape of work,
which was found for 13 of the clamorous
ones. Whether the ill-omened number put
them off, I know not; but only eight turned
up. Next day more wild yells for toil
shocked the ears of our politicians while the
House was in session. A vague hint that
tbe f° r sucb bad-mannered proceedings
was £ooo or thereabouts calmed the tumult,
and Premier Denham poured some more but-
ter on the trouble by half promising to dis-
cover or concoct work for the workless, or
those of the workless that want work.
This week has been conspicuous by the
return of several trippers, suffering from
sore arms, and a grievance against your
namiet. It was your village or clachan, you
th , at be &an all the trouble. Mrs. B
W. Macdonald and daughter Vera arrived
on Thursday. The trip from Vancouver
was made in the Niagara, and was continued
from Sydney aboard the Wyandra. Both
travellers had vicious scratches on their
arm«. Amy Page, who went with them,
““ t 0„ fix up additional frills and
button-hooks for a trip to England. Mother
PkoiJ 3 * S w S .i5 re going t 0 and it is not
likely that this gay city will see them for a
long time. Holmes a’Court, whose Hon. is
the genuine blown-in-glass. made-in-England
article, where the owner is a scion of
sorts, and his placid and popular wife, also
have been to Vancouver, to see Holmes
a’Court junior and his wife. They, too.
returned wearing an expression of fury and
tw r o scorched wings.
Mrs. E. B. Wareham and her pretty
d° lighter reached home by the Canberra last
Monday, after a four months’ holiday in
Singapore, Java, and the North-west coast.
Both have vivacious accounts to give of the
“good time” they had, and the brasses and
embroideries included in their baggage are
causing the stay-at-homes to treat the tenth
commandment with contumely. Daughter
Elsie wore a frock, w r hich was the work of a
discolored garment maker. Actually, it cost
less than half what it would have done here.
Cheapness is mighty and will prevail. The
two ladies went straight from the Canberra
to the Wandilla, where Wareham pere, with
a small but select few, were waiting to cele-
brate the occasion.
The Very Private Assemblies gavie another
of their cavorts on Thursday, and thereto
Lady Macgregor and the Y’ision, with the
Foxton aide as an after guard, blew in about
10 o’clock. In similar formation they blew
out about 11. The hall decorations were
of black silk and trails of bignonia venusta,
and the supper was all that could be ex-
pected for the money. If anybody was dis-
satisfied it was kept a profound secret.
Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Hicks, back from a
holiday jaunt in pleasant places, gave a
little luncheon party at Finney’s Cafe on
Monday last.
Miss Deighton, a quiet, kindly woman
whose charities were always done* with the
least possible amount of publicity, passed
over list Sunday. She had been ailing for
some time. and was resting at Warwick
when the light of this world went out.
The Liberal Young Women met on Tues-
day evening, and discussed “Organisation
from a Woman’s Point of View.” Mrs.
Wilkinson’s was the chief p. of v., and
Mrs. Halkier added a few remarks, which
left the aged subject much where it
was before or thereabouts. Thereabouts is
probably nearer the longitude.
The Wimmin’s Temperance Union is again
on the warpath. This time its good works
have been entrusted to Miss George, who is
a general organiser and plenty big chief in
the tribe. . Mrs. W. H. Carvosso will house
the blue ribboness while she is in Brisbane.
The Women’s Residential College is
slowly becoming a possibility. The Old-
Girls’ Associations of the various schools
have decided to give it a friendly push, and
a proud secretary announced that £43 odd!
had already been precipitated into the ex-
chequer.
R. J. Spence, of Dillalah, has announced!
his matrimonial attentions towards Mary
Petersen, who is how a Brisbane girl, but
who used to live up Longreach way.
With kind regards to Jenner,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
. Some men get rewards for strange ser-
vices. Thus Brisbane Methodist Conference
the other day presented a Fijian missionary,
-tvatu limothy Suavoli, with a large um-
brella in token of admiration of a man who
told Conference that he could easily talk till
morning on the subject under debate —and
didn’t.
A notable citizen of Moreton Bay, Mary
Ann, a black sister of Stradbroke, died re-
cently at the age, it is guessed, of 76. The
guess was probably wrong; nevertheless
Mary may have been the oldest living native
of the district, and she certainly could nar-
rate stories of the happenings of nearly 70
years ago. Local Rechabites claim her as a
hne example of the virtues of total absti-
nence. Mary herself attributed her length of
days merely to ’bacca.
Tobacco-expert Nevill has ceased to be-
long to the sleepy Department of Pumpkins
and Butter in Bananaland. He is to re-
patriate himself soon, settling somewhere in
Georgia, close to the scenes of his child-
hood. It will be a rather pathetic return,
as the old man is bent now on a friendly
Tiru- -NeviU has been a good friend to a:
y hRe Australia, and never failed to show
that the. Chow was no good to the industry
that it was Ah Sin, indeed, who was
mainly responsible for that careless drying
of the leaf which is the chief curse of the
business in Australia.
Treasurer Barnes, on issuing his annual
financial statement, was pleased to take credit
rnu- • e .ff° r t s “to conserve the loan fund."
JLhis is just the one thing Barnes and his
Government have neglected to do, unless the
piling up of indebtedness by two-and-a-half
and three millions per annum can be called
conserving.” Ividston, before he became a
hoomster did conserve the loan fund, paying
±0J0,125 of surplus thereinto in one year;
and Airey, when Treasurer, also supple-
le same account by paying
±115,601 to loan fund in 1908. But since
that year the accounts have been manipu-
lated to obviate _ all but infinitesimal sur-
pluses—a proceeding condemned even by the
Liberal press of Brisbane, but yet persisted
m by a crowd whose idea about the one un-
pardonable sin seems to be that it consists
in paying off a debt.


(onlinental
Oversize
Tyres ** impim Car?
125 MM
OVER^JZt
#?2
■ ■ '
105 MM
■i
Oversize shown m proportion to
'} 05 ”/m Standard (shaded) on 8/5 */05
EXAMPLE}
135
M
OVERSIZE
120
MM
/35 m /m Oversize €r 120%! 'Standard
both fitted to s<3meß/m
815 X 125
8 X 125
820 X 1 35
880 X 135
920 X 135
8'95 Xl5O
935X150
TYRE- TO PIT
TYRIr TO PIT
TYRE- TO PIT
9
815/105 Rll
*
820/120
880 120
92C/1 20
895 135
935/135
9
9
tu , „„ occ rtf CONTINENTAL OVERSIZES for American Rims, for which we manufacture
Th. .ucces, „|. O „, k , me,, of European Cars .he peat advantage. of
, £, mean great., T„. Economy. Regency. „d Comfort
' FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICE LIST APPLY TO
THF CONTINENTAL C. & G. RUBBER CO. PTY. LTD.,
1 ntL MELBOURNE, SYDNEY. ADELAIDE, BRISBANE. PERTH, LAUNCESTON. CHRISTCHURCH, .nd AUCKLAND.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless insiailed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
0. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA EN GLAN D.
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SVDNEI ,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Maktin Place. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, ike.
II-
Minimum
Deposit.
Have YOU a
Bank Account ?
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
If not, open one by Depositing
at least ONE SHILLING in the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
116 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
1 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
No Connection with
the Post Office.
J. H. DAVIES,
Secretary.
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
3 Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
of |]orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEA.I) OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
\ J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. U. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALKS.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
" LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
lIHAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Sir Wii>i,iaii P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital £800:000 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,590 14 6
Reserve .. .. • • • • 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1898 specially protected.
Directors— Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum; 2
vears and over, at the rate of 4} per cent, ner annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branohes—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial (flutual Qife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
1 Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Males:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon.
The Hon.
Directors:
C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
Bruce Shlith. K.Crr M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Shipping
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
i-. Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY 4: Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE 4: CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI k CO.. Perth and Fremantle:
TIIOS. BROWN k SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane k Townsville.
Bank of ||eui lethni.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..±11,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) l’aid-
up . . .. . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji. Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with Wireless. *Ti'lgle Screw Turbine.
SALOON: FARES— ' Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line,} Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. & O. Branch Service.
HOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks. \
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamnhlets. Time-Tables, kc... on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY. LTD., Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping for
other Queensland
Ports).
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 tons).
Leaves Sydney July 19
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 23
Leaves Sydney July 26
BOMBALA (4000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 30
Leaves Sydney August 2
For
MELBOURNE
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 tons.)
Leaves Sydney July 19
BOMBALA (4000 tons).
Leaves Sydney July 26
“ BURNS-PHILP.”
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Round-the-Islands Tours.
Round-Australia Tours.
Round-tHe-Pacific Tours.
Round-the-Far-East Tours.
AUSTRALIA’S
Leading'
Tour and Travel
Agents.
V
We Book You to Any Part of the World.
We Estimate and Schedule Any Trip, FREEI
We Issue Letters of Credit, Secure Passports, etc.
We Relieve Our Clients of All Worry.
We Materially Save Expenses and Delays.
We Offer, an Unparalleled Choice of Tours.
NOTE : If meditating a Holiday Trip, a Honeymoon Trip, or a Business Trip, communicate with our
TOUR (Sb TRAVEL DEPT.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD. Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
4
DIRECTORS:
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, lit., M.L.C.,
President. T ™
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.O.
Thomas Buckland, Ksq.
T
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Korinand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
7~ AUDITORS: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidiev, Esq ..Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedlo St., EC.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian S tates, New Zealand, h iji, Papua and London, Agents
and cfbTe r ?e P mi'ttr i fces t madf h t°o , ! t and e Drafte'drawn on. Foreign places DIR EOT «tillsiijWtW
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes C H ,era?“fanagerl H^
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to : „ ,
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, CODE'S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on.steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
■*t
the Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital .
..£1,750,000 0 0
. . 1,580,000 0 0
.. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,080,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
GuyJtuu J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Katek, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Siikih.ey, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibhs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. il. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. IL Dangar, Esq.; Hon. IT. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South A\ ales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock). -
538.307
159,054
76,500
£773 861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ’ !
Gen Man . F.dwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, Loedon,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
\gents and Correspondents throughout the M orld.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
♦The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at .Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “ Westralia, ”
“Olimaroa,” "Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” "Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH <Si ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE \
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Anri GULF PORTS I
ALBANY f
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports. J
T.S.S. Warilda, August 2
and August 30.
Fitted W'irelessTelegraphy.
8000 tons. Carrying'
Three Classes. 1,2, 3
and 4-Bferth Cabins.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Pores North to Cairns.
T.S.S. Wandilla (80U0 tons),
fitted Wireless Tele-
graphy, July 19 and
August 16.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable alter
the first Port of call with other inter-Statc Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at tiie Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Ne\v triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab ns-de*
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted 'with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool.
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE.
11,900 tons. W. J. PAGE, Commander.
Will be despatched direct from
SYDNEY, JULY 22, 1913.
The Saloon accommodation Consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout.
lleturn and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares to London.. £4O £l3/13/-to £l7/17/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
To be followed by new T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
Leaving Sydney AUGUST 20.
Saloon. Third-Class.
Fares! £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT k CO., LTD., Sydney.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO.. LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
VENTURA .. | July 2fi Sept. 20 | Nov. 15 | Jan. 15
SONOMA .. .. j Aug. 23 Oct. 18 j Dec. 13 j Feb. T
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
lIMITCn
Ulll I tli
insurance
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
£500.000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture, &c. Rents also assured,
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY. Manager.
New Zealand Insurance
c
0..
Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Kates^
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Aecv, Joint Manage
UNCLAIMEDMONEY&PROPERTY.
nOUOAL’S REGISTER to NfxT-OK-'KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac.. &c., price
3/-, 480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal A Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
QOUCAL & C0.,151-STRAND,LONDON, ENCLAND
( K<*tnhlishp'l ovpv 60 Vpci rs.)


GLORIOUS TOURS to the
SOUTH SEA
and
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
US. TOFUA, 4400 tons, AUGUST 12, 8 p.m.
T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, SEPT. 9, 8 p.m.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
Steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), R.M.S. MOANA, August 9. Passengers can
spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.S.
TAHITI, September 2, arriving Sydney September 16.
There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAJATEA and TAHITI. Talune, July 29. (Maheno,
from Sydney, July 23 connects.)
All Steamers fitted with Wireless.
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Svdnev.
Hotels. &c.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Georoe,
St. Hilda.,
HOTEL,
Melbourne.
Largest H'otel Accommodation in Victoria.
STA.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.” '
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
AERTEX Cellular
rjSvAMLoTg
m
V
c
<4
ci
*
iONDQ3
UNDERWEAR
FOR WINTER.
The ideal form of fabric for underclothing for
use in all seasons, itecom mended by medical
men in all parts of the globe. For present wear
w e stock Undershirts, Pants, Pyjamas, Night-
dresses and Ladies’ garments iu materials; —
Pure Natural Wool.
White and Natural Merinos,
White Silk and Wool
Heavy Cotton, in White and Ecru.
IJe also stock the above fabrics, in addition to
the lighter weight Aertex materials, by the yard
or piece.
Call or write for Price Lists, Pamphlets, etc.,
post free to any address. "
aoe n n s 1&~ DAVID [BRAHAM 8 CO.,
16 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next door to \Farmers.)
OURCAT
ALOGUJS
illustrated
"throughout
_ _ _ —will be
posted free to those deßlroue of
.shopping by mail. *egfi I .carriage
-paid, Jewellery- Watches. <*s.
: phones, Guns, Novelties of all kinds,
'many unobtainable elsewher ,
Rubber Stamps. Musio, Musical In-
struments, etc., etc. Sole agenta tQT -Wilsoii ai, i
Drums for Deafness. Ramey’s MediCator lo* Catarrn
JUR’grv ln n g n^;^ P y,0 tO ralih,a Street. MdUgne
Commonwealth
head office
Bank of Hustralta
SYDNEY
? EI ?ERAL banking business «
Queensland — Brisbane and TownsvilU a ''V* I *!* ~ Sydne y- Victoria - Melbourne.
Perth Tasmania— Hoharr ’ l u s* ra,,a -Adelaide. Western Australia-
Cable remittances made to, and drafts'drawn I * on B K9 -AD STKKET * Lond °n’
collected. Letters of credit and circular f “ relg:n I ,lacea direct. foreign bills negotiated and
forwarded for collection. Bankimr and BUe , < ? t 0 any P art of the wurld ' negotiated or
the Commonwealth, United lvim'dnm ' Business of every description transacted within
SAVINGS a BAN^D E P^TM P EN d T° U d^
Brisbane ; OP *Royal 3 Exchaime^g’e^Tine^Wiil -317 o? 11 *' 18 S * reet ’ Melbourne; Queen Street,
Perth; Elizabeth Street Hobart- and r . W lam Street Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
at Post Offices which’ Ord®*^T e a A (^+ era • CapiU rl )! a '‘ d 1900 A £ e " ciea
Papua, from 10 am to 3d m daiiv rToa - S the Australian Commonwealth and
All Branch Offices are open for ( rasulai ' la > 9 a m - to 5 p.m), and noon Saturday.
Withdrawal. « » I sPoB,ts5 P08,ts and withdrawals on Friday 7to 9 p.m.
1/- Minimum DeposT"** ““ay® Rata of ° ffice * ithiu tße Commonwealth.
JAMES KELL, Dupott Govkrmor /m f lnt^n® 8t ° n a, ‘ De P°si*s up to £3OO
UQVKR.HOR. JUKI, 1913 DENISON MILLER, Govnanom
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
otters a of'!Knnml^H 1 * e '’ i n th o process of initial development, Queensland
settler and to the honest tU * l6 lnvestor ’ the scientist ' the tourist, the prospective
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
R „ noh n „, „ T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, K.S W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to Thk Manager.
TABOR MOULDING MACHINES
POWER
SQUEEZING
MOULDING
MACHINES
for Small and
Medium Cast-
in g s of all
Classes of Work.
STANDARD
and SPECIAL
MACHINES
for Large Work.
Machine Moulded
Castings are conceded
Cheapest and Best.
As used in the
Government Work-
shops, etc.,through-
out Australia..'.
Write for particulars to
: ‘" ;i
■
| Jin. x 181 n. Power Squeezing Split Pattern Moulding Machine,
with 4in. Power Draft, 13in. Cylinder.
BENSON BROTHERS
(Sole Agents for
Australasia))
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen Street, Melbourne
THE WORLD’S BEST
REVOLVERS &
AUTOMATIC PISTOLS.
Send To-day for Our New The finest ed
rX cartriSrused Kem-from Se tiny .22, up to the g iant .45 calibre. It
ShOWS wRVOLVERS, from 13/G to £ !<)• omitixi
M ItEMS P —“BROWNIIfG.” '"The world’s finest Automatic Pistol.
o
*
o
<
*
5^
PEC
*33
We will Mail you a copy free if you MENTION THIS
PAPER.
ALGOGK & PIERCE
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
value in Guns, Rifles, and Cartridges, is
' household word with Australian ShootAers.
YOD ENJOY
EASE
restfulness, and perfect comfort
when wearing an Abbey Shoe.
Abbey Shoes are made on lasts
that conform to the true pro-
portion of the foot.
The boot we illustrate is a Tan
Willow Calf Bal., perforated
Golosh, 25/- and 27/6. Also
in Black Velour Calf, 22/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-
fittings.
Write for a Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Registered
<r~P
m
/pm
m
B
m
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
pwsBURY & Browns
m Oriental
Tooth Powder
6-&W'
in the
United Unjoin
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS IN SYDNEY
Messrs. Elliott Bros. Ltd.
, „ F.H.Faulding & Co.
SUFFERERS from that cruel, stubborn, nerve-
racking, skin disease, ECZEMA, need no longer
face its terrible pangs with doubts or misgivings.
“ISO,” the remarkable Eczema Ointment—-the remedy
which has cured scores of cases —is within easy reach
of all. The inventors are Chemists of wide repute,
practising in your midst. They use “ISO” daily in
treating patients. Write them at once for a free
sample of “ISO,” enclosing three penny stamps, to
partly 6over postage and packing. Their address is:
J. S. BLACK ,& SONS,
Smitlr Street, Collingwood, Vic.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collin* St.. Melbourne
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” of 40 years’
proven efficacy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.


W. G. Higgs, member for Capricornia
(Q.), jarred Prime Minister Cook in the
Representatives during the joyous proceed-
ings of Joseph’s first squattage of the Prime
Minister’s seat. He asked the head of the
Government if he was prepared to repu-
diate a report in Hansard of his remarks
in New South Wales while he was a member
there. The momentous remarks were: —
I should like to say one or two words about the
question of Federation under the Crown. I do not
know that I am* a red-hot Republican—at any rate,
not one of those Republicans who say they \ will do
nothing until they get a Republic. 1 believe the
destiny of these colonies will be that of a Republic,
and whenever it comes 1 shall certainly hail it, if it
does come in a way which will meet the aspirations
of the great bulk of the people.
But Joseph looked coldly on Higgs and
clamored in silence. In fact, his only
answer was a hostile expression.
S. A. White, of Adelaide, who has the
very unusual combination of a taste for
natural history with private means to back
it up, is going to run an expedition of his
own to the Macdonnell Ranges next month.
The Horn expedition, he says, went through
there in cold and dry weather and in a
hurry. The Commonwealth lot, under Bar-
clay, saw it in drought. Captain White pro-
poses to get there for nesting time, to study
the bird-life, in which he specialises.
Gregory Mathews, of London, is preparing
the absolute up-to-date limit of a book on
Australian Birds, and rather than have a
professional “collector” turned loose, White
has taken up the task of helping Mathews
for the pure love of it. He and his wife
(with an adequate transport equipment)
make up the sporting little expedition—
which is not their first, by a long way. but
is to be their biggest.
The new Australian House of Reps, differs
from its predecessors in that Gentleman One
isn’t the most numerously represented trades-
man. There are but nine of him, and just as
many farmers ; in fact, there are a dozen of
the latter if you include the two orchardists,
and Page, who calls himself a selector.
After these come the journalists and alleged
journalists, who are eight; there are five
miners, four graziers, three agents and as
many storekeepers, two gentlemen, two mer-
chants, two secretaries, two organisers and
two laborers (Archibald, of South Aus.,
and the O’Malley, no less), and one
each of these —traveller, medico, tailor,
landowner, hatter, plumber, pattern-
maker, vigneron, quarryman, artist, jew-
eller, coachbuilder, plasterer, auctioneer,
butcher, engine-driver, watchmaker, man-
ager, tobacconist, and person of independent
means. That accounts for 74. The other
one deserves special mention for stating the
exact truth about his occupation on the day
of nomination. He was then an individual
of no occupation —just Frank Anstey.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 30th June, 1913.
Vacancies (2) for Clerks, Royal Military
College of Australia, Duntroon,
Federal Territory.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as clerk
at the Royal Military College of Australia
(2 vacancies).
Proposed rate of pay for each position,
£195 per annum with single quarters (or
married quarters when available) provided
free of charge.
Further particulars and forms of applica-
tion may be obtained from the Secretary, De-
partment of Defence, Melbourne; the Com-
mandant, Royal Military College of Aus-
tralia, Duntroon, Federal Territory ; or the
Commandant, Military District Headquar-
ters, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
Applications endorsed “Anplication for ap-
pointment as clerk, Royal Military Col-
lege,” must be forwarded, addressed to the
Commandant, Royal Military College. Dun-
troon, Federal Territory, New r South Wales,
to reach him not later than 31st July, 1913.
S. A. PETIIEBRIDGE,
Secretary.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, June 30. 1913.
Tenders for Sand-Blast Plant required
at the Commonwealth Naval Dock-
yard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
TENDERS are required for the supply of
Sand-Blast Plant complete, delivered
ready for erection at Cockatoo Island, New
South Wales.
Full particulars may be obtained upon ap-
olication to the General Manager, Common-
wealth Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island,
Sydney.
Tenders to be received addressed to the
Director of Navy Contracts, Nayv Office,
Melbourne, or to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, care General Manager, Commonwealth
Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney,
and marked “Tender for Sand-Blast Plant,”
not later than 16th July, 1913.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
E. D. MILLEN,
Minister of State for Defence.
If he lives until November 1 next, “Butty”
McMahon, Sydney’s best-known carrier, will
have held for 50 years the contract for
carrying wool from the railways to the
stores, a job for which, for some reason, the
Railway Department makes itself respon-
sible.
T)RICES are invited for
* a large supply of Hard
Water=worn Pebbles, about
3in. diameter, of Flint for
preference.
Mount Morgan Gold Mining
Co. Ltd., Mount Morgan.
Amusements.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN
presents
THE
WORLD’S
GREATEST
DRAMATIC
SOPRANO,
TOWN HALL,
SYDNEY,
JULY 24, 26, 30;
AUGUST 2.
4 GREAT
CONCERTS.
Mme. LILLIAN NORMCA,
Assisted by
PAUL DUFAULT Tenor
FRANKLIN HOLDING ... Violinist
ROMAYNE SIMMONS ... Pianist
PRICES: 10/6, 7/6, 5/-
PLANS AT PALING’S, JULY 18.
HA it MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY’S
GREAT SUCCESS,
AUTUMN MANOEUVRES.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
PRICES: D.C. and O.S. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls. 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7.30, 2/- ; thereafter, 1/-
Theatre roy a e, sydn e y.
Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON. L'rr>.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. have the honor to present
MR. LEWIS WALLER,
MISS MADGE TITHERADGE,
Together with Mr. Waller’s Complete London Company,
in Shakspeare’s
KING HENRY Y.
PRICES: D.C. and O.S. (Reserved and at door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7.30, 2/- .; thereafter, 1/-
A DEE PHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF MAN TO MAN.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, JULY 19.
FOR THE FRIST TIME IN SYDNEY.
A Stirring and Picturesque"fetory of Life in the Empire’s
Oanilal,
NO MOTHER TO GUIDE HER.
PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
alack.. t~h eat r e. synn e v.
Direction: WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
TH K GRAFT E R S.
Complete American Co. of 60 artists in a two-act
Musical Burlesque.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES: 65., 3s. and Is. Early Doors Gallery, Is.
extra.
THE EITTI.E THEATRE
(With the BIG Attractions),
OA3TLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
LAST THREE NIGHTS OF BOBBY BURNIT.
NEXT PRODUCTION, MONDAY, JULY 21.
The Very Latest London Comedy Success,
THU GREAT ADVENTURE.
PRICES : Orchestral Stalls, 6/-; Stalls, 4/-; Gallery (till
7.30), 2/-; after that hour, 1/-
ST. JAMES’S HAL, L ,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
JULY M.
MRS. WALTER E. BAKER,
Assisted by her Daughter,
OLGA DAIvEH,
And by Artists lent by LEADING MANAGERS, will
appear in
RECITATIONS written by Mrs. BAKER.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
Managing Director : BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
Last Nights in Sydney of
DECARS AND TOMATO.
The Funniest Act of the Year.
PRINZ’S MONKEYS, Simultaneous Simians.
THE STAGPOOLES. Potted Pantomime.
And all the Big Company.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 19.
RAGTIME REVUE—MODERN VAUDEVILLE.
YCECM THEATRE, SYDNEY,
EVERY EVENING.
AUSTRALIA CALLS!
THE DEFENCE POSITION IN AUSTRALIA
PICTORIALLY PORTRAYED.
EDISON’S TALKING PICTURES.
THE KIN ETOP HONE.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S. PRICES: 2/-, 1/6, Od.
-p H E OLYMPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
•‘BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
THE A*T RE, SYDNEY.
HAYMARIvET VAUDEVILLE HOUSE.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES: WED. AND SAT. AT 2.30.
STAR VAUDEVILLE & MINSTRELS.
An Entire Change of Artists and Programme Weekly.
PRICES: 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Saturday, 2/-, 1/6 and 1/-
Doors 7.15, Overture 8.
OYDNEY GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
4‘
Three sessions daily 7, 10 to 12, 3 to o,
8 to 10.30.
Admission, 2s. Skate Hire, 6d.
Children: Morning and afternoon only,
Admission Is.
Children: Saturday morning, Admission 6d.
’Phone 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
MP E RIAL ROLLER RINK,
Foot of William Street.
A REFINED KINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
| NOW OPEN. THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
IC K A RI) S’ TIVOLI THE A T K K.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSII.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LOLA KRASAVINA, Russia’s Representative Singer.
LILLIE LANGTRY, England’s Popular Comedienne.
CUMMIN & SEAHAM, Knockabout Comedy Acrobats.
THE HAVILANS, Expert Tight-wire Artists.
DE MARLO & LADY in “ A FROG’S PARADISE.”
6—THE FLYING BANVARDS—6, Great Aerial Act.
THE GLORY GIRL.
And a GREAT COMPAN-Y of 1 Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
PERA HOUSE. MELBOURNE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
FOUR QUAINT Q's, Humorous Burlesque Artists.
A. G. SPRY, Cosmopolitan Comedian.
CAPT. TIEBOR’S EDUCATED SEALS & SEA LIONS
TORCAT & D’ALIZA’S TRAINED ROOSTERS.
LUCY GILLET, the Greatest Ladv Juggler on Earth.
SISTERS CLARENCE & BROTHER, Character Change
Artists.
IRMA CARON, Lyric Soprano and Instrumentalist.
Plan at Allan’s. fgTPKICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
IRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
George Marlow’s Dramatic Cornhination in the
Original Spectacular Military Drama,
THE GIRL WHO LOVED A
• SOLDIER.
POPULAR PRICES. Plan at Pianola Co.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
An Attraction of World-wide Importance.
ADELINE GENEIi,
Supported by M/ ALEXANDER VOLININ. MLLE.
SCHMOLZ and the IMPERIAL RUSSIAN BALLET.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats i k Dress Circle, 7/6.
Balcony and Stalls. 4/-: Pit and Gallery, 2/-
HEATRE ROYAL. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA
of the Great American Dramatic Success,
WITII I N Tii LA W*
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’6.
“|"JIE KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the Bert Bailey Dramatic Co.
in
The Record-breaking Australian Comedy Drama,
ON OUR SELECTION.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
CE SKATING. ICE SKATING.
T H E
GLACIA R I U M,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY AFTERNOON : ADMISSION 2/-
EVERY EVENING: ADMISSION 1/-
Dikection amalgamated
LTD.
PICTURES
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJ ESTIC THEATRE.
tLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station
Continuous Matinf-es Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Svening Prices: 2/-, 1/6. 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Dl y m P I A.
L Y M P I A.
O L Y M P I A.
MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICT L RES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
\AiE S T’S PALACE. MELBOURNE.
best WEST’S PICTURESthe best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in t:ik World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthv of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
GIVE ME 15 MINUTES EACH DAY OF YOUR. TIME,
WALTER BENTLEY,
THE DISTINGUISHED
ACTOR,
and I’ll teach you how to
MAKE SPEECHES,
PROPOSE TOASTS,
ADDRESS BOARD MEETINGS,
SELL MORE GOODS,
STRENGTHEN MEMORY,
DEVELOP STRONG PERSONALITY,
CONVERSE WINNINGLY,
ACQUIRE POISE AND DISTINCTION,
and
OBTAIN PERFECT HEALTH,
BY CORRECT BREATHING AND PHYSIOAL CULTURE.
Thousands of business and professional pepple have become convincing speakers in public and in
business by following a Mail Course in their spare time at home or at their office. It has increased
their power and influence, and put them on the straight road to BIG SUCCESS.
“WORTH MUCH MORE THAN IT COSTS.”
Only one address: Ladies and fjpntlemen, call or write at once.
301 a PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
BARKER MASSAGE VIBRATORS
*
For Masseurs, Barber Shops, Beauty Parlors S Home Use
Hairdressers can increase the . revenue of the saloon without employing extra labor.
The benefits of vibratory massage are thoroughly recognised, and BARKER VIBRATORS
speedily earn their cost. Powerful, durable and noiseless. Gives both rotary and percus-
sion stroke, producing 20,000 distinct movements per minute of smooth, even, penetrating
vibration. Suitable for body, facial or scalp massage. Will operate on BOTH direct and
alternating current. Can be attached to ANY electric lighting socket. A child can use
them.
Electric HAIR DRYERS
Supply a long-felt want. Blows HOT or COED air by a turn of switch attached to instru-
ment. Will dry a heavy head of hair in 10 minutes. Easily operated. Connects to any
electric lighting socket. Every lady should have one.
They Save Time THAT’S MONEY TO YOU.
(Cf
¥
SOLE AGENTS for
AUSTRALASIA :
IVENS <a IVENS,
231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE
54 Margaret Street, SYDNEY


ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mysterv or
secrecy about it; we describe it fullv, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same wav you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them Thev
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them—the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt”,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers.restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum-.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the car-.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend _ -
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured and you can be cured, too. You mav wear
whenever D you' S wis^ r a "<> take them"m*
wntnever you wisn. Children carl wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve?
SS danger. and remove them w°ithout th e
The Price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s simrle
V]Bit). This includes a pair of drums (thev are on v
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur
chase a single drum at any time for "8s but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years Do
en trfo! d ° not them Out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent vou
at oftce, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of ffood hearing: as soon as you
fw
£>
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Rank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
WHEN ORDERING
(Mau
ALE
Insist on
FOSTER'S
2$
AT THE BAR.
ANYWHERE.
EVERYWHERE.
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA 1 " POWDER
gives instant relief.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
famed for 40 years.
•Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
3K
I do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
TOOTH SOAP
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. P*®"
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar. It s
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
us »in . ■ on a penny postcard, sent to
Dost r, -j In a sample free. Large box sent.
f or One Shilling in stamps. Look out.
77?) / or One Shilling in stamps. Look out!
* art imitations. Sold by Chemists i
- - imitations. Sold by Chemists everywhere.
Co as. wright chemical co.
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. r* ~, ,
/-or Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
_ . , ®" Security or Freehold or Leasehold
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral 4 V ® r Suburban Properties, or 00
of Goyernroent Debentures. Inscribed sfrlVl A ,f r, ® u,t «ral Lands, or on the Security
tralian States or New Zealand at LOW^rrM^ 8 " 18 ° f any of the Aus "
Our new Mort?a«-e Deed contains * A ,T LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST,
up to 20 oer cent, of the loan durin °
Directors— The Hon. A. W Meeks mi,- • ’ wlthout notice or payment of any fine.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.0.; The Horn RJBlack^MTn 5 S'u o "',/ T ‘ Walker . Deputy-Chairman; The
Kc - i Sir Alex. MaeCormir-k MO ‘ n„£rA L ‘ 0 - ’ The Hon - F - E - Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET STJDNFV° Manaffer and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A FS g’
— ___ H. W. APPERLY, Secretarv.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
I
w
WA
M.
THE
OF SCOTCH
Anideal refresher during “a hundred up.”
King George IV,” like a fine player,
scores every time it goes to the table,' /
so take the “cue,” leave the “rest,” '
and don’t “miss” or be “baulked”
of this exquisite beverage.
“King George IV “is “top notch” in all
the essentials of a high grade whisky
• —great age—fine bouquet—
rounded mellowness—and
perfect purity.
A TOP-NOTCH BREAK
■sv
Make
your shave
enjoyable—
use the
Gillette
GILLETTE shaving angle. j he Gillette Safety Razor
and Blade will shave any beard that grows—
without pull, smart, or irritation to a tender face. The
Gillette shave owes its velvet-smooth ease and comfort to:
The wonderful shaving edge of the hard-tempered Gillette Blade, the
finest blade ever made —
The positive adjustment to any beard or any skin—to a light or close shave—
The free natural Gillette shaving angle, the only true and safe draw-
stroke in the history of shaving.
Gillette
MO STROPPING MO HOMING
Safety
Razor
You need the Gillette Razor. You need it to-day—and the harder your
shaving is for you now, the more anxious we are for you to try the Gillette.
Our New Process Gillette Blades are specially sharp, uniform and lasting.
They are the best ever made.
These blades are specially praised by men with heavy beards and tender skins.
They are sharper and smoother in the edge—more efficient—more uniform in shaving
duality—more lasting. . . .. , , ..
They make the Gillette shave finer, more luxurious than ever. A closer, smoother,
cooler shave. jiiette Razor will save you time, trouble and money. It is the only razor ad-
justable to individual needs, and it is safe.
Don’t put it off—Buy a Gillette To-day.
Of all high-class Cutlers, Ironmongers, Hair-
dressers. Chemists and Fancy Goods shops. Many
different styles to select from. BRITISH MADE.
Write to-day for illustrated and descriptive
Booklet of prices ; please mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD..
London, England.
Look carefully for our Trade Mark
Razor, Blades and Case.
INX HMONM
WORLD OVER
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated W.ters and Cordials.
The Standard Publishing Company
Pty., litd., sells Complete Editions of
Dickens, Shakspeare, Scott, Thackeray,
De Maupassant, Balzac, Meredith, etc.;
also, The Modern Physician, The Musi*
cal Educator, The Veterinary Adviser, on
extended terms of payment. Please
write for particulars.
THE
WORKS
OF
De MAUPASSANT.
ELBERT HUBBARD writes:—
“Men of Genius, who have left
the beaten track to discover a
new country, have ever called
down carping criticism. A prac-
tice centuries old, this, When one
cannot understand nor appreciate;
’tis so satisfying and virtuous to
stand aside and sneer. Or bet*
ter, take the Presumptuous One
and nail him to a gibbet. For
aeons men have fouled their own
tongues by slander; they have
dipped their own hands in the
heart’s blood of martyrs; they
have besmirched their own mem-
ory and polluted their times; yet,
all their destructive madness has
plucked not a single leaf from
the laurel crown of Genius. YOu
may kill a great and good man.
Oh, yes ! —you may reproach and
revile him; you may call down
imprecations, but when you are
dead and forgotten, his soul, his
*- memory will go marching on and
on. De Maupassant, of all
writers, has suffered most from
misunderstanding. He has been
crucified on the brazen cross of
ignorance. This man never wrote
to please the Rabble. He wrote
because he had a message for the
world, and because Divine Energy
forced it through his pen. De
Maupassant wrote with the con-
viction that in life there could be
no phase so noble or so mean, so
honorable or so contemptible, so
lofty or so low as to be unworthy
of chronicling—no groove of
human virtue or fault, success or
failure, wisdom or folly that did
not possess its own peculiar
psychological aspect and there-
fore demanded analysis. If oc-
casionally some intellectual pig-
my, after reading, screams in fal-
setto, please remember spon-
taneity and mediocrity are never
kin.
“A WARNING.—Those of you
who find enjoyment in blue-milk
brain-wanderings should never
seek De Maupassant. You will
be disappointed. You will not be
able to digest nor assimilate the
strong elixir of his mind, so it
will curdle in your gullet—then
it's you for mental constipation.”
THE
“STANDARD”
EDITION.
The Standard Publishing Co. are able to an-
nounce the issue to subscribers of a complete
and admirable translation of the entire works
of Guy de Maupassant.
The Standard Edition of Guy de Maupas-
sant is complete in Seventeen Volumes, Crown
Bvo, and consists of nearly 6000 pages,
printed from a new type, elegant and clear,
on pure white antique paper, specially made
for thij edition. The books are bound in blue
cloth, with distinctive brown and gold title
labels, silk head bands, and gold top.
€v
We have prepared an illustrated prospectus
of our Standard Edition of De Maupassant.
This will be sent Post Free'.to all responsible
inquirers. The booklet describes the edition
in full detail, and gives particulars of our
special plan, bv which the whole 17 volumes
are sent, carriage paid, for a first payment of
TEN SHILLINGS, the balance being payable
by easy instalments. This booklet will be
sent to all book-lovers and literary students
who use the form underneath.
S&H fL'thU coupon
To THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY.
LTD., 100 Flinders Street, Melbourne ; or,
228 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free of charge, and without
any obligation on my part, your Illustrated
Booklet of the Standard Edition of Guy De
Maupassant’s Works in Seventeen Volumes, to-
gether with your plan of easy instalments.
Name
(Please use this form or a postcard, mention-
ing The Bulletin —73.)
Address


On Face'.p Caused Great Suffering.
Used Cuticpirk Soap knd s Oint-
frierir. Irt Lisi Thak k Month
iPimples Disappeared. Not a
Blotch to Be Seen.
Clarendon St., Chilwell, Geelong, Vic.—
"I suffered for just on four months with irri-
tation of the skin. My face was the only part
» - vf
'affected. The trouble
ppg&h. With, a few pim-
ples theh it gradually
jgot worse and spread
causing great suffering.
I tried several other
remedies but in vain,
when reading one of this
Cuticura advertisements
X ihoilfelit I would try a
kaffiple Cfiticura Ointment to sta,rt with’.
TYu; first two applications stopped the irrir
tation and I found relief at last. I lathered
jtny face well witli Cuticura Soap then bathed
in hot water for a, few minutes each
and.before going tp ,bed at piglets and I used
the Cuticura Oiptment } dV j
“ I used three cakes Of Cuticura Soap and
tWd tins of Cuticura Ointment and in less
tkan a month all the pimples had disap-
peared and my face is as clear and smooth as
any one's, not a blotch to be seen, thanks to
Cuticura Ointment and Soap. I always use
Cuticura Soap now to keep my skin in per-
fect health. I advise all who suffer at all
with skin troubles to give Cuticura Rem-
edies a trial.” (Signed) Miss F. M. Coles,
Mar. 1912.
A single set of Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment is often sufficient when all else fails.
Sold everywhere. For sample of each with
32-page, Skin Book, post-free, address R.
Towns & Co., Sydney, S. W.
Drives Saliowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatmentwith
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
dizziness.
Purely vege-
table, never
fail.
Carters!
L
UTLE*
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
9
Her Youths
r.B. ALlens
• ll.y (.vs. A.)
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
I f THE
only permanent «J really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best Bush Doctor of All!
If you've got a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema, in any form, Barcoo
ro t or •if you’ve a wound that won t heal or a
«sfe tew Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 116, Posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
K.E.8., Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMACURE
BHIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Cough*,
ETTES. ► Bold by all Chemists. _
ADVICE TO Mfe SHOWMAN!
jtisf arßlv t[ > rKf: Largest stock of l
MOVING
PICTURE
MACHINES
tvER imp6rted to a\jsTralia.
Prom £io upwards^
%
We stock EVERY LEADING uM o lf
guarantee to sell 30% CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER, FIRM. WE DO, NOT BELONG ID ANY
COMBINE. If you want a Moving Picture Outfit for the HOME .or. THEATRE, we can sppply i .
Every article is GUARANTEED PERFECT. GET OUR PRICE MW befote buying elsewhere. If
you want to Pay Cash, or BUY ON THE INSTALMENT SYSTEM, no Where you Lve, WE
WILL SUPPLY YOU. SIXTY MACHINES TO SELECT FROM, and 500,000 FEET OF THE
LATEST FILM SUBJECTS, from id. PER FOOT. WRITE TO-DAY FOR PARTICULARS.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH LTD., 117Bathurst St., Sydney, N.S.W.
I; Wfwrr > JWV.K >v -
IK
Saa&
A Trial Will
Convince You
that i*eb’efct» tooth Paste Is different from, and better than
ordinary dentifrices. Are yon sure yon derive yonr
present dentifrice the greatest possible benefit? The fact
that dentists and flhetors hdve tee6i«titte«ded Pebeco for 20
years, is a .guarantee o'f its M #**&; Ton yonrself trill
recognise its excellent t>ropetties if y6ti try it.
K lit t HKMISfS;
Trial Tube with useful B,ootc ior three penhy stdthpiA,
on application to the Sole Agent:—
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
ttiS ifrifaihal and Only Genuine
Conrincing
Medical,,,
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
'djtilercdf'*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medloine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
'hti cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION,
Acta llico a charrri In
DIARRtHEA and simple DYSENTERY.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag, or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
SWA
POWNTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
I
m
%
K
V.
3
The World-wide Whiskey.'
BURKE'S
★ ★★ IRISH
WHISKEY
Distinguished by its Delicacy of Flavour.
Lightness and Digestibility.
Exquisitely Mellow.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
DUBLIN.
Capital £1,100,000. E*td. 1849
. “tS;R;L;H;” Mitei i Th‘4 c±oM At! Sydney
Stadium treated Referee Sc tjii dfsjfMbefuliy on Satur-
day night wegk, on the ground that he had given a
wrong decision in the Thofn-lhpmas case. Well, he gave
a perfectly fair and proper decision, and I will now
give reasons for saying so. Frank Thorn side-stepped
a lot, which was legitimate,, Also, he back-stepped
more, and frequently he absolutely ran from the too-
pressing attentions of Englishman Thomas. lor a
great part of tjje rest , of the .time, he hung on to
Thomas ;as though Thomas were,a lifebelt, and as if
they were, struggling ~in the water .after Sydney s
phenomenal iferry-smash. , AIJ the scribes .admit that
Thomas scored best in the body fighting; so there
remains only the faee-stoush to consider. I counted
every blow to the dial scored by each man, dotting
the wallops down on paper as they were delivered,
and adding the totals round by round. I had no
money on either boxer. I was totally disinterested,
as I know neither of them from a crow, and wouldn t
be able to recognise them with their clothes on. And
what I found was this: Thomas scored 164 lefts and
44 rights on Thorn’s physiog., a total of 208. Thorn s
response was 166 lefts and 20 rights, total 185.
So, on a matter of ooints, where are the doubting
TnorhfiseS ? Whfefe is the Frank Thorn phalanx
gone ? „ 4
“Lohdohet”: For hipe; fruity hide tom-
mend me to the claim of the London National Sport-
ing Club, as reported in the cable news recently;
to be allowed powers in regard to bdxirtg similar to
those held by the English Jbcßey Club Officials 6Vet
racing. The Jockey Club stewards’ powers are abso-
lute. They give iio reasons fdf arty thing they do:
Arid there is no appeal from their decisions. They
may summarily wipe out an owner, a trainer or a
jockey, or all three, for the best of reasons or for
pone. In many notorious cases they have done
things, which , a court of law, or any ordinary man of
the world would consider Jamipgly unjust. For
example,, . they treatment, ~f o t . Sloan.
Nominally', they , warned, , him ..off . thg .EnS»
M tutf-++-&, penalty . which ~, carries,,, With,.' it
exclusion from all, iFrenchy a 'German, Americans S.
American and Australian race ‘.tracks of . standing,
and hence means ruin to a jockey—'for backing his
own mounts. But Archer, Fordham, both the
Loates’ and others are known to have backed their
own mounts. The real reason why they got rid of
Sloan had to do with his social habits. He was
considered to have got above himself. He was too
much the man-about-town, and too little the humble,
forelock-dragging stable-boy. So he was blotted out,
as a lesson to others, or “for the good of racing,” as
the Jockey Club might put it. Powers which are
highly liable to lead to acts of tyranny and injustice
when wielded by the reputable citizens who control
the English Jockey Club would be absolutely certain
to be abused, by the far from impeccable crowd that
runs the National Sporting Club. Go there on one
of the “fight nights,” and you will be prone to think
it is a resort of the highest and most respected in
the land. But 90 p.c. of these men only use it as
a club in the sense that they were accustomed to use
the Alsatians, or one of the other night clubs —that
is to say; they go .there only when there is fun on.
It is Actually run by.ittpe fpllfis who,use it,as an every-
day ’ sbcial gjub ; ind A spyry, flyblown, lot...they 'are.
No boxer would Ipe;, safe , with .the,,characterless irre-
sponsibles and; alcoholists , who form such a large
proportion of the habitues of this place. *
There’s a crumb: pf satisfaction in the
news that the Australian, Government has selected
300 acres of land as a site for an aviation ground
and training school. It is situated at Altona Bay
(Victoria!, and it is hoped that within four months
the Aviation Corps will be properly established and
going strong. Senator Millen is taking a keen in-
terest in the business, and made one very sensible
suggestion in connection with the opening of the
ground. He proposes that the first experimental
ascent should be made by Prime,. Minister Cook in
person; and this writer hastily rises to second the
motion and applaud the idea. Joe, seen about it,
said, “Not if I know it” ; but there are four months
in which to persuade him. He never dreamed he
would see himself on horseback, but when Kitchener
came along Joe did get on top of a noble steed a
few times. What more noble sight than the real
ruler of the Commonwealth winging his way towards
the empyrean and sailing triumphantly betwixt
fleecy cloud and empty blue! #
English cricket has opened humorously
this season. An idea was afloat to put down into a
second class all counties which had not the time and
money to play home-and-home matches with every
other. Wealthy Lancashire was the mover. Little
Northampton Was the most obvious victim. There-
fore, when Northampton met Lancs, and won by
three Wickets, there Was an all-round smggef. Mean-
while, Derbyshire, Which really is weak, and has for
some years been liable to get thrown out of the first
class at any moment, had won its first three games,
and was at latest advices poised dizzily on the very
summit of the premiership list.
The Itala Co., which intended making a
big hid for the forthcoming French Grand Prix
motor race with a splendid new racer built specially
for the job, has suffered a severe set-back. The
driver, Arbizzon, and the chief engineer of the co.,
Bigio, have both been killed, and the car has been
smashed. As the racing cars were not allowed to
go over the circuit till the actual contest, the two
men went round it on touring cars, got the hang
of the landscape or the rising of the court, or some-
thing, and then rushed off to Brooklands, in Eng-
land, to see what their flier was really capable of.
They returned by way of Dieppe, and on the beauti-
ful roads around that town started out to do road
practice. To avoid trouble with the traffic, they
went out in the early morning. One morning they
left at 3 a.m., and some time afterwards a laborer
on his way .to work found the car overturned, Arbiz-
zon underneath it dead, and Bigio beside it dying.
How, why and exactly when are unknown, as Bigio
died before he could give much
The Royal Automobile Club of England
has offered a prize of £lOOO for the best internal-
combustion turbine engine that can be produced.
The curious thing is that although the small in-
ternal combustion turbine is regarded as impossible,
the big one is not, and there is at least one in
active service which develops 1000 h.p. The trouble
seems to be to make the little fellow go slow enough.
All investigation goes to show that as the size de-
creases, the speed increases. And just fancy instal-
ling in a motor chassis an engine with a range of
from 10,000 to 20,000 revolutions per minute. What
a time the driver would have!
* * * *
“0.R.E.H.”: M. A. Noble’s prediction at
the annual meeting of the N. S. Wales Baseball
Association, that “the game will be played in the
summer months in Australia before long,” looks
likely. At present there are only two really good,
hustling, meaty sports of an exciting kind—Rugby
football and boxing. Cut out boxing, as it does not
affect any game played in the afternoon in Sydney,
and that leaves you only Rugby. Football is played
in winter. So summer has no sport with a sting in
it. Cricket? Cricket survives merely because it
happens to be long-established, and it draws big
crowds only when played by international teams. On
such occasions the game, never anything to rave
about, is at its worst, because the players are all
out to win, and adopt safety tactics as much as pos-
sible. Club matches, though very much brighter,
attract very few lookers-on, whereas club Rugby
football is a powerful magnet every Saturday. There-
fore, I say, any better, faster summer game than
cricket will kili that ceremonious old pastime, just
as any swifter winter frolic would slay Rugby foot-
ball. But, whereas there is nothing snappier than
Rugby, or at least the League game so far as N.S.W.
is concerned, there is something infinitely more at-
tractive than cricket —and that is baseball. Yet this
Yankee, live-wire game does not require much, if
any, more exertion on the part of the players. As
it happens, baseball is played in the winter at pre-
sent, When all the best grounds, barring University
Oval, are collared by the powerful Rugby Leagug.
If it were shifted to the summer, I believe many
first-class cricketers would prefer it to the old game
' in’ which a tired man throws something at three
sticks. Indeed. I can already see the ancient monarch
reclining on his pink ear, with his crown hashed.


The
“Roadster” Cover
is not only cheaper than the ‘‘first-grade” cycle cover of oar leading competitor,
but is a better quality and lasts longer than any other tyre of the kind.
What is the explanation, you ask?
Simply this:
Instead of wasting time and effort on the production of various qualities
at various prices, thus increasing the cost of the best quality, we concentrate the
whole of our energy and vast manufacturing resources on the production of
ONE QUALITY ONLY—THE BEST*
To be obtained from the Leading Agents.
A 10
FEATHER NECKWEAR.
m
o's*
I
SSL
M
|M|
m
m
W®
V
m
m
®M
Nothing handsomer than one of our
Feather Boas. We are showing some
Lovely Neckwear at Bargain Prices.
Every one is beautiful as a woman’s smile.
42 1-
Length, I*4 yards,
Black, White,
Grey, or Natural
Feather Boas.
BLACK or WHITE COQUE BOAS, 217-
Length, 2 yds. One of the greatest
Bargains ever offered.
FEATHER NECKLETS, 21/-, with Tassel
Ends. All Colors. We have a great
variety of these goods.
OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 63/- Black,
White, Natural, etc. Extra good
quality. Length, 1 % yds.
WRI'/e for free booklet.
MI LLER’S,
195 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Cr. Bourke & Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
118 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
THE ACGORDEON for Country Residents.
:
We don’t believe any Aceordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Aceordeon.
teSrUn'TSr Patent Rotar, O.le... Stop.
— " Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
EXt 15 q fold Bellows with steel corners Price £1 7s. Od.,
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/*
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments. Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
2 ,0 QUEEN STREET BR'SBANE
Price £1.
a
y'i
m
y?
►JM
►Y*
a
S i
&
Waterman's
(Ideal)
Fountain Pen
THE WORLD’S
BEST FOUNTAIN PEN
Makes writing a positive
pleasure. Nib just suited
to your hand, a steady,
sufficient flow of ink to
the point while writing,
no leaking, no splutter-
ing, no faltering. Lasts
a lifetime ; every pen
guaranteed.
In 4 types—
Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6 and
upwards; Safety and Pump-
Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
Australia—3so, George Street, Sydney.
1
It
BARNET GLASS
wtow oco®
The‘‘MAWSG?N**Model
Cut, modelled and made
with as much «care as a
high-priced suit- At all
Drapers and Storekeepers
BARNET GIASS
WATERPROOF GARMENTS
The "DENMAN” Model
Well-fitting, airy, free,
comfortable —a pleasure to
wear. Your Draper will
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO LTD
Pounders of the Rubber
Industry in Australasia,
ALL STATES and N.Z.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney ; u
289=93 Swanston Street, Melbourne


The BEST HOUSE for all SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
smoke:
SUNOL
/■-
7
The
Perfect
Pipe
Highest Grade
Virginian.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
DARK OR
LIGHT.
In Plug or Cut.
61
L
I
per lb.
Post
Free.
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others In QUALITY, FINISH,
DESIGN and WORKMANSHIP.
IZ3
Afade from the Finest Quality Selected Old Briar
Root, with Superior Hand-Out Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces.
Extra Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADING SHAPES
Price
iT
3/-
each
(Post Free).
A DELIGHTFUL 8 FASCINATING Cigarette.
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
i
S')
&
v;
ao
y)m
Jhree Witches
VIRGINIA
d.Morris
&sonsLtp
LONDON B.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
Made from Selected Sun Ripe Virginian Tobacco.
They possess a Fragrance of Unique Excellence.
Smoked by Connoisseurs Everywhere.
Price
per 100,
Post Free.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. Br ‘",J„ h r
i§
GOLDEN KEY
Cigars de Luxe
(made in England).
Irresistibly Appeal to
all Co n no i sseurs
because of their
Exquisite Flavor
and
Delicate Aroma.
Two Strengths—
MILD and MEDIUM.
Packed in HEAVY CEDAR
PRESENTATION CABINETS,
containing 50 Cigars,
22/6
POfST
FREE.
Try Sample Lot
of 5 Cigars,
packed in Cedar
2 16
Box
Post Free.
Save “ GOLDEN KEY ’
Bands for Prizes.
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/" Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Superb Virility of Man-
hood, by Bernard Mac-
fadden; simple home
methods for curing
weaknesses of men, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts
for Life; life’s greatest
pleasure secured by ob-
serving highest human
instincts, 5/4; Macfad-
den’s Building Vital
Power, 5/4; Health,
Beauty, Sexuality, 5/4 ;
Strength from Eating,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Devel-
oping Muscular Power,
5/4 ; Science of Muscu-
lar Development, 5/4;
Superb Womanhood,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Physi-
cal Culture v. Consump-
tion, and Value of Air in
Strength-building, com-
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous !
S 3
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enablir o
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
Two - from - Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
plete, 2/2. AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices
Catalogues
FREE.
include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.,
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act aa
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “ FENANKLE,” New York.
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
A. B. FARQUHAR & GO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engraVings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted.- Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
Si
m
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR •• PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
-covered, edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANI address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I«~ BOOKSELLER TO
THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
?ost. How to PLat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
hat Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post! How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hotle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hbptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Becipks, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
«
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New' Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, ■ over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. lOONbw
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
uound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Rexona Soap
for Health and Beauty
A clear complexion, soft white
hands, and luxuriant tresses follow
the use of Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap. To restore skin beauty first
apply Rexona with gentle annoint-
ing, then continue the treatment by
daily washing with Rexona Soap.
A clean scalp and soft, glossy hair
result from the regular use of
Rexona Soap as a hair wash.
The Rexona Habit
A habit formed is hard to break. Bad habits
are easily formed, but habits can be attained
almost as easily. The Rexona habit results in
health and beauty, and once formed will never
be broken.
There are two Rexona habits— that
of using Rexona Ointment to heal all
injuries to the skin, and the Rexona
Soap habit, which consists of keeping oneself
clean and puie with a delicately scented
and medicated soap. Rexona Ointment
and Rexona Soap mean skin health
and beauty, comfort to the user,
and immunity from disease. So form
the Rexona habit. Start with a Is.
cake of Rexona Soap and a Is. 6d.
pot of Ointment. Soon you will be
glad to know that
Rexona Soap is
put up in dainty
boxes containing
throe cakes each,
and that Rexona
Ointment is
also sold in larger
size triangu-
lar pots, contain-
ing nearly four
times the quan-
tity of the Is. 6d.
size, which are
sold at 3s. each.
A
m
SooH-v
neQimg
OinVme
Ann*
Afcn>
Veg
yg^COTld
c>«d
'/
S*\H
5^
□
S 3
45>^
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price, 21s.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOLLOWAYS
Pills (& Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning of a Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other corn-
points which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
TAENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago* sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
A Ballad of Freedom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
i%.TO\V Mr. Jeremiah Bane
\ lie owned a warehouse in The Lane,
|_l An edifice of goodly size,
Where, with keen private enterprise,
He sold imported napery
And drapery—and drapery.
Hi . singlets and his socks were sent
n. t over half the continent;
In clothing for the nursery
\nd mercery—and mercery
plied a most extensive trade,
Vnrt auite enormous profits made,
barracked, with much fervency,
Pnr foreign-trade—described as ‘Free.”
1 He said.
Indeed,
It was
His creed,
Xbe trade described as Free.
. j this good man was known to fame
For charity; indeed, his name
Shone often in the daily press.
Whpn needy folk were in distress
He aided—(with publicity)
Mendicity—mendicity.
\nd though much cash he thuswise spared
There still were people who declared
His act of private charity
A rarity—a rarity.
Donations, duly advertised, .
From business point of view he prized ;
But “good by stealth” he ne’er could see
Was any use to such as he.
But still,
The press,
With much
Success,
Declared his hand was free.
Now Mr. Bane’s employees were
W o nt to address the boss as “Sir,”
To show him most intense respect;
\nd there were few who would neglect
To couple with civility
Humility—humility.
They dressed in cheap but pretty clothes,
Vnd ev’ry man turned up his nose
And - scorned familiarity
Or parity—or parity
With ill-dressed toilers who “combined.”
They thought proceedings of that kind
Were of a very “low” degree,
For they were “cultured,” don’t you see.
’Tis true
Their pay
Was mean,
But they
Felt proud to be so free.
•
Though they were vilely underpaid
They were too proud—or else afraid
To advertise the fact abroad
Or seek to get a Wages Board.
Beside their meek servility,
Gentility—gentility
Forbade so rash an act; but still
One man there was —(his name was Bill)
Who vowed their fool propensity
Was density—was densitv —
An unenlightened state of mind,
A lack of wit that made them blind.
“You’re but a lot of worms,” said he.
“If you were men you’d clearly see
Until
You band
And make
A stand
You never can be free.”
And ev’ry day this person, Bill,
Conversed with them of unions till
They owned his arguments were true,
And one by one w r axed eager to
Embrace an opportunity
For unity—for unity.
They talked about a Wages Board
Which, formerly, they had abhorred.
And girded at their slavery
With bravery—with bravery.
Each man began to feel “The Firm”
No longer owned him for its worm;
Their independence they could see
Achieved by simple unity ;
Forgot
Their clothes
And mixed
With those
Who battle to be free.
When Mr. Bane one morning heard
About this thing he cried, “Absurd!
They’ll never get my clerks to horde
With those who seek the Wages Board,
And lose respectability!
Futility!—Futility !
ny clerks are gentlemen who’d scorn
To mingle with the lowly born I
Such bosh I’ve never heard !” said he.
“Absurd!” said he — "Absurd!" said
he.
As for their pay, they’re quite content,
rhey’ve never asked an extra cent !
And in
The morn
They’ll mark
. Their scorn,
And show you they are free.”
And on the morrow Mr. Bane _
Called them together to “explain” :
“I have a small petition here-
out first, I wish to make it clear,”
Said he, with simple gravity
And suavity—and suavity,
“That no man here is asked to sign.”
(His voice was gentle and benign)
"I trust to your humanity
And sanity— and sanity
lo guide you ; but I feel quite sure
that Wages Boards you can’t endure.
1 leave it all to you,” said he.
It makes no difference to me.
My views
Are known,
But still,
v I’ve shown
*our choice in this is free.”
The staff it looked at Mr. Bane, _
And in his eye it read, quite plain,
Neath that expression so benign,
ihe fate of him who did not sign—
A vision of futurity—
' Obscurity—obscurity—
dearth of work—in short, the sack.
Abe y knew that he who answered back
Would earn, by his temerity,
<5 Severity— severity.
‘ o one and all, with shaky pen,
this refusal to be men....
But surely, as you must agree,
lheir choice was free as it could be.
They said
The Board
They all
Abhorred,
1 referring to be free.
Still Mr. Bane grows fat and sleek.
And still, at thirty bob a week,
His clerks slave on from morn till night,
No hope of better things in sight.
Lut Bane, with much benignity
And dignity—and dignity,
A hen talk of Wages Boards is heard,
Declares the notion is absurd :
“My clerks with prompt celerity
And verity—and verity
Refused the thing with one accord.
Ihe clerks themselves don't want the
Board!
Itis Preposterous,” says he,
To force it on who don’t agree!”
And still
His men
With brain
And pen
To fatten him are free.
VICTOKIA.
C. J. DENNIS.
Household Help Limited
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS we walked together towards the
dusty wharf, Bill Sunset explained
briefly how the unique idea had oc-
curred to him. “I always hated the job of
washing up,” said Bill. “I don’t much mind
any other sort of housework; but washing
up always beat me. I used to say to my
people that it was Chows’ work. Since the
Immigration Restriction Act, Chows have
become scarce; so, the servant girl being
practically extinct, I reckoned it would be
a paying investment if I could find a sub-
stitute for the Chow. A year or so back,
when I got home from that Java trip and
heard how scarce household help was, I
started thinking about an old German I
had chummed up with on the boat. I went
round and saw a few men who always have
some spare money, and the result was that
we formed the Household Help, Ltd. Yes-
terday our first consignment of house as-
sistants arrived by the Torres —that big.
yellow-funnelled boat at the end of the
pier. We are prepared to supply first-class
generals”
“What are they, Bill?” I inquired sus-
piciously.
“Apes,” replied Bill simply. “Wonder-
fully intelligent apes trained by old
Schmidt.”
“You’re joking, aren’t you?”
“Come along and see,” said Bill, loading
the way towards the steep gangway. A
number of well-dressed women were hover-
ing about in a lost-butterfly fashion. These
Bill pounced on and waved up the gangway
with a bushman’s bow. To me he whis-
pered, “Darling Pointers every one of them!
I had a big advertisement in this morning’s
paper. Come aboard. I’ll have to help
show them round.”
A fluttering calico sign at the top of the
gangway flaunted a red and white welcome
to inspect in the faces of all passers and
standers-by. Amongst the latter were a
number of staring immigrants from the big
ship on the other side of the pier.
Bill led the way to the deck and pointed
out several large cages, each of which con-
tained a vast, mild-eyed ape. “These chaps
are getting a breath of fresh air. Most of
them are down below. I don’t see old
Schmidt about. I guess he must be putting
one of them through his paces in the saloon.
Let’s go down.”
We descended the stairs and found the
big saloon thronged with Sydney’s Best
People. An ape, dressed in white drill coat
and pants, was coming and going with
glasses and trays of food at the bidding of
a stout, good-humored Teuton, who spoke
to it in a curious, guttural language.
“Gurr-rump!” Schmidt would growl, and
the silent, obedient ape would go hopping
away and return with a whisk broom and
crumb tray, with which it would tidy the
table.
“Luc-goo!” A plate would be taken from
the pile standing ready, carefully rinsed in
the dish of warm water, dried with a rubber
and placed in a rack.
While we waited, Schmidt, by merely
grunting, made his animal scrub, place
chairs for visitors, turn the electric light
on and off again, and perform other house-
hold duties. The well-dressed audience mur-
mured appreciatively at each fresh turn, and
awarded the trainer a round of applause at
the close of the demonstration, which he
indicated by commanding the animal to sit
down on a chair and fold its arms. Schmidt
beamed. “Now, ladies undt gentlemen, vot
is der use of paying for impudence undt
nights oudt? I take me dot monkey undt
I drain him to vork until vot you call dc
cows come home, undt all for nodings ! ot
can’t he do dot de servant you aind’t got
can, eh?”
“Can he answer the telephone?” squeaked
a thin woman with a monstrous hat.
Schmidt reddened. “Gott in Himmel! I
gannot drain him to all de tings ! He vill
answer allridt if your friendts speak to him
in his own languages !”
There was a general giggle, and the thin
woman subsided.
“Fifty poundts each.” announced Schmidt.
“Ven you haf paid dot, you don’t pay no
more! * Der average life of der apes is 15
(Continued on next page.)


PILES
A Man’s Terrible Martyrdom—Suffering Always—
Life was a Misery—Other Remedies Prove Useless.
One of the greatest living
physicians, referring to piles,
says The pain is often so
intense that the patient feels
he can neither walk nor lie,
while in some cases the loss
of blood is so great as to con-
stitute a grave danger
The way in which piles yield to Zam-Buk
is nothing short of remarkable. The con-
centrated and carefully combined ingredi-
ents of which Zam-Buk is composed take
away the inflammation; and the pain and irrita-
tion, which at times almost amounts to agony,
is relieved the moment the healing balm is
applied.
Confirmation of this statement is furnished by Mr. J.
Abood, of Albion Street, Warwick, Q., who says:—
“Three years ago I suffered all the agony incidental to
piles. At times I would pass nearly half a cupful of blood,
and became so distressed that life was perfect misery. I
suffered all the time when either standing or lying down. I
tried all sorts of ways and means in my endeavor to rid
myself of this miserable complaint, but the many so-called
remedies I used proved fruitless. At last I thought I would
give Zam-Buk a trial, and from the very first application of
the balm I derived relief. The burning inflammation
gradually subsided and the terrible pains were subdued,
and ten days after the first applications of Zam-Buk I was
completely cured of the piles. I feel convinced I had as bad
an attack of piles as any of my acquaintances, some of whom were
troubled for years, and they were astonished at the speedy cure Zam-
Buk had effected in my case.
“ I cannot speak too highly in favor of this wonderful balm, and
will never be without a pot. It is now three years since Zam-Buk
brought me ease and comfort, in place of torture and distress, and as I
have not had the slightest symptoms of piles since, I feel quite satis-
fied the cure is permanent.”
Zam-Buk Is In-
valuable for
stiff neck, cold
pains In limbs,
joints or back,
chapped
hand 8, chil-
blains, eczema,
barcoo, piles,
cuts, bruises,
and all injured,
diseased con-
ditions of the
skin. Price 1/6,
or 3/6 family
pot (containing:
nearly four
times 1/6), from
aI I chemists
and stores.
SOOTHING AND HEALING. "
Colic, Diarrhoea, and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and auults.
M
m
\ N
5
.a
*
When you have an attack of influenza
reduce the fever as quickly as
possible. For this there is no better
medicine than Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. It reduces fever, lessens
inflammation and does away with
the danger of that nasty cough that
so often follows influenza.
I'Zi
COUGH REMEDY.
year; mit goot food and kindness dey vill
last you 20.”
The audience sat spellbound for a mo-
ment. Then a hushed woman’s voice re-
marked, “What —-what about insects?”
“Dere ain’t none!” said Schmidt proudly.
“I haf de secret brocess. I treat all der
apes before dey goes out. I haf scared ail
der lleas undt oder vild animals oudt of
dem long ago. I gannot gif de trade secret;
but I vill gif half a crown for any troubles
you can find on him. Now you haf seen
vot he does. You haf mit him his book of
languages, so he knows vot you desire of lnm
to do. It takes you not so long to learn.
Mit some little patience you teach him vot
else you like. He is goot tempered and vill
not blay up unless you kick him too many.
If he do not hurry, you crack a toy whip—
so! Dat is enough for him! He is sen-
sible, and vill hustle himselves a move on.
I don’t know no servants what vill do so
much ! You feed him on vot you like ; but
nuts is for him de best. Now, ladies undt
gentlemens, you haf seen for yourselves vot
the ape he does when he is properly drained.
If you are all satisfied, I am brepared
to take orders.”
The audience struck up a chorus of ad-
miration, and a stately Society leader rustled
from her seat. “Please take my address, Mr.
Schmidt. lam just dying to give a> monkey
afternoon!” She slipped into one of the
revolving chairs and started to dredge her
card case from the gold-tasselled bag she car-
ried.
Another woman and her belltoppered hus-
band followed the lead, and the rush set in
without further delay. I left Bill Sunset
busily assisting Schmidt to book the names
and addresses of purchasers. At the shore
end of the gangway, I ran into a group of
sullen-looking immigrants from the big ship
opposite. One of them was declaiming pas-
sionately to his fellow-travellers: “I tell you
all that there steamer is full of flamin’ mon-
keys wot they’ve trained to work for ’em!
Yes, it’s th’ Gospel truth I’m tellin’ yer! I
seen a flamin’ German showin’ off one of
them in th’ cabin ! Wot sort o’ country is
this ’ere Australyer any’ow? I didn’t leave
Lunnon to compete with no flamin’ monkeys!
I ain’t goin’ to work with ’em and charnce
it! Wot do they take us for? D’ye think
I’m goin’ to ’ave me meals opposite a flamin’
nut-crackin’ gorilla? No flamin’ fear! ’
His stolid audience murmured sympatheti-
cally. I realised that the experiment which
Household Help, Ltd., represented was going
to cause a few complications.
One evening, about three weeks later, I
went to dine with the Bellevues. Old Belle-
vue, the great K.C., seemed to be especially
irritable about something ; but I didn’t sus-
pect what it was until Mrs. Bellevue hur-
ried in with a thin, leather-covered volume
in one hand, and a child’s toy whip in the
other. “Oh, how do you do?” she gushed.
“I’m so sorry dinner’s late ; but it’s all on
account of poor Thomas —our ape servant,
you know. Either he is stupid, or else I
haven’t learnt his language properly; some-
how he seems to be all at sixes and sevens
to-night. Just look here!” She opened the
thin volume, on the cover of which I noticed
the great name of Browning had been artis-
tically burnt, and pointed at a particular
line. “The command ‘Ugga-woosh’ is here
given as ‘Bring in the first course.’ Yet
every time I say it the wretched animal
takes the coal-scuttle and fills it! It’s dread-
fully annoying. I suppose you don’t happen
to know any monkey talk, do you?”
“Of course, he doesn’t!” growled the
master of the house. “He’s a sensible
man.”
“Now, Howard,” said his wife, “you know
very well that I have done my best to get
servants; and please remember that you said
last week you would not do any more wash-
ing up, and that I was to get anything at
all that would work. You are solely to
blame for our present helpless state, for you
discharged that poor Wagglin yourself; and
he promised to develop into quite a good
butler.”
Bellevue snorted. “That dirty scoundrel!
Why, I caught him handing my cigars and
whisky over the fence to his Domain
friends!”
“He only did it because they were black-
mailers, Howard ! They had threatened him
that they would tell you he had stolen ducks
from Government House. That was’ a cruel
lie, and you know it!”
“I don’t know it at all! My long experi-
ence of criminals inclines me to believe that
it was perfectly true.”
Mrs. Bellevue sighed hopelessly. “Well,
poor man, he is out of the house now
whether he was guilty or not.” She peered
closely at the book. “I wonder what it is I
should say to Thomas!” Then, with a little
cry of vexation. “Oh, how stupid of me! I
have been telling him the wrong thing all
the time! I should have said ‘Kulla-hoo’
to the poor thing! Excuse me for a moment,
won’t you !” She tripped out the door and
went down the hall cooing encouragingly.
“Kulla-hoo, Thomas! Kulla-hoo, there’s a
good boy!”
“Isn’t that damned nonsense?” demanded
Bellevue wildly. “Just like a woman to
spend fifty pounds on a walking flea-bag!
Why the devil do women do things like that,
eh?” Then he added gruffly, “Come out on
the verandah while the cursed thing brings
the food. I can hardly keep from kicking
the brute whenever it comes near me with
its hairy paws.”
We went through the open French win-
dows on to the shaded verandah, and from
our deck chairs watched the white-clad ape
hopping about, closely attended all the time
by Mrs. Bellevue, who read to it from the
Browning volume at intervals.
“All we want now,” remarked the old
K.C. in a loud voice, “is a barrel-organ. At
the present moment I feel degraded enough
to turn the handle myself.”
Mrs. Bellevue countered promptly. “Don’t
be absurd, Howard! The poor monkey is
doing beautifully. (Now set the chairs,
Thomas. Yes, the chairs, Boy. Wait a
minute !. .. . Aggle-uk, Thomas ! Yes,
Aggle-uk, there’s a dear!) Now, Howard,
see how promptly he obeys! Why, he’s
almost as good as poor Wagglin !”
At these words a ragged object upended
itself at the verandah steps and hooted
angrily. “Got a monkey in me place!” it
shouted. “ I’ve seen yer rotten monkey!”
Mrs. Bellevue paled and dropped her re-
vised edition of Browning. The ape fumbled
foolishly with the furniture. Old Bellevue
leaped clean out of his chair. “Who’s
that?” he demanded, peering short-sightedly
into the gloom.
“It’s me!” shouted the shadow defiantly.
“It’s me —Wagglin! I ’eard you ’ad a rot-
ten monkey in me old place; but I wouldn’t
bleeve it, so I come along to see for meself.
I’ll '’ave th’ lor of you, Mr. Bellevue, for
puttin’ a dirty monkey in my plaqe! That
ain’t British justice, Mr. Bellevue, to go an’
employ dirty monkeys! I’ll ’ave th’ lor of
you an’ soo you for ’eavy damages!”
Bellevue pointed a shaking forefinger at
the maddened intruder. “Didn’t I warn you
never to come here again?”
“Yes, yer did ! But I’m goin’ to stick up
for me rights! I’m a pore man, Mr. Belle-
vue, an’ certain persons ’ave done their best
to rooin me character; but I ain’t goin’ to be
put down be enyone. I’m goin’ to get some
British justice, I am! Nobody won’t go
stickin’ no monkeys in my place while I’m
about! I’m a ’uman bein’, 1 am, an’ I de-
mand to be treated as one! I arsk you now,
wot right ’ave you got to go an’ put a mon-
key in me place?”
“I only got another monkey!” shouted
Bellevue furiously.
“Oh, Howard ! How cruel you are !” Mrs.
Bellevue rustled out to the verandah and
leant over the railing. “Now Wagglin, you
mustn’t be angry with Mr. Bellevue, or he
will be cross with you ! Calm yourself like
a sensible man. We meant no harm, you
know !”
“Well, I’m damned!” breathed the K.C.
“I’m sorry, Mrs. Bellevue, mum ! I didn’t
mean to be ’arsh.” Wagglin, the shadowy,
face to face with his patroness, grudgingly
took up a penitent attitude and commenced
to whine. “But you know, Mrs. Bellevue,
it don’t seem right for a dirty monkey to be
put in the place of a ’uman bein’—specially
wen that ’uman bein’ ’as done ’is best to
please. W’y did you go an’ put a monkey
in me place, Mrs. Bellevue?”
The lady of the house fluttered unhappily.
“Oh, because we couldn’t get anyone to do
the work, Wagglin.”
“But I was about, mum! You could ’ave
got me! Send th’ monkey away, Mrs.
Bellevue, an’ take me back!”
The master of the house grunted wrath -
fully in the shadow. The mistress wrung
her white hands at the suppliant outcast.
“Oh, Wagglin, we really couldn’t, you
know! Then we’ve spent a whole fifty
pounds on Thomas —and he’s such a faith-
ful old thing!”
At this Wagglin dashed his ragged hat on
the ground. “Bought a monkey!” he
screamed. “You’ve bought a stinkin’ mon-
key and put it in me place! This ain’t
British justice! It’s just slavery faked up
to save me wages!”
“Clear out!” commanded Bellevue explo-
sively.
“I won’t clear out! I’m goin’ to get a
bit of me own back. You just watch and
see me fix your stinkin’ monkey!” Before
anyone could move, he had run up the steps,
bounded into the lighted room and grappled
with the astonished ape.
Mrs. Bellevue screamed shrilly, and the
ape evidently mistook the noise for the com-
mand to sweep up the leavings. Probably
she had hit on the correct scream by acci-
dent. Disengaging himself with a swift
wriggle, he whipped up the massive wooden
crumb tray and broom, and made frantic
efforts to sweep Wagglin on to it. There
was a terrific scramble, in the midst of
which Wagglin fell with a dull thud. Be-
fore he could rise, one hairy arm had rolled
him on to the platter and he was hoisted
into the air and rushed kicking from the
room. His yells diminished as he was borne
swiftly and irresistibly down the long, dimly-
lit hall. Followed faint sounds of a desper-
ate scuffle in the yard, a metallic rattle and
a final cymbal-like crash. Almost immedi-
ately we heard the rush of returning foot-
steps, and Wagglin, white-faced and decor-
ated with scraps of rubbish, ran howling out
the hall entrance. “’E chucked me in th’
dustbox! I’ll ’ave th’ lor of you for this!
’E took an’ chucked me in th’ !”
A white-clad figure dashed out like a gfeat
spider and whipped him off again.
“Come back!” screamed Mrs. Bellevue.
But the command was in good English, and
the ape did not stop. Within five seconds
we heard the lid of the dustbox clash again.
“I hope to Heaven he isn’t injured !” mut-
tered Bellevue anxiously. As he spoke, the
scurry of approaching feet became louder.
“They’re coming back again! Get the
book QUICK !”
I dashed for the book. At the same in-
stant Wagglin reached the verandah for the
second time. “ ’E’s murderin’ me! ’E ’it
me on the ’ead with th’ lid! If yer don’t
stop ’im I’ll go straight”——
“LOOK OUT. YOU FOOL!” screamed
the K.C. “DON’T TALK ! RUN !”
But Wagglin was jerked back into dark-
ness as he screamed.
By this time I had retrieved the Brown-
ing book, and was fumbling with the pages.
At the warning crash of the dustbox lid I
had discovered the monkey word for “Stop-
sit down.” As they began the home rush
for the third time I cried. “Here it is! Say
it all altogether—‘GUK-WOOF.’”
When Waerglin shot out the front door
for the third time, we all yelled together,
“GUK-WOO-OF!” The white cyclone
stopped dead in its tracks, hobbled meekly
into the dining-room, and, sitting down on
a chair, folded its arms.
Wagglin who was crouched abjectly by
the railings, looked up in response to our
earnest assurances that he was safe, and
saw his tormentor sitting silent and erect
like a wooden footman. “W’y did ’e do it?”
he whispered brokenly. “ ’Ow was It’ know
th’ monkey gent understood wot I was say-
in’? I wouldn’t ’ave spoke disrespectful if
I’d known ’e was listenin’! I thought ’e
was a —l thought ’e was just a monkey!....
Tell ’im. if yer please, that I didn’t know!
Reely, I didn’t!” His voice trailed miser-
ably away, and he sat holding his bruised
head.
Bellevue dived into his pocket and pulled
out a coin. “Here! Here’s something for —
something for your trouble! Now go away
like a good fellow and clean yourself up a
bit.”
The wretched Wagglin, crowned disgrace-
fully with rubbish, accepted the sovereign
gratefully. Pic-kina: himself up by degrees,
he bashfully twiddled his ragged hat and
glanced nervously at the proud monkey in
charge. Then, jerking his grimy thumb in
the brute’s direction, he mumbled humbly:
“Mr. Bellevue, sir. would yer mind if I was
ter arsk ’im—th’ monkey gent that is—if I
was ter arsk ’im ter ’ave a drink w ;fV > mp?”
KODAK.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN DRIVES
fcsSSJ
m Hi
■m. ■■■ ■
m
■ I
ntilp
Ilf
SiifeJ
Hi
For all types of high-speed
power transmission.
Positive in Action
Siient in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces. Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Wcstinghousc Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES. [2
BOILER TROUBLES
and THEIR REMEDY
Qpexioß
Jg
NOT A
BOILER
FLUID
Let Your Boilerman Make a Test
Give him a Two-gallon Drum of Apexior—-see that lie applies it
in the right way- - and after a few months ask him if it has
not stopped corrosion and pitting—if there is more scale on the
parts not covered with Apexior:—if the small amount of scale
adhering to the part that is covered with Apexior falls off with
the slightest tap—if he thinks the efficiency of the Boiler would
be increased by its exclusive use. We are willing to let Apexior
be judged by his answer. But send for a trial drum while you
think of it.
Tried and Tested and Now Used Regularly by many of the
Largest Steam Users in Australia.
SOLE AGENTS
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Waverley at £,350
is Ideal for Doctors.
The impressive style, thorough finish and big practical working power make the Waverley
an ideal car for medical men. Its lines are graceful, the car is roomy, the appointments
are complete. The Waverley creates a good impression.
% Look into the chassis and you find the most substantial construction as well as refinement
in every detail. ..The flexibility of the engine, the unique suspension, the efficient trans-
mission and the perfect balance —these are some of . the features that instantly appeal. And
when in everyday use the Waverley fulfils i,ts promise by an ease of running, a freedom
from trouble and' a very low rate of upkeep.
The 12-14 model of this British-built car costs £350. You need only compare it with
any car at the price to realise its superiority. Send for specifications or arrange a trial
run. The beauty, speed and comfort of the Waverley will certainly please you.
BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 4352.
WAVERLEY CARS,
METZ CARS,
INDIAN MOTOCYCLES.
PLANT FOR. SALE, Now in Full Work.
75-h.p. Westinghouse Steam Engine, direct coupled to 50 Kilowatt 125 volt Generator,
complete • • £350
40-h.p. Westinghouse Standard Steam Engine .. £lOO
40-h.p. Westinghouse Junior type .. £(JO
Suction Gas Plant, including 37-h.p. Crossley Engine .. .. .. £250
May be inspected with full load. Will shortly be replaced by enlarged electric plant. Early
application necessary. Exceptional opportunity. v *
BEALE (EL CO. LTD., Annandale, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine .
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For-Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading 1 Co.,
write for full particulars to 340 Kei\t St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
HEALTH IN EVERY BOX.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
Sawmillers, Joiners and Cabinet Makers
You all require Economical, High-speed
WOODWORKING MACH
Ask us for Catalogues.
Ask us for References.
Ask us for Advice
Ask us for Prices.
You will find that—Our Machines give you satisfaction.
You will find that—We hold the largest stock in Australia.
You will find that—Our expert advice is to your benefit.
You will find that—Our Prices as MANUFACTURERS are reasonable.
WE SA l/E YOU MONEY.
Write, call or 'phone ; we are always ready for you to discuss our machines.
THE PREMIER SAWMILL & WOODWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURERS,
KIRCHNER & CO.
3
2 Market St., Sydney,
'PHO'JE; CITY—7O9I.
We’re Not Asking You
to BUY a Waterous Mill
That’ll come later. What we want you to do just now is to get in touch with
our “Waterous” Mill expert. We KNOW he can show you that a
“Waterous” installation would profit you. When you see the facts you’ll
not hesitate. It’s too long a story to tell here, but. when you say the
word, we’re ready to go very fully into the matter. It’s just as much to
your interest as to ours to look into the question of Mill Efficiency. Will
you?
In addition to Band and Circular Mills, we feature General Woodworking
Machinery, by makers who know how.
PANEL PLANERS.
3 & 4 CUTTER PLANERS
SPINDLE MOULDERS
CHAIN MORTISERS
TENONING MACHINES
SANDERS
WOOD-BENDING MACHINES
CONCAVE FELLOE SAWING MACHINES
TWO-SIDE FELLOE PLANING MACHINES
SPOKE AND HANDLE BLANK SAWS
DOVE-TAILERS
AUTOMATIC HUB TURNING MACHINES
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. GOODALL & GO., LTD.
(Universal Machinery Merchants),
303-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS soecify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
A SAVING of SO% in ELECTRICITY BILL
E CAN IMPROVE the Electric Lighting of your store by 50%,
and show you a saving of the whole cost of the alterations in J 2
months under the usual conditions of lighting stores.
ALSO, WE CAN GIVE YOU A LIGHT WHICH EXACTLY MATCHES DAYLIGHT.
SEND FOR OUR PAMPHLET ON THIS SUBJECT.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd,
MELBOURNE: 53 William St.
’Phone—City 5117.
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
’Phone—City 3520.
BRISBANE: Roma St.
'Phone—Cent. 3676.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
the original and
genuine balata.
TRADb.
»5r
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a ffuard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: Jc&ITIGS Hell'diC & CO.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
.
Tangye Portable Oil Engine.
Tangye Centrifugal Pump
Gem” Milking Plant and Tangye Oil Engine.
DALGETY& COMPANY LTD.
Machinery Merchants,
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
We Specialise in High Class-
Milking Plants, Shearing Plants,
Pumping & Irrigation Plants,
Kerosene Oil Engines,
Benzine Engines,
Steam Engines,
Agricultural Implements, etc.
■
Olavton & Shuttleworth Traction Engine
m
' , ■ ■ >■:
Tangye (l Colonial” Steam Engine.
Write for Illustrated Lists-
Tangye Suotion Gas Plant
THE
u
%
X
m
N
CO
LU
-
DALGETY& C9L™
=—AGENTS.*™ 1 -
m/:
American Tool Works Company
Lathes, Planers, Shapers 8 Radial Drills
The most modern designs in
High-Speed Machines of this make
carried in stock. In the construc-
tion of the Radial Brills has been
taken into consideration every
condition. As they stand to-day,
the American Radial Drills are
absolutely beyond comparison in
their facilities for High-Speed
Production, Accuracy of Align-
ments, and Durability.
Call and inspe’ct, or write us for
illustrations and description, and
prices.
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NAT
OIL ENGINES
For RESIDUE OIL or any
grade of Common
Paraffin.
Suitable for both
MARINE and
STATIONARY PURPOSES.
WARBURTON, FRANK I LTD.,
NEWCASTLE. 307-311 Kent Street, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents,- DanGAR GEDYE & Co, SYDNEY.
From the first, the “Lister” sprang into
well-deserved popularity—best evidence of its
betterness.
All parts guaranteed interchangeable with
the Wolseley.
“Lister” duplicates meet fully an insistent
demand for parts of the greatest superiority.
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving CHaffcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
Sunshine, Vic . Adelaide Brisbane Sydney Melbourne ,
EVERLASTING VALVES
FOR
BOILER BLOW OFF, CYANIDE VATS, et®.
Section of Valve.
Self Grinding, Self Compensating,
Screwed or Flanged,
In Iron, Semi-Brass and All Brass.
OIL FILTERS
(Williams’ Patent)
Description. —The large vessel is the filtering
cylinder; int© the bottom division the oil is poured
through the funnel. The top vessel is a water tank
of exactly the same capacity as the bottom one, and
connected by a pipe. The pressure of the water
forces the oil through the filtering medium into the
reservoir above, whence it is drawn off quite clean.
Prir*** 4? K Sydney or Melbourne. SENT ON APPROVAL.
■ I iVC IF UNSATISFACTORY, RETURN it at OUR EXPENSE.
Five Gallons of Dirty Oil can be made quite clean & fit for use In 8 minutes.
N. GUTHRIDGE IT
16 Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney ; 525 Collins St., Melbourne.
water
WATER
TANK
%
•VI DUMMY
reservoir
FOR
ALTERED ML
C.L CRATES
terfcni-
met
PAD
RECEPTACLE
Dmi mm
/« -n
DIRTY OH.
