

THE GENIAL SPIRIT.
R. C3r. WATRINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
IT IS NOT COMPULSORY
but it is wise, if an advance of money is required, to go to
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co. Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney 74.
186 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Svvanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT,
General Muitajj
Money Advanced upon All Classes of Security at Lowest Kales of Interest.
\Y
cum
Ifni
hYii
Doctors Recommend
GILBEY’S DRY GIN
BCOBAR.T.
wßs
fjadtey s Orient [jotel.
PI O NEED
LEATHER BELTING *'■
Guahantskd
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
jhk
it
back
Take
have
I must
t
s
HUTTON
FincApplc Brand
TF
9
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
jh
HANSENS
ĥj
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVER 1 OWN RUBBER CO..
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEW CASI LE
ĵ
f
r
§
»
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY*
MAI/FHOID Roofing covers buildings in every part of the world. In many of
the great cities of America and the East, it roofs the best buildings. The
reason > Just that there isn’t a better roofing made; iust that, and
nothing more. We’d like to send you particulars of the buildings roofed
with it in your State.
AMTW'UD is a new product that offers the homebuilder a
interior finish than plaster—a more sensible finish than
wall that is cheaper than hardwood, but one that looks
Of AMIWUD we’d gladly send you samples in Golden
Weathered Oak and Mahogany.
more desirable
wall paper—a
exactly like it.
Oak, Jenisero,
BOTH MADE BY
The Paraffine Paint Co., Challis House, SYDNEY.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BJL
GOLD SEAL
Extra
Special
WHITE SEAL
s.v.o.
LICHTI NC
COOKI NC
H EATI NC
jj
SPENSERS'
IDEAL PETROL
AIR CAS
a
JMatVirtue&i
MACHINERY MERCHANTS
352 KENT STREETnearIVmdS ,
SYDNEY
ĵj
k
HELIDON SPA
HELIDON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
STARKEYS LTD Agents ,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
V 01.34— No. 1737.1
I"Thursday, May 29. 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


GREAT BOOR SALE.
OUR ANNUAL. SALE COMMENCES ON SATURDAY, MAY 31.
BARGAINS IN BOOKS.—THOUSANDS OP BOOKS IN ALL 'BRANCHES OP LITERATURE. AT
GREATLY REDUCED PRICES
4000 Bs. 6d. CLOTH-BOUND NOVELS OFPERED at Is. 6,1. and U EACH.
Our 64-PAGE SALE CATALOGUE IS NOW READY, and will be sent Post Free to any address.
WRITE FOR A COPY TO-I)AV.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat and the
Prevention of
Consumption.
A. The Larynx
or Organ of
Voice.
B. The Trachea
or Windpipe.
C. The Bron-
chial Tubes
of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of
one of the
Lungs
MB
CAUTION.—The large sale for Eul
JUJUBES” lias led to a n y™ be f r h name of
tions being manufactured un e jmpor tant,
menthol and other jujubes. ~n (j get
therefore, when buying, to. be m av
HUDSON’S “Eumenthol Jujubes. they
be asked to buy other ■l UJ “ be ?^ n - s “Eumenthol
are “just as good as Hud 3o imit ations
Jujubes.” This proves that ™ e t f of their
and substitutes have no, rep h®! vood repute
own, and can only be so d on the *ooc^ hol
and high character of Hudsons bun
Jujubes.” - /i
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tins 10.
Forwarded post free on receipt of stamps
by the Manufacturers, Cn Ltd.,
, , rn
Hudson’s Kumenthol Cte»jc syD^v
Box 1520 0.P.0. 1
The Red Page
The Female
“What is the cause of woman's discontent
with modern womanly opportunities? The
desire on the part of some women for fran-
chise changes, of others for increased occu-
pational facilities, of others for a wider
domestic horizon, and yet others for the
more or less complete abandonment home
life and the subordination or even rejection
of maternal claims; these desires are but
superficial expressions of a deeper feeling;
and until we understand this governing feel-
ing we cannot legislate without the gravest
possibilities of disaster. When the young
girl mind opens out into the womanly, why
does a feeling of discontent with womanli-
ness and its opportunities tend to arise? Is
this discontent biological or educational,
healthy or unhealthy? Until we can an-
swer these preliminary investigations the
time will not have arrived for legislative
action.”
Thus biologist and sociologist J. Lionel
Tayler, in The ■Nature of Woman (Fifield)
—a biological examination of the female of
our species. He refuses to consider Her ex-
cept as anything but a rather curious scien-
tific specimen. On good grounds he ‘com-
bats the assertion recently made by woman
writers that woman’s brain does not differ-
entiate from man’s brain —that the brain is
not an organ of sex, and that to speak of a
female mind is as silly as to speak of a
female liver.
“This attitude assumed that the minds of
men and women were different, but consid-
ered that these differences were due to differ-
ent habits of life and training, forgetful of
the obvious fact that mental differences are
marked in higher birds and mammals who
are not differently trained nor differently
environed in early life, forgetful, too, of the
unquestionable influence that male and
female reproductive glands exert on the in-
dividual as a whole.... Sex is of biological,
of mental and bodily significance. . . .Woman
is, of course, not a mere female man, but a
woman possessed of womanliness
Womanliness is a broad characteristic of
woman and manliness of man.”
“What prompted woman to feel dissatis-
fied was never discovered, has not been dis-
covered at the present time. She has been
merely treated as a sexless being, as
a man with female functions, or as an in-
ferior human being having a subordinate
social value.... Why women were fairLy
satisfied with their lives till 200 years ago;
why this dissatisfaction broke out only in
the cultured parts of the world, and there
only in the more cultured classes, has never
been studied.”
S
The author points out that this dissatis-
faction of women wrongly assumes-that men
are satisfied. He stresses the overlooked
fact that there are two movements of equal
importance, the woman’s movement and the
man’s movement. And he also insists on the
friend 'mss that continues to exist between
the s despite the universal discontent of
each. here men and women are employed
toget. though the women are as a class
underselling the men, where they are accept-
ing less than the living wage for similar
work, it is a noteworthy fact that amicable
relationships are preserved.
“That employers, whether men or women,
can and do induce women to take less than
men is another aspect pf the problem de-
pendent probably on woman’s biological
nature; but the friendliness of the man em-
ployee with the woman employee is very re-
markable, When it is borne in mind how all
but universally the woman takes lower
wages for similar work than the man. The
plain actuality, freed from misrepresenta-
tive propagandism. is that woman is discon-
tented. and that her discontent is not pri-
marily a sex discontent at all, and the
discontent of the man is just as noticeable
and very similar in many of its aspects to
that of the Woman.” And man’s discontent
is not a physical discontent, is not due to
increase-of machinery, to the loss of the per-
sonal influence in life, nor to lack of educa-
tional opportunity. Like woman’s discon-
tent, its rise is without a satisfactory ex-
planation.
The author finds no satisfactory evidence
of a woman’s contention that in the early
stages of civilisation women ruled; and if
the contention of a matriarchy could be sus-
tained, it Would tell against the claims of
womanhood, for in that case the status of
the woman would have declined with ad-
vancing social evolution, instead of having,
in some measure, advanced with it. As for
the married woman’s demand for “economic
independence,” the biologist shows that the
treatment of the wife has practically nothing
to do with the question as to who holds the
purse-strings. The navvy’s wife is habitu-
ally hammered, but her husband gives her
all his wages, and gets back for . pocket-
money merely what his wife thinks the house-
hold can spare.
J*
A real reason for woman’s dissatisfaction
with married life lies in the tendency of the
man to become less manly, and more a nega-
tive and well-drilled unit. The man of to-
dav. while' he is better informed, more law-
abiding. more refined, is also less an indivi-
dual, less a responsible human being, and
therefore is less interesting to his wife as a
companion as well as to himself. Also,
modern education, by stressing the intellect
and ignoring intuition, has tended to make
the woman feebly rational, instead of alertly
intuitive.
The author’s conclusions as to the future
of woman are; —
“On making two perfectly simple and
scientific assumptions, one, that for the
majority of women marriage and parentage
are the normal, healthy destinies; two, that
the home must persist for the needs of the
child, we see what common-sense suggests aS
well, that marriage is an occupation in it-
self, and therefore excludes other occupa-
tions, and therefore for the married! woman
the wage-earning market must be closed.”
One of the best, because most scientific,
books yet written about the female —the
Sphinx, as Strindberg has reminded us, whose
riddle cannot be read because there is no
riddle there.
&
Thus the biologist and the male. Now for
the female presentment of the case. Rosa
Mayreder, in A Purvey of the Woman
t’roblem, translated from the German
(Ileinernann, per Sydney Book Club), is as
learned but not so lucid: she inclines to
vagueness. Perhaps to women she is plain:
this critic happens to be male. But Rosa
Mayreder is interesting; and for a German
summing of the problem her book has a
breadth of vision and a thoroughness that
are Teutonically typical. Historically, she
maintains, the movement has an idealistic,
not a materialistic, origin. Economic im-
provements, though without them the move-
ment could hardly have become a practical
one, would by themselves have had little
effect in changing the real relations of the
sexes. And, “speaking for myself alone,
and as a mere matter of subjective taste, I
would give file preference to the male sex,
but that seems to be a preference naturally
inherent in the female.” You see, she likes
us. being a woman, though, being an ad-
vanced woman, she doesn’t like to like us.
J*
What is masculinity and what femi-
ninity? The difficulty of a final definition
is exhaustively shown by Rosa Mayreder.
“We ought to mean nothing more, than the
teleological weakness of woman and the
teleological strength of man when we speak
of 'specifically feminine and specifically
masculine qualities. They comprise the
suitability of the individual’s psychic con-
stitution for the achievement of his duty to
the species.” In the special domain of
erotics, is man always the “active” sex and
woman the “passive”? Rosa Mayreder
points out that the man is not always the
wooing party, and that little attraction is
exercised by a completely passive femi-
ninity. And there are almost 'as great
differences between, say, a Parisienne and a
big-boned woman of North Germany, as be-
tween this North German woman and the
“small, trim, gentle, gay and amiable” men
not infrequently to.be found in the Aus-
trian army. Yet the German author con-
cludes by "explicitly emphasising the fact
that the majority of women are, neither in
the qualities of character nor of intellect,
the equal of man.” And she sighs: “This
fact weighs heavily, very heavily, on the
lives of these women who do not belong to
the majority of their sex.”
Granted this, any achievement by woman
ought to be valued much more highly than
any equal achievement of man. for woman
has greater difficulties, both from within
and from without, to overcome. Thus one
of the greatest acts of injustice done by
man is to compare the feminine intellectu-
ality in an historical sense with the mascu-
line —making use of man himself as a mas-
culine standard. Man sets his own standard
—and judges a quite different being, and
one who has had no say in setting the stan-
dard, by that imposed outside standard.
The chief fetter of the female —imposed
by Nature—is her disposition bond-
age and subordination. This susceptibility
to suggestion which subjects lief to the in-
fluence of the masculine will, is an intrinsic
factor in provision against any evasion by
the individual of her duties to the race.
(Man has his fetter, too.) Another im-
pediment to her mental development is her
motherhood. “Nature had no other pur-
pose in view as far as woman was con-
cerned, than to adapt her for motherhood,
even at the cost of rendering all her other
capacities inferior to-those of the man.”
And civilisation has enormously increased
the heaviness of Nature’s burden. For civi-
lisation is almost entirely a product of man.
and is based chiefly upon his own needs and
requirements. The result is that the pos-
sibility of woman being also an individual
has hardly been considered.
But if a woman has to handicap herself
by motherhood, may she not. find in the
training of her children a compensating
privilege? Rosa Mayreder voices an em-
phatic “No!”
“The woman who omits to develop any
special talent of her own because of her be-
lief that it is possible for her to ‘develop’
it in her son, will, in 09 cases out of 100. be
grievously cheated of the fruits of her life.
Why not live your own lives, dear mothers,
and thereby spare your children all these '
immense burdens of 'hopes and wishes which
they must bear with them under the sup-
position that their duty in life is to please
you and not themselves? It is rather the
exception than the rule to find children so
similar to the parents that a full under-
standing is possible between them. Every
generation develops itself in certain oppo-
site ways to the one preceding it; .the
parent-generation uses up the spiritual pos-
sessions whose bearer it had been, the
child-generation must create new ones for
itself. In that consists its spiritual life-
function. and should it limit itself to retain-
ing the ideals of good education which have
been delivered to it. it would give away its
most precious privilege.”
The belief of parents that they themselves
may live again in their children is an illu-
sion. Biologically the child comes from a
much further distance than its parents.' It
is the child of unknown ancestors as much
as it is your child. Still less is the child
the “work” of its parents, or especially of
the mother who trains it.
• 1 here could be nothing more dangerous
for the freedom of the children and their
personal development than the tendency of*
the mother to regard her offspring as her
work and to consider their up-bringing
as the one single duty of her life. . . .
What adult person really cares to be con-
sidered as the product of the training he
has received? This thought is not likely
to make any person particularly elate. Nor
is it calculated to arouse the gratitude of
children: on the contrary, it inspires the
children with a tendency to hold their
parents to account for all that life has with-
held from them, and even for their personal
shortcomings.”
And of what avail is a mother’s training?
External conditions of life operate upon
the young man far more decisively. The
mother is helpless when the world, and
especially the flesh, call to her growing sons.
“When one observes the indifference and
stupidity with which women who dedicate
their entire lives to the cause of education,
overlook the conditions into which their male
children are plunged when scarcely full-
grown. then one is moved to ask whether
the entire chauvinism of education does not
merely serve as an excuse for glossing over
the lives of women with an appearance of
more worth and substance than they really
deserve at the present stage of civilisa-
tion.”
J*
One of the most important factors in the
rise of the feminist movement is that noted
by the biologist author of The 'Nature of
Woman. The male, with civilisation,
ceases to be so masculine. But so far he
hasn't a suspicion that he has become a
woman. Our German feminist produces her
evidence. Iler first witness is an Australian
aborigine, who states : “A man hunts, spears,
fishes, fights, and sits about; the rest is all
woman’s work.” That is the savage con-
ception of masculinity. Does it stand the
test of modern civilised conditions? The
theory is thus put:—
“Everything masculine lias an aggres-
sive. bearing towards the outer world ; every-
thing feminine is defensive; man has ex-
pansive impulses and a strong will ; hp is
enterprising, eager to conquer, warlike, and
will suffer no restriction; but the female
sex, by virtue of its weak will, is subject
and in need of subjection, timid, peaceful,
patient, etc.” Civilisation and culture
bring man nearer to woman; they render
him effeminate; they are anti-virile. Even
warfare, where discipline is more necessary
than rash courage, has lost its manliness.
Sport and hunting have largely lost their
element of personal danger.
“Do the careers that are pursued by our
men of intellect still retain anything in
common with the instincts which charac-
terised masculinity in its primitive form?
The Government office, the court of justice,
the counting-house, the studio —they are
but sepulchres of essential masculinity. The
great cities are its veritable cemeteries.
Here all those dangers that brought it into
being are eliminated. All the influences of
life' in great cities tend to produce the very
infirmity which has. least in common with
masculinity—nervous disease The
general proportion of the strong to the
weak is, with men as with women, that of
the. few to the many The great
majority of men, like the great majority of
women, live in a state of bondage and under
the necessity of dependence. Most men in
the social community are very far from be-
ing free agents in their own lives and
actions.”
Ilosa Mayreder is frank : “For most women
the number of conquests and adventures
which a man may have had are in a direct
proportion to the fascination which he exer-
cises upon them; they even regard these
conquests as an advantage. The idea of the
virginity of a man possesses no charm for
them. Though it uiav not appear exactly
repugnant to them, it nevertheless leaves
them cold. They regard male polygamy as a
matter of course and unalterable.” Yet
the author notes frequent exceptions, usually
inarticulate. She ends: "Woman and
woman are no more alike than man and
man.”
As for the reading of the riddle of the
Sphinx, “We shall be able to know wliat
women are only when we no longer dictate
to them what they should be.” And she
pleads for a new education for woman. At
present the female is taught to regard weak-
ness and beauty as her most-to-be-desired
attributes. But her job is maternity. “A
life chiefly occupied with the cultivation of
Ijeauty cannot produce a state of mind con-
ducive to maternity. Maternity constitutes
one of the most violent attacks upon beauty ;
it produces not only a temporary disfigure-
ment. but frequently a lasting one. It is
precisely because their beauty is so transi-
tory that woman should be loth to enact the
role of the fair sex—since by this they doom
themselves to being valued at their full
worth for only a small fraction of their
lives.”
Well, there it is. Nature devised the
female for only one job. Granted that she
is getting dissatislied with her job, the female
trade union hasn’t yet gone out on strike.
It is admitted that in the apportioning of
work the female has been unfairly treated.
But it wasn’t man, nor his civilisation,
which gave the female her job. In the past,
it is true, the male has not made any effort
to compensate the female in other ways on
account of her longer hours of work; but
Nature id now taking a hand, and by the
mere fact that man’s civilisation tends to
become less masculine, it is thereby becom-
ing almost the sort of civilisation that the
female would have created for herself. The
new opportunities now afforded the female
for the mental and social development of her-
self, the new avenues opened to her, are signs
of the gradual redressing of the balance.
This is not due to man’s magnanimity, but
to his increasing effeminacy under the condi-
tions of his own masculine civilisation. But
however effeminate the male becomes, the
female will always have the worst of the
job. And the majority of the females are
euite content to go on working overtime at
their immemorial job, under conditions which
have ruled since Chaos got a kink in hiJ
neck and advertised in the daily miner tbS
henceforth lie had changed his name in
Cosmos The few females who possess
brains (and bombs) have to drag with them
the heavy chains of the other females who
haven't either, and wouldn’t have any use
for them if they had. That is the real traeedv
of the Woman’s Movement.
The Australian Repertory Theatre move-
ment proceeds. The latest announcement is
the establishment of a repertory theatre in
Sydney. Caleb Porter, the well-known Eng-
lish actor .and stage manager, who has been
in Australia with Wilson Barrett and is now
with Oscar Asche, has resigned from the lat-
ter’s company to take over its management
Alfred Hill will be musical director. Special
attention is to be devoted to the Australian
author. The present ideal is an organisation
similar to that of the successful Melbourne
Repertory Theatre, but musical works will
be produced as well ns the drama. Federa-
tion Hall has been secured for the theatre
and it is admirably equipped for its purpose’
It is proposed to keep closely to the reper-
tory aim of short runs.
The Story of the Bar of Victoria, from its
foundation in 1839 to the amalgamation of
the two branches of the legal profession in
1891, is interestingly and exhaustively told
in 300 pages by John Leonard Forde
(Whitcombe and Tombs, Melb., 55.). The
best method of indicating the character of
this delightful work is to state that it is
history told in anecdote, with the personal
touch that brings the reader into close
acquaintance with the Victorian Gent One.
It will lie read with interest and delight by
every lawyer in Victoria, and by many
lawyers who happen to reside beyond the
temporary fences of that State.
Gregan McMahon writes with reference to
the one-act plays that were submitted to
the Melbourne Repertory Theatre by the
“Red Page,” that the opportunity for him
to present one-aeters is very rare; and, since
his experience is that the one-act play is not
at present attractive in itself, he can only
utilise such plays as curtain-raisers to ii
short drama. Of the five one-aeters sub-
mitted as the best of the bunch culled by the
“Red Page” competition, Edward Dyson's
Play lias been produced ; and of the rest Mr.
McMahon likes best Anoli the Blind. “It
has grip, but I think the others too slight.”
The opportunity to produce Dyson's The
Climax came only after McMahon had had
it for two years. McMahon finds the one-
act play a great tax on a cast not wholly
comprised of experienced actors; every part
in such a play must tell, while in a full
length play one or two “passengers” may
be carried without appreciable effect on the
dramatic result. He is unable properly to
cast Anoli the Blind, and returns it with the
others. These have been sent to the Ade-
laide Literary Theatre.
According to the English Catalogue of
Books for 1912, Le Queux, Effie A. Row-
lands, Charles Garvice and E. P. Oppenheim
seem to be the most popular authors in fic-
tion. Garvice, it will be remembered, is the
literary critic specially chosen to judge the
Australasian novels forwarded to Ilodder
and Stoughton’s recent competition. But
Ella Wheeler Wilcox is more popular than
any novel writer in England.
In the art of town-planning Australia has.
as yet, everything to learn. In Europe the
movement for more artistic and therefore
more healthy homes has made marvellous
progress, and has already its own maga-
zines. In England there is a quarterly, The
Town JHanning Review, produced bv the
Dept, of Civic Design in the School of Archi-
tecture of the Liverpool University, well
illustrated and well written; and London
has a threepenny monthly illustrated maga-
zine. Garden Cities and Town Planning. The
Australian capital design naturally receives
from these journals close attention and
criticism. The Garden Cities and Town
Planning Association, recognising _ our bar-
barism, is about to send a missionary to
lecture throughout Australia upon this vital
subject.


A
vee
Attractive Dcsirtna
c^rAutarnaa
<r
m
k
&
'•1-
B
ar
Ppigps
ANTHONY HORDEDNS 1
Anthony Horderns'
Winter Fashion Book
is an authoritative guide
to the prevailing modes.
The Illustrations faith-
fully depict selections from
the noteworthy display in
the Green Room of
Charming Reception
Dresses and Evening
Gowns, Rich Fur Sets
and Smart Ready-to-wear
Costumes, Blouses and
Skirts. Fashions for
Young Australia are also
shown, as well as the
New Millinery, Seasonable
Footwear and Lingerie.
Write for a copy, post
free on request.
s> fl
•c£
*-
I fit
IT
2810
' flprd
e i"r\s
U HOW'S
Low
L'rice.s
12 “I
5351
No. 025. Kobe Costume; the basqued bodice is of fine Navy Suiting, with faint
white stripe, sriiall Sailor collar, cuffs and vest effect of Cream Cloth and navy Silk Embroiderj ,
two-piece Skirt of fine, plain Navy Coating Serge, . . . . • • • • • • • 59/6
No. 806. Kobe Costume, in fine diagonal Whipcord, trimmed white Guipure collar, black
Satin pipings, buttons and loops, fastens in front, Navy, Cinnamon, Nattier Blue, Torpedo
Grey
No. 8/805. Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine quality Face Cloth, smartly tailored with
new pointed panel at back, and finished large slanting button holes piped Satin to match, plain
Satin buttons, four-piece Skirt has pointed empiecement with button holes and buttons &tba.c '
Chestnut, Nattier, Torpedo Grey, Beaver, Navy and Black 63/-
No. 253. Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine all wool Venetian Face Cloth, the collar, cuffs
and hip sections embroidered Silk Braiding. Skirt is three-piece, with lapped seams a s { ,
in Black, Navy, Mole and Bronze o'*/-
No. 1281. Well Tailored %-lensrth Coat, of warm rough Cheviot Serge, in Navy only,
plain, loose back, revers finished colored cloth facings to contrast 17/6
No. 2766. Stylish % -length Coat, Of smart broad rib Cheviot Serge, in Navy only,
straight cut back has large Mohair buttons at side 21/-
No. 2810. — Smart Pull Length Coat, of Black Diagonal Cheviot Serge, firm weight, straight
cut back, spade collar, double revers, and sleeve trimmed Russia Braid, loops and Mohair
buttons .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. 29 / 6
No. 5351. — Fu1l Length All Wool Diagonal Cheviot Serge Coat, Nav new
back has shaped section designed with slanting lapped seams from waist to horn ; Bar
and revers finished with shaped overlay of Electric or Light Navy Face Cloth of
stitching .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. • • / 6
SWnadOM ANO/my
MOJ
S'/JO U/£/J
L-9C
GSASD
1
m
//.
. f/s-e>(2? /yaAuzy -
- syeCQ tyjocfp -3J/C£>
Top Quality at
Bottom Price
is the Golden Rule
at the
New Palace
Emporium,
the Home of
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW
PRICES
acknowledged to be
the LOWEST IN
THE LAND.
Send for Illustrated
Price Lists, Post Free.
<pOpW ar '
J r Coat
Jtyfej
vC
>
o-
T/ ‘" ■. •
hubuh&ham
7171
' CIO BE
ifiiS
/^Zrdern}'
No 363 —Knitted Sports Coat, 45 inches, extra heavy, close knit fancy stripe, odd revers
"in different stitches, finished Satin buttons to match. Grey, ><avy, Cream and Black 00/-
NO 22f>.—Knitted Sports Coat, heavy fancy stitch, 38 inches long, Dove Grey, Amethyst
Old Rose, Helio, Mole, Navy and Black °
NO. 457.—Knitted Sports Coat, 30 inches, double-breasted, roll collar, and belt. Navy,
*Grey, Molle, Saxe, Tan, Cream and Black 10/0
No. 359.—Knitted Golf Coat, heavy stitch, no collar, length 39 inches, in Purple, Navy and
Similar' style, No. 854, 31'inch, with patch pockets. Amethyst, Old Rose, Tan, Myrtle, Reseda,
Saxe, Mole,’ Grey, Cream, Navy and Black 10/0
THE GLOBE. Smartly cut Raincoat, Of fine soft Twill Garbinette, reliable and rain
resisting, full loose back, with vents to button, Raglan sleeves, storm collar, button cult's ana
welted seams ;in Slate, Grey, Fawn or Navy .. .. .. .. .. .. 29/6
No. 7171. Fashionable Full Length Coat, Of Navy Cheviot Serge, the deep spade collar,
large revers and cuffs of self, relieved with inset facings of contrast colored Velvet and Russia
Braiding .. .. .. .. .. .. .• • 10/ 6
No. 1835. Dressy % -length Coat, of fine Navy Face Cloth, full cut, straight back, the
deep round collar, pointed revers and cuffs, richly finished Black Satin Embossed Embroidery—
-35/-
THE HURLINGHAM. — Practical, well-cut, reliable Raincoat, in good quality
Cravenette, full back, double-breasted, coat sleeves, in Bronze, Grey and Fawn, 23/6; and
Navy .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •• •• 24/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,


ARE YOU AS WELL AS YOU SHOULD BE?
Or do you suffer from
When your system is weakened by worry, overwork,
illness, or any other cause —when you feel listless
and low spirited—“Wincarnis” will promptly in-
vigorate and strengthen you. Directly you have
taken a wineglassful of “Wincarnis” you will feel a delicious stimulating
effect. This is caused by “Wincarnis” being immediately absorbed into
the system, thereby stimulating the heart—revitalising the blood —rebuilding
W eaKness
the lost vitality and creating new energy. And
each succeeding glassful still further invigorates
and strengthens you. Every wineglassful makes
you stronger than you were before. Thus by
taking “Wincarnis” regularly for a few days, you will derive new health
new strength, new vigor, new energy and new life. Buy a bottle to-dav
and test this for yourself. ’
Sleeplessness is due to a disorganised con-
dition of the brain cells. The body may
be thoroughly worn out, but, owing to the
excitable and highly-strung state of the
brain, sleep is impossible. Only those who suffer from sleeplessness can
realise the intense misery of the incessant tossing to and fro—the agonising
wait for daybreak—and the feeling of utter exhaustion in the morning.
Sleeplessness
But a wineglassful of “Wincarnis” taken
the last thing at night will compose and
soothe the highly-strung brain, and ensure
an uninterrupted and sweetly refreshing
night’s rest. And while you are asleep “Wincarnis” is busy storing your
system with energy in readiness for another day’s work. Buy a bottle
to-day.
The body is continually wasting away, and
the energy is being continually used up.
So long as the body is able to replace this
waste the system will be normally healthy.
But, unfortunately, the rush and tear of the
up the energy and vitality faster than the bo
Then we get to a state that is known as
present day uses
!y can replace it.
“run-down.” The
“ Run- Down ”
body becomes enfeebled—the nerves are
partially starved—and we suffer from
lassitude, depression and weariness.
Nothing acts so promptly or so effect-
ively in a “run-down” condition as “Winearnis.” A few wine-
glassfuls will give you new vigor, new vitality and new life. Try
it to-day. ,
Coughs, Colds and Chills
You cannot be too careful at this time of the year. The chilly evenings—
the dampness underfoot—the fogs and treacherous winds, are causing an
epidemic of Coughs, Colds, and Chills. The complaints are bad enough in
themselves, but the real danger is that, unless properly checked, they are so
liable to turn to Bronchitis. Asthma, Catarrh, Pneumonia, Consumption
and Influenza. Warm clothing is not sufficient protection. You need
warmth from within —the warmth that “Wincarnis” creates. After takiiw
a wineglassful of “Wincarnis” you will feel a warm, grateful glow all over
the body. That is inner warm'll —natural warmth—warmth that will
adequately protect you from Coughs, Colds and Chills. Buy a bottle to-day,
and prove this for yourself.
j
To-day is the best day to commence taking •• Wincarnis.” Buy a bottle to-day from your Wine Merchant
or Licensed Chemist or Grocer, and test its marvellous strengthening properties.
[2
II
iiimm
o
e
n
E
©
*
minium
lIH
i
*■■■llllllll
» ,-1
Miiiiimiiinm
u
Ulllllllllllllllll
a
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE EXHIBITION
Of Vit til inteiest and lmpoitcince to every branch of commerce, manufacturing', wholesale and retail.
-Eveiy leading Manufacturer of Commercial Vehicles, Petrol, Steam and Ivlectric will be represented.
Every business and trade will be provided for. Motor Lorries, Vans,
Charabancs, Omnibuses, Taxicabs, Agricultural Motors and Tractors, Motor Fire
Engines, Ambulances, Dust and Water Carts —in fact, every conceivable variety
of motor vehicle for light and heavy haulage, and for every commercial, municipal
and agricultural purpose, will be included. A comprehensive display of tyres,
wheels and accessories will complete the display.
JULY
19=26
1913
OLYMPIA
O
<<✓
o
hk
m
w#
LONDON
Enquiries at the Society of
Traders, Limited, Maxwell
Motor Manufacturers and
House, Arundel St., Strand, w.c.


Great Economies Effected and Efficient Working Assured.
There is a General Electric Co.
staff of Specialist Engineers
U.S.A. Motor for every kind of Mining and Industrial Service, and our
is available to select and apply the right motor for the particular
purpose required.
m
gv y )
ms
C.V.C. DIRECT CURRENT MOTOR.
SIMPLE,
SAFE,
RELIABLE,
INEXPENSIVE.
m
■a
ZJ
h
V
1
ft? *.
Si,
K. T. ALTERNATING CURRENT MOTOR.
Work efficiently under heavy overloads—are easily operated by unskilled workmen—give a steady drive—increase output and reduce
maintenance cost—save valuable space—are readily accessible for cleaning and inspection—are fully protected from mechanical injury.
WRITE FOR BULLETIN 7678.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
217 Clarence Street, Sydney ; Corner of Queen (EL Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOLND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
MuSiC, as you like it*,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never sb sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours—Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27 6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
m
•M/-
' <■ tX
r
;r-<T •
Mm
ggt
Ss-
SI
v.; '*
The World-Wide Whi.key.
R URKE'*r
★★★IRISH
WHISKEY
Exquisitely mellow, delicate in flavour, light and
digestive, with a popularity of over 60 vears.
E. &J. Burke, Ltd. (Paid-up Capital £1,100,000. Established 1849),
are by far the lamest Shippers of Bottled Whiskey from Dublin.
‘THE LONE HAND ” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d
NEW PUMPING PLANT for the SYDNEY WATER SUPPLY
will consist of Three WOLF Patent Superheated Steam Plants
driving Gwynne Centrifugal Pumps through Citroen Gears.
s, msi
'JL
I m’m
*+■ ■■
&
,
WOLF SUPERHEATED STEAM LOCOMOBILE.
GWYNNE CENTRIFUGAL PUMP.
As in the case of the Pumping Plant which we are supplying to the PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT for BROKEN HILL, the Water and
Sewerage Board called for Tenders throughout the World, and we- were again successful, because of the great economy and
reliability of our plant. Send tor Catalogue.
Australasian Representatives
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
The Latest in Light Sporting Rifles.
STEVENS
"Marksman” Rifle No. 12.
Especially Designed for Smokeless Powder Ammunition.
c.
hjhj
flyjyLiiM*
Three Calibres—22, 25, or 32 rim fire,
Ask your storekeeper to quote.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
INSIST ON STEVENS
Australian and N.Z. Representative for J. STEVENS
ARMS & TOOL CO., Box BS, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A. [5
mK
u
MARTINI
-22 Cal. RIFLES
Hold the World's Records
Mr. A. J. Dalton of the Collingwood Rifle Club beat
all previous records by scoring 67 consecutive bullseyes
in actual competition. He used the famous No. 0-
B.S.A. Martini Rifle and -B.S.A. Aperture Sight.
Mr. J. Pepe put up another world’s record by scoring
299 out of a possible 300 at 25, 50 and 100 yds. He used
the No. 10 B.S.A. Martini with B.S.A. aperture sights.
Mr. H. Motton won the 1912 championship of New South
Wales, shooting with the No. 6 B.S.A. Martini.
Mr. J. Mues won the 1912 championship of Victoria
shooting with the No. 10 B.S.A. Martini.
B.S.A. Martini Rifles are made in II models, ’22, '3lO
or 32 bore and are unapproachable for nun.-e or
sporting work. Fully described in latest B.S.
Rifle Catalog. Post free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
Representing B.S.A. Company L.J.,
Australian Buildings, Melbourne
&
.
Mb
■Masterpieces of Steel and Wood>
BEIRNE-PRICED.
kj
No. BUSO. WINCHESTER MODEL, 1892, half magazine repeating rifle, 24-ineh round or octa-
gon barrel, magazine capacity, 7 cartridges, weight 6£ to 7io. for 25.20, 32, 38 and 44 Calibre
cartridges. Price, Octagon Barrel, 655. ; Round Barrel, 625. 6s. Postage 3s. extra.
k
8U59. C. G. BONEHILL’S DOUBLE BARREL 12 GAUGE GUN. English fine twist barrels
properly full choke bored in left barrel (right barrel modified) and bored for good shooting,
Engine turned rib, steel rebounding front action locks with hammers below line of sight when
cocked. Stock well seasoned walnut, pistol hand. Deely-edge fore end fastener, neatly designed
butt plate. Price, £5, postage extra, 2s 6d. Write for our Gun Catalogue.
THE
VALLEY,
T. C. BEIRNE & CO BRISBANE
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents —
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
New American Joke
Books illustrated: Hot
Stuff Jokelets, 1/1;
Polite Vaudeville, 1/1 ;
After - Dinner Stories,
1/1 ; Hebrew Jokes,
1/1 ; Stage Jokes, 1/1 ;
Irish Jokes, 1/1 ; Talk-
alogues, 1/1 ; Jokes
Without Whiskers, 1/1 ;
On a Fast Train, 1/1;
On a Slow Train, 1/1;
With a Bum Show,
1/7 ; Mustard Plasters,
1/7 ; The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Brough’s
Secret of Stage Make-
Up, 1/4; Comic Recita-
tions, 1/1 ; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clair-
voyance, 1/1 ; Amateur
Conjuring Book, 7d.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS
hjk
jhk
Diminishing:
Cards.
Ordinary
Play i n fr
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
Complete,
with full in-
struct i on 8;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3Tricks, post free any where 4
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANI.TH ’
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE . rg
hjk
You Take
It Apart
With Your
Hands
Your fingers are
your only tools.
Cleaning done from
the breech, easily and
quickly—you can look
through the barrel and see that it’s clean.
With a Remington7UMC .22 Repeating Rifle you get
all of the pleasures of the hunt and top scores at the
targets. It has a solid breech and is hammerless—there
are no unhandy, awkward features to hamper you.
It’s an accurate, reliable, thoroughly tested rifle —it
shoots clean and true. Knowing sportsmen, the world
over, swear by it.
Shoot Remington- UMC Lesmok 22’s. They made the
world’s 100 shot record 2484 out of a possible 2500 and
were used by Mr. J. Pepd, in making the world’s most
perfect group at 100 yards at Southfields, England.
Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
(M. Hartley Company, Export Agent) 299-301 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
39
Now is the Season for Clipping Horses
~ M
OUR ILLUSTRATION SHOWS THE
SIMPLICITY OF USING THE
“NUMBER ONE”
HORSE CLIPPER.
A big horse can be clipped in 30 minutes. You
must know that clipping improves a horse’s
health, prolongs his life, and increases his value.
The “Little Machine that Does Big Work” has
steadily grown in popularity throughout the
length and breadth of Australia, and we say with
all truth no horse-owner can afford to be without
one.
We undertake Grinding and Setting the Kn'ves
of our “NUMBER ONE” HORSE-CLIPPING
MACHINE by a special process, which enables us
to guarantee satisfaction.
With Bail Bearings, 40/-
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Queensland,
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
252 George Street, Sydney.
m
m
&
& JX YS
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strangthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for mein, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETIuc. «. wO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize IWleda.il
jh
Works 8 Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. Iheyghd*
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead penal.
Attention is * lso
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


Is this your story?
“Every morning I have a bad taste in
my mouth; my tongue is coated; my
head aches and I often feel dizzy. I have
no appetite for breakfast, and what food
I eat distresses me. I have a heavy feel-
ing in my stomach. lam getting so
weak that sometimes I tremble. My
nerves are all unstrung. I am as tired
in the morning as at night.”
What is the trouble with you? Im-
pure blood. What is the remedy?
Ayer’s
} It makes the blood pure and rich.f
|The digestion improves; the nervesi
[become strong and steady. Consult'
'your doctor about this medicine.
Do not take any medicine doctors
will not endorse.
If your Hver is sluggish and your bowels
constipated, correct at once. Ayer’s Pills
are liver pills. They act directly on the
liver. The dose is one pill, just one. All
vegetable, sugar-coated.
Prepared by DR. J. C AYER & CO.,
Dowell. Mass XJ. 8. A.
ķ
BUY DIRECT
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12. years’
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SANDON & STEEDMAN.
76 Finsbury Pavement, London, England
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
WE SAVE YOU POUNDS-
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
\ ■ ■
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
jk
BARNET
GLASS
RUBBER REELS
6 LASS
Absorb all “jar” of bad paths
and uneven roads, at the day s
end leaving you with untired
feet and muscles.
VN
Si
BARNET GLASS BALLS
1 he good golfer swears by “the little
beauties” made by Barnet Glass.
ran mix
WATER m
ĸjĵh
The perfection of cold-weather Com-
fort. A luxury at the price of a
Necessity.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
Founders of the Rubber Industry
In Australasia,
289-93 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
All States and N.Z. [3
sgiswair
IfiIMiHOSS
:Vr , .
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPINC COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHINC.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
RUN KEN NESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
. . m % antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FRE£ SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET. SYDNEY,'* N. S.W.
k hj
FLAT-CH ESTEP WOMEN!
take heed of this advice.
Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as natural de-
velopment was concerned, but science has found a way to cor-
rect your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-
and although you have been attenuated all vour
i 1 lf 7 0U Sllffer from no wasting disease your bosom can be
fully developed, and your weight increased to normal.
It is the refreshing firmness and delightful fulness of the
feminine form that captivates, and the woman who is most
perfectly developed is the one who monopolises the endear-
ments of the opposite sex.
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect, flesh-builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week. Send 2d.
stamp for a free trial sample and free book. (1411)
FALLIERE FIiESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney.
jhj kj
MR. G. VECSEY
FREE BOOK
FATAL VARICOSE VEINS
If you suffer from Varicose Veins or Ulcers, or both, I believe that I can
completely cure you. I have treated hundreds of terrible cases with the utmost
success, and I know that but very few cases are really incurable. Very few doc-
tors tell you they can cure this trouble. They prefer to ignore it. Doctors could
not cure me. I cured myself. I then cured my friends, and then made hundreds
of new friends by curing people who had suffered in some cases for a quarter of
a century. Hence I believe I can cure you. . . .It will pay you well to fully inves-
tigate my method.
My treatment is applied at your own home, does not require you to lay up,
and is painless and harmless. The worst cases usually respond inside the first few
weeks, and old, stubborn cases are perfectly cured under a suitable course of treat-
ment Give me full details of your case. If I can cure you I will say so, and
send you a guarantee. If I cannot, I will at once advise vou. You run no risk
You can lose nothing if I should .fail; but I have built up a large business—not
on failures, but on successes in cssfls formerly given up as hopeless. Let me send
you hundreds of grateful testimonials.
Send 2d. stamp for < free book, which gives full particulars, or call
for consultation. Diagn. s and advice FEEE. Send, write or call to-da.v.
3 Ash Street, Sydney. (1421)
Matchless for Biliousness
A severe spell of biliousness, with the accompanying throbbing
headache, is the most wretched affliction ; one feels so helplessly
ill and miserable. But there is one supremely effectual remedy,
but for which the world would have been a less happy one.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, honoured by inclusion in the British
Pharmacopceia, have been prescribed by doctors all over the world
for more than a century, for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Loss of Appetite, Sick Headache,
and all symptoms of Constipation.
ft
C7>
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. It. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “l was a hard smoker for 80
years, but since takinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. [3.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if yon have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women Sc children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW GO.,
349 Collina-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The' Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurle*
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
IB IM tine* IMS.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Hoad, London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sentry Go.
Alderman Low expressed himself as favorable to
a Greater St. George scheme, but was totally opposed
to the Greater Sydney proposal.
Alderman Hall said he was beginning to look with
a great amount of suspicion on a Greater Sydney.
Alderman Thompson: God help us and guide us
against a Greater Sydney, and Heaven help this dis-
trict if ever it comes about! Let us cut the
painter—they have a beautiful dividing line at the
river.... Let us stand shoulder to shoulder against
the City Council over this. They can come as far
as Cook’s River, but no further. If they attempt
to cross we’ll beat them back. It will be a case
of Trafalgar Bay—l’ve got two or three guns at
home.— Report of Hurstville Council proceedings.
'Alt! ’Oo goes there? Th’ countersign!
Pars, friend, I thought you wuz
A sneakin’ Greater Sydney spy out after
points, becus
I thought I seen up on them clouds reflec-
tions of a camp,
An’ ’eard, far out across them plains, a
harmy’s stiddy tramp.
You 'ear an’ see strange things at night w’en
doin’ sentry go.
(Wot! You ain’t 'eard erbout no fight!
W’y, we’re at war, yer know!)
This ’ere’s th’ front-yer, so ter speak. Th'
furriners is there!
Our troops is massed behind that pub. Our
ginril is th’ Mare.
Now there's a patriot for yer! 'E ain’t th’
sorter bloke
Ter go fer Greater Sydney schemes an’
things that ends in smoke.
'E don’t go in f’r State Rights much—’e
knows wot ’e’s erbout.
’E says ’is lifework is ter keep th’ dashed
invader out.
I’ve travelled in me time, yer know! I
never make er fuss,
But I know Sydnev. and I know they tork
th’ same as us.
I’ve walked erbout them furrin streets, an'
drank their furrin beer.
But, Lor! I never felt quite safe until I
got back ’ere!
But wot I sez is this: A bloke carn’t reely
understand
What patriotism means until ’e leaves ’is
native land.
And so they’d like ter swaller us, an’ wipe
this front-yer out!
I tell yer straight they won’t do it as long
as we're erbout!
Hall this ’ere tork o’ savin’ coin don’t take
us vetrins in !
We’ll fight f’r Inderpendence, an’ I bet a
quid we win !
W’y earn’t they rest with wot they’ve got? I
I’m shoor they’ve got their share!
I know their dodge ! They want ter make a
Hempire /or their Mare!
So ’ere I am on guard ! Thank Gord, our
front-yer is th’ sea !
If war should come, that fact will ’elp to
save out liber-tee !
Th’ Channel kept Hold Hingland safe w’en
foes was close at ’and ;
That there re-fleckshun cheers me up, w’en
at me post I stand.
St. George an’ Hingland ! ’Ow they match !
Ain't they a luvly pair!—
St. George an’ Hingland! Liber-tee! —an’
Jimmie Scroggs, our Mare!
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
Ipsissimus.
There are mentors that chide me and friends
that scold ;
There are snares that trap me and wasps
that sting;
There are brazen hirelings bedecked with
gold,
And a fool cries out that he will be king.
There are prigs that prattle from morn till
night
Of pain and tears, though the skies be
blue ;
There are fat moths blotting the candle-
light—
But the one thing living that counts is
you.
Oh, dearest heart, till the sun turns pale,
And the long last winter shuts up the sea;
Till the stars are black and the seasons fail,
There is one white truth that suffices me;
Till Death shall rest with his work all done,
And Hate shall pine with no task to do;
However it be, till my race is run,
The one thing living that counts is you.
There are wrongs that puzzle and wounds
that bleed ;
There are sins a many our souls to slay;
There are devils to scoff at our every need ;
There are gods that sleep out of sight for
aye ;
There are bitter voices will not be stilled ;
There are traitors that twist all our lives
askew;
But while the ghouls gnaw our dreams
they’ve killed,
The one thing living that counts is you!
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
The Miracle.
He waited, tortured, on the stair:
Nearer to come he did not dare;
But when he heard the first weak cry
Of that new life, he did not stir.
He had no thought but thought of her:
His numb mind wondered, “Will she die?”
He listened, trying not to hear.
Was then the Gate of Birth so near
The Gate of Death? How could he tell
If Fate would not exact her price,
And ask a living sacrifice
For this, her greatest miracle?
And when, at last, he tip-toed in,
And found her strangely straight and thin,
He looked not at that life forlorn
That slept by her. In sudden awe
Within her mystic eyes he saw
Of this his wife a mother born.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


OVERMANTELS, UP-TO-DATE
Our enormous Stock of Overmantels is noted for Its variety and
up-to-dateness. Many unique and handsome designs are to be
■bad Jn Oak, Wat nut, Rosewood, etc- Prices exceedingly moderate.
Handsome Art Overmantel, with Large Bevelled Mirror, two Engravings, and shelf,
carved. Size : 46in. wide x 38ln. high.
Nicely
Price
£1 ss.
Sent/ for our Illustrated Catalogue of Furniture, post free on application,
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
CENTRAL SQUARE, Opp. RAILWAY,
SYDNEY
Dinnefords
c
s
A
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
l of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion. Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ON THE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
ILL
HAVE
THIS
wunocnucH
CEILING
FOR MY
DRAWING
ROOM
n
h
'■St'
r.;c
M
u
STT
I
%
T9Z9
yiVEfr?
L I
'
7
THE WUNDERLICH Metal Ceilings and Wall Lining
installation is that service in which good taste is indispensable—
the arbiters of elegance—the correctness of style —the ensemble
of harmonious designs that satisfies every sense of proportion.
Please forward, post free, the Wunderlich Catalogue,
To Mrs .
Coupon B„ 29/5/*IS.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
Head Office : Baptist St., Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W.
N.S.W . . . 56 Pitt Street, Sydney
f Box 474, G.P.O.
VICTORIA 243 Collins Street, Melbourne
* Box 375, G.P.O.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . 113-119 Currie Street Adelaide
Box 301, G.P.O.
WEST AUSTRALIA Lord Street, East Perth
Box 383, G.P.O.
QUEENSLAND 363-5 Queen Street, Brisbane
Box 618, G.P.O.
TASMANIA Club Chambers, Collins Street, Hobart
71 St. John Street, Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND . . . Newtown, Wellington
Box 20, P.O.
Agents for N.Z.: BRISCOE & CO., Limited,
Wellington, Dunedin, Auckland, Christchurch, Invercargill.
t
me
n
*..,*.* OILSKIN.
Riding', Driving' or Motoring.
WARRANTED WATERPROOF and not to
STICK. 10
■SoM by all leading: Storekeepers throughout
Australia.
MADE IN TWO WEIGHTS:
The “Dugong-Watershed,” The “Rainbow-Watershed,”
light
weight,
32/6.
stout make for
rough wear,
If unable to obtain one locally, post order direct to us
We pay carriage. '
RUBBER C° LT9
270 George Street, Sydney;
and 105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
Honthly, 6d.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago U.S. A.
RICHARDSON'
j ĵĥ
CHICAGO
HALLEY MOTOR LORRIES
.ii uij'i
SSh
..***
Any Class of Body Fitted to
the Halley Motor Lorry.
CHEAPER—QUICKER—MORE RELIABLE.
Halley Lorries cost less to run, per mile, than horse teams. This claim is based
upon the most careful calculations. These show a good margin in favor of the Halley.
In the most important matter of speed the Halley shows a superiority of Quite
four times the speed of horse teams. This brings the markets nearer, and often
means the gaining of the best prices. The Halley, moreover, does not tire. jt
performs its work at the end of a long trip with an undiminished efficiency impossible
to flesh and blood traction.
The Halley in backing up to a siding uses the same full power as in a d va “ c !?£;
Only the “polers” of a horse team back —with ruinous results and delays. The Haile,
is not impeded by rough or hilly roads.
The Halley is SIMPLE, ACCESSIBLE and FREE FROM BREAKDOWNS.
It holds Special Award and Gold and Silver Medals for these very features.
TO CARRY FROM 15cwt. TO 6 TONS.
Any Type of Body Fitted.
Let us send you, post free, Full Information of this fine Lorry. Any trial will be
readily arranged on request.
DALGETY (Si CO. LTD.
Motor Garage : 136=138 Phillip Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: Bourke Street. BRISBANE: George Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0. 1737.
THURSDAY. MAY 29. 1913.
Priob 6a.
A PROBLEM IN PUBLIC FINANCE.
The Chinese Loan has been subscribed in London five times over. Meanwhile New South Wales has to shut down on
public works because John Bull-Cohen hesitates to look at the IOU any more.
[Drawn by WUN HOP, address c/o THE BULLETIN, or Chinatown, near the Joss-house.]


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1381 Central.
Editorial, 257 City,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(hi Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 013 6
Quarterly.. .. .. •• 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements. etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To s:nd them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “'The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice,
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for tlie preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction■ — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, 8.C.; S. G.
Ilarlin, H 5 Granville Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.—Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D
Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Golden Gate News Co., 789
Market Street, San Francisco: Quaker News Co..
Philadelphia, tf.S.A. ; Queen City News Co., Randolph
and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said. Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
li/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size,. 6§ in.
x Hin.. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage ißcites.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz.. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bioz.
to 10oz., Zid.; lOoz. to IZoz. Bd. ; elsewhere, 4oz. Id.,
and id. each additional Zoz.
THURSDAY, MAY 29, 1913.
CONDENSED STORY OF A REPUBLIC
THAT DIED OF FREETRADE AND
CHEAP LABOR AND THE IMPORT-
ING POLICY.
During this spell of political frenzy, when
all good Australians are trying to get the
tariff sent back into the melting pot, and
there are more signs than usual that an
Asiatic race is likely to raise, at an early
date, the question of the admission of the
colored alien into Australia, and when the
volume of our imports of manufactured
goods is increasing so vastly that our
dependence upon the outsider for the ordinary
appliances of civilisation is unpleasantly
accentuated, likewise our dependence on
him for the loan of the money with which
to pay him for his own goods—at such a
moment, as mentioned at the commencement
of this inordinately long sentence, it may
not be amiss to consider the record of a
State which died young, nartly by reason of
some of Australia’s own diseases. The other
cause of its death was one of the diseases
that Australia may get if its Tory, party
comes into power, and one which it cer-
tainlv will get if it doesn’t make good pro-
vision for its own defence. Jeff Davis’s
short-lived Confederation certainly hadn’t
all the drawbacks that Australia is liable
to possess when its day of misfortune
arrives. But Freetrade principles and the
importing policy and a boundless faith in
“the great natural resources of the country”
killed it dead all the same.
The Southern States of the Union had
cheap and ignorant nigger labor, just as
many people want Australia to have. It
naturally followed, as in every white man’s
country which has an abundance of that sort
of labor, that it became a disgrace for the
white man to work with his hands at any
heavy industry. It was his job to super-
intend his murky brother and keep him up
to the mark. As a natural result, manufac-
tures were almost nil, for the nigger couldn’t
learn to manage intricate machinery, and
the white man felt himself degraded if he
attempted much in that line. The seceding
States lived mostly by the growth and export
of cotton and tobacco, the former especially
being a profitable yet simple crop that any
artisan above the level of a complete idiot
can handle —all save Virginia and Tennessee,
and in a less degree Georgia, which grew a
certain amount of victual. As cotton isn’t
eatable and victual is essential for the sup-
port of an army, it was necessary not only
to persuade Virginia and Tennessee to come
in, but also to concentrate almost the whole
force of the Confederation on their defence.
Throughout the war the Jeff Davis armies
fought tied by the leg to a post, that post
being their little patch of food-growing
country. The South had Protection, the
same as the North, but Protection was of
hardly any setvice when the nigger was too
stupid to be a competent factory hand, and
the white man, despite all fiscal encourage-
ment, couldn’t be one for fear of losing caste.
So the Southern States stood on a Freetrade
basis, depending for their wealth on the
export of raw produce and for most of the
necessaries of life upon imports. Their
position was remarkably like that of Aus-
tralia to-day, save for these important
matters: The Confederation had ho foreign
debt, which Australia has. It possessed a
better army than its opponent, which, when
any possible or probable assailant of this
country is considered, Australia certainly
hasn't. It had the affable Mexican republic
as a sort of security or sentinel on its south-
western border. It had an enemy who could
be relied upon to give it the easiest possible
terms in case of defeat. It had millions, of
sympathisers in the enemy’s camp, which
Australia isn’t likely to have. And it had a
compact and fairly well peopled territory:
whereas, unless our empty North is looked
after in haste, Australia will have no such
advantage. In every possible respect Jeff
Davis’s Republic was better equipped for
war than Australia —with its feeble tariff,
and its empty spaces, and its infant army
and its badly-strained foreign credit—is to-
day.
* * * *
And, as already mentioned, the Jeff
Davis Confederation proceeded to do a
perish on strictly Freetrade principles.
‘‘The magnificent natural resources of the
country” turned dog on it. Its trade with
the North, where everything that man could
want was manufactured, was cut off by the
hostile land forces, and its trade with Europe
was mostly cut off by the blockade. It had
enough cotton for sale to finance one of the
biggest struggles in history, but the cotton
couldn’t be exported. Now and then, it is true,
a riotous adventurer would run the blockade
and buy a shipload of the South’s raw
material. But as there was 20 or 50 times
as much of it available for export as these
adventurers could carry away, they bought
their little lots at their own price, which was
only a shade more than nothing. This is the
sort of thing which happens, in war-time,
when the command of the sea is lost, to every
isolated country which depends mainly on
the export of raw stuff torn out of the
ground. The South, by reason of its Free-
trade and nigger labor ideas, hadn’t learned
how to construct boots, clothes, hats, rifles,
cannon, ammunition, ships, railroad appli-
ances, surgical appliances, and a thousand
other things that go to make up the sum and
substance of civilisation. It lacked chloro-
form for the treatment of its wounded, and
it was soon reduced to tearing up its shirt
and petticoat for bandages. The occasional
blockade, runner generally brought in a cargo
of manufactured goods, but as the supply
wasn’t the ghost of a circumstance to the
demand he parted , with them at in-
credible prices. As long as the South had a
copper left the blockade runner sold it manu-
factured goods for almost their weight in
gold, and took away in return produce
bought for little more than, the value of its
weight in clay. When the; South hadn’t a
copper left it was in even worse case. And
Australia, which, by reason of its lame fiscal
system, depends so extensively on the money
it receives for exported wool, wheat, meat
and sundries, to pay for its imports of
finished goods, wouldn’t be in a much better
situation to-morrow if the command of the
sea was lost. The command of the sea, it is
worth remembering, isn’t a thing that lasts
for ever. At least no nation up to date has
held it for ever.
* * * *
When the United States Civil War began
the position of the South looked impregnable
—except for the disadvantages already men-
tioned. There was a vast popular majority
in favor of the Southern cause at the Presi-
dential election of 1860, and but for the fact
that the Democrats put up two candidates,
and split the vote, Abraham Lincoln would
never have attained to the chair of office. In
1864, the President was elected by Northern
votes only, and the war had been in progress
for nearly four years, and Jeff Davis’s Con-
federation was obviously tottering to its fall.
Yet even then McClellan, who represented
the party in the North which desired to let
the South have its independence and almost
anything else it wanted, scored something
like 1,800,000 of the votes of the Northern
people, against 2.200,000 for Lincoln and
the war party. Thus wfliile the South was
practically unanimous in its demand for
separation, it had nearly half of the
Northern population on its side as well. It
had better soldiers until the latter
stages of the disturbance. It had—until the
advent of Meade and Grant —far better
commanders, and for two years it hardly
knew such a thing as defeat. Inside 24
months there was a record of something like
2000 battles and skirmishes, and the Solid
South won against the Divided North
almost every time. Yet all the while the
Solid South was on the down-grade. Its
cotton —which was to it what wool and
wheat and hides and silver and beef are to
Australia —had often to be burned to get it
out of the way. The Confederation was
struggling in a pitiably amateur way to
make the things that were necessary if it
was to carry on its effort for independence
or even keep its civilisation alive. It won
great victories over the inferior generals and
—at the beginning—rather unenthusiastic
soldiery of the North, but at the end of the
battle 'it usually happened that almost the
last shot had been tired on the Confederate
side. So instead of chasing the beaten and
disorganised Federals right to Washington
and New York and oblivion, the Confederate
commanders had to sit down and wait for
weeks while the shambling powder mills
ground out fresh supplies, and in the mean-
time the manufacturing North recuperated.
The South had about the best shipyard in
the United States, but it didn’t know how to
build ships. It only knew about “the great
natural resources of the country.” Its rail-
roads and locomotives wore out, and it had
only the faintest possible idea about making
new rails and new engines. It ran short of
food as it lost its hold on the food-producing
regions of Virginia, Tennessee and Georgia.
Amid all its victories it became penniless,
shoeless, hungry, short of arms and ammu-
nition and ships, also hopeless and utterly
lost.
* * * *
When one considers the vast reliance
which Australia puts on the foreign sale of
raw materials and the foreign purchase of
manufactured goods, the position in these
Low Tariff days looks a great deal too much
like that of the Jeff Davis combination to
be pleasant. The brief and troubled republic
which was born and died at Richmond was
an epitome of the fate which is liable to fall
in war-time on a country which has all the
advantages save the capacity to make its
gun and its boots and its cartridges and its
tail-coat, or, as the alternative, the capacity
to hold the sea in overwhelming force and
make use of the factories of other countries.
Even at the best the latter is a very poor
and costly and unreliable substitute for the
former. Every Australian tariff reformer
should buy a portrait of Jefferson Davis
to remind him of the country that died
through being so like Australia, except that
Australia is a great deal worse; and he
should hang up the work of art as a warning
to himself and his children. And having
done this he should resolve to vote, on May
31, for no candidate who preaches the insane
Freetrade and importing doctrine that Jeff
Davis’s republic died of.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
A SIGNAL FROM JAPAN.
Last week Japan came so near to present-
ing an ultimatum to the United States that
the space between peace and war looked
about the thickness of a compressed ghost.
That, at least, was how the cable scare-
monger represented the position, and the
cable scare-monger, when he suggested war,
may not have been wrong—only previous.
California, in its local capacity, has lately
passed some anti-Asiatic legislation which
is intended to make the way of the colored
immigrant more difficult than it has been.
It is a curious fact that in the United
States the doctrine of State Rights has been
carried so far that a purely local legisla-
ture, and a locally elected Governor, can do
things to a foreign Power that will bring on
war almost to a certainty, and then the
Federal Government at Washington has to
sustain the heat and burden of the battle.
The local power makes the corpse and
leaves it on the doorstep of the alleged
central authority, and when the central
authority opens its door in the morning the
remains fall inside along with the bill and
the whole responsibility. The Union fought
a desperate civil war to settle the State
Rights question, and settled it so badly at
the end that this is the present condition of
affairs. However, the deplorable respect
for State rights which brings Uncle Sam
into so may complications, though it may
serve as a valuable lesson to Australia on
Referendum day, has no direct bearing on
the case. The sympathies of every patriotic
and intelligent white community must be
with California in the present (or recent)
trouble. It may have taken, of necessity, a
foolish road, but it got to a very wise
destination.
* * * *
Japan does not exclude the white man
openly, but in its own brown surreptitious
fashion it does more in that line than any
other allegedly civilised community on
earth. It welcomes its white brother with
open arms, but when the white brother
finds that he can’t own land, and can only
trade under a multitude of restrictions, and
can hardly own shares in anything save a
wild cat, he naturally leaves early. He
gets almost as bad a reception as the
stranger got in old Sodom, where he was
welcomed by all hands and t-he cook, and
loaded with presents. and everybody
applauded him till he died. The reason of
his death was that no one would sell him
board and lodging at any price, and he wasn’t
allowed to leave the town, so that he per-
ished gradually in the streets, while receiving
assurances of the warmest friendship from
all parties concerned. The white population
of Japan is very small. At the latest
census it numbered 7473. Yet the number
of Japanese residing abroad was returned at
the same census as 220,336. There were,
in 1910, 1627 Americans who hadn’t yet
been crowded out of Nippon, yet there were
88,946 Japanese, residing in United States
territory. In the Hawaiian Archipelago, a
little -U.S. possession in the middle of the
Pacific, there are to-day far more Japanese
than there are white people of all sorts in
Japan. The single State of California, on
the Pacific Coast, contains more Japanese
than there are white folk of all nations in
all the Mikado’s dominions, and it has long
been haunted by stories of a large Japanese
immigration into Mexico on the south.
Naturally California, as tire State which
looks most directly out on the coasts and
tents of Shem. and is most seriously afflicted
by the colored influx, begins to wear a
worried expression. Out of that trouble
and that worried expression were developed
the anti-Chinese laws, which China wasn’t
strong enough to seriously object to, and
the anti-Japanese laws which Japan re-
cently threatened to resent at the point of
the gun, and which it will probably resent
later on.
Japan has probably," as already men-
tioned, a more elaborate Alien Exclusion
system than any other country, not even
leaving out Tibet. The white man win,
conies to the Chrysanthemum Land has full
and large permission to be a coolie, wharf
laborer, cook, washer-up, scavenger, factorv
hand, rickshaw man, and a whole multitude
of other things, provided, of course, he isn’t
boycotted out of his job by the invincible
local prejudice of the brown population
That is to say, if he can undersell about
the cheapest people on earth in their cheap-
est occupations he is, so far as the present
evidence goes, welcome to wade in. The
occupations that are barred to him are
those that would be likely to suit him. But
the cheap-living Japanese in America or
Australia can undersell the American or
Australian in almost every line of industry
and his womankind can beat Raiiab and
Magdalene for economy, and reduce the
house of joy to bankruptcy, and push
Delilah out of her job. So the only ade-
quate reply the white man can make to
the elaborate‘Jap boycott and the perpetual
.Tap encroachment is the shutting out
policy. And it seems that Hell has no fury
like a Jap shut out. His anger, expressed
through the keyhole of the closed door, is
tremendous, and his offended dignity is as
tall as the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and not' -
located at anything like such an acute
angle. His attitude is that he is willing to
admit the American coolie, and the Dutch
coolie and the Australian coolie, and when
he assumes this generous attitude lie re-
gards the white man’s objection to his coolie
as plain outrage. He even carries the
matter further than that, and complains at
great length because of a law which pro-
hibits the Japanese alien acquiring land in
California, regardless of the fact that all
aliens are, and have been from time imme-
morial, prohibited from acquiring land in
Japan. A sort of bashed and lop-sided atti-
tude of injured innocence is the brown
man’s strong suit.
* * * *
The. Japanese some time ago served their
unobtrusive ultimatum on Holland re the
admission of their people to the Dutch
Indies. The little Power regarded this as
the beginning of a movement which might
one day obliterate its splendid colonial
empire. But having no sufficient force and
no assurance of support, it silently climbed
down. Hawaii now swarms with a Japan-
ese population, mostly men, and mostly
reputed to be old soldiers and possessed of
rifles. The desire of the Mikado’s Govern-
ment to get a footing on the American con-
tinent, especially in Mexico, has been a
matter of common report for years, and
Homer Lea. for one. was of opinion that
until the Panama Canal is completed—
possibly even after it is completed—Japan
could take and hold the Pacific Coast of the
United States against Uncle Sam’s ridicu-
lous little army and his tumultuous paper
militia. If the Balkan annoyance had
developed into a European conflagration,
and Russia had concentrated its armies in
Europe, and there was consequently no
fear of Nippon’s tail being bitten in the
rear by one big enemy while Nippon argued
with another in front, it is quite possible
that an ultimatum might have been de-
livered last week, and it isn’t absolutely
certain even now that one won’t be
delivered next week. Japan," the great
excluder, objects most strenuously to being
excluded itself, and when its record is con-
sidered there is no doubt that it will ex-
press its objection most freely as soon as a
chance presents itself. Seeing that a
Japanese ambassador, who was also a high
member of the peerage, considered, only a
few years ago. that it was a patriotic act to
murder the queen of the country to which
lie was accredited (the body was afterwards
burnt, and there are grave suspicions that
the unhappy woman w r as not quite dead
when she was put into the fire), because
she bitterly opposed the annexation of her
native land, and that his act was viewed
with considerable approbation by his owu
people, it must be admitted that Tokio
isn’t slow in getting off the -’mark when
there is business to be done.
* * * , *
The Bulletin doesn’t profess to be a
Puritan, or a rabid anti-vivisectionist, or
an incurable Baptist, or anything of that
sort. But it w r ould hate to see Andrew
Fisher or W. M. Hughes burnt before
they were dead; also it couldn’t contem-
plate such a fate for Bruce Smith without
a shudder. It has no peace illusions, nor
has it any belief in the theory that Britain
will be able for all time to protect the larg-
est and most scattered empire in all history.
England has already lost two empires, or
the greater part of them ; and the third may
go the same way unless its component
parts look well after their own defence.
Nothing is more certain than that a
country, with a small territory and a large
fighting population, will seek to expand.
It has been so ever since man began to
keep records. There are a number of
nations that are more crowded than Japan,
but they are mostly small peoples jammed
into small areas and of little fighting value.
Belgium, for instance, is almost a worlds
record for congestion, but still it represents
a tiny people on an infinitesimal scrap or
territory, and no one suspects for a moment
that it will smite Russia hard on the eye
in jits search for “a place in the sun.” Ihe
two large and hard-fighting nations of the
world that begin to clamor for new and
fertile regions to expand in are German?
and Japan. In the natural order ot
things they must be a danger to neighbors
with good and comparatively empty lands.
So they both, also in the natural order ot
things, have an eye to British territory.
And for that reason this paper urges the
two Federal parties that are now clamoring
after the loaves and fishes to think less
about proving each other’s incompetence
and more about defence; to worry less
about votes and more about building rail-
ways to connect the unguarded North witn
the fairly well-peopled South; to f uss um
quite so much about the twopence of dirt
money” payable or not payable to Bill, tn
artisan of Cockatoo Dock. Sydney, and t
fuss like the very devil about garrisoning tn
empty spaces with new settlers. For it ">
profit a man little if he gets twopence o
extra pay to-day, and is sent to-morro ,
after all manner of unpleasant tortures,
do six years in a squalid gaol for W s
President of a Young Men’s Christian As
ciation or something of the sort, as n
pened to a luckless Korean reformer
other day. .
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Pomp and the Glory and the Beans.
This is the last week of a political cam-
paign in which The Bulletin has taken
less interest than usual. The old, rotten
system of Party Government got the cam-
paign down early and sat on its head. So
far as this paper can size up the situation,
the great issues of the day are these: —
(1) Higher Protection to encourage local manufac-
tures. When a country makes so little and imports
so much of its manufactured goods that it is driven,
in time of peace, to borrow at high interest every
copper that the foreign Cohen will lend it in order
to pay for its foreign goods, the situation is des-
perate enough to call for some kind of drastic
treatment. "•
(2) An amendment of the Federal Note system by
which the revenue derived from the note issue will
be greatly increased (this can be done by requiring
all banks to hold a large proportion of their cash
reserves in Federal paper, and to pay cheques in
Federal paper when required), and the setting aside
of this income as a sinking fund for the extinction
of the State debts. The fool State Governments are
straining this country’s borrowing capacity to the
last copper in time of peace. Unless something is
done to reduce the public liabilities, the position,
when war comes and the nation must have money or
go under, will probably be such that even the maddest
Jew who ever came out of Jewry won’t lend us a
shilling, though we offer 10 p.c. for it.
(3) The completion, at the earliest possible
moment, of the railway from north to south (Port
Augusta to Port Darwin), across the middle of the
continent. The construction, also at the earliest
possible moment, of a railway east and west across
the continent from Queensland to Westralia. (N,B. —
A. Government that wasn’t absolutely sodden with
Toryism might inquire how Brennan’s cheap and
amazingly swift mono-rail device would fit the case.)
(4) The elaboration, with all possible speed, of a
workable settlement scheme for the Territory.
(5) Unification and Reconstruction, so that, among
other things, the railways may become Federal pro-
perty and a uniform gauge may be established.
These, so far as The Bulletin can estimate,
are the most urgent needs of White Aus-
tralia at the moment. And they are also the
matters that neither party wants to talk
about. There was, probably, in the last
House of Representatives, a majority in favor
of at least four of the above propositions—
possibly a majority in favor of all five —if it
had been possible for members to speak their
minds without danger of wrecking the blessed
old Party. The next House will very likely
be much the same. But Deakin, when he
was leader, dared not declare for High Pro-
tection lest his Freetrade followers should
vote with Fisher, and Fisher is bogged
in exactly the same ditch. In like manner,
each leader has, in the crowd he depends on
for his billet, or his prospects of a billet,
men who advocate the straight railway to the
North, and men who advocate the contorted
deviation. He can’t move in the interests
of Australia without risk of breaking the
wretched Party, which comes first all the
time, with Australia a very bad second. The
fiscal issue was sunk to save the Party—
not that anyone, either Freetrader or Pro-
tectionist, believed that it ought to be sunk
if the good of the country was considered,
but because the loaves and fishes had first
claim ; and quite a number of urgent public
matters have been sunk in the same fashion
and for the same reason. The Referendum
re the granting of increased power to the
Federal authority is certainly an important
matter, but it isn’t of the supreme import-
ance that one might imagine from the prom-
inence it receives. It isn’t of half such
ijnmediate urgency as some other questions
which both parties ignore in vociferous
silence. But it is necessary in an electoral
campaign to talk about something, and as
the Referendum is one of the few questions
on which parties are solid —one for and one
against—each leader can shout concerning it
for 40 days and 40 nights, without risk of
disrupting his precious following. And
what shall it profit a leader if he saves
White Australia from conquest by a brown
race to-morrow, and disrupts his precious
following to-day? For on its solidity depend
the pomp and the dignity and the glamor
and the job and the beans. These are all
great concerns, but the greatest of them is
the beans.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Fog anil the Referenda.
After next Saturday our leading statesmen
will desist for a while from calling one
another liars, and the country will get back
to normal. Despite the fact that the merci-
lessly “gagged” press has printed, since the
issue of the writs, many scores of columns
exposing the miseries that must follow upon
a “Yes” answer to the Referenda questions,
it is doubtful if the bulk of the electors have
more than the vaguest notion of what all
the shouting and tumult is about. The
issues involved are too numerous and too
technical; and there are so many more
stimulating subjects—football, the stage,
crime waves, golf and racing—to engage the
attention of the lieges. How many, for ex-
ample, could mention offhand, what the Aus-
tralian Industries Preservation Act was
designed to accomplish, and why it was
declared unconstitutional? How many have
troubled to read the Anti-Trust Act of
or any other Anti-Trust Act? And of
those who have studied our anti-trust legis-
lation, how many have got the hang of it
sufficiently to appreciate the fine points of
the controversies that have been raging so
furiously between the maddened Hughes,
on the one hand, and the infuriated Wade,
on the other? Or to put it in another form:
How many of those who mean to vote on the
31st inst. have anything better to go on
than a set of irrelevant, not to say idiotic,
gags or catch cries—“ Trades unions will be
declared illegal combines, and ordered to
dissolve,” “every shop and business will be
nationalised,” “our Rights will be stolen
from us,” “we shall all be ruined.” and so
on? By the present look of things the
proportion of electors who will vote as com-
prehendingly on the Referenda issues at this
election, as they have voted on, say, the
tariff issue at preceding elections, is not
more than 25 per cent, of the population—
and that is allowing for a big increase in
the popular intelligence, the outcome of our
compulsory educational system. A tremen-
dous number will go to the polls practically
in the dark. Thus, the rather stupid Con-
servative and State-righter will certainly
vote “No,” and the indifferently brilliant
unificationist w 7 ill presumably vote “Yes.”
Yet is is a demonstrable fact that these two
sections would best serve their ends by doing
the very opposite. An incidental effect of a
“Yes” vote next Saturday will probably be
the putting back of Unification and Recon-
struction, for about two decades. Consider
why. The electors have declared over and
over again for the New Protection. Both
Liberal and Labor Governments have en-
dorsed the principle of it. But without an
amended Constitution the country can never
have it. No one seriously argues, outside
rabid party politics, that injurious trusts
are get-at-able under existing conditions ; and
with the United States available as a hor-
rible example, most unbiassed citizens are
agreed that such a situation is perilous.
However, the trusts cannot be adequately
policed while the Constitution remains in its
present form. Most business men, irrespec-
tive of party, favor a uniform Companies
Act for all Australia. They will never know
that boon so long as the Constitution re-
mains unaltered. Both Liberals and Labor-
ites are advocating an Insurance Act, on the
lines of the British one. They can’t have
both it and an unamended Constitution. One
could go on in this fashion for a column or
two. But the absurdity of the position
needs little stressing. As an outcome of a
srate of things that was not anticipated in
the grimmest nightmares of those who
framed the Constitution, the community is
faced with such a situation as revolutions
are made of. Either the Constitution must
yield somewhere in the next year or two, or,
figuratively speakinv. it will burst. If it
bursts, the worst sufferers will be the people
who are fighting most obstinately at the
present time for a “No” vote. All through
history the well-to-do have found that their
best insurance against ruin lay in making
discreet political concessions here and there,
while fractious opposition, wherever it was
maintained for long, has been the oppor-
tunity of the revolutionary. Those who ad-
vocate the wiping-out of the States in their
existing form, and the handing-over of all
their powers to the Commonwealth, on the
understanding that certain of the latter
shall be handed back again, are revolution-
aries in their own mild way. The perpetua-
tion of the present state of affairs is right
into their hands. It is so intolerable and
anomalous that, if no palliative is offered, the
people are bound in time to lean towards
desperate measures. Yet, as aforesaid,
thousands of Unificationists are voting
“Yes,” and every single Conservative
appears to be voting “No.” Certainly,
unless large bodies of the electors are con-
cealing their acquaintance with the Refer-
enda issues with much art and resolution, a
somewhat muddled vote is going to be
recorded next Saturday.
[Written by John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin
Office, Sydney, and by him signed and sealed in
accordance with the Act, at the picturesque Mosman
home of his friend, “Kodak/’ in the presence of the
Religious Editor, a more or less Scotch terrier, and
a few minion fleas (the property or trust or mono-
poly of the terrier) ; the time being 8.15 p.m., and
dinner just over.]
The Race and the Flag.
Good old Empire Day has come and gone.
The flags have flapped, and the asses and
other aldermen have brayed to the children
of the suburban school, and his Washup, the
imperishable mayor, has spoken his piece, and
the necessity for keeping the Empire solid
has been pondered over at the top of the
mayoral voice, until it seemed that his
Washup couldn’t ponder any louder without
bursting. Yet, after all, what is the good
of it? The Empire is—or much of it is—
a vain and artificial business. The Ghoorka
and the Sikh and the Bengali and the Bur-
mese are attached to the British outfit by a
temporary bit of bunting. His Majesty’s
nigger in India and his Majesty’s snake in
India are both British subjects, but the
flag can no more assimiliate one to the Eng-
lish people than it can the other. The flag
is a handy thing for keeping a lot of diverse
races together in a casual way, for mutual
defence and other purposes, but there is no
reason to believe that the combination
will last. It is the Race, and not the
Rag that counts all the time. Thus Ger-
many is considered to be, in a political sense,
Britain’s most dangerous enemy, and in a
commercial sense its most persevering rival.
On the other hand, among all the alien races
that are gathered under the Flag, the
Ghoorka is probably the most strenuous and
loyal fighter. The implacable and unsleep-
ing German enemy is a stock subject for the
English short-story writer; and when he
begins to compound tales of Indian border
warfare, the magnificently brave and faithful
Ghoorka is a stock subject also. Yet the
fact remains that an English girl can marry
a German without in the slightest degree
losing caste because of her husband’s
nationality ; and she can’t marry a Ghoorka
without being regarded as a freak or a luna-
tic. The gulf is impassable. There is no
reason to believe that 1000 flags or 1000
empire days will make the slightest differ-
ence, and it would be a pity if they did.
The King’s nigger and his Majesty’s China-
man are temporary members of the vast
British combination, but there is no perman-
ent adhesiveness about them. They don’t
belong. In other words, they are artificially
gummed on, instead of being part of one solid
piece. And seeing that the bit which is arti-
ficially gummed on is, so far as population
goes, about three times the size of what it
is gummed on to, the Emnire looks just a
trifle ridiculous. Empire Day looks a trifle
ridiculous also.
Australian Army Transport.
Fkom a man in the Army Service Corps:—
A writer in The Bulletin recently asked what
arrangements Australia was making for transport in
anticipation of invasion. Well, after several years’
experience in the Army Service Corps, he can take
it from me there’s going to be particular Beelze-
bub to remunerate in the transport section when a
war cyclone blows this way. The chief requirement
for our transport work is railways, and 1 suppose
there’s no need to elaborate on the hopeless state
of affairs in that respect in this continent. It is
summed up in the statement issued by the Defence
Department recently that, in present conditions, it
would take 60 days to transport by rail 20,000 troops,
with equipment, from Melbourne to Townsville.
Even Von Moltke would sky his baton at that.
Like Australia, Germany is a federation of States,
but it isn’t cursed with the State Rights railway
lunacy, nor with commercial Judases who, for a
handful of silver, propose to sell their country’s
safety by giving up the Federal transcontinental
railway, in favor of a coastal line under four different
controls. Wherefore, Germany reckons that within
six weeks of the declaration of war, it could have a
million troops operating across the French frontier.
During the Russo-Jap war, the Bear sent over the
5000-miles-long trans-Siberian line (sft. Bin. gauge)
a daily average of 19 military trains. At times as
many as 39 trains received the commendation of
Kuropatkin. (Yet Russia went down because even
that swift service wasn’t swift enough. Its rein-
forcements came in on its single line of railway one
abreast, so to speak, while those of Japan; with the
sea for its highway, could come in 15 abreast.) I’d
like to hear Kuropatkin setting fire to the grass if
he was asked to send along 19 trainloads of troops
per day over the Australian lines, with a change at
each border!
When Kitchener was in Queensland, the
local section of the Army Service Corps or-
ganised a waggon transport—-civilian transport
we called it. The O.C. got in touch with the
farmers of the Logan and Pine River districts, and
offered £1 a day for a German waggon, pair of
horses and driver. You should have seen the unholy
show they made of the corps’ two huge military
waggons and two Cape carts —the military transport.
Each of the big waggons weighed about two tons, and
required the haulage of two stout horses when empty.
With a team of four horses a load of from to two
tons was the absolute maximum for fair roads. Two
postillion drivers and two brakemen on the waggons
made up an outfit that, for all-round uselessness,
would be hard to beat even in Tibet.
The German waggon is about the simplest, cheap-
est and most efficient thing of its kind for transport
purposes upon this flobe, and the first signs of
awakening sanity on the part of our transport officers
will be the scrapping of the huge, clumsy English
imported military waggons, and a thorough organis-
ing of a civilian transport such as those Germans
(90 per cent, of them were Germans) showed
Kitchener. Each area officer should be able to
state in black and white the transport capacity
within his district. Motor-cars and motor-transport
waggons are at present Registered, so that some of
the machinery is But we reouire a highly
specialised card-indexing system which will enable
the Department to keep in touch with the owner of
every important piece of transport material in
Australia. I was particularly struck with the state-
ments made by one old whiskered German patriarch
at that encampment. He related his experiences with
the German Army in 1870—how Von Moltke,
months before the war, organised the finest armv
transport outfit of the age. It included over 20.000
farm waggons drawn from the farms of the father-
land, and the old man reckoned the Germans owed
not a little of their run-over to that waggon service.
Regarding the big ouestion of motor transport, our
A.A.S.C. is hopelessly out of it. At all the recent
manoeuvres, both in America and on the Con-
tinent, motor transport has proved itself. Can-
ada. after the latest experience, is going nan
on it. Germany, as usual, leads the way. They've
got this far in Germany, that at the last military
manoeuvres, one General turned apparent defeat into
victory by means of rapid motor transport. Aus-
tralia’s curse is its helpless habit of following the
antiquated ideas and methods of the British War
Office. As Br'tain really depends on sea defence,
its army is rather a side-show, and not to be taken
too seriously as an example.
Charles Mackellar. medico and M.L.C. of
N.S.W., got a heap of profound information
off his chest the other day, in the presence of
the Institute of Bankers, re the deprecia-
tion of Argentine Government currency and
various other Government currencies. The
inference he drew from his unwise saws and
ancient instances was that all Government
paper money (including, of course, that
issued bv the Fisher Government) is un-
safe. Well, there are at least three men on
The Bulletin staff who could deliver quite
as impassioned and whirling an address on
the awful failure and incapacity of doctors
in many periods and many countries; but the
paper isn’t so foolish as to assume, because
of that fact, that every doctor, including
Charles Mackellar, is unsafe. Certainly the
Turkish medico has a dreadful habit of
operating without chloroform, and his miser-
able hospital patients, even if approaching
death, often crawl out of bed and sleep in
the hall or on the front steps to avoid ver-
min. Yet if Dr. Mackellar owned a private
hospital, and this writer had the misfortune
to need one, he would go there quite cheer-
fully, firmly convinced that there wouldn’t
be a Norfolk Howard on the premises. Even
the depreciation of the Argentine paper
money or the Indian rupee, or the fact that
the notes of the old privately-owned Bank
of Queensland are now quite valueless
wouldn’t diminish by one iota his faith in the
eminent but misguided gentleman’s skill as
an operator.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
C. G. Wade, of N.S.W., has been telling the
public airy trifles about the dissolution of the
big Trusts, including the Standard Oil, under
the Sherman Act. This is what the U.S.A.
Year Book, published as the World
Almanac and Encylopjedia of 1913, has to
say about the dissolution of Standard Oil
(page 288) :
The Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey, on May 15,
1911, was declared to be an illegal trust. The
company has since dissolved itself into 34 legally
distinct companies. Practically, these companies
appear to be working as closely together as formerly.
So far as consumers are concerned the other 33 com-
panies may still be treated as subsidiaries of the
New Jersey Co. The prices of many petroleum
products have recently been advanced. The com-
bined earnings of the 34 corporations are greater
than ever before, although not all of the subsidiary
companies have, as yet, begun to pay dividends.
The total of all dividends paid in 1912 is equal to
52 per cent, on the old stock, which is more than
the stock holders ever before received in one year.
The Standard Oil Trust, with its 107 subsidiaries,
handles about 80 per cent of the crude oil
(108,000,000 barrels) and refines about 80 per
cent, of the refined oil in the United States. It has
18 refineries, 8000 miles of trunk pipe lines, and
75,000 miles of feeders, storage tanks for 82,000,000
barrels. 12,000 tank cars, 72 oil tank steamers,
160 steamers and barges. Its total investment is
over $600,000,000, with a present value of about
$1,200,000,000. It has 65.000 employees. Its net
profits for 12 years ended 1910, were about
$815,315,930 and dividends paid $483,405,035.
And' this is the stupendous concern that
Wade thought had been quietly burst up in
a single night and passed out of existence
without as much noise as is made over an
ordinary prize tight. Why, if a show like
this had been wiped out, the whole financial
world would have been reeling yet.
[Blasted out of his inner consciousness, so to
speak, by C. A. Jeffries, at The Bulletin Office,
Sydney. The explosion was tremendous, and over
40 tons of material were shifted.]
* •
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Johnson
received a bump when he prosecuted two
passengers for travelling in a certain train
against his desire. Owing, no doubt, to the
chronic congestion of the traffic Johnson
has started a system of dictating to pas-
sengers the trains they are to journey by ;
so, when these two travellers wanted to go
to Goulburn, Johnson had it fixed up that
they, with other Goulburn passengers, would
have to get there (d.v.) aboard the 8.25. to
Cooma. Unfortunately, these mere paying
travellers had fixed to go by the Wyalong
mail at 8.10, and nothing would induce
them to break their word. They explained
that they didn’t care whether the train went
to Wyalong or Cooma after they left it at
Goulburn. They even expressed indifference
as to whether it went to Junee, Burrinjuck
or Sheol. They were going to Goulburn on
the 8.10, and to Goulburn they went even as
they had said. Then Johnson in his dis-
pleasure had them paraded before the Beak,
and the Beak seemed to have the idea that
Johnson was trying to pull his leg, or some-
thing equally vain. Anyhow, he dismissed
the case and Ma’s Railway Commissioner
was once more the right man in the wrong
place, or whatever it was S. M. Herald
said of him.
*
The ill-constructed city of Sydney is being
improved in strict moderation, and its lanes
are being widened a trifle here and there, and
its streets straightened just a little in spots.
The trouble is that, instead of one central
authority, there are about 40 municipalities
and mayors and sets of aldermen, and much
faster than one lot (the City of Sydney lot)
can straighten things in its pint of territory
some of the others are acquiring fresh lanes
and new crooked ways. Even the City of
Sydney hasn’t done much at improvement
yet, and already the bill for interest and
sinking fund runs to about £200.000 a year.
Melbourne, having been built with straight,
wide streets at the outset, has no such
staggering invoice to pay for reconstruction,
and the difference in the rates of the two
cities begins to be conspicuous. # N.S.W.
might build a State-owned Melbourne at
Port Stephens and another at Twofold Bay
if it felt like abandoning the railway and
harbor policy, which shoves all its new town
population into the private-landlord-owned
city of Sydney. Then Sydney wouldn’t grow
quite so fast, and it might be possible to re-
pair the old slums and alleys faster than the
new crooked ways were constructed. But as
things go, the business seems very like pour-
ing beer into the bottomless pit or trying to
extinguish Beelzebub with a teaspoonful
of water.
An 18,000-ton vessel is now building in
England for the Australian trade, and big-
ger ones will presently follow. This is just
about the end of the foolish city of Mel-
bourne as a first-class port. Even the
18,000 craft will draw about 33ft. when
loaded. The crooked old Yarra has to
strain its credit to the last gasp to produce
26ft. of water. There are 28ft. at Williams-
town and 30ft. at Port Melbourne, so the
new liner won’t be able to look at either
place. It is reckoned that in six years the
entrance to Port Phillip can be dredged to
a depth of 40ft. If a 33ft. ship is coming
in amid a furious gale, and the fall of the
vessel when it drops off the roof of a wave
is just a shade over the margin allowed, that
ship may thud against the sea-bottom and
break its back in one heroic act. As for the
tremendously long channel between the en-
trance and Port Melbourne, it would pro-
bably cost as much as the bloated Victorian
metropolis is worth to bring it up to re-
ouirements. Unless Victoria abandons its
deranged policy of congestion, and system-
atically develops the splendid harbor of
Western Port and the very good one of
Portland, it will probably, within a few
years, see the biggest steamers landing their
Vote NO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From tree to tree the monkeys swung :
To the topmost boughs they always clung ;
And in the fiercest gales they found
Their tails preserved them safe and sound
And tails are useless on the ground.
Until one ordinary day
A bright young monkey chanced to say:
“I’m sick of all this tree-top talk,
Why shouldn’t we climb down and wall;*
Why do we just swing round and round?
What is the objection to the ground?”
And thereupon the monkey crowd
Remarked, unanimous and loud :
“Don’t go!
Vote NO.
Why can’t you be like us content?
Why risk this rash experiment?
We’ve monkeys been since Time began:
What makes you want to be a Man?
Oh ho!
Go slow.
Don’t go.
Vote NO.”
Time lumbered on and found six States
That simmered in six separate hates.
For each was apt to wake of nights
And shiver in brucesmithian frights
That it might lose its rights and spites.
Until one ordinary day
Some Gcod Australians chanced to say:
“We are of one Australian race;
We occupy the same old place.
We’re tired of all this petty spite ;
Why shouldn’t we six States unite?”
And thereupon the State-Frights crowd
Remarked, unanimous and loud :
“Woe! Woe!
Vote NO.
Why can’t you be like us content?
Why want to own a continent?
Why talk this anti-State-Frights tripe?
To us the time is not yet ripe.
Each hoe
His row,
A foe!
Vote NO.”
A sort of federation came:
The monkeys still remained the same.
They didn’t want a navy or
A really-truly army, for
There wasn’t such a thing as war.
Until one ordinary day
Some patriots just chanced to say :
What chance have we to Jiold this land
Unless prepared and strong we stand?
Instead of raising loan on loan.
Why not raise soldiers of our own?”
And thereupon the monkey crowd
Remarked, unanimous an'd loud :
*Now, whoa!
Vote NO.
Where is the hurry? Why not wait?
We’ll settle that some later date.
A splendid fleet! An army corps !
That’s rot. We don’t believe in war.
Trust Joe ;
He’ll know.
And so
Vote NO.”
[ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Subscriptions received for
painting his gate at the Red Page. The Bulletin
Office, Sydney. For purposes of police identification
the author’s right thumb-print is herewith appended,
taken in the presence of W. H. East, who is some-
body of importance in thp composing department.]


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
m
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . . and . . .
“MACKIE'S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE
COMING!
GREATER
HELEN GARDNER
in
CLEOPATRA.
The splendid 6000 ft. Photoplay.
CRYSTAL. PALACE
Theatre de Luxe.
Beginning June 9th.
USUAL PRICES OF ADMISSION.
J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
WM. B. MILLER, General Manager.
Victorian cargo at the first-class port of
Hobart, for transhipment to poor, second-
rate, high-and-dry Melbourne per inter-State
vessel. Then the degradation of the proud
capital of Dunky Gillies will be complete.
The Associated Chambers of Commerce are
to have a conference in Sydney on June 17,
and representatives from every State will be
present. This seems a quite unnecessary,
not to say improper, thing. Why can’t
each State look after its own affairs? The
conference proposes to consider the wisdom
of a uniform railway gauge throughout
Australia. This is a gross interference with
State Rights. The railways are a State
matter. If N. S. Wales lilies the 4ft. 81in.
gauge, and Victoria the sft. 3in. and
Queensland the 3ft. 6in.. what’s that got
to do with anyone else? Who provides the
money for these works? The States, of
course. Then the Associated Chambers are
going to show reasons for uniform food and
drug standards. Why should there be uni-
formity. Victoria and N.S.W. and S. Aus-
tralia and the rest all have power
to legislate, and why shouldn’t they legis-
late as they please? Also why should there
be a uniform Companies Act? If one State
wants one thing and another State doesn’t
want anything at all, why shouldn’t they
have it? Certainly the absence of uni-
formity may make things uncomfortable for
the merchants; but the absence of uni-
formity also makes things uncomfortable Dr
the merchants’ customers, and why should
State Rights be interfered with to oblige
the merchants when it would be such a
monstrous thing to interfere with them to
oblige the merchants’ customers?
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
(“Plain English ” continued on page 16.)
J. W. Turner, Superintendent of Technical
Education, who retires after 50 years in the
N.S.W. school service, is a native of Parra-
matta. He sat for his exam, as a pupil
teacher in the building now used as the
Girls’ High School, in Castlereagh-street,
Sydney. lie got an appointment at Cook’s
River. Dean Cowper next gave him a job
as first-assistant at St. Barnabas’s, in Parra-
matta-street, in the heydey of the Denomi-
national School system. His first appoint-
ment as headmaster was at Tarana, then a
railway camp with 17 pubs; and he climbed
step by step till he had charge of the Fort-
street Model School. After travelling with
G. H. Knibbs in search of technical and
other knowledge in most civilised countries,
Mr. Turner settled down as head of the
Technical branch of his old Department, and
stuck to it till ill-health gave him notice to
quit.
Clear and definite platform of the Anti-
Referenda patriots on the subjects of com-
mercial conspiracies:—
There are no Trusts in Australia.
Item: The Trusts in Australia are not injurious
to the welfare of the people.
Item: The existing Constitutional machinery is
effective to control Trusts.
Item: We are, therefore, willing to make reason-
able amendments to make the machinery effective.
The Sugar Trust keeps the price of sugar down.
Item: The Sugar Commission, mostly composed of
Labor members of the Australian Parliament, came
to curse the co., and remained to pray for it.
Item: The Labor party should be hurled into ob-
livion.
Australia is free from Trusts.
Item: By reducing the tariff the Trusts and Com-
bines in Australia will cease to flourish.
Nothing could be clearer unless it be the re-
cent weather policy of Providence.
[Writ by John Barr, at ye sign of Ye Bulletin,
Sydney, to move ye common people to seek liberty,
and not be subject to ye rich and more mighty, or
be taken, as ’twere, by ye heels.]
Written by the man whose name appears
in the old locality
TAis gold trowel business is being distinctly over-
done. It’s getting on people’s nerves. At the
opening, or shutting, or laying, or heightening, or
deepening of the Commonwealth Bottle-Oh column
at Canbury, three expensive gold trowels were
debited to this bleeding country by Kink O’Malley.
He sgems to be a reincarnation of Omale the
Egyptian architect of 4701 8.C., who laid the
foundation stone of the Sphinx. On that occasion
(as you may read in Breitzenstein’s “History of the
Second Dynasty”), “Pharaoh the King did lay
his hand upon the first stone, and did bless it” (just
like Lord Denman or Archbish. Kelly, you see!);
and then followed (1) the High Priest, (2) the
Steward of Milus (our friend Joseph’s old job), and
(3) the architect and builder, Omale, himself. Each
laid his hand, etc., and etc., and each was presented
with a gold trowel. According to Breitzenenstein —
who should know if anybody does —“the seal of the
Land of Ra [Egypt] was engraven thereon” — i.e.,
on each trowel. Excuse this long digression, but it
is important, as not only does it help to explain
matters, but (if the editor doesn’t cut it) it will
mean quite 2s. 3d. extra to yours Egyptologieally!
What I want to*point out is this: that just as there
were brave men before Agamemnon, so there were
trowel-roosters before O’Malley. The second insult
to the community was when Fisher got his second
gold trowel and a joker named Miller his first at the
uprising or down-setting of the Commonwealth Shav-
ings Bank, when again this bleeding country footed
the bill. The Three Gold Trowels as a title or
name for the one pub at Canbury would go well.
But the thing is being overdone, and, besides, it is
awkwardly reminiscent of the Three Gold Balls of
Lombardy.
[Edward MacCulloch (0. C. Cabot, for short),
at his political paragraphy. Megalong-street,
Katoomba. ]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Taming of the Shrew.”
Her Majesty’s “The Count of Luxembourg.”
Criterion “Excuse Me.”
Palace “On Our Selection.”
Adelphi “The Evil Men Do.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre “Fanny’s First Play.”
National Amphitheatre Brennan's Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer's Pictures.
Lyric )
Colonial > Continuous Pictures.
Empress J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia West's Pictures.
Town Hall David Bispham.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Sunshine Girl.”
Princess’s “From Convent to Throne.”
Kino’s “The Sailor’s Wedding.”
Royal “Within the Law."
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou “The Speculators.”
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
A fill-in week of “Kismet” is ending, at
Sydney Royal, as this Bulletin goes out
in its pink overcoat to brave the winter
westerlies. The Sundry Show critic, ere
leaping off the mark, tomahawk in hand —
the turbaned play having been running hard
for five nights—barks a remark to the Sport-
ing Editor about his handicap being too big
for a sprint event. Then he flies hopelessly
in pursuit of Oscar Asche and his highly-
colored co. As before, the chief charm of
the great color symphony, or togs poem, is
its brilliant stage management. Hajj, the
hereditary beggar who becomes a palace
official for a crowded hour or two, rages
splendidly in an adventurous way through
the gorgeous day that finally ends on the
same old slab. But, though he is an absorb-
ing figure, the setting keeps on making its
equally insistent demand for attention, until
the lights go down and blot it out. The color,
blaze, movement and market clatter of the
bazaar scene together make a notable stage
record of Baghdad life. The necessary quiet
note is skilfully supplied by the sauntering
Chinaman (Gordon Harker), who fans him-
self languidly through the uproar, closely
followed by a silent small boy bearing two
dead table birds. If there is anything in the
production to carp at (and it is the business
of critics to carp) it is the monotonous
K-Flat-Z-Sharp grief of Lily Brayton, as the
bullied Marsinah. One wishes that she
would wail in another key just once in a
while. But it is quite possible that she
grieves on right lines. No one is entitled to
say she is wrong unless he hails from old
Baghdad and is familiar with the Yvays of
the country. The week being so far ad-
vanced, further remarks of a laudatory
nature are hereby basketed, criticism, under
the circumstances, being rather like the ad-
vance obituary notice of a fine show that is
passing hence. On Saturday night, Shaks-
bacon’s “Taming of the Shrew” will start to
rasre for one consecutive week, and the
critic’s tribulation will begin afresh.
“Fanny’s First Play” continues to boom at
the Little Theatre. It is now in its fourth
week. Hugh Buckler, frenzied by success,
already talks of putting on “uamlet” for the
edification of the High Brows who have
taken to frequenting his playhouse, and
there are mutterings of Ibsen and Gals-
worthy and more Shaw in the near future.
yp s’; $
Seven times per week a referendum of the
people is taken at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on
such issues as the Waltz Upstairs, the Yan-
kee Tangle, the charm of Miss Sybil Arun-
dale, and the transcendent beauty of the tall
show-lady in the prompt corner, and always
the verdict is a thunderous “Yes.” The
writer has striven furiously to convince his
wayward fellow-citizens that these things,
though passing fair, are but the delusions and
snares of Beelzebub, and “so many invita-
tions to jump over a precipice,” as one of our
leading politicians has well put it. But they
keep on crowding to the show just the same.
It is enough to make a reformer down tracts
and join the ranks of the Lost.
[Signed, owing to the Referendum reference, by
Rev. Emmanuel Howle, 8.A., Moanville, Bondi,
where cash donations towards buying him a new set
of wowsing implements—telescope, felt slippers,
night glasses, gimlet, knee-pads for grass work, etc.,
will be enthusiastically received.]
“A Harvest of Tares,” a silent melodrama,
which is the best way to have a lot of melo-
dramas, was unwound at the Empress this
week. The picture provides still another
argument in favor of signed journalism,
though the editor of the paper therein was
the most uneditorial this paper has ever
seen. At the Crystal Palace, those who
weren’t gazing on a man who weighs IScwt.,
more or less, were invited to view pictures of
John Bull’s and the Australian armies in
their various camps and marches. Bull’s
would certainly have the better chance
of winning a Beauty Competition, but the
N.S.W. men look as though they could kill
and cook a sheep best.
[With a view to the vexed question of signed
journalism above alluded to, this item is attested in
his own hand by the writer, Kenneth Prior, The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, in the hope that bloodshed
and international complications will thereby be
averted.]
** $ ❖
The National Amphitheatre audiences
have been receiving full measure for their
money this week. Headed by a Japanese
team of jugglers, contortionists, balancers,
pole walkers and climbers, the programme
has been unusually entertaining.
In spite of counter attractions, such as
political meetings, burglary, cold feet, etc.,
a good-sized crowd still finds its way to the
Tivoli. The only new turn this week is
provided by the Kebbles. Though their song
an’ dance is nothing to get excited over, the
item is quite agreeable. The Seals, Bell-
clairs, the Four Q’s, the Roosters, and
O’Hana San (last nights) still withstand
the first nip of winter.
“ THE EVIL MEN DO," AT THE
ADELPHI, SYDNEY.
Interesting ceremony in a melodrama church.
The bad girl with the Old Testament eye kills
the villain on the altar. (Loud applause and
whistles from the congregation.)
Solved —the problem of how 7 to fill the
churches. Imagine, if possible, the mad
rush that w 7 ould be made for the kirk that
included this in its programme:—
Dramatis Personal —Preacher: A twin brother of
the real minister, impersonating the genuine rever-
end, whom he has murdered.
Congregation: Mixed, and permitted to hang over
the pews and converse with each other in a loud
voice, and threaten everyone else with instant death
or arrest, or both. Husband and wife (divorced)
seated one behind the other, both wailing—also in a
loud voice—that they want to go back home again.
Villainess: .Just escaped from a gang of assassins
whom the “minister” has bribed to kill her.
Much limelight. Pews previously used as seats in
divorce court. No collection.
Action: Minister enters and climbs into pulpit.
“Dearly beloved brethren”- Enter very excited
villainess with dagger. “Stop!” she cries. “That
man is not the minister ; he is a mur-r-rderer,” and
proceeds to explain. Minister calls her a liar, etc.
The villainess presents him with the business end of
the dagger, and the min’ster’s corpse hangs over the
edge of the pulpit. (Applause). A fat verger pre-
vents the cadaver from falling over and spoiling the
carpet, while the villainess, gone suddenly mad (loud
applause) is dragged out by members of the congre-
gation (renewed applause and whistling), and the
divorced hero and heroine advance to an extra patch
of limelight, and are reconciled. (Sensation.) Reces-
sional, and curtain.
Such is the attraction which is held
to churchgoers in “The Evil Men Do” at
Adelphi. Apart from doing that it 'd™
nothing else, and does it with remarkable
success, besides taking about three-quarter*
of an hour too long over it. Roy Redgrave
makes the most of the dual character
the twin brothers, and kills himself-—thai
is one of himself—with great gusto behind
the scenes, while the other of himself goes
ANY COMIC OPERA AT HER
MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
The Epilogue (First Nights Only).
MANAGER WARD: “ I'm sure you'll agree
with me Particularly fine artists Best
comic opera chorus in the world First-rate
comedians.....Rlagnijicent......Glorious," etc.,
etc., etc .
to church and dies as mentioned above.
Vera Remee as the heroine and Florence
Richter as the villainess are nothing out
of the ordinary, while the hero (Walter
Dalgleish) doesn’t hero much more than
the comic reliefs relieve, and that isn’t
worth 2d. The piece, which is under the
eye of Billanderson, will last only till the
end of next week. It is long enough to last
nearly three months without repetition, and
a scythe or lawn-mower run over it would
be of great benefit.
** * *
On Saturday evening, at Sydney Criterion,
“The Fortune Hunter” will retire in favor
of an American Pullman Car, in a Some-
what Different Comedy, entitled “Excuse
Me.” The writer shall endeavor to.
* * $
The Adelaide Royal has shed its summer
suit of melodrama, and got to work with
“Milestones.” This is just the kind of play
the S. Aus. city appreciates. The stage-
setting and the varied costumes and the
all-round fine acting would carry off even a
poor piece, and this one is far from being
that. The advance booking is well up to-
wards a record.
Adelaide Tivoli has the juggling Henri
French, seen already in Melbourne and Syd-
ney, and a couple of newcomers —Reynard,
a robust dramatic Italian baritone, and his
sister Rosella, who can play the harp effec-
tively back to front or any old way.
At the King’s are the five Olracs, finish-
ing their Australian season; Henry and
May, cycling; and King and Thornton, in
brief drama. Among the pictures Wonder-
graph supplies a Y.M.C.A. camp, possibly
as antidote to the Turkey Trot danced by
Grossmith and Phyllis Dare. West’s have
sea-trawling and steeplechasing. The Pav.
shows American floods; this house is open
all day. So are the Society of Arts pic-
tures. So is an Applied Arts show, copper,
wood, embroidery, etc. And concerts are
many, the most striking being that to wel-
come back from Europe Miss Martha
Bruggemann, whose flexible soprano is
greatly improved by the training she got
there.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal an emotional state-
ment of cause and effect, as regards pilfer-
ing in Gilder’s Emporium, continues to be
made nightly by Mary Turner to the boss,
who had apparently expected her to “make
him wise” to a new patent pilfer-stopper
instead of merely preaching the doctrine of
Living Wage. Also the reprehensible
Gilder, fattened and stodged by cheap labor,
is still dealing out large donations to local
charities and staring haughtily at his
typiste when she reminds him that he has
money to burn. Moreover, the other inci-
dents of “Within the Law” are happening
as before to the delight of ample audiences.
Innocent Mary gets converted, by a process
of cool storage, into a sentimental black-
mailess of the most picturesque character,
and her predatory pals switch off the light
in old Gilder’s tapestry room whilst she
has a heart-to-heart talk with Gilder junior,
her loving husband. Owing to this con-
versation she orders the light to be switched
on again, and Joe, the inaudible forger,
fires a silent bullet into the stool pigeon
of the party, after which everybody does a
make away through the window, save Mary
and her fancy dupe, who might just as well
escape with the others, but prefer to. remain
behind and furnish a dramatic situation
THE SHOW THAT RUDD BUILT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the show that Rudd built.
These are the pressmen, wearied and worn,
That write in the papers every morn :
“ ‘On Our Selection’s’ still reaping the corn,
At the Palace (the harvest there was born),
And the signs of a frost are vague and for-
lorn,
While the steps of the bank where the profits
are borne
By Bailey and Duggan are getting quite
worn”
(Like the yarn of the cow with the crumpled
horn,
Or J. Cook’s hopes for next Saturday morn).
Here The Bulletin critic, shaven and
shorn,
Takes the Glass in his hand and is solemnly
sworn
That “On Our Selection’s” a regular thorn
In the place where his notice has got to be
born,
And he hopes to the Lord, ere next publish-
ing morn,
That the show is in Melbourne, or off to
Cape Horn.
Where some other poor chap can be wearied
and worn
Concerning the play that Rudd built.
[The bit about Cook was composed by John Barr,
in The Bulletin Office, Sydney. He also composed
the rest, but he isn’t laying too much stress on that
point.]


ENGLAND’S Latest Light Car.
Weight of
Chassis, llcwt.
STONELEIGH
.
Silent Knight Daimler Engine, Detachable Wire Wheels, Worm Drive, etc.
SUNSHINE Motor Cars P’t’y, Melbourne
HUGH V. McKAY, Sydney & Adelaide
Agents.
j
0OORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
S. J. FOWLER, Manager.
LIMITED,
Pitt 8 King Streets, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. t 2
when the fat-headed police, or stiff bulls,
burst into the room. All this time the bull
stiffs —four of them —have been artfully
concealed about the premises, nevertheless
they knew nothing of what was going on,
nor made any arrangements for intercepting
fugitives. Inspector Burke doesn’t deserve
to find any live persons in the room when
he arrives. He ought to be left to stumble
promiscuously over the forsaken corpse.
Then Gilder senior could rush in, place one
hand on the dead bird’s breast, point the
other hand at blusterful Burke, and cry in
the voice of a chairman addressing a public
meeting; “You killed stool pigeon!” The
last act would show Burke committing sui-
cide in gaol, and the public’s moral sense
would be warmly appealed to.
* * * *
“The Sunshine Girl.” who is mostly a
compound of her cheerful predecessors, with
a little of their melody gone astray in the
mixing, has settled down into her frisk at
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne. The entertain-
ment is not even classed on the programme
either as musical comedy or farce. It is
just alluded to as “the reigning Gaiety suc-
cess,” and it wags the sceptre of irrespon-
sibility with mechanical precision. Two or
three years back the cheerful extravagances
of “The Sunshine Girl” would have been
less unsurprising. For instance, Leslie
Holland’s way of walking like an Arab
steed on a burning desert or a cab horse
on hot bricks has shed much of its novelty,
and the hoops of Miss Barlow have left
the Milestones of amazement a month be-
hind. Probably Heaven and Gaiety Success
know why Miss Barlow, in the character of
a modern travelling companion or wander-
ing what-not, wears the crinoline of a.d.
1860. A Gaiety success should have risen
on stepping stones of its dead selves to
higher things. Fortunately “The Sunshine
Girl” gets some sweet notes of nonsense
out of Floot. Floot, as tootled by Jack
Cannot, is nearly a full band at times. He
has no apparent mission in life, except to
get a drink. He is funny. He is supposed
to interpret the character of an ex-cab-
driver (maybe he used to drive the gee that
gave dancing lessons to Leslie Holland),
but the jaundiced critic accepts him as a
disguised officer of Booth’s Etarmy, enforc-
ing salvation upon a weak and worldly
show.
Some of the goods have been taken out
of “Life’s Shop Window” since that gentL
melodrama started business at the King’s.
Cyril Mackay, the first fatuous husband of
Lydia, has left Anderson’s employ, and Red-
grave, who formerly gammoned to play
violin music into Lydia’s gramophone, has
gone to one of Anderson’s other stores, so
the window dressing is sadly disarranged,
as it were. Beckett and Max Clifton have
taken over the jobs of the departed ones,
and two other actors, of unremarkable
ability are doing what Beckett and Clifton
did of yore, only less so. Therefore this
final week of Victoria Cross’s story is a
period of depression. On Saturday a re-
vival of “The Sailor’s Wedding” will bring
the present season to its last chapter.
** * *
The American Burlesque Co. that woke
the Bijou from a long, long slumber will
shake it up no more after Saturday. The
Hebrew, the Dutchman, the girl with the
quaint mannerisms in her lower limbs, and
the rest of the wild invaders are going to
Sydney or elsewhere. Election night closes
the account of “The Speculators.”
s}» SfJ *Js
The De Bruns, who danced into the
Opera House last week, proved to be un-
eventful exponents of “drawing-room”
turkey trots and such things. Seeing that
what they do, or something very like it. has
been quite as gracefully and rather more
suggestively danced on another Melbourne
stage to a more seductive musical accom-
paniment, the De Brun turn comes like a
glass of gingerbeer after a liqueur. The
Banvards are bouncing and whirling in the
air as before, and the principal member of
the eight Jackson cyclists is now accom-
plishing the remarkable feat which he
missed at his first attempts. Clarke and
Dale Owen have changed their comedy
sketch, with unimproved results. Mario, the
contortionist, is back, but Madge Temple
will take leave of the present bill to-night
(Thursday).-
SK * * *
Clara Butt has given the young and
enterprising Auditorium a capital start in
life. Her first, concert was the dullest of
the four that had happened in Melbourne
up to time of writing. In her subsequent
appearances the tall contralto sang her best,
and with her winsome urbanity of manner,
and the distinctive mellowness of her mezzo
tones she captured the audience. Murdoch,
the close-cropped Australian pianist, seems
to be a considerable factor in the success,
whilst Kennerley Rumford offers atonement
for his German glumerwarbels when he rips
out a declamatory ballad in Australian
language. General Desire has added three
concerts to the original series of five. This
(Thursday) afternoon there will be a Butt
matinSe at the Auditorium, and on Satur-
day night and Tuesday of next week the
fight for seats will be repeated.
Cleopatra is getting a belated advt.
at Melbourne Olympia in a mile or
more of agitated film. This version of the
Flossiest love yarn ever told is better
furnished than most. Among other items
it presents an Antony handsome enough to
excuse Cleo.’s torrid advances. On the
other hand, Cleo., though she carries enough
temper and passion for the part, is, in the
matter of physical fitness* a definite error
and a false alarm.
H« :!<
On Saturday the P’ran Lyric (Vic.), pub-
lished “The Engine of Destruction,” in which
a dishevelled villain tries to pinch a patent
gun and about list, of rounded girl. Both
of the valuables belong to a young engineer,
who shows unlimited resource in shooing the
miscreant off the booty. The concluding
scene, wherein the bad man is rescued from
imminent massacre by an explosion, is a
shuddering climax, though it might have
been as well reached in one act as in three.
Another three-act feature, “The Stolen
Jewels,” was plain and homely fare, while
“An Eastern Flower” displayed the lengths
to which cowpunchers will go to pluck a very
ordinary vegetable.
“ LIFE'S SHOP
WINDOW,"
MELBOURNE
KING'S.
RUTLAND
BECKETT turns
over a new leaf
and plays Hodge
( decen [?])
“Jean Sibi’s” art note:—
Pen Boyd’s stack of canvases at Melbourne Guild-
hall suggests that he has loitered in the draught
from the English Newlyn school, and caught a cold
in the imagination. His Cornwall subjects are speci-
ally suggestive of the Newlyn method of building
epic oleographs of fishing scenes. In “The Beach,
St. Ives,” you get the same reverent treatment of
glum brown sails and sombre hulls, and derive the
same impression of an heroic industry before which
the painter and his art are humbly prostrate. “The
Cottage Window,” again, is largely inoculated with
Newlynitis. In the foreground you get the usual
huge section of plain interior, which gives the eye
a sensation of extensive travel. In the background
there are the customary homely windows, through
which a damsel gazes at an exhausting vista of
fishing-boats. All very pleasant and respectable, but
one prefers Boyd’s idea of “Spring, St. Ives,”
wherein he permits a view of open sea and sunny
day through a gap in a foreground of blossomed
leafage. Strangely enough, Penleigh drops the
Newlyn manner when he gets to Paris and Venice,
and becomes a full-fleged Continental with a strong
whiff of impressionism in his system. His Parisian
jottings, particularly his snapshots of the Boulevard
Montparnasse, remind one of Pizarro, the Messiah of
a method before whom Pen seemingly is neither a
denying Peter nor a doubting Thomas. One likes
his view of the Colosseum by moonlight, and there is
very passable color in his Venetian views, though a
man requires a flash of genius to lift the painting of
these overdone scenes above the level of descriptive
reporting. As regards the water-colors, most are
rather too raw in color to achieve distinction, while
the head-and-figure studies are the indifferent fea-
tures of an otherwise interesting exhibition.
* * * *
The ancient Wowser from Mars com-
menced a six nights’ dissertation on Other-
dom at Melbourne Princess’s, on Saturday
night. This time the object of his shocks
and social reform is the honeyed H. R.
Roberts, as unreal in his professed selfish-
ness as he is in his later Quixotism. Henry
R. is not the Roberts to display states of
soul in a Horace Parker. Winter Hall is
an impressive Stranger ; he has all the phy-
sical appointments for the job of the Mar-
tian, though his beatitudes haven’t always
the punch of real conviction behind them.
Titheradge’s tramp is a delicate study, lean-
ing a little to over-refinement. Mrs.
Brough and Miss Day are effective. Sydney
Stirling, as Arthur Dicey, has to suffer the
ignominy of ill-fitting pants, while Miss
Parkes talks with such affected expression
as Minnie Templer that her lines turn
themselves into a sonata. “A Message
from Mars” concludes to-morrow, and will
be succeeded on Saturday by a message
from Marlow, entitled “From Convent to
Throne.” Mostly it has been the other way
about, and sometimes the late occupant of
the throne has been mighty glad to get
there.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: The improvement in Clara Butt’s art of
singing, although it is considerable, doesn’t strike one
so forcibly as her development of a quality of graci-
ousness in voice and expression, since her first visit
to Australia. In the songs which are not German
or hymn-like, or both, the tall lady is as adorable
as plump little Dolores of yore. She no longer asserts
the majesty of her platform appearance. The effect
of Clara Butt differs in every respect from that of
the other lofty songstress—Cisneros. She is best in
her joyously-sympatheLc rendering of such airy dit-
ties as “The Fairy Pipers,” which will capture the
audience—men and women alike —wherever she goes.
The public’s previous judgment of Clara Butt has
got to be amended this time. Her performance indi-
cates a gradual refinement of temperament, a leisurely
cultivation of natural charm, rather than an artist’s
devotion to art. As compared with a Kirkby Lunn she
is not an artist to speak of, either in large or small
musical numbers, but in her easy amiability of style,
together with her fine appearance, she is Great at
times. She acts very little in her “Keys of Heaven”
duet with Kennerlev Romford, yet the little she does
suffices to make the thing go for all it is worth.
One remembers the demurely-scornful duettiste, whose
virtue appears to be proof against every temptation
save an offer of marriage.
“S. Berg”: Apropos Watts, the Ballarat singer,
and Hal Cohen (B. 15/5/’l3). It is true that the
Ballarat boy has achieved fame in London, and that
his talent was to a big extent unrecognised before
he left Australia. But as to his friend Hal Cohen,
the tenor who was trained at the Marshall Hall Con-
servatorium, it is not true that he has “boiled down
into a commonplace baritone.” He has had several
big successes in England, but these have probably
not been identified as Cohen’s property, because nowa-
days he is known as Harold Colonna. At the present
time he is in Paris, under engagement to the Grand
Opera House.
“Adelaide”: Hats off to the press agent of the
Banzai family! In these days of frenzied competi-
tion in his line, he has struck something really new.
The stage decking of the turn, he says, is to be pre-
sented to the Mikado when the Banzais get back to
Japan, and hung in the Royal Palace. A fair paral-
lel would be: “The stage costumes of the Sisters
Sprightly are so charming that, after they have
been dragged through the dressing-rooms of the
world’s theatres for some years, they will, on the
Sisters’ return to London, be presented to Queen
Mary, and worn by her on State occasions.”
“Harrison O.”: I have never seen a hero look
smaller than Cyril Mackay in the last act of “Life’s
Shop Window.” Cyril’s missus runs away with an
amorous aristocrat in a fur cap, but the two are
brought back to the family ranch, and the gods
settle down to enjoy the expected sight of Cyril smit-
ing the male wrongdoer good and hard. But While
Cyril is rolling up his shirt sleeves in preparation
for the slaughter, the amorous furistocrat commences
a speech. In rounded periods he tells Cyril that his
spouse is a pearl, and that he (Cyril) is the sort of
animal before whom pearls are sometimes cast. He
urges that more husbandly attention to the lady, even
at the expense of agricultural pursuits, would not be
amiss; and he concludes with a stirring peroration
on the duty man owes to the divine creature who
permits him to be her slave, banker and general
scapegoat, until death or the divorce court inter-
venes. Lothario’s eloquence goes right home to the
collective ’eart of the gallery, and he strolls off
gracefully in search of fresh wives and houris new,
while the shamefaced hubby-hero is left looking like
a disloyal Hound who has been detected in an at-
tempt ito steal a lion’s breakfast.
Poor Snazelle, who introduced to Australia “How
Bill Adams Won the Battle of Waterloo,” left an
estate worth only £42 behind him when he died
lately in America. He had had a long illness, and
porous plasters had eaten up his little fortune.
“R.J.S.”: “Busk” (B. 15/5/T3) says Ethel War-
wick is a daughter of Lewis Waller. As a matter
of fact, she is a daughter-in-law, being married to
Lewis Waller, jun., who came here with her and
took a small character part in the “Flag Lieu-
tenant.” So far from prospecting for pa, they were
doing a bit on their own account, but decided it
was not worth while. Hubby appeared under his
own name here, but never played any decent parts.
He was not too pally with pa, but used to play on
tour with mamma, though not under his own name.
For business reasons, perhaps, pa didn’t seem to
push sonny forwards. Also, there was one small
grandchild named June, and I suppose it isn’t good
for a matinge idol to be too widely known as a
grandpa.
“Melb ”: Seeing “Faust,” I remember that the
Goethe Museum, at Weimar, is shown as his
actual house, with his writing chamber exactly as
he left it. The Grand Duke built the house for him
as a surprise packet, on his return from Italy. But
the building was of the jerry tvpe, and had to be
entirely taken down and rebuilt some vears ago.
The discovery of this rather cools one's ardor. There
is a similar disillusionment at Versailles. The bed-
chamber of Louis XIV. is shown “exactly as he left
it.” You ascertain, maybe a good while afterwards,
that the chamber was smashed up by the Revolution-
o rn r ‘r« rr»oOTi<!^^nr**-io' r i.
“Harrison O.”: Many critics of acting will be
staggered at the dictum of “One Who Pays” (B.
1/5/M3) that “Brough never had such a good jeune
premier as Roberts (H. R.), who really has charm.
Maybe as much as anyone on the stage, now that
Alexander is a trifle in the sere and yellow.” To me
it is as jeune premier that Roberts is least convincing
and most emphatically lacking in what would pass
for “charm” in a club smoking-room, or among fairly
experienced members of the softer sex. Roberts’s
young men nearly always have their thatch arranged
so that it looks like an advertisement for Somebody’s
Anti-Bald Scalp Food, and their manner is that of a
very soulful young curate handing round thin bread
and butter at a tennis tea. ’There is invariably an
irritating unctuousness about his work in this direc-
tion. H.R.’s undoubted claims to recognition as an
actor rest on his fine work in character parts; as, for
instance, his (to me) absolutely convincing John
Stofel, in “Struck Oil.”
An altitudinous result of astronomer Mary Proctor’s
visit to Australasia is the gift of £lO,OOO or
£12,000 (as is required) by Thomas Cawthron, of
Nelson (M.L.), to build, equip and endow a solar
physics observatory in that province. Less than 18
months ago, Miss Proctor set out in place of Sir
Robert Ball (Professor of Astronomy at Cambridge),
who was unable to accept the invitation, to lecture up
funds for an observatory in Australasia, in order to
complete the chain of sky-examiners round the
world. Cawthron, who had been interested in astron-
omy by Mary Proctor’s father, read an account of one
of the daughter’s lectures, sent for her, and asked
her what it would cost to set up a station. “Ten
thousand pounds,” said the lady. “All right,” re-
plied Cawthron, reaching for his cheque-book, “that
clinches it.” A plain, casual man is Thomas Caw-
thron, of Maoriland.
“R.D.J.”: “Quo Vadis,” now at West’s, is show-
ing ’orribly orful pictures of lions dining on early
Wowsers in the Colosseum. Now the Colosseum has
hitherto been said to have been commenced by Titus
several years after the death of Nero in a.d. 68.
Furthermore, it was built on the site of Nero’s
“Golden House.” What I want to know is: (1) If
Nero built the Colosseum, and if, as is well known,
it was built on the site of his pulled-down palace,
how is that towards the end of the film he is able to
give a sit-down supper in the aforesaid palace? (2)
If he did build the Colosseum, to dispose of Chris-
tians, and it took 12 years to build, what were the
Christians doing in the meantime? (3) If the
Colosseum wasn’t built until Nero was a respectable
corpse, what was he doing in it at all?
Hash-house keepers are said to be respon-
sible for the disfranchisement of a good many
citizens. Electoral officers complain that
when a grim landlady is called upon to sup-
ply information re a former boarder, who
has gone to find fresh hash and hard beds
new, she usually slams the door saying
“Dead.” The boarder who passed out of her
life has ceased to exist as far as she is con-
cerned. If the person left her without pay-
ing for the last week’s board she suggests
that damnation followed on the heels of
death. Then the inquirer writes “deceased”
with a note of interrogation, and proceeds
to track the departed eoul to a warm place
round the corner, or in another suburb.
Of a diploma in business: —
The Empire Trade Commission met the other sort
of witness as it was stepping off Australia—General-
manager Delprat, of the Broken Hill Prop., said to
be the biggest-salaried man in the Commonwealth.
Just when political employers and their lackeys were
moaning most about industrial unrest and the scared
capital that was hiding when it wasn’t actually
rushing out of the country, Delprat was taking his
co. into the iron and steel industry. “Aren’t you
afraid of labor troubles?” asked Rider Haggard,
with the groans of a score of other witnesses still
in his ears. “Oh, no!” said Delprat cheerfully.
“Don’t you have any?” “Yes, plenty. But we
don’t mind.” And that ended it. It was just the
suave Dutchman’s way. What good was a kick at
Labor going to do him or the Broken Hill Prop,
just then? Wasn’t a Labor Government in power in
N. S. Wales and the Commonwealth, and mightn’t
he want some little thing next week or next month ?
Years ago, when he lived alongside the mine at
Broken Hill, and wanted music, it was the Miners’
Union band he called up and paid for —and it was
surprising how often he could want band music. So
Delprat was a “good sort,” and got a lot of his
own wav in the negotiations of this kind or that
which were sure to happen along presently. It was
the same smiling, laughing good sort, excusing him-
self for his poor English, who turned up one day
and had a talk witih Edden, N.S.W. Minister for
Mines, about the national importance of the iron
and steel industry; and what could M'nisters do
but offer the pleasant natriot every encouragement
to go ahead, even though they did belong to a Gov-
ernment pledged to nationalise this very business?
It would cost a heap of money, wherefore all that
Ministers wanted was a nile of reasons for doing
nothing themselves; and if the interests of his co.
demanded it th’s very pleasant gentleman could
supply you offhand with a score of excellent reasons
why you should dance on your sainted mother’s
grave.
THE LOST COMPANY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A troupe of nine performing fleas has disappeared
mysteriously from a Sydney show. So far the police
have discovered no trace of them. —Daily paper report.
No trace is found. No footprint shows.
The fair and frivolous soubrette,
The leading lady and her clo’es,
The hero, all the minor pros—
Have faded from the stage. As yet,
About the street, the pub, the green,
No traces of them have been seen.
The low comedian has skipped.
The heavy father’s gone astray.
The villain’s hopped it. If they’ve shipped,
Or gone by train, or simply tripped
To “do the smalls,” no man can say.
But, nip and tuck, they’ve done a get,
Their board bills all unpaid, you bet.
Perchance the co. had struck a frost,
And nutriment was running low,
The takings hadn’t paid the cost
Of lighting ; so, from where they dossed,
The entertainers, in a row,
Adown the old, accustomed track
With tickling feet, are “walking back.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
THE ADVT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wanted moderately good actor, for two nights a
week only. Apply, etc. — Melb. advt.
A vain request! With darkling brows
The actor holds the ad. in view,
And out his noble chest he throws
And growls a simple oath or two;
Then turns his mind to other biz,
For this is no concern of his.
“An actor moderately good”
Does not apply to one whose worth
Is recognised and understood
In all the corners of the earth —
Whose Hamlet breaks the heart of stone,
Whose Denver racks you to the bone.
That brief description would not fit
The humblest pro., though poor he be.
Which living actor will admit
In any circumstance that he
Is “moderately good” ? Oh, no —
They’re all immoderately so!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


THE “BURBERRY” OVERCOAT.
A New Shipment Just Arrived at
David Jones.
The “Burberry”—the overcoat that insures a sense of
fitness in all weathers —a Coat that supplies in one
garment the advantages of many. As a weatherproof it
is secure against rain ; as a Top-Coat, by natural ventila-
tion and lightweight, it obviates fatigue. As an Overcoat
it provides comfortable warmth in Winter Weather. The
“Burberry” is the highest-grade and most distinctively
cut Gentleman’s Overcoat, and ideally fulfils the require-
ments of practical service. Drab Garbadine, with
check wool lining, long vent at back, strapped cuffs.
Price .. .. .. .. .. .. £5/5/-
We Pay Carriage.
DAVID JONES LTD..
OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
■
ĵ
kjk
jk
hj
Rugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
SRin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid."
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
lvugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin Soap may t'
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storek ,' , ree
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of “’tee «„*»
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Posta ,
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- I B
ing postage), when box will be posted per
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE: P “ Street-
SYDNEY ; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBA^
SOCIETY
A VICTIM.
S HE: “People say Pm very blunt, Mr.
Brown.”
H E: "Hum! I don't know! The things you
say are very cutting."
“H.G.”: Most depressing climate ours!
Here in our township (S.A.), we have a man
who has been married 'twice, has nine chil-
dren by his first wife, and a fair number by
his second —I have not had time to count
them. Recently he turned up on the usual
day to collect his old age pension, and when
this was paid to him he put in another claim
—lor the baby bonus this time. After col-
lecting his two dividends, he went back to
work, of all things in the world.
“Wi’oot Prejudice” : Man, sir, I view wi’
alarm the argument, reportit by the A- argus
(6/5/’lo), as usit by the Reverend John
Baruaby, at the sederunt in Melbourne o’
the Presbyterian Assembly. In the cir-rcum-
stances, ah can no permit ma wee lad to
join the Kir-rk. He’s safer-r-r doin’ his mili-
tary exerceeses. Yon’s the quotation :
Thg subject of the marriage of young home mis-
sionaries was a humorous one, yet it was one that
affected them seriously. Married men were not
accepted as home missionaries, but often when single
men were accepted they were married three months
afterwards. (Laughter.) It was required in the
general interest that these men should remain single
during their Home Mission course. Of course, what
they proposed would not be retrospective. (Laugh-
ter.) For the men at present in the service it would
be optional to remain single or to marry, but new-
comers would be required not to marry until they
had completed their course. That these young men
should not marry was advisable in the interests of
the unfortunate women.
“That these young men shid not marry was
adviseeble in the eentirests o’ the unfarrtu-
nate wimmen” —hey, it’s carryin’ conseedera-
tion too farr.
* * * *
“10-2-4” : Re the need of a Public Curser,
and the sample ecclesiastical curse that was
'set forth in a recent issue of The Bulletin,
Lord Alfred Douglas, who has been figuring
in the cables of late, should be well in the
running for such a job. Take the following
from his pen :
TO MY FATHER.
Here’s to the man I hate!
Never a shroud or a coffin board:
Wait and watch, and watch and wait,
He shall pay the half and the whole.
Now or then or soon or late,
Steel or lead or hempen cord,
And Hell take his soul!
How much better that is than any of the
labored old excommunicatory curses! Be-
side it they appear rambling, mechanical,
passionless. Anyone who had the custo-
mary formula and some knowledge of
anatomy could become a proficient curser in
mediaeval times. The result was an inter-
minable series of denunciations that,
for dulness and lack of imagination, would
shame a local push. There is fine
originality and a deft literary touch about
the cursings of Douglas. Since N. S. Wales
appears to be committed to a policy of im-
porting British dignitaries of all sorts—
Archbishops, both Anglican and R.C., Rail-
way Commissioners, Grammar School
masters and so forth —it will be only con-
sistent to import a Chief Curser so soon
as the office shall have been created. Let
Douglas get the first refusal of it. We have
to go back to the early Biblical period to
find his equal in this art.
*- * * *
The sea-serpent has at last been sketched,
though not yet snapshotted. People aboard
the Dimboola, running from Port Adelaide
to Fremantle, saw a serpent that appeared
to be chasing a school of por-
poises with no apparent
chance of catching them.
The interesting exhibit
raised its head “fully 50ft.”
out of the water, lashed
the silvery waves with its
tail, and occasionally
arched its body in the
orthodox serpentine way.
This happened in the Aus-
tralian Bight, not more
than a quarter-mile distant
from the ship where the
sketches were taken.
Wanted, an enterprising
syndicate to hire a whaler
for a sea-serpent fishing
expedition. Live porpoises
or baby whales are pro-
bably the best bait that
could be used, and these
would have to be chained to
the stern of the vessel. Then
when the monster made a
great Australian bite at his
prey the ship’s doctor would
proceed to administer chlo-
roform, and thus - the ab-
normal eel would be secured.
It could be dragged from
port to port and exhibited
—admission to the boat 55.,
and 12 shows a day—before
being finally killed, stuffed
and placed in a museum
specially erected for the
purpose at London, Paris
or Noo Yark. There’s a
c, „ terrible lot of money in a
Sea Serpent, alive and dead.
* * * *
The S. M. Herald is much worried about
the present activity of W. Sikes in the Ma
City, and propels a brick at the High Court
in consequence :
Among the troubles which have given the police
authorities pause is the recent decision of the High
Court in connection with the State Act of 1903,
dealing with the influx of criminals. . . .A criminai
sentenced to a term of imprisonment, and released
almost at once, on condition that he clears out, may
come to N.S.W., and we have no remedy.
It is absurd, of course, that a State should
be able to rid itself of its inconvenient
criminals by propelling them across a border
into the next State. Still that’s a State
Right, and State Rights are sacred things.
With unification it wouldn’t be possible for
one State to unload its Sikes on to another
State; but it will be rather late for the S. M
REVENGE AT LAST.
HIGHT TRAMWAY O FFICIAL: “I paid for seals in this theatre, and I demand them."
U SHER: “ ’Ow many times ’ave I paid for a seat in your tram and had to ’ang on to the
cow-catcher?”
Herald to see this side-line in the advan-
tages of unification when the old lady meets
an armed burglar some dark night.
[P. T. Freeman, 22 Cleveland-street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney.]
* * * *
“Squill” : As a fairly patriotic Australian
I protest against the publication of such
items as the following in a Melbourne daily
paper:—
Mr. John Campbell, formerly a contractor in Col-
lingwood, but who has for many years been follow-
ing grazing pursuits in South Gippsland, will leave
by the R.M.S. Orsova to-morrow for a six months’
trip to England and the Continent. He will be
accompanied by Mrs. Campbell. On Friday night a
party of about 150 friends paid Mr. Campbell a sur-
prise visit at his residence. Among those present
were Sergeant R. Taylor, of Collingwood. Mr. Camp-
bell was presented with a travelling rug, and Mrs.
Campbell with a travelling companion.
An intelligent foreigner is quite justified in
assuming an attitude of patronage to a
community whose metropolitan press records
a surprise party of 150 citizens, where a
policeman was the star surpriser, and the
multitude presented the host with a travel-
ling rug.
* * * *
“T.D.”: Vic. Labor-man Elmslie, in evi-
dence before the Dominions Commission,
plumped for the nominated-passage system
of immigration. But has he seen the nom-
inated passenger in his lair? The system is
largely a means of bringing into this coun-
try the rejects of the emigration agencies.
Bill gets through, and Percy doesn’t; but
it’s all right for Percy, as his friend Bill
fixes him up with a passage as soon as he
gets settled. Once Bill tells Percy to come
there is nobody to stop Percy from availing
himself of the Government’s generosity. In
recent shipments of human cargo to these
parts, Bill’s friend has preponderated
greatly, and he is generally a van-driver’s
clerk or a hod-carrier’s amanuensis, or
something equally valuable for the devel-
opment of sunny Australia.
* * * *
“Chasuble”: The organising secretary of
the Melbourne Church of England Home
Mission Fund published some striking
figures. In Melbourne diocese there are
260.000 Anglicans. Last year they gave
£2850 to the fund, an average of twopence
halfpenny each ! None of the other Vic-
torian dioceses sink quite so low in the scale
of meanness. Wangaratta, with £440, man-
ages to struggle up to 2i£d. apiece; Ballarat,
with £1674, is up to 4fd. ; Bendigo, with
£940, rises to 6d., and Gippsland tops the
glorious chronicle with £lOl2, or 7d. a nob.
Such figures impel one to ask: Why will
these churches ding on to the mean skirts
of the rich? It’s the working-class that
dubs up for religion. Look at the Salva-
tion Army, raising £40,000 at one leap for
the Self-Denial Fund, and nary a question
asked about the spending of it.
The disgraceful and dangerous overcrowd-
ing of Melbourne’s tram-cars at certain
times of the day and whenever there is a
popular sports gathering, threatens to at
last move the stodgy City Council to prose-
cute the monopolistic company, which will
probably pay a few nominal fines and dis-
remember the circumstance. The promised
reduction of fares and the other recommen-
dations of the expensive commission that re-
cently took evidence at great length are
already disremembered. The company, in
fact, has little more than half enough cars
to deal with the traffic, and has for long
disregarded its obligations, persistently de-
clining to build more. It will be wiped out
three years hence, and knows it; and though
its rolling stock must be taken over at a
valuation, it steadily refuses to spend one
A PATIENT HEARER.
MR. SIMKINS (reading political news): “Well,
now, just listen to what this idiot says."
MRS. S IMKINS: “Go on, dear, I'm listening
to you.”
penny more than it can help. So the publj
convenience is ignored while the P ut " ic
pocket is sweated. If the Victorian bo -
ernment had half the right quantity 0
energy and determination it could nav
brought the co. to reason long ago; but
the Government has been led mostly by Jp '
bing persons like Bent, or tired ones , 1 . 1
Weary, or talkative ones like Watt, note l P
has been done and the public suffers a
deserves to.
A ROYAL WEDDING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All the details in regard to the festivities have
been arranged in consultation with the Emperor, who
himself has organised a marvellous pageantry, and
revived a number of historic customs which had long
fallen into disuse. Following the banquet the tradi-
tional Torch Dance will take place, those participat-
ing making a tour of the principal salons of the
palace, their way being lighted by a large detach-
ment of pages bearing wax torches'. The dance will
close at 9 o’clock, when the Royalties will conduct
the newly-wedded pair to the bridal apartment, the
ceremony closing at the door of the room with the
division of the bride’s garter—a ribbon many feet
long—among the guests. Several English detectives
are to accompany King George on his visit. They
are to keep a special look out for women’s suffragists.
A large bodyguard of Russian police are already
searching every nook and corner in the apartments
that have been allotted to the Czar.— Cable re forth-
coming wedding in Kaiser William’s family.
The palace to-night is a blaze of light;
The music floats on the vibrant air ;
A fresh young princess, arrayed in white
Awaits her prince on the sweeping stair;
The nobles joke in the torches’ glare;
The wine-flushed kings are a sight to see.
Though Civilisation’s clothes they wear,
Their revels are naked savagery.
The doors are barred by a watchful guard;
The soldiers pace in the shadowed pari
For Hatred, grizzled, and clipped, and scarred,
Awaits its chance in the homeless dark.
The thin, high laughter of monarchs! Harl;!
They make of Progress a jest and butt!
But Life to Death throws a barbed remark
Where soldiers stand by a gate close-shut.
The revel is o’er, and they dance no more;
The pair are mated, tin houses
The monarchs scattered about the floor
Tell one another it well
Shall Peace arrive with the morning sun,
Because they danced by the torches’ light ?
Go, ask the guard with the loaded gun
Who stands ’twixt Death and crowned fools to-
night !
N.SAV.
THE JESTER.


@5?
mu
&
<B%
©Ju
p-
©s?
&
©o*
!
V\*
w
J
&
O.T. Improves all Drinks just
as Sauces Improve Food.
h
The Peapes Overcoat
—A Garment of Distinction.
By concentrating on the production of original styles, our
cutters succeed in imparting many exclusive features to our
Ready-to-wear Overcoats.
Foremost among these is the graceful, full-skirt effect,
typified in the model which we quote.
The New Single-Breasted Chesterfield
in Brown, Grey, and fancy Herringbone Angola—a woollen
material with a distinctive rough surface. gy w i
Latest loose skirt and cross pockets. A splen- -A I _
Please mention chest and height measurements when
ordering.
Catalogues posted on request.
PEAPES CO.. LTD.
Men's Outfitters.
309 & 311 George Street. SYDNEY.
report i of er Di ing M eXtraCt T or two from the
£ SI hSggty***
»4svK. STW JSJ3? ~-JE
To people of ordinary health, taking sufficient
moderately temperate habits,
conditions are absolutely compatible
of the he nr h nncr eSt t standard of h ealth. . . White women
lLhl ? tj 7? e can ’ and do > remain perfectly
healthy in this climate. .. .In my experience not •>
° f the J arge number who have come
Territory in the past 18 months has con-
tracted fever, though many of them have been work-
ing in places designated death-traps on account of
the supposed prevalence of fever.
What advance has the modern Can’t-live-in-
the-North lory really made on the ignorant
ancient geographer who, when he didn’t
know a country, always scrawled across the
map of it, “This place is full of devils”?
* * * *
There is a large-sized moral about the
recent experience of a Melbourne fire-
brigade man. The committee that stage-
manages the Ilempire Day flapdoodle at a
hitzroy State school wanted to do the
thing properly, so hired the fireman to shift
a flagpole from the roof to the yard. He
scaled the building, touched the pole, and
then stopped suddenly. Had he grasped it
nrmly the whole of the brick gable to which
it was attached, weighing half a ton, would
have toppled over into the yard below —the
yard in which hundreds of children play
daily. Afterwards he trod gingerly over
the roof, and found that another gable and
the ornamental fixings on the front, were
so dilapidated that he held his breath lest
he should blow them over. The children’s
playground is now closed, and the Depart-
ment is being urged to repair the wreck
before next Christmas, or next century.
The flag-flapping will proceed as usual, only
it will be in the main street.
It hardly seems possible that anyone
could know less about Captain Cook than
Sydney Daily Telegraph, yet the skipper
of the American lumber schooner Geo. E.
Billings appears _to be the man. uuring
Sydney’s recent big gale, this mariner found
himself on a lee shore, with every prospect
of his craft being teetotally and tarnation
wrecked ; but, just when things were about
at their worst, the master of the G.E.B.
spied the entrance to Botany Bay and sailed
right in, as Cook did. Unfortunately, he
was not acquainted sufficiently well with “the
intrepid navigator’s” movements to dodge
over to the southern shore and a safe
AT THE PICNIC.
1ST LONELY ONE: “Hello! Where's all the
nice boys?”
2ND LONELY ONE: “They cleared out about
half an hour ago—with all the nice girls.”
anchorage, but sailed on towards the north-
ern shore, and was piled up on the beach.
Still, it was better than being in the wrack
in the open; and, anyhow, it was the first
time he had fallen in through lack of know-
ledge of Cook’s voyages. The Telegraph
can’t remember the first time it was piled up
in the track of Cook.
THE LANGUAGE THAT MIGHT NOT HAVE BEEN LANGUAGE.
BUTTONS: “Lady in the next room is complaining of your language, sir.”
STUDLOOSER : “ Tell her that if she had been properly brought up she wouldn’t know that
it was language.”
St. James’s Old Cathedral (Melb.), built
70 years on the place where John
Batman (the father of settlemenf in Vic-
toria) had formerly grazed his sheep, is
now condemned as a dangerous edifice and
will probably be pulled down. The church
land, lying between Collins and Little
Collins streets, is part of a valuable city
property. The ancient tabernacle has no
congregation of the least financial im-
portance, and the Anglican Church man-
agement in Melbourne reckons that to re-
store St. James’s and preserve it as a relic
would be an awful sacri-
fice of cash on the altar of
Sentiment. Moreo v e r,
public sentiment in the
matter seems to be a neg-
ligible quantity. There
were jerry-builders 70
years ago. The chancel
“arch” of Melbourne’s
oldest surviving house
of worship was recently
discovered to be a mere
lath and plaster screen,
resting on an Oregon
pine girder which rests
upon a layer of mortar.
The girder is suffering
from dry rot, and the
mortar foundation is
crumbling away. If one
of Wirths’ elephants were
to walk in to take sacra-
ment the chancel outfit
would surely collapse. It
is likely to collapse at
any moment from ordin-
ary human causes. The
Bulletin’s artist, Alf
Vincent, and his pretty
little wife, might have
been buried in debris a
few Saturdays ago, when
they were married at St.
James’s. The church as
it stands is a sacred
building to be avoided,
and the world which has
been avoiding it for a
long time will hardly
miss it when it is gone.
An ancient font for christening is the most
interestingly antique feature of St. James’s.
The font is nothing to look at, but it has
been in business for about three centuries,
having served in an old London church for
the sprinkling of several generations of
earlier Christians ere it arrived at its pre-
sent billet. This will presumably be shifted
to another church, to remain in use until the
begetting of babies is quite discontinued.
What follows is an extract from a typical
North Coast (N.S.W.) police-court report.
A white girl, having quitted a brown
heathen’s premises, had been charged by the
heathen with taking away some of liis
money—which was possibly the heathen’s
way of trying to force the girl back. Babu
Dirt was under examination: —
The girl was with him seven or eight days. While
she was there he had his twn woman. Witness
didn’t take a woman named Florrie out to Cum-
balum; the woman didn’t stay over-night with Hin-
doos there. Mr. Best: “Did you promise to marry
this girl?” Witness: “Yes, I promise and tell her
might be. I give her half the property. It was
agreed to in Lismore. No writing, though.” Con-
tinuing, witness said he knew a woman in Lismore
named Mrs. Fancourt ; she sent him a white girl
named Aggie. That was four or five months ago.
He didn’t want to marry Aggie. He admitted ad-
vertising in Brisbane and Sydney; in fact, all over
the place, for a white girl. “I send ’em photo,” he
volunteered. He denied that he urged the woman to
engage in immoral relations with other Hindoos, and
pay him half the money. He wanted to keep the
girl himself.
And Australia’s right-thinking, canting hum-
bugs are content to say that the White Slave
traffic of London is a fearful business. You
see, “White Australia” is part of the Labor
policy, and, the Labor people being “no
class,” the right-thinking, canting Austra-
lian humbug won’t recognise the still more
degrading White Slave traffic on his own
doorstep lest he might be mistaken for a
Labor sympathiser.
“Nitellub”: Talking of hash and flowers
and devils and so on, the habits of
the gentle Jap are interesting. In
Korea, a pleasant country that has been
taken possession of by this species, recently
105 Korean Christians were convicted of
conspiring to murder the Jap Governor-
General. (Here we are more civilised: we
conspire only to turn his stables into a
music conservatorium.) The Jap police
had good grounds for their suspicions. Spies,
according to a correspondent in London
Times, reported that Christians were urged
to be soldiers (the missionaries meant sol-
diers of the Cross), and they were taught
that they should be strong (“strong in the
Lord”). This proved to the Jap police that
the clergy were really revolutionary agents.
Followed wholesale arrests of Christians,
students, teachers and business men, though,
barring the search of their houses, the mis-
sionaries were not molested. But no stores
of weapons were found and no tangible
proofs of treason. Proof must be found.
So the prisoners were tortured until they
admitted their guilt. One man died before
he made the required confession. Another
was released in such a state that he died
immediately afterwards. In the end the
police got sufficient proof to prosecute. At
the trial the only evidence against the pris-
oners consisted of their own confessions,
and all—with one exception—denied these
confessions and told how they had been
wrung out of them by torture. The judicial
attitude was charmingly Japanese. “You
say that you made a false confession. You
charge yourself with lying. How then can
you ask us to believe you now?” So 105
men were convicted and sentenced to long
terms of imprisonment. However, Europe
and America had become interested, and
things were said to Nippon that made even
Nippon sit up. An appeal was allowed, and
the judge was on his best behavior. The
particulars of the tortures were detailed and
the evidence was not shaken by cross-exam-
ination. Apart from severe beatings, the
favorable persuasive seems to have been the
hanging up of the defendant by the thumbs.
One prisoner told how he was strung up, his
arms and his legs being stretched as far
apart as possible. Then he was tickled.
The tickling produced the requisite contrac-
tions of the stretched body. Some of the
details of the tortures, says the correspon-
dent, whose letter appears in the leading
organ of the country which is Bull’s favorite
ally, and which intends to own Australia
one day, “cannot be reproduced in a journal
QUALIFYING FOR THE POSITION.
He is also a sport of some renown—not a sport in the
racing sense, but a man who plays tennis with more
or less success, who has been a prominent cricketer,
and has rowed in chamnionship matches. These
things will help him, and will damage the chances
of the caucus candidate.— Tory journal booming a
Liberal candidate.
THE FAIR C REATURE: “Is your play im-
proving?”
THE OTHER: “ Rather; why, I hope to be
selected next season.”
THE F.C. : “For the championship matches? ”
THE O THER: “No; in the Liberal interest
for our electorate .”
intended for general reading.” In the re-
trial all the prisoners were acquitted except
seven. Baron In-Chi-ko, the president of the
Y.M.C.A. in Korea, and five other alleged
leaders of the plot, had their sentences re-
duced from 10 to six years, and a seventh
prisoner got five years. Even now Korea,
under Jap control, does not seem exactly a
healthy place for Christians or Y.M.C.A.
presidents. It is generally understood that
the Baron, who made the ghastly mistake of
being president of the Y.M.C.A., won’t live
out his sentence. Between stretching and
tickling he probably won’t live out a year
of it.
A HYMN OF GRATITUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A good and timely advertisement for the Fisher
Government is its new 10-shilling note. It is ele-
gantly designed and well printed, and, unlike the
old half sovereign, even the most bee red citizen can’t
give it away in the dark.
James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.
The gold demi-goblin goes often astray
In a quite unaccountable manner ;
You seek it in vain when you want it to pay
For your Phyllis’s lunch, or for seats at the play.
Or a trip down the bay on a midsummer day,
Or you give it away for a “tanner,”
For my little vote has the Government bid,
That introduced lately the paper ’arf-quid.
The gold demi-goblin seems mean to the touch
If tipped to a steward or waiter,
Policeman, or chauffeur, or postman or such —
So little to give, and so little to clutch
When the taker appeared to expect twice as much,
And you wish the effect had been greater.
But a smile of content and a wink of the lid
You are likely to get for a paper ’arf-quid.
The gold demi-goblin wears woefully thin.
And slips through a crack in the lining
Of the pocket, perchance, that it ought to be in ;
And madam is falsely accused of the sin
Of filching the coin from her hubby, whose skin
Was fully distended with —dining.
The small corner crevice through which it had slid
No egress will give to a paper ’arf-quid.
God bless Labor Government, thoughtful and kind!
Our needs it is carefully noting;
(And therefore we find it is always maligned
By them who are never to labor inclined) ;
With my hand on my heart and my name under-
signed
I sing, as I’ll sing when I’m voting:
“Of all the good things that the Government did,
The thoughtfullest thing was the paper ’arf-quid.”
[Edmund Fisher, The Bulletin Office, 369 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne.]


A'"
m, wlo-diamA has teen going Strong of lafe
AndrewTisW flaysttie hero good and mild
.Australia, heroine., i} dotiho nj*t€,
And ife little, .Boy atManly 15 cheeild
f 2) < s!/
Joe (00K (ahbm-faiVlor)taKestfre heavy Villain
He whiskers wicked in "$e ea»"
Of I he Virtuous youngrnbtron wi tf}e
And now he A lurid sneer \^|l§|l^
(3) b
k “He cWffes hero Andy (on a Presj report*)
Witt threatening tt?e life ,
L <s° Andrew i} Arrested, "by an order of -$e (purtp
Tor a intent”upon wife,
(4)
s,T7 ,‘*n KiOA\a) ley blay the Comedy relief
And Willie Kelly i$ tfte dude,
lrVine is tile barrister vd/o brandishes A brief
And A strictly legal atfifude.
?W «?, KWrl^Q
nePcnartns tr/e learned judges w, m A n icy cold Address"'
Rp the. misconductln bAstp
j3ut the verdict" of tfte jury \$ a loud
And all ‘l5 joy & Ll'attf/e last?
, E.F.
ScZsefte4 W ]yh?un<4.F<sW
l S r y\eMiO- u\»< . (^^KveL'ni
THE POPULAR MELODRAMA.


jķh
Get Rid of
Bronchitis
BY USING
j
ANgier#mulsion
&
Of Chemists, 13. 2/9 and 4/6.
The combined healing and strengthening properties of this
remedy make it unequalled in bronchitis and all catarrhal
affections of throat and lungs. For upwards of twenty years
Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by the medical
profession and used in the hospitals. It is the standard
approved remedy for colds, coughs, bronchitis, and all throat
and chest affections.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ĵkj
Don’t run away with the idea
m
~X
that “SPARKLETS” are only valu-
able in the summer. For instance,
whiskey is in season from 1
to December 31, and the best of
whiskey is still better with the
addition of
“SPARKLETS”
TRY IT.
C. Syphons, 6/6.
B. Syphons, 4/-
B. Bulbs, 1/0 dozen.
C. Bulbs, 2/3 dozen.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
11.30 P.M.
THE PUBLICAN (to the lads inside): “Get
out, boys, while the coast's clear."
He was down from a dairying district.
There was milk on his boots and hayseed in his
ears. He sought a Bourke-street hotel, and when his
room had been set apart and he was comfortably
bestowed, he looked up the manager: “See here,” he
said,, “I don’t want youse to call me till six. I’m
goin’ to have a reg’lar old sleep in in the mornin’.”
* * ■* *
Jerry (or Jeremiah) Jerome, Banana-
land’s adept with the fists, is only one of many
aborigines skilled in that way, but whites have
found it impossible to bind them to the requisite
training. Bennilong, the first Australian fighting
murky, of whom there is no record, took to boxing when
he visited London with Governor Phillip, and was
pronounced a marvel for agility. But it wouldn’t
train.
It turned up after a wedding in .Tung
Jung (Vic.) lately, and was a fragment of the usual
list blown out of the local paper:—-
Bridegroom to bride, star pendant and chain ; bride
to bridegroom, gold sleeve-links; bridegroom to
bridesmaids, gold bangles; father of bride, cow, pig
and cheque. > e &
Ihe old man who threw in a pig was the practical
person of the show. Pendants grow wearisome and
bangles become a mere vanity, and sleeve-links lose
their charm. But even up to the time when the
toothless ancient totters on the brink of the sepulchre
there are points about food. And the cow and the
pig are food,- and they give birth to more food,
and the cheque can buy more cows and more pigs;
also it can purchase false teeth to eat them with.
It is up to someone to give three cheers for that
bride’s father. He was on to his job.
T mfaan ’: Talking about rabbit-catch-
ing, I reckon our Joe has brought the business to a
fine art. We couldn’t get ferrets, so Joe caught
some crabs, and now you couldn’t sell us ferrets at
tuppence a gallon. This is how Joe works. Taking
a fair to medium he-crab to a burrow he attaches
to its steering wheel a lighted candle-end,’ and sools
it (the crab) into bunny’s tenement. The first time
we tried it there was a wild shriek of anguish, and
‘ cw t- °f rabbit hurled itself simultaneously from
the front door. The rush w?s too copious to deal
with that time, but since we have added a fishing
net to the equipment we’ve made a fortune. We’re
only pursuing the game now in order not to disap-
point the crabs.
“Martin Luther”: China’s alleged belief
in the religion of the people who forced on it the
opium trade and the resultant wars, is pathetic,
also, it is a moot point:—
„ London, April 25.
Ihe Rev F. B. Meyer, the well-known Baptist
clergyman, has received a cablegram from the Fed-
eral Council of the Churches in America stating that
all are responding to the appeal of the Chinese Gov-
ernment to observe the day set apart for prayers for
the welfare of the Ministry and Republic.
„ . Peking, April 26.
the response from Britain and America to China’s
appeal for intercession has created a deep impres-
sion. The newspapers state that the movement will
be a link binding East and West.
If the Chinese people really believe the thing the
cable says, it must be remembered that anything is
possible in a country where all the farmyard ducks
rush madly homewards at sundown because the far-
mer gives the last duck home a whacking.
* * * *
“Karrakatta” (from the West) : Can
Australians ride? The par. referring to the 11th
and 12th field batteries (Brisbane) reminds me that
the 14th Battery over here had to break in most of
its remount horses last year, and were given three
days to do it before starting on a 36-mile march to
the manoeuvre area. Not fair to the horses, perhaps
but something of a feat for the lads. This year the
same battery, now spi t into two (14th and 20th),
had 66 p.c. of 18-year-old trainees, mere boys, and
the horses wanted a lot of handling. There were
about 17 bolts before things quietened down, but no
accidents. One day the instructing officer, sent from
Melbourne for the camp, took out the mounted men,
numbering about 50, to see if they could ride, and
after a gallop on the flat sent them into the scrub
to see how they would shape there. I don’t know
how it happened, but in two ticks there was the
loveliest kangaroo hunt you ever saw. Only one
fall, due to a collision. The instructor said he was
satisfied we could ride all right. P.S.—We caught
the kangaroo.
“Pick”: (‘Unumgar” (B. 17/4/T3), says
that “every swarm of bees in the bush, if left to
itself, will fill its hollow spout with food, leave a
warm nest for each embryo bee, and then exit.”
Wrong. A brood thus forsaken would never mature,
owing to the lack of nurse bees to carry the larva:
over the embryonic stages. The average life of a
working bee is only about 40 days, and, if in swarm-
ing, the trekking colony took only old bees, the said
colony would die out completely before brood-comb
could be built on their new selection. This is the
reason why colonies that have been ruthlessly robbed,
and have had their brood-comb destroyed in the bur-
glary, invariably die out. I have watched such a
colony dwindle in forces until the queen alone was
left among the ruins. There are many reasons to
account for “D.R.Y.’s” discovery of a forsaken nest
full of honey, though “Unumgar’s” explanation is
not one of them. “Polstan” (B. 17/4/’l3) gave one
correctly. Another is an attack of ants or bee-
moths. Bees will also leave a well-stocked larder
if they find the entrance being closed by the tree’s
growth, or if the opening of a crack above admits
the rain. Occasionally they leave for no other ap-
parent reason than that they have discovered a better
house; but in such cases they will presently be found
carting their goods and chattels to the new tenement.
At a recent race meeting at Kellesberrin
(W.A.), a hurdle race attracted two runners. The
first round of the course —about half a mile—occu-
pied nearly 10 minutes, through the horses falling
and running off. Then one fell and landed on his
rider, and the race looked a certainty for the other
until the supporters of the riderless horse secured
another jockey, who, after weighing out, overhauled
and beat his competitor amidst great excitement.
The time taken to run the mile, according to the
clerk of the scales’ eight-day clock, was a shade
over 20 minutes.
A CHANGE FOR THE WORSE.
OLD B ILL: " No, I ’aven't been in Sydney these 15 years. I s'pose there's been a lot o
changes since then."
MIDDLE-AGED BILL: “ Changes! I believe yer! Why, there ain’t any counter-
lunches THERE NOW.”
Casual remark of the N.T. Times
At Mr. Rogers’s station the fowls were discovered
lying dead in all directions, but nearly all recovered
under the rejuvenating warmth of the sun.
Don’t talk to us about the deadly climate of the
North after that!
“Vigilans”: While duck shooting in the
Northern Territory, I saw a large bird, as I thought,
feeding its young. Not so, however. It was feed-
ing its wife. The unhappy female was plastered up
in a hole in a tree with mud from the adjoining
creek. I found out that the birds were hornbills,
rarities in Australia, and immigrants probably from
the Malay Archipelago. The blacks told me that
the female laid only one egg, and was then gaoled
by her spouse till the incubation was over and the
young fledged. I didn’t know enough on the subject
to give the discolored hounds the lie.
“Syn”: The sweet and languorous odor
enjoyed in the N.Q. scrubs by “Gouger” (B.
24/4/’l3) probably had its source in some far-
distant dead wallaby. This, inferentially, on the
authority of numerous scientific blokes, who main-
tain that perfumes are only attenuated stenches, or,
conversely, that repulsive smells are really concen-
trated perfumes. In support of the theory, consider
ambergris and musk—the former coming from the
innards of diseased whales and the latter from the
organs of certain Asiatic male deer. In the mass
each gives off an odor that is disgusting beyond
words, yet, fixed to tenuity, they are sources of
subtle and seductive perfumes. Next time “Gouger”
“feels” a sweet scent in the scrub he should, in the
interests of science, perseveringly nose it up-wind,
and he may thus make a valuable discovery of a
new use for defunct marsupials. On the other hand,
he may find a left-off blowfly.
A SPORT.
SPORT: " Anything to shoot about here, my
boy? ”
BOY (with chastisement still fresh in his
memory): "Yes, teacher'll be cornin' along
in about ten minutes , and I'll bet yer a
tray yer can't plug ’im."
MY COW YARD AFFINITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Recent experiments conducted by the Kansas Agri-
cultural High School show that personality counts
for much in the cowyard, insofar as a cow will yield
her full complement of milk to the touch of a sym-
pathetic milker, and withhold it from another who
lacks the essential personal magnetism.— Cow column
item.
Across the world somewhere, perhaps, she coyly
waits for me ;
The fair, fond angel of my dreams —my Cow-
Affinity !
The twain-spiked, udder’d quadruped, responsive to
my touch,
When I her fount of liquid snow with trembling
fingers clutch.
Across the world somewhere, perchance (oh, did I
but know where!),
With understandingness she waits—oh, Fortune!
take me there!
Oh! take me there on wings of love, through skies
as soft as silk,
That I might linger at her shrine—and milk, md
milk, and milk!
Too long I’ve drifted through the dross of Life’s
unsaic.ted ways ;
Too long I’ve felt the bitterness of hopeless nights
and days;
No sympathy of interests, but adverse points of
view,
And fangs for food, and for my drink the bitters
devils brew.
Ah me, the midnight oil I burned in those, the days
of Youth,
That somewhere in the world I might discern one
glimpse of Truth !
The questing through the dusty sheaves for one pris-
matic gleam
For that which yet might crystallise the splendor of
my dream.
The sneers I got, the jeers I got, because on every
hand
There leered at nib the puny souls who could not
understand!
The lack of love, the loneliness, with no one to
condone!
The thoughtless sins I sometimes sinned for Beauty’s
sake alone!
But now the clouds have lifted, and athwart each
silver rim
I see the rainbow’s promise, and I hear the cherubim;
I hear them softly singing where the silver joins the
sky:
“Take heart, my weary wanderer; your dreamed-of
day is nigh—
“ Your Love who thinks the thoughts you think, and
dreams the dreams you dream
(In fact, your very soul is in her butter and her
cream) ;
The cow whose every moo responds to all you dare
and do —
Cheer up, for kindly Fate has found a true twin-soul
for you !”
N.S.W.
R. .T. CASSIDY.
BUSH OYSTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the teams are in and hobbled, and the boys
from north and south
And east and west are with us, each one with a dusty
mouth ;
When the sun has set in crimson and a lot of stars
are out,
Down the balmy, blessed silence you can hear bush
oysters shout;
You can hear rude, roaring voices raise a variegate:
cheer
As we tackle new tinned-oyster and Bill opens up
the beer.
There is glory on the ranges where the star-and-moon-
beams strike,
And a scent of things ethereal in the zephyrs, if you
like,
And a murmur down the gullies, of the nigh-eternal
gums,
While a sound of restless plover from the smoky dis-
tance comes ;
And a bunch of newer, pleasant, plashing noises you
can hear
As we eat our supper-shellfish by the shilling tin —
with beer.
Oh, the shacks of good old Bunbulp are palatial, and
a dream,
When the midnight moon is on them—they are hardly
what they seem,
When the boughs that swing above them show a thou-
sand stars, between,
And the breath of not-yet-morning gently stirs the
rustling green....
Yes, the track to Lotus Paddock is astonishingly
clear
As we open midnight oyster while kind William
pours the beer.
Beer to go with midnight fodder, beef for early-
morning joy,
Oyster-royst’ring sweetly dawnward, we delightfully
employ,
In the singing of old beer-songs, splendid hours of
perfect bliss.
Oh, it’s worth a week of waiting for a Saturnight
like this,
With the pinky, greeny-golden early-morning drawing
near,
And wild William, crammed with oysters, still un-
wiring further beer !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


TfIRRfINTS
MELBOURNE.
The BIGGEST & BUSIEST MOTOR HOUSE in Australia.
Enormous Stock of Accessories always on hand.
Builders of the Best Motor Bodies.
MOST UP-TO-DATE REPAIR WORKS.
T
arrant motors pty. ltd.
Agents In Victoria for Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Austro-Daimler, Sunbeam,
Adler, Commer, Thornycroft,
»
104-112 Russell St., and 186-192 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
•Phones—3o3o, 2942, 6280, 5534, 3100.
A
I
Standing on the threshold of the Twentiet .
looking back, the Nineteenth Century presents m
field of invention a magnificent museum nt " P ro ’
There arises in view a gigantic tidal wa\e of ac
ments. Reverse the wheels of progress and
run into the past and what see you ? -^ s . on
after milestone of progression is passed, in _ e
after invention disappears, until we ultimate'
man in his primitive state in the garden
Phillips Ormonde & Co., patent attorneys,
St., Melbourne.*
Federal Notes and Other Matters, In-
cluding a Side Glance at St. Peter.
Prime Minister Fisher has reported that
the money which he received in exchange for
Federal notes, and carefully invested in State
securities, is already bringing in a revenue
of £200,000 a year. Seeing that all this is
money made out of nothing, the position is
very good. But the income might be made
£400,000 a year, even at this early stage of
the business, by the adoption of the simple
old Canadian device of requiring the banks
to keep 40 per cent, of their cash reserves in
Federal paper ; and it might be made even
more than £400,000 if the Government issued
notes down to the value of one “bob” as
Canada does. Still, the reform that is most
required is an amendment of the Constitu-
tion which will nail down this note revenue
as a sinking fund, the interest and accumu-
lations to be devoted continually to. the pur-
chase of State or Federal securities until
the Federal Note and Sinking Fund Depart-
ment owns all the public debts of Australia.
Then the securities might all be burned, and
the Federal and State Governments declared
free of debt, and there could be a public holi-
day, and a great rejoicing, and cricket and
football matches, and free drinks in modera-
tion, and £lO,OOO might be added to the prize
for that year’s Melbourne Cup, and the bell-
topper Of the principal Tory and hardest bor-
rower might be confiscated and hanged by
the brim of its neck until it was quite dead,
and all further State and Federal borrow-
ing might be prohibited. Next, as the orig-
inal bank-note reserve would still be earning
money, a new sinking fund might be started
for the obliteration of the local government
debts. And when they were wiped out, there
would naturally be another day of rejoicing,
accompanied by public sports of all kinds ;
and balloons would be sent up, and a prize of
£5OOO would be offered for the stupidest
alderman. After which devices and proceed-
ings Australia would resume business at the
old stand, and be honest for ever afterwards.
And when it died, as all nations must do.
and turned up at the Judgment, it would
show the Almighty a clean receipt, and St.
Peter at the Gate would get a bigger sur-
prise than he ever had in Galilee.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
«-
A Stagnant Town.
“10-2-4” sees Visions:—
Manly (N.SAV.) affords the most striking example
I know of a town the potentialities of which are being
allowed to go to waste as a result of municipal
idiocy and short-sightedness. It should be one of
ine most affluent watering places on earth. It has
all the requisites —accessibility to a great city,
ample room to expauU, beauty, a perfect climate
(luring three-fourths of the year, and a glorious beach.
Actually, it is a sordid little place, which is hope-
lessly dull and comfortless tne moment the sun ceases
to snine. When 1 think what France or Spain, or
even America, would make of Manly, l get quite
depressed. The first thing that intelligent residents
would do, after they had fired out all the present
aldermen for life, would be to get busy on the local
roads problem. The arteries that lead out of Manly
are not really roads. They are simply disturbed
scenery r . It would pay Manly a hundred times over
to contribute the whole of the money necessary to
keep the roads to the Spit, and by Narrabeen to
Church Point and Barranjoey, in perfect order. The
district would, for one thing, be presently so full
of motorists with money- to burn, that the local
traders would find themselves short of goods, and the
pubs would run dry, and weak-brained persons would
go raving mad from sheer surprise and bewilder-
ment. ?
The next move would be to advance on the dress-
ing sheds. They should be approached with axes, or
boxes of matches, or dynamite. (Since the above was
writen, Providence has stepped in, and by the agency
of the ocean and a S.E. gale, wiped the dressing-sheds
off the face of the sea-front.) Having exterminated
them utterly, and tried to forget tnat the comfort-
less and insanitary indecencies ever existed, the re-
formers would proceed to erect civilised dressing-
places in their stead. Nothing very elaborate is
needed. The sheds at Bondi (which suburb, owing
chiefly to its surfing facilities, has attracted thou-
sands from Manly of late years) might serve as a
working model. The surfer, like the philosopher
mentioned in Omar, is moderate in his aspirations.
All he asks is a secure place to deposit his clothes;
a shower; a clean floor; and the free Briton’s
inalienable privilege of not being spat on by a total,
and often unhealthy-looking, stranger. At present a
cleanly citizen has to be a species of surfing fiend—
a bathing dope-subject, as it were —-to face the public
dressing-sheds at Manly. He undresses, and dresses,
figuratively speaking, with blinders on, and his right
hand convulsively holding his nose. There is nothing
more trying than to wrestle with one’s clothes, while
at the same time wrestling furiously with one’s nose.
The ferry-steamers which serve Manly are hope-
lessly out" of date in almost every respect; bar
speed. They are as comfortless as so many Methody
chapels. And the means employed to disembark pas-
sengers date back to the Julius C.esar epoch, or
earlier. In America, in similar circumstances, the
moment the ferry-steamer ranged alongside the
wharf, about quarter of it (the steamer) would
lop over, or shoot out, or something, and afford a
wide pathway, along which the passengers would
stream 20 or 30 abreast. The co.’s attachment to
the pre-historic and played-out old gangway system
causes vast delay, much exasperating push-
ing and hustling, and a heap of discom-
fort generally. The Manly councillors hav-
ing control of the Wharves, could insist on an
alteration in this respect. And one direct effect of
doing so would be to attract thousands more people
to their part of the world every year.
If Europe had the luck to own Manly, there would
be piers in the well-sheltered spots leading to Fairy
Bower; Kursaals with bands, variety entertainments,
and so forth, along the sea front; public gardens on
the lines of those at Nice and Monaco; charming
open-air restaurants, and a thousand other delights of
the sort. The statues on the Corso would be thrown
into the sea amid general rejoicing. The bogus
inebriates who are such a feature of the place on
holidays, would be forced to either consume two
small lagers, and so get really blithered, or leave
the town. The bogus yachtsmen who pervade the
oSean beach, and other quarters where there are no
yachts to cause them embarrassment, would be
compelled to resume their bowler hats and kid boots,
and stop masquerading as mariners. In brief, Manly
would be made worthy of its environment. And one
great advantage of the change would lie in the fact
that the worthier it became, the more money it
would make.
—<*
The wav of the careless public borrower is
hard. Thus Britain has served notice at the
cannon’s mouth on Guatemala, which broke
in 1899, that it must find the money or the
gun will go off. The United States, after
profound consideration, has decided that it
won’t interfere to prevent the defaulting
republic being shot at, which seems reason-
able, seeing that several of its Southern or
old Slave States have solemnly repudiated
their debts, and Confederate bonds are now
worth about one pin in the £. In fact, the
Union had two State repudiations—the last
soon after the Civil War, when Virginia, the
two Carolina?, Georgia. Florida, Alabama,
Mississippi, Louisiana and Arkansas, after
raising considerable loans, passed laws by
which they solemnly declared that they would
see their creditors blowed first. The credi-
tors have been blowed first ever since. U.S.
repudiation stands in a category by itself.
Other countries, as a rule, say regretfully
that they can’t pay, or can’t pay in full.
The U.S. method, as practised by some State
Legislatures, is to intimate that the com-
munity is probably quite able to nay, but
doesn’t feel like it. Public finance is a fas-
cinating study when one knows where to
look for the humor of it. For instance, in
the solemn pages of Mulhall’s Statistical
Dictionary, which is by no means a Joe
Miller jest book, can be found this state-
ment of the permanent and renroductive
works which represented Egypt’s debt in
1880: —
Public Works .. .. £46,260,000
Discount on Loans . . .. 26,400,000
Ballet-dancers, etc. .. .. 47,340,000
£120,000,000
It was “ballet dancers, etc.” that ended
Egypt’s show of independence. And as
every country which gets the loan disease
is liable to get down in the end to some-
thing resembling “ballet dancers, etc.,” the
anti-loan policy of the Fisher Ministry is
all the more to be commended.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
♦
In the matter of Australia’s present fiscal
racket it is worth while to note that the
German evidently regards highly protected
Germany as a good place to stay in, while
the Briton considers his own Foreign-trade
Ma Country a good place to get oui of.
Thus last year the total emigration from Ger-
many consisted of 18,545 people—the small-
est number on record. The British Islands
exported 454,576 people in 1911 (figures
for 1912 not yet to hand), practically all to
Protectionist countries. This was the big-
gest bolt or exit on record. Yet Britain has
only a trifle over 45,000,000 people, while
Germany has nearly 65,000,000. And judging
by the density of population in many parts
one would expect the German rather than
the Briton to be the crowded-out individual.
Thus the German State of Hamburg has
6973 persons to the square mile. Then fol-
low Bremen (3017), Lubeck (1013), and
Saxony (829). (Here England and Wales
with 619 people to the square mile come
into competition.) Other German States
follow: Reuss (one division 595; the other
division 478), Hesse (439), Saxe-Altenberg
(423), Anhalt (373), Baden (367), Bruns-
wick (348), Saxe-Coburg-Gotha (337),
Alsace Lorraine (333), Wurtemberg (323),
Lippe (321). Six other German States
have between 200 and 300 people to tlm
square mile. Oldenburg has 194. And
then comes Scotland with ICO and Ireianj
with 136 people per mile. Yet these S
peopled and highly protected German Ktltl
seem able to feed and clothe their neonl!
and to make it worth their while to stav t
home, while thinly peopled Freetrade Tr«
land cant and thinly-peopled Freetrade
Scotland makes a very poor attempt.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney]
About old brass and bits of glass and ha’
pennies that will not pass:—
The gold that is largely brass and copper wk
lode the Australian Watchmakers and JeweW
Union lately opened up before N.S.W Treasurer
(Jann in Sydney. The prospect was calculated tn
satisfy the yearnings of the most meticulous “Brum”
connoisseur that ever enthused over a o-ildeH <
thing. “Gold" rings “filled ’ with lead or made
entirely of brass; 9-carat rings marked 16-carat
rings costing 3s. 6d. and sold for £2 and A ■
“gold" chains “filled" with copper to elevate their
weight and selling price; bangles, ditto—that sort
of prospect went pounds to the ton. The tale of the
union’s president was full of interest: “A woman
came into a workshop with a mixed lot of old cold
She had the same quantity of alloy put into it (ore
sumably there was a fair percentage of alloy already
in the old gold), and the whole mass was made into
wedding rings and stamped 9-carat. They were sold
in a city shop." The narrative of the union secre
tary followed. He bought in a city establishment a
brooch, a ring and a pendant, and had them assayed
The 15-carat pendant panned out at 81-carat It
was set with imitation pearls; sale price £2 12s 6d
The 15-carat ring was really 9.3, and the 9-carat
brooch was out for 7.1. Similar goods, the deputa-
tion explained, are turned out in Sydney by the
gross, workmen being paid 7d. and Bd. ‘ each for
them, so that they have to keep busv to make a
decent wage. The deputation asked * the Law to
affix its official stamp upon all locally-made jewellery
as a guarantee of good faith. Cann was sympa-
thetic —which is mighty' poor satisfaction to the
straight manufacturer and the purchasers of “snide"
gewgaws. The N.S.W. Parliament has as "much
power, or thereabouts, to squash the jewellery fraud
as it has to carry on a war against Russia. Cer-
tainly it can stamp the manufactures of its own
State, but it can’t prohibit the importation of
“crook" stuff from over the border. Years ago a
conference of State Premiers agreed to pass uniform
anti-Brum. legislation, and then went home and
forgot or mislaid the subject in the usual manner.
There is no reason to believe their successors will be
any less forgetful or mislaying, or whatever it was.
And, anyway, what’s the use of passing on the job to
12 Parliaments when a single Legislature could do
it —provided that Legislature is given the control
over trade and commerce which the Referenda pro-
posals ask for?
[P. L. Freeman, 22 Cleveland-street, Darlington
N.S.W.]
Either the ip-nnrance or the mendacity of
C. G. Wade, of N.S.W., is gigantic. He
can choose which tiger he goes to bed with;
but he must choose one. Whatever disease
or obliquity the gentleman is suffering from
renders him quite unfit to direct a lost dog
to the lethal chamber, let alone a dazed pub-
lic to a referendum. Said the hero of Mount
Kembla the other night, according to the
signed report in the Telegraph and the
unsigned ditto in the Herald: “History
tells us that Trusts grow by sheltering be-
hind some specially huge .import duty.
Competition is therefore destroyed, and the
Combine can dictate its own terms. I have
always advocated in such cases the removal
of the duty which enables such companies
to rob the public. You thus get competi-
tion and a cheaner article.” Now if only
Britain had been blessed with the amazing
Mr. Wade when the Cotton Trust started,
Coats would have been squelched in one act
by the heroic Mr. Wade removing the duty
that didn’t exist which the Trust sheltered
behind because it wasn’t there. The same
great genius would have shattered the
Chemical Combine by removing a non-
existent impost, and burst up the Shipping
Ring by the same miraculous method. Had
the United States been blessed with his
almost divine services, no doubt Rocke-
feller would still be a humble oil refiner
in Cleveland, kept in his proper place
by the removal of the duty that never
existed. Is the man supernatural that he
can shift things which were never born.'
Also, is he aware that, according to the
leader of the party, Liberalism now recog-
nises Protection as the settled policy of the
country, and, according to Mr. Wade, it is
thus pledged to a fiscal issue which will
foster Trusts?
[C. A. Jeffries, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
ENOUGH SAID.
THE SON: “That man had to work [?]
father! ”
THE FATHER: “ Yes. That's a Can[?]
water-carrier."
“Polstan” : It isn't a good idea for a ner-
vous man to interfere with the gentle gohanna in tree-
less country. The “go" isn’t a very ferocious Free-
trader, although he can work his jaws to some pur-
pose when cornered, and his bite is not desirable, be-
cause he is a carrion-feeder, and said bite is invari-
ably followed by septic poisoning in a more or less
nasty form. Writer was out shooting once with Bill
and Jim (everyone knows those blokes) and we were
accompanied by Moses, the black boy, and Abraham,
the dog. Bill had shot a small kangaroo, and was
trudging along with the corpse slung over his shoulder
by the tail, when Jim put up a big, hefty gohanna.
There was no timber about, so the reptile made
straight for Jim, and in a second was climbing all
around his head, in a wild endeavor to climb higher.
Jim split the heavens with a yell of horror, and
careered madly over the landscape. “Lie down, boss,”
cried Moses. Jim dropped with a dull thud, and the
gohanna, finding himself dismounted, made for me.
There are times when I become quite active, and that
was one of them. The “go” hadn’t got as far as my
shoulders before I was fiat on my face, breathing
prayers into the dust. The reptile, astonished at the
sudden and unaccountable felling of all the timber
in the vicinity, again made for Bill, and leaped upon
him some more. It was Moses who rescued Bill and
murdered the assailant. But William didn’t delay.
He covered 80 acres, slung the kangaroo clean over
the horizon, and went temporarily insane. As for
Abraham, the dog, he fled at the first sign of trouble.
THE BABY BONUS.
CITY FREIND: "Well, I suppose this fiver will be a big help when you get a baby."
COW C OCKY: “A fiver! Wot sort ov a cow can yer expect to get for a fiver? An what's
the good of a baby if you've nothin for it to milk?"
“Gouger”: Gohannas may be deadly on
snakes, but recently I saw a middle-weight ’go’ fly
down a hollow stump from an over-weight brown
snake. The reptile that doesn’t wear boots waited
expectantly by the stump, until the gohanna, feeling
a bit cocky, I suppose, poked his head out to in-
vestigate. The snake immediately fastened his teeth
in the flesh. Then commenced a mad struggle, the
gohanna trying to drag the snake down the stump
and the snake exerting all his strength to haul the
gohanna out of it. One front claw the gohanna
jambed under the snake’s jaw in an endeavor to free
his own head, while his other legs clawed at the
stump for a downward haul. But the snake coiled
around and around the stump, and Satan himself
couldn’t shift him then without a waddy or some
other powerful inducement. I used a stockwhip, but
not in time to give the gohanna more than the satis-
faction of seeing the enemy die first. Still, there are
less satisfactory things than that.
* * * *
“P.A.Q.”: To be the nearest relative of a
just-dead Maori is tough luck. At time of writing
a tangi is taking place at Ohakune, and has been
going strong for over two months. This is all right
for everybody but the relatives who have to supply
the grub. A hundred fat and hungry Maoris take
a lot of grub to drown their sorrow. Nearly 400
quid has gone up in the necessary dried shark, etc.,
already. Apparently a good tangi should hold out
till the relatives go broke.


THE TOY OF THE STATE FRIGHTERS.
Remember Abe Lincoln's advice, and “don't swap horses while crossing a stream.”-Ea-Stote Premier CARRUTHURS in the Sydney TELEGRAPH.
AUSTRALIA: “Surely they don’t think I’m as silly as all that?"
[Drawn by the above-mentioned artist, at his high. bleak residence. [?] . N.S.W.]


REXONA.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals with
remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned oint-
ments, which are very slow in their action, Rexona
speedily effects its relief after a very few applica-
tions. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.
Obtainable everywhere.*
AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for vears
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name of
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
easily get it for you.*
ACHED ALL OVER.
I had influenza, with aches and pains all over,”
says Mrs. E. S. Williams, Price (S.A.). “Was getting
worse every minute, and did not know what to do for
myself, until I remembered that a friend had told
me Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy cured his influenza.
I sent my daughter for a bottle and got immediate
relief after the first dose, and before I had taken the
whole bottle was completely cured.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
F or
DURABILITY.
NURSE LINNDENBERG,
of Perth, West Australia,
writes—
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.—
“As a nurse I have seen C^Jr S T
TONIC DO SO MUCH GOOD AMO*
MY MANY PATIENTS that I feel it mj •
to make those facts known. I have P re “ ,
it often, and in every case it has i' o ' l '- '' ,j,
expected of it. It SOOTHES THE - *
GIVES SWEET, REFRESHING S -
CREATES A DESIRE FOR a ’p FST
only that, it HELPS THE FOOD TO DIG-
Patients become bright and cheerfu a
use. As a health restorer I decidedly say
CLEMENTS TONIC HAS NO EQUAL.
“(Signed) NURSE LINNDENBERG.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL
CLEMENTS TONIC. Cet it 8 get welL
PERSONAL
ITEMS
VIDA GOLD-
STEIN, Federal
Candidate for
Koovong (Vic.)
(N.B.—She is
worth voting
for.)
By the death of Mrs. Marshall, aged 80,
South Aus. has lost a link with Lindsay
Gordon. Her husband was in the pilot ser-
vice long ago, and received a medal for special
services when the Admella went ashore. This
was the Wreck which Gordon sang of in his
famous Ride.
From an old colleague of Jonathan’s:—
Tasmania v/as left without a Chairman of Commit-
tees, as the holder of that more or less important
office, Jonathan Best, has been collected by the
Reaper. Born in ’4l, somewhere on the Sydney
side, Best spent most of his numerous years in Tas-
mania, farming, butchering, storekeeping and local
preaching'. The local preaching seems to have been
his favorite profession, for he practised the art both
inside and outside Parliament. He was Chairman
of Committees in the Assembly for several years prior
to 1910, when Alex. Hean, ex-Minister, got the job.
At the general election of 1912, Norman Cameron
annexed Best’s seat as sixth man for Wilmot Divi-
sion. At the elections of January last Best wrested
the seat from Cameron, while a farmer-person named
Cotton, who is old enough and slow enough and
ponderous enough to pass for the departed Jonathan’s
twin brother, wrested Hean’s seat from him ; so the
chairmanship once more came to Best. And now
Death has wrested Best from his seat and his chair-
manship, and has left a possible vacancy for
Cameron. Truly, Death’s habit of interfering with
the affairs of men grows monotonous. Nobody who
knew Jonathan could say that he was not honest and
earnest; but he was temperamentally incapable of
dropping his prejudices or his prepossessions. Yet his
h as was so manifestly unconscious that even the
Labor Opposition refrained from trying to dynamite
him out of the chair by direct motion oftener than
about once a week.
A 1913 PRIZE PACKET.
Mr. Carmichael has stated that the State Parlia-
ment will have “a little referendum of its own”
later on, to decide whether the Upper House should
continue or not.
“Jeames” : The Sydney Sun has been at
it again. Last week it said :—-
Among those who wished Madame Melba many
happy returns of the day was Lord Alfred Roths-
child.
If a Rothschild dukedom or marquisate ex-
isted a “Lord Alfred Rothschild” would be a
possibility. As such is not the case, he is a
myth. “Mr. Alfred,” as he is known in
London Society, is not a lord. He is not
even an hon., being merely a brother of
that Rothschild who was made a baron of
the United Kingdom 10 or 12 years ago.
Like his brother Leopold, he is, of course, a
baron of the Austrian Empire, but he spurns
the title. To be a baron of the Austrian
Empire is very like being a count of the
Holy Roman Empire, and both of them are
rather similar to being a J.P. of N. S.
Wales. Apropos, more or less, the Mel-
bourne Age printed, in its “About People”
column, some appalling balderdash in refer-
ence to the recent death of the Dowager
Duch of Newcastle. F’rinstance :
Her second son is Lord Travers Hope, who took
his grandmother’s name on succeeding to the Deep-
dene Estate, of about £750,000, including the fam-
ous blue Hope diamond, which generally brings sure
fortune to its holder.
There is no such person as Lord Travers
Hope. The Deepdene estate, to which Lord
Francis Hope succeeded, was never, in its
palmiest days, worth £750,000. When Lord
Francis connected with it, it was a very
depreciated proposition indeed. He ran
through most of the property in a year or
two, and made no snlash over it, either. The
Hope diamond certainly doesn’t bring “sure
fortune” to its holder. As n fact, supersti-
tion credits it with bringing the rottenest
sort of bad luck. To Lord Francis Hone it
brought an unfaithful wife, who drank, and
the accidental loss of one of his feet. To the
wife it brought divorce, and financial and
social ruin. That is to say, it is popularly
accused of those malfeasances.
Attorney-General Holman is due to return
to Sydney by June 10, and is expected to
succeed to the job and dignity and battle-
axe and salary of the State Premiership.
The Tory press is anxious to avert this
happening, and no opportunity is lost to
fling a germ at the returning Minister. It
was a clumsy scheme whereby first Trea-
surer Cann and then Chief Secretary
Flowers were credited with having a better
chance of snaring the leadership than Hol-
man. A wild rumor was started that jaded
Jim McGowen was to resign his Redfern
seat and go to the Leg. Council, while
Flowers would resign from the Council, flop
into James’s Redfern shoes, and then dish
Holman with a solid backing of Caucus sup-
porters. These insinuations moved nobody
to even one extra beer. As things are. Iloi-
man is the only likely leader for the State
Labor party in Ma’s Legislature. He isn’t
much of a leader, and he hasn’t much of a
party. Also, it isn’t much of a Parlia-
ment. When you come to think that
McGowen, Holman, Wade, Solemn Lee.
Twaddle, Wood, J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, T.
’Enley and Colonel Onslow-are the particu-
lar lights (and other waste products) of the
show, no excessive heap of stress need be
laid on the point.
The strain of the Federal campaign is
plainly telling on the nerves of Opposition-
leader Cook. He shows all the familiar
symptoms—a feeling of emptiness berore
meals, spectacles before the eyes, buzzing
noises in the telephone, shortness of temper
(and possibly of the pants) when going up
hill, liability to nightmare if he eats a lobster
before going to bed (which he never does),
intense mental uncertainty as to whether he
will become Prime Alinister or not, insomnia
on the platform, pain in the back if a vulgar
opponent hits him there with a lump of slag,
etc. His case is said to be almost half as
serious as he is.
[Written without the faintest idea as to what it
is about, and without any evidence whatever, by
James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
About an old and valued Bulletin
contributor: —
The Liberal cause in the Ma State, which sadly
needs new blood, has received a somewhat notable
recruit in Edward MacCulloch, known best to
Bulletin readers as “O. C. Cabot.” MacCulloch,
like tens of thousands more, is absolutely “full up”
of the horrible finance and dreadfully inferior admin-
istration of the McGowen-Holman crowd. A fluent
and well-informed speaker, and an organiser of some
ability, he has lately permeated Katoomba (where
he lives) and the Blue Mountains, preaching the
gospel of sane State finance, and to Sheol with Jobs.
The local Liberal leagues, in looking round for some-
one to oppose Dooley for the Hartley electorate,
came to the conclusion that the outspoken bard was
a likely man, and put it to Mac that he might be.
With characteristic Scots’ modesty, Mac took a
different view, at first; but, after be’ng enthusiasti-
cally nominated, by the Leura and Katoomba
leagues, he reckoned that even a journalist’s modesty
might be overdone. So he is out after Dooley’s poli-
tical scalp, and last week made his bow to his first
meeting. As nobody yawned and left during a 90-
minutes’ speech, the candidate has hopes ; and as he
is a born fighter, he should provide the Blue Moun-
taineers with some copy and his opponents with plenty
of exercise. When Greek meets Greek here, the
oysters have a bad time, but when a MacCulloch
meets a Dooley—whirroo ! !
Sydney’s oldest practising six-and-eight-
pence, H. M. Makinson, who died at
Lewisham (Sydney) Hospital last week,
was son of the Anglican Rev. T. C.
Makinson, who ’verted to Rome and became
private sec. to Archbishop Polding. That
Makinson was a man of fine culture, and it
is an open secret that the pastorals for
which the Archibshop was celebrated came
from his pen. Archbishop Vaughan gave
him a good pension and Cardinal Moran
looked upon him with great respect. He
died in November, 1893. The recently-
deceased solicitor was born at Mulgoa in
1840. After completing his education in
Belgium he became an articled clerk to
Edward Eyre Ellis, whom he afterwards
joined in partnership.
THE FRIENDLY BRICK.
Mr. Morrow, who stood up to propose a vote of
thanks to the speakers, was greeted with cheers and
hoots. Above the row he said he would like to
assure Mr. Cook that the hostile demonstration in no
sense reflected the feeling of the citizens of Port
Pirie. The meeting, which did not conclude till 11
o’clock, broke up in disorder.
SYMPATHISER (cheer fully): “Never mind, Joe!
They mean it kindly .”
The painful position of the Northern Terri-
tory’s Director of Lands, called out by his
union and placed on picket duty outside
Government House, recalls an experience of
C. C. Kingston, Premier of South Aus. He
was an enthusiastic volunteer soldier, but
never worked any higher up in the ranks than
a non-com. (He was recommended for
promotion to greater dignity when he was
Premier, but the recommendation came
before him and he turned it down on the
ground that the person named therein
lacked the necessary experience.) One
Easter holiday the local army divided
itself into two parts, one attacking
Adelaide, other defending it. Somehow
the “invaders” completely out-generalled and
out-marched the defenders, and took posses-
sion of the city ; and an officer with a sense
of humor put the non-com. Premier to guard
the captured Treasury.
The real Tired Tim has turned up in
Adelaide. He assured the constable that
work he would not —why should he? He
was far more comfortable with regular-
meals and regular habits “up there.” In
the dock as a “no visible,” he begged for a
whole year, and when a complaisant Bench
gave it him, his “Thank you” was not the
usual defiance of the Artful Dodger when
he “cheeks the magistrate,” but the genuine
article.
MARIA
GORDON,
CHIEF OF
GENERAL
STAFF.
From the Island of Old Men:—
Three days lately were snent by the RC’s o’
Launceston (Tas.), celebrating the golden jub lee
of Monsignor Daniel Francis Xavier Beechinor’s
priesthood. People of all sorts in the Northern
city boil down all the Monsignor’s titles and honors
to “Father Dan.” A few years ago, when the Pone
made Daniel a Monsignor, Chief Justice Dodds
almost shed a tear. “I can’t call him Father Dan
any more,” he said. Dodds and Dan don’t worship
in the same tabernacle, but they love one another
and at the jubilee celebrations last week the “Chief’’
went up to Launceston as Acting-Governor and took
part in one of the shivoos. “Father Dan” is a sort
of deputy-Governor or social king in the Tamar
city. He has a brother in Tasmania who is also
a priest, and both have been celebrating their golden
jubilees in the same year. The brother is “Father
Michael” Beechinor, of Latrobe; but the folk there
have never to call their P.P. “Father Mick.” Dan
and Michael are nephews of the late Archbishop of
Hobart, Dr. Murphy, another genial Dan. In the
mid-’6o’s of last century Father Michael came from
India with his uncle, as private secretary, and, later
on, Daniel set sail for the little island down south.
The Murphys and Beechinors, including a former
Superioress of the Launceston Convent, are, or have
been, all from the “Beautiful City,” as Cork is
called in the Emerald Isle. The “Dan” of Launces-
ton, though he has been preaching and praying for
half a century, is as pleasant a Daniel as ever came
to judgment. All sorts of people bv the Tamar have
met to do him honor, and laugh over his droll
tales of half a century. Anglican Bishop Mercer
was one of the leading congratulators—just as one
might have expected, seeing how liberal-minded both
parties are.
From the Oldest Inhabitant: —
J. VC. Roseby, the historian of the N.S.W. Benevo-
lent Society, which has been having a centenary,
makes the usual blunder over the two Bob Lowes.
He records that in 1819 among the society’s office-
bearers was “Robert Lowe, afterwards Lord Sherbrooke
and Mr. Gladstone’s Chancellor of the Exchequer.”
In 1819, Robert Lowe —Sherbrooke, long afterwards
—was eight years of age. He came to Sydney in
1842, and made enough in eight years to satisfy
him. The first Benevolent Society committee was
Edward Smith Hall (chairman), John Hosking.
William Pascoe Crook, Jeremiah Campbell, Edward
Eagar and John Eyre. The Church of England kept
aloof from it; Marsden tried to kill it, and others
“did not join until after some modifications” —wh'ch
means not until the “dissenters,” Hosking and
Crook, had been sat upon and obliged to acknow-
ledge Parson Marsden as the Church,
THE FLEA RAID.
An unusual robbery, that of several performnv
fleas, was reported to the police yesterday.
item.
PTOMAIANE TOM (protesting his innocence).
“Fleas?!! SEARCH ME!!”
BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gentle brother, answer truly,
Tell me what you be.
But, I pray, tax not unduly
Your sagacitee.
Is your brand u-ni-fi-cation —
Is’t, or is your appellation
Something mild and shorter still?
Answer truly, Brother Bill.”
Gentle brother answered truly,
Though in language hot —
For his temper was unruly:
“Don’t talk blinded rot!
Blow u-ni-fi-blanky-cation !
If you want me name an’ station
My true moniker is Bill,
An’ I work at Johnson’s mill.”
“Gentle brother, wax not ireful.
I’m not out for jokes.
Yea, and consequences direful
Smite bad-tempered blokes.
I’ve no doubt, all day perspiring,
You graft hard. I’m not inquiring
Who you are or what you do,
But what are you? Answer true.”
Brother Bill stood wildly staring,
Anger in his eye ;
And, belligerently glaring,
Thus he made reply:
‘'‘Up at Johnson’s mill I’m working,
And I ain’t a bloke for shirking.
If you want me answer true,
I’m a better man than you!”
“Gentle brother, of your senses
You seem quite bereft.
Just consider how immense is....”
Here Bill’s dirty left
Took the catechist right squarely,
And Bill forthwith bounced him fairly,
Punched till he was out of breath.
Bill despised a shibboleth.
Note ye how each platform spouter,
Playing at “the game,”
Strives to label ev’ry doubter
With a foolish name.
With sly tricks and ruses clever
They are keenly seeking ever
To affix a party brand
To all voters in the land.
List, ye party politicians,
Talking near and far,
We don’t want vague propositions
As to what you are.
For the shibboleths of party
Rightly earn the curses hearty
Of all honest men and true.
Let us hear of what you no.
[C. J. DENNIS, Toolangi, Victoria.]


;3
Bii
Ki
9 flg
m & m
ra; fe
fss 1
-<y
fev.
A-A
ifT Wll
*-■ :ssg
Ml
e t
At
i (=
=mi
v' ,
»■ ;•
✓- ■•• * -
VC
~?i-
-<m
m.
f-
mm
m
r
¥-&m
:■’}
K
lIISI'
1
■••• v
Ssy>
Mu 1
IN KEEPING!
HOW often the measure of a man’s success is due to being always dressed “in keeping. \\ e
have made this a special feature of our “Austral Suits, and you can absolutely rely on
their cut, quality, finish and wear. Ihe first step is to call or send for patterns, of which
we have over one thousand to select from. With patterns we send a self-measurement form and a
general catalogue of 120 pages.
You give an order and we do the rest. We quote :
Austral Suits to measure: —Machine=made, 635., 705., 755. Hand=made, 845., 905., 955., 105 s. and 115 s.
GOWING BROS.,
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street ; and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
if
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
"SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
"SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.S.W. Treasurer Gann breaks the news
gently that there must be more taxation, and it
looks as though it will be through stamp duty on
receipts over £5 and on bank notes, with a few
more odds and ends of income tax. Altogether, he
reckons he must get another £400,000 a year some-
how. It is the old story. A Government breaks
out into an orgy of borrowing; and though it fools
others (and probably itself) into believing that
every blessed penny it spends has been put into
highly reproductive works, the boom is no sooner
over than a deficit shows up and the shortage has
to be made good by extra taxation. The wilder the
borrowing drunk (and there never in all Australia
had been quite such a wild one as this last N.S.W.
affair) the worse the deficit, and when the limits
of taxation have been reached the nightmare of
wholesale public-service retrenchment follows. The
pendulum has swung to and fro like that almost too
many times to count—swung, from the drunk over-
night to the headache and the gutter in the morn-
ing. N S. Wales has had the drunk overnight:
Cann’s weepy little message is one of the first signs
of the awful thirst and the empty pockets in the
morning.
* * » »
The Western Australian Bank:—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1905 . £H,369 20 p.c. = £12,500 £8,869 £346 452
Premiu s on 2500 new shares 25,000 371,452
Mar., 19 >6.. 2",556 20 p.c. = 12,500 8/ 56 379,508
Sept., 1906.. 24.059 20 ~ ~ 15.000 9,059 388,567
Mar., 1907.. 24,7 8 20 ~ „ 15,000 9.758 398,325
Sept., 19 7 . 27,993- 20 ~ ~ 15,000 12,993 411,31 S
Premiums on 2500 new shares 31,560 44 ’,878
Mar., 1908.. 23,568 20 p.c. = 17,006 6,562 449.440
Premiums on new shares .. 11,372 460,812
Sept., 1908.. 21,457 20 p.c. = 17,500 3,957 464,769
Mar., 1909.. 25,238 20 ~ „ 17,500 7,738 472,507
Sept., 1909.. 27,429 20 „ ~ 17,500 9,929 482,436
Premiums on new shares .. 27,024 5' 9,460
Mar., 1910.. 27,945 20p.e. = 19,189 8,756 518,216
Premiums on new shares .. 12,976 531,192
Sept., 1910.. 27,206 20 p.c. = 20,000 7,206 538,398
Mar., 1911.. 29,0 6 20 „ „ 20,000 9,066 517,464
Premiums on new shares .. 71,820 619,284
5ept.,1911.. 28,110 20 p.c. = 23,939 4,171 623,455
Pr-miums on new shares .. 18,180 641,635
Mar., 1912.. 35,349 20 p.c. = 25,000 W,349 651,984
Sept., 1912.. 36.488 20 „ „ 25,000 11,488 663,472
Mar., 1913.. 37,404 20 „ ~ 25,000 12,404 675,876
Though this bank nominally pays 20 p.c., the greater
number of shares have been issued at a stiff pre-
mium, and the actual return on most of them is
something under 8 p.c. The last lot ( £lO paid)
were sent out to shareholders at £2B, which means
a return of about £7 2s. 6d. p.c. ; and £2B isn’t the
most the co. has got, by any means. For this practice of
strengthening its reserves by collecting a stiff pre-
mium the bank deserves to be spoken of kindly.
Probably it needs strong reserves. Certainly there
has been a tremendous jump in the value of some
Westralian properties; but there has been a tremen-
dous slump in others —at Coolgardie and other busted
mining townships, for instance. And a bank is much
more likely to have its pockets emptied by a slump
than to have them filled by a boom in values. When
John borrows £5OOO on the security of a town pro-
perty, the bank gets only its £5OOO, even though
the property sails away in value to £lOO,OOO. But
if the value wilts, and the bank forecloses, every-
thing less than £5OOO the property fetches is' dead
loss. It is all right if things move up again after
the slump and the foreclosure, as they have done in
Melbourne and Sydney. The banks then stand to
make something handsome. But in Westralia, when
a township has slumped it has generally slumped for
ever. It would be good to know whether this bank
has kept such properties written down hard, or
whether it maintains them in its books at something
like the old inflated values. The chairman goes into
many things, as a rule, when he talks to share-
holders. There is in this other matter a fit subject
for a few remarks at the next meeting. Meantime
the very fine reserves, equal to very nearly three
times the paid capital, are a thing of joy and
beauty. If they had to be written down by quarter
of a million they would still be greater in propor-
tion to capital than those of any other bank in Aus-
tralia. The question, then, is not whether the posi-
tion is good, but whether it is as good as it looks.
As with a few other banks, things haven’t been
moving altogether the right way with the Westralian
during the past year:—
Liabilities.
March, March,
1912. 1913.
Notes in circulation £21,442 £15,196 Dec. £6.246
Bills, etc. . . 248,510 200,815 Dec. 47,695
Free deposits . . 1,386,134 1,289,871 Dec. 96,263
Deposits at interest 1,521,935 1,276,170 Dec. 245,765
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 1,263,690 1,017,874 Dec. 245,816
Advances .. 2,761,315 2,636,544 Dec. 124,771
Premises .. 80,000 78,510 Dec. 1,490
There is thus a shrinkage everywhere. The public
has taken £395,969 of its money out of the busi-
ness, and the bank has called in advances'amounting
to £124,771 net; and even then it has had to draw
£245,816 from its liquid balances. That left 37
p.c. of the liabilities in liquid shape—a reasonable
amount, though in the circumstances, and consider-
ing the s'ze of the deposits at call, none too much.
It looks pretty certain that any further contraction
of the deposits must,be followed by the calling-in of
more advances, if the bank wants to keep the posi-
tion quite sound. Not that a stone can be thrown
at it now. Indeed, from the depositors’ point of
view, the Westralian’s position is exceptionally good
in so far as the borrowed capital is only three times
greater than the shareholders’ capital, wh ch is the
depositors’ guarantee fund. In many—in fact, most
—Australian banks £1 of the shareholders’ funds
has to protect at least £5 of the public’s money,
which is a far less satisfactory proposition.
* * * *
The London Bank of Australia: —
Dividends.
Pref. Ord. Carried to Re-
Dec.', Profits. 5$ p.c. 21 p c. Reserves, serves.
1902 ..£13,690 £9,456 £4,234 £10,024
1903 .. 22,956 9,456 £9,207 4,293 14,317
From
Reserves.
1904 .. 15,893 9,456 9,192 2,755 11,562
Added to
Reserves.
1905 .. 23,194 9,456 9,193 4,545 16,107
1906 . . 36,454 9,456 9.197 17,801 33,908
31 n.c.
1907 . . 34,951 9,456 12,876 12,619 46,527
4 p.c.
1908 .. 34,212 9,456 14,716 10,040 56,567
5 p.c.
1909 .. 42,971 9,456 18,402 15,113 71,680
7 p.c.
1910 .. 63,708 12 035 18 402 33,271 104.951
1911 .. 70,532 12,035 18,405 40.092 145,043
1912 .. 80,498 12,035 18,414 50,049 195,092
lf the securities are as good as they ought to be,
this is a wonderfully fine record. Whether they are
as good as they ought to be, you couldn’t tell even
if you examined every figure in the published
accounts with a microscope. Like prophecy, the pre-
paration of a bank balance-sheet isn’t an exact
science. In fact, there is a good deal in common
between the two things. Say the same figures go to
two men. They show a profit of £50,000. One
accepts the figures ; the other calls for the securities.
Some business had been done during the year with
Brown, who owes £5OOO. The manager has doubts
about Brown and his prospects, and so decides to
write that security down to £4500 in case things go
wrong. That reduces the profit to £49,500; and a
few more Browns bring the figure down to £45,000.
In one set of published accounts the profits thus
appear as £50,000; in the other as £45,000.
From the look of a balance-sheet you can’t tell which
manager produced it, though now and then you can
tell which of the two sorts of manager the business
has had in the past. The one will probably be writ-
ing off capital to make old losses good. The other
will be showing extra profits from recoveries—that
is, from the realisation of assets in excess of their
written-down value.
This was one of the banks that didn’t have the
right kind of management a quarter of a century ago
and more. When the Melbourne borrowing bubble
blew up, the London was, therefore, in trouble. To
get out of its mess it undertook to pay no less than
4\ p.c. on its old depos ts, provided they were ex-
tended to various periods up to 1917. It offered pref.
shares also, with the preference as to dividends stop-
ping when five divs. of 7 p.c. had been paid ; but the
thumping rate of interest offered on the extended
fixed deposits spoiled the issue of shares. All the
capital raised that way was £171.930. The old
deposits as at June, i 894, were £4.744,766. As
advances were paid and assets reaUsed, this debt was
reduced, as the following figures show: —
Old 41 per
cent Deposits Paid off Interest Reid
Outstanding. During Year. During Year.
1900 .. £1.911,964 £320.711 £91.335
1905 .. 1,258 090 328.276 62.587
1906 . . 942,227 315.863 47.098
1907 .. 939,220 3.007 42.311
1908 .. 935.523 3.697 42,117
1909 .. 925.606 9.917 41.769
1910 .. 608 444 317.162 30.902
1911 .. 602.160 6,284 27.165
191.2 .. 589.446 12,714 26.721
Very little has been paid off during the past couple
of years, no doubt because of the gradually-increas-
ing scarcity of money ; and it is not absolutely
necessary that any more should be paid until 1917,
when the last instalment is due. As time went on it
was real'sed that the bank had set itself a hard task
to pay 4i p.c. ; in consequence, dividends were cut
to the bone, and even then, though the ordinaries
were getting only 2-J p.c., profits were not always
big enough to pay it. The tremendous improvement
in Australian property values soon, however, put a
different face on the bank ; and the prosperity of
the Vie. and N.S.W. farm districts sent a lot of new
business its way. The change which has taken place
in the figures in 10 years is shown in the next table:
1902. 1912.
New deposits .. .. £2,691,522 £4,982,307
Old deposits . . . . 1,589.271 589,446
Other public money . . 753.076 1.043.252
Liquid assets . ." .. 1.619.772 2.442.643
Advances .. .. 3,973.375 4,554.302
Premises . . . . 380.845 391,994
And those figures don’t show everything; for ex-
ample, : t seems safe to say that the advances, though
they have nominally increased by only 15 p.c., are
worth 30 or 40 p.c. more than they were 10 years
ago.
The next comparison shows the changes in 12
months:—
1911. 1912.
Notes in circula-
tion .. £23,226 £11.208 Dec. £12.018
Bills, etc. . . 779,194 1,032,043 Inc. 252,849
New deposits ..4.862 202 4,982.307 Inc. 120,105
Liquid assets ..2,233 911 2.442.643 Inc. 208,732
Advances . . 4,374.023 4.554.302 Inc. 180,279
Premses .. 382.559 391.994 Inc. 9.435
The liabilities, apart from the old deposits due four
years hence, total £6,025,558. Liquid assets exceed
40 p.c. of that amount; and that looks safe enough.
Capital and reserves combined amount to £743,485,
so, apart from the old deposits, there is over £8 of
public money in the business for every £1 belonging
to the shareholders. It isn't enough, and the first
opportunity should be taken to get in more capital.
One trouble no doubt is that no more than 5 p.c.
can be paid on ordinary shares until the last of the
old deposits has been paid off; and a 5 p.c. issue
isn’t very attractive at present. But if the bank
can’t pay more than 5 p.c. for a year or two it can,
on its own showing, earn twice as much ; and what
it earns and doesn’t pay away is left in the business,
for the benefit of shareholders in the future. On the
figures submitted, the earnings calculated on capital
and reserves combined were, last year, no less than
£ll 12s. 2d. p.c.; and a bank which can do that
shouldn’t be in trouble about new capital.
Standard-Waygood, Ltd., an amalgama-
tion of two Sydney businesses, whose chief object is
to put in and look after electric lifts and other elec-
trical machinery (goodwill, £15,000 to start with):
Towards
Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1910 ..£11,078 12| p.c. = £5,750 £5328 £9,672
Premiums on new shares.. 5825 3,847
Reserves.
1911 .. 17,274 12J p.c. = 10,080 7194 3,347
Premiums on new shares . . 6675 10,022
1912 .. 19,970 20 p.c. = 19,345 625 10,647
1913 .. 21,372 12i „ „ 14,062 7310 17,957
This very energetic co. is doing something else now.
Last year it absorbed N. 8., Ltd., and thereby
got 65,000 deferred shares in Automatic Telephones
(Australasia), Ltd. Now it is absorbing the Syd-
ney Hydraulic Engineering and Hercules, Ltd. The
present accounts don’t, of course, show anything of
the latter transaction, but it is known that the
Hydraulic Engineering and Hercules (itself a recent
amalgamation) will get 65 Standard-Waygood shares
for every 100 of its own. There are 101,260
Engineering and Hercules shares, about one-third of
them, however, paid only to ss. Standard-Waygood
has 125,000 shares issued ; 25,000 of them are paid
to 10s. ; the others are fully paid. Apparently the
amalgamation or absorption will bring the total
issue to about 175,000 shares. Both cos. have
been doing well; and they are certainly not likely
to do any worse for being under one friendly roof. It
was said at one time that Standard-Waygood would
probably amalgamate with the Sydney Hydraulic
Power Co., which is the parent of the Engineering
Co., and the chairman of the Standard-Waygood got
a seat on the Hydraulic Power Co.’s board; but
apparently there isn’t for the present going to be
anything except friendlier relations than there used
to be. The one specialises in electric lifts; the other
in hydraulic lifts.
As mentioned just now, the co. is also interested
in Automatic Telephones, Ltd. There has been a
eonnect'on 'for some time, but its nature hasn’t been
disclosed. N. 8., Ltd., of King-street, Sydney, held
the Australian agency for the machines, and to intro-
duce them to Australia a co. was formed—chiefly
among Standard-Waygood people—in 200.000 shares,
half of them (ordinari s) paid to 10s. and the other
half ,(deferred) fully paid to Is. The ordinary
shares are entitled to a first 10 p.c div. ; half the
profits bevond that belong to the deferred shares.
Standard-Waygood paid £4500 for the goodwill
of N. 8., Ltd., and it seems as if that included the
Telephone shares. These shares are worth 6s. in the
market; and by writing them up to 3s. the co. is
able to wipe out the goodwill item, and have £2OOO
to the good. But the deal with N. 8., Ltd., has been
worth far more than that to the co. The profit and
loss account shows: Net manufacturing revenue,
£4422; gross profit on sales, contracts, etc.,
£18,049; “return on investments and valuations of
transferred assets, N. 8., Ltd. ( £13,081), less orig-
inally paid for shares representing goodwill of N. 8.,
Ltd. (£4500),” £B5Bl. What the last item means
isn’t too clear. Apparently, though, the co. shows a
profit of several thousands on its N.B. investment;
and you can't take your profit twice from the same
transaction. Hence it looks as if the profit for the
past year was considerably above the normal. It is
worth following the revenue items for the past three
years:—
1911. 1912. 1913.
Net manufacturing profits .. £ 11,032 £9,240 £4,422
Gross profits, sales and con-
tracts 12,068 14,879 18,048
Investments .. . . 1,780 4,855 8,581
The reduction in net manufacturing profits looks a
serious matter for the country, as well as for Stan-
dard-Waygood. Gross profits on sales and contracts
have moved along fairly well, though it has to be re-
membered that capital has also moved along—it was
£73,298 in 1911 and is £112,500 now. And in
regard to sales and contracts it has also to be noted
that Sydney has been spending a heap of borrowed
and other money on construction during the past
four or five years, and isn’t at all likely to go on
at the same rate indefinitely; wherefore this co.’s
figures are probably abnormal from this cause also.
Other things, such as the automatic telephone, may
come along with handsome profits presently ; and it
certa nly looks as if something of the kind will be
needed to maintain profits.
John Bridge and Go., Limited, wool
and pastoral produce salesmen, of Sydney and else-
where, have now presented 16 annual balance-sheets.
In the days of balance-sheets Nos. 1 to 13, the con-
cern was a private company. These are the results
for the past three years:—
Dividends.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1910.. 3,602
Premium on new shares . . 29,660 33,262
1911.. 18,885 1320 20 p.c. = 15,600 1,965 35,227
Premium on new shares . . 7,675 42,902
1912.. 13,824 1320 10 p.c. = 8,576 3,928 46.830
Assets written down, £14,000 .. 32,830
1913.. 11,779 1320 10 p.c. = 8,807 1,652 34,482
So the amount written off the assets exceeds the pro-
fit for the year. It is explained that various securi-
ties have fallen into the co.’s hands, and as buyers
are not rushing them, it has been judged safest to
severely write them down ; also the cost of estab-
lishing the Queensland branch has been written off,
as, of course, it ought to be. An item of that kind
should, in fact, never get in among an old-estab-
lished co.’s assets at all; it is quite bad enough
when a new co. inserts it. To write-down assets is
to put an unpleasant fact in the least disquieting
way. What it generally means is that profits have
been previously over-estimated to that total extent.
When, therefore, an item like “Assets wr'tten down,
£14,000,” appears in a table, the investor's sharp
eye had better run back over the table and clip down
the declared profits until the clippings total the
amount written off, and then he will get some sort
of an idea of the true profit. In this case, the table
may not be long enough ; perhaps some of the bad
debts now provided for date back several years. It
is to be hoped so, anyhow.
The next little list shows the movements in vari-
ous balance-sheet figures since the public co, took
over:—
Liabilities.
1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital .. ..£lOO,OOO £107,675 £110,075
Mortgages, etc. .. 44,139 67,029 77,164
Assets.
Properties . . 111,333 131,856 150,715
Advances .. 42,547 88,110 70,893
Plant, etc. .. 12..517 10,026 8,771
Liquid assets . . 28,970 1,439 1,470
Capital and reserves, together £144,557, represent
almost the exact value (£144,685) put on the co’s
freehold stores. This leaves an amount equal to all
the advances and other assets to be financed. Of
course, risks would be smaller if the co. had no
outsiders’ money in the business ; still the liabilities
are not serous. The risk depends very largely on
the nature of the advances. If they are made against
consignments awaiting sale, there shouldn't be much
to worry about; but when, in order to get or keep
business, cos. of this sort allow themselves to be
gradually pushed into a general pastoral finance
business, the concern becomes highly speculative. As
for the general outlook, assuming that the co. keeps
out of the aforementioned danger-zone, it seems
likely that the higher costs shown during the past
year will be maintained; the earnings that will
suffer when the slump comes in earnest will be those
of the skilled tradesmen, not those of such men as
these cos. mostly employ. Liberals and Laborites
alike are satisfied that the more or less unskilled
man hasn't had enough to bring up h : s family in
reasonable comfort, as witness the popular sympathy
with the claims of the Sydney ferry and gas hands
for more money. No doubt the wool cos. might, by
comb'ning, pass the extra cost on ; but it is very
doubtful whether the Sydney lot are a sufficiently
happy family to come to any such agreement.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North Silver
Mining Co., now the Junction North Broken Hill
Mines: —
Written
Loss. Dividend. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1905 .. £523 Nil £20,290
(£50,000 new capital issued; deficit written off.)
Profit.
Mar., 1906 . . 2,939 Nil £5,000 2,061
Loss.
Sept., 1906 .. 3,065 Nil 5.126
Mar., 1907 .. 3,039 Nil 7,208 15,373
Profit.
Sept., 1907 .. 17,726 Nil 7,891 5,538
Mar., 1908 .. 7,376 N : 1 7,629 5,791
Sept., 1908 .. 12,418 Nil 7,263 636
Reserves.
Mar., 1909 .. 11.024 Nil 3.618 6,770
Sept., 1909 . . 16.821 Nil 7,589 16,002
Mar., 1910 .. 20,357 Nil 7,840 28.519
Sept., 1910 .. 7,620 £9.000 8.098 19.041
Mar., 1911 .. 34,094 18,000 7,987 27,148
Sept., 1911 .. 37.174 18,000 12.308 34,014
Mar., 1912 .. 16,391 9,000 5,281 36,124
Reserves wined out; new co. formed.
Sept., 1912 .. 36,828 Nil 22,254 14,574
Loss.
Mar., 1913 .. 5,744 Nil 2,928 5,902
And, as usual, things are probably worse than they
look. Thus the balance-sheet has this note: “There
is a contingent liability in connection with the
Equity suit against the Junction Co., amount of
which is not yet ascertained ” The fact is that
judgment was given against this co.—a very em-
phatic judgment-—and its only hope now lies in an
appeal. If that fails, the co. will probably have to
hand out another £6OOO or £BOOO. The past half-
year's accounts are debited with over £5OOO. Then
there is the matter of depreciation. From mine,
mill and flotation plant accounts £2918 is written
off, or at the quite inadequate rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
There is very heavy wear and tear on these plants,
and 20 p.c. p.a. is not too much to charge against
revenue.
The co., finding its own ore reserves small—six
months ago they were estimated at 263,000 tons—
decided to go into the business of buying and treat-
ing ores and slimes, and contracts have been made
with Block 14 and the South Extended. Slime-treat-
ment is full of difficulties, and the co. paid a stiff
price for its raw material; still mar ,„ t ,.
been found out about this business of ate £ avc
may yet be money in it for the Junction nt there
can stand up to the preliminary financbD ft - h ’ lf ><•
financial position is better than it has 1?"' The
times, but it is none too strong now
mg assets show a surplus of £7O ru7 / ’ ~floatt-
ies; but £68,465 is represented bv 7 «i? rer I,abi “-
ing treatment; and vvhaf can be done with 7^'
slimes remains to be proved. So far 7 7 th those
concerned, prospects are a shade hJiLuil mine is
were. The lode isn't quitting the than J , the y
depth as it seemed to be doing a whiff sapidly5 apidly at
it is refractory stuff, and the past rlco d Tk But
shows that, at best, there is mighty little pSt Tn
**7£ Rfwsfcj*--
;=i f f ffls? in " t r *
where is the item shown in the accounts? ' “ ’
.. t n e fi n } i > niDg en S inee r who summed ud
the Bullhnch held so correctly for The Buniono.
the Ardlethan tin held may be roughly divided inm
three groups: (.1) Carpathia, or Southern “
Western; (3) bygoo, or Northern. The Carbathi
group embraces the deposits wh ch have vi f 1
practically the whole o? the ore shipped, Z*
present appearances the future of the field depend,
mainly on their development in depth, 'the count™
rocks here consist of granites and quartz porphyr?
mineralisation probably being influenced by slate m’
liers such as that perched on the top of" Carpathia
Ihe White Crystal Co. has exploited three
parallel veins in quartz porphyry, only one of wh ch
has been recently worked. The underlay shaft on
this reached a uepth of 100 ft., and want of fund,
now threatens to stop even the small expenditure in
deep development which this work entails. A verti-
cal shaft is being sunk, lrom wh ch the veins will
be worked by crosscutting. This idea is a good one
but should not prevent the development of the lodS
by driving and sinking from the existing opening
the 100 ft. shaft carries a strong body of ore to 60tt
From there to 95ft. the body is small and compara-
tively poor, but shows an improvement over the lad
few feet. Associated with the tin oxide, particularly
on the hanging wall side of the fissure, are wohram
bismuth, copper carbonates and arsenical pyrites’
These accessory minerals are not in sufficient quan-
tities to greatly affect treatment. From the appear-
ance of this shaft and Keogh’s old prospecting shaft
on the same vein, the Crystal lodes threaten to be
small and irregular, requiring a heap of driv n°- and
sinking to furnish tonnage for even a small mill
Crosbie s Hill, rumored to be worth $ p.c. tin, evi-
dently only has a skin of that quality ore. ’ The
tunnel being driven has so far failed to develop any-
thing of value. Strenuous efforts are be.ng made to
provide a 10-head mill. A site for this has been
selected, and it is proposed to pump water on to the
ground from a suitable catchment about seven miles
away. There are three proposals to provide the mine
with the capital necessary for its development and
equipment:—(l) To form a syndicate to instal the
mill ng plant, revenue to be got by crushing ore at
present developed ; (2) the flotation of Stackpool's
block; (3) a call.
The Carpathia open cut and shaft open out a
splendid body of rich ore. From 15ft. to the present
bottom the shaft carries a full face, practically all
of which is milled at Wyalong. Bore holes have
been carried in the hanging wall at frequent inter-
vals, and the width of ore actually proved is 9ft.
This co. can safely rely on a large tonnage (it is
impossible to be more definite), carrying from 12 to
20 p.c. tin oxide. Another vein is now being opened,
and promises to largely increase the tonnage avail-
able from the open cut deposit. The co. will shortly
commence milling with its own treatment plant at
Barmedman. , The wisdom of crushing at such a
great distance from the mine is open to question.
The plant itself, however, can only be regarded as an
experiment, and probably represents merely another
stage in the exploration of the field. The Carpathia
has proved its property far beyond any other at
Ardlethan.
The Wild Cherry is situated at the southern end
of the slate inlier on Carpathia Hill. Hough shaft
has provided an irregular-shaped ore depos't, carry-
ing remarkably rich patches. This shaft was taken
down in a series of steps; each one represents a good
zone of ore which has been chased some distance in
the hanging wall. There is nothing to indicate that
the deposit has any long strike extension, and the
reports that other shafts have picked up its continu-
ation are imaginative. Looking at the walls of the
shaft, there is a reasonable chance of developing
large tonnages by driving or crosscutting in any old
direction. Th-'s shaft will probably be the centre
of a large open cut. Smith’s lode, as opened by the
shaft and drive, does not promise to provide much
ore. Values here and at other points on the lease
are determined largely by dish prospecting. Many
mistakes have already been made by relying on this
method, and a co. with the resources of the Wild
Cherry should have no use for this cfudity.
The Southern Cross leases are situated wholly, or
almost wholly, in slate country. Several alleged
lodes are being prospected, but nothing of any value
or promise has been met with. Generally speaking,
the leases in the slate country have little or no hope.
The Central Blocks are also situated in slate coun-
try, but values are being found in a tongue of por-
phyry. This is a reasonable prospecting show.
The Western Group comprises the Ruby, Outcast,
Commonwealth and adjacent shows, situated either
in slate or at the granite contact. The Ruby is an
example of the former, the openings showing several
small and poor veins. Several of the other shows
display large outcrops supposed to contain payable
values. Until these are sampled by someone skilled
in this work, the value of the properties is extremely
doubtful.
The Northern group includes DumbrelTs, Dfumlish
Hill, Big Bygoo and Coote’s Lone Hand. At this
end of the field values are found in segregations ot
magmatic quartz contained in normal granite. These
occurrences are identical with the wolfram deposits
of the Mole Tableland (New England). Dumbrell s
Bygoo is far the most promising of these snows.
Several rich and small veins have been opened, ana a
large tonnage will be obtained from the outcrop ■
There is nothing, however, to indicate that any o
these Bygoo “blows” or “spar lodes” will conta ,
payable values except at shallow depths. in
shafts, both at Dumbrell’s and Coote’s, indicate tn
the rich veins are of very limited extent, ana t
values in the bulk of the quartz masses apparen y
disappear at shallow depths. The Big Bvgoo s
mense outcrop has been costeened, but it is y
doubtful if values are sufficiently encouraging
warrant the deposit being mined. Towards
eastern end of the lease tributors are worki g
small though rich vein. Until these Bygoo d p
are more extensively trenched and systemati .
sampled, the Bygoo end of the field can only
garded as an encouraging prospect. „
The Democrat. outside Cootamundra
(N.S.W.), is a fine example of sticking-at-it, ana w
people behind it —local residents mostly
success. After a little syndicate had P e % ze , '
for some years, a No-Liability co. was formed
where about three vears ago. Eisrht thousan ‘
were issued and 2000 reserved. The ss. share .
sent out as paid to 2s. 6d.: and calls were ~
straight off. No paid or vendors’ shares ''’ ere u pr s
the 8000 contribs. were all taken by the m
of the old syndicate. Next the 2000 reservp
had to be issued to provide ™° ’ nf i
manent water for the 10-head batte a
Wilfley tables which had been put in,


By Appointing the
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
Testators are assured that
their Estates will be
economically and efficiently
administered. Accounts
rendered regularly to
Beneficiaries.
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET.
2 , 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
Suction Gas Plants.
Gas, Petrol, Oil Engines.
SIMPLICITY. RELIABILITY.
KYNOCH LTD.,
Melbourne.
Adelaide.
Perth.
Sydney.
Brisbane.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, halt-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have .supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em
ploving such appliances. W. and .J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Svdney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would' be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trc'ned engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
* » * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
iflforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Win. Adams and Co.* Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
» * * *
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, blit is simply the
best that can lie produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock hv Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bells Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sidney.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yds. of
road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yd., and the cost of the spalls per cub. yd. averaged
2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub. yd.,
broken and spread. Their last contract under the
hand-breaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per cub.
yd., stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total 7s. 3d., as against 4s. 10d.— a savintj of 2*. 5d.
per cub. yd. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [3
Extract from Financial News. London, July 12.
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the direc-
tors ; for in every direction admirable progress has
been achieved.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is being used by mining
cos. all over Australia. It is snecially suited to cold
climates, as the elasticity of the wood prevents the
pine from bursting when frozen. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., head office, 57 York Street,
Sydney.* * * *
The Water and Sewerage Board have accepted the
tender of Haes and Eggers, Ltd., for Pumoing
Plant for the Svdney Water Supply. The plant will
consist of 3 Wolf Engines driving Gwynne Pump
through Citroen Gears. This is a great triumph
for this combination, as it was accepted against
world-wide competition. See page 3.*
* * * *
Mr. R. O’Haree, Glen Innes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that I have now used the
3$ B.II.P. Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for the
past eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average 168J per man. During the whole time 1
have had the engine in use it has never given the
sl'ghtest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have "ever exhenended
such a smooth-running engine. —R. HORNSBY A"
SONS, Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a' first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.* » *
Patents —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney.* *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton. Grimwade and Co Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles furnaces,
and all modem scientific annliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane. Melbourne.* #
Messrs. Babcock k Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained
Collison k Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.* .
To follow the HORNSBY OIL ENGINE would be
to travel round the world. It lights up the Old
World where the Pharaohs hold their court. Its
light greets the traveller to the New World from
the gigantic statue of Liberty at the entrance of
New York Harbor. It is also supplying the lights
on the newest and finest battleships of the British
Navy. R. HORNSBY k SONS, Ltd., Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H B Silberbf.rg and Co., Ltd., 8 O Connell Street,
Svdney ' and at Melbourne for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
l7l3000 grain ; prospector's balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight ; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles : chemicals ; etc.*
nobel-clascow explosives.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatin*
Dynamite
Safety F use
Detonators
Cartridges
further 5000 shares were subsequently authorised and
issued. All have now been paid to 3s. 9d. The lode
is big, and enough of it has already been put through
to make a sands dump of 4000 tons, which will be
cyanided. This year, so far, 7250 z. has been got from
the battery. More than half of that has come in the
past two months. The present output averages over
50oz. a week. The gold is, however, worth only
about £3 per oz. There has been no market-rigging
about this show ; for Cootamundra people are not
quite so insane as to suppose that a mining field can
be benefited by outs : de sharks biting tens of thou-
sands of pounds out of it.
Mt. Ross, in the New England district
(N.S.W.), continues to work its deep alluvial dia-
mond mine with moderate results. In six days to
the middle of May, 64 loads of wash-dirt gave 2scwt.
of black tin and 201 carats of diamonds valued at
20s. 6d. per carat. The diamonds at this price
would be worth about 12 times as much as the tin.
The workings are becoming extensive, and blocking
out is in progress on the eastern side of the main
level. One of the difficulties is to maintain ventila-
tion ; foul air is by no means confined to coal mines.
At Mount Ross the wash-dirt is sometimes very thin,
but luckily the dolerite over the wash contains dia-
monds, and this is frequently 3ft. thick. The price
got for the gems is, however, most disappointing;
the diamond of the retail stores runs nowadays to
£2O or £2l per carat, the market showing a great
advance of recent years.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for April: —
Value
Revenue. Profit, per
Tonnage. £ £ ton.
Great Roulder . . 18,212 47,999 25,565 52/8
Ivanhoe . . . . 19,715 37,698 14,008 38/2
Golden Horseshoe 25,460 36,963 4,970 29/-
Kalgurli . . . . 10,620 21,391 9,235 40/-
Associated . . 10,435 13,183 1,901 25/3
Sons of Gwalia . . 13,400 21,085 2,894 31/6
Oroya L : nks . . 11,350 12,049 1,579 21/2
Lake View and Star 18,226 21,117 3,715 23/2
Boulder Perseverance 20,622 22,348 1,303 21/8
Yuanmi .. .. 10,400 17,887 1,248 34/5
Associated Northern 1,940* 6,080 1,407 62/8
Associated Victorious
Leases . . . . 8,550 11,362 4,000 26/7
South Kalgurli . . 9,694* 11,007 1,308 22/8
Bullfinch Prop. . . 4,343 13.215 t 8,812 60/10
Mountain Queen . . 2,289 4,929 1,314 43/-
North Kalgurli . . 1,354 2,102 31/1
Golden Ridge . . 2,894 4,466 1,000 30/10
Queen of the Hills 3,254 5,717 2,190 35/1
Sand Queen .. 1,230 4,745 2,001 77/2
Burbanks Main Lode 2,052 4,510 —t 44/-
Ingliston Consols. . 2,120 3,156 541 29/9
Menzies Consolidated 1,904 3,308 253 34/9
Lake View and Oroya 8,675§ 1,614 480 3/9
Ida H. .. .. 1,283 2,645 185 41/3
Mararoa . . . . 2,630 4,825 ** 36/8
Kyarra .. .. 895 2,814 / 42 62/10
Fenian . . . . 2,750 10,780 —** 78/5
Hannan’s Reward 1,436 754 IJJ/6
Lady Miller .. 1,769 1,836 2 20/9
Loss.
Great Fingall .. 5,896 11,017 66 37/4
Commodore . . 1,100 955 62 17/4
Marvel Loch . . 1,100 1,345 368 24/6
Dividends : Ivanhoe, 55., £55,000 ; Boulder Perse-
verance, 6d., £34,986 ; Kalgurli, 4s, £24,000,
Associated Northern, Is., £17,500; Lake View and
Star, 5 p.e., £10,000; Sand Queen, 6d., £l5OO.
•Tributors’ ore. fKxclusive of £3OOO stolen gold.
♦ Expenditure, which included £l6l/ capital, bal-
anced revenue. slimes. **Profit not
available.
Whim Well (W.A.) is making further
mechanical improvements to its copper concentrating
plant, and when these are effected the management
is confident that treatment will proceed smoothly.
Meantime, high-grade ore is still being shipped to
England and France. A circular just issued by the
London Board states that large tonnages of rich ore
are being opened up, and that the mine will be able
to furnish substantial shipments in addition to sup-
plying the new plant with ore for many years. lhe
capital has now been increased to £300,000, and
25,000 of the 100,000 new £1 shares have been
placed. Heavy expenditure incurred by the pur-
chase, shipping and erection of new plant has been
met, and an early resumption of dividends is pre-
dicted.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) more than kept
pace with the mTI in 1912, and sustained its values
as well. Gold realised £262,094 ; after deducting
£lB6 841 working expenditure, £10,580 depreci-
ation and £5719 income and other taxes, the avail-
able credit balance (including £23,473 brought for-
ward) was £82,967. Dividends mopped up £69,062.
leaving £12,524 to carry forward. The pnnc pal
features of the vear’s work were the opening up of
the Gwalia South and the West lodes between the
14th and 17th levels. The ore reserves are esti-
mated to be equal to 3j years’ supply at the present
rate of depletion. .
Edna May’s latest misfortune is said to
be the complete loss of the lower portion of the new
vertical shaft at or about 92ft. When /oft. of sink-
ing had been done an avalanche of sand occurred,
and the shaft was stopped Further attempts were
made to push it down, and eventually the present
bottom was reached, when another collapse took
place. A man who ought to know says it would be
\\ v to attemnt the further sinking of this shaft,
kiA wants to know why the co. cannot prove the
rnne for another 200 ft. or 300 ft by means of the
ltnderlav main shaft, where work was left off at
12&ft. in 3oz. ore.
* * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) wound up the financial
rear ended December 31 with a profit of £196,167.
which with £4.784 brought forward made a total
credit of £200.951. Div=dends (19s per share)
absorbed £190,000, and after perks and trifles were
deducted, there was £ 8576 left to carry forward. In
all £28.049 (of which £26.591 represented de-
velopment) was written off. Working costs showed
an increase of Is. sd. per ton, due mostly to greater
cutiav on timbering, and the grade. of ore rested
showed a drop of Is. 3d. As stated in B. 24/4/ 13,
developments have been unsatisfactory at depth the
ore in the north end of the levels below 2270 ft.
being impoverished on account of association wth
2-raDhite slate. In breaking the news of this irrs
fortune as® gentlv as possible to shareholders, the
directors state that it is not possible to sav tnat
this is “cause and effect.” for in other mines high
values have been found in the embrace ° f ,F aphlt
Thev add that there is good reason to brieve that
the unwelcome intrusion will disappear lower d
and values make again. When the year closed, the
co. had £177.659 invested in railway, insurance,
mining and industrial stocks, on which interest
amounting to £6634 had been collected during the
12 months. It also had £33,670 out on loan at
5 p.c., and, approximately, £41,000 cash in hand.
Its liabilities were about £20,000, but sums owing
by sundry debtors and value of stores in hand more
than offset that amount. The total revenue for the
year was £479,906.
Chaffers (W.A.) is believed to be on the
eve of another reconstruction. In all, nine lodes are
said to have been exposed in the property. Five of
these are estimated to contain 104,000 tons of 255.
ore, while at one level, the No. 16, a sixth is reck-
oned to have the longest rim of payable ore yet
opened up in the mine. But funds are getting low,
and about £60,000 is wanted for treatment plant
and additional development. Hitherto Chaffers has
generally had something good on hand when further
capital was needed, but in no instance have the
goods been up to the alleged sample. So far, it has
been one of those spotted shows which have kept a
number of men in employment and a few officials in
comfort, but has earned nothing for shareholders.
Nevertheless, if the values alleged to have been
opened up are really in sight, the mine should have no
excuse for not making good in the future.
Golden Ridge (W.A.) has resolved to
let shareholders decide at the forthcoming half-
yearly meeting whether the June quarterly dividend
shall be passed or not. At present, the co. has
between £15,000 and £16,000 in hand, and an
almost worked-out mine. It is anxious to get hold
of a new property, and while its wherewithal may
not be sufficient to purchase, equip and develop a
suitable one, it should be ample to prove a pro-
spect. Additional capital could then easily be in-
duced to come in.
Owing to another plant stoppage, this
month’s return from Associated Northern Co.’s Vic-
torious leases (W.A.) will not be much better than
last month’s. Assays are still good in w'nzing from
the No. 4 level, but the quantity of telluride in the
ore is getting less. The management hopes to cut
the shoot at No. 6 level in about a month.
Hampden-Cloneurry’s last half-yearly re-
port is not a model of clearness. The balance-sheet
gives liquid assets, including the doubtful item
“Stores,” as £102,194. The debit side of the sheet
shows liabilities to the tune of £70,308. The ap-
parent surplus is thus £31,886. But there is yet the
half-payment for the MacGregor mines. The £54,375
due on June 9 is tucked away among the fixed-capital
accounts, on the credit side, as a deduction from the
value (purchase and expenditure to date) of the Mac-
gregor. The balance, of course, is all right, but the
real deficiency of liquid assets is £22,489. Again,
the directors’ report is in need of some adjustment.
It testifies to a liquid surplus of £37,836. after
allowing for the Macgregor payment, but avoids the
liability on debentures and debenture interest,
£60,325. Deducting this £60.325 from £37,836
leaves the deficiency of £22,489, as above..
At the general meeting the chairman of directors
reckoned on producing copper at £39 per ton. As
the gold and silver contents amounted to £3 per ton
of copper, the real cost was stated to be £36 per
ton of copper. Shareholders were told that railage
and realisation charges are approx, mately £lO per
ton. (The terms of the new contract are kept a
secret.) It seems impossible to make the report tally
with this estimate of £39. In addition to ore there
were treated 2125 tons of previously-accumulated
matte, estimated to contain 748 tons copper. Ihis
copper cost something to mine and turn into matte.
The previous balance-sheet valued products in hand
and in transit at £78,990, “after providing for
realisation charges.” The past half-year’s working
account was debited with £84,714 against th.s pro-
duct. The difference ( £5724) is apparently the
cost of realisation. This on 748 tons copper would
equal £7.65 per ton, which looks too little. Any-
way, realisation charges are separately stated at
£37,459. Total production of copper, including the
unfinished 748 tons brought forward, was 3538 tons,
which, divided into £37,459, gives £10.58 realisa-
tion charges per ton. This is near the chairman’s
statement. Allow a further cost of £2 per ton
for converting, as the copper was in the form of
matte. Grand total cost of production for half-year,
including £7799 depreciation, was £143,135. De-
duct 748 tons at £12.58 = £9490. This leaves
£133,645 as the total cost of producing 2790 tons
of copper, or £47.9 per ton of copper, say £4B.
The balance-sheet does not show any unfinished matte
in course of treatment, and only £1126 for the
blister copper on hand. With the co.’s electrolytic
copper selling at £63. and allowing £3 extra for
gold and silver, the profit, with costs at £4B, is only
two-thirds of what it would be if costs were only
£39 Next dividend is expected to be 4s. per
share, making £140,000 for the half-year, or £2O
a ton on an output of 7000 tons of copper. To keep
that up costs need to be low, or the metal
market uncommonly good. And costs are more likely
to rise, especially when Macgregor ore, carrying from
7 to 8 p.c. copper, comes forward for treatment.
Hunting for oil deposits is becoming a
regular .job in Bananaland, and every now and
again one meets an ear-biter with a bottle of crude
oil which he has extracted from shale, or squeezed
out of a bubbling mud-pool. The Narrows—the
strip of ooze which separates Curtis Island from
the mainland near Rockhampton—is now being bored
for the inflammable stuff. A local syndicate has the
matter in hand. . #
The Queensland Government is treating
the old Palmer goldfield handsomely. If Cooktown
and district will put up £2500 the Government will
advance £3OOO on loan, to be paid for out of net
revenue: and if outside cap’tal can be got in, there
is another £4500 of Government money waiting.
The Cooktown people have already placed their 2500
shares Their idea is to form a co. in 25,000 £1
shares, selling 12.500 of them, and reserving the
other 12,500 for issue by way of bonus. The co. is
to tackle the Louisa and Ida reefs. Two properties
with shafts on these lines have been secured The
last crushings from both of them were, it is alleged,
navable. Apparently the owners saw something that
looked more payable somewhere else, and vanished
accordingly. #
The Cathcart flutter lauded more people
high and drv than any other Melbourne market rush
since the Glenfine South swirl, and the onlv flotsam
gathered up worthy of the name was the New Langi
Loean show, Ararat (Vic.)« The actual debit of the
New Langi to capital account is £64,133. Plant at
No. 1 shaft cost £ll,lBl, and at No. 2 shaft
£4773. while puddlers have sucked up *,1971
extra, though no one is certain when these puddlers
will be sw-'shing up muddy water. In all, £27.120
has gone on account of wages, pumping, timber,
etc Tucking all these items into one column, the
pleasures of deep-lead mining at the New Langi
reckon up to £45.000, exclusive of the shekels that
went to the promoters and vendors. To show for
this there are shaft No. 1, its equipment the drive
across the gutter, and the crosscuts, also No. 2 shaft
and the portion of the plant there paid for. These
are what may be termed v'sible assets, though it
thev had to be auctioned they might not fetch much.
Invisible assets include the gutter overhead from the
reef drive from No. 1 shaft, and the prosnecPyc
value of the lower reaches of the Cathcart tributary,
to be tapped from No. 2 shaft. The co. s mainstay
is one VV. H. Toole, mine manager, whose reputa-
tion is better than that of some others within 200
miles of the New Langi shaft. It also has to its credit
the reduction in the pressure of water from 701 b.
to 391 b , and, last of all, the favorable bores poked
up into the Langi gutter. The directors don t say
when rising into wash is to be begun; but three
months ought to do it. Productive work will then
start. „
The makings of a row ought to be found
in a suggested deal under which Ajax North (Vic.)
is to chuck 5000 shares paid up to 7s. 3d. into the
lap of a syndicate that pegged out land at the
north end of its lease. Ajax North, having cut four
or five formations in its shaft, has enough to do
with its own without adding a cubit to its area.
Anyway, The Bulletin relies on A. A. Billson, as
Minister of Mines, to see that if the co. becomes
filled with earth-hunger it shall do its duty by
manning any new ground acquired. As the reason
given for the deal is that 1700 ft. on the line of reef
will be a gift to the co., the latter won’t have any
valid excuse available when Billson calls on it to
put men on to shovel out some of the dirt.
Victoria Consols is just now the most
sensitive plant in Bendigo. Lying west of Lansell s
Little 180 and alongside the Ironbark, the Victoria
ought by all the rules that govern Bendigo to have
picked up the Sheepshead shoot an age since. At
512 ft. there is a drive over 400 ft. long ; but this
prospecting hasn’t borne fruit until lately, when
colors of gold made. The test of the battery has
still to come; and until an average value has thus
been established, the Beehive will, so to speak, stand
on tiptoe, ready to e ther pounce on this honey or
set off to look for other fodder.
* * * *
The cost of alluvial work at Rutherglen
(Vic ) is so close to that at Maryborough (also
Vic.) that the difference isn’t worth worrying about.
Thus the Great Southern at the former field spends
435. 6id. per fathom to take out wash, and the
Duke Consols (Maryborough) 435. 3d. per fathom.
But the first co. washed dirt averaging 16dwt., and
the Duke Consols 11.2dwt. Result, a sequence of
6d. divs. to the Great Southern folk, and only one
to the Maryborough show. Great Southern upholds
the fame of Rutherglen field, where there have been
some big gold producers. .Its tally is £560,000, out
of which shareholders have got £60,000, besides
building up a reserve of £ 5562. As capital stands
at £99,750, it is plain that the worker has got the
best out of the mine; direct wages account for
£351,000, and contract work for another £20,000.
Great Poseidon Alluvial must not be
confounded with its neighbor, Poseidon Alluvial,
which has had better fortune. Great Poseidon is
remarkable chiefly for the extent of its share registei
and the belief it has in Shaftsinkers, Ltd., to pull
it out of the ditch by getting a shaft through its
drifty ground. The scheme is t 6 freeze a patch
having a diameter of ‘23Aft. and then to shift the
dirt in hunks. Thirty boreholes 200 ft. deep com-
plete the circle, and as Shaftsinkers, Ltd., has got
all its plans through the Customs we shall soon see
what is to be seen. As a preliminary, a little re-
construction is to go through, involving an increase
of the share reg'ster, and raising the capital trom
£13,000 to £37,000. # #
Mount Lyell, from the mining standpoint
has profited from its time of adversity. The drill
has been set to work against the old Blow mine,
outside the contour drive round the pyntic mass, and
at No. 6 level beyond the hanging wall 19ft. of
massive sulph'des have been bored through, with
seams of ore in the schisty stuff beyond. At No. 7
level, on the northern side of No. 5 stope, a body of
pyrites was cut into before the body was met, and
at No 8 level also an outlier was traced. General-
manager Sticht dismisses these strikes curtly, though
his inferiors think them deserving of better treat-
ment. Those who have over-bought shares would
have liked also to see IPm enthuse over the Corn-
stock. After all. is it not thin stuff to put forward
a phrase like “this mine has developed at least as
well as was expected” when the outsider doesn t
know what Sticht’s expectations were? What points
off this complaint is the knowledge that bornite
shows in the bottom levels of the Comstock along
w'th the pvrites, and everyone knows what would
happen should a bigger sprinkling of that secondary
ore happen along. Comstock stuff so far treated has
averaged over 3i p.c. copper, 0.05... gold, and 0.27
oz. silver per ton, and the least enrichment would
help things along nicely. # *
Medico: (1) It’s alive, and that’s all we
know about it. (2) No. .. . J.W S.: The B. never
advises anybody to buy any mining shares. #
Burma Mines, Ltd., in which a lot of
Lake View and other Westralian and English money
has been sunk, reckons that it has got hold of some-
thing rich enough to make Broken Hill envious. At
350 ft. from the surface and some distance below
where the prehistor'c Chows left off work, an ore
body 52ft. wide and containing 260 z. silver, 28 p.c.
lead and 31 p.c. zinc is alleged to have been cut in
more places than one, and in case it might be
thought otherwise these assays declared to be a
fair average. Somewhere about £750,000 has been
expended to date in equipping, develop n S and con-
necting this property with smelters near Mandalay ,
but despite what was said to have been left behind
bv Hoover and Govett s ancient Celestials, share-
holders have not received any return on the capital
originally invested, but have been stirred up once
or twice for more money. Of course, dividends are
now ahead. # *
Present depths of Kalgoorlie’s mam
shafts: Great Boulder, 2884 ft.; Ivanhoe, 2754 ft
Golden Horseshoe, 2529 ft.; Associated, 2285 ft.,
Chaffers 2274 ft. ; Boulder Perseverance, 2228 ft. ,
Sake View and Star, 2149 ft.; Kalgurli 1900 ft. ;
South Kalgurli, 1818 ft. ; Hainault, 1014 ft. , Han-
nan’s Star, 1013 ft. # *
Last vear 22 mine workers lost their lives
through accidents on the Kalgoorlie field. Of this
number Golden Horseshoe lulled Gre *t
Boulder four, Associated two, Lake View and
Star two, Ivanhoe two, and Boulder Perse-
verance, Hainault, Kalgurli, Oroya Links and
South Kalgurli one aniece. In addition, 310
serious accidents and 551 minor accidents were
reported. All this meant probably 15 to 20 widows,
perhaps 80 dependent children left without a bread-
winner, and it may be 100 workmen more or less
incapacitated for life. Yet the State has no such
scheme of relief as the Miners Accident Fund of
N S Wales, and the best that can be done for the
victims is to send round the precarious hat. this
is something the State Labor Government ought to
be ashamed of. # „
The Austral-Malay Tin Trust, Ltd-
formed in Svdney and Melbourne to take °ver options
negotiated in the Malay Peninsula by H. E. Pratten,
has joined forces, so far as the Kamunting property
is concerned, with some London people who have
formed a co. to work it. For a start 130,000
cViarp* will be issued, of which vendors, promoters
underwriters take 80,000 The Austral-Malay
Co’s cut will be 20.000, and for underwriting 5000
it gets another 500. The area is big but not
apparently verv rich (a tr’fle under lib. per yard),
and vendors, promoters and underwriters are taking
quite enough. * * *
Pluck v Tom Mills and his Charters
'Powers following haven’t finished with the Mount
Morgan Extension Co. yet. For more than five years
tliev have been jabbing into Queensland in the
neighborhood of Mount Morgan in the hope of find-
ing a mine outside the big co.’s boundaries, but they
have had no luck so far. There is a shaft down
1992 ft. below the original summit of the mount,
and a bore prodded the earth to 3068 ft. Various
drives have been put out, and drills have felt in
most directions, but all that has been found are
grains of gold and traces of copper. Still, chair-
man Mills’s hope isn’t exhausted, wherefore a scheme
is afoot for reconstructing the co., authorising the
issue of another 60,000 ss. shares, and making the
present 240,000 liable for another Is. 3d.


“Ginger” (B. 10/4/’l3) states “that the chaffbag
contains more stitches than the Chapman sack of
wheat.” I only know that the Smith & Co., Ltd
sacks are easy sewing, and that with about halt as
much again inside them as most other bags contain.
One farmer near Coolamon (who always used Smith’s
sacks) always counted on a man sewing and stack-
ing 1000 bags per day, and, what’s more, used to get
that amount accomplished. But, then, his men
were sewing Smith’s “equal to new” (Brand XX)
bags, and they’re bags that are best for both man
and boss. If you wish to increase your profits
consult the sack specialists, S. Smith & Co., Ltd ’
Sussex Street, Sydney.*
Are those
Dyspepsia,
employed ;
everywhere.
BROUGHT TO BAY
whT ie n °L C ,T li , Sat “ ) . n > In disrestion and
Is h fid r ' r,d o on if, Dlgrestive Tabules are
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
Heeringfs
(> ope/?/}tj<fen
j
Est 1818.
toEßWßßtllfl
WORLD
RENOWNED
jkjhk
brand
STUHR.
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARD ELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848. 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 26. 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
i A- chilly line in the cables hints that the
German welcome to the haunted Czar was
lacking in the “geniality” that marked the
public how-d’you-do to George V. It is
quite obvious that the average Berlin citizen
would be stolidly hostile to the presence
of such a bomb-stricken person as the
Russian potentate at a time of national
confetti and old slipper. The shuddery feel-
ing of being in the same street as a Per-
sonage who is likely to be blown up any
minute w T ould be intensified by the most
hurried reflection of the anarchist’s uncer-
tain aim. He frequently hits the targets he
wants to miss, with such fatal results that
a massacre of the Innocents has been a
common phase of his efforts to achieve a
royal funeral in the middle of a wedding.
The man in the Berlin street took the risk
of going up to Heaven like a rocket, owing
to his proximity to the haunted Nicholas
with the shifty eye. that looks round corners
far ahead to see if the lurker is there, and
to try and guess what kind of weapon is
hidden behind his lurk.
Lady Edeline Strickland sat at the head
of the meeting on which the National
Council of W omen had spread its august
mantle, ihe ballroom at State Govern-
ment House was the place. The time was a
fine afternoon last week. The subject, tact-
fully handled by Dr. Charles Mackellar, was
“ ' Unwanted Child,” who dies off like the
so. f luous fly at the bottom of a milk jug.
ignorance and indifference on the part of
foolish, and often feeble-minded girl-mothers,
assLi the superfluous infant to climb the
golden stairs at the rate of 183 per 1000
before it reaches the age of 12 months. Ger-
many, which is somewhat thorough in
its municipal and legislative laws —puts
a heavy hand on the father. He has
to pass out much mark and pfennig
and krone and doppel-krone, to say
nothing of reichskassenscheine, for the sup'-
port and education of the Unwanted, and
must have it trained in some trade or in-
dustry by which it can eventuallv earn its
own living. He has to do this and more,
because, if he doesn’t, the Fatherland ap-
points a guardian to the child. From this
guardian the male parent has the same hope
of escaping as a walnut from the teeth of
a nut-cracker.
Col. Campbell and A.D.C. Talbot were
on the door at the Mackellar lecture to
the National Council. They beat a hurried
retreat before the event started, and the
crushed strawberry trousers of Hussar Tal-
bot were seen no more till teacups rattled
on the lawn, and the tension was easier.
Governor Strickland ventured into the petti-
C A°^^ hr ?, ng at this Peaceful moment, as did
A.D.C. Forbes. The gentle rumble of dis-
tant scales and exercises, from the fingers of
a juvenile Strickland, made a sotto-voce
accompaniment to the Mackellar statistics.
Several ladies present showed a tendency
to rush the chance of airing their opinions
at the end of the “Unwanted Child” lec-
ture. The woman who has once smelt the
gunpowder of platform oratory is always
eager for the fray.
Mrs. David thanked God for what women
were doing to help their own sex, and sug-
gested that the feeble-minded should be
locked up. Rose Scott, in her best bonnet,
and gowned in Quaker grey, stood up to
deal out justice to the lecturer for what he
had done for the Cause, and took the oppor-
tunity (which was too good to loSe) of re-
minding him that he had opposed the
women’s vote in N.S.W. Several other
visitors were keen to get their personal and
political views to the fore. Two speakers
remarked with great fervor that, for their
part, they’d lock the men up, and let the
women go free, whereby the men would get
Government board and lodging, while the
women would have to struggle for their roof
and bed,. bonnet and sausage. Before the
imagination had time to grapple with the
size of the gaol required to lock up the gay
Lotharios of the State, a meek voice
emerged from the shadow of an expensive
hat, and told us what She would do under
the circumstances. And what she would
do was moderately tremendous.
As a preliminary to the ball in aid of the
Hospice for the Dying (Darlinghurst) a
conversazione will occur. It is to be a day-
fight conversaz. Thursday afternoon. .Tune
1~, is the date. This is a business-like pro-
position to raise the wind for propitiating
the Town Hall landlords. Rent in hand
is better than several rich uncles in Fiji
Also plain corned beef on the plate is more
reliable than a turkey that is fleeing across
the rim of the horizon.
AY inter carnivals are beginning to agitate
the weary pate of old Kosciusko, way up
against the Monaro skyline. Mrs. Hugh
YV ard will be one of the first ice-blossoms
of the season. In July that keen ski-man,
mb • Pitt ’ climbs the 7000 ft. altitude.
The Austins of Deniliquin’s sheep tracks
also pull on their snow boots for the same
address about that time. The L. C. John-
sons motor up the incline from Sydney
early in July. A large Pill and Porous
Plaster party (confirmed ski-fliers) includes
Hrs. Schlink, Clayton, Cosgrove and
Herschell-Harris, who pack up their warm
socks for Kosciusko about the same date.
The Denison Millers are off to the ice-patch
*2* the July exodus. The well-known
D Kbro family leaves Melbourne for the
Monaro snowball season, and will catch the
carnival before it melts. The tall and dash-
ing D’Ebro maiden who stood in the first
row of ski-ladies last season, discards the
clumsy flap of long gum boots with its
usual sag of stocking falling over the top
lap of leather. Instead, she gets over the
scenery in her brother’s boots, just high
enough to cover her ankles, and coils re-
markably neat putties over her shapely
shins. (P.S.: The boots may not be the
legal property of a male D’Ebro, but they’re
more manly and snow-serviceable than the
usual feminine soles.)
Preliminary practice for the July tourna-
ments is knocking the nonsense out of the
bydney polo pony. This season’s clatter of
the sticks that smack the flying ball across
the spongy Kensington turf has brought one
'n* t two new players to the fore. A.D.C.
lalbot lias joined the local polo brigade.
He looks a more likely horseman than the
little Baronet Tom Lees (now in England),
whose solemn renunciation of polo last year
failed to wreck the 1912 meetings. The
three Garvan brothers, the mighty rider —
Ben Richards, and the nimble Colin
Stephen, who gets in front of anything that
doesn t gallop like a Canberra blizzard, were
tearing up and down the trembling earth on
Saturday afternoon. Kensington’s wind-
swept course was the place.
Premier McGowen will declare the
memorial slab of a Medlow Bath Fountain
to be well and truly laid on May 28. On
that day, the centenary celebrations will
also whoop round the bald head of Mount
York. Every little Blue Mountain town-
si} 1 !’ is expected to do its duty in the matter
bui^o ng „Sin tlie same cr isis in its history.
May 28, 1813, saw Explorers Blaxland,
Wentworth and Lawson drag their horses
over the rocky corns that strewed the feet
ot -Nature 0 n the bushy ridge that then
walled off the Western plains. At least
these would have been the feet of Nature
it Aature had been standing on its head,
and it may have been. I have no evidence
to the contrary. A clutch of Blue Mountain
memorial stones will be laid with much
joyful cackle, to star the names of the
triumphant Three.
The N.S.W. Peace Society folded its meek
hands in thanksgiving on the Hague Con-
ference Anniversary the other evening. Miss
Rose Spott took the chair. Compulsorv
arbitration amongst the world’s bulldogs is
the rosy dream of these gentle kittens. But,
alas. when one party or both parties de-
cline to arbitrate, which country is to sup-
ply the million compulsory soldiers who will
with great slaughter, bang the elements of
peace into the hostile but arbitrated nations?
. The first falls of the season smote the
ice at the Glaciarium the other afternoon.
A huge invitation list had brought the Elect
from the four corners of Points Piper. Potts
and Darling The opening glide of 1913
crowded the frozen patch till fancy skating
and the waltz enclosure cleared the air and
gave the combatants room to move their
elbows. The skating youngster, like the pro-
verbial swallow, _ skimmed the ice in the
mazy waltz. This season’s skater lurched
heavily in her wake, like the dog chases
® ak y Meeks, spinning round
with Allander, was a pocket edition of the
poetry of motion, bound in black velvet.
Manager Dunbar Poole gave the glad hand
to several columns of “Amongst those pre-
sent. He also shook with those who “also
ran.
Lieut.-Governor Murray, who goes on to
Melbourne before this reaches you, wears a
fine healthy tan in his cheeks. He looks as
if tramping 20 miles or so a day over
I apuan scenery were a mighty healthy
recreation. A visit to the humpv of some
dusky emperor to crack a point of law over
the ethics of head-hunting is the usual
olimjix to Murray's sprint across the bumpv
lulls of his coffee-colored kingdom. The
native duke who collects scalps in the same
spirit as an old lady collects cracked tea-
pots or Venetian lace, is also, at times the
purport of Murray’s journev. Having
arrived at the end of the trip it is
Murrays business to tell the duke frankly
what he thinks of him, and what will hap-
p®n, , to t} ) e duke i f his Grace doesn’t leave
oft his evil ways. Then he quells his Emin-
ence with his eye, like the Ancient Mariner
gazing on the staggered wedding guest, and
his Majesty falls backwards off his throne
and promises to reform. After that Murray
eaves his Lordship with a warning that he
bad better not relapse into his evil ways or
lie won t know which tree has fallen on him
Colored society in Papua has its wasters
and ungilded youth who (tome somewhere
between the European remittance man and
the beauty actor. Out of 379 pages of read
mg matter (“Papua or British New Guinea
by J. H. P. Murray”) I get the following
social item. Picturesque youths divide their
lotus existence between idleness and theft.
The “Man of Trouble” or “Tier-up,” as
these heathen dandies call the local magis-
trate, has his hands full in keeping the
colored waster from preying on the rest of
the community. The Ibitoe never works.
Nor will he eat in the presence of women.
He laces himself in so tightly by way of
convincing the native belles that he is a
delicate creature who lives on a mere snack
once a month, that J.H.P. says it is won-
derful how he survives. The notion behind
this starvation trick is to deceive Miss
Meokeo and Miss Roro into the belief that
the beauteous Ibitoe won’t want their wives
to do much spade work in the garden.
Beatrice Grimshaw is now suffering from
the effects of her own literary success. Since
her arrival from Papua, the fatted cream
puff has chased her from door to door in this
town. Mrs. Suburbs, who inclines her ear
to several volumes of gossip in local clubs,
where the latest divorce is served up with
sardine sandwiches, is aching with curiosity
to see a real live lady cannibal from Port
Moresby. Wild stories of dark deeds in
tropic isles, garnished with much shaking of
clerical heads, by returned missionaries, pre-
pared Suburbia for the worst. A ferocious
giantess with her hair hanging down her
back, dressed in a short kilted skirt of palm
leaves, armed with an axe, a club the
size °f a palm-tree, and a sword made out
of the nose of a sword-fish, and busily en-
gaged eating an entree of canned mis-
sionary, is not too lurid a caricature of this
notable writer —as she exists in the dour
imagination of certain Island Killjoys.
The real Beatrice Grimshaw is a spark-
ling, good-looking Irish woman, endowed
with a liberal helping of brains, superb
physique, and considerably more courage
tban ® < ? me the said Killjoys are suspected
ot. bhe gets her vital grip on life from
forefathers w'ho lived on the soil, and cul-
tivated sound digestions and red cheeks in
the company of horses and hounds. The
author of “Guinea Gold” is one of the best
arguments in favor of life in the tropics.
Rvery inch of her splendid physique is a
scoff in the flesh at the legend that healthv
white women can’t live in Papua or in
the Northern Territory. She skips over the
sunburnt isles in the Malay Archipelago in
a few weeks.
Two women crept hurriedly out of the
advertising boom re the Shakspeare ball.
They were Miss Be Plastrier and Miss
Margaret Allison. The former originated
many of the ideas which were carried out
the other night. At one of the first meet-
ings, held in this town, to discuss the rais-
ing of cash for _ the Shakspeare Tercen-
hobby> Miss Be Plastrier suggested
a Shakspeare ball, in which a compressed
edition of the Bard’s plays should be
materialised to strut across the municipal
boards. Inquiries were made about the
cost of a hydraulic press to compress the
Bard. Some cheap souls thought that he
might perhaps be sufficiently squashed in a
letter-copying machine. Bater on, Miss
Allison gave £3O, the rent of the Town Hall
for the occasion. The first committee was
more or less bumped into oblivion, when
local Society was invited to come along
and lend a hand. The fierce blaze of lime-
light may therefore be said to have con-
centrated on the tail rather than on the
dog that wagged it.
The Shakspeare Ball was a gorgeous
pageant, stage-managed bv Hugh Ward and
hon. sec. Mrs. Ethel Kelly. The Town Hall
burst forth in an extensive crop of paper
flowers, not too glaringly artificial. Ann
Hathaway s cottage grew in the shadow of
the municipal organ, and Shakspeare’s home
squatted under the eastern gallery. Some
of the kings and queens were a little shabby,
however, and the . long tables under
the northern and southern galleries
introduced the suggestion of a railway
station refreshment room into a garden
u holl yhocks and trim yew trees
If “Society” must eat and drink all the
evening, so that it won’t faint aw'ay before
it sits down to a solid supper, some less
crude arrangement might have been worked
into the decorative scheme. A long trestle
table, with a sagging cloth, one end of the
white rag falling on the floor, and a mixed
assortment of kings, queens, jesters, dwarfs,
fools and lovely ladies from Will’s nlavs
hurriedly chewing unlovely loose ends of
sandwiches, rather weakened the Eliza-
bethan illusion.
Concealed amongst the herbage in front
of Ann Hathaway’s cottage was the orches-
tra. In the early stages of the evening,
while the company waited for the first pro-
cession to stamp round the hall, the Admir-
alty House contingent, the Cullens, Mayor
Cocks, and a few other spectators, were
bushed in the vicinity of Ann’s cot. Tittle
Mrs. Alex. Gordon, surrounded by something
very new and rather narrow in white shim-
mer, was an eager looker-on near this end of
the hail. Ihe galleries were filled to the
last gasp of space. That portion of Societv
which consider ss. quite, enough to give to
gaze at its friends capering round in fancy
togs, took ss. worth of Austrian chair with
enthusiasm.
Was ShaJjspearc’s mother a skirt a*
If so, she concealed the fnet f„„ SK i f * an cer. ;
lord, John Shakspeare, glover harp 61
butcher in his spare mom e l ?' and
rather an untidy person forT‘m- J hn was
cil-al dignitaij, for £”w«
leaving a load of manure in the r ii u for
the street. He married, as 2vervonT¥ le of
° r to know, a daughter of
Arden, a landed proprietor of w8 £ m<^ be - rt
the vicinity of the ShaksDeare a 4 ’ * n
hearth. Mrs. Ethel Kelly as the ? omest . lc
of English literature and tv, tae uri,:a in
Will, looked handsome enough in ?°fl her of
gown with a great ruff mnl i a flow ered
that the ham bone wears ?t EW t than
round her throat. As the Sh J IStmas '
mother tripped up the ball holding ontT"
petticoats, she gave a dashing reproducin'
of a skirt dancer, just before the orchestra
bangs the first note for the first nfr \ tra
Alderman T. H., as .John
half a pace behind his lady. The "iunb'n
members of the Kelly s „„ e WW
William Holman, as King Lear
of the best efforts of the Shakspeare 3 Vah'
Only an old actor could give the troubled
..ear his due at a fancy-dress function The
Amazon lady, Miss Drummond, looked
hearty enough to do a big week’s wksh with
out turning pale. Little Mrs. JackW«
corn-colored hair floated down her back a
Titama. She managed to keep her si
wings out of the traffic. Elizabeth’s court
was not a glittering show. Queen Bess
(Mrs. C. Walker) and Mary of Scots
(gazing backwards at her tail of lace) were
not got up to dazzle the eye with many
baubles. Will Shakspeare (R. Keigwin)
black velvet, waggled a quill pen over a
sheet of biank paper. Raleigh, ruffed like a
frilled lizard, hung round Ress; while Eva
Gauthier, as Tobacco, smiled like a benedic-
Lon m the offing. The connection between
tobacco and Elizabeth’s court was Raleigh
who had allegedly brought that soothing
herb from America. The timid person with
the pail of water, to put Raleigh out when he
smoked, was absent.
Last year Sir Henry Wood gave a small
blizzard of concerts in London to ear-mark
the tramp of English composers since Will
Shakspeare’s day. Sydney musicians are
going to make loud noises on the same lines
in this hamlet before 1913 blows out. The
funds will go to William’s memorial wake.
F. Barron Morley stepped ashore in this
port last week, after an absence of 11 years
He is one of the innumerable Australians
who hold their own in the centre of fierce
continental competition. Morley has made
Munich his headquarters of late years His
two small daughters, born abroad, speak
English, but are said to have assimilated
German sausage and other traditions of the
1 ather-land with enthusiasm. Morley, who
is here on a visit to the parental nest gives
a recital on June 7 in the Town Hall. He
enthuses over the Munich beer-gardens,
where the adult community spends its
leisure hours drinking lager to the strains
of a State-subsidised orchestra.
A deluge of June concerts includes a
benefit for the little Jessica, a youthful
contralto with some deep notes of extra-
ordinary power. June 11 is the date. A
strenuous committee is walking the soles off
its shoe-leather trying to sell every avail-
able Town Hall seat before the event.
Artist Frances Hodgkins tells glad finan-
cial tidings of much joy re her Sydney
show. It eclipsed in cash results the satis-
one-woman exhibition she gave in
Melbourne. _ Her impressions of foreign
travel sold like hot coffee on winter nights,
even after the show here put up its shutters.
As you can’t sell your brush-work and hang
it on the wall in your next port of call, the
Hodgkins Exhibition in Adelaide will be a
smaller affair. than the extensive water-
color pageant in this village. She leaves us
with only half a drop of bitterness in her
bowl of joy—a firm resolve not tu have her
facial expression mangled by the camera
again for another decade. As a photo-
graphic study,. this bright and attractive
little woman is a howling failure, and
emerges from the lens operation like a Dago
lady who is about to be hanged for the
massacre of a worm.
The stocks for Mrs. Boult’s matinee are
at a premium. Violet Paget and Hugh
Buckler have agreed to plunge into the lead-
in? parts. The Boult play, “Joan of Arc,”
will give the handsome Paget every oppor-
tunity of looking like one of the maiden-
soldier’s nicest visions. If Joan had been
built on similar lines to the lady who’s going
to “play act” her career she might have en-
tangled the heart of the Dauphin instead of
going aloft in her prime per medium of a
bonfire. Nellie Stewart is going to climb
down from Medlow for the Boult matinee.
Mrs. Freddie Shipman, a smart little
Chicago woman, has returned to Sydney
with her husband, after an absence of four
years or so. Shipman is in charge of the
Australian tour of the American baritone
David Bispham, who lifts up his voice in
Hie Town Hall, on Saturday evening. May
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


M s u°d *°°g t>vsi ‘^aqoQ
99
•TM /
u
V!!
s
C'
is
J'i
Pi
II
if
si
w
a
/
is
ft
/
r
<n-
SSI
Ui
ae
s f
\
»{;
'y*.KS •
;f .
■V 1
s) *;
:. i.'
if
mix
.y
Q
m
?
c>
ft
an
m
Co
Co
A
St
fci !
&
»
y^Swiwri^
n
\
II
Ti
m
mm
w
m
mm
'A
1
•V.: •
■■
■K» v K->A- 5. ?
wf. fM?- c
wWimMw ■ * *
•i
i
II!
•s
&
.li+'y
&
Lir.'t ■»« .X
Hi l
s^.
m
!
if -ill • f
rf? t ' i
•;vs
? if t <\
*f ! '
:r;
HU
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Puts a gloss
Upon your shoe,
And it stays
Upon the leather
Thro’ all sorts
And kinds of weather;
Here he is
Demanding boots
With enthusi-
Astic hoots;
“COBRA” is the
Stuff he uses
(Wise is he
Who “COBRA” chooses.)


L
A Farmers “VICTOR” Suit,
Ready-to-Wear
Will Fit You Perfectly.
So remarkably well tailored are Farmer’s “Victor” Suits, and
so stylish and perfect in fit, that they are worn by the’ most
discriminating’ dressers. Our system of cross-sizes enables us to fit
any figure—short, tall, fat, or thin men, can always rely upon
getting a perfect fit.
The suits we feature are splendidly made in the best and most
authentic styles, from selected Irish Tweeds, in tasteful Grey and
Brown color effects. The coats are two-button style, have long
roll collars, haircloth fronts, defined waist, and full skirts. The
vests have four pockets, and smart medium openings; the trousers
are stylishly tailored, and have hip and side pockets. When
ordering by post, state chest, inside sleeve, waist, and inside leg
measurements. &
Price, 60/- Suit.
Others 45/- to 55/- Suit.
CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
FARMER’S SYDNEY.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
3
n
* /
Cold Feet!
Do you suffer 'in this
direction ? If so—
why ? It’s so easy to
avoid sleepless nights
from this cause. Go
to the nearest chemist
or store and purchase a
DUN!
HofWater
bag—
which will give you
several winters’ com-
fort, at a cost of only
a few shillings.
BE SURE you get a Bag branded
“Dunlop,” because—being freshly
made of the best materials— they
give the longest service, and do
not crack or leak.
Made in Twelve
Stocked by all Leading Chemist! ■.
Send direct to us for Price
List if you have any difficulty
in obtaining: a ‘•Dunlop’’ Bag.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney Adelaide, Perth
Brisbane. Wellington. Chrlstcnrcn.
.7'W Mi Mof -Sffli
TI
* * i ■
n
mm*
i
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 26, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie,
# At the farewell to the Denman lady, one
girl got a round of envious congratulations
for the quaintly pretty curtsey she made to
her Ex. “Where did you learn it?” she was
asked. “Gas stove practice, my dear!”
chuckled the successful one. “I learnt it
bobbing on to my heel before the family’s
dinner; we haven’t had a cook stay for
three consecutive weeks this year.” Guess
all the Most Expensive girls are now genu-
flecting in secret before the kitchen gas altar
and the burnt offerings thereon.
The Senior Cadets indulged in an Empire
Ball, last Thursday, and Governor Fuller
came along and danced with all the enthu-
siasm of an old-time squire. For the first
lancers he led out the Mayoress of Fitzroy,
who_ pranced through the set with him in
a vivid red dress and a wreath of smiles,
the dance being held in the Fitzroy Town
Hall—a rather neglected but very majestic
building which towers in that congested
district. Some of the oldest houses in Mel-
bourne are huddled thereabouts, and some
of the streets of the district have oddly
curved corners. (Now please don't bother
me with geometrical arguments! If you
have never seen curved corners, go to Fitz-
roy, or Edinburgh, or some place where
they keep them.) Mayor Ottery danced in
his rabbit-fur robes and clanked his official
neck fetters. Mrs. Colonel Parnell wore
red roses in her black dress, while Mrs.
Maudsley, the pretty secretary, drifted
round in a sea-blue filmy gown with a fillet
of green leaves in her hair. Help Curwen
rotated dutifully in the wake of his
Governor. Mrs. Dr. Nelly, with jewelled
lace on her grey gown, talked cr&che affairs
with some local dames. Mrs. Fawcett, who
is president of the Australian Women’s
Association, wasted little time in mere
social chatter, but attacked problems, and
seized the fleeting moments by the tail.
Election talk was poured forth in all direc-
tions. I did not hear one woman mention
the misdemeanors of Mary Ann. They
had all mysteriously developed into political
authorities, and knew exactly what was
wrong with the country.
Nurse Lilian Stretch, daughter of mining-
man Stretch, of Ballarat, has left her Mel-
bourne patients, and is travelling towards
an English nursing job. She is to be lady
superintendent of Dr. Douglas Shields’ new
hospital in London. She did the nursing at
Federal Government House when Shields
was in attendance there.
Authoress Kathleen Watson Dearden has
left Melbourne and gone to join her hus-
band within coo-ee of his big timber inter-
ests, which lie, or stand, somewhere in the
forests ,of North Bananaland. Melbourne is
lamenting her departure. Mrs. Dearden is
strictlv humorous, as well as breezy, and a
lot of people who knew her in her home and
have talked with her abroad will miss her
ready wit. By the way, she has another
little book—“ Later Litanies of Life” —in
the press.
Mr. “Dewar” Thiel, of this city, is hang-
ing round the inter-State telephone these
days, waiting for news of brother Percy, of
Sydney, whose motor lately hit an electric
tram. The car got out of it pretty well;
but Percy acquired a broken arm, three
broken ribs, forty-three bruises, and a deep
conviction that trams should not be inter-
fered with.
The Hodges pair, who have been roofless
and dependent on the kindness of a South
Yarra hash-tower since their decorated
Toorak roof was sold over their heads by its
owner, are building themselves a lordly shel-
ter at Lilydale. For several months each
year they will be neighbors of Melba’s
Coombe Cottage. Most times they are a
lonely couple, for the Judee’s former family
is scattered, and the Chirnside sons and
daughters belonging to his handsome wife
prefer to live on their own bits of land.
The Boldrewood family has settled itself
comfortably at South Yarra, in a cot belong-
ing to the late Mrs. McLauchlan. itolf,
after being on the sick list for months, is
now struggling off the dismal document.
Much sympathy has gone out to the Dr.
Macansh couple, of Brighton. Their only
son, Jack, died last week of the after effects
of appendicitis. Mrs. Macansh is a niece of
Mrs. Robert Harper.
Bonnie Watt, the smartest horsewoman
in Melbourne, is going off to the U.S. for
a spell with Mrs. Niblo. Bonnie was f@ted,
last week, at the South Yarra Skating
Rink, when small sister Gwen skimmed
about like a swallow in some fancy skating
figures. A bunch of pink-clad society girls,
including the Watt sisters, danced a skating
cotillon, with rose ropes for a linking chain,
and big rose caps on their well-groomed
heads. The lights were reduced to a dozen
or so rose-tinted gleams, and the pink reflec-
tions on the polished floor addpd to a good
theatrical effect. Mrs. Arthur Robb brought
daughter Doris to the festivity, and Mrs.
Thiel watched her Mavis as she glode about
amongst the skate-waltzers. U.S. Consul
Maggelson and his wife were on hand, also
the Hitchcocks, Colquhouns, and heiress
Mclntosh. Mrs. Colonel Johnstone had a
bevy of pretty girls in tow, and the girls
drew an attendant train of nice young men.
It reminded me of the Chinese dragon in
bygone processions. Wilfred Beaver, just
arrived in a sunburnt state from Papua,
received belated congratulations on his
bravery during the lost-man hunt some time
ago. Wilfred’s uncle is a skating enthu-
siast, and is forming a South Yarra club,
which is to be affiliated with the biggest
skating club in London. The club members
have to pass test examinations in gyration,
and several inordinately proud youths
already sport badges on their manly chests
and hope soon to be one—or many—with the
International Skating Association. (Deep
breath and interval for solemn meditation.)
Before he left Melbourne the other day to
show J. Bull how he could make a few more
millions out of the new Gitsham process for
squeezing gold out of refractory rocks, T. H.
Davies, a young Vic.-Tasmanian metallurgi-
cal chemist, extracted a comforting promise
from Miss Mary Hobbs, of St. Ivilda-road.
The young man, who will call on J. Bull
after dashing through America, may there-
fore be expected to urge John to hurry up.
Nurse Ivy Patterson, an auburn-haired
beauty, has taken the usual doctor in holy
matrimony, and thereby become Mrs.
Charlie King. Her young husband was re-
sident medicine man at the Children’s
Hospital when she was telling the sick
babies that they had to take their medicine
nicely. The two are bound for Westralia,
where he has gone into partnership with a
leading medico. His bride is the third sister
to marry into the profession. One sister is
Mrs. (Dr.) Sangster. and another is the
wife of Dr. Merrilees. It was at the
Merrilees’s Kew house that the marriage
took place. Sister Gladys King came down
from Ballarat to bridesmaid in a purple-
veiled pink dress. Incidentally she received
many congratulations on her own behalf,
having lately said “Yes” to Wally Robert-
son, who, I am given to understand, engi-
neers in a civil way.
Two wealthy softgoods families who run
opposition shops in Ballarat have just
shaken hands across the counter over a
matrimonial alliance, so to speak. The
contracting parties were Ruby Davies, one
of the prettiest girls in the undermined
city, and Sydney Snow. The bridegroom
has been told off to manage a branch estab-
lishment in the city whose name he wears,
and a new home is waiting for him and his
wife in one of the suburbs. Meantime the
pair are having a motormoon in Tasmania.
Ivy Clarke is engaged to a Mr. Traill, who
has almost qualified for the title of ex-Aus-
tralian. He has climbed one of the Indian
service ladders that used to fascinate Kip-
ling, and is now a person of Tremendous
Importance at a place called, I think,
Bunglepore. Possibly it is Dustypore or
Dogpore. (If you haven’t heard of it be-
fore, for goodness sake don’t say so!) The
male youth of Melbourne are somewhat
gloomy about it. They did hope that Ivy
and all her money would stick to one of
them.
Arthur Trentham, of the Asche-Brayton
co., was recently helped aboard the P. and
O. boat Mooltan, and despatched tenderly to
England, a very sick man. Oscar did gener-
ously by his ailing brother-actor. In addi-
tion to the first-class boat passage, he paid
the invalid’s screw up to the end of the con-
tracted Australian season. Trentham’s ill-
ness put him off the boards for months, but
all the time he was fixed up as comfortably
as possible in good nursing hands.
Tenor Kirby has been holding up his
native city of Auckland (M.L.) with his
witching top-note. The Liverpool earl and
his countess took along a large party from
Government House, and, it is said, paid for
their seats. The long-haired and moustached
Kirby has the valuable knack of interesting
the Really Useful People, and knows how
to get the best in the land to sit respect-
fully at his talented feet in biled rags which
surge up to their ears, and dresses which
leave off in a bewildering fashion. He has
a calm and birdlike way, too, of invading
London’s exclusive drawing-rooms, and he
sings so charmingly that the hostesses won’t
give him his hat and his music until he
promises to come back soon and do it all
over again. This time Kirby had Madeline
Mitchell as pianist. Her work is well known
in Sydney. Ethel Rae. a Maoriland
soprano, also trilled, and Whittaker fluted
the tenor’s accompaniments. Later on. Dr.
and Mrs. Hunt turned their Auckland home
into one vast revel of two-step, in the melo-
dious one’s honor. The guests pranced joy-
ously on the wide hardwood verandah which
seems to overhang the harbor. Kirby sup-
plied some of the waltz music and added a
song or two as a sort of bonus.
Three charities are at present exciting
the svmpathies of the Best People. They
are the Talbot Colony for Epileptics, the
Victorian Institute for the Blind, and the
Hospitals’ League of Mercy. A children’s
fancy dress ball has been arranged for June
28, in Prahran Town Hall. Tickets are
35., and nine prizes are offered for bait.
One prize has been earmarked for the small-
est infant in the march. It is rather like an
inducement for people to bring out babies
under the dancing age. The aßeckett
dame, Mrs. Hodges, the widow Staughton
and Mrs. Payne are listed as judges.
Several Baillieux wives, Roma Clarke and
Lesly Madden are likewise included.
Mayoress Scott, of Prahran, and the Sec-
retary (Mrs. Locke, Ormsby Grove,
Toorak) are ready to supply further infor-
mation to all those who are interested.
Clara Butt is suffering another boom —
always a painful experience to a singing
star. On Thursday night, the Best People
swam along in shoals. They had been too
busy first-nighting two J. C. Williamson
shows, on Saturday; but they all came
along on Thursday to make up. Clara
appeared in a most attractive dress, of
which one newly-returned woman whis-
pered, “She wore it at the big concert in
Queen’s Hall!” It was well worth a second
airing anyhow. Consider this, my dear!
Leaf-green panniers looped up with pink
roses over a white satin petticoat! A pint
of diamonds dangled and twinkled at her
throat, and two half-moons glimmered in
the thick black strands of hair w T ound round
her head like a turban. After that, it is
almost superfluous to add that she looked
superb. In fact, it would have been simply
useless to have added a gem hat and an
umbrella, or placed Boy or Hoy or Coy
alongside. She certainly loomed larger than
she did in the pale pink gown of Saturday;
but no one made the slightest objection.
The concert-going public is made up of
reasonable people, if you take them the
right way. The doctors were present in
force. Dr. O’Hara headed a line of
daughters, and Rothwell Adam, Hamilton
Russell, and cheerful little Springthorpe
were close by. Mrs. .Tack Thompson, from
the Western District, listened attentively,
and was not distracted by the vivid band of
orange in her black hair. Robert Harper’s
daughter and her husband also journeyed
to town for the melodious occasion. The
magnet is drawing the musically-inclined
for miles around.
Bess Norris Tait, taken away from a
mass of work in London by her husband,
remarks anxiously that she must get back
not later than December —that is, if she is
to work off her commissions. She was
unable to bring any samples of recent em-
ployment with her, as all her work
is “placed.” Five items were sent (by in-
vitation) to the big exhibition at Ghent—
the one which is reported by cable to have
had a fire. Two more are in the Grosvenor
Gallery, in Bond-street, London—a fear-
fully exclusive place where only notables 1
may enter. She and her husband have
bought a house in Chelsea. At present she
is busy hunting for a studio with a south
light, where she can tackle some Melbourne
commissions.
The latest type of American play flatters
the. Sex to the verge of imbecility. The
“Within the Law” show, at the Royal, in-
duces in the average woman a self-satisfied
glow that makes her insufferable for about
two hours after the last curtain. She is
given credit for possessing piercing intelli-
gence behind a beautiful mask—you
know the sort of stuff! They fairly drink
it in, and see, as plain as day, how easily
they could baffle the local policeman and
leave him completely in the dark. Heroine
Muriel Starr, when she has left the shop
and is wrenching money by invisible but
legal methods from Wall-street, indulges in
“some gowns”—-as her own country folk
would say. She goes unruffled through the
murder scene in a dream of green chiffon
brocade, with white fox furs round her neck.
She also manages to wear this gown with
effect in the cold, garish light of next day,
when in the police quarters. Green is a
favorite color. The heroine adds a green
horse-collar and harness on a very sporting
pepper-and-salt dress, and does her hair in
a loose bunch that is the despair of any
woman who has not enslaved a first-class
maid.
Miss Webb and her partner, Miss
Lorimer, have annexed the topmost floor
and the flat roof of Taits’ Auditorium for
their open-air system of physical culture.
Gaud Mayoress Hennessy, in a purple
silk gown and a small hat, mounted the
breezy heights among the steeples, on Fri-
day, and —quite superfluously—declared the
new open-air premises open. Everybody
gazed thoughtfully at the views of moun-
tain, river and bay, and declared it was
just like a day in the country. Tea was
handed round later by shapely dumb-bell
girls on a lower roof garden, where vivid
geraniums blazed in boxes and morning
glories twined affectionately round unre-
sponsive ventilators. The roof pupils, with
nothing about them but the spire of Scots’
Church and the Town Hall clock tower,
need only fear the prying aviator. The rest
of the world is away below.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Mrs. E. G. Belt sustained her friends with tea on
Thursday afternoon. She superintended the handing
out of sustenance in an effectively embroidered white
coat and skirt. Her sister, Miss Levi, was in violet
silk, softened w'th a white fichu and backed up by
a velvet hat of the same shade. There was a
marquee, a string band, garden paths to take
exercise on, and other luxuries. Mrs. T. R. Bow-
man, Mrs. A. J. Murray, Mrs. Backhouse,'Mrs. Lav-
mgton Bonython (in a smart grey coat and skirt
and black hat), Mrs. Richard Hawker, Miss Jervois
and the Downer lady were amongst those whom Mrs
Belt's kindly act put, if only temporarily, beyond
the reach of starvation.
Mrs. Backhouse dispensed victuals at the Queen
Adelaide Club a day or so later. Both drawing-room
and d'ning-room were commandeered for the occa-
sion, and the famished throng was fed in a setting
of gorgeous autumn leaves and white geraniums.
There was sufficient provender to render absurd the
fear that, in its wild hunger, the visitors might eat
the geraniums.
The fair and lovely Miss Dorothy Luscombe, who
has been spending the summer with Mrs. H. H.
Dutton, returned to Sydney by the mailboat on Sat-
urday. A dinner was given in her honor at the
Queen Adelaide Club on Friday night.
The Mayor, the University and the Blue and
White Club all threaten to give dances shortlv, and
various private hostesses are expected to do likewise.
And yet they say Paris is gayer than Adelaide!
The Alliance Francaise met for the'first time this
season at the May Club rooms on Thursday. A play
by Miss Boothby was produced amid loud applause.
Miss King, Miss Moffatt, Captain Hughes and Mr.
Lavbourne Smith took part in it.
Miss Annie Sabine is back at North Adelaide
after a long stay in England. When I sav Miss
Sabine I mean Mrs. Falkiner 0v,,, „
to her parson husband some time ago W3S marriwi
Rider Haggard, who journeyed to rirvri j
back in a special train with' the and
sioner, seems to be rather neeved a »Jc* ay Com niis-
North. He admires its sunrises and Rs ° Ur U PP"
hates its flies. And there are "o manv ‘\ but
than sunrises, etc. The Lower North f flies
2ar--** ■“* —»
some^f D o 0 u™ in Ver^’BesrPeoprarGo Vere “ met ” bv
on Thursday. Parliament, Civil Ch?* ? ouse
Soc ety were all represented Ladv ii an <)
black and white wa? helped in ofTi ■
after the guests by her two daughters and th . k ! ng
Mrs. Evan Kyffln Thomas, Mrs A P ryr th Aldes -
Robert Rymill and Mrs. Kenneth 'Milne Zlre'L Mrs '
those whose smartness dazzled the eve and an ? ngst
heart with envy. ye and fl Hed the
Mrs. Bryantj who died- at Walkerviiu
day, was an elder sister of High Court"
Barton. He received the news of her death ihu Udge
the Bench. At 82 she was as active as a m' b ? on
of 60. Mrs. Herbert Giles, a sister of the kt? o hick
Kmgston, died at North Adelaide on the sime 1 C '
Mr. J. T. Hackett has lent the Art Ca)lpr da «'
Stares. Three of them are from the PaSl "
and the other two are the work of German n S . on ’
Mr. John Penny, who died on Tuesday nkhi" terS '
one of the oldest residents of the Mount p ht ’ as
district. He was born in England in ’23 * and *”
to this State (then a Province) about 50 veal 03 " 16
He was one of the volunteers who tookYw ago '
to the wrecked Admella, in the long long ago ° Ut
Miss Martha Bruggemann’s concert was as a \ *
success. She has studied in London, Paris Rro at
and Berlin, so you see she has a weil-aCted oTof
culture to go on with. JOC of
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


P/KS SPQTHEm MMITED
J
1
tr
AVAAI
X
t
tN AVAN
TRADE MARK ( Registered ).
For Your
Winter
Comfort
FOR
EVERYTHING THAT IS GOOD AND NEW
FOR THE WEAR OR USE OF MEN.
B
5
0
£
rr
AVAAI
t
-33
E/Vl AVANT
TRADE MARK (Registered).
The secret of dressing well lies in the choice of the little details
that impart distinction and express real refinement.
BETTER PAY a little more for the better article than have to
buy the inferior one so often.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED cater for the requirements of the
man who will have quality in the merchandise he buys.
A FEW SUGGESTIONS are here pictured—some useful wants
for the man in the Town or on the Land.
PATTERNS AND PRICE LIST post free to you on request.
LIST OF
DEPARTMENTS.
Fine quality UNDERWEAR
HOSIERY
Ready-for-Service Clothing.
Best Hand-made Tailoring.
BUSINESS SUITS
(Machine finished to
Measure)
WOOLLEN RUGS.
OVERCOATS.
Wool mixture Raincoats.
Station SHIRTS.
PYJAMAS ready-for-
Service or to Measure.
BOOTS. HATS.
Travelling BAGS.
Trunks. Fancy Goods for
Presents.
Pipes, Tobacco, Cigars,
Cigarettes. Ties, Collars, etc.
In fact everything that a
man requires for wear or use.
SWEATERS.
*■
i
•5
U
“BRITANNIA” SWEATERS.
The name “Britannia” stands for unshrinkability,
and we back the makers’ guarantee. Every “Britan-
nia” Sweater that shrinks in the washing will be re-
placed, cost free.
Medium weight—7/6, 8/-, 8/6.
Winter Weight—ll/6, 12/6, 14/6.
Roll collar or button shoulder.
Business Suits
To Measure
or*
MACHINE -
FASHIONED \
business stub's.
(To measures).
They cost less because tiiey
are machine finished. But the
fabrics are quality-woven in
patterns most attractive.. Just
exactly what most men have
always wanted for business
or ordinary every-day pur-
poses. Patterns will be sent,
post paid.
65/-, 70/-, 75/-
Machine finished —to measure.
Rich Rugs
b:
H
&
IMS
mm
REALLY
SPLENDID
RUGS.
Woven in many rich-
looking patterns from
woollen fabrics. Deeply
fringed productions.
English Rugs—
-21/.
Irish Wool—•
25/-
Genuine “MOSGIEL.”
The Rug that made
New Zealand famous.
In the following quo-
tations :
27/6, 37/6, 42/-
45/-, 52/6, 57/6,
72/6, 84/-
SHIRTS
TO MEASURE
r,
h
FINE WINTER
CEYLON SHIRTS
(To measure).
It costs no more to get your
shirts to measure at Pike
Brothers. The one pictured
is fine winter weight Ceylon,
and costs 8/6 each to meas-
ure. The soft collar 1/3
extra. Please send for pat-
terns.
Trusty Topcoats
WORTHY OVERCOATS.
DB Ulsters, as shown. Grey or
Brown, 63/-. SB Chesterfields,
Grey or Brown, 22 / 6, 37 / 6,
40/-, 45/- Also, UNLINED
MODELS with velvet collars and
belt at the back, 45/-, 47/6.
RAGLAN MODELS, Greys and
Browns, 45/-, 60/-, 72/6.
SB Rainproof Chesterfields, Greys,
Browns, Heather shades, 40/-,
45/-
WE GUARANTEE DELIVERY OF ALL ORDERS THAT DO NOT REQUIRE MAKING UP BY RETURN MAIL.
This fast, convenient service is of great assistance to our country friends. Postage is paid on all orders
accompanied by cash of twenty shillings or upwards.
WRITE WHILE YOU THINK OF IT FOR FULL RANGE OF PATTERNS & PRICE.LIST—FREE ON REQUEST
PIKE, BROTHERS LIMITED
TOWNSVILLE
BRISBANE
LONDON
TOOWOOMBA


DIABETES. '
This highly dangerous disease will in its earlier
stages be remedied by prompt treatment with u ■
Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Take them in tune. >
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Obtainable everywhere.
THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
ON SALE NEXT SATURDAY
THE TASMANIAN NUMBER
...OF . . .
“THE LONE HAND.”
In addition to illustrated articles on Tasmania, there
are good stories and verses by Australian writers.
PRICE - - - SIXPENCE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE OPINION-MAN UFA CTURER'S
STRIKE.
PRO BONP PUBLICO (retired stiburban grocer):
"What think you of the political situa-
tion?”
VOX POPULI (retired suburban draper): “Dunno
what to think. The papers haven't
said a word since April 24. ”
The Unspeakable Turk probably begins to
regard John Bull as a costly and elusive
friend. Bull has stuck by him with heaps
of moral support for 50 years or more. And
he has quietly swallowed Cyprus and Egypt,
also he is now picking up considered Otto-
man trifles in the Persian Gulf. Even the
hereditary enemy, Russia, hasn’t been so
expensive to the Unspeakable in late years
as the hereditary ally.
The licensed Bungs of various States have
met in Brisbane, and resolved that, though
the beer-pump is strictly non-partisan, its
duty at the present moment is to vote
“No” on the Referenda. The argument is
that, if the people voted “Yes,” the beer-
pump might be nationalised as a monopoly.
If Bung’s liquor isn’t better than his logic, it
would be a good thing if the trade was na-
tionalised. Asa matter of fact, the Refer-
enda proposals don’t confer so much as one
small nobbier of new power on the people.
All they seek to do is to shift the power
from the States individually to the States
collectively. If the people do vote “No” the
beer-pump may still be nationalised; the
only difference will be that it may then be
nationalised bit by bit —which in this case
will probably be the easier way.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Probably the man who, during the recent
campaign, did most harm to the Labor
cause with the fewest words was a certain
Victorian trades union secretary with his
oft-quoted pronouncement that —
Loafing is a good thing. If the men have loafed
it is to their credit because every man who makes a
job last longer helps to reduce the time between
that job and the next.
Australia already does so little work in
proportion to its ideas re the proper scale
of living, and makes so small a proportion
of the manufactured goods it uses, that it
has to pay about £76,000,000 a year for
foreign stuff, most of which could be made
locally. And as it can’t pay all that money
out of its own resources it is borrowing in
England at high interest every Denny that
Bull will trust it with. The inevitable burst
is already in sight. This isn’t the time to
preach a' gospel of loafing. It is rather a
time for High Protection and darned hard
work.
TJames Edmond, The Bulletin Office. Sydney.]
Dipper of fat from the Warrnambool
(Vic.) Standard (17/s’/13) for the greas-
ing of the Liberal candidate: —
Being a sound Liberal, with a broad grasp of the
political problems of the day ; being a primary pro-
ducer, with an expert knowledge of the minutiae of
the agricultural and pastoral industries; being a
generous-hearted and patriotic citizen of Australia
and the Empire, with a fervent desire to see every-
body get a square deal and honest effort rewarded ;
being a man with a well-balanced mind and a hater
of shams and plausible platitudes, Mr. Manifold
possesses the essential qualification for the welfare
of Australians, as a whole.
With men like that in the party what need
for a mere paltry policy?
[Signed in that spirit of humility which is the
greatest ornament of an illustrious life (according
to Rider Haggard, or Napoleon or Hugh D. Mclntosh
or somebody), by Charles V. Eyre, Raglan Parade,
Warrnambool, Victoria.]
The usual old thing is happen-
ing. Instead of undertaking to
root up the legislative work of the
Labor party, the Liberals are
claiming that they are really re-
sponsible for everything the Labor-
ites have done. There is the mat-
ter of Old Age Pensions, for in-
stance : the S. M. Herald has
been specially concerned about
that. In triumph it is pointed
out • that a Liberal and not a
Laborite got the power to legislate
for pensions dropped into the Con-
stitution. Certainly it wasn’t the
work of a Laborite. because there
wasn’t a Laborite in the Conven-
tion ; but the Liberal leaders didn’t
give J. 11. Howe, who proposed
it. an ounce of help. And Howe
didn’t bring it forward as a part
of the Liberal policy. He hap-
pened to be both a director of a
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) mine and
Parliamentary rep. of a S. Aus.
district which smelts Broken Hill
ore, and the men pass to and fro
between the two places, so that
they would never have a chance
of qualifying for a State pension
anywhere. Howe talked and
talked of this, and log-rolled the
Pensions provision through the
Convention at the last moment;
and it was Deakin. kept in office
bv the Labor party, who used the
Constitutional power and passed
the Bill. Incidentally, it was Joe
Cook who said that the scheme was
all wrong, and that what was
wanted to avoid pauperising the people was
an insurance plan.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
A casual banking item: On pave 10 of
the S.M. Herald last Thursday, Twaddell,
Ex-Treasurer of N.S.W., declared with grief
that
Boiled down, and in a few words, what I charged
the Federal Government with was that it had wan-
tonly made a change in connection with the issue of
paper money that had reduced the capital of the
Australian banks by about 10 millions of pounds,
and that owing to this reduction in their capital they
had been forced to restrict their advances to fanners,
graziers, manufacturers, traders and others, who
have mainly to depend upon the banks for capital
to carry on their industries.
And on the next page of the same old paper
appeared the quarterly banking returns
showing that the banks had increased their
advances since 1910 by £25.000.000. This
sort of discrepancy is no good to man or
bea«t.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
It is characteristic of Toryism that on
all political questions it seeks to. divide
electors into classes, according to their occu-
pation or religion. The Akgus has of late
been passionately assuring its readers that
the “farmers’ vote” is going to the Fusion
candidates, and has been impressing upon
Hayseed that the mere fact that he is an
agriculturist forces him to be a Fusion bar-
racker. Of course, Haybag, like everybody
else, will vote as his reason or prejudice
directs. The farmers’ vote isn’t a matter
for bulk handling. It would be as reason-
able for the Argus to urge all Roman
Catholics and footballers to stand solidly
together in the Tory cause, because the
Unitarians, postmen, chess-players and
sharebrokers were arrayed against them,
and the surf-bathing cheesemongers were
being tampered with by the enemy.
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne.]
The usual “anti-compulsory” twaddle
pushed itself into the N.S.W. Presbyterian
General Assembly the other day. For in-
stance: “A man might have
conscientious scruples
slaughtering his fellow-men.' He
mostly has. of course. Present
writer, for instance, would hate to
have to slay a fellow-man ; but he
would have a still more violent
objection to let the other fellow
kill him, and outrage his family-—and on
that solid rock is this Defence policy built.
At least one wise old seer proposes to
get up out of the dust and vote “Yes” on
the referendum question when May 31 comes
round. Hear his voice clamoring out of
Jerusalem over the gulf of more than two
dozen centuries :
And I will pour my fury upon Sin, the strength
of Egypt, and I will cut off the multitude of NO.
[Signed in accordance with the Act by Ezekjel
(xxx, 15), honorary prophet, Palestine.
[Also by Arthur J. Grey, Princess Avenue, Con-
cord, N.S.W.
[Verified by John Barr, The Bulletin Office,
Sydney, who remembers Ezekiel in a previous in-
carnation as an untidy and barefooted visionary
who was always in a hurry and invariably going
somewhere at full speed with his shirt tail flying
behind him.]
THE BOOMERANG.
LONDON. SATURDAY. —Freetrade newspapers are
alarmed and chagrined because two contracts for the
lock gates of the East India Dock have been secured
by German firms. Their quotations were one-third
below those of the English firms competing.
— Cablegram.
From the commercial news of the S. M.
Herald (22/5/’l3) :
Eight tons of sultanas sold, including a fair
quantity of four crown. Of the quantities set apart
for export the Australian Dried Fru'ts Association is
naturally most secretive, because all exported fruit
is disposed of more cheaply than that sold to the Aus-
tralian public.
That was printed on the day when C. G.
Wade was explaining that there were no
trusts in Australia, or, if there were, that
they had nothing to do with the increased
cost of living.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
AN ELECTION-DAY PHANTAS-
MAGORIA.
A JOOKOOPOSITION TRAGEDY.
Liberalism is more than a theory of government
or even a programme. It is a state of mind an
attitude, an outlook, etc. —Joe Cook.
(Our artist, who was once stranded three
whole days out-
back and 95
miles from the
nearest pub, can
readily imagine
(with a shud-
der) the appal-
ling state of mind
to which Mr.
Cook apparently
referred!)
[E. COLLES,
Kogarah, Sydney.]
The signature is appended:—
After perusing the claims of Joseph Cook, Hume
Ditto and various other Liberals, I am game to bet
that next election the Fusionists, if any still remain,
will claim credit for invalid pensions and the mater-
nity bonus. Three, or perhaps six, years later they
will be explaining that they alone were responsible
for preference to unionists, and that such monopolies
as have been nationalised or suppressed by then
would have been in full swing but for their tremen-
dous and unselfish efforts. Really, the Fusion party-
ought to call itself the Freeze-on party.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
According to the Age. the abolition of the
postal vote was "one of the cruellest, cal-
lous acts of the Fisher Ministry”—it robbed
“the sick, the maimed and the halt” of the
blessed franchise. Wherefore, of course, the
people ought to vote “No” on the Referenda.
This regard for the rights of the people at
the ballot-box is very The Lib-
erals ask the people to vote No, so that
certain powers may be re-
tained by the State Parlia-
ments. Yet in the appoint-
ment of members of one House
in several of those State Par-
liaments the people haven’t
got a voice at all. The mem-
bers are nominees, appointed
for life. In others the mem-
bers are elected by a compara-
tively few propertied people.
Thus while the Laborites are
accused of disfranchising a
mere handful of neople who
can’t go to the poll, because
they are sick or dead, the
Liberals want to disfranchise
hundreds of thousands of people by keeping
certain powers in the hands of Houses for
which they haven’t got a vote under any
circumstances whatever.
[S. H. Prior. The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Tasmania ought to carry the Referenda
by the biggest majority of all the States,
for there is no other State of the whole six
wherein the Fusionists’ warning howl about
the Referenda proposals being a step to-
wards Unification should sound more like a
song of glad tidings. If Tasmania could
become a dependency of the Commonwealth,
like Papua or the Top End, or even become
annexed to another State, it would be in-
finitely better off than at present. Lnder
any brand of Unification or friendly annexa-
tion or national amalgamation, there can
be no discrimination between the citizens of
one province and another. Tasmanians now
pay higher taxation than any other Aus-
tralians, and pay it with a much lower
State-legalised wage than mainlanders.
Under these circumstances those who would
try to frighten Tasmanians by warning
them against Unification, would attempt to
scare George Reid to death with a chocolate
cream.
[W. A. Woods, 10 High-street, Hobart.]
According to a very remarkable cable-
gram “Sir Valentine Chirol, director of the
foreign department of the Times (Lon-
don) holds that the United States cant
logically draw a color line against the
Japanese, seeing that the Republic waged
war to confer equal citizenship on American
negroes.” Now what was the date of that
war, and where did the beastly disturbance
happen, and how is it that nobody save
Chirol ever heard of it? And if there had
been such a war. how would a policy which
freed a country’s own locally-born nigger
involve the granting of equal rights to a
foreign colored race?
THE DREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night, in bed, I felt cold sweat
Ooze from my hands and feet.
The pillow ’neath my head was wet;
For, in a dream, methought I met
Three Fat Men on the street.
And they were deadly pale; their moans
Denoted grief and pain ;
Their flesh was creeping on their bones,
As they exclaimed in hollow tones,
“Oh! Labor’s in again.”
I staggered, like a man who gets
Stoushed by a heavy club.
I did not utter vain regrets,
But drew my breath, and murmured “Let’s
Take refuge in a pub.”
The pub contained a motley crowd
Of mourners pale and fat:
A lot there were who wept aloud,
And one was weaving Fusion’s shroud
Whilst sitting on his hat.
Long time the Woe-struck Three and I
Stood waiting, white and mute,
Before I caught the barmaid’s eye:
“Three brandies, quick, or they will die—
And mine is a cheroot!”
She served the order with a smile.
Said I: “Well, boys, here’s fun!”
In quite a gay and jaunty style.
The Fat. Men gazed at me awhile,
And groaned: “The country’s done.”
And then, methought, the ceiling fell,
And I began to choke;
The air was blue, and Labor’s spell
Accounted for an awful smell
Of sulphur in my smoke;
I shrieked: “The country’s gone to H —l”
And then, Great Scott! I woke.
[EDUMUND FISHER,
Victorian Representative of The
Bulletin, at his office, 369 Collins-street, Melbourne.
The writer is also an incidental Political Prophet.
Memo.: All prophecies charged for at special rates,
with 2i per cent, extra when they come off.]


The longer each Running Part
of an Automobile lasts the lower
is the Maintenance Expense.
§ If the moving parts last, for 50,000
miles they are eliminated from the
expense account for that length of
time.
If they last 25,000, not only bear-
ings, but the labor of replacing them,
must be paid for twice as often.
tJThe economical car is the one
whose various moving parts are
lubricated by Gargoyle Mobiloils.
The most costly oils to produce, yet
the cheapest per year.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
ELEGANCE
WITH
EASE.
jhk
per 25 1- pair.
(Add 1/- Postage.)
A TYPICAL EXAMPLE
of the Unbeatable Value we Provide.
Made in Patent Colt, with Dull Kid Legs, a really elegant *
model —one of the smartest ever offered. Our new Price
List illustrates many others —ask for a copy.
Remember —Every Pair Guaranteed.
Mail Order Department,
14 and 16 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
Books for Bungalow Builders!
If the Book you need is not shown here, write us at once, mentioning;
the subject that interests you, and we will gladly tell you the
latest Book available, and price of it to you post paid.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
jhkhj
kjhk
P/iTflpis Home Cinematograph
4i
£r//)ss Me tror/</
m/d yot/r </rdm?sroom ”
Booklet and
Full
Particulars
of Machine
and Picture
Films are
sent free.
Use Coupon
Below.
No matter where your drawing-room is—in the centre of a city, in the suburbs
or right away out in the country, the Pathe Home Cinematograph can be used with
equal advantage—because it
MAKES ITS OWN LIGHT
and is independent of any other light—oil, gas or electricity. This point is one that
the public should remember. The production of the light is one of the features of the
l athe Home Cinematograph, which is found in no other cinematograph, but which
is absolutely essential to success in Home Cinematography.
Another important feature is that the
PICTURE FILMS ARE NON-INFLAMMABLE.
They will not burn in any circumstances. This fact, in conjunction with the safe
method of light production, eliminates entirely any danger from fire—a fact recog-
nised by all the fire insurance companies of Victoria, who make no extra charge if a
Path 6 Home Cinematograph is in the house.
Consider these points carefully. The closer you examine the Pathe Home
Cinematograph and its advantages, the more you will appreciate its utility, its
strength, its educative influence, its success as a home entertainer, and its absolute
safety.
Write for Booklet telling you more about this delightful Home Entertainer.
Send this coupon to us or any of our agents.
PATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Building's,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLINC & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth;
orC. W. FRASER & CO., 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRIuCTONS (N.Z.) LTD., 42 Willis
Street, Wellington, N.Z. ; HARRINCTONS
(N.Z.) LTD., Queen Street, Auckland. N Z. ;
W. PARK, Stationer. Palmerston North,
N.Z.; C. R. FOREMAN & CO., Napier, N.Z.
cur our and post to-day
Please send me particulars of Pathos
Home Cinematograph.
Xante
Address
27.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
SJNS
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by A ppoi fit-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices: Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
NO BETTER REMEDY FOR CROUP.
“My little girls, Nellie and Jessie, were bad with
croup,” writes Mr. Jas. Burgis, Stanley (Vic.),
“and would wake up choking for breath. I was
told Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy was a marvellous
cure for croup, and I tried it, w th wonderful results.
Now, if they show the slightest sign of croup I give
them a dose of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and
never hear a sound from them for the rest of the
night.”*
highest praise.
a WOLLONGONG STOREKEEPER
FINDS DR. MORSE rEL iEF
ROOT PILLS ‘V^ OR n O
FROM HABITUAL C
TION.
“Being .a sufferer
tion.” writes Mr. S. Aucki n , {ound D o-
of Wollongong, N.S.M-- * “ a R t pills ti
thing like Dr. Morse s Indian ar e
afford me relief; in fact, otberw j use In-
useless in my ease, an pea k of
dian Root Pills, and „ E * ble 'medicine,
most favorably as a rel test imonj f ,
have my consent to use t - reCom meu>
publication, as I Efficacy-***
them, believing in their efficacy
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The followers of the League brand of
Muddied Oafdom in Sydney were somewhat per-
plexed on Saturday as to which was really the star
match of the day. Glebe, which had survived thiee
rounds without a defeat, was to meet Balmain,
which had gone under once; and, somehow, that
seemed more important than the scrap between
South Sydney and Newtown, as the latter had only
scored a draw to the other club's three victories.
So Glebe and Balmain got the crowd, also the mob.
The scrap was at Wentworth Park, and it was not
an inspiriting struggle. Both teams tumbled around
in an aimless sort of way, losing the leather, trip-
ping over each other’s feet, and generally muddling
things up. The redeeming feature was the excellent
long-range kicking by' the Balmainiacs, which at
half-time gave the black-and-gold team four points
to the three of Glebe. With the change of ends came
the beginning of the end of Balmain. Glebe began
to get possession of the bloated and flying planet,
and though it did no good with it, except tumble
over it after the fashion of straddle-bugs, it pre-
vented Balmain doing anything with it, which was
what Glebe wanted. Towards the end of things, Bal-
main went to sleep, or lay down to chew a lemon, or
something, and Glebe fell over the line, and aston-
ished itself by scoring a try. It added the extra
points, and ‘walked off victorious by eight to
four. Although Glebe has won every match this
season, it always seems a puzzle to the team how it
manages it, and the long line of red uniforms files
out with 13 men scratching their ears in blank
amazement. At least, that is how they always look.
The Newtown-South Sydney match turned out
a much finer game in every way, although it had
onlv 8000 onlookers to the other affair's 12,000. It
took place at the Snorts Ground, and the hitherto
unbeaten and haughty team from South Sydney
found itself seized by the neck, and hauled down,
and its belltopper confiscated, and its evening dress
ruined, and itself dragged out of its splendid order and
discipline, till its famous machine was wrecked and
the battle taken from it by 16 points to 13. The
downfall is the more impressive when it is consid-
ered that at half-time South Sydney led by 11 points
to five. Newtown played magnificently, but the dis-
cipline of the South Sydney pack and the South Syd-
ney back machine were irresistible. During the in-
terval, apparently. Newtown’s captain made his men
understand that disc pline can be overcome only by
better discipline, and the thing with which to oppose
a machine is a better machine. Newtown plaved an
improved game from the kick-off. The discipline
was perfect, orders were carried out, and the backs
toiled like one man. The head of every South Syd-
ney formation was swept away, and the S.S. sde
managed to score only two points during the second
half from a penalty goal, while the triumphant
Newtown scored 11. It kept South pressed right
back on its line, a position from wh eh it
escaped over and over again onlv by hard, long kick-
ing. If Newtown can keep up Saturday s form there
will be but few between it and the premiership.
For the rest. Annandale had the misfortune to
meet Eastern Suburbs the day “Dally Messenger
came back to the game, and Annandale was danced
on bv 33 Points to five. North Sydney, after a des-
perate battle, outed Western Suburbs bv 27 points to
19. So now Eastern Suburbs and Glebe, the two
undefeated teams, remain together in the front rank
with eight competition points each. South Sydney
has six. Balmain has four. North Svdney and New-
town three each. Annandale and Western Suburbs
have a thrilling record of nil, which is the same
emptv thin? vou find in the centre of a cannon. The
old recipe for making a cannon was to take a long
hole and pour brass round it.
* * *
In the Union division of Sydney Rugbv
on Saturdav the onlv two unbeaten teams. Eastern
Suburbs and North Svdney. met to decide who should
cTmb down, and it was North Svdnev’s job, by 11
points to 16, after what is said by the cognoscenti
to have been a brilliant game. At first, East
got ahead, and then North Sydney pulled itself
together, and the East, losing- its head momentarily,
gave awav some penalty kicks which it could not
afford. The sides drew level, and seemed to hold
each other nerfeetly till East fell back, broke up the
Northern defence and clambered through it. Towards
the finish, North came away with a b'g effort, and
people began to speculate on a drawn game. But it
ended in a try only, and the next attempt failed.
The whistle blew, and East was on top. South Syd-
ney fell upon Glebe and administered a severe re-
proach in the shape of 15 points to six. Newtown
was even more severe on St. George, the figures
being 19 to 11. University dog-walloped Western
Suburbs bv 17 points to three. Balma’n disposed
comfortably of Manlv by seven points to three. Re-
sult. East Svdney is at the ton of the comnetition,
unbeaten, with ‘the full eight points. Newtown.
University and North Sydney have each six; and
Balmain and South Sydney make the third line with
four each. With the exception of Western Suburbs,
which has so far failed to score, the rest have two
apiece.
* * * *
Sydney Soccer circles were thrown into
wild excitement on Saturday evening, when it was
learned definitely that Balmain, the champion club
of the State for the last two years, had fallen to
the Svdnev team. It drooped with a crash—three
goals to nil. Children wept Women fainted. Strong
men took to drink, but refused to believe the awful
news till the staggered warriors arr’ved with the
information that the Svdney men played in a series
of short passing rushes and overwhelmed them.
Another surprise was the suppression and obliteration
of Giebe bv Canterbury—five goals to one, whmh is
an awful defeat at Soccer. Northern Suburbs had a
head-on collision with Granville, and was slopped
by four goals to one. So half the near- ; n suburbs
were in misery and darkness. The gloom was re-
lieved somewhat, inasmuch as Newtown defeated
Annandale by five to one. People felt it might have
been worse.
* * * *
Chief interest in Melbourne League hoof-
ball now centres in the doings of ’Wood and the
question as to which, if anv. will be the first team
to capsize it. So a 25.000 crowd turned up on
Saturday to watch Richmond have its try. Latter
is a fine, heftv team, w'th some good “markers”
and vigorous “kicks,” but it doesn't back itself up
methodically. It dashed furiously for the first three
quarters, and started the last term onlv one point
behind ; but after that, it scraped up onlv a pair of
points, while ’Wood, working systematically, plugged
away till it had added three goals five behinds. leav-
ing the Yellow and Blacks 22 points in default —48
to ’Wood’s 70. Play, on the whole, was less scien-
tific, though more strenuous, than in 'Wood’s encoun-
ter with Carlton, and in the third quarter the
“steward” spoke firmly to several plavers. South,
which was the only team to defeat Geelong on its
own ground last season, went down to the “Pivot,”
and repeated the proceedings—7l points to 57.
Essendon, the Premiers, who have so far managed to
w.n one game, with difficulty, visited ’Roy and were
crushed again—sl to 36. The “Same Old” had a
fair lead at Union time, but added nary a point
afterwards, while 'Roy put on 28. The coaching of
Johnny YVorrall, largely responsible for 'Don’s two
preinierships, seems to have lost its punch. The
Saints barely managed to thrash Melbourne, 61 to
56 ; and Carlton handed the Students the customary
upheaval or volcano or insolvency, or whatever it
might be called—72 to 56 —the which those lusty
youths accepted with the usual contr.te spirit.
Something approaching an average League crowd
watched the collision of the Ass. teams, Scrav and
’Wick, and was edified by a tidy and orderly ex-
hibition, the only drawback being that the Brickies
couldn't fully extend the victorious Footscraymen.
’W ck is suffering from an idea that, having once
built up a premier team, those ’bailers will last for
all time; and they won’t. The veteran is all right
in moderation, but if the world relied wholly on
veterans it would presently come to a _ dead stop.
’Scray kicked nine goals 18 behinds to Wick s five
goals 11 behinds. The equally successful P’ran made
a garish show of ’Town, scoring 88 to 56. Don
raked together 64 points to Melbourne City s 40.
North polished off Brighton by 75 to oi. Also,
Northcote arose from its native clay, went down to
Port Melbourne and rolled the sometime-obstreper-
ous locals in the sand —56 to 53. It wasn t much,
but it was the team's first win this year; and as
Port was no small potatoes last season, Cote dreams
now of the premiership. But it meets North next
Saturdav, and then it will wake up.
* * *
Followers of lacrosse in Sydney w^?’ e
somewhat astonished on Saturday last to see the
redoubtable Petersham team smashed up by the com-
parat velv weak team from Birchgrove— three goals
to two. " Certainlv the premier team was short ot a
most formidable trio of its best players, but it is
doubtful if their absence had anything to do with
the overthrow, for the Petersham club is very strong.
It is altogether too strong to depend upon the pre-
sence of anv one player or any tr o of players, and
could probably put two first-class teams in the field
everv Saturday. The fact is that the premier team
went into the contest light-heartedly, not expecting
to meet serious opposition. It bumned a crowd that
had worked mighty hard to get itself into perfect
condition, and had done the deed. The game was
practically lost and won in the first half, when
Birchgrove got its lead, and then, by virtue of its
perfect training, it was able to indulge in the best
of all defences, a sustained attack right through the
final stages of the game. Sydney had a complete
and wearisome walk-over with Burwood at St. Luke s,
A VISION' OF O' DONNELL.
What the hopeless last round feels like. Harry
Mansfield being doctored to go the distance
against Les O'Donnell at the Sydney Stadium.
winning by 10 goals to one. University brought a
much improved team into the field against Mosman,
but the plutocrats, contrary to the traditions of their
order, were battlers. They put up a fight on their
own, and won by eight goals to three. Manly, fool-
ishlv taking on the sea-voyage to Waverley, arrived,
apparently, in a seasick condit on, or else the un-
accustomed vibration of the tramcars broke upi the
stamina of the team, and it was overwhelmed by
Eastern Suburbs to the tune of 15 goals to three.
Which was something in the shape of a cataclysm,
and suggested that the lid of Sheol had been blown
off during the recent high winds.
* * * *
Next month, June, will see the Goulburn-
Sydnev Road Cycle contest, organised bv the Con-
tinental Rubber Co., over the 129 miles of hill and
gully which separates the big ety and the little
citv It is to be run under the auspices of the
amateur Redfern Cycle Club, but the Continental
Co. is supplying most of the munificent prize list.
The same co. is hard at. work organising an inter-
state Motor-Cycle Rel ability Contest from Sidney
to Melbourne, to be held in Christmas week, and has
donated £lOO towards the prize list. As
in a previous issue, the Continental Co. would be well
advised to arrange for a different date to avoid
clashing with existing fixtures.
* * *
There ought to be some strenuous news
from the U.S.A. about Saturday morning. Uncle
Sam is holding a deadly sort of race there to-
morrow (Friday), on the Indianapolis Motor Speed-
wav. The 21-mile circuit is known as the Brook-
lands of America,” and has a track surface of
vitrified brick. It is a good place for spectators as
well as racers, and the grandstands seat 60,000,
while there is comfortable accommodation of all sorts
round the track for 200,000 barrackers. One of the
conditions of the race, which is over 000 miles and
international, is that every entrant must have an
accredited speed of at least 75 miles an hour. It will
be a veritable Armageddon of the speed kings. Eng-
land is represented by Percy Lambert (in his Talbot,
which covered 1035 miles in an hour) and Guyot
(in the 30 h.p. Sunbeam with which he held most ot
the world’s records up to 12 hours). 1 ranee is
placing its hopes on Goux and the famous Zappar-
elli in two specially-built Peugeot cars, the make
that won last year’s French Grand Prix. The name
of the Yankee representative is Region. The prize
list soars up to i' 10,000. Not almighty dollars, but
real quids. The U.S.A. won last year s event per J.
Dawson, on a National, a Yankee car. He covered
the 500 miles in 6hr. 21min. 6sec., including all
stops for repairs, tyre-replacements, everything —an
avera.ee sneed of 78.9 miles per hour. Public interest
fn the race is much greater this year than last,
automobile contests having taken the place of horse-
racing in popular interest. # *
The B S.A. people have no cause to
growl at the results of the recent Pans motor trials.
The President’s prize for the smallest engine with a
side-cartodo the trip, 667 miles went to the bng-
lish firm • and the same mach ne, a 3i-h.p. cjcie,
won the hill climb and the flying kilo, and com-
pleted the monotony by coming through the trial
with full "obits, thus bagging a gold medal.
The London Daily Mail must have con-
siderable affluence about it, and it has some patriotic
wavs of spending it. No less than LoOOO is
ohe red for a sea-circuit of Great Britain '"three
davs on an all-British hydroplane, and AlO.OOOtor
a trans-Atlantic trip, also on an aDßntish maclnne.
The first means a run of about 2000
means mainta ning an average speed of about 60
miles per hour for 12 hours per day for three y-
lt is a heavy strain. Four nay drove a Maurice
Firman biplane for IShr. 1/min. without a stop, and
S. F. Edge drove a car on his dead lone for 24 hours,
and it is on record that a cyclist rode for 30 hours
without dismounting. History does not relate if he
went mad when he did get off. If he didn t become
a maniac, he should have. English makers are busy
designing special machines for these two trips.
Thev sav that the sea-circuit of Britain will be
carried out by the end of the year, .and the trans-
Atlantic job next year. Writer s opinion is that both
contests will cost a few lives, especially the trans-
At’antic affair. # »
The German Amateur Cycling governing
bodv has notified Australia that the World’s Amateur
Cycling Championships Meeting will commence at
Berlin on Sundae, August 24. The X.S.W champion
pace follower. A H. Shepherd, left for Europe re-
centlv, and will represent this continent in the 100-
kilometre event at Leipsic. In English measurement
100 kilometres are roughly 62J miles.
* * *
The testimonial to Donald Dinnie, the
Highland athlete who was here in the ’BO s, is not
booming. At latest London ma 1 advices the figure
was only £l2O A London paper, Health ant>
Strength, was then organising a concert and atu-
letie carnival” in aid of the fund. t
“S.T.S.”: Tattersall’s Club. Adelaide, had
a livelv discussion on the “ladies’ totalisator at its
annual meeting. The well known sporting lawyer
Hiram Varley, moved to urge the S.A. Jockey Club
to abolish it. Adelaide Racing Club began this tote
in the citv, and other clubs felt bound to fall into
line. Men have found it a big convenience. The
grandstand tote will not sell to a man a ticket
for less than a pound, so before the 5s lady s tote
was established members used to have to put 15 bob-
on something they didn't fancy to oblige a lady
And, anvwav, the tendency of the age is to let
women do as they durn well please. Lawyers Tom
Bright and Tom Wierlev. C tv Councillor Kiley and
Ben Thomson opposed the motion, which was lost by
55 to 34. Now the people who oppose betting ot
anv kind are smacking their lips over awful
scenes, absolutely shocking and disgraceful, which
Mr. Varley claims to have witnessed at Morphettville
on Cup Day. # ,
At Adelaide Cup three-days meeting,
close on £75.000 went through the tote. This is a
record by a l ttle, and world have been more but
for a rainy day to finish up with. It is twice as much as
the figure of" six vears back. Backers cut up among
them—mostlv in" £6 and £8 dividends—all but
£7500 of the total amount. The S.A. Government
takes a fourth of the commission, and the S.A J.U
finds the balance a big helo towards the £6174
stakes run for. Owner Merton is the man who pro-
bably appreciates more than anvbodv else the inno-
vation of paving out a d vidend on the second horse.
His notorious bad luck is perhaps worse in Adelaide
than elsewhere Last vear be ran second five times
at the Cun and Birthday meetings. This year he
has done it thrice—Penza every time—at the Cup
meeting alone. And in the Cup itself he has been,
third for two years running. #
“Adelaide”: Things are moving in the
religious world. Adelaide \ .M.C.A. now gives a
gold medal, and has established an “honors board,
for skill in—billiards. Which recalls that when
“Jack” Virgo came over from the Adelaide Good
Young Men to look after those in Sydney, the first
thing he noticed about the reading room was the
absence of The Bulletin. And the next thing he
d d was to streak to The Bulletin office to—ot
course—beg for a place on the free list.
* - * * *
The appeal in the Blackpool matter,
which last week added the loss of a law suit to
the previous sorrows of Mr. F. S. Meyers, is one of
the foggiest sporting cases that ever came to court,
vet Judge Hodges treated it as being clear as crystal.
*F. S. Meyers, his trainer and his jockey and his-
horse, were “wiped out” by the stewards of the
V.R.C., for what was assumed to be a glaring
swindle, worked on Moonee A alley racecourse.
Meyers, after backing his horse, Blackpool, for £2O,
hacked another candidate rather heavily, and won
£7OO and more by its victory, his own nag being
beaten off in the race. That’s why himself, trainer,
jockey and gee-gee were d squalified. Mr. Meyers
tried to get the ban removed, on the ground that
his “suspicious practices” admitted of honorable
explanation. The very simplicity of his story seems,
to amount to negative evidence of its truthfulness.
Moreover, he now challenges the V.R.C. to break its
star-chamber rule by “coming out into the open and
publishing, in circumstances that are not privileged,
full particulars of the dispute.” This is his story
in brief: He went to Moonee Valley with the idea
of seeing Blackpool win. His trainer told him the
horse had not been doing well, but might win all
the same. He (Meyers) met another owner, who-
told him to back a horse, Prince Aurate, that
proved to he a “certainty.” He put £2O tor two
Adelaide friends on Blackpool, because he had prom-
ised them they should be “on” whenever it went
for a race, but for himself he openly backed the
“certainty” that the other man recommended to
him. Therefore his own horse went back m the
betting, as it was bound to do, and the stewards
smelt “suspicious practices.” Such a story, told
by an old snort, might look thin. But Meyers, the
wealthy hosier and tailor, was a new sport, and an
inexperienced owner of racehorses. He had on y
recently gone into the game. An old hand would
not have dreamed of investing his friends £2O on
anv horse against the dictum of its trainer. An
old sport would never have courted suspicion by
openly backing another horse when he could have
done" it quietly through an agent. Nor
would an old sport have made all his little
wagers on his own Blackpool at comparatively short
prices, seeing that his subsequent investment on the
other man’s “dead cert.” were certain to have the
effect of sending Blackpool back in the betting.
He would have kept at least two of his fivers for
investment at the lengthened odds The learned
Judo-e took Mr. Mevers to be a scandalous trickster,
because the V.R.C. committee had endorsed the
verdict of the stipendiary stewards. The fact that
he acted uncommonly like a hasty greenhorn seems
not to have been considered bv the stewards or the-
V R.C. Committee, or Judge Hodges.
* * * *
S.A. Amateur Athletic Association has
been revived suddenly, in consequence of some talk
of barring the Adelaide University athletes from this
week’s =ports in Svdnev, unless they came properly
authenticated. The old Association suspended from
mere lack ot support. Adelaide is strong in all
games, but has no harrier or track-athletic clubs.
and outside the schools and colleges almost all
snorts-nromoters offer cash prizes as a matter ot
course. The new A.A.A. is going to work hard to
justify its existence. Talbot Smith is the onlv one
of the old official set who cared to tackle the uphill
work again. W. A. Magarey is president, with lan
Pender (University) and Gordon Green (Y.M.C A 1
as joint secs.
The Motor Yacht Club (Sydney, N.S.W )
held an octan race on Saturday, and it proved'a
very exciting affair. course was from opposite
the club house, Rose Bay, to The Basin, Broken
Bay, and back to the starting point. The conditions
called for four starters, and only three seemed to
care about the contract, so Mr. Hervey, at the last
moment, entered his chaiser Duzgo, which he knew
had no hope of winning the race. The four started
but the skippers of Duzgo. and Koala soon real sed
they had no hope and retired, leaving Alvin Tay-
lor’s Rooganah and J. A. Maund's Balama to fight
it out between them. It was a great struggle and a
bitter howl between these two. Rooganah started
at 10 54 a.m., with 18min. handicap, on a 53-mile
run, and at 11.12 a.m. Balama started in pursuit
Most stern chases are long ones, but this was at
least a well-sustained chase, and two skilful skipper.-
exhausted every trick and knack to get the last ounce
of speed out of their engines. At The Basin, R OO .
ganah had a very substantial lead, and the pursuer
did not seem to have made up much leeway. The
conditions, apparently, had favored Rooganah. But
on the run back Balama began to cut down the
gap in a startling way, and the last five miles de-
veloped into a most sensational run, till the winning
line appeared in sight. Rooganah swept over it a
couple of hundred yards in advance of its tenacious,
plucky rival. Rooganah’s time was shr. 30min.
oOsec., and Balama’s shr. 13min 20sec., but Roo-
ganah's handicap of 18min. wiped out the differ-
ence and a bit over. Still, it was the sort of race to
make a handicapper pat himself on the chest and ask
the crowd, “Eh, what!”
From an ordinary amateur’s point of
view, an exhibition billiard match between Ruby
Roberts and Walter Lindrum —they were playing at
Alcock's room, Melbourne, last week —is more in-
teresting than a contest of champions. For that
matter, Walter is the champ on bantam billiardist,
whilst bonnie Ruby is champion of her sex. The
boy gives 750 in 6000 to the young lady, and could
give a longer start, no doubt. The little knickered
kid who is brother Fred in miniature, plays the
“high” game—the top-of-the-table game—with deli-
cacy of touch and good generalship. He makes long
sequences of nursery cannons, pots the ball accur-
ately to get position, and runs up a three-figure
break now and then. Ruby Roberts is comparatively
weak in potting and in the art of keeping the ivory
spheres together, but her run-through strokes are
admirable, and she makes the losing hazards from baulk
with great freedom and precision. Hazards into the
middle pockets with an honest half-ball stroke are
her surest means of scoring. Her judgment of the
angles is poor, and in play'ng for cannons off two
■or three cushions she usually nuts on too much
“side.” She puts it on gracefully, however, and is
alwavs worth watching. From her way of scoring
50, 60 or 70, mainlv off the red, the very best men
-amateurs have something to learn, whilst in the lad
Lindrum they see the probable top-notcher of the
future.
* * * *
“Snowy” Baker, of the Sydney Stadium,
is anxious to open a stoushery in Brisbane, but finds
himself hard up against the solid ooposit'on of the
Wowser element, of which Brisbane has more for its
size than perhaps anv other city in Australia. The
idea that the existing bruising establishment is “far
too manv” for the morals of the northern city is
being carefully cultivated, and Baker will need to
have a few good arguments up his sleeve, and per-
haps a few in h : s pocket, to get the required per-
mission.
. * * •
Tahmmy Burns struck an unpleasantness
last week at his Stadium, Calgary, Canada, when he
put Luther McCarty, one-time White Hone, into
his ring against Arthur Pelkey, the new hope Tahmmy
has unearthed in his frozen North-West, for a 10-
round bout. During the fight Pelkey slogged McCarty
over the heart, and the Yankee drooped dead. A
later cablegram sa'd that he died of heart disease.
Another said he died of paralysis. A third alleged
that he broke his neck. It was declared in a
fourth or fourteenth 'gram that he broke a blood-
vessel at the base of the brain. The last cable or
all was headed. “Burnt Down.” and some terrified
people thought that McCarty had burst into flames
in the ring, and been reduced to ashes
but it proved that it was only the Cal-
garv Stadium that was burnt. Pelkey was
nromntlv arrested for manslaughter, and a
little later Tahmmv and hundreds of the spectators
were run-in for being accessory, present, not a ™™:
on the spot, or some other old charge. Tahmmy
was recently engaged in a wordy war with a local
clergyman on the brutality of ring boxing, a •
th s occasion Tahmmv scored heavily bv "
another skvpilot to enter the ring before ‘he swap
started, and speak a piece m defence of .the P™*
sional use of the fist. Whether the police *rresW
the reverend afterwards and lodged him in
cell as Tahmmy the cable does not state. PTobaU
they did not, and also, most likely. T ahrniTi _ e
the night in his own bed It wa? ™ e ° f when
boasts that be had never been knocked out bu.
he was knocked it was the complete knock He »
biffed over the Jordan, and went flying across
ropes into Paradise. t
Harry Mansfield,, the boxer,
found himself in the ring of Sydney Stadu
Saturday night opposed to a mass of
and heavy bone about nine pound- he reac h
self, and possessed of advantages of > . ■ b
and’other things He whilst he rUt-
was to get in close and hit to™ arTlo ne tbe
But Les O’Donnell is a mighty clincher
gods, and he clinched Mansfield j n c i ofe .
fashion every time that gentleman w pe t
Mostly he clinched him before
going, and the tendency of O D .„,,mj n g sort of
left and clinch resulted in a drear ,-c ® d was
scrap, in which the lighter, -horte spectacular-
getting all the worst of it. It was not vea -d
It was not even interesting. It a • jt was effec-
as mud and as solemn as a ***• »“ it to
five, and that was what the Au?t ™ hopeb-slv
be. Game as they make em, but bopei
matched, Mansfield stn,gg le d through th 4gainst
and then stood up to hear the verdict g
Rim. And it was. *
Martin Bunnell, of George
country, is “director of a KF*- k ' wh j c h propose
baseballers of Shekawgo and glo nfled
to tour the countries where he has aske
rounders is more or less . t 0 advise bin'
External Affairs Secretary Atlee like i,.
as to the feeling here team
hood of good “gates, .and so fort but Bnn„rll-
of ( sav) 12 n’ayers rntoht trained
outfit comprises, bepules his » P. ‘correspondent
coaches, managers, secretaries, P e n(1 tis doubt
and so forth to the numberofl jon> espe ci
ful if this country couM endure tn hoofball-
ally as baseball here colhdes with noo


All Athletes
Use
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND •*
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
1
i
mm
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand** Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
□
THE.
WATERSHED
is the Oilskin th-’t differs fundamentally from all other
Coats of its class. It is distinguished by the following
features which makes it a veritable King of its kind.
1. The Seamless Apron Front provided by its
buttoning down the Side instead of the Front
(the water runs over and not into the opening).
2. The Seamless Epaulet Cape giving double pro-
tect on where it is most needed.
3. The Overlapping Sheath in front covering the
Buttoning across the Chest.
4. The Saddle-protecting Back Fleat which with
special arrangement of Buttons in front guaran-
tees a perfectly dry Saddle from Pommel to
Crupper-aiways.
5. The Extra Wide Skirt giving perfect freedom of
movement and absolute protection to the legs.
6. Elastic Inner Cuffs prevents water getting up
sleeves.
6. Special Proofing Process gives a Smooth, Flex-
ible, Non-sticking surface.
No man engaged in Outdoor work should be without a
“W a ershed ’’—stocked in three grades—“ The Rain-
bow,” 27/6 ; “The Dugong,” 33/6 ; “The Perfection,”
35/-.
Patterns and Particulars post free.
Write for Catalog.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
“Mail-Order Tailors and Outfitters,"
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
How to Protect Your Health and Preserve
Your Strength!
r'm h £r?n,P : P POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH AND STRENGTH
r*vr 1 teach .es you precisely how. It will take up but
little of your time, is performed without equipment of any
Kina, it will benefit you quickly and permanently.
If you suffer from indigestion or constipation, or are too
stout or too thin, if your chest or lungs are weak, or vour
nerves are run down, you will find the Baker Postal Course of
Health and Strength Culture will quickly cure yon.
This is proof of what I say:—
“Those last, lot of exercises have banished all aches and
pains of indigestion, of which I had a terribly had
attack, the week before I received your last letter.”
A.J.W., Hobart (Tas.).
Many hundreds of letters from pupils throughout Australia
and New Zealand are in a similar satisfactory strain.
Full details, cost of tuition, etc., are given in my illustrated
40-page booklet, “Health and Strength from Self Culture.” You
ought to write for a copy; it's well worth while. Kindlv send
three penny stamps for postage.
188 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
■mm**,.
00 (double‘o')
Old Orkney Whiskyj
IF
YOU WILL go in for
Sport,
YOU WILL go in for Best
Material,
YOU WILL always obtain
this at
L.W. DODGE? CO.
SYDNEY SPORTS STORES,
NOW LOCATED AT
10 & 12 HUNTER ST„
SYDNEY.
SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
ANO
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
Actual Sizes.
No. 1.
No. 2.
■ 3
111
No. 3.
No. 4. |
My Three C’s
Hand-made
Cigarettes!
are all that good
Cigarettes should be.
They are mild and
distinctive in flavor,
and great favorites
with those smokers
who I ke really good
Cigarettes.
No. 1, Russian
a Cigarette that you
will thoroughly enjoy,
J-lb. Box 45., as il-
lustrated.
No. 2, Virginia
Plain, gold or cork-
tipped, as illustrated,
i-lb. Box, 4s.
No. 3, Egyptian
Smokes mild and
sweet. J-lb. Box,
4s. 6d., as illus-
• r.rated.
No. 4, Turkish
Oval or round, J-lb.
Box, 4s. 6d. Oval
as illustrated. POST-
AGE EXTRA.
My large illustrated
Catalog of Cigars,
Cigarettes, etc., will
be sent free upon re-
quest.
A. M. SOLOMON.
Cigar Expert,
173 Pitt St., Sydney
tshe Rigney shoe
The latest and most exclusive designs in Shoes
for men are to be found in the Rigney Shoe
Parlors.
jk
The distinctive and superior styles are fully 7
equalled by the high quality of materials and
workmanship.
The RIGNEY Shoe has taken the place of the
made-to-order shoe, and is made in shapes and sizes
to ensure perfect fit and comfort to the wearer.
The boot here shown is made from Choice Yici
Kid, has patent toecap—very smart and service-
able.
18/6 and 21 j-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our Catalog.
The Rigney Shoe Go.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney ;
And at City Buildings, Edward St., Brisbane.


A New Lease of Health.
“ The wonders brought about by this
preparation are no less manifold than
amazing.”
So writes a well-known physician in
the Medical Press and Circular one
of sixteen thousand doctors who have
testified tot the value of Sanatogen in
various kinds of weakness, loss of nerve-
power, impaired digestion, brain-fag,
sleeplessness, and general weakness.
Sanatogen, the tonic food with lasting
effects, has given a new lease of health
to more than a million sufferers, in-
cluding many of the most distinguished
people in the land.
Nerve Power Restored.
The reason for Sanatogen’s great
efficacy in nervous disorders has been
pointed out by no less an authority than
Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. 8., M.D.,
Public Analyst of Dublin, who states:
“ Sanatogen is an excellent nerve food,
containing a large amount of organic
phosphorus in exactly the form in which
it can be easily absorbed.”
But Sanatogen does more than revivify
the nervous system. It also builds up
the muscular tissues and has a beneficial
effect upon every organ of the body.
Write for a Free Booklet.
All who feel run down, weary and
depressed—Nature’s warning of nervous
weakness —should write to-day for a Free
Booklet, “ The Art of Living,” to Messrs.
A. Wulfing & Co., 17, Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Kindly mention this
paper when writing.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists,
price 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and 6s. 6d. per tin.
if
m
mf
tess
&
0
\&y
&
S T
v «■' ‘
• -
Ena
“ I have watched the effects of Sanatogen upon persons suffering
from various kinds of weakness and loss of nerve-power, and I
have proved it to be most valuable.” —Lady Henry Somerset.
An Important Revelation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Electors may confidently accept the statement of
Liberal leaders, that existing Acts of Parliament will
he continued, and there will be no interference with
the administration of matters of policy that have
received popular sanction. — Melbourne Age.
Mister Editor : I’m craving of your space
a slice, or shaving —
(And it’s very precious space, I’ve always
found) —•
While I gravely call attention to affairs,
which, I may mention,
Are of interest to electors bootlnvard
bound.
For I’ve made a great discov’ry, and, with-
out undue delay,
I must hasten to disclose it to your readers
right away.
I’m an anti-Labor voter and an earnest
Fusion-doter—
(Here I pause awhile to let your readers
know
That this statement, or assumption—call it,
if you like, presumption—
Is not true. But you will find my name
below.)
I have ever cast my vote for Private Enter-
prise and Fat.
(That’s also false. Eut wliat’s the odds?
We’ll let it go at that.)
For the sake of this discussion —and I say
it without blushin’ —
I’m a “Liberal” of very deepest dye.
But a fact that set me snorting was that
they whom I’m supporting
To disclose their policy were over-sliy.
And. although I sat at meetings with a most
attentive ear,
On tlie promise of performance they were
never very clear.
’Twas in vain I scanned each paper, from
the Torridtory Taper
To the Megaphone and Daily Dilly-
graph ;
But no hint or dim suggestion could I find
upon this question,
And I loathed to hear the horrid Labor
laugh.
For the mocking laugh of Labor is as bitter
gall to me;
But yet I couldn’t find a trace of our Great
Policee.
Still I searched, but ever vainly, till I
showed my anger plainly,
And I ground my most expensive set of
teeth ;
And, in bitter indignation, used the epithet
“Damnation !”
(Wicked word. But my full name is
underneath.)
Till unwittingly I stumbled, but a day or
two ago.
On the Sacred Fusion policy; and now,
thank God. I knoxv!
And I’m feeling quite elated ; for I find it
plainly stated
That we’ll have a change from Labor’s
fuss and din.
And I note with satisfaction that a mas-
terly inaction
Is to be our policy—if we get in.
I hope we do! (Though you may not be-
lieve it, I admit,
For I’m bound, to sign these verses since the
issue of the writ.)
And they will not touch a measure passed
by Lahor. Nay, they’ll treasure
Ev’ry Bill which formerly they sought to
blast;
Such as Fisher’s Baby Bonus, which but
recently they’ve shown us
Was a scheme that only madmen would
have passed.
Yes, they’ll leave upon the statute book each
dreadful Labor Bill,
Ev’ry nation-wrecking measure that they
lately sought to kill.
And I fain w T ould shout Eureka! for I’ve
been at pains to seek a
Plain solution to this clever party dodge.
Now, the current Labor scoff is that if
Fusion wins to Office
It will straight replace those Acts with
ancient stodge.
But, by vowing to retain them, we shall
doubtless gain support
From the lukewarm Lahor voters of the
hesitating sort.
Now, I vow that move was cunning ; and I
think we’re in the running.
For I’ve carefully inspected ev’ry roll;
And those vacillating voters will arrive in
Fusion motors
In their tens and tens of thousands at the
poll.
And their vote will be quite solid for the
party led by Joe.
As regards the Referenda, they will cer-
tainly vote “No.”
So I’m feeling quite elated-—as I previously
have stated —
(Or, at least. I would be if I wasn’t me.
Which is execrable grammar; but it makes
me halt and stammer
To reveal, perforce, my true identitee.
And, in ease you wrongly think I live in
Rusher or Saloniker,
I give below my full address, likewise my
name or moniker.)
[C. J. DENNIS,
the Lower Bullock Track, Too-
langi, Victoria. Rail to Yarra Glen, then 14 miles,
per Charlie Bath’s coach, up the mountain by a road
that would drive the 11,000 virgins of Cologne to
anger and make meek Moses swear.]
Vote “Yes,” and Shame Frank
Madden.
Melbourne Argus reached its top note of
absurdity in publishing “Frank Madden’s
Appeal to the Liberal Cause,” with
Frank’s august autograph at the bottom of
it. All the oft-repeated babble of Freetrade
Fusionism was babbled again by that stout
old Tory, and the crudity of his loudest alle-
gation must have irritated even the common
or suburban variety of Argus supporter:—
The plea that these powers are required to enable
the Labor party to deal with monopolies and com-
bines is only a stalking-horse to enable that party
to nationalise ( i.e., steal) all prosperous ventures.
No amount of ridicule, seemingly, can sting
the dodos of this Commonwealth into mak-
ing an attempt to indicate how a Govern-
ment would conduct the business of stealing
prosperous ventures from Private Enter-
prise. The soap-making industry, tor
example, would be a very suitable mattei
for the nationalisation that Frank Madden
talks about, but if be wore asked to suggest
the possibility of the Government stealing
all the soap boilings in Australia —t.e.,
annexing them without granting acceptable
compensation—the angry old gent, could not
reasonably explain himself. -cvnd it is
always the Labor Government that is going
to turn an amended Constitution to these
terrible uses. Not only is the triumph of
Labor next Saturday taken for granted by
Frank Madden, but he assumes that after
Labor has “robbed everybody” who had
anything worth stealing, the country will
continue to keep it in power so that it
continue its depredations at the expense of
new generations of victims. One term of
bad government is to deserve another, and
so on ad infinitum. The Commonwealth will
be so satisfied with the iniquities of Labor
rule that it will never give poor old
Frank’s side a look in. These are the only
logical conclusions one can draw from
eternal Tory reiterations of the horrors
appertaining to Labor government and Con-
stitutional reform. Most people know that
the Tory arguments are utterly false —the
foolish stock-in-trade of the Maddens who
talk through their bell-toppers. But there
are some people who will never be con-
vinced until the Referendum resolutions
have been carried with a loud, emphatic
“Yes,” and the country is found to be thriv-
ing on its predicted ruination. Then there
will be nothing left for Frank Madden save
to grumble that the successful crimes of
Labor could have been even more success-
fully perpetrated by Fusion if the country
had done its duty at the polls.
[Being a speck of froth blown off the top of the
beer of current events, the said beer being contained
in the pot of political circumstances, and the blow-
ing being done by Edmund Fisher, The Bulletin
Office, 369 Collins-street, Melbourne.]
The Melbourne dailies, bent on winning
anyhow, continue to frighten the country
elector into voting anti-Labor and “No” to
the Referendum proposals with the bogey of
the Rural Workers’ log. One of the dis-
creditable rags has even gone to the length
of printing copies of the log and sending
them to agricultural societies and suchlike
bodies. Of course, the most sanguine rural
grafter does not expect to get the wages
asked for, any more than a jilted lady ex-
pects to get the £lO,OOO she claims for
breach of promise. Anybody who lias ever
assisted in framing a tentative agreement in
respect to wages knows that, to allow of
compromise, more is asked for than is ever
likely to be received. The Rural Workers
have sought to meet the producers in con-
ference so that some such compromise might
be arranged, hut have been haughtily re-
buffed. In spite even of this, no plaint has
been filed with the Registrar of the Arbitra-
tion Court. All that has been done is that
the workers have agreed among themselves
to suggest certain wages and conditions, and
in framing these suggestions have allowed
a margin for the inevitable reductions. If
the employers would meet the workers the
chances are that a compromise log would
be fixed up, and there would be no need to
go to the Arbitration Court at all • bm n,
employers’ mouthpieces, instead of offer;
alternative suggestions, blither for elects
eering purposes about robbery and stinli '
tion, while the Fusion press flourishes a
log in the face of the unsophisticated CocK
and tells him that these are the ruino
wages he will have to pay if Labor
turned to power.
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East m ,
bourne.] **»•
Mankind has still a large capacity f
straining out gnats and swallowing Jjf
phants, whales and big oddments. The law
says that, during an election, even a two-linl
bit of guff, throwing a gibe at Joe Cook nr
Willy Kelly, shall carry the name and ad
dress of the writer in its tail; but it hasn’t
got a word to say in restraint of the s\vir
dler who, having a mine or part of a mine
to sell, tills up the daily paper with a lvine
yarn about the property’s magnificence Tf
people knew that John McSpoof was the
real author of the paragranh in which it
was insinuated that the Pine Flat tin mine
was going to make a fortune for the lucky
men who owned it, they might wonder win
John McSpoof was so busy next day trying
to get rid of the part of the Pine Flat he
did own. Mines are mostly a long way off
and daily newspapers can’t or won’t stand
the expense of sending a man of their own
to look at them; wherefore they generally
accept the yarn of the most interested per-
son. and the most interested person is as
often as not a magnificent liar. During a
boom he is a magnificent liar much more
often than he isn’t. So the magnificent liar
pockets the deluded public’s tens ,of thou-
sands, and when the boom breaks it gets
back to its desk or its ribbons and says it’s
a pity mining is such a swindle,%ut it sup-
poses nothing can be done about it. As a
matter of fact, very little can be done about
it, while the newsnapers give the confidence-
men practically the free fling of their col-
umns, and the law doesn’t demand that the
spoof information shall be signed.
—: -*
Peruvian diplomatist F. Garcia Calderon,
in his book. “Latin America.” mentions
what may happen to a country that invites
Cohen to have Kosher meat with it too
often: —
The United States aim at making a trust of the
South American Republics. This is the supreme
dream of their multi-millionaire conquistadores. The
Monroe doctrine has undergone an essential trans-
formation. It has passed successively from the de-
fensive to intervention, and thence to the offensive...
In Guatemala and Honduras the loans concluded with
the monarchs of North American finance have reduced
the people to a new slavery. Suoervision of the
Customs, and the despatch of pacificatory squadrons
to defend the interests of the Anglo-Saxon have en-
forced peace and tranquillity; such are the means
emploved. Mr. Pierpont Morgan proposes to encom-
pass the finances of Latin America hv a vast network
of Yankee banks. Chicago merchants and Wall-street
financiers created the Argentine Meat Trust. The
United States offers m : llions for the purpose of con
verting into Yankee loans the moneys raised in Lon-
don during the last century by the Latin-Ameriean
States. They wish to obtain a monopoly of credit.
Seemingly, “the generous influx of foreign
capital” isn’t always the undiluted blessing
that leading economists like the Australian
Cohen press reckons it is.


ifIMP
|^Jp|
I
p
, *&• -
- M
M
m
m
rJSi.
■ ■
%|V* :
/ . * , ••.•„•
■ ;•: V»S»sifik^;«J^'
a*
B***#
g||fj
H
“
JWJ
. ‘jj&ftgg
■
PS "~JF
SRJS&
■>
ss§&
:/ X
\h A 3rd
\
' •' *.
;■-■ -,
%& •» *
x
.
.'Air*
V
'.' y
rjf
B*
MX
wTj $ ®
!faf®
'
CTranßßE&'iV :
w
Ifpl'lA ,f rtf. / i ,
s i |.:/X / '
as
•■ .-Tin
TMf
• X
-**•?>. 7
®l ; r
a
*«
4XX
• A X
i-M*-
'■‘Wllfli?
t&k
SgS
•i
>&'.•' •;
XX
>7
i
X/
i vlx
* .*••!
■
5 S
iff*
r«
®M<
/»*
57- >:
XvX:
\ %/
»:*X
s;"
I
X
;• mi, i
}’:<■-: 1 i ■ .. ■
■
h
MM:
... - %
; /V / \ /
Off to the Caves
That means staying at the
“IMPERIAL,” Mount Victoria —
the nearest point on the Railway
to these world-famed Caverns.
Every morning the reliable, up-
to-date “Itala” Cars leave the
“IMPERIAL” for Jenolan Caves.
Fare, 30/- return. If you desire,
the return trip may be made the
same day, arriving at Mount
Victoria in ample time for dinner.
In addition to being within easy
distance to the Caves, the
“IMPERIAL” holds many, other
attractions for the visitor. For
comfort and convenience it is
second to none on the mountains,
and equals any City Hotel.
The Hotel has its own Electric
Lighting Plant, also a plentiful
supply of Water, Septic Tank,
etc.
There is a fine, modern Motor
Garage, with a capacity for ten
Cars. The whole building is most
sumptuously furnished through-
out, and is replete with every
comfort and convenience.
TARIFF:
£3 3s. per week; lOs. per day.
Full Information from
THE CITY OFFICE,
18 Imperial Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Colds si
Coughs
may lead to serious illness.
SCOTT’S Emulsion drives
out colds, relieves the
worst cough, strengthens
the lungs, and so builds up
the system as to ensure new
health, renewed strength
and increased vitality.
It your cough or cold
cannot be moved try
SCOTT’S —it never fails.
aavHi
A
(!.
t
MARK
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
is much imitated because so
good, so be sure to see the
Fishman on the package.
SHORT Stories, Novels,
Poems, etc., Wanted.
We are commissioned by a well-known
weeklv journal to offer prizes of £lO 10s.
and £5 ss. for the best short stones sub-
mitted before July 31, 1913.
We also have a purchaser for a novel dv
an Australian writer.
Highest prices secured for Short Stories,
Poems, Special Articles, etc.
MS. revised and every assistance given to
beginners.
1913 Prospectus posted free on request.
Australasian Literary Agency,
Pendennis Chambers, Sydney.
antin eurasthin
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained bv this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
nostage bv the wholesale representative, H. A. Docl-
dard No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street,' Brisbane: or Branches: 194 Vickery s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaws
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton s
Buildings, Queen Street, Auckland. _ ,
Serial No 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Vet of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. u
Makes the hair soft and
smooth. Keeps the scalp clean
and healthy. The hair grows
faster, becomes more luxuri-
ant. We are talking about
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
A CORRESPONDENT writes: "There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand eac-h month that is alone woith the
price charged for the whole number. The
nrice of The Lone Hand is Cd.
STAMMERING.
Mt» w A. YEARSLEY, Bowen Ter-
race,’ St. Kilda Road. Melbourne.
Under special appointment to Municipal
Education Committees. England
Africa. Method approved by Brit. Medical
A*soS- and Board of Education. Eng. Sub-
sidised by Governments. Awarded Gold
Medal for excellency. Booklet* *ont f
Have You Tried Herbs
for Your Illness ?
Fnr hundreds of vears the common, simple herbs were all that were used as medicines—
Ld theT people °in the olden times used to live longer and healthier.
_ , nftpn rure where other treatment fails —in fact, I know many, many
1 belie w' B ?hi, hw beS sT And I want yon to try the simple, natural Herb Cure for
cases Tell me your symptoms and all particulars—l wiU send you a full
your TOmplaint Tell me jour s P with full direction how to use them.
J. W. CASE., ph. c., m.p.s.,
Botanic Pharmacist, BRISBANE, Q.
j
THE X
FIRST TUBE
of Pebeco yon use will clearly demonstrate its merits to the
full The taste is totally different from that of any other
dentifrice; not flat, bat quite distinctive and agreeable, a
taste remarkably clean, refreshing and purifying, a taste
which, once accustomed to, you will not willingly miss.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the Sole Agent,
(Dept.
G. ARNOLD
M), 6 O’Connell Street,
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Sydney
[3
Hunyadi Janos
This Natural Aperient Water is bottled at the springs, and is
supplied as Nature creates it. It is a never-failing remedy for Con-
stipation, Indigestion, Biliousness, Torpid Liver and Hemorrhoids.
Keep your digestive system in order by occasional doses of
Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water. It costs but little and
is sold by all chemists.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water.
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co.,V^
Combination Harness and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing Outfits (power
or foot). Easily operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without
“ CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.,
Sole Australasian Agents,
ĵkjk
CIRCULAR QUAY EAST , SYDNEY ’
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) FOST FREE ON APPLICATION.
[2
Underwear
99
AaSS
A Safeguard to Health.
Becauie of its all-Austral<sian Wool fabric, and its
perfect manufacture, Jason Underwear is a safeguar
to health.
Unshrinkable and possessing a soft silkiness of texture
that is not found in any other woollen underwear.it is
the most comfortable. Peifectly shaped and having no
bulky seams, Jason invariably gives satisfaction.
The next time you are buying ask for —and see you
get —Jason.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices
for men. ladies and children. If your dealer doe*
Dot stock it insist upon his getting it for you.
In c.te ol difficulty, write
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
WHAT REAL SHAVING MEANS
r LEARN
V 6
BY USING THE m __ f*
•‘PLUM” RAZOR-
The “Plum
Its keen blade
why it. lasts
glides over cheek and chin without TtoTi
Order one to-day,
free of charge.
made from the finest steel
long and keeps its edge.
ng and keeps its euge. , two
and we'll keep it in perfect order for two
rears,
PRICE 10 6, Po3t Free,
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/8, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/* each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor. Vulcanite Handle.*
Pair in Double Case, 2F- IS6
Single Razor, Ivory !?* nd This isth«
Pair in Double Case. 30 . t
line that makes a n(j 7/6.
The Plum Razor Strop. lo 6 and c h.
Other good kinds fr ?"V 3 '
Stick good Shaving S 0 P. 1 . Tu t>e.
The Plum Strop Dressing,
Gentlemen who shave themsei
should not be without I t.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 m GEORGESTREET,SYDNEV'
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS-
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of covimunications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
K.B.: The other party is right to this
extent —The Bulletin in the past 10 years has
reprinted probably as many as three of its own draw-
ings (Phil May’s old sketch of “Much Travelled”
Smythe, for instance, the other day.) Lex Brown:
Pretty good verse, but since it is based on the
S. M. Herald’s statement of a month back, that
“political discussion, as far as the press is con-
cerned, must henceforth be stifled,” we have no use
for it. Political discussion hasn’t been stifled. ...
Penwiper: The mail that brought your friend s ;
assurance that Japan had no eyes for Australia, .
brought also an extract from the Japan Gazette: i
“Here is an energetic industrial nation, sadly need-
ing fields for labor. There is a fine territory, starved
and wasted for lack of labor... .Nations that are
growing will assert their right to find room wbereter
there is room ; and untilled fields will be seized b>
right of might, if not thrown open in some other
wav....If the Australians will not open their eyes
and listen to reason, they may some day be sur-
prised to find themselves in a trouble from which
the Mother Country may refuse to extricate them.
Bellerive: It opens up a new field: —
FALSELY ACCUSED—INCIDENT OF MY EARLY
SCHOOLDAYS.
Piteously I wept and
Wriggled with pain
When the master inflicted
Upon me the cane
He had believed the story
Of mv false playmate
That I had detained him
Which made him Late
We daily met in the
School yard shade
But he had broken the trust
Of a true comrade.
.... A.L.B.: Regret verses unsuitable Cinquefoil:
The question is: Can a soul s gh? At first glance,
the line, “Brightlv with past scenes gleaming, looked
like “Brightly with vast screws gleaming ....
John Bull (Australian Freedom League): By way of
refuting The Bulletin’s article in favor of compul-
sory defence you say, among other things.
“Occasionally The Bulletin is not clear in its
argument. Especially was this so in your last lead-
ing article, ‘Our Compulsory Army. There you
sav: ‘The voluntary princ pie (of military training)
burst at the first time of asking,’ and try to prove
it from the example of the Boer \\ ar and the
Crimean War. But how was it that England s rot-
untaru armv did not succeed against the Boers
voluntary armv? Surely if the voluntary principle
enabled a handful of South African farmers to with-
stand for so long England's trained army, Australian
editors and mil tarv leaders might get some inspira-
tion from the fact.”
There is just one leakage in your story. It was a
compulsory Boer army, not a voluntary Boer army,
which put up that Homeric scrap against the biggest
empire on earth. (In the Orange State the service
ao-e was 16 to 60.) That blows rather a big hole
in vour argument H.W.T. : Yes; Yes; no. -■ •
I.M.H.: Respectfully basketed.... Peter C.: Rather
slight. Handling amateurish.... Bro: Too harrow-
ing. .. .H.B. (W.A.): Your defiance of the M olf is
a fine v'gorous item, but it isn’t worth print. Per-
haps vou write better with a gun ?... .Charles H.:
Mavbe, but we don’t think it at all likely. The
poem, of course, is no good.... Kiem: Your note:
“Would kindlv oblige by criticising the following
lines in vour Answers to Correspondents column !
Thev are' written on the tendency of our leg slation
and' also the agitation of sections of the community
to limit the freedom of the majority on account of
the excesses of the few, and the possible ill-effects
accruing from such legislation." It is a fair-sized
job, and your ear isn’t equal to the strain. The
verses jobble. You should be satisfied for a rhym-
ing start to say that it is a fine morning, and you
are glad to be alive... .T.H.: Good theme, but treat-
ment feeble Paroa: You miss the point widely.
. . J M.P : A dull, out-of-the-wav subject, and you
don’t brighten it uo Kirawa: Neatly rhymed, but
it isn't verv forcible, and says nothing that s par-
ticularly new. Try it elsewhere Alice M.: One
of the 'recognised story recipes, but you do it very
prettilv. Out of our line H.T.O.: Sub-
side. .'. .John G. (Melb ): Quite useless
E.Iv.C.: Some grace, but the theme is very
old, and you haven’t enough skill as yet....
Rotoiti: The dreariest statement on earth 1S
“there were giants in those days.” The ground has
been patientlv dug un in search of the bones of
these giants, but usually a rather stumpy gang has
been unearthed Your old Maoriland Parliamentary
Goliaths were just the usual sort. As someone wrote
in the long ago:—
John Ballance, he is there,
And Sir Robert scant of ha : r,
And Tole, and Julius Vogel in his locomotive chair,
And the Major and John Bryce,
And Vincent Pyke and Joyce,
And many more whose eloquence is beautifully choice.
And some of it was. The worst risk this writer
ever had of being struck on the head with a broken
window and a whole dinner (-ncluding dishes and
gravy) was owing to an old Maoriland Parliament-
ary “giant ” When the giant was drunk, he objected to
his w fe’s cookerv. Then he used to gather up the whole
caboodle in the tablecloth, dash it through the
window, and curse amidst the breakage. He gen-
erally began with, “D—n the Universe.’ Then
he would warm up L.M.E.H.: Yours may be a
hard case, but on your unsupported say-so, you ask
us to print something that might cost us either
£5000 or five vears’ gaol... .Tiaki Parae: English
Review 11 'Henrietta-street, Covent Gardens,
London, W.C. ; Is. monthly F. W. Freshwater:
Right off our beat Bella R.: Anaemic little story.
Try Puce Pills for Pale Plots.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Palmer: When two or three people send in the same
joke, a hazv idea pours in upon us that they may
have’all sto'len it from the same source H.M.A. :
A painful assemblage of a leged art....Pal: This
trust business makes us a little tired. The question
is a big one, and deserves notice. But it doesn t
deserve all the not ce. Neither Fisher nor Cook
dares to be decisive and business-like about the
tariff or the Northern Territory railway, because
each partv is divided on both questions, and votes
mio-ht be' lost. But thev can talk about trusts
without losing votes. So they talk about trusts like
the very devil G.H.C.: Your intentions are of
the best' —in fact, they would help to pave the side-
walk of the best tree-lined asbestos boulevard in
Gehenna —but the nicture wouldn’t make anybody
laugh And if vou don’t laugh you might as well
be a Baptist—of dead. . . .C.T.W.: Have lost interest
in Henrv Thaw, the U.S. manslaver. Now, if you could
send along a bright, fresh, up-to-date item about
P a j n !!....Gee Gee: As valueless as an ounce
of coal J.C.A.: A poor thing, but doubtless your
own ’ Bob H.: Plain rot. If you must send rot
send’romnlicated rot. . . .Hedley N. R : Don’t get so
excited about the Hebrew’s interest rate. The
interest rates are generally charged bv the
Weslevan Nemo: The two sketches “cast a gloom,
the same as happens when “our esteemed fellow
townsman” is snatched across the Jordan Mur-
doch- You sav, “Please give a criticism. Mell,
our criticism is that we don’t greatly care for them.
To begin with, the picture in which words are
printed as issuing from the mouths of the various
narties causes a certain quantity of mental exhaus-
tion for some reason or other. .. .L.R. : Can’t. guess
what vour “Full on top” picture means, but it does
not mean anything that we feel inclined to pay for.
....Rupert E.: A cold wind blew through the prem-
ises There was a sound like a ghost clanking along
the’corridor, and a door slammed in the distance.
All which portents spell rejection. .. .A.K.: It was
one of the happiest moments of the writers life
when he threw vour picture out... .Koorali: If you
are the 14-year-old girl you say you are, you have a
lot of ideas—and mighty unwholesome ones. It
would probably do you a heap of good to be soundly
spanked under chloroform.


WHat Those Who Know Say of the
BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS.
1 he great majority of our Pianos are sold on the personal recommendation of users, and we are
constantly receiving letters from our customers praising the BEALE High-grade PIANOS. Our
instruments are in use in every part of Australia ; in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New Caledonia,
Mauritius, South Africa, India, and on the continent of Europe ; and everywhere they give the
same unbounded satisfaction.
Below we give a few (greatly condensed) extracts from unsolicited testimonials from buyers of
Beale High-grade Pianos.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. F. OWEN, jun., Hon. Sec. School of Arts,
Tuena:—•
“Piano has given every satisfaction. People com-
petent to judge say it is the best instrument in the
district.”
Mrs. J. A. SWAIN, Kilphysic, Caroll: —
“Has tood the changeable seasons remarkably well.
We are all very pleased with it.”
Mr. G. JONES, Canterbury:—
“Piano has given every satisfaction. No hesitation
in recommending the Beale to anyone as the finest
piano procurable.”
Mr. E. E. VIDLER, Morisset:—
“Piano is in perfect order, notwithstanding the
fact that it has l>een in constant use.”
Mrs. ELLEN KILLEEN, Wolfram Street, Broken
Hill:—
“Has given every satisfaction. Tone is rich and
full: instrument has stood the Broken Hill climate
wonderfully ; better than any other piano that I know
of. Would recommend the Beale Piano to anyone who
wants a real good piano.”
Mrs. JOAN MASSIE, 44 Hunter Street, Newcastle: —
“The tone exceeds my expectations, being wonder-
fully mellow, while the external finish is very hand-
some. Several professionals have expressed their ad-
miration.”
Mrs. C. JENNINGS, Blende Street, Broken Hill:—
“Better to-day than when it was supplied to me
five years ago, and we have had some very severe
weather since then. The tone improves with use.
Can recommend the Beale Piano to anyone requir-
ing a first-class piano for tone, touch and dura-
bility.”
Mrs. F. RUDDOCK, Waimea, Walgett Street, Ka-
toomba :
“Highly delighted with it.”
Mr. J. SLATER, Killarney, East Moree:—
“Wish to express my fullest satisfaction in every
way with the instrument.”
Mr. ,T. HOGG, Lithgow:—
“Piano has given perfect satisfaction.”
Mr. CHARLES R. RAYNER, Sec. Oddfellows’ Lodge,
Casino:—
“Piano has given every satisfaction.”
Mr. A. GREEN, Burwood Street Junction, New-
castle :
“The time that it will remain in tune is wonder-
ful. 1 have had English and foreign pianos, but they
never remained in tune a quarter of the time, nor
came near the Beale for tone.”
Mrs. W. O’HARA, Wyalong:—
“More than pleased with my piano. Everyone who
has heard it admires its beautiful tone.”
Miss A. M. RUDDER, Kempsey:—
“Have no hesitation in saying that it would be
impossible to get a more satisfactory instrument
from every standpoint. Its tone is to-day as soft
and brilliant, and its appearance as handsome as
the day it was bought.”
Mrs. C. C. GRAHAM, Temoin Street, Trangie:—
“Very pleased with Beale Piano. Always ready
to recommend your pianos to anyone requiring a
first-class instrument.”
Mrs. P. POWER, Rose Mount, Forest Hill, Wagga:—
“May mention that I am very pleased with the
piano you sent me. Tone is very rich.”
Mrs. H. B. WALLACE, Glenroy, Bertram Street,
Mortlake: —
“Piano is a ‘gem.’ Has given every satisfaction.”
QUEENSLAND.
Mrs. M. McKINNON, 357 Bolsover Street, Rock-
hampton :
“Piano is perfect. A friend of mine who was
prejudiced against the Beale Piano, decided to get
one when she heard mine.”
Mr. A. R. ROBINSON, Sec. People’s Progressive
League, Adelaide Street, Brisbane: —-
“Piano is giving great satisfaction. Many have
expressed their" surprise ..at such a high-grade instru-
ment being manufactured in Australia.
Mrs. M. WARD, Mount Perry, via Bundaberg:—
“We are all very well satisfied with the piano.
Tone is excellent.”
VICTORIA.
Mr. J. H. BAYNE, Carnarvon Street, Auburn: —
“A superb instrument with a magnificent tone.
Friends admire it greatly.”
Miss GLADYS WAITE, Norong, via Rutherglen:—
“The piano has given me entire satisfaction.”
Mrs. G. M. GOULD, Thomson Street, Hamilton:—
“Will never cease recommending your pianos, as
I think so highly of them. Mine has given nothing
but satisfaction.”
Miss L. LOVERING, State School, Iverang:—
“Thoroughly satisfied with the instrument.”
Mr. J. H. ROGERS, Woolocot Street, Coburg:—
“Must say that everyone who has been to my
place has nothing but praise for the piano.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. H. J. ARMITAGE, Public School, Houghton:—
“Piano, which I have had for three years, has been
in constant use, and tone is as good as when I got
it. Pianists often remark on its great purity of
tone.”
Mrs. H. WALKER, Wandilo, Mount Gambier:—-
“Must express my satisfaction with your beauti-
ful, sweet-toned instrument.”
Mrs. C. EVERETT, Renmark:—
“Much appreciated by all who play it.”
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Mr. G. A. BEECIv, Katanning:—-
“Self and family are more than pleased with the
Beale High-grade Piano.”
Mr. ,T. A. MILLS, York:—
“Quite satisfied with piano in every way.”
Mrs. C. POWELL, Linden Villa, Stirling Street.
Perth: —
“There is not a better instrument in Perth.”
Mr. T. WARD, Wagin, Western Australia:—
“Greatly satisfied in every respect.”
Mr. W. H. BROWN, Kalgoorlie:—
“Very pleased with the instrument. Much better
than I expected.”
TASMANIA.
Mr. W. K. DRAKE, W T estburg:—
“Piano has given entire satisfaction. Have had
it two years, and it has not yet needed tuning.”
Mr. HENRY NEWTON, Launceston:—
“As good as the day I bought it. Can safely re-
commend to anyone. Good pianists have pronounced
it to be a first-class instrument. Touch and tone
are perfect.”
The above are just a few of the many testimonials that we are continually receiving
from users of Beale High-Grade Pianos.
Such success has only been obtained through our unwearying efforts to produce an
instrument of the best quality. That we have succeeded is proved by the opinions of
those who should know best —the users of our pianos.
To obtain this quality we have invented patent methods of construction which render
our pianos more durable, while retaining and enhancing all the musical qualities of the
great makes of the Old World. The use of an iron wrest-plank—which is part of our
patent steel tuning-system—is as great an improvement in the art of piano manufacture
as was the superseding of the old wooden-frame by the iron-frame which is used in all
modern pianos. In addition, we have introduced many other improvements, such as our
method of building up the casework from cross-plies of wood which is all thoroughly
seasoned here, and hence lit to withstand Australian climatic conditions much better than
timber seasoned in the cold, damp climate of Europe. In order to get the best of skilled
artisans, we pay higher wages than those awarded by the Wages Boards in the various
trades. Wo naturally get the best artisans, and thus the best of skill. We use only the
finest of materials.
\\ e realise that an Australian-made piano is subjected to much closer scrutiny in
Australia than any imported piano, and therefore we make—we are compelled to make
our pianos much letter than those of our competitors. But then, by making pianos in
Australia we are in a position to make them much better suited to Australian conditions
Any competent cabinet-maker will tell you that timber seasoned in the cold, damp climate
of Europe cannot be expected to withstand Australian conditions of dry heat as well as
timber which is seasoned in this climate. This is a most important point in piano-
making, and is one good reason why so many foreign pianos develop cracked sounding-
boards, split tuning-systems and faulty casework soon after arrival in this country. But
no man can say that he ever saw a Beale piano with a cracked sounding-board We
absolutely guarantee that the sounding-boards of the Beale Pianos will never crack in any
climate, because our special system of construction renders cracking an impossibility at
the same time that it greatly enhances the tonal qualities of the instrument. Beale
pianos contain the only practical steel tuning-system in the world —so there can be no
question of splitting of the wrest-plank. And then our patented system of cross-plied
woodwork ensures permanence of the outside case of the pianos.
Be sure of this: the better musician you are, the more you will delight in a Beale High-grade Piano.
We h ave always on hand a number of good second-hand pianos, taken in part payment of
Beale Pianos.
Call and inspect the Beale Pianos now. Inspection does not put you under any obligation
whatever. You suit yourself entirely as to whether you purchase.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we will be glad to send post free. We sell for
cash or on easiest terms.
BEALE CTO. LTD.,
MAKERS OF
BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS
“The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.*'
CARL VADLR PIANOS.
Prices: £49, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
LIVERPOOL ST. (opposite Mark Foy’s), SYDNEY. 107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A. 839 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
CASK of EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


SEAL MOTOR BAG, fitted with mirror,
purse and head salts bottle. Strong •
nickel frame.
rr
1/6.
POCKET COMPASS, brass case, paper
dial.
4/6.
TOBACCO POUCH, buckskin,
pure silver shield, best rubber
lining.
15/-
CUTLERY SET, comprising half-dozen dessert
knives and forks, xylonite handles, finest
Sheffield Steel,. Complete in velvet-lined case.
AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER -
For Reliable Goods—
Our Stock of Clocks is the Largest in Australasia, our Cutlery and Leather-
ware selections the best. Send for the Free Catalogue of these goods.
15/6.
BRONZE ORNAMENT, on
handsomely-finished black
pedestal; height, 14in.
21/-
8-DAY MARBLETTE STRIKING CLOCK, strikes
every half-hour, accurate, guaranteed reliable time-
keeper. Add extra for freight.
15/6.
BRONZE ORNA
MENT, on hand
somely - finiahed
black pedestal;
height. 14in.
5/6.
SHAVING BOWL and
BRUSH, polished nic-
kel, porcelain china
bowL
8/6.
NICKEL TOILET MIRROR, richly embossed,
with bevelled glass.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL
GOODS BUT CLOCKS AND CHINA.
If
2/6.
RECTANGULAR
READING
GLASS, suit all
sights, 2/6.
3/6.
807-817 George Street, Sydney
25/-
FIKLD GLASSES, enamel-finished frame
morocco leather-finished achromatic lenses’
sharp definition.
6/6.
GENT.’S COMPANION, containing razor,
scissors, corn knife, tweezers and corkscrew;
finest Sheffield make. Complete in leather case.
mm
5/6.
POCKET BOOK, black leather,
silk lined, nickel lock.
10/6.
GENT.’S TRAVELLING CASE, fitted every
convenience.
l r'■■»
*»
IP®
§§il
I V' ' 1
&
A*
i ?
I\4
m
sT
m
'A. *.
*
v - rs
. ...
.. ~.'■.
H
E
What a difference stropping makes!
Only those who have used an AutoStrop in comparison
with a non-stropping safety can tell just how much difference
there is—not only in the smooth, close shave which the
sharp stropped blade of an AutoStrop ensures, but in the
simplicity of its use also.
It takes far less time to strop an AutoStrop blade (and so keep it in the pink of condition)
than to put a new blade into a non-stropping safety razor. The AutoStrop is the only razor
that strops itself and consequently
SAVES CONSTANT EXPENSE FOR BLADES.
k s^ F z ET o Y R
Standard Set, containing self-stropping
Auto Strop Safety Razor, one dozen
improved rust-proof “ Valet blades,
and genuine horsehide strop, complete
in leather-covered case.
Price in Australia - - 22/6
Price in New Zealand 257-
Sole Depot for Australasia :
PARTRIDGE—ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.


A
¥
wniSKY
FIND THE WHISKY THAT SDITS YOU—and KEEP TO IT!
HERE is why Thorne’s Old Highland Malt Whisky will suit you : It is pure,
and of a uniformly high quality. It is full-flavored, and of a rich, smooth
mellowness. It has the Thorne flavor —the flavor that always pleases the
palate. It is fully aged, shrewdly blended, and possesses every attribute
and quality indispensable to the perfect whisky.
There is no whisky more wholesome, purer, or more delightful than
Incomparable
THORNE’S ohm. WHISKY
, fi' |
*
<
tfi
:. -1 ■ II
lit
f
a
>.v
Vi’ ■ .!&■
IP -Si
o'- 0
«S?SA
J --'
<£.**•
Wk
ii^T
•" * i
*
PM* *
m
m
*<•
Mi
&*■
m-
X Xw f
e-
h
I !
si.
t
■ *JSp ••;.« ‘ /♦* •. .-* >•' !
A
H
'■
m
/ ■&,
yfehsi
'
o
%
Kafr %
ft
W‘- w mr ‘ H
%t ; : ■ / '‘
• w »
*
* fc;
.*.. .
. 7236.


“THE CAMP’REXOPHONE
The Perfection of Faithful Reproduction.
We claim, positively, that “THE
CAMP” Rexophone is abso-
lutely unequalled in value at
the price—£3. We say further,
that it possesses special indi-
vidual merits, which lift it
beyond the competition of
similar-priced machines.
No Talking Machine with Swiss
Worm-gear Motor has ever
been offered at such a low
price as “The Camp.”
Note some “Camp” features:
Handsome, Solid, Plain Oak
Cabinet; Swiss Worm-gear
Motor, playing two records with
one winding; Absolutely Noise-
less working; Patent, One-
piece Seamless Horn, with 12-
inch Bell, insuring absence of
the least jarring; Horn beau-
tifully colored and shaded; all
visible metal parts nickel-
plated; Rexophone “Model A”
Sound Box—the loudest and
clearest made.
m
>v
SsSk
rTr
Cs.
£5.
The mechanical excellence of “THE CAMP,” as of all the “Rexo-
phone” Group, has made it famous as a machine which gives lasting
satisfaction. The life-like fidelity of the reproduction means that the
actual, original performance is repeated, at a moment’s notice, in your
presence.
Also,
“The Bute,” 37/6; “The Dover,” £4/10/=; “The Kent,”
£6; “The York,” £8; “The Richmond,” £10;
“The Syd,” 70j=
We stock records of all the popular singers, Instrumental Solos and
Duets, Band Selections, Sacred Vocal Selections, &c., and will furnish
Catalogues of Records, on receipt of postcard.
Inquire for them from your Store-
keeper, or write to us for Catalogue.
STOREKEEPERS ARE - INVITED
TO SEND FOR TRADE LISTS.
JacKson Macdonald,
457 KENT ST. (Corner of Druitt St.), SYDNEY.
<2
h
JT Sl' about a week from now and the
great Racing event of the North—the
Brisbane Cup—will be run.
Every racing man should take the trip;
whilst for the holiday Carnival there will be
visitors from all parts of the Common-
wealth.
Plenty of attractions to crowd the week
with gaiety. Are you not coming?
C. DYSON-HOLmD,
grnEgy'jfcg
711
£>** n
. ■
Sec. Q.T.C.,
BRISBANE.
J
&he “Fx & R ”
WATCHES
Are “the Most Extraordinary Watches
of the Age.”
The Movements are on the lever principle.
They have Brequet overcoil balance springs.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand BOUGH RIDING
and KNOCKING ABOUT, and go with profound
accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
free of charge (breakages excepted), for two years.
They are made in every style of case.
In open-faced Oxidised Steel cases, 337-
In open-faced Solid Silver cases, 457-
In heavy Solid Silver Hunting cases. 52/6.
In heavy Solid Silver 1-hunting cases, 657-
Fairfax § Roberts, Ltd.
The 01 'est Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ffl
/
S'
m
%
4
Gent.’s Open-faced, Oxidised Steel, fully
Jewelled Lever Watch, 33/-
With 7 Jewels, 28/-
ONTHEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomelv printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bou/ktin size
Price. 21s.
emXT
ASK OR WRITE
FOR FULLY
ILLUSTRATED
JEWELLERY
k SILVERWARE
CATALOGUE.
Special Care with
Country Orders.
*1
F
\m
v
:!"S
-r
*Jk
This is the House for Choice
on ' i," 6 hi i ve hosts of lively articles of
Silver Ware for the toilet, the table, for ormm»t
every use—gifts which will delie-hf- ti,o n ? n ? e,, t and for
utmost, by their artisticmerit andfine to the
“ r i±r££^
hntTBMM
Fine Diamond Cluster EARRINGS,
15ct. Gold, £3O.
Handsome Silver TEAPOT, Excellent Quality,
15/-
flollinddaMbseU
WATCHMAKERS @ JEWELLERS
98 KING .5!
STDN E Y
Branch at 421 P>ttsi
near tGanwai)• "
UNEQUALLED
The KELVIN Electric Generator
and The EMPIRE Biograph.
THESE ARE THE
INVINCIBLE PAIR.
The Engine and Dynamo is the most
compact and portable Set made. Of high
efficiency, at a minimum of expense. We
have several of these Sets in use, both
stationary and portable, and we can re-
commend you to any user in the State.
The Silent Empire Biograph, as its
name implies, is the most Silent Biograph
on the market. It is rock-steady, flicker-
less, fireproof, and will outlast any other
make of machine.
We can forward Complete Illustrated
Catalogues of these machines on request.
p; \
n
h
: .
3C
KELVIN
SET
WHY NOT HAVE, THE BEST?
JERDAN’S, 393 George St., Sydney
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
hensive ; and
our T weeds
and Costume
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
signs. We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
kjhjhk
jhk
jhk
jķh
ARABI S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA,
for Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, Is. and 2s. Gd.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410.)
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle)
Genuine obtainable:—
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS. W.
ASSOMULL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDM ENT’S. FOY’S. COLE’S. MAC-
LELLAN'S, ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
UHL’S MONARCH
ANGLO SADDLE is of superior
quality aud liandsewn througho •
Hogskin seat and pad with e
long daps, extended facings and so
leather-point to panel. Bunt on
extra strong. high-grade Bng
hand-made tree, and is mounted
Special Stirrup Leathers and
Nickel Irons. Girth folded or spi t
leather (long or short), arm s
cingle.
Price £617/6.
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd.,
Petrie Bight, Brisbane.
A
MONTHLY GUIDE for everythin*
traliun. That’s The Lone Ha*
r\ 11 ii n fii n r n'f n
narvellous


N
A
I /
' X
&
*
K
U:/"
*1 IU ✓ / V* j, *>
*•«•© UwjKC
;Ay •
The Vest Pocket Kodak.
Get this Kodak it s the smallest made—dainty, efficient,
compact, easily worked and easily understood. Will fit a waist-
coat pocket or lady’s handbag, takes pictures lfin. x 2£in., works
in daylight all the way, and is fitted with a carefully-selected
Lens, Ball-bearing Shutter, Brilliant Reversible
Finder and Auto-time Scale.
Postage extra, Od.
Price, 30/-
Descriptive pamphlet free.
Pidture taking' is simpler than
you think if you do it the
KODAK Way
Kodak pictures of the family, the home and
intimate friends are prized highest.
The Kodak is a part of the home life; every change
is recorded in picture form. Ihe baby walking
for the first time, the little lad starting off for his first
day in school, grandfather nodding over his
paper,'are but a few examples of the home pictures.
Kodak Cameras, in addition to being inexpensive,
are also simple, reliable, compact and convenient.
All manipulations can be carried out in daylight.
You will find pleasure not only in the taking of
the photographs, but also in the subsequent
operations.
Kodak Cameras range in price from 21/-
Brownie Cameras, they work like Kodaks, from
5/- to 501- Let us explain them to you. Write
for a copy of the new Illustrated Catalogue, just
out, if you cannot call.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY : 379 Georg'e Street*
MELBOURNE: “The Block,* 1 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78*80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Rut«iven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 340 Argent Street*
AUCKLAND, N*2* : 3 Lome Street*
WELLINGTON, N. 2. : O Mercer Street.
kj
Stewart Dawson s Co
' (AUST.) LIMITED.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney
Stewart Dawson Designs, Artistic and Distinctive, have an
added attraction when viewed with the famous FIRST COST
PRICES of our beautiful goods. Our ribw Art Catalogue, sent
post free on request, makes selection a pleasure.
C 6557. —9ct. Gold NECKLET,
set with fine quality Garnets
and Pearls,
50/-
&
Jl9lB.—Fine Pearl
and Tourmaline,
set 9c t. Gold
PENDANT,
21/-
C 6355. —9nt. Gold
MASONIC
PENDANT,
7/6 & 12/6
We pay postage on all goods to any address.
Write for a copy of our Beautiful Illustrated Art Catalogue.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
ĵk
Home
Record-
Making
an Exclusive Feature of the
EDISON PHONOGRAPH.
No other sound-reproducing instrument can give you the pleasure
of home record-making—it is an Edison improvement, exclusive
and desirable.
You can talk, sing or play into the horn, and get a clear, lifelike
record of the voice or music of anybody. You can make Records
of your own singing, or the vocal efforts of your relatives and
friends, preserve the sayings of the children, and retain for all time
joys which would otherwise become more or less transient memories.
So that we may further popularise these home record-making
qualities, we are introducing the Edison Home Record Making
Outfit, which consists of a new Edison 4-Minute Recorder, 3 Blank
Records, each one of which can be shaved from 50 to 75 times before
being discarded, and an Edison Home Shaving Machine, by means
of which the blank can be given a new surface after a Record lias
been made.
The price of this Outfit, complete, in Australia, is £2; in New
Zealand, £2/12/6. Full instructions for its use are included in a
booklet obtainable of any Edison dealer, or direct from us. You
should go to-day to your dealer and have him demonstrate this
home record-making feature of the Edison Phonograph to you.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364*372 Kent Street, Sydney.


HORSESHOE
SALMON
Every experienced housewife knows the possibilities
of Horseshoe Salmon. She knows
that the firm, red fish can be quickly and appetisingly
prepared in numberless ways. She knows that it
possesses the flavor and value of the fresh Salmon,
and meets the catering emergency in the readiest
and best way.
It Has the Flavor that Spurs the Appetite.
Martin's Pills are sold by aflWChemists and
Stores in Australasia. recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
Travelling Caps.
3 9 Post Free.
The Dr. Jaeger Travelling Cap. Can be
worn folded up as ordinary travelling cap i
required; a godsend for train and boai
Travellers, or for riding or driving, or any
occasion when you are exposed to severe col ■
Post Free to your door
Si
1
r
TOR SCARF 5 *
4/H Post Free.
'arm Quality in fjding or
for motoring, driving,
r by train or boat. 4/H
;e to your door
ey’s, "rssSSTZL
IN
BANANA LAND
Queensland Government is advancing a
smarter of a million pounds to enable
Mackav to construct a harbor on the inner
side of Flat-top Island. There never was
such a country as Bananaland for spending
millions on bad harbors and neglecting its
good ones. Let Bowen and Gladstone bear
witness.
The R.C. Church is in the habit of induc-
ing its young people to sign a pledge to the
effect that they will not touch intoxicating
liquor until they attain the age of 21. The
new Queensland Liquor Act forbids hotel-
keepers to supply persons below that age
with beer, spirits, or other brands of whirly
drink. If the Yellow Pup doesn’t see the
hand of the Pope in this coincidence, th.en it
is high time the Pup bought a new phir of
spectacles to look at the Pope with. /
A couple of the levanting lepers.' who
came back to the Queensland lazarette after
spending nearly a couple of months doing
a pleasure trip through Northern N. S.
Wales, tell how they visited a picture show
thereabouts and gazed upon a series of
films entitled “The Lepers.” A lady sitting
next to the disseminators of Asia’s curse
remarked with a shudder as she looked at
the flickergraph: “Mustn’t it be terrible to
come in contact with sufferers from such a
dreadful trouble!” And all the while she
was rubbing skirts with one of them.
The Rev. Powell, superintendent of the
Baptala leper home (Southern India), vis-
ited the Queensland lazarette, a few days
ago, and expressed high approval of what
he saw there in the way of treatment. In
India, he said, “there are hundreds of
thousands of lepers,” but he “was now
hopeful of seeing the system of segregation
introduced.” Think of a country where
“civilisation” goes back some thousands of
years which still allows its lepers to go at
large without let or hindrance. And then
think of the Australian patriots who want
us to draw on that country for the develop-
ment of our clean northern lands!
“Jacaranda” : Quaker Alfred Brown, from
overseas, has been blowing the bugle in
Brisbane on. behalf of the peace-at-any-
pricers. After his remarks on the iniquity
of war, and the special iniquity of compul-
sory training, Friend Brown was asked what
course of action he would advocate for Aus-
tralians in the event of their country being
attacked by a foreign nation? He confessed
that it was a very hard question to answer.
Conscience, no doubt, forbade Friend Brown
saying: “Grab your gun and go in and win,”
so he purred the worn, old platitude about
avoiding invasion by showing love and good-
will towards those whom we consider our
enemies. But supposing, in spite of all
Friend Brown’s love and goodwill towards
man, W. Sikes broke into Brown’s house
and proceeded to raid Brown’" pockets, what
would the Friend of Man do about it then f
Meantime, does Friend Brown keep a lock
on his door, and see that the windows are
fastened at nights? And does he reckon
that locked doors and bolted windows are a
wicked incentive to burglary, or does he
think the best way to keep a hungry man
from stealing is to leave food lying around
unguarded?
IN CAMP.
SENTRY (fiercely): “ Halt.
Who goes there?”
STRAGGLER: “ Don't shoot , for Gor'sake, matey, an I'll tell yer me bloomin' name soon's
I can remember it."
Owing to the operation of the new Liquor
Act, which forbids the serving of women
with drink, numbers of Brisbane hotels have
undergone alterations. Various neat, little,
retired snuggeries, where Sairey Gamp and
Betsy Prig and Flossie Fewclothes used to
adjourn for a pint o’ bitter or a nip o’ gin,
have been demolished, and Bung has bidden
good-bye to a very profitable branch of busi-
ness.
“Rangan”: Queensland’s new Licensing
Act is getting us tied in a knot. Nobody
knows quite what it means; but what looks
like the wildest interpretation of all has
been adopted by various inspectors who
have forbidden wayside pubs to provide
food for man or beast on the holy Sabbath.
Man, I know, will eat beer, and the law
frowns on the use of that fodder on Sun-
days ; but the horse isn’t a beer-eating
beast, and the wild interpretation afore-
named is hard lines on him.
Rider Haggard animadverted recently on
the destruction of hundreds of acres of fine
furniture timber in the Cairns district for
the sake of growing bananas for a couple of
years. He might have said more succinctly
that Australian woods have been extermin-
ated to make room for Chinese weeds.
Inelastic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The President of the Chinese Nationalist Associa-
tion, Mr. Ping Nani, writes to Mr. O. Waite, secre-
tary of the 1.W.W., thus: “The fault we find with
the Aliens Restriction Act and its present adminis-
tration is that it is not sufficiently elastic to dis-
tinguish between the worthy and the unworthy.”
They assert, with half a grin,
Do the simple Sue and Sin,
’Twould be w T ell if things were made a bit
elastic;
And they say that they can see
How established could be
Peace and love and harmony,
In the place of narrow laws and measures
drastic —
If we’d only things sufficiently elastic.
They are confident, they say,
That the flower of old Cathay
(If we’d only things a little more elastic)
Would rejoice to fill our land
With a people, smiling, bland,
Who’d be countless as the sand,
And set up a China, new, iconoclastic —
If we’d only things sufficiently elastic!
For the spawn of old Pekin
Isn’t happy in its skin
At the modern ways of transit inelastic:
It abhors the bunker hole,
And the seas that toss and roll.
And the smell of oil and coal,
And it asks, in tones that ring a bit sar-
castic —
“Don’t you think your system slightly in-
elastic?”
“If you’d only have the sense
To break down your silly fence,
Or to build it of materials elastic,
Like a playful rabbit horde,
Would our millions skip abroad
Singing praise unto the Lord
Who had made the foreign devils sweetly
plastic, '
So that things are now sufficiently elastic.”
But we say to Sue and Sin :
“Drop your foolish fuss and dim
And your clamor for a lunacy elastic:
When the Mongol comes in sight,
*4nd sits down beside the White.
’Tis the latter says “Good-night!”
While the Yellow goes ahead in fashion
drastic
As a recompense for finding things elastic.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 24, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
Cupid has been piercing some more young
people in the place they are calculated to
feel it most. Amongst the latest victims
is Vesta Drury, one of our most popular
girls, and a splendid horsewoman. She has
smiled upon the suit of Ted Mark’s. He is
in the Geological Department, and a great
friend of the Old Red Sandstone crowd.
Incidentally, he is a son of Dr. Marks, and.
in case of accidents, has two clever half-
brothers in Dr. Espie Dods and Mr. Robin
Dods.
Another honorable understanding is be-
tween Dody Steele, of Chelmer. and a son
of James Milne, a resident of Mosman.
(Mosman is a suburb of Sydney, on the
northern side of the harbor, which could
be blackmailed by a ferry combine with im-
punity, to say nothing of impudence. So,
in case such a combine comes into exist-
ence Mosman is hereby warned to vote YES
next Saturday, good and plenty—six times,
in fact.)*
I hear, too, that pretty Miss McPhil-
lamy and Captain Scarlett, late aide to
Governor Macgregor, are engaged.
The other night an ardent explorer into
the unknown regions of society electrified
a card-playing assembly by taking, or mis-
taking , our very own Vision for a house-
maid. The cold, horrid silence that fol-
lowed was broken by the butler stealing
downstairs for the axe. At another affair,
in aid of charity, the committee gave a five-
pound note for the “booby,” fully expecting
the winner to hand it back. Instead she
put it in her purse, saying in a surprised
way, “Well, this is an unusual prize!”
On Wednesday afternoon Ida Chambers
nourished some dozens of her own and Miss
Millingen’s pals at her very useful home at
New Farm. Each guest brought “some-
thing aluminium,” and Miss Milliugen col-
lected enough frying-pans and other in-
digestion destroyers for three kitchens. Miss
Chambers wore a very dainty floral ninon
dress, and the guest of honor sported a
biscuit-colored frock with a smart silk coat.
Same day Mrs. John Hicks summoned all
her friends to greet Mrs. Kirkland and
daughter Alys (not Alice, please note), who
have been to Scotland, and other suburbs
of Fortitude Valley. Lena Hammond
dropped some exquisite contralto notes into
the gap between handshaking and the
rattle of the teacups. Betty Cockburn, a
gifted amateur singer, also helped to keep
the joy pot boiling.
The Old Girls and Old Boys of the Bris-
bane Grammar School held a united dance
in the S. B. Technical College last Thurs-
day. It was a nice dance, beautified by
many of the prettiest girls in our little old
hamlet. The Dinsdale girls, fair Enid
North, pretty Miss Hedgwick and Gladys
Pollard were among the first rankers. Two
little “buds,” Dolly Jones and Evelyn
Merchant, were desirable blossoms in white.
The Fitzgerald chick, who is not yet “out,”
wore pale pink, with an overdress of ninon
edged with swan’s down. She is by far the
prettiest of a good-looking family. Miss
Lahey has painted her on canvas several
times, one picture portraying her
black, beaver hat, with her ropes of fi' 8 ’
hair hanging over her shoulders f yeUow
The deputation which waited on p„ •
Denham the other day and requested &
so that a start might be made with’
womens residential college, was hiehii' a
successful. Digby said he could mL- 0 '
nothing : and he said it in such a rnli l
words about “keeping it in mind find 4
it was possible,” and “requiring caref u •
vestigation,” and “to be frank with v 1D »
and all the usual elaborate stock fib
where a plain “No” would do, that I reckon
lie meant to promise nothing. Well *
myself, although I was one of the demo
tion, I must admit that if the Goverlfi
is hard up. the first call on whit
there are should be for a sewage
I suppose I’ll be chased, but before T
that is my candid opinion.
The Braille Writing Association held ia,
annual meeting on Thursday. The atteni
ance could have been larger, and the snh
scriptions more generous without actnX
dnvmg the spending classes into the poor
house. The amount of work this Assort*
turn does on its very small income is won
derful. If it were a dogs’ home, or ahZ
pital for dyspeptic monkeys, all th
Fashionably Affluent would hand ™
cheques, but as it is merely for blind human
people hardly half a dozen cheque-books
have ever said a word to it.
At His Majesty’s, “Puss in Boots” i s
rapidly becoming rich. “The Girl Without
a Home” has found temporary shelter at the
old Theatre Royal, which is now definitely
booked to shut its doors on the vaudeville
artist, and take bellowdrammer to its foot
lighted bosom. “The Night Side of Lon-
don” and" the most dashing soubrettp in
Australia (i.e.. Ethel Buckley) will shoo
the Puss from His Majesty’s next Satur-
day.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
[*Any Combine or Trust which feels enraged at
being mentioned in this letter at a ticklish time like
the present can rest assured that Australia Jane is
not responsible. The reference was sandwiched in
out of pure cussedness and a desire to make the
peerage of Bulimba burst with anger, bv
John Barr, The Bulletin Office, Sydney. p.S.A
Beware of the Chained Anarchist on the stairs.]
Interesting excerpt from the Courier of
50 years ago:
R. Towns and Co. announce that they are pre-
pared to make arrangements with emoloyers of
labor for the introduction of codes to this colony.
. . . .The ship Antagonist, now about to sail for Cal-
cutta with horses, will return direct to Brisbane
with coolies, should sufficient inducement offer.
It seems almost a miracle that North-East-
ern Australia is as white as it is.
A Queensland Shire Council discussed
the water-liyacinth pest and menace
recently. After admitting that the thing
had become a nuisance and a danger of
large dimensions, the motion was put,
“That no action be taken.” Says the
official report. “The resolution teas carried
unanimously.” How like the dawdling
country Bumble!
Dr. Sheil, the new R.C. Bishop of Rock-
hampton, has taken the reins held for
seven years by Archbishop Duhig, lately
transferred to Brisbane. He is Australia's
youngest Bishop, being only 38. And he is
probably the best-looking, as well as the
weightiest. He stands 6ft. 3in„ and turns
the beam at 18 stone.
Shirley, D.Sc., master mind of Banana-
land’s primary education, has been giving
his experiences as pedagogue in Queensland
during 35 years. One item: “I have
travelled over all parts of Queensland and
I have never found any part too warm for
me.”


TtffREFERENDUM!
WATSON'S N°lo
m
z,
*** *:
m
\
/
i
\
/
/
£B*
SC
VOT
U f
ISPafal
X
V**"
f
iSSiI
ver
Fine
y
:¥&' : :: X
mm
mmmm . #
I
co.\
J* Quality
"
: '
on^uu 1 -
Cd
urn
&
'4o7ie/ee
produce
OF SCOTLAND
o
e
People-
Ben- ~Jo <» o~
Melbourne Address:
532 Bourke Street.
JAMES WATSON & CO., LTD.,
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
Dundee, Scotland.
Sydney Address:
360 Kent Street.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
'* Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
GEELONG ..
BENALLA
BELTANA
8000lBidwell
11,12!) Simmonds
11,120 l Line-ham
.. [June 15
.. [June 28
.. I.lulv 19
Wireless installed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA EN GLAN D.
ous Steamers,
bedsteads; Sin
Cabines-de luxe; Staterooms, with
Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE’. ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Peace. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: tl Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 116 Branches anJ
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £5OO.
INTEREST — from £1 to £3OO,
and 3% oi\ the excess up to £5OO.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
St KAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACK ENZIE LICKS, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge ami llriuge Sts.
Manager: .1. I’. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTE?, Ksq. (Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: H. It. LOVE.
Rankers: TIIIC LONDON COUNTY (Sc WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and 'THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian j)ank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.),
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED.. .. .. .. £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
MEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir Wilmam I’. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; Geoiigh J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Make Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yauwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland..
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
’A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £Boo.ooo o 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413.590 It 6
Reserve .. .. • ■ • • 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.009, 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since JBH3 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunnjng,
Esq. ; Hon. G. A\. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ATT. OWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum; 2
years and over, at the rate of 41 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Colonial mutual Dife
assurance society LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance. —'
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated bunds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate aijd without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bondses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. G, J.-Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M IL
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Huron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —■
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY k Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI k CO., Perth and Fremantle ;
THOS. BROWN k SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane k Townsville.
Bank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, (GORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . ■ ■ • . 500,000
ImeirHed Capital . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
CRANTS DRAFTS
Zttl b“:
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
jk
Twin-screw 12,000-tcm Steamers.
MEDIC, about JUNE 20.
AFFI IC, about JULY 9.
SUEVIC, about JULY 30.
PERSIC, about AUG. 26.
CERAMIC, 18,000 tons, about SEPT. 24
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London .. . . 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. .. 110 0
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
Fast Passenger Steamers
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports.)
cargo received
for Albany.
INDARRA (10,000 tons).
From Adelaide .. May 31
(Carrying Ist, 2nd and 3rd
class passengers).
SYDNEY \
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping for
other Queensland
Ports). J
COOMA (4000 tons).
From Melbourne .. June 4
From Sydney . . June 7
From Brisbane . . June 10
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
From Melbourne .. June 11
From Sydney .. June 14
From Brisbane .. June 17
INDARRA (10,000 tons).
Sydney Only.
From Melbourne .. June 14
Pull Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS!
jk
For HEALTH and HOLIDAYS.
5 Weeks in the SOLOMONS—£2O.
(A Tour of Rare Charm.)
S.S. “MIN DIN I”
leav^ N lT, NEY '
5 Weeks in PAPUA.
S.S. “MATIJNGA”
leaves SYDNEY
JUNE 30.
apply promptly. accommodation limited.
burns, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,000,000
£2,150,000
£3,000,000
£8,150,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Ivt., M.L.C.,
President. T r>
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.L.
Thomas Buckland, Esq L
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
' Auditors: Shepheard Edgediffe Laidley, MiUon,
wfb d 33°s^a®ches e ° the ’ Australian' States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua. Agents and Corres-
WOPI°r) d ‘ ° J RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
THE North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade fegu-
larlv to i-— -
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAT AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BYRON BAY, COFF S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued m
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND lUULM AYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Munvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital ..
£1,750.000 0 0
1,580,000 0 0
1,760,000 0 0
£5,080,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Geouuk J. Cohen, Esq.. .. Chairman.
Hon. li. E. Katek, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
. lion.. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Ossi.ow Thompson, Esq.
' Norman Siikm.ev, Esq.
W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cafe, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Diuhs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Managei : F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Lta*c of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. 5 ■
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
•21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents *ithl Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National -Monthly. Price. 6«l.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
- 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,”
“llimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
"Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH A ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE-AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and Rom
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.'
FOB MELBOURNE a
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY /
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports. J
T ' S T^ arilda - June 7
and .July 6.
8000 tons. Carrying
Three Classes, i •> *
and 4-Berth Cabins’
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Pores Norrh to O&irns.
S.S. June 7.
S. Innamincka, JuneU
T. (8000 tons)’
June 21. ’’
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable a it„,
the first Port of call with other Inter-StateCompare
on all services subject to conditions, which can h!
ascertained on application at the Company's Office
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 0 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via EIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railwav.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS ;
‘New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab/ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to Colombo, Port Said, London
and Liverpool ( Via Suez Canal).
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,600 Tons. W. L. PRENTICE, Commander.
Will be despatched from —
SYDNEY, MAY 31.
MELBOURNE, JUNE 3.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. .
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. , Third-class.
Fares to London £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PIU, Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO.. LTD.. Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10 000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
The through trip to tngianu
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. & 0., ORIENT LL .
N.D.L., N.Z ,S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYD
A.U.S.N. CoAtd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
♦T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
*T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”... 7000 tons
♦T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
♦T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
‘Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy-
Winter Tours to Cairns and JjlLtT beautiful
mended for the salubrious climate ana Ay g N
scenery, and Tourists will fin th t arrange ments
Coy.’s steamers possess all up to da
for convenience and comfort, n S Fjrgt an( i
zssrsm a." Bwrs
tion. For )3ates of sailing see Daily rap
for a Printed 'Pafnphlet. t IIIITFI)
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED.
Agents, 1 i HPtnnE STREET, SYDNEY^
New Zealand Insurance Cud.
FIRE, MARINE,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST OOLONIAL
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LO'\ J #TREET SYDNEY
FIRE and MARINE BR * N If. p 7.I T P STREET. SYDNEY,
ACCIDENT BRANCH : 117 1 ■*»" *J E Managers.
J. A. MINXETT & A. L. V AKui, u


GLORIOUS TOURS to the
jk
SOUTH SEA
.... and ....
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
l>y the Luxurious
Steamers,
T.S.S. TOFU A, 4400 tons, JUNE 17.
T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, JULY 15.
Specially built' for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
Steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), R.M.S. AORANGI, June 14. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.
s.s TAHITI, arriving Sydney, July 10.
There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. Talune, Julv 1. (Maheno,
from Sydney, June 25, connects.)
All Steamers fitted with Wireless.
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel*, &e.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Pier Hotel Gienelg Limited,
South Australia.
New High=Ciass Residential Hotel
(The Finest in the State.)
BEAUTIFUL SEA FRONTAGE.
SPACIOUS PROMENADE BALCONIES.
LUXURIOUS WINTER GARDEN, LOUNGES,
DRAWING ROOMS, SMOKING ROOMS.
ELEVATORS WORKING DAY AND NIGHT.
■CUISINE UNSURPASSED. TARIFF MODERATE.
Correspondence promptly attended to.
G. F. FOX,
Tel., Gienelg 16. Manager.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13 - per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day ami night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Himin pss Annoiincements.
jk
Fits “Wonder” has
No "Bromide of Potash.”
Safe, Certain Cure —
C Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
16 Hunter St., Sydney, &
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
STUDY THIS KNOT.
See what a perfect fastening
for two wires this is. See
how perfectly formed —no
jagged edges to catch hair
or wool. Absolutely secure
without injury to the wires, neither of which
can draw through. The small lower meshes
keep back sheep and lambs, while the great
strength of the fence withstands the heaviest
animals. Cheap to buy—easy to put up—
practically everlasting.
EMPIRE Hard Steel
W oven W ire FENCE.
N.P.N., Tewkesbury, writes: —“It is a
splendid fence, and "I like it better than the
wire fence 1 had before. 1 hope to have
some more later on.”
Write for fully descriptive Catalogue sent
Post Free by the' Sole Distributors,
PARKER, WINDER & ACHURCH LTD.,
Birmingham, England. 13
Agent for Austi a ia and New Zealand —
ESSEX R PICOT, 20 Young Street, Sydney.
and $4O-2 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne
jk
. US: wwi
Commonwealth
kj
Bank of Hustralia
Br *"?ind** *— ° Pen f ° r the tranBaction of Qer >eral Banking: Business throughout Australia
New South Wales— Sydney and Canberra, Victoria— Melbourne. Queensland— Brisbane and
Townsville. South Australia -Adelaide. Western Australia— Perth. Tasmania— Hobart
And at Egypt House, 36-38 New broad Street, London
Ca.ble remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the
Commonwealth, United Kingdom and foreign countries.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Agencies are open In practi ally all Post OfKces which issue Money Orders in the Australian
Commonwealth and Papua.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected for sums up to £loat any Office within the Commonwealth
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
3%
Rate of Interest on
all Deposits up to
£3OO
BOTH Jahcart, 1813
DENISON MILLER, Gova&xoa
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
a j “ , unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker. ’' * .
For- Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Jlranch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
\f.th
'Ur
mV
s«
arc
■r.
for EVERY KIND OF LIGHT
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBACH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 102-4 Viotoria Street, Wellington, N.Z
LANDIS SCREWING MACHINES
Are Cost Reducers on Ail Classes of Threading.
ķj
Bolt
threading,
pipe threading,
nipple threading—
all show substan-
tial savings in time
and labor when
done on “Landis”
Machines, the chief
feature of which is
the “Landis” All-
Steel Die Head.
With the “Landis”
Die there is no
need of buying and
keeping up an ex-
pensive stock of
hobbs—n o rehob-
bing is necessary—
n o retempering.
“‘Landis” Chasers
are hardened their
entire length ; when
a cutting edge gets
dull, simply grind
off the end of the
chaser until a new
ndge is formed,
ar e ground on the
Landis 1| Triple Head Screwer
You have a practically new die every time fresh cutting edges
chasers, and chasers can be ground to any rake, to suit different materials, and
give piaximum efficiency under all conditions of service. The bevel on the “Landis”
Chaser forms the throat of the die on which grinding is never done. This permanent
throat permits cutting close to shoulders, or the heads of bolts, when required.
Another advantage: With “Landis” All-Steel Dies, and the “Landis” method of secur-
ing them, permanent accuracy is assured, no matter how many times the chasers
are reground or renewed. There is also economy—“ Landis” Dies outlast other
dies 10 to 20 times.
Over SO “Landis” Screwing Machines and Heads sold in Australia since their intro-
duction here three years ago.
We Carry Stocks,
BENSON BROTHERS
(.Sole Agents for
Australasia),
Full Stock of All Classes of Engineers' Machine Tools,
51-53 Druitt Street, 60 Queen Street,
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
SPENCER’S MILD INDIAN CIGARS.
SPECIALLY SELECTED WHOLE LEAF—No Inferior Fillings. - . Q
If not obtainable from your dealer, refer OaffliPlC DOXeS 01 DU, 13/-
PARTRIDGE ABERCROMBY LTD., LOFTUS MORAN,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney. 231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ĵkkjh
m
You Long for a Full Moustache?
Then send to-
day for a jar of
CAPILLAF.INE
applied
years.
This is a sure moustache-grower. Can be
been tested by hundreds during past 30
directions are followed.
The C. & A. Moustache T
shapes the moustache. 2/6,
at night. Has
Never fails, if
Price 10/6 JAR, Post Free.
:*s?
ner, w<srn at night,
S/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654- Georgre Street, Sydney.
Establish 3d 30 Years.
ķ jkjk
Every Shoe
Wearer
has his longings—but when
Abbey Shoes go on his feet,
comfort comes and service fol-
lows.
Abbey footwear is perfect in all
the essentials of good dress and
good form.
The boot we illustrate is a Tan
Willow Calf Bal., perforated
Golosh,
25/- and 27/0.
Also, in Black Velour Calf.
22/6.
in half sizes and quarter
fittings.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
jk
l do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
TOOTH SOAP
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. Pre-
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar. It’s
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
on a penny postcard, sent to
us. will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sent,
post paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out! .
There are imitations. Sold by Chemists everywhere.
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
jk
per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount witli
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. MONEY RE-
TURNED in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli-
cation. Only address
34 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
M.B.FOSTERS
BUGLE
jk
BRAND
(Mate
UNEXCELLED FOR
PURITY,
BRILLIANCY
AND UNIFORMITY.


Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 15th May, 1913.
Appointment of Naval Police.
A PPLICATIONS are invited from per-
J.TL sons qualified for appointment as Naval
Police at H.M.A. Naval Establishments,
Sydney.
Applicants must be not less than 30 nor
more than 45 years of age on Ist July, 1913.
Preference will be given to married men who
have completed not less than 5 years’ ser-
vice in the Royal Navy, Royal Marines, or
the Royal Australian Navy.
Applications must be made on the pre-
scribed form, which may be obtained, to-
gether with full particulars as to rates of
pay, conditions of appointment, etc., on appli-
cation to the Captain-in-Charge, Garden
Island, Sydney; the Commanding Officer,
Naval Depbt, Williamstown ; or the District
Naval Officer, Naval Staff Offices, Sydney,
Port Melbourne, Brisbane, Largs Bay
(S.A.), Fremantle, Hobart.
Applications must be sent direct to the
Naval Secretarv, Navy Office, Melbourne, to
reach him not later than 9th June, 1913.
S. A. PETIIEBRIDGE,
Secretary.
Business Announcements.
Burwood Star-Bowkett Building Society, No. 2.
The above Society, which was registered in March,
1912, has now a membership of 389, holding 2706
shares of £so' each. The Soc'ety will close as soon
as 499 members are enrolled. £3350 already
appropriated to members free of interest. SUB-
SCRIPTION, 6d. per Share per Week. Next Appro-
priation WEDNESDAY. JUNE 18.
ROBERT GILLIES, Secretary, Burwood.
City Address: 36 Post Office Chambers, 114 a
Pitt Street.
IMPORTANT PROPHETICAL BOOK-
LETS, by Captain Crossley: “Things
Coming to Pass.” 3d. post free; “Revela-
tion in Numbers,” “The End Made Known,”
lOd.; the three, 1/- GEO. ROBERTSON,
Melbourne, all booksellers.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
J
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salta.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blond' 1 , Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcede. Collins St., Melbourne
Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary]
1911 Edition, a Big Volume, o«er 1500 Pages, 10 inches*
by 8, over 1000 Illustrations Very strongly bound inj
Full Leather, gilt lettered, marbled edges. Contains £
Loisette’s Method of Memorising, the wonder-2
ful system of improving the
foT which many Australians have paidj
20 guineas and considered they had goodj
value for their money. Enables you tof
remember thousands of names, dates, \
amounts, &c., and to repeat them \
wears after. Marvellously effective. 2
\ The greatest book bargain, only \
Vfen Shillings, we pay carriage*
to any address. Money back if youjj
are not satisfied. The Union Co. r J
299 Elizabeth J
jkjk
28/6
The Ciarion Concert Grand Accordeon
Anyone can play 20th
Century Keyboard The
best tuned Accordeon that
money can buy. Two en-
tirely distinct sets of 4e>
extra broad reeds of non-
corrosive bronze, controlled
by separate stops and dif-
ferent valves. Mo dummy
stops. Strong double bel-
lows with patent spring
clasps. Full resonant bass
and brilliant harmonious tenor Price 28/6, we pay
carriage anywhere and give a self instruction book of
Fingered Music that anyone without experience can
play This Accordeon is specially made by Herr Kalbe for
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAU, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag m.s for Australia.
UnCuIMEDMONEY&PROPERTY.
nOUftAL’S REGISTER to N FXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCER Y HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac., &c„ price
3/-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
00UCAI & CO., 151- STRAND, LONDON, ENGLAND.
( Kutnhl inker! over HO Years.)
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Bar-Drums are invisible and. comfort-
able. No one can tel] you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them—the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. AVliat a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Bara rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sepsityve, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot mu-t the ear.
Tt fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the heari ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend . _
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of vou can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
}ou from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever yon wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. AVe do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
?<?
fV
1?
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
103 Arlington Chambers,
. 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Rank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
All AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British : Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge. -
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
Mr. J. C. Williamson presents, for the First Time in,.
Sydney, the London, American & Continental Success,
THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
PLANS AT PALING'S
PRICES: D.C and O.S. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Amphitheatre till 7.30, 2/-; thereafter, 1/-
HEATRE
Lessee: J. C.
R O Y A L, S Y D N E Y.
WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF KISMET.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT
ONE WEEK OF SHAKSPEARIAN COMEDY.
TAMING OF THE SIIEKW.
Prices : D.C. & O.S. (Reserved). 7/6 ; at Doors, 6/-Stalls,
4/- ; Gallery to 7.30,2/- ; there tfter, 1/- Plans at Paling’s.
A DELPHI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
every Evening.
The Most Remarkable, Novel, Thrilling and Sensational
Drama of the Age,
THE EVIL MFN DO.
Magnificently Staged anrd Brilliantly Interpreted by
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S DRAMATIC COMPANY.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-
p ALACK THEA T K E. SYDN E V.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY FAVORITE DRAMATIC COM-
BINATION, in the Op at Record-breaking Characteristic
- Australian Comedy Drama,
STEELE RUDD’S
ON OUR SUL EOT I ON.
Box Plan at Paling’s. POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/6, 1/-
Early Doors to Stalls, 6d. extra ; to Gallery, 1/- extra.
Little theatre, castlereagh st.,
SYDNEY
(With the BIG Attractions).
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.10,
HUGH C. BUCKLER & VIOLET PAGET
present
THE SUCCESSFUL SATIRICAL GEM,
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY.
PRICES : Orchestral Stalls, 6/-; Stalls, 4/-; Gallery (till
7.30), 2/- ; after that hour, 1/- Box Plan at Palin;; s.
NVTIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES —WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER'S VAUDEVILLE CO.
TIL K ROYAL BANZAI.
FAMILY OF JAPANESE EQUILIBRISTS. THE
ABSOLUTE LIMIT. IN THRILLING AND DARING
SENSATIONALISM. And Fourteen Other Great Acts.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Theatre.
LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
QUO VADIS?
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT IN
SILENT PORTRAYAL.
8000 ft.—A FULL EVENING’S ENTERTAINMENT.
yH E OLYMPIA, SYDNEY-
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WESTS PICTURES, LTD.
‘‘BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d, to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
Alhambra theatre, Sydney.
HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE HOUSE.
Direction JOS. L. GOODMAN.
TO-NIGIIT AND EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, 2.30.
Children Half-price to all parts.
STAR VAUDEVILLE & MINSTRELS.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY SATURDAY MATINEE.
PRICES : 1/6, 1/- & 6d. ; Saturdays, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-
Doors, 7.15 ; Overture, 8.
OYDNEY GLACIARIUM.
BEAL ICE SKATING.
Three sessions daily: 10 to 12, 3 to 5,
8 to 10.30.
I
Admission, 2s. Skate Hire, 6d.
Children: Morning and afternoon onlv,
Admission Is.
Children : Saturday morning, Admission 6d.
’Phone 492 Gtebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
•y* OWN
HALL,
S Y D N E Y.
ķh
MAY 31,
JUNE 3, 5.
Afternoon,
• ■■ 'V '
JUNE 7.
■S.} 1 '
FREDERIC
SHIPMAN
PRESENTS
THE GREAT BARITONE
DAVID BIBPEAM
Prices: 55., 35., 2s.
PLANS AT PALING’S
mpjsbiai roller rink,
Foot of William Street.
A REFINED RINIvING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN. THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
Rickards’ th oli t h ea t r e.
Personal D.rection Mr. IIUGII D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
TORCATS & D’ALIZAS ROOSTERS.
BELLCLAIR BROS., Athletes. THE 4 QUAINT Q’s.
A. G. SPRY, ELIZABETH CLAIR & MARGARET
OGTLVIE, in Ha monv & Hilaritv.
OAPT. TIEBORS’ V EDUCATED‘SEALS & SEA LIONS.
O HANA SAN & CO., in “ A Vision of Japan.”
KITTY DALE. THE KEBBLES, ALBERTO MARINI.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and IJ-
OP ER A HOUSE. MELHOI’RN E.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
HARRY CORSON CLARKE & MISS MARGARET
DALE OWEN, the Great American Cotnedv Stars.
THE DE BRUNS, in their Novelty Dancing Act.
CUMMIN & SEAHAM. Comedians and Acrobats.
THE FAMOUS JACKSON FAMILV, Trick Cyclists.
SIX FLYING BANVaRDS, the Greatest Aerial Act.
DE MARLO AND LADY, in “A Frog’s Paradise.”
OASSIE WALMER, Everybody's Favorite.
Plan at Allan’s. I3TPRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
What
You Want is Lessons in Eloc u t i o
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the srrange mysteries of life is that those who have soinethinsr to
say worth hearing- do not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.” — William Ewart Gladstonk.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
11.
The Stage a Speciality.
of World-Wide Fame
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Pees can be ascertained on
application at the College or by letter.
ĥ
301 A PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
|y|ELBOURNE-S NEW_ CONCERT H AU.
the AUDITORIUM
Now nearing completion, has been erected J
of over £40,000, and will be the first Concert
proper in Australia. nail
Seating accommodation—24oo.
Comfortable tip-up chairs in Stalls
Handsome Lounge Seats in Balcony
Comfortable Gallery seating throughout
The Auditorium is equipped with heating and «n«i;
apparatus, which cost over £3OOO, by whieh°
atmosphere in winter and summer will be kent- t the
average temperature of 65 degrees. 10 an
Ample provision has been made for spacious „„
trances, exits crush rooms, etc., all of which
will be heated in winter. llcn
The Auditorium is suitable for Concerts of
descriptions—Lectures, Meetings, Shows,
and other classes of amusements.
For vacant dates apply to
J. & N. TAIT, The Auditorium, Collins Street.
CLARA BUTT
RUMEO RD TOUR.
MELBOURNE SEASON IN THE
AUDITORIUM.
FIFTH CONCERT, TUESDAY 97th
MATINEE, THURSDAY, 29th.
ADELAIDE SEASON IN THE EXHI
BITION,
JUNE 7,9, 11, 14.
SYDNEY SEASON IN THE TOWN
HALL,
JUNE 21, 24, 26, 28. JULY 1.
Tour Sole Direction, J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Collins Street, Melbourne.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 31.
George Marlow’s Dramatic Combination in the
Picturesque, Romantic and Stirring Drama
FROM CONVENT TO THRONE
POPULAR PRICES.
Plan at Pianola Co.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Successful Gaiety Production,
THE SUiNSHINE GIRL.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
Balcony and Stalls, 4/-; Pit and Gallery, 2/-
HEA T R E ROY A L, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WI LI,I AMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA
j of the Great American Dramatic Success,
WITII I N TII E LA W.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Slalls. 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING'S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 31.
teappearance of W. Anderson’s Dramatic Organisation
in
The Play of Love, Life and Adventure,
mu SAILOR’S WEDDING.
OPULAR PRICES.
PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
I J O U THEATRE, MELBOU RN E.
1 Lessees : Oriental Amusement Co. Ltd. or U.S.A.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE
AMERICAN
MUSICAL BURLESQUE COMPANY.
A Complete American Company of 40 Artists,
in the New Musical Burlesque,
Tli E SPECUL A T 0 R S.
ONE CONTINUOUS SORE Ail.
|CE SKA ting. ice skating.
THE GLACIA R I U M,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY AFTERNOON: ADMISSION 2/-
EVERY EVENING: ADMISSION 1/-
■ YRIC THEATRE, Chapel St. ) Prabraii’ Vi < !.
L. | \ kry NIGHT at S. MAII NEE, SAIURUAL
at 2.30.
PHOTOPLAYS
on tiie Aiurvellou.i "MaeK Screen, tugctliei »'
Snp< rl. I,VUIC ( »l>(Ml KSTI!A. «d. . to , r - s - "l.x
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s anil the Lyric Theatre U__
Di RUCTION AMALG AMATED PICTURES
LTD.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJI. STIC Til EAT in.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinfies Daily from 12 to 0 c
3d., Cd. and 1/- ,
Evening Prices: 2/-. 1/6. 1/- and 6d. Pla_natA____j
Q L 1 M P I A.
O L V M P I A.
L V M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SrENCEIt’S TICTUHES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PTC|U RU "
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT .
EVERY NIGHT AT B._ -p
MELBOURNE
\Af E S T’S PALACE. ~
~E s tWEST’S PICTURES,™,®-
OF ALL. INMI I ED- f
and All Uolidavs at ■ ~. Woßun-
The Gueatest Pictoiuai, E?™ 111 ! pvnsPMERES.
PRE-EMINENT IN T V J Kote alwavs to be
Any Moving Picture Woithy o . change
seen at WEST’S PlC'iUß'£
everv week. Prices —6d. to -s. —— —- -
Dine n F~EATnro .
■Theatrical SBTSS& »s£%*
Plaving Pictures and Vaudevillein *R to
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from loow
Charters Towers. . „ o m(rpd over this
Tours of Legitimate of which
route, appearing in all the -
W 'rsp«..“L|v°« <« G “ e "' ”
flSomi PrOTHWELi) CHAMBERS. «•*»» *
Works Minister Griffith has just an-
nounced part of the N.S.W. Government’s
programme for the coming session. The big
job will be the abolition of the Leg. Coun-
cil. If this is carried in the Assembly, and
thrown out in the other place, the Govern-
ment will accept a subsequent win in the
country as the warrant for swamping the
other place with enough members to carry
the reform through. When that hapnens
as it is bound to happen sooner or later
quite a lot of people may be sorry they
didn’t vote to transfer a whole lot of powers
to a Parliament consisting of two Houses.
The more corpulent the Tory the bigger his
faith, as a rule, in a Parliament of two
Houses ; and the Commonwealth Parliament
is the only one that is likely to consist of
two Houses in the course of a few
years. If he is fool enough to vote “No,”
and a majority votes that way with him,
he will thus presently have the joy of see-
ing a single House with power to take over
his business and run it for the State. Then
he will probably turn Anarchist and make, a
bonfire of Joe Cook and C. G. Wade for mis-
leading him into the soup.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]


a
i
22
m
n
m
Rifles and Cartridges
For decades the foremost hunters and explorers
have used Winchester rifles and cartridges on their
expeditions, as they know they can be depended
upon in a tight place. This reputation has made
Winchester rifles and cartridges the most famous
in all the world for hunting. In buying Winches-
ter rifles and cartridges, you are getting goods
made in the largest and most complete plant in the
world devoted to the manufacture bf both arms
and ammunition, and that are thoroughly tested
and time-triedi VVinchester rifles are made iri
balibers suitable fbr all kinds of shooting, and Win-
chester Cartridges are made for all makes and
balibers of rifles, revolvers and pistols.
You Won’t gb astray if you buy nothing
but the celebrated Winchester make.
3s
P
5%
ASK FOR RED
w
BJRANI)
MAKING UP YOUR MIND
What a huge amount of time is wasted by Engine
Buyers in their endeavor to secure the most reliable
article, and how often are they deceived! Let
us relieve you of all this worry by sending you
A MARSHALL!
99
THE ONLY STEAM
ENGINE really
worth consideration!
ħ
Marshall's are not experimentalists. They
have made and sold 165,000 Engines
Marshall's have been manufacturing
Engines and Boilers for over 60 years
.... “BIG BIZ!”
...“SOLID BIZ!”
ALWAYS MAKING THE WORLD’S BEST.
Marshall's Engines have been in constant
work in Australia for over 57 years
Marshall's have won over 500 Gold and
Silver Medals for Portables and Tractions
“ LASTING BIZ ! ”
MERIT REWARDED
TRACTIONS (Steam and Oil), PORTABLES,
Vertical Boilers, Colonial Type Boilers,
Vertical & Horizontal Stationary Engines
Very Easy Terms or Discount for Cash. Catalogs Free.
R, L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand i*?" AT LOWEST CIIRRKNT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the nrivilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. 3. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairttiati ; Tne
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. R» J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon, p\ 15. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knot,
rr £fl> K.C,; Alex. MacCormick, Esq ,M. D. General Manager and Actuary ! Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S:B;
HEAD OFFICE : 8? PITT STREET, SYDNEY. tt. W. APBERLY; SecrtStart.
Celebrated
IN BULK
and
BOTTLED.
m
5
e 1
S
■u. 1 43 » y l * tp iw*.i« rip 1
CALL
FOR IT
on ALL
Occasions.
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
h
AUTOMATA
hjkjk
<«/
tKat is all
that is needed
io stare or stop) the patent.
in
J
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING a/w/PUMPING
FOUR
HIGHEST
AWARDS
SIMPLE. - EFFICIENT
NO COSTLY ACCUMULATORS
PRACTICALLY NO ATTENTION
INSTAELATION
i>o/e Makers >
RA.LISTER^CPIr?
Dursley.Glos.
&
m
m
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System —Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessary; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas, acetylene, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights,
fans, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and other
machines.
Is absolutely safe and reliable; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS,
AGENTS—
New South Wales: W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD., 279 Clarence Street, and
426-430 Rent Street (4 doors from Town Hall), Sydney.
Queensland: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Victoria: SUTHERLAND 8 ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.


Broke Out on Leg. Began by Small
Pimples and Dry Scaling Skin.
Leg Inflamed. No Rest Night or
Day. Used Cuticura Remedies.
In Ten Days Leg Quite Healed.
4 —
f> Lavidge St., flawthorn, Vic.— -*‘i had
eczema break Out oh iny leg; it began by
Small pimples and dry scaling skid. The
itching was almost unbearable: t pur-
chased ointment at the chemist’s tvhich he
told me would cure it but my ieg became
a lot worse and the irritation was unbear-
able, the leg became very much inflamed
hnd it Spread so that I began to think I
Should have a very bad leg: I had ho rest
•hight or day for almost three thonths and
then I happened to see the advertisement Of
Cuticura Remedies in the paper and wrote
for a sample which I have pleasure to say
gave me relief at once and ih ten. days
iny leg was quite healed.
“I cannot speak too highly of Cuticura
Cintment and I would advise anyone suffer-
ing front ariy skin disease to try it and t
am sure they will benefit by it. My hus-
band tells me he was troubled with the
same complaint some years ago and CutL
fcura Ointment completely cured him.”
(Signed) Mrs. M. Potts, May i. 7, 1912:
TO REMOVE DANDRUFF
Prevent dry, thin and falling hair, allay
itching and irritation, and promote the
growth and beauty of the hair, frequent
shampoos with Cuticura Soap, assisted by
occasional dressings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, afford a most effective and economical
treatment. Sold by druggists and dealers
everywhere. Liberal sample of each mailed
free, with 32-p. Skin Book. Address R.
Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Constipation and
Sluggish Liver
Don’t take chances. Get CARTER’S
LITTLE LIVER PILLS right now. They
never fail to make the liver *
do its duty. They cure con- '
Stipation, banish
gestion, drive out f
biliousness and the f
blues, stop dizzi- /
ness, clear the z 7
complexion, /
put a healthy/
glow on the
cheek and
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
sparkle in the eye. There are many imitations. Be
sure and get CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. The
pill is small, dose is small, price is small, but results
are alright. The GENUINE must bear signature
9
Her Youth
rB.AtLEN^
• I I w W-5-AJ
Mexican
WALNUT a TAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best Bush Doctor of All!
If you’ve got a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema in any form, Barcoo
ro t —-or if you’ve a wound that won’t heal or a
jagged cut, all you need
have to cure it is a tin of
Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 1/6, Posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
K.E. 8., Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMACURE
GRIMMS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difflcnlty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bp{d by all Chemists.
nMHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the Monthly. Price Cd.
HOW TO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
tfEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
j
hkj
ĵ
kj
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr-Growlng Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those Who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full Well the
humiliation that they eause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions, These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
liian. My hair began to grow thin about the tirwe
1 leached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top Of my head 1 Was quite bal'd.
1 had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in everv pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did 1 tiv all the English l go-called
restorers, biit those of Continental Europe. I al'so-
Visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereign's and considerable time —yet the hairs came
hot. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
dgairt. , Gh’e afternoon, While enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite b’v an Alpine trip, 1 fell in with an old
Collegiate; Chemist, whose hair Was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly -remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair fot niv benefit. Tnis lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands-teeth. He Wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. 1
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street. S.vdnev.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuihe
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
'fifitercdf*
1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness. and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
*he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given.. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
a
SWAM SAFETY
Can't L* 1 ak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch!
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) : J. A. BURKb^S Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
r:
*
a
1
mm
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
€J For use during illness and con-
valescence.
€J For weakly infants and over-
growing children.
Cj[ As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases or
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
• It
is soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested.
A full descriptive booklet may be obtained post free on
BENGER’S FOOD, L‘d., Otter Works, MANCHESTER, ENGLAND,
117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W. N-
Bender's FooJ it .'old in tins, by Druggists,
Food
Business, Robbery, etc
<4 F.-fc!.”; Tiie Chmrmfeiflfil appriinted to inquire as
id the allegedly disastrous results of gold-ciredging
Victoria began trapesing round last Week< and
Struck the Ovens Valley; nestt Bright, to’ begin witht
Here incalculable damage Has been done to rich allu-
vial ltyids, the bed of the river has beeri raised iri
places as much as Bft., and its course frequently
altered, and what was a cleat fish-carrying stream
has become little better than a sluggish series Of
fnuddy pools, spread through stony wastes where
once were well-grassed, loamy flats. The arrogance'
bf the dredgers was shown on the metalled main 1
toad frhin, Bright to Harrietville; where a party is
actually dfedging a way st slide Of the road itself —
by permission Of a fool shire council —arid hasn’t
Oven provided si, temporary track while OperatiOrts j
are going On. The Commission had t 6 get mit of its i
motors arid help push theiri over stones and gravel
thrown Out hv the dredge. Pet cohttd, the Commis-
sion inspected near Harriet,tille art eight-acre hop'
plantation, whose owner has been fOr 35 years reap-
ing cropS Worth from £l4O to £I9Q per acre per
anriufn. . The dredge, ,o.f course, gathers only one
drop; Of £356 tO £566 per acre or thereabouts;
While (;he hOp grower Or oihc'r agriculturist can 1
gather his crOp every year as lorig the Cdmmo’ri-
Wealth lasts, Or even longer.
*44*
, The Other day, Roc, P,M., of Perth, did a good;
humane action. He had before him a inan who had
been in great trouble, The prisoner was charged 1
With having stolen £2l while in the employ of the
POstmaster : General. it .turned ..out that, accused
Was, algo; State Railway Station Mastpr and Savings
Bank Manager. Besides; He was his own night
Officer, night watchman and potter, and got paid
£3 7s. 6d. .a week for his nurrierduS. jobs. Roe,
looked over the business, and considered the cost of
living and the man’s troubles, pronounced hirtl
guilty, added, in effect, that it was a fair thing to
consider the size and strength of an accused's temp-,
tations, , and then told him he. could go, if ,he would
tnake the shortage good. The poor devil said he
Would sweat to do it, and went.
* * * *
Tiie sale Hi d pfdpetty In the West end of CoIKWs'-
street, Melbourne,' the dther Week wag an interesting
reminder of ,hoW wealth was created, on paper, dur-
ing the mad bo'oth-tinlfe Hf that city. The building
in question; which has d double haseriierit .arid itfuf
upphr flats, and stands Hij 48ft. x 105 ft. Hi lain a, Was
sold for £20,000. In 1888 — : jqst 25 years dgd —-a
leading Melbourne firm Hi . estate boomsters Valued
the same property at ,£64,000. Those Were ihe
glorious days when the banks smoothed the Way for
Private Enterprise to run riot. Goats are now
browsing among broken bottles on a lot of, Mel-
bourne’s outer-circle lane] that was subdivided into
choice building allotments in 1888.
* * * *
“X.E.8.”: Melbourne papers have been booming
the results obtained in wireless telegraphy by a
Bendigo youth. As a matter of fact, the re-
sults were no better than those obtained by many
amateurs, some of whom get as good with apparatus
that costs under £4. Among these amateurs is a
youth of 18, who receives, on a set of his own con-
struction, messages from such places as Thursday
Island, Wellington, Perth and Macquarie Island,
nearly any night in the week. He has also inter-
cepted a message sent from Mawson in Adele Land
to Macquarie Island. 1 don’t want to discredit the
Bendigo lad ; I only want to show the popular
progress the uncanny business is making.
“Kidman’s Man’’: A shipment of Australian beef
was got to San Francisco in capital order by the
Sonoma. It can be marketed at 2d. a lb. below local
prices—if the Trust doesn’t find a way to stop it.
According to latest advices, even this trial lot hadn’t
managed to get into circulation. Somebody discov-
ered that the inspectors ought to have stamped each
piece with indelible ink"; Instead of this they put
tags on, and the tags got mixed. So the beef was
still in cold storage when ’Frisco was last heard
from, and Washington had been called on to decide
whether it should be allowed to reach the pot.
“Hunk”: The remarks of “Silvertail” re tipping
urge me to a few words. I have been Where the evil
ramps in its worst form —steward on several boats
on this and the Maoriland coast. The- “boy” who
does not cringe and crawl in order to swell the
“bunce” is no good. I have kept a table of eight,
and been told by the “second” that Mr. Snibs is a
“blood” ; also, the gent on his left and the one
opposite him. I had to give them the best of atten-
tion—hop at their call; and generally act and feel
the flunkey. The last meal before entering port was
always one of anxiety lest the “bloods” should “cut
it.” I had to hang round them, pass all kinds of
observations re the trip, etc;* but never let them out
of sight till I had received my “whack.” The eye
of the “second” was on me all the time. As soon
as the passenger had gone on deck, he was on to me
to know how much I had got. If I had got nothing
I had to be at the cabin and give unnecessary help
in getting the luggage up. If they still did not
“come,” as a final resort I had to go cringingly to
them and tell them I had got all their gear on deck,
and then hang round till they either paid or went
ashore. And all this not for my own pocket. After
the passengers have gone ashore the “second” counts
the “bunce,” and .each “boy” gets his cut. Bed-
room stewards, first pantryman and first saloon
waiter get a full share; waiters, storekeeper and
others, half-share. Thus the eighth waiter may put
in 50s. tb 100 s. during the trip, against the saloon
waiter's ss. or 10s., and yet he, poor beggar, gets
only half as much out of it. What is wanted is a
living wage for stewards; then they could cut out
tipping, have better conditions of living and work
ing, and drink their hops with a great deal more
independence.
*** ■ *
“Simon”; An Act is much needed to provide for
the registering of public accountants. Anyone can
now practise as a public accountant, though he may
not know a trial balance from a debit balance;
yet surely when someone certifies to the correctness
of a co.’s balance-sheet, the investing public is
entitled to know if the certifier is likely to under-
stand what he is certifying about. There are three
recognised associations in N.S.W., none of them on
speaking terms with the others —the F.I.A.A.’s, the
F.1.1.A.’s and the F.C.P.A.’s. The F.C.P.A.’s are
the Tom Johnsons of the profesh., arid disbar anyone
from sitting for their exams, unless he is already
an accountant. The others are not so pernickety;
so long as a man can pass their exam., they’ll hand
him the hieroglyphics, which seems a fair thing, too.
They are all more or less of mushroom growth, and
each has its quota of foundation members—audi-
tors (more or less) who got in early and handed
themselves a slice of the alphabet without a test.
It remains now for someone to start an institute of
accountants for only those who have qualified by
examination. This would be sure to add to the
general discomfiture.
Some Australian baggage firms are working a
great point just now. They get Government author-
isation for handling immigrants’ chattels on arrival ;
then, presumably with the approval of the shipping
cos., they make this authority suffice for the re-
moval of all third-class boxes and paraphernalia to
their stores, and frequently some of those from other
classes as well. They trade on the new arrival’s
general ignorance of local conditions, and trust
that 99 out of every 100 will placidly submit and let
them deal with the things. When the hundredth
man comes along, after hours of search for his goods,
and whoops unrestrainedly against baggage sharks
in general, and these • firms in particular,
the firms are humbly apologetic over their
little mistake. Sometimes the indignant one goes so
far as to demand compensation, and then the
offenders settle up like lambs.
According to the monthly circular review of the
co.’s English agents, the Australian (Sydney) Gas Co. is"
about to put up a holder “as large as any in the
British Empire.” East Greenwich (London) has
at present the biggest—something capable nom ! -
nally of storing 12,000,000 cub. ft. And the
Sydney tank is to btj as big. The design, produced in
Australia, has won great praise in Europe, where, of
course, the thing is to be made. Australia is merely
good enough to supply the brains and the money.


IliilliiiiiintiiHUiiiiii
Registered
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
IJewsbury& Brown's
pf Oriental
Tooth Powder
6-&15 4
in the
United Kingdom
All the family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY.
Messrs. Elliorf Bros. Ltd.
• - F.H Faulding & Co.
FELT HATS
WRITE
NOW.
"T /£5
I/O
POST
FREE.
“THE TRAQUAIR”
Smartest Shape of the Season — an
idea! hat for autumn & winter. Worn by
women & girls everywhere. In black ::
white, navy & colors. Sent post free any-
where on receipt of 7/6 postal note.
MILLER’S
270 Bourke St., Melbourne.
118 Bundle St. Adelaide 195 Pitt St. r ydney
' 'Ringing for More
yy
IL^JJ
w
/A
Bird’s
Custard
Stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years’ success. J
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Goleryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCIvE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
DEDCERT
’ Kills
Cockroaches.
CEORCE COUCH & SON LD., Agents, Albert Bt., Brisbane
/r
r
■ <.
4< My name
is Simplicity
“ I can travel
swiftly over the roughest paper.
I travel many hundreds of miles every year—over
foolscap and nottpaper, sketch book and drawing pad.
I can travel in comfort, with never a hitch, or a
jolt, or a wait, for years and years."
The Onoto is the Fountain Pen that fills itself
instantly from any ink supply, with no trouble or
mess. A simple device seals the ink reservoir so that
the Onoto cannot leak. You can pack it in your bag
without any fear of it ever spoiling your clothes. It
is the safety pen that is REALLY safe—the self-
filling pen that is ALWAYS satisfactory. Get it.
Onoto
the non-stop pen.
Price 12/ and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers and
'runrva r.?°O et a l> out the Onoto Pen free on application to
THOS. DE LA RUE CO., Ltd., 181 Bunhill Row,
onaon, it, .C. ;or the Australasian Representatives, Norman
.Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
mmwm
Y,mm
wemmm
K
m
sk'
scr\\
«p
k-
Ks.>. rv O' 'fe.<L
5.4
z&MZzm
MM
&WM
MW»sS«Ssssss
KHVSMssrji
WHITE
p& LOOK PRETTY?
\ Yes! But can you—
| without a Pretty Skin.
motoring, golf,
i cold winds will all do
; their part in reddening
. and roughening your face.
■ Do your part with - - -
" Kaloderma ” Soap ....
“Kaloderma" Jolly, and
“ Kaloderma ” Face Powder;
you may then snap your
fingers at wind & weather.
The Mysteries of Beauty's Toilet—spell^
Kaloderma
Obtainable at all the Leading Shops
F. Wolff s Sohn,
K'toJlfcto! Karlsruhe, Germany
n
The World is its Kingdom.
North, South, East, West, the
acknowledged Best Pencil is
L.&.C. HARDTMUTH’S
KOH-I-NOOR
/
/ '
X'/'M'.WV
_,v
m
PENCIL
From all parts of the World come the
materials with which the “ Koh-i-noor ”
is composed ; to all parts of the World
goes the completed pencil—perfected by
patent processes, matchless skill and 125
years’ experience in pencil manufacture.
Made in 17 degrees and Copying.
From Stationer*., &c., everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, LONDON, ENGLAND.
(Australia : 350, George St., Sydney.)
A GREAT HUSICAL INNOVATION.
IMTERCHANCEABLe
®jp parts
ALBERT’S SYSTEM
Two more (new) “Boomerang”
Mouth Organ Types, the “ Boom =
erang Grand ” (48 Reeds), Price
6/6 (New); the “Miniature
Grand ” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New)
rose i-ree to any address
These two new types possess already the great superiority of the “Boomerang” Mouth Organ
tonality, but being tuned to the grand concert pitch, and provided with extra reeds they at
once raise their bewitching harmony above the best reed-combination. The sweetness ’and bodv
of resonance emanating from the “BOOMERANG GRAND" can only be equalled by the tuneful
combination of the Harp and Flute. Try one, and the “BOOMERANG GRAND” will become vour
inseparable companion. Try the G/6 one for preference. J
wholesale and Retail from J. ALBERT & SON, 137 King Street, Sydney.
(Remit by Australian or N.Z. Postage Stamps.)
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jlsk your Storekeep r for U.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hog-skin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its • interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from ,T. P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Y\'k Supply—
JApRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders' Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C,
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6Si PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts nf the world.
kjhk
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received irom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings snn.lar letters
to-day.
h
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy lor Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Co.d or
ord nary Cough.
So id m 1 ins by au Chemise ana Fiores
throughout Aus trams ia .
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all eases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY,
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
WOY
PRICE 3/- Per Box, Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
letters copied
&
ZANFTTC C< £& G
WHILE WRITING (IN ink)
by using your own Letter Paper,
Invoices, etc., with this Copying-
book. You simply insert your
Letter paper(as illustrated)then
write: and the act of writing pro-
duces a perfect letter and a per-
fect copy in the book. There is
no sign of your having taken a
copy : no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either
200 letters size 10 by 8 in., or 400
size Bby 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C/400 copies 400 or 800 re-
spectively, price SI- post free,
. „„„ cash with order. Special Dainty
Octavo Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double canacity
for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zanetic Ink Paper which
makes the copy. free, if stamped addressed envelope sent to
8.8. ZANETEC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENCLAND.


The BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
k
h yt
B.S.A. MINIATURE RIFLE, No. 2 MODEL,
22-calibre, bolt action, self-cocking, 24in. round steel barrel;
length overall 41in.; weight, about 541 b.; screw adjusting
rear sight to 200 yards, barleycorn front sight, walnut stock.. 32/6
Postage on one Rifle, 2/3 N.S.W. ; 4/2 Inter-State.
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE RIFLE, No. 3 MODEL, same
make as No. 2 Model, but improved, and fitted with target sights
Freight paid 55/-
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE REPEATING RIFLE, 22-calibre;
same description as No. 3 Model Freight paid 65/-
4
THE SILENCER ITSELE,
ytyt
THE SILENCER
TAKEN APART
The B.S.A. Rifle Silencer, to fit the B.S.A. Miniature
Rifles, 22-cal.; also Winchester Rifles, 1902, 1904 and
1906 Models Price, 32/6 each
Postage, N.S.W., 9d. Inter-State, 1/2.
The Rifle shown above has Silencer fitted.
MICK.
Branches:
City, Suburbs S Newcastle.
SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
All Kinds of
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
Executed.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition, etc.
Post Free Anywhere.
ĥjk yty
Mauser (Carbine and Pistol combined;
self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted tft 1000
10-shot, automatic
yards.
jPelivered
<£s//s|.
jhk ýt
‘The Savage” Repeating Hammerless
Rifle, 22-calibre rim fire, 24in. octagon _
barrel, slide action, demountable, pistol grip, handles
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; is loaded with a clip similar to
the Military Rifle, two clips with each rifle, each clip holds 7
cartridges; weight, about s|lb ~freight paid,
Extra Clips, 1/6 each
£3
jhgjtyyt
REMINGTON RIFLES, No. 6 Model,
22 Calibre R.F., 20in. round blued
steel barrel, weight
Or with Sliding Sights
16/6
211-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.
2/8 Inter-State
yt
Stevens' “Little Krctg,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger
guard, V-sight, length over all, 36in. ; weight about
Posture —1/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
18s. 6d.
The First Successful Self-Filling Fountain Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
y
ýty
"THB A.A.” AUTOMATIC SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN
is the pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling method
is exclusive. It is filled by simply twisting the button, holding
the pen point in the ink and, by a reverse twist, the pen is filled.
As the ink is held in a durable reservoir, the pen cannot leak.
No soiling of fingers or any annoying “filler” necessary to keep
“ The A.A.” ready for service.
Fitted with i4kt. gold pens, any style or size, with plain,
chased or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree,
gold filled and mother of pearl. They are for sale at all shops.
The cut herein shows the newly patented “ A. A. ’ Clip attached to the
cap of the pen. It excels by far any fountain pen clip yet produced. It
holds perfectly firm, and can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “The A.A.” Automatic Self-Filling
Fountain Pen with the “ A.A.” Clip at your store, write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY, New York, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO. [2
10,000
UNDERWOOD
TYPEWRITERS
were purchased by
The WESTERN UNION
TELEGRAPH CO.,
U.S.A.
Stott 8 Underwood,
Underwood Typewriter
Agents,
70 PITT STREET,
... SYDNEY.
Box 1556 Q.P.O.
SJLLV. Jff.
* 3i
•': n> :-i ■* ft. ■■
;viMW
rws
w
m
ihv ;. "- j
Underwomy
(Way 'w
TKc
01.
Modern Accounting
On The
UNDERWOOD
standard Typewriter
is simplifying' office methods and reducing expenses
throughout the country.
THE BILL AND CHARGE MACHINE prepares the customer's
statement, ledger account sheet and list of daily sales at
one writing.
THE UNIT BILL AND ORDER MACHINE prepares the customer's
invoice and the numerous departmental orders at one wriun;.
THE CONDENSED BILLING MACHINE prepares the customer's
invoice and sales book page at one writing.
In addition, the service includes th e special check writing and
perforating machine; a card writing machine and machines
for writing extended forms, waybills, insurance policies,
balance sheets, statements and reports of all kinds.
We have experts to show customers how to use the
UNDEKWOOD at its highest efficiency. You cannot get this
service on any other typewriter at any price.
“The Machine You Will Eventually Buy"
Underwood Typewriter Co., Inc., Underwood Bldg., New York
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial 1
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrik
England, 6d. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tinf.’s Silknt Friknd, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ds. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford) 9d. Thk Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
&
■
I
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO
THE COMMONWEALTH.**!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS —LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano,,ls. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hotle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got It.
Don't be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash, %o 1 cgts.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVI.
—-—♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere lor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MON&Y °R
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY C°UNlui
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN p OST. -
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED elsewhere- _
How TO Make Up, Illustrated &u.dti£ 1 e
posted. New Thicks with Cards, » Mll) .
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. D«- *}"” 2s lid.
wipe’s Handbook, 92_P rac **‘*L made Easy, Is.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog “ ® the Kino.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Chamoons squirt
Is -2d. Guide to auctioneering, -s ,
History Court of England, Is 3 p ° ORg) is 2d.
Letter Writer, Is. All A ,BOUf I A t 0 all
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, . pocket
Degrees, New Edit.on Is port*- post
Dictionary, 8d posted. HhaD6
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. V , ADVICE TO A
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ohevass* BoMlpr soK a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. free.
Book, over 300 latest »ong , 5s posted.
Bennarr Macfaddens Works, r! kbrs aNdSuoaß-
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit/wife’s Handbook,
BOILERS’ ASSISTANT, 18 {g post. 100
is 2d posted. Fruits of Phil ° B, £ iw >- E bvousnesB aN»
Recitations and Readings, Isi &*. um Un-
its Cure, is 2d* posted. 160 b illus.,
abridged Dictionary, 1/00 P a ?® 8 ’ \ pav 3 and i
*ound, my price, 15s port pa *dj*hf Vfa Dt sa-
guineas). Bootmaking and H^ AIB^ O J Rg , B Univkbs J
mos AND Electric Motors, Is-d. M pages, clot
ASSISTANT AND COMPLETE CLA.EVOYANCK,
bound, 10s 6d posted. The !secrfto music cow
is nost 200 Old-Time Songs (words ana Palo e,


I
A Young Man’s Trouble Completely Cured.
THE grave perils of neglecting to attend to nature’s tvarnings
that the system is disorganised and requires attention is
illustrated by the painful experiences of Mr. Henry Mayor,
of 1048 Hay Street, West Perth, who says:—“l have led a very
active life, and my eagerness in business pursuits led me to
neglect my health, with disastrous results. By not paying
sufficient attention to my diet and the condition of my bowels,
my system became run-down. I had to pay the full penalty for
such carelessness, for soon I was the victim of that awful com-
plaint, constipation. I felt greatly depressed, and a feeling of
dread, as if something w as about to happen, would be continually
with me, while terrible pains would shoot through my head from
temple to temple. A fulness under the heart caused me to gasp,
and I was frightened to breathe for fear of this terrible stabbing pain that
would shoot through my body. None of the medicines I took did me any
good; in fact, I seemed to be worse afterwards, and life became a burden.
Sleep at night was impossible, and I would be tossing about in bed for
hours. The feeling of suffocation that used to overtake me was very
distressing.
tyt
Mr.
Mayor.
who
praise*
Bile
Bean*.
“For a considerable time I suffered, taking
all sorts of medicines and so-called reme-
dies without any good results. A friend
recommended me to take Bile Beans, and
more to please him than anything I did so. Bile
Beans gave almost immediate relief, their action
on the bowels being most mild and soothing,
with no griping pains like the ordinary remedies
I had been taking. The dizziness and headaches
disappeared, and the fulness and wind around
the heart left me. As I continued with Bile
Beans my appetite returned, and the great mental
depression was removed. My general health im-
proved, and after I had undergone a full course
of Bile Beans I was completely cured of all the
ills. Now I feel splendid, being healthy and
strong, and able to transact my business and
enjoy life.”
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY.
Bile Beans are excellent as a general house-
hold medicine, and are unsurpassed for liver
and stomach disorders, piles, headache,
constipation, biliousness, indigestion, flat-
ulence, foul breath, nausea, dyspepsia,
ancemia and common family ailments. Of
all chemists and stores at IH\ and 2/9 per
box , or post free from The Bile Bean
Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BILE BEANS
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding' day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the otber Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin g'enerally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Skipper Joe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
X TAKES me grog and I writes me log
As a simple sailor man.
I’ve tole the trooth up from me youth,
An’ I’ve done as best I can.
I writes of things the wide sea brings
Within me range of view,
An’ I’ve frequent made allusion to the "hip
they calls the Fusion,
W’ich is, mebbe, known to you.
When last I wrote a ’asty note
Concernin’ things marine,
I told you ’ow that darned old scow
’Ad shipped the waters green;
I passed a word, you might ’ave ’eard,
Regardin’ Fust Mate Joe.
Now, choke me with a kipper, if ’e ain’t
became the skipper!
For ’er capting ’ad to go.
That skipper ’e, ’twas plain to see,
Was fair sick of ’is job.
We seen ’im glide right overside
An’ on the lee-shore lob.
’E ’eaves a sigh an’ pipes ’is eye,
An’ sadly waves ’is ’and ;
(An’ our eyes we wasn’t roonin’ fer to notice
plain maroonin’) ;
Then Joe ’e takes command.
Now Joe, says ’e: “If mutinee
Shows up amongst this crew,
I’m a rare ole tar with a capstan bar,
An’ I’ll haze ye black an’ blue !
Fer yer late ex-cap. was a softish chap,
But yeh’ll find me ’ard an’ quick !”
Then ’e gaily waves ’is flipper to the late
lamented skipper,
An’ ’e ses, “ ’Eave up the pick !”
Then some they swore —same as before —
They’d sail to Port Freetrade.
An’ some ses, “Nay, Protection Bay
Is where our course is laid.”
But Joe comes out with a deep-sea shout
That made ’em jump, you bet.
Ses ’e: “This craft is sailin’ straight for
Hoffis, without failin’!
An’ it’s there I mean to get!”
Away she sails, with the hustling gales
A-howlin’ through ’er shrouds.
An’ Joe sighs deep as ’e takes a peep
At the dark an’ threat’nin’ clouds.
Ses ’e: “Geewhiz ! I might er riz
To this ’ere job before,
When the craft was somewot newer, an’ the
bloomin’ reefs was fewer.
An’ I ’ad some friends ashore.”
When I seen ’er go, ses I, “Wot Ho !
If this ain’t deep-sea sport!”
Fer the course she took weren’t by the book
No navigator taught.
She dips an’ yaws, an’ rolls an’ paws,
Like a cab-’orse in the wet.
Ses I : “Avast, me ’earty! You’re a rare
ole sailor party;
But you’ll not make port, I’ll bet.”
She’s out there yet on the ocean wet.
An’ the crew ain’t none too glad.
No watch below for Skipper Joe ;
An’ ’e’s gettin’ rampin’ mad.
Fer Election Rock stands chock-a-block
In front of Hoffis Port;
An’ when she bumps agin’ it, as’ll ’appen
any minnit.
Well, you best watch out fer sport.
But it’s, ’ip, ’ip, ’ip! for the Fusion ship,
An’ I ses it once agen.
She’s a mad old barque, an’ a rare ole lark
For us simple sailor men.
An’ it’s Yo! ho! ho! fer ’er capting, Joe,
Oo’s the maddest skip I’ve seen.
W’ich is all I’ll be inditin’ —bein’ rather sick
o’ writin’ —
In regard to thinsrs marine.
[C. J. DENNIS, TooUinsi, Victoria.]
Elder Man’s Lane.
V.— HIS UNCONQUERABLE SOUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN a dry, hot, dusty little soft-wood box,
which was being rapidly eaten by
white ants, in a mean, sketchy little
lane on the eastern height above Berry’s
Bay, there dwelt for a period one Alfred
Ward, with a sketchy wife and family, and
some sticks of very sketchy furniture. And
all was drab, or a dead-timber grey. There
was no space in front of the “cottage,” and
the yard was a dusthole. On the further
rim of the dusthole an outhouse loomed pain-
fully large against sunset, and seemed, from
the back door, to dominate the entire sur-
roundings—including the fading bay.
From a literary point of view, “Alf Ward”
might seem a good name to tack on to a
case of embezzlement or forgery, or illegally
converting. And then, again, it mightn’t.
It all depends on circumstances —on the
position in which the owner of the name is
placed.
But Alfred was a bad case. And a hard
case, too. I never came across anyone, in
those days, who had a good word to say for
him —except his wife. Come to think of it,
I can’t say I could find a good word to say
for him myself in the days of his downfalls.
But I kept that to myself. He was said to
have “done time” —by chance acquaintances
of mine who ought to have been doing time
themselves, if only for being crawlers
enough to say it. He was known to have
the Humane Society’s medal for five lives,
three saved from the surf, and two from the
harbor. But that was nothing in his favor,
because in those days his life was mostly of
no use to himself or anyone else—especially
his wife and young children —and it was up
to him to risk it for a decent purpose.
Alfred said he was an “Eny Bright” (ine-
briate). That’s the sort of humorist he
was. I first made his acquaintance in a
Home for Drunks, down at the bottom of
the Domain, where we spent three or four
supremely happy weeks. Alfred must have
been going it pretty bad to come there at
all, but come he did. I was brought. I’er-
haps he harl done something extra that scared
him. His wife may have threatened to go
back to her mother —“for good, this time.”
But I’m doubtful if Alfred was ever scared
of anything much. When he woke up in the
Home next morning, he spent the first
quarter of an hour kicking up his heels and
laughing at the situation. That might give
the keynote of Alfred’s character. The
nurse had to come and subdue him at last.
He was a canvasser—canvassing hams at
the time. He insisted on sticking to his
billet, though it was against the rules for
any patient to go out alone, or on any busi-
ness whatsoever; but he kept his promise,
and turned up sober at meal times and bed
Bme. All this might have given me a hint
of his Unconquerable Soul. But then, again,
that, mightn’t have seemed anything to his
credit . e^^er - Unconquerable souls like
Alfred s are mostly of little use to the com-
mumty, and generally end in disaster.
His little wife came to see him often. She
was of the sad, greyish school, with a shad-
owy expression of permanent trouble and
anxiety. There were fleeting shades of hope
in her face (you couldn’t call them “lights”)
that made it all the more pathetic. His
boss, a big, , easy-going, lazy man, with a
permanent quiet grin of anticipation, used
to come to see him occasionally, and seemed
to enjoy Alfred immensely.
It was pathetic, too, and sad —very sad —
to see how those little wives of ours would
com ctogether on visiting days, and exchange
confidences, and compare notes, and discuss
the chances—always hopefully. I don’t sup-
pose that, according to them, and for their
mutual comfort, there was one of us who
hadn t been worse than another. That was
whUe the “cure” was going on. When
Allred was through the course of treatment,
he left one ham for the institution and took
another home with him —to begin the new
life on, I suppose. And we “Eny Brights”
separated sadly and parted for years, one
to cross the seas.
Alfred’s was a peculiar face —a face that
you couldn’t remember. After a lapse of
time you didn’t know whether he wore a
clipped moustache or was clean shaven. He
had something of the exnression of a bull
terrier, or a pug dog. He had the watery
eyes of the pug. certainly, after he had been
drinking heavily. Whisky, brandy or rum
anything he. could get. Imagine, if you
can, a pug with a permanent doleful grin
about its mouth, against which the rest of
its expression flghts incessantly and un-
availingly. Then you’ll have something of
Alfred. It seemed as if all rhat had been,
might have been, was, or might yet be good
in Alfred, was embodied in his humor, and
that was always at war with and constantlv
on watch against the vicious side of his
nature, and always dolefully against him-
self. And then, at times, as it were, his
whole exnression would shift as though the
sudden slipping of a mask momentarily be-
trayed agony of soul. Then a jerk of the
body and a catch in the breath, and the
mask, if mask it was, would be back again.
Alfred would explain, abruptly, that it was
a “stitch in the side,” and go on with hi*
jesting. But it did look to me like a flash
of agony of soul.
On my return from England I found that
Ward had refrained from being an “Eny
Bright” for two years. I didn’t believe in
the cure, and I don’t believe in any cure—
itself alone. You see, when a man goes into
an institution for the first time, he is pre-
sumably “a young man yet,” or “quite
young yet” ; and he must have been kicking
up pretty rough to be induced to go in at
all. Perhaps he ended by smacking his wife
for the first time- —and it’s just as likely
that she deserved it. Anyway, he gets full
before starting for the institution ; and fuller
on the way, else he mightn’t go at all. Then,
when the drink is dead within him (that’s
the next afternoon) he begins to realise his
position—or thinks he does. He is full of
remorse and humility. Also, he is very sick
and shaky. Everything is black. He recog-
nises the fact that he is lower than a brute
beast, and his wife is a noble little woman.
All our wives are noble women in certain
stages of our drunkenness. Different stages
with different men; as a nurse once said
to me: “They all have their horrors differ-
ent.” But. in a day or two, as the horrible
waking nightmare (to the effect, mainly,
that his poor little wife may have been
already “driven to the arms of another
man”) begins to wear off (especially when
the said wife comes to him on the second
day with no signs about her of the said
arms), he begins to see some light. And
the relief is blessed. Then, as he gets ac-
quainted with the other Drunks, and finds
out that his is not the worst case in the city,
he begins to enjoy himself. He has peace
and quiet for perhaps the first time in his
married life, or his whole life; for mothers
are not all angels. He has to keen regular
hours, and learns to love it. The drink gets
out of his svstem. Above all. he finds himself
treated as a sick man; his disease is sympa-
thised with; he leaves clear-headed and
healthy, and with a new starting-point in
life; and. if he doesn’t go straight then, he
never will. , ... ,
The ultimate and awful reason why Alfred
was persuaded to enter the institution was,
as he told me, that his wife had sent for a
parson. “Wrestlin’ with the spirit,” Alfred
said it was, as he got better.
Alfred’s life trouble was a mixed marriage
and a mother-in-law. There was nothing
extenuating in this. He shouldn’t have
cone in for a mixed marriage—nor a mother-
in-law either, for that matter. His engaging
type of ugliness was fascinating to many
women; and there were plenty of likely
girls without mothers. But when he had
got her he should not have allowed his wife
to leave her church and join the one to
which he nominally belonged. They could
have arranged about the children before-
hand : the boys to belong to one church and
the girls to the other—l’ve seen it working
comfortably enough in the old German dis-
trict I belonged to. There mightn’t have
been any girls, or there mightn’t have been
any boys; or there micht have been more
of one than the other. But that’s where the
sporting element would have come in ; and,
after all, the sporting element is the main
thing in Australia. It wo”'d have made
life mom interesting for Alfred and his
wife. They would have had something
more than usual to look forward to every
time the Stork was expected, and something
to poke out their tongues at each other
about, according to who won. Also, Father
Dolan and the Rev. McKara —the wrestling
parson afore-mentioned —might have taken
(Continued on next page.)


YOU MAY HAVE KIDNEY TROUBLE and NOT KNOW IT
"Every Picture
Tells a Story.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all chemists and stores at
2/9 per bottle (6 bottles 15/3), or
post free on receipt of price from
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
KIDNEY DISEASE in its worst form comes on almost unnoticed, and often reaches an
incurable stage before it is found out.
That is why it is so serious. You may feel as if you have no kidney trouble —
there may be no symptoms except an occasional twinge of pain in the loins and back,
a heavy, drowsy feeling, or little watery swellings under the eyes-or in the ankles. And yet
if the water were chemically tested the kidneys might be found to be in a seriously diseased
state calling for long and patient treatment.
In other patients, however, the symptoms may be more distindl; there may be sharp
pains in the back, gravel, urinary disorders, or obstinate dropsy. Uric acid poison, left in the
blood by weak kidneys, may settle in the form of sharp, jagged crystals in the muscles and
joints, causing the pain of rheumatism and sciatica.
Kidney disease is hard to cure, because it is so difficult to tell from the symptoms how
serious a stage the disease has reached. But if yon have any of the symptoms lose no time in
beginning with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and persevere with them until every trace of
the disease is gone for as long as the least sign of kidney trouble remains, a sudden relapse
is always to be feared.
Sydney Testimony.
LASTING CURE OF 5 YEARS.
Mrs. Chas. Reynolds, 21 Wyndham Street, Alex-
andria, Sydney, says:—“My back has been troubling
me for a long time. The sharp, shooting pains made
my life a misery. I could not bend my back, and
work. Even when lying in bed at night I got no ease,
suffered great pain trving to get about to do my
I could not get anything to give me relief, though I
used a great many remedies. However, I at last got
a thoroughly good remedy in Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. These wonderful Pills stopped the pain like
magic, and I have been quite free of it for two years
now. No one need endure the agony of backache, for
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will certainly cure
this ailment.”
Mrs. Reynolds confirms the above three years later:
“I can now add the important fact that I have been
free of backache ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me five years ago.”
LASTING CURE OF 6 YEARS.
Mr. William C. Chambers, 41 Crown Street. Sydney,
says:—“l strongly advise anyone who suffers with
gravel or backache to use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. Some months ago I used live bottles of these
pills, and I am pleased to say that they cured me.
My trouble was severe pain in the small of my back,
and gravel or gritty red deposit in the secretions,
and scalding of the same. Knowing as much as I
do, 1 would never use anything else if I had need to
treat my kidneys again. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills were recommended to me by one who was cured,
and in return for my cure I publicly recommend them.
I firmly believe that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
will never fail to cure all who have kidney troubles.
Six years later Mr. Chambers says:— “I am still
well, and absolutely free of gravel, urinary trouble,
and backache. Doan’s Backache Kidney Tills are
marvellous pills.”
*
Backache
Kidney
y
a still greater fatherly and brotherly interest
in the happy couple. Mavbe they’d have
had a side wager.
I took Alfred and asked him why he
wanted to bother about it, so long as she
looked after the house and the children.
It would make no difference to him, seeing
that he had no religion at all, really. But
Alfred couldn’t see it. He reckoned that if
a woman could quit her own church and
then go secretly back to it, as she had done,
and deceive her husband like that in one
thing, she could deceive him in everything.
And so he continued to drink.
His wife was forced to get a separation
order against him. And he drank harder;
and his wife’s boarding-house people com-
plained to the police about him; and he
would rave in his room in his lonely lodg-
ings all night, until one landlady after
another had to shift him on.
I got him one day at Manly, where we all
lived then, just in time to save his reason
and his billet. I took him home, and got
him to bed, after much trouble and some
whisky, with a promise of having a flask
or two in the house. I was a teetotaller
yet. My wife sent for his wife, and we sat
with him and watched him in turns till the
last permissible sleeping draught had had
effect; and his wife went home, to attend
to the children, who would be frightened.
She came in as Alfred woke, and we decided
that she would better be left alone with him.
And so their miserable, oft-broken married
life was mended once more. And Alfred,
drawing mighty breaths of relief, arose,
went after his papers and samples, and set
to work to get another home together.
Then a cottage by the sea, with some
flowers and greenery, Alfred faced his
troubles, domestic and business, like a man,
and prospered. But, next corresponding
season (there are only four in Australia —
Racing, and Surfing, and Cricket, and Foot-
ball), he had the misfortune to attempt to
save another life, and partly succeeded.
Others completed the rescue, and then res-
cued Alfred, after a roller had knocked the
breath out of him as a warning to mind
his own business. When the others had
emptied the salt water out of him, and
pumped air into him, they, in their ignorance
of circumstances, administered brandy. He
came blissfully to his senses and said, “Keep
on pouring it in, boys.” He kept on drink-
ing all that night, and next morning, and
for a fortnight afterwards. Then he wmnt
home and smote Father Dolan, whom he
found there. After the Father had done
with him he “went up” for a couple of
months, “to git the dlirink out iv him, an’
reflict.”
Then the most miserable of miserable
domestic lives again. The spasms of work
between drinking bouts, the 30s. or 15s.
brought home out of 60s. The pitiful
story-telling and putting-off of the landlady
on Monday mornings. The sending of the
children to “borrow” or cadge from scarcely-
known neighbors. The haunting sense of
shame of it all.
Alfred Ward was a demon canvasser. His
wife said he had been known to be hustled
downstairs from the office of a business man
one day, and to go up find sell that same
business man the same new idea in type-
writers or cash registers the next morning.
Bosses whom Alfred had humbugged again
and again, and whom he had “had’’ more
than once (to say the least of it), would
take him back once more, “for the last
time,” and trust him with “lines” and sam-
ples. “Now, this is your last chance, Ward,
remember!” And Alfred would say he’d
remember.
And so he drank himself into the Recep-
tion House, and his wife had to take the
children home to mother. When he came
out, he still hung about Blue’s Point-road,
the vicinity of his maintenance order, in any
lodgings he could get. Oh, why do separated
men do that? He got to dodging down the
road, and slipping across on the Horse
Ferry, and ghosting up Elder Man’s Lane,
avoiding creditors, taking down old and
working up new bosses, and taking in exas-
perated clients or customers. Till at last
he got into trouble over a typewriter he took
out to deliver and Moscowed for drink.
His wife managed to get him a lawyer, in
spite of mother and friends, and the lawyer
got him off. And there was a fresh start.
He got a side-job collecting the rent of a
row of cheap new brick suburban skillions
—the kind that smell and taste of lime for
months, where glimpses of youngish women,
in red, pink or blue “dressing gowns,” are
caught mornings and afternoons.
The woman swore he did, and Alfred
swore he didn’t. His wife stuck to him all
through, but he got 12 months —mainly for
swearing he didn’t. The woman’s rent, by
the way, was overdue, but she and her hus-
band swore they had only wanted an apology
in the first place.
Eight months later I met Alfred ghosting
down Pitt-street. He seemed vague and
grey all over; lie seemed caught in an eddy
for a moment, then drifted swiftly to the
other side like a spook that wasn’t parti-
cularly anxious to haunt me. I caught him
and got his hand. He gave the old stitch-in-
the-side and fish-in-the-throat signs; then
the shade of his grin came back and materi-
alised. I’m glad I didn’t turn him down.
He said he was going to Fiji on salary, ex-
penses and commission.
Last Christmas Eve someone left a note
at the door with my landlady. She said he
was a stoutish, sunburned, jolly sort of gen-
tleman, and he’d just come back from the
Islands. The note contained all the compli-
ments of the season from Alfred Ward, and
mentioned that he had just landed from
Fiji, and was well, happy and prosperous.
Perhaps he had met his uncle there and
taken him down.
Then a neat cottage, with a lawn, over
the water, and steps down to a landing on
one of the water-frontages of Mosman, and
a cane table and basket chairs on the lawn,
with whisky and soda.
O-o-oh! But I’m tired, and I wish I
could finish right here. But I saw in the
paper not many mornings later that one
Alfred Ward had been brought up at the
Central Police Court on a charge of obtain-
ing £125 \yorth of furniture by false pre-
tences. He had represented that he had a
plantation in Fiji. He made a statement to
the effect that he had been drinking heavily,
and remembered nothing clearly, but told
where most of the goods were. Someone
managed to get him bail.
It spoilt my story, but —I’ve had my
dream to end it with.
Days ago I took a trip down the South
Coast line to recover from the holidays.
Sitting by the window, watching the broad
moonlight on the wild and rugged bush, I
was aware of a voice I knew coming from
the compartment next ahead, singing a song
I'd heard it sing before: —
I’m sitting on the stile, Mary,
Where we sat side by side.
I forgot to tell you that Alf Ward could
sing.
In the bright May morning, long ago,
When first you were my bride.
He couldn’t be breaking bail —that wasn’t
Alfred Ward. Perhaps he was going down
there on some business —connected with
hams, maybe. But, no! It couldn’t be
hams, seeing this was the South Coast. I
determined to bail Alf up at my station;
but when I got out, he wasn’t there. He
must have dropped off at an intermediate.
Coming back, I’d made up my mind to
put in a day or two at Mooni Bay. I’d seen
the place by moonlight coming down. A
deep green basin in the mountains, with one
side showing white sea beach, and silver
surf and rugged rocks.
At the accommodation house I heard that
a girl had been nearly drowned that morn-
ing, and one of her rescuers wholly drowned.
His name was Ward —a Mr. A. Ward.
That was all they knew about him. The
body was still down in the shed on the
beach. He’d been drinking, they thought—
spirits.
They let me see the body, of course. Any-
one might know who he was. It lay on a
board on trestles. They turned down the
sheet and This was my Alfred Ward.
Outside, in the moonlight, the infernal s ( "
was singing, singing, singing that infernal
song in my ears, while I wondered vacantly
where his unconquerable soul could be.
’Tis but a step down yonder lane.
And that brings me back to Elder Man’s
Lane, for this was my dream.
Poor Alf Ward is still in gaol, awaiting
his trial.
HENRY LAWSON.
Hannah’s Wedding.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was Hannah’s wedding day and 107
deg. in the shade. The cows had been
milked, buckets washed and “poddy-
ing” completed, all in record time. Then
there was much more bustling and toiling
and boiling and moiling and clatter. An
early dinner was disposed of, after which
things were set to rights for the wedding.
The family arrayed itself in its best clothes.
The kitchen, the one living room, was sub-
jected to a scrupulous clearance of all things
bespeaking the culinary aspect of life. That
large and blackened evidence of the family
dough, the camp oven, was even banished
to the back yard. The deal table was a,,
with a white cloth. The 1 J )eJ
place blushed with a hectic geranium il re '
kerosene tm. Two kerosene cases
with cretonne were placed together
adorned with a very new-looking , ra , a “ d
hook for the parson’s use. The few If '
and chairs stood crookedly on thT , t 0 ,
fl °or. and the newspapered walls seemed"?
sag with apprehension at it all. to
Then the family sat out on the lew 1•,
lion verandah, which, like the kitchen kl '
floored with slabs It was furnished’ W^h S
all the boxes available and hung with ?
meat-safe. Some guests straggled in !•
with heat and the exertion of severally L
ting “finished up early.” Thev w get '
freshed from a bottle of limejuice and m
bibed sundry cups of water from the
hidden behind the fireplace dee,?? 01
Most of them talked cow and the „ro£
of cow. Some of the girls went in and 2
on Hannah’s bed and assisted her to a i„
the simplest possible creation in week in*
gowns while the prospective groom lurked
bashfully in the background of a number f
hilarious local youths.
Then the parson drove up, and everybody
mopped his or her face uneasily, or S
on the other leg. while the reverend chee?
fully shook hands all round. After he ha i
duly disappeared and emerged again in f,,r
pulpit war paint, he took his stand like „
hot Goliath behind the new prayer-book *
The bride and groom were solemnly
pushed into place by the already initiated
and everyone filed into the room'and sat on
a stool, or balanced on a chair, or leaned
against the wall. The ceremony proceeded
Once there was a little splash. ‘The parson
had poised his hat on the geranium, and it
had slipped with a gratified little sound into
the bucket. “With this ring I thee wed”—
and a black hen stalked expectantly in at
the open door. There was a furtive backward
kick from Sarah and an alarmed squawk
from a fleeing fowl. “With my worldly
goods I thee endow” “Tom, did y'e
give that horse a drink?” sotto whisper
There was a muffled reply, and a side cuff
administered silently in the background.
The ceremony was over. The parson fin-
gered his papers. There was a short scuffle
which implicated two people, a sound of
violent osculation, and an anguished voice
arose: “Well, that’s the first kissin’ I’ve
missed in twenty-four weddin’s.” The
bridegroom had valiantly won his own.
The wedding was completed, and the party
immediately became dominated by the idea
that it must eat. Ten minutes later it sat
down to scalding tea, cake and arrowroot
biscuits. The butter had leaked on to the
table in such a state that everyone was too
polite to attempt to conjure it on to his
bread with a knife. The tea was swallowed
and quickly oozed to the surface again in
perspiration. Everybody dabbed wildly at
its reappearance with a handkerchief, con-
gratulated the bride, and hurried home to
milk. The procession was headed by the
bride and bridegroom in a newly-painted
sulky. Three selections away lay their
bridal eoal, where 15 milkers were waiting
at the shed and gazing bovinely through
the picket fence at their pot-bellied orphans.
K.K.


Westing'house
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
m
V
m
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention—
1 It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2—The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
s—No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westingiioiise Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Fairbanks -Morse Marine Engines
For Pleasure Craft and Work Boats
They start without cranking, run
smoothly and always develop more
than rated power. Simple.
Compact. All parts easily acces-
sible and interchangeable. Re-
markable for their reliability and
economy in fuel consumption. Price
Reasonable. Fully Guaranteed.
High Speed Engines, 334 to 24 H.P.
Slow Speed Engines, 7 34 and 15 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.CV1939.
w.n
Type
Falrfeanks-Morse
Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy engines especially suited
for pumping or running light, machinery,
simple. Compact. Two sizes. Will operate
any windmill pump.
Pull description in Catalog N0,1939VR.
Fairbanks-Morse
Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline)
or Distillate. Stationary and Portable
types. Sizes 2to 200 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.AL1939.
Wabash Ave. and Chicago,
Eldredge Place
U.S.A
Agents:
C. H. RELPH
Sidney, N. S. W,
WEBSTER & CO.. Ltd.
Brisbane, Queensland
MALLACH BROS.
Pertb. W. A.
THE STIRLING WATER TUBE BOILER
ý
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar=
anteed Results.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
Dewrance Steam Valves.
Write us for our Complete Catalogue of Engineers’ Supplies,
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ÿ
A Mont iily Guide for eve
'ian.
■
ŷty
Write for full particulars to
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine «
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Wooisheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
— 340 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings. Melbourne.
£eoK Well After Yourself
If you consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you w.li tealise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps health wards the moment
you find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
your vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous *1
about yourself, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them. Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great number of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
TaHc
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all times you can confidently rely upon
Bttcbam’s 7915.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price UU (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
Sawmillers, Joiners and Cabinet Makers
You all require Economical, High-speed
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Ask us for Catalogues. Ask us for Advice.
Ask us for References. Ask us for Prices.
You will find that—Our Machines give you satisfaction.
You will find that —We hold the largest stock in Australia.
You will find that—Our expert advice is to your benefit.
You will find that-Our Prices as MANUFACTURERS are reasonable.
WE SAVE YOU MONEY.
Write, call or ’phone ; we are always ready for you to discuss our machines.
THE PREMIER SAWMILL & WOODWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURERS,
KIRCHNER & CO., 32 Marketst > s Y dne Y-
'PHONE: CITY—7O9I.
FIVE TO FIFTY MILES
ON THE TOP GEAR.
Through crowded streets at a snail’s pace—or fifty miles an hour in the
open country ; on top gear all the time.
That’s one of the advantages of the friction drive Metz Car. It makes
piloting easy, eliminates jerky starting, cuts out the worry of gears live
rear axle, differentials, clutch, gear-box, etc. It’s the all-pleasure system
that gets the utmost out of the engine and does it without piling un
expensive bills for broken gears.
We’ve other good points that a trial trip will reveal. Ask us to pick you
up and we’ll have pleasure in putting the car through its paces. Price £lB5
complete.
BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: CITY 4352.
METZ CARS,
WAVERLEY CARS,
INDIAN MOTOR CYCLES.
GUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts.
Fistula <>r Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint 8 Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliots Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. Be FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
Three Lines and a Hint!
The hint comes first. Briefly, it is that these three lines are
deserving of your consideration. Each one will be a factor for
economy an aid to higher efficiency. Think it over —then act.
“JANO” SHEET PACKING is all that a packing ought to be. You
know what that standard is. We ask you to send for a free sample
to test. That’s the best way we know to prove its quality and
economy.
“IDEAL” CUTTING COMPOUND lives up to its name. It’s a perfect
mixture for keeping the tool cool and preventing it from seizing.
Leaves a fine finish on the work, and never causes rust.
“LUBKIKO” SOLID GREASE saves . four-fifths the cost of oil and
will permit greater speed. It’s quite pure, does not spatter or col-
lect dust, and is unaffected by heat or cold. An economy-worker
that will be an eye-opener to you.
We Stock all Engineering Sundries, and have
experts to deal with machinery problems.
T. M. (SOOPALL & CO. Ltd.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303*5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspeot.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 19 Queen Street.
Mines, Towns, Factories and
House Lighting.
Electric Generating Sets, Steam, Oil and Petrol Engines,
Petrol Gas Lighting Plants,, Storage Batteries, and all
Accessories for Complete Installations.
Full particulars and estimates from
T. If. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fireproof buildings of
Fibre-Cement (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards;
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. Yqu, only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding'and labor for a
building of Kibro-Centetu.
LOOK AT THE SAVING TljlAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos. v !
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected bv ordinary caVpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plas er.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Utiios and Catalog L to sole importers-
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
ty
2N
m
fi
m wm
Spirit
SCHNAPPS
tyt
FOR WOMEN
BLOW OFF
ARRANGEMENT
DISCHARGE
VALVE
SPINDLE
" GUIDE TUBS
INLET
FLOAT
VANES
CLEANING
DOOR
V 1322
“SENTINEL” t
High Pressure STEAIVI TRAPS
FOR STEAM PRESSURES to 250 lbs.
SPECIAL FEATURES—Has Renewable Valve and Seat, Regrinds its Valve after
each Discharge, Preserves its Tightness even with Gritty Steam.
Over 40 in Use in Ultimo Power House alone. As supplied to Railway, Water and
Sewerage Board, Mines, Shipbuilders, etc. SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
J
■ I
*2 PITT ST., SYDNEY;
And at MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, PERTH.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footsoray, Victoria.
m .
High-grade Tools for
Modern Machine Shop Equipment,
REMPiSMITH
Plain & Universal Milling
to-day stand as the type of highest development in Milling Machine construction, and can confidently
recommend them as Machines of the highest efficiency in the RAPID PRODUCTION OF ACCURATE WORK.
They are designed to meet the greatly increased strains imposed by modern milling methods, and are therefore
capable of CONTINUED SERVICE AT THE FULL EFFICIENCY OF HIGH-SPEED CUTTERS.
We invite inspection of our stock of these Modern Tools, also High-Grade J
Shaping, Planing, Drilling, Screwing and Grinding Machines.
High-speed QuicK Change Gear Engine Lathes and all Engineers’ Requisites.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
Engineers S Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
wm
Air Compressors
Rock Drills
Sand Blast Apparatus
Rock Crushers
Jigs
Dorr Thickeners
and
Dorr Classifiers
Card Concentrators
Candles
Explosives
N. GUTHRIDGE LIE
• 9
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
